“Why hello my sweet Clyburn, how’ve you been?” she asked with a smile.

“Y-you…! Who allowed you inside?! This is a top-secret project! I’ll have those incompetent guards disciplined for-”

“Oh do put a lid on it Cly,” Luetta chastised, shutting the man up. “Even the drunks in the portside tavern have heard about your secret project on behalf of his Majesty. Half of Port Bellgrave knows with how often you bark about it.”

“Hrm… well, that is…”

“A cry for help if I’ve ever heard one. The deadline for you showing results is in three months is it not?” she asked. “I’ve come to offer my aid.”

“Your aid? If you mean this overly large fellow here, he’s been surprisingly helpful. Want a job?” Clyburn asked, looking up at Orodan.

“I’m afraid she’s hired me already. But am I willing to help? Certainly,” Orodan said. “I and someone else you’ve been overlooking.”

Fenton practically shrivelled into himself, trying to hide in the corner. Orodan walked over and dragged him out by the collar like a mangy alley cat.

“The boy? He’s a fair hand at repair and maintenance I’ll admit, but how can he-”

“Fenton, list all the problems present in this device.”

Orodan’s words were stern and demanding, leaving no room for argument. He must’ve seemed harsh in the moment, but sometimes someone needed a shove to recognize their own greatness.

“Right! The entire flow of mana’s a little skewed ser, the purpose of it’s to drain a particular sort ‘o energy right out the air, yeah? If the purpose is drainin’, then the mana doesn’t align the right way for it,” Fenton explained. “Been readin’ about the plague, and you can’t let even a little bit get loose or else it’ll turn into a right mess. The design of this enchantment’s not going to keep it contained after sucking it dry. And even when it comes to that… the inscriptions feel a little off.”

Clyburn frowned, and behind him Eliezer Brackenshaw, the senior assistant engineer who Orodan had immediately disliked, turned pale and had an angry look on his face.

“I’m not an enchanter, your words had best be backed up with some proof boy. And what do you mean that the inscriptions for draining feel off?”

“Well ser, it should be draining the plague, not cycling it back into the funnelling function constantly, right? Like the difference ‘tween a fan and a vacuum,” Fenton explained. “The device will fall apart in less than a half hour if it runs as it is.”

“We should never have allowed a low-born inside this tower! Look how he speaks utter nonsense Sir Clyburn!” Eliezer barked, the man’s face red. “Do you know how much work has gone into this device you little rascal? Do not think to comment on the doings of your betters!”

Luetta certainly noticed, and Orodan could tell she was reading the senior assistant engineer’s fate as he spoke.

“How about he proves it then?” Orodan suggested. “Bring out random enchantments… and Fenton here shall accurately describe what they do.”

“He could simply use Identify and cheat!” Eliezer brought up.

“A little embarrassing that a tower full of engineers has no way of blocking or at least detecting the usage of the Identify spell, isn’t it?” Luetta scathingly added.

“This disrespect towards the-”

“Shut up and make yourself useful Eliezer,” Clyburn silenced. “Bring the chest near my desk down here.”

The angry and humiliated man swallowed his pride and did as asked. Soon enough a chest full of enchanted items and jewelry was brought down.

“Alright boy, I’ll bring each item out, and you have ten minutes to tell me what enchantment they have.”

Orodan however was having none of it.

“Ten minutes? Are we here to sip tea or accomplish a task?” he rhetorically asked. “No. I have faith in Fenton and his talent. There’s no need for ten minutes, not even ten seconds. I’ll throw each enchanted item into the air… and Fenton will accurately tell everyone what it does before it falls back into the palm of my hand.”

Fenton looked utterly aghast at the insane difficulty increase that was suggested. Orodan’s deranged grin also caused everyone in the room to take a step or two back.

“M-mister Orodan…! I don’t think I can do that!” Fenton declared.

“You absolutely can and will,” he said and put a hand on the boy’s shoulder. “Will you settle for being mediocre, for being average? So what if you’re talented? Talent means nothing without the guts, grit and willingness to take that beyond what anyone else would dare.”

“But I… I…”

“Tell me Fenton… if I hadn’t come along, would you have let your mother die due to your hesitation?” Orodan coldly asked. “Would you have toiled away in that gunsmithy forever while your she slowly withered away?”

His words were harsh, cruel almost. He liked the lad, and Orodan felt slightly bad for having to say them, but the cosmos was cold and unfeeling. Better for Orodan to say a harsh word now than for fate to cruelly teach Fenton the lesson instead.

“I… I…! To hell with you Mister Orodan!” Fenton roared, fire in his eyes.

[Teaching 66 → Teaching 67]

“Good, good! Now take that fire in your heart and prove to yourself that you’re capable of rising to the challenge!”

Orodan immediately snatched the first thing from the chest, an enchanted ring capable of amplifying the power of a pyromancer’s flames.

Up into the air it went.

“Fire amplification. Useful for a pyromancer. Inefficient enchantment path, likely to shatter. Won’t last more than four more casts.”

The first floor of the west tower went silent.

The ring had barely left Orodan’s hand!

“He… he’s right,” Clyburn muttered, eyes wide. “That ring is garbage.”

Not only had the lad identified the enchantment, but Fenton had also surmised what the inefficiencies within it. Even Orodan was shocked… and more than a bit excited as he had a manic grin on his face.

Even Fenton, mood previously sour, was now realizing what he was capable of and had an determined look on his face.

Orodan pulled an amulet and threw it next.

“Magic barrier. Decently made, draws too much mana from the wearer, might cause any mage below Adept-level to faint from overdrawing.”

Eliezer was looking paler by the second, and Luetta had a pleased smile on her face.

“You could draw out the latent talent in a cockroach,” Zaessythra praised. “Nicely done.”

Orodan personally thought that this was all Fenton. The lad had always had this in him.

A dagger then came forth, and Orodan used the Time Compression aspect of his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance to make the flight even faster than normal.

“Space magic. It can teleport when thrown! No problems with it!”

Sure, Orodan could think and react far faster, but the relative number of thoughts and time Fenton took to identify each enchantment was beyond what Orodan could ever hope to achieve.

“He’s right…” Clyburn muttered, increasingly in awe.

Finally, Orodan did something they might consider cheating… but when faced with such an astute judge of enchanting, couldn’t resist.

His dimensional storage ring came off and was thrown into the air.

“Hey! I know what that does already Mister Orodan,” Fenton complained, yet the lad answered all the same. “Storage ring, not spatial but in-between the ‘other’ places… whatever the word for it is. Has a set of clothes, some gold, bunch of materials too. Craftsmanship’s pretty good, but it’s vulnerable to somebody else playin’ with the place it leads to.”

His ring had no protection against attempts at manipulation from other dimensionalists? How could he have overlooked such a thing? Better to secure it before that covetous spider got any ideas.

“Now then, I could go throwing the rest of the things in this chest… but given the looks on all of your faces, am I wrong to say you lot are suitably convinced?” Orodan asked

“He cheated!” Eliezer barked. “The boy must have snuck a look into the chest beforehand! And the ring at the end was-”

“Eliezer,” Clyburn said, voice all too calm as he gave the senior assistant engineer an assessing look. “You may leave early for the day.”

The calm tone was outside of how Clyburn Anderthorn normally spoke, and it seemed to convince Eliezer of the gravity of the situation. He slunk away without saying another word.

The following silence was then broken by a pair of hands clapping. Luetta Treadway seemed mighty pleased.

“As you can see Clyburn, we’ve brought some actual help. And possibly helped rid you of a rather irksome pest in your ranks,” Luetta said. “Believe us now?”

Clyburn looked around, glaring at the other engineers in the room.

“What’s this? A circus? Back to work! We have deadlines to meet!” the lead engineer barked and then turned to the fate reader. “Come with me, all three of you.”

They scaled the tower, passing the various floors hosting other sections of the pillar, until they finally arrived at the top floor where Clyburn Anderthorn’s office and desk were. The office was a bit of a mess, and the sleeping bag in the corner made it evident that the man spent more time in the tower than usual.

Clyburn Anderthorn collapsed into his seat, looking exceptionally weary. The lead engineer had a lot of weight on his shoulders it seemed.

“If I’d known you were having such a difficult time with this project Cly, I would’ve approached you myself,” Luetta said. “That man down there was clearly a saboteur.”

“Do you think me a fool Luetta? I knew that. I knew right from the start that many forces were arrayed against me, hoping to see my downfall…” Clyburn muttered.

“Then why not ask me for help? I don’t normally work for free, yet if an old friend asked I’d certainly have made an exception. Especially given the circumstances,” the fate reader replied. “Don’t tell me it’s something as simple and stupid as manly pride.”

“Feh! Arrogance and pride have no room in my heart when the outcome of this project is at stake. Do you not see the sleeping bag? I haven’t left this tower in months. Months! Whether I’m actually on Port Bellgrave or not is a wildly discussed rumor outside the fort!” Clyburn exclaimed. “I did not ask you, because I could not. When I first came here, the fort commander gave me some engineers to supplement the ones who came with me from my guild, yet from the get-go it was evident that many of them were out to sabotage the project. At first, I got rid of a few, and then the progress of the work slowed as the commander could provide me no more hands. Finally, I decided what better way to monitor my enemies than to keep their spies close? Eliezer’s continued presence is the result of that.”

“I knew you had rivals, but is it that serious?” Luetta asked.

“That wretch Lord Morvale means to see me humbled. Ever since I pioneered the current model of sharpshooter rifle capable of taking down Transcendents and upstaged him, the petty cur has held a grudge against me. Doesn’t like seeing us engineers prove ourselves better than his enchanters,” Clyburn explained. “Now, if I leave I’m certain the project will fall apart.”

“But what exactly will fall apart that you can’t just rebuild?” Orodan asked. “This device, it’s a combination of Enchanting and Engineering yes?”

“Correct. But my real problem lays in the fact that all the other enchanters here are under Lord Morvale’s employ and affiliated with his guild. I have one professional enchanter, and the man is a contracted freelancer, coming by once a week from port town to do whatever he can. That greedy shark knows I’m pressed against a wall and charges atrocious rates which I cannot help but agree to lest my competition steals him out from under me,” Clyburn answered. “This device wasn’t merely assembled here. The initial enchanting work on it was performed in Castle Ironpeak, and then I was forced to have it shipped here due to a lack of resources and my rival stealing my workspace through bureaucratic tape. If I leave, the critical initial enchantments might be sabotaged and then I’ll be set back by many more months!”

Orodan had to admit, this unfortunate man was caught in a losing situation. Not only did Clyburn have rivals interfering with his work, but he had a severe lack of qualified enchanters who could finish the work on the device. Furthermore, as Fenton had identified, some of the enchanting work was done quite shoddily. This combined with the steady drain on his funds due to the atrocious rates charged by the freelance enchanter meant it was only a matter of time before the man sank.

“Where are you even getting your money from Clyburn? Surely by now you’ve run through the allotment granted to you by the crown?” Luetta asked. “Your guild was already doing poorly last I heard…”

“Countess Primrose Lawson’s agreed to sponsor me further; long as I credit her thoroughly for the aid. But I fear her generosity will have its limits and she already acts as though she’s placed a bet on a losing carriage.”

“You mentioned having a deadline of three months, is that right?” Orodan asked.

“I don’t recall saying that to you, but yes.”

Well, that wasn’t wrong. Orodan had been invisible to the man thanks to Incipience of Infinity at the time.

“Well then you need not worry. I doubt you’ll need even half that time between Fenton and I aiding in your work. In fact, you might as well get rid of all the engineers you suspect of being problematic,” Orodan said.

“Luetta… who is this man?” Clyburn asked, more than a little taken aback.

