“That’s partly why I’m pushing the lad so hard. By the time I’m done with him, he should be capable of keeping himself safe,” Orodan answered. “And anyone attempting to strongarm Fenton will have to deal with me.”

She breathed easy, as though a large weight had been taken off her shoulders.

“Thank you…” she quietly said. “You rescued us from a life of misery, I’ll always be grateful to you for that Mister Wainwright. The crown would have us think otherworlders are all monsters, not to be trusted lest they steal everything from you. But… if the rest of them are anything like you, I suppose they can’t all be bad.”

Orodan had an amused look on his face.

“You call me an otherworlder, but to me, everyone here is an otherworlder. I come from a world called Alastaia. We don’t have steam, guns or metal machines, but winged lizards, warriors and mages aplenty. Our battles are fought not by formations of massed rifles supported by cannons, but ranks of swords, spears and shields backed by arrows and mages,” Orodan said. “We’re not all that different. Your son and I are quite similar in fact. I grew up poor and had to struggle for everything just as he does.”

“A world of magic and swords? How fascinating…” she muttered. “Well… I suppose it’s reassuring to hear the folk from your world aren’t eating children or roasting innocents over a pyre like the crown says.”

“Oh they are,” Orodan said, making the woman pale. “But it’s an incredibly small minority of criminals; cultists in fact. The Cathedral’s always on the hunt for them, and recently they’ve had a setback so I wouldn’t bother worrying.”

“I… I see. This Cathedral of yours sounds an awful lot like the inquisitors we have in how they pursue no-good sorts,” she said. ‘These nasty cultists you speak of have been arrested by them I hope?”

“No. I just killed them all.”

She paled a bit but had gotten used to Orodan and his blunt ways a bit over the two days.

“I suppose congratulations are in order for keeping your world safe. Little wonder my son can’t stop talking about you, Mister Wainwright,” Fanny admitted. “It’s been two days, and he’s barely had a moment to rest with how hard you’ve been pushing him… but for the first time he actually likes going in to work and tells me about his day in an excited manner. I think he looks up to you.”

“There are better people he could emulate… if he wants a long and lengthy life at least. But I suppose there are also worse role models,” Orodan remarked. “He’s got a good work ethic. It’ll take him far if he manages to avoid misfortune and has a dash of luck.”

“I certainly hope so, Mister Wainwright. I cannot abide the thought of losing my son. Then again, I could not bear the thought of slowly withering away and leaving little Fen an indentured servant without any family either. I know I’ve said this once but thank you. If there’s ever anything you need, please don’t hesitate to ask.”

“Well now that you mention it… I’m something of a weaver myself,” Orodan replied, pulling some twine out of his dimensional ring and twirling it around to start laying rope. “Not on your level though. Will you teach me?”

“You travel worlds and slay monsters… and you want Fanny Penny, the mother of a lowborn boy, to teach you Weaving?” the woman asked, bewildered and taken aback by the request.

“Absolutely. Weaving was a critical contributor to saving my hide in the most recent battle I had; to disrespect it would be the height of arrogance.”

“…”

“Is that a yes?”

She sighed.

“Can’t believe I’m teaching an otherworlder the ways of weaving…” she muttered and then looked at the twine. “Rope laying? Purely by hand too, not bad at all. One of the ideal foundations a weaver should have and what they’ll try to start you off with in colleges and universities affiliated with the guild.”

“Colleges and universities, these are the academies of your world, right?” he asked, and Fanny nodded. “Guild affiliated, not familiar with that term though. Like, an adventurer’s guild?”

Even on Alastaia, adventuring guilds with their differentiated ranks and bubbly mission-dispensing staff at the desk were a thing of history and children’s tales. Not since civilization had suitably advanced since the Cataclysm caused by the Void Horror’s ascent and the Departments of Monster Management had cropped up across all three human nations of Inuan.

“An adventurer’s guild? What’s that?” she asked confused. “I mean the weaver’s guilds Mister Wainwright. Professional associations of those in our trade who band together for common profit. Storven has at least three major weaving guilds with a few smaller ones across the islands. They like to affiliate themselves with respectable colleges and universities, poaching talent as they graduate. Quite competitive and cutthroat it is; with all of them vying to become the royal sponsored guild every decade. In fact, next one’s coming up soon too.”

That sounded interesting.

“Fascinating, but I’ve about had my fill of academies for the time being. Perhaps Fenton can be admitted into one though,” Orodan said. “Now about Weaving…”

“First, you’re doing it in a really clumsy manner. There’s a lot of theory on weaving and while I respect that you’ve started the proper way, without some lessons on the fundamentals you’ll be seriously hamstringing yourself. Now to start, the first concept of…”

Who knew Weaving had so many intricacies? No matter how many star systems he shook, when it came to crafting, Orodan was still but a small fish in a big pond.

#

“We need those supplies!” a bedraggled junior engineer barked. “Let me in to speak with the alchemists.”

“Look, you top hats need to learn to take no for an answer. I’ve told you three times now that nobody besides the alchemists are allowed to enter the south tower, and for the last ten minutes you’ve been givin’ me a bloody headache.”

“This is outrageous! How will Sir Clyburn’s work get done if he isn’t supplied with adequate materials and alchemical products?”

“Not. My. Problem. Bloody hell, I’m tryin’ real hard not to be a prick but you can’t seem to take a hint. I can’t let you through, and that’s that. Go take it up with commander Westerlin if you want to dispute standing orders.”

The engineer shook his head and stormed off, passing by Orodan yet not even paying attention.

Of course, Orodan walked on and approached the guards.

“Not another one… I’m so over havin’ to tell people from the west tower to get lost… you there, south tower’s off-limits to all save the fort’s alchemists. Dangerous experiments goin’ on down there. A single whiff of that alkahest and you won’t have lungs to breathe with.”

The other guard seemed to recognize Orodan however.

“Wait a minute, aren’t you Lady Treadway’s new assistant? They said you’d be coming by… let him pass, commander’s orders.”

“So all this time I turn away every fop who’s come to bother me, and now we just let this man in?” the guard asked, bewildered. “Bah! Don’t mind me ser, just go on inside. Been havin’ a real rotten day today is all.”

Orodan gave the soldiers a nod and walked on. Truly, guard duty was a thankless and irritation-filled task.

The south tower’s top floors were all storage; it was also the tower furthest from the keep, sequestered away somewhat. Soon, Orodan came to understand why.

As he approached, a burning tinge could be smelt in the air. Furthermore, alchemists wearing some very heavy, sealed protective suits were clumsily walking about. Some of them turned to look at him, confused. A few even made to stop him but he walked faster than they could in their overly bulky clothes.

Past a heavily warded door, he saw why the upper floors were storage alone. The basement of the south tower consisted of alchemical workshops, emitting some of the most noxious and foul fumes Orodan had ever seen produced by alchemy. The fumes even caused his skin to feel hot.

What in the hells were these people even concocting?

A haggard looking junior alchemist was being berated by her superior. Both of them in clunky suits which looked designed to keep air out.

“We’re behind on production already and you’re telling me you’ve run out of mana? What sort of third-rate wastrel are you?”

“But sir… we’ve been working for an entire day.”

“Excuses! The crown requires alkahest for the front lines and all you can do is sit there and deflect the blame? Chug more recovery elixir and get to work!”

“Sir! The west tower’s been requesting their supplies again!”

“They’ll get their damned supplies when this bloody quota is met!”

“We’re running out of containers to store the acid base in…”

“Go plunder some empty tankards of ale from the tavern then!”

The lead alchemist seemed at his wits’ end, and the man’s underlings seemed quite overworked.

Thirty tables with equipment, all being most furiously used, almost like the alchemy classroom at Bluefire Academy. Except, this was no environment of learning but one of mass production. Alchemists wearing bulky protective suits slaved away over hissing containers of deadly liquid, various apparatus aiding them.

There was a whole lot of mana being used throughout the process as well, with alchemists having tubes connected to their ventilated helmets which funnelled a recovery elixir into their mouths. And given how mana intensive the work was… the liquid was being chugged quite often. And at the top of the room, the lead alchemist was fussing over what looked like a magic circle, an array. It seemed to almost guide the intent of the acid from what Orodan could see.

He could feel the prickle on his skin via the fumes, and Orodan wasn’t even touching it yet!

[Acid Resistance 37 → Acid Resistance 38]

He had to admit to some surprise. He’d seen alkahest deployed by the forces of the Blackworth Collective before but hadn’t really gotten close to or had a chance to interact with it. Now though, being in a room full of lethal gas, he was intimately exposed to it. Acid worked by breaking things down, yet the last time he’d encountered a powerful user of it, they’d failed to affect him much due to his Absolute Body Composition and how each cell was a thing in and of itself.

To be capable of breaking down even his cells? He looked closely and realized that his cells were being erased to nothingness outright.

This acid was most profound! An opportunity for good training.

He leaned over a hissing cauldron, frightening the alchemist working on it and took a deep breath, savouring the fumes.

“Wait! You’ll die!”

Absolute Body Composition’s restructuring of his form meant he had no lungs, but the fumes still found their way in-between his cells and gave them a good sizzle. He was being dissolved from the inside out.

[Acid Resistance 38 → Acid Resistance 39]

This was some good training!

He even cupped some of the alkahest in his hand to take a sip, even as the skin on his palm slid off and dissolved.

[Acid Resistance 39 → Acid Resistance 40]

His mouth began dissolving and acid began leaking out through the holes being created. Yet Harmony of Vitality kept repairing the damage, and Orodan swirled the drink around in his mouth like a fine wine, savouring the taste.

A little sweet, perhaps almost metallic. Not the worst flavor profile though he’d have to neutralize it a bit before serving it to any guests.

It took three seconds of his mouth getting ravaged, but the alkahest eventually lost power and became a regular liquid with a slight sting to it.

“Good heavens! Who allowed this suicidal man into the tower?!” the lead alchemist barked. “Get him out and to the healers! His lungs must be gone!”

Yet, as the seconds ticked on and Orodan didn’t look as though he was dead or dissolving, the alchemists around him looked on in shock.

He took a sip. Yet even as his mouth dissolved yet again…

[Acid Resistance 40 → Acid Resistance 41

…gains were made.

“It doesn’t taste too bad,” Orodan remarked.

“Who… who are you?” the alchemist asked.

“Luetta Treadway’s assistant. I’m told you’re expecting my arrival.”

The alchemist looked baffle behind the visor of his sealed suit.

“Hold on, we’re skipping ahead too far. What I actually mean is, how in the blasted damnation are you still alive and not a pile of empty clothing?” the man asked.

“Why would I be a pile of empty clothing?”

In response to Orodan’s question, the man pulled out a warded and sealed box. He unlocked the magical seal and opened it, to reveal an onion.

An onion which immediately hissed and disintegrated into utter nothingness within a quarter of a second of exposure to the gaseous room.

“As you can see, the array we use to guide the alkahest’s behavior is unchanged. It’s meant to target organic material alone,” the man explained. “Which begs the question of who the hell you are and how you’re still in one piece.”

“I’ve already told you who I am. As for how, I have Acid Resistance and a regeneration skill,” Orodan explained.

“A Bloodline?”

“No, trained through exposure to copious amounts of acid.”

“Utterly impossible. The sheer amount of acid exposure required for that would be fatal and kill you many times over.”

Orodan simply gave the man a knowing smile in response. It had in fact killed him plenty of times, against the very first foe he’d ever death looped against too.

“Believe or disbelieve my words if you wish. I’ve come to check in on the supplies due for Clyburn Anderthorn. What’s the situation?”

