Fighting and besting her wasn’t the issue. Getting into the castle stealthily while avoiding her notice was. And Orodan was too stubborn to miss the opportunity for Stealth training by knocking her out or using Incipience of Infinity.

Multiple mechanical birds hovered the air too. This truly would have to be a ghostly entry, with no soldiers being knocked out lest the overwatching Transcendent discover it.

Orodan’s first order of business then, was to get as close to the walls as possible, preferably near a spot where the overwatching sharpshooter was blind, and then scale them.

He swam about, reaching the north section of the wall with the steepest climb, before he surfaced his head. He was on the side of the keep obscured to her, and it was a good spot to climb if he could somehow distract the Elite-level sentry keeping watch over the waters on this side.

The skies were clear, lightning would have been suspicious and the Transcendent on overwatch seemed like a no-nonsense woman likely to jump to alarm. No birds in the air either, the fort must have shot them down or driven them away. Well…

…no living birds at least.

[Commandment of War 38 → Commandment of War 39]

The steam-powered mechanical birds flying about weren’t exactly manipulable with the skill; they had no real desire to go towards him after all. But the winds however, they certainly existed. And a powerful enough gust could manipulate one of the birds to hit something.

Orodan’s mind worked to calculate all the little factors, angles and trajectories, and as the bird neared the top of the keep… he commanded the winds to converge towards it in such a way that it was nudged slightly off-course.

Just enough that it hit a loose rock on the keep’s roof, which then skipped down…

…right onto the Elite sentry’s head.

“Ow! What the…?”

Orodan immediately began his climb, using the two seconds of distraction to swiftly scale the steep wall of the keep and enter through an open window.

[Stealth 29 → Stealth 30]

[New Title → Stealth Apprentice]

Entry successful.

His ears were sharp, and he could hear people speaking all across Castle Ironpeak. Most importantly though, the Transcendent sharpshooter at the very top.

“Report soldier, what was that sound?” the old woman asked.

“Just a loose rock the damned bird dislodged madam. Landed right on my head.”

“Hmm…”

Immediately, three swift pulses meant to scan the surroundings shot out one after the other. The mana went through walls, landscape and the water, seeking to find anything amiss. And it was only the timely and deft usage of three rapid Dimensional Steps which allowed Orodan to avoid them.

[Dimensional Step 23 → Dimensional Step 24]

“…I suppose everything appears fine. Eyes back to the water, stay sharp. Stupid mechanical birds, back in my day we just scouted raw, as real soldiers should. None of these dumb toys…”

An acute sense of hearing too. Orodan would have to take care to remain silent as well.

On the bright side, he was inside the castle, and there wasn’t a lot of security within. Most of the detection measures relied upon the sentries and lookouts with the Transcendent-level overwatch and her detection skill sweeping the area once every minute.

He snuck past the odd soldier or castle staff on the interior and made his way further inwards until he reached what was the designated wing of the castle for crafters. The door was guarded by two menacing steam knights, a superior model in comparison to the standard one. And even if the two steam-powered automatons didn’t have much intelligence or perception, the guards standing alongside them however did.

“Inquisitor? You’re here to do an inspection ser?”

“Yes, let me through. I bear the badge of the High Inquisitor himself,” the man wearing a long dark trench coat adorned with multiple guns said. The guards let him pass.

This man was one of the Blackworth Collective’s inquisitors. Specialized agents trained to ferret out Eldritch.

Except, Orodan frowned. He looked closer, and there was simply no mistaking it. It wasn’t apparent at first, quite subtle, but…

“Eldritch… ironic that an inquisitor would be corrupted so,” Zaessythra said.

Indeed. He’d entered Castle Ironpeak for the purpose of sabotaging Lord Morvale, but to now encounter an Eldritch-infected inquisitor here too? The matter merited further investigation.

Still, while the inquisitor was allowed in, Orodan certainly wasn’t. Getting in without some form of magic wouldn’t be easy when steam knights and guards were present. Of course, he refused to shirk the challenge.

Supplies were being carried back and forth through the entryway. Crates of weapons, boxes of components, vats of alchemical solutions. They had to come and go from somewhere.

He peered around the corner, a large materials room for the storage and assessment of whatever went into or out of the crafters’ wing.

“Careful with that vat, it’s alkahest, load it onto the carriers’ back. Gently or else they’ll never find our corpses! Lazy bastards forgot to top this vat off completely and it doesn’t meet regulations, it needs to be sent back to the alchemists.”

The workers gently placed a large man-sized vat of alkahest into the arms of a metallic golem. It was of a similar construction to a steam knight but built for manual labor and the movement of items.

There was his chance!

Orodan took advantage of the moment when the automaton carrier was away from any prying eyes to open the lid and hop in.

[Acid Resistance 51 → Acid Resistance 52]

A most pleasant bath and an accompanying skill level too. Even if his skin flaked and prickled at the full body immersion into such an acidic substance. Furthermore, Orodan went a step further and began using Commandment of War to direct the concoction to thoroughly soak him.

Good way to gain skill levels, however ordinary alkahest was beginning to grow ineffective against him.

The steam carrier however was unaware of what had entered the container it was carrying. The automaton mindlessly marched onwards, approaching the entrance to the crafters’ wing of Ironpeak.

“Again? That’s the third vat old Silas sent back today… those greasy loons are really trying to cheat the crown, aren’t they?”

“None of our business, let it through already. Just wish this damn shift would end… time’s been dragging all day today. Nothing’s happened at all!”

“Careful what you wish for,” Orodan thought.

A minute of minor sizzling and a quick Dimensional Step to avoid a scanning pulse later, he was put down in an alchemists’ workshop.

“Again?! That blasted supply master…!”

“Sir please… calm down. You’ll tear the lab apart again if you-”

“Port bloody Bellgrave somehow provides six times their quota and now the rest of us are suddenly expected to keep up just so we can make Lord Morvale look good?! Damn it all! We don’t have the equipment, and I can’t make the time on these vats go any faster!”

Orodan left the frustrated alchemist and his scared underling to themselves as he slipped out the vat and exited the laboratory. He wasn’t here to sabotage everything, only the people who’d tried targeting Fenton. The alchemists had done him no wrong.

The enchanters’ guild under the leadership of Morvale however, had. Orodan rounded another corner to enter their workshop.

It was quite the large department, far larger than the alchemists’ laboratory. There were several departments within too. One for the efficient and mass enchantment of all the firearms produced by the gunsmithy. Another for the manufacture of steam knights. And yet one more for items of high value.

The prior two departments had junior enchanters working them as the products to be enchanted weren’t as critical. The third however were where all the Elite-level and higher enchanters were working. Rows upon rows of enchanted guns, rifles and trinkets. Valuable items all, meant to be sold to wealthy clientele or perhaps even custom made for an exorbitant price.

“Ser inquisitor? An honor to have one of your order here, but are there any concerns?” an overseer asked.

“Quite. This device for purification you have, I need to see it,” the infected inquisitor asked.

“Ser? Does Lord Morvale’s project have anything to do with inquisitorial affairs?” the overseer asked.

“It concerns the destruction of the plague, does it not? Of course it has much to do with the inquisition. Take me to see it.”

The overseer and inquisitor went deeper inwards, leaving him behind.

Was that why Orodan had never seen these devices used during his first loop on Lonvoron? Had the Prophet and it corrupted agents managed to sabotage every project? In a sense, the inquisitor was here to do the same thing Orodan was… which was the sabotage of Lord Morvale’s work. Of course, Orodan believed in pushing Fenton to his best, thus he had never planned on destroying this rival project, if only so that Fenton could display his talent and beat it fair and square.

Yet now that he knew the Eldritch wanted it gone, Orodan was even more determined to prevent it out of spite. If there was one thing he detested above all, it was the particular brand of infectious Eldritch tied to the Prophet. They and their ‘truth’ could go burn in the hells.

He spotted a nearby unworn coat - its wearer taking a break and sobbing in the corner from being overworked - and threw it on. Of course, with it being at least two sizes smaller the sight was a comical one, and he was sure to be discovered quickly if he didn’t act with the element of surprise.

But how could he avoid standing out, especially when he was twice the size of some of these scrawny enchanters?

By causing a bigger distraction.

“Damn… I can’t get a handle on this enchantment at all…”

“Look, you’re doing it wrong, just add a line here and it’ll work out. Might be a little explosive though,” Orodan said, helping the girl.

“E-explosive? Hey wait, what’re you-”

The rifle caught on fire, spreading to the wooden table as Orodan modified the enchantment to produce a little too much heat for boiling the steam. He quickly slipped away to the corner of the room immediately after.

[Stealth 30 → Stealth 31]

“Stupid apprentice! Did you try modifying the enchantment?! Someone turn on the sprinkler!”

A few veteran enchanters came by to look, and amidst the confusion Orodan snuck into the area in which they were working, acting though he was one of them. He threw the hood of the enchanter’s jacket over his face too, simply so it took them longer to realize something was amiss.

It was time for some sabotage.

He quickly walked across, his hands glowing with mana as he began performing freeform enchanting upon the items, adding failures to as many works as he could. Swords with enchantments of sharpness were rendered dull, handcrafted rifles meant for wealthy clientele and elite mercenaries had the steam-powering enchantments set to cool rather than heat, and jewelry had the enchantments outright scrambled.

He wasn’t as good or fast as Fenton was at the craft, but Orodan could cause a decent bit of malicious damage quite quickly if he so chose. The enchanters of Lonvoron used magical pens and quills to enchant, similar to those of Alastaia. This meant that Orodan waving his hands around the works wasn’t immediately noticed as tampering with them.

After ruining over two-thirds of the completed works, someone frowned.

“Who’s that? Is he… one of ours? Never seen him…”

“Assessing the completed works? Is he an overseer? Why is he wearing a hood? It’s far too small for him too.”

“Hey, he’s headed towards the project room. Maybe he’s involved with that? Let’s call Lord Morvale to verify…”

Orodan knew when to leave well enough alone. Enough subtle damage had been inflicted that he was satisfied. A decent enchanter would recognize that these pieces were flawed, but for the pieces that weren’t identified as having issues… Lord Morvale’s reputation would be severely damaged. In any case, a recall and the delay of sale was expected at minimum, which would be a huge setback.

He quickly entered the open door leading to the project room where the inquisitor and overseer were. He gently shut the door behind him so nobody would see what was going on inside from the workshop. The overseer turned back to see who’d closed it, but Orodan had already snuck behind a pillar to hide.

The man shrugged and continued on, assuming someone from outside had closed the door.

It was a large room with seven decently sized pillars spread out surrounding an array. At a glance Orodan realized these devices were of inferior make to Clyburn’s singular pillar. The enchantments on them were basic and nothing to write home about either. The array followed a similar concept to what he’d seen on his home world where Novar’s Peak had drained the Eldritch. The pillars pulled the corruption in, and it would then be stored within an array.

Of course, the problem lay in the fact that this design hadn’t accounted for the Eldritch’s volatile nature. A mere array would not be able to contain it. Good steel and sturdy construction would be needed, which was what Clyburn’s version did better.

“Inquisitor, the seven pillars are designed to pull the plague inwards, and from there… it can be sealed in a magical array to be released in a controlled manner where we can burn it with alkahest over time,” the overseer explained. “Surely such a thing would be a great boon in territories your organization is attempting to purge?”

“Quite so, quite so. Come, show me the control mechanism for this array.”

“Ah yes, that would be in Lord Morvale’s office. He worked on the enchantments himself, if you shall follow me…”

