Her heart skipped a beat as she watched the green glow intensify. Soon, faint motes of emerald light flowed out from the completed symbol, landing softly upon her skin and dissolving into it upon contact.

The little girl's eyes widened with recognition. She had heard of someone using something akin to this before; she had heard some of the other children in the slums whispering about it.

It was magic. Real magic.

And it was the first time she had ever witnessed it up close. She had always been curious about magic. How could she not be? For the things that gathered just before the spell appeared were the very white symbols she constantly saw floating around her.

"Are you feeling any better, little one?" The woman's soothing voice pulled her from her thoughts. She immediately sat upright, her crimson eyes turning to see the person who had spoken.

It was a woman who appeared to be in her mid-forties or early fifties, judging by her features. Her hair was completely white, like that of someone who had lived a very long time. Her lush blue eyes held a deep warmth as she looked at the little girl.

"No need to be alarmed. I mean no harm," she said with a gentle chuckle.

The elderly woman leaned forward a little. "I am Jen Valtoria. Would you mind telling me your name?"

The little girl stared at the white-haired woman for a long moment, confused by this sudden turn of events. But at the very least, it seemed she was no longer being chased.

Her crimson gaze locked with Jen's lush blue eyes. She shook her head.

A slight crease appeared on Jen's face as she tried to understand. "You... do not wish to tell me?"

"A..ayyoo..vu." The little girl fumbled, waving her hand and shaking her head before pointing at herself and then shaking her head again. She tried her very best to make this nice lady understand what she was attempting to convey.

Jen watched calmly as the child demonstrated. The moment she heard the girl's strained attempt at speech, she understood that the child was mute, but she let no expression betray her thoughts. She simply observed quietly while the young girl struggled to communicate.

When it finally seemed the message was getting through, Jen's expression brightened. "Ah." She snapped her fingers in realization, but a frown soon followed as she pieced the meaning together. She glanced back at the girl. "...You do not have a name?"

The little girl's face lit up, and she nodded vigorously.

Jen processed the revelation, a flicker of sadness passing over her features. She quickly masked it with a warm expression and asked another question. "What about a family member, a loved one, or friends? Do you have any?"

The little girl shook her head without a moment's hesitation.

Jen stared at the child, the sorrow threatening to show on her face once more. This little girl before her was living all alone, unable to speak, with no friends or family, merely surviving in the slums. She was fortunate to have found her alive. Had she been even a moment later, heaven only knows what might have become of the girl.

Jen's original intention had been to heal the child and return her to her family. But seeing how things truly stood, it was clear some plans were about to shift.

She leaned closer to the young girl. "Would you like to come with me?" She added gently, "If you accept, you will be traveling quite a lot." She raised a brow, a small upward curve playing at the corner of her lips. "Would you like that?"

The little girl stared at Jen with wide eyes, an expression of pure awe plain on her face. Almost instantly, she nodded with great enthusiasm, a brilliant grin spreading across her lips.

Jen gave a short nod of satisfaction, but then paused briefly as she recalled something. "A name." She turned back to the child. "Would you like me to give you a name?"

The little girl thought about it deeply, then she nodded.

Jen smiled. "All right, then." She considered carefully what name might suit the little girl before her.

Then her expression brightened. Her lush blue eyes met the child's crimson ones. "Would you like the name Molly? Molly Valtoria?"

"Oow." The little girl let out a thoughtful sound. Molly. This was the first time anyone had ever tried to give her a name. Molly... it was a good name.

The girl turned to Jen. She nodded eagerly, a radiant smile appearing on her face.

Jen's smile mirrored the child's own. "All right then, Molly. We are going to have a wonderful time together."

As she spoke, the newly named Molly found her smile growing even wider. She did not know precisely why she felt so happy. Was it the warmth she was feeling? Was it the way this kind lady smiled at her? Or was it simply the knowledge that her entire life had been strangely, wonderfully altered in the span of a single day? She did not know, nor did she care to figure it out. All she could think of in that moment was one simple truth.

She, the mute, nameless girl from the slums, had just been given a name.

Molly.
