"Of course," Graystalk agreed.

This was convenient, given Cale had been looking for an excuse to send his apprentices along with the instructors to defend those other paths anyway. As much as he would've liked to keep an eye on them, he was going to be targeted by the greatest part of the storm, so he couldn't afford to have them anywhere near him.

Besides, he trusted them. If any mage could find a way to grow from a disaster like this, it would be them.

"I agree," Cale said. "Can you let them know, please? I'm going to need to stay here to keep my side of the barrier up."

Which was true, but also technically a lie of omission. He didn't want to worry his friends or have some of them stay back just to keep him safe.

Graystalk nodded, then left to do exactly that.

Thorn, however, lingered. Cale felt the weight of his gaze on him. "...What is it?"

"Do not get hurt," Thorn said, blunt as ever. "I want you and your team for the tournament. Do not forget."

"Is that your way of saying you care?" Cale asked, raising a brow. Thorn just stared at him impassively before walking off. "I care about you too, just so you know! I just don't have enough spikes to do it in a cool way!"

Thorn, of course, did not deign to respond.

It took a grand total of four tense hours for the Dragonstorm to create the first cracks in the University's barrier. It took a grand total of four minutes for those cracks to progress into a complete shattering as the spell circle failed entirely. Cale watched as what must have been an entire treasury's worth of magical reagents disintegrated with an ear-splitting crack.

His own barrier was holding. He could feel the battering of the storm against it in the back of his mind, and that alone was worrying; most of the time he couldn't feel the strain on his barriers at all. What did it say about the Dragonstorm that it could pit itself against him?

But then the presence of his barrier was the only reason that many of the University's mages were still standing. The moment the other two layers shattered, many of them collapsed, screaming in agony. About half of those mages managed to force themselves back to their feet, with a worried Damien rapidly moving between the rest.

For a moment, the foyer was still and eerily silent. All Cale could hear was the pained, trembling breathing of more than a dozen mages and the sound of rain.

Then—

Lightning.

It was a poor word for what happened, but it was the closest Cale thought he was going to get. The world itself seemed to crack open, and then time seemed to divide itself into a series of split-second impressions.

First was a source. The beginning of all things. A mass of possibility and energy.

Second was a reaction. The sky called to the source, and suddenly there was a yawning abyss tearing through the ground, clawing its way up to the sky.

Third was the resolution. That gap in the world snapped wide, enveloping the school, and the thunderous crash of a thousand dragons roaring followed; the shockwave alone cracked the foundations of the University and split open its walls.

Thorn slammed his fists into the ground, covering everything with a layer of soft, protective vines a split second before the mages were sent flying into the walls. That saved them from breaking their necks, but did nothing to stop the sudden transformation of the University's halls.

The floor was covered in bubbling, boiling dragonblood, and the light around them had turned a deep, crimson red. Unlike before, the dragonblood did nothing to eat through the stone. Instead, it began to coalesce into shapes—

"Everyone, get into position!" Adam called, his voice sharp, and the mages of the University scrambled to obey. Cale caught his apprentices, Thorn, and Graystalk following suit in the corner of his eye, each one choosing an instructor to follow as they darted through the passages of the school.

They would be caught and cornered by the spawn of the Dragonstorm. Cale could see that much through the [Eyes of Ashvali]. But he was blind to the outcome. There was too much noise in the future, too much symbolic weight altering every possibility in real-time; the storm seemed almost as if it intruded upon Ashvali's domain, though how that was possible Cale had no idea.

Then there was his own future. Cale saw nothing but a perfect emptiness there, which was a little foreboding. Especially since he was now alone in the foyer.

But that was nothing he hadn't already expected, given Adam's warning, and now that the future was closer Cale could see it more clearly: in every future where he left to help the others, he saw that same perfect emptiness stretching out into infinity for everyone.

If he stayed, he only saw that future for himself. The choice was obvious. Even if the worst should happen—and that wasn't a guarantee, as far as he was concerned—he would wake up again in a new realm. That would be bad, but, well...

There were worse fates to be had, especially if it meant his apprentices would be safe.

Right on cue, the blood that covered the floor began to bubble again. Cale watched, his expression impassive, as the chalk lines now barely visible beneath the blood began to drain into the bubbles as though they were liquid. He felt the song of the Dragonstorm itself pour into this manifestation, until all he could hear through his new sense was a strange, throbbing silence.

That and the distant echo of drums. The "bad song" Phlogis had mentioned, no doubt, but there was no time to think about that now.

He watched instead as the four sages of dragonkind climbed out of the blood, their bodies twisted together into a single abomination. Only their heads were distinct—Cale recognized them all from the vision that Trekagor had left for him. Four heads in total, emerging from a single, grotesque body. It stumbled forward, opening its mouths to roar at him.

Cale swiped, manifesting a barrier, and in a single motion cut off all four of its heads before the first drops of spittle had landed. He followed up by surrounding the remains with a barrier before snapping his fingers to fill the entire thing with blistering wyldfire.

And then, just for good measure, he poured his mana into an [Elemental Orb] attuned to void and erasure.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Excess draconic interference detected. Unable to compensate.

Cale's expression didn't change when he felt the attempted spell construct shatter and burn. It didn't change when he saw his wyldfire being inexplicably drawn into the sage hydra, nor when all four heads regenerated near-instantaneously.

It didn't change even when the hydra roared and clawed at him, though something about that attack seemed off. He narrowed his eyes. It was too far away to do any real damage, but the Dragonstorm's song swelled as though it was about to strike true—

Somehow it had absorbed the symbolic weight of his attack and turned it against him. Decapitation had meaning, after all; it was often associated with judgement and punishment, and the hydra was turning that meaning against him now.

His barriers would do nothing against this. Cale dodged, flinging himself out of the way, and felt an invisible blade slice straight through his left ear. It fell to the ground with a wet smack.

Cale ignored it.

The sage hydra stared at him, and something in its expression seemed to flicker. Did it have some understanding, then, of what it represented? Was it intelligent enough to understand what it faced?

Because for once, he wasn't the Mad Mage, fighting for revolution. He wasn't Torment's Shadow, filled with anger and vengeance. He wasn't Yggdrasil's End, forced to make a terrible choice for the greater good. Each was a legend that once formed around him, a legend that he had turned into a mask.

But legends or not, those names and legacies were simply footprints left behind by a single soul. A single name.

That was the person now staring down the avatar of the Dragonstorm.

Cale Cadwell Cobbs wore an expression of perfect, deadly seriousness. It didn't matter that his opening had failed—this was a different era of magic, and a different era meant different rules. He would learn and adapt as he always did, with or without his magic.

For example, decapitation had failed because it carried symbolic meaning that the hydra could use against him. The Gift had been unable to evolve his spell because the world around him was soaked in draconic essence, and it could not compensate for that.

There was a simple solution to both those problems.

Cale cast [Create Impact].

Mana overload dete—

Then he popped open the vial of draconic essence and downed every last drop.
