Now he would go down in history as the first captain to lead a fleet since New Harrak had a fleet, and also the first one to lead them to victory! It was especially notable because Harrak’s naval history was… rather lackluster. As in, they’d gotten their afts kicked almost every time. But no more.

“Sir? The back of the enemy formation is scattering. Should we pursue?”

He shook his head.

“There are too many of them, and without an admiral, they will take weeks to reach land. Our objective is complete. We shall commandeer the transport to lead them to Frostway. We will sink those we cannot take.”

“Understood sir, and… well done.”

Well done indeed. This was Oleander’s last ditch at getting enough food to last until the harvest.

Now he and his men were going to starve.

***

Viv leaned against the balustrade overlooking the Plain of the Gods. Up high in the Palace, the view of the battlefield she’d picked was perfect. The Deadshield Woods could barely be seen in the distance more than fifty kilometers away, then there were the verdant fields on the side, freshly sowed, and the fallow ones in the middle where she expected the two armies to meet. Closer still were the low fortifications where the artillery groups would be hidden, and then the Plain of the Gods itself with its temples and healers. A large road then led up the sharp cliff towards Sinur’s Gate. Even outnumbered, the Harrakans would never get flanked or attacked in the rear unless enemies managed to fly up and drop down behind its walls. If that happened, she was already dead anyway.

She watched a train approach with a new shipment of supplies. It was still mostly food for now. The granaries had been opened to feed the increasingly massive alliance army.

She was starting to think they wouldn’t be that outnumbered after all.

“Your Imperial Majesty, a guest has arrived,” Birdtongue announced.

Viv smiled at the southerner. She’d been concerned when she had been forced to replace her as head of the administration by the much more experienced Bes, but the woman was taking it in stride. It had apparently been an overwhelming job. Now, Bes trained her as his protegee while he ruled over the administration with an iron fist hidden under a silk glove.

“I took the liberty of starting with Ediar of Reixa, seeing as you didn’t want his presence known.”

“You did well. Have you prepared what I asked?”

“Yes, milady.”

“Good. Show him in and stay. I want this one done quickly.”

“Understood.”

The tattooed woman brought back an old Enorian noble in full armor. He was not unlike Ban: too old to stand on a battlefield, too smart not to give his responsibilities to his heir, yet too stubborn to give up completely, so he still followed the warriors. His heir, Gedis, was still outside with his men. Reixa had been one of the very first Enorian cities to accept a teleporter, and they’d been much enriched by the cooperation. This had led to the awkward current predicament.

“Your Majesty, greetings,” the man said, face flush with emotions. “It is with a heavy heart that I must choose between two allegiances today. I remain an Enorian patriot, no matter what, so it is with great shame that I must disobey my rightful king to honor my greater allegiance to the kingdom and the Paramese Alliance that defends it! By allying with the invader, King Sangor shamed us all!” he spat.

Viv smiled at him.

“Would you like to sit?” she offered, pointing at the two chairs on the balcony.

He refused like she’d expected. His full armor wouldn’t allow it.

“I thank you for your hospitality, but I must decline.”

“And I must say I admire your resolve knowing what it would cost you. Now, you’re perhaps wondering why I had the hadals hide you and your men as you approached.”

“I assume it was to protect Reixa from retribution.”

“In fact, it is to protect you from retribution. Do you know why King Sangor sided with the enemy?”

“There are rumors that the Crown Prince has disappeared,” Lord Ediar grumbled.

“Precisely,” Viv replied. “So long as he’s a hostage, Sangor will not act just as he didn’t act long ago when Gil was held by the templars. I will only say that I am aware of the situation. Look, I will cut to the chase. Do you trust me as a woman of my word?”

“With every fiber of my being.”

That made Viv happy.

“Then please acknowledge my request. I need you to return to the Enorian army.”

Ediar blinked.

“What?”

“I have a plan. If that plan works but you are already on my side, you will end up in an unfavorable situation. I need you to return to the Enorian army and wait for my signal.”

“And what signal will that be?”

“I believe it will be fairly obvious. And as for what I need you to do, it will be fairly obvious as well. Trust me please. I cannot say more. Just know that Harrak will remember your actions. Should we win, you will find that my daughter is looking very favorably upon your works. And before you go, I have prepared a few inconspicuous gifts… just to make sure we meet again under better circumstances.”

Ediar appeared thoughtful for a little while.

“It’s runic armor, isn’t it?”

“It is runic armor.”

“Well alright lass. I don’t know what you’re planning but you have never failed us so far. I’ll do as you ask.”

“I can ask for nothing more. Make sure your people keep their lips sealed until the time is upon us.”

“They can’t share what they don’t know… alright. I am convinced. See you on the battlefield.”

“Be patient and stay alive,” Viv concluded.

“You too, lass, you too.”

He departed, still clearly confused but it was for the best. The next guest came soon after.

Renata, previously known as ‘Elunath’s little snitch’ and since then upgraded to ‘that traumatized mage who always looks like she’s ending a double shift in retail’ entered the room with the eyes that said she needed a double espresso with a side of syringed adrenaline. At least she was standing straight. Her black hair reached her neck under a heavy blue hood. Interestingly, the rest of her garb was that of a battle mage mid-campaign: walking boots, gambeson, lots of pockets and a focus staff. It was a good sign.

“Hello Renata. I imagine you’re representing the mage’s enclave at End of the World?”

“I am. The Azure Lady sends her greetings. She also says she will not help any more than she already has.”

Viv nodded. Her arrangement with the elemental archmage was clear. The old lady had already gone above and beyond by helping Viv escape the Nemeti ships.

“What about you then?”

Renata shivered.

“I know Lana and many of the girls will fight by your side. I won’t fail them again, ever. I also took the liberty of asking around the city for volunteers.”

End of the World had a free city charter. They were not obligated to defend Harrak.

“As you know,” Renata continued, “many of our numbers are Shadowland refugees. They don’t like Oleander very much. They want him to conquer them even less.”

“Sounds promising.”

“I bring twenty-seven trained war mages with their apprentices, seven blade masters, four healers and a dozen hybrid paths. It’s not much but…”

“I’ll take all of them and they need to come now. It's very important that they train a bit to maneuver with the rest of the army.”

“I’ll let them know.”

“Hmmm.”

Renata sighed, somehow relieved. Her gaze traveled to the forest of tents and basic barracks erected in front of the plains. She approached the balustrade, fingers gripping the ledge.

“That’s… a lot of people.”

“Believe it or not but Oleander’s been kind of a massive asshole. It has pissed off a lot of people and now they’re gathering. We’re eating through months of accumulated food reserves right now just to keep everyone in top shape.”

“Are you at risk of running out? We have stored —”

“Believe me, we are well prepared. Now if there is nothing else, I’m still collecting troops…”

“I’ll show myself off,” Renata said in a voice so filled with self-loathing that it made Viv stop her.

“Lana’s over there, right below the massive Efestar statue. You should go say hi.”

“Yeah, I… yeah. I probably should.”

“It’s been over ten years, Renata. You were in a shit situation.”

“I can’t face them.”

“You know Lana already forgave you for what you did. Have the courage to face the others and maybe they’ll forgive you as well, then you can forgive yourself.”

“There is no forgiving what I’ve done.”

Renata left without waiting for more.

Viv knew it was presumptuous of her to tell Renata what to do with her life. She could only push a bit then hope the others would help each other. She was a leader, not a therapist.

“Well, I did what I could. Now who’s next on the list?”

***

Marruk was next. The kark looked tired. Dust covered the lower part of her heavy armor. The mace at her belt was dented and notched in a display that was more threatening than most auras. Her hair was longer now, and Viv could feel earth mana shake when she moved.

“Marruk. Been a while. How was training?”

“Harrowing. I regret not starting earlier, but… maybe it was for the best. I wasn’t ready to face some truths about myself.”

“I see. When are your people coming?”

The stout woman approached the balustrade as well, ignoring the offered seat. Just as well since it couldn’t have carried her weight. The nearest portal was a small distance away from the city, near and around a train track. It had just closed after the latest shipment had been delivered.

“About… now.”

The portal opened again. It was unscheduled, enough to arouse Viv’s suspicion normally, but the kark’s reaction meant it was expected.

The armored forms of pakar riders lined out in good order — well in good order for the kark. There were quite a few of them, their mount advancing with their strange gaits.

They kind of reminded Viv of kangaroos. In a way.

“The Red Tribe answers the call of the Harrakan Warchief. My people are here,” Marruk said with great pride. “We also bring River Tribe slingers, just over two hundred of them.”

“I can always use more slingers. We just need to make sure they have enough stones…”

That was a lot of pakar riders. There were hundreds of them. Just as Viv thought the end had come, columns of spearmen bearing heavy shields walked through. And then… they just kept coming.

“Errrr,” she said, very eloquently.

“Our vanguard could use spare armor if you have any.”

“We do, in fact, have a surplus. Mostly helmets which should fit you with minor adjustment…”

Now the kark were spilling over the temple ground, others were walking all over the empty fields and the most enterprising ones were even approaching the massive cooking tents Viv had set up just for the occasion. The flow was showing no signs of stopping.

“Marruk. How many soldiers are you bringing?”

“What do you mean?”“I mean how many Red Tribe warriors are coming?”

The muscular woman blinked, her flat face scrunching in confusion.

“Viv I just told you. The Red Tribe answered your call.”

“Wait a minute. Everyone?”

“We are a nomadic people? The elders and children can weave and cook.”

“Ah.”

There were now easily four thousand more warriors milling on the field. Nobody knew what to do with them.

“I need to redraw our battle lines. Wow.”

“You do the human things. I will arrange a living spot with Bird Tongue. Who is your new human who looks like a bird of prey who just spotted a fat fish?”

“That would be Bes.”

“I prefer Bird Tongue. I will join your war council tonight so we can talk. Goodbye, Viviane.”

“Hey Marruk?”

The red humanoid turned back, her placid face the very image of reliability.

“Thanks,” Viv said.

“There is no need, but if you must show your gratitude, kill Oleander.”

“That is the plan.”

Marruk left. Viv was left watching the squirming mess of her troops wondering what to do with each other. She could hardly believe it. She thought the decisive battle might be a last stand kind of thing with a slim chance she would have to grab but, looking down, there were so many people.

“They’re all here to help.”

The realization that Param was actually mobilizing to help her hit her like a rock. A dangerous emotion surged, filling her chest with a lying warmth, but try as she might, she could not chase it away. Hope.

As she watched, a new column of armored warriors appeared over a distant hill bearing the banner of Neriad. Another group of templars was joining her host.

It was happening.

“Holy shit. I think we’re doing it.”

She sat on her chair, then looked to the side, past a plate of biscuits.

“Why do I even put a guest chair here? Nobody ever sits down,” she grumbled.

***

“It’s important, lass.”

Viv stood from her throne to approach her latest petitioner. Mother was the official leader of the Bitter Hearts, the order of crossbows who gathered all the wayward souls. She was an ancient woman wearing a gambeson seemingly made out of pockets. At any time, it contained enough sewing material to start two workshops with some leftover to knit a ship’s sail. Her face was wizened like an old prune, making her eyes almost disappear behind a perpetual smile. Viv stood because Mother didn’t deserve to be looked down upon. Not for something this important.

“This goes against our strategy. You would risk the Ghost Network and the lives of your people for complete strangers.”

“Have you ever starved, lass?” Mother replied without missing a beat.

