Viv didn’t reply. She had been starving after arriving in this world, but that was mana poisoning. She knew what Mother was referring to: that gnawing sea of pain that could push people to eat their own limbs.

“Have you seen your child starve? The Baranese villages will eat themselves, and it’s our responsibility.”

She raised a hand to stop Viv, anticipating a rebuke. Viv didn’t.

“I understand the difference between responsibility and guilt,” she replied. “It was Oleander’s decision to pillage northern Baran to keep his army fed. It was our actions that led him to this extremity.”

“And you’ve done well. I heard about the revolts and the attacks on food convoys. You’re breaking his story piece by piece, ain’t you? Destroying the dream.”

Viv didn’t reply.

“I know his followers blame you for all this shit but I’m telling ya. We still need to send those people food. The Bitter Hearts volunteer to carry out the mission.”

“That means people getting caught and portals being found out.”

“Aye. We’ll die and bleed. Nothing new, lass. That’s who we are. First in…”

“Last out,” her followers finished.

“We don’t gotta do it because it makes sense. Or because it helps us. We gotta do it because it’s the right thing to do. Don’t leave those poor sods to Gomogog, lass. Please.”

Viv breathed in, breathed out.

Her plan depended upon giving Oleander no choice but to do one thing, and one thing only: bum rushing her through hostile territory. If she had to be honest, the food to feed lost villages would barely make a scratch in what his army needed. It was just…

What would Neriad do?

She knew what Neriad would do. She sent a burst of mana to the righteous god, and a dim warmth filled her chest in return. The answer was clear.

“Volunteers only. Same for the mages. I’ll grant the Bitter Hearts four times their supplies allowance for the next two months and you arrange everything yourselves.”

“Thank you, lass. Don’t worry, we’ll hide if the Maranorians approach.”

“Actually,” Bes said, “it might not be necessary.”

Viv turned to him.

“Elaborate?”

“It appears that the Kingdom of Maranor is on the move. They have regrouped and crossed the Enorian borders, traveling west at good speed and pillaging every town along the way, like a swarm of locusts. It appears Oleander has abandoned his plan to unite the continent.”

Viv breathed a sigh of relief. She wasn’t sure that part would work. Enemies could never be counted on to act rationally, especially believers. Now Oleander was coming before his army could disintegrate, but also before the continent starved.

“There is just one issue, milady.”

“Uh?”

“It appears he is heading towards a ruined city near the Enorian central mountains. A ruined city by the name of Aristan.”

Aristan… Aristan… Viv’s mind almost drew a blank. That place had been abandoned long before she even came to Nyil. There was nothing there: no resources, no legendary treasure.

“What the fuck is he doing?”
