Shiv’s death was so sudden and violently comical that he almost missed the Culturist’s return quip. “‘Can’t believe you’d fall for that?’” the orc said, speaking with a perfect impression of Shiv's voice. He sighed with disappointment and returned to his usual deep baritone. “Please, Insul. You can do better than such a lowbrow trick. This is a strategy known to every mountain bandit across history—and even a few clever animals.”

Inertial Overdrive 226 > 228

Shiv was used to dying in excruciating pain. However, what he wasn't used to yet was watching the process of his own death from another perspective. His Severed Shadow allowed him to behold the process of his body going from a living organism to a corpse in vivid detail. With his mind and senses no longer overloaded by an extra body, Shiv realized his Severed Shadow had an Awareness just like his Revenant form did. Everything was a bit dull and muted, but he could still see and hear things happening around him—and he flinched when all his bound equipment appeared as new transparent outlines on his silhouette of a body.

“Well, Deathless. I suppose you should finish this embarrassment of an ambush.” The Culturist kept his back facing Shiv’s Shadow. “I will give you this—it is an impressive Skill Fusion. And a rare one. I have never encountered a golem that manages to evade the breadth of my Awareness after a time. Without Divination and Lifesight, I fear I would have no idea where you are.”

***

“Fuck… What’s wrong with him?” Jessica glared hard at Shiv’s shaking corpse. She didn’t want to worry, but… Well, the kid had usually resurrected by now. Where the fuck was he? “He usually should shit out that red-white stuff inside him by now. Where is he?”

“I am not sure,” Valor said. Corrosive mana curved around the corners of his eye sockets. He was using his Necromancy to do something. “There.” Valor pointed a few steps behind the Culturist. The orc fuck was showboating to the crowd, holding his arms out and talking smack or whatever. “Shiv is right there. I think.”

Jessica stared at the nothing behind the Culturist—Wait, there's not nothing. There was that strange little gap in the air. The texture looked like a puncture wound left behind by a knife of some kind. Usually, Jessica saw those injuries marring skin and meat, but it looked like a patch of the world had been stabbed.

“What the hells kind of Skill Evolution did he just get?” she breathed.

Valor hummed. “I have never seen such an evolution before either.”

“Well, it looked like he farted some kind of blood-gas golem out of his body earlier. Then it vanished.”

“That does indeed seem to be a crude description of the situation.”

Neither of them knew what to say after that. And so they waited. For Shiv’s next move.

If he even had one.

***

Shiv cringed as he heard his body let out a final death rattle. The sound of his corpse trying to draw in a last breath was more than a little haunting. He'd heard that sound come from plenty of his victims, but himself? Usually, he was too busy with something else to pay attention—like the sensations of his resurrection. But now he couldn’t avoid it. Man, I sound like a dead bear with a stuffy nose. I need to try to figure out a way to make my dying breath more dignified. Or maybe more explosive. I can’t be making those noises for everyone who kills me. This shit is embarrassing.

“No sense in delaying your attack, Deathless. Humiliation is an apt teacher. Sometimes, shame is an appropriate penalty for failure…” The Culturist was still making noises with his mouth. Shiv ignored him for now and tried to figure out his next move. His attempt at a cheap shot had collapsed entirely. Though Shiv could force his Shadow to solidify, he would only get his ass kicked by the Culturist again. But before that, there was another thing he needed to figure out.

How do I resurrect now?

Usually, the process was automatic and intuitive. He died. He absorbed some vitality. He came back. So far, nothing was happening, and Shiv had no idea what to do. He didn’t really lose any vitality when his body died, either. It was just like a portion of his senses had gone dark—a body he could control was lost. The total Vitae he could use remained unchanged.

Okay, new Revenant: Grow me a body! Grow! Resurrect! Return! Uh… Arise! Live again! Felling… Do something! Come on!

Shiv strained his mind—and did it for so long that the Culturist slowly lowered his upheld arms and awkwardly looked over his shoulder. “…Insul?”

“Yeah, yeah, give me a second; I’m trying to figure some shit out, okay?” Shiv sent telepathically. At least using his magic was still second nature.

The Culturist’s lip curved up in an ugly, coy smile. “You aren’t embarrassed, are you?”

“The Insul’s shy from the beating!” a random orc hollered. “Everyone, laugh at him!”

On cue, the entire audience of the coliseum—minus the third that the Culturist had palm-striked out of existence to show off—threw their heads back and bellowed with uncannily synchronized laughter. A few instruments started playing. Some orcs started singing opera, belting out lyrics about how the Deathless was a sulking cat named Pussy Van Bitch. If Shiv had teeth to grit, he would have ground them down to powder against one another.

Oh, for fuck’s sake! Okay. Let’s try something new: Golem. Let’s see if I can—wait, isn’t this supposed to be some kind of Golemancy Skill Evolution too? Shiv pulled up his notifications and observed all the baseline evolutions for his Deepest Edge and Golemancy Skills.

Skill Evolution: Golemancy (Adept) > Vessel of Melded Purpose (Master)

Skill Evolution: Deepest Edge (Adept) > This Blade That Drifts Beyond (Master)

Well, this should have been a Golemancy Skill Evolution, but then his Vitaemancy had gotten involved. None of his other skills evolved at Level 150, but it did. What the hell was Acceptable Skill Fusion Detected? What did that mean? Why was it waiting for a moment like this to alter a new Master-Tier Skill Fusion into a Unique?

Those thoughts built up inside Shiv as he began the process of creating a new golem. But as he reached into himself, his Vitae ignited immediately. The dappled mists of red hardened like dried scabs, painting his materialized presence into existence as they surged toward the pale, bright blade rooted at his core.

“Shi—” Shiv didn’t want to solidify. He didn’t want to do anything but shape a golem as a test run to see what he was doing wrong. Unfortunately, he was tangible and entirely visible again—and so the Culturist was immediately on him.

“Fuck! Wait! Culturist! Stop!” Shiv’s pleas went ignored. The orc's fists and feet flowed like fluid lightning. He blinked from place to place like he was teleporting as he poked and chopped at Shiv from seemingly every angle possible in a three-dimensional space and then some more.

At some point, the Culturist started going so fast that he divided into separate orcs that were all beating Shiv’s ass in sync. Shiv’s blade aura seemed to pass through the orc with every ripple—like the bastard was dodging the slashes somehow. The entire ass-kicking was done by the time Shiv managed to react. He Phase-Framed through a final punch, and the Culturist did several unnecessary backflips to land weightlessly meters away. He struck another pose this time, emulating someone trying to grope something while suffering terrible cramps in both arms.

At least, that was how it looked to Shiv.

“The Swallows Sing of the Loping Apes’ Dire Embrace,” the Culturist declared. It sounded like gibberish to Shiv. Still, he tensed, waiting for his Revenant to explode too or something. One second passed. Then three. Shiv started fading out of existence again. The Culturist frowned as he broke from his stance. “Why hasn’t your head detonated in an explosion of urine and inverted fecal matter yet?”

“That’s what your punches were supposed to do?” Shiv snarled, horrified. “What kind of Striking Proficiency Skill Evolution do you even have?”

“This is not a Striking Proficiency Skill. It is merely the foundation—the crude base, an advanced martial form known to only three across Integration. It is the Whispered Hand of the Northern Savior—a style for the students of the Galloper across worlds.”

“Culturist, be honest, are you just screwing with me?”

“Absolutely not! I pride myself on the arts I learn. Especially the martial arts. I spent centuries dying at the Galloper’s hooves before he finally accepted me into his tutelage. Someday, I will prove his better. Someday, I will slay him and my brother-in-this-art.”

“I—wait, hooves?”

“The Galloper, as the name implies, is an Awakened Horse,” the Culturist said with deathly seriousness, clenching a fist at Shiv.

Shiv tried to imagine a horse doing half the weird shit the Culturist just did. The images his mind managed to create were both kind of awesome and also really stupid looking. “Uh, yeah, great.”

“What’s not so pleasing is why you are still unaffected,” the Culturist said. He gestured at Shiv. “My blows are meant to trigger the meridian pressure points that comprise critical nodes within a Pathbearer’s unattuned mana. Even if you are protected by a golem, you should have detonated. Not even a layer of hardened vitality should save you.”

Shiv could have replied to the Culturist’s confusion in any number of ways. Being a lying prick felt the most natural. “Well. Maybe you missed.”

The Culturist frowned. “I did not miss.”

“Then why didn’t I explode?”

“Due to a reason that eludes me for now.”

“I think you’re just bad at this art. A bit shameful, no? What would Master Horsie say?”

“Galloper.”

“You think it’s because you don’t have hooves?”

That made the Culturist briefly look down at his fingers. “...No.”

“You sure?”

“I know what you are doing, Deathless. You might be able to play psychological games against my great shame, but you cannot strike my pride in the arts.”

“I don’t need to. Because you’re bad at this art. You should be ashamed.”

At this, the other orcs smelled blood coming from the other direction, and they didn't waste a beat before jumping at the opportunity. “The Culturist doesn’t know what he’s doing! His waifish dance is useless against the Insul! Pathetic!”

A song then began, declaring the Culturist a mentally challenged orc with a fetish for pretending to be a horse. Shiv started laughing loudly. The Culturist’s emotional core filled with just the faintest flickers of anger.

“You are an emotional terrorist, Deathless,” the orc muttered.

“And you’re never going to be a real horse.”

Sticks and Stones 81 > 82

The Culturist drew in a sharp breath of annoyance. “Alright. Enough of these delays. Step out from the golem so I might continue your education—and the relieving of my itch.” His eyes then snapped to the still-trapped Gone. “Or see someone else sacrificed on your behalf.”

“Hey, calm down. I would pop out if I knew how. I’m undergoing some kind of… resurrective bottleneck. I was trying to fix it by seeing if I could make a golem or something earlier, but then some asshole who pretends to know martial arts decided to attack me.”

The Culturist folded his arms and glared. “Very well. Let us say I believe that you are suffering from such a… dysfunction.” Shiv mentally glared at his choice of words. The crowd laughed. The Culturist visibly suppressed a smirk. “I will grant you a moment to emerge from this veiled cocoon of yours. Actually, what seems to be the problem? Is it your vitality? It appears you have an overly dense concentration gathered where you were. It’s almost like you’re fat clogging the System’s arteries.”

Shiv reached into himself again, sinking his Vitae deep as he tried to shape a new golem. But as he turned tangible again, he felt his calcified Vitae pressing not against the shape of a new golem, but rather bare flesh. Shiv paused. He prodded at what was taking shape beneath his unique mana. His disbelief only grew as he pulled out the “construct” growing within him.

Shiv’s new flesh-and-blood body stumbled free from his Severed Shadow as the pale blade at the core of his Revenant carved down and left an open wound. His Vitae combusted at the feat; half of his total vitality was consumed by the time he was done. A doubled load returned to oppress his mind and senses. Shiv found himself contained in a natural body once more, while still rooted to his Severed Shadow. Throwing him off even more was the fact that he was fully naked. No armor. No weapons. No equipment at all—his Last Morsel, Voidmantid armor, and more were still stuck with his Shadow.

“That’s usually the other way around,” Shiv breathed, speaking through his newly resurrected body. He looked at his hands, saw the black and white vectors dancing across his limbs. He had resurrected from what should have been his golem. Before, he shaped golems from the Vitae contained within his body. Everything was inverted now. “Godsdamned Skill Fusion’s sliced up more than I thought it did…”

Already, he could feel warmth trickling back into his Severed Shadow. It was digging into the blood of the System, drinking in Vitae with its cutting presence. Shiv wondered then if he could carve the vitality out of the world, out of someone, and he was curious how deep he could slice and stab with his new Skill Evolution.

A mad plan began taking shape in his mind. A plan so mad and violent, he might be the only person in Integration who could think it up.

