My corruption falls back entirely into my core, yet it doesn't feel bloated or overstimulated at all by the massive increase in energy volume it's consumed.

The purple and white light has all fallen into its depths, devoured, and seemingly disappears.

Yet, the moment I reseal its outer edges with a thick layer of Royal Vibrations, a ripple of white light flows through my whole greater form. It even makes my Primordial Aura tremble, and it creates a mirrored effect on Maria's body like an identical pool of warm energy is expanding from her soul too.

It feels like I'm being dropped into a warm bath. The wave of warm light even refines the Celestial Energy in my body further, and it lights up a layer of the glyph imprints on the outer edges of my soul.

It is not invasive or overstimulating at all. The warmth hits its peak and then slowly fades a few seconds later. When I turn around, Maria and I already have the same idea brewing again. We instantly take advantage of this stimulation, and siphon celestial energy through the massive amount of glyphs that are already lit up.

It still takes multiple arrays to compress the sacrificed energy, but it feels smoother and more natural this time.

Both of us manage to summon over half a dozen glyphs each and mimic the shielding array Vardon created to protect us moments ago.

It's an extremely weak version, and is only one layer thick, but it holds its structure in the air for almost a full fifteen seconds before the glyphs become unstable and explode high above us.

Even as the warmth fades, there are still dim glowing glyphs all over our bodies. It's an extremely low amount compared to the total, and they are nowhere near full luminosity, but they're consistently glowing.

The Celestial Energy in my soul is refined enough to the point where, even though I'm not in the middle of a trance or moment of enlightenment, I feel like I could summon one or two glyphs with ease... Looking up at the red and blue mist in the air, I do realize that once ether is used in this fashion, it's not as easy to absorb it all back.

Some of the fragments of high-quality glyphs float back down into our auras, but they're harder to digest, and it takes effort to create replicas of the reverse arrays found in the dryad's barrier to decompress the ether to a reasonable density before it can fall back into our cores.

Even so, we still try it, and are mesmerized by the process.

The Black Ogre and Fiery Mammoth that have watched this all occur before their eyes can't believe what they're seeing.

"Ulgar... did you make an agreement with a Demon...? Are they just leading us into a trap?"

"No- I- Don't think so. I couldn't sense his core at all before. He must be some kind of hybrid... or... I don't know. The woman doesn't have a core, she's certainly a human. She- must be."

"But they just activated a portion of their Legacy from a Demon's Essence. What is going on...?"

The two of them argue back and forth, equally surprised and in awe as they watch more complex glyphs woven and practiced in front of their faces with ease.

I turn my gaze to the rest of the Battlefield, then to Ulgar.

"I hope you don't mind if we claim the rest of your loot from a fight you rightfully won. It seems you can't make use of this essence anyway."

His gaze follows mine as I stare at the globs of purple essence all over the trees, roots, and craters in the ground where he fought off the 6 outer guards. The Black Ogre just slowly nods, and I grin back. "Excellent."

Maria and I float off toward the next tree, leaving the two Ancient True Cored High Quality Ether Wielding Domain Lords lost for words as I move to inject more tendrils of Corruption into a nearby pool of Demonic Essence at the base of another tree.

One by one, we move through the forest and I collect the left-behind energy from each of the Demon's stray strikes.

I don't receive any visions, only more layers of crystal-clear understandings of the glyphs I'm crushing and absorbing into my corruption. The Demonic Energy pool inside my core grows far more intense, and the Vibrations inside it become filled by the presence of 6 more Royal Demons.

Even though they were purple cores, and Royals themselves, their wills do not seem as strong as my own, or even the wills of the Family Heads that are residing in my corruption, dominated by my own. Their Demonic Essence, and the purity of ether I'm managing to absorb on the other hand, is leagues above anything I touched in the Ravine or Blue Zone.

I vividly remember tiny drops of this purple liquid I managed to drain from mindless demons in the ravine, but now, I'm draining oceans of it that saturate my Royal Demon's core, making it hum with power.

Every time I fully retract my corruption back into my core, the same pulse of digested ether bursts through me. When my own glyphs are stimulated, the exact same ones on Maria's body light up.

We absorb over 20 dense pools of essence by the time we get to the final resting place of these 6 demons. Their remains are nothing but a pile of shattered Demon Cores sitting in pools of thick demonic essence, glowing purple horns, and the Soul Weapons. They all lay scattered in a deep hole. It looks like Ulgar somehow moved them all here, but their bodies are completely gone.

When they were fighting, I couldn't accurately scan what they were made of, so staring at this loot left behind is still a mystery.

My Primordial Aura's bubble has expanded drastically again, flowing out over 100 billion kilometers, and even managing to touch the inner bark of many primordial trees without forcing me to react to it. A few attempts at looking deep into the Primordial Tree that was chopped down show me I still am not capable of fully peering into the depths of whatever they are, but I've made progress.

When my aura starts to scan this loot on the ground, I'm fully expecting my sword to wake up and greedily eat these soul weapons, but it doesn't even vibrate one bit. The blade in my soul continues to sleep.

Maria and I activate the maximum amount of glyphs we can while still slightly warm from the last essence absorption, and a few thousand red and blue symbols flow down to the ground and move underneath the horns and weapons. They float upward, carrying the loot and bringing it back toward us.

I activate my item storage skill, to seamlessly open up a pocket in space and drop the horns and weapons into it.

The 6 broken Royal Demon cores that stain the bottom of the crater in a massive pool of Demonic Essence, however, I float down toward them and allow hundreds of thick tendrils of corruption to connect to the densest areas of glyphs and bright purple energy.

The instant I touch them, I realize the difference in energy quality in their cores is far more potent than the small drops I managed to drain in the forest. My vision blurs within milliseconds as pure High-Quality ether, Royal Vibrations, and even their Primordial Aura starts to drain out of their cores and into mine.

The outside of these dark corruption vines glows white and purple as they crush thousands of glyphs per second and information in the form of memories of the past rushes into my mind.

I see this same Royal Demon that was yelling its lungs out in the Creator's Legacy Temple somewhere else entirely.

They're floating in an extremely strange void. I can't tell if it's bright white, or pitch black. Depending on the angle these memories view it, the concept of color itself shifts and skews reality in an odd way.

The Demon sits with its legs crossed, and eyes closed, moving its hands at an unfathomable rate. Massive amounts of energy are being used. Both its Royal Demon Core and Purple True Core are being pushed to the limits, bending reality around it. The Celestial Energy merged with its Demon's Core is far more refined than what I saw in the last memories it had.

In fact, they're extremely close to the purity in High-Quality Ether. The hand movements this Demon continues to make create symbols in the air, but the vast majority of them just fade away like mist, not doing a thing. It is just meaningless squiggles and lines.

However, every few million signs of gibberish that fade away, one holds its shape without destabilizing and starts floating around the demon in circles.

Weeks, months, years, millennia, then an untrackable amount of time passes.

More and more glyphs stick, and they appear to be new ones that have never been created before. Like the demon is making them up from scratch, creating a new language, or style of wielding ether. The glyphs start to work together at times. Some explode and result in failures, but the more that fail, the more data is collected.

They begin forming working systems, and chain reactions of glyphs start to replicate and create more all on their own.

A beautiful whirlpool of an unfathomable number of High-Quality ether commands swirl around this meditating demon, and I feel as though I've just learned with him, a massive chunk of this Demonic Legacy.

The Demon starts to move its hands again to start another stage of its creation, but my grip on the visions starts to fade.

I got lost in the moment, and it feels like I've already absorbed everything from these 6 Demon Cores.

At the reality of an empty crater starting to show itself in front of me, I get one last glimpse of this Demon's memories. It is a look into the Demon's Divine Core... some of the dense purple strands at its center have begun to shimmer with a silver light.
