“And yet I had to work to keep you down. You’re tenacious, and far more powerful than any novice I’ve met, and any I will ever meet again. Keep fighting, keep learning, and you’ll become far more powerful than I am. I’m sure of it.”

“You really think so?”

“I know so. There are fast learners, and then there’s you.”

“...thanks.”

Markus sat quietly for a short time, simply catching his breath, mulling over Cyrus’ words. He didn’t deserve a friend and helper like this. He’d put himself on the line for Markus before, and even now, when he should’ve been angry at his own situation, angry at Markus for his behaviour, he listened, he understood, and he advised. He helped to calm Markus when he felt he should be going crazy, when everything in his mind felt so hopelessly destructive that he only wanted to tear everything around him down, good or bad.

That fire in his heart didn’t need to be quelled entirely. It only needed to be aimed.

He couldn’t lose sight of the objective before him. He’d made his decisions so he might do things his own way and secure his own future, and to do that, he needed to trust in himself. To allow himself to have weakness, to understand that improvement was something that came from the work and effort he put into it, not just how badly he wanted and wished for a thing.

The energy that went into a desire for change wasn’t the same energy that went into actualising it. That was something Markus could feel within himself. The shift in his spirit was prominent enough that he could sense it. He felt lighter. Less encumbered. Ready to face the challenges that laid before him, both impossible and scary, but achievable if he could keep sight of his principles, his desires, of who he truly was.

But to reach that point, Markus wanted to understand the pinnacle. The next step. The point he’d have to reach if he wanted to smash through his current limits and become a force that could truly bring change and betterment to his surroundings.

“Hey. Can you do me a favour?”

“Most likely.”

Markus stood. He pointed at his chest. “I want you to hit me properly. Hit me like you really, really mean it. Just once.”

“I can’t. At your current level I’d kill you.”

“You won’t,” Markus insisted. “I’ll use my Stone Skin, I’ll use another spell to reinforce my chest, and I’ll be able to take it. I’ve got over 200 Con already.”

Cyrus raised an eyebrow. “That number is less impressive than you might think. But fine.” He rose to his feet, a mountain of muscle and intensity, power rumbling through his body as he approached, his gaze formidable. “Just once. I’ll trust you can withstand it.”

Markus braced himself, expecting to find himself halfway across the room within moments, coughing his guts up, but instead, something else happened.

Cyrus stopped short an inch from his chest. The resulting energy of his punch flowed into Markus so violently that his entire body locked up, his lungs fighting stay functional, his eyes blurring.

Then, Cyrus pressed two fingers into Markus’ chest and pushed. Markus was shot back five feet, crashing to the floor, panting rapidly, his heart threatening to shatter his ribcage.

He was more shocked than hurt. The force behind that blow had been so intense that he’d almost shut down his nervous system without even touching him. To think that the power and skills of a god’s disciple were so vast…

Cyrus walked over to where he sat, holding his chest, feeling his heartbeat as he tried to get it under control. He watched with a smile upon his lips.

“You’re even stronger than I realised. I don’t think I even broke anything.”

“Maesha sold you for a bag of silver?!” Markus panted, still in shock, barely able to gasp the words out.

“I imagine she said that only to spite me.” Cyrus put a hand out. “Days ago, that same attack would’ve likely destroyed half your torso. Now, you’re barely winded.”

“Can… can you teach me to do that?”

“How about right now?” Cyrus laughed. “Still eager to go another round?”

Markus panted a couple more times, wiping sweat from his brow, then stared at Cyrus’ extended hand once more.

“Nah, I think I’m done. I’m gonna go pass out for twelve hours.”

With that, Markus grabbed Cyrus’ hand and pulled himself back to his feet. When the pair of them reached their cells, a bed almost identical to Markus’ sat in Cyrus’ cell, taking up almost half the space.

“What in the…”

“I told you,” Markus laughed, moving over to his own bed and unceremoniously slumping. “Nothing beats this.”

Cyrus eyed the bed warily, as if it were an alien entity that had invaded his room. He moved towards it slowly, cautiously, as if it might evaporate at any given moment.

“I’m accustomed to the floor.”

“Try it.” Markus insisted. “If you hate it, take the floor instead. I won’t stop you.”

Cyrus gently, gingerly sat upon the bed. It creaked a little, but held his weight with ease.

“This is…”

“Well?”

Cyrus didn’t answer. He laid back further against the mattress. Markus could barely see him through the bars.

“Well? How is it? Tell me!”

Cyrus didn’t say a word.

A few moments later, Markus heard a loud snore.

The sound brought him amusement. He kicked back and laid in his own bed. The darkness was soft and pulled against his eyelids.

He missed Ember. He wondered where she went when she was gone.

Only a few hours into sleep, he was awoken by a banging at the door of his cell, and a voice calling his name.

Not another arena fight already, surely? Was he expecting a visitor?

“I finally found you!” came the triumphant sound of a husky voice, its owner tapping their claws against the bars. “Good job not dying.”

The tigress paused. She squinted.

“Whoa… You have a bed?!”
