Aisha nodded. ‘When encountering a Wizard you should know that they’re just people, but each one is sitting on a massive bomb that most don’t recognize as a bomb. The Wizard themselves might not recognize their power as a bomb, either, for the bomb is usually not ready to explode for a number of reasons. Primarily, it takes time for a Wizard to become a Wizard. Sometimes this ascension is directed and fast, taking only minutes or seconds to unlock due to an immediate physical or psychological stressor, and them already being primed to activate. In these cases you usually end up with a problem too large to contain at that point in time and evacuation or immediate execution of the Wizard is the best course of action, depending on what the Wizard was going for at the time.

‘Normally, though, the ascension of a Wizard is slow and methodical. Usually, a Wizard is someone who makes a little break here or there and they don’t realize that they’ve broken something they shouldn’t break.’ Aisha sent, ‘It is in these breaks that you will truly know a Wizard for a Wizard.

‘These breaks are all the same.

‘These breaks work on a concept, instead of an Element.

‘Concepts are very difficult to influence, with most of them being Banned as soon as they are discovered. Some are not, though. All of the Elements and Esoteric Elements are not Banned, but you can see how some of the Elements are more real than others.’ Aisha sent, ‘Indeed, while it is a mite blasphemous to say, some would argue that all the Elements are concepts, and that all of magic itself comes from Wizards creating those magics in the first place.’ Aisha went silent, waiting to continue.

For Erick was having a small crisis at the moment.

He had heard words similar to Aisha’s before, but not laid down in such an open way.

… And that was the problem.

He had heard all this before… So why didn’t he make this connection before now? Before it was directly spelled out for him? He had even taunted that dragon at Ooloraptoor with ‘changing his Element to Truth’, which was a conceptual change. He supposed the most ‘new’ information that Aisha gave him (by implication) was that the various forces of Veird, from gods to the wrought to Melemizargo and the Wizards of this world, actually ‘decided’ on which Elements they allowed to flourish in the Script, and which ones they Banned.

Nodding, Erick sent, ‘Okay. That makes sense. Continue, please.’

Aisha continued, ‘Fire is an Element, and this is normal. Things have fire and heat to them.

‘Book is a concept. Several pages of language stuck together in a binding? This is a concept. It’s one of the few I can point to and tell people that, yes, this is not natural.’

Erick sat there for a moment, thinking. He had accepted that ‘Book’ was an Element because, sure, why not. But no. Rozeta —probably Rozeta— had decided to let that one remain? Elemental Book never got Forgotten Campaigned because it was useful. How many of the others were useful?

All of them, probably.

Which ones did Melemizargo add to Veird? Destruction and Dark, perhaps?

No way to truly know right now.

Aisha waited.

Erick sent, ‘Okay. I sort of… Get that.’

Aisha sent, ‘With your creation of Particle Magic, this was one of the ways that we thought you were a Wizard, but when other people on opposite sides of Veird were able to make Particle Magic using your ideas we realized that you were not a Wizard, but simply a planar with new ideas that worked in this New Cosmology.

‘We have a theory here in the Rest that all you really did to ‘make’ Particle Magic, was use telekinesis and instinctual aura control. Further proof that all you did was expose a blind spot where mana meets matter is already being proven in Alchemy, the world over; a school of magic where you have never shown any true learning, or desire to learn.’ Aisha sent, ‘This was most solidly proven over in Songli, where, by clearing up some misconceptions and giving Intelligence to a few people, and then stepping away, you have blossomed the seed of basic alchemy into a whole new branch of Particle Alchemy.’

‘… I never heard it put that way, but… Okay.’ Erick asked, ‘Noticing a Wizard is as easy as seeing a magic that should not exist? How does that work?’

‘This is rather darned difficult unless you know all magic that should and can exist.’ Aisha shrugged. ‘But once you’ve cleared that barrier, the spellwork you showed when you captured a few of the major forces of Terror Peaks is more than sufficient to capture and contain all but the strongest of Wizards. If such a Wizard should come along, it would likely take all of the wrought to put them down, so please don’t go upsetting any possible Wizards to where such actions are necessary.’ Aisha sent, ‘I doubt you would, but the words needed to be sent.’

After a moment, Erick sent, ‘I would like some examples of Wizards, please.’

‘There was this pirate known as Hullbreaker a while back. He’s probably one of the most famous recent Wizards, simply because he evaded everyone due to the creation of Elemental Pirate.’

Erick blinked a bit.

He… Wasn’t sure what to think about that, other than it was a bit silly. ‘That’s a bit silly.’

‘Yes. It was silly. It’s probably why it took so long to capture and kill the man; he wasn’t doing anything too objectively evil with his power aside from doing various pirate-things, like stealing from other ships and raiding coasts and being a general nuisance. He was a killer, yes. Killed thousands. But he was also rather insane in a very specific, non-genocidal way. He was also so deep in his power that no one wanted to set him off by applying too much pressure.’ Aisha said, ‘We sent small teams to capture and contain the man but what usually happened was that our teams had to give up the chase, to stop whatever horrors Hullbreaker unleashed to throw those teams off. Hullbreaker’s favored tactic was to expose two dragons in the nearby populace and start a dragon fight, and then escape in the confusion. Oceanside eventually got the pirate. Not sure what happened past that point as Kirginatharp took the man and did what he normally does.’ Aisha sent, ‘I have an idea of what he does but I’m not privy to the truth, nor do I want to be.’

That reminded Erick— He asked, ‘Is Kirginatharp trying to rid himself of his Curse?’

‘Oh yes.’ Aisha said, ‘He’s tried a thousand times before, too. We try to help him with that when we can, but it’s near impossible. You know that the Dragon Essence Curse was laid down by Kirginatharp’s brother, yes?’

‘Idyrvamikor; I heard from a Shade. Wasn’t sure until now, though.’

‘Wizardry flows in their whole draconic family but it skipped Rozeta and Kirginatharp.’ Aisha sent, ‘It would take a Wizard of uncommon means to break the Dragon Essence Curse. The Dark could do it, but there is bad blood between grandson and grandfather for an uncountable number of reasons.’

Erick asked, ‘Do you know what it would take to break the Dragon Curse on a different dragon; not the Headmaster? Would breaking every single inheritor of the Dragon Curse from their Curse make curing the Headmaster easier?’ Erick asked, ‘What about the Black Curse? What is the Black Curse, anyway?’

Aisha smiled, then began, ‘This ties to what Wizardry can do, and that is to create a new Element. What a Wizard does, is override the Dragon Essence inside a dragon with a new Element, thus curing them of their Curse. If every single dragon was cured then perhaps curing the Headmaster would be easier; I don’t believe so, though, since the Dragon Curse flows from him to everyone else. The Black Curse is a lot more difficult since that comes from the Dark, himself.’

Erick again recalled the conversation between him and that Shadow/Ooze dragon, Ordoonarati, where he threatened the man with ‘finding a Wizard to turn his Shadow/Ooze into Truth so that they could have an honest conversation’.

Erick admitted, ‘I have apparently taunted a dragon with finding a Wizard to cure their Curse in order to have a truthful conversation with them. I see now why that dragon suddenly turned helpful.’

Aisha smiled wide, laughing a little bit. ‘Dragons do want their cure very badly.’

‘So it’s some sort of Paradox magic, then?’

‘Not quite.’ Aisha sent, ‘Paradox is the easiest, and those Wizards can last the longest, but True Paradox Wizards can escape too easily, so dragons tend to try and break Wizards along the Paradox-Creation axis. Such a muddled Wizard Core usually breaks down quickly, but before the Wizard breaks, the dragon can usually attune themselves to one of the accepted Elements. Those ones are the three Elements of the three houses of Ar’Cosmos— And I realize I just touched on about seven different topics, each of which could take us an hour to discuss.’

‘I’ve heard about almost all of that before now, but the ‘houses of Ar’Cosmos’ is new.’ Erick sent, ‘I assumed you were going to go right into that explanation.’

‘Fae, Death, and Carnage.’ Aisha sent, ‘These are the three houses of Ar’Cosmos, and the three known and easily Paradoxable shifts of Dragon Essence. All three Elements are exceedingly dangerous, but those dragons remain inside their old Gate Network, and they don’t come to Veird, so there’s not much we can do against them.’ She added, ‘Your suggestion to find a Wizard to create Elemental Truth would be the birth of a new draconic house. Probably not possible without the use of a very strong Wizard, but this is something that any knowledgeable dragon would desire. This is what it means to ‘cure the Dragon Curse’; to add more monsters to the pile.’ Aisha asked, ‘Which of the three do you think is the worst?’

Erick’s answer was instant. ‘Fae.’

Aisha blinked a bit. ‘Everyone always guesses Death.’

‘I’ve heard of Death and Carnage before, and they are rather well warned-against, but they are known.’

Aisha smiled a little. ‘I suppose you would have known this much. Apologies. I sometimes forget how knowledgeable some mortals can be.’

‘I am unsure how Fae is worse than Death or Carnage, though. Working with Death will usually kill the user unless they’re already dead; it's the stuff of Necromancers and the like. Carnage usually causes temporary insanity, as it usually acts like a massive self-buff that wears off over time; the Orcol Rage is partially based on Carnage.’ Erick sent, ‘I thought all the fae were killed or died soon after the Sundering, though?’

Aisha sent, ‘We think one or two survived inside Ar’Cosmos. For instance, we’re pretty sure that the Illusion Dragon that attacked you at Holorulo is a member of the Fae family. Those illusions were too good to not be fae-based.’

Erick filed that thought away for another day, then he sent, ‘The Dragon Stalkers seemed to think that the Mirage Dragon was a Wizard.’

‘… I don’t see how—’ Aisha sent, ‘Which Dragon Stalkers? Where were they from?’

‘An archivist named Ruddy from Oceanside and a local enforcer from Songli named Favia.’

Aisha frowned a little. ‘I don’t know either of them but that’s nothing new. If you would have said Fardali or Trikalo then I would have been surprised that they handed you wrong information, but the Dragon Stalkers probably didn’t send their best to talk to you about—’

Erick recognized where he had gone wrong in his mention of ‘Dragon Stalkers’. He sent, ‘They weren’t there to talk to me. They were there to talk to the new patriarch of Devouring Nightmare and I forced myself into that conversation. Sorry for the confusion.’

‘Oh. Then that makes sense. The Dragon Stalkers are both highly zealous and highly secretive, with a great many of their particular chapters acting as self-contained cells that aren’t allowed to openly interact with each other. It helps to obscure what the Dragon Stalkers actually know and are capable of doing. Oceanside should have sent a better archivist, but maybe he was a young man?’ Aisha sent, ‘There were probably some politics involved in what happened there; hard to say. But what is easy to say, is that misinformation is a powerful tool when it comes to evading and killing dragons, and the Dragon Stalkers are very good at that.’

Erick frowned, reorganizing his thoughts on the Dragon Stalkers; he didn’t want to work with a dishonest organization at all, but they were already in deep shit for what they did to Poi.

A group of Dragon Stalkers had killed Poi’s mother, orphaning Poi and his sister for a long time, before tracking them down again and killing Poi’s sister. They were hunting for Poi’s father, who was apparently a full dragon.

To be sure, Erick asked, ‘Do the Dragon Stalkers regularly murder innocents in their path to killing dragons?’

‘Oh yes.’ Aisha sent, ‘It’s one of the major problems that people have with them, but since the dragons themselves have the capability to cause major disasters wherever they are, most countries cover up Dragon Stalker crusades and the smaller murders.’

Erick felt his heart sink.

He was probably going to have to kill all the Dragon Stalkers, wasn’t he?

Erick moved along, asking, ‘What is the Black Curse, exactly?’

‘It’s a curse placed on the concept of mana-loaded metal, mostly present when you take adamantite —what you call ‘osmium’— and alloy it into adamantium. Adamantium naturally takes in mana and it used to be white at the very beginning of the New Cosmology, but now it’s black.’ Aisha sent, ‘Probably not curable, either, because the basic nature of mana-loaded adamantium was altered so that mana inside adamantium absorbs light instead of radiates light. This directional change was caused by the Dark, himself. It’s theorized that the Black Curse will be lifted when the Dark is cured of his insanity, but that’s more folklore than anything real. The Church of the Forgotten Light likes to preach this particular ideology.’ Aisha sent, ‘In a similar but different fashion, the Dragon Curse’s power is localized and spreads from Kirginatharp, affecting every dragon in this world. Fixing that Curse at its base might be as difficult as killing Kirginatharp, or curing him. It is unknown what effect either event will have on every other dragon in the world. The curse could spread to a new host, or it could begin to unravel.’

Erick had a lot of thoughts about that, but he moved on to the most pressing one. ‘It almost sounds like you’re saying killing Kirginatharp is a viable solution to the Dragon Curse.’

