Aisha lost a bit of her brightness. ‘I did a lot of prognostication coming into this meeting but I’ve already gone off the rails. Obviously, I don’t want you to harm Kirginatharp, but at the same time, this world has a lot of problems, and the only real thing I know is that telling you the open and honest truth leads to a brighter outcome than telling you half-truths.’ She added, ‘For instance, I could tell you that killing every Wizard you find will make the world safer, and this is the simple truth, but it will also ruin any possible chance of us curing the Dark, opening up this New Cosmology for habitation, regaining a Gate Network, and a whole host of other things that we desperately want to happen, but which are dangerous to reach for. Perhaps, by telling you full truths, this Worldly Path will lead you to the best possible version of Veird.’ Aisha sent, ‘After all, it already seems you’re headed that way.’

In that moment, Erick recognized Aisha as a true believer.

He had already seen as much through this whole conversation, but it wasn’t till then that he truly understood just how much Aisha wanted him to succeed. It was a heady realization. She would likely be a strong ally…

And yet, Erick tried to stop his heart from beating so hard, and from breaking out in a sweat, but he was only partially successful, for the next question on his mind was dangerous.

So he framed his question with a bit of deniability.

‘… Do you think I’m a Wizard?’

With all the calm excitement she had displayed this entire conversation, Aisha stated, ‘Considering what you have done and where you’re headed, if you were a Wizard I’d still be on your side, but since you’re not, and since you’re never going to tell anyone that you are, then we never have to cross that particular cavern… Until you’re irrefutably outed by the creation of [Renew], anyway. But by that time you should be deeply enshrined in your power. All you have to do to avoid the bad end is to continue working alongside the Inquisition. Everyone else should leave you mostly alone. Except for the dragons, of course.’

Erick lightly breathed, pretending that everything was okay. Physically, he gave almost nothing away, but he knew that for anyone truly looking, he could be in trouble. Maybe he should have had this conversation under a full [Sealed Privacy Ward].

Aisha added, ‘If you were a Wizard then that was what I would tell you, but since you’re not, then you can ignore my ramblings.’

‘… Fair enough.’

Silence stretched.

Erick sent, ‘Thank you for the talk. Every day I learn more about magic, and every day I realize I know even less than the day before.’

Aisha nodded, smiling, sending, ‘It takes about a hundred years to learn most of the basics, but after that you’re mostly just learning about new people… Or that’s what I normally would say to a statement like yours. Now, I suppose we have Particle Magic to learn, and that’s going to take a while.’

Erick found himself smiling back, and even chuckling a little. ‘How long do you think that learning will take?’

Aisha smiled. ‘A very, very long time. So you better stick around to help us out like you did with Alchemy in Songli.’

‘I’ll try.’ Erick glanced to the door, and said, “Looks like Riivo is back.”

“Ah! I do so love it when I time these things right.” Aisha said, “It was very hard to do with you, you should know. Let me know if I can help in the future.”

“I will,” Erick said, and he probably would.

The two of them stood and left the conference room.

Aisha walked through the hallway, and down the descending stairs, passing Riivo who was on his way up. The two wrought nodded to each other, without stopping. And then Riivo came toward Erick, smiling wide, saying, “I’m glad to see you taking advantage of the Rest’s knowledge base. I heard all about what you did for some barons and for the Inquisition, too. I hope you will indulge us the same opportunity to use your skills.”

“That’s exactly why I came here.” Erick said, “In exchange, I’m hoping to get approval for runic webs wherever I wish to use them, and approval in the upcoming inquiry.”

The old iron man lost a bit of his mirth, hummed a bit, then said, “Let’s sit down for a talk.”

They moved back into the office, with Erick sitting back in his chair and Riivo taking the one that Aisha had occupied.

Riivo said, “The lockdown we have on runic webs is because they are a central protection to many wrought lands, so they have to be well-obscured from spying. A loose web is ripe for plucking; either for enemies to get webs of their own, or, once the methodologies are understood, to corrupt such defensive structures into killing all the people inside the space.

“This ease of destruction is almost the sole major reason we don’t allow runic webs to be spread around without our approval. People and cities have died before when they didn’t hide and secure their webs well enough. Entire cities turned into bombs, and then into ash on the wind.

“But since you want this responsibility, we can work on approving you for clearance.” Riivo said, “Here’s my offer: You can take Illusion Magic lessons from one of my people, help them with something they desire, and if your runic webs you create from those lessons turn out to be well-obscured, then I’ll potentially sign off on you getting runic web clearance.” He paused. “Probably not, though. I like you, Erick, but you’re a vigilante with the power of nations in your pocket. I would much prefer you prove that you can settle down somewhere and build something that will outlast your own life, first, because that’s what it means for me to sign off on such clearance. Someone, after you are gone, will come along and take over your runic webs you leave behind, and they’ll fail their bequeathed responsibility in any hundred of ways, and someone will learn of runes and become a Rune Master, who will then go on to spread runes to others, leaving trails of [Force Trap]s wherever they go.”

A simple demand, for simple reasons.

But once someone looked under the surface they were not simple reasons, at all. They were a bit angering, actually.

Erick understood the need to keep some magic secret. He was already agreeing to keep a lot of magics secret because the Inquisition asked him to keep them secret. The knowledge of Light and DNA were chief among the magics Erick was keeping under his hat.

But runic webs could make life a lot easier for a lot of people. The magical technology was out there; it just wasn’t used as widely and as well as it could be used. The wrought had power, and they decided how it was used; no one else.

Forget the fact that people had been killing each other with [Force Trap]s and [Fireball]s all this time, and could already do everything that Riivo was concerned about without using runes. Forget about the idea that runes could do a lot more good out there than they could do evil, and that if both sides of various conflicts had runes, then civilization could begin to work on actual countermeasures to the various attacks Riivo envisioned.

With the power of runic webs only usable by a few, and only immortals at that, this meant that there was never any true innovation with runic web security.

Riivo’s concerns over how cities had been destroyed by the corruption of their runic webs was valid, and Erick had already had questions about that, himself. But Enduring Forge was able to work their runic web so that any corruption placed into the web was known as it was happening. If more people knew about runes, then maybe enough innovation would happen with runic knowledge to ensure that a runic web could not be compromised.

But without everyone having access to runes, then that meant that everyone who wasn’t an authorized runic web creator was automatically labeled a ‘hacker’ and they got their runic webs stolen by Stratagold, or another Geode, even if that ‘hacker’ was on the path to making a truly robust runic web that would solve all of Riivo’s security concerns.

And another thing!

Runes were already out there, in the small items that Erick had given his people, and that Enduring Forge fashioned for others. Someone could learn runes from those. They could learn of the ideas of runic webs from visiting Enduring Forge or anywhere near a Geode. Other people could certainly make runic webs and break runic webs without getting authorization from a Geode, first. But without that authorization, those webs got stolen from their creators.

The fact was that most people were good, and they wanted defense from monsters, so if the world was better defended then wasn’t that a good thing? Most people would use a runic web to protect themselves and their property from monsters. That’s what the lands around Stratagold did, with all their runic webs with anti-[Stoneshape] in them.

… Erick looked at Riivo, and in that moment, he knew that this wasn’t about defense from monsters. Not in the eyes of Stratagold, anyway. They didn’t want stray runic webs out there, outside of their control because they didn’t want to have to go through those minefields when they had to capture/contain/kill various targets. Okay. Erick understood now.

… Or maybe that was a bad interpretation of motivations, but it was probably closer to the truth than any other—

Or.

Wait.

Erick was overthinking this way too much.

There was nothing overly sinister going on here. The people on the Surface and in the Underworld already protected themselves from monsters. Runic webs made certain defensive actions easier, while opening up vast weaknesses in other ways. Runic webs were a trade off.

Erick had plans to make runic webs very, very good, possibly shifting the balance of strength/weakness far toward the strength side of the equation. That was his plan with [Renew], after all. But without [Renew], all Riivo saw when he saw people using runic webs were glaring weaknesses in defense. And Riivo wanted Erick to see those glaring holes, too.

But also, Stratagold wanted controls on people, and runic webs were one of the ways they had to enact those controls. If someone wanted runic webs, they had to come to the table with Stratagold, or another Geode, and learn how to make a proper runic web, while also accepting Stratagold’s oversight.

All very sensible.

But also, Riivo wanted Erick, specifically, under his power. Riivo had shown as much since the initiation party the other day, and at the grand tour of the facilities, and when he helped Erick to learn of [Steadfast Ward]s.

All this man desired was calm control, and safe magic practices. Soft power, not hard; not unless he had to be.

… Which was fine? Sure. Whatever. Erick had already accepted this much when he decided to try and ally with Stratagold.

With his thoughts back on track over three seconds of thinking, Erick said, “I’ll take some Illusion Magic lessons. They’re not my preferred style, but nothing wrong with gaining some new information.” He added, “So you know, I will be trying to settle back down as soon as this Worldly Path is over. I honestly did not think it would get this large or take me this far, but it has, so I’m going to see it through to the good end. When I finally get [Gate] then it’ll be time to talk about linking cities. I expect to use some runic webs to ensure security around those physical gates, but I doubt whatever I learn in the next few days will be good enough for that system, so I’ll probably need your help on that.”

Riivo was patiently reserved while Erick spoke, but at Erick’s request for help, the old iron man regained a bit of his natural mirth. With a small smile, Riivo said, “I look forward to that day, Erick.”

“And hey! Maybe we can one day revive a universe with populated worlds from here to the farthest reaches of the telescopes, and beyond.” Erick said, “Veird would make a good capital world.”

For a long, timeless moment, Riivo softly breathed in, then said, “One catastrophe at a time.”

But Erick needed to drive home the point. He stressed, “One catastrophe at a time, yes, but the goal should be highlighted even now, and the goal is to expand civilization beyond Veird. To reach enough worlds, to have enough people, that even major catastrophes are but blips in the grand scheme of things.” Erick added, “I had a discussion like this with Kromolok yesterday, and I think I failed to tell him that. You have reminded me that I need to do that.”

Riivo lost most of his outward expressions, except for the hopeful fire inside his eyes that was impossible to hide. He softly said, “I also have some lofty dreams for such a time and space, but only when the path forward proves stable will I step upon it.”

“I can’t make [Gate] yet, but I can at least prove my stability and reliability. I wouldn’t think I’d go about doing that by learning illusions, though,” Erick said with a smile, as he stood.

“Ah ha!” Riivo stood with Erick, saying, “All magic is connected to all other magic. You never know where you’ll end up when you go walking down unknown paths. Maybe you’ll even figure out how to make [Gate] today!”

Erick chuckled. “I don’t think that’s going to happen.”

Riivo shrugged. “Maybe by speaking the words, I have set in motion what needs to happen to make [Gate] happen, but in a more rounded way than how you sang out your Particle Magic.”

Erick teased, “Are you trying to work some Fate Magic on me?”

“Not overtly.” Riivo said, “But there’s nothing wrong with wishing someone success, is there?”

Erick smiled a little. “So who’s the Illusion master?”

“Ah!” Riivo started walking, and Erick followed. “They’re a bit of a hermit, but...”
