They were quiet after, Reka setting up a new spell that would protect them once more while the others waited, sheltered from the rain by the canvas of the first wagon.

Veron glanced over at the carriage, wondering if the person inside had woken up too, and he wondered what they thought. He had a lot of things on his mind. The fight, he realized, was not one of the major things. It had been such a quick thing. Monsters here to kill them, and they had fought to kill the monsters instead. He had done what he could, what he had trained to do with Ivera, and what he had already done a few times in the wilderness. He was glad to have a team to work with. A team that he could trust and one that communicated well.

He hoped they would trust him a little more after this fight too.

There were so many things he had seen that he wanted to ask about but at the same time, he felt the cold and exhaustion seeping in. He hoped they could sleep a little longer. And he hoped this night wouldn't bring another battle.

Reka returned, opening a long sleeve on her belt before she took out a dark wand covered in golden runes. She casually held it out towards the forest before the same tension Veron had felt before started to build and then snapped into place.

The sticks I saw. That’s what they were?

Actual wands?

Silvie relaxed next to him and yawned, stretching her arms. “Of course it had to fucking rain too. Well, I'm going to get on a fresh set of clothes.” She walked over to the wagon in the back.

“Well fought everyone,” Reka said. “I think that about ends my shift too. Do you think you're ready to take over, Hayden?” She sounded a little more chipper than earlier. Veron wondered why. Maybe she was just looking forward to catching more sleep.

Hayden grunted affirmingly.

Veron left for the wagon too. Reymond gave him a nod as he walked past, the merchant snuffing out the lanterns now that the battle was over. With a touch, Veron noted.

He waited in front of the entry. “Do you need longer?” he called out to Silvie.

“It's raining, come in.”

He went inside and glanced over to see Silvie in a state of undress. She got on a fresh shirt and then pants. “We’re not there yet, Veron. Look away.”

He felt too tired to come up with something witty and nodded, going to his own pack and getting out his only other set of clothes. Another fight like this and I’ll be wearing wet and filthy stuff.

“That was something,” he murmured.

“Wonderful first night for your journey, I agree. I’m cold, let’s lie back to back. No funny ideas, I don’t plan to get pregnant anytime soon, so you better don’t fuck around or I’ll cut it off.”

“I won’t,” he said, drying himself as best he could.

She lay down, covering herself with her blankets. “Turn off the light when you’re done.”

Veron tiredly looked at the lantern as he got on his other set of clothes. I don’t know how to do that.
