“Sure. But it would be so much harder to move around with. And if my skill gives out, then there’s no point in me hauling a big hunk of metal or wood around the gym. It’ll offer protection against a few things, but the more likely outcome is that it slows me down, someone snatches it, thanks me for the gift, and then beats me to death with it.” He stood up. “If I lose my shield, it’s not the worst thing for it to turn back into something useless for everyone else around me. Would you come over to my duffel with me? I want to change my paracord weapon.”


And pick up my handicap. It was going to be a small breath mint. He’d bought a pack of them to try to un-torture his garlicky, oversensitive tongue. It hadn’t worked, but if he preserved one and ate it… Well, there was no way of dropping that kind of preserved object. He’d lay it beside the cord when he asked Haoyu to entrust it.


“Range,” Haoyu said.


“What?”


“I was answering your question more seriously. You need some way to attack from range. Instructor Klein is only running away, not fighting back. So don’t worry about protecting yourself at all and go for range.”


“Thanks for the tip.”


“Are you really going to make a zip line?”


“What?”


“I heard someone say you were going to make one next time. Can I ride it?”


“Sure…if you can get the faculty to let you and if gym death doesn’t upset you.”
 


******
 


“Superheroes have to go on the attack frequently,” Instructor Klein said. “Instructor Waker will be teaching you what it’s like to face someone who is willing to engage you in combat. I will be teaching you what it’s like to deal with someone who isn’t.”


Everly raised her hand with a nervous look.


“Are you going to ask why we would fight someone who wasn’t fighting back?”


She blushed and nodded.


He smiled at her. “A question that shows good character. However, I’m not talking about attacking someone who has yielded. I’m talking about dealing with dangerous people who have harmed others, who will likely do so again, and who have no desire to stick around and fight back when another powerful Avowed arrives to bring them to justice.”


“Runners,” said Astrid.


Klein nodded. “Runners, hiders, hostage takers. Sometimes allowing a criminal Avowed to flee is the correct choice. Perhaps your powers are a terrible match. Or you deem it likely that a pursuit will endanger more lives than the criminal themselves will if they’re allowed to leave. But in most cases, it’s better to swiftly and efficiently deal with the enemy while they are in front of you. Allowing an escape is just making future victims and future problems for yourself or another hero to handle.”


He speared them with his eyes. “Remember, an active duty superhero is almost always the most powerful solution that will be thrown at a problem Avowed. Above you, there is only well-orchestrated military action, a hyperbole, or one of our battlegroups. And a lot of innocent people have to die before the cogs turn and the authorities bring those options to bear for the sake of a single villain.


“The enemy is the question. You must strive to be the answer.”


He likes giving speeches I think.


Admittedly, it was a good speech. Alden was trying to stand still and attentive without looking like he was standing at actual military attention. He kept worrying that Klein was about to call him out—as a time waster, a weak link, someone who did not really belong.


If it happened he’d already decided he was just going to grin and bear it, but …he was still dreading it.


“Konstantin!” the instructor barked.


“Ah! What?” Kon said, looking around frantically.


Everyone else had jumped at the sudden increase in volume, too.


“How do you attack?” Instructor Klein asked in a more normal tone.


“Um…I hope that in the future—”


“Let the faculty worry about your future. In this space, it’s your job to work with what you already possess, so that you can learn and grow quickly. We develop the talents you have fully, and because of that you’ll naturally gain new ones. So if an enemy appears before you at this very moment, how do you attack?”


Kon grimaced. “With my fists.”


“Good. Instructor Wu, take Konstantin aside and show him how to throw a decent punch.”


They all turned in surprise to see that Wu and Foxbolt were behind them.


“Søren!”


The Light Shaper flinched.


“How do you attack?”


“I…can make places hot. If I have long enough.”


Instructor Klein coughed. “You sound distressed about that.”


“I know it’s not…”


“Your powers and Konstantin’s are not presently useful for attacking. However, the benefit of that is that you can both practice them to their fullest and at your leisure without worrying about seriously harming yourselves or destroying anything. Many of your classmates would relish the opportunity. We expect you to take advantage of it. Extensively. You have other strengths as a superhuman. For now, go join Instructor Wu and learn to throw a punch.”


Instructor Klein continued down the line, asking everyone how they attacked. It soon became apparent that the scary voice he used to shout their names was his version of a joke, since it was almost always followed up with advice delivered more affably.


He only fumbled momentarily when Astrid asked if she could try to deal with a villain by “looking like their mom to catch them off-guard then punching them.”


“Well, I’ll be playing the villain today. Can you shift into an approximation of my mother?” he asked finally.


“Does she look a lot like me?”


“Not remotely.”


“Aww. Then not yet.”


He saved Alden for last. The others were all off having quick practice sessions by themselves or with Instructors Foxbolt and Wu.


“Alden…”


I didn’t get the angry joke voice. He felt a tiny bit disappointed. Klein seemed strict but also like he was a dedicated teacher. The ideal thing would have been if both of them could have pretended like the you-don’t-belong-at-this-school speech hadn’t been spoken or heard.


“What are you trying out for your attacks today?”


“Paracord with a five kilo bag on the end,” Alden said.


He only had a few feet looped around his wrist. The bulk of the cord was around the bag so that he could try a different unraveling method. He also had a preserved mint in his stomach…


Funny how none of my heroic visions for myself as a kid ever included eating my own magic.


“Do you know how to use it?” the instructor asked, examining bag and cord.


“I don’t. But I’m here to figure that out.”


After a pause, Instructor Klein said, “Given the nature of your skill, rope is an important tool to master. It’s something you will benefit from practicing with, so I have no objection to you choosing it as your weapon for the offensive portion of this course.”


Then he turned to call the others back together.


Could’ve been worse, Alden decided. He glanced over at Kon, who’d just come to stand beside him.


The Adjuster was frowning at his own clenched fists. “I think my thumbs are too long. I have long thumbs.”


“They look standard to me,” said Alden.


“Do they? I just spent several minutes thinking about how to make a perfect fist, and now I’m sure there’s something wrong with them.”


“Everyone!” Instructor Klein barked.


He smiled when half of them jumped again. “Your only job today is to hit me with something that can put me out of commission. A killshot, a capture, knocking me unconscious—you’re going to have enough trouble as it is, so don’t feel limited. The rules are: I can go anywhere in the gym I want, you can use your powers however you want, no teamwork, and no stopping. It’s the second half of class. If you’ve been pushing yourself as you should have, then a lot of you should be approaching fatigue with your main talents. When they give out, you don’t get to quit for the day. Running is good for you.”


“No teamwork?” Surprisingly, it was Max who asked.


The instructor looked at him. “Not today. No planning with your classmates. No interfering with them for the sake of interfering with them either. Treat what everyone else is doing like mayhem happening in the midst of your own solo attempt to stop a dangerous criminal as quickly as possible. Use their actions or their magic if they can be a resource to you; avoid them if they’re an obstacle. Your friends aren’t civilians, villains, or fellow heroes for this exercise, they’re just complicating features of the environment you’re fighting in.”


That’s unexpected. It sounded like it was okay for them to make use of what everyone else was doing with zero regard for if it would ruin the other person’s plans. So if I see Max building a speed zone, I can steal it for myself as long as I’m doing it to help me kill the instructor and not just to be a dick to Max.


Klein had also said they would be using the whole gym. And the whole gym was full of other students and faculty doing their own work


Is this something special he’s doing for our group for some reason?


Alden hadn’t had much attention to spare for other groups this afternoon, but he would have noticed if they were chasing after Instructor Klein through the rescue section or hide-and-seek maze. Isn’t it going to be extremely chaotic?


Two minutes later, he had the answer to his questions.


It was chaotic. And Instructor Klein wasn’t giving their group special treatment. He simply didn’t need to utilize the whole gym to run circles around ten brand new hero students.


Running circles around people was his specialty as an Agility Brute. He was fast and strong, and he’d obviously played the class straight, choosing talents that made him a peak superhuman maneuverer. One second, he was running directly at Alden, but the moment Alden tried to throw up a length of frozen paracord to stop him, Klein slid sideways across the white floor at the same rate he’d been running. It defied human anatomy and his own momentum, and Alden’s rope whipped harmlessly past him.


Konstantin tried a flying tackle that the instructor ducked under without even looking, and then almost too fast for Alden to make out, the teacher changed directions again and was running at completely different angle.


“It’s the Instant Corners skill!” a Meister yelled in an oddly panicked voice.


“We know it’s the Instant Corners skill!” Kon yelled back.


That was the last time anyone had enough air in their lungs to yell anything. Alden chased, he swung his rope, he threw his sandbag. He tried to trip Klein. He tried to hit him. From above, below, behind.


Shit, where is he now? I can’t keep up.


Gasping, he whirled around in a circle twice before he finally caught up to the instructor visually. Never mind physically.


It was insane. It got even more insane when he started to realize that Instructor Klein wasn’t trying his best. His feet stayed on the ground. He hadn’t cast a spell yet. Agility Brutes were phenomenal gymnasts, so in addition to just running around them all like they were standing still, he could have been flying through the air over their heads or using any number of impressions. A blocked attack here, an invisible step there—he didn’t bother with it.


He seemed to have limited himself for their sakes and imposed additional personal rules on what he could do. They couldn’t even threaten him enough to get him out of their corner of the gym.


A couple of people were hunched over, trying to breathe. The Meister who’d shouted about the skill was moving so sluggishly that Alden was pretty sure he wasn’t really trying.


Max’s spell impressions had run out a few minutes ago after he’d laid down a series of traps that had ended up catching classmates instead of the instructor, and he’d been running doggedly after Klein ever since, despite the fact that he was always, always miles from catching him.


As for Kon, he was fast. He wasn’t as fit as his older brother, and it was only S-rank Adjuster fast. But he was still quicker and more agile than Alden was without ground. He was trying like hell, too, but it wasn’t enough.


His face was tomato red, and sweat literally flew off him as he nearly sideswiped Alden during the course of his pursuit. Alden was trying to think, to come up with some rope shape or technique that would miraculously be enough to stop a middle aged man who’d spent the past thirty or forty years training his superpowers.


There’s nothing. There’s literally nothing.


He jogged past Everly Kim, who was squatting on the floor with her head down. She’d been that way for a while. Alden wouldn’t be surprised if she had awful muscle cramps or something after her feat during the rescue session.


Maybe if I swing the weight on the end of my rope around to build up momentum, freeze it, and then surprise him with…


Shit! Klein suddenly pulled his direction changing trick again, and now they were face to face too quickly. Alden brought the preserved paracord between them like a spear with a bulbous weighted nose instead of a point, and he crouched, trying to anticipate the instructor’s next move. He wished he’d unfurled just two more feet. It was about eight feet long at the moment, which made it more manageable. But twelve would have given him just a little more reach.


That was always the thing. Klein was never the right distance away from him. No matter what length line he choose, no matter how sure he was that the teacher hadn’t spotted him stealthily unfurling more or drawing it back, the man always seemed to know exactly what Alden’s range was. Just like he always knew where Max had laid down a trap or where the Meister—


Wham!


