A body smashed into Alden’s from the right, and both of them flew sideways.


“Fuck!”


He landed on his left shoulder. His head hit the floor hard and fast—or it felt like it did. In reality, the gym suit stiffened around him, cushioned him, and magically shielded him from what would definitely have been a concussion. A fraction of a second later, the bottom of a pair of sneakers landed on him. One on his chest, one on his face, and his assailant springboarded off of him…toward nothing.


Astrid soared through the air, roaring, then splatted onto the floor and rolled.


Alden sat up and stared at her through the helpful scrolling list of “damage” he’d just taken from the surprise attack. Was she trying something? What in the world?


The low pain setting meant he could focus more on his confusion than his injuries. Klein sprinted away with Max and Kon hustling after him, both of them wearing startled expressions. So at least Alden wasn’t the only one who didn’t understand why he’d just been brutally tackled.


Astrid was getting onto her hands and knees. She looked annoyed. So…bellyflopping on the floor hadn’t been her intention?


Alden pushed himself up, too. His paracord and sandbag had come along for the ride with him since he had them tied to him, though he’d lost preservation when he’d fallen. He lifted and re-preserved in the same motion, but before he could attempt to catch and attack the instructor again, he lost his footing. A slick coat of ice was spreading across the gym floor from behind him. It lifted his shoes from the ground in an instant and toppled him again.


He rolled over to see Everly—barefoot and running across the patch of ice she’d made toward Instructor Klein. She’d managed to catch their entire group in the spell. Max was down. Kon was windmilling comically like he was on skates for the first time in his life. Astrid was still on all fours.


And the instructor had stopped. For the first time. He wasn’t falling, but he was standing still.


Get him, thought Alden, lifting his rope and preserving yet again as he tried to clamber to his feet. He wasn’t sure if he was rooting for himself or Everly.


Just before she reached him, Instructor Klein smiled and nodded once, and then he slipped around her like an ice dancer, his mouth reciting a spell. A second later he grabbed something unseen in the air and heaved against it, sending himself sliding hard and fast on his feet across the frozen floor away from Everly. Backwards.


Toward me!


Finally. Sliding, Klein had less control. He was in a crouch, knees bent and elbows in, flying across the ice, keeping his eyes on the threat running toward him.


Alden was behind him on one knee, halfway toward standing, but Klein was about to slide past him, just a few feet away, and the line was long enough if he stretched to…


He held it out. The slender orange cord with the sandbag on the end wasn’t much, but it was what he had, and if all he could do was slow Klein down for a second so Everly could freeze his ass somehow—


That would be great.


Alden snapped his wrist up and down rapidly, trying to make it harder for Klein to dodge over or under, since Alden was convinced he definitely had eyes in the back of his head.


The Agility Brute’s back hit the cord. Alden felt the impact on his authority as Klein bounced off. He didn’t look over at Alden or uncurl. His body stayed in its crouched position. He slid fast toward Everly again across the thin layer of water that coated the ice. It made him look like a pool ball ricocheting off the edge of the table.


Everly’s eyes widened. She pointed at him and shouted the name of a spell. Her fingers started to move. She hadn’t done it fast enough.


Klein slid right past her, cast his own invisible floating block spell again, and then he flung himself hard in a new direction. Everly’s patch of superslick ice was a circle with a radius of twentyish yards by Alden’s estimate. Klein skidded to the edge of it, rolled and sprang to his feet.


Then he stood there and watched all of his battered and exhausted students try to escape without falling on their asses.


He looked like he was having a blast.
 


******
 


They were so tired they didn’t even speak when the session ended. They all just stumbled off to let Big Snake take his turn beating them up.


Alden’s skill was toast. He’d tried an extra-long line again in an attempt to poke Klein just one more time, and in combo with the breath mint handicap, the effort had done the skill in. His officially useable magical powers were now a candle lighter and screaming invisible balls that would cost him six hundred dollars a pop.


Everly’s floor-freezing spell had required a reagent, too. She was eyeing a bottle half full of some dark blue powder with a depressed look on her face. Alden patted her on the shoulder.


She nodded.


This was how they were all communicating now. Words required lungs. Lungs required air. Too much trouble.


He didn’t even have the energy to say, “Why, Astrid? Why did you randomly attack me and then throw yourself at nothing?”


But she had given him the shoulder pat of companionship when they finally escaped from the ice. So he figured it was all good. She’d only tackled him and then used his nose as a launchpad. Everyone had their idiosyncrasies.


“You all look like you’re raring to go!” Big Snake said in a jovial voice when they appeared. He clapped his hands together hard enough that it would probably have hurt their ears if not for the suits. “We’re gonna start with a few laps to get you warmed up!”


Søren whimpered.


“Hahaha!”said the instructor. “Just kiddin’. Just kiddin’. Looks like Torsten put you through the wringer. Wednesday, you’ll all start with me, and then it’s my turn to wear you out! So! The way this session works is the reverse of Instructor Klein’s. You all run, and I attack.”


That should go well.


“Well, that’s the gist of it. This is where y’all find out what your powers can do for self-defense. I’ll be teaching you general principles of self-defense, but that’s mostly in your homework. Today, since you look about dead, we have the magic management talk and you get a short breather before I start to attack you.”


He stepped over to Alden and grinned. In Big Snake mode, Instructor Waker was so tall and wide it made Alden feel like a child standing in front of an adult. And the superhero vibes were strong, even though the instructor was in the same gray unitard as everyone else.


Alden felt a tiny thrill through his tiredness. Big’nLittleSnake was about as famous as an Avowed could be without being a hyperbole, and on top of that, he had been considered extremely kid friendly prior to the tank-punching incident. An insanely strong morpher known for a larger-than-life personality, entertaining charity work, and nonlethal captures was hard not to like.


Somewhere in the back of a cabinet in Connie’s kitchen, there was a cup with pictures of Big Snake on it that would turn into Little Snake when you added cold drinks.


“You’ve got a magic shield,” the instructor said to Alden. “That’s about as classic as a self-defense skill can be. But what do you have without the magic shield?”


“Not much,” Alden said.


“That’s right! You can use your wits and your muscle, but even then, you’ve got a lot more options for using those things when the magic shield is up and running. So what’s the most important thing for you, as an Avowed, in a fight or a disaster?”


Alden didn’t know why this felt like a trick question. “Not losing my shielding skill?”


“Right! Only it might be better to say the most important thing is getting the job done without dyin’. You’ve all got to know how to treat your power like a finite resource. You’ll get stronger here at school, but you’ll never get so strong you can win every fight by just flinging your power around however you like.” He looked up at the ceiling. “Even if you get strong enough to beat every last problem we’ve got here on Earth…there’s bigger problems.”


Oh, thought Alden. Good.


He was relieved a faculty member had finally addressed it. They were in superhero school, but it was starting to feel weird that the older Avowed hardly ever referenced off-planet work.


I know I’m overly concerned with what’s going on out there. And I’m in a different situation from most people because I’m probably going to be unusually useful in that capacity one day. But I was starting to feel like I was crazy…


“What if a criminal runs from you?” Instructor Klein had asked earlier.


What if a demon runs toward me? Alden had thought.


Smiling, Instructor Marion had said, “You need to learn maneuvering and positioning so you can—“


Escape from demons.


“In later courses, you’ll have the opportunity to learn about structural integrity,” Instructor Fragment had told them. “Because—”


Because chaos eats and mutates fucking everything.


It was like everyone else was talking about the weather while Alden had a disturbed man wearing a sandwich board in his head that said, “Beware of moon-sized demons devouring Earth and the End of Days!”


Like Haoyu’s mom, Big Snake got summoned a lot. And considering his skillset, it probably wasn’t for waiting tables at college parties. Maybe it made sense for him to be the one to bring it up.


“You ought to be trying to exhaust your levelable talents often,” Big Snake was saying. “And your spell impressions…oh, uh…the one’s that won’t bankrupt you.”


The last was said in response to Everly going white as a sheet and clutching her bottle of blue powder like the instructor might steal it from her.


“Whether you have gym or not, find ways to burn ‘em out. Learn ‘em. Know how much you can do with them before you hit fatigue. This quarter we’re still getting to know your talents and you’re still getting to know them yourselves. In gym courses after this one, you’ll be expected to manage your skill usage better so that you’re finished about the same time the class is. Understanding how far you can push your magic before you lose it is a lifesaver.”


He looked around at them all.


“Now let me show you why you don’t want to come to my session without your powers.” He bent down toward a large cardboard box at his feet and pulled out a tennis ball. It looked small in his hand. “I’ve been workin’ on my pitching accuracy this month!”


He started stretching out his right shoulder.


“We’re going to die,” Kon whispered.


Nobody disagreed with him.
