I furrowed my brow, "Florence...Don't tell people you think like this. They'll take it the wrong way."

He wrapped an arm around my shoulders, "And you see my, friend, I don't. That being said, I value our friendship highly, so I'll share a few of my own tricks here or there with you. I know that of all the people I've been close with, you're one of the few who will repay me in full."

I frowned, "What do you want?"

Florence shrugged before dashing off, "Nothing, for now. One day I'm certain we'll arrange something. Until then, I have a celebration to plan."

He dashed off before stepping to the entrance of a corridor. He gave a bow along with an introduction,

"And introducing the lovely and stunning Althea Tolstoy."

Althea walked down, sporting a black dress that slimmed her already alluring figure. She smiled at me, and my heart did a little dance in my chest. Florence walked up the way she came, and he gave us some alone time. I stepped up to her, "Hey, beautiful."

"Hey, handsome. I see you aren't wearing a suit this time. Why the change in attire?"

"I didn't want them to see me in a different light than how I always am. That and the last party's outcome made me nervous."

She rubbed her exposed arms, "You and me both. I still get chills thinking about it. It's a lot like the Spatial Fortress today...Huh, I just thought of something. I wonder why they didn't attack Giess?"

"If I had to guess, Elysium puts all or most of their defenses around Giess when sending Lehesion out. Otherwise, they wouldn't be able to use him like they tend to."

Althea stared down, "Yeah, I guess so...Are you ready for this, uh, party, I guess? I didn't think it would be like this."

I raised my palms, "I handed it off to Florence, and you know how he is."

"Heh, he's crazy. He seems like a good guy, though I can't ever tell what he's up to. I'm glad you're helping him iron out his issues with his family. I know it really threw me off when I saw it. At first, I thought that maybe it was because that's how families are. I don't have much of a reference."

My face wrinkled at her words. I didn't know what it was like growing up in a lab, so I said,

"Yeah, I knew a lot of different families before Schema's culling. Sometimes, they treated each other like they were better than other people. Other times, families treated each other much worse than strangers because those families knew they could get away with it."

I tilted my head, "I think you should treat the people you're close to with respect and realism. They have flaws, and you probably know those flaws. That doesn't mean they're terrible people. It just means you know more of what they're hiding than the strangers you meet."

Althea smiled up at me, "You get to see their good side too."

I smiled back, "You do."

We held each other close, slow dancing for a second to a song that wasn't playing, but we both heard. The moment ended as Florence began shuttling people inside, most of their names I already knew thanks to a manifold mind. I grabbed Althea's hand, giving it a light squeeze.

"You ready?"

She gulped, "For a huge celebration?"

Obolis stepped out, speaking with two other albony royalty. He raised a hand to us while Althea whimpered,

"Blegh, never."
