Overseer(lvl 20,000) - Then it's settled. Good luck during your ceasefire. May it serve you well to pull your guild from the ground and into clearer skies.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 18,719 (Cap: 26,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - No hard feelings, huh? After Spear's response, I must say I'm surprised. I guess you were pretty torn up after our last meeting, mentally and physically, so you probably understand where I'm coming from.

Overseer(lvl 20,000) - If anyone in the galaxy understands how brutal this war has been, it is I. To want an escape from it is only to be expected. Instead of despising your choice, I merely envy that you have one.

Good speaking with you. I cannot continue messaging. Goodbye.

The Overseer took that well, all things considered. I scratched my head as another message arrived from Obolis.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets(lvl 24,027 (Cap: 27,000 | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire) - Helios gave mention of many valuables you've received from Elysium. Most of that merchandise is very much illegal, and I'd love to scrutinize it with you and others. It would make for a splendid afternoon along with good drinks and fair food to pair with the event.

We may even be able to trade should we feel like doing so. On another topic of note, I know your guild's inner workings aren't mine to judge, but this ceasefire was a superb idea. To follow through with it after the heat of combat, I can only imagine the strain. You showed wisdom despite mounting pressure, and know that we fully support your decision.

Ah, what a pleasant surprise; Florence has already sent me an invite to your banquet. I'll be there with others. I look forward to seeing you then, Daniel.

Sincerely, Obolis Novas.

The formality and general warmth of Obolis's message stuck out like a painting on a bland wall, probably because of reading the Overseer's short memos. Either way, it left me with a lot to look forward to tonight. I prepped that while thinking of different ways to smooth out my tasks. The reason for those thoughts spawned from staring at a pile of books and documents.

I needed to study all of this - every last page. It looked like it may take years to fully digest it all, but I lacked time for something that all-consuming. The books themselves required physical editions too. They worked with the cipher, a three-dimensional language. Taking pictures or even footage only got me so far. To understand the information within these books, I'd inspect each page from many angles in real-time.

That reasoning developed from the unique imagery of the texts. Enchanted with magic, the pages showed models of the cipher that visualized on the page. When touching one of the books, anyone could tilt, turn, and tumble these markings to view it in any way you wanted. It reminded me of advanced engineering software that allowed the onlooker to peer into the center of a device.

That utility sped up my learning, but it meant the actual physical book was required. Manifold Mind allowed me to read while talking to someone, and my senses amplified enough from my skills and levels that I lacked any need for direct sight of an individual. My other discernments compensated well for that, so I could read all the time if I wanted to.

My problem stemmed from people's reactions to it; everyone enjoyed eye contact and general attention. Staring down at a book during a conversation enraged some people, and even if I responded like usual, a party or event wasn't the time or place for studying. Wracking my brain a little, I uncovered another solution to this problem.

I took several of the books about the cipher inscriptions, the ones deemed safe by my guild. I pocketed them into my personal dimension outside of a single text. At the same time, I pulled my helmet over my face. It radiated with my current mana of choosing, quintessence. This white light blocked any display of my facial features.

Now, normally, I pulled this helmet back when talking to someone face to face. It was rude to do otherwise and not look someone in the eyes after all. That being said, Obolis and most albony wore masks all the time. It wouldn't be that out of place to do the same. With my helmet on and the masking glow, I shifted the hidden text over my skin until it reached into my facemask.

It plopped in front of my sight, held in place by the face mask's paneling. To me, the book appeared exposed for the world to see. That might not be the case, however, and I needed a mirror to verify. A reflection proved simple to find. Several of our soldiers kept them handy in their tents or pavilions. I asked for permission before stepping into one and using their spare looking glass.

Inspecting my idea's results, my plan worked without a hitch. The book disguised itself completely, hidden in a white glow. Trying out Event Horizon, the sanguine sheen also covered the helmeted volume in its entirety. This omni-helmeted appearance might throw people off, but it didn't matter. The time-saving benefits of this strategy superseded any social angst other people experienced from it.

Knowing the book didn't stick out anymore, I changed my efforts to actually reading the material. With a book right in front of my eyes, I reached a hand into my mask and opened it. It took a moment to adjust to the wall of words in front of me. My size helped me here, as I could hold a  dictionary in two fingers, let alone two hands - I was that big now.

Blinded by the book, I used my gravitational sense, smell, and hearing to scope out my surroundings. Subtle temperature fluctuations helped, along with shifts in air pressure. I dedicated a manifold mind for this purpose, and all my other psyches drew from this precise picture. As I hoped, I no longer walked in the dark. I walked through a world of subtle pulses and fluctuating gravities.

Testing everything out at once, I walked around in the raised tent, bent over, so I didn't snag the roof. I read for a minute like this, and a problem cropped up. I couldn't turn the pages, and the book itself jiggled around in my helmet with each step. Using a few armor tendrils, I held it in place and turned the page in my face mask.

Voila, I read like a champ now.

This masked reading allowed me to study magic while talking, working, doing anything outside of fighting, really. It would take getting used to, but the benefits outweighed its weaknesses. Stepping out of the war tent, I waved my thanks to the two soldiers who let me use it. They gawked in awe at me, each of them half my height.

They weren't the only ones impressed, however. Each of them wore the Omega Strains that we harvested from this world. These multicolored, living gemstones gave them a colorful yet deadly bearing, one a deep violet and the other forest green. Each soldier leveled plenty from killing Hybrids as well, each of them capped to level 5,000.

This, combined with my rings, meant these soldiers scaled to respectable levels of ability. Several thousand soldiers like them walked through this camp. It showed how our density approach to the guild assisted us in the long run. I intended on maintaining that approach going forward, and I skulked off to the party, reading the whole time.

Florence pre-emptively called for a preparatory gathering with me. He mentioned not wanting me to walk in without some kind of plan. Hearing him out, we met at the entrance of Torix's lair above, right above the party grounds. Florence stood there on the steps of a Vagni temple, organizing messages in his status.

The flamboyant albony wore stylish, flowing robes of several colors. It gave him the air of an Arabian prince. Seeing me stand over one of the shorter coral buildings, Florence spread his arms,

"Daniel, it has been an age since I last saw you."

He ran up and hugged me, and not wanting to be awkward, I returned the gesture. I didn't realize we were this familiar, but maybe that's part of the reason why Florence was so charismatic. His enjoyment of others ended with their enjoyment of him. It was kind of like a self-fulfilling prophecy, one where he kept control of its fruition.

In line with that prophecy, Florence kept a hand on my shoulder while speaking of the party with enthusiasm. We stepped up the temple's walkway, reaching into its depths, and he gestured to a far-off room in the Vagni's ancient temple. In an unused chamber, Florence set up a tailored suit for me, along with a variety of jewelry.

I stared at it, but, really, I stared at a book in front of my face. I was getting to the good part of a description in it, so I didn't want to set it down. I rolled a hand at Florence, "What about I just wear my normal armor? I think it will make me look more intimidating and earnest."

Florence scoffed, "You're a guildleader of an S ranked guild. Do you honestly believe that such meager accommodations aren't necessary?"

I shook my head, my armor rippling over my skin, "Eh, my last suit got shredded against Lehesion. I'm, you know, superstitious, so I don't want that to happen again."

Florence put his hands on his hips, "I never took you for someone who believed in fairy tales or the sort. Odd."

"Really, it's just this one thing. That's all."

Florence tilted his head, smiling at me, "Ah, you're hiding something, aren't you?"

I stiffened up, surprised he figured it out so quickly, "Pshhh, what? No. Of course not. Never."

Florence raised his palms, "Do not fret, do not fret. I'm enough of a gentleman to know when pressure should no longer be applied. Simply walk-in as you are - you'll still wow them all, no doubt. Perhaps without the helmet, however. It's something I wished I didn't have to participate in-"

Florence tapped the side of his mask, his claw pattering on the black wood, "These accursed masks ensure our relations with other species will always be...strained. Who wishes to discuss anything with someone who won't show their face after all?"

Today was the day that Florence had to bring this up, huh? Shifting the conversation, I put my hands on my own hips, "I've been meaning to ask, but how have you and Helios's researches been going? I know he planned on giving me some portalling lessons. What have you figured out in the meantime?"

Florence took a step back, peering back and forth, "Oh, quite a bit. Very much in fact...oh, very, very much let me tell you."

I narrowed my eyes, "Uh-huh. Do you mind sharing?"

He spread his hands, "I'll drop the helmet and attire conversation if you drop this probing of my duties. Does that sound amicable?"

I smiled, "It's a deal."

Florence puffed out his chest, "Then let us go forth to our guests."

We stepped back into the temple's inner hallways, walking until we found Torix's main lair. The sorcerer stationed himself amongst several piles of books, his eyes parsing the pages with his analytical eyes. He raised a hand to me, unable to peer away from the pages,

"Do excuse me this evening. I already have a rather lovely date that I simply must attend to."

I frowned, "Tell me, is the date not alive like you?"

"Yes. Quite unliving."

"Is it full of information like you are?"

"Indeed. Absolutely chock full, some would say."

"And does it enjoy teaching as well?"

Torix peered up at me, "Why, I believe you and my love interest may have already met."

I turned a page of my own book in my facemask, "Eh, on occasion."

If he had lips, Torix would be giving me a wily grin. It proved difficult not to laugh at our conversation because I was reading as he talked to me. Either way, I relinquished our necromancer from his social duties, so he could read as he wanted.

Florence and I stepped past him, working our way towards a downward exit, finding the supplies from Elysium stacked here. Four super golems guarded it with unwavering resilience and attention. I turned to Florence,

"What's all this for?"

"To send a message of your dominance and prestige."

I furrowed my brow at it, "Doesn't that seem, I don't know, overt?"

"It is, but it's necessary. Your guild is small and compact. That serves as an advantage in many cases, but other guild leaders could look down upon you for it. Just look to the meeting area I procured. It's not an example of class and wealth. That much is certain."

I stared at the expansive room with the pillars of steel, "Huh. It's nothing like Obolis's Nebula Drifter was, but it definitely gets the job done."

Florence gestured to all our merchandise sprawled out in elegant displays, "And that is where this display of goods comes in. It allows you to signify your abundance in other ways outside of the location. It also enables you to understand more about the goods therein."

I crossed my arms, "How?"

Florence raised a hand, "I'll give you an example. I'm certain that Obolis wished to trade some of these goods with you, correct?"

Florence was a mind reader. I nodded, "Yeah, he did. Did he send you a message or something?"

"Of course not. I know Obolis well enough to derive his motives. He wishes for treasure from the outer reaches of space. Much of this fills that criteria. Armed with that understanding, you may pay attention to his nonverbal cues and what he wishes to trade for. Depending on the messages Obolis sends, you can understand what is valuable and what isn't."

Florence shrugged, "That saves you some time when parsing out the valuables thereafter."

I leaned back, "Damn. I never thought of that. At least I did think of this-" I pointed at four super golems guarding everything in sight with determined conviction. Florence pointed at them,

"Safeguarding possession is a worthy pursuit, and many do so. However, few people gather the wealth of information hidden behind the subtext of every conversation. If you pay attention to a person, you'll find more than what they simply share. You'll also uncover what they wish to hide."

