Torix scoffed in utter nonchalance, "What else did you expect? Schema's been aiming to exterminate Elysium since they first announced themselves. The usage of Spatial Fortresses is an integral part of that."

I blinked, calming myself, "I just...I didn't think Schema would just kill everybody like that. It isn't like everyone on those worlds hates Schema after all. It's, I don't know, inefficient to kill them all. Isn't it?"

The footage warped a bit before a golden light appeared, like a star amidst the blot of red. Lehesion landed, fighting back the genocidal rampage of the Spatial Fortress. His beams unloaded in bright, delayed flashes due to the footage's distance from the event. Empowered by a ritual like on Gypsum, Lehesion razed the outer, spreading limbs of the fortress.

I let out a sigh of relief, and Kessiah stepped up and looked at the footage in disgust, "That's how Schema does things. Yes and no. Black and white."

Staring back to Phalanth, he took time to control his breathing as well. I let my hand off of his shoulder while he stood back up straight. He made a circle with his thumb and fingers on each hand, swirling them as if the gesture purged him of all his anxiety. He turned to us, "Excuse me, but based on that footage, I'm needed elsewhere."

He stomped off, running towards the hovering plate. The space shuttle floated up before he entered the exiting bay. As the lower panel closed, a portal opened, and they crossed onto some unknown planet in the stars. I turned to everyone here, "Alright, well, we need to have a meeting."

Torix leaned back, "What else is there to discuss?"

I gawked at Torix, stunned by his lack of concern for the fortress's mass murder. That's when it hit me - he's a necromancer. Torix treated us well, but he was by no means a saint. If anything, his callous approach to life allowed him to experiment and perform his duties well. He reminded me of that in full while appearing bored of any further discussion.

Not taking that trait as a fault, I peered at him, "I...I never thoroughly thought about the implications of, hm, Elysium losing this war. You obviously have, but I need a moment to digest this."

Torix leaned back, "Well then, I suppose that isn't, uh, illogical. It seems rather strange you never considered it. For me, that is."

I shook my head, "Maybe I just didn't want to."

Understanding washed over the sorcerer, and he leaned over to me while his eyes dimmed, "Disciple, there's much you must learn about in life. One of those lessons is that not every consequence or event is under your control. Elysium took this risk onto themselves, and now their bet has fallen through. The death of billions is on their hands, not ours."

I stared through Torix, "But I'm pretty damn sure our fight is why that happened."

Torix cackled then said, "Were we supposed to just let ourselves die then? And besides that, only a fool puts all of their resources onto one entity like that. They are at fault for making Lehesion fight us in the first place, and they are paying the price for their folly."

Torix waved a hand in an infinity symbol shape, "It was, hm, how to put this. Ah yes, it's cause and effect."

For some reason, Torix's cutting logic sounded insane to my ears right now, even if I knew he was right. I stuck with his argument, mulling it over in my mind. I couldn't control Schema and Elysium, even if I was strong in my own right. It wasn't only unfair to me think I could; it was arrogant as well. I wasn't some diety, and I needed to remember that.

I gave the sorcerer a nod, "Thanks for the reminder. I needed that."

The necromancer locked his hands behind himself, leaning back upright, "Always a pleasure, disciple."

Taking a breath, I spread out my hands, "I still want to discuss this. I don't want any of Elysium's other worlds swallowed."

Amara stared with her expressionless helm, "That complicates things, doesn't it?"

Torix, bolstered by his earlier help, paced back and forth, "If I may interject, I'd say that while difficult, a Spatial Fortress's attacks are by no means inevitable." Torix gestured to everything around us,

"Blegara is a pristine example of this. Our landing here prevented this world from being tainted by the living abyss that is a Spatial Fortress. In that manner, we may save other worlds."

Torix snapped a finger, spreading his silencing aura and fogging magic yet again, "That would be the case on Earth as well. It's by no means too late to save that planet."

Helios stepped forward, "Our imperial worlds are no different. We still stand strong on them, and that presence prevents the mass genocide Schema wishes to enact. If you want to save worlds, then helping us get the ahcorous on our side is integral to that. The fact you stand to gain from both your ethics and my Emperor's deal is a pleasant circumstance."

I frowned, "Ethics, huh? I wouldn't give me that much credit. Either way, those are both good points. The Spatial Fortress's attack doesn't change any of our plans, outside of us getting rid of Elysium's presence on Earth."

Torix tilted his head, "For that, I've no idea how we'll dislodge them given our ceasefire."

I stared at a roaming eldritch on the outskirts of Saphigia. It shepherded Vagni towards our camp, servicing with an impressive loyalty given the desolation surrounding it. I raised an eyebrow, "Huh, we'll have to see if something comes up. I'll keep my eyes peeled for an opportunity."

Amara leaned back, raising her hands in disgust, "Why would you peel your eyes?"

Other Hod murmured, "It is a customary saying for diligence."

Amara gasped, "But, but why would that assist diligence? Their eyes would be left so maimed, you'd no longer be able to see."

Other Hod crossed his umbral wings, "I don't know what to tell you. Humans...they are difficult to understand."

I cracked a smile before we headed out. We still had a feast to attend to, and I wasn't about to miss it. Sending a message to Florence, the graceful albony responding in seconds.

Florence Novas, Of a Golden Tongue and Honied Words(lvl 9,000 | Class: Speaker | Guild: The Empire) - Of course, I'd love to organize the feast. I'll ensure the correct members are invited and that our entertainment will match your guild's standards. Food, lighting, glassware, there's much to do, so I'll see you by tonight. Good luck.

It alleviated stress having someone manage situations like this. That relief compounded from knowing Florence would do an excellent job too. Having that handled, we walked to the center of Saphigia, where my city still stood. It was a silent but long journey, each of us peering around and inspecting the fallout. At the blue core's barrier, we all took one last long look around.

Most of our last week's work disintegrated into a shadow of its former self. The new roads, houses, and artwork I commissioned turned to ash under our battle's might. Even beyond those nearby settlements, we left much of the capital ruined. The coral homes and ancient temples melted into enormous sheets of dirty, mangled glass and igneous stone. Even the outskirts carried large bricks and boulders of debris, most of it ravaged to some extent.

But it wasn't all bad either. The gialgathens saved many of the Vagni here, flying out during the first part of my battle with Lehesion. My super golems assisted that effort, along with eldritch deferential to my cause. It stunned me when the giant, roaming eldritch helped panicking Vagni escape into the countryside instead of eating them. Our global transmission turned their hunger for meat into a desire for status.

That wasn't always the case, but having an eldritch, especially the wilder ones, help me out bewildered my preconceptions. It gave me hope that I'd find some way to coexist with them, even if fear would be my primary tool for that approach. Either way, abject terror was a more benign weapon than Schema's elimination or Elysium's Hybridization.

Progress on that front gave me something to look forward to, instilling more motivation for the act of building up my guild. In fact, this general desire for building up gave me something to anticipate instead of just incessant fighting. Sure, a good battle was fun every now and again, but building an empire, one I could be proud of, motivated me more now.

So, we treaded into our new unnamed city, and a crowd of my soldiers peered on. We came with all the packs of goods from Elysium, along with our own smiles and relief. I raised a hand as the crowd shouted, and I boomed,

"The war is over. Let's celebrate."

A chorus of cheers returned my announcement, filling me with purpose and enthusiasm. Spatial Fortress or not, our guild moved mountains in the year or so since we formed it. Now we aimed our sights at shifting orbits and altering tides. With so much to look forward to, I built super golems with an air of quiet expectation. We always needed those, and it passed the time while Florence organized the party.

To my surprise, it took him only a few hours. With his many contacts in tow, the sociable albony converted the massive grimoire creation chamber into an enticing souriee. He covered the floors in blue, green, and dark gray carpets, masking the cipheric markings. Florence called in hundreds of chairs and tables, keeping a minimalist approach to dining ware and the like to match our guild.

I read the progress from a stream of messages as I finished a constructor golem. Just as well, Florence picked up a few augmentation crystals from me, each of the stones saturated in antigravity wells. The amber glow of augmentation calmed an area instead of washing it in sterile, white light as quintessence did. That relaxed the room's ambiance, and that suited a celebration well.

Unlike the austere cutlery, the food funneled in from all over the Empire, and Florence spared no expense for everything needed. Alien meats of all kinds came pouring in along with albony servants distributing the meals with the same type of variety. Inspecting closer, none of the servant species were also being served on platters. I took a deep breath after that one, fearing the worst after my conversation with Elysium.

As the affair came together, Florence didn't hold back in his invitations, making sure many relevant parties arrived. Obolis, Ophelia, other albony royalty I didn't know, several razor queens from the ahcorous, and many others came in droves. It mounted the party from a small get-together to a social opportunity.

Florence gave me name cards in list format through my messenger. They came with descriptions of the guests, including their occupations, names, and more. I used one of my manifold minds to memorize it, another for my elemental furnace conversion, another to organize gear from our trade deal, and a final mind to think during all of this.

From this battle and the fallout, I learned a great deal. The first lesson was that I couldn't control as much as I thought I could. Even if I positioned myself well, my reach and scope were limited. Even in only Schema's universe, I enjoyed a spot in the upper echelon, but I wasn't above that elevated ring of sentients.

Yet.

The second lesson I uncovered was that the consequences of my actions rippled out further than I could see. Foresight would be my friend from here on out, and my efforts needed a more measured touch. Otherwise, I'd end up toppling societies or destroying worlds without even meaning to. That happened to Obolis because of his methods for subjugating worlds. I wasn't about to let that happen to me.

And finally, I understood how lucky I was to have this armor over my skin and in my blood. Peering down, I saw my clawed hand and the plates over it. This dark metal gave me the opportunities I had now, and while it was challenging to get reigns on, I eventually conquered this memento of Baldag-Ruhl.

If anything, this granted me more abilities than Schema had, all things considered. Without being a living dimension, I'd be an average person. It's something I never fully appreciated before my talk to Spear. He wanted power to enact his moral code and thinking. I needed none of that, as I lacked any principles I tried to play out. Despite my lack of direction, I ended up with this awe-inspiring artifact infused to me. It gave me the potential for immense change.

That's why Schema called me the Harbinger of Cataclysm, even from day one. I was an omen of upheaval. He understood that from the initial scan that this armor put me ahead of the pack. Now I decided the fate of my own species and many more. That pressure often haunted me, but now it stuck out as an opportunity.

I could make a difference.

Getting to that, I opened my messages to see what piled up after our ceasefire with Elysium. Many notices repeated themselves, from 'thank you' to 'congratulations' to 'about damn time...sir.' They came from my guildsmen, but a few critical communications intermingled in the mix.

Spear, despite our disagreements, proved his loyalty to Schema. Swallowing his pride, he already contacted the Overseer who sent me a message.

Overseer(lvl 20,000) - Hello, Harbinger. It's been brought to my attention that you and your guild haven't received quests from Schema. This isn't standard protocol, and whatever Schema had planned, he never shared it with the Speakers I work with or me. We're willing to facilitate communications between us, but several specifics need to be worked out before that could transpire.

Is there a time and place where a talk between us would be appropriate? I will be busy for the next three months, minimum.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 18,719 (Cap: 26,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - When you're finished being busy, we can talk. We'll just stick with three months from now since that's when you're free.

