Nirzir shrugged. “I am still in training at the Palace of the Eternal Court, but what you say seems like it could be true.”

“There’s no need to speculate.” Teressa teased Jane, “You do all these weird things all the time with your Form. I know you must have tried to eat the heart and the brain while the monster was still alive. Let us know the outcome!”

Everyone looked to her as they walked.

Nirzir was judging, a bit; Erick purposefully refrained.

Jane frowned a little. Then she blurted, “I tried it on a monsterized cow! … And all of that seems correct to me, too. You certainly can eat a monster’s brain and heart while it is alive, but you gain no Familiar Form.” She said, “But I’m not about to do that with a dragon. I just want to eat it when it is dead… Maybe.”

Poi finally spoke up, “Dragons are still people.”

“And yes!” Jane exclaimed, “That is a problem, too! I’m more asking if it could be done! If I could gain a dragon’s body and what that would give me! Not if I should do it. I already know I shouldn’t do it.” Jane said, “I just… Need to know.”

Nirzir joked, “The Headmaster has [Duplicate]. Maybe he could let you eat a copy of his head and heart! No ethical dilemma at all!”

Teressa said, “There would still be a dilemma.”

Jane went silent, because she was honestly considering Nirzir’s suggestion.

Poi went silent, likely because he was focused on Erick, because Erick went down a rabbit hole.

Nirzir asked Erick something, but he barely heard her.

Erick was vastly uncomfortable with the idea that he could get his daughter a dragon form, either taken from a dead dragon that he was forced to kill, or from a living dragon that he just… cast a spell at, or something. But before he even got to that point, he would need to figure out how to [Duplicate] the living.

The spell’s original form created a physical copy of a physical item by taking the dead history of the original, copying it, and then [Mending] the copy; using the metaphysical Reality of the item to create an item in reality.

But if Erick was correct about the Script controlling the Living History of living things, [Duplicate] would need to be adjusted in order to allow it to copy that Living History. Such an adjustment might not even be possible, if the Script was truly the limiting factor, here.

[Duplicate] specifically denied the copying of living items, after all.

Duplicate, instant, touch, 100 Mana

Create a copy of a non-magical, non-living item.

Erick hadn’t done much with that spell because he didn’t want people to know that he had it…

But maybe [Duplicate] was needed for [Gate], in order to produce two ‘identical’ locations, in order for the [Gate]-creature to… Illusion/[Teleport]/pick-up-and-move a person to a far away location, without the person realizing they had been moved?

Wait. Wait.

What had he just thought?

Pick up and move a person? Or...

… Or maybe there was something much more sinister going on there.

Erick had once brought up [Duplicate] with Tenebrae, as it pertained to [Gate], and Tenebrae told him how he had gone to the Headmaster for help with that. With the Headmaster using [Duplicate], they had made perfectly copied Gates, but nothing came of that interaction. Probably because Tenebrae was thinking of the problem from the wrong angle.

He didn’t think of Twisted Visions as the [Gate]s themselves.

Twisted Visions had [Duplicate] in them, but they were able to overcome the limitations of the spell and copy everything, including living monsters. Twisted Visions could copy the Living History of a living being.

Ah. Yes. That was the sinister thing, wasn’t it.

Maybe [Gate] did not exist, at all.

Maybe, all that was happening was that a person was being copied and the copy was dropped off at the other side of the [Gate], while the original was killed. Information could go a lot further than a person could, after all.

Erick had been bouncing [Telepathy] signals through Ophiel for a while now, increasing his range with that spell far, far beyond the normal maximum. Poi was obviously doing the same, in order to talk to people all the way back in Spur, though Poi did not have a [Familiar]; Poi just had a network of Mind Mages out there.

Erick had already walked through a [Gate] though, multiple times, even. Ah. Was he even himself anymore? Was this the Teleporter Problem, that Jane brought up that one time, years ago, and then again, when they got to Veird and [Teleport] was a part of the Open Script? Eventually, that problem had been solved to Erick’s satisfaction because [Teleport] didn’t actually deconstruct a person and blip them into a new location. [Teleport] just worked off of the possibility that a person had chosen differently in their lives, and then it moved the user onto that new path.

But what if [Gate] was the Teleporter Problem, all over again?

Erick recoiled from that thought—

And then he went full bore into that thought space, simultaneously exploring the idea to its full conclusion, as well as hoping that there would be no blue box indicating he had just passed step 3 of ???. of the Worldly Path.

After a silent minute, he got all the way through to the final step of the thought process, the part where he could sing to the sky, and make it happen. But he stopped there. He was not going to make that spell.

He decided:

No.

And if this decision meant the end of his Worldly Path, then so be it. He was not going to make a spell that copied people and dropped those people off on the other sides of [Gate]s. No way. Not happening.

Nirzir didn’t take the silence well.

Nirzir’s voice was a meek thing, as she said, “Sorry. That joke was in poor taste.”

Teressa smirked, and said, “Jane will eat anything, though, so your joke was fine.”

“Ha ha,” Jane monotoned.

“If you’re worried about Erick; don’t be.” Teressa said, “You probably just knocked something loose in the boss’s head. Got him thinking.”

Nirzir startled. “Oh.” Then she blushed with small joy. “Uh.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “That is exactly it. Sorry for my silence; I was thinking.”

He was still worried over [Duplicate] and [Gate], but he didn’t want to bring those thoughts up to the group. Not right now. Maybe not ever. He would speak of this with the very next person who actually knew about [Gate], though.

Maybe.

… This was yet another question to ask the Headmaster, for sure. A lot of things pointed in that dragon’s direction, recently. Erick had recently even helped Kirginatharp’s Elites when they came calling to investigate the obviously [Duplicate]d nature of the soul spear. That Imaging pointed toward the enchanting houses of Terror Peaks, so someone from Oceanside had been involved in that soul spear—

Ah. No. Maybe not.

Perhaps Kirginatharp had just slipped in some blood that was always going to Image somewhere in Terror Peaks. Perhaps he wanted Erick to come to Oceanside and get involved with the dragons, through him.

… It was obviously (or maybe just highly likely) a trap, but perhaps Oceanside would need to be the next step in this Path, if this thing with the grass travelers didn’t work out.

Teressa interrupted Erick’s thoughts, “I see cows and cowboys.”

Jane stifled a sudden laugh.

Now why had she laughed…

Oh.

Jane had gone through a cowboy phase when she was younger, didn’t she? Erick distinctly remembered that Jane did not want to be a ‘cowgirl’, either; too many bad connotations. She wanted to be out there wrangling horses with the guys. That phase only lasted a single summer, though, then she was back to fantasy and swords and D&D.

Nirzir instantly said, “They don’t like that name. Call them cowherds.”

“Oh?” Teressa said, “Sure. ‘Cowherds’. Easy enough. They’re called cowboys over in the Greensoil Republic, though. That’s all I know about cows.”

Nirzir said, “It might not be my place to say, but many, many things that outsiders do will offend these people. [Telepathy]. [Teleport]. Um. But maybe that won’t matter?”

Erick came back to the conversation, and said, “Clan Pale Cow is an orthodox grass traveler clan. If they take honest umbrage I will consider their views, and then adjust accordingly. But we will not be waylaid by obfuscation and false words. If there are dragons here, I will find them, and I will know what the fuck that green one, or the Mirage Dragon, was doing when she attacked.”

Nirzir, and everyone else, seemed to steel themselves.

Erick would play nice, but he would play on his own terms.

A few hundred cows were less than three kilometers south, and they were coming this way. They had definitely sensed Erick and his group, since the wind was flowing in their direction. Deep mooing filled the air along with the sounds of a thousand stomping hooves. The cowherds had responded almost as fast as their cows had. They rode in front of the herd, their eyes scanning forward. One spotted Ophiel in the sky above, and pointed.

Erick walked forward, taking point, and his people walked with him, tramping through the short grasses behind him.

Soon enough, Erick met the cowherds upon the open plains, with cows mooing in the background. There were three men and one woman upon four different cows, with none of the cows wearing saddles or the people upon them holding reins. The riders seemed to direct the cows with their feet, leaving their hands free to hold weapons, which they did. Each of them gripped large, glaive-like spears, each of a different color; conjured weapons, then. The people themselves were dressed in furs, with cloth underclothes, and shimmering conjured armor over that, done in a style similar to scalemail.

As Erick drew closer, the cowherds met them in formation. Erick knew the lead man but he doubted the lead man remembered him, if his face was anything to go by. He was Amasar, the bloody man who Erick had rescued, who had warned Alaralti of the face stealers posing as ambassadors from Songli. With a pinched face and still looking somewhat skinny from extensive healing, Amasar seemed rather annoyed by the presence of the five interlopers in front of him. His compatriots wore similar expressions.

Erick stepped forward, and his party halted behind him.

Amasar led his cow a step further forward than the rest of his people. He called out, “Welcome to Clan Pale Cow, Archmage Flatt. We’ve been expecting you.”

Well…

Okay then?

Oh! Erick noticed it now. His shoulders were tense; he had recognized Erick!

Ah. Too many distractions out here, perhaps? Or maybe he was still a bit tired?

Sure. Erick went with that.

Erick frowned a little. “I have not sent word ahead. I had thought that I would be coming in without any notice. What is this ‘you’ve been expecting me' business?”

Amasar blinked in confusion. Then he said, “Because our clan owes you a large debt and you have come to collect. I, too, owe you a personal debt.”

“Oh? Good.” Erick said, “Then that works for my needs. I want to see Niyazo, then.”

“It will be as you demand.” Amasar gestured to one of his people and clicked his fingers together, then gestured to the east. The person he gestured to got off of their cow, and stepped onto the grasses. Their cow wandered back, toward the approaching herd. Amasar said, “Iroki here will lead the way around the herd.” Then he said to Erick, “I thank you for saving my life, Archmage Flatt. I would like to talk later about this personal debt I owe to you, which is separate from the debt that our clan owes you. My group and I have to guide the cows and the clan at the moment, but I would seek an audience, later, if you would give it.”

“We will talk when your clan stops for the night, Amasar.”

Wordlessly, Amasar bowed, and his people bowed with him. And then they rose. The main herd was almost there.

Iroki stepped lively toward the east.

Erick and his people followed—

Erick rapidly remembered a portion of the traveler’s guide about the Warlord Clans. Though the grass travelers did not use many magics, they openly used many Health Cost abilities. Iroki was obviously burning [Swift Movement].

Erick matched his pace, with his people rapidly moving to match Erick’s pace, each of them burning Health to keep up with their own [Swift Movement], except for one. Nirzir lagged until she stepped into the air, her [Greater Air Body] giving her the speed necessary to keep up, but it was very obvious she was not actually walking on the ground anymore.

Iroki shot Nirzir a tiny, dissatisfied glance, but he kept his opinions to himself.

Soon, they had rounded the herd. They saw the clan, following behind their cows.

Clan Pale Cow, like so many of its cousin clans, moved from place to place like towed turtles, with large carts that supported their individual yurts, while teams of four to six cows were harnessed to pull those carts across the plains. Life continued upon those carts. People cooked in the cooking yurts, children learned their history in classroom yurts, and people made baskets and other handicrafts in other yurts, while talking to each other, and doing everything that people normally did. Some people were even traveling between the carts, while the whole caravan was moving. They did this in a rather simple way, too; they just hopped off of the side of the moving vehicle, raced along the grasses to the yurt they wanted to get to, and then they hopped up to their destination. As Erick arrived, he saw at least seven people moving between carts, some of them carrying heavy loads in their arms, all of them racing to reach their goal. The whole caravan was moving at a rather sedate pace —perhaps four or five kilometers per hour— but it was still moving.

Erick instantly felt that this seemed like a simple life, compared to some of the various ways to live he had seen, but it was not an easy life. After all, they were living outside of city walls.

On the western side of the herd, some cowherds had spotted a trio of four-eyed wolves, trying to sneak up to kill some cows, and possibly some people. The cowherds were on the case, though. A woman leapt from cowback and slashed down with a glaive and... barely managed to clip a red wolf. Only clip?

Erick frowned, dividing a bit more attention away from the path ahead of him, to the Ophiel watching the fight—

A different woman cowherd had a much better first attack. She slipped through the air like a shadowed phantom and used her own glaive to slash the wolf in half. And then she retreated and berated the first woman who had failed to strike true. Ah; the younger cowherd was a beginner. There was no danger there.

