Erick turned his attention back to his current surroundings. The drivers of the yurts, as well as the various people here and there, all saw Erick and his people, and most began talking. News of Erick’s arrival was spreading fast, if the whispers on the air were anything to go by. They didn’t use [Telepathy] here, but they certainly used [Perfect Hearing] when it was appropriate.

Iroki led Erick past a few outer rolling yurts, to a central yurt which held Niyazo and a few other people. There was no easy place to board, though, which was obviously not needed anyway. Iroki just leapt into the air, clearing a meter height like it was the easiest thing to jump that high, and landed on the yurt’s rolling platform.

To be fair, it was quite easy for someone with at least 20 Strength to clear that height. Erick had just never done it before.

So he planted his feet, and jumped like the best of them—

He landed on the platform with perfect ease. He smiled a bit, not expecting it to be that easy, but it had been exactly that easy. It was kinda really nice to have a body that did what he asked of it. 25 Dexterity certainly helped, too.

Jane bounded up onto the platform rather easily, taking her place at her father’s side. Poi glanced to Teressa and Teressa wordlessly helped him up with a hand, before Teressa then stepped onto the platform like it was just a very large step; she was three meters tall, so a single meter off the ground was pretty easy for her to clear! Nirzir stepped onto the air, then onto the platform.

Many people did not like her open use of magic.

Erick almost considered talking to her about that, but Nirzir’s white face was already turning a bit pinkish with embarrassment; she saw the problem and he didn’t need to say anything.

With a bit of mana sense, Erick saw inside the yurt. Niyazo and a few others were waiting.

But first, Iroki turned to Erick, and dispersed his armor and weapon, saying, “If it pleases Archmage Flatt, the use of open magics inside the clan is not polite.”

No one else anywhere nearby was wearing conjured armor, or anything like that, so Erick took Iroki’s words to heart. He dispersed his conjured armor. Underneath, he wore the normal clothes of a well-to-do commoner, along with the Crystal Star pinned to his chest, above his heart. His people soon followed his (and Iroki’s) example, and dispersed their armor.

Many people, from carts all over, instantly locked their eyes to Teressa. She grinned and withstood the scrutiny, but she could certainly feel when eyes were upon her. All orcols could, to a certain extent.

The driver of Niyazo’s yurt even glanced Teressa’s way, but they said nothing. He just returned to his job of driving the ‘vehicle’, using a long fishing-pole-like stick to guide the yoked cows left or right. Mostly, the yoked cows seemed to just follow the herd in front of them, though.

Erick rushed things along, for Teressa’s sake, “Thanks for the cultural introduction, Iroki.”

Iroki bowed, and then gestured to the entrance of the yurt, saying, “Leader Niyazo has heard of your coming.” Iroki walked to the entrance and opened the flap, then stepped aside.

Erick went into the yurt. His people followed. Iroki remained outside, and the door flapped shut as he let it go. It was a bit darker now that they weren’t outside, but it was not too dark.

The inside was a comfortable living room about five meters in diameter, and filled with carpets and furs, while chairs in the center ringed a small, guarded firepit where a cauldron sat burbling, spilling delicious scents of meat and stew into the air. Beds and personal effects were organized to the rear of the mobile building. Light came from a large hole in the roof, and from the small fire, for there were no wardlights in sight. Everything moved a little, with charms and trinkets that hung from the opening of the roof swaying this way and that as the yurt rumbled across the grasslands. Some of those charms were simple chimes, and the sounds they rang into the half-light were almost a comfort. Others were glass trinkets that caught the light and turned it to rainbows. The yurt seemed well loved, and well lived in.

Three people sat at the chairs that ringed the firepit.

One was Clan Leader Niyazo Pale Cow, the pale violet man who led the clan. He gazed upon Erick with well-hidden disapproval. This was an act, though. He was prepared for Erick, or at least he was as prepared as he thought he needed to be.

Speaker Yorila was there, to Niyazo’s right; Erick had briefly seen her when he witnessed Niyazo talk about alerting the other clans to the face stealers in their midst. She was an older woman, who had two tendrils of thought coming off of her head; she was telepathically talking to someone. Erick was a little surprised at that. She was openly flaunting taboo. Mostly, the grass travelers didn’t abide by [Telepathy] or [Teleport], along with many other magics, but then again, someone in the clan still had to know of magery, and Yorila was that woman.

The other woman in the yurt was of Niyazo’s age; she sat on his left. A small girl of perhaps ten, sat on the bed in the back of the room, near a window, coloring with wax crayons upon simple paper. The girl had features that closely mimicked Niyazo and this unknown woman; their daughter, no doubt. At Erick’s entrance, though, the young girl turned his way, watching with eyes wide open and a little scared.

This yurt had a friendly sort of feeling to it, but now that Erick was there, and all his people had followed him into the yurt, that friendly, village feeling was evaporating with each passing half second. They had only been inside the yurt for about two seconds now.

Niyazo locked eyes with Erick, evaluating him in roughly the same manner in which Erick had evaluated the warlord, but likely with a lot less magic behind his eyes. Then he glanced up to Ophiel, then over to everyone else, his eyes taking in every one of Erick’s people. Then he looked back to Erick as he stood up, and said, “Welcome to Clan Pale Cow, Archmage Flatt. I am glad you have appeared before me, so that we may discuss the debt we owe. Your people may wait outside, or at any of the public yurts; they are easy to find. Your people will receive beer from our own barrels and stew from our own cauldrons, but you will remain here, and dine with us.” He glanced to his wife, saying, “Koori. The beer.”

Koori scrunched her lips, glared at Erick, then got up and complied. All three of them were already drinking from cow-horn cups, which they stuck into the armrests of their chairs when they weren’t drinking from them.

Erick said, “I would be glad to partake of your drink and your dinner.” He turned to his people, saying, “The public yurt is the one over that way—” He pointed. “Can’t miss it. Offer them some gold for the privilege. I’m sure you can figure out the proper respects to pay.”

Poi and Teressa readily complied. Nirzir paused, though, because she wanted to be here, with Erick, in the thick of the politics and the meeting of people. Maybe next time Erick would allow her to accompany him, but not for the first meeting.

Jane just full-on stopped. She had expected to remain with him. She needed to ensure that her father wasn’t alone in these trying times, but she couldn’t stay, either. Erick loved her for her desire to protect but he could handle this. Erick nodded, knowingly, to Jane, and felt a warmth of appreciation well inside his chest as she nodded back.

Then the four of them were gone, and the flap to the yurt shut again.

Niyazo gestured to the other chairs and sat down on his own, as he said, “Have a seat, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick sat down. “Thank you for the hospitality. I look forward to returning the favor one day.”

Koori, Niyazo’s wife, held out a cow horn cup full of beer. Without any [Cold Ward]s cast around the beer, Erick was worried it was going to be warm, but then he took a sip, and it wasn’t nearly as warm as he thought it would be. They must have kept the keg in another yurt, or perhaps in the open air where it was colder, until it was time to tap it. He tasted honey and herbs and a deep springtime flavor.

Erick smiled. “Good beer.”

“I made it myself.” Koori sat back down in her own chair. “And I do not need your approval.”

Niyazo looked about ready to slap Koori, but the pure vehemence in Koori’s words caused Erick to burst a quick laugh into the darkened yurt. Niyazo’s attention shifted back to Erick. Neither he, nor Koori, or Yorila understood what was so funny.

This could be a cultural disaster—

So Erick explained, “Honest dislike is such a refreshing change from what I was getting in Songli. Every commoner seems to think that everyone in a clan is above them, while everyone in a clan is quick to recognize who is above even them, and thus everyone hides everything they truly think with a thick veneer of politeness. Some people are so deeply layered in that veneer that they can’t even admit their own true emotions to themselves. I mean— I would be pretty wary of someone immensely more powerful than me telling me that I liked what they served me. Your honesty caught me off guard, Koori.”

Koori said, “Do you always like to hear the sound of your own voice this much?” She added, “And ‘Immensely more powerful than me’? That is some high opinion you got there.”

Erick smiled. “I have found that fully explaining myself helps to avoid misunderstandings, and allows me to go to war without feeling like there was something more I could have done to prevent that war.”

Koori almost said something else—

But Niyazo spoke, “We do not wish for war to be brought upon us. Is this what you bring?”

“Hopefully not.” Erick said, “But I am looking to find the dragons that conspired to attack me last week. So if you have a direction you could point me in, that would discharge your debt to me.”

The three clansmen each wore suddenly concerned looks.

Koori spoke, “Bow to me and prove you are not a dragon.”

Uh.

What?

Eh! Sure! Erick saw where this was going.

Erick readily got up and did a full 90 degree bow, saying, “Yes ma’am.” He smiled as he stood back up, and sat back down, saying, “Your antagonism is some sort of test for dragons, isn’t it.”

Koori frowned, then she dispersed her frown, and got up. “I’ll get the bowls. We will have stew and talk of less dangerous things than dragons.”

Erick nodded. “Fair enough.”

Niyazo said, “I planned on a few different ways to discharge my debt. A payment of high quality cows was the main offer. Another option was a pair of guards to protect your life for a year and a day. Amasar, the man you rescued, was to be one of these people. I suspect he will try to enter into your service even if you choose to forgo this repayment of debt.”

Koori opened the cauldron and began spooning a hearty stew of cubed meat, root vegetables, and apples and onions, into deep wooden bowls. Erick hadn’t been hungry, but he was getting there; the stew smelled divine. She handed the first bowl to Niyazo, who took a sip of the brown broth, and then nodded. More bowls went out to Yorila and then Erick and then Koori took one for herself before sitting back down.

Niyazo continued, “But you want something more. I will need to think on this, for I do not believe it is in the interest of Pale Cow to give you this information.”

“I expected as much,” Erick said.

Erick almost gave a warning that he was going to pursue the dragons anyway… But he’d walk that path if Niyazo chose to take that road. No point in getting worked up for something that might not happen. Besides that: something was happening. Niyazo was thinking deeply about his options.

“We will eat in silence,” Koori said.

And so they did. Erick stuck a hunk of meat with his provided spoon-fork, and it broke apart as his prod. He smiled. And then he had a bite. The meat tasted wonderful! The broth was fantastic, too. Paired with the beer it was a great meal, and there was plenty left in the cauldron. Niyazo had seconds; a single spoonful. Koori and Yorila had another spoonful after Niyazo. Erick followed their lead, and that seemed to make Niyazo happy.

Well. Happier. Niyazo seemed a rather dour man. Or perhaps it was just the seriousness of the moment.

Fifteen minutes after they took their first bite, they were done.

Koori gathered up the bowls and set them aside before refilling everyone’s beer.

With a full belly and a drink in hand, Erick enjoyed the slightly smokey smell of the yurt, and the ambiance of it all. He was feeling relaxed. There were no drugs or poison in the beer, or stew, or anything like that. It was just a nice, simple meal, in a nice place. The people were on edge, but that was fine; to be expected, really.

Niyazo broke the amicable silence of the room, saying, “You shouldn’t go hunting dragons, Archmage Flatt.”

“Oh, I know I shouldn’t.” Erick said, “This much is obvious. But they hunted me first, and so I will either kill them all, or I will be satisfied with their reasons for attacking me. I am not beyond forgiveness, since no one died, but both of those outcomes are both too extreme to be realistic considering what I have heard of dragons.” He continued, “What I fully expect to happen is that I will kill whichever one was coming after me, and maybe even the Mirage Dragon, too, if she should prove herself as needing killing. I will try to keep the collateral damage to a minimum.”

No one said a thing.

Into the absolute silence, alongside the wide-eyed stares of the clansmen, a tiny cry started up near the beds in the back of the room and rapidly devolved into sniffles and terrified sobs. Koori leapt out of her chair and went to her child, whereupon she held the child’s shoulders and stared into her eyes.

Koori whispered, “Dry your tears. Now.”

“But— But Ipii and Koy said—”

Koori ordered, “The words of your sensationalist friends do not matter right now. You are in the yurt of the Clan Leader and we are in important talks and your presence here is a privilege that can be taken away. I will send you to my sister if I must.”

The girl calmed, her eyes drying as she blinked them out, her sobs quieting. “Ye— yes, mother. I understand. I will listen. This one—” Sniffle. “This one apologizes.”

