“My boss is here.” Teressa looked up and over to Erick, giving an exaggerated gesture with her head that was still visible even with the veil on her head. “Stories will have to wait for later.”

All the young men and women who were not already looking Erick’s way, did so. More than a few went wide eyed, utterly emptying of whatever calm they had possessed while Teressa was talking. And then every single one of them scattered, each giving variations of ‘A pleasure to meet you, Archmage’ or ‘We welcome your presence’. Some just gurgled out strangled words in their race to get away.

Jane, Poi, and Teressa, watched them flee. Nirzir giggled a little, then she tried to stop herself from further giggling.

Erick sat down where a young man had sat, and said, “They seem like nice people. A bit orthodox. But it is what it is.”

“I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone get treated this well by the grass travelers before.” Nirzir said, “Your reputation precedes you.”

“It does.” Erick said, “Looks like you all were treated well, too. Did you get some of the stew? It’s really good.”

“Yeah.” Jane said, “They’re making more. Apparently dinner includes bread, but it’s the same stew.”

Bread? Erick glanced forward, toward the open kitchen. Older people were shooting the shit with each other, but every so often they glanced over toward the ovens, which were really just large metal boxes with [Heat Ward]s inside. To the other side of the kitchen, some young people scurried around the large cauldrons and larger cold storage boxes, chopping up huge bowlfuls of onions and vegetables before dumping everything they chopped into the boiling stew. Erick had barely smelled the bread over the scent of everything else, but now he smelled it, for sure.

Mostly, he smelled cows and cowshit, though, so he tried not to smell too much, too fast.

The kitchen smelled really good, though. He had eaten lunch with Niyazo and his people hours ago, so perhaps it was time to eat again! How nice.

Teressa smiled under her veil. “The stews here are better than what we got back home, though Auntie Arathani did manage to improve on a few recipes at her restaurant.”

Poi said, “They said that we’d have fish when we got to the next riverside, but that won’t be for two days.”

“Takes a while to get anywhere out here.” Jane said, “They drive the cattle everywhere. Minimal [Teleport]. Minimal magical assistance. All the drivers are Healers, though, so the cows are able to chug along for a full day of walking. Makes ‘em nice and tender, too, if they never have to stress out their muscles with over exertion.”

Erick smiled, saying, “They’ve got very delicious cows, yes.”

“Oh yes.” Teressa nodded. “They need to do more grilling, though. Less stews.”

Jane said, “Somehow, I expected more cheese.”

Nirzir piped in, “That’s other clans— Er. Wait. Hmm. Does Pale Cow do cheese? I didn’t see any.” She looked around. “Do they have a cheese yurt?”

Poi said, “There’s cheese here.”

“They have a cheese yurt.” Teressa pointed. “It’s that one, only two yurts over.”

“Oh!” Nirzir said, “My mistake.”

“Oh?” Jane glanced toward the yurt in question. “Why is there no cheese here, then? There wasn’t any when we got stew.”

“For the same reason they don’t have bread all the time.” Erick said, “They have some rather strict regulations, and cheese is only available at actual mealtimes, which means breakfast and dinner.”

“Cheese can be an every-meal food, too,” Jane said.

“Well...” Erick said, “So that brings me to the next topic: Getting along with these people, and the reason why it is necessary.” He explained, “I decided a few things with Niyazo. I am going to try and become a clanfriend to Pale Cow. I do this, so that I can participate in their upcoming polite battles in Ooloraptoor, which they colloquially call ‘debates’. The point of participating in their debates is to draw out the dragons that hide behind the non-Integrating clans. I will likely end up drawing out the dragons that wish for Integration, too. Any and all dragons are fine, because I think I have the tools to take them down without actually killing them or letting them kill anyone else, either.

“But part of me becoming a clanfriend is the appearance of integrating into Pale Cow. To that end, everyone needs to take a job of some sort, and those jobs need to be done with as little magic as possible, or, more realistically, with as little open use of magic as possible. There’s a lot of fine cultural lines to that, obviously, because these people use magic all the time; they’re either [Grow]ing at the riversides, or conjuring up armor, or weapons. I’m sure we’ll offend some people with our magics, but the idea is that we’ll get to know what is expected of us before we get to Ooloraptoor, so we don’t openly offend the clans and the elders who live there, because those elders can block my clanfriend status from allowing me into their debates, if they feel like it.

“If I’m blocked from being a clanfriend then we’ll have to pick a whole different path to the dragons.” Erick said, “But I feel good about this path, so this is the one I am walking right now.”

Erick let that sit, while the others thought.

Poi professionally accepted Erick’s decision with a simple nod, and to say, “Then that is what we’re doing.”

Jane was a bit excited as she asked, “So we’re getting to play with cows and camp out with monsters at the doors for a week? Two weeks? Is that what I’m hearing?”

Teressa smiled beneath her veil. “That’s what it sounds like.”

“Maybe 25 days.” Erick said, “It’s still several days to Ooloraptoor, and some of the opposition clans are delayed for various reasons. The debates are already happening, though, so we’ll get to see some other clans debate each other once we get there.”

Jane asked, “Are they really using ‘debate’ to mean ‘battle’? I like that.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “But it doesn’t always head that way. Sometimes the debates are actual debates; with words, and no battle.”

“Nothing is perfect, I suppose,” Jane said, with a grin.

Nirzir looked conflicted as the others spoke, but then she got rid of that emotion and asked, “What sort of jobs? Where do we sleep? Are we eating… stew all the time?” She rapidly added, “It was good stew. But… I mean. It’s good stew.”

Erick smiled a little. “We’ve been offered beds in the barracks, but we’ll be sleeping in an [Obscuring Redoubt] for tonight. Tomorrow, I might end up making a [Spectral Steed] spell and Shaping us a yurt, but that will happen later. As for jobs, Niyazo recommended a few things. There’s cowherd—”

“I’m doing that!” Jane added, “Too bad Veird doesn’t have actual horses, though.”

Erick smiled wide, continuing, “Cook. Guardian. Grower. Leatherworker or fabricator. I’m on perpetual guardian detail with Ophiel, but you four can pick whatever. Ask around and see if there is something else you want to do.” Erick said, “The basic deal is that we’re acting as clanfriends, so that we will become them. And then there will be dragons.”

- - - -

Niyazo laid in his bed, staring at the ceiling. Night had fallen hours ago, and dinner had come and gone. Koori laid against his chest, her own chest gently rising and falling in sleep. Both of them were wrapped in little more than blankets and the warmth of each other.

It had been a good day, and an even better night. Archmage Flatt— or Erick, as he wanted to be called, had been amenable to the demands of Clan Pale Cow, and his people followed his example, trying their best to become clanfriends. There had been problems, though.

The Mind Mage in their presence was a concern, no matter how well he could cook. Niyazo did not like that man. He might reveal secrets best left covered, but that was always the worry with Mind Mages, wasn’t it? Poi did seem the honorable sort, though. Niyazo would need to have a candid conversation with Yorila to find out more about the Mind Mages.

The orcol was a concern, too. Teressa had chosen to act as storyteller, and she was already swaying the young ones with stories of the greater world. Hopefully, traditions would win out over her tales of horror and magic. Too many young ones had headed off to Songli in these recent years. The lure of luxury and other people had already pulled away so many warriors from the life of the grass traveler. … Though orcols were a nomadic people, as well. Maybe Niyazo could ask her to spread stories to get the young ones to remain in the clan for a few more years, at least.

Niyazo was doing his best to get them all a stable city of their own; that was what these upcoming debates were for, after all.

And with Erick here…

Best not get his hopes up too soon. The man was after dragons, after all.

Koori’s breath hitched. She opened her eyes, and her gaze glittered in the light of the low fire. Every day, Niyazo was taken with her beauty, and every night was the same.

She whispered, “You’re still awake?”

“I have too many thoughts.” Niyazo moved on to his next concern, “Among them: Nirzir is a direct descendant of the original Void Song. She is a princess of Songli. And she can’t seem to do anything.”

“She is a child, and she doesn’t complain. What more do you want?” Koori sighed and pressed her forehead against his chest. “You could ask their Mind Mage to scoop out the thoughts that keep you awake this late.”

Niyazo tapped her back. “Do not jest. Some people will attempt this abomination of magic.”

“Aye. They will.” Koori tapped him on the stomach, saying, “And now I cannot sleep. You are a terrible husband.”

Niyazo chuckled into the darkness, whispering, “That’s not what you said an hour ago.”

Koori kissed his chest, then said, “It is too late for that sort of talk right now. We will have an early morning full of new dark magics and surprises, no doubt, and I need to be ready. Did you notice that Ibahka stayed away from Erick? She took her dinner and went back to her yurt. She is planning something to take your power for herself.”

“You always say that.” Niyazo said, “It is a shame that you two never made up.”

Treading the words of an old argument, Koori sighed, “She tried to kill you.”

“I have forgiven her—”

“And I never will.” Koori said, “It is my right to never forgive.”

Niyazo let that go, and continued on with his worries. “Erick’s daughter is a Polymage. That will be a problem.”

With a playful, sleepy tone, Koori spoke an old nursery rhyme into the night, “Problems, problems everywhere, with no answer in sight. Oh dear, oh dear, I give this prayer: how to solve this plight? With talk and talk, this we swear, all to kill the spite. And if that fails it’s war, it’s war, though always done polite.”

Niyazo said, “It won’t be polite when the dragons come out.”

“This is fine.” Koori said, “Our new ‘clanfriends’ are all dripping in Darkness, too. Let them kill each other, and rid ourselves of both of them.”

Niyazo whispered, “I would rather Erick kill all the dragons. That man will leave this land when he is done here. If the dragons win, then nothing changes, and we will need to solve the dragon problem five years from now, when Integration reaches its culmination.”

“… You have a point. Then… I suppose I should be kinder to Erick.” Koori huffed, “At least he isn’t as barbaric as I expected. He’s keeping his Dark Magic to a minimum and he’s exceptionally better than that other archmage. I am very thankful that Shendeng never darkened our doors.” She hissed, “That man needs to get run over by a cow a few times. Might make him more humble, or at least give the rest of us some satisfaction.”

“He might be there at Ooloraptoor, you know.” Niyazo added, “And you need to tame this hatred of magic you have. It is fine now, but it will be difficult if you keep this up when it comes time to have magic schools in our utopia.”

“I believe in Integration. I also believe that our utopia magic schools should have a sign out front that reads ‘do not do magic’, and all the little ones will follow our advice… Though, of course, they would not.” Koori ran her fingers through Niyazo’s chest hair, as she said, “Magic is Evil. Necessary Evil, but still Evil. You cannot change my mind on this.”

Niyazo teased, “We already had one miracle today; why not two?”

With a curious, edgy tone, Koori asked, “… What was the first miracle?”

“When you didn’t try to debate Erick on the merits of magic right then and there.”

“Bah!” Koori tapped him on the chest. “I am not stupid.”

Lovingly, Niyazo said, “My little ornery cow.”

With a gentle laugh, Koori settled back down to sleep, whispering loving words that were lost in the darkness of the yurt.

Eventually, her breathing evened out. She slept.

Niyazo followed her lead.
