Erick tried not to pay attention to the whispers spoken in the dark, for he certainly could not have heard them if not for Perception, but it was hard not to hear and see what he had done with his own words, crudely aired. Ah. He was broken a bit, wasn’t he? He didn’t even consider that the shit coming out of his mouth would be harmful for other people to hear. The way he was thinking of it all, was that if he was subject to these horrors, then shouldn’t everyone else at least know of these horrors?

They should know of the true darkness of the world, right?

You can’t know the problems if they remain unnamed, and unspoken.

Erick ignored that train of thought, and spoke the words that needed to be spoken, no matter if they made a little girl cry to hear them, “What say you of dragons, Clan Leader Niyazo?”

For a moment, Niyazo remained silent. Then he asked, “What do you know of how we grass travelers do war? Of our attempts at incorporation?”

“I know what the public knows. Some dragon fight happened a hundred years ago, back when incorporation was nearing the end stages, and dragons were revealed to operate on both sides of that war. They turned one of the final battles for incorporation from a proper Polite War, into a True War, killing thousands.”

Niyazo nodded, slowly, then said, “It was 85 years ago. That attempt at incorporation was due in major part to Ar’Kendrithyst’s act of Purging Spur. The Dead City stopped making new Shades after that Purge. In the foolish minds of our ancestors, this meant that the Darkness had been defeated, that some new world order would take hold, and so we acted to consolidate power and to prepare. As it turned out, that power shift was a false shift. There were no new Shades, but the ones still living were worse than ever. Ar’Kendrithyst remained strong. Some would say the Shades were even stronger than before.

“But in that time, in our attempted act of consolidation, we uncovered a different problem among the grass travelers.

“Dragons live among us.

“We know that they are here, now, but we cannot point them out to you, Archmage Flatt, for they are too good at hiding, and none of us are willing to confront this evil amongst us. I have no way of directly helping you, but there are indirect ways, if you wish to hear them.”

“… Go on,” Erick said.

Whatever indirect way they had was likely going to be what Erick chose to do. Hopefully it would be bloodless, or at least as close to bloodless as possible.

Niyazo nodded, then said, “We are headed toward Ooloraptoor to participate in talks for incorporation into a proper city. They are merely small talks, for no one is willing to challenge those larger clans who call themselves True Travelers. As for Clan Pale Cow, we are Integrators, but though we are an increasing power, we are not ready to challenge the larger True Traveler clans.

“Clan Pale Cow plans on participating in three small Polite Battles, each of which we will fight against lesser Traveler clans in order to get those other clans to come to the table, to talk of Integration. If we win, we will demand our opposition accept envoys from Songli. If we lose any of these battles we will likely cut ties with Songli, for one year. Some of our opposition might decide on other stakes, but right now, much of what could happen has already been agreed upon.

“The only parts left to happen are the actual debates, and the resulting battles, and the choosing of warriors to participate in those battles.

“If you wish, you could be a part of those battles. It would be complicated to allow such a thing, but there is precedent. If you do participate, then the True Traveler clans might risk a Polite Battle with our clan in order to prevent a complete victory for this newest round of debates. You might even spook out a dragon or three, but Bright Gods help us all if you do. You are on your own if that happens.” With a serious tone, Niyazo said, “If you wish to pursue this option, I would seek your promise to keep the collateral damage to a minimum. I would also know that you would adhere to the precepts of a true Polite War, where to kill a warrior is to fail the battle.”

Erick did not smile, but he wanted to.

This was perfect.

He wanted a kinder way to walk the Worldly Path, and here it was.

He doubted it would actually be that easy, though. Not with dragons lurking among the grass travelers.

Erick waited an appropriate length of time before he answered in order to give Niyazo’s words the merit they deserved, and then he said, “I tentatively accept. Tell me more of your opposition and of the political landscape of the grass travelers, and what would be expected of me in battle.”

Yorila’s eyes went wide. Koori’s lips went pinched.

Niyazo, though, seemed tentatively excited. He did not show this in his voice. He began with, “The only reason you would be allowed to participate in any of our clan debates is because Pale Cow owes you a debt for finding face stealers among us. In payment of this debt, you can choose to forgo material wealth, and become a clanfriend. The title is bestowed rather easily. Among the allowances of the title, it will allow you to sup at our cauldrons and sleep in our barrack yurts, as well as allow you friendly entry into Ooloraptoor, as long as we vie for your presence. For our purposes, as a clanfriend you will be allowed to participate in our debates.

“But as soon as you have declared to participate in the debates then our opposition will seek to bar you from entry, and so, The Elders of Ooloraptoor would be the first trial for you to overcome.

“You will be challenged on this attempted use of the clanfriend status. You will be required to win a verbal spar. As an outsider, you would not be able to invoke a Polite Battle to win this debate, either. You will need to speak clearly and purposefully to the Elders of Ooloraptoor, and if they decide that you do not qualify as a clanfriend, then you will not be allowed to participate in the Polite Battles.” Niyazo asked, “Does this sound acceptable to you?”

Erick answered honestly, “Yes. But I am not about to be quiet about my true goals for entering your debates, or for becoming a clanfriend. And if the elders block me, then I will seek other avenues to finding the dragons around here.”

“I would not ask you to be quiet about your true intentions.” Niyazo added, “Though I do expect most people to disbelieve that you wish to find dragons. The vast majority will see you as the hand of Songli.”

Erick asked, “And what do you see me as, Niyazo? You were reluctant to meet with me in the beginning of this unexpected meeting, but now you seem excited. What is your true goal here?”

If Niyazo felt upset at being seen through, he did not show it. In fact, he seemed relieved. He said, “I see you as an unfightable demi-god, and if you say that you are after dragons, then I will believe you, and I will lead you to them the best way I am able, in the hopes that you will wipe out the ones that infest our people.” Niyazo said, “Aside from that, and if the dragons never show —which is a much more plausible outcome— you are an opportunity, and I will use you to make Clan Pale Cow a Head Clan in the future Compact of Ooloraptoor, whenever that might be. Years from now, perhaps.”

The man was honest in his desires; Erick would have to give him that. But he was lying in small ways. Niyazo hoped to use Erick to shave off years of debates. Which was fine. If Polite War was truly polite, then this was perfectly acceptable.

Erick said, “Tell me of the politics I will be walking into and of suspected dragons, or at least the clans in which you believe there to be dragons.”

“We don’t talk about dragons, Archmage Flatt.” Niyazo gestured to Yorila, saying, “Before you arrived, I was speaking of politics, and politics only, with Speaker Yorila. The landscape of Ooloraptoor is changing and she listens to the winds more than most. What she knows will be crucial to you becoming a clanfriend in the eyes of the Elders.” He commanded Yorila, saying, “Speak of the infestation of face stealers, and the outcomes of Archmage Flatt’s offer of assistance in finding those fiends.”

Koori got up, softly speaking of refilling drinks, as Erick readily focused on the older woman.

The older woman nodded, then began, “The Elders of Ooloraptoor have caught wind of the counter-hunts that were enacted through Clan Pale Cow, in conjunction with Alaralti of Songli, and they move to censure Pale Cow. A tithe of a hundred cattle have been demanded for our breach of common law, but we plan to fight this with a verbal debate. We expect to win, but are prepared to Polite Battle for that, too. The main Truists— Those are what we call those who call themselves True Travelers, because we don’t think they deserve to hold onto the term ‘traveler’, but to call them that openly is a slight insult. The main Truists in the Elder House are...”

As Yorila spoke, Koori refilled Erick’s horn, as well as the horns of everyone else.

The conversation flowed this way and that, while the cart gently rolled along the grass, pulled by large cows, and guided by deft hands. Tiny charms caught the light coming down from the hole in the roof.

And they talked of politics.

Erick asked questions when he felt the need, but mostly, he listened.

Part way through Erick’s introduction to the lay of Ooloraptoor, Erick said, “I feel the need to make a larger offer to counter-hunt face stealers, directly to your Elders of Ooloraptoor. How do you feel this will be received?” He added, “At that same time, I will likely ask how they feel about counter hunting some mental monsters, as well. Book slippers. Putrescent slugs. Spinal spiders. Puppet minds and masters. In conjunction with the Mind Mages, we cleared out thousands upon thousands of those monsters from Songli, and I wish to do the same to every nation I pass through.”

Yorila’s eyes went wide at the mention of the mental monsters.

Niyazo frowned a little.

But it was Koori who voiced, “I don’t know those monsters.”

Yorila explained, “They’re rare in this part of the world because we are nomadic and our interactions with rooted civilizations are kept just so, in order to preclude the contamination of these monsters. All four will likely come up in future debates since those four are a deep problem of rooted civilization; one we will have to contend with if we ever found a true city upon the grass.”

Koori asked, “Why have I not heard of them before?”

“Because there is no point in informing most people of them at this point, because the Mind Mages work to kill them as soon as they appear.” Yorila said, “When this debate happens in the public forum, no matter which angle it comes from, the Mind Mages will be brought up right alongside the mental monsters they fight, and no one wants to have that debate yet.”

Koori got a nasty look on her face at the mention of Mind Mages.

Yorila let that look pass her by; she was doing her best to ignore every single denigration Koori passed against magic. Erick did not think Yorila was a Mind Mage, but she was certainly the most magically inclined person around these parts. She seemed used to these microaggressions. She was probably used to macro aggressions, too.

Since the conversation had veered away from answering Erick’s question, Niyazo spoke up, “Make your offer to the elders of further counter-hunting, but do it after you have fought the elders for clanfriend status, and after they have granted you this privilege. If you bring it up before then, you will likely not gain clanfriend status. Face stealers are a difficult subject to deal with for the magic that allows them to exist is fundamentally evil, but sometimes, evil is necessary. I accepted your offer to counter hunt face stealers because we had a clear problem that needed clear solutions, but do not mistake what happened: I made an unpopular decision, and some people are still angry that their loved ones were revealed as impostors. Some prefer the blinders. Some will always see magic as fundamentally evil.”

Yorila said, “Yet another problem to overcome if we want Integration.”

Koori glared at Yorila, while Yorila didn’t care about Koori at all.

“One monster at a time, Yorila,” Niyazo said.

Erick asked Yorila, “What reception do you expect me to have in Ooloraptoor, as an archmage?”

Koori tsk’d, then sipped her beer.

Niyazo frowned at his wife.

Koori noticed, and sighed a great big sigh, then she got more beer for herself, and for everyone else. Apparently, Koori was capable of recognizing that there were limits to how much she was allowed to be uncivil.

Yorila said, “I would prefer to speak to you privately about the use of magics around here.”

“Do not desecrate my home with magics, Archmage,” Koori said to Erick, as she was refilling her cup.

Erick simply said, “I will not, unless I need to.”

Koori frowned again, but no one spoke against Erick’s caveat.

Yorila seemed to be holding back a great deal of mirth, though.

The conversation moved on.

Eventually, a time table came out of the talks. They were about 325 kilometers from Ooloraptoor, and it would take them about 5 days to travel the remaining distance. After all, they were not about to work their cows to skin and bone simply to get somewhere faster.

- - - -

With the sun a few hours from setting on the horizon, Erick exited Niyazo’s yurt and hopped off of the side. He walked just a bit, easily dodging cows for they were not about to dodge out of his way, and found his destination. The cooking yurt was one of the largest structures of the caravan, with a team of eight cows pulling it forward, but while the front half was a half-yurt, the back end was completely open, and filled with benches and chairs that were a part of the very vehicle itself.

Erick hopped up onto the side of the vehicle. He found his people sitting mostly together at one of the central benches, surrounded by a few young men and women who were closer to Jane’s age, than anyone else’s. Many of them were staring at Teressa, even though the gargantuan woman had taken out her veil and put it on, covering up every part of her body except for her hands.

Erick caught wind of her words.

Teressa was telling them monster killing stories, only briefly pausing when she noticed Erick coming closer, and then continuing, “And the chimera eventually found us, but by then we had rested enough to kill it.”

There were some groans.

“You cut off half the story!” said a young man. “What about the Poison Toads?”

