“Peace?” Ying Zheng’s informal tone struck this Sovereign like a spear to the spine, and he retreated to one side to watch the boy and Emperor both. Neither one was his ally, but rather his enemies, one powerful, the other unfathomable, but enemies all the same. Perhaps he should warn the boy about the encroaching Supreme Ancestors, but even as this Sovereign opened his mouth to speak, Ying Zheng’s focus fell upon him and the implied Compulsion took effect to silence him once more. “You think to negotiate with this Sovereign?” Ying Zheng scoffed at the boy’s gall, which was considerable to the extreme, and it gave this Sovereign some small measure of comfort to not be the target of Falling Rain’s antics for once. “The dragon does not negotiate with prey. Whether this Sovereign grants death or mercy is up to fate. Humanity endures by this Sovereign’s benevolence alone, and so too shall they fall without it, victims of their own ignorance and hubris. This, Liang Wu Di will learn soon enough, before returning to beg for this Sovereign’s direction.”

“Psh.” A scoff of derision like no other, it was enough to set this Sovereign’s anger ablaze, but the boy paid him no mind and focused solely on Ying Zheng instead. “Yea right. C’mon now. Let’s be realistic. Your head is currently stuck face down in the sand, so let’s not overstate your position here. Sure, you got the Emperor by the shorthairs, but as far as I can tell, he already abdicated the throne to Liang Wu Di and swore not to interfere with the Imperial Clan, so even if you take him over, he’s useless. I don’t know how you pulled this spectral army out of your ass, but believe me when I say they are more trouble than it’s worth. What’s more, I’ve clearly already fallen out with Liang Wu Di, meaning my only recourse is to retreat from Central, so how about you let me go collect my family and be a distraction to the new Emperor? What do you say, Zhen Shi? We have a deal?”

Unable to hold his ire any longer, this Sovereign broke free of Ying Zheng’s Compulsion with a heated snarl. “Foolish worm,” he declared, even as he struggled against his fated foe’s control. “I am Zhen Shi, and he is Ying Zheng, the man who united the warring states of the Azure Sea and the Eternal Emperor since time immemorial. The soul who resembles the Emperor was merely the original owner of his current body, but now no more than a puppet under his control. Do you see the folly of your attempted negotiation?”

“Oh.” Rather than surprise and dismay, the boy’s expression was one of confusion that then turned to comprehension followed by pity as he took in this Sovereign before him. “Oh! Okay then. I get it. Damn. That’s… wow. Okay, so… ‘Ying Zheng’ is a body hopping Emperor, and Wu Di caught him in the act, and you… well, let’s just say the Nile ain’t just a river, and you are deep in it.” A nonsensical statement that this Sovereign could not parse, but the boy continued with little more than a minor pause. “Hmm. Listen close. This is probably going to come as a shock to you, and I love to be the one to do it.”

“Hold. Your. Tongue!”

Ying Zheng’s Compulsion struck with the force of a charging elephant, but the boy barely even noticed as the corner of his lips turned up in a smile, so pleased to defy authority as per usual. “Zhen Shi, I need you to take a look at him,” the boy began, pointing at Ying Zheng upon his throne before moving his hand to point at this Sovereign in turn. “Then take a good look at yourself.”

Unable to stop himself, this Sovereign turned his eyes towards Ying Zheng and saw the familiar displeasure in his expression, one entwined with resignation as their eyes met across the way. “Look at him,” the boy said, his voice taking on an almost hypnotic tone. “Now back to you. Now back to him. Now back to you.” This Sovereign saw it and his knees buckled in place, but the boy would not leave him to his despair in peace. “Sadly, he is you, and you are he, but if you stopped using ladies scented body wash –”

“Enough.”

For the third time, Ying Zheng’s Compulsion failed to still Falling Rain’s tongue, but the interruption bought this Sovereign time enough to speak. “Impossible,” he whispered, even as he gazed upon his own face, one worn by his most hated enemy. “This cannot be. This must be a trick.”

“Illusion, Zhen Shi,” Falling Rain unhelpfully supplied, adding, “A trick is something a whore does for money.”

The casual disregard and cruel amusement combined with this earth-shaking revelation was almost enough to unravel this Sovereign from head to toe, but Ying Zheng shot him a glance and said, “Compose yourself.” Not a Compulsion, for this Sovereign would have resisted one on instinct, but a reminder which made too much logical sense to ignore, “And remember.”

“No, no, no, lemme guess first,” the boy interjected, unwilling to give this Sovereign even a scrap of mercy. “I think I have it all figured out, which is rare, so hear me out.” Pointing at this Sovereign, the boy said, “You must be a Natal Soul. Or maybe a soul divided. Two parts of a whole, separated for who knows what reasons.” Turning to Ying Zheng, the boy cocked his head and continued, “If he’s telling the truth and you’ve been Emperor for awhile now, then… what, you get bored or something? Things going too smoothly during your reign and you needed to manufacture this guy to create more suffering to pass the days? Couldn’t find someone to play political and military chess with, so you started playing both sides?”

Paying the boy no mind, Ying Zheng commanded this Sovereign’s attention with his eyes alone. “Two parts of a whole,” he began, repeating what the boy said. “Two sides of the coin. Since time immemorial, this Sovereign has pursued the Path of Balance to the greatest of heights, only to find the way forward obstructed.”

“So this Sovereign sought to study the other side of the coin,” Zhen Shi continued, the memories resurfacing after having been buried for so long. A necessary burial, for only then could he remove all knowledge of his previous Path and see his new Path with fresh, untainted eyes. In order to do this, he had to die and be reborn anew, hence his name, True Corpse, an unfettered soul inhabiting a body which should have long since died alongside its original soul.

“And it took you eight-hundred years to get this far?” Once again, the boy knew just what to say and how to say it to infuriate this Sovereign to no end, his derision and contempt made crystal clear by tone and posture alone. It stung even more knowing it’d taken much longer than eight centuries, but he was not one to expose his own cheek to be slapped. “Honestly, I could think of many better ways to study the Defiled without having to lead them into a war against the Empire.”

“A premise must be proven before it can be of any use.” A concept so familiar that it took this Sovereign a moment to notice he had not been the one to voice it, but rather Ying Zheng. His gaze continued to command this Sovereign’s attention, mostly to ward off the boy’s attempts to undermine his achievements and cut him down with words alone. “Much of what you have experienced can still be of use, but you must hold fast to your Path. Remember your purpose, remember your goal, and together, we shall ascend beyond the Heavens.”

“Ohhh, but which one will you be when you ascend? Ying Zheng, or Zhen Shi?” The boy was clearly enjoying himself as he stirred up these muddy waters, but it was a question well worth asking. Ying Zheng said to remember his goals, but for as long as this Sovereign could remember, he sought to overthrow the dog Emperor and take his place, an ambition and desire that still burned brightly even now. He’d known all along that it would come down to this, a contest for supremacy between the original soul and Natal Soul, for though there was a time when they were one and a same, too much had changed since. He was Zhen Shi, the Uniter, a man who risked madness and eternal destruction to peer into the secrets of Heavens, one who mastered his Will and learned to chain Spectres to his soul while remaining unaffected by their maddened lies. Through trial and error, he discovered how to not only control the Defiled through his chained Spectres, but Transcendents as well, to say nothing of his unmatched discovery regarding the creation of Wraiths by Refining their bodies in the metaphysical remains of Spectres and Transcendents both. A discovery which gave rise to a Divinity no less, one even more flawed than usual, but a Divinity nonetheless, so who knew what the future had in store for this promising research? What’s more, he was the man who conquered the Defiled tribes and unravelled the mysteries of their Path, one who threw the outer provinces into turmoil and conquered the West, only to progress along his Path to become a nascent immortal, one who might well stand at the forefront of humanity in terms of the Dao, perhaps even further than Ying Zheng himself. Strength was merely the metric by which Martial Warriors measured the Dao, but in terms of comprehension, then surely this Sovereign stood superior to all others.

Yes, yes. A union with Ying Zheng was most certainly possible, necessary even to complete his Path, but before that, Zhen Shi would complete his dreams and unseat the Eternal Emperor from his jade throne.

Throwing himself at his fated foe with a near-feral howl, this Sovereign unleashed his Will and Authority in a direct clash against Ying Zheng, while the boy cackled in naked delight. “There can be only one!” he hollered, whilst retreating to watch this all from a safe distance. Zhen Shi sensed Ying Zheng’s displeasure and shared in it as well, but neither one of them could afford to spare Falling Rain any attention just yet, because he was correct. This was a contest of Wills from which there could only be one victor and one loser, an all-or-nothing battle to become the next True Divinity to emerge from this plane of existence. As he unleashed all the horror and despair he’d experienced in their separation and crashed into a soothing wall of calm and composure, Zhen Shi reminisced upon all the effort he’d put into this, not just what he’d done during their millennia of separation, millennia in which he toiled and suffered while his counterpart sat upon the jade throne in splendour and luxury, but also everything he’d accomplished before that. With these memories came the knowledge of the previous Path he’d long since abandoned, knowledge he put to good use by combining it with his newfangled Path to hammer his foe with Balance and Unbalance alike. Ying Zheng benefitted in the same manner, drawing from Zhen Shi even as Zhen Shi drew from him, but countless years of idling had caused this idle dog Emperor to long since lose his edge.

It mattered not that his plans had been ruined and his head separated from his shoulders in life. Ultimate victory would belong to this Sovereign, of this, he was certain, and when all was said and done, there would still be time and strength enough to deal with one measly Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
