“Ying Zheng.” His words echoed through the Void as he uttered the name of his archnemesis, and the sound surprised even him, but he kept his calm and came to his feet. “So we meet again.” Casting a contemptuous gaze at the chained soul kneeling at his side, this Sovereign smirked at the fate of the current ‘Emperor’, who surprisingly glared back in vehement hatred. So this latest puppet still retained consciousness even after so many years, almost four decades spent kneeling at the Eternal Emperor’s feet. Such impressive strength of Will, but a powerful worm was still a worm in the end, and the fact that this worm was the original host would make no difference in the end. Instead, this Sovereign turned his attention back upon his hated foe, the Eternal Emperor seated on his jade throne. “Have you not grown tired of keeping up with this farce?” Quirking his eyebrow the way he’d seen Falling Rain do a thousand times before, this Sovereign knew that if he could convey even a tenth of the boy’s smug superiority, it might well be enough to drive his hated foe into a rage. “Always ruling from behind the eyes of your puppets and having to navigate through their social niceties. How droll.”

Ying Zheng gave no answer save to glance at this Sovereign with an empty expression, a look which sent a pang of fear and shame coursing through him. It wasn’t fear of reprisal, but the knowledge of having disappointed his foe, of having fallen so far and unable to even meet for a fateful exchanging of blows. A true humiliation, but one this Sovereign could not escape, for the facts could not be denied any longer. Falling Rain had defeated him, so it no longer mattered if it was this Sovereign’s hubris which led to his defeat, or the Heavens conspiring against him. In the annals of history, you either conquered or were conquered, and this Sovereign had fallen far short, but his story would not end here today.

…But why? Why was this Sovereign so sure that his foe would spare him, so certain that his existence had not come to an end just yet? Overthrowing the Emperor had been his life’s goal, to bring Ying Zheng to ruin and supplant him as Emperor himself, yet this Sovereign sensed no enmity from his foe, no hostility or ill-will whatsoever. In fact, now that he thought about it, his foe had saved him from oblivion and nihility both, spurred his awareness back from the edge of nothingness to pluck him from the cycle of reincarnation before he was reborn. Why? Ying Zheng had to know there was no chance of reconciliation between them, no way this Sovereign would ever be turned to his cause, and yet he’d done it regardless at no small cost either.

How did this Sovereign know about the cost? Or about Ying Zheng’s actions? This was not ascertained from his recollection of events, nor was it inferred from any clues or signs given away. This Sovereign simply knew this to be true, the information appearing within his consciousness without need for thought or deliberation. Was this the beginnings of Ying Zheng’s attack upon this Sovereign’s free Will? Did Ying Zheng mean to transform this Sovereign into one of the countless puppets lining either side of his court? Or perhaps he intended to add a sixth guardian to stand behind him, looming in the shadows on the outskirts of the Natal Palace and instantly recognizable as the souls of the Ancestors of the Supreme Families, enslaved on the brink of death and made to serve for all eternity.

…Wait. How did he know this? He hadn’t, not yesterday when he was still scrambling to scavenge some benefit from the mess Falling Rain made of his plans. Had this Sovereign known his hated foe still possessed these Supreme Warriors, the Great Generals who helped him conquer the Empire to begin with, then this Sovereign would never have dared act so soon with such lacking strength. Ying Zheng was a fastidious and meticulous man who would’ve long since uncovered the secrets hidden within the souls of his five Generals, meaning his strength might well have long since surpassed all of them combined, or at least, his ability should be equal if not superior. In contrast, this Sovereign was barely able to match this generation’s Divine True Warrior, one Liang Wu Di who forced him to work alongside him in his schemes to unite the outer provinces. A tiresome affair, but one this Sovereign had no choice but to play along with, lest the dog Emperor become aware of his presence too early, but now, this Sovereign suspected even another ten-thousand years might not be enough time to prepare against his most hated foe.

Most infuriating of all? The frustration and disappointment over this Sovereign’s failures, which stemmed not from the fact that he lost to Falling Rain, but that he fell before even having a chance to trade blows with his true foe, a realization only made his failure that much more disheartening. Ying Zheng had been waiting all this time for a worthy foe to test his might against, but this Sovereign had fallen before even seeing the Eastern Province once more.

“So… this is awkward.”

The emotive declaration filled this Sovereign with confused embarrassment, but the source came not from himself. No, it was the speaker who felt these emotions and was Orating them for all to share, as if to further shame this Sovereign. Turning to glare at the source of this disquiet, he found Falling Rain standing defensively just beyond arms reach, but still within a single step. Clad in golden Runic Armour festooned with engravings of turtles, bears, wildcats, rabbits, and other depictions of all his pets, the boy finally looked the part of a formidable Warrior, his sword and shield ready in hand while emanating with a piercing and dangerous light, the same light which exploded from his sword when he destroyed this Sovereign’s Dharmic Robes. The threat was palpable to behold, but this Sovereign felt no alarm or fear, for he knew the Emperor would settle things soon enough.

“I feel like I’m intruding on an intimate moment,” the boy continued, glancing at this Sovereign, then Ying Zheng, then around at the souls of puppets past, all the while warily withdrawing without moving a single step out of place. The Emperor’s work that, anchoring the boy in space here in his Natal Palace, so try as he might, Falling Rain would never get away. “So why don’t I leave you two to chat while I go sort out Shi Bei?”

This Sovereign took pride in that statement, though he knew not why, but the Emperor left him no time to consider it. “Silence.” The command echoed throughout the court and struck this Sovereign like a hammer blow, but he dared not even gasp as the Compulsion settled upon him.

A fearsome working of Heavenly Energy, a skill upon which Ying Zheng built his empire, but while it similarly settled around Falling Rain, the boy shook free of its constraints without even trying. “No seriously, you two look like you have a lot to talk about, so why don’t I just get out of your hair? Believe you me, schizophrenia is some serious stuff, so you should definitely have this talk sooner rather than later. Doesn’t matter how, though I suspect a battle royale would be fastest, a whole last soul standing sort of deal. Remember: Strike first. Strike hard. No mercy.”

The boy continued rambling on in spite of Ying Zheng’s Compulsion, and this Sovereign soon discovered how. It wasn’t that the boy was willfully disobeying the spoken command, but rather he was incapable of compliance. His nervous, nonsensical nattering was merely a reflex he had little to no control of, which explained much regarding his history of willful disobedience. It was in Falling Rain’s nature to blather meaningless nonsense while reflecting on meaningless images, a self-inflicted obsession that overruled any Compulsion Ying Zheng could impose.

They both arrived at this conclusion at the same time, but it was this Sovereign who spoke first, taking great delight in Falling Rain’s plight even if his own circumstances were no better. “So you seek to be the fisherman, benefitting whilst snipe and clam fight, but you are better suited to be the cicada, unaware of the mantis and oriole lurking in wait behind.”

The boy’s confusion was palpable to behold, his culturally deficient upbringing failing to parse together the two idioms contained within this Sovereign’s jeer, but Falling Rain was never one to let ignorance stop him. “Sure thing,” he replied, lacking any surety at all, “Whatever man. I’m just like, a guy, okay? One who wants nothing to do with this freaky-deaky psyche gangbang party you got going on here, okay? I’m flattered you invited me, but no means no.”

The boy made absolutely no sense, and this Sovereign knew not how to respond, but Falling Rain seemed content to continue speaking as if simply to hear the sound of his own voice. “Look Zhen Shi,” he began, but oddly enough, he’d directed his gaze towards Ying Zheng seated the throne while ignoring this Sovereign outright, “You clearly have a lot going on here, but you know as well as I do that I can hurt you even here. I might not be able to kill you outright, but I doubt you can afford to contend against me and the Emperor both at the same time.” Glancing around at the audience of former Emperors gathered around them, each one just as regal and overbearing as the last, Falling Rain added, “And I dunno who all these guys are, but I bet they’d love to be set free too.”

A twinge of horror and delight coursed through this Sovereign as he realized the implications of the boy’s statement. Ying Zheng felt it too and his caution grew heavy and distinct, for prior to this very moment, he’d been unaware of what took place in this Sovereign’s Natal Palace, when Falling Rain dealt him a blow which shook his foundation to the core. If the boy could do the same here, then Ying Zheng’s foundation could be similarly damaged and the enslaved souls set free, leading to chaos and carnage as they rebelled against an Emperor who’d ruled over them since time immemorial.

An outcome which would only benefit this Sovereign, so he was at a loss to explain why he spurred himself to action, joining his Will to Ying Zheng’s to hold the boy in place by virtue of their Authority. A fruitless endeavour, for as the boy declared earlier, his Domain existed wherever his sword could reach, a truth he made evident as he Manifested his Domain and shook off the metaphysical shackles with little more than an effort of Will. Oddly enough, he made no move to strike and merely guarded himself closely while watching this Sovereign closely. “Okay, so maybe he likes being your bitch boy,” the boy conceded, and it took a moment to realize he was referring to this Sovereign, which was laughable considering he was no slave. “But the rest of these souls don’t look all that happy to be here, especially the chained Emperor at your feet. How long can you hold him there for Zhen Shi? Better question, how strong are his chains? Strong enough to withstand my Sword Force? I don’t know for sure, but I’m game to try.”

It all finally came together and made sense once more, for the boy had yet to discern the truth. He thought the Emperor he faced in reality was the chained soul kneeling at Ying Zheng’s feet, but that was merely the original owner of the body they currently inhabited, one Liang Wu Sheng. The details flit through this Sovereign’s mind in an instant as he was made aware of the circumstances, of how Liang Wu Di noticed the startling change in his brother upon taking up the mantle of Emperor, and set into motion a grand scheme which forced Ying Zheng to cede his throne. Such were the risks when possessing a new body, but a necessary one to ensure stability within the Empire. Alas, this Liang Wu Di was a Talent rarely seen, one who progressed along his Path with startling speed after uncovering Ying Zheng’s hidden secret, but it mattered not. Ruling the Azure Empire had long since lost its lustre and he was ready to take the next step, but his initial plan had fallen apart due to the meddling of one Falling Rain.

Seeing how no one cared to engage him in conversation, the boy continued to speak out loud, no doubt voicing his thoughts to better process them. “I don’t give a shit who sits on the throne,” he began, buying time to build up strength for a Mountain Collapsing Sword Strike infused with Intent and Water Chi both. Another movement of the Water Dragon Forms no doubt, one this Sovereign was not inclined to meet head on, but he stayed his hand in spite of this. Better to hear what the boy had to say, because while he thought time on his side, Ying Zheng had Liang Wu Sheng’s soul firmly under control, the same as every other soul within his Domain. “Or who pilots the meat suit sitting on the throne. You guys are free to hash that out,” Falling Rain continued, slowly backing away from them both without shifting even a centimetre while the Five Supreme Ancestors encircled him from behind. “So long as the Imperial Army or Defiled forces don’t come a-knocking, we can just let bygones be bygones. I don’t even care to interfere with the politics of the outer provinces, or want anything to do with whatever Liang Wu Di and his cronies have cooked up. You play both sides of the board as much as you like, I just want to go home to the mountains and live out a nice, peaceful life with my family and loved ones.”

