“Honestly, working for the empire… You need to decide if it’s something you’re going to commit to. Once you have your family back, are you going to remain loyal to the empire? If not, then you need another plan, because it won’t end up working out for you otherwise.”

My ears folded down flat against my head, thinking of the implications.

“Not trying to alarm you, but I also think about it like this. The game she’s playing, it’s a game she’s playing to win.”

“And what game is that?” I asked.

“World domination.”

I blinked at how casually she said it.

She flashed a fang. “That’s what humans in her kind of position are always about.”

I thought it over, thought back to our last hunt, and our last victim. “The last bandit I killed,” I began. “He said the empire wants the mines to the north. Said the last emperor was the aggressor and claimed it was about… bringing order and uniting the land, or something. But I guess it was really just about resources. Do you think the current emperor is just continuing that?”

“Sure. Though it’s still believable that it goes both ways. You know, defeating the Iron March and claiming the north means security for their own people.”

I quietly muttered, more to myself, “It’s a different kind of prey.”

Fox blinked. “What’s that, kid?”

“I think about it a lot. When I’m hunting, I’m not the good guy, but I’m not the bad guy either, right? I’m hunting because there is something I need. Because I want to eat. Because I want to be stronger. Others have to lose for me to get that, though.”

Everyone seemed to believe they were justified somehow.

The Iron March probably thought they were defending their homeland.

The empire probably thought they were bringing stability.

Bandits probably thought the world had screwed them first.

And me?

I just wanted my family back.

Fox’s ears folded down as she watched me, her expression becoming much softer than was normal for her.

“Yeah… really, nothing ever comes down to good or bad. That’s a personal thing. If there’s something you want, then you’re the good guy in your eyes. If you have to take that something from someone else, then you’re the bad guy in their eyes. But when it comes to nations. They are just a bigger kind of predator.

“They hunt with roads, taxes, soldiers, treaties, military strength, and pretty speeches about peace and unity. But what you should ask yourself—is the future they’re building one you can get behind and believe in.” Fox placed her hands behind her head as she looked up towards the sky. “As I said, if you want the empire's aid, you need to give them your loyalty, but that can’t be faked. So the question comes down to, can that future inspire your loyalty?”

“Weird to hear that coming from you.”

Fox smiled, showing her fangs. “I’m loyal to the future where I’m most comfortable.”

My ears flattened, but out of annoyance this time as I fixed her with a dry glare.

“But really, you saw the city. The people here aren’t starving. They aren’t terrified. The streets are clean, the soldiers are disciplined, and the citizens seem to genuinely love Rin.”

I didn’t have an answer to that, because she was right. When we’d passed through the capital, people hadn’t looked afraid. They looked curious, excited, even. But not beaten down. Not miserable. Even most of the soldiers seemed proud rather than desperate.

“Hey, Fox?” I asked.

She tilted her head in acknowledgment.

“I know you’re just helping me because you got a quest. What was the quest exactly, though?”

She smiled that infuriating foxy smile. “To help guide an adorable little Hell Hound who overthinks everything towards greatness.”

My ears flattened once again. “I don’t believe you. What is it really?”

She shrugged a shoulder. “Well, if I told you, that’d give away some of my control, now wouldn’t it?” Her tail swayed innocently behind her. “I wouldn’t want you using it against me.”

I narrowed my eyes at her.

“Anyway, that’s all the advice I have for now,” she said. “Now let’s do what we said we were coming here for in the first place.”

“Training?” I asked.

Fox nodded and pointed a single finger up, and tiny strings of static began rapidly shooting from its tip, almost like a little wormy dance. “Among my many talents, I’m a skilled mage myself. Although magic skills are focused solely on lightning essence,” she explained. “Observe.” She pointed her finger away, and then a much larger bolt shot out. It was so fast that if I blinked, I might have missed it as it struck a tree with a thunderous crash, leaving only a scorched black mark behind.

I blinked.

“Impressed?” she turned that sharp smile back to me.

I fixed my glare back on her. “I’m just wondering why you never helped us hunt when we were traveling together,” I said accusingly.Her ears and tail folded down. “Whatever, kid. Just go ahead and change your Path and go load up on that statue. We don’t got all day.”

I huffed as I turned and walked away from her.

After crossing the bridge, I began loosening my clothes as I pulled up the Path selection screen and picked Arcane Nightstalker. As my bones began to pop and my body twisted and transformed, I shook the clothes away from me, and by the time I had finished changing, I kicked the last of the garments off my back leg.

I looked down at my paws. I hadn’t used this Path since I was in the caves of the vale, hunting red masks, but it instantly felt familiar to me. There was a little blue tinting my undercoat, below the outer layer of jet-black fur, and my claws had become sort of crystalline with tiny stars of mana particles sitting inside of them, though they were very faint.

I walked up to the cartoon frog-knight statue and lifted my paws as I began stocking up.

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

When I was done, I looked down at my claws once again, seeing the stars of mana were a little brighter and moved slowly beneath the crystalline surface.

Check elemental reserves.

Elemental Reserves

Fire: 20/20

Electricity: 20/20

Water: 20/20

Wind: 20/20

Earth: 20/20

I couldn’t help a wolfy smile spreading across my muzzle.

Yeah, this did feel very familiar.
