Fox and I were escorted to a horse-drawn chariot just inside the palace grounds that then took us through the city. It was discreet, no royal markers or anything, as the idea was that Rin didn’t want me to be seen in the capital any more than I already had been.

“Seems kind of pointless, though,” I said to Fox as we rode together. I wished Lily and Grick were at least coming along for our training session.

“What do you mean?” she asked.

“People are going to know about Lily, at least, if Rin has her hunting the forests. So if a Hell Hound is shown attacking another nation, won’t someone eventually make the connection?”

“Not necessarily. Having a Hell Hound working for them is going to be unusual either way, and there will definitely be rumors about it spreading. However, a Hell Hound with a goblin rider is quite different from what you’ll be seen as. The empire will have enough deniability about you being one of theirs.”

“Well, guess I should go ahead and change Paths to Arcane Nightstalker,” I said as the chariot came to a stop, I assumed at our destination.

“Nah, just wait a few. I won’t be able to talk to you as easily once you change, and you’ll be stuck in wolf form for the next two days at that point.”

“Actually, I was planning to leave before the 48-hour cooldown,” I explained. “So… yeah, this will be the last time I can talk to anyone outside of Pack Bond.”

The driver of the chariot opened the side door and bowed. “We’ve arrived at the training field, Lady Fox, Lady Hell Hound.”

“Thank you,” Fox said sweetly as she reached her hand forward before stepping out. The chariot driver blushed, but took her hand and helped her down.

I just rolled my eyes and climbed out after her.

I looked around. This part of the capital was clearly for military use, completely different from the crowded streets and market districts we’d passed through when we first arrived, and it was nothing like the polished luxury of the palace either.

Tall stone walls surrounded the entire district, ivy creeping up their sides beneath watch platforms where armed guards stood lookout. A heavy iron gate led outside the city walls.

Even the air smelled different here. Less like cooked food and people, more like oil, iron, smoke, and leather.

The stone buildings lining the interior roads were plain and practical compared to the decorative architecture near the palace. Soldiers moved constantly between them, carrying crates, bundles of spears, shields. I spotted a few sparring near one wall while others jogged through drills in partial armor as a shouting instructor tailed them.

Closer to one of the buildings, several soldiers and workers surrounded what looked like a partially dismantled ballista. The massive siege weapon had been stripped apart into sections, its thick wooden limbs laid across support stands while ropes and gears were spread out nearby. One man hammered at it while a pair of soldiers carried one of the giant bolts the thing fired, and honestly, the projectile looked more like a tree trunk than an arrow.

I stared at that thing. Those were the things they had shot at Valrok, that he had swatted away from himself like they were nothing. Even when one struck him, he was only mildly injured. I couldn’t help but wonder what would happen to me if one of those bolts hit me? I’d probably die instantly.

That’s the kind of strength I needed to obtain. I would need to be able to defeat people like him. Hell, even people like Rin. If I wanted my family back and if I wanted to keep them safe so nothing could hurt us again, I had to be so much stronger than I was now.

“The training field is right this way,” our driver and escort explained, snapping me out of my thoughts.

He walked us to another iron gate with one side cracked open. “The High Reagent has given orders that the two of you are not to be disturbed, so you will have the place to yourself for the day. There is an essence statue just inside, near the front gate, that you are free to use as much as you require. Whenever you are ready to leave, just come find me out here. I’ll be waiting.”

“Lovely, sounds perfect,” Fox said, then proceeded through the door first, and I followed closely behind.

Upon moving through the gate, my ears perked in surprise.

The training field was not what I had imagined. It was like a chunk of wilderness that had been carved into the inner walls of the capital, but with high stone walls surrounding it on all sides. There were trees and rocky terrain with uneven elevation directly before us, but even from here, I could see it encompassed several different biomes.

Fox whistled and said, “Wow, looks like they really went all out putting this place together.”

“It’s bigger than I expected,” I admitted. “I just thought it would be like... an empty football field or something.”

“Football field?” Fox asked, turning her head.

“Oh, it’s uh…”

Her ears flicked. “Something from your other life, huh?”

“Yeah.” I nodded.

It would take at least fifteen minutes to walk the entire perimeter, if I had to take a guess.

Near the gate, as our driver mentioned, there was a huge statue carved from dark stone. It depicted a hulking armored frog warrior with one hand resting atop the pommel of a planted sword while the other held a massive shield decorated with the same crowned frog emblem I’d seen throughout the palace. Vines crept partway up its legs and shield, making it look ancient despite how well maintained the grounds were.

Though this one was more humanoid than most other frog depictions I’ve seen, it didn’t really look like Genzo. The statue was just… I guess, cartoonier than what I’d known a real frog man to look like.

“We’ll worry about topping off your essence later,” Fox called back to me.

I realized she had gone off ahead of me while I was delayed in my thoughts, so I scampered to catch up with her.

Moving through the rocky part of the terrain, we came to a spot where a stream cut across the entire area. We crossed a wooden bridge, which brought us near the center of the area where the rocky, forested terrain flattened out into more of the barren field I had imagined, which probably took up about a fifth of the whole enclosure. The field had obstacle courses, training dummies, targets, weapons, and armor racks.

“This looks like a good place to start,” Fox said.

“Okay... so want me to change Paths now?”

“Get some stretches in first,” Fox said.

“Stretches? I don’t need to…”

But then, I heard her voice in my head. “And I want a chance to talk to you in private while we still have a chance.”

My ears flicked at that.

“Don’t make it obvious, dummy. Just start stretching. I’m going to look around a little more and try to determine if anyone is listening in on us first.”

I blinked.

“Well, what are you waiting for?” Fox said aloud. “Start stretching. Then we’re going to go for a run. I want to spend a full day working with you, so I don’t want our session cut short by a torn hamstring.”

“Uh… okay…”

Was an injury like that something we even had to worry about in this world? Well, I suppose it could be, but it would probably just heal a lot faster than on Earth, just as it was with any other injuries in this world, even without healing potions.

Stretches, huh? What am I even supposed to do?

I checked Lisha’s memories for her gym classes. I then sat down on my butt, stretched my legs far out in front of me, and reached forward trying to touch my toes.

I succeeded almost instantly with barely any discomfort. It seemed this was a fairly flexible body. Or maybe Earth humans were just that much weaker? Even so, I could feel the muscles stretching, but considering those same muscles would be transforming into doggy limbs soon, I couldn’t help but wonder if this was pointless.

What exactly did Fox want to talk to me about, though? That made me a little nervous. I suppose it’d be fair to assume we were constantly being watched and listened to while in the palace. Was it just something mundane Fox wanted to touch base on, or was this something more serious? It seemed like she had put some effort into getting a chance at this private conversation, and that’s what made me worried.

Legs still stretched out before me, I let myself fall back and prop up with my palms on the ground behind me as I stretched my body out wide. I glanced along the tops of the walls, then through the trees. Were we being watched right now? I didn’t see how.

Letting out a breath, I tried another stretch, this time pulling one leg across my body while twisting at the waist. Honestly, I had no clue if I was even doing these correctly. Lisha wasn’t exactly athletic herself, from what I could tell from her memories. I had no clue if this was an actual stretch or something she’d only pretend to do in gym class.

Fox eventually drifted back towards me and said, “Okay, you can stop doing that. You look ridiculous.”

My tail bristled as I glared at her. “You told me to stretch.”

“You’re going to transform into different limbs soon anyway, so stop taking it so seriously.”

I got back up to my feet with a huff. “…Well?”

“I think we’re safe to have a chat,” Fox said. “I wanted to tell you what I’ve learned while you were away and give you some advice going forward.”

My head turned at her suddenly serious tone.

“First of all, there’s definitely something weird going on in the palace,” she said.

“You think?”

“I’m serious. We’ve been kept in the guest wing, which makes sense, but here’s the weird part. The serving girls and guards don’t go to the side that houses the royal family. Like, anyone who works on that side exclusively works on that side. Nobody else goes inside and rarely comes outside.”

“…Oh?” I asked.

Fox nodded. “I think Aiko knows something, but the rest of the girls know nothing but rumors. All the ones I’ve talked with, anyway. But not only have they never been to the other side of the palace, not one of them had ever seen one of the other members of the royal family.”

“Okay… that is weird,” I said, thinking it over. “I mean, maybe they are just really private?”

“No, think about it: never coming and going, no weddings, no haughty lord or lady pushing their weight around, or snot-nosed lordling kiddies causing trouble for the little people. This isn’t the way things have seemed in other human cities I’ve been to.”

“Okay… so what does that mean?”

“I have no idea. This is just what I gleaned from my girls, but they don’t really know much either, and I had to be careful what and how I asked in any case.”

I stared at her… blinking.

“What?” she asked.

“I’m just… surprised you’ve actually been doing something this whole time.”

She flashed a fang. “I mean, it’s not like I’ve not also been having fun. I’ll tell you, palace life is pretty nice. But you should really learn to stop underestimating me, kiddo."

Okay... maybe she had a point...

“But why do you seem worried about it?" I asked. "Does whatever is going on with the nobles really matter for me?”

“It matters because powerful people’s problems tend to become everyone else’s problems eventually,” she said. “Especially when you’re living under their roof.”

I frowned slightly. “So what do you want me to do with this information?”

“Just keep it in mind,” Fox said. "Now, onto your next quest and what you’re doing going forward. The way I see it, you have two options.”

I nodded, listening.

“You can go along with how they’ve planned things out. Have a last outing with Lily and Grick when you leave together, but then go your own way, maybe. I’m sure Rin will get around to giving you the information you need to make it to the Black Pyre before you leave. Or… when the three of you leave the walls of the empire again, you just don’t come back.”

My gaze lowered at that. “You… think we should do that?”

“I think you should consider your options.”

“I don’t get it. Do you think they are going to try to hurt us?”

“No. Not really. They want to use you as a weapon. You know that. If they just wanted to get rid of you, it would have already been done. But separating you guys… like… the reasoning they gave makes perfect sense, but there are other obvious angles to it that she didn’t bring up that are exclusively beneficial to them.”

“And those are…?”

“Testing loyalty could be one. Giving you something you clearly don’t want to do to see if you’ll do it. But also, separating you guys gives them more control. Rin wants to cultivate you as a weapon, but she wants to cultivate you as a weapon she can control. So it also makes me a bit nervous for you when she pulls something like this.”

“Yeah… me too,” I admitted. It is something I, of course, had thought over pretty deeply. “I mean, I guess… what’s stopping me from seeking out the Hellborne Fire Witch Path on my own, with Lily and Grick at my side, and then heading to the Scorched Steeps and attacking them myself?”

“So you’re thinking about the ‘just take off and don’t look back’ plan?”

I nodded.

“Admittedly, if your goal is to get your brothers back, it probably won’t be possible on your own.”

“Why not?” I asked. “It’s not like they were going to give me soldiers to attack the Scorched Steeps with in the first place. Rin made that pretty clear. So… what do I actually need them for?”

“Information,” Fox said immediately. “From what I’ve gathered, the Verdant Empire has spies everywhere. They already have people inside the Scorched Steeps. That means they know the layout, patrol schedules, the safest routes in and out… and they might even have agents lying low there who could help if things go bad.”

My ears lowered slightly.

“That’s what you lose if you abandon the empire,” Fox finished.

My tail drooped. “So you’re saying I really do have to just keep following their orders…”

“Well, you have to stay on their good side, in any case, if you want their aid. But like, it can’t just be an act. Rin’s perceptive. She’ll know if you truly feel any loyalty for the empire or are planning to just ditch them the second you get what you want. That’s precisely what she doesn’t want. Why would she want to expend effort, resources, and political damage toward just setting a pack of Hell Hounds free in the world? She wouldn’t.”

“Then what are you saying I should do?”

“Honestly, working for the empire… You need to decide if it’s something you’re going to commit to. Once you have your family back, are you going to remain loyal to the empire? If not, then you need another plan, because it won’t end up working out for you otherwise.”

My ears folded down flat against my head, thinking of the implications.

“Not trying to alarm you, but I also think about it like this. The game she’s playing, it’s a game she’s playing to win.”

“And what game is that?” I asked.

“World domination.”

I blinked at how casually she said it.

She flashed a fang. “That’s what humans in her kind of position are always about.”

I thought it over, thought back to our last hunt, and our last victim. “The last bandit I killed,” I began. “He said the empire wants the mines to the north. Said the last emperor was the aggressor and claimed it was about… bringing order and uniting the land, or something. But I guess it was really just about resources. Do you think the current emperor is just continuing that?”

“Sure. Though it’s still believable that it goes both ways. You know, defeating the Iron March and claiming the north means security for their own people.”

I quietly muttered, more to myself, “It’s a different kind of prey.”

Fox blinked. “What’s that, kid?”

“I think about it a lot. When I’m hunting, I’m not the good guy, but I’m not the bad guy either, right? I’m hunting because there is something I need. Because I want to eat. Because I want to be stronger. Others have to lose for me to get that, though.”

Everyone seemed to believe they were justified somehow.

The Iron March probably thought they were defending their homeland.

The empire probably thought they were bringing stability.

Bandits probably thought the world had screwed them first.

And me?

I just wanted my family back.

Fox’s ears folded down as she watched me, her expression becoming much softer than was normal for her.

“Yeah… really, nothing ever comes down to good or bad. That’s a personal thing. If there’s something you want, then you’re the good guy in your eyes. If you have to take that something from someone else, then you’re the bad guy in their eyes. But when it comes to nations. They are just a bigger kind of predator.

“They hunt with roads, taxes, soldiers, treaties, military strength, and pretty speeches about peace and unity. But what you should ask yourself—is the future they’re building one you can get behind and believe in.” Fox placed her hands behind her head as she looked up towards the sky. “As I said, if you want the empire's aid, you need to give them your loyalty, but that can’t be faked. So the question comes down to, can that future inspire your loyalty?”

“Weird to hear that coming from you.”

Fox smiled, showing her fangs. “I’m loyal to the future where I’m most comfortable.”

My ears flattened, but out of annoyance this time as I fixed her with a dry glare.

“But really, you saw the city. The people here aren’t starving. They aren’t terrified. The streets are clean, the soldiers are disciplined, and the citizens seem to genuinely love Rin.”

I didn’t have an answer to that, because she was right. When we’d passed through the capital, people hadn’t looked afraid. They looked curious, excited, even. But not beaten down. Not miserable. Even most of the soldiers seemed proud rather than desperate.

“Hey, Fox?” I asked.

She tilted her head in acknowledgment.

“I know you’re just helping me because you got a quest. What was the quest exactly, though?”

She smiled that infuriating foxy smile. “To help guide an adorable little Hell Hound who overthinks everything towards greatness.”

My ears flattened once again. “I don’t believe you. What is it really?”

She shrugged a shoulder. “Well, if I told you, that’d give away some of my control, now wouldn’t it?” Her tail swayed innocently behind her. “I wouldn’t want you using it against me.”

I narrowed my eyes at her.

“Anyway, that’s all the advice I have for now,” she said. “Now let’s do what we said we were coming here for in the first place.”

“Training?” I asked.

Fox nodded and pointed a single finger up, and tiny strings of static began rapidly shooting from its tip, almost like a little wormy dance. “Among my many talents, I’m a skilled mage myself. Although magic skills are focused solely on lightning essence,” she explained. “Observe.” She pointed her finger away, and then a much larger bolt shot out. It was so fast that if I blinked, I might have missed it as it struck a tree with a thunderous crash, leaving only a scorched black mark behind.

I blinked.

“Impressed?” she turned that sharp smile back to me.

I fixed my glare back on her. “I’m just wondering why you never helped us hunt when we were traveling together,” I said accusingly.Her ears and tail folded down. “Whatever, kid. Just go ahead and change your Path and go load up on that statue. We don’t got all day.”

I huffed as I turned and walked away from her.

After crossing the bridge, I began loosening my clothes as I pulled up the Path selection screen and picked Arcane Nightstalker. As my bones began to pop and my body twisted and transformed, I shook the clothes away from me, and by the time I had finished changing, I kicked the last of the garments off my back leg.

I looked down at my paws. I hadn’t used this Path since I was in the caves of the vale, hunting red masks, but it instantly felt familiar to me. There was a little blue tinting my undercoat, below the outer layer of jet-black fur, and my claws had become sort of crystalline with tiny stars of mana particles sitting inside of them, though they were very faint.

I walked up to the cartoon frog-knight statue and lifted my paws as I began stocking up.

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

{Elemental Absorption}!

When I was done, I looked down at my claws once again, seeing the stars of mana were a little brighter and moved slowly beneath the crystalline surface.

Check elemental reserves.

Elemental Reserves

Fire: 20/20

Electricity: 20/20

Water: 20/20

Wind: 20/20

Earth: 20/20

I couldn’t help a wolfy smile spreading across my muzzle.

Yeah, this did feel very familiar.
