“What do you mean?”

“We just licked and sucked them, so they might want to do the same back to us.”

“Fayeth did some of that a few times.” Jay said.

“How was it?” Ren asked.

“It was okay.”

“Well, just like it takes time to find out what really drives a woman wild while going down on her, a woman needs time to find out what a man likes for her to do to him.”

“R-really?” Fayeth propped herself up on her elbows to look at him. “Usually just sucking on it makes them go.”

“Surprisingly enough, there's quite a bit more that can be done besides that.” Ren said.

“Can you... no, I guess you can't show us.” Rachel said.

“No, I'm not crossing that line.” Ren said. “I can describe it for you and you can practice it; but, I'm not watching it or participating in doing things for Jay.”

“Then what... what should we do?” Rachel asked.

“Assuming you're up for it... since I am... how about the main course?”

“The main...” Rachel stopped talking when Ren stored his clothing. “Oh.” Her face went to a deep red and she stored her dress to leave herself completely naked. “Yes, please.”

Ren bent down and kissed her thigh, then proceeded to kiss her all the way up her body to her chest. Rachel moaned as he paid attention to her breasts and gave them a good suckling. They were quite a bit larger than her dress had implied, and Ren needed two hands to grip just one of them and squeezed it as he massaged it and sucked on it.

Ren did the same to her other breast for several moments and Rachel moaned constantly from the attention. He moved up from there and reached her neck with his kisses, and the tip of his member pressed against her opening. She gasped at its hot firmness, and Ren wiggled his hips forwards and back to rub it on her.

“Oh, god.” Rachel whispered as Ren leaned back so that she could see his rippling muscles, and her gaze dropped down to see most of him. “Oh, GOD!”

Ren grinned at her and slid himself down and out of sight, then he pressed the tip against her opening and slid it inside.

“HmmMMM!” Rachel moaned loudly and squirmed as he pulled back out, then he pushed back in. “OH... OH...”

Ren worked himself in and out several times until he had made enough room for himself, then he slid all the way in and she stopped breathing.

“It... it's in.” Rachel whispered in both surprise and delight as she covered her mouth with both hands. “A... a man... other than my husband... is inside of me!” She said and almost giggled with happiness.

“I'm going to start moving now.” Ren said, and she nodded several times. He slid in and out out slowly at first, making sure to hit the spots he had found when he had pleased her with his mouth and fingers, then he gripped her hips and moved a lot faster.

“Oh, my god!” Rachel exclaimed as Ren moved in and out at a pace that she didn't know a man could maintain for more than a few seconds. The sounds of sex and her moans were loud in the nearly silent room, and it didn't take Rachel very long to finish. Her free hand dug into the blanket on the bed and her other hand gripped Fayeth's hand as her back arched and she had one of the best orgasms she had ever had.

“AHHHH!” Rachel yelled in pleasure and stared at him.

Ren felt her become extremely wet around his member, so he stopped moving while she tried to catch her breath.

“Wow.” Fayeth said from beside her and licked her lips. Since they had held hands the whole time, she had felt everything that Rachel had, and she had absorbed the immense sexual energy that had been released. Fayeth leaned over and gave Rachel a quick kiss.

Rachel gasped and tightened around Ren, and he liked that.

“Keep kissing her.” Ren said.

Fayeth nodded and started to make out with Rachel, who was both surprised and turned on by that, then Ren started moving again. The stimulation was almost too much for Rachel to handle, because she was trying to concentrate on two different things at the same time, one on each end of her. She was so distracted that her next orgasm caught her completely by surprise and she screamed into Fayeth's mouth as she finished.
