"Very well. Let's see. We covered the Talent Spires. Then what's left are the Tool and Tome Spires. Adepts and scholars, if you will.” Adhira cleared her throat, and the cadence of her voice changed, as if she were reciting something from memory. “If you are intent on studying alchemy, there is the Spire of Brine. If smithing is your goal, there is the Spire of Iron. The last is far more prestigious and even harder to gain access to: the Spire of Tidelight, with a focus on infusions.”

“Leviathan and the others, do they not study any of the crafts?"

"Not usually. Sometimes the Talent focused Spires will dabble in those other disciplines, but the amount of time it takes to really hone our might to its fullest capacity leaves little time for fiddling with potions or weaponry, no matter how fine." She gestured idly to her own axe. "The Spires have their own dedicated crafters, a support system designed to help the Aspirants when they're in the field, both during and after coursework ends."

Harker pondered that. He’d hoped to learn more on alchemy or even infusions potentially. "And the last set of Spires? You called them the Tome?"

"Yes, they are the scholars dedicated to research. The Spire of Deepwatch is all about gathering intelligence, specifically on Aberrants. Truly anything that might crawl out of the Sea are of interest to them. It's they that help determine where new horizon breaks might occur, as well as organizing the Aspirants for deployment."

"What of the other two?"

"Those are no longer standing. They burned down almost two decades ago."

"The Nine Spires is poorly named then.”

Adhira chuckled. "Be sure to tell the magister's that, first thing. They'll love it."

The wagon slowed. Ahead, Denar hauled back on the reins and Penelope huffed indignantly. There was a fork in the road.

"This is our path," the old man said, getting down from his wagon with a groan.

Harker and Adhira did likewise, carefully clambering over the hitch connecting the two wagons. The old man gestured to the right where the path extended onward to the west, descending at a slight angle as it curved around a cliff.

"That there will lead us down to the Sunken City at the root of the mountain. It’s a shame to head back when we only left four days ago, but we’ve got quite the haul this time. It'll take us some days to reach the gates, but an hour or two down that path and we’ll see the patrols. No bandits or Aberrants can harm us there." He paused, rubbing at his splinted arm. "You’re both welcome to come with us."

“We are bound for different fates, Master Denar.” Adhira clapped the man on his shoulder. "I hope you and your wife have a safe journey and many prosperous returns on your bountiful new inventory."

From the wagon, Lydia laughed and clambered forward. "Now that's a mighty good blessing!"

"Oh, Lydia, please be careful!"

"I'm not frail yet!" The once injured lady climbed up onto the wagon seat and leaned down. She was spry and looked in far better condition then her splinted husband. "I must say I am powerfully thankful to you. And you too, Miss Adhira. You fought off those monsters and the bandits that were trying to cage my Denar. You both saved my life. For that, I can never repay you. But please, I insist, you take something."

Get gestured frantically to her husband. Denar sighed. "Currently, all of my coin is tied up in this stock. Seeing as you don’t have or want a wagon, you can't carry bolts of cloth or spices—"

Harker held up a hand. "What sort of spices?"

Adhira rolled her eyes.

"Oh, uh, I'll lead you through them in a moment.” Denar reached into his jacket. “More importantly, I wanted to give you this."

Denar held out a familiar vial. It was resealed and mostly full. "The remains of Last Grace.”

Harker blinked. “Are you sure? This is worth—”

“Nothing, compared to the life of my Lydia.”

“It’s worth a lot!” his wife called from the wagon. “Enough to buy a whole fleet of wagons.”

Denar smirked. “Yet we can’t sell it. No Talented is gonna buy a panacea without its original seal.” He closed Harker’s fingers around the vial. “You can at least make use of it, son, even if you aren’t at Second Depth. I can only hope it’ll do you a good turn along your dangerous path.”

Harker swallowed, cradling the precious elixir in his palm. He inclined his head. “Thank you, Denar. It is…” He didn’t have the right words for such a gift. “Thank you.”

The old merchant just smiled and patted him gently on the shoulder. “As for Miss Adhira…I know you don’t want anything to do with the bandits' weapons or the rest of our stock, but I couldn’t let you leave empty handed.”

He reached beneath the wagon seat and pulled two heavy stones free. Each one was the size of his fist and hadn’t been cut or polished in the slightest. It had rough translucent facets, riddled with veins of bright colors and flecks of impurities. "These are the best of the Talent gems I have to offer. They're undifferentiated, usable for anything. They've got some impurities, but possess a clarity fine enough to sell for a great deal of coin. Or if you find hands you trust, you can use it to craft your own equipment with a potent reservoir.”

Adhira held up her hand as if to push the offering away. “This is too great a gift—”

“Oh, pish!” Lydia said, talking over her. "Don't insult us, Miss Adhira. This is what we can offer, and like my Denar said, it’s doesn’t have a shine on what you’ve already saved. So you take it, and be grateful.”

“I—of course, ma’am.” Adhira bowed deeply and with reverent hands, took one of the Talent gems.

Harker took the other, his mouth all but watering as he held it close, staring at the cloudy facets. Ideas percolated within him like a burbling stream. He didn’t know enough about smithing or infusions, but every good artifact had a Talent gem at its heart. With some effort, he tore his gaze away and cleared his throat.

"Now. About those spices?"
