“We’d better send out a bigger fishing party. Now we know it’s largely safe—we could put [Guards] on it and helpers. I’ll take Poke Duo and some of Vuliel Drae again, and we’ll bring back more.”
 
——
 
This time, they took three times as many people and pack horses, and Anith promised to freeze as much as possible. The ride there wasn’t eventful, aside from the two [Adventurers] being excited.
“Now this is adventure. We only levelled up a bit. Now we rolling in levels, eh, brother?”
“Right.”
Infinitypear agreed, and Ylawes twisted in his saddle.
“You two levelled up on the way here?”
“Yup.”
They chorused, and he was mildly jealous.
“How? We didn’t do any fighting.”
“Fighting. Psh. We [Adventurers]. Infinitypear, he is [Horrorbane Adventurer]. I am [Overlands Adventurer].”
One sounded less impressive than the other, but Rasktooth slapped his chest proudly.
“Mine is very good, Captain-guy Ylawes! Overlands. I am the first Cave Goblin to adventure from home—ever. Infinitypear has sling Skills and spear Skills. Psh. I have better Skills.”
Infinitypear nodded gloomily.
“I am just good at fighting. Rasktooth has [Nose for Something Interesting].”
“Is my big Level 10 Skill.”
Ylawes had never heard of that Skill before. He glanced at Rasktooth.
“So you smell something odd?”
“Yep. Sometimes nose say ‘go there’ or ‘try there’. Lots of interesting smells here.”
“Have you gone and found any of it?”
Rasktooth looked insulted.
“What? I have job, Captain Ylawes. Smells too far off. But you say when we have good food—then we go exploring.”
That…sounded quite good, actually. It turned out Rasktooth had a number of Skills like that. Combined with [Hound’s Nose], no wonder he could tie with Larr for tracking.
As it turned out, Rasktooth also had a Skill for movement, though it worked through Infinitypear. The Antinium could jog with Rasktooth on his shoulders and keep up with the horses, though both elected to ride.
“More fish. Am glad for expedition. Otherwise, we start eating each other.”
“Humans don’t do that, Rasktooth.”
“Yet. Anyways, Infinitypear and I eat good. The m—things we found is very good.”
Ylawes sighed. At least they hadn’t felt the pinch. Rasktooth and Infinitypear did try to eat…everything…they saw, from the butterflies to beetles.
Mind you, Infinitypear seemed to be the more prescient of the two and instantly deemed the butterfly ‘not edible’. Rasktooth chewed one beetle, grimaced, and spat it out.
“Is bitter. Prefer wormies.”
 
——
 
When they got to the river after a day of riding, the volunteers were eager to haul up fish—but they didn’t find any. Just like when Ylawes and Vuliel Drae had woken up, the fish had apparently moved downriver.
“Hm. Let’s split up and ride up and down and see if we can find more.”
Ylawes was a bit concerned when he didn’t see as many fish—he began to feel like they’d lucked out on their first haul.
 
——
 
After three hours of riding up and down the river, Ylawes concluded unhappily that the fish were either migrating due to the winter or they’d scared them off. He told the camp to put hooks out, and they did catch fish!
Just not the super long ones. The smaller fish were still hand-sized, and the biggest catch from Salamander himself was three feet long, angular, and yellow-scaled.
“Hey, that’s a meal! Reckon it’s poison? Never seen a yellow fish before.”
“Psh. Is no poison.”
Rasktooth dug around in the fish but detected no ‘poison sacs’ as he called them, and the fish tasted as good as everything else. Ylawes stretched out as Rasktooth and Infinitypear debated what ‘smelled better for adventure’.
“Big ravine smells real good.”
“Is too high.”
“Okay…mountain has good smell.”
“I don’t want to go underground again.”
“You is so picky, Infinitypear. First fish, now this. Can we be friends still?”
“Yes.”
“…You right.”
 
 
Day 31 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The next day, the fishing did not go well. Or rather, it went as well as a bunch of amateurs could hope to expect. They caught fish!
Only, they caught fish by hook, and they moved up and down the river to do so. The irony was that the fishing group ate their catch, and by midday, Ylawes stared down at nine fish.
“Not exactly worth the haul. We’ll have that for dinner.”
Salamander nodded, keeping his voice cautiously optimistic.
“Less people. We could trade out in shifts fishing if we send a regular expedition back here? It’s still food, and water too. Of course, if it had been the schools of fish, we’d want all hands.”
If only they had an [Angler] here. Ylawes had seen experts who could attract fish in a pond with bait Skills. He weighed waiting another day, but if the expedition was counting on the fish…
 
——
 
When they got back, the lack of a haul produced a long, worried silence. Votto stared at the nine fish and licked his lips.
“Half rations again. No more of the full rations this morning and lunch.”
That caught Ylawes’ ear.
“Wait. Do we only have four days of food left? Why did we go up to full rations?”
Votto spread his hands, backing away from Ylawes.
“Yorrned thought since we found the fish—today and yesterday, we fed everyone up. Well, the [Farmers] and [Miners] needed it, but the [Merchants] decided—”
Cursing, Ylawes stormed off to talk to Yorrned. The [Merchant] looked alarmed when Ylawes told him about the failure.
“But—surely we can sustain ourselves, Captain?”
“Not without a lot more hands, and it’s a two day trip. No more full rations. Everyone who’s not farming or mining goes down to half.”
Yorrned sat there for a while, the least active Ylawes had ever seen. He took a few quick breaths, then glanced up at Ylawes as if working himself up to something.
“This is all very inconvenient, Captain Ylawes. I hope you’ll begin pulling your weight as the Silver Swords soon. If you can’t—we might have to revisit your contract.”
Ylawes stopped at the door to the wagon.
“Pulling our weight how?”
The [Merchant] waved his hands.
“Hunting down those Corusdeer! Finding game!”
“At the time, we had enough food, Master Yorrned. We have no [Hunters]—”
“Yes, but you’re Gold-rank adventurers! Miss Falene has refused to send more [Message] spells or ward our goods—all things she’s capable of!”
“She’s the only person left who can cast spells, Merchant Yorrned. Besides Anith, and he can only muster a few Tier 2 spells per day. I believe this expedition was unprepared, and we had better get those turnips now—or find some game.”
That reminded him. Whatever happened to those turnips that Petia had sown? Ylawes headed for the door, and Yorrned’s voice rose indignantly.
“I don’t appreciate the insinuation, Captain Ylawes! We did everything as we properly understood it, and I was told your team was highly professional! I may make a note to the Adventurer’s Guild—Captain Ylawes?”
 
——
 
Petia was standing at the edge of the farmers’ fields when Ylawes found her. They’d been working hard each day that he’d been there, though he’d been absent a lot of the time. Right now…he blinked as he saw them boiling water and doing something odd.
They were…putting dirt in colanders and straining water through it? Then taking the soil and packing it into the ground that had already been planted. Another group was spreading down something wet and mushy.
“Get it planted. Don’t bother with the seedlings. We might as well plant that lot on top of something else…”
The [Farmer] was putting a trio of seeds into a rather rotten piece of mushed up bread and other spoiled food as Ylawes approached. She glanced up at him.
“The fishing went bad.”
He glanced at the fields.
“Did you ever dig up those turnips? We’re running low on our food stocks. How is…how close are the turnips to being dug up?”
For answer, she pulled something out of the ground and showed him…a turnip. A tiny one. The leaves were tiny compared to what he expected, and it was small and barely the size of a silver coin. The turnip itself was a bit mangled by an insect, but Ylawes brightened up.
“Is that one of the ones on the way? If it is, we can stretch till—”
“Nope. It’s full-grown. We gave it three more days, but it refuses to get bigger. We barely got this lot grown this big.”
Ylawes stopped. He stared at the [Farmer], and she casually finished mixing the seeds into the new piece of compost and stuck it into the ground.
“Soil’s bad. Even the stuff deeper down. The bright side is—Yellats still grow. The bad side is that it’ll take a month before this lot is ready. Can we fish until then?”
He stood there as the wind blew again, and this time, it was not so forgiving. Ylawes stared at Petia.
“How long have you known?”
She gestured at the turnips.
“I got a bad feeling when I dug the ones up and saw neither one had barely sprouted. We did what we could. All that bad food? We mashed it up as fertilizer. See them trying to ‘clean’ the soil? I told them it wouldn’t work, but some of us are trying. I think the fertilizers the only reason the turnips got this big at all. Yellats? Here.”
She pulled out a pot, yanked on a tougher-looking set of green leaves, jagged and broad-bladed, and pulled out what Ylawes recognized as the half-eaten Yellat. It had regrown from that bite, and tons of small roots were spreading out.
“Slow growth, but tough. With [Fast Growth] I give it thirty days. We planted five days ago with Yellats once I sensed the turnips weren’t growing. Twenty-five days.”
“What about potatoes? Corn? Anything else? Beans?”
“Salt. I’m no expert, but it must run deep. That Antinium? Infinitypear? He kept saying it, but I didn’t get it—the ground’s pretty porous. Homle’s been saying it too. Until you hit rock—the saltwater’s gone down deep.”
“But—but the grass. The other plants.”
Ylawes had seen other plants now the snow was almost gone, though most of it had retreated for the winter. Petia dusted off her hands.
“Yep. We’ll have to see what’s edible. I think everyone underestimated that Gnoll.”
“Who? Larr?”
Ylawes wasn’t thinking. He felt something closing in on him, but Farmer Petia smiled.
“Nah. Archmage Kishkeria. Everyone saw grass growing on the New Lands and said ‘it’s just grass, innit?’ Now I think about it—it’d be a real [Archmage] who could grow grass and plants where us regular people can’t grow even Yellats well, wouldn’t it?”
Yes. It would. Ylawes felt lightheaded. He sat down slowly.
“Gnolls.”
“What’s that?”
Dawil was striding over, noticing Ylawes’ posture. Everyone knew it was about harvest time; doubtless, the [Farmers] had been encouraged by the half-formed turnips and been hoping if just a day passed they’d get bigger. If just a day…and the fish had let everyone relax. Now, Ylawes’ mind was racing.
“Nailren’s team is hunting. Gnolls don’t farm. They herd. This continent wasn’t made for…us. It’s like the Great Plains. We’re not bringing in enough food either, and people’re getting stupid. Five [Farmers] were out today.”
That caught Dawil’s attention.
“Why? Sickness?”
Petia shook her head.
“All the fish you brought back? Some weren’t gutted, so Votto did that. They went after the intestines. Bad idea. They’ve been throwing up, and that’s one thing. Salamander’s had to guard the food, and he’s told everyone he’ll lash anyone who tries to grab any. And locking the horses up.”
Ylawes missed the significance of that last comment at first. He was shaking his head. Eating fish guts…now he thought of it, he was glad he hadn’t suggested something like that. So they were bad even if you fried them up?
The only things that weren’t feeling the hunger pains were the horses and draft animals. They clearly didn’t mind the grass. Ylawes sat there and started chuckling. Then he fell silent. Petia looked down at him.
“No one’s got the guts among the [Farmers] to do a big announcement, Captain. Not me or anyone else. Someone has to break the news.”
She meant him. They always meant him. Ylawes Byres sat there a second, then looked up.
“We could head back. It took us nearly twenty days to get here. If we ride hard and hoard everything we have—we’d have three or four days of food if we cut everything. More if we head down the river, maybe. Or we stay here and try hunting and wait for the Yellats.”
“Gathering. Maybe there’s bushes?”
Dawil had slowed when he saw the turnip. He looked at Ylawes, and the [Knight] stood up.
“…I know which one I’d choose. The river can sustain us if we all try fishing. We could move in groups. The fishing group catches up—”
Two days got everyone to the river, and they could tighten their belts and rely on that. Animals had to drink water; they’d use the river to go as far east as they could. If they got closer to Goisedall, could Falene [Message] them for supplies?
Ylawes hadn’t realized how the extreme cost of sending a basic [Message] spell was leading to communication issues. Even something like Anith sending a [Message] to Falene was now a choice rather than a liberty, let alone contacting a Mage’s Guild for information at the drop of a hat.
If only we had another way to speak to people at range. Mother used to say you could gain a [Memo] Skill…I wouldn’t mind that. It’s one more reason to go.
Farmer Petia stood there eying Ylawes as he made up his mind.
“The Consortium’s lost too much. They want a base here. They’re still having [Prospectors] scouting for more good spots. Yorrned told me himself he wants our farms to have enough to feed multiple cities. I’ve levelled once from trying to grow the damn turnips. Who knows? In a few years, we might have that level.”
“We don’t have a few years. We don’t have one month. I’m sorry, Farmer Petia, but I’ll insist we pack up tonight.”
Ylawes snapped. The woman gave him a thin smile, and he realized she wasn’t arguing against him.
“Captain Ylawes, you won’t get anything from my mouth that says ‘no’, or Homle’s lot. But like I said—the [Merchants] have made up their mind.”
Ylawes didn’t get what that meant. Not right away.
 
——
 
