The fight was chaos as Landsharks ripped around the wagons, biting, and Ylawes swung his sword and tried to draw as many onto him as possible. Falene and Dawil fought back-to-back as she used up her mana to block off some of the sharks, and Dawil’s axe smashed in their teeth. Ylawes hadn’t known this, but sharks, in general, could elongate their mouths. No, that wasn’t it—they’d lift up part of their face as if a second face was coming out of their snout—then bite.
They were so big—one’s teeth glanced off his armor, and the force was tremendous, but his armor held. Ylawes saw a thrashing head come at him as he knocked the first one away, but he dodged it just in time.
Was that my [Avert Mortal Blow]? He didn’t know. Vuliel Drae was holding one Landshark off—but the problem was, the sharks weren’t after the adventurers.
They were after the corpse. And all the biggest targets not fighting back. One went smashing into a wagon, and Ylawes leapt on its back as Petia and [Farmers] fled. Homle and his [Miners] actually helped a great deal; instead of fighting, they backed up, clearly terrified, but they had pickaxes and shovels—and they’d retreated into the mouth of their mine where one of the sharks couldn’t get through.
The rampage of the Landsharks lasted minutes; they might have continued to tear through the camp, but Ylawes had wounded several, and the decisive moment in the battle came when he saw Infinitypear and Rasktooth actually pushing one Landshark back. The Worker hit the shark with a stone from his sling, which did nothing—and Rasktooth’s bolts buried themselves in its thick hide with little effect—but Infinitypear ran it through deep in the side when it tried to charge him.
“[Teammate: Side Skip]! Get it!”
The Worker drew the spear back clumsily, and Rasktooth nailed the shark in one eye. It didn’t even flinch, and the Worker backed up. Ylawes was charging for them as the shark whirled to keep biting when Infinitypear raised his spear overhead.
“[I Have Seen It Die].”
The air twisted around the Worker for a second, and Ylawes halted. The Skill wasn’t aimed at him, but for a second, he swore he saw Facestealer there and recoiled as the twisted form of the monster reached for him—
The reaction of the Landsharks was dramatic. They recoiled—then began to writhe away, carcasses in their mouths. They were backing off?
Yes! Not completely—they slowed to seize a pair of dead horses, and Ylawes swore when he saw them going after their real prize:
The Landshark the Silver Swords had killed.
“Stop them! Bring them down!”
His team tried, but the Landsharks writhed away and then got up and began to stagger off. Even with the [Guards] and Insill and Larr pelting them with arrows, they refused to fall over or let go of their prizes.
“Do we go after them? Captain?”
Insill was panting, blood on his scales, but Ylawes hesitated. The food—
“Captain Ylawes, I think I’ve broken something.”
Anith was clutching at his chest, and Dasha had a huge, bloody mark on her shoulder where a tooth had gone through her armor. Insill had a nick on his tail when he checked, but the deciding factor was Dawil.
“They got me in the midsection. It’s not bad, lad—”
Dawil was holding his chest. He had plate armor, if not as custom made as Ylawes’; a huge ring of teeth showed where some of the metal had torn away, and his skin was punctured badly. Ylawes reached for his potion, then remembered Dawil had it.
“If all eight turn on us—try to slow that one, Anith. Dawil, use the—”
Dawil shouted.
“I need a potion! Does anyone have one?”
He coughed, shook his head at Ylawes, and Falene gasped, face dead white.
“I’m out of mana.”
That left…Insill, Pekona, Larr, Rasktooth, and Ylawes as unharmed. Infinitypear’s shell was cracked, but he claimed it wasn’t bad.
The Gold-rank adventurer eyed the Landshark pack and heard the Consortium shouting at him. He weighed the options of a battle and wondered what happened if the Landsharks came back for a second round that night.
He stayed put.
 
 
Day 33 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
To Ylawes’ surprise, the [Merchants] didn’t force him to do battle with the Landsharks that night. Not because they saw his perspective, but, as Dawil theorized—they couldn’t.
“Must be a clause in that contract that you signed, lad. Remember anything about it?”
He wasn’t looking good the next day. He had several deep cuts, and they’d wrapped him with linen to slow the bleeding, but he needed the potion. So did Master Homle; he’d taken a bite that had lacerated his entire arm defending the mines.
Ylawes wanted Dawil to use the potion, but the [Axe Champion] had refused. Even this morning, he tapped the side of his nose.
“All of ours went dead, lad. I tried some of the slush; only made me need to use the latrines. But I bet you…”
He jerked his eyes to the [Merchants]. Ylawes nodded. If anyone had a high-quality potion, it was them. The problem was getting it from them.
“You really have let us down, Captain Ylawes. First you fail to take down the pack, then you don’t even give chase? Why—why, we had one meal, but we only had a portion or two! We’re worse than when we started! We’ve lost two horses and four people! And the Landshark meat! Will we have to harvest it on the spot when we do it again?”
“My team will consider it. If we try that again, Merchant Yorrned. Right now, we need a healing potion.”
The [Ore Merchant] compressed his lips as Ylawes folded his arms. The rest of the Consortium was there, but they hesitated when he asked for one. Ylawes saw Raeta begin to protest, Jobbi lay a hand on her arm—Lolsed’s card face gave nothing away.
The reason he turned to Yorrned wasn’t just because he was the employer of the Silver Swords. Merchant Anlam had hesitated. The one who kept writing a charter for the expedition and seemed to believe in rules more than the rest…glanced once at Yorrned after meeting Ylawes’ eyes. But Yorrned just blustered it wasn’t necessary.
“I’m sure Adventurer Dawil will pull through. He’s a Gold-rank [Warrior], isn’t he?”
“That’s what saved him from a full bite. Foreman Homle is also injured. We don’t have a [Healer].”
They had people with healing Skills, like Farmer Petia, but the [Merchants] had clearly trusted to the healing potions. Yorrned changed subjects.
“We have even less food today, Adventurer Ylawes. I suggest you try another Landshark hunt; they’re wounded. Or perhaps the river will turn up dividends. The expedition there should be returning. And the mines are turning out copper ore, my word, yes. Once we get it smelted…we’ll have to reach out to other settlements with offers. That’s another thing. I must have Miss Falene ask for a list of the ones in the area.”
He had a glazed look in his eyes, like someone seeing a mirage. Ylawes stared at him and stalked off.
 
——
 
The fishing expedition did not return huge dividends. Falene was exhausted as the [Merchants] badgered her to ‘make contact’ with other settlements via the Mage’s Guild. Dawil was lying in the wagon, and Ylawes sat and stared at a hill.
“You, uh, trying to glare a hole in that hill, Captain? You wanted to see me?”
Insill came up, seeming apprehensive. Ylawes turned and smiled at him.
“Just thinking, Insill.”
“Sure. Sorry if I messed up last night. I should have put a pit trap down when I saw the Landsharks coming, right? I hope you’re not mad at me.”
“I’m not mad at you.”
The [Rogue] visibly relaxed and wiped his brow.
“Whew. I’d hate to be that guy.”
Ylawes gave him a puzzled look and then turned his head.
“Sit with me a second, Insill. I’ve been thinking.”
The Drake sat down and winced as he felt at the cut on his tail.
“What’s up? Are we healing Dawil? With the you-know-what?”
By now, the adventurers had decided revealing the potion might be a mistake; the [Miners] and [Farmers] had injured themselves in minor ways. But Dawil’s injury and Homle’s called for it.
A good [Knight] wouldn’t hesitate to unveil it. The problem was…Ylawes was annoyed.
He was slightly upset.
He suspected, no, he knew the [Merchants] had a healing potion between them. And he’d been thinking—and staring at the hill—about contracts.
“They didn’t force us to fight the Landsharks, Insill. Maybe they can’t, but I felt like they could compel Salamander or some of the expedition to do something. They had Homle’s crew mining, so why not us?”
“Maybe they saw sense? Hah!”
Insill laughed, and Ylawes didn’t smile. The Drake coughed and went silent.
“Sorry. So…what’s that mean?”
“What that means is…I’d like to know what I signed. I vaguely recall it. We had a lot of stuff that the Adventurer’s Guild insists on. I wish I had our handbook…do we even have one? Anyways, I think there’s a stipulation in there about not taking extraordinary risks. You can’t order an adventurer to fight a monster if it’s not attacking us, for instance, just because you want the parts.”
“Sounds…reasonable.”
“Doesn’t it? So, Insill. What I’d like you to do, quickly, is—check and see if Yorrned has the contract. And if not that, can you get in his wagon and check for something for me?”
The [Rogue]’s head rose, and his uncertain gaze turned incredulous.
“You want me to…break into the wagon?”
Ylawes felt his spine crawling at what he was suggesting. He shrugged, uncomfortable.
“I want you to—check that the [Merchants] are holding their end of the bargain up. Healing potions should be part of that.”
That was how he framed it, and Insill nodded too rapidly and happily.
“Oh, I can definitely check! Should I grab anything and bring it here?”
“Quickly.”
The [Rogue] cracked his knuckles excitedly and glanced at the [Merchants] badgering Falene. She had just enough mana for about three [Message] spells. Ylawes knew that because he’d told Yorrned this morning not to count on anything but that from her, including the fire.
He wouldn’t have done any of this but for Dawil’s and Homle’s injuries. The [Knight] saw Insill sneak into the wagon—or rather, he saw Insill stroll over, and the next time he glanced over, one of Yorrned’s windows was ajar.
Ylawes sat for ten minutes until a quiet whistle from Insill made him look up. The Drake waved at Ylawes as he walked across the camp. He held up a finger claw and made an eating motion.
Food and a potion? Ylawes wished he didn’t feel so vindicated. He glanced at the [Merchants] and made a gesturing motion, but Insill pointed.
He was headed towards another wagon. Merchant Lolsed’s, who had all the papers. Ylawes blinked—then sat down and nodded.
If he was doing this, he might as well check…Ylawes glanced at the [Merchants] arguing over something and seeming happy with Falene and sat back.
Then he heard an alarm begin ringing, a loud howling bell, and Insill went tearing out of Lolsed’s wagon, cursing.
“Shit, shit, shit—sorry, Captain! I tripped something! It might have been the contract in the chest I saw, but—”
“What’s going on? [Thief]!”
The Consortium went running, and Ylawes saw Insill was bright red. Not with embarrassment—he was glowing with some kind of powder or spell.
Of all the magical things to be active—wait, was it a Skill? It might have been, and Insill glanced around.
“Uh—uh—[Pit of Many Deaths]!”
He pointed, and a pit opened and covered itself with a thin layer of straw over it. Insill hopped in the hole and tried to hide. Ylawes just bent over it.
“Insill? Toss me the potion.”
 
——
 
The Consortium were shouting at Insill when they came to find Ylawes.
“Captain, your adventurer was stealing from my caravan and—my potion!”
Yorrned howled when he saw Ylawes. Dawil stretched and felt at his chest.
“Damn good one, too. How’s the arm, Homle?”
The [Foreman] flexed one arm with a look of incredible relief. Relief that turned to hostility when he glanced at the [Merchants].
“Better’n ever.”
“Merchant Yorrned. Excuse Insill. He was just looking around for a potion. And anything to eat.”
Yorrned was shouting as he pointed at Insill, face beet red.
“He is a [Thief], and we will have him tried—”
“No, he’s not.”
Ylawes pocketed the potion before Yorrned could grab it. The man stared at him.
“Captain—what are you doing?”
The Consortium were aghast, but Ylawes folded his arms.
“Per the contract we signed, the Consortium agreed to give my team whatever was necessary to execute our task of guarding you all.”
He definitely remembered that kind of language. That meant food, water—and as far as he was concerned, healing potions.
“Captain, each potion is worth hundreds of gold pieces! If not more! That is one of the last ones we had—that is mine.”
“I asked you if you had one. You lied to me.”
Nothing the [Merchant] could do would quell Ylawes’ displeasure, and he gestured at something else Insill had found.
“I also don’t recall your rations including so much, Merchant Yorrned. You seem to have had a private share.”
It was a spare bag of barley, half empty, and Insill had found other food, mostly eaten. The colonists stared at the bag, then at Yorrned.
“I…that was not part of the general allowance. I will not be accused of anything! Get back to work!”
Yorrned went from panic to blustering to anger in three motions. Merchant Lolsed just stared at Ylawes.
“Why was the Drake in my wagon, Captain Ylawes?”
“To check for more healing potions. I would suggest you pool them with us, members of the Consortium.”
“We aren’t obligated to. If we had any.”
Jobbi spoke quickly, and his wife glared at him with intense displeasure. She raised her voice.
“Anyone found stealing—and it is stealing—will be punished as such. Since you have Yorrned’s potion, anything else would be a violation of your contract, Captain Ylawes, and we will report that to the Merchant’s Guild. Who is, by the way, aware you are guarding us for the rest of the week.”
Ylawes glanced at Falene, and she gave him a helpless scowl. His moment of triumph over the healing potion turned sour again. Ylawes felt a pit in his stomach—but the growl came from Merchant Raeta’s stomach.
He gave her a thin smile. Politeness…he thought of something his sister, Ysara, would say.
“I trust we’ll all have adequate rations until then. My team will consider another hunt of the Landsharks—or we’ll track down some other animals we spotted. We’ll get right on it.”
He handed the barley to Chef Votto.
“Just as soon as we have a second breakfast.”
 
——
 
