Infinitypear pointed, and Ylawes squinted and saw dry patches of soil. It wasn’t melting evenly, but…he took the Antinium Worker at his word.
“Well, uh, maybe you can dig in it for fun. Later.”
The Cave Goblin and Worker high-fived; that had probably been the question. Ylawes shook his head. Digging for fun. Well, he’d done it as a lad to mine for mithril.
 
——
 
“You’re in luck. I was actually connected with Lady Ruveden herself. A very prestigious half-Elf. Not from one of the villages; she’s from one of the forest cities. Very auspicious. How does ‘inquiring from a position of mutual friendship, milady’ sound?”
“…Milady sounds old-fashioned. Even I don’t know if I’d use it. ‘Beseeching you for a polite inquiry’?”
“I like that.”
Falene went back to composing a missive and showed Ylawes what she’d scribed. Her handwriting wasn’t as nice as a formal [Mage Scribe], so Ylawes had to squint, and she warned him he’d have to send big messages to cut down on time.
 
Nailren: [Message] scroll isn’t working perfectly. —s out. ??? (this is Falene, I am simply noting where the spell breaks.). 
—heard Halrac’s dead. We’re nearly a month south of you. Exploring, mostly. Vuliel Drae and the two rookies alright? How can —lp?
 
That one hit Ylawes like a gut punch. He wrote for a while.
 
Ylawes: He was a great adventurer. Moore and Ulinde too. We’re asking about whether you’ve had problems with growing plants or the local wildlife, Nailren. We’ve run into magical drain issues with our equipment. Anything with a magical enchantment is going to be dead in a week.
Nailren: Say again? —lots of new animals here. ‘Landsharks’ reported by lots of groups. Been selling to Adventurer’s Guild—
—ed giant ones. Left alone since we don’t want to eat them. Sort of friendly?
What magic—?
Ylawes: Magic. This is a mana-negative zone according to Falene. It’s draining.
Nailren: —kick my [Shaman]’s hanging b—
Ylawes: What was that?
 
In between waiting for a response, Falene touched his arm with a problem.
“Can you wrap it up, Ylawes?”
“Do you need to talk to your contact?”
The [Battlemage] gave him a half-insulted look.
“It’s not that. I can easily do multiple [Message] spells. It’s…the mana costs are adding up a lot higher than they should be. [Message] is a Tier 3 spell with a negligible mana cost…this one is taking eight times as much as I normally need. Maybe nine. And we’re doubling it with each message.”
“How so?”
Falene grimaced.
“Nailren’s sending to a Mage’s Guild who’s re-copying it to me. We can’t connect to each other.”
“Strange. That is strange, isn’t it?”
Ylawes knew enough about magic to realize that was off. Falene nodded, sighing as she began writing.
“Whatever’s draining my magic? Or Nailren is just closer to the Mage’s Guild in Goisedall than us. Either way—I’m not sending more [Messages] than this. It seems like I’ll have to go through Lady Ruveden the same way.”
Ylawes read Nailren’s reply, grateful that he’d told the Gnoll about the problem. It was worse than it appeared, then, for even basic communication.
 
Nailren: Thank you. Explains lots. No field issues for us. We’re hunting. No magic-users in our group. Lots of good hunting, I think. Can lure those shark-things with blood. Beware of packs. Scent killer—far nothing worse.
Ylawes: Thank you. Where are you abouts? We will talk later. Mana problems.
Nailren: —Sent rough idea. Let me know if—
 
Well, it was clear his [Message] scroll was failing due to the same mana problem. Falene was just impressed it was working at all.
“It must be closer to artifact-grade. He did have some suspiciously quality items for a Silver-rank. At least he’s open. Lady Ruveden is…complicated. I’m wasting a lot of mana on these back-and-forths, Ylawes.”
“Sorry. What’s wrong?”
Falene grimaced.
“She’s…asking who I’m working for. I think she suspects I’m working for a rival, which is technically true. I’ve reassured her we’re independent. She’s cautioned me to test the fields thoroughly before planting. Apparently, the colony has plenty of soil from their home, so they said taking a Chest of Holding filled with dirt from a farm would be the smartest move. Or learning a spell to help with the topsoil’s salt content.”
“Hmm. That’s not promising.”
Ylawes grew worried again, but Falene blew out her cheeks.
“Actually, given how picky some of the plants back home are, not to mention the trees, it might just be that the soil isn’t ripe for those kinds of things. What kind of spell makes farmland viable? I can’t imagine anyone would know…well, I certainly don’t have it in my spellbooks. There’s your answer, though. They’re having problems, even if they don’t want to say how much.”
Ylawes wanted to pace, but the wagon wouldn’t allow it.
“That’s not enough to get the [Merchants] to turn around. From what it sounds like, hunting is possible.”
“Nailren’s team are all [Hunters], Ylawes. He’s a Plains Gnoll.”
“True, but if he can do it, it’s an opportunity. Let’s see if anyone in the caravan has any [Hunter] skills we can draw on. And we’re in the foothills, so it’s time to prospect.”
 
——
 
No one had [Hunter] Skills when Ylawes asked. At least, nothing he judged that his team needed outside of their own skill sets. The last group he approached was the Consortium.
It occurred to Ylawes he didn’t know what they were doing all day. They had demands, of course, often of his time, but Ylawes had found a solution he felt a bit bad about: the younger adventurers.
Poke Duo, and members of Vuliel Drae, ended up running minor errands for the Consortium. It helped in the sense that the Consortium weren’t at ease with Poke Duo like the Silver Swords. So they had fewer requests.
Mind you—when Ylawes saw Rasktooth running samples of yellow grass, a green flower, and even a few bugs over to Raeta and Jobbi’s wagon, he realized that could backfire too.
“You two aren’t servants. Are they having you perform menial tasks? You should refuse those. What’s with the bugs?”
Rasktooth shrugged.
“They ask nice. Sometimes they give snacks, and is easy, mostly. No one say no to Consortium much but you, Falene, and Dawil, Captain-guy.”
That was true. The [Merchant]’s authority largely went unquestioned. Nevertheless, Ylawes went to ask why his two adventurers were gathering bugs.
“A collection, Captain Ylawes! We’re having them collect anything and everything valuable. What with the…loss of magical gear, we felt the only thing to do was help recoup. And charting all the samples of the New Lands we could is a fine way to do that. The moment we have enough to ship out, we’ll send for a Courier.”
Raeta was pinning a bug to a board of cork, and Jobbi had some grass, roots and all, he was washing and putting in a case with notes on it. It wasn’t just mundane wildlife either; they’d included soil, rocks, and Raeta was actually very positive about Poke Duo.
“I had reservations, you know; Jobbi gave them orders from the window at first, but the Cave Goblin fellow is very helpful! I think that [Innkeeper] had a point. You see? We’re all doing our part, Captain.”
She had nearly fifty varieties of insects on the board already, each with a neat pin through it, and Ylawes wondered if an [Alchemist] could tell which ones were useful. He suspected they needed a lot of samples—and so did Raeta.
“Rasktooth has been collecting as many samples of each insect as we can find. Horrible—but I can touch them if it’s worth gold, so we’re making jars of them. You’ll find some of the Consortium is more interested in that sort of thing.”
“What do other members do all day?”
Jobbi answered for his wife.
“Lolsed reads. He’s got all the paperwork between us and too many books. Anlam’s taking in the scenery. Yorrned? I think he’s mostly concerned with the prospecting and figuring out how to establish a trade route. And Tivete is using her time trying to save as much magic as she can. She’s lost the most, poor woman.”
Well, that was all very well and good, but Ylawes told the couple that Poke Duo’s time was capped per day; they happily assured him they’d limit it to an hour of their time at most, and Ylawes would have argued further, but Rasktooth said it was fine.
“We like easy tasks, Captain Ylawes. If it too much, we go take nap. That okay?”
He smiled at that.
“That’s fine. And I was told it was in the contract—”
He sighed, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth laughed and poked each other. It was becoming a familiar refrain when the Consortium wanted Ylawes to do anything. One of these days, he was going to ask to read the stupid thing again. But he only had two weeks after they set up camp.
…He hoped they set up camp soon.
 
 
Day 24 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The expedition meandered through what Ylawes had now marked in a tentative map as the ‘wave foothills’ for the next three days with increasing problems.
Problem one? The hills had too many rocks, which made travel harder. The horses did not like pulling up the hills, which increased in elevation until you reached huge, slanted hills that led to wide plateaus.
Problem two. The mana drain was increasing. Falene reported another Rune of Preservation had failed in the night; she was no longer able to keep them fully charged even if she topped them up before sleeping. She’d taken to meditating for hours on end, and Anith had begun copying her; it was the only way to restore her mana.
Problem three, and the biggest one in a sense: the prospecting for a place to settle wasn’t going well.
“Nothing. Oh, there’s some iron, lots of shale—it looks pretty easy to get into, actually. We dug down and found stone at five feet, and the soil’s deeper away from the foothills. But I’m not seeing anything magical.”
Homle showed Ylawes samples the [Miners] had found from multiple spots they had tried. They had [Prospectors], but the three men and women with [Ore Detection] and similar Skills had gone riding out and come back each day with only limited information.
“How likely is it you’ve missed a motherlode?”
Ylawes was itching to get the farmers planting, but the [Merchants] had refused to set up a permanent camp. Homle had a bunch of dirt in a bag of holding, and he’d turned over some of the stuff they’d dug up to the [Farmers].
Farmer Petia was setting up a pot, and she’d put a half-eaten Yellat into the dirt and watered it. She set it near a fire.
“Just as a test. If a Yellat won’t grow in soil, nothing will. Let me try a turnip next, see what we’re working with. I’ll dig it up in a few days and see if it’s sprouting.”
She put whole ones into two pots, testing topsoil and the deeper stuff. Homle explained to the others what was going on; he was speaking to the [Merchants] mostly, but Ylawes had become deeply invested in the expedition’s prospects.
“If they missed it, it’s not an ore, or it’s deeper than, say, fifty feet. Usually, though, the [Prospectors] can catch part of something, and we go after it. Fifty feet’s too deep to dig unless it’s something like mithril.”
“So there’s none of that here?”
Homle’s face wasn’t happy. That had to be a concern in the back of his head too. What if the New Lands had…nothing?
“We’ve barely started looking. The fact there’s iron and other minerals says it’s not empty. But iron? I didn’t come here to mine that!”
Meanwhile, the food decay was advancing at the same rate as the magical drain. Falene did have a theory, though. She caught Ylawes as he left Homle’s wagon, shaking his head.
“No luck with the prospecting again today?”
“Iron. How profitable do you think that is here?”
She tilted her head.
“Everyone needs iron. Maybe if Yorrned thinks he’ll be able to sell…?”
Her hopeful look turned into a grimace as Ylawes shook his head. Falene looked around, then motioned as Dawil stumped over. The Dwarf had been talking as well.
“Pointy, Ylawes. It’d be good if the expedition did stop just for a second. We’ve been camped around here for two days. What if we called that ‘settling’?”
Ylawes frowned at him.
“It’s hardly the colony the consortium wants, Dawil.”
The Dwarf stroked his beard.
“True…but we agreed to stand guard for two weeks. If we had a head start on that—or counted the two days, I think it’d be best. I think I’ll drop a line with Yorrned mentioning that I’m counting it up.”
“Why?”
“Just in case.”
The Dwarf was rubbing at his beard, glancing at the restless colonists. He turned to Falene.
“Remember: we’re not just the three of us. I reckon we could deal with some hunger and eat Pointy first. But what with Vuliel Drae and Poke Duo, that’s more mouths to feed. What were you going to say, Falene?”
Falene didn’t scowl at Dawil, which said she agreed with him. She fiddled with a wand that had been dying along with everything else.
“I think that mana drain I talked about? It’s bad, Ylawes. I’m not going to be able to keep the Runes of Preservation running much longer. It’s not as if they were made by Hedault; they drain faster than, say, my mana.”
“How does that work?”
She waved her hands impatiently.
“Imagine a bucket that evaporates water. I’m the bucket. The Runes of Preservation? A bucket with a little hole in it.”
“Ah. Proceed.”
Falene took a breath.
“—But the mana is going somewhere. You see? I thought it was everywhere that was mana-negative, perhaps because of Archmage Kishkeria’s spell. But…it’s not.”
She looked rather embarrassed, as if she’d underestimated the legendary Archmage of Grasses. Ylawes grew more interested.
“Really?”
“Yes. Observe. [Light]!”
Falene lifted a hand and cast a spell, but it took her longer than usual. A ball of yellow light appeared, and she held it up.
“I’m severing the mana connection to myself. Now, it’ll take a while…”
Dawil and Ylawes stared at the ball of light for a good minute in the mud and snow as Falene cleared her throat a few times. Rasktooth wandered by on top of a pony, covered in dirt.
“Hey, Captain-guy. Is good digging.”
“…Were you digging all day?”
True to their word, Rasktooth and Infinitypear had dug for fun in what they called ‘good dirt’. Homle and the [Miners] had stared at the Cave Goblin and Antinium Worker, who were good at moving dirt around, but showed no interest in the patches of land.
“Yep. Even found giant magg—er. Nothing. What this?”
Rasktooth, mindful of the stew incident, bit off the first part of what he’d said, and Falene’s horrified look made Ylawes wince. Then Rasktooth narrowed his eyes.
“Ooh. Weird. Why ball moving?”
