The water lost the purple effect when you put it in a pot, which was mostly due to the mud of the riverbank. Second—and he hadn’t liked this—Insill was pretty much proof it wasn’t poisonous.
“Sorry, Captain Ylawes. It’s not that cold, though. I wonder why?”
The river was indeed far warmer than it should be, and Ylawes hadn’t minded washing himself a bit when he’d decided it was clean. After they fished, of course.
Dasha had pulled out several fish by the sheer fact that they’d never seen a hook before, and Larr had shot two who got close to the surface. But in the end, Vuliel Drae had found the easiest way to catch the fish was just…dropping a net and letting them swim into it.
Some of the longfish swam through, but they pulled up an amazing haul, and Ylawes sliced the longfish open to see if it had anything nasty inside.
“Smells good, Captain. Want me to [Message] Falene about it?”
“Go and tell her we’ve found fish, but don’t waste mana trying to describe it to anyone. Tell you what—I’ll cook a piece and have it tonight.”
Pekona lifted a hand rather eagerly for once.
“I’ll join you. I like raw fish. Does anyone have a pot? I could make rice and fish.”
Dasha snorted.
“You mean your weird dish? Wait, don’t get mad! I like it. Have you ever had su-shi, Captain Ylawes?”
Much to Pekona’s disappointment, Ylawes insisted they cook everything, and he and Pekona ate the fish. The rest of Vuliel Drae was frankly envious; as far as Ylawes could tell, it was just good fish, and he ended up eating a lot more than he should have.
If nothing else, they at least had salt and butter, and that, after frying enough on a pan and boiling some of Pekona’s rice in a pot, was not bad at all. Vuliel Drae spent the night with him cleaning as many fish as they could, and Anith cast a freezing spell over the lot just so it would remain good until the next day. Ylawes rolled into a bedroll that was slightly soggy on the ground, and he felt tired but full.
 
——
 
In the middle of the night, Ylawes awoke to stomach pains. He began to groan—then realized he’d eaten too much food and passed out again.
 
 
Day 29 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The fish was good. The fish was good. When Ylawes woke up and saw Pekona was fine, he made the call. Vuliel Drae cheered, and their huge haul of fish from last night was still mostly frozen.
“We can haul it back to camp and get more! Let’s g—huh?”
Insill ran over to the river and blinked into it. When he peered around, Ylawes hurried over and saw the fish were gone.
The longfish had vacated this section of the river. He’d noticed the school of fish flowing down the river; it seemed like they had been alarmed by all the catching or had eaten their comrades’ intestines then moved on.
“Don’t worry. If they were here once, they’ll be back. There are still stragglers. It wouldn’t be good to overfish, anyways.”
Larr assured the others, and they decided not to ride up and down the riverbank but hurry the fish back to camp. This time, they had to lash the fish to a sled or store them, and it was a wet, messy, smelly ride back.
Keeping fish from bouncing off onto the ground—then the stupid bugs from going after them—was a huge chore. One of the adventurers ended up having to stay near the sled and swat bugs off, and trade off in shifts, but spirits were high.
 
——
 
Of course, nine hours later, they were all tired, but the cheer they got when they rode back into camp and everyone saw the fish was huge. Ylawes got a clap on the back from Dawil.
“Good work, lad. We needed a win.”
“This calls for a celebration! Chef Votto, prepare your finest fish stew—and break out a drink!”
“Sparingly.”
Falene cautioned Merchant Yorrned, but several wine bottles came out of one of the merchants’ wagons, and the cooking staff raced to prepare the fish.
“Make sure you wash ‘em. They had some yellow beetles on there, but only a few fell on the ground. Dust those off, and they’re mighty tasty, believe me.”
Dasha was proudly showing everyone the fruits of their labor, and Ylawes saw Farmer Petia and Miner Homle stopping their work to come see what it was all about.
“The river’s got fish? We might have set up a better camp over there. Seems like a long ride…well, we’re driving up foundations for the houses now. Can’t be helped.”
“Houses?”
Ylawes was surprised, but Petia pointed out that they had brought lumber. The [Farmers] had sown a lot of their crop and were now building places to stay; they had a quick design that involved driving logs of wood down, creating a rough frame of wood, then taking spare tarps and creating a mostly-cloth house.
“It’s not pretty, and I wouldn’t trust it during a heavy rainstorm, but it’ll save a lot of seeds. Salamander says there’s wood high up.”
Indeed, the [Elite Guard] had come back with good news, if not as good as Ylawes. He accepted some of the roasted fish and ate an entire piece hungrily before pointing up the hills.
“They are trees, but I’ll be damned if I know if it’s enough. Remember that blue stuff that was raining down over Goisedall?”
“How could I forget? Those blue patches…are those the trees?”
Salamander nodded.
“Huge clumps of them joined up. They’re soft wood—here, we cut down a few.”
He handed Ylawes a piece of wood just larger around than the palm of Ylawes’ hand.
“Long and swaying with huge fluffs of the blue stuff up top. They have smaller little branches, but they group up together for some reason. We could go out and harvest them, but it’s a long ride.”
“Wood won’t be much use until it dries, but it’s something. That’s fuel and food. The water’s good too, right? We’ll dig a well.”
When Ylawes told Petia all these things were true, she looked a bit cheerful for once.
“Seems like we might be in luck, then. The turnips are down—ah. Damn, I forgot to dig up the ones I buried to see how they sprout. I’ll do it tonight. Did I see wine being passed out?”
 
——
 
That night, the expedition was so cheery that Falene found the magic to keep the fire going—ostensibly to dry out the wood that Salamander had found to see how good it was as fuel or lumber.
Ylawes sat around the campfire, and Rasktooth ate enough fish to almost be sick—everyone was stuffing themselves.
“Love fish. Is very good.”
“Fish is okay.”
Poke Duo had their first argument when Infinitypear revealed he thought the fish were middling. Rasktooth sat up and poked his friend.
“Is great fish. Is perfect fish.”
“Is okay fish.”
The two had a poking match that actually got aggressive until Ylawes separated them.
“Since you two have been on guard duty so long, why don’t I take you two with me? Vuliel Drae helped secure the fish; if we go somewhere else, you two are with me. Alright?”
The two novice [Adventurers] brightened up so much they stopped fighting and nodded. Ylawes sat back—right up until he heard a shout.
“Look at that!”
He reached for his sword, then relaxed when he saw the cause of the commotion. The light was fading, but something had come down, seeking the fish.
“Flashbirds! Protect the catch!”
However, oddly, the birds didn’t go after the fish. Rather, they were darting around overhead, and what the happy colonists had seen were, in fact, trails of light in the air. It turned out to be…
“Ah, more bugs. Wonderful.”
Dasha glumly stared up, but Ylawes saw a green spiral of light, then an odd, flying insect. It was sort of like a dragonfly, but it seemed to glide around rather than fly at high speeds. It had a weird, cave-like body that let the air pass through a strange membrane-like structure, similar to wings, and two huge, insectile eyes.
Or not eyes? Ylawes shaded his eyes as a Creona Flashbird lit up, but then he saw the bird swoop down after a green spiral of light—and miss?
The Flashbird was as surprised as he was. It aborted the dive, swung around, looking ungainly for a second, then darted off at one of the odd, gliding bugs.
“They’re like fireflies. Neat. Only, what’s up with the Flashbirds?”
The birds were going after these strange insects—and there were a lot of them—but it didn’t seem like the bugs were being taken out. Rather, Dasha pointed, and Ylawes saw another insect light up. A curious spiral of light flashed from the ‘eyes’, and the Flashbird dove at the insect. It hit the trail of light—and missed the bug entirely.
“Oh! I get it! Look! The bugs aren’t lighting up, they’re distracting the Flashbirds! Neat! Like the old Flashy Pickpocketer!”
Insill crowed. Then Ylawes understood what was going on. The insects were producing a light that flickered ahead of them, distracting the birds. Unlike fireflies—it was a self-defense mechanism, not a mating ritual. The Creona Flashbirds were nimble and quick, but gullible. They swooped around, then seemed to become so annoyed by their ineffective hunting that they flew up and away in a spiral of lights.
The insects kept glowing as they blew in a gust of wind into the air, and Ylawes saw the green glow passing across the New Lands like a thousand messages in another language being written all at once.
“That was…”
Beautiful. For a second, the [Knight] forgot his worries and sat there. He had never heard of something like that described by another adventurer, not once. Infinitypear stared at the bugs until the last light was gone.
“That was like seeing the sky for the first time.”
“Yah.”
Rasktooth agreed. The Worker and Cave Goblin held hands, quarrel forgotten, and Ylawes looked at them, then found a cup of wine for the three. They sat there, craning their heads to see if there were more glowing bugs—and Ylawes thought he saw more telltale glimmers.
The Flashbirds were still high overhead, like a moving constellation, and as more time passed, the winter sky gave way to a night sky full of stars. So bright that the Gold-rank adventurer couldn’t remember seeing so many around Liscor and Invrisil, where magical and artificial light made them less visible.
“Look at that. Is very beautiful. Very high roof of world. Not like dungeon. I wonder how far you go to get to ceiling. And what lies beyond that?”
Rasktooth lay on his back and stared upwards. Ylawes smiled.
“Ceiling? I’ve heard [Mages] say those stars are like our sun. Far off, but a lot bigger when you get close.”
“Really? Very far, then. You sure not ceiling?”
Rasktooth was incredulous. He seemed to think the world went up and down, and the sky was another thing you could climb up to and reach another place from. He pointed, and Ylawes demurred.
“The constellations change month by month, Rasktooth. They move. How would a ceiling do that?”
“Eh…maybe it water? And these things float around in it?”
“I—well, maybe. But look, I know those signs. That’s the Guiding Dragon, there’s the Guiding Flame—”
Ylawes knew some of the stars and began to teach them to the younger duo. You could use them as a guide if you could see them. Infinitypear listened, and Rasktooth was much amused, but didn’t seem to mind the lecture.
“And that? What that?”
He pointed up, and Ylawes frowned.
“What? There’s nothing there.”
“Yah, yah. Isn’t it cool? Is different part of sky.”
Rasktooth was pointing to something between the stars. Ylawes just saw the night sky and the vivid, multi-colored stars. But he’d noticed the Cave Goblin had excellent night vision.
“I don’t see it. Describe it.”
“Right there. Is tiiiiny rectangle-thing. Different-colored sky.”
“Really? What color?”
“Well, sky is black. That color is black. Different black. Is…lots of words in Goblin for color. What do you call other black?”
“…I think I’ll take your word for it. Anything else look off?”
Rasktooth looked around.
“Nah. Maybe I see cool square star? Or maybe is weird cloud.”
Ylawes smiled. He got up as Infinitypear complained.
“I don’t see it. The stars are beautiful, Rasktooth.”
“Is okay—”
They began fighting behind him. Ylawes went to see Falene. Something had occurred to him.
“Falene, I know it’s late, but would you send a [Message] for me? I know it’s high in costs, but I think one would do it.”
“I suppose I could spare the mana. This wine is slightly magical, you know. Which is why I’m having it.”
Falene’s cheeks were flushed, and she and Dawil had stolen a bottle. Ylawes smiled.
“Can you send a message…to, oh, I suppose Yvlon’s still missing. Unless they found her. She’s alive.”
Of course she was. Falene and Dawil nodded hurriedly, and Ylawes distracted himself from wondering if she were lost at sea. Ylawes thought, but it had occurred to him—they were cut off, but not isolated. If they had mana to spare…
“What about The Wandering Inn?”
Falene sat up a bit.
“What, for a social call?”
“Just an update. Ask about what’s going on. If they’ve found the Horns.”
The notion wasn’t bad, so Falene smiled, and Ylawes helped compile a brief message of what was going on. He mentioned the mana troubles and food issues, but downplayed it and said where they’d camped, roughly. He mentioned the strange floating bugs, the fish, the Flashbirds, and rounded it off with an idea.
“If you can visit us with the [World’s Eye Theatre], we’d love to show you some of it.”
“Good idea. Alright. With that, I think I’m in need of sleep!”
Falene sent the spell to the Mage’s Guild, and Ylawes thanked her and bid everyone a good night. He settled in for a good sleep—and then heard something as he dreamed.
Not a level up. But rather…Ylawes dreamed of a dark sky overhead, devoid of stars, and then a flash of silver.
It lit up the darkness, and then he was standing in the middle of the New Lands—and saw a brilliant form twisting as it flew overhead.
The Silver Dragon. 
Ylawes in his dream craned his neck back, trying to see where it landed, but he only had the impression of it passing him in the night. He looked around and thought—closer.
[Legacy: Find the Dragon’s Grave]. Ylawes woke up with a start, heart pounding. Then he went back to sleep with a smile.
Nearby?
 
 
Day 30 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The next day, Ylawes woke to an unpleasant discovery. Not that the fish was poisoned. Or bad. Or that Salamander had brought a rare version of exploding deadwood from the trees. Rather, it was a more mundane problem, and it was this:
“We ate all the fish?”
Ylawes looked at Chef Votto, and the man spread his hands.
“Last night. I didn’t even get a chance to do a second helping for some.”
“But how? We brought back…”
Ylawes glanced at the horses they’d loaded up with fish, and the sled, then remembered how many people were in the caravan. He blinked, then raked at his hair.
