“Worth a shot to dig it up and murder it either way. Could be valuable, but more importantly, if we get rid of it, we’re able to recharge our magic. Mind you, if we get too near it, our gear’s toast. Risky either way, lad.”
The [Merchants] looked at each other, and Yorrned scuffed at the ground.
“Copper. Not exactly what I was hoping to find. A sizable vein, but—copper. I suppose it’s more valuable than iron.”
Tivete cautiously glanced at the food wagon and cleared her throat.
“We must set up camp soon. There is a spring running down those foothills, so one imagines there’s groundwater…it’s not the worst idea to put the mine down and start the farms.”
“Argh. If only we had another two weeks!”
Yorrned agonized. Ylawes was insistent.
“I would like to investigate this mana-draining object or monster, whatever it is. Merchants, I believe we should head there tonight.”
The Consortium looked at him, then whispered amongst themselves. Merchant Lolsed clapped his hands authoritatively.
“Let’s vote on it. We will have a decision by tomorrow, Captain Ylawes.”
They smiled at him, and Ylawes inhaled and exhaled. Politeness…Falene glanced at him, then murmured loudly.
“That—may also be important given the other thing we found. Though perhaps I should share it with you first, Ylawes?”
She smiled slightly, and the [Merchants] turned back indignantly.
“What other thing?”
The half-Elf glanced at Insill, and her smile faded. Dasha, who’d also gone with Falene’s group, was stroking her beard nervously, and for once, Dawil didn’t fault her for it.
“The…remains of another expedition group. We think. Not all of them. And again—not all of them.”
Ylawes felt the first prickle of unease as the Consortium’s faces paled. He glanced at Falene.
“I need to see it.”
 
——
 
Forensic analysis of a battlefield was not a skill Ylawes had learned as a Gold-rank adventurer or [Knight].
Their best experts were Larr for his nose and Rasktooth, surprisingly. The Cave Goblin nodded authoritatively as Ylawes surveyed the wreckage of an open-top wagon and furrows in the ground. Also—the moldering stench of flesh.
Not much of it. The wagon was a mess of broken twine, one wheel snapped, and Ylawes saw only scraps of fabric and metal. The ground was churned up—when the [Guards] had found the spot, they’d ridden their horses over, but even if there had been tracks, the melting snow had obscured them.
“Doesn’t smell like too much blood. The wagon smells like…hrr. Well, sort of like a wagon.”
Larr looked embarrassed as he tried to scent for clues. But he sneezed when he got to the bodies.
“This smells like a monster. Think it was an attack?”
“No. Is no attack. They was dead already.”
Rasktooth denied the [Archer]’s claim, and Larr looked somewhat annoyed.
“How can you tell?”
“Because they was eaten. See? Landsharks got—and smaller monsters too. Scavengers. See all the time in dungeon. Probably—two? Three dead ones right here. They lying. Buried, actually. Then got dig up and eat. Big marks here.”
The ground was churned up, and a divot had been taken out of the earth. Now Ylawes saw it, he doubted any regular fighting would do that. Yes…if it had been a shallow grave and a Landshark came by…
“Hrr. I guess that’s true, yeah. But what’s your other clue?”
Larr looked embarrassed. For answer, Rasktooth pointed.
“Is poop. Monsters don’t poo if fighting. If they eat? Then poop.”
A frozen trail of feces indicated his observation, and Larr grumbled, but conceded Rasktooth’s point. When asked why he hadn’t identified the poo as a normal sign, he snapped at Insill.
“Everyone smells like shit now and then. You get used to it.”
Ylawes just paced around the site—and stepped in something. He tried to reason out what he was looking at.
“The wagon broke a wheel here. Whoever was here decided to leave—and bury three of their own? Hmm. Or did they die in an attack?”
Dawil was inspecting the wagon, and he pointed out some of it had been destroyed as well.
“I think they needed to move on. But look, lad. Someone’s hacked out part of the wagon. Seems like they took as much for firewood or kindling as they could carry. You know what I reckon? I think they were divesting themselves of as much as possible. See?”
The pieces of scrap metal and fabric looked like trash. Which, Ylawes realized, they sort of were. A broken basket…several bags of empty fabric…even, when he looked down in the mud, a pile of stones.
“It’s a cracked whetstone. Hmm. Why toss all this stuff?”
“And why bury the bodies?”
“—Huh?”
Dawil was stroking his beard. He nodded to Ylawes.
“Think on it, lad. Most people wouldn’t just bury friends or even fellow colonists nowhere. Would you?”
“Of course I would. Or I’d try to deliver them to their families. In a…bag of holding…”
It was a grisly thought, but Ylawes had heard of adventurers doing just that. Anything dead could go into a bag of holding, and the corpses couldn’t reanimate if they were inside. But what if—Dawil was nodding.
“Unless their bags of holding didn’t work. Now they’ve broken a wagon. They have to bury these poor people quick—and chuck anything weighing them down. Either way, looks like they moved on.”
They could report that to the Consortium, but the fate of the three corpses unsettled Ylawes. He wished they’d been more intact, grim as that was, so he could tell how they’d died.
Here was the thing. He wasn’t used to seeing that many dead people as an adventurer. Death? Yes. Maiming? Yes. But three people dying seemed extreme. Then Ylawes realized what was so off about it.
I guess I’m wondering if they ran out of healing potions. But how many did they have?
He touched his belt, and his healing potion, one of two he owned, was frosted over, the liquid inside frozen when he pulled it out. Ylawes blinked at it, then pulled out his second potion. He had two, given the scarcity. One he’d bought recently from Octavia. The other…had Saliss ever given him a potion? Ylawes felt like Saliss had.
He stared at the potions. If he, a Gold-ranker, had two, then the caravan…his eyes locked onto the frozen potion. Slowly, Ylawes shook it and had a thought. A terrible one.
“Dawil. Have you ever had a healing potion freeze up?”
“Huh? Not really, lad. Most potions’ll freeze after you. I think I had one that was slush, once. I reckon you can chomp it down no problem. As long as it melts. Let me check—huh. Mine are frozen.”
The Dwarf frowned at his belt. Ylawes stared at the frozen potion he had decided came from Octavia. Then one made by Saliss, and that one was still liquid.
This cannot be happening. But it was. Slowly, he shook the still-glowing liquid and watched a swirl of purple run through a lime green color.
“Hey, Dawil. Are potions magical?”
“Lad. Do you want an answer to th—”
Dawil stared at Ylawes. Then down at the frozen healing potions, which had never frozen that Ylawes remembered. Falene glanced at them, then felt at her belt in alarm. Ylawes just sighed.
The healing potions were dead.
 
 
Day 27 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
They set up a camp past the abandoned wagon in the lee of a hill covered with grass. The [Miners] constructed a support archway, and Homle told Ylawes that if all went well, they’d be able to dig into the hillside and then down towards Falene’s mysterious mana-draining thing—and the copper vein.
“There’s some kind of opening down there. The instant we hit it, we’ll pull back and whistle for you, but I want a [Guard] or adventurer at all times. Other than that? It’s just digging. We’ll need good rations for that. D’you think we’ll make it to the first harvests?”
Ylawes felt at the one healing potion at his belt that was good, one of two in all the caravan. Well, that the regular members of the expedition had declared. The [Merchants] hadn’t said directly how much they had left. Normally, Ylawes wouldn’t have noticed; one of the younger [Traders] had cited a lack within their supplies. Not the Consortium saying it outright where you could use a truth Skill.
Argh, it wasn’t very honorable to suspect them of anything. But—it might be a bit practical to.
Healing potions were magic. And as it turned out, unless one had been made by a good [Alchemist]—they died too.
“Can your crew work on half-rations, Homle?”
“No.”
“Then neither can the [Farmers]. The [Guards] and my team will go down as much as we can, but we need to stay in fighting shape. The [Merchants] and the cooking staff and handlers have all agreed to go to half-rations. They’re not happy, but that’s all we can do.”
Homle grunted.
“Best we get to work, then. The more we dig, the more dirt there is for the fields if we need the less-salty kind.”
The irony, of course, was that if the farms didn’t turn out their first harvest, and quick, there would be no point to the mines, but neither man said that. Ylawes just nodded at Homle.
“Do you have enough to build the…support structures for the mines?”
He knew enough from House Byres’ silver mines to know you needed to brace up the walls, and Homle grimaced.
“We did, and plenty, but now we’ll have to find more timber—or dismantle some of the wagons. Now that we’re burning wood—we’ll do the best we can.”
Up till now, the Consortium of Enterprise had been using flame spells and magical devices to light fires, a huge saving in firewood. Those were dead as of this morning. Falene could start a fire, but she had asked how necessary it was.
Ylawes had made the call it was not. He was—stressed. The normally-tidy [Knight] had messed up hair from running his hand through it so much. He glanced at the mine, then looked for the [Merchants].
They were sequestered in their wagons, mostly, out of sight, letting everyone get to work. They had been seen less and less, but once they’d voted to start the copper mine, they hadn’t been needed.
Farmer Petia and everyone who could be spared was setting up a field. Falene’s magic was useful here. She’d cast a huge dome of warmth that was helping bring the soil to life, and she had prepared a [Rain] spell for the first sowing.
Ylawes had eaten his first low-ration meal, and he was noticeably hungry. Not that he was inactive; he posted Rasktooth, Infinitypear, and Dawil on mine-duty. The two Bronze-rank adventurers were less mobile, and Dawil was able to cool tempers. With Falene helping the farmers, Ylawes took the rest of Vuliel Drae hunting.
 
——
 
“Anything you can find, Larr.”
“I’m trying. It’s not like home, Captain Ylawes. I’m an [Archer]; I shoot things. I have a bit of experience from my tribe, but I don’t know what tracks to look for, and everything smells different.”
“No pressure.”
Ylawes tried to smile as the Gnoll scented around for animals. The spring had begun as far as Ylawes concerned; everything was wet, and the horses’ hooves slipped now and then in the grass.
The foothills they were in slanted downwards until Ylawes could see them spreading out over a wild plains before abruptly ending over a lip miles to the east. Whatever was there, he wasn’t sure of; the way back slowly tapered out until it met a large river. They must have missed it on the ride here. What lay over the foothills? Unknown.
Each way had the possibility of food or interesting resources, but Larr wasn’t happy for obvious reasons.
“Either we chose the worst area for hunting or there’s just not as much to eat here, Captain. There’s less grass…those bush-things back there sound mighty appetizing, but we passed that area weeks ago.”
That was the problem. The Consortium had gone higher on the basis they wanted the hills for mining, which were places where food was less common. None of the Featherball birds or Corusdeer herds were present. And when they went riding, Ylawes saw a few problems.
 
——
 
East of their position was a ridge that led over a large rift in the plains. The ground had just—split in half, revealing huge, jagged stone cliffs that led straight down so far that Insill had chucked a stone down and had to wait for over half a minute to hear the ‘click’ of sound. The gap was also wide, at least a hundred feet across.
“What the hell did this? Some kind of spell?”
“Might just be the sea floor. Remember, this was all underwater, Dasha.”
Anith corrected the half-Dwarf woman as she stared uneasily down into the rift. Larr stayed well clear of it, refusing to go even fifty feet closer to the drop.
“Even [Featherfall] won’t save you if you go over, Insill, Pekona. That only slows your fall—how’re you going to climb back up?”
The two fearless members of Vuliel Drae backed away from the edge. Ylawes, flat on his stomach to peer over the edge, stared down and grunted.
“I think I see things moving down there. It’s hard to see…what is that?”
Something horrific was moving across the ground, and Pekona came over to stare.
“It’s got eight limbs. Is that an…what’s the word for it in your language? Octopus? They live in the water, though.”
“A what? Oh, it’s gone.”
Whatever it was had suddenly vanished. Ylawes hadn’t seen it slip through a crack, but it was suddenly gone. Strange—and if he craned his neck, he could experience amazing vertigo, but also see huge plants rising upwards on parts of the cliffs.
“Interesting stuff. But I don’t think we can climb down to collect any, can we, Captain?”
Insill looked vaguely disappointed when Ylawes said no. Larr just retreated to the horses, antsy to go.
“Good. Can we go? I hate heights.”
They were heading south at good speed to check out the river that Ylawes had high hopes for when he heard a strange ripping sound. He didn’t know where it was coming from for a second. Then he felt something pressing at his side, looked down—and one of his tunics exploded upwards and hit him in the head.
It exited his bag of holding at such speed it hurt, and Ylawes recoiled as his horse reared in alarm—then heard a terrible tearing sound. Ylawes reached down as his [Dangersense] wailed—tossed the bag of holding, and shouted.
“Get d—”
Anith was fumbling with his own bag of holding when it exploded.
 
——
 
Bags of holding could fail in any number of ways. Two rules of thumb were never go over your magical interference threshold and never put a bag of holding in a bag of holding.
Ylawes had never seen one just…break. It turned out when they did, the fabric became mere fabric, and everything inside decompressed at speed.
It didn’t break everything inside—it just hurled it outwards. In Ylawes’ case, it was mostly menial objects, though a spare sword did pass right over Larr’s head.
