“I’m still a [Merchant]. If we reach Goisedall, or anyone else, I can help buy supplies. You need someone like that.”
The coins. Ylawes had supervised the Consortium and let them save clothing and other goods like Tivete’s magical items from their homes. Nothing made of paper, and nothing they could hide a document in. He hadn’t taken the gold they’d carried; what would be the point? It was too heavy without a bag of holding.
Ylawes’ eyes flicked to the camp as he weighed Anlam’s offer. The Silver Swords were looking at him, and Ylawes thought of politeness. Doing the right thing. In the end, he decided based on one other quality.
Mercy.
“If you come with us, we’ll store your gold, but you’ll walk and only ride in shifts with everyone else. You are not in charge, Master Anlam, and you will pull your weight.”
“Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.”
Without a word, he hurried into the group, and Ylawes cast a glance backwards.
“None of the others would come?”
“We are all ruined. The moment the magic began dying, Tivete was done for. Yorrned or Lolsed could return—if Lolsed could carry all his documents back. Raeta and Jobbi? None of us wanted to return as poor as when we were [Traders].”
That was all Anlam said. Rasktooth poked him in a friendly-unfriendly way.
“Then why you come, eh?”
Anlam stared at the Goblin and replied with what Ylawes took to be perfect honesty.
“I don’t want to be ruined. But I want to return.”
That silenced even Petia’s commentary, and she nodded without a word.
 
——
 
Two wagons, fourteen horses. The adventurers mounted up, and that left four for the Consortium. Ylawes tried not to choose the weakest animals—but he had a feeling how long they might last.
“Tubeworms is in good soil. Eh—harder to see when snow melts, but we dug pits. Probably more. Probably…you eat beetles, okay? Not any but yellow ones. Only yellow ones edible.”
Rasktooth was looking at the remaining members of the expedition staying behind with a complicated expression. Infinitypear shook Salamander’s hand—then tried to pull him towards them. The man refused and stepped back.
“A curse upon you, Silver Swords!”
Merchant Yorrned exploded as the adventurers began to ride away. Ylawes turned, and the [Ore Merchant] stood there, a small man shouting and spitting with rage.
“A pox—a fucking pox on House Byres, and you—and you will never make it out of the New Lands alive! We will bury you! Your name is mud! Tarnished! Begone! You’ll be corpses before you get two days out! We’ll tell everyone about you!”
“You and what [Message] spells?”
Falene began to call back, but Ylawes touched her arm. He turned and silently gestured.
“Silver Swords—move out. I want to hit the river by nightfall.”
 
——
 
They almost made it to the river. On foot, the exhausted settlers were slow, but they marched with a will, and Ylawes Byres traded off his horse. They ate from the Tubeworms to fill their stomachs.
“I think we’ll die of that thing [Pirates] get if we don’t get more food, but this’ll do until we can fish. I need water. It occurs to me we should have taken one of their wagons, lad. They’re probably nicer.”
Dawil was rubbing his neck afterwards. He found Ylawes sitting by a fire Rasktooth was showing Vuliel Drae how to make; Rasktooth had a pouch he was going to carry the embers in.
Survival stuff. Ylawes was thinking of what to do and the road ahead. Dawil tossed himself down with a groan.
“What a mess, eh?”
“Yes. Dawil…if I wake up tomorrow and I’ve lost…if I’m just a [Warrior], I think you should take charge. I won’t be nearly as good with most of my Skills missing.”
Dawil blinked at Ylawes, then put down the tuber he was chewing on. He spat some out that didn’t agree with him and then barked a laugh.
“Ylawes. Is that what you’ve been afraid of?”
The [Knight] sat there, resigned to it. [Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon]. A great, nay, amazing class.
“You don’t think it’s likely? I just threatened a bunch of [Merchants], broke my word—”
“—And I couldn’t be prouder of you. I often am, l—Ylawes. You’re a hard-headed idiot, though, sometimes.”
Dawil rested a hand on Ylawes’ shoulder as Falene walked over, trying to eat the strange root-plant Rasktooth had found. She sat down as Dawil went on, nodding at her.
“That’s why we’re a team, but sometimes I thought—Grandfathers, this fellow won’t stop doing the right thing even if it’s the wrong thing that looks nice. Today? You did the right thing that looks wrong. If there’s any justice, you won’t lose your class, you’ll level up, right, Pointy?”
“He’s got a point, Ylawes. I don’t often agree, but Dawil is correct. Those [Merchants] were foul. We’re not out of it yet, but I think if we’d stayed, we’d all be dead.”
Ylawes felt better at that as the other adventurers nodded, and even Homle and Petia came over to agree. Ylawes stood awkwardly.
“We’ll have to reorganize.”
“Why? You’re still a good leader.”
Anith protested, and Petia nodded.
“No objections from us, right, Homle?”
The [Miner] nodded, but Ylawes gestured to them.
“For fighting, I mean. If we go hunting, we’ll face those Landsharks again. It will be lean, difficult work even with fishing and foraging. We’re a team; we’ll get out of the New Lands if anyone can.”
That was his new vow, and it felt better than the reason he’d come here. His audience didn’t cheer; they were past that kind of thing, but they nodded. Ylawes stared up at the stars as they came out.
“Huh. More flicker-light bugs. They come out every fourth day.”
Infinitypear stared upwards. Ylawes glanced up and saw the glowing bugs in the distance past the river.
“They do?”
He hadn’t noticed. The last few weeks had been too much misery to count. Ylawes stared at the bugs—and remembered the Flashbirds.
There had to be more beauty like that out here in the New Lands. This particular expedition had ended in disaster, and it still might go that way. But when he saw the Antinium’s mandibles rise in a smile…
That was what Ylawes Byres craved. He looked around, exhaling.
Magic.
No, not magic. Not like Falene’s magic. What had Erin called her craft? Wonder, that was it. Amazement.
Real adventure. Give him some of that. Ylawes felt like he’d lost some of the spark that he’d had when he’d first gotten into this job. The faith that everything would work out if he charged an enemy.
The reward that he never asked for, but sort of hoped he’d get when he took a job for free and that was sweeter when it finally came unasked for.
Hope. Where in Rhir’s hells was his hope for this new year? Burnt up with House Byres? Perhaps…but Ylawes stood there and muttered.
“I wonder how they taste.”
Rasktooth fell over laughing, and Vuliel Drae joined in. Dawil slapped his thighs, and Petia gave another rare smile. Homle, Mrsha, and the [Miners] shouted obscenities as they saw the damn Flashbirds still trying to eat the bugs. Falene tried to look aloof—but then she snatched a tubeworm from the fire, sick of roots and—
Hold on a second there. Who was that?
A semi-translucent Gnoll girl was peering at the tubeworms and looking around. She was…flickering, and Ylawes spun as Infinitypear nearly leapt into the fire.
“Mrsha?”
Everyone blinked. Mrsha did a happy dance and began writing on a card. She held it up as Ylawes spluttered. How—?
Forsooth! It is I! What are you eating? I knew if I kept trying, I’d find you! Hey, why the fu…dge are you so hard to get in contact with? Huh!?
“What’s going on? Who is—is that the white Gnoll?”
Homle bellowed, but Insill shushed him. Ylawes strode over to Mrsha.
“How did you find us?”
Mrsha gave him a puzzled look and flicked her wand. It wrote in the air, faster than her quill could.
I’ve been checking every day for years—for weeks! For half a week. Ever since we got your [Message], silly! But the [World’s Eye Theatre] barely works! Every time Lyonette tries to contact someone—we got Nailren a few times. But sometimes people don’t appear. It’s as if something’s in the way! You’re sort of fuzzy.
Fuzzy? Ylawes traded glances with Falene, and the half-Elf began swearing a blue streak.
“Tree rot infested with giant, fuzzy caterpillars—we’ve been blocking everyone trying to [Scry] or locate us!”
They’d been sitting right on top of the interference! Mrsha seemed smug.
Everyone gave up, but I kept trying. Because I care. Also, I was bored, so I kept looking for what was going on in the New Lands. Did you camp here? There’s not many animals here. But that big canyon is huge! And I saw these giant snails that way!
Mrsha pointed energetically as she prattled on, and Ylawes’ mind tried to make sense of…
“Wait. How did you see all that if you couldn’t scry us?”
Mrsha gave him another smug look.
I asked the theatre to go where you last were—then I ran for, like, miles that way. You can do that. The hardest part is not running off of the center of the room and falling. I did that twice. You couldn’t do that before. Erin hit Level 50. Her Skill’s upgraded! But you don’t get free popcorn if you ask. I tried that too.
She could scry the area around them? But [Scrying] spells couldn’t do that! Yet Ylawes had seen Mrsha using this Skill before, and she proved it, running around the group and then yelping and going off the edge of something and, in his perspective, into the ground.
Mrsha pulled herself back up and felt at her nose, trying not to cry, then looked around at the caravan.
See? I can’t figure out how to go down, or I’d check out the ravine and there are weird spaces where the theatre stops working and it all goes to mist, but I found you all! Hey, you look sort of bad. Hey, hey! Guess what happened at the inn! We’ve been—
Ylawes burst out speaking before she could continue pontificating.
“Mrsha, go get Lyonette. No—listen carefully in case we vanish. Go find the Adventurer’s Guild. Tell them where we were, in the northwestern foothills as you leave Goisedall. We need food—find a nearby settlement or something. Understand? Keep trying to contact us. We’ve run out of food and magic, and we are travelling along the river.”
Mrsha blinked at him and hesitated.
What? Out of food? But what are those white things? Where’s all the stupid [Merchants] and—
“Run!”
Ylawes barked at her, and Mrsha jumped, fell over backwards, and then ran for it, howling an alarm. Ylawes stood there, trembling, as Dawil let out a whoop.
“Dead gods! And send some more luck our way, would you? Lad—I’ve never been gladder that Erin’s a friend of ours.”
“Let’s hope she finds someone—we should have asked her to signal Goisedall for help. If they can put up the coin for someone—”
“They’ll keep contacting us. Come on, let’s figure out what help they can be. Reckon we could ask for a Knight of Solstice? Er, besides you, Captain.”
“Let’s ask for luck. Seriously.”
Larr muttered, and Ylawes blinked at him. He nodded and sat down, limbs suddenly shaking with excitement. Mrsha came tumbling back with Nanette and Lyonette, and Ylawes got up again, smiling for once.
There it was. Just a spark of it.
Hope.
 
 
[Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon Level 38!]
[Skill – Oathbreaker’s Repudiation: “For survival, I object” obtained!]
 
[Graduate Battlemage Level 36!]
[Skill – Mana Siphon (Object) obtained!]
 
[Horrorbane Adventurer Level 18!]
[Skill – Bug Attracting Lantern obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Proficiency: Crafting obtained!]
 
[Overlands Adventurer Level 17!]
[Skill – Hound’s Scent (Edibles) obtained!]
[Skill – Crossbow: Irregular Ammunition (Stones) obtained!]
