Day 19 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The expedition was rapidly running out of food and magic. That was, as Ylawes saw it, a two-headed Hydra. Yes, mistakes had been made.
It was clear to him now that Merchant Yorrned had made mistakes in the planning of this expedition. Considerable ones ranging from a lack of foresight in regards to the wagons’ mobility, to not hiring [Hunters], to even the selection of foodstuffs available to the expedition.
The problem was…these were not mistakes. At least, not according to Yorrned.
The flustered [Merchant] refused to bring up the topic when Ylawes tried to get him to sit still and talk. Eventually, he sequestered himself in his caravan and sent out one of his apprentices.
“I’m sure you have work to do guarding the caravan, Captain Ylawes? Merchant Yorrned must plan out the new founding site, and he has not paid your retainer to waste time at this crucial junction.”
That was as direct a dismissal as Ylawes had gotten. The [Knight] stood there and inhaled slowly. He kept his calm; you didn’t raise your voice or snap at people even when slapped with impoliteness. That wasn’t the Byres way.
He had no idea why everyone kept telling him Yvlon had a temper. She’d always been as good as him about internalizing that teaching. If she lost a sparring match growing up, she never threw her sword on the ground or stalked off. Well, she had when she was young, but she’d stopped within a month of being lectured about conduct.
He remembered it fondly; she’d go and sit by the river if she had really lost. For hours on end, sometimes. Staring into the water. Or go hit a training dummy. Ylawes never really remembered breaking any of his, except with a big Skill, but she’d destroyed several over the years.
Poise. Calm. He nodded to the [Trader], turned, and went to bother another [Merchant].
Yorrned was one of six. The others were Tivete, [Magic Merchant], Lolsed, a [Merchant] who specialized in north-south trades via Liscor during the fall and winter, Anlam, the one with the most wagons, who had held down a lot of the farming enterprise past Remendia by buying and selling crops, and Raeta and Jobbi, a couple who had joined forces and funds to occupy a lot of the glassware importing.
Ylawes knew that because they were all convivial. Overly so, because he now knew too much about how glassware was a largely Ailendamus product, but you could get discounts on bulk imports, and everyone wanted to update to glass, right?
Chandrarian glass prices were falling due to Ailendamus’ stakes, and my word, the only time you went to Baleros was for colored glass, but that was a bit too expensive for the hoi polloi, wasn’t it, Raeta, dear? Haha, oh, Jobbi. You know, we sold over a thousand windows last year, Captain Ylawes? After this expedition we might have to build a glass house for ourselves and start a family…
Ylawes and Falene were the most sought-after members of the adventuring teams for socializing. Dawil was ironically the best conversationalist. But there was something Ylawes had learned from all that.
He knew each [Merchant]’s wagon by the look and where they hung out. After Raeta and Jobbi had mysteriously not answered him rapping on their door—and glass windows of their personal wagon-home—and Lolsed had gone for a quick jog around the caravan, then ducked into another one, Ylawes cornered Miss Tivete.
To be fair, she was the only one who didn’t run. She was talking with one of the [Guards], who Ylawes recognized as the de-facto head of the non-adventurer security.
Salamander was his name. He had scars on his arms that looked like sword wounds, a crooked nose, and an enchanted sword with a flame effect. Hence the nickname.
The [Guards] that ran escort to caravans weren’t [Mercenaries], and they weren’t adventurers. They were sort of…cheap. You didn’t always get quality with their counterparts, but [Guards]? Uh…there was a reason the City Watches of the north and [Guards] in general were lumped together and didn’t often get a good rep.
To Salamander’s credit, he seemed like he knew what he was doing, and he didn’t posture as much with the adventurers. He was also under Merchant Tivete’s authority.
“Ah, Captain Ylawes. Looking for Merchant Yorrned?”
“I believe he is resting in his wagon. Merchant Tivete, do you have time for a word on the expedition?”
Three days since they’d learned of the preservation runes failing, and the expedition’s mood had already gone south. The [Merchants] had not been happy when Larr publicly sorted the good food from the bad. In the end, they’d actually saved a lot of the ‘bad food’, but the runes of preservation?
They were failing. Falene was checking on them twice a day and topping off the remaining three wagons enchanted with them. She claimed they’d drain almost to nothing overnight, and her own mana wasn’t replenishing due to the…lack of it in the air.
Anti-magic zone. Or rather, mana-negative zone. Ylawes didn’t like it. He didn’t like that their fresh food supplies had run from a comfortable month of surplus down to two weeks—if the runes held. He expressed this, politely, to Merchant Tivete.
“—I suppose, at this point, turning around to Goisedall would be the most sensible choice. But I have not received a commitment from any of the other [Merchants]. I have pressed them on the matter. Politely.”
At this, Miss Tivete laughed. She had bright green hair, dyed, was in her late fifties, and wore, as proof of her trades, a necklace that produced a bubble of tranquility. If it was cold, the air around her warmed. If it was rainy? She was dry. He’d seen the bubble eradicate mosquitoes too.
She was fingering it as she talked to him; an odd symbol or foreign word carved out of jade. She kept tracing the pattern with one hand. Salamander stood there, jaw set, and Ylawes wondered if the man objected to him after all.
Tivete replied with a hint of amusement in her voice.
“—I never knew House Byres’ definition of polite was so different than what I expected, Captain Ylawes. You are a terror when you’re upset.”
Of all the things to discuss…Ylawes blinked.
“A terror? I would like to believe I’ve been polite these last two days.”
“Captain Ylawes, a polite voice is something anyone can employ. Knocking on Yorrned’s window and chasing him around for two hours is more aggressive than most of my peers—and we push. Nor do you back down.”
“The matter is urgent. I apologize if I seem frank. I am simply—this issue will not go away and cannot be ignored.”
At this, Salamander nodded, and Ylawes realized the man’s eyes were sliding to Miss Tivete. She chewed on her lip, and he noticed she’d put on a jacket for the first time this entire trip. The [Merchants] all had a lot of coin; her jacket looked like expensive fur and pale blue fabric, something more expensive than cotton.
Yet—she glanced back the way they’d come.
“No member of the Consortium of Enterprise wishes to go back, Captain. We’re already weeks into the New Lands—turning back now would void the effort it has taken to get this far. Not to mention, restocking our supplies in Goisedall? In the winter? It would cost a fortune.”
That he understood. Ylawes gestured to the supply wagons.
“As it stands, we have two weeks of food. Assuming we do not hunt—and we have no [Hunters].”
“We may go to three if we move to partial rations. That will occur tonight. Adventurers, [Guards], and leadership roles exempted.”
This was news to Ylawes and unpleasant.
“I can’t imagine the rest of the settlers will appreciate that.”
Tivete fiddled with her necklace again.
“We—have a plan to find a place to settle and to put down a camp and have planting done within five days. Five days, Captain, and it takes ten to grow our fastest plants possible. Radishes, Captain Ylawes.”
“Radishes?”
His voice was dubious, but Tivete waved a hand.
“They grow in as short as thirty days. With [Fast Growth]—a Skill over four of our [Farmers] have—we can cut that in half.”
“It’s winter.”
Salamander added his own thoughts in a gravelly voice for the first time so far.
“‘S cold as shit too. And the ground’s frozen. Hard to dig up.”
He gave Tivete a cautious glance, and she shrugged.
“Warming spells. We do have access to magic. Spring breaks in less than ten days; we can already see snow thawing.”
It was true. The snow had begun to melt, leading to hard patches of ice as the ground re-thawed. It didn’t make movement any easier. Ylawes thought.
Assuming she was right, they’d have just enough food to last until a first harvest. Radishes. How long could you eat those until you went crazy?
“Pardon me, Merchant Tivete, but I can see why I wasn’t informed of the plans. I am an adventurer; that may sound like my team and I are used to challenges, but we tend to know what we’re doing. Acceptable risks are fine. No one can predict a battle, but we minimize danger when we can. If we returned to Goisedall, there would be no uncertainty factor.”
Salamander nodded a few times, and he and Ylawes locked eyes. Tivete began to look a bit harried.
“Salamander—my personal leader of caravan security, we do go back years—has been talking my ear off, Captain Ylawes. I suppose there’s no help for it; there’s a second factor in why we must continue onwards. The time limit on our food and expense is not the only issue.”
“Hm?”
There was something else? For answer, Tivete showed Ylawes her necklace. The beautiful piece of jewelry in her hand sparkled, but her expression was like someone who had taken a knife wound.
“You may note that I’m bundled up of late, Captain Ylawes. I—could you guess why?”
Ylawes inspected the necklace. He did feel warmer around her, but the effect was lessened.
“The magic in it is suffering the same effect as the runes?”
“Precisely. I didn’t notice at first. But I fear that within a week, maybe two, my beloved amulet that I paid a fortune for from the Empire of Drath will be nothing more than beautiful jade. The enchantment, Captain Ylawes, is dying. Not just dying. Breaking.”
Then Ylawes began to feel alarmed. His hand strayed to his own gear, specifically his bag of holding.
“Breaking? Can enchantments do that?”
“If they run out of magic and aren’t artifact-grade? Do you know why we categorize some magical items as…magical and some as artifacts, Captain Ylawes?”
He had no idea. For once, he listened as Tivete explained.
“Briefly—artifacts are older magic. Higher quality. Relics are masterpieces. The line between artifact and relic is actually more vague. But artifacts? They are made with, let’s say, safeguards. I note your sword is an artifact, for instance.”
Ylawes hesitated, and his hand brushed the sword at his side. It was a Graveblade taken from Facestealer’s ‘loot’ after the battle with the monster. He had doubts about it, but his own sword hadn’t been nearly as good.
“It was appraised as an artifact by Master Hedault. My previous sword was an enchanted item.”
“Magical. Here is the difference, Captain Ylawes. An artifact will generally not fail unless truly broken. My amulet will be dead before we return to Goisedall, even if we turn around. Yours will simply be less powerful or retain its magic. Modern enchanting has no safeguards, among other flaws that normally don’t manifest themselves. But everyone else’s magical items, from Rings of Warmth to wands to…bags of holding?”
The [Knight]’s hand touched his bag of holding again. The item was good, but it was no artifact-quality one. He had everything in there; he barely thought about how much he might carry, from armor maintenance to food to even camping elements. Only the size restricted him from taking everything.
“—Is it going to fail?”
Salamander shifted from foot to foot, and Tivete nodded.
“We have chests of holding, bags of holding—the Consortium could not have gotten this far if we were weighed down by all this gear. The wagons are almost exclusively to hold the bulk items and people. If we turned around now, we would not only lose all the magic—we would find ourselves overburdened in a week’s time.”
“All the more reason to go. Now.”
Ylawes was alarmed. Could they save his bag of holding? Wait, not just that. How many items on him did he have that were magic as opposed to artifacts?
Gold-rankers lived on their equipment. True, Ylawes’ team wasn’t as reliant as some, but Ylawes had put his life’s work into elements like his armor—which wasn’t an artifact.
But Tivete’s smile was grim.
“If we return, the Consortium cannot finance replacing all those magical items, Captain Ylawes. We have already lost unprecedented funds, especially my caravan. No, we continue. If we go to Goisedall, the expedition will never return.”
Now he saw it. The [Merchants] had rolled straight into a disaster no one had known about. As far as they were concerned, this expedition had to at least recoup some of the losses or they would be ruined.
“We are assured there are at least ores in the earth, Captain. My expedition isn’t just in this for a mining spot. Even setting up a waystation might be profitable. The first farms will be a foothold. Even if we were to sell the settlement, we could justify that.”
“—respectfully, Merchant Tivete, if the Silver Swords are running out of magic, our ability to protect you has just decreased measurably.”
“Same with the [Guards]. This is my only piece of magic, and it’s barely able to light a fire. Tivete, you saw those shark things. You want my boys to fight one of those with plain steel?”
Salamander offered his sword. He glanced at Ylawes and shook his head. But Tivete was adamant.
“We continue onwards, Captain Ylawes. Salamander, I want your [Guards] riding ahead. I don’t care if you need groups for safety. Three days of scouting, and if we don’t find what we want, the nearest water source will do.”
The two men traded looks. Tivete would not be swayed, and even after forty minutes of talking, she simply excused herself, leaving Salamander behind.
“—They’re not budging. I’ve seen her do this before. She once got held up by a [Bandit] group and refused to fork that necklace over. We went to combat when she set her jaw like that.”
“Captain Salamander, isn’t it? Or is that your real name?”
The other man grunted as Ylawes stood there in the cold with him.
“It’s Sal. Gonna be ‘Sal’ again unless I get this sword re-enchanted. I’m no [Captain]. Just an [Elite Guard].”
That sounded like an interesting class. Ylawes raised his brows.
“How do you get that?”
Another shrug, this one more bitter.
“By being an expendable [Guard] and not dying. Comes at Level 20. You ever see a [Rookie Guard]?”
