“We are out of food, and the turnip harvest did not produce…even a tenth of what we need. Farmer Petia has done her best. I want to make that clear. But she has found that only Yellats will grow in this soil, and at a greatly reduced rate. We…will run out of food in three days, even at half-rations, and the river cannot be relied on. Based on all these factors, I have asked Chef Votto to bring us down to a quarter rations. And I am advocating—no, insisting that we strike camp and move down to the river at full speed. We will make for Goisedall and hope to find a deer herd or something else on the way.”
When Ylawes gave the speech, there was silence from the caravan. He was glad—very glad—there weren’t children. But he saw how young some of the [Farmhands] or [Cooking Assistants] were and how afraid.
Yet he felt better. He said the thing he realized he should have said the moment they felt the magic leaving them.
Ylawes was braced for anger, but Homle just took off a helmet, wiped at a sweaty brow, and nodded. Petia bowed slowly as the [Farmers] nodded.
“Soil’s no good anywhere. We should have brought a bunch from anywhere else. There was no way of knowing. I reckon even those half-Elves had problems. Though magic might fix it, or a good Skill.”
Falene let out a slow breath. She looked at Ylawes, and Dawil rubbed at his head. Everyone was notably tired—notably hungry.
Ylawes had gone through fewer days of privation than the rest due to his status, but he had noticed a slowness among people, and it extended to emotions too.
Unless anger was present. But his words seemed to spark more relief than fury. Homle raised his voice.
“No one go blaming the [Farmers] now. We would have had the time but for the magic thing. You heard Captain Ylawes. Drop everything you can’t load onto the wagons.”
A [Miner] raised her hand, voice anxious as she turned to Ylawes.
“Tools?”
“Everything that’s not a weapon or valuable. We need to move fast.”
Ylawes was warming to what they needed to do. They needed more nets. Salamander could ride ahead—he cast a glance at the man, but Salamander just stood there, arms folded. Head bowed? He didn’t look up as Ylawes glanced at him.
Petia wasn’t moving either. Something—off struck Ylawes a moment before a nervous voice spoke up.
“That won’t be necessary. We aren’t striking camp. We will continue fishing—and hunting. Everyone, back to your work. Captain Ylawes, a word?”
The Consortium of Enterprise, all six of them and their personal staff of [Traders]. Ylawes saw bodyguards like Salamander approaching the other colonists. Ylawes felt the hairs on his neck begin to rise and heard Dawil curse. Ylawes turned and nodded to the man.
“Master Yorrned. I trust you heard?”
“Yes, Captain. And that’s Merchant Yorrned to you. Employer Yorrned…your contract isn’t up.”
The man tried to emphasize ‘employer’, but he was clearly nervous. Anlam cleared his throat. They were all there. Lolsed, Tivete, Raeta and Jobbi—
They looked more animated than the rest. Ylawes eyed them. Hadn’t they been on half-rations…? He stared at Yorrned.
“With respect, Merchant Yorrned, our contract is to guard the caravan after two weeks have passed. About half of that time’s elapsed, true, but we were searching for several days.”
“Under contract, your two weeks are to elapse after—after we strike camp. So by my calculations you owe eleven more days, Captain Ylawes.”
The Gold-rank adventurer began to get annoyed.
“That’s immaterial, Yorrned. I have made my decision for the safety of the expedition. I do not see a bright future awaiting any of us if we keep on like this.”
“We have your contract, Captain Ylawes. It’s been recognized by the Merchant’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild. You’re under oath to fulfill it. Your word of honor.”
Tivete interrupted, and Ylawes nodded to her.
“I’ll return half my fee, then. We may negotiate terms later, but only when we’re at Goisedall.”
“We cannot forfeit the expedition’s profits, Captain Ylawes. You’d have us give up not only our supplies, but this entire venture. For nothing? We have the seeds. If we eat everything but the Yellats, that will give us a few days.”
“Of what? Starvation? No one’s had enough to eat! Except maybe you, somehow. I don’t know why you smell like cheese when it’s all apparently gone.”
Larr barked indignantly. He pointed at Yorrned, and the [Merchant] paled. Ylawes just turned away.
“We’re leaving. Silver Swords, strike camp.”
“We forbid it, Captain Ylawes!”
He ignored them. Yorrned raised his voice. He shouted—then went silent as Ylawes began to walk towards their wagon. Then—
“[Enforce Contract]!”
Something halted him in his tracks. Ylawes tried to take a step and felt a prickling running up and down his arms and legs. A paralysis spell? It felt—similar. But when he looked down, he saw something black and thorny twisting around his armor.
Letters. They were all tangled up, sentences of them and delicate punctuation that pulled him back.
 
I, Ylawes Byres, do promise under formal witness from the Merchant’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild, witnessed in the city of Invrisil on the date of…
 
They pulled him back. He spun, slowly, trying to pull free of the thin binding of letters, but they were stronger than steel. And…he heard a curse from Falene.
“I can’t c—”
She choked and opened her mouth, and he saw the same sentences gripping her tongue. Then Ylawes saw the rest of the adventurers were immobilized.
Suddenly, he heard shouts as Homle’s crew experienced the same. Farmer Petia’s silence suddenly made sense.
Salamander gave Ylawes a bleak stare as Yorrned, panting, lowered his hand.
“We didn’t wish to do that. But the expedition will not be jeopardized. We—will go down to quarter-rations. You and Guard Salamander are to go hunting for anything edible, and we’ll have the [Farmers] gather plants. Is that clear, Captain Ylawes?”
The thing to do when you had an enemy who could immobilize you was to hit the enemy. Ylawes considered it. If he knocked Yorrned down or out—
His legs wouldn’t move. He glanced down, and the bindings reappeared all over his sword arm too.
—Of course a [Merchant] would have a stipulation avoiding harming them in the contract. That was just good business to prevent a double-crossing. Ylawes had never worried about that before.
Six [Merchants] pressed down on him. Not his level, he assumed, but they had a contract that was all the advantage they needed. Ylawes pulled—and the silence grew longer and longer as he struggled to move one foot. One…
“Lad.”
Ylawes was looking at Salamander and the guards around the [Merchants]. They were lower level, but most of his teammates were completely immobilized. Dawil was whispering, and Ylawes wondered if he drew his sword what would happen.
The [Merchants] saw the Gold-rank captain slowly, slowly relax and step backwards. The bindings on him vanished, and Salamander’s eyes flickered as he glanced at Ylawes’ feet. But by the time Ylawes spoke, the bindings were gone.
“—Since we have no choice, we will accede, members of the Consortium. But when we return to contact with the rest of Izril—the Merchant’s Guild will hear of this.”
The [Merchants] relaxed in a huge rush. They beamed as if they’d all suddenly grown Yellats then and there. Jobbi called out, nodding rapidly.
“We will happily settle the matter amicably then, Captain!”
The colonists were staring at the [Merchants], and the adventurers were looking at Ylawes. Rasktooth flicked something on his crossbow and grunted. Ylawes?
He just met Dawil’s eyes and shook his head. And suddenly, he was counting the days.
Eleven?
He told himself they could make eleven.
Starvation began to replace hunger.
 
 
Day 32 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
When everyone went down to quarter-rations, Ylawes felt the pinch in a way he hadn’t before. After he’d eaten, he just…stood there, and it was an effort to remember what he had to do.
Go riding? His horse gave him a look of concern as Ylawes mounted up. But on the first day, he was just lightheaded. He got strangely used to it thereafter for a while—or maybe he just had more problems.
Water was a problem. Hauling it from the river was too hard, and yet the well was unfinished.
They had been mostly boiling snow for water up till now; the water that fell from the skies was potable, but with all of it gone, Ylawes had a belated thought.
“Remember that rainstorm? We should have saved it. Put out pots, filled barrels.”
Dawil just groaned when Ylawes said it.
“Dead gods.”
“It’s not a problem normally. I can cast [Rain] and condense real water out of the air.”
Falene looked around, licking dry lips. These days, the fishing expedition would come back with more water than fish. Ylawes eyed her.
“You and what mana? If we could start fires, it would be easier.”
The problem was that striking a light—normally quick and easy—was excruciatingly hard, let alone keeping a fire burning. The wagons were still shelters, and with the thin trees—Falene just lit a magical fire.
Ylawes had tried to start one, and it had taken thirty minutes of sitting and getting frustrated as the wind blew and killed any sparks. He hated to admit it, but without a basic spell or wand, he was far less of a survivalist than he’d thought.
They needed a well, so the [Merchants] insisted the [Farmers] do that while foraging, but everyone moved at a crawl.
The [Miners] kept digging. They didn’t want to, but the contract was in full effect.
“I don’t understand. I’ve never seen a [Merchant] do that before.”
Dasha was shocked. Insill shook his head.
“Me neither, but the Merchant’s Guild has to have tricks like that. Reminds me of contracts you hear about signed in blood.”
“That can’t be legal.”
Anith’s voice was low.
“Why not? Everything by the letter of the law is fair. You heard what they said. They didn’t want to do it to us—but they’ve got us. Could you move?”
None of Vuliel Drae had been able to. Ylawes shook his head as he tried to get them to focus on looking for something to hunt.
“Focus. They had their bodyguards, and if we had to fight—eleven days. Ten, now.”
“Lad. We’re in trouble.”
That was all Dawil said. Ylawes knew he was right. That sensation of holding off the worst? He realized Petia and Homle and many of the others had been looking to the Silver Swords, the famous Gold-rank team, to find an answer. When it was clear they had no answers, the badness began in earnest.
 
——
 
On the first day of quarter rations, the [Merchants] had constructed something. Stockades. Salamander didn’t mince words when Ylawes asked why.
“Two thefts of food while you were gone—one desertion.”
There was a young [Miner] in the stockades and one of the cooking staff as well.
“Where’s the deserter? Did they run off?”
Ylawes had come back without seeing anything worth hunting. They’d taken potshots at the Waisrabbits and spotted a distant herd of something, but the animals had moved off when they’d seen the Silver Swords approaching.
Falene had been at camp; the [Merchants] had ordered her to keep flame spells going. She looked up.
“The deserter’s dead. Or bleeding. One of the [Guards] shot an arrow through their shoulder.”
Ylawes stared at her. He dismounted hard and almost fell over. When he went to find the [Merchants], none of them answered their doors.
“Go track down the deserter, Captain Ylawes. Find something to hunt.”
He tried to pound Yorrned’s door down and found those black lines on his arm. Ylawes snarled then.
“Silver Swords! Mount up!”
He was almost to the horses when one of them called out.
“Leave one member of your team, Captain!”
 
——
 
They left Falene behind. Ylawes took the entire team of Vuliel Drae with him and left Poke Duo behind. Larr was muttering.
“He’s got food in that wagon.”
“Who?”
“Yorrned. I smell it.”
Of course he does. Ylawes said nothing. They rode hard, letting the horses follow the scent Larr picked up on. The deserter had hours on them, but it didn’t matter.
 
——
 
“Troll’s blood.”
Dawil cursed when they saw the remains of the body. There wasn’t much. Ylawes didn’t even get down; he just stared at the churned up ground.
“Landsharks?”
“Has to be. Poor bastard.”
Dawil got down and stared at the churned ground, then up at Ylawes.
“They shot him for trying to run. Lad—Ylawes, maybe you should have had us charge.”
The rest of Vuliel Drae had been staring at the remains of the body. Insill twisted around in shock.
“Wait, you could move?”
Ylawes had taken a step back while the contract was binding him. He rotated one shoulder.
“Barely. If I activated my Skill, I’d have gotten a charge off. Dawil?”
“I could have managed a throw. I reckon Pointy’s tongue was bound, but she can cast incantation-less.”
That was the level difference. However, Ylawes shook his head.
“It would have been a fight with all their bodyguards, Dawil. Could they compel the expedition to fight against us…? If we were that slow, I wouldn’t relish a chance against Salamander.”
“You think he’d take their side?”
“I don’t know. Besides—how would we explain that? The Merchant’s Guild would call it treachery.”
As Ylawes had seen it, the Consortium was desperate. They were doing what was bordering on criminal to keep his team here. But if he attacked, the pendulum swung the other way, and the Silver Swords would fail any truth spell raised about the [Merchants].
Lose lose. His hope was to do the right thing and just—last ten more days. But he had to actually sit down a second.
“We need food.”
“There just aren’t enough animals around here, Captain. I’m sorry. I’ve looked, but I feel like we might have scared them away ourselves. That or whatever likes to live here just isn’t big enough to eat.”
Larr gestured hopelessly at the rocky terrain, and Ylawes nodded, head still bowed.
“That or the tail-end of winter is a truly stupid time to hunt for game if we’re not [Hunters]. I know one animal that’s big enough, though. And how to lure it.”
Pekona inhaled and stared down at the corpse. Nailren’s comment echoed in Ylawes’ mind.
Blood for Landsharks. 
 
——
 
The Consortium had been staying away from the rest of the expedition. So when Ylawes went to find them, he knew where to look. Five wagons, all parked close together, near the food wagon with a heavier presence of Salamander’s [Guards].
All six [Merchants] did not want to discuss the stockades with Ylawes. He was told—by Yorrned through a door—to ‘get back to hunting’.
