Ah. Vuliel Drae caught on at last. The trees would slow a Landshark given their size, and Ylawes reconfirmed the plan. Draw one off if there were multiple, then ambush it from three directions, boxing it in and keeping everyone but Ylawes and Dawil mobile.
Only when someone raised a paw did Ylawes realize he’d forgotten Larr. He instructed the Gnoll to stay at range.
“Am I missing any Skills that would be useful?”
Anith was largely out of power, and Dasha and Pekona were straight warriors, but Insill raised a hand.
“I could, uh…do a pit trap if you want, Captain Ylawes.”
“And I can use a rope Skill. It anchors something.”
Larr offered. Ylawes rubbed his chin.
“No pit trap. The last thing we need is for it to burrow under us. The rope Skill…try to hook its mouth or arm, Larr. Legs, everyone. Then go for the eyes.”
“Got it.”
Vuliel Drae sat back, and Ylawes settled in to wait. He found a comfortable spot on the rocks and waited…waited…
Dead gods, he’d forgotten how long hunting took. 
 
——
 
At some point he must have dozed off, because he woke up when someone whispered.
“Captain. We have animals. Should we attack?”
Ylawes sat up as Pekona shook his arm. He looked around, and she pointed and blinked.
Of all the times to find grazing herd animals, now was the time? That was irony. He could recognize irony when it introduced itself to him like that.
And of all the animals…he stared and realized why Pekona was dubious. Dawil was also asleep, but he sat up as Ylawes nudged him.
“Huh? Wuzzat? What the—shave me bald and call me a half-Elf. Lad, I’m beginning to think most of the animals in the New Lands are former sea creatures.”
“Lots, probably. Uh. Are they edible?”
The rest of Vuliel Drae were waking up and staring at their guests. The herd was coming their way slowly. It looked like they were actually after the trees, but they were inspecting the horses, which had been holding still in case the Landsharks attacked. The Silver Swords and Vuliel Drae were camouflaged in the rocks, but somehow the herd was approaching them.
Well, Ylawes didn’t bother to keep hidden. He stood up slowly and eyed a pack…a crawl? What did you call a gathering of giant…snails?
That was what they were. Giant snails. They had huge, multi-colored shells, and the biggest one had to be ten feet tall! The smaller ones were as high as his midriff, and there might have been fifty…oozing along the ground.
“Snails.”
The horses and adventurers stared, and one of the horses actually trotted forwards and peered at the snails as if as incredulous as the adventurers. Ylawes whistled, and it trotted back, but only after giving the snails a sniff.
The horses, skittish of most things, were about as fearful of the snails as Ylawes. He seriously doubted they were a threat…they moved faster than regular snails, but only at snail-velocity. So a walking pace at best.
“How did those things survive the winter? Eugh! Away, away!”
Larr was grossed out by them and backed behind Dasha, but she just snorted.
“I bet those shells are warm. Hey…is this a stroke of luck or what? Looks like dinner just came to us!”
She looked around and met dubious looks from everyone else. The snails paused, their stalk-eyes waving left and right, as if inspecting the adventurers.
“Eat them? Are you mad?”
Larr was horrified. Dasha rolled her eyes.
“Larr, you’re always lecturing us that real Gnolls eat this or do that and we’re soft. This is the first thing I’ve ever seen that you won’t eat besides bugs.”
“Yeah. Because they’re snails. I don’t eat those! That’s speciesist.”
Anith looked exasperated.
“You two—hush! Captain, what do we do?”
“Eat…snails? Are they even edible?”
The thought of killing the snails was more gross than appealing, even hungry as he was. Besides—Ylawes glanced at the blood staining the trees. They’d drawn blood from the horses, and that had been a chore. Did they give up the hunt or…?
The snails swiveled around and seemed to back away from the adventurers now they were arguing, or perhaps they somehow sensed their fates might be to die here. But Ylawes wasn’t sold on the concept.
“Dawil, are they edible? You’ve lived longer than me.”
“Search me, lad. I’ve not heard of it. Anyone know? Anith? Pekona?”
The Jackal Beastkin was not enthusiastic as he eyed one ‘fleeing’ snail.
“I…vaguely recall something like that? A delicacy. Not one Beastkin would enjoy. Or was it slugs?”
Pekona grimaced.
“Does it matter? Also, we don’t eat them. I don’t.”
Anith shrugged.
“If you can eat one…”
“What if you go blind from eating them, though? I bet they’re toxic.”
That comment drew Ylawes up short. Everyone turned and glared at Insill.
“What’s your basis for that?”
Anith demanded, and the shorter Drake held up his claws.
“I dunno. Just…what if? They’re slimy, right? Could be toxic.”
The odds of a snail being toxic seemed as high as a toad…which was to say Ylawes did know some varieties were nasty. He wavered.
“Let’s—wait and see if the bait works. If not, snails.”
He sat down and quickly found himself tired. Ylawes drifted off again.
 
——
 
When he woke up, somehow, rather insultingly, the snail herd was gone. It was incredible they could escape anything at the pace they moved, and for a second, Ylawes seriously regretted letting them go—until he realized what had woken him was the sound of the Landsharks.
All of Vuliel Drae woke up when they heard the ektch-etktch sound, scratchy but huge, coming from the huge, hulking things. Ylawes sat up slowly behind the rocks and saw them coming up the hill.
Nine of them. They were huge with mouths that could bite him in half full of teeth.
“They’re as big as the largest shark I’ve eaten.”
Pekona whispered, visibly nervous.
How big a shark have you…? Larr slapped a paw over Insill’s mouth. Everyone tensed as Ylawes noted how they were built.
They had…altered somehow, and they had strange, fin-like legs and ‘arms’. They were engorged with muscle, and though the Landsharks looked clumsy, he had seen them tear up the earth fast. It did seem like they weren’t built for longevity, though; they had waddled up the hill, but when they got close to the trees marked with blood, they dove forwards, wriggling forwards at incredible speed and biting in a frenzy. But the frenzied biting only lasted for seconds at most, and they seemed notably slower afterwards.
Of course, all they found among the trees was blood, and they smashed about, hitting the fragile-looking trees, which were actually fairly resilient; a few were knocked over, but after five minutes, the Landsharks spat out the earth and seemed to realize there wasn’t prey here.
They began to waddle off, and Ylawes called out.
“That one in the back—Insill, Larr.”
The two Silver-ranks took aim at one of the Landsharks caught on a tree. It snapped a few times at the branch—then made a weird exhalation-grunt as they shot an arrow into one leg.
It didn’t howl; it didn’t seem capable of it. The furious snapping and guttural exhalations were all it made for sound. Though those were loud enough.
The other Landsharks turned when they heard the pain and smelled the blood. They bit at the wounded shark, but it snapped back, defending itself. After a few headbutts—they backed off and began to head away.
Leaving the wounded shark slower and behind. Excellent. Ylawes didn’t see much pack solidarity among the sharks. He waited until the group had gained more distance, then whistled again.
Both adventurers popped up and took a second shot. Insill missed; Larr did not. Now, the shark-monster had arrows through both knees. It wasn’t a lot of damage given its size; it was huge, and Ylawes’ stomach growled as he licked his lips.
But it did piss the shark-thing off. It went tearing around mindlessly, and Ylawes let it whuff around for a few minutes—then cautiously stood up.
The Landshark didn’t see him until he waved at it a few times, but when it did—it began waddling at him with that deceptively slow pace. Ylawes glanced down the hill, but the rest of the pack was headed away. He backed up.
“Alright. I’m going to drag it uphill and give the pack at least fifteen more minutes if we can. Slow…slow…”
Thus began the slowest-game of cat and mouse that was quite hard on him—mostly from the tension. The Landshark clearly didn’t want to burst into motion until it was within range; it was wounded, and Ylawes wanted to encourage it, so he kept about two hundred feet between them.
Fifteen minutes was a long time. He did a huge circle of the hillside and noticed the shark waddling faster and faster until Dawil signaled him. Ylawes had never been more grateful to jog into the strand of trees and halt.
The Landshark seemed to think this was its chance and dove forwards, writhing left-right along the ground in a thrashing motion that still propelled it forwards at amazing speed. It was erratic, the mouth opening and closing, and thus highly dangerous—Ylawes tried to judge the pattern as he shouted.
“[Knight’s Challenge]. [Shield of Valor]…now, now! Oof!”
The impact was so heavy it sent him back a few paces, and he grimaced. His shield was definitely not magical any more. But Vuliel Drae and Dawil charged at the Landshark as it halted, and here, at least, they were adventurers.
Dawil’s hammer cracked the Landshark on one knee as Dasha swung an axe at it. She and Insill stabbed and hacked as Anith jolted the thing with lightning—Ylawes felt a slight charge run up his arm and shouted.
“No lightning! No acid—”
The thrashing shark tried to rotate, but Ylawes smacked it in the face and stabbed with his sword, hewing off part of its snout, but he was mostly there to keep it focused on him. He was about to tell the others to draw enough blood and maybe pull back when Pekona leapt.
[She Danced in Moonlight’s Grace].
Ylawes had never actually seen the Skill—it wasn’t a set form like most Blade Arts he knew. Rather, it seemed like he saw a pale ray passing by his right shoulder, like a spotlight, and a quicksilver sword slashed down the Landshark’s side.
A curving, vertical cut that switched to a horizontal stroke followed by another diagonal—Pekona spun past the shark’s right flank, cutting fast, the [Sword Dancer]’s blade lacerating the thick hide. The shark curved and snapped at her—and she spun aside.
So that’s what she meant. Attack and defend. Ylawes took that moment to stab at the shark’s eye. He missed—but Larr pierced one eye, and Dawil hammered it across the chest. By the time Ylawes drove his sword through the other eye, it was dead.
For such a big creature, having seven adventurers go after it was still overkill, even tired as they were. Ylawes actually suspected a Rock Crab would have been a worse fight.
“It’s aggressive, but we got it. Nice going, everyone. Let’s get that signal down to the camp. I want it in the pot and cooking!”
Ylawes stared at the huge fish-monster, and humanoid attributes or not, he was licking his lips.
“Shark’s good.”
Pekona’s mouth was watering as she checked her curved blade and sheathed it. The rest of Vuliel Drae actually began carving pieces off the shark and looked to Anith for a flame before Ylawes told the Beastkin to send a message.
 
——
 
They were cooking bloody pieces of the shark over a fire when Salamander and half the camp turned up. Dragging the shark down was hard work, but they had ropes, hands—and the willpower of the starving.
The Consortium dashed out to see the kill, and Votto was wiping at his eyes as he produced a cleaver.
“I need to carve it up—does it have bones? Water. How much water do we have?”
Not as much as they wanted. A stew was out, Votto realized, so he just called for pans to be used over the single fire Falene had conjured.
All activity stopped while people gathered around for the meat, impatient despite the pans crowding around the fire. Falene snapped at people waiting.
“No, I’m not doing two fires. This is as hot as I can manage. Give me that.”
She grabbed the first ‘shark steak’ and began to eat it with her bare fingers before one of the [Merchants] got it. Ylawes hesitated. He’d somewhat filled his stomach before they began hauling the shark, so he let other people get in front of him…then decided he’d better line up in case he was last.
The only people who weren’t almost brawling to get at the food, Ylawes realized, were Infinitypear and Rasktooth. The Cave Goblin was eying Falene with a look of respect as she ate so fast she almost threw up.
“Captain, you want us to keep watch still?”
“Get some food—but yes. We still need a rotation.”
The Antinium and Cave Goblin were hungry, but not like the others. Were they still eating something? Rasktooth, for some reason, seemed worried as he sat on Infinitypear’s shoulders and glanced around.
“…Bring shark back to camp is easy to cook. It, uh—only one?”
Ylawes only really heard Rasktooth after he was halfway through a scramble of pieces of meat, still steaming and scalding hot. Part of the hunger-induced fog faded—and he glanced up.
“Ah. We should move the carcass away. In case of…attacks.”
People barely heard him. They were lining up for seconds, and some people had eaten so fast they were physically sick. Ylawes half-rose and noted the light was fading fast.
“Hey! Move the carcass! We need to move it—people!”
All the help he’d had dragging it into camp suddenly became resistance. Ylawes shouted, and they heard, but the expedition did not listen. When he tried to drag at them and move the people carving it up away, they shoved back.
How long Ylawes took before he thought to grab the Silver Swords and have them get the horses ready to pull, he didn’t know. Too long. Twenty minutes?
That was actually a generous amount of time given how long it had taken to haul the dead shark away and cook it up, even briefly. But that ektch-call echoed, and some of the expedition’s people glanced up as they heard a strange whuffing noise in the distance.
“What’s that?”
Merchant Yorrned looked up, and Ylawes swore.
“The pack. Into the wagons. Now!”
“A pack? Well, if we kill them—”
Yorrned began, but Ylawes finally saw them as Infinitypear and Rasktooth waved in alarm, both screaming.
“Eight! Eight!”
Then Ylawes saw the writhing monsters tearing down towards the wagons, and the formation that he’d used on the single Landshark—
Did not work here.
 
——
 
