Tivete fixed Ylawes with a hard stare, but her contract failed to activate, and she was hungry and not thinking straight. No one was.
Mind you, someone who had a nose to the wind might have noticed the adventurers hurrying off and that Ylawes was asking for Petia and people he trusted.
But if he did, Salamander just stood there, waiting, chewing on some boot leather soup. Ylawes did a count of the camp.
The Consortium had their loyal team—[Traders] and personal staff, and with the [Guards], that made up almost forty people. There were almost sixty [Miners]…and Ylawes supposed if the [Farmers] were compelled—
He gave up. What was he, someone who counted the odds? There was right and wrong, and come what may—he exhaled.
 
——
 
“[Merchants] of the Consortium. We’ve found a food source that might last us a week. More if our best adventurers in a survival situation keep foraging. Plus, there’s the fish in the river.”
Ylawes announced as the wagon rolled back, and people stared at the tubeworms—and like him, some began searching for pans or something to eat with.
“Wonderful, Captain! Wait. What is…are they plants?”
Yorrned sounded hopeful, but Ylawes explained briefly what they were.
“Worms…but there’s enough here for a week with rations included! Two if there’s more. Underground warm spots. Why, maybe some of the plants will grow there!”
“Don’t count on it. Smelled off to me. Too many minerals.”
Farmer Petia hooked her thumbs into her overalls, watching Ylawes. The [Knight] nodded.
“Either way, they will last a week. And though we’ve lost many horses—I intend to make for the river with everyone I can soon.”
Tivete glanced up, and Yorrned missed what she sensed.
“If another school of those longfish comes…yes, that will take us to two weeks easily. And that gives us a full Yellat harvest!”
“If they’ve grown as fast as you expect. And if insects or something else doesn’t strike. I don’t intend to find out. I will continue heading east until I find another food source or reach Goisedall. There’s no hope here.”
The Consortium paused—and Salamander sighed. Then Yorrned gave Ylawes a betrayed look.
“Captain, that is a violation of your contract. In nine more days, I grant you, you are free to go pending first negotiation rights—”
First negotiation rights? Falene grimaced, and Anith muttered an oath. Ylawes wasn’t surprised. He saw the Consortium nod at each other as he glanced at his team.
The Silver Swords—all of them—didn’t waver. Ylawes looked from face to face.
Pekona, Larr, Insill, Rasktooth, Dasha, Infinitypear, Falene, Anith…the last was Dawil. Some were scowling at the Consortium, others watching him. Dawil gave Ylawes a nod. The [Knight] turned, shoulders heavy.
“I tried once, Merchant Yorrned. You forced me to back down, and I thought—naïvely—you might be right. This is madness. Perhaps this venture can succeed, but I am telling you, as a Gold-rank adventurer, the risk is too great.”
Yorrned strode over to the mine, and it was actually deeper than Ylawes had thought. He gestured at a pile of dirt and stone next to it.
“Captain Ylawes, this is all good copper ore. It might not look like it to you, but it’s piled up, and Homle and his fantastic crew have been pulling it out in droves! They’re all due for a bonus—a hefty one, mind you!”
Homle nodded as his eyes ventured to the mine.
“‘S true. It’s easy to mine out. We’d make a fortune if we were back home. I think we even found that seam—it’s not a cave, so either that monster’s small or it’s not a monster that Miss Falene says is stealing magic. Can’t tell how deep it is, though, but we can go quick.”
Merchant Yorrned gestured to Ylawes as if to say ‘there, you see?’ But he’d missed Homle’s inflection. The [Miner] glanced at Ylawes, and the [Knight] shook his head.
“There’s no one to sell to. We are leaving.”
“You cannot. The Merchant’s Guild will back us, Captain Ylawes, and you are under contract.”
Lolsed replied calmly. The man was ready for an argument, but someone interrupted him with a sigh.
“Lolsed. It’s over.”
Anlam sat down slowly as he looked at Ylawes. His eyes flicked over the [Farmers], the adventurers—and the Consortium rounded on him.
“Nothing is over. We have a contract, Anlam!”
Yorrned insisted, raising his voice. Anlam just stared at Ylawes.
“The Silver Swords can run it out. It was worth a shot when we still thought hunting Landsharks was viable. Lolsed—”
The other [Merchant] ignored him and pointed a finger at Ylawes.
“Enforcing the contract doesn’t require all of us. Don’t press this issue, Captain Ylawes.”
The rest of the Consortium lifted their hands, but Ylawes gave Lolsed a thin smile.
“I believe you’ll find that there is a clause under the Adventurer’s Guild contracts that allows my team to remove themselves if we pay a forfeit of fifty gold coins or take a loss equivalent to a fifth of our valuation, whichever is higher, Merchant Lolsed. I wasn’t aware of this, but Poke Duo has a copy of the Adventurer’s Manual, and Insill confirmed that for me when he searched your caravan. Feel free to confirm that if you wish.”
Lolsed paled suddenly, and all the [Merchants] swung to him in alarm.
“There is? Lolsed—”
“One moment.”
Lolsed looked at Ylawes and backed away to his caravan. As Ylawes stood there, Vuliel Drae grinned and thumped Insill on the back.
“Good going, you stupid [Rogue].”
Larr whispered, and Insill beamed around, somewhat confused.
“Thanks! But I didn’t get a good look at it. We have an Adventurer’s Manual? Who knew?”
Ylawes’ face was straight. Anith’s head slowly turned to the [Knight], and Dawil walked forwards, sighing.
“Lad…”
“Let me handle anything, Dawil. It can’t be a bloodbath.”
Ylawes felt a kind of regret, but it was distant. He wasn’t angry…at least, he realized, not angry in the sense of punching things or throwing a tantrum.
Politeness. You kept anger deep inside, locked in a vault of silver, and maybe it eventually burst through you like it did with Yvlon. Or you let it out and just left like Ysara.
Did his father get angry? Exasperated, but now Ylawes wanted to know. He stood there, and all of his anger and frustration and words unsaid were in a single thing.
It was as Lolsed strode out, waving the contract. A furious look of triumph on his face, and Tivete swung around in sudden comprehension and alarm.
“There’s no clause like that, Captain Ylawes! Now, cease—”
“Watch out!”
All of Ylawes’ fury was in a hand raising, the gleam of metal—and the sharpest edge in the world. But not his hand.
Dawil raised the edge of the axe, his axe, crafted by the finest smiths in the world, broken—but still his. And the [Axe Champion] focused on the fluttering scroll and threw.
The edge of the axe tip was no longer attached to the handle, but the Dwarf still flicked it through the air, faster than the entire weapon itself. It whirled with a soft sound, and Ylawes didn’t even hear it shear through the contract. He only saw it tear in two as Lolsed recoiled in horror.
The edge of the axe went straight through Lolsed’s wagon wall and stopped somewhere in there. Dawil lowered his hand, and Ylawes nodded.
“We are breaking the contract. Don’t stop us.”
In the silence, the Consortium gazed down at the broken contract—then raised their hands. The word-chains appeared again, but they were thin…breaking as they encircled the Silver Swords. Ylawes snapped the ones on his right arm with a grimace, took a step.
“I’m going to need that piece of my axe back. Ladies, gentlemen. Don’t make this difficult.”
Dawil rumbled as he hefted his hammer. Tivete glanced around.
“You’re not the only ones under contract! Members of the expedition, stop them! Salamander, defend us!”
Ylawes gritted his teeth as he saw Homle start, and word-chains dragged him forwards against his will. This is what he’d been afraid of. Salamander walked forwards and lifted his sword.
“Release them, Merchant Tivete. Or I will consider you a threat.”
The [Knight] pointed his sword at her, and the [Mechant] backed away.
“You’d murder an honest civilian in cold blood?”
“Knock you out—perhaps. If a single member of this expedition dies—by House Byres’ honor and silver and steel, you will pay for it in blood. I swear it.”
His blade felt quite cold as he gripped his shield tighter. Ylawes took another step, and Dawil strode at a bunch of [Guards] who hesitated as the Dwarf hefted his hammer.
“Lads, I’d slow down if I were you. Landsharks you’re not.”
Vuliel Drae struggled after them, but Falene drew a shortsword and lifted her staff. Which was mostly posturing—but it worked as she joined Dawil.
Ylawes walked at the Consortium, and Salamander raised his sword.
“Sorry, Captain. Loyalty’s a weird thing.”
“Did they earn it?”
Ylawes halted a good two dozen paces away from Salamander. The [Elite Guard] set himself, and he held the sword in a careful guard, Ylawes saw. He looked steady, and Ylawes had to break the word-chains every step.
Salamander’s eyes flickered, and Tivete had a hand raised, but no bonds were around his arms.
“—We might strike a fortune.”
He gazed at Ylawes with that faint light in his eyes the Consortium all had. Ylawes exhaled.
“Any good adventurer knows one thing if they make it to Gold-rank, Salamander.”
“Which is?”
Ylawes lifted his sword and saluted Salamander.
“When to run away.”
The two stared at each other as Salamander exhaled—and Ylawes leapt forwards as the man began to inhale.
[The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel]. He burst out of the Consortium’s grasp on him and came across the ground like a bolt of steel. A [Knight] leaping at Salamander, who swore and swung with a shout.
“[Fiery Arc]—”
Ylawes caught the Skill on his shield and pivoted. His sword, pale metal, drove through Salamander’s armor. If it had been enchanted still…
The Graveblade might have still hewn through it. As it was, Ylawes saw his blade pierce the man’s leg, deep, and Salamander turned deathly white. He tried to remove the blade, and Ylawes pivoted, keeping it in the leg, prepared to slice—
“Argh! Aaah! St—”
The [Elite Guard]’s face was draining of color rapidly. He tried to get away, shove at Ylawes—but the [Knight] pressed Salamander back with his shield. Then Salamander tried to grab the blade—and his hands scrabbled weakly at it.
“It’s cold—”
He collapsed, and Ylawes pulled the blade out, quickly, and saw red blood running down the tip. For a leg wound—the [Elite Guard] lay on his back, pale as a sheet.
The Graveblade still has magic in it? Ylawes blinked at it and saw Salamander’s face ruddying a bit, but he was breathing faintly.
“Insill. Get a bandage on that.”
Ylawes shook the blood off the blade. He advanced, and the Consortium froze up. Ylawes lifted a sword to Tivete’s chin, and she raised it.
“You—have made a terrible mistake, Captain Ylawes. You have broken your contract, and we will collect on it.”
“We’ll leave you some of the rations. Anyone who wishes to go will come with us. Hand over the contracts.”
“And if we refuse?”
Ylawes gazed at Lolsed, and the man swallowed hard, as if trying to guess if Ylawes would stab him. The [Knight] just shook his head.
“I will knock you flat then burn down your wagon. Actually—Rasktooth? Start a fire.”
The Cave Goblin rubbed his hands together as Lolsed paled. Maybe they had backup contracts. He began to protest, then run—and Falene tripped him. She looked around.
“Who’s coming with us?”
 
——
 
In the end, some people stayed. That unsettled Ylawes as much as his actions so far.
The Consortium weren’t silent. Though it took Dasha having to punch Jobbi when he tried to stop them from setting fire to their wagon. That kept them from trying to fight—but they kept talking.
“A hundred gold pieces to any man or woman who stays!”
“We will not be coming back.”
Ylawes spoke over the Consortium—and he saw the expedition split. Nearly a third, from people the [Merchants] knew personally like Chef Votto to the junior [Traders] and some of the [Miners] and [Farmers], stayed.
Homle, Petia, and the bulk of the others were ready to go. They’d have to go on foot, and as Ylawes promised, they’d left the meager rations behind. Petia pointed at the fields.
“Dig up the Yellats in ten days, minimum. Cut them lengthwise here and here—to resow. You do two halves per each Yellat. If you can make them last and fish—you might make it.”
Not all the [Merchants] were listening. Jobbi and Raeta were weeping and cursing them. Tivete had begged to save her magical items and was protecting them behind her, eyes wide and trembling. Lolsed was clutching at his chest, staring at his burning documents…Yorrned just stared at Ylawes with a twisted snarl.
Merchant Anlam was on his knees, staring at his home in flames. Anlam looked up as Salamander listened to Petia. He was writing it down on some paper that he’d asked for. Ylawes looked at him.
“You can leave.”
“Someone’s got to guard them. They could be right.”
They’re not. Ylawes just met the man’s eyes as Salamander winced and felt at his bloody leg.
“Insill, hand Salamander one of the potions you found before you torched the caravans.”
They had four now, counting the one Ylawes had used for Dawil and Homle. He’d never been as grateful for four as now. Insill hesitated—but forked one over, and Salamander drank a bit and sighed.
Ylawes offered him a hand.
“Good luck.”
He meant it. Homle scratched at his head, glancing at Petia. She was giving the remaining [Farmers] advice—and the [Miner] did likewise.
“Whatever Miss Falene wants, it’s straight down—we marked it out with some chalk. Mind how you dig…reckon it’s safer for you lot to just do a pit mine.”
Salamander shrugged, face blank.
“We’ll see.”
They were about to leave when someone interrupted them. He came stumbling after them, desperate, holding nothing but a few changes of clothes they’d let him salvage.
“Take—take me with you. Please.”
Merchant Anlam, who’d broken from the Consortium at the last moment, got stares like hard ice from most of the expedition. He looked at them, then dropped to his knees.
“Please. You’re right. This expedition is not going to last without you.”
“Captain Ylawes, he’s part of the reason why you stayed! If anyone’s going to be a drag on us, it’s him.”
Homle growled. Ylawes stared hard at Anlam and remembered their limited conversations. Nothing changed the outcome—but the [Merchant] plucked at his clothes and showed them a bulging bag of coin.
