Everyone looked down at the orb in Falene’s hand. Ylawes stared—then squinted at it, and Dawil peered for a good look—then stood on his tiptoes.
The Dwarf stared at Falene’s hand as she held it just over head height for him. He stomped on her foot. She almost cast a spell—then slapped his helmet and yelped.
At least they could still bicker. When Falene lowered the orb for all to see, Ylawes finally saw what Rasktooth had noticed.
Tiny particles of the light orb spell were breaking off and drifting away. Not aimlessly either; they were slowly, slowly moving eastwards and drifting down, not at the rate even a feather would fall.
“What’s going on?”
Falene looked smug as they turned to her.
“Not many [Mages] would notice the mana drain has a direction to it. Let alone be able to diffuse a spell like that.”
“Yes, yes. Ceria couldn’t do what you can do while balancing a ball on your nose and tap dancing. What’s it mean, Pointy? Is something taking your mana? Or someone?”
Ylawes’ hair stirred, and he had a sudden thought.
“This reminds me of the way the Drakes took the Gnolls’ mana.”
Falene and Dawil stared at Ylawes, and the [Battlemage] frowned deeply.
“It’s not the same.”
“You’re sure?”
She had to think for a second and brushed her hair out of her eyes.
“Firstly, it’s not a spell. I think; I’d notice the magic. It could be a massive zone caused by a Skill, but the origin can be located. If it was ambient, it would be—this is something pulling my magic away. Let’s speculate. If this was in a dungeon, I’d say that it was the dungeon’s mana source or a trap aiming to provoke us into following it. So maybe someone left a magical spell…underwater…that Kishkeria’s magic brought up?”
She gave Dawil a look, and he shrugged.
“Monster, then.”
“More than one. Look.”
Once again, Rasktooth pointed out what even Falene had missed. Almost all of the light particles were drifting one way…but a few were holding still or even moving another way. Falene rolled her eyes.
“Multiple sources of the mana drain. Wonderful. That mostly rules out a caster or person. I suspect there are lots of them—or at least, we’re closer to one that’s affecting our magic, Ylawes.”
“So we move away from it. Or we find out what it is.”
The [Knight] liked this. If they could get out of range of whatever this mana drain spell or effect was, maybe they’d be able to salvage their gear? He turned to Falene and put two fingers in his mouth.
The whistle attracted Vuliel Drae as well as Salamander, who’d come back from a ride. Ylawes waved him over, much to the [Guard]’s surprise.
“Salamander. Falene thinks whatever’s draining magic is coming from a spot. I want her to teach Anith how to locate whatever is doing it—Anith, take Larr, Dawil, and Pekona. Falene, you’ll go with Dasha and…Insill. I want you two scouting tomorrow for spots where the mana drain is—and maybe somewhere we can replenish our magic. Salamander, if you can lend us some of your [Guards] to make up for the adventurers absence, that would be fine.”
That did cheer up the adventurers, to have a clear goal, and Salamander gave Ylawes the first grin.
“If you take one of the [Prospectors] too, we can do that.”
Ylawes nodded firmly. The only trouble was getting the plan by the [Merchants], who didn’t like two of the ‘real’ Silver Swords leaving the expedition undefended. But when Ylawes pointed out they might save all the magic items, they agreed.
 
 
Day 25 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The first attacks on the caravan came from the sky—and not in the way Ylawes expected. He was watching the only adventurers under his command left to guard the expedition.
Namely, Infinitypear and Rasktooth. The [Merchants] had taken one look at their Bronze-rank defenders and insisted Salamander leave more [Guards] to defend them.
Most of the camp was quiet. The [Miners] had been eating half-rations with the [Farmers] for days, and the kitchen staff, [Handlers], and various other people moved around sluggishly.
Hungry. Ylawes was grateful he didn’t have to ration food, though he was keenly aware of eyes on his team. More than once, he regretted not saving more of the forever stew…at least they had water. And fire.
They could have had Infinitypear and Rasktooth standing guard, but Ylawes had observed that guarding really was standing around and waiting for something to happen. So he’d let the two dig in the ground as long as they didn’t waste energy.
It kept them entertained, and they were young. They had a pile of dirt that some people had wandered over to stare at—but whatever the two were digging up had made most people hurry away—fast.
“Is good eat. We get fire?”
“Yah, yah. Is very good eat.”
They were whispering, and Ylawes had sworn he’d seen Rasktooth munching on something. Ylawes had just had breakfast, and the last thing he needed to do in front of Homle or Petia was upchuck his meal.
But he had to know…what they were finding. Ylawes was steeling himself to walk over, but he halted with the pit just out of sight.
“Rasktooth. Infinitypear. What are you, ah, doing?”
They jumped, and Rasktooth kicked dirt over something.
“Nothing gross!”
“Nothing disgusting, Captain Ylawes.”
Infinitypear peeked over the lip of the hole. Ylawes smiled.
“Have you found anything interesting?”
“Maybe something edible. We eat? Help other people not eat.”
Rasktooth offered. Ylawes hesitated.
“…Is it something everyone could eat?”
The two conferred, eyed Ylawes, and clearly remembering the bug incident. Rasktooth called back.
“…Probably not. Is, uh…is not something non-Goblins or non-Antinium like. Tastes like…what tastes like, Infinitypear?”
“Um. Hot dogs.”
Infinitypear named the item Erin liked to sell at the inn. Ylawes brightened up. That didn’t sound—
“Hot dogs and fireplace ash.”
“Ah. Not so appetizing?”
Rasktooth was muttering as he cut a chunk of something…pale…and stuffed it into a pocket.
“Tastes like food. [Natural Seasonings] and fry up on pan? Very tasty, you bet. You want to see, Captain-guy?”
Don’t throw up, don’t throw up—Ylawes braced himself and was never more grateful for the shout.
“Help! My food! Captain Ylawes, monsters!”
It came from Merchant Yorrned; Ylawes whirled, and Rasktooth looked up in alarm. People were shouting and pointing at the sky.
“Rasktooth, Infinitypear, behind me. Call out if you see it!”
Ylawes waited a beat for Rasktooth to pull himself onto Infinitypear’s shoulders, then they were running to find the [Guards]. Ylawes had his sword drawn and wished he had a Skill to detect enemies. There were shouts of alarm—no screams.
My [Dangersense] isn’t going off. What’s—
A flash of light burst upwards from the camp, and Ylawes thought it was a [Flare] spell—but instead, as he held a hand over his eyes, he realized it was turning. Curving…and then he saw something fluttering down.
It was…a piece of lettuce. It dropped from the glowing beacon of light, and Rasktooth aimed a crossbow up, squinting.
“My eyes hurt. What that bright shit?”
“I have no eyelids. It doubly hurts.”
Infinitypear actually put his hands over his eyes. Ylawes squinted and saw another flash—then, in the dazzled afterimages, something swooped down and grabbed the piece of lettuce out of the air. It curved past him as Rasktooth tried to track it, pulled a trigger, and shot a bolt that went wide. There was another flash—
A bird?
Yes, a small bird, nowhere near as large as a falcon, probably half as large at most—and another diving down into the center of the camp. There were more shouts—then Ylawes saw another flash of light.
“My eyes!”
“My lunch! Shoot the wretched things!”
Merchant Yorrned was shouting. Ylawes strode past the outer wagons and saw the ‘attack’ in progress. It was funny—right up until it wasn’t.
Cook Votto was defending a cooking station, and Merchant Yorrned was trying to protect what was left of a sandwich. All around him, birds were diving down fearlessly, snatching ingredients, and whenever someone swatted at them, they would explode into radiance, their feathers lighting up.
“Creona Flashbirds.”
Ylawes instantly recognized them. They could be nothing else.
He had actually never seen one before. They were wide-chested with a stray feather with a purple dot hanging off the back of their head and bright yellow, blue, or green feathers that shone whenever they were agitated or in danger. An orange pattern around their eyes gave them a masked look—and there were probably two dozen snatching everyone’s lunch.
It was less funny when Ylawes realized it was a meal they were chowing down on. Yorrned shouted at Ylawes.
“Captain Ylawes, do something!”
How? Rasktooth was trying to wing the Creona Flashbirds, but they were dancing around in complicated arcs, and Ylawes called out.
“No one fire an arrow—you’ll hit someone! [Knight’s Challenge]!”
He raised his shield, and the birds swerved as one as he tried to taunt them. They regarded Ylawes—then scattered away from him.
Well, that didn’t work. His Skill only worked if his enemies wanted to fight. And without Falene or Larr…Ylawes shouted.
“Get inside, and they’ll stop attacking! Rasktooth, Infinitypear, grab that table. They’re Creona Flashbirds! Not a threat!”
“Did you say Creona Flashbirds? They’re worth gold pieces for their feathers! Someone get a net!”
Instantly, one of the other [Merchants] poked their heads up and began ordering the [Guards] to catch the birds. Several people in the caravans tried to, but they hadn’t a hope of nabbing the agile things, especially not half-blind.
The ‘attack’ was over as soon as the food went away, but the disgruntled [Merchants] demanded to have their lunch remade. Which led a number of people to protest they’d missed their lunch when a bird had nabbed it. One of the [Farmers] glared at the [Merchants] and [Chef] alike.
“You don’t need a second lunch. If you’re remaking it, why don’t you give it to people who’ve barely had anything, hmm?”
Chef Votto was not well liked at this moment, and the man stood back as Ylawes was left, once more, to try and make peace. The [Merchants] gave him a meaningful look. He met the eyes of the caravaners and spoke.
“Why don’t we have Chef Votto prepare what’s left for anyone who didn’t get their lunch? The [Merchants] can have a half-ration.”
“But I barely—”
Yorrned protested, and Ylawes shot him a polite smile.
“—And the Silver Swords as well. I haven’t had lunch. How’s that for fair?”
Homle grunted.
“Good enough.”
There was a disquiet among the Consortium, but one pointed look from Ylawes and the [Merchants] turned their attention to the birds.
“Perhaps we could bait one down and catch it? It is worth good money. An entire flock of them is exceptionally rare. You’d have [Hunters] lining up for even a half dozen!”
That seemed to occupy them. Infinitypear rubbed at his stomach as Votto handed Ylawes a sandwich and a half. The Antinium whispered to Rasktooth and then told Ylawes to keep the sandwich.
“We are not hungry, Captain Ylawes. Please eat for us.”
“Are you sure? Have half a sandwich at least.”
The two were only too happy to chow down, and Infinitypear sat with Ylawes, nibbling on his portion. Ylawes was touched by them trying to keep him fed, but they assured him they’d nibbled on a lot of…whatever they’d found.
“They will not catch the birds. I know this.”
Infinitypear watched as the [Merchants] tried to coax a Flashbird down with a net and some bows ready for the trap. They were using, Ylawes saw with a groan, a piece of bread.
“Why not?”
The Antinium almost never said things in the definitive. He was…timid. Rasktooth was not, but Infinitypear seemed confident in this one thing.
“Bird the Liar has hunted Creona Flashbirds before. He says he can hit the bird three in ten times. If he cannot, they cannot.”
That…was pretty compelling as statements went. Ylawes watched as one of the Flashbirds swooped down. It landed, and the [Merchants] tried to pull a net over it. The bird escaped the slow-moving net in a moment. When a [Guard] shot an arrow at it, Ylawes saw it twirl around the arrow, blind everyone, and fly away.
 
——
 
The Flashbird incident proved to be one of two interesting things that day. The second was that when the scouting teams came back, they finally had news.
The snows had well and truly begun to melt, and so everyone was muddy and cold. Salamander reported one of the horses had gone for a tumble and was limping, but thankfully hadn’t broken anything.
“I think we found something, Ylawes. The [Prospector] sensed it at the same time as I did—for different reasons. Only—we need to convene the [Merchants].”
Falene was excited and worried in equal measures. Anith and Dawil had come back with less good news, and Anith raised a paw.
“Nowhere’s free of the magic drain, Captain Ylawes. We tried going away from it, but even when it was at its weakest, there was another pull.”
“Damn stuff’s got range. What did you find, Pointy?”
The [Prospector] was mixing with Homle and the others, offering a tube of sample dirt, and Ylawes heard louder voices from their side.
“Copper? I suppose it’s something. And you think there’s a cave or something down there? Could be a good start, could be—you sure it’s not Adamantium?”
But their body language indicated disappointment. The [Merchants] murmured, shielding their mouths with their hands, but Ylawes saw the [Prospector] pointing to her.
“What did you find, Falene?”
The half-Elf looked at Ylawes, serious.
“Something very near to that copper deposit’s draining my mana, Ylawes. We were almost right on top of it. My spells were being pulled down. How far, I can’t say.”
Interesting. Ylawes blinked.
“Are there gemstones or ores that suck in magic?”
“Very few. If there are any, they’re definitely magical. Magicore won’t do that. Any ore that would is in a book and valuable.”
“Did someone say value? Our [Prospector] says you found hints of a rare item, Mage Falene?”
The Consortium was striding over, all smiles. Ylawes held up a hand.
“Falene sensed something draining her mana. Either a magical gem or stone—”
Huge smiles from the [Merchants]. Raeta beamed, and she hugged Jobbi.
“Is it soulstone? Maybe it’s magicore? That takes mana! Or—or—”
“Or it’s a monster that eats magic. Living underground in a cave system, probably.”
The smiles went away. Ylawes was betting on the latter. Dawil was glancing at Falene.
