Anith, the only member of Vuliel Drae with a bag of holding, had more trouble. Several books were in his bag of holding, and they hit the poor [Mage] at close range.
He had several huge bruises, and his poor horse suffered damage too. They had to chase that animal down. Then—figure out how to grab everything and haul it back to the camp.
Ylawes hadn’t realized how much he was carrying in his bag of holding until now. Everything from spare quills and inkpots to things he’d forgotten he had. Spare clothing, whetstones, a book he’d never returned to Falene—even some silver dust he remembered his father giving him.
In the end, they had to use some of his clothing to lash it to the horses’ backs and walk back. That left them footsore by the time they returned, only to find chaos at camp, too.
“Everything that can’t be stored goes under the wagon. Only perishable goods or something that can’t be rained on in the wagons! I need to finish drawing this Rune of Preservation. Enough!”
Falene was shouting at one of the [Merchants]. Ylawes stared around at piles upon piles of—well, cargo.
All the Chests of Holding had failed. Some spectacularly too. They had been warned about the problem, but there hadn’t been any houses or structures set up, so where could things have been stored?
They should have been stored somewhere else. The worst case was all the ingots Yorrned had brought. They’d exploded out like a weapon of war, and three people who’d been near the wagon were down with broken bones.
The cure for that was a healing potion, but the caravan had only one, and the [Merchants] were upset.
“All my ledgers and my collection of books must be protected from the rains!”
Merchant Lolsed was trying to argue with Falene, but she was drawing something on a wagon. Falene snapped as Ylawes appeared.
“Your bag of holding too? Ylawes, the spells shredded some of the runes. I’m down to two left. Get this idiot away from me.”
“Idiot! Captain, talk to the caravaners.”
“What’s wrong, Master Lolsed?”
Ylawes didn’t understand—until he saw how many goods were being hauled around or lashed under tarps. There was simply…too much to store in a wagon, let alone with people needing to sleep there.
“Under a wagon isn’t good enough. Mine won’t fit anything more. Some of the caravaners must sleep outside.”
The [Merchant] was trying to evict several members of the colony from the wagons. Ylawes stared at him.
“What if we put it in a chest and—”
“My finances are not to be stored in a chest where there’s a chance they’ll get wet! Nor my books!”
“Master Lolsed, this is a disaster!”
“Thank you, Captain Ylawes! Someone can say it! Now, what I need you to do is—”
“Excuse me while I see to the wounded. Then we’ll see about your ledgers.”
Ylawes strode past the man, grim-faced.
 
——
 
The remaining healing potion in the caravan went to the broken bones, a third per injured. Ylawes had been about to offer his potion, but he’d hesitated when the caravaners had argued over what to do.
Rather than say he had one…he hadn’t said a word. They’d looked at him, but Ylawes had held his tongue.
He couldn’t sleep that night for the guilt of it. Falene and Dawil had given him warning looks, but Ylawes had hesitated before that.
We need this potion if we fight monsters. He couldn’t imagine a scenario where they’d go into combat without one.
In fact, he’d taken it off his belt and told Dawil to hide it; the Dwarf had put it on a necklace under his beard. It was duplicitous, uncharitable, but Ylawes had seen Dawil’s look of relief and had articulated what the Dwarf was feeling.
Everything about this is going terribly, terribly wrong.
In the Consortium’s defense, a lot of things hadn’t been their fault for lack of knowing. Carrying fresh food wasn’t wise—but they had Runes of Preservation. They had relied on magic, and magic was letting them all down.
The [Merchants] had shouted and demanded people leave their wagons—then resorted to the only thing that had worked: gold. Six whole wagons had slept outside in exchange for coin; they’d piled up as much merchandise as they could underneath the wagons too, for shelter.
Ylawes sat in the wagon the Silver Swords shared with Infinitypear and Rasktooth and saw Infinitypear sleeping while sitting upright—Rasktooth was curled up next to him. Falene was sitting cross-legged, her head lowered, but hands resting on her knees—her brows were furrowed in concentration.
She was inhaling, slowly, then exhaling, as if drawing something into her. She was close enough that Ylawes thought her body temperature was higher—she was working hard to regain her lost mana today.
Dawil was snoring. Ylawes sat and resolved to head to the river tomorrow for food. Then he heard a sound and glanced up.
A patter made Dawil start, and Rasktooth opened one eye. Falene craned her head back, grimaced, and looked outside. Ylawes heard moans from the camp and sighed.
It was raining.
 
——
 
Ylawes went pacing that night. At first, he did it in the tiny wagon until Falene glared at him, and then he went outside, ostensibly to hand some oiled blankets to the poor people caught in the rain.
They, in return, offered him some water caught by their pots and pans, and he gulped some down; he’d been thirstier since they’d stopped being able to melt snow. He could have gone back to the wagon, but he went for a long walk around the camp.
No one stopped him; Ylawes wandered out from the Consortium’s camp, knowing there was a night watch, both [Guards] and Dasha and Anith, tonight.
Anything out there would be identified as a threat. Ylawes found nothing and kicked around the grass for a while. It was wet, the rain kept pattering on his head, and he found himself walking further out.
Step, step, step, kick—he uprooted a tuft of grass with a kick, revealing dirt. Ordinary soil as far as he could tell. Step, step, step, kick—
He scuffed the yellowed grass. Not hard enough, so the next time he kicked, he uprooted a huge chunk of it. Ylawes wondered if he could find…a bush-creature?
His stomach was tender, and he realized he was hoping he’d see something to eat. Obviously, he could take on any of the other animals he’d seen, and he could share it with the camp—perhaps he’d have Rasktooth cook it up, or the Consortium would demand their share first.
Step. Step. Step…the [Knight]’s kick was so savage this time he jammed his foot into the ground and nearly fell down.
Ylawes decided he was done after that. Grunting, he turned back, realizing there was nothing to hunt out here and he was wasting energy and getting soaked. He began to head back towards the wagons…then blinked.
It was dark and the rain made things harder, even in a drizzle, but Ylawes walked back a few hundred feet, staring at a line of upturned soil. His foot hurt more than he’d thought. He’d kicked a line through the New Lands.
The next day, it was still there, but when someone commented on it, Ylawes pretended not to know what it was all about.
 
 
Day 28 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
Flame spells were out. The camp ate cold, and Ylawes heard Salamander giving orders.
“I want a team of fifteen to get that wagon and haul it back. Chop it up if you need to. Someone else break down a piece of wood. Anything. We need kindling. We need trees—I thought I saw some on the hills ahead. Captain, what are you doing?”
Ylawes stared around outside. The rain hadn’t lasted into morning, but mist hung everywhere, and he saw zero fires. Someone was trying to start one with tinder and flint, but it was too wet.
“I can start one fire for the camp. It won’t last all day. I’ll begin it during the evening and let it last until just after dinner. After that, you need to burn wood.”
Falene announced her intentions and got pushback from the others.
“One fire? We need to dry things out, Miss Mage. If it’s just magic—”
One of the [Farmers] protested, and Falene shot back.
“It’s mana or wood we’re burning, Miss. Neither one is unlimited right now.”
“I’m going for the river. It’s a long ride; we might be back tomorrow if we have to camp out, Salamander. I could search for trees. Which do we need more?”
Ylawes pointed at the foothills, and Salamander didn’t even look around.
“Go fishing, Captain. Alright, let’s get to work!”
 
——
 
It only occurred to Ylawes when they were heading out that he had no bags of holding, no fishing gear, and no experience. He had to tell Vuliel Drae to head back with him.
“We have some hooks, Captain. And nets. The [Merchants] did think we’d have some…let me find it.”
A flustered [Trader] had to locate the gear, then Ylawes had to figure out how they’d bring it all back. He got them to give him a harness and a draft horse; they’d drag a sled behind them if they had to.
Larr, the best rider, traded his horse in, and they set out once more. It was a long journey to the river. Vuliel Drae’s spirits were as damp as the weather, but they did pick up when they saw the first animals near the spring.
“Look! Waisrabbits!”
Insill shot a bow the moment he saw one, but the thing vanished as it nibbled on grass, and Larr called Insill back.
“Don’t even bother taking a shot. Rasktooth got lucky; they’re not worth the meat you get from hunting them. Not enough, and not filling. You can starve on rabbits.”
There were also, Ylawes realized, bugs. Which weren’t his favorite, but he saw bright yellow beetles in the grass blending in with the soggy, yellow-green terrain, and bright red butterflies flew past him. He blinked at them.
This place is coming to life. High overhead, he saw twinkling Creona Flashbirds darting away from a bigger bird in the skies.
“Looks like a hawk. Old animals and new.”
Larr informed the group. Anith was energetically noting all this down, grumbling.
“I’d cast [Magic Picture] if I could—let me know if any of this is recognizable to you, Captain Ylawes. Once we get more magic, I’ll send a copy of this to the Adventurer’s Guild and see if any of this is valuable.”
When will that be? No, Ylawes realized they had settled down, so he had, what, fourteen more days on contract? As far as he knew—food was going to last six. The rate of spoilage had advanced with the lowering number of preservation runes.
Pekona kept glancing at Ylawes, and he tried to smile.
“That sounds like a good idea, Anith. How is Vuliel Drae holding up?”
They looked at each other, and Dasha coughed.
“It’s an adventure, uh, Captain Ylawes. We’re glad you’re leading us. We’d hate to think it was our—I mean, we’re in the New Lands and—”
“It’s miserable?”
Everyone stopped. Pekona blinked, and Insill grinned nervously—then Larr burst out in relieved laughter. Ylawes looked around with a faint smile.
“I can admit what’s obvious, you know. My bag of holding exploded. My face still stings from being hit with my own shirt.”
“And I lost half my magic gear. This sucks!”
Insill shouted. The rest of Vuliel Drae began shouting epitaphs. Anith waved his personal magical tome overhead.
“My spellbook is half ruined!”
Larr snarled.
“My shortbow ran out of magic! I saved up since I was a cub for it!”
“My beard-growth tonic’s not working!”
Dasha complained, then looked sour when no one commiserated with her.
Pekona raised a hand.
“I don’t have much magic gear.”
Everyone stared at her. Silently, they began tossing things at her. Some of the yellow beetles kept landing on the adventurers—they pelted Pekona with them as Ylawes smiled. He saw the team glancing sideways at him.
“We didn’t want to complain because we thought you wouldn’t, Captain Ylawes.”
Insill remarked shyly. Ylawes blinked.
“Of course we complain. I haven’t in front of you all because I didn’t want to be, well, childish. But Falene, Dawil, and I have been grousing a while. It’s bad form in front of the clients.”
“Yeah, well, they suck.”
Dasha growled, and Ylawes hesitated. Then he nodded.
“Let’s get to that river, okay?”
Please let there be fish in there. Please.
 
——
 
It was late evening by the time they got to the river, and the horses were so tired some flopped over after drinking enough water. Ylawes asked someone to rub them down, but had a problem.
Insill had claws. Pekona didn’t know horses very well. Dasha was short, and Anith and Larr had paws. The Human with the hands decided he’d be the best one to do it.
Tending to the horses took some time, and by the time he was able to ask how the fishing was going, Ylawes’ apprehensions were rewarded with the first bit of good news.
“Captain! We’ve got fish! Only—look at them.”
Ylawes peered into the river and was rewarded with a huge splash as Dasha heaved something out of the water, and it fought like crazy before snapping the string she’d tossed in.
“Hey, they go for hooks even without bait! Look at them, Captain Ylawes!”
They were big, some four feet long, others half again as long, swimming in the deep river along the bed. Ylawes had never seen fish as vertical as they were!
“What kind of fish is that?”
“Reminds me of home. An, uh—uh—”
Pekona couldn’t translate, but the fish reminded her of some ocean fish that were long and moved in schools. What made Ylawes look twice was the color, not just of the fish, but of the riverbed itself.
The entire riverbed was slightly purple. Whether it was the tinting of the water or some effect from the light meeting the water and soil, the very water looked unnaturally purple. So were the fish; Ylawes saw them darting around in curious surging motions—they’d race ahead rather than left or right if they felt threatened.
There were other fish in the water too. A big fish with a pelican-like beak who kept trying to gulp up the smaller fish, several more squat fish fighting the current and nibbling on the sides of the riverbed, a huge scattering of dancing waterbugs—these were clearly prey for the longfish, who would shoot up and grab them—Insill—
A black-scaled Drake swimming like the biggest fish of them all tried to grab one of the bigger fish, then surfaced with a grin.
“Hey, Captain, I almost—”
“Out of the water!”
Ylawes barked, and Insill stared at him then leapt out of the water. Ylawes snapped.
“Check if it’s poisoned first!”
Vuliel Drae looked at one another, and Ylawes stared at the purple water, aghast. The first thing you did with a river like this was test it!
 
——
 
An hour later, Ylawes suspected the water was fine. Firstly, because he’d tested the water by scooping some up and boiling it, then tasting it. Then he’d had a cup and waited, and nothing was happening.
