“No. I had no idea you even got that as opposed to…[Guard].”
Salamander spat into the snow. He popped something into his mouth and offered Ylawes a sample. It turned out to be tobacco—Ylawes delicately spat it into one hand, and Salamander grinned.
“I can tell you’ve never seen a [Recruiter] grabbing a bunch of kids. If you’re young and you get no training, you get a bad class. [Rookie Guard]. [Trainee]. [Expendable Guard]. You level up fast—if you make it. Tivete grabbed me after my first two missions, and I made it to Level 20 thanks to her. I owe her, and she sometimes listens to me. That’s why I’m here.”
He said it like…Ylawes’ head turned.
“Leaving in the middle of the night would be practically suicide out in the wilds. Not to mention the caravans would notice riders or wagons departing.”
“Oh, I know. I’m just saying later—that’s where most of my lads will be. Till it gets really bad. But the [Farmers] and [Miners] didn’t sign up for this. Do you know them?”
“Not well. I’ve exchanged words with most.”
Salamander jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“Petia and Homle are the good ones. Petia’s a [Farmer]. Homle’s the [Mining Foreman]. This isn’t sitting well with either of them. I’d have a word if I were you. I can’t tell who’ll throw hands first when the ration news breaks.”
Ylawes had that sinking sensation he sometimes got when a contract turned bad. Here came the politics an adventurer hated. But politeness—he squared his shoulders and offered a hand.
“I hope I can continue to count on your lads, Sal?”
“—I’ve heard the Silver Swords are damn good. Reckon you can, Captain. Even with that Goblin and Antinium.”
The two men shook hands, and Ylawes realized Salamander’s crew had avoided the Silver Swords—especially Rasktooth and Infinitypear—like the plague. His handshake tightened ever-so-slightly.
“They’re brave Bronze-rank adventurers. Trust me, they’re the least of your concerns.”
Salamander’s grizzled eyes locked with Ylawes’, and he nodded.
“I reckon that’s true too.”
 
——
 
Petia and Homle were not happy people. As it so happened, the [Miners] were the first to almost come to blows that night.
Salamander had reason to be grateful; the Silver Swords appeared when they heard shouting and saw his people in a tense standoff with the [Miners], led by Homle, and the [Farmers] were watching from the sides, ominously quiet.
“How are we supposed to start breaking ground if you feed us half rations? I don’t see them eating less!”
The [Merchants] were placating behind the [Foreman], who did indeed seem ready to hit someone—and he had massive arms. Ylawes’ presence made the [Miners] hesitate.
That was when Yorrned found the courage to appear.
“The Consortium’s decision stands! Once we lay the first seeds, we’ll have a plentiful harvest! Rest assured, we will remember this for bonus pay, Master Homle! Now please—let’s all get some sleep!”
The [Miners] eyed Ylawes, and the [Foreman] hesitated. He wasn’t an idiot; Ylawes was less heavyset than he was, but a Gold-rank adventurer, a [Knight] in armor, beat the strongest men normally.
Then again, the [Miners] had picks and spades, and there were a lot of them. Over sixty; Ylawes didn’t want anyone to start swinging.
“We can’t work like this!”
Homle snapped at Salamander, and the [Guard] shrugged, arms folded.
“We’re just travelling right now. Ask for more food once we settle. We’re the ones guarding everyone.”
“From what? You haven’t done a single thing this entire—”
Homle strode forwards, and Ylawes blocked him. The [Foreman] recoiled and eyed Ylawes warily.
“Sir, let’s all keep calm. I understand your frustrations, but if we could keep it to words, I think we’ll have a civil discussion.”
Ylawes smiled, and Homle growled.
“Civil’s not going to change what’s going on.”
However, the [Miners] backed up a step. Someone called out in the middle of the tension.
“You’re not going to help knock about the [Miners] if it comes to it, are you, Captain? The Silver Swords I’ve heard about don’t act like thugs.”
Ylawes swiveled around and saw Farmer Petia watching from the side. The [Farmers] were also unhappy, but they’d stayed back—and she seemed to have authority among them. She was rather tall and gaunt with long arms and was all bundled up.
“—As far as keeping the [Merchants] from danger, that’s my job, Miss Petia. I wouldn’t want anyone to be hurt.”
Ylawes answered cautiously and was met with an inquisitive stare and a nod.
“Good. I’d hate for my belief in a Gold-rank team to be misplaced.”
Homle gave Ylawes a second look.
“How much food do we have left?”
“Two weeks. Three if we ration it. It should last until first planting, according to the [Merchants].”
Ylawes intended this to be hopeful, but Petia’s face froze over.
“Two? I was told four.”
Homle swallowed, and Ylawes paused a second.
“—The [Merchants] have no intention of returning. We have four days to scout for a good spot to lay camp. I was told that even with fifteen days, we could get a harvest of turnips up. Is that so, Miss Petia?”
She gave him a cautious nod, but the [Farmers] were looking at each other.
“In theory, if the soil’s good. I heard it was salty, and I thought we had more time. It might take longer than we want, but I reckoned with the [Miners], we could make it work even if the saltwater’s bad in the topsoil.”
“How’s that? Salt in the soil? Doesn’t that kill it?”
Homle was alarmed, but Petia shrugged.
“We’ll see. I wish I had a proper [Druid] or [Witch] or one of the Gnoll [Shamans]. Or even just a damn good [Dowser] or [Well Finder]. All of ‘em know how to tell if soil or water are good. We were already contracted by the time we heard about the soil, but we know what to do. When you dig down, you’ll pull soil from a few feet below, Homle, and we’ll turn it over and plant in that.”
“Oh. That’s good?”
“That’s what my granddad did. Mind you, it’ll have to be fast, and we need enough water and warmth to thaw the ground, but we could plant tomorrow given spring’s coming. We’ll need food then if you want us to work hard.”
She gave Ylawes another look, and he brushed at his hair, thinking.
“If that happens—perhaps the [Guards] and adventurers and [Merchants] could go on half-rations? I could talk that over with Yorrned, Miss Petia.”
That earned him some goodwill, and Dawil gave Ylawes an approving nod. He kept placating the upset colonists.
“We’re all tightening our belts. Let’s not waste energy shouting, eh? Tomorrow, we’ll come by and hear you all out.”
“I think that’s fair. I’ll hold you to a longer discussion—tomorrow.”
Petia met Ylawes’ eyes with a sharp nod, and the [Farmers] began to disperse.
“I—well, damn me. This isn’t how I thought things were going to go. We’d best find something to dig soon!”
Homle spluttered, but there wasn’t much he could do, so he walked off. Ylawes exhaled hard. Politics already. But that hadn’t gone poorly. They were just counting on some good luck after all this bad.
 
 
Day 20 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The next day, Ylawes made good on his promise to Petia and had a chat with her. It revealed some things that made him less confident in her—in a sense.
“Failed farms. Mine went under, and Lolsed offered me a contract on the new lands. The rest are either the same or looking for a fortune in the New Lands.”
“How—did your farm go under, if I can ask?”
Petia gave Ylawes a smile that lacked the bitterness he expected as they had some tea in a rocking wagon.
“Wasn’t all my fault. Prices on my corn went down hard last year—then something went and killed off our last fall harvest of crops. We were already having trouble. Farming’s rough if you can’t out-Skill the market. If I’d saved the corn for when everyone was rushing for the New Lands…I’d be rich. Instead, we got destroyed by some high-level [Farmer] up north.”
“Really. What happened?”
Petia’s lips twisted.
“Good corn, that’s what. Blue, red, sweet—and enough to make it so no one was interested in regular corn for a spell. A bunch of it, all at once? We didn’t have preservation spells, so we had two harvests where it wasn’t worth anything. That’s all it took.”
What a rough…hadn’t Ylawes had some corn like that? He shook his head sympathetically, but Petia refused to linger on the subject.
“Don’t worry, we know the job. But if you have a moment, can you send a [Message] to someone in the know about the soil? I’ll bet someone’s figured it out by now.”
That was a good idea, so Ylawes went to Falene about it, only to be met by a glare.
“Ylawes, if it helps the farmers, that’s one thing, but I refuse to keep sending [Message] spells for anyone else. I need to recharge the runes of preservation. We agree that’s the priority, yes?”
“Absolutely.”
“Then no more [Messages]. That goes for Anith as well!”
Ylawes nodded, and Falene hesitated, about to argue on the subject.
“Really?”
“I’m in complete support of that. Who wants to send [Messages]?”
The half-Elf squinted at Ylawes, then pushed up her glasses, and her eyes flashed.
“All the [Merchants] have been telling me you authorized them sending [Messages]—they’ve been checking on their affairs and gossiping about the New Lands! Selling the information about the magic problems!”
Ylawes actually closed his eyes for a second. But the thing about politeness was…
“No more of that. I’m sure they asked me at some point, which, to them, is fair. How many spells can you cast per day? Let’s say we’re fighting the Landsharks—how are you doing on mana, Falene?”
She hesitated. The [Battlemage] was Level 35; she was an experienced Wistram graduate and didn’t like admitting when she had problems with spellcasting.
“—I can fight. Today, this week. If I’m still recharging the runes, it gets dicey.”
“Are you recharging mana at all?”
She nodded.
“Anith barely is. But I do have mana regeneration Skills. It just won’t be much. Don’t expect [Eagle Eyes] or most of my usual buffing spells. Actually, I might stop riding with you and Dawil. There’s limited ways for a [Mage] to regain mana without a potion. Meditating might help.”
“Meditating? I’ve never seen you do that.”
She made a face.
“It’s something I was taught in Wistram. I signed up for ‘Magical Enhancement of the Mind, Body, and Spirit 101’ in my third year—I never thought I’d actually put anything that crazy [Tantric Druid] said to good use. I’ll give it a shot. Now, what’s the [Message]?”
 
——
 
The fact that Falene actually had a magic restoration technique was good news. The rest? Not so much.
[Message] spells were normally not something that cost much mana, but mindful of Falene’s limited supply, Ylawes added one more request to her [Message].
“Can you message…the half-Elves would be best for growing, wouldn’t they?”
Falene cocked an eyebrow.
“Do you have a name?”
“…Don’t you?”
“Ylawes, I know some of the half-Elves who went to the New Lands, but I can’t just [Message] an important member right away! They auto-block those kinds of spells. If you want, I can go back and forth with a Mage’s Guild, but please. My mana?”
Ylawes thought for a second.
“How about…can you send a [Message] to your home in Gaiil-Drome? Or Wistram? If they connect you to someone in the colony, we’ll save time on introductions.”
Falene nodded.
“Who else?”
They were in Rasktooth and Infinitypear’s wagon; the Silver Swords sometimes used it, but Rasktooth had elected to try riding a horse to give Falene room to sit and meditate and work. Ylawes squatted down.
“I want information about the New Lands. There has to be someone who’s out here that we know. Who do we know that went to the New Lands?”
Falene grimaced. She began to list other Gold-rank teams.
“Optiment’s Fighters? No, they were interested, but we never heard…the Regular Defenders?”
“I don’t know if they’re behind us. The Horns? No. The Half—Griff—”
They ran down a list of Gold-rank teams, but Ylawes couldn’t be sure of many, and Falene pointed out others weren’t capable of [Message] spells even if they had a [Mage]. Then Ylawes had an idea.
“Wait. I know someone who might be here!”
“Who?”
“Captain…Nailren. Remember we invited him, but he wanted to go on his own? He’s not a [Mage]…”
Falene frowned.
“Hold on. Let me query my friend in Gaiil-Drome. I’ll have them look up via a Mage’s Guild if Nailren’s out here. He might have a [Message] scroll?”
It wasn’t a bad idea. Ylawes went off to keep riding around the caravan. The [Guards] were riding ahead to scout for a good spot, and there was promise.
The northern section of the New Lands had become rockier, with hills rising upwards, and the melting snows were beginning to reveal oddities. Maybe it was the former seabed, but there were rolling hills, like the very waves had moved the land, and Ylawes saw stones baked into the grass and dirt.
There were even what looked to be mountains further west; if he squinted, he swore he saw patches of blue among the snow. A huge gust of wind obscured them, though, flinging wet snow at the caravan.
“Windstorm!”
Rasktooth shouted, and everyone took cover behind the caravan. Ylawes just shielded his face with his shield and felt the wind blow so fiercely that his horse shivered. It was intense—then gone after half a minute.
The wind would blow hard like that, and Ylawes shook his shield off and heard cursing from the other wagons.
“We just lost our roof! Someone get—”
Ylawes turned and saw one of the covered wagons lose the covering. A few people chased after the fabric, but it was already flying away. They called for a stop, but the [Merchants] just told them to repair it on the go.
More problems.
“Ylawes? I have a reply.”
Falene called Ylawes back to the wagon, and Ylawes nodded to the others.
“Keep a lookout. Spotted anything unusual, Larr?”
Larr was sitting on top of Vuliel Drae’s wagon, and he’d had to hold on tight to avoid being blown off. The Gnoll called down.
“I think I saw some of those Landsharks far, far off. But no more Corusdeer herds. This place smells like wet stone up ahead, though.”
Good? What does wet stone smell like? Rasktooth waved at Ylawes.
“Is good soil for digging, Captain-guy. Infinitypear likes.”
“Oh. Excellent? Keep it up, you two.”
Infinitypear was more cheerful now after his disastrous stew incident. He’d been shy, and Ylawes headed to the wagon, then had to stop.
“What’s good soil?”
“Loose. Good soil, Captain Ylawes. Feels warm. See? There and there.”
