Miss Tivete was in the open, and by now, Ylawes had gotten a read on all six. Each one was doing what they felt was necessary for the expedition.
 
——
 
Yorrned spent most mornings weighing the latest copper ore samples, calculating how much they were worth—according to his old prices—and estimating how close they were to recouping losses. He’d get the [Prospectors] in and sweatily ask when a smelting furnace was done, or demand to know which tools were most sought after.
“Copper hooks! Or bronze? Can we make bronze? Master Homle, you said you found tin not too far away? That’s unprecedented. Un-pre-ce-dented. You never find the ores in close proximity. See, this—this—bronze at a steal in the New Lands! For a reasonable price, of course, but still a steal. And the purity! How close are we to finding that object Miss Falene wants? Or a monster? Some of those are worth thousands of gold pieces. Miss Falene? Miss—”
He had a glazed look some days. His clothing had begun to take on a soiled look, and Homle, Falene, and members of the expedition avoided him, especially when Yorrned would argue about what they thought things were worth—it was more valuable because of their location.
 
——
 
Raeta and Jobbi were still trying to treat this like an adventure. Even after the contract showdown, they went around collecting ‘samples’ to sell later and tried to make everyone feel ‘at home’.
That meant, in Ylawes experience, a bit of food that they claimed was out of their breakfasts, just a morsel, a clap on the back, some heated stones that had been around the fire to keep the cold away, and an attempt at brighter conversation.
It worked until it didn’t, but he would often hear the same refrain.
“It’s all noted down, you know. Jobbi keeps a list, don’t you, Jobbi?”
“I do like them. We’ll be repaying everyone for the hard work. The thing about being a [Merchant] is you balance costs. We’ve taken too many on—”
“Hazards of the trade. But we’ll settle it all up. Believe you me, Miss Petia. I’ll let you get back to it, but Jobbi will carve you a new handle for that shovel, and I’m going to finish knitting that hat I promised Votto. His current [Chef]’s hat is a bit dingy after one of those Flashbirds pecked at it.”
In their way, they were less fun for Ylawes to deal with than Yorrned, because it was harder to deal with a smile.
 
——
 
Lolsed didn’t show his face most days. He sat in his wagon and read. When asked, his assistants claimed he was reading from his collection or writing letters to be sent once they had a [Courier]. He had apparently requested one via Falene earlier, but the lack of direction and the calls for many Couriers in the New Lands meant Ylawes didn’t have hope for one to show up.
At least the man didn’t mince words about their situation. He would come out to observe the camp, then head inside.
“Raising morale is not my job. We all knew we were signing on for a struggle. Put in a note with Chef Votto to break out another bottle of wine tonight. Ration the rest.”
Ylawes overheard him speaking curtly to one of his assistants before he shut the door of his wagon. From the way Lolsed met Ylawes’ eyes before vanishing, the Captain took that to mean all of this was tolerable until conditions improved.
 
——
 
Tivete, at least, did do something per day, though one could argue it was more time-consuming than helpful. Each morning, she would check every single magical object she had possessed—almost all of them dead—then pile them up.
It was complicated. She’d put her amulet on top of a helmet that had once been enchanted, Salamander’s sword—she’d even asked the adventurers for their gear, but since they needed them on, and she needed to own them, she made do with everything else.
“[Inventory: Trickle of Replenishment]. My capstone. Not very effective since the New Lands seems to drain them at a pace faster than they replenish, but there’s a bit each day. So if I do this…”
Her goal was to find the enchantment that was least mana-intensive and most valuable. If she kept the magical items together, Tivete had a theory they ‘drained slower’. Also, she could redistribute the magic among her inventory, which meant that after hours of sitting and shuffling the gear around, she could produce a Wand of Sparks that had enough fuel to light a second fire before going out.
Or—try to activate a spell scroll. Or she had the idea to hoard the magic in some of the gemstones she sold.
“Once Miss Falene has the mana nullifier gone—then I can salvage my wares. In order of priority. It’s not—we shall be making use of it, Captain Ylawes. Look! This gemstone reduced from about a half charge to one-fifth overnight! We can save magic.”
Falene had taken a look at the ‘saving’ of mana and told Ylawes she could meditate and recover that much in an hour. But it kept Tivete busy. She didn’t talk about leaving or abandoning the expedition.
“Wouldn’t it be possible for you to head to Goisedall and replenish your magical items there, Miss Tivete?”
Ylawes had thought it was worth the argument, but her face had frozen up, and then she’d given him a nervous smile.
“Some of my items are—are beyond recovery, Captain Ylawes. Some aren’t. Let’s find out when that time comes, shall we?”
He’d looked at her holding the Amulet of Tranquility she’d bought from Drath, and of all of them, the terror of knowing seemed to be what kept her making those piles of magic and worthless metal.
 
——
 
Merchant Anlam did Ylawes Byres the credit of not running away when asked about the stockades. And he was doing the same thing he’d done for days on end—he sat and wrote.
But not like Lolsed. He had been just one of the Consortium and, prior to this moment, the wealthiest, or the one with the most wagons, if not the oldest like Lolsed.
He was actually paler-haired than Lolsed, who was greying, but that was just genetics, and he had a curl of hair that he’d combed up with alchemical products. When the magic had begun fading, it had turned more into a sagging flop of hair.
That also seemed to describe the man. Everything from his bright red travelling vest to his velvet cloak had taken on dirt or begun to look worse-for-wear.
Then again, he was more mobile than the others, excepting maybe Raeta and Jobbi. When pressed, his answer was the same.
“I called for the stockades, Captain Byres. There should be laws.”
All his fingernails on one hand were bitten down to the quick; angry, red skin showed in patches, and he also had chapped lips. But he met Ylawes’ eyes.
“Some would call that a cruel punishment.”
Ylawes was angry. He didn’t even bring up the deserter, but Anlam did.
“And desertion? Before you ask, I didn’t call for Master Salamander to shoot him. Let’s say you’d caught them. Would you imprison them? Sentence them to exile? Death? No rations for a day? I think, depending on the offense…no food for a day. Exile on the second. Death for returning and continued theft.”
Ylawes just stared at Anlam.
“You’d kill a man for coming back and stealing?”
Anlam crossed something off his paper in front of him.
“That’s the reaction I got from Miss Petia…and Miss Falene. So you don’t like it.”
“I would refuse to do that.”
Ylawes met the man’s eyes, and Anlam fiddled with a quill.
“But we can’t imprison them, can we? Let’s think on someone who escaped or came back. We must have laws. I’ve been writing a…a…I suppose you’d call it a new contract, but a charter is more fair. Not a contract. Laws for this colony.”
The Gold-rank adventurer’s hostility faded a bit as Anlam clarified. There were a lot of crossing-outs and weird minutiae, but Anlam kept going.
“I understand the Consortium is in charge, but there should be laws and punishment. Rules—the kind of thing a city has. A nation. Even if we become, what, a Council? Can we sell our stake to this place if it becomes a place? There should be rules to base around. I copied Invrisil’s, but they don’t fit here.”
“—Let’s wait until the colony has a reliable food source, Master Anlam.”
The [Merchant] looked blankly at Ylawes.
“Of course. But we must have laws.”
“As far as the contract goes—that appears to be the final law, Master Anlam. I suggest any law is less valuable than how many [Guards] Salamander has under his employ and how trustworthy they are; you will always be able to dictate a new law or clarify a bad one.”
The [Knight] turned on his heels, annoyed at the entire conversation. Merchant Anlam stared at Ylawes.
“We did it because this expedition dies without you, Captain Byres. It wasn’t a good idea. In hindsight, we should have turned around.”
Ylawes half-turned, and Anlam sat there, gnawing on one thumb.
“In hindsight. The Merchant’s Guild discourages anyone from actually enforcing most contracts like that, you know. We lean on them. We’re leaning too hard.”
Is that why Miss Petia and Master Homle weren’t in outright dissent? Ylawes hesitated and tried to think of a response other than the moral one. Because what good was that one right now?
“Do you have an actual solution for the future besides a charter for this colony, Master Anlam?”
The [Merchant] stared at Ylawes, then at the paper. He held it up.
“—The charter matters if we deal with another settlement or caravan. Nothing survives without other people coming in or trading with us. Once we have the charter, we must find other people quickly. We should have stayed closer to them.”
Another moment of hindsight. The food issues—and, frankly, the magical ones—might have been noticed sooner if they had company, but Ylawes saw the downsides too.
“That might have led to more desperation and more theft. Especially in this current predicament.”
Or more teamwork. He should have said that. Anlam stared at Ylawes.
“Yes, well. That’s where a Gold-rank team would have stood out. You and I are not in our elements, Captain Ylawes.”
That, at least, they could agree on. Ylawes shook his head, then went hunting.
 
——
 
The hunt was basic. Ylawes didn’t tell the Consortium what he wanted to do. He just found Salamander.
“We’re hunting Landsharks. We’ll do it a half mile from camp and have you help drag it in once we kill it. Can you do that?”
The man wouldn’t meet his gaze.
“I reckon that’s well within contract.”
“What does yours say?”
Ylawes tried to remember to be polite…he forgot why. His eyes felt—intense, without the need to blink, and it reminded him of Yvlon’s stare as a girl. As if he was trying to stare through Salamander’s skin. The [Elite Guard] gave Ylawes a shamefaced look, then a grin of all things.
“Dunno. I can’t read that well. More’n yours.”
Ylawes looked at the man, and there was a story there—but Ylawes was too hungry to hear it. He turned on his heel and walked away. Politeness made him turn around and add—
“Thank you. I hope you’ve not had cause to regret that contract. Until recently.”
They needed to secure another source of meat. Ylawes had been feeling the pinch of hunger for days, and it had kept him up on more than one night, but he’d forced it out of his mind.
And he was an adventurer who was being fed more rations. The camp?
Ylawes was waiting for lunch when Chef Votto found something else to eat. He found a black mass of shrivelled…something and stared at it—then produced a cleaver and called for some water. Then he began hacking pieces of it up and putting them into a pot.
“What’s that?”
Ylawes walked over and saw—it was the dead Lamprey Shuffler the Consortium had made him preserve in salt. It was wrinkled up, atrophied from the time that had passed, but it was meat.
Chef Votto, who had refused to even consider the bush-animals, offered a piece of boiled meat to one of his helpers.
“How’s it taste?”
“Foul.”
One of the [Cooking Assistants] replied. They took another piece, and Votto wordlessly chewed on one himself. He grimaced—then noticed the people waiting for lunch.
“Keep boiling it up. It’s got enough salt.”
As far as Ylawes was concerned, those lamprey-things were bottom-feeders in the most literal sense of the word. However, when he saw some of the black, rubbery meat on a plate, he didn’t ask questions. It was foul—but he found himself sitting and thinking he should have killed dozens of them. He saw Petia licking her plate afterwards and then drinking something. That turned out to be a thin broth that had been what the lamprey monsters had been boiled in.
Ylawes hesitated a second too long, and Votto was out of cups of it when he asked.
 
——
 
They decided to set up the trap in the only place that had any defensible terrain to fight a Landshark: one of the groves of trees with those blue tufts that Goisedall kept being showered by.
They were higher up, so Ylawes saw how the wind could blow them all the way to Goisedall from the hills. They were indeed long and thin, and they did burn—he didn’t waste time looking at them.
“Blood here. Wind’s blowing; set up…Dawil?”
The weary Dwarf looked around.
“Looks like some rocks there. Reckon that’s it?”
They were off their game. Ylawes turned to ask Falene if she had a better idea and remembered she was at camp. Vuliel Drae seemed no better, but Pekona at least looked sharp enough as she drew her sword and waited.
“Don’t you have a new sword Skill?”
Ylawes vaguely remembered that. Pekona nodded.
“[She Danced in Moonlight’s Grace].”
“How good is it?”
Pekona hesitated.
“—It improves the more I do. And at night. If the enemy slows down, I’ll be better—on offense? If not, defense.”
She struggled to describe it, and Ylawes nodded.
“I’ll challenge it. Dasha, you and Dawil hit it from the side. Dawil, how’s your hammer?”
“Magicless. But I have the edge of my axe…I reckon I can stab with that if I get in close. I wish I had Erin’s boon on me right now. I’ll toss it only if it comes to it.”
The broken axe he had won was still sharper than anything, but it was far less usable now. Dawil was wary of losing the pieces, and Ylawes grunted.
“Hit it hard on the legs.”
“I’d make a Dwarf joke there—nevermind. Where’s Anith and Insill?”
“Other side. We triangle here—assuming one Landshark. Otherwise, I draw them off here—Insill, you pull them and run. If it charges Anith or Insill, Dawil, you and I distract them.”
Anith looked nervous as he raised a paw.
“What if we get an entire pack? They go up to eight as far as we saw.”
Ylawes shook his head.
“Eight’s too much. We have to pick one off. Sorry. Let me lead with that.”
