The barley bag might have been enough for Yorrned, but it barely made any gruel for the Silver Swords when it was distributed around the camp. Ylawes scraped his bowl twice, then used his finger and smacked parched lips.
“How’s our water looking?”
“Bad. The fishers are getting more water than fish. Good job getting the potion, lad.”
Dawil seemed a lot better. Falene looked a lot worse.
“All three [Messages] went out to the Merchant’s Guild, Ylawes. I’m sorry. They told the guild we were attempting to break contract—in more flowery language. Also, that they had a lot of copper and they wanted to sell.”
“To who?”
Ylawes’s voice rose, and the half-Elf shook her head.
“They’re losing it.”
“They’re not the only ones. I think I’m going crazy.”
Larr was licking the inside of his bowl. They were well and truly out of food; the fish that had come back from the river were not enough to feed everyone. Most of the [Farmers] were just staring at the fields, and the [Miners] were moving as if trapped in a [Slow] spell.
Ylawes buried his head in his hands.
I’ve heard you can live for up to three weeks without food, but we’ve been on half-rations for…he looked up slowly.
“How many horses do we have left?”
That was grim. And the answer was worse. Dawil lowered his voice.
“About eighteen.”
“Eighteen? But we all rode out to kill the Landsharks. There were—”
“That’s because we needed them, lad. They’ve been vanishing every day, and Votto’s butchered three that I saw. Look.”
Dawil pointed, and Ylawes saw something really grim. The [Chef] was standing over a pot with the water he’d gotten from the fishers. He was currently breaking something into it.
“…Those are his boots.”
“It’s leather. I told him nothing treated by an alchemist goes in. Lad, we’ve got to try another shot at those Landsharks.”
“It’s too risky. One was fine—if we kill it, we can take the meat—”
“We need to kill three. There’s too many people here, Captain. We’ll eat a Landshark too fast.”
Anith interrupted. He’d clearly done some math, and Ylawes rubbed at his face.
“Three. We should have killed that entire damn snail pack. I could eat them raw. Dawil—try to save our horses. I want a watch on them, day and night. If we kill a Landshark, we have to have a horse. We can’t scout without them, and we need them.”
For the river, if nothing else. Falene rasped as she stared at the pot of stew.
“If I meditate…I can maybe try a [Rain] spell. That’ll solve water. But that means no fire tonight. Which one?”
“Water.”
Ylawes lay on his back. In a second, he’d get up and make a plan about the Landshark. Three…if he took one…and Dawil took another…no, Dawil got bit. If he took one and Dawil and Dasha took another…
They should have killed the snails. Then again, could the sharks smell snail-blood? The [Merchants]. Did they have more food?
Why were they here? Ylawes opened his eyes, and he realized he was boiling with fury. He tried to be polite. Then he just closed his eyes until he cooled down.
 
——
 
“He not looking so good. You think this bad idea?”
“Captain Ylawes is very hungry. Maybe we will get in trouble. But we must ask. I will do it.”
“Nah. I do. Psst. Captain, Captain.”
Two familiar voices were arguing with each other. Ylawes didn’t want to wake up. But he reluctantly opened his eyes.
“What is it, Rasktooth, Infinitypear?”
He’d been dreaming about eating a horse. Ylawes saw that his team had secured their horses—eight of them. Not all ten. Dawil was pointedly fencing them in with rope, and the horses seemed nervous. They must have smelled the others being butchered.
The rest of the camp seemed—well, Ylawes had called Farmer Petia gaunt when he’d first met her, but that was just a way of describing her face.
Gaunt was what they all looked like now. And desperate. One of the younger [Traders] was staring at another horse—just…staring. But Salamander had his sword out and was cleaning it.
Where did he stand? What did they eat after horses? Ylawes was trying to think.
Lolsed. Right. He’d sent Insill too…
“Hey, Captain. Captain…you is there? He look really bad, Infinitypear.”
Rasktooth snapped his fingers in front of Ylawes’ face, and the [Knight] blinked. Yes. Poke Duo.
Of all the people in camp, besides the [Merchants] who had probably squirreled food away, the Antinium and Cave Goblin were notably, distinctly energetic. Most people couldn’t tell, not paying much attention to the two ‘monstrous’ species, but Ylawes hadn’t seen either one flagging.
They were still hungrier than before, but Ylawes frowned at them.
“What’s wrong?”
“Is nothing wrong with us. You very hungry, huh, Captain-guy? We, uh…we wondered how hungry you was.”
“Right now, I’d eat a snail.”
It was the frank truth. Ylawes had taken a good look at his boots after Dawil’s comment and wished he had some water to wash them off. Infinitypear glanced at Rasktooth, and the Cave Goblin mouthed for a second in mental calculation, then shrugged.
“How maggots sound?”
Ylawes stared at Rasktooth for a long, long time. The Cave Goblin gave him a tentative grin—and Infinitypear looked worried.
“We did not put any in the food, Captain. But—”
“Show me.”
 
——
 
They led Ylawes back the way they’d come when they were camping out. Not far. Just a mile or two, but Ylawes was flagging by the time he stopped, and Infinitypear pointed down. Rasktooth explained.
“Is warm dirt, Captain Ylawes. Infinitypear saw. Dirt very nice here. From sea? Cool sea—but warm, eh?”
He laughed heartily, but Ylawes just grunted. He stared down into the pit that Infinitypear and Rasktooth had dug out.
“Why’s it warm?”
“…Dunno. Is all warm around here. See?”
Ylawes took off a glove and felt at the ground. The spring thaw had gotten rid of the snow, but the ground was still cold enough…when he touched the patch of soil the two had found, he grunted.
“It is warm. Why?”
“Was a big crack in the ground, which is how Infinitypear noticed. Bit wet, too.”
There was some mud in the hole. Ylawes frowned at it.
“Hot water? A hot spring?”
Rasktooth shrugged.
“Dunno what that is. Maybe this is—but probably used to be all wet. See? Like sharks used to be in water before stupid Gnolls raised it up.”
That made sense. Kishkeria had altered the land, and it seemed like the Landsharks were a product of that spell. Or maybe some species had always been there.
“So what lives in this hole? I heard you say…maggots.”
“Eh. Is sort of. Here. Let’s dig. Is lots.”
Ylawes grimly sat by the hole as the two dug down and uncovered their secret food supply. He was prepared for horrors, and what he saw did not make his stomach leap for joy.
…But it wasn’t a maggot. Rather, he stared at a huge network of interconnected…pale white cylinders. With red capped fronts.
Feathers? No, it was organic. They were up to six feet long, some of them, and tangled together, a positive colony of them. At first, Ylawes thought they were mushrooms—but Rasktooth assured him they were not.
“Is not plant. Look. See?”
He slapped one, and the red ‘feather’ retreated rapidly along with all the others around it. Ylawes grimaced.
“Is that a worm? They don’t really move.”
“Eh. Maybe? Tastes like ash, a bit. Feather stuff not taste like much good, but this?”
Rasktooth yanked one of them out and held the tube of material out to Ylawes.
“Is not bad. I put in fire, cook up long, and we eat.”
“Sorry, Captain. I didn’t put it in any pots.”
“But what is it?”
Maggots were one thing, and this…unsettled him, but Ylawes was more intrigued. They were just growing in the dirt around the warm patch. Presumably that was how they had survived; he even noticed bugs nibbling at them.
“I dunno, but I call it tubeworm. Because in tube is worm. You, uh—want? I can cook.”
Ylawes Byres sat there and wished he didn’t feel the worm-thing slowly moving. It smelled…well, actually it didn’t smell that bad, and Rasktooth had a firepit next to the…
Ylawes stared at the firepit. Then at Rasktooth.
“No one’s lit a fire except from Falene’s magical flames. How did you do that?”
The Cave Goblin scratched his head.
“Uh…with flint and tinder stuff? And grass? Is lots of grass. I could burn down all of New Lands. What, you never start fire without magic?”
He gestured around aimlessly. Ylawes had started a fire without magic…but the Cave Goblin made it sound easy. Ylawes peered at Rasktooth as the Goblin dug into the fire, swore, and pulled something out.
“Anyways, you keep ember to light next fire. See? This one still good.”
“Fuff. Fuuh. I am blowing air.”
Rasktooth sighed as Infinitypear made helpful fanning motions with his hands and less helpful blowing noises. Soon, they were tossing grass on the fire, and Rasktooth chopped up the tubeworm and inserted a dagger into sections. Infinitypear toasted one part on the Adamantium spear, and Rasktooth sprinkled something over the charring tubeworm.
“[Natural Seasoning]! Chef Votto, he laughed at me when I said I had Skill. He has [Exquisite Flavoring]. And [Advanced Cooking]. Ooh. Well, I don’t see any seasonings in his pot anymore. He eat it all. This one almost good. Captain, here, here.”
He handed Ylawes a length of tuber that had browned nicely. Ylawes held it in his hands, and it was hot, smelled like salt and pepper, and he wondered if he was d—
…It was a lot less rubbery than he thought it would be. It was, disturbingly, rather like a sausage, but all one consistency. It was like a hot dog then; pure compressed meat. There actually wasn’t as much as he thought because it was hollow.
The taste rather was like eating…ash wasn’t the right word. It was like the stuff Octavia had put into matches, but only in taste. So not great—but as Rasktooth and Infinitypear stared at Ylawes and held their breaths, he finished one piece, licked his fingers, and spoke.
“—Do you have more? That is—how much do you have?”
Poke Duo exchanged glances. Then they slapped each other on the back, and Rasktooth burst into a huge grin. Infinitypear raised all four arms.
“Yay. You do not mind it being like a bug, Captain Ylawes?”
“No—but how much is there?”
Ylawes was suddenly worried, but Rasktooth waved a claw.
“Is too much of it, Captain Ylawes. Hundreds of them. We can dig up more. You okay?”
“Yes. Yes. Let me have another piece—you’re not sick or anything?”
The Goblin and Antinium shook their heads.
“We been eating all the time. And bugs. Smaller wormies, beetles—crickets. You know, Pekona has good point. Crickets are best bug.”
“Yah.”
The two nodded at each other, and Ylawes gazed at them. Then he got up and put his arms around the two and gently squeezed.
“You two…are the best [Adventurers] I’ve met. Better than I. Why didn’t you tell me we could eat all that?”
He was shamefaced and embarrassed to realize how much time he’d wasted. Rasktooth gave Ylawes a long look. Infinitypear was startled, but the Cave Goblin answered matter-of-factly.
“Because you didn’t want any. Until now. First is gross…now you is hungry like a Cave Goblin. Eh? We are bad Bronze-rank adventurers. But good surviving [Adventurers].”
He winked, and Ylawes appraised Rasktooth a moment, then nodded.
“Well, I want you two to start cooking as much as you can. Then we’ll call our team over and tell the expedition to come eat.”
“Tell them to bring pots. And [Chef] Votto so I can teach how to properly fry tubeworm. Also, need more diggers.”
Rasktooth rubbed his hands together, but Ylawes wasn’t done. He was chewing, and his stomach, which had protested at even the hint of roach, was begging for more tubeworm. He wasn’t done.
“Not quite, Rasktooth. I want you to make as much as you can—with help. I’ll tell the Consortium…something. We’ll have Petia and her people come over and give you a few hours. Dig them all up. We’ll bundle them into a blanket or something. We might as well bring the horses over. It will stop anyone eating them. Maybe a wagon.”
He was thinking. Rasktooth tilted his head, and Infinitypear stopped digging and poked his head up.
“All the tubewormies? That’s more than everyone can eat. Even if they eat like you, Captain Ylawes.”
Ylawes nodded.
“I hope so. Because when I inform the Consortium—I intend to tell them we’re leaving. Seriously, this time.”
The two younger adventurers stared at him.
“But the contract—”
Ylawes sat down, and the pieces he’d been thinking about connected.
“A contract’s only as good as the paper it’s written on, or so my father always says. I sent Insill to rob the Consortium, but he didn’t get through Lolsed’s wagon. Lolsed wanted all his documents stored. I wonder…would he have left it behind or kept the original document with him?”
The Cave Goblin’s eyes lit up. Ylawes scratched at his chin.
“A magical contract only works so long as the contract’s intact. How long for you to harvest the tubeworms?”
Poke Duo looked at each other, and Rasktooth counted how many warm patches he’d found.
“Is maybe…if we don’t grill more than we eat, four hours? If we have many hands.”
“Do you have anything else edible? Anything at all?”
Ylawes was thinking quickly. Rasktooth scratched his side.
“Uh…you want edible this thing, maybe? Not flower. Roots only.”
He handed Ylawes a tall, green flower with bright petals and a long system of roots. Ylawes bit a root and chewed and chewed and chewed.
“…A bit like liquorice. And dirt. This will do.”
He tucked it into his belt, then hesitated.
“—When you return with the horses, be ready.”
The two nodded at him, and Ylawes sat back down.
“I’ll have some more tubeworm, please. Any thoughts on the plan?”
He looked at his teammates—and they were, he realized. Not underlings or rookies. Teammates. They had to be, or else how were they bailing him out now? Rasktooth shook his head, but Infinitypear raised one hand.
“I have a thought, Captain.”
He leaned forwards as Ylawes turned to him.
“Which is?”
The Worker glanced left and right, then whispered loudly.
“…Good. I do not like the Consortium. But I am being very polite about it.”
Ylawes blinked at Infinitypear and smiled.
“Sometimes, Infinitypear, you have to be rude.”
He touched the sword at his side.
“—They’ve used up my goodwill. Stay by the wagons. I might lose my temper.”
 
——
 
It was conceivable that someone might have caught onto the ruse, especially when Ylawes claimed they had so many roots they needed a wagon to bring them back.
“There are also crickets. We might need the space.”
“Just so long as you’re not running off.”
