When they finally settled things, Aster and Allie took center stage as the area darkened and snow started to blow wildly around their seating area.

Allie, shivering and blowing into her hands, stumbled around, bouncing into their tables and jostling their drinks. “Help, help. I can’t see. If only I could find my way [Home].”

Hearing her cue, Aster stepped forward and once behind Allie, whispered. “I can offer you that. A way to always find… [Home].”

Still looking forward, Allie started to plead, “Oh? How is such a thing possible!?”

Like a switch was flipped the snow and darkness vanished as Aster withdrew a simple box containing the [Home] orb and she sent information on the skill to anyone who hadn’t already seen it in the Ascender chat.

Aster snapped the box close with a smile. “Now that we have your attention, what goodies do you guys have? I want them all.”

Krodag raised a finger as if confused, “I don’t think that's how a bet works.”

Aster cradled both Allie and the box the teleporter was helping to shield from the mean words. “And I don’t think you know how bets work with me. We will only wager [Home] for things of similar value, so if you don’t have something interesting, we aren't trading. You can wait for it to pop out of a rift.”

That was part of Lila’s devised strategy.

Wun shrugged, proving her help invaluable, “Meh. I’m not planning to head into chaotic space any time soon, so I’ll pass. In fact, I think we should all pass. Buyers market.”

Having said that, he didn't move from his seat or look away.

Maya wasn’t so coy seeing Allie move to put the box away. “Don’t try to play games, Wun, no one here is that dumb. Or at least not that game. I’ve got a Tier 37 cold related Natural Treasures I was never able to figure out in my treasury. Or umm I have a—”

Wun interrupted her floundering by asking a question but they’d already won.

Interest firmly peaked; they got several counter bets, but they didn’t agree to any of them in the short term. For all the theatrics, [Home] was a must-have skill for all the Ascenders, and they were perfectly willing to open up their real treasuries to get their hands on it in no small part thanks to Lila.

She’d only hinted at exploring the fourth layer of chaotic space once but they’d only need the one hint to put things together.

Today was to get their interest.

Not that they had too long before the initial auctions officially kicked off. Running only two weeks rather than a full month, the Minkalla auction had a dozen auctions going at once during the slowest times, but little of that mattered to him.

With his resources, he was easily able to secure the petty items he was interested in without much effort. Buying at his Tier made everything feel so cheap as to be negligible.

Most importantly, the shark shiver had arrived. They were cagey but agreed to meet.

Together, Matt, Liz, and Aster floated through the sharks’ underwater estate, escorted by a small school of young sharks who swam along around them in a perfectly coordinated mess for the short distance to the Tier 44 matriarch. Far from hostile, they swam with exuberance and inquisitiveness that befit their single digit Tiers.

Having done his research, Matt knew Tala e’ Navier was a relatively younger immortal, but that only meant she’d still been weak when the Monster Collective broke away from the Federation. Not that she hadn’t lived through it, and he’d prepared himself for that.

To her credit, the gaze she used to inspect him was the same one she used to inspect Liz and Aster, without any additional malice. Which was more than he could say of some of the other equally old or older representatives who lingered around in the rooms foliage.

Tala didn’t mince words, “Good day, Alphas. I wish swift currents to carry you along. Alpha Eclavorn indicated you wanted to purchase our Tassal of Lament. I won’t lie to you, nor will I try to exaggerate. I’ve had several very good offers to buy it, yet I haven’t sold it. Do you know why I’ve kept something so valuable for so long?”

“Not off what I could uncover from your publicly known background.”

With a wide smile, Tala waved a flipper and a Tier 20 swam over with a box from a concealed area off of the side.

“I’m not surprised you didn’t find anything. In fact, I’d have been very upset if you had been able to uncover my shame so easily. In exchange for the Tassal of Lament, I want you to kill my sister, Briska.”

Matt wasn’t surprised to learn she’d wanted someone dead, given the typical Ascender skill set. In fact he’d expected that, but her relation to the target warranted more information.

“During the rebellion, she chose to stay in the Federation. I thought I’d forgiven that but later once the war over and the dust settled I learned she’d been involved with Megan the whole time. Using me as a leak.” The water trembled around them for a moment with barely repressed rage, but it vanished as quickly as it had arrived as Tala continued. “That I can’t accept. As I start looking towards Ascension, I find that it has become an obsession. I don’t have the skill set needed to secretly assassinate her nor do I have the raw power necessary to charge over and kill her. And as hateful as it is to admit it, even if I could find her, I don't have the skill set that would see me live long enough to ascend. I’d hoped our Alpha was looking into the Tassal of Lament for one of the older Alphas, but no matter. Even if you can’t kill her now, I’m confident you’ll follow through should you agree.”

Reviewing the provided information about the last seen Tier 39 sister he felt little in the way of reservation. Tapping into the EmpireNet on the nearby moon and accessing the general information stored there confirmed most of Tala's information. At least enough he was willing to take her general word.

Matt shared a look with Liz and Aster, silently communicating and asking for their thoughts. They all knew this meeting was far from private, which left them with two options. They could accept and publicly make an enemy out of the Federation, though their relations were already terrible. Or decline and worsen the Collective's opinion of them.

Trading an item for someone's life wasn’t something Matt wanted to make a habit of but he felt no guilt over this target. The Federation’s Internal Stability Agency was not known for its kindness. They’d earned their reputation for infiltration and corruption of various early bloodline separatist moments and post war their scale and capability had only grown.

Even if he was willing, he wanted to know more. “What’s your acceptable timeline?”

Shaking her head, Tala earned some of his respect. “I only want your word. I’m trying to be as reasonable as I can, and putting a timeline on something like this is stupid.”

That response and the sincerity in it caught all three of them off guard.

Seeing Matt make a decision, Liz snapped the box shut, tucking it under his arm. “Then we accept.”

Tala looked delighted and like she wanted to say more, but Aster used her fur as an excuse to leave immediately. Their host didn’t resist and they were escorted outside to find two people already waiting for them.

The first was reassuring. Rusty, who picked at something in his teeth with a toothpick, not paying much attention to them or anything else in the hallway, as if he was there casually.

The other was a familiar and unwelcome face. One of the Federation Tier 48’s, Faith.

Someone they’d met under very similar circumstances.

Too similar to be a coincidence.

Seeing a play about to start, Matt moved to cast [Portal], wanting to leave before it started. However, the moment the aperture tried to widen into a stable connection, a shift in the ambient mana’s movement tried to destabilize the spell.

Rather than fighting to keep the spell stable or let it dissipate, Matt flared over a million mana, as if trying and failing to stabilize the spell. Expanded by the sudden and too large burst of mana, the spell aperture started to tear deeper into reality than normal before it fell apart with a boom.

It wasn’t dangerous or harmful, but every spiritual perception in the system was now looking at them thanks to the concussion bomb ‘Faith’ had set off.

Smiling, Rusty cracked his knuckles, ready for a fight with Faith. But three Tier 50 perceptions swept over, ending the dramatics.

Out of the watchers it was Janet, the Republic Tier 50’s voice that echoed through the hall. “Disperse and stop causing commotions. It's unbecoming of all of you. Acting like children. Don’t we all have enough problems to not be seeking out new ones?”

Rather than arguing, Faith cupped her hands and bowed to the air, saying something he didn’t care to listen to.

His second attempt to cast [Portal] was uninterrupted, and he stepped back into the Ascender suite to the jeers and cheers alike.

He was just happy to have secured the Tassal of Lament.

His armor could get started as soon as the auction ended. With that single change, he couldn’t wait for the two weeks to pass, but that only made everything take longer.

Aster got lucky, getting a rare weather altering Tier 22 Natural Treasure. The Entropic Frost would, as its name suggested, lower the ambient temperature around it. More than that, once settled into a location, it would start to warp the local weather patterns, though it wouldn’t aspect the area. At or near Tier, it was a useful item, but with her capital planet being higher Tier than it, Matt was confused with what she wanted it for until she gleefully chucked it into her spirit space.

He almost thought he’d found an answer when he felt a small burst of smugness when the Natural Treasure entered her spirit space as if she’d confirmed something. But when he silently probed, she only stuck her tongue out at him not willing to share her finding. That only made him all the more eager to learn what she’d been hiding but her distraction didn’t stop him from savoring Eclavorn’s reaction to seeing the plasma orbs.

Eclavorn was chatting with Wun, Sien, and Krodag, when his head snapped up and to the side at a speed faster than Matt could follow.

Pupils dilating, his draconic form flickered as he moved to one of the displays at his head level.

Panting heavily, he called out, “Gideon, how much money did we bring? Gideon!”

Pivoting his attention to his bond, Eclavorn finally caught on to the Empire contingent and their utter lack of surprise, which stood out in stark contrast to everyone else.

Liz explained to the room with a wide smile. “We tried to get something for everyone in that strange realm, but we only had a few such successes. We do have more specific Natural Treasures of most of your types, though the Tier might be a bit low. Congratulations.”

Still panting at the ever rising price, Eclavorn looked pained as he asked, “But why sell it in an auction? Why not warn me at least?”

Before Liz could answer, Gideon chuckled and defused any tension. “I think you are going to have to take this one on the chin, E. Start asking the various pack leaders for private loans.”

Looking horrified, Eclavorn’s claws inadvertently sliced through the floor. “I didn’t bring nearly enough money!”

Seeing the predatory gleam in everyone's gaze as they tried to convince Eclavorn to take loans from them, Matt felt much better. Better than since he’d learn about the requirement to have his name removed to strengthen his armour… And he cut that thought right off before he started fretting on the side effects of that.

Again.

The rest of the auction proceeded smoothly, until news spread that Winter Hornet was going to make a special announcement at the end of the final day.

Seeing Sien glower at the news told the rest of them her bet material was going to be revealed, but she refused to give them any hints. Even down to the last second, she refused to do anything but take bets, but no one was dumb enough to agree when the answer was to be revealed so soon.

A good thing too, because every single one of them would have been wrong.

The first oddity was when the recording was forcefully shared across every screen and projector in the system all at once.

Winter Hornet, clad in robes so dark they actively drank in the light, stood on a small patch of immaculate grass, looking up just past the recording angle. As his gaze dropped, the perspective rose, showing the Tier 50 standing at the center of every melee weapon imaginable laid out in a spiral.

Instead of explaining, Winter Hornet took his time looking around slowly, making his way over the course of a minute, winding outward in the same pattern as the weapons.

“Coming back from deep chaotic space, I found myself with time on my hands. Time to reflect. Time to ponder. Time to ask questions. Some of them were simple, some were complex. However, through the asking, I came to a conclusion.”

“That’s actually a lie. The timing, not the idea itself. That was his, but it's much older than this might imply.”

Sien’s insight raised Matt’s expectations. He didn’t get the feeling Winter Hornet enjoyed theatrics or playing a part, so seeing the Tier 50 do exactly that intrigued him.

