That same smiling Winter Hornet took a deep visible breath before he continued. “What is the single most important trait for a cultivator to have in this Realm? I’m sure if you ask five people you will get five answers, but after much consideration and self reflection, I came to an answer I’m happy with. The willingness to risk. Risk life, risk death, risk fame, risk fortune. Risk, risk, risk. The more I thought about it, the more I kept coming back to the same answer; the willingness to take risks. Some die in the pursuit, but those that make it are inherently better than those that wallow their entire lives away. Even in failure, humiliation, or death the first group tried. Many things can be learned through time and effort, but that most fundamental property isn’t so teachable. Not truely.”

Letting the moment linger, Winter Hornet closed his eyes as he finished walking among the weapons. He never stepped on anything but the grass, each step unhurried but eating distance.

“Then, as I returned from chaotic space and meandered through a few worlds, what did I see but a young woman like many others. Mortal. Useless. Not knowing who I was, she begged me for a chance. Interested, I stopped and asked for clarification, ‘a chance for what?’ What was her response? ‘The first step’ she cried out. ‘I only need the first step and then I can take every one after that myself’. Initially, I was going to dismiss her request because the steps were there, but I realized something. She couldn’t see them, for she was blind. Of course she was. She was a mortal, and this was a Tier 4 world with plenty of rifts. So I asked her if she was sure she wanted her chance. When she accepted, I gave her the same choice I’m going to give every single one of you today.”

Opening his arms, Winter Hornet gestured to the weapons around him. “Risk. Risk it all for a chance at something more. This is an open offer to the Realm. I care not from which Great Power you hail, any mortal who reaches Sect lands and wishes to cultivate need only pick up any weapon you see arrayed before me. I will not give you help, I will not give you eyes. I will give you a weapon and a monster. Why these weapons? A three foot range is the average distance an unawakened adult can absorb essence from, and so the maximum weapon length here is two and a half feet. Pick one up and change your destiny yourselves.”

It was only as his last words fell with a heavy finality, that it became clear Winter Hornet wasn’t talking to the viewers, rather the twenty eight mortals who had been waiting at the edges of the circle.

In contrast to Winter Hornet, who was fully clad, the newcomers' clothes were as different as they were. Some were fully nude, while others were fully clothed, though only in simple cloth shifts, and everything in between.

From his subtly changing facial expressions, Winter Hornet had his own opinions on clothing and he wasn’t too hesitant in sharing them. According to him, those fighting for their life should do so nude, or for those with body parts that might get in the way, tightly bound. Any attempt at something as luxurious as modesty resulted in barely discernible smiles.

Seeing an elderly woman pushing eighty and a young boy barely fourteen standing next to each other felt deeply wrong to Matt, but Winter Hornet only smiled like a grandfather giving gifts.

“Armed but not armored. A fight for your life. A battle with destiny. For those who wanted it, here it is; your chance. I won’t give you a step. Not even the first. I will give you something more important. A weapon. Only by using it can you change your fate.”

Stepping into the rift, Winter Hornet led the twenty eight mortals inside.

He was no helpful shepherd guiding the needy onto the path of cultivation. No, Winter Hornet was merely a lighthouse silently showing them the rocks. It was up to them to make it through the storm safely.

Matt’s initial reaction to the Tier 1 goblins was familiarity, due to his own experience with the exact same rift, but he’d been fighting creatures at the same Tier, not as a moral.

The difference became immediately apparent.

Due to Winter Hornet’s command, every fight was a one-on-one, but that only made it more bloody. When the group encountered their first monster, a young boy rushed forward with a short spear at the Tier 50’s nod.

Even as the most standard Tier 1, the goblin was faster than the young boy, but he played the fight well. He kept his distance, using both the shaft of his weapon along with the blade to punish the monster's ferocity, showing that while not well trained, he’d trained hard.

A month of proper training would have seen far less blood shed. To win, the boy took several cuts from the stone dagger on his forearms and chest before he managed to properly stick the goblin with his spear and end its life.

Winter Hornet hadn’t lied. He’d let any adult make the attempt with no questions asked.

The next person, a middle aged man who also wielded a spear, proved exactly why that was such a bad idea. Being significantly taller than the first awakener, the monster didn’t play by the same rules, catching the second man off guard. Its first move was to dart between the man's legs mid-lunge, but that was all it took. That single mistake proved fatal, with Wither Hornet and everyone else watching the man bleed out next to the goblin he slew in his final desperate moments.

Matt was horrified as a still smiling Winter Hornet watched six more people die in their attempts to awaken.

The most he did was offer advice to the few wounded who managed to rejoin the group under their own power. Seeing his gentle smile as he reminded the woman that she should retrieve her fingers out of the goblin’s mouth felt deeply wrong. The expression was far too kind and understanding for a leader who would have led them into such a situation in the first place.

As Matt had the thought, his Truth made itself known for a moment, pushing back just enough to make him reconsider his initial reaction. For all that it was preventable and therefore foolishly wasteful to not prepare the entrants, not a single applicant turned away from their fight. It truly was their choice, and he couldn’t help but respect that.

He respected them and their bravery while hating Winter Hornet for such a convoluted method to a solved problem.

As for those that died to prove Winter Hornet’s point? Their ends may not have been clean, but few were. In another contradicting display, Winter Hornet paid his respect to their fallen bodies before letting the group move.

Twenty eight mortals and one cultivator had entered the rift, but only twenty two cultivators exited.

Bloody and wounded, the twenty one newly awakened Tier 1s looked at the recording as Winter Hornet opened his arms showcasing the field of weapons and the people behind him alike.

“This is an opportunity I gift to you Mortals of the realm. A weapon and a monster. Risk. Everything after that is up to you.” His words grew hard as steel as he followed the carrot with the stick. “Though let me be clear, nothing in life is free. In exchange for this opportunity, my requests are twofold. For those that accept my offer and step into cultivation, my request is one mandatory enlistment once you reach Tier 15 under the same restraints as anyone else. For those that chose not to take my offer, my request is even simpler. Silence. You have your opportunity, take it or do not complain.”

With those final words the recordings ended, and chaos started to spread as the various Great Powers cultivators began to respond. While the message had little to offer anyone in the Empire with its mandatory awakening, only the Federation could say the same as the Sect’s message was a naked provocation to steal everyone else's most ambitious mortals.

Realizing that, Matt couldn’t help but grow even more confused. The inevitable end of Winter Hornet’s move would be the other Great Powers opening up more avenues to awaken, so what was the point?

Sien waited until Brian asked that exact question to clue them in. “That’s where part two comes into play, but we aren’t advertising it quite so loudly. While we were gone, the high Tier sects weren't idle. Far from it. The Hall of Aspirants has been growing rapidly, with dozens of new techniques added to its halls ready to be taken up by new power houses.”

Shadows rippled around Sien’s eyes, leaving her eyes to glimmer in the rising darkness. “As for everyone's aggression? Good! Anyone who takes fault with our policies can meet us on the battlefield! We stand ready!”
