Calen drew back the bowstring to his ear, primed and awaiting the perfect moment to fire.

There. A Firebolt slammed into the green-scaled warrior, blasting a scorched and smoking hole in the bone plates along his back. Instantly, Calen released his arrow and by the time it hit, the bone armor was already beginning to close. His second arrow deflected off, shattering against the wall – the armor already fully regenerated.

That bone armor is crazy. Calen shifted his aim to where Ali’s Arcane Bolts were striking. The warrior was significantly more resilient than the other two defeated enemies. Ali’s Bugbears and most of her rogues withdrew. Good choice, Calen approved, they were just getting in the way. Rather let Malika do some damage with her magic.

Malika attacked one of the openings Ali had created with such immense speed that Calen found himself struggling to track her punches. He shifted his position to get a better angle and fired again. It was fortunate that the Kobold’s ridiculous regeneration only affected its armor, and not its health. With the addition of all their magical output, the Kobold was starting to show visible wounds and slow down, its blood leaking down the front of its armor. Still, his defensive fighting style, blocking as many of Malika and Mato’s strikes with his shield as possible, drew the fight out way longer than Calen had expected. Eventually, though, the uneven standoff was broken as the Kobold collapsed to one knee, and Ali’s bolts and Malika’s punches finished it off.

Calen hopped lightly down from his perch on the rooftop and examined the fallen Kobold warrior. To his surprise, the bone ridges and plates under its green-scaled hide began to shrink, completely disappearing after a few moments, leaving a normal-looking Kobold corpse. Aside from their higher-quality gear, the other two corpses looked like perfectly ordinary Kobolds, too.

What was that power – he blinked as a notification pinged his mind.

Explorer has reached level 11.

Suddenly, he connected several previously unrelated pieces of information in his head. The uncomfortable prickling sensation in the back of his mind had been growing every time his Explorer skill leveled. The strange environment with unusual bone artifacts. The extraordinary regenerating bone armor of the Kobolds they had just faced, which faded as soon as they died. Even the creepy Bone Skitterer creatures. It all connected with the stories of adventurers and pathfinders exploring the dangerous areas of the world that he had loved reading as a child.

This is dungeon magic. He was certain of it. The ambient aura of magic that Ali said she could see would be capable of producing dungeon-wide effects that enhanced many of the dungeon’s minions.

Explorer has reached level 12.

Again? Before the sound of his notification chime had faded, while the glowing white text still hovered in his mind, he had the strangest sensation of something akin to a door swinging open in his mind. His skill chimed again.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.Ruins of Dal’mohra – level ??Affinity: Bone, DeathAge: AncientKnown Creatures: Kobold, Sewer Rat, Giant Spider, Undead Skeleton, Starving WolfKnown Bosses: Aberrant Skeletal Warrior – level 9Dungeon

As soon as his Explorer skill reached level twelve, it reminded him that they were in a dungeon. But this time he didn’t mind the excessive noisiness as the notifications continued and he saw the new assessment information provided by his skill leveling up.

“I just got a skill up,” Calen announced, and rather than explain, he simply shared the dungeon assessment. There wasn’t a lot of information they didn’t already know, but it was good to confirm the affinities of the dungeon and even knowing the name of the dungeon was nice. The level being too high to identify was rather worrying, as was the ancient age of the dungeon. Clearly, it had been here for a very long time. Maybe even longer than Myrin’s Keep itself. Time enough to grow hoary and funky and downright mean.

“Death and Bone, that’s what my skill told me too,” Ali replied.

“I think we need to be extra careful as we go further,” Malika added. “If the level is higher than we can identify then something in here is very strong.”

Calen continued scanning the remaining notifications.

Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 19.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 16.Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 18.Archer of Light has reached level 16.+10 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 11.Motes of Light has reached level 6.Eclipse has reached level 9.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 8 (+2).

Calen tightened his hands into fists. Still, there was a reason they were down here, and it wasn’t for a pleasant stroll in a meadow. He dropped six points into dexterity, enough to hopefully improve his aim in case he needed to hit cracks in bone armor again. Then he spent two points on intelligence to increase his magical damage, and recalling the close call with the fireball, decided to spend his final two points boosting his vitality.

He took the opportunity in the aftermath of the fight to pull up his sheet. He might not be at Ali’s level yet, but he was definitely growing stronger!

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the DawnClass: Archer of Light – level 16- Radiant Archery – level 11- Arrows of Brilliance – level 11- Motes of Light – level 6- Explorer – level 12- Blessing of the Dawn – level 10- Eclipse – level 9- Eyes of the Archon – level 8- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 6- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 4Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingAttributes- Vitality: 24- Strength: 9- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 117 (+41)- Perception: 82 (+29)- Intelligence: 75 (+26)- Wisdom: 20Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 10- Body: Leather Vest – level 10- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Evasion: 120Dodge: 21.12%Health: 240/240Stamina: 150/150Mana: 160/200 (40 Reserved)
