Far to the north, an enormous chunk of the circular city was simply missing, a yawning black hole being all that he could see in its place. Like a Leviathan took a bite out of it. Given the quality of the craftsmanship, Calen could scarcely guess what disaster must have befallen the city to destroy such a large swath of it. His heart, his curiosity drew his attention toward the scene of such destruction, hoping to unearth a clue as to what might have transpired, but he reined it in.

There will be time enough to explore everything. It will be a lot easier once we dispatch most of the monsters.

Ali was done clearing the battlefield, and his friends were down there waiting for him. He spent a little of his precious mana, summoning a floating orb of light with his skill and sending it out to drift above their heads, attaching it to follow Ali. His skill had been leveling slowly. Hopefully, this delve would be an opportunity to grow it. A second mote would be really handy down here. Given Ali and Mato’s recounting of their experiences, and the stealthy rogues in the last group, it was probably safer to keep the lights around. He would need to range a little further afield to use his Eclipse skill, and it might mess with Ali’s rogues and Bugbears, but the extra safety was probably worth it.

He hopped along the surprisingly intact slate roofs as the group moved northward, following the twisting alleys and winding streets with him guiding them in the general direction of the center of the city. A brief gleam caught his eye and he quickly called out.

“Mato, tripwire.”

Ali and Mato had talked about the ubiquitous traps the Kobolds were so fond of, so he made a mental note to keep a sharper lookout. Even from above, and providing them with light, he probably still had the more acute vision. At least they were not magical traps, and simply seeing them was enough to entirely avoid the danger.

He led the group deeper and deeper into the dungeon, pausing briefly to kill each patrol they encountered. The groups of two or three Kobolds were easily dispatched by their superior numbers and higher leveled combat skills, and even the occasional skeletons were no trouble at all. He continued to point out the tripwires, dead drops, and loose flagstones with uncanny ease. So accurately that he was beginning to suspect his two perception skills – Eyes of the Archon and Explorer – were synergizing somehow to identify the danger. It feels almost like I know where the traps should be.

A dark silhouette lurked in the shadows on top of one of the houses to the left, crouched beside a surprisingly intact stone chimney. Carefully, Calen drew his bow and fired, releasing his magic at the last possible moment. I’m getting better at that, he noted happily as the magic lit up the rooftop, and the Kobold rogue hiding on it, right before it struck him in the upper thigh. The Kobold slipped and crashed down the back of the building calling out with an anguished yipping. Immediately, two green-scaled Kobolds charged into the street. Warriors. Calen fired a second arrow, threading the needle between Malika and one of Ali’s Bugbears, taking the lead enemy warrior in the chest.

The two warriors fell quickly to the onslaught of axes, daggers, and flying Bugbears with massive maces, but there was still no sign of the rogue Calen had shot off the roof. Quickly, he activated Eclipse, blending back into the shadows. Using one of Ali’s Bugbears as a stepladder, he quickly hopped up onto the roof of the building on the opposite side of the street and scanned the area.

There!

“Incoming from the left, up ahead!” he called out to his friends below. Blending in with the shadows, he nocked an arrow and waited till the patrol of six Kobolds charged around the corner.

There’s the mage.

Calen was becoming proficient at picking out the red-scaled casters in the group. It wasn’t so much the color – given that half the time he was seeing in black-and-white – but these Kobold Fire Mages wore tattered robes that looked like an academy magister who was down on his luck and had been homeless in the slums for several months. They also didn’t carry weapons, preferring their potent fire magic.

His arrow flew silently down into the fray, suddenly igniting into brilliance and illuminating the mage as it struck. Ali obviously noticed because her magic bolts immediately arced across the battlefield to strike the same target. He fired again, carefully avoiding the enormous Bugbear leaping over the enemies to land among them with a crashing mace strike.

This is just overkill.

The Kobolds were simply under-leveled and outnumbered. Ali’s new Bugbear minions seemed to be extraordinarily effective, crushing and slashing their way through the much smaller Kobolds, often sending the small monsters flying with the power of their strikes.

Calen kept to the rooftops as much as he could, hopping deftly across the smaller alleys and closely spaced houses, dropping to the streets only when they crossed a major one. The Kobolds and skeletons were easy to pick out, and the traps were still unsophisticated contraptions clearly visible with his perception skills. However, when he reached the next concentric main road, he stopped in his tracks, scanning the buildings on the other side of the street, finding them to be misshapen, gray, and lumpy, a rather stark contrast to the clean-cut stonework he had gotten used to. There were no obvious Kobold patrols on this road, so he decided to wait for the others to catch up.

“There’s something strange up ahead,” he said. “The buildings look irregular and gray.”

“That must be the section with all the bone,” Mato said.

“Yes, it was very strange,” Ali said as she peered around the last house. “It was sprayed out from some enormous bone monstrosity we found. And the mana is all weird around here.”

They all quickly crossed the road in silence, and Calen immediately saw what Ali had meant. All the houses were encrusted with a lumpy grayish substance forming ridges and plates. Many of the buildings looked like they had been draped in a thick layer of heavy gray cobwebs that had ossified. It looked like it had all frozen while flowing around the stone. There were occasional real bones embedded in it, sticking out haphazardly.

Looks like Kobold bones. Calen’s natural caution deepened. The Kobolds were easy. This has to be more of a challenge – whatever it is.

Throughout her book, Lyeneru Silverleaf emphasized caution – to beware of a dungeon’s proclivity for serving up deadly surprises. There was a creepiness to this place that made the hair on the back of his neck stand up. It felt like he was being observed, but the sensation hovered just out of reach at the back of his mind.

A sudden movement in the corner of his eye caught his attention and he snapped his head around to see, drawing his bow. A small dark gray creature was crawling up the wall. It was about the size of a small fist and had eight legs with a round carapace. Looks a bit like a crab. Despite himself, he shivered.

Bone Skitterer – Elemental – level 1

As soon as he moved, it scurried away darting sideways across the wall with a skittering, scraping sound.

Explorer has reached level 10.

Silently, they pressed on through the strange bone-covered alleyway. Calen noticed that Ali’s description of the bone substance was quite accurate. It really did look like it had been sprayed on and simply hardened. He found many cases where isolated rib bones, rocks, or skulls were sticking out of the bone like they had been trapped and frozen in place. Now and then he heard the skittering sounds of tiny legs scurrying away or saw the sudden darting movements out of the corner of his eyes. The creepiness was really beginning to put him on edge.

“Mato, trap,” he called out, easy to see from his vantage point up on the roof, and immediately heard Kobold alarm calls barking in response. Three Kobolds sprang from their concealed hiding spot in a bone-encrusted house behind the tripwire trap, brandishing steel blades that gleamed a dark reddish black in their taloned grasp.

Warrior – Kobold – level 18Rogue – Kobold – level 16Mage – Kobold – level 19

Higher levels. And better gear, he noted, drawing his bow and firing instantly. As his arrow sped toward the Fire Mage, it flared with the brilliant illumination of his light magic infusing it with power. In the brief moment of light, his enhanced vision showed him unnatural ridges and plates of bone that covered the mage’s red-scaled hide.

What is that?

His arrow struck the mage hard, ricocheting off, and cracking a bony protrusion on her neck. Before his very eyes, the cracked plate began filling in and sealing up the damage. He fired two more arrows in quick succession as the mage looked upward, fixing him with her glowing red eyes. His attacks had no more effect than the first one. The mage’s scaly lips peeled back in what looked like a mocking feral grin, baring her fangs. With a sharp gesture of her outstretched hand, her fire mana began to condense into a Fireball hovering above her claws.

With a sudden chill, he realized how exposed he was up on the roof with no cover, and immediately began running. The mage tracked him easily, releasing the Fireball which shot across the distance in a flash.

I’m not going to make it! His eyes widened in shock, and he felt the searing heat singe his skin.

But, right in the nick of time, a golden disk of magic popped into existence in front of his face, taking the full impact of the Fireball. A deafening detonation and flash of flame enveloped the entire roof. Calen crashed into the slate tiles, knocked off his feet by the concussion of the blast, while dislodged and shattered stone tiles from the other side of the barrier rained down into the street below. Even just the little energy that flowed around the barrier magic caused his skin to blister as he caught the whiff of his own singed hair. He could only imagine how destructive that would have been if the barrier hadn’t blocked the explosion itself. He shot Ali a grateful glance, but she was already focused on firing her Arcane Bolts at the deadly mage.

“Use magic to crack the bone armor!” Malika shouted, her yell sharing her discovery with the rest of them.

Not so useful for me, Calen thought, realizing his magic required the arrow to hit for it to be effective. I should have taken Armor Piercing, he thought, realizing Ali was their only pure magic user. He studied the battle below. Malika and several of Ali’s rogues were fighting the enemy rogue. Ali’s Bugbears and warriors were helping Mato with the warrior, and the remaining rogues materialized right behind the enemy Fire Mage, stabbing viciously. However, Calen could clearly see their dagger strikes were ineffectively bouncing off the dense bone plates and ridges, hardly bothering the Kobold at all. An intense aura of flame sprung up around the Fire Mage, filling the battlefield with the stench of burning scales and flesh as the Kobolds caught alight trying to attack through the wall of flame.

A Firebolt flew across the battlefield and smashed into the enemy mage’s chest, sending bone splinters flying and leaving broad cracks in the armor. Ali’s bolts landed in the same spot, in a much more destructive fashion. Malika was right! Calen quickly nocked another arrow and fired it into the rapidly intensifying conflagration. His arrow flew true and buried itself into the Kobold mage’s lower ribcage between the shattered bone plates, causing it to misfire a bolt of flame.

I can hit you now! He sidestepped the errant bolt of flame and fired again and again, carefully aiming for wherever Ali’s bolts had pulverized the dense and impenetrable bone armor. Ali withdrew her severely burnt rogues from the intense flames surrounding the mage, sending them to help Mato instead. Smart choice, he thought. Bathed in Mato’s aura, they would recover over time. The intense flame aura seemed to diminish the impact of Ali’s mage’s Firebolts, so it was really up to him and her to take out the dangerous fiery Kobold. Ali blocked a second, powerful Fireball with her barrier, detonating it prematurely out in the open. Her barrier shattered with the force of the blast but managed to contain the damage to the conflagration already filling the middle of the street. The enemy mage seemed completely unaffected by the blast, simply firing off more bolts of flame. Calen dodged the one sent his way and, aiming carefully, fired another arrow. The arrow sped toward its target, Calen delaying the release of his light magic as a matter of habit now. The Fire Mage lit up with the intensity of his bolt for a half second before the arrow buried itself in a chink between the shattered bone plates in her chest. The instant his arrow struck home, the intense flame aura vanished, and the Kobold dropped limp to the ground.

Calen breathed a sigh of relief and switched his attention to Malika’s target. Her magic was flashing rapidly as she attacked the Kobold rogue. But he could see her punches and kicks were vastly less effective than normal. Her magic relies on hitting, too, he realized. It was hard to deliver magical damage when the attack skill simply bounced off the enemy’s armor. While Malika was significantly more effective than he had been on his own, the armor was definitely a problem. Ali’s Fire Mage landed a Firebolt and Calen was surprised to see visibly more damage than when it had attacked the Fire Mage they had just killed. He nocked an arrow, firing into the newly opened vulnerability along the Kobold’s ribs before it healed.

She’s sharp, he noted seeing Malika immediately shifting to take advantage of the same opening, her powerful magic finally penetrating and widening the gap. She ignored several dagger wounds on her arms as she unleashed a flurry of punches, her blood spraying crimson into the air with the speed and impact of her attacks. She must be low already. Taking out the rogue quickly seemed the right priority. He fired two more arrows into the gap, barely avoiding Malika. Then the dark street lit up with Ali’s golden bolts slamming into the rogue and it collapsed in time with the soft notification chime going off in his mind.

Even though Ali’s minions and Mato had been fighting with the Kobold warrior the entire battle, he seemed none the worse for it. He focused on blocking Mato with his shield, clearly recognizing the danger of Mato’s magic, relying on his bone and plate armor to deal with the strikes of the Bugbears and rogues. The ringing clang of their weapons bouncing off his armor echoed through the dark street. In addition to the dense bone and scale of his hide, the warrior wore a banded plate vest made of the same dark reddish steel as his shield and shortsword.

