Ali stared down into the yawning darkness of the ventilation shaft, shuddering at the memories, vertigo, and the disturbing sense of the dark void pulling her downward as if calling her to cast herself in. She pulled her eyes away; she knew exactly what falling in there felt like and she had no desire to repeat the experience.

Still visible on the ground were the scratch marks where Mato’s claws had desperately sought purchase on the hard stone and packed dirt, a long trail that extended from where he had bounced all the way to the unprotected hole in the floor. Ali’s eyes widened slightly at the sight of a Fae-sized outline in the dust on the far wall right above the hole where the impact of Mato’s heavy, flying body had tossed her.

Her mind replayed the panic, her frantic scrambling for anything to halt the fall to their deaths, the bone-jarring impacts of striking her barriers, the tinkling sound of her magic shattering, and the bursts of glowing shards and splinters strobing their light down the dark shaft. The crushing impact of the ground, and then… the angry red glow of fire in the darkness.

She glanced at her Kobold mage. Things will be different this time, she told herself firmly. She took a deep breath to steady herself. Nearby, she heard Mato explaining to Malika and Calen how they had survived the fall while Calen drove a steel spike into the rock and attached a long, knotted rope to it.

Yes, it will be different. She drew in another long, steadying breath and let it out slowly. There were four of them now, and they were all significantly stronger. She glanced back at the reassuring sight of her Bugbears and Kobolds. And I have them, too.

She stared down the shaft as Mato and Calen descended hand over hand down the rope, watching them grow smaller and smaller as Calen’s floating orb of light followed them into the depths.

“That’s… really far,” she whispered.

“I can’t believe you guys survived that fall,” Malika answered, also staring down the hole.

As the tiny pinprick of light stopped moving, Ali collected herself. “Ok, you guys next,” she said, her throat struggling to produce the harsh, guttural Goblin tongue. “One at a time.”

It took a while for the Bugbears to descend, but, with their enormous weight, she didn’t want to risk more than one of them on the rope at a time. Once they were safely down, Ali sent her Kobolds scampering dexterously down the rope before she turned to Malika.

“You go next,” Malika said. “I’ll come last.”

“Ok,” Ali said, levering herself over the rim and beginning her descent. Holding herself up by the rope was not a pleasant experience; there was a great yawning nothingness below her feet that reminded her sharply that the only thing preventing her from falling was her minuscule strength attribute. Her mind provided extremely unhelpful flashbacks of hanging from her barrier dizzyingly far above the cavern floor when she had released the river and it had exploded in her face. Or worse, the memories of falling.

Every few minutes, she summoned her barrier magic to stand on and rest her tired arms. A few Blackened Deathcap mushrooms grew out of the walls, but the dungeon mana seemed surprisingly attenuated within the shaft, almost as if it were being stretched out to the extreme in order to bridge the gap.

I wonder what happens if I break the connection?

But she decided she’d rather not experiment and perhaps risk something as dangerous as the dungeon-rage while suspended on nothing but a rope.

I’m trying to distract myself. But none of her mental tricks were able to diminish the burning in her arms and the fear of plunging to her death.

After what seemed like forever, she finally felt the reassuring security of solid rock beneath her feet, and she let go of the rope and gazed around, trying to quell her racing heart by using her breathing exercises.

“Welcome back,” Mato said wryly, gesturing to the room as he stood quietly among her minions. “Another beautiful day in the underworld. I can still smell the char.”

“Where’s Calen?” she asked, smiling to convey how much she appreciated his trying to lighten the mood. The radiant mote of Calen’s magic still hovered up near the ceiling of the chamber, filling it with bright light, but there was no sign of him.

“He went outside to scout,” Mato answered, pointing to the door.

Ali scanned the small room, taking in the familiar stone construction marred by scorch marks on the walls and floor. Even the doorway still bore the scratches of her heavy stone blockade that had protected them from the Kobolds while they recovered. Her eyes were inexorably drawn to the horrifyingly large dark stain on the ground, a silent testament to how close she and Mato had come to dying right here. She met his gaze and knew without words that he was thinking the same thing. It could so easily have gone differently, and then there would have been two corpses – a large one and a small one – food to feed the dungeon that had consumed the remains of her home.

“What happened to the Kobolds?” Ali asked. She could hardly forget being ambushed down here the moment they landed. More than enough time had passed for the dungeon to respawn them.

“It was empty when we got here,” Mato said, glancing around. “Calen thinks it was a wandering patrol and we just got unlucky. That’s why he went outside to take a look.”

As soon as Malika joined them, they all stepped through the stone archway and out into the narrow street beyond. Calen stood atop one of the ruined buildings scanning the horizon, making rapid notes and accompanying sketches in his notebook.

Ali shivered at the distant sounds of Kobold hunting chirps and the memories they invoked. Terrifying ambush attacks by black-scaled rogues, and the burning heat of fireballs.

Just glad I didn’t have to deal with one of those sneaking up on me in the darkness, she thought, studying her giant Bugbears as they ducked into shadowy doorways and corners, fading from view, just like her Kobold rogues.

Ali glanced around, trying to regain her bearings. She and Mato had spent over a week down here, but everything looked so different now that she could see mana. In every direction, dark and ominous dungeon mana swirled and flowed like an eddying river, before settling between the buildings like a ground-fog miasma. She carefully oriented herself by the enormous stone pillar at her back – the one she knew reached all the way to the rocky roof of the cavern – containing the ventilation shaft down which they had just descended. Thousands of years ago, this area had been a wealthy residential district, illuminated by countless floating orbs of light magic that were timed to simulate night and day in the depths of this underground city. Now, Ali could barely see the end of the alleyway, all else lost to the pervasive darkness.

Calen hopped down into the street beside them. “There’s an enormous tower off in that direction,” he said, keeping his voice low as he pointed. “Is that the library you mentioned?”

“Yes,” she answered in a whisper. The dark black mana seemed stronger in that direction. Brighter? Again, Ali struggled to describe how blackness could appear brighter, but that was just how she saw it with Arcane Insight. Certainly, Calen was right, the way to the library coincided with the direction of the strongest mana. Why was that?

“I can’t see much of anything down here,” Malika said. “We’re going to have to rely on your eyes for scouting.”

“Anything in particular I should be looking out for?” Calen asked.

“Kobolds and skeletons,” Mato offered. “Stealth patrols.”

“Traps,” Ali added. “Tripwires across the streets and switches under loose flagstones connected to deadfalls.”

“Ok, I’ll go ahead,” Calen said, hopping back up on top of the nearby building with an agile jump off a cracked windowsill, and then vanished from sight.

Ali walked on, quietly following behind Malika and Mato for several minutes with two Kobold Warriors and her Fire Mage, trying to remember the way they had gone before. But she had been so scared, all the streets and buildings had melded into one giant dizzying blur in her memories.

Suddenly, an urgent whisper pierced the silence from the darkness above, “Kobolds up ahead!”

Ali’s head snapped up, and she caught the dim outline of Calen’s form shifting in the shadows along the broken stone tiled roof, and a few seconds later the familiar yipping and chirping sounds of hunting Kobolds echoed from the stone walls up ahead.

An angry red glow suddenly illuminated the alleyway up ahead, casting ominous dancing shadows across broken flagstones. The thrill of fear caressed the back of Ali’s neck, making the little hairs prickle as they stood on end. The fiery glow showed Ali the malevolent gaze of a Kobold Fire Mage staring back at her from behind his conjuring. With the paranoid instincts that came from a week of desperately struggling for survival down among these ruins, Ali’s barrier sprung up instantaneously, covering her entire body from any attacks that might come from up front.

An orb of pristine luminance flared up in the center of the alleyway, and two sprinting enemy rogues appeared out of the shadows as Calen’s magic dispelled their stealth.

Mage – Kobold – level 9 (Fire)Rogue – Kobold – level 8-9 x2

Ali let out a sigh of relief as the rogues were exposed, but she didn’t let her guard down. A roar filled the alleyway as Mato engaged, and Ali dropped the rogues from her mind as she swapped focus entirely onto the mage – a habit she and Mato had practiced at length.

With a muffled thump and a whooshing noise, the mage’s Fireball flew, growing rapidly larger as it approached. Ali split her magic and cast a second Barrier in its path. Her aim wielding two barriers simultaneously was still clumsy, and the Fireball struck the edge, careening off to the side and detonating harmlessly against a nearby building.

“Kill the Fire Mage,” she commanded, directing her rogues. By the light of raining gobs of fire magic, she unleashed her Arcane Bolts, joining Calen’s brilliant arrows in an assault on the Kobold mage. She ignored the clangs of steel and the booming crashes of her Bugbears, as they unleashed their fury beside Mato.

A flicker of flame beside her signaled her own Fire Mage’s counterattack. The Fireball leapt out across the alleyway striking the wall beside the enemy mage. There was a low thump that shook the stone street, followed by a flash of brilliant flame and a tremendous bang. The enemy mage’s body flew sideways, slamming into a cracked stone wall on the opposite side of the street before sliding down, leaving a gruesome smear in its wake.

Three simultaneous chimes sounded within her mind as the acrid odor of brimstone overpowered the softer undertones of burnt flesh. A sudden silence descended upon the alleyway.

What? Is it over?

Ali’s memories of her first battle had had a powerful effect on her, driving a sense of urgency and desperation. After all, this group of Kobolds was remarkably similar to the first group she had faced. But the outcome couldn’t have been more different. I almost died in the first battle, she thought, shocked by how trivial the same fight was now that there were four of them and had all grown substantially.

“I guess that’s the difference between being level twenty instead of level five,” she breathed.

“Heck, yes,” Mato growled through a fierce grin as he dragged the two rogue corpses over to her for deconstruction.

Ever since he had been old enough to read, Calen had been fascinated by stories of discovery. Archeologists, lore hunters, treasure seekers, pathfinders, and dungeon explorers, he had devoured every story he could find. In his childhood daydreams, he always played the role of the explorer, delving through the ancient ruins of long-forgotten civilizations, mapping out dangerous dungeons and caverns, and sneaking past monstrous guardians to unearth ancient treasure and arcane lore.

And here he was, standing in the middle of the ancient and long-buried ruins of the legendary city of learning. Dal’mohra. Untouched for over three thousand years. Most scribes and scholars agreed that the location of the city had been lost forever – if it was ever even more than a myth.

He glanced over at Ali as she used her strange magic to dispose of the dead Kobolds. And she was born here.

He scanned the ruins from his vantage point on the rooftop. At his back, the enormous stone pillar rose over a hundred feet to the rocky cavern roof above. They had come down on the southern edge of a giant inner terraced area, densely populated with what must have once been residences – surprisingly large houses. Perhaps a wealthy district? Beyond the terrace, the city ruins sprawled out in an enormous circle filled with roads and stone buildings.

He could tell it was almost pitch dark, but his Eyes of the Archon skill still showed him the entire cityscape in exquisite detail, only in shades of gray and black. To the northeast and northwest, two more giant pillars rose from out of the buildings reaching the cavern roof. He carefully memorized the locations of all the major features he could see, roughly sketching the main reference points in his notebook, paying particular attention to the circular, ordered arrangement of the rings of buildings extending outward from the terrace, and the enormous radial roads that cut through it all extending the full length from the center to the edge of the city. It would take some time to do it justice, but he would be the first to map these legendary ruins.

He marveled at the exquisite craftsmanship of the ancient stonework, still almost perfect after several thousand years. This must be the work of the ancient Dwarven stonemasons. Dwarven history was filled with stories of ancient stone and earth mages of stupendous skill and extraordinary training, producing marvels that would be impossible in the modern age. Many scholars discounted this as the typical inflation of prowess that occurred when history transitioned into legend and myth, but Calen could see the evidence right before his eyes.

Even the battlements in Myrin’s Keep – crafted by the best earth and stone mages the kingdom could muster – paled in comparison to the ancient craftsmanship that lay everywhere he looked. In the distance, nearer the center of the city, he could make out enormous stone statues of presumably important people – kings perhaps, or sages.

