

The second was Sabri crying out from inside her satchel before making a violent, retching sound. The shadeling grew in a split second, tearing through the leather and physically forcing her out of the way.

The third was a lance of glowing, sickening green, tearing through the barrier, then through Sabri's lower right limbs. If not for the shadeling pushing Flia out of the way, it would have pierced her skull. As it was, it struck and tore through her shoulder, and she gasped at the burst of pain that came with it. Something about this magic interfered with her elemental form.

Then she heard the anguished cry from Erik and whirled around, ready to defend, only to find that same lance of magic had pierced Elizabeth through the heart.

"No," Erik said. "No, no, please—"

Flia shut it out.

She had said, once, that she did not know if Cale had done right in his efforts to end the Planar War. It was true then, and it was true now. She still didn't.

But she did wonder, as a certain coldness spread through her, how many times he had witnessed something like this before he had decided enough was enough. Perhaps she could see it, on a long enough timescale. Perhaps this single event gave her some small grain of understanding.

Hakon staggered to his feet. He hadn't regenerated from his wounds. There was still a chunk taken out of his torso and jaw, and by all rights he should not have been able to move, let alone stand. But the darkness in him had grown into something uncontrollable. Something in his magic felt broken and sick, and it manifested as a network of green filaments spreading through what remained of the right side of his torso.

"End," he said. "I will end-end-end. You."

Sabri whimpered, then tried to push herself to her feet, staggering forward to defend her. Flia's heart clenched, that coldness giving way for a moment before she forced herself to calm.

She would not break.

She had two drops of palewater. Without taking her gaze off Hakon, she put them both into the bond she shared with Sabri.

[Familiar Bond] is unable to evolve. Excess draconic interfere—

Local allied dragonking found, designation "Akkau." Retrying...

[Familiar Bond] has evolved into [Leviathan's Touch (Lesser)].
