“This is Attack 1—fall back! This is not a joke! I don’t care where you are! Fall back! Soew, we have injured! Captain Jelaqua’s body is gone and their half-Giant nearly got slaughtered! Every position—now!”
Elia’s heart skipped a beat. She heard a chorus of confused voices. However, she spoke loudly, cutting off the others.
“This is Elia Arcsinger. Define the threat.”
The adventurer’s voice was grim.
“Draugr.”
 
—-
 
It came out of the sea of zombies without warning. Jelaqua was slowing down as her Rampage ended, the Raskghar body stressed past its limits. She saw something—huge—crashing through the sea of undead.
“Inc—”
That was all she got to say before the Draugr hit her. It was not necessarily larger than the other zombies. If anything, this Human had been less than six feet tall. But where other zombies were just copies of their bodies in life—Ghouls lean muscle, strong but like animals—the Draugr was all muscle.
Death had turned the hulking former-Human into a twisted parody of strength. The only person Jelaqua had ever seen that had the Draugr’s physique was…Magus Grimalkin.
“Bowel maggots! It’s a Draugr!”
Someone shouted, but the warning came too late. With one movement, the hulking undead crashed into Jelaqua. She tried to swing her flail, but it was under her guard. With one blow, it drove a fist into her chest. A rib-breaking blow to gouge out her heart.
The punch hit her armor. Maughin’s fine steel held, denting slightly, but protecting her inner self. Jelaqua roared, kicking at the Draugr with her Raskghar body. The Raskghar form she wore was similar in strength! She held the biting jaw back, punching and feeling like she was hitting a rock. The two rolled about as Moore whirled.
“Jelaqua!”
She nearly had thrown it off her, despite its refusal to budge when the second Draugr emerged from the undead mass. It smashed lesser undead to bits, heedless of their wellbeing as it threw itself on Jelaqua and the second Draugr.
“Get it off me! G—”
It ripped Jelaqua’s head off her body. The Raskghar form spasmed; the second Draugr grabbed Jelaqua’s arm, planted its foot on her torso, and pulled.
The armor Maughin had forged could have stopped a crossbow bolt at close range. But the body of the Selphid wasn’t nearly so strong. Jelaqua felt her arm tear and her inner body disconnected just in time; the arm came clear.
The Draugr threw the body parts aside, but hesitated. Whatever instinct was in them told them—the body was still alive?
Headless, the Raskghar rose. Its good arm whirled the flail one-handed, and the steel ball struck one Draugr in the face. Just a stunning blow; Jelaqua was already stumbling backwards, almost blind.
“Cover Jelaqua!”
Seborn leapt forwards, sinking two blades into the first Draugr’s leg. He sliced and the thing stumbled, a hamstring severed. It whirled, striking with a [Warrior]’s speed, one crushing fist a killing blow—but the [Rogue] was already dodging back.
Ulinde blasted the Draugr with arrows of blinding light. It stumbled, but the second Draugr charged after Jelaqua.
It ran into Moore’s fist. With a roar, the half-Giant sent it crashing backwards. His thorn-covered fist tore the face off the Draugr and hurled it into the ranks of the zombies.
“Get Jelaqua!”
The [Green Mage] shouted at the adventurers now covering Jelaqua as the undead moved forwards, no longer held back. Moore was turning to the second Draugr that Seborn and Ulinde were fighting when he saw the huge body get up.
Faceless, skin torn to shreds, neck at an angle, the muscle-bound undead got up. Moore turned back with a growl of fury. He raised his staff.
This time, the blow wasn’t as perfect. It struck the Draugr on the shoulder rather than the head, but Moore heard the crack of bone. However—that was all. The Draugr surged into him and the taller half-Giant reeled as a fist struck his chest—his arm—
“Moore!”
Seborn saw the undead wave move around the giant, biting, scratching—but he and the Draugr were cut off. Moore was hitting the Draugr as it traded blows with him, but for once his strength and size weren’t winning the battle easily. The Draugr tore with one arm and Moore howled as it scored a blow past the armor he wore. He whirled his staff down.
“[Pillar of Earth]!”
The Draugr tried to dodge. However, the spire of stone struck it from below and sent it flying. Moore, panting, saw it hit the ground—twist—and then began to get back up.
The second Draugr was limping after Jelaqua. A shadow flickered around it, slashing from all sides. Seborn’s enchanted daggers burned flesh or froze it—but unlike a mortal foe, this Lizardfolk Draugr, disturbingly bloated with muscle from their slimmer forms—refused to fall.
“[Flame Swathe]!”
Ulinde set it on fire. Seborn dodged back, but the flaming undead just walked on. He looked around. The first Draugr rose to its feet, eyes flashing with blue magical power. It roared, expectorating foul liquid—
Moore grabbed it and threw the undead into the wall of the nearest house. Wood splintered as the Draugr bounced off the surface. It stumbled—Moore grabbed it by one leg.
The fighting adventurers looked up as the half-Giant bellowed. Moore lifted the struggling Draugr, ignoring its attempts to break his grip, the other zombies trying to climb onto him. He swung the Draugr into the wall.
Whumph. Seborn felt the impact in his bones. He saw the Draugr flailing—Moore swung again. The second impact made it go still. Then—Moore tossed it down and drove his staff down onto its head.
It didn’t get back up this time. The second Draugr stumbled. The hail of spells it had taken drove it to its knees and Seborn planted a dagger in its head.
Two dead. However, the adventurer-commander was shouting.
“Fall back! Draugr just appeared and smashed into us! Everyone, back up! Cover the half-Giant!”
Moore was turning. The adventurers were beckoning to the Halfseekers in front. Jelaqua, headless, turned, at the same time as Moore. The [Green Mage] stopped.
More huge figures were moving through the crowds of undead. Seborn muttered an oath.
“Depths take me…”
“Draugr! Yes, Draugr! Don’t engage them hand-to-hand!”
The attack-leader was bellowing into his speaking stone, firing with a wand at the huge bodies that had torn through their kin, charging to meet the Gold-ranks. Moore ran, as Ulinde tried to cover him. She shouted, an edge of panic in her voice.
“Moore—hurry!”
“How many?”
Elia’s voice was insistent. So was Soew’s. The adventurer looked ahead. He laughed hysterically. Then he tossed the Tripvine Bag as someone used a [Wall of Stone] spell. The adventurers turned and ran.
“How many? I see twenty coming down this street alone! Fall back!”
The two Draugr that had fallen were replaced by a dozen tanks of flesh which ran at the wall of stone, tearing through vines, punching blindly, without heed or regard for their wellbeing. The Halfseekers fell back with the other adventurers.
“Get me mage fire! We can’t retreat fast enough! I need reinforcements! Get me—”
The leader was demanding every asset they had as the wall shattered, barely seconds after it had gone up. The undead advanced again, the Draugr moving into a pounding charge. Then…slowed.
“[Sluggish Advance]. Retreat one street back. Reinforcements are fortifying.”
Soew’s calm voice filtered through the speaking stone. The Draugr were moving in slower-motion, weighed down by her Skill. The adventurers fell back, and Jelaqua, half-carried by Moore, was rasping to Ulinde.
“Get me the second Raskghar body! Hurry!”
Even as they pulled backwards to safety, more contacts began barking rapidly into the speaking stone.
 
—-
 
Ceria saw the undead burst forwards, punching at the Frostmarrow Behemoth’s closest limb less than a minute after Jelaqua’s team ran into trouble. However, this incident was almost comical.
The huge Frostmarrow Behemoth looked down at the undead. Strong the Draugr might be, but the disparity in size still meant that it was a child fighting a…well, a giant undead.
Until the Draugr began cracking the ice armor. Then, Ceria raised her wand.
“[Ice Lance]!”
The oversized projectile hit the Draugr and knocked it flat. A huge shard of ice had gone into its stomach. However—the Draugr stood up, revealing a hole in its gut as it broke the ice pinning it, but otherwise unharmed.
It came towards Ceria, roaring, making actual sound with its intact lungs. Ceria prepared to encase it in ice and blast it to bits with [Ice Spikes]—but an arm blocked her.
“Allow me.”
Pisces smiled superiorly and flicked his finger. Ceria saw the Draugr’s neck twist—
It didn’t break. The undead kept charging. Pisces frowned. He snapped his fingers. The neck twisted again and Ceria heard something tearing, maybe a bone cracking? Yet the Draugr kept running.
“Er—”
Ceria swore as she conjured a wall of ice. The Draugr ran into it with a crash that both of them felt.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr observed the new threat with clinical interest. He fired a crossbow point-blank; the Draugr staggered as the bolt hit it, but its body was tough! It had no armor, being a bare-chested Human woman, garments long rotted, rotting front betraying wriggling maggots.
However, to kill it—Ksmvr fired again. The bolt went through the roof of her mouth but failed to hit the brain. He didn’t get a chance to reload the crossbows; the Draugr swung a fist.
Ksmvr stepped back, keeping out of range as the huge undead swung, missing the nimbler [Skirmisher]. He raised his buckler and absorbed one punch on the Forceshield.
“Considerable impact. Likely fatal to Silver-ranks if struck on vulnerable points. Fast—”
He hopped back as the Draugr woman charged, head down.
“—but not excessively so. Slower than a Ghoul. Easily manageable with any Gold-rank team. However…”
He stared down the street as six more Draugr charged at him. Ksmvr withdrew the Flamecoat Dagger, slashed the Draugr once. The undead woman burst into flame as the dagger touched her arm. Ksmvr turned and began running.
However, there were a lot of them.
 
—-
 
Draugr. Niers felt a slight crawl on his skin. Not from personal fear of course. Just an unpleasant memory of such undead.
In large numbers, too. He’d seen undead hordes where a hundred Draugr might be present, but that was a full-scale disaster. There were a lot of them attacking the adventurers.
What bothered him was the timing. Niers could picture his own assault on the Village of Death. He spoke, his voice low, unable to be heard over the commentary on the scrying orb—although Drassi and Joseph often just watched with everyone else—to his only audience.
“If I didn’t have a way to neutralize the regenerating undead—I wouldn’t be stupid enough to let those houses stand. On the other hand, if they rebuilt themselves, I would have to barricade houses teleporting in those undead. My army’s deadlocked with so many undead on the street. That’s when the Draugr come in—”
He felt another tingle on his skin. That…he didn’t like that. He turned to regard his newest pupil.
Apista might have been listening—or she was just doing that weird bee thing where they opened and closed their mandibles, chewing on some nectar or whatnot.
“Someone thought out how to break an army here. Whoever made this place did all this on purpose. The only flaw is the regeneration factor going out.”
Apista waggled an antennae in thoughtful agreement. Niers eyed her. He sighed, and stared down over the side of the beam.
 
—-
 
Below, Rags had come to the same conclusion as Niers. She did not need Drassi telling her Draugr were dangerous to see the proof with her own eyes.
What Rags was curious about was how they held up to a Gold-rank adventurer. She watched, learning, observing. What she saw was—
 
—-
 
Yvlon stumbled, forced back by the pure brute strength of the Draugr. She stared at her sword in its heart, a killing blow. However, the Draugr had kept coming and Yvlon had been forced to let go to avoid being struck in the head.
She felt her arm take the force of the blow she’d blocked, but rather than her bones break or even bruise—she flexed her arm, stared at it and the Draugr.
It swung in a silent roar. Yvlon ducked, and came up with a punch that broke something. The Draugr raised its arms—Yvlon caught them before they could descend.
The two wrestled. The [Armsmistress] was growling—pivoting for position—but the Draugr couldn’t lower its arms! She threw it back, grabbed her sword, and whirled it once.
The Draugr fell, headless. Panting, Yvlon looked around.
Prince Zenol had killed his Draugr as well. He’d hamstrung the monster, dodging its charge. Now, one of his subordinates ran it through on a pike. He was no longer smiling—but his teeth were bared.
“The threat escalates.”
She just nodded. Zenol’s eyes lingered on her arms.
“Beautiful. I should have upgraded my physique for this battle. We’re pulling back.”
More Draugr were coming up. Yvlon saw Dorgon disengage from his fight with some undead. The adventurers ran down the street.
One Draugr? Yvlon could take on alone. Four? Separate and kill, or hit with a Skill if they were together.
But ten? Twenty? Then it was too dangerous. That was what they were facing now. The adventurers skidded down the street and Yvlon saw a temporary barricade, even palisade spikes set up.
“Through here!”
Nailren bellowed, loosing an arrow. The adventurers hurtled through the gaps and wood was closed to form a wall and choke points.
However, the Draugr wave would break that apart like nothing! Yvlon turned to shout that to Nailren—and saw a familiar [Fire Mage] standing up.
Levil aimed his wand at the first rank of Draugr and Ghouls.
“[Fireball]!”
An older [Mage] stroked his beard and did the same. Typhenous intoned.
“[Force Orb].”
More [Mages] stood in a line. Yvlon heard them all shouting.
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
“[Double Cast: Steelthorn Spray]!”
“[Fireball]! [Arrows of—]”
The spells rippled down the street and the flash engulfed the undead. When Yvlon lowered her hand, she saw only two Draugr left; and they were unmoving. The [Mages] launched another volley as more Draugr tried to advance.
They vanished too. The adventurers cheered, and, panting, Levil staggered back to cover. Typhenous wearily patted him on the shoulder.
“Mages are recovering! We’re holding here!”
Nailren barked at Yvlon. She nodded. The undead were still coming! More Draugr were mixed in with the undead. She set herself at one of the choke points, cursing.
First Crypt Lords. Now Draugr. She had a feeling…they weren’t the worst of what they were about to see.
