Ishkr translated. Kevin blinked. Mrsha pointed, jumping up and down, just in time for a second feed to appear, interrupting the fighting in the Village of Death.
 
—-
 
“We are being scried, Lord Veltras. I believe it is Wistram Academy. Should I attempt to interrupt the spell?”
Ryoka Griffin heard Jericha’s cool voice from a distance. All of her attention, all of her focus was concentrated on the silent settlement below.
The Village of the Dead looked so…quiet. Shrouded in a kind of mist that made it impossible to see into it.
Yet she knew her friends were fighting in the streets. It was so unnaturally silent, though. At least—from the village.
Around her was nothing but noise. Mortal noise, though. Marching boots, horses, the clash of steel—shouting officers.
Above it all came a voice, calm, addressing Jericha and the small group behind the deploying forces.
“I do not care to make this an event. However—Hethon, Sammial?”
“Yes! Yes!”
“I want to be on the scrying orb!”
Lord Tyrion Veltras stared down at his sons, bouncing as they sat in one of House Veltras’ carriages. Only Jericha and Ryoka had exited; the two boys were prohibited from doing so. Eight of House Veltras’ retainers were standing guard as well, and they were well behind the lines of House Veltras’ forces.
Eight thousand [Soldiers]. It was a lot. A lot—and a little. Ryoka chewed on her lip as she watched the cavalry, led by Lord Tyrion himself, set up. The [Lord] eyed his sons and nodded at Jericha.
“Leave it.”
“Yes, my Lord.”
With that, he turned to Ryoka. The [Lord] gestured down at the Village of the Dead.
“It appears the adventurers are already engaged. Miss Griffin, do you believe they can hold their position? If the scrying orb is to be believed, they are pressed but not in danger.”
“I—don’t know. Maybe? I’m not an adventurer. Why?”
Ryoka stared up at Tyrion. The Lord of House Veltras sat there. With all the [Soldiers] he had been able to march here in two days’ short notice. She knew it had been an incredibly outrageous request, and Jericha had said as much.
However, Lord Tyrion had agreed! Not just that; he had come in person, using his Skills to make the journey possible.
The fact that his sons were here made Ryoka incredibly nervous, but Lord Tyrion had refused to leave them behind. It hadn’t helped that when Hethon and Sammial heard they might get to see an adventurer raid, they’d begged to be brought along.
“I intend to assault the Village of Death from the east. The undead will be diverted, assuming their numbers are finite. A classic pincer movement. However, I will support the adventurers if need be.”
Lord Tyrion glanced at two [Strategists] already setting up a war table. He looked back at the young Asian woman standing on the grass with her bare feet.
The Courier. Also—Ryoka Griffin. Whom he was asking for…strategic advice? Ryoka’s mouth worked.
“I—don’t know. Whatever you think is best.”
Tyrion hesitated, then his head inclined slightly, as if he was surprised by the lack of insight Ryoka was showing. He looked at Hethon and Sammial.
“Do not leave the carriage, you two. Jericha must coordinate the [Mages]. You are to remain here and watch the scrying orb.”
“I want to see up close!”
“No.”
All three adults spoke at once. Ryoka looked at Tyrion.
“I’ll—I’ll stay with them, Lord Tyrion. I’m not a warrior anyways. Thank you. But do you think eight thousand is…”
Enough? Jericha turned her head and fixed Ryoka with another of her now-classic glares she wore half the time Ryoka was speaking.
Lord Tyrion Veltras himself frowned. He leaned on the pommel of his saddle as Hethon and Sammial gave Ryoka looks of incredulity.
“Eight thousand was all the available [Soldiers] who could immediately join us without stripping garrisons. If you believe it is not enough…”
“No! I mean—this is already more than I could have asked! I just—”
Ryoka had the amazing ability to put her foot in her mouth. She should have been a [Gymnast], if she had classes. However, she was spared from apologizing further as the [Lord] nodded.
“You may be correct. We will see. As I told you, I have no intention of leading House Veltras’ soldiers into a pointless, bloody conflict.”
Ryoka’s heart skipped. He had said as much from the outset. Nor could she ask him to kill his people. She didn’t want that. She didn’t want…
Her friends to die. Tyrion regarded her. At last, he nodded.
“We will begin the advance. Eight thousand is no small number when it comes to House Veltras’ forces. Nor will we be alone. Jericha—take command of setting up fortifications. I will begin sortieing now.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras. Luck to you!”
Jericha saluted him. He lifted the tip of his lance. Jericha stared at Ryoka. She coughed as Tyrion began to ride away. Ryoka blinked. Then she raised her voice awkwardly.
“Um—good luck! Thank you!”
Tyrion turned in his saddle and made the same gesture. Ryoka lifted her hand lamely. Hethon and Sammial, still in the coach, exchanged glances.
They were now convinced the Wind Runner alternated between amazing and embarrassingly weird.
 
—-
 
Reinforcements had arrived? Good!
A skeleton punched him in the jaw. Ksmvr punched back, and was rewarded by searing heat as his dagger went through the nasal cavity in its skull. However, now he was fighting a skeleton on fire.
Regrettable mistakes. I have overreached. However, if I die, reinforcements are here.
Taking comfort from that, Ksmvr heaved and the skeleton fell away. Yet the press on him didn’t let up. He tried to get up and they dragged him down, by the cloak he wore.
Cloaks were a mistake. I should have made it easy to remove. Ksmvr struggled and felt another kiss of steel. It lodged in his side; stuck.
The only reason he was alive was his Barkskin ring. The skeletons were grappling with him, and neither they nor Ksmvr were able to employ the full weight behind a thrust or strike.
That was about to change. A Bone Crawler leapt on Ksmvr, teeth and claw-like ‘ribs’ slashing at him. He kept the Forceshield in front, between him and it, but felt it already begin to lacerate his front.
Is this how I die? The [Skirmisher] felt a moment of…panic? He thought he was unafraid of death. But who would protect Yvlon, Ceria, and Pisces? What would they say if he—
“[Evasive Flip]!”
The Bone Crawler and Ksmvr—flipped. He staggered; found himself on his feet. Not like this. He felt hands grab him as he tried to jump. They dragged him down.
A crossbow fired.
[Power Shot]. It killed some of them, but Ksmvr was still trapped. He wondered if this was how Crossbow Stan had felt. He…they weren’t even Crelers. Just skeletons.
Dragging him down to the street, where a Bone Horror waited, half its body…opened, to let him fall into the maw of bones.
“No.”
Ksmvr dropped the crossbow, reaching for something. Acid, at this range? He flailed, trying to shake them off. Another undead leapt onto the roof. Ksmvr heard a sound. A voice.
“[Like a Lion, He Leapt].”
A sword flashed. The skeletons at Ksmvr’s back fell away, severed. Ksmvr whirled. He saw gleaming, brown skin, a beautiful smile.
Prince Zenol flourished with his sword and killed another skeleton. He pivoted, pirouetting under a second skeleton and just bumped it with his shoulder. The skeleton went flying into the Bone Horror below, who happily crunched it up.
The flashy [Prince] turned, and cut another undead apart. Ksmvr was surprised. He grabbed his crossbow, hurled the other two attackers off him, and rearmed himself with a fresh crossbow as his shortsword stabbed a skeleton in the head.
“Prince Zenol?”
“I saw you struggling, Antinium Ksmvr! Brave, to go alone. Unnecessary at this moment! Come, before we’re cut off!”
The [Prince] whirled—pointing back the way they’d come. Ksmvr nodded. He and the Stitchman ran across the roof. Both leapt as they reached the edge. Somehow, the [Prince] had the same ability as Ksmvr’s ring!
They landed among another knot of undead. Zenol cursed as he was forced to swing his sword too close for his liking. Ksmvr fired his crossbow again; his mandibles opened and closed on a skeleton’s face.
It flailed, and Ksmvr let go and punched it. The head flew off. Effective distraction tactic. He had learned people really hated that, even if his mandibles couldn’t fully disembowel them. Yvlon had forbidden him from doing that in sparring sessions.
The two fighters were trying to reach another place to jump. More Bone Crawlers were climbing up, sensing the isolated two. Prince Zenol’s whirling attacks were efficient for all they were showy, but both were lightly-armored. If they were caught—
“Glory and the art of blades! To me!”
A man with a tiny mustache leapt onto the roof. He speared a Bone Crawler through the back, and then was forced to stab it again when his rapier failed to kill it. For all that, his parrying dagger killed a skeleton with a thrust through the face. He was followed in an instant by two Drakes and a Dullahan of all people.
Two of Lifwail Blades, Oldblood Drakes, landed along with a nimble Dullahan. They joined the fighting. [Scouts], an [Elite Skirmisher] like Ksmvr. And—
Instructor Tomoor saluted the two, with a self-satisfied smile on his face.
“You two seemed to be in trouble! Prince Zenol, is it? And er—Ksmvrwhatsit? Strategist Soew has ordered us to integrate you, Antinium, into our group. No adventurer fights alone! Prince Zenol, you’re needed with your group!”
The [Prince] recovered, sweeping his blade around himself. He saluted Tomoor and the others wryly. The Drakes gave Ksmvr a second look, and the Dullahan was positively nervous, but the Prince just smiled at Ksmvr.
“It appears you aren’t the only roving strike force! Nerrhavia’s Fallen thanks you, friends!”
He leapt away, and Ksmvr looked at his new companions. His mandibles opened and closed as Tomoor whirled and speared a Ghoul through the face. He began fighting after a moment, but he couldn’t help but make his observation, even so.
“Incredible. They have established dominance on me.”
It was not an unpleasant feeling.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras breathed in and out as he rode down the hill. His horse—the [Riders]—kept pace with him. Only seven hundred; he had a much larger contingent of foot-soldiers, who had been stationed at outposts and come to answer his summons.
If he’d had more than two days’ notice to cover a hundred and sixty miles, he could have brought far more of House Veltras’ standing forces to bear. As it was, he had made the journey in excellent time. All for a single Runner’s request.
Incredulous eyes were trained on him via scrying orb. House Veltras’ [Soldiers] stood at the ready, in perfect formation. Was he really going to involve himself in an adventurer’s raid? Why was he here?
It made no sense to people like Regis or Magnolia Reinhart, or other nobles. Because they were missing the rogue element.
“A bloodless battle. A training exercise.”
Tyrion murmured, remembering how Ryoka Griffin had phrased her request. Well—she had not put it like that.
A half-effort battle? Against his will, his lips moved up. He had never heard of someone asking him to do…that. She had begged him, though, prevailing upon him on the road back to House Veltras.
For her friends. That was what the Courier had said. She had no right to ask for another favor…well. That was what she said.
Lord Tyrion Veltras had disagreed. He raised his lance. His [Soldiers] cheered as the [Lord] pointed.
“Jericha. Attract the undeads’ attention.”
From the hilltop, the [Mage] raised her wand. The linked [Mages] with her all cried out with the same voice as a blazing second sun appeared.
“[Siege Fireball]!”
The blazing ball of fire, larger across than two men on horseback, shot down towards the Village of the Dead. Tyrion saw the glowing flash of light appear for a second in the shrouded streets—then vanish.
“Hm.”
His eyes narrowed. He could not tell what lay in the streets, despite the ring on his finger that should have let him do just that. Hidden enemies in the mist.
However, House Veltras’ forces did not carelessly advance into the Village of the Dead. The glorious cavalry charge that people were expecting—did not come. Tyrion Veltras was famous for his prowess in the saddle and lightning attacks.
Yet he just sat there, waiting.
Half-assed? Tyrion’s version of that was a battle where none of his soldiers died. A training exercise.
No undead came from the Village of the Dead even after the [Siege Fireball] had landed. Tyrion lifted his hand.
“Should we send a volley, milord?”
His [Archery Captain] spoke crisply. Tyrion shook his head.
“Hold. Jericha—send a second fireball into the nearest house. Preparations?”
“Nearly complete, Lord Veltras.”
He had been counting. Twenty one minutes since they had arrived—less than ideal, but still fairly quick. The [Lord] smiled.
“Good. Fireball—now.”
A second glowing orb hit a house. This time Tyrion saw it explode, on the fringes of the Village of Death. Yet still—no undead came out.
They wanted his army in the streets. Tyrion had seen the embattled adventurers and his [Soldiers], fine though they were, were not Gold-ranks. He checked the little scrying mirror someone was holding up as he heard his name.
“Strategist Vissk from Pallass, yes. I’m not sure what this Lord Tyrion is playing at. He’s clearly adopted a defensive posture, here, see? A semi-circle with a rather heavy archer complement behind infantry and his horse. But throwing spells into the Village of the Dead? Not bold at all, which isn’t what you’d expect of a [Lord] famous for his cavalry competency.”
The Drake was speaking to Drassi, quite pleased as the battle in the streets went on in one corner. The [Riders] within earshot glowered at the scrying mirror at the live, and rather rude, commentary.
Tyrion just lifted an eyebrow as he saw a representation of his formations from a bird’s eye view via the [Scrying] spell. He regarded the televised image—roughly fifteen seconds behind the present if he was any judge—and spoke.
“[Infantry Leader] Oleza. Your position is off by six feet to your right. Adjust.”
“At once, Lord Veltras!”
The chagrined voice was immediately followed by distant shouting and a group of [Soldiers] moving six paces to the left. Tyrion ignored the lesser Drake [Strategist] giving his biased opinion.
Chaldion, nor any credible [Strategist] had decided to make such foolish statements. However, one could always find the fool of the moment ready to give their uninformed opinions about a situation they were not well-versed in.
