Frostmarrow Behemoth. It tore through the first house and rammed through the second without slowing. Undead in its way turned to paste. The adventurers saw it circle, clumsily—then run down a street. It didn’t need to even attack; it just crushed the undead with its sheer weight. It turned again, and began tearing another house apart.
Levil stared so long that it was Ullica’s turn to shake his shoulder. He raised his wand and began blasting undead with a will.
The momentum had turned. The ambushed fourth wave didn’t just have the Frostmarrow Behemoth to thank, although it was more than enough. However—all the resistance on the other end of the street was vanishing too.
Levil saw walls of ice shooting upwards, covering the fronts of the trapped houses. At the same time, the massed undead who’d climbed out began collapsing. He saw a Ghoul turn—then its neck snapped. It fell, dead, and only then did Levil catch sight of the two [Mages] running to relieve the fighters.
Ceria pointed, and [Ice Walls] blocked undead in the houses. By her side, Pisces held his rapier in one hand. However, he hadn’t bothered to use it yet—he just pointed and undead fell, necks snapped. A skeleton resisted the blow, so the [Necromancer] lifted his rapier and stabbed it through the eye-socket.
“Where’s Yvlon?”
“Up ahead—she’s fine. We’re going that way. Control the Frostmarrow Behemoth! You’re getting it lost!”
“I’m sorry if I’m directionally challenged when you say ‘that way’, oh great and glorious captain—”
The two squabbling [Mages] shouted at each other. They strode down the street as the Frostmarrow Behemoth whirled. Then Ceria lifted her fingers.
“Let’s go, then!”
A rapid volley of [Ice Spikes], as fast as Levil could throw the weaker [Flame Arrow] spell, picked off Ghouls on a rooftop. Pisces nodded. He vanished—appeared, stabbing a Ghoul through the head. More undead collapsed around him.
Ahead of him, the Frostmarrow Behemoth charged through a house. Pisces regarded it, and turned to Ceria. She shrugged.
“Shortcut.”
They ran through the opening, ice and rapier cutting down the undead the giant creation didn’t manage to squash. Fourth wave watched in silence as the two Gold-rank adventurers rushed deeper into the Village of Death.
“Hey. Larr? I found the Horns.”
Dasha nudged the Gnoll after a moment. He didn’t really reply.
 
—-
 
“Frostmarrow Behemoth going in. [Summoners], send your creations forward!”
Revi didn’t need to be told that. Everyone had seen the giant monster, the biggest thing on the field, hit the Village of Death. It had vanished inside, proving the village was a lot bigger due to magic; Revi should have been able to easily see it no matter where it went.
“They’re using undead? Wh-what was that thing? That’s not a regular undead.”
The poncy [Mage] looked well and truly spooked. Revi just bared her teeth. She was one of three [Summoner]-type classes, and the other two had already called familiars and the battle-golem. Revi was the only Gold-rank among them.
She breathed in and out, calling upon her magical power.
“Stitch me sideways. They’re using their best cards now? Okay—in that case—”
She reached for the first, the biggest summoning catalyst in her repertoire. Newly-added too. Geni peered at the amber-encased object.
“My word, my dear. Is that—”
The old woman hesitated. She looked up as the light flashed. The Wistram [Mage] screamed.
It turned out he was arachnophobic. And this?
The lead [Wizard] looked up and nearly fired on this creation. He craned his neck up and backed up slowly. So did the other [Mages].
“What is that thing?”
A Baleros adventurer looked well and truly spooked, which was ironic given the life on that continent. Someone else replied softly.
“That’s a Shield Spider. Dead gods. I had no idea they got that big.”
Revi grinned, feeling drained suddenly. She swayed as the mother of all Shield Spiders—literally—crawled down the hill. It wasn’t as large as the Frostmarrow Behemoth. But it was larger than any other thing on the field.
“Revi my dear. That’s new?”
“That’s new. But it’s not all. Watch…watch this.”
The [Summoner] croaked. She raised her catalyst, took a breath—and shouted.
“[Summoned Monster: I Call Your Kind].”
The light flashed again. This time, the Wistram [Mage] went into a fit. That was partly Revi’s fault; she hadn’t meant for every spider to crawl over him. He was just in the way.
A wave of glowing spiders scuttled in the wake of the largest one. Hundreds of smaller Shield Spiders scuttled down the hill, some as small as Revi’s palm, others far larger. They streamed towards the Village of Death.
“What the f—”
Someone breathed afterwards. Revi felt the spiders begin dying the instant they entered the Village of Death—the lesser ones. The larger one began tearing undead apart the second it entered. She felt relieved about the lesser ones dying.
Less of a burden on her. She swayed as old Geni looked at her.
“Hey Geni? Give me a second. I’m just gonna—”
Revi collapsed in the spell circle, trying to draw as much mana from it as possible. Geni bent over her, anxiously.
“Are you okay, Revi? You’ve overdone it.”
“Me? I’m a veteran. No, no…I’m just resting.”
Revi lay in the mana circle, unable to get up for a few minutes. When she did rise, with Geni’s help, she smiled gratefully at the older woman. She nodded at the village in the distance.
“Can’t…let them show us up that easily, right? When the Shield Spiders wipe, I’ll start calling on smaller summons. Can’t let the rookies beat us.”
“No indeed, my dear.”
Geni lied as she helped Revi stand.
 
—-
 
Indeed. The massed-undead and sneak-attack from every angle was meant to wipe out large, embattled armies. The lack of regeneration was keeping it from being a disaster, but adventurers were falling back.
Falling back to defensive positions to rally.
Falling back, not retreating, but falling—
“We’re falling back, I said!”
One of the Gold-ranks bellowed. The first wave was in retreat. However, something was off. The second wave, which had moved in to support them wasn’t falling back.
“I said, pull back! Are you even listening?”
“No.”
Something burst up from the ground. A pillar of stone; undead rained down around it. The wall of flesh advanced, biting, grabbing for something to kill. The wall ran into a staff. Then—a hand covered in vines.
The wall of undead stopped. Moore strode into them and began tearing them apart. On the other side, the advance halted as well.
“[Whirlwind of Blows]! [Impactful Blows]! Rampage!”
A Raskghar roared—but it wasn’t a Raskghar. Jelaqua advanced, her upgraded steel flail sending bodies flying with all the force of Moore’s blows. As they moved up, the two Halfseekers were covered by a flickering shadow that stabbed Ghouls and other undead trying to hit them from behind. Last of all came the Drake—no, the second Selphid.
“[Sticky Web], [Fire Wheel], [Lightning Bolt], [Acid Orb]…[Acid Orb], [Acid Orb], [Acid Orb], [Acid Orb], [Acid Orb]—”
Ulinde chanted. The [Spellslinger] was throwing multiple spells around from the two wands she held, but then gave up and melted the undead by lobbing the glowing orbs into their back ranks.
The Gold-rank adventurers stopped and realized their retreat was a flight from…nothing.
“Cover our flanks if you don’t want to advance!”
Seborn appeared and snapped at one of the adventurers. Shame-faced, the man waved his team back into position. Of all the Halfseekers—Moore was advancing fastest. He swung his bloody quarterstaff like an axe, face set, as if each blow was a reason for living. Relief. He had already advanced another dozen paces, ignoring the zombies trying to bite through his [Armor of Thorns].
 
—-
 
In another street. Yvlon’s wave began advancing once more. They had just been joined by the second-wave. Their response to the overwhelming undead numbers?
“[Valmira’s Comet].”
Typhenous pointed. A hole appeared in the street. Glowing, melted remains and disintegrated bodies in the path of the spell. The [Mage] bowed, quite courtly.
“Miss Byres?”
“Thanks.”
She stalked forwards. Briganda moved up, striking her hatchet to her shield in a challenging, ringing sound.
“Let’s go! Come on, you lot!”
Adventurers charged once more.
 
—-
 
The third of the three-pronged attacks had stopped dead in its tracks. Undead came from the houses, and they were busy sealing them back up. However, while the third group had stopped—they hadn’t actually retreated.
Again, and again, the undead came. Crypt Lords now, pushing through zombies and Ghouls, squashing them. Skeletons with bows shooting arrows with lethal points, if not accuracy or the same expertise as the living.
They broke. They faltered—they bounced off a line in the sand.
Eldertuin the Fortress had been in the second wave. However, he was now in the vanguard, standing and fighting with the huge tower shield covering him. However, the shield itself was only part of his protection.
Copies of his shield rose from the ground; a sparkling barrier protected him. His might was the mace he swung, and it did fell Crypt Lords. But the Named Adventurer was his nickname. Adventurers fought in a line, enjoying his protections, stalemating the undead.
The real damage came from above. Yet another sparkling arrow landed, and some adventurers cheered as it blew apart another Crypt Lord.
Elia Arcsinger saluted Eldertuin from her rooftop, which her team was loosing arrows from. The two Named Adventurers nodded to each other, coolly.
 
—-
 
The last group had suffered hardest at first. Lacking the intensity of the Horns, Halfseekers, or Griffon Hunt, who were all pushing forwards with determination, or the two Named Adventurers, the majority Silver-rankers—who had been meant as a diversion anyways—had fallen back fast, taking the only casualties thus far.
Now, they were advancing. It would be charitable to say they were fighting. But half of the ‘fighting’ was just staring up at the Frostmarrow Behemoth’s rear as it tore its way forwards.
“Another street! Damn it—and we haven’t even found another of the attack groups! How big is this place?”
Ceria Springwalker groused, shooting [Ice Spikes] into another intersection of undead coming their way. However, she had no time to waste mana on the hordes of undead and a single-attack spell.
She raised a hand. A wall of ice engulfed the front rank of zombies, immobilizing them, and thickened, quickly blocking the street. Some undead tried to come over the top—but Pisces pointed and two bolts of light fried the Ghouls and he snapped the necks of the rest.
“[Ice Wall] up! Put those barricades down!”
Ceria shouted. The adventurers behind her scrambled to secure the gap in the time before her spell vanished, installing the metal-and-wood barricades to stem the undead flow.
“Pisces to Strategist Soew. We have another street full of undead. Requesting bombardment.”
The [Necromancer] spoke into the speaking stone. The Owl’s voice replied.
“It will be done. Please turn left at the next street; we are attempting to link you to another attack group.”
Pisces turned back to the Behemoth’s advance. He spotted several undead coming past the Behemoth and pointed to each one. Their necks snapped.
“This is so…unsatisfying. I suppose when one is the most capable adventurer on the field though, one must put up with such easy victories.”
He sniffed. Ceria frowned at him. However, it was true that Pisces could just point and kill undead—if not Crypt Lords.
“I thought you had to snap your fingers to do that, Pisces? Why is it just pointing?”
The young man paused.
“…My fingers hurt from snapping too much.”
Ceria and Pisces blinked at each other as the Frostmarrow Behemoth moved ahead. Yvlon was fighting in her street. Which left…
“Ksmvr? Come in. Where are you?”
“Fighting, Captain Ceria.”
The voice came over the speaking stone as Ceria switched communication devices. She looked up at the rooftops, frowning. Pisces stopped as well.
“Fighting? Ksmvr, I told you to fall back.”
“…This is not Ksmvr. Excuse me, you are breaking up. I have found our adjacent attacking force. Six streets over.”
“Ksmvr!”
 
—-
 
Elia Arcsinger was picking her next shot when her daughter pointed.
“Is that a jumping undead? No—wait! Look! Mother!”
“I told you to call m—”
The Named Adventurer looked up and saw the adventurer deepest in the Village of the Dead. He was running on a rooftop two hundred feet away, being pursued by a wave of Ghouls. They clambered over the rooftops, leaping like animals, eyes glowing as they bit and tore.
They never caught him. The [Skirmisher] ran faster than they could. He had a sword in one hand, a rippling field of magic around a buckler in the other. He swung the Forceshield, and the edge struck a Ghoul leaping up at him, shattering a bone in its face. Ksmvr turned, pivoting—a crossbow fired into another’s face.
The Ghouls reached the end of the roof and the Antinium halted. He turned and they leapt for him, a ravening mass. Elia watched as Ksmvr spread his arms. He somehow felt the need to address the undead lunging at him.
“You made one error, although I realize you are not capable of tactical thought: I can fly. Whee—”
He flipped backwards into the air. The Ghouls poured over the rooftop, landing on the street below. Elia saw the Antinium soar into the air—land on another rooftop and begin running again.
“Ksmvr to Eldertuin. I have scouted your location and you are six streets away from the south-western attacking force. Designation: Attackers 4. Please take the right-most street from your position. Establishing mapping to other attacking forces.”
The voice came clipped, very calm, through the speaking stone. If Elia hadn’t known better, she would have thought the Antinium wasn’t in danger at all. Eldertuin replied after a beat through their local link.
“Understood. We’re holding ground. We’ll move up in five minutes.”
“Ksmvr! Get back here! You’re all alone! Stop playing tag this instant!”
That was Captain Ceria’s voice. Loud, too—Elia winced and took the speaking bead she used out of her ear. She heard the Antinium reply after a moment.
“…This is not Ksmvr. I am being strategically helpful. Is this not so, Strategist Soew?”
“This is so. Captain Ceria…”
Whatever appeal Ksmvr had been about to make was never uttered. Because, at that precise moment, someone broke in on all lines of communication.
