“That doesn’t matter! Tell her to stuff the Earther somewhere safe. She is to head straight to the Village of the Dead before it’s over and make an entrance. [High Mage]—yes. She’ll assault the undead. Toss a few [Chain Lightning] spells into the fray! Can she do [Blackflame Fireball]? Have her join the adventurers!”
“She’s a Revivalist, Grand Magus!”
“Then I’ll talk to Archmage Naili. Come on, Magus Valeterisa. She will participate as a representative of Wistram—”
“—and if she dies?”
The question came from High Magus Telim. The half-Elf stopped at the door. He looked back at the portly [Mage]. Eldavin raised his brows.
“If she’s careless, it is a possibility. However, she might also level. If she dies, she wasn’t worthy of her rank as High Magus. That’s not a [Mage] that Wistram needs. Also—it’s not one of ours.”
He turned, and was out the door in a moment. The other [Mages] exchanged looks. Valeterisa got up and followed without another word, and soon a luckless Dullahan [High Mage] was receiving the last orders she wanted to hear: participate in a raid in a death-zone, and not to retreat until she’d killed at least a thousand undead.
 
—-
 
“We’re doing it. Flanks are secure again—the undead are piling into the armies in the east. We’re going to do it!”
Levil breathed. He looked around as the setting sun turned the sky orange and red. It had taken hours, but they had survived.
With minimal casualties too! It had begun getting bad when the undead were flooding at them. Gold-ranks had died as well as Silver. However, the arrival of House Veltras had prevented the worst.
Now? He stared at the street. Or rather…two streets.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth had smashed every house flat, thus joining both roads together. While the undead were piled up and some reanimating just because of the ambient death mana, many were on fire, having been covered with oil and lit up to prevent even a chance of them coming back.
The adventurers were on the move once more. No undead teleporting from houses. The streets were far less crowded. The Village of the Dead might have had hundreds of thousands of undead over the years.
Well, they had died crammed up like bugs in a basket, and without the immortality-effect, the adventurers and armies had reaped a full harvest. After rallying, resting, and replenishing their Skills, the adventurers were ready.
“Enough waiting around. Let’s get to the heart of this place.”
Elia Arcsinger stood on a roof and spoke, to cheers from the adventurers in her wave. She pointed, posing with her bow—although she did not actually join the first wave ready to go in once more. She was an [Archer]; she’d be fighting from above.
Ceria and Pisces’ group had cleared enough streets to join their group to Elia’s. Ceria looked up at the Named Adventurer as she drank a mana potion. She herself had found a burnt-out wall to sit behind—then promptly decided to raise [Ice Walls] to do her business. She’d eaten, although she couldn’t remember what.
She felt a bit shaky with tiredness, but she was ready. She pushed herself up as Pisces rose. He was in better shape than she was, despite having used his rapier—no. Maybe because of that. He’d split his exertions between the physical and magical.
“Ready?”
Cheering adventurers were forming up behind Eldertuin. He had been joined by four huge Golems, like the ones Magnolia Reinhart owned. Steel—no, iron? Not as expensive as the Terlands could afford to field, but four of them had smashed through the undead to protect him.
“Ready.”
Pisces rose to his feet, wiping his mouth as he lowered the canteen of soup.
Across the city, the adventurers were pushing in again. Jelaqua, in a new body, was whirling her flail, having already worn out one body and weapon already.
Halrac had taken a new position with his [Archers] and was conserving magical arrows, watching Yvlon cut her way forwards once more with Zenol and Dorgon.
Ksmvr sat, discussing mobile-tactics with the two Drakes, Dullahan, and Tomoor. They were waiting for someone to call for help.
Briganda marched up with her adventurers, giving Keldrass’ group time to recharge their flame breath.
Even old Typhenous was fighting with Levil, stabbing a Ghoul that had tried to jump them from behind.
Pisces and Ceria watched as Eldertuin strode forwards. He and the four Golems cut into the undead, bashing them down as adventurers joined them. Elia loosed an arrow to more cheers. It was a magnificent sight. The kind of thing you’d see in a picture book.
However—Ceria glanced sideways. Eldertuin halted, and glanced up, past a roof.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth stomped forwards, squishing undead like rats in front of an elephant. It opened its maw, swallowed a Bone Horror and began chewing it to pieces. Ceria and Pisces waved, and their group advanced in the wake of the construct, killing anything not run flat by the rampage.
Somehow, theirs was the team with the most firepower, which even Keldrass’ team couldn’t equal. Ceria looked up at the glistening ice on the Frostmarrow Behemoth. She had ‘regrown’ its body, repairing damage in the fight.
“I don’t understand. It’s been…five hours? Six? We should be bleeding our brains out our noses trying to keep it up for so long.”
“What a charming image.”
Pisces grumbled as he stabbed a half-squashed Draugr in the neck a few times. He shook his head, looking at the Frostmarrow Behemoth. Both had used mana potions and Ceria knew the cost was split between them. However…
“It’s the death magic. We are barely sustaining it. This place…”
His eyes glittered as he inhaled, and Ceria realized his lack of fatigue was due to more than his fencer’s training. Pisces looked ahead.
“We are closing in on the center. With each step, I feel more power.”
The heart of the village lay beyond. A maze of houses it might be, but Ceria could tell the artificial village was running out of space. Just a few more streets and…
Artificial village? Why had she thought that? Ceria turned her head. Perhaps it was some thought that came to her when she’d been on the Behemoth’s back. Or…
No. Just look at the houses. They were so uniform. So straight and narrow, each street a fighting ground, a killing zone for adventurers or undead.
That was not something natural to Ceria’s world. To Ryoka, it might be more familiar, mass-manufactured houses, planned layouts like the Unseen Empire.
Here, though? Where every [Carpenter] or [Builder] might alter a design? Families put in little improvements, quirks? At least one or two houses should have been torn down, rebuilt.
In a normal village. More thoughts came to the half-Elf, belatedly. Where were the wells? There were none, and the river was far, far too far for this place to survive without water. What about a central hall, upscale buildings by the richer members of the village, even a [Mayor]?
This place was…fake. The houses looked more like undead themselves, the more Ceria looked at them, burned, shattered, or sealed by the adventurers.
They had grown here, piece by piece, along with the dead lured into this trap. Like a fake skin over whatever had really started this place.
The Putrid One.
The Helm of Fire.
A chill began to run down her skin. A familiar…sensation. She had felt this before. This unease.
A little song began playing in her head, although she had never heard it sung. It sounded like her voice. It was her voice.
 
“Skinner, Skinner!
He’ll eat your tails and tear off your skin!
He’ll pluck out your eyeballs and devour your kin!
Skinner, Skinner!
Run while you can!”
 
The Frostmarrow Behemoth had reached a strange place in the Village of Death. A…circular street, unlike all of the straight lines. Houses, joined together to form a wall. Yet as it tore down the street—it came around the other end. It was a perfect circle in the heart of the Village of Death.
“Strange.”
Pisces looked worried as the Frostmarrow Behemoth halted. Down the street came a jet of fire; Keldrass’ team appeared, looking annoyed they’d been beaten. Eldertuin was just a minute behind Ceria’s group.
“What is this? Is there nothing in the center?”
The Drake demanded, clear worry in his voice. Was this all just a waste of time? Pisces shook his head, although uncertainty lingered.
“No. I was told—no. Whatever it is—considering the geography, it must be hidden behind this…circle. The center.”
The Drake nodded, eying the aberration of architecture. He glanced at the Behemoth and couldn’t hide the disgust on his face, but he looked at Pisces.
“Your thing should do the honors. We’ll blast whatever comes out. Named Adventurer?”
He looked more respectfully at Eldertuin. The older man leaned on his tower shield, looking tired, but resolute.
“And here I said I wouldn’t be at the front. Old habits die hard. No adventurer has ever come this far. We never made it past the first two streets. We’d never…”
He looked at Pisces and Ceria, expression troubled. Then he smiled ruefully.
“For all the adventurers before and since—let’s crack this damn place open.”
Pisces and Ceria nodded, but the half-Elf couldn’t put the song out of her head. It sang on. A warning from her subconscious as clear as day.
 
“Skinner, Skinner, never open his door.
Or soon your bones will lie on this floor.”
 
She shuddered.
“Pisces. I—”
The Frostmarrow Behemoth reared back, onto two legs. It brought its front paws down and struck the houses in front of it with all its weight. Thousands of pounds of force hit the rotting wood—
Thunder. The adventurers staggered with the impact. Yet when they looked up, the Frostmarrow Behemoth was resting its weight on the cracked façade of the old houses.
They hadn’t broken. Ceria saw Eldertuin frown. Adventurers reaching the heart, following the sight of the huge construct of ice and bone, saw the Frostmarrow Behemoth strike again. The wood…cracked…but that was all.
“Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] turned. He felt the death magic in the air humming around him. He felt alive, afraid, hopeful. His thoughts raced about his head as he waited, impatient, for his creation to break open the secrets of this place.
I shall find the secrets of true Necromancy here. I will bring Erin back. I was promised. I will recover the Helm of Fire. I will—
He saw the [Cryomancer], Ceria, looking at him. His old friend was looking at her hand. The hand of bone, skeletal fingers and bone ending where flesh began. She spoke, her voice quivering.
“Pisces. My [Dangersense] went off.”
The young man looked at her.
“Obviously whatever is in the center is…”
He trailed off as the meaning of her words took on a different shape. He looked at her for clarification.
“Your [Dangersense] went off? Had it not been going off already? With the Draugr and…”
The half-Elf shook her head. She had come all this way here, resolute. Borne by urgency, a desire to bring her friend back.
Hope and desperation and courage.
Now—something else seeped in. Just for a second. Ceria remembered.
She didn’t run. She looked at Pisces. Slowly, both of them looked at the heart of the village.
The Frostmarrow Behemoth had reared back a second time, to break through. It collapsed forwards, but the mighty impact never struck the houses standing in a ring.
The frost-and-ivory paws hit the street, with such force they shook the ground. Yet they did not crack the smooth bricks. The huge construct raised its head. It was level with a building, a glass window, dark and empty.
A burning mage-light hung from an iron street-lamp, blown glass letting the inner light shine through. The light burned as the sun’s light faded from the sky.
The houses were gone. Where had stood a small ring of buildings in the center of the labyrinthine village was something else.
Adventurers halted on the dirt and cobblestone street. Ruined buildings, a pathetic village in squalor lay around them. The last of the undead hemmed in street by street, or fighting the army of Izril’s noble families to the east.
Ceria looked at the magical lamp, fit for a mansion, hanging so casually in the street, providing illumination. She looked at the smooth bricks.
Bricks, a pale ocre color, seamlessly joined together. Laid by an expert, with mortar, cement holding them together. A sidewalk on each side. And rising taller than the Frostmarrow Behemoth—
Buildings. Some had glass windows. Others were simply tall with classic shutters. They were not alike. This was true architecture, some with more wealth or craft poured into solid stone or metal; others made of wood.
The adventurers looked ahead. The street was one of many. It lay beyond the center, as the village changed. Revealing what it had hidden, protected by immortal undead for so long.
“Is that…?”
Briganda’s voice quavered nervously as she looked past the others. Keldrass spoke, his claws suddenly sweaty.
“A city.”
A city indeed. It lay beyond, as if it had always been there. The village was just a shell, Briganda realized. A shell which, when you pierced it…
Ancient buildings stood, empty. Magical street lamps hung there, only a few still working. It was not a full city, like Invrisil. It was as if…someone had simply scooped up part of Invrisil or wherever this had been and put it here.
The adventurers stood uncertainly. Suddenly, the end of their fighting had become a segue into a larger, unknown space. Eldertuin was frowning, but he held up his hand, stopping other adventurers from moving forwards.
“I think we should link up—no one advance into…”
Whatever the Named Adventurer might have said was too late. It had been too late the moment the Frostmarrow Behemoth had triggered the change.
Something moved in the city within. The adventurers tensed. Someone raised a bow.
“Don’t—”
Ceria breathed, turning.
Too late. Pisces had grabbed the arm of the [Archer], but someone else had raised their wand.
A jet of fire shot across the street. Levil’s burning orb of fire shot forwards, slower than an arrow, illuminating the silent homes and buildings on each side of the street. The orb of fire hit what had moved there.
It burst into flames across metal and rotten flesh. The fire burned bright for a moment, trying to incinerate what lay beneath, catch, grow…
But it couldn’t. The Draugr stood there, eyes glowing. Unmoved by the spell.
For a second, Ceria felt nothing but relief. Draugr. Oh—just a Draugr. That was all.
Then she heard Pisces draw in breath sharply. Ceria looked again, and her heart sank.
The superior version of a zombie stood, arms clasped before it. Unmoved, despite the attack. It had shifted, but only to look up. Levil’s flame had not burned it.
