He broke the silence not because it bothered him after all this time, but because he wanted to.
Because he craved a response. Part of him thought he’d get one, even now.
Especially now?
The air was thick like a miasma, silent as a massed grave.
“They’re coming again. They never learn, do they? Do you see them, my friend?”
He turned his head and waited. No one else spoke, so he let his voice echo.
Filled the air again.
“They buzz around like little insects. Noisy. Irksome. Should I deal with them? I would have to leave you alone.”
Silence. Then, a chuckle. His. He reached out and patted the air; he would never dare to touch, even if he could.
“No, no. I would never leave you alone. I’m just kidding! Still…”
A frown crossed his face. Pensive, his voice became petulant.
“…Is this time special? Is there something I don’t know? They look like the same bugs to me. So why…?”
He paced around. Nothing had changed. He had not slept in eons. He had never ceased keeping watch. Nothing came here. Nothing moved. Yet—something had changed without him noticing.
Again, the fingers reached out, tentatively stopping.
“You’ve grown so silent. Have you withdrawn your blessing because we have done something wrong? Are we taking too long? I’ve tried my best, you know. You don’t say anything. I’m not a mind-reader. What do you want me to do?”
No. Response. As always. Yet it irked him. It enraged him. His voice grew louder, so loud a buzz filled the room as pebbles and dust shook.
“Answer me! I deserve that much, at least! Am I not your faithful companion? Faith. Have I not kept it for you for so long? I know you’re there. Or why else would it have changed? Is it them? Us?”
He stretched out an arm, pleadingly, shifting from wrath to regret, chagrin in a moment.
“I’m sorry! Don’t be angry.”
He groveled—sinking low to the ground, looking up hopefully.
Nothing moved. The…man’s…plaintive whisper was nearly lost.
“Can you even hear me?”
His head rose and beheld the object of his affection, anger, remorse, and desire. What the little bugs came for, every time. Something had changed. He whispered, uncertainly.
“Master?”
 
—-
 
The Village of the Dead, or the Village of Death, was a death-zone. Aptly named, but it was an adventurer’s term anyways. It referred to places so lethal that even Named-rank Adventurers’ survival could not be guaranteed if they entered—let alone in them clearing or overcoming the challenges within.
There were a number of these places in every part of the world. Some were simply regions of ecological or magical damage, like the Dyed Lands or the Bloodfields, still valuable but inherently risky and without known treasure waiting to be seized.
Other locations were lairs. Like the Kraken’s Pass.
Some were dungeons. Magical relics, malevolent dungeons designed to slaughter, places where something died or waited.
The Archmage of Izril’s mansion might have become a death-zone in time, if it had slaughtered ten or twenty times the population it already had and existed for decades as such.
However, most death-zones were old. No one remembered when the Village of the Dead had appeared. It was simply there. A place you couldn’t fly over. That you avoided. Safe, for all that. The undead never left a mile’s radius of the village. Yet neither could it be destroyed.
They would rise, again and again, even from disintegration, incineration. No spell could bind them forever. No team had ever ended whatever curse lay over the land. Armies had perished, disappearing past the first streets.
So they gave up and marked it well. After all—no one knew if there was anything beyond the treasure of those who had come before lying within. There was little incentive beyond glory.
Until now.
 
—-
 
The sun was shining brightly. The summer waned, but the light was bright, the air warm. Yet in the first few feet of the Village of Death, the light took on a weak tone. The mortal smells of earth, greenery, vanished.
The air felt stagnant, and the odor of rot hung about. The bodies added to the putrefaction; rotten flesh and exposed organs hanging out of mangled corpses. They stood, shambling, or walked aimlessly—dead and rotting. But their eyes. They glowed, or where eyes were lost, the sockets held a magical fire.
Undead. Zombies and skeletons, but predominantly the former. Ghouls, corded muscle instead of rotting flesh, moving with far more animation than their lesser kin. They rotted, but they did not fully decay, not here.
A wide, cobblestone-and-dirt street that you might see in any large, prosperous village held the undead. Crumbling houses of broken wood, not a single piece polished or free from grime or mold stood sentinel, creating walls on two sides. They looked as ruined as the undead, but like the undead, they never fully disappeared.
The shambling corpses turned, suddenly, as something interrupted the silence. Their unfocused wandering became coordinated in a moment. Their gazes baleful. They turned and moved as one. Like…a swarm of insects themselves. Or a single unified mind with one intent. They looked down the street.
Then there was light. Undead stared up, mystified, transfixed for a moment as something arched out of the pallid sky. Something bright, brighter than the reduced sun. A memory from outside.
The first of [Valmira’s Comets] landed like a falling star and blew a knot of zombies apart. Another struck, lobbed from far overhead and far away. One vaporized a pair of Ghouls and left a skeleton in pieces, trying to reassemble itself before the binding spell faded.
Another struck a roof and exploded it. The undead that could think, a huge, bloated Crypt Lord commanding the others on the street, were unconcerned by the magical firepower raining down. The huge amalgamation of undead, dozens of hands and legs forming its ‘limbs’, a mass of eyes squelched together, a creation of death—the Crypt Lord—waited.
This was not a problem. The spells raining down were like rain. Soon, the power in this place would reanimate the undead. The roof of the house damaged by one of the spells would repair itself.
Both village and inhabitants could not be destroyed. They had tried many times, bombarding this place with far greater spells. Tried to remove undead one at a time, bury them, reduce the threat of this place even by one body.
They would reappear here. Flesh would knit. Bone would replace itself. Even if there was nothing to restore itself—it would still be made anew.
The Crypt Lord waited. It stared at the broken skeleton. The bones were rolling together. Then…slowly…they stopped.
The light went out in the skull’s eye-sockets. The Crypt Lord stirred. It plodded over and crushed the skeleton’s broken skull. It stared at the bone dust, as confused as it had ever been. The sentience in the greater undead could not comprehend what was happening.
Something was wrong.
There was no time to question, even if it could have made logical assumptions and thought. The undead in the street began to move as the bombardment stopped. The Crypt Lord turned.
There, at the head of the street, something moved. Not one of the undead. It ran into the street, making sound. It was a screaming bellow, a yell.
The adventurer stopped as they saw the street full of undead. Thousands of undead crammed together began to move forwards, Ghouls leaping past stumbling zombies and skeletons. The adventurer wavered. Then they looked over their shoulder and took heart from something. The [Warrior] raised their sword, and, with another whoop—
A woman with silver arms shoved past them. A two-handed sword was resting on her shoulder. She ran forwards, silently. Right behind her came a Minotaur with a pair of blades. Hot on their heels was a Stitch-man with a curved blade, shouting, followed by his bodyguards. The [Warrior] disappeared behind a dozen more adventurers.
Yvlon raised her sword as the first zombie appeared. She shoulder-charged into it, and felt something smush as she cracked its rotting frame. She hurled it down, stomped with her boot. Her foot crashed through the skull. She kept running without missing a beat. The second undead she met was a skeleton.
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] crashed through the fragile skeleton, scattering its bones. She looked around for a target and finally swung her sword. The Sword of Weight caught a leaping Ghoul and sheared halfway through its torso. The undead flipped with the force of the enchantment, and Yvlon whirled her sword down for a finishing blow.
Dorgon charged past her. The Minotaur had kept pace with the first wave of adventurers, refusing to break ranks and charge recklessly ahead. Now, he lunged, bellowing. Yvlon had gone into the fray silent. He did not.
“The House of Minos! Forward! Don’t slow!”
He bellowed over his shoulder, ordering the first wave of adventurers so that the others hot on their heels wouldn’t be bunched up. He matched actions to words. The Minotaur ran past knots of undead, his swords blurring.
Yvlon saw the flashing blades go through three zombies, slashing them apart. The other shortsword-swordbreaker was slashing on Dorgon’s right, carving with equal ease; cutting far further than the two shortswords should be able to reach.
[Sickle Cut]. Yvlon recognized the technique as she wrenched her sword up. She impaled a second zombie and wrenched it out. Her left hand, pure silvery metal, made a fist. She swung it left and backhanded another corpse’s jaw clean off its face. Grimacing, Yvlon whirled her sword, cutting with equal ease—if not a Skill.
Dorgon’s charge only stopped when he met a bloated zombie-Gnoll as large as he was. He didn’t bother stopping his scything blades, but kicked the Gnoll in the chest, then began laying about him.
The undead closed around him in an instant, only held off by the complete radius of defensive slashes the Minotaur was using to shield himself as much as attack. However, he was not strung out ahead of the others for more than a second.
“A magnificent charge! I’ll write about this in my memoirs!”
A laughing [Prince] leapt into the center of the horde, followed by eight Stitchfolk bodyguards. Prince Zenol’s sword was not double-edged, but had only one killing side; the other was flat, and the sword was curved, almost like a scimitar to Yvlon’s eyes as she hacked a Ghoul’s arm from its shoulder.
Someone stabbed the Ghoul with a spear. Yvlon saw a [Spearman] move up and run forwards with a knot of adventurers.
However, not to the [Prince] and his bodyguards. Zenol had found his target: nearly thirty eight undead bunched up. He pivoted, swung his sword at waist-height. Yvlon saw the concentration on his face, the grin of his teeth on his silkflesh face. His royal garments, enchanted to replace actual armor, fluttered.
“[Sword Art: The Farmer’s Scythe]!”
Yvlon saw the sword flash, and the flicker of the enchanted steel—she slowed for a second as all thirty-eight undead slowly collapsed, falling into two pieces. Not just them; a handful of other undead were also cut.
“Dead fucking gods, did you see that?”
The [Spearman] shouted. Yvlon just gritted her teeth. Flashy—but it worked. She only hoped Zenol had more Skills. However, his bodyguards had closed around him and were fending off the leaping Ghouls as the [Prince] saluted Dorgon. The Minotaur ignored him, keeping his swords slashing—right up until Yvlon hit the lines of the undead.
The woman put her fist through a zombie’s head—stared at her gore-covered arm embedded squarely in the skull—and began to shake it. The head came loose and Yvlon found a skull embedded on her arm as she gripped her sword and cut around her. Dorgon blinked at that for a second. Yvlon, gritting her teeth, put her sword down and hit another undead with her shoulder.
It was almost more effective than swinging her sword. Her arms—her enchanted steel armor was weaker than her metal flesh. With every swing of her sword, she hacked apart an undead. She ripped the zombie’s head off her arm, gagging.
She didn’t know her strength. The Yvlon of old wouldn’t have managed to punch through a skull and flesh, even rotten, like that.
“Everyone move aside! I’m using my Skill! [Jab Barrage]!”
Another adventurer shouted, launching into a flurry of stabbing attacks that knocked several undead down or backwards. More were using their Skills to clear undead back, but some fought like Yvlon with only grit and muscle, relying on sharp weapons to do their job and holding back.
The first street of undead was falling to pieces as fast as the adventuers could attack. Only the Ghouls even had a chance; shambling zombies, for all their strength, weren’t fast or tough enough to face down Gold-ranks.
Skeletons were faster, but fragile, weaker. The only undead Yvlon could see that was a threat was—
“There! Crypt Lord! Who will take it?”
Prince Zenol pointed, having stopped to let his bodyguards fight. He surveyed the battle, shaking gore off his sword and choosing his target. He looked around, positioned himself to leap forwards—
Yvlon ran at the Crypt Lord. Her sword came up. Dorgon, sprinting forwards, saw her turn her head. Her blonde hair was already filthy beneath the steel helmet she wore; he had a similar helmet. Zenol had none.
“I’ll get it!”
He nodded and slowed. Yvlon braced as the Crypt Lord surged forwards. Black blood—poison—ran from an open maw of ‘teeth’, which were broken bones. Sixty eyes all fused and rotten together into a single staring eye gazed at her as a huge hand rose with crushing force. A Silver-rank threat for an entire team. However…
“[Curve of the Moon]!”
Yvlon’s sword art was not a horizontal slash, but a crescent. Like the name, those watching saw a huge arc slash through the air. Zenol raised his arm, stopping his leap. He blinked.
The Crypt Lord was down. Yvlon had gone two thirds of the way through it. She’d raised her sword for a second strike, but there was no need. It was already motionless, the binding spell broken.
Some of the younger or lower-leveled adventuers stopped to stare. The rest just forged ahead. Dorgon grunted as he shook filth from his armor and blades. He looked down the street.
“First street cleared! Advance!”
He began striding forwards. Yvlon was already running at the next zombie. Prince Zenol, grinning, motioned to his bodyguards.
“Leave the lesser undead! We won’t fall behind!”
They surged forwards as one, leading the way in the first wave as more adventurers, Silver-ranks some of them, came forwards, clearing the undead still standing.
It was too easy. Then again—they were lesser undead. If they had each reanimated, regenerated flesh as fast as you cut into them, healing while your sword was buried in their guts? That might have slowed the Gold-ranks.
