Every time a street was cleared, someone would shout it, and the waiting adventurers would cheer or laugh. Some had even taken bets after the first three had gone down in succession. However, nearly twenty minutes into the fighting, Levil heard the announcements coming in more slowly.
“…if you’re just tuning in…Village of the Dead…that has to be at least a thousand undead. I’m told this a multi-pronged attack. Wait—we have one of our people in studio saying I’m off. Two thousand undead, six hundred and forty eight. Are you serious? There’s so many—”
“Fourth wave!”
Levil heard the shout. He saw their group commander check himself.
“We’re needed. Follow me!”
They entered the Village of the Dead. Levil was closer to the front; he was tasked with casting [Fireball] if he saw a good target and falling back. His wand was raised—
But of course, the first street was already cleared. In fact, Halrac the Grim himself was there, his face classically expressionless, with nearly thirty [Archers]. Levil felt silly as the rest of his team stopped, behind him.
“Where’s the fighting?”
One adventurer asked eagerly. Inside the Village of the Dead, they could hear the fighting at last. In the distance, it sounded like. They were already moving past the [Archers], but Halrac stopped them.
“Halt. You’re needed here.”
Confused, the fourth wave of adventurers stopped. Halrac was talking with the adventurer in charge. He seemed to know the captain.
“Nailren. Yvlon’s wave is stymied in the fighting. Too many intersections. They want us to start clearing out undead. There are at least ten thousand visible.”
The Gnoll Silver-rank growled.
“You must be joking. How many are in the streets?”
“They’re packed. They want us on the roofs—the [Mages] are using targeting spells, but we need a line of sight or at least a good position.”
The Gnoll [Archer] nodded. The adventurer shifted as the two conferred. What was the problem? Halrac eyed the house behind him. He lifted the speaking stone to his lips.
“Strategist Soew. Are you sure the houses are clear?”
“I had [Dangersense]-capable adventurers check them. They went into thirteen; all have been empty. I am keeping some adventurers checking, but we have seen nothing.”
Halrac folded his arms.
“I don’t like it. That’s why you’re here, Nailren.”
The Gnoll nodded, quick to adapt. He shouted.
“Fighting formation! Let’s cover Adventurer Halrac! I need volunteers—no. Just knock the walls down, yes? Who’s got a hammer? Spells?”
Two adventurers, including the [Axewoman] and Keima, who was an [Axe Fighter], instantly volunteered. Levil raised his voice.
“I’ve got [Fireball]! Let me! Where do you want it?”
Halrac’s gaze swung to Levil. He inspected a house; pointed.
“Blow the wall down.”
It took three [Fireballs], which taxed Levil and surprised him. The houses were sturdy. However, the smoldering hole revealed nothing but a rotten inside. Halrac grunted. He had been covering the entrance; meanwhile, Nailren had set more to breaking down doors.
Eight homes—all empty. Just as Soew had said. The [Strategist] was talking to Halrac when Levil, panting, lowered the mana potion from his lips. He probably shouldn’t have made it seem like casting [Fireball] in quick succession was easy.
“Nothing. We are boarding up the doors as we go, or sealing them with wall-spells, Captain Halrac. I am not a fool. However, our assumption was the Village of the Dead was on a time-limit so we did not secure our flanks. If the undead truly aren’t regenerating, perhaps we should consider stopping and fortifying after an hour and making this a loss-less war of attrition?”
“Maybe. I don’t like the empty houses. How many casualties so far?”
“Three. Silver-ranks, all.”
Halrac made a sound. He kept staring into the empty houses, but the adventurers who’d gone in—all [Rogues] or [Thieves]—hadn’t detected traps.
Levil chanced a glance into the homes. This Village of the Dead was…unsettling. He understood Halrac’s worry.
It looked like a humble, villager’s home. Albeit one long gone to rot. The floorboards were old, covered in mold or black…something. There was furniture, what little of it remained, even glass swallowed by spider webs. Dust—
Even so. Halrac was talking to Nailren.
“I’ve fought undead before. I know one more tactic they might be using—burrowing. How sure are we they’re not going to tunnel up and attack from below?”
The Gnoll bared his teeth.
“I’m from Pallass, Captain Halrac, yes? I know how our army lost against the Goblin Lord in the mountains. I checked; there aren’t any noticeable holes or undead—even in the root cellars or basements.”
The Gold-rank [Veteran Scout] bit his lip. However, he had put several of the adventurer-archers to climbing one of the roofs to lob enchanted arrows at the street beyond already. He just…didn’t like it.
Neither did Levil, the longer he stared into one of the empty houses. The fact that there were absolutely no undead within bothered him. He expected the houses to be filled! The streets had been so congested with bodies that they’d had to be piled to one side or destroyed just so adventurers could march through.
And yet…nothing. Halrac lifted the stone.
“Captain Halrac, we need your [Archers]. Two of the four attacking waves are falling back.”
“Why?”
His brows snapped together. Soew’s voice was calm—but insistent.
“Overwhelming undead.”
Levil heard an oath. He saw someone pointing at the scrying orb and saw the view the rest of the world was getting—ironically better than his.
 
—-
 
A wave of undead was forcing Yvlon’s team back. Mrsha clung to Ulvama, squeezing her so hard—and Selys, clinging to them. Both ignored her sharp claws, as intent on the battle as everyone else.
“Ancestors.”
Selys had seen undead fighting in the battle with Skinner, and rarely before that. However—this wasn’t Skinner’s thousands. This was—
“Fall back!”
Yvlon was bellowing. She swung her sword and beheaded six zombies. Yet the bodies which collapsed couldn’t even fall properly. It was a wave in every sense of the word; a wall of zombies, so close together that it was all flesh and grasping arms.
“[Lightning Bolt] incoming!”
Yvlon flung herself out of the way, and the bolt of electricity fried…dozens upon dozens. Area-of-attack spells and Skills were slaughtering hundreds. Yet there were so many.
Ghouls were crawling over the heads of the other undead, bounding off rooftops. Skeletons were clambering upwards too, launching arrows.
They were the real threat; the wall of zombies and Crypt Lords were a deadly, but slow force. They kept advancing despite the attack, while the faster undead sped along rooftops.
“We need those [Archers]! Prince Zenol—”
“For the glory of Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
A laughing [Prince] leapt, landed on a rooftop, and cut two Ghouls apart. Dozens were on him in seconds, but he bought the other adventurers time to climb and contest this new avenue.
“We have hundreds of Ghouls coming at us and we’re under ranged fire! Halrac—”
Yvlon’s voice was so clear to Mrsha. The Gnoll grabbed Selys—then gaped. A bright arrow flashed—blew apart a knot of skeletons. The view of the scrying orb swung up to a distant [Archer], a man seemingly holding nothing but air.
The invisible bow! Mrsha saw Halrac and the adventurers loose again, and now magical arrows were blowing apart undead. She cheered, throwing up her paws. She clocked Selys in the jaw.
 
—-
 
There were a lot of damn undead! Revi wasn’t in wave four. She wasn’t even in the village. She was a [Summoner], so she stood on a hill hundreds of paces away from the Village of the Dead and watched the artillery-[Mages] lobbing spells at the village.
Some were even sipping tea, chattering, or watching the scrying orb as they did. None were incautious though; they kept an eye out for undead coming this way. Only eight Ghouls had made it past the fighting, though.
“This isn’t thousands. These are tens of thousands! Maybe a hundred thousand, who knows?”
She spoke rapidly, to those around her, not able to relax. Geni, the veteran [Wizard] with grey hair, safely in the back ranks, patted Revi’s arm in a kind way.
“I know, dear. But they’re not regenerating. That’s something.”
“If they were, we’d never get through here. Imagine fighting that string-shit with all of them coming back? No wonder an army never made it past! I don’t like it.”
 
“The fact that a—so many undead can hide in there, and that we are not hearing anything? Mm. It bodes.”
A rather patrician-type [Mage] lowered his teacup. Patrician was a word Revi had never used, but it fit this [Mage] to a tee. He was the classic Wistram [Mage]—and he was indeed from Wistram Academy. His attitude, from his spectacles perched on his nose, to the chair and tea he was sipping, was the exact reason [Mages] got a bad rap.
“What do you mean by that?”
Revi growled at him. The [Mage] gave her the arched eyebrow that made her want to kick him in the shins.
“I mean—the Village of the Dead clearly has a spatial enchantment on it. Powerful too; it must be far vaster on the inside than the outside.”
“…You mean, a dimensional bubble? Like Wistram has? Moths eat me.”
Revi wanted to pace, but Geni patted her arm.
“Save your energy, Revi, dear.”
She knew the old woman was right. She was looking bad; the other [Mages] were glancing at her and she was a veteran! The [Summoner] tried to relax, but Revi was antsy. She hadn’t summoned anything—because Soew hadn’t asked her to, or a wave leader. Her mana ran out, so she was standing in the spell circles which ambiently drew mana from the environment, perfect for [Mages]. She was waiting.
As it turned out, she didn’t have to wait long. Revi didn’t know what triggered the change—maybe Halrac’s volleys from the rooftop. But then she heard half a dozen horn calls from the scrying orb.
Not from the distant village. It was too silent. The speaking stones chattered to life in an instant. Revi heard multiple voices, all screaming the same thing.
“—out of the houses! I thought you ch—”
“Give me bombardment on my street! We’re falling back! I’m at—”
“—fucking everywh—”
Her head rose. Revi’s cotton-skin crawled. She mouthed the word at the same time as everyone else.
Ambush.
 
—-
 
Levil’s wave was about to go and join the fighting on the front, having seen Halrac’s group onto the roofs when the ambush occurred.
He even saw it happening. The [Fire Mage]’s head turned. He felt it.
“Nailren! I’m getting a huge magical signature—is someone casting a spell?”
The Gnoll halted. The adventurers lifted their weapons.
“I feel it too! What is that?”
A [Mage] pointed. Every head turned to…the abandoned houses.
“Oh shit. Oh fuck. Halrac was right!”
Keima muttered. The adventurers looked around. What was coming? Invisible undead? Levil’s eyes were wide—an adventurer loosed an arrow, but it struck nothing?
From the ground? He stared down, and another adventurer shook her head. A Dwarf? Dasha of Vuliel Drae raised her voice.
“I’ve got [Tremorsense]! I don’t sense ‘em below us! What’s the magic?”
“It’s—”
Levil had no formal magical schooling. He had no way of identifying the nuance in the spell, only aware it was there. The answer came in a moment anyways.
He saw a golden flash of light. Blinding—the [Fire Mage] raised his hand to his eyes. When he lowered it—there they were.
Undead. They filled the house he had blasted open. So tightly bunched-up that some instantly spilled out of the house. Ghouls, zombies, skeletons—again, lesser undead. But so many. And that was one house.
“Shit.”
Levil recoiled. He raised his wand, and a jet of flame lashed out instantly. It burned through the crowd ahead of him. Then Levil turned his head.
Every house in the street had just filled up. Now—out the undead came.
“Halrac! Undead below you! Get back! Everyone, fall back!”
Nailren bellowed. He swung up his bow and loosed a shot which turned into three. The scatter-shot Skill blasted zombies backwards.
“Mass teleportation? That’s impossible! That’s—”
Ullica, the other [Mage] in the Pithfire Hounds, had gone into hysterics. Two adventurers near him were just staring, transfixed. Levil whirled.
“Ullica! Fight! [Fireball]!”
The detonation and blast of heat and force snapped the other adventurers out of it. Silver-ranks fought to desperately stem the flow of undead from the houses. Insill, Dasha, Pekona, Larr, and Anith, the entire team of Vuliel Drae, were fighting with the Pithfire Hounds. Back-to-back in a circle in the street.
Halrac’s group was now surrounded by climbing undead. They were loosing enchanted arrows all around them, killing countless undead with each arrow, but Ghouls were climbing with skeletons.
“We’re dead!”
Insill wailed, the Drake [Rogue] slashing around him. Pekona just slashed undead in half, the [Blade Dancer] cutting down a score in an ever-widening circle by herself.
“Where are the Horns?”
For some reason, Larr, their Gnollish [Archer] wanted to know. He growled as he shot; already spells were blasting undead to pieces. He snarled at Anith, their Jackal Beastkin leader.
“Where are the Horns? Where’s Eldertuin the Fortress? Elia Arcsinger? All these Gold-ranks can’t detect an ambush or deal with these undead? I don’t see them taking the lead for all their talk! They’re just one of the teams out here! Tell me they’re further in—”
“Nailren, help incoming. Don’t move from your spot.”
A female voice spoke out of the stone on the Gnoll’s wrist. Levil recognized it. What did she mean by that, th—
One of the houses exploded as a huge paw made of ice and bone smashed through it. Undead were crushed under a single crushing blow. Then the other paw came down.
Levil, the Pithfire Hounds, Vuliel Drae, and the other adventurers looked up. A huge, bestial bear-monstrosity roared, and the sound was that of avalanches and grinding ice. Its body was made of ivory. Ivory—coated in ice.
Instantly, Levil raised his wand and fired a [Flame Arrow] at the face. He didn’t know what undead that was, but—
Nailren grabbed his arm.
“Don’t! That’s on our side!”
“What? That’s undead!”
Levil bellowed back. The Gnoll didn’t bother explaining. He just pointed and Levil saw the giant creation move.
The giant undead was on all fours, so vast it was taller than the uniform houses of the village. It was shaped like a bear—if a bear had been upgraded to be even more destructive and monstrous. Then, someone had taken the frame of the Bone Behemoth and coated it in ice instead of flesh.
