She was right. The next change as the Draugr kept coming manifested itself in a huge, glowing-eyed figure far taller than anything but Crypt Lords. Scuttling forms creeping up the walls, joining the skeletons now raining arrows from above.
 
—-
 
They looked like a normal person’s skeleton—be it Gnoll, Drake, Human, or even other species he’d met. A normal skeleton that someone twisted, added ‘limbs’ to, so they appeared to be like spiders, or bone-centipedes, racing forwards on multiple limbs, flat to the ground.
Horrific, but purposeful. They existed to climb, and they swarmed up the houses, their multi-digit appendages securing grips, pulling themselves upwards as they opened maws to bite at the adventurers or leap from above.
They were joined by hulking monstrosities of bone, armored plates of it forming Bone Horrors, far less elegant and purposefully made than the ones Pisces commanded—
But no less dangerous. They could take a beating even the Draugr could not, and they had any number of limbs to attack an adventurer with.
The Silver-ranks wavered in the streets when they saw both bone-variants join the flesh-and-blood kin. Skeletons were climbing too, and Ghouls, all to take the rooftops and leap onto the adventurers from behind. Not only that, the undead were still teleporting into the houses unless they were destroyed, which meant that while adventurers had barricaded the ground floors, some were coming out of the windows or broken pieces of the wall!
All of this meant that the roofs of the houses, supposed to be the safest location, were now dangerous. A group of thirty [Archer] adventurers found themselves besieged from all sides, cut off on the four roofs they were perched on.
“Let’s get out of here! We have to run!”
A pale-faced [Bandit Archer] shouted to the others. Half of them wavered, but on all sides the undead were coming up. Where did you run to? To jump was to land, possibly break your legs, and be swarmed at once.
A Ghoul pulled itself over the roof’s edge, climbing onto rotted shingles with ease, biting, snapping, looking around for prey.
Halrac’s boot caught it in the head. The [Veteran Scout] kicked the undead back into the mass below. He aimed his bow down; loosed a glowing arrow.
A Bone Horror vanished as the arrow exploded. The Gold-rank captain snapped at the other adventurers under his command.
“Hold your ground. If you run, you die! Anyone with close-combat classes, keep the undead from climbing up!”
“But Halrac, there are—”
The [Scout] pivoted and kicked a Bone Crawler so hard its head exploded in a shower of bone fragments. The Silver-rank adventurer gulped.
As of yet, Halrac hadn’t even drawn his shortsword. He kept moving, drawing arrows and loosing them into the street below. He snapped at another [Archer], one with dark skin and nearly-transparent hair underneath her helmet.
“Keep hitting those undead attacking Yvlon’s group—there! Kill the Draugr!”
The [Magical Archer] saluted him with an arrow, put it to her bow, and murmured.
“[Seeking Missile].”
The enchanted arrow shot high into the air, then arced, perfectly hitting one of the Draugr in the head as it twisted like a homing spell. She kept firing.
Halrac’s invisible bow sounded again. This time, to shoot a normal arrow and knock a skeleton away from an adventurer it had snuck up behind. He was too late for the other one.
A second skeleton grabbed a Silver-rank and upset her balance. It yanked—hard—and she flailed, losing her cool. She was about to tear free—when eight zombies grabbed the skeleton’s dangling feet.
Adventurer, skeleton, and zombies fell into a mass of undead below. Halrac never heard a sound; he shot a flurry of arrows down, killing undead. Yet no adventurer came out fighting.
“Keep away from the roof’s edges!”
He shouted at the others. Halrac reached for the speaking stone on his armguard, and then let it drop. No point asking for reinforcements again. They knew—
He spun as a Draugr came up the roof, tearing into the wood as it went for the [Archers]. Halrac put an arrow in its eye. It kept coming.
The second arrow was stouter, and longer than his. Not regulation-size. It also had more force than even his invisible-bow’s enchantment. It blew a chunk of the Draugr’s head off and the undead pitched into the crowded street below.
Halrac turned. The Minotaur with the curious ‘x-bow’, the fusion weapon of two bows crossed together, lowered it and calmly put another arrow to the string.
“Thorven.”
The [Scout] nodded to him. The Minotaur nodded back. Calm as could be, he turned, and a foot shattered another undead face coming up. He and Halrac were no strangers to fighting in close-combat.
The other [Archers]…Halrac cursed as he heard more casualties being reported. This was joined by another sound, as missiles began to strike the roof around them.
“We’re under fire!”
Someone else shouted, pointing. Halrac turned and saw skeletons. Shooting arrows at them from another roof.
Their tactics, echoed! Halrac snatched an arrow aimed at his face out of the air, put it to his bow, and hit the skeleton—in a rib. The undead lost the rib, but it just staggered upright and began firing back.
Skeletons. An [Archer]’s worst enemy in a ranged duel. You had to hit them in the head! Half the [Archers] began firing back, but Halrac snapped.
“Ignore them! Keep the undead from climbing up! You—you—enchanted arrows! Blow them to bits!”
Two adventurers did just that, but no sooner had they taken one roof than another skeleton band appeared. This time Halrac raised the speaking stone.
“We’re about to be overrun! Where’s that Bone Behemoth, Ceria?”
He heard her voice, arguing with the others.
“—too far away, Halrac! If we move, they’ll overrun our street!”
Cursing, Halrac looked around. However, a second voice interrupted Soew saying something.
“Very well. I shall intercede. Help is imminent, Captain Halrac.”
That voice. Halrac looked around. He saw only a blur of magical flashes from his rooftop, countless shadows in the streets below—
An arrow hit him in the chest. He staggered; the enchanted armor on his chest blocked the blow. His boots kept him from tumbling off the roof and into the street below.
The group of skeletons took aim as Halrac fumbled for another enchanted arrow. Two adventurers were down, crying out from the barbed arrows sticking out of their skin. The [Marksman] put the arrow to his bow as three other [Archers] turned, but they’d be too slow! He saw the skeletons draw.
Ksmvr landed on the first one, and crunched the fragile undead to pieces. He whirled, shortsword, buckler, and dagger in hand. He lashed out with all three.
Sword cut a bow apart. Forceshield swung, clipping a second skeleton and knocking it off the roof. The dagger touched a third and set it aflame.
“Ksmvr! Fall back! You’re too exposed!”
The Antinium ignored Ceria’s call. He sprinted across the roof, knocking the other skeletons down, killing another one, then leapt. Halrac saw him land amid another group trying to target the [Archers].
That idiot is going to die. Halrac whirled.
“Press the undead back! Enchanted arrows in the streets! Clear them away!”
They couldn’t do the same for the rooftops where Ksmvr was fighting alone. The adventurers began firing downwards, securing their position. Halrac loosed another arrow, supporting the adventurers on the ground. But he was watching Ksmvr fight.
Alone. The [Skirmisher] was a whirling frenzy of blows. He was good, and his three arms gave him an advantage. He picked fights only with the skeleton bands—but that was still suicidal. Halrac was a [Scout]. Fighting alone like that?
Your luck ran out. 
Sure enough, Ksmvr was just dispatching another group of undead when he ran into his first sign of trouble. He slashed with his shortsword, intending to cut a skeleton to bits as he pivoted to block a strike with his Forceshield.
His enchanted shortsword bounced off rusted steel armor. Ksmvr looked at the skeleton, still wearing the weaponry it had carried in life. He backed up.
A skeleton stabbed him in the back. Or tried to; Ksmvr’s tough carapace thanks to the Barkskin ring he wore, and the cloak he was wearing blocked the knife-strike. The others leapt on him, stabbing as the Antinium thrashed.
“Ksmvr!”
Halrac shot an arrow at the armored skeleton before it could attack too, but he couldn’t risk a shot in the melee. He watched the Antinium fighting, unable to help.
 
—-
 
“Bone Horrors and more bone-type undead coming in! They’re climbing and they jump! Watch your heads!”
Soew listened to the shouting. Now, the undead weren’t just fighting from street to street. The neat and tidy battle on all four fronts was devolving into a defensive battle where the undead could come over the roofs, from the houses…
Have I fallen into a trap as a [Strategist]? They presented me with advantageous ground and now it reverses.
The Owl Beastkin [Strategist] spoke, her voice measured, logical.
“Adventurers Pisces, Ceria. Please take your force to link up with Eldertuin’s. Attack 1—you will link with Attack 2. We can no longer risk fighting on four fronts. We will attack from the west and ensure our flanks are guarded.”
“Acknowledged!”
That came from Attack 1’s leader, but Yvlon’s voice broke in.
“Regroup? If we’re all together, the undead will just flood our positions.”
“They are already doing so.”
Soew pointed out. The undead were without quantifiable limit so far. Yvlon replied tersely.
“I’d like you to consider letting us hold, Soew. We’re not buckling—yet.”
“Why hold?”
“Because they might want us to group up before something else arrives.”
The [Strategist] considered this. Her instinctual moves, which had earned her respect and won the day on other raids…she tilted her head ninety degrees.
“Acknowledged. Hold ground. I repeat, ignore last orders. [Improved Bracing]—Attack 1, you have eight minutes to make use of my Skill.”
“Got it. Holding put!”
The Owl-woman said nothing. She studied the map and the village from her position outside. Slowly—she began to shift her tactics, as if she was fighting against an intelligent opponent. She did not like this. Monster-slaying was her forte. She had not been able to pay for a class at the Titan’s academy in [Strategist] versus [Strategist] combat.
“Soew. Strategist Soew. Come in.”
This voice was Eldertuin’s. Soew changed speaking stones instantly.
“What is it? Report.”
“I think we’re seeing the next phase of the undead attacks. My group hasn’t moved back—”
“I am aware of the bone-type undead. [Archer] and [Mage] groups are taking out high-priority targets. Do you need to fall back?”
The Named Adventurer’s voice was terse. Soew heard an impact and he snapped a reply.
“No. That’s not what I meant. The zombies. They’re—running. There’s a command-type undead out there! The Crypt Lords are rallying them!”
Soew digested this as more groups began reporting the same thing.
The threat is increasing each time. Across all attack groups. This is coordinated.
The zombies, which had until now been shambling forwards, strong, menacing if they grabbed you, but slow, had begun to run. Not all could, but those with enough muscle left began sprinting alongside the Ghouls.
Crypt Lords. Commanding undead. They were still zombies, but now the adventurers were facing a much, much faster foe.
From bad to worse. Soew’s eyes flicked left and right. There was no question now. Retreat or regroup? The running zombies meant that if the adventurers tried to run, they’d be fighting all the way out.
So retreat becomes more and more unlikely. Should I abort the raid? If this pattern follows—what will we do if Liches arrive? Skeleton Mages? Bone Behemoths? There is a limit to how many threats we can take on before casualties begin to cascade.
As she wavered, on the verge of demanding a full retreat before it was too late, Soew’s awareness of the battlefield changed.
Soew’s head rose. She stared, her beak-mouth opened wide in genuine surprise for the first time.
“Soew, what are we doing?”
A panicked voice from Attack 1’s leader, the most fragile of the four leaders’ temperaments she’d regretted putting in charge. Soew breathed.
“Standby. Another variable has emerged.”
“Standby? Standby for what? Another threat?”
Paranoia and panic. Soew hesitated—then clarified.
“No. Reinforcements.”
Her eyes flicked up. Then—she heard the horns begin to sound.
 
—-
 
“What is that?”
Revi was sending other summons into the battle when she saw something appear in the distance. She pointed and the [Mages] all looked.
“[Riders].”
Geni frowned. She murmured a cantrip and both she and Revi blinked, their eyes magnified suddenly. They saw people on horseback cresting a hill, coming down in a wedge-formation. Revi stared.
“That can’t be other adventurers.”
She knew that because the group was far too uniform and cohesive to be an adventurer team.
“Mercenaries? Some of them might want to get in on this.”
Another [Mage] opined. Revi shook her head slightly. Then she heard the horns. They were blowing in the distance, on the eastern side of the Village of Death rather than the embattled west. Revi’s eyes widened as she saw people on foot appear over the bluff. Geni gasped.
“That can’t be what I think it is. Revi, my dear! Do you see those banners?”
“I see ‘em. Why are they here? Who—did we make them angry?”
“No, I think—they’re on our side.”
How, though? Revi saw the army of Humans descend, following the [Riders]. And there, fluttering in the wind and noon light was the unmistakable crest.
 
—-
 
“House Veltras?”
Drassi was just as incredulous. She was turning, listening to a Gnoll girl whispering to her off-screen. She turned to the audience.
“Breaking news! It seems like—an army of Humans bearing the standards of House Veltras of Izril has just arrived on the eastern side of the Village of the Dead! Not just that—if I’m hearing this right, there are eight thousand of them, led by none other than Lord Tyrion Veltras himself!”
 
—-
 
Selys choked on her drink. Rags’ eyes narrowed at the name, but Mrsha bounced up and down, excited, grabbing Ulvama’s arm. It had to be! She looked for a pad of paper then signed rapidly, grabbing the adult’s arms, trying to get them to understand.
“What? Who?”
Ishkr was the only one who spared a look for Mrsha as the others burst into confused babbling. He bent down, reading Mrsha’s signing and Kevin did likewise. He didn’t know enough of Mrsha’s language, but he got—
Help! Her! Feet? Feet—Running?
“Miss Ryoka Griffin?”
