Because the Draug was wearing armor. Steel or some other fine metal; head to toe. Not torn, not broken by rust or battle like the other undead. Fine, intact metal. Even a helmet on its head, under which two glowing eyes looked out.
That was not the scary thing. What made Ceria’s heart skip a beat was what the Draugr was holding. Its hands were clasped around a two-handed axe, planted on the ground.
“Armor and a weapon? What kind of…”
Keldrass looked at the undead, as well-armed as he. He stared at Pisces. The [Necromancer] was silent. Slowly…he raised two fingers. He tried once—then managed to snap his fingers on the second try.
A ball of light appeared in his hands. Slowly—seeing or sensing something that the others could not, Pisces flicked his hand. The ball of light flew across the street.
 
—-
 
He could not stop smiling. He felt his body trembling. His skin crawling. His teeth were bared, and his heart pounded.
For them—all his sympathies. Yet all Niers Astoragon could do was remember. Remember as he had stood in similar places, and beheld similar sights.
The audience of the world watched as the ball of light flickered down the true streets of the Village of Death. It halted, glowing, and someone sighed in the common room below.
Selys.
Tears ran down her eyes as the Drake looked. Rags stirred. Numbtongue gripped his sword more tightly and Mrsha held the clawed hands tightly. As if that could make it go away.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin felt the same sense of terrible nostalgia as Ceria. But not for the same memory. The same feeling but a different place. Another time.
 
Something reaches up out of the ground, a hand, grey-green flesh, rotten sinew. But pink in places, too, oozing red. And bone. An arm, but not one any Human would have.
It reaches towards the sky, each finger as tall as I am, and the colossus rises. A head breaks the snow, and two eyes filled with huge, squirming maggots gapes at us. I’m screaming in my head, but the cold air is filled only with silence.
 
This was not the same as the Zombie Giant. Yet every part of Ryoka, held by the two now-silent boys, felt it.
The ball of [Light] illuminated the ranks of Draugr. Eighteen across, four ranks down.
Human. Drake. Half-Elves? Standing silent, each one wearing the same armor, clasping weapons. Garbed for battle.
They stood in the street, looking ahead. Waiting. The adventurers had gone still. Ryoka heard someone counting in the feed from the scrying orb.
No one spoke. Not Drassi or Joseph, or the adventurers. No one could. No one knew what came next save for one.
 
—-
 
Az’kerash closed his eyes. They had made it to the inner city. He reached up, and his fingers found curved lips. A smile?
Now—he listened, but his heart did not beat—now, it began. His eyes fixed on the half-Elf and young [Necromancer] standing together.
Show me.
 
—-
 
A voice cried out. In bitter ecstasy, in triumph. In grief?
“They have come. Will you do something now, master?”
He danced, in the heart of the city. Waiting.
The Putrid One never moved. So his servant grew uncertain.
Afraid.
 
—-
 
Who broke the silence at last? Ceria couldn’t tell at first. The voice had no spatial qualities at first. It was just…there. Hovering, ephemeral. Yet growing more solid.
“Intruders? Intruders. They have breached the perimeter. They have defiled this ground.”
The Draugr stirred. The voice—was not an adventurer’s voice. Nor one from the scrying orb. It came from within. It had a quality that Ceria realized, with a shudder, was familiar.
She had once heard it from…the scrying orb. When listening to Fetohep of Khelt.
It was not a voice produced by lips or a tongue, or lungs.
It was an undead’s voice. It spoke, again.
“They come for your Master. Rise, servants. To arms, guardians. We are bound to defend this place. So: arise. Let us spill bitter blood once more, as our service dictates.”
Such a curious call to arms. The voice was not furious, not angry. It sounded resigned. Even regretful. Ceria heard nothing after that.
Then—the Draugr moved. Slowly, as one, they shifted. Their clasped weapons rose. They began to march forwards.
“To arms.”
Eldertuin breathed. His mace rose, and the Golems, fearless, lifted their weapons. His voice stirred the adventurers. Ceria saw Pisces lift his rapier. Some of the paralysis freed itself from her veins.
Yet she was waiting. Sure that this wasn’t it. The vision, the warning in her mind had not feared this.
Ah. As the city stirred, she felt bitterly reassured. She saw more lights flickering across the dark sky. More shapes moving. Ceria looked up—and laughed sadly, despite herself.
Good, good. She hadn’t been wrong. 
A Lich, a skeletal [Mage], floated in the air over a rooftop. It raised a staff as tattered robes fluttered about it. It was not by itself. Ceria saw another rising, chains around the bones of its legs.
She stared at it—then saw a building move. She heard an oath.
“No. That’s not fair. We’re supposed to have the only damn one…”
Briganda stared at the giant Bone Behemoth which slid out of the shadow of a building. Gleaming bone face armored with a metal mask.
More giant shapes began to move above the buildings. Shapes fluttered through the air.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras slowed, looking towards the city, at the mirror. Then—he saw the first winged undead burst out in the distant village. He spoke, his voice terse.
“Undead Wyvern. Fall back. Lord Deilan, join your forces to mine—now!”
He whirled, racing back towards the carriage behind his lines. Ryoka Griffin stood just outside of it, looking towards the Village of the Dead.
“No. It’s not fair. It’s never fair.”
The wind felt black, blowing up from there. Like poison. It told her of things flying and crawling within.
 
—-
 
A hundred, a thousand voices spoke to her. Yvlon Byres saw the first Wailing Pit creeping forwards, the damned collection of undead pleading, speaking to the living.
The adventurers shuddered. She saw the giant undead, heard the sound of despair from behind her.
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] gazed towards the city.
“The center of the center, then.”
Prince Zenol and Dorgon looked at her.
“What?”
Yvlon didn’t reply. She drew her sword from its resting place in the ground. She began to walk forwards, like she had at the start of this all.
“Forward. Set up fortifications. I’ll stall them. We’re going in. Horns of Hammerad? Forwards.”
The Wailing Pit was blocked by a line of undead. Skeleton Knights, wearing armor over bone, and, leading them, a richly-dressed commander of some kind, moving with impatient animation. It raised its sword and saluted Yvlon.
She stopped, blinking and her sword rose. She copied the gesture, and saw a plumed helmet nod once. Then, Yvlon was running again. She swung her sword and met enchanted steel in kind as the last forces of the Putrid One awoke in their dead city.
