Then again, perhaps not. The first rank of adventuers reached the end of the street and turned. The [Spearman] swore again as he saw a second street, just as crowded, identical to the first in almost every way. He slowed, but Dorgon charged with Yvlon and Zenol.
He repeated his charge, beat-for-beat. The Minotaur hacked through undead, using the exact same Skill as he had less than a minute ago. Yvlon blinked at him as she hacked, efficient with her enhanced strength and sword, but unable to use her sword art for nearly a half-hour.
“[Sickle Cut] is always active. Don’t waste your Skills!”
Dorgon snarled as an undead landed a glancing slash on his light metal armor. He pivoted—beheaded it. He moved beautifully, every motion a cut from one arm or the other—or both. Yvlon had seldom met warriors capable of using weapons in both arms properly like Dorgon without sacrificing something.
The House of Minos’ adventurer-captain from afar. Technically Silver-rank. Handpicked for her group by Yvlon for the melee wave.
[Twinblade Linebreaker]. She’d known he was good.
Prince Zenol clapped his hands, laughing. He was just as unpredictable, but Yvlon had accepted his request to join her group. He pointed.
“My servants, clear this rabble. We have to entrench our [Archers] and [Mages]! Go forwards! [Ferocious Command]!”
The eight bodyguards charged with howls. Yvlon thought she saw tendons and muscles bulge as they cleaved forwards in a berserk fury. Zenol rested on his curved sword. She strode forwards, leaving him behind as he stopped the [Spearman] and pointed him towards a flanking position.
They were moving so fast. Yvlon heard a voice as she stepped back for a moment.
“—lon? Yvlon!”
“I’m here.”
She raised the speaking stone to her mouth. She had been issued with one, along with every wave leader. Somewhere else, Jelaqua was shouting.
“We’re running through them like [Sailors] at a brothel!”
“…What?”
“We’re slaughtering them!”
The excited Selphid clarified. Yvlon heard shouting through the speaking stone, an echo of what she was hearing around her.
“There’s no reanimation spell! We’re pushing down our street—Halrac! Start moving up the archers! Get them onto the roofs and we’ll secure! Don’t push too far ahead! If you get to an intersection, try to find out where we are! We need to take this place piece by piece—no pockets of undead behind us.”
“Got it. Strategist Soew, do you hear that?”
“I hear. I am moving up the [Mages]; they will hold off bombardment. Do not advance more than three streets so far. I am attempting to map your progress.”
“Understood.”
Yvlon strode forward again, dropping the stone back to dangle from the bracelet. She was already lifting her sword for another cut.
 
—-
 
The adventurers raiding the Village of the Dead attacked so fast that the projection of the battle on television for three minutes was a [Mage] jogging past dismembered body parts, incinerated or otherwise spell-damaged undead, and Silver-ranks stabbing the last wounded undead yet to fully die.
By the time they reached the front rank of the fighting, Rags had returned from the hill. She, Numbtongue, and Mrsha joined a crowd in the common room of The Wandering Inn.
Niers Astoragon watched from a beam, cursing and trying to get a better view. They were not the only ones, of course.
 
—-
 
In Pallass, Chaldion was observing from Pallass’ war room, although this was not, strictly speaking, a military engagement that affected Pallass in any way.
Someone could have pointed this out. In theory, any one of the [Tacticians], [Strategists], and other, lesser members of Pallass’ military could upbraid Chaldion, the [Grand Strategist] of Pallass, for using the room for recreation.
No one did. In truth, Chaldion would have usually preferred to watch elsewhere, but the bar where he’d normally have ready food and a better audience was closed. There were few other places where he could have someone fetch him a drink whenever he wanted.
 
—-
 
In Oteslia, Lyonette was gripping the table so hard Mivifa saw her knuckles turning white. The Oldblood Drake saw it—but she herself barely turned away from the scrying orb. She was many things, but she was an adventurer. Saliss, Mivifa, and the two Gentlemen Callers were glued to the scrying orb.
But where Mivifa was passionate for fellow adventurers, the romance, excitement, glory of this raid, it was different. For the rest…
It was personal.
 
—-
 
Ilvriss watched as well, clenching his claws. He’d stopped to watch and had ordered camp struck, despite it being only midday.
“Adventurer Tessa, thoughts?”
“They’re killing undead. Zombies, Ghouls, and skeletons. Crypt Lords? You could do that with Bronze-ranks. Probably. Also, it’s Shriekblade.”
Ilvriss nodded. He’d seen nothing so far to alarm him. Yet he listened as Drassi, panting from the fight in the broadcasting booth, spoke loudly.
“This raid is ongoing—if you’re just tuning in, you are watching an assault on the Village of the Dead, live, covered by me, Drassi, and uh—Joseph.”
“Um.”
The [Football Coach] made a non-sequitur of a sound. Drassi went on, with practice and natural talent, her eyes never leaving her own view of the battle.
“Sir Relz and Noass are not covering this event or whatever boring thing they were working on because they are not allowed in here. Here’s what we know: the Village of the Dead is a death-zone, famous for the regenerating, nigh-immortal undead. I’m not seeing that today. Are you, Joseph?”
“Uh—uh—they look pretty dead to me.”
“Yes! And not undead! We can only speculate unless we get an interview, and the raid is ongoing so you can kiss your tail on that idea, but it may be the adventurers have found a way to negate what is going on here! In which case, they might be further into the Village of the Dead than any other group has been in living memory! You are seeing this live if you are just tuning in! We are accepting [Messages] and live-calls from the audience if you have anything to say—stay tuned! It looks like heavy fighting in front—but nothing deadly yet, right Joseph?”
“Are those Ghouls? And Crypt Lords? They look pretty—”
“Gold-ranks eat Ghouls for breakfast. Stick with me, Joseph!”
 
—-
 
It was an event. No—it was the event of the hour. It was also live, so it meant it was the event the world needed to see. Real news.
In fact, it was so much more important than any other conceivable thing in the world at this very moment that this truth of television became a self-fulfilling truth in actuality.
Two vast armies were lined up on arid ground. The heat of the long summer had baked the earth a bit too much, so that it became too close to sand in places; treacherous footing in an engagement that might mean life or death when a single misstep would provoke an opening.
Accordingly, the heavy-infantry of one army had been staggered, to bait a chariot charge from the heavy-contingent of Stitchfolk on the other side into the difficult terrain for wheeled vehicles.
The King of Destruction was facing another of Nerrhavia’s armies, and the hordes of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had begun to push even Reim by sheer weight of its powerful military, if not any one single victory.
Tense Hemp-caste [Soldiers] were waiting, as their counterparts of Reim held their position, having thunderously cheered as their [King] took up a position close to the front in the vanguard with his two subordinates, Venith Crusland and Maresar Crusland.
The Stitchfolk [General], arrayed with his Silk-caste command, was waiting for Reim to charge on his entrenched position. Yet no attack had come in the last fifteen minutes.
Now—he watched the messenger with the white flag stop and hand something to his people. It was conveyed to him after a long wait of minutes where it was analyzed for hostile spells, poison, or the like.
Yet from the King of Destruction? The [General] was not surprised it was a letter, but he had no idea what it could be until he unfolded it. He read it to his subordinates out loud.
 
General Murab, I greet you with all due civility and whatnot, to present you with an appealing offer. 
Although our respective Kingdoms are at war, and I have sworn to carry the battle to Nerrhavia’s heart, and no doubt your [Queen] has instructed you to take my head—would you consider a temporary ceasefire for a day, that we might watch the raid on the Village of the Dead? 
I would consider it a great personal favor, as it is, I’m sure you’ll agree, not to be missed. If you agree, I shall pull back my army until this event is over, upon which time we will reengage. Do let me know by raising a flag of truce if you agree.
            –Flos Reimarch, King of Reim
 
General Murab slowly peered at the distant [King], and saw a hand wave at him. He turned to his [Strategist], and then glanced at the scrying orb with similar coverage of the event in his tent. He cleared his throat, uncertainly.
 
—-
 
The King of Destruction was not the only monarch to halt an impending battle due to the raid, strangely. High King Perric himself negotiated a similar truce with Fetohep of Khelt. Both monarchs sat back, with drink or company or simply a scrying device.
Not just them; the Titan of Baleros, the Cyclops of Pallass, King Itorin II of Ailendamus and his royal family, the Bannermare of Baleros, Admiral Seagrass, the Blighted King and Queen…
They watched. For sport or amusement or because it might aid them in some way. However, for some—it was more than idle curiosity or a desire to be part of a communal event.
Nsiia sat cross-legged, ignoring everything but the broadcast. It might surprise many to hear of it, given that a war of far greater scale was ongoing. However, those people forgot who these [Kings] and [Queens] had been. Perric, Flos, Fetohep, Nsiia—
Adventurers and warriors. They saw the adventurers risking everything in a place of infamy. Near-certain death. Yet what they craved was heroism. Bravery. Inspiration.
Victory or defeat. Let it be glorious.
It was their entertainment. In person? It was—
 
—-
 
Levil, team captain of the Pithfire Hounds was not in the first wave of adventurers. Or the second. Or the third.
The fourth was his. It made sense. He was a Silver-rank. Not Gold; the waves of four dozen adventurers at most were meant to go in succession. The first group went in hot, fought until they needed to fall back, and let the second wave fill in the gaps, fighting together if need be.
Standard, good tactics. It wasn’t one place either; four different spots were subject to the adventurers’ attacks.
Four, for four hundred adventurers. Silver-ranks backed up the Gold with sheer numbers. But not all the firepower had been committed to the first push. Levil, for instance, as a captain and [Fire Mage] who could cast [Fireball], was considered more valuable than a [Warrior] in the Silver-rank category. So he was one of the vanguard who’d be a hammer to metal.
Similarly, the ranged-adventurers with spells and arrows who could attack indirectly with volley or lobbing spells from afar were their own group. One was led by Halrac the Grim, another by the highest-leveled [Wizard] who could coordinate linked spells like the [Valmira’s Comet] storm that had hit the village first.
It had looked impressive, raining down on the small settlement. Yet…as the first rank charged and Levil saw Yvlon and the other Gold-ranks disappear into the village, he realized something.
He couldn’t hear the fighting. They should have been within a hundred feet of the waves waiting to go in. Yet it was as if they had been swallowed by the village.
“They’re alright! Don’t worry! Speaking stones are active. They’re tearing apart the undead.”
That came from the second wave in their position. A cheerful Gold-rank—a woman called Briganda—reassured the others. Levil relaxed slightly.
“If it was bad, we’d have seen some of them tele out. Guess it’s a good sign we haven’t.”
An [Axewoman] nodded, and a few of the Silver-ranks shifted nervously.
Tele, as in teleport. Along with coordinating the attack, Soew, the strange Owl [Strategist] had made insurance policies. Speaking stones, enchanted by [Mages]. Also—[Lesser Teleport] scrolls, or even beacons that the few [Mages] capable of the spell could use to save the adventurers in trouble.
It was all good, in short. An organized attack, despite the chaos of last night. They’d arrived at the village at midday and were sieging it. It was just—Levil checked his breathing.
His entire team was with him, except for Makki and Mousey and Bram, their [Beast Tamer]. The dogs weren’t right for fighting massed-undead. So they were on bodyguard-duty for the [Mages] in case undead came at them. Levil knew Bram was upset, but it made sense.
“They’ve cleared a street!”
For the first few minutes, it was all good news. The adventurers in the fourth wave, the last, heard nothing but progress. This was even being televised; they saw a [Mage] run in, and half of them waved to be seen.
Not Levil. He was just holding his wand in an increasingly-sweaty hand. He wanted to be in the fighting now, not waiting! His entire battle strategy was ‘go in hot’. He threw [Fireballs], burnt through his mana supply as fast as he could—and then switched to lesser spells or mana potioned up. The faster the enemy died, the better.
The antithesis to this kind of battle, obviously. Levil listened. He began to hear…a pattern.
“Third street down! No contact yet—second wave, with me! We’re moving up. Stop running! They don’t need us—yet!”
Briganda shouted. She led the second group of mixed Gold and Silver-ranks forwards at a trot. The other adventurers cheered. Levil didn’t get the updates, but someone actually had a scrying orb and he could hear that attractive Drake talking. Apparently some of the people were from Liscor and had autographs they’d been swapping last night.
“—another street down! But the undead aren’t stopping! There must have been thousands dead already! They’ve packed the streets! Joseph, what do you think?”
“How many Crypt Lords is that, Drassi?”
“My count’s at twenty dead here alone. That’s…a good point. That’s—I want to say that’s a lot of Crypt Lords. Can anyone confirm? Hold on—”
“Wave three. Move in. Follow my directions. I need you to take a side-street and support the first and second waves.”
Soew’s voice made everyone jump. The Gold-rank leader of the third wave checked himself, asked questions for half a minute, then advanced. Levil’s heart jumped, but he waited.
