“But will she be?” Orodan asked, more serious now. “My path will be one of endless battle… she knows this. And she knows I will not stop moving forward. Ever the next enemy, always the next insurmountable goal to reach… my path doesn’t end in some idyllic farmhouse but on the field of battle.”

“You think too much, Orodan Wainwright. I do not think she would have done what she did today if she was not well aware of all those things,” the King said, patting him on the shoulder as he walked past. “You should take a closer look at her soul sometime. Almyra tells me it’s quite unlike any other she’s seen across all her loops.”

With that, the King of the Blackworth Collective departed for the grand hall of the throne room once more. The actual combined council was looking to start up and both his and Orodan’s presence was expected.

Zaessythra’s soul?

Right. Of course. It was not simple true soul genesis, but more so the act of taking the tattered and destroyed remnants of one and then reforging it anew. Not just through any regular process, but in the perfect center of a collision between two Boundless Ones, forcibly equalized by Orodan’s own power.

And in the end, that strange green-colored ethereal being which had saved him yet again.

Orodan had not forgotten its help. He would not forget. It had helped him bring her back when everything was looking hopeless otherwise.

It came from outside System space and with all his focus devoted towards altering the starting conditions of the loops for just his homeworld and the two other factions accompanying, he hadn’t been able to check to see if it had reset in the loops.

But that was a later concern. For now, the gathered assembly of all important loopers brought into the fold was waiting. And it seemed that Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot of Anthus would be heading the discussion as always. Likely chosen for his acumen in handling internal matters with great proficiency.

Orodan entered the grand hall to see Alstatyn present already, Zaessythra not on her throne but around a grand table that had been set up, choosing to stand beside everyone as an equal and representative of her faction, and Almyra next to her.

Of course, Orodan caught sight of two divines who he had not the chance to really see during the past two days.

“Orodan Wainwright? It is good to see you. I begin each loop free of Cithrel’s shackles now and for that-”

“Orodan! This new dimension of illusions and trickery is so much fu-”

Both divines could only sputter and choke as Orodan pulled them both into a crushing hug, one in each arm.

“Hrk! Let go you brute!” Faraine demanded.

“You’ll crush me to death!” Ozgaric pleaded, his smaller frame being lifted into the air.

So Orodan finally set them down, a most grateful smile on his face.

“Thank you. I will never forget what you two did. You helped me get her back. You stood by me and had faith when no one else would.”

The both of them scoffed, though he could see the red of embarrassment at being so openly praised on both faces.

“Hmmph! But of course! Do you take me for one of the other faithless elven deities? A Goddess must be worthy of having her faithful. For just as they hold faith in her, so too must she hold faith in them.”

“She speaks true. In the north it is not uncommon for us deities to have closer relationships of mutual trust and dependence with our people. I merely extended that to you, Orodan, who has given me much already.”

Orodan was touched, truly. Ozgaric had shown his character from early on before Orodan was ever in a position to give him much of anything. For a God of Trickery and Illusions, the divine whose true form was that of a young boy, was quite benevolent and responsible towards his followers and any strangers that needed his help.

Faraine however, had surprised him. He only really helped her because of Vespidia, who was his friend. But he could now see why the reincarnated elf was so dead set on rescuing the imprisoned Goddess. Perhaps some divinities truly were worthy of such fanatical devotion even after one’s reincarnation.

“While this reunion is quite heartwarming,” Destartes spoke up. “Perhaps you might want to help our chief speaker secure his surroundings before those two devilish women bully him to death?”

Chief speaker? Bullied?

Orodan immediately heard who the old wizard was referring to.

“Might you please stop resting your arm upon my head?”

“Apologies… my shootin’ arm’s a little tuckered out…” Madam Lawson of the Collective said.

“And can you please take a step to the side? Your derriere is hitting me every time you move!”

“Why I must apologize yet again darling,” Luetta Treadway spoke, not sounding sorry in the slightest.

And Orodan had to wonder whether the woman was doing it intentionally at this point. He also felt quite bad for Anthus’s unfortunate commanding officer who looked more than a little overwhelmed with all these people crowding around him.

It couldn’t even be said that it was the lack of space, for the throne room of Zaessythra’s citadel had far more of it than Anthus’s war room did. By now, it was apparent that the unfortunate halfling just had a propensity for getting physically bullied by those larger than he.

“For the last time, can I have some damned personal space! You! Put that staff away or I shall deposit it somewhere most uncomfortable!” the halfling shouted, glaring death at a mage lord of Thazrivin who quailed under the threat. “And you! Cease flashing your lightning in my eyes or I’ll order an artillery salvo sent your way!”

This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons, from an alcove leading outside, let out a singular sad pulse before quieting down. And finally, Orodan stepped in behind Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot and used his frame to forcibly clear some space for the beleaguered halfling whose size made him rather easy to push around in a crowd.

“Thank you Mister Wainwright. Though do not think I have forgotten your part in this…” the halfling grumbled. “I also quite clearly remember looking up into the void sky one moment and then suddenly being upon the balcony of my private quarters the next. A very odd feeling! And next thing you know, I’m part of the time loops!”

“A little more pleasant than getting killed in combat and being sent back in time,” Orodan added. “Though, I suppose that dream of retiring without joining the loops and having a personal library shall have to be amended.”

The halfling commander shot him a sharp glare at that before clearing his throat and amplifying his voice via a spell. The throne room was now quite packed. Mainly due to the addition of the Unity’s ambassadors and tactical decision-making units.

“If I might have your attentions. It is about time we begin this gathering since we are all finally present,” Tegin Carrotfoot said, glaring lightly at Orodan who had been the last to enter. “Now then. As you can see, Mister Wainwright did not lie. We are, all of us who are part of the alliance, in a time loop”

A cacophony of remarks and agreements followed that.

“Can’t believe I’m back in time… what devilry is this?” an Alastaian commander asked.

“Is that how he got so strong? But how did he do it in such a short time?”

“And to think there existed chronomancy of such power…” a mage-lord muttered.

Tegin’s loud claps silenced them all.

“Order please. I understand that the revelation and recent induction into the time loops cannot be easy to accept, but we must come to terms with it swiftly and make plans for this immediate loop and those thereafter. That is after all, the purpose of this meeting, to establish standard operating procedures for all of us newly inducted time loopers and to confirm that we are on the same side in wanting the peace, prosperity and betterment of our respective worlds and homes.”

Many faces around the room lost some of the stress they’d been harboring at that. An Alastaian council member of the Republic, specifically, Count Rohanus Simarji of the Republic, spoke up.

“I for one agree with your proposed direction for us all, General. Most of us have read the documents briefing us on what has occurred throughout these loops and while it pleases me to know that my ancestor Adeltaj Simarji has been a significant figure trusted and brought in early, I believe I still have some worries about what Lord Wainwright himself intends for us. He is after all, the time looper himself, and a being of unfathomable power compared to the entirety of this alliance. It is not inaccurate to say that we are at his mercy. If it is not too bold, I speak for more than myself in saying that we would like to hear his own words on the matter.”

“Let me clarify one thing, I’m not a lord, nor do I ever wish to be,” Orodan began, correcting the usage of that dreadful title. “As for your worries, although the power imbalance between us is not likely to change and my words might not mean much… let me say here and now that I have no interest in having anyone fight my battles for me. I have a grand ambition, a final goal which I strive for. One I will achieve alone if needs be. Ever have I been a warrior who confronts his problems on his lonesome, sword and shield in hand. This has not and will not change.”

The gathering of assembled nobility, mage-lords and Collective officers looked a little less concerned as he spoke. He couldn’t blame them either. Alstatyn, Almyra and the people he’d brought along in his looping group already knew him. They’d spoken to him, gotten a read of his character and seen how he treated his allies and friends.

These tens of thousands of other people now brought along for the loops did not.

They’d essentially been brought into the time loops without their knowledge or consent, something which Orodan felt slightly bad for. But if Alastaia was to take charge of the reins of its own destiny. If the Collective was to liberate itself of the Eldritch and if Thazrivin was to strike out into the cosmos and learn its mystical secrets while maintaining independence… then the armies of the alliance needed to have the same advantage that he did.

The time loops.

He was still the central looper who the mechanism was tied to. But branching out from him… he had altered the mechanism in such a way that everyone now part of the alliance was tagging along. The loops, resetting upon only his death, would bring all these people back with him too.

Of course, as grotesquely powerful as this seemed, it still didn’t erase the fact that the alliance had only three Embodiers among them. And the cosmos was large, full of terrifying foes and the Administrators and Boundless One who stood above them all. Furthermore, achieving even Transcendence took a lot of time for the vast majority, let alone Embodiment.

By now it would be delusional to say that Orodan wasn’t unfathomably talented. And in things he didn’t possess explicit talent for, he compensated with hard work driven by an ethos which none other could match. But could anyone else reach the heights he had even with ten times the loops he had gone through?

The odds weren’t good. Almyra, who had been a time looper for far longer than he, had not gotten nearly as powerful individually. And the Prophet had outright told him that no other time looper in the System’s history had ever defeated an Administrator before. Orodan Wainwright then, was an anomaly.

And even with the advantage of a time loop, the three worlds he had brought along had an uphill battle to face if they were to stand against the true powers of the cosmos.

“Hmm… ancestor Adeltaj vouches for your character quite often when he speaks to me. A few of us were concerned that you would utilize us as your personal army, but your words are that of a warrior who has no need of allies. I have no further concerns,” Count Rohanus spoke.

“Feh! You southerners and your suspicions…” Yarostov Iron-Bear muttered. “He has the bearing of an honest man, and our lord Ozgaric approves of him. What was there to ever be concerned about?”

The chatter continued for a few minutes after with the discussion turning towards how everyone’s loops began, some stupid moments they encountered or mistakes in the day they reversed with newfound foreknowledge.

“And I nearly got yanked right into that bleedin’ plague rift too… I’d have been one of them mumblin’ nutters if not for Lord Wainwright saving my hide,” a Transcendent-level Collective mercenary captain spoke.

And before Orodan could yet again correct the man that he was not a lord, Anthus’s commander interjected.

“Which is why it remains critical that we now take a moment to survey our current situation and formulate a plan of what we can expect at loop start each time. Please unfurl the diagram prepared by Mister Edrosic.”

“Of course he isn’t here…” Orodan muttered.

“Right… I tried catching him, but he was quite insistent on avoiding you, teacher,” Zukelmux added from the side. “Something about extra training for all that work he put you through. And those… posters.”

Extra training? Well certainly. Edrosic had ensured that Orodan got the best fight of all his loops thus far. Why would he not reward the militia man with extra training to help him get even better at his craft? The posters however, were a different matter for which he would dispense some extra sparring rounds.

Further talk on the matter of a certain illogically talented artist was cut off as a giant canvas was rolled out onto the war table. It contained exquisitely detailed diagrams of each and every world, faction, soldier and their starting positions at the beginning of the loop to the best of their combined knowledge.

