“I… find it difficult to believe… but the formerly rebellious divinities truly have agreed to the ceasefire,” Almyra spoke, looking up at the throne. “Your majesty, your work speaks for itself. You have done what I could not.”

Zaessythra rose and stepped down from the throne, her ten-foot-frame utterly dwarfing the smaller woman as she placed a hand upon Almyra’s shoulder.

“Of course. Once certain tactical adjustments were made and their position in the divine dimension itself threatened, they would naturally become amenable to a ceasefire and a potential accord. A blade from one end, an outstretched hand with generous terms from the other. Swordpoint diplomacy,” she explained. “It could not have come to fruition without the two of us working together.”

“The Blackworth Collective owes you a great debt. With some of these tactical adjustments…” Almyra muttered.

“Say nothing more of it. We are all in this together are we not? With Lord Eldarion of Alastaia lending his diplomatic voice, a mere suggestion of certain tactics from myself and your own mastership and King Alstatyn’s rule over the Collective, this outcome was achieved,” Zaessythra humbly praised, diminishing her own contributions. Then, her eyes caught him, and she smiled. And Orodan wasn’t sure if he liked that at all. “Ah. But you must excuse me. A guest of honor has come. The very man whose unique ability to unshackle the divine had our foes agreeing to our terms at the explanation of it.”

The grand throne room of Vyrathul was full of not just half-dragons but the leaders of the Alastaian alliance. Mage-lords of Thazrivin, generals from Guzuhar, the Republic, Novarria and Eldiron, and Blackworth Collective officers and elemental lords from the planes. King Alstatyn, everyone he had ferried along for the loops in Alastaia, his disciples and everyone of import was present.

There were plenty of half-dragon courtiers, government officials and nobility present as well. And in front of them all, before even the throne room’s crier could speak, Zaessythra’s voice echoed loudly and clearly first.

“Everyone. Please rise.”

The seats arranged facing the throne were emptied as everyone stood and turned to look right at him.

“Whenever I have this many people looking at me I’m usually facing an army, not standing in a throne room while I’m announced,” he spoke, interrupting the otherwise weighty silence.

A few of the half-dragon courtiers trembled and gasped, shooting him a scandalized look for speaking out of turn. His upbringing in a Republic and not a monarchy showed. Although the visiting guests from the alliance were all at ease, those of Vylrystia moved with a certain level of reverence and awe-struck respect for her.

Zaessythra simply cut them off with a sharp slicing gesture from her hand, silencing them all.

“Yes, well significant deeds deserve significant recognition. We cannot have you running from one battle to the next without being commended for all you’ve done for everyone,” she replied and then schooled her features. He had spent long enough with her soul practically bonded to his to know when she was nervous. Even in this newly restored guise of hers. “But enough of that.”

“Might I present-”

The crier was cut off as her hand rose to silence the half-dragon who looked as though he had been entrusted the most important task of them all.

“It is fine. Only fitting that he be announced by me and none other,” Zaessythra softly uttered before steeling her voice. “Everyone. Our world, our worlds… have recently been granted a new lease on life. Their corrupt old orders dismantled and justice delivered unto the perpetrators. The pervasive and ever-encroaching spread of the Eldritch taint halted and then purged from our world cores. And ancient wrongs set right as the injustices of the past have been reversed. Together as an alliance we have come far, battling various foes and standing our ground steadfastly to reach this point… and now we are together, returned and stronger for it. And as far as we have come together… none of it would have been possible if not for one man, one warrior, whose unbreaking devotion to us all led him to standing against foe after foe, facing death after death, in pursuit of this day. A day which has seen not only I restored in full, but this world of Vylrystia and its peoples as well.”

The half-dragons in the throne room looked upon him reverentially now, a gaze which had him feeling equal parts uncomfortable and burdened by the weight of their expectations. He was a warrior, but here, she was presenting him as something more than just that.

Her face was now quite pale, as though she was on the verge of saying something she was quite afraid of. Orodan struggled to understand just what would have the normally resilient and unflinching half-dragon afraid.

He briefly frowned, ready to dispense a beating upon the cause of it, whatever it was.

“Today, I have the honor of introducing Orodan Wainwright. A warrior. The World-King of Alastaia… the time looper. And… my consort-to-be.”

What?

The hall fell dead silent…

…and then erupted in a cacophony of noise.

And Orodan realized now why the woman was had looked so nervous.

For it seemed as though he would have to dispense a thrashing upon himself.

#

“Hah! You should have seen your face!”

“I’m glad you’re amused Alstatyn.”

“And you should have seen her! She looked ready to faint! As though she was facing down the worst monster she’d ever seen!” the King of the Collective barked out, clapping him on the shoulder and then wincing at how sturdy it was.

“I do not think I misstepped… did I?” Orodan asked, in thought, feeling quite out of his element.

He didn’t think so. All he’d done was remain quiet and perhaps been more than a little taken aback by Zaessythra’s bold declaration. Following which she’d almost too swiftly moved onto the next topic of discussion—economic deals and exchange rates which Orodan cared little for—and then called for a break.

The World-Queen of Vylrystia had stalked out of the grand throne room of her citadel quickly, with Almyra in tow.

“My friend… has anyone told you that your countenance is akin to that of a rock? A very angry one which inspires great intimidation, but a rock nonetheless,” Alstatyn jested.

“Well yes, I’ve been told quite often than I have an angry-looking face which will make me no friends on first sight,” he admitted. “But what does that have to do with anything?”

“Well, your stoic demeanor and angry expression don’t inspire much confidence in a woman who just tried to publicly declare her intentions towards you.”

“Her… intentions?” Orodan asked, finding the notion rather foreign. “What intention is there to declare? I belong to none other but her, is that not obvious? Why, we even-”

“N-now hold on… you needn’t tell me exactly what illicit things you two got up to!” the man frantically cut off, face red as he waved his hands as though trying to ward away evil spirits. “You are missing the point my friend. Her declaration of you as her consort-to-be was a bold and risky move on her part. If you haven’t noticed, thanks to you we’re all part of the time loops now. If marriages and courtship going awry outside of the loops can make people talk, then imagine how much worse it could get among all us time loopers? And she openly announced who you are to her in front of us all. It signals her commitment.”

Did it? From that lens, Orodan hadn’t even considered it like that. He was an idiot, yes, but he had grown up an orphaned rat of the streets who had little time for things like courtship or romance. Whatever affairs he’d engaged in prior to the loops and in his very early ones were all base and physical things with no emotional feelings therein.

He had heard of the notion of courtship and romances, but for him and every other poverty-stricken urchin they were far away things which came third or even fourth after survival, power and getting somewhere in life. The unions he saw were without feeling, or borne of two struggling people getting together to mutually carve something better out for themselves.

It was in fact why, before the loops, he and the blacksmith’s daughter had drifted apart. She had fancied him, and he had gone along with it. But the girl had an entirely different set of expectations about what would come after than he did. She had expected a fairy tale romance, marriage and children. He had thought they would perhaps live together and share expenses making life cheaper.

In hindsight… it had been a poor moment of his. She had lived a vastly different life to his own, one where her mother and father were present, loving and modeled what a marriage should be. A far cry from his own where he’d had no one besides the matrons who even at the best of times weren’t terribly interested in teaching the orphans much more than the minimum.

“Forgive me… I was not even aware of the significance of her declaration… I was a fool of the highest order, and unworthy of such an expression of her devotion,” Orodan declared, arms crossed with a frown on his face as he chastised himself for his inconsiderate behaviour.

“Orodan, I’d smack you upside the head if it didn’t hurt my own hand. You haven’t even done anything wrong!” Alstatyn insisted. “She practically flew to the next topic quicker than a bird spooking at the sound of a gun. I think she was just as worried about your reaction to the whole incident as you were.”

Orodan raised an eyebrow at that.

“Her? Why would she be afraid? Of course I would be nothing but grateful for such a gesture.”

“But have you explicitly told her that?” the King asked, and Orodan saw the point. “You know yourself and your own thoughts. But she does not. Yes, I admit that us men tend to be the ones who need something spelt out more often than not, but women aren’t all psionic mind readers either. And even if yours was, she clearly likes you far too much to invade the privacy of your mind.”

“Hmm… perhaps I shall confront her and tell her to her face-”

“No. Not like that. I know that look in your eyes,” the man interrupted. “You’ll barge into her private quarters while she slumbers and deliver it like an emissary pronouncing a declaration of war.”

“…I’m not that tactless,” Orodan defended. He had enough good sense and social acumen to respect peoples’ privacy, honor his debts and be considerate of their wishes. It was simply this notion of… courtship, which he wasn’t familiar with.

“Heh! Well I suppose you’re not the Eldritch in a pottery shop that her Majesty tells me you used to be in your earlier loops.”

And of course she would know, since the time loop mechanism had restored her memories of all those past loops too. From the Inter-Academy Tournament to her self-sacrifice in Novar’s Peak, she remembered it all now. The others who were part of the loops only had last loop and this one to their names.

But the process of resurrecting her demanded plenty of significant memories. It was why he dragged the world of Vylrystia itself into the bowels of the System. And that significance had naturally pulled all her memories of prior loops into her via the time loop mechanism itself.

“I’ve learned to listen and watch how I act. Especially nowadays…” he muttered, thinking of that other Orodan who had looked so serenely happy. Perhaps that one had the right idea and would know how to act in this situation. “Is that why Almyra made a hasty escape with Zaessythra while you ushered me out the door and into this hallway?”

“Took you long enough to catch on. If you haven’t noticed, while your lady and mine have some strange rivalry going on, they also have a close camaraderie. And as much as Queen Zaessythra’s tactical acumen is valued by my Almyra, so too does she value my love’s advice in the matters of the heart.”

“Oh? I was not aware your companion was so well-versed in these complicated matters,” Orodan said.

Alstatyn’s face turned red for a moment, and then the man burst out laughing.

“Oh heavens no! Who do you think she got the idea of that declaration in front of everyone from? I still remember when she proclaimed me her divinely ordained soulmate in front of a crowd of the Collective’s top-ranking military commanders,” Alstatyn revealed. “Gods of the Blackworth… I love Almyra to death but she’s the single most socially awkward and clumsy woman I have ever seen in my life. Precisely why I love her, mind you, but she is in absolutely no position to be giving yours any advice.”

Orodan scratched his head in confusion.

Then why had this man allowed her to do so?

“I can sense the question. And the answer to that’s simple. Her advice is… suspect, yes. Overly idealistic too. But it’s also perfect for Zaessythra, especially when it comes to a bullheaded rock like you. After all… silly and over-the-top as her proclamation was… it worked. And here and now, I can see that you don’t dislike what your lady did either.”

That… was a good point. Subtle words and gestures probably would not have been received by Orodan.

“Well, Alstatyn, I think ruling the Collective should come second to your advice on matters of the heart,” Orodan replied.

“You joke, but I simply wished to see you two happy. After all… you brought my Almyra back to me, restored her from that terrible curse and then killed that wicked Prophet too. I’m the happiest I have ever been, and I simply wish to see that in you as well.”

