“Indeed. To give an example, our agents have been reviewing scrying eye orb footage from atop Mount Castarian and noticed you took a far longer than normal time to exit your hovel this loop. Is there any reason for that? Quite inefficient,” Balastion chastised.

Orodan knew exactly why it had taken longer than normal, as did Zaessythra. And against the poor woman’s wishes, Almyra did too.

“There is no need to dwell on such things,” Almyra cut off, her voice a little too quick and her cheeks pink with secondhand embarrassment. “What truly matters is that you, Orodan Wainwright, are the prime combat asset of our alliance. Investing in your development is the natural course of action. You have repeated multiple times now that you prefer to fight your battles alone, and this we shall not begrudge you. But just because you fight alone does not mean you need to prepare alone. The Magocracy, the Blackworth Collective, Alastaia and now Vylrystia stand ready to pour previously exotic but now renewable resources and artifacts into your development. You… have accomplished in a hundredth of the time what I could not. Your work ethic is inhuman and your potential unfathomable. With just assistance from the Magocracy you can now slay an Administrator in a fair fight. Imagine what heights you could reach with the assistance of us all?”

Various people around the throne room were looking at him as though he was a prized piece of meat. Particularly among the senior sorts who looked as though they were interested in teaching.

“My tower on Thazrivin specializes in lightning magic. Well beyond what the university can teach you. Let mage-lord Akarin Uthoryn take you under his wing, Embodier!”

“No mortal mage can compare to the elemental lords of lightning. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons shall arrange for elemental overlords to tutor the lightning bringer.”

“You all forget that lord Orodan Wainwright comes from Alastaia itself! He is a warrior’s warrior through and through! If he can do so much with just sword and shield then imagine what he could do with some armor and more basic martial skills added to his skillset?” an armored Alastaian Grandmaster insisted.

“Armor? With ser Wainwright’s sturdy frame our corps of engineers could see him fitted in enchanted steam-powered armor which adds to his strength!” Clyburn Anderthorn spoke up.

“Fools! He has spent so long learning to fight like a man that perhaps it is time he learned how to fight like a dragon!” Kultuanir proudly declared.

“And who better to teach a man how to blend draconic techniques with his human frame than us half-breeds?” General Vaelrosaan of Vylrystia insisted.

“Information: subject - Orodan Wainwright, requires combat rating increase. Solution: training in Memetic Hazard Mastery. Positive synergy with subject’s existing parameter - willpower,” W78 intoned.

The entire hall devolved into competing bids for what they saw as the honor of training him. Orodan discarded certain suggestions such as steam-powered armor or armor itself, at least to wear. He could still study it and the techniques behind it. He also saw this jockeying for teaching him as being a bit much. But stupid as it seemed, he could see the rationale for these teachers wanting to elevate their techniques and prestige by seeing him take their passed on abilities to his scale of combat.

“The High Forges of Karilsgard would be honored to provide your sword and shield once again, my lord,” a Grandmaster blacksmith offered. “They were quite effective in battle against your foes were they not? Proof that Alastaian blacksmithing, particularly from the Republic’s High Forges, is best when seeking armaments of war.”

Orodan did have to admit that his weapons had helped when fighting Kharadun Voidfortress and the Prophet. But the comment from the Republic’s blacksmith brought forth many more protesting counterarguments from Vylrystia’s dragon smiths and the Magocracy’s arcane forgers who were determined to prove that their craft was just as good if not better.

For at least ten more minutes a diverse array of people and beings stammered and argued over how they were best suited to amplifying his combat power by teaching him some esoteric skill which would synergize well with his raw might, or how their special trinket or weapon would turn the tide and have him beating even the Boundless One in a straight melee.

Tegin Carrotfoot seemed to allow this discussion, and Orodan could see how it was important that all these people who had just become loopers feel involved and valued in the alliance’s direction and state of affairs. It was a good way for non-combat loopers who were crafting specialists to feel valued, and for those who weren’t quite as good at fighting but had special techniques or skills to teach that they hadn’t been able to elevate to their full potential themselves.

He had not forgotten his roots. He came from the Volarbury county militia and his basic Sword Mastery and Shield Mastery had taken him very far. He was not above learning tricks, techniques and obscure skills from even the humblest of places. After all, some of his mightiest gains had come from the lowest of the low.

The gathering also discussed their next steps in regards to strengthening themselves, but also in regards to which Administrators to be wary of, which factions to target and the lot of it.

Which had Zaessythra coming to one conclusion.

“For too long has our alliance been on the defense. For many loops has Orodan fought to defend Alastaia. And last loop we fought the Hegemony in this star system as well… but I for one, have had enough. I believe… it is time to take the fight to them.”

Silence met her declaration.

A silence which was followed by nods, hums of approval and then murmurs of assent. Alastaia, Vylrystia, Thazrivin, the Unity and the Blackworth Collective were ready for war.

And Zaessythra simply slammed a dagger down onto the sector of their galaxy which housed Narictus in particular.

At last, the meeting came to a close as Tegin had some final announcements to make.

“Remember everyone, the newly formed department of looper affairs will be headed by Lord Eldarion! Any matters involving mental burnout, requests for time off and more can go through your respective leaders.”

“And the co-head is the wise and most organized Tegin Carrotfoot of course,” Eldarion added with a smile.

“Yes… of course…” the poor halfling muttered, dejected. “There goes my dream of a nice vacation reading books for the rest of my days… I don’t suppose I can approve my own time off, can I?”

“No.”

With that concluded and the unfortunate Lieutenant-General’s spirits crushed, the gathering finally dispersed. Slowly but surely everyone filed out of the grand throne room of Vyrathul. At one point, even the guards began to leave, which Orodan found exceedingly odd.

It was only when he noticed Alstatyn, Almyra and Zaessythra were the only ones left alongside himself that he understood what was going on.

An empty throne room, save for the four of them.

Four which then became two as the King of the Collective gave Orodan an insufferable grin followed by a wink and departed with Almyra swooped up into his arms.

It was just them now.

Him and the one who had given so much for him.

“I didn’t mean-”

“You shouldn’t have-”

How idiotically stupid. Like two schoolchildren talking over one another. A fantastic show of grace for their first words to one another since the proclamation.

Orodan let out an amused sigh and gestured for her to go first.

“I did not mean to pressure you.”

“You did not… I was just taken aback,” he replied.

“You… disagree?”

Logically, it was the silliest feeling he had ever felt across his loops. They had shared a kiss, fought together, bled together and died together. She had anchored him when he was at risk of falling to that madness. He had restored her to life and brought her out of that darkness of memory loss and destruction of self she was mired in within a vault.

And despite all of that, Orodan now felt a most strange weight to his chest and his tongue was having a difficult time getting words out.

How utterly illogical.

But that raw vulnerability in her question had him stepping forward, powering past all of that.

“No. Never.”

“But…?”

“I simply feel that you should not have. Such a proclamation of your intent towards me of all people? I haven’t read a book on courtship in all my loops.”

She smiled, much of that uncertainty in her mismatched white and gold eyes clearing up at his reply.

“I know… which was exactly why I did it. I simply needed to know your answer, Orodan. I do not play with half-certainties or games of guesswork when it comes to the object of my affections,” she replied.

He’d known it when resurrecting her for the very first time long ago, and he’d experienced some of it until Almyra interrupted them at the start of this loop… but it was only now, very close and face-to-face that he realized the difference between his near seven feet and her ten.

Not that it changed the way either of them looked at one another.

“This will not end with me in some palace living the royal life alongside you Zaessythra… I hope you understand that,” he cautioned.

“And this won’t end with me leaving without you Orodan. I hope you understand that,” she said.

“Are you sure about this? This consort-to-be business is rather official. I feel like I saw a half-dragon or two glare my way before quickly cowering away,” Orodan said as he stepped closer.

“And they may continue to glare away for none catch my eye the way you do.”

Then…

…he had been through too much alongside her not to give her his answer.

“For all the deaths and exotic sorts of pain I’ve been through I’ve never quite felt this way. You make me feel strange things.”

“And what might that be?”

And he recalled the final words of someone flashing through his mind as he stepped forward to deliver it.

“And do tell that special someone you love them. Life is far too short not to.”

“Love.”

#

The morning came swiftly. Time had a tendency to pass rather quick when one was enjoying themselves.

But with it came the ever-present work.

Work to prepare the defenses of the Alastaian alliance.

Work to scope out one of the enemy’s bases of power upon Narictus.

And the ever-present work of stubbornly skill grinding in a time loop.
