It had been a painstaking endeavor to put it all together, and likely even more of a headache for the unfortunate Parthus Edrosic who’d had to draw it, but the end result was the most intricate and detailed chart of relevant information Orodan had ever seen. Hells, he was almost sad that a loop reset would cause this piece of art to vanish.

“Now then. With Lonvoron liberated, the invaders from Narictus driven off and our new friends of the Unity here, we may move onto more important matters. We’ve established that all of us are in the time loops now and I’m certain many of you have run anti-illusion checks and used plenty of devices and scans to verify that there is no mind control at play here. We are all in the time loops now. Does anyone disagree?”

Not a peep came out of anyone at that question.

After slaying the Prophet in this loop, they had returned to Alastaia and had to rebuff the advance party from Narictus who sought to kidnap Old Man Hannegan. Just as Orodan himself had been subject to long ago, the old man’s new Celestial skill drew attention right from the start of each loop. And although it only caused Quests to be issued from Narictus and X2 for now, he had n doubt that the scope of it would increase as the skill grew in power.

It was something Orodan had not fully experienced himself since most of his skill growth had come over the course of a very long loop at the end of which his System had been destroyed. But, unlike himself, the old man would not have to bear these kidnapping attempts alone. For Orodan would ensure that none dared kidnap his favorite foreman.

Still, the invaders came with benefits. Those being the machine beings of X2, and in particular… W78.

His metallic friend still had a very slight dent in its frame from a crushing hug Orodan delivered prior. The exploration unit—for that was W78’s designation among its people—didn’t remember him, but was glad to accept any branch of friendship. It and its faction were more interested in forming an alliance with the Alastaians, and now that the time loops had been explained to them, wanted to offer their assistance in exchange for bringing key units into the loops.

And while adding more to the loops would require another high-stakes venture right into the bowels of the System so that he could directly interact with the time loop mechanism… it didn’t stop him from using Fenton’s newly revamped one-hundred slot memory orb here and now.

The silence of collective ponderance overtook the gathering. One broken by Balastion Novar.

“Time loops aside, I have no doubt that the Hegemony themselves will intervene and make contact with us soon enough. The advance party from Narictus, bearing a Quest from their world core, was devious and attempted to kidnap our Celestial foreman without alerting the wider Hegemony. Greed compelled them to try and secure an asset for themselves. Yet now that their Transcendent has been slain the vampires will certainly inform the rest of their faction. We can expect an assault in force soon. And with them now missing a Transcendent we will not be ambushing and capturing any divinities either. The element of surprise is lost and they will take us very seriously.”

“And how does our favorite supervisor fare? I notice a glaring lack of his presence at this meeting,” Eldarion pointed out. “One would expect a Celestial skill bearer to be present when the discussion centers around him.”

“That would be my doing,” Adeltaj said. “Gregory dislikes political gatherings as much as I do and requested he be allowed to do something productive instead. He’s aboard the Collective’s fleets helping them patch some things up as we speak.”

“Indeed. Our engineers have never been roused to greater heights,” King Alstatyn Von Flemethy praised. “Fleet efficiency has already seen a notable improvement.”

As had the old man skills levels throughout the process, he was sure. Orodan had yet to see him this loop, but they had much to talk about.

But… what gathering of diverse peoples was complete without bickering and petty squabbles?

In particular, between the half-dragons of the newly reformed Vylrystia and the dragons of Alastaia.

“Worry not, King Alstatyn. Your voidships shall have the finest warriors and aerial combatants in our star system guarding them,” spoke General Vaelrosaan of Vylrystia. “The dragon flights of Vylrystia under the leadership of our World-Queen shall-”

“The pure blooded can fill that role,” Eldramir, patriarch of the Novarrian Burning Ember dragonflight cut off, his tone disrespectful. “Our full-sized wings allow us far greater power in flight. Our mana reserves are also naturally higher, owing to the purity of our heritage.”

The dragon was not stupid. Speaking derogatarily of half-dragonkind on a world where they reigned supreme would lead to a very short life for it. And that was if Orodan didn’t rise to perceived insult to Zaessythra first. Still, the dragon’s tone and words hinted at purity as an excessively important concept; one which caused many of the half-dragon warriors and mages alongside Zaessythra herself to have their pupils narrow to slits.

The full-blooded dragon was upon one of the giant alcoves near the roof which led out to the sky, around him were other dragons on their own alcoves. Architectural remnants of a time when Vylrystia was ruled not by half-dragons but full-blooded ones.

Cyvrosdyr the Eternal Winter seemed to huff in acceptance of this manner of speech, although Orodan noted that Kultuanir of the Time Wind and the patriarch of the Sapphire Gale were not as enthused with the divisive manner of talk.

“Prove it then. Duel me in the air and we shall see who rules the sky, dragon lord,” Zaessythra boldly spoke, issuing an open challenge as her hand rested upon the hilt of her greatsword, ready to fight on the spot.

Of course, the dragon was no fool and backed down quickly, simply acceding to her power. But the fact that it had muttered such talk in the first place had even Orodan—who was normally uncaring of such undercurrents—recognizing the underlying hostility between the two groups. Dragons and half-dragons.

A tense dynamic to manage when both parties were in a time loop.

It was furthe compounded by the spider dragons—who were hanging off the ceiling of the throne room—agreeing with and hissing in approval of Zaessythra’s bold challenge.

Eldarion and Adeltaj met his eyes, understanding his concerns without the need for words. He was not alone. Orodan held faith in this alliance. There were more people than just he, and they could handle these internal schisms.

And in particular, beings which couldn’t exactly be called people. Or singular beings for that matter.

The world crown on Orodan’s arm glowed. A permanent addition to the loops, ensuring that he started each time with the rulership of Alastaia tied to him.

Last loop he had tried plenty of times to give it away, but nobody had wanted it. And the spirit of the world itself seemed most content with the idea of him being its ruler. Thus, to avoid the hassle of anyone else disliking the position and wanting it gone later, for now, Orodan had made it a permanent part of the loops.

Which included that of Vylrystia’s crown on Zaessythra’s brow as well.

Both implements glowed, with the two world spirits having returned in time with them.

“We are saddened to see our children fighting with one another. Especially when the cosmos is vast and our enemies are plentiful. Eldramir, hatchling of Gosdronir’s brood and grandchild of Hivremir… would your ancestors not weep to see those of dragon blood squabbling amongst one another when all your clutches are threatened?”

“A-Alastaia…” the Burning Ember’s patriarch stuttered, quite uncharacteristic of a dragon.

“And you, Cyvrosdyr. Do not think we cannot see your thoughts as well. Your disdain for half-bloods is apparent. It is… unbecoming of a guardian of ours. Do you serve your own interests or that of the world first?”

“F-forgive me… will of the world… I have been dishonorable and conducted myself in a manner most disreputable…” the wintry World-Guardian spoke.

Following that, it was the world will of Vylrystia which spoke up.

“This should doubly be remembered for the children of Vylrystia. Long have you faced tyranny at the hands of blood purists. Long have we had to witness their atrocities and the bloody war of liberation from their claws which followed… but do not allow the past to draw you into further bloodshed over the future. Address wrongs where they may arise, but do not hold the crimes of one’s ancestors against them.”

The gentle reminder from the world will of Vylrystia mollified the deathly hostility many of the half-dragon guards were showing towards the group of dragons. Not all the dragons of Alastaia held negative opinions or prejudices towards half-dragons. This wisdom seemed to spread through the assembled residents of this world now.

“Removing individuals from the time loops is not a simple matter, but through the power of Orodan Wainwright, it can be done. But it would be most… unpleasant… if we had to be thrown through a rift and brought crashing against an alien mechanism once more.”

Through a rift and… an alien mechanism?

It was then that Orodan realized that since he had brought both Alastaia and Vylrystia along for the time loops this naturally meant that Zaessythra’s world spirit very much remembered how he had brought the entire planet through a dimensional rift and into the bowels of the System.

The crown on the World-Queen’s brow was very still.

And Orodan could only look away in shame as he could swear it was staring a hole through him for putting it through what he had.

“Thank you for your wise words of counsel, world spirits. Together, we are stronger. And in heeding the words of the world wills and working in tandem, we can strengthen our worlds against attack more than if we simply commanded the cores as though they were our servants. This also goes for the wisdom trees of Aldenil who are exceedingly old and the world cores of Lonvoron and Thazrivin. We must bring all of them into the fold as soon as possible,” Tegin Carrotfoot added, causing the mage-lords and elves to nod their heads in pleased approval that the input of their elder beings was being considered seriously. “Mister Penny.”

“Eh? M-me? Yes ser?”

“Most of us are part of the loops, but not all. The world cores of Alastaia and Vylrystia have come along, as have all our alliance members and the wisdom trees. But Lonvoron’s world core and that of Thazrivin yet remain outside the loops’ reach. As do our friends from the Unity.”

“Information: proto-exploration unit tasked with securing alliance. Secondary directive” inclusion into phenomenon - time loops,” W78 beeped out.

Fenton frowned for a moment before nodding.

“The hundred-slot orb I handed Mister Orodan will work for now… but with some time and a few hands from the lot of you, I reckon I can whip up somethin’ even better. Even a few thousand slots ain’t out of the realm of possibility.”

“Excellent. Then that will be one of our prime areas of focus. To that end I recommend directing the forces of the Magocracy in particular to helping Fenton Penny with the building of such a device.,” Zaessythra added, her eyes looking as though she was working through dozens of tactical scenarios in her head. “The mage lords have an arcane affinity and an acumen for magic which I do not think you’ve fully explored, young Fenton. You’ve perused the enchanting techniques of Alastaia and your own world, but with their aid… and that of Vylrystia’s, we can accelerate your development.”

“And have yet another Celestial skill bearer among us,” Orodan added jokingly.

Although once all eyes fell on him followed by a series of nods he realized that it was very much not a joke.

“Indeed. Mister Edrosic’s diagram says as much,” Tegin added, pointing to a particular section. “We have multiple Grandmasters and even a peak-Transcendent or two marked out for potential advancement to the next level, but Mister Penny and Mister Edrosic in particular are the two individuals we all unanimously agree have the best chance of acquiring a Celestial-rarity skill.”

“Unanimously agree?” Orodan asked. “You’ve been studying them?”

“Of course we have,” Balastion spoke up. “The two of them are the cream of our worlds, the finest talents Lonvoron and Alastaia have seen in a skill. Aside from the reliable Gregory Hannegan whose acquisition of a Celestial skill surprised us all, these two are regularly studied. With so many worlds as part of our alliance who are better at intelligence-gathering than we are, I’ve seen fit to repurpose the Novarrian Intelligence Service to studying and putting together dossiers on all our alliance’s Transcendents. Parthus Edrosic and Fenton Penny, alongside your other disciples, have intelligence teams monitoring their training progress at all times that we might establish patterns and develop the best schedules possible. I would also like to assign a team to you, although your travels are too distant and sporadic for them to keep up with.”

The hells? Live teams of intelligence agents monitoring his every step?

“Do not look so surprised, Orodan,” Adeltaj assuaged. “When I used to train and coach aspiring young fighters for the Inter-Academy Tournament this was entirely normal. Their every move was scrutinized and the competition was rather cutthroat. Every minute of every hour of every day would be carefully planned out. It’s not as though they’re peeking in on what you do while in bed.”

