“Took you long enough my favorite brute,” Talricto greeted. “I was thinking of paying you a visit right when I came to but when I peered in and saw what unsightly activities you were engaging in... my many eyes can only tolerate so much foul behavior.”

“This is not the time for such comments,” Almyra chided, glaring at the dimensional phase spider.

“Damn it Mister Talricto… now my image of Mister Orodan’s been sullied…” Fenton said, looking as though he’d swallowed something nasty. The lad then looked to Zaessythra and his face went pale. “Bloody hell… I s’pose only someone as big as you can keep him in line. Er… apologies Miss… Zaessythra? He spoke of you often.”

“I am aware. I heard every word of it after all,” she replied. “And while I should love to know such a favored disciple of Orodan’s, the time for that is not now. Already I can sense the energies of the plague worlds reaching a peak. They intend to capture as many of your forces here as they can, even at great loss to themselves.”

“We cannot have that. Not now,” Orodan declared, his face taking on a look of determination as Fenton handed him a broom the lad had already prepared. Not that he needed it, but the implement helped center his mind upon the task at hand. “Ready Almyra? Can’t say I like this plan… but everyone brought back is relying on me now.”

The woman nodded, bringing out her Administrator’s Mantle in plain sight and donning it.

Just as she did, Orodan’s broom touched the ground…

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 190 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 191]

…and all six enemy plague worlds were instantly and immediately cleansed.

Orodan’s Vision of Purity was close to the Grandmaster-level now. And his Dimensionalism had reached Grandmastery. With these two in tandem, alongside Domain of Perfect Cleaning to detect the foul taint of the Eldritch wafting off the zealot, it wasn’t difficult to see past the dimensional boundary and notice the Prophet floating in the void of a nearby plane ready to swoop in.

Talricto took that option away from the Administrator. The wanderer’s deft control over the art of manipulating planes and their boundaries was employed to devious effect, using the zealot’s sight into the material plane as a pathway to drag it into their side.

With a shocked look upon its human-guised face, the Prophet stumbled onto Lonvoron.

Where the first thing to greet it was a titanic beam of power from Almyra’s Administrator’s Mantle. Talricto and the Collective’s spatiomancers and few dimensionalists immediately warded the planet itself from destruction by pulling the two combatants into a separate dimension.

A dimension which Orodan and Zaessythra stepped into, sealing the foe’s doom.

“The audacity! To strike at one of the chief servants of our provenance itself! Heresy and sacrilege of the most base form!”

Almyra’s own stolen Mantle was keeping its attention occupied, but not for long. However, not much of a distraction was needed as Zaessythra’s hand whipped out towards it… and twisted.

Howls of agony erupted from the Administrator, and Orodan could clearly see why. Its very soul was in extreme agony. As though the very notion, the very… concept of pain, was suddenly inflamed within its being.

When had she learned that?

“Our lord! My saviour! Please rescue your most humble servant! An agent of the Great Enemy has entered our sanctuary!” the Prophet shrieked, halfway pleading due to the extreme torment.

But Orodan had no more time to waste. He alone would have been enough, though that might have caused far more destruction than necessary. And as he’d learned recently, just as his power could do great good… so too could it cause great ill. Which was why he had begun to wisen up and listen to his allies more often.

And with the Prophet’s attack now occupied and its attentions wrecked by the agony…

…Orodan’s full-power descending sword, enough to kill even an empowered version of it in the last loop descended upon its neck.

#

The Prophet’s death had caused more than a few ripples throughout the Vystaxium Galaxy. Not only did Almyra now possess two Administrators’ Mantles but the complete cessation of the Eldritch attacks upon the Blackworth Collective had freed up many resources and also caused a heavy influx of refugees and returning former tainted from the previously corrupted worlds.

Needless to say, the previous looper had her hands full with managing her galaxy in the aftermath. And unsurprisingly, Zaessythra had stepped in and offered to assist her. It was a surprise to Almyra but not to Orodan who had seen the half-dragon’s prodigious tactical acumen and ability to direct the armies and fleets of entire worlds.

If there was anyone made for rulership, it was her.

Zaessythra’s political acumen was unnerving, as was her ability to handle grand interstellar strategy and the logistics of multiple worlds. Almyra, who looked overwhelmed by the notion of having to deviate from the typically rigid and familiar circumstances of her loops, welcomed the aid and counsel like a parched dog in a desert.

Of course, such aid meant that she had to leave Orodan behind for a span of two days. Entirely understandable given how his presence tended to make diplomacy go.

And while Orodan had simply returned to Alastaia to help deal with its matters and shore up its own defenses, being apart from her left him with an exceedingly unpleasant feeling within. As though something integral he’d grown so used to was no longer around.

What an alien feeling it was!

Still, now as he stood upon the restored green plains of Vylrystia, that period of separation was coming to an end.

Vyrathul. The capital city of the Irithustran Monarchy and the largest city upon this world which had been brought back through time.

In the past, Orodan hadn’t really considered this place to be anything but the moon, with its crumbling ruins and sprawling gray landscapes of barren rock. What need had there been to learn any of the names? But with Vylrystia permanently added to the timeline—something that would persist across loops—he no longer had that excuse.

Near the end of it all, adding Vylrystia and its history had been a tricky thing which had required a delicate touch. How could one add a world—from hundreds of thousands of years in the past—to the timeline without causing a horrible cascading effect?

Even he hadn’t quite known, and he’d nearly settled for simply bringing the planet back each loop… if not for the memories of his alternate selves hitting him.

His alternate selves were from false timelines which never really existed… but the time loop mechanism did. And it held the memories of all his loops and the loops of all other loopers before him. It was proof that something need not exist in the current timeline to truly exist.

And using it as an anchor, Orodan had used Domain of Perfect Cleaning and Incipience of Infinity in tandem with Eidolon of Violence to permanently add a restored Vylrystia to the start point of each loop. A Vylrystia from a different time, permanently existing within this one. One where its people had never suffered and been butchered and experimented upon when they fled to Alastaia.

A most complicated thing which thankfully allowed for the continued existence of spider dragons and many other people on Alastaia who would have otherwise had a very bad time due to his tampering with the timeline. The main timeline remained unaffected… for Orodan had pulled the Vylrystia of another timeline into his.

Something made possible only due to the time loop mechanism. And something which gave him hope that he could eventually make real and save that other Orodan Wainwright too. The one who he had destroyed with his careless actions.

And although that goal was far away and would require much training with the forces of time and his ability to alter reality, in the here and now Vylrystia was very real. A testament to how far he had come.

The area outside the city was a landscape of sprawling green. And Orodan had to remind himself that this used to be Alastaia’s very moon. A point which had apparently caused quite a stir on Alastaia as it and the main timeline was still used to the moon being dead.

The people of his homeworld now saw a jewel of green and blue in the sky instead of the lifeless moon they were used to. And the capital city of Vyrathul’s lights and towering spires and floating isles were a faint but persistent sparkle visible even from Alastaia at night. Hells, the capital cities on Alastaia had even launched a celebratory display of dazzling elemental magic into the skies on their end in timing with the dragon mages of Vylrystia, all to commemorate the occasion and sudden return of their sister world.

The common folk back home were understandably awed, and he was sure society was going through its paces of awe, cultural shock and more as the average individual noticed the lively moon above their heads. After all, being from another timeline, Vylrystia’s existence was as much of a surprise to the people of Alastaia as it was to the half-dragons themselves who found the time and landscape of the worlds around them changed.

And by the standards of a naturally powerful race such as the half-dragons, this city was quite populated.

Half-dragon children marvelled at the void ships of the Collective in the sky above. Laborers, merchants, craftsfolk, guards and soldiers all muttered and chattered excitedly about what the future might hold and what the visitors to their world would bring. And of course, they were staring quite intently at him, the only human present.

Humans weren’t utterly exotic upon Vylrystia, for the planet had visitors and dignitaries come by often enough, but humans as large and angry-looking as he were. And while that by itself shouldn’t have drawn as much attention as it did, the fact that his visage was hanging off of multiple posters might have.

He was practically dazzling. Or rather, the version of him depicted in the poster was. A most noble and heroic bearing which was a hundred-and-eighty degree turn from his usually angry-looking expression.

Who the hells had drawn this travesty? Orodan could only think of one particular militia man.

“Edrosic… you bastard…” he muttered under his breath.

“Honored mortal… are you perhaps a relative of the most gracious and beneficent Orodan Wainwright?” a half-dragon guard in resplendent plate armor called.

“A relative? I am him…!” he corrected, still exasperated by these ridiculous posters of him that were hanging off of every public building.

“A-apologies my lord-”

“Not a lord.”

“Your beneficence… the World-Queen requests your presence in the citadel itself. Please, allow us to escort you.”

Orodan said nothing else as he allowed himself to be led to where he was apparently expected. Zaessythra had invited him here, alongside all other leaders of the alliance. Since the Prophet’s defeat, now that things had finally settled into the barest semblance of order and everyone had been briefed on and accepted the time loops as real.

“Mother… is that him?”

“Don’t stare! I hear he can smite you with his eyes!”

“I haven’t seen a human as big before…”

“He looks so much more handsome in-person… the countenance of a true warrior and not that of those frilly posters!”

Orodan fought down the urge to agree with that last old half-dragon woman that the posters were indeed ridiculous, but with the way that one was looking at him he didn’t think Zaessythra would be all too pleased.

The streets weren’t really populated as densely, and it was apparent why as groups of half-dragon younglings zipped through the air engaged in play or exercises in preparation for combat roles in their adult lives. It was also the reason there wasn’t any urban sprawl outside the walls of Vyrathul. What need was there for that when the architecture and sprawl was more vertical than horizontal?

Whatever event had created the half-dragons had formulated an exceptionally stable species not very prone to mutations or defects. Almost every half-dragon had wings, and they had also inherited the fabled immortality of dragonkind itself. Any mutations or defects causing wingless infants were swiftly handled via ritual and magical adjustment as well. A trivial addition when their race already needed rituals and special conditions for propagation much like the elves did.

And the winged race had little need of horizontal sprawl in their cities when they could simply fly upwards. Towering spires, floating isles, gigantic structures with no stairs between floors but instead holes allowing flight, the capital city’s very architecture was designed to accommodate half-dragonkind.

Still, human visitors incapable of flight weren’t just carried like sacks of flour or given a perilous but swift trip the ground. Teleporters were placed in key locations and it was to one of these that Orodan was led.

He stepped in, the guard not following…

…and space warped as his footsteps carried him into a grand throne room.

Walls of white gold inlaid with amber. Alcoves near the top leading to the sky where hawk-eyed draconic guards carefully kept watch, and enchanted pillars which Orodan felt contained some powerful wards allowing the citadel to survive cataclysmic damage or conjure barriers around the entirety of the city.

It was the citadel of Vyrathul he had stepped into, its throne room. The seat of power of the Irithustran Monarchy.

And upon the very throne itself was a familiar half-dragon, her striking mismatched eyes perfectly mirroring the throne room’s color scheme of white and gold.

