The large offensive the Legions were enacting suddenly felt far more ominous.

“Mirage, you got the kill confirmation, right? What were the levels and elements?” Ranthia asked.

“436 Fire and 299 Mantle for the ogre, 493 Ooze and 408 Gale for the snotball.” Mirage rattled it off immediately.

Had the nascent twin escaped the battle, she would have received her third classes in short order—she could have been a major threat.

“Why are you all acting like this means something significant?” Sentinel Aurora asked irritably.

She was almost more of a night owl than Night himself.

“If the shimagu can create more twins—” Ranthia started to explain.

“Then we—or you all, at least—kill them. Easy. There’s nothing we need to do to change tactics. What are we going to do otherwise? Stop fighting because the enemy might get a new elite after we kill a few eights of thousands of their soldiers? We’ve always had to keep our damned eyes open and twin intel’s been spotty since before I ever got out here. Nothing’s changed.” The woman interrupted, letting more than a little heat enter her words.

“Aurora makes a valid point. The situation does not call for a reassessment of our existing strategies, at least not at our level. The generals may consider larger tactical changes, but I did not raise this to request a change in the behavior among the Sentinels. My purpose is to remind each of you to continue to be wary during conflict and to adapt as the situation requires. The shimagu are not our deadliest adversary; I believe that we must be far warier of complacency.

“I do not believe this is novel to any of you. Each of you has proven your adaptability and situational awareness. Each of you has survived unexpected foes and unknown abilities. But a reminder of why you must continue to do so is never unwelcome, especially when it can be delivered without harming any of you. It is difficult to predict how long it will take to resolve this war, and much of that is beyond our control. But, with that in mind, I still hope that each and every Sentinel will continue to be wary until the day it is done.

“I have no intention of allowing any of you to be lost to carelessness. Each of you has faced and killed at least one twin, so continue to be vigilant. Never forget that even the weakest among our opponents may hold unexpected abilities.” Night concluded.

It was a good—if wildly redundant—speech. Honestly, she had heard worse more than once throughout her life. But Ranthia was more than a little distracted that each of them had killed a twin. Her eyes—and Mirage’s—were on Sentinel Aurora.

“…What? I carry gems, you know. Not like I need arcanite on my person when I haul an assload of it on the [Starship]. Had a twin jump aboard once. Blew most of my gems. Got yelled at by the quartermaster, but I’m still here and the monsters that wanted me dead aren’t.” The woman cracked an eye open, grumbled her explanation, then closed it.

Yeah, that was fair.

From there, they moved to nitpicking the previous night’s actual battle, which was about as useful as those ever were. Ranthia was increasingly convinced her first Guildmaster was right—there was no sense in second guessing what worked. None of them were so sloppy that they made egregious, obvious errors—and on the occasions where they did, they were smart enough to recognize them and be better. The discussions were a waste of time, but the performative process continued in spite of its irrationality.

The 4th and 15th Legions left Remera just before lunch. The legionaries actually stationed in Remera seemed to be almost as relieved at the departure of the 15th as they were that the siege was done—Ranthia and Avyna were far from the only people that had run into issues with the arrogant Legion.

On a happier note, Ranthia continued to hear awed stories about the centaurs. The perspectives those on the wall and those in the melee saw of the first allies that reached them were different enough to encourage people to swap stories. Few were unappreciative of how readily the powerful men and women broke the shimagu ranks, but it always warmed Ranthia’s heart when she saw signs of the potential found within coexistence. All too many of Remus’ people were blind to it—much like Lysia had been—so she cherished every mind that was changed.

The five great gods created them all, and Ranthia somehow doubted that they intended their children to isolate themselves into stratified cultures with limited contact between them. Even the shimagu were divine creations—they just had to be disabused of their mindset that other people were only useful as beasts before any true peace could be created.

The shimagu had left more than a few traps behind—pitfalls, buried wooden spikes, and similar. Wary teams were trying to comb through the region around Remera to find and remove them, but it promised to be an ongoing hassle for a while.

Within Avyna’s shop, Ranthia’s favorite elf was in good cheer—even if she had to continue to chase off the legionaries that tried to stand guard inside her shop. “I shall not pay any of you a single point—I have no need of your services at this time!” Avyna repeated the words more than once throughout the day, but Ranthia didn’t miss that, at the end of the day, the men left with the unsold baked goods—minus that big savory meat pie that Ranthia kept eyeing on each of her visits—all without a single document signed.

“What? They would have been losses anyway, and you are not fond of sweets.” Avyna breezily explained when she caught Ranthia’s smirk.

“I do believe you’re getting soft in your old age.” Ranthia replied playfully.

Avyna gently swatted at her arm with one hand while she obscured her laugh with her other wrist.

“We shall see if you consider yourself old when you get here!” The elf smugly retorted.

Ranthia blushed with happiness at the implication that Avyna would still be at her side, well over a thousand and twenty-four years from then. It sounded perfect.

With the crisis resolved and the excess crowds gone—even the other Sentinels had finally departed to return to their other duties—life returned to normal in Remera. Ranthia’s angry letters to Legion command—she wasn’t kidding about seeking to ruin the careers of the officers that had accosted Avyna—were seemingly all but ignored. Or at least, no one bothered to message her about punishments for those that had threatened the Coalition—or even that they had received her messages.

Not that she was truly surprised. It wasn’t like her view of the Legion’s leadership could possibly get any dimmer. Not after everything she had been through.

Time continued to trickle by. Shimagu forces were sometimes spotted by scouts, and every time they were, Ranthia found herself perched atop the volcanic glass platform that topped her stone tower—a gift to remember the dead Lightning twin by. Not that their wariness ever resulted in anything; the small raiding parties and scouts that appeared had no intention of messing with Remera and moved on without incident.

War had returned to its ridiculous boring state.

Mail days remained interesting. The only people that wrote to Ranthia were Tertia and, rarely, Sentinel Swarm, but Ranthia was still happy every time new mail arrived. There was always a scroll for Avyna from Tertia’s wife, Pandia, too, each time Ranthia received mail from Tertia.

She never had gotten anything from Hexara, but she wasn’t surprised. The cost of sending a scroll from Remus to the front lines was obscene, and Ranthia really never expected her ex to bother with the expense. But Avyna had largely healed her heart, which finally gave her a comfortable curiosity about how her ex had fared with the happiness she found.

Ranthia smirked as she set down the scroll with Tertia’s latest letter. Her friend had joked that she and Ranthia should just get married if their significant others got together behind their backs. …Or, at least, Ranthia chose to assume it was a joke. She cherished Tertia, but she cherished the woman as a dear friend. …Even if they might not see each other ever again; her determination to never reenter Remus hadn’t wavered.

But, more importantly, she was confident that she and Avyna would remain together throughout the duration of their contract. She had managed to hold the elf’s interest so far, which put her ahead of Pandia. Avyna hadn’t even cracked the wax on the scroll when Ranthia delivered it, instead she remained fixated on her current book.

Ranthia had a funny feeling she would need to threaten to respond to the woman herself to get Avyna to reply. The novelty of encouraging Pandia’s downright filthy mind had worn off—Avyna had confided that the woman’s letters had largely become repetitive. She seemed to favor Glorine or Gailla’s friendship over her quill pal’s.

Ranthia decided to put off her response to Tertia’s letter for the moment and retrieved her latest book—one of the ‘spicy’ ones Avyna had recommended. When she went to join her partner on the padded not-a-bench, Avyna favored her with one of those dazzling smiles that made her heart skip a beat every single time and made space for her. They snuggled together and settled in to read.

The quiet days were truly a delight—there was nothing better than spending a day with Avyna, no matter what they were doing. And whether Ranthia had eighty years or eighty thousand, she knew in her heart that she would never lose sight of the bliss that was sharing her life with her perfect lover. Even if they were at war, Ranthia indulged in happiness when and where she found it.
