[Supreme Jewel of the Drifting Planes (Mythical)] – A natural treasure born in a small world drifting between the universes. This jewel passively emanates a unique aura belonging to that of the Drifting Planes, allowing any monster below A-grade within to experience rapid growth. Has a myriad of alchemical uses, but must be approached with caution due to the potency of its inherent energy. WARNING: Due to being separated from the Drifting Planes, this jewel will soon start to decay and leak energy rapidly. Estimated time until instability reaches critical threshold: 6 days, 1:29:05

“How the...” Jake muttered, but he didn’t get further as his attention was still on Jasper. The healing potion had helped the Warpsnatcher’s wounds start healing, but Jake felt that it was far from enough.

Artemis, who also looked down at Jasper with concern, spoke and said something Jake already suspected. “He’s suffered severe soul injuries from overdraft.”

“Can you help?” Jake asked, already aware of what the answer would be.

“No, not with this kind of injury. Not when it’s caused by backlash,” Artemis shook her head. “It’s not something external sources can heal.”

“Escape... hard,” Jasper said, still holding tightly onto the jewel. “Needed... treasure. Sorry.”

Artemis, who had a hand on Jake’s shoulder, transferred her voice into his mind. “This is more than simply overspending himself. He took severe damage to his soul from external attacks while it was already harmed by his own doing... if he fully deactivates the current boosting skill he’s using, I fear permanent damage would be a best-case scenario.”

Frowning, Jake asked Jasper straight-up: “Can you evolve now?”

The Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher nodded slowly.

“How long can you hold on with your boosting skill?”

Jasper, who was already looking tired, seemed to realize what Jake was saying as he acted tough. “Enough.”

With determination, Jake nodded and threw Artemis a quick look. She instantly knew as the three of them were teleported down to the cavern below the palace. Down to where all the treasure piles could be found... and the ritual circle they had already been integrated with.

“We’re moving a bit faster than I had originally planned, but it seems like we don’t have a choice,” Jake said, looking at Artemis, who was carrying Jasper. She gently placed him in the center of the ritual circle, where the little guy sat up.

The Warpsnatcher looked over at Jake with his big eyes, a hint of tiredness in them, but the little guy’s determination overshadowed it.

“Ready!” Jasper said, trying to sound as strong as possible.

“Alright,” Jake nodded, knowing time was tight.

I hope I’m also ready for this, he thought as he initiated the ritual, things having moved a lot faster than he would have liked. Alas, he should have known that one doesn’t simply have a calm and uneventful day, including a dinner date, if they were called Jake Thayne.
