The doppelganger activated a talisman, releasing a dreamy haze, but a winged whale conjured by the sealbearer actually swallowed it whole. The defender’s gleeful expression froze when a suffocating wall of Oblivion separated him from his opponent. [Eye of Desolation]’s domain only extended sixty meters under the intense spatial suppression, but that only brought the invader closer to the eye’s deathly stare.

“Everit, what are you doing!” a muffled roar came from the other side.

Zac ignored the real Xinyi trapped on the outside. He’d already deposited Janos in one of [Eye of Desolation]’s two layers before rushing toward the invader. It was true Zac didn’t want to insert himself into the conflict at this point, but he also needed to know if there were huge benefits to killing corrupted sealbearers. Picking Everit Draom’s old enemy, who’d annoyed him yesterday, was a nice bonus, especially when Zac remembered how wealthy Xinyi’s family was.

The biggest reason was that Zac had inherited some inside information about his opponent’s strength. He knew that Xinyi’s mental fortitude was on the weaker side, at least when compared to other Heaven’s Chosen. The doppelganger was no different. His eyes glazed over when his thoughts were annihilated by [Eye of Desolation]’s Oblivion-infused stare.

The doppelganger woke up in time to unleash an ability stored on his forehead. Zac blinked in surprise when a monstrous wave of untamable power swallowed the incoming swarm of chains. There was nothing in Everit’s memories of this attack. One of [Eye of Desolation]’s protective bands shattered, fusing the layers.

Unfortunately for the invader, Zac had approached from the other direction, his presence perfectly hidden by the domain. By the time the doppelganger noticed Zac’s presence, it was already too late. A spectral chain tapped Xinyi’s back, sealing his fate and future. Feeling Death’s approach, the invader unleashed a wave of corrupted space.

Up became down as Zac used [Arbiter of the Abyss]’s strongest rejection to turn Xinyi around at the perfect moment. The doppelganger’s desperate counter slammed into [Eye of Desolation]’s second band while the gleaming edge of [Death’s Duality] dug into his head. Taking no chances, Zac took advantage of his domain’s obfuscation to briefly activate [Void Zone].

The nullification sphere disrupted the doppelganger’s defensive treasure, making it pewter out before activating. There was no more suspense. Fate had been sealed, and Death brought finality. The invader was split in two, and a weak stream of Imperial Fate was absorbed by the seal on Zac’s hand. It wasn’t much better than what he extracted from the Elemental in Terren’s Loom, and a far cry from Zac’s gains during the challenge or what the soldier was awarded just moments before.

It was at that moment [Eye of Desolation] collapsed. The onslaught of twisted Dao of Space hadn’t been canceled by its controller’s death, and it had torn apart the skill’s second band of chain-wielding statues. With both bands destroyed, the skill couldn’t keep going.

“No need to thank me,” Zac said with a refreshing smile when the real Xinyi rushed over.

Zac’s grin widened when Xinyi’s face crumpled. He looked back and forth in vain. The doppelganger was already safely stored in Zac’s corpse-sack, and his spatial treasures were handed over to Esmeralda for lockpicking. Zac had already confirmed that bodies were one thing that couldn’t be brought out of the memories, but it was worth testing whether the Lost Plane’s energy could help circumvent that rule.

If it worked, the Atwood Empire would see an influx of talents surpassing the Echelon Class. Still, it was only a long shot. Zac didn’t receive any blessings, and the influx of merit was nothing to write home about. It wasn’t worth his time to keep targeting invaders.

Xinyi gave Zac a baleful glare, but he didn’t dare act on his impulse after seeing his old nemesis take out his copy in the blink of an eye. Instead, he rushed for the gondolas, and the other combatants gave Zac a wider berth after his successful hunt.

The doppelgangers gave Zac an even wider berth after his successful hunt, but a much greater problem presented itself just when Zac reached the waterline.

“My friend, we meet again,” Xiphos said with a smile as he stepped out of a shimmer of pristine faith.

“Don’t know you, buddy,” Zac frowned.

“Is that so? I thought we'd forged a bond after our talk in Dawndeep Bastille.”

“Wrong person,” Zac said with a sinking feeling. “Sorry, I need to set out before it’s too late.”

“I suppose I don’t leave as much of an impression as I thought,” Xiphos lamented with a glimmer of humor in his eyes. “Since Sir Atwood is in a hurry, I won’t keep you.”

The Enkindling Sage had seen through his disguise, and being allowed to leave did nothing to lift Zac’s spirits. Zac could feel it. This encounter wasn’t fated to end like his pleasant exchange with Grand Dream. Trouble had finally come for him. As expected, the templar’s next words confirmed there was no way out.

“However, I must insist your friend stay behind.”
