The orc made a deliberate show of asking Shiv while ignoring Adam. The Gatelord frowned, but Shiv snorted.

"Yeah, Whisper, why don't you ask the Gate Lord?"

"Certainly," Whisper said, and he turned his head to Adam. And suddenly his demeanor shifted entirely. The orc just sneered. "We're going to be maintaining a 20-kilometer distance. Do you have suggestions, or shall we proceed with the operation?"

Adam sneered back at the orc. "Twenty seems fine. I'll keep an eye out from the air."

"Oh, you won't be joining us?" the orc questioned. “Fearful of your life?”

"I'll be right beside you," Adam said as he materialized a Veilpiercer, "if there is a need. Aside from that, I think I'm most useful high up in the sky, and with my senses cast far wide open."

"And you'll be keeping that eye on your enemy, I hope?" Whisper asked, a sweet smile playing across his face.

"Hey, Whisper," Shiv interrupted, flicking the orc on the forehead. "Knock that shit off. You've got plenty of Inquisitors to tear through soon. Save it for them."

"Of course, Insul. My apologies. I simply get excited."

"Get excited about the right people," Shiv chided. The orc bowed his head before telling the others what they had just decided. More orcs were flooding out from the gateway, and the messages were passed through them quickly. Orc Psychomancers even cast memory-imprint spells into the air, informing the ones that just arrived.

"Well," Shiv said, looking toward Adam, "I think that they won't be listening to your orders at all."

"I suspect not," Adam replied. "Still, they're experienced, and they're willing. Maybe we won't need to give them that much guidance at all."

"Likely not," Helix said. He loomed behind the Gate Lord and simply stared down. "And a word of advice, Young Arrow. Hide your emotions better. I can smell your annoyance from here. Now every orc will try to treat you the same way Whisper did."

“If you orcs intend to make this a problem—” Adam began.

Helix just shook his head. “No. That’s not the right reaction at all. You run that perfect border between dangerous and vulnerable. You are everything we love to abuse in a human. While the Insul is mostly danger and very little vulnerability. Be cognizant of what you are. I tell you this not out of kindness, just so you can pose more of a threat. And also because I wish for my tutelage to end before I and Shiv try to kill each other.”

“Just laying it out in the open, huh?” Shiv grunted.

“We are eternal. The clash is inevitable. There is no if. There is only a matter of when. And that applies to everyone that lives long enough under the gaze of the System.”

“Well, I’ll be sure to make your end quick and messy.”

Shiv’s promise slid off Helix like oil. “Focus on becoming a better Biomancer first. It would be a most embarrassing victory if I rendered you invalid from a special variant of brain degeneration and muscle atrophy.”

Shiv blinked. “Did you hit me with something like that? Is that shit hiding in my genes right now?”

Helix just walked past him without replying.

“Felling orcs,” Shiv breathed. Then, he laughed. “Never a dull day with them.”

Adam, meanwhile, took a slight step away from Helix. “I’m going to have one of the Biomancers back in Gate Arrow take a deep and thorough look at me later.”
