These recent skill gains made a much more significant difference. In fact, that got me thinking about intelligence in general. It never seemed to make much of a difference for my mental plasticity. I could calculate and learn faster, but my generalized critical thinking still suffered. Experience helped me some there, but intelligence did less than expected. Mulling it over, I believed my lack of mental skills was the likely culprit.

Unlike thinking skills, I pursued physical and magical abilities with conviction, and that single-minded focus paid dividends over time. By comparison, I neglected my mind. That's probably why I never manifested as some genius despite my sky-high intelligence.

I mean, a mind's acuity was a challenging thing to gauge anyway, so I doubted Schema's ability to produce actual, genuine masterminds using only the system. If anything, I think he simply accentuated already existing aptitude rather than created it. I worked with what would be a smaller base than most then, at least in my opinion.

It made me wonder what someone smarter would be capable of given all my attributes, like Torix or Tohtella. Either way, these mental skills meant I could accomplish more tasks with less time. It made me feel a little more like Torix's disciple, considering he had plenty of these thought-based skills at his disposal already.

Looking through my unique and mythical skills, I had more than I thought. In fact, I already had Knowledge Maker on top of these two new mental skills. If I fused them, I'd have an actual mind based mythical skill. That would be pretty cool. I put that on my to-do lists and speaking of which, I poured my treepoints into my Sovereign skilltree.

I ended up with less than 50 points remaining for my class unlock. It wouldn't be long now.

I'd unlock that class after giving our Omega Strains to Torix. That wouldn't be long, considering our harvesting of the Omega Strains was almost complete. I had the golems dump their extra strains into my own storage once theirs was full, and this let them do a few more laps around the trenches. By the time we left, we had harvested over 10,000 of the gemstones. It was more than enough for everyone in our entire guild and then some. I didn't intend on selling them or anything, but extras were always appreciated.

As we finished up, I met with one of the last golems to finish their job, waiting for them to finish. Reaching above Omega Strain depth, I found Alpha, and I gave him a wave, opening up a telepathic link,

"Hey, what's up?"

Alpha peered up at me, seeming kind of down, "I believe that the sky is upwards, based on my current perspective."

"Hah. Anyways, what has you down?"

"I don't understand. How am I to be asked what is up then told I am down? I am confused."

I tapped my chin, thinking my way through this, "I'm just wondering why you aren't as energetic as normal."

"Oh. I...I was sent on a mission with others. We scoped a dungeon full of monsters. We succeeded in our assignment."

I narrowed my eyes, "Huh, you don't sound very happy about it."

"I am not. I injured one of my teammates. They lived, but I was reminded of many things. One of the harshest of which is my body. I am a living blot of stone and metal. All that exists around me is temporary, yet I am eternal. That is a harrowing concept to realize, and I am grappling with the terms of my existence."

A sinking feeling went through my stomach, a sense of responsibility brooding over me. Alpha turned towards the trench,

"This, working with my kin, has lifted my spirits, however. It is not that I dislike completing missions with humans. It is simply that I don't wish to destroy them. I've found that task arduous, and for many reasons."

Alpha shook his head, "They...they are broken so easily. It is a miracle that any of them are still living."

Hearing the golem's concerns, I related quite a bit. Dealing with people was always hard, but in Alpha's case, he struggled for different reasons than most. It reminded me of using Event Horizon and avoiding my own troops. It made something easy into something severe, and I often wondered if I fought better alone. In some ways, I did, but In others, I didn't. I reached out a hand,

"Just remember that while you're physically stronger, you're not necessarily as experienced, tactically sound, or as mentally powerful. A group of mind mages and tacticians would work wonders at releasing your full potential. I'm the same way. I'm great at tearing things down, but I struggle with a more targeted approach."

A shiver ran up my spine while thinking about Lehesion,

"And you never know when your limits will be tested one day. Learning to work with other people raises your abilities in general, pushing that limit-testing day back. Besides, you won't know ahead of time if you'll be ready. It's always nice knowing someone has your back if a situation falls through."

Alpha peered up at me in wonder, "In that way, I wish I were like you, master."

I raised my eyebrows, "What do you mean?"

"You hold no limit. I am absolute in this, my faith strong like a sun's wind and a star's death. Simply act with confidence, and you shall never fail."

As naive as Alpha was, I wanted to believe him. I put a hand on his shoulder,

"Yeah, sure."

He gave me a bow, following the other golems. I rolled my shoulders, finishing up our trip here. We trekked across the changing underwater horizon until we met with Spear and Amara. Our hacking eldritch already infiltrated their system, and she leisurely scrolled through a few files from their databases. Spear meditated, perhaps reflecting on his gratitude or Schema's code. It was hard to say.

Walking over, I tapped his shoulders, "Hey, you ready to warp us out?"

Spear snapped into action, standing straight up from his cross-legged position, "Yes. I am."

A quick rip through realities later, and we walked through Mt. Verner once more, this time from the golems' training room. Getting a message back from Torix, I figured out he was in his bird emporium. We walked there, and as we did, I talked with Spear.

"I spoke with Helios the other day about warping. He made it sound complicated, but you seem able to teleport anywhere after just having been there. How do you manage to do that? Does it work the same way as normal warping?"

Spear kept looking forward, "Our spears are calibrated with integrated positioning systems. This ties us to Schema's positional network, and we can use those spots to warp places. The spear does most of the work, tethering the locations while we open a wormhole through time and space."

"Ah, so it's that blade there and the cipher inside it then?"

"Yes."

I stared at the device, "Could I use one of those?"

"You could, but you would be exiled from Schema's system immediately."

"Well, that's a hard stop on swinging one of those."

"That isn't the only law you would've already broken. When you made Amara a follower, the Overseer and Schema were displeased."

I frowned, "You know, Schema uses several gargantuan, world eating eldritch to do his bidding. I'm using a small, smart eldritch to help with system issues since Schema won't help me. Even then, Amara's put herself at risk for my guild and Schema's benefit. There's a point where exceptions to rules should be made."

"The rules for Schema are different than the rules for you."

Walking through the glowing fungus hallway, I shrugged, "And that's why Schema's fighting this war. He sets the rules then doesn't follow them. That's not exactly the best way to incite loyalty."

Spear crossed his arms, "We shall agree to disagree."

I opened the door towards the bird's observatory, "Eh, I'm fine with that."

We peered inside, and within the open area, two dozen individuals practiced fighting with the Omega Strains. Using different manifestations of the living crystal, they jousted with their own unique abilities. Some of the gemstones collected around a person's arms, so they used them like blades to gut enemies. Other strains collected over a battler's legs, making them agile and fast.

Further still, some of these new crystals embodied different kinds of fighting styles. Some of them molded over their wearer into the shapes of animals, like snakes or wolves. The user attacked in these forms, working within the bounds of their new bodies. Other crystals created mana amplifying gauntlets and helmets, giving the wearer the ability to channel energy faster and better.

One gemstone even hovered as a floating sword around its user, accentuating the wearer's hand to hand combat. It connected via a tiny thread of crystal, like the links of a chain. It got my blood pumping just looking at these iterations, and my mind raced with possibilities for how to win in hand to hand combat.

Before I jumped down there with them, Torix stepped up to me, his arms interlocked behind him,

"Ah, it's good to see alive and well. How was the mission?"

I opened my pocket dimension, pulling out a dozen or so magenta-colored crystals and hovering them in a circle. Torix cackled,

"Hah, perfect. Is there an estimate on the number of Omega Strains present?"

"At least ten thousand. Maybe more."

"Perfect. We'll be more than ready for strain divisions then, even after our guild's expansion into Blegara. This development suits our plans well."

I raised an eyebrow, "You sound like you've come up with something new to add?"

Torix raised both his hands, primordial mana pooling in one palm and ascendant mana emanating from the other. His eyes flared bright,

"Oh, most certainly."
