Bray held his gaze for a beat. Something moved behind the man's eyes -- not sympathy, exactly. Recognition. The look of a soldier who understood orders and obeyed them and would continue obeying them, but who had started wondering, in the quiet hours, whether the orders were pointed in the right direction.

"You have fourteen days to submit the registration," Bray said. "I'd recommend sooner."

He turned, nodded to his squad, and walked out into the gray morning. The loading door closed behind him with a sound like a period at the end of a sentence.

The silence in the warehouse was heavy.

---

Mira's hand came off her saber pommel one finger at a time, as though each finger was making an independent decision to let go. Her knuckles were white. Her jaw was set in a line that Callum had learned to associate with the moment before she hit something.

She did not hit anything. She paced instead -- three strides to the eastern wall, three strides back, her boots striking the concrete with a force that said more than words about what was happening inside her.

"That," she said, "was not an inspection."

"No," Callum agreed.

"That was Drake Morrison putting his boot on your neck and asking you to say thank you." Three more strides. Her braid swung behind her like a pendulum counting down. "Registration. Audits. *Supplementary contributions.* Do you know what that is? That's protection money. That's a shakedown wearing a Compact seal."

"I know what it is."

"He's scared of you." She stopped pacing and turned to face him. Her dark eyes were hot, furious, and aimed at a target three miles away in Barrier Hall. "Drake Morrison is Level 42 and he's scared of a Level 19 construct operator in a stamping plant. Because your numbers doubled and he can't do that. Because your system works and his doesn't scale. Because he's hitting a wall and you're not and it makes everything he's built look --"

She caught herself. Her jaw worked. She took a breath and let it out through her nose, slow and controlled, the way she breathed between bouts when the adrenaline was too high and she needed to come down.

"He offered me a spot once," she said, quieter now. "Three months ago. 'Join us, Vasquez. We'll protect you.'" She smiled, and there was nothing warm in it. "I said no. I thought that was the end of it. But there's always an 'or else' with people like that. You just don't see it until later."

She looked at Callum -- really looked, studying his face the way she studied an opponent's stance before a fight. He was sitting on the edge of his workbench, still holding the registration form, staring at the dead constructs. Quiet. Motionless. Running calculations behind eyes that had gone unfocused in the way that meant his mind was somewhere deep and the rest of him was on autopilot.

She had thought that stillness was coldness, once. The absence of feeling. The systems-thinker retreating into his spreadsheets because the human stuff was too messy.

She didn't think that now. She watched the registration form tremble, just slightly, in his grip. She watched his thumb press into the paper hard enough to dimple it. She saw the tension in his shoulders and the careful, deliberate steadiness of his breathing -- the breathing of someone who was choosing, with conscious effort, not to break.

Not cold. Disciplined. There was a difference, and she was only now learning to see it.

*They won't take this from him,* she thought. The thought was sudden, fierce, and so clear it surprised her. *I won't let them.*

She didn't say it. She wasn't ready to say it. But she crossed her arms and stood between Callum and the loading door, and she did not leave.

---

Jin broke the silence. Of course he did. Jin always broke silence -- it offended him on a molecular level.

"That's -- okay, that's a thirty-one percent compound bonus gone." He was pacing his own orbit around the warehouse, tighter and faster than Mira's, his hands moving through calculations that his mouth was trying to keep up with. "Thirty-one percent. Do you know how long it took to build that? And they just -- they walked in and --"

"I know the numbers, Jin."

"The registration tax alone is going to eat -- hang on, let me --" Jin grabbed a scrap of paper from his cot-nest and started writing. "Ten percent on construct output, that's roughly nine hundred Essence per day at current rates, except current rates are *zero* right now because they shut us down, so it's ten percent of whatever we rebuild to, which --"

"Jin."

Jin stopped writing. He looked at Callum with an expression Callum recognized: the face of someone who processes fear by converting it to math, finding the calculations inadequate, and running face-first into the fear he was trying to outrun.

"This isn't fair," Jin said. The words came out smaller than anything else he'd said, raw and young. "We didn't do anything wrong. We built something that works. We built it *legally*, inside the rules, inside the zones, and they just walked in and turned it off because -- because it works too well? Because we're not in their guild? That's not how a system is supposed to --"

"Systems," Callum said, "work the way the people who control them say they work. Drake controls the zones. The zones are the bottleneck. He's not breaking the rules. He's making new ones."

Jin sat down on his cot. Pixel chirped at his ankle -- a thin, worried sound, the scout familiar responding to its summoner's distress.

"So what do we do?"

Callum set the registration form on the workbench. He smoothed it flat with one hand, pressing out the creases his grip had put into it. Then he stood, walked to his cot, retrieved his field notebook from beneath the mattress, and sat down with it in his lap.

He opened to a fresh page.

At the top, in precise block letters, he wrote:

**Vanguard intervention cost: 14 hours downtime + Compound Growth reset (+31% to 0%). Effective loss: ~45 hours optimal productivity.**

He underlined it. Then he underlined it again.

Then he turned to the next page and started writing something else.

---

Night settled over the warehouse. The dead constructs sat in their anchor positions like dormant machines in a factory after shift change -- inert, patient, waiting. The Essence Ley hummed its low mineral hum beneath the floor. Outside, the Barrier Zone's ambient noise filtered through the walls: distant voices, the ring of a smith's hammer, the muted crack of someone testing a combat skill in the Grind Pits.

Callum sat cross-legged on his cot with his System interface open and fifteen unallocated skill points burning a hole in his progression.

He'd been saving them. Saving deliberately, with the patience of someone who understood that the best time to spend a strategic reserve was not when things were going well, but when the terrain shifted and the old approach stopped working. The terrain had shifted. His constructs were offline. His compound bonus was gone. The Iron Vanguard had demonstrated, with polite precision, that they could walk in and shut him down whenever they chose.

Constructs were vulnerable. They were physical. They sat in known locations, drew measurable Flux, and operated in zones that other people controlled. Every construct Callum built was a hostage he'd handed to Drake Morrison without realizing it.

He needed something that couldn't be shut down by a sergeant with a clipboard.

He needed something that lived inside the System itself.

Callum opened his skill tree and studied the three branches he'd been circling for weeks. Each one represented a different kind of resilience -- a capability that the Iron Vanguard couldn't catalog, couldn't power down, couldn't restrict by withdrawing zone access.

He started with Compile Familiar.

Pip flickered on his shoulder, the cursor-entity's soft gold light pulsing in its usual rhythm -- blink, pause, blink, like a heartbeat rendered in light. At Level 1, Pip was barely functional. A subroutine with form. A thread manager that happened to look like something alive. Jin had explained the deeper mechanics weeks ago, talking at his usual 1.5x speed: *"Summons aren't just magical constructs -- they're Substrate processes. Threads of computation given physical form. Your Compile Familiar skill does the same thing, but you're writing the thread from scratch instead of pulling a template. That's why it's slower to develop and has more potential. You're not summoning something that already exists. You're building something that has never existed."*

Something that has never existed. Something that lives in the System, not in a zone.

```stat-screen
--------------------------------------
  SKILL UPGRADE: Compile Familiar
  Level 1 --> Level 2
  SP Cost: 2

  Familiar can now communicate
  basic status reports. Expanded
  operational awareness. Thread
  management efficiency +15%.
--------------------------------------
```

The upgrade rippled through his interface -- a brief, warm pulse that spread from the Compile Familiar node through his System link like a current through a wire. On his shoulder, Pip brightened. The cursor-entity's form sharpened, its edges crisping from a fuzzy blink to a clean, defined glow. It rotated slightly, as though orienting itself.

Then it made a sound.

A chime. Small, clear, and unmistakably intentional -- not a System notification sound, not a combat alert, but a single note that came from Pip itself. A sound that meant *I am here.*

Callum went very still.

"Pip?"

Another chime. Higher, interrogative. A question rendered as tone.

"Can you... understand me?"

A pause. Then a chime that was different from both previous ones -- lower, steady, confident. Callum didn't know the vocabulary yet, but the meaning was clear enough that it bypassed language entirely.

*Yes.*

Something tight in Callum's chest loosened. He hadn't realized it was there until it released -- a tension he'd been carrying for days, for weeks, maybe longer. The tension of a man who talked to a blinking cursor every morning because it was the closest thing to company he'd had before Mira and Jin arrived. The tension of loneliness so practiced it had become invisible.

"Good," he said. His voice was quiet. "That's good."

Pip chimed once, softly, and settled into a steady glow on his shoulder.

Callum returned to his skill tree. The warmth of that single chime stayed in his chest like an ember as he moved to the next investment.

Loop Analysis. Currently Level 5. He'd raised it from 3 to 5 during the exponential growth phase, unlocking the ability to view other players' automation setups. Useful, but not what he needed now. Levels 6 and 7 opened a different capability entirely -- one he'd read the description of three times and committed to memory.

Level 7: *Identify System processes. Detect spawn timers, loot table structures, and external monitoring of your automation threads.*

External monitoring.

The Iron Vanguard had been watching his construct output for weeks. He'd known it -- the Broker had told him -- but he hadn't been able to *see* it. At Loop Analysis Level 7, he would be able to detect when his constructs were being scanned, tracked, or surveilled through the System itself. He would know when the Vanguard was watching, and he would know from where.

You couldn't hide from an enemy you couldn't see. But you could adapt around one you could.

```stat-screen
--------------------------------------
  SKILL UPGRADE: Loop Analysis
  Level 5 --> Level 7
  SP Cost: 4

  New capability: Identify System
  processes including spawn timers,
  loot table structures, and
  external monitoring signatures.

  Detection range: 200m (scales
  with INT)
--------------------------------------
```

The upgrade took hold with a sharper sensation than the Compile Familiar boost -- a brief vertigo, like the world had shifted a quarter-inch to the left and everything suddenly had more edges. Callum blinked, and when his eyes refocused, the warehouse looked different. Not visually -- the same gray walls, the same dead constructs, the same thin light from the Essence Ley. But there was a new layer. A shimmer at the boundary of perception, like heat haze rendered in data.

He turned his attention outward, testing the new sense, and felt it immediately: a thin, cold thread of attention attached to his Grinder's anchor point. A monitoring signature. Vanguard-issue, based on the spectral profile -- the same type of analysis tool the crossbow soldier had used during the inspection. They'd left a passive scan running on his primary combat construct.

They were still watching. Even now. Even while the constructs were offline.

He noted the signature's position, its decay rate, its refresh interval. Then he filed the information away and moved on.

Last investment. The big one.

Script Engine.

Currently Level 2. Five-line scripts with basic conditional logic. Enough to write crude automation rules, insufficient for anything that could adapt. Level 5 was a qualitative leap: twenty-line scripts with loops, functions, and enemy type detection. The gap between Level 2 and Level 5 wasn't a gradual improvement. It was the difference between a calculator and a computer. Between a tool that followed rules and a tool that could *think* about them.

Six skill points. His largest single investment since he'd started playing the game.

He thought about Drake Morrison. About a man who had built a system on personal sacrifice and direct effort and conviction -- a system that worked, that had kept a hundred and eighty thousand people alive -- and who was now using that system to crush anything that might make it obsolete. Drake wasn't wrong about everything. He was wrong about the thing that mattered most.

He thought about Mira, standing between him and the door. Arms crossed. Not leaving.

He thought about Jin, sitting on a cot with shaking hands, saying *this isn't fair* in a voice that sounded like a kid learning for the first time that the world didn't care about fair.

He thought about Pip, chiming *yes* for the first time.

He thought about the number 15 glowing at the bottom of his stat sheet, hidden and indelible.

He allocated the points.

```stat-screen
--------------------------------------
  SKILL UPGRADE: Script Engine
  Level 2 --> Level 5
  SP Cost: 6

  Max script length: 20 lines
  New capabilities:
    - Loop constructs (FOR, WHILE)
    - User-defined functions
    - Enemy type detection
    - Conditional branching (nested)
    - Variable assignment

  Script Complexity: 37.5
  (INT 63 x 0.5 + 5 base)
--------------------------------------
```

