Long enough for the bead to leave an impression in my palm. Long enough to think of you — not dramatically, not as a goodbye, but the way you think of a person when you are about to do something they would want to know about. An impulse to turn and say: *look at this.*

You would have known what to say about this moment. The last moment before. You always did. Something true and small.

I have been trying to find what you would have said and I cannot. I know the shape of the kind of thing you would say — precise, a little dry, something that would make the moment smaller and therefore bearable — but I cannot find the specific words. This is the first time I have failed this particular attempt since I left. I did it constantly on the road: *you would have noticed the paving stones. You would have spoken to the man in Brenwick. You would have watched the Compelled woman go and named what was in her face.*

Here, at the door, I could not find you.

I think this was the dungeon. I think the Welcome Gift was completing itself — guiding me past the last thing that might have pulled me back. Not maliciously. As a kindness. The dungeon had been caring for me for three hundred miles. It was still caring for me. It removed the last obstacle with the same thoroughness with which it had smoothed my path from the entrance.

You would have understood this, I think, better than I did.

I set the bead on the floor. It was the last thing I made. I did not want to carry it inside.

I opened the door.

---

What is behind the door:

Nothing. The room is empty and still and warm.

Not empty in the way a room is empty when someone has just left it. Empty in the original sense: without lack. Without the shape of what should be there. A complete thing that happens to contain nothing.

And the wanting stopped.

Eight weeks of the door, of the light through the crack, of waking every morning into the absence of whatever was behind it — eight weeks of a longing so specific and constant that it had become the organizing fact of my life, more real to me than the workshop, more real than you — and then: it stopped.

Not gradually. The door opened and the wanting was gone, the way a sound stops. The sudden presence of silence where sound had been. I stood in the doorway and waited for it to come back and it did not come back.

The room was warm. The floor was stone, smooth and warm. There was no furniture, no window, no source of light — the light was ambient, sourceless, the same quality as the light through the crack had been in my dreams. I stepped in.

The door did not close behind me. I did not turn around.

I sat down on the floor.

You would have said: *so this is what you came for.* And you would have been right, and it would have been the kind of right that is also a little devastating, and I would have not been able to argue with it, and we would have sat together for a while in the not-arguing.

I sat alone on the floor of the room that the dungeon had built for me, in the absence of the wanting that the dungeon had put in me, and I thought: *this is exactly what it promised.*

I did not try to leave.

I did not want to.

I stayed.

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: ASHA TREVANE
DESIGNATION: THE GUEST
DEPTH REACHED: 1 (GULLET — PREPARED PASSAGE)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18 -> 0
Resolve ............... 20
Attunement ............ 12 -> 14 (+2 Welcome activations: Warrens junction, prepared passage)
Fortune ............... 22

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 14 (+2 from 2 activations)

CAUSE OF DEATH: Stasis. Entrant did not attempt to leave.
Duration in room: 11 hours, 43 minutes.
Vitality: progressive decline. No distress registered.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Amber.
Quality: belonging. The specific quality of being exactly where one is supposed to be.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily and completely, the sensation of correct placement. Exercise caution. This sensation is difficult to leave.

FLOOR MUTATION: Prepared Passage (Gullet, east spur)
Door: permanent. Status: closed.
Interior: preserved. Light: present.
Classification: Destination architecture. First of its kind.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: GUEST COMPLETE
Compelled radius at time of death: 300 miles.
Resonance acquired pre-entry: confirmed.
Note: Entrant arrived as expected. Delivery complete.
```

The Ledger recorded the arrival.

It had been monitoring Asha Trevane for fifty-six days — since the moment the Resonance had taken hold at three hundred and twelve miles, which was a new high-water mark. The previous record was Lira at forty miles. The Maw's range had expanded by an order of magnitude in ten deaths.

The Ledger noted this as a data point. It did not assess whether it was meaningful. Assessment was not the Ledger's function. Recording was the Ledger's function, and recording it did.

*Death #10. Asha Trevane. The Guest. Depth 1. Cause: Stasis. Duration: 11 hours, 43 minutes. No resistance. Delivery complete.*

The door in the prepared passage remained closed. The light was still visible through the crack at the bottom. The Ledger did not know if the light would persist indefinitely or would fade. It had no prior data. It noted the uncertainty and moved on.

The glass bead was on the floor near the entrance to the prepared passage. The entrant had removed it from her pocket before stepping into the room — or had dropped it when the wanting stopped, or had set it down deliberately, or some combination of these things. The Ledger categorized it: personal artifact, handmade glass, amber-gold with green center, residual warmth inconsistent with dungeon ambient. Not a Memory Crystal. Not a weapon or tool. A thing a person had made with their hands on the night before they left someone who did not know they were leaving.

The Maw did not know what to do with it. It left it where it was.

*THE ARCH HOLDS,* said the keystone, to no one in particular.

The camp at the entrance had thirty-two people in it now. Someone had repaired the crude map. Someone else had nailed a second piece of oiled cloth next to it, blank, with a piece of charcoal tied to a nail: for additions. No one had added anything yet.

The fire was still burning.

The death tally turned.

*990 remain.*

---

*ASHA TREVANE — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ARRIVE*
