Lisa had been right, and Ren was quite busy keeping 4 score sheets going. The televisions above each lane gave him the pins and scores for each ball, so all he had to do was write them down. He would occasionally see Lisa's cute little backside as she bowled, and then he would look the other way and see Elise wearing his favorite jeans.

By the time the first full string was over, he couldn't take it anymore. He caught Lisa's attention and she came right over to him.

“B-bathroom, please.” Ren said as he carefully moved over to his wheelchair.

“We're taking a break.” Lisa said and started to roll Ren to the bathroom. “Everyone help yourselves to the candy at the bar.”

Stella nodded to her as she passed, and went behind the bar. “The candy bar has actual candy bars, for those that want one.”

“Right here.” Officer Holly said, and Stella pointed to several different kinds. “That one.”

Stella tossed it to her. “Anyone else?”

Denise held up a hand and Stella tossed her one as well.

Barbi walked over to the bar. “Um... no bar, but... I'd like to try some of those.” She pointed to a bright red candy.

“I think those are hot.” Stella said and picked up a small paper cup and used the little scoop to put some in it. She handed it to Barbi, who picked one from the small pile she had and started to chew on it.

“Oh! Is it ever hot!” Barbi said and started to wave her hand in front of her mouth. She kept chewing, and then swallowed. “They're great!” She said and ate another one. “I haven't eaten something like this in a long time.”

“Give me some of the peppermint ones.” Elise said, and she received a paper cup with some in it.

“Black Licorice.” Donald said with a bit of a grunt, and Stella picked up a small paper bag and put several long pieces into it for him. “Thanks.”

“I'll have a candy necklace.” Barbara said, and everyone looked at her. “What?”

“Nothing.” Stella said and handed her one.

“I haven't had one of these since I was a teenager.” Barbara said and put it around her neck, then put part of it in her mouth and started to chew on it. The little candy beads broke up into powder and she swallowed. “It even tastes the same.”

“I was about to joke that it's probably been here that long; but, I know you've only been in the house for a little while.” Gloria said.

Barbara chuckled. “That would have been a good joke.”

“Give me some of the mixed jellybeans.” Gloria said, and Stella handed her a paper cup with them in it, then took some of the chewy caramels for herself. Everyone went back to the bowling lanes and sat down to eat their candy.

“Anyone want soda pop?” Denise asked, and nearly everyone raised their hands. “I'll bring the tray.”

She left and the silence grew; but, it wasn't uneasy or awkward as they enjoyed their chosen candy. A few minutes later, Denise came in with a push cart and it had all different kinds of soda pop on it, the same as they had at the party downstairs. Those that wanted some helped themselves, and then Lisa pushed Ren's wheelchair out of the bathroom. Ren had a relieved expression on his face, and Lisa had a very happy one.

“Is everything all right?” Stella asked.

“Everything is great!” Ren said. “I'm so glad Lisa helped me.”

“I guess with our scorekeeper back, we can get back to the game.” Officer Holly said.

“I'm sitting this one out.” Lisa said and gently sat beside Ren at the little desk, almost as if she was sore. “I need a bit more of a break.”

“Well, you didn't really have one; so, go ahead and take a nice rest.” Stella said. “I'll bowl your string for you.”

“Thanks.” Lisa said as she took Ren's hand and intertwined her fingers with his, then leaned against him slightly to watch everyone else bowl.
