Finishing she shrugged, “And so, I got slapped with the official, Saint-approved label of ‘Useless.’ Because my Talent isn’t better at anything, and I guess they knocked a couple points off because ‘everyone knows’ that knowledge Talents mainly breed slackers, so they didn’t even say I was good at learning, which to be fair I wasn’t until Tier 3 which lets me learn faster but didn't give me more innate knowledge but I was able to learn how to learn better even before that so really it should have counted.”

Moe reached over and lightly punched Ellen on the shoulder. “An’ our Jack proved ‘em all wrong.”

Brian laughed, “Do you remember our first instructor? The one who said that even a Talent with drawbacks would give something good, a Talent that’s good at nothing would be worse than even that? Ha!”

Krodag snorted as he laughed. “That reminds me. I need to send him another stink bomb. I’ve had one fermenting for the last decade.”

The four of them laughed at the shared joke and Matt tried to picture them as younger kids being head strong enough to not listen to their ‘betters’.

Ellen winked, “But yeah. Stupid buggy Talent scanners. One of the biggest benefits I get from my Talent is that it helps me with anything, no matter how niche. So, I turned it on itself. I learned how to learn, learned how to exploit my Talent, learned what my limits are so much better than the scanner could ever do. And I kept pushing myself, making sure that if my library was only going to be slightly more in-depth than what I knew… that it was going to be pushed in breadth and width. The hardest thing was learning how to learn how to learn. And honestly a lot of my improvement came post Path where I was able to actually dedicate the necessary time to learning everything and could just walk into any given university and have the professors fall over themselves to teach me. But these days, I can learn from anyone, understand just about anything, making inferences and deducing from the slightest clue and movement.”

“Even Aiden?” Allie questioned.

“Define understand,” Ellen squinted, then looked at Susanne with a gleam in her eye. “But you, you’ve got a style of calligraphy you use as a style of swordfighting and I’ve been eager to feel your understanding out in person. Recordings can only do so much.”

When Susanne met her gaze, Ellen’s grin got wicked, “Care to show me? If you show me yours, I’ll show you mine.”

Susanne just shrugged. “What do you have in mind?”

Ellen popped to her feet. “A quick, friendly spar. You’ve got the sword, I’ve… also got a sword. Let’s see whose is mightier!”

Susanne levered herself to her feet with a glint in her eye.

“Let’s.”
