“The whole fuckin thing’s a damn growth item. What the shit is this? I half expected that it would just be like the bones of the damn thing but no. Even the cabinets are part of it. What the fuck, Wun? Why couldn’t you have given us some of this luck before we, ‘ent inna ‘Innkalla?”

Matt and Aster shared a side eye at the dwarf forgetting to use his accent until the very end but neither could convince the other to comment on it and the moment passed.

Wun just seemed smug as he buffed his nails on his shirt. “Pay up, shits for brains. I told you, and none of you believed me.”

The four didn’t even argue as they each tossed Wun a spatial ring.

Always happy to show off their not so little any more house, Matt asked while quickly tidying up a tad, “Do you guys want the tour?”

Allie, Zack, Susanne, and Aster, having been in the house many times before or having lived inside of it, just made themselves at home, Allie going as far as to raid the fridge, loudly complaining to Aster about their selection of beverages, while Matt and Liz gave the tour.

That was normal enough even with exaggerated reactions Matt was half sure they were playing up to amusing themselves but he was still proud of his house and the work he, Liz, and Aster had put into it to make it the perfect home away from home.

It was all in the little touches like the layout and exact shape and size of the hallways which tied everything together and he couldn’t help but preen as the other complemented all of their design choices.

That was until they reached the spot where Liz’s terrarium was situated next to its door.

“And here is my Growth Item that’s linked up. It's kind of just a garden so not that impressive unless— and they are already inside.” Liz sped up as she finished.

Even Wun seemed shocked as he entered right behind the others.

Krodag sputtered, “It can eat other growth items? This might even beat Aiden’s boots.”

Matt corrected him, not wanting them to worry he would eat their items. “It's not eating them and it doesn't really work for everything, just temporarily absorbing spatial items and integrating them into the house. That said it can eat household objects, so don't leave a favorite chair or anything like that unless you intend to leave it here forever. Really, it's a good house.”

The moment he finished speaking, Wun immediately threw down one of the spatial rings he had just been given and Matt blinked as he felt what had been added to the house's inventory.

Waving, he created another door next to Liz’s garden and opened it just so he could check its contents.

“One collection of… Trash. All I can see is trash.” Matt looked at the other Ascenders to make sure he wasn’t being pranked.

Brian gasped, then gasped at realizing he could speak once more. “It's not trash, it's vintage scrap from the destruction of Vultro 6 from the movie set of Destro Man Reborn. This stuff is worth a fortune or three and I never would have bet it if Wun didn’t make such a ridiculous bet like a friggin’ growth item house.”

Liz pointed at an actual trash can filled with trash on a pedestal of Tier 15 marble. “That is an actual trash can.”

Brian nodded. “It's one of three trash cans you can see in the film that survived them actually blowing up the planet, making it a centerpiece of the collection.”

Wun grinned. “I now own two out of three. Soon, I’ll get the third and complete the set.”

Brian looked like he wanted to argue but instead went and carefully polished a specific corner of a painting that was half burned. “I’m going to miss you all until I can win you guys back.”

Krodag instead just pulled out a beer, cracked it open with a twist and emptied it with a single long pull. “This migh’ well be the single bes’ growt’ item ah’ve ever seen. I am now comple’e an shall now sink into deep depression, knowing that all else shall never compare to its majesty.”

Wun sighed. “Even I’m jealous. How come I can’t be this lucky?”

Ellen looked pleadingly at them with watery eyes. “Can we stay here with you guys?”

Matt looked to Liz. Seeing she didn’t mind and given how much they seemed to like the house, Matt nodded. “Sure but I’ll need a little bit of time to expand the house. Though I will reiterate my note that if you have any items you really care about, you shouldn’t bring them. I can actively stop the house from eating things, but anything like a bed or whatever will get eaten if left alone too long and I stop paying attention.”

Krodag slapped his stomach as he started coughing. “It can absorb items too? Is ‘ere anyhing the ‘ouse ‘an’t do?”

Matt chuckled, “It’s a house. There’s lots it can’t do. It’s not a ship or fortress, we tried letting it eat both of those, and it didn’t work.”

Liz hooked an arm with his. “He says it like he’s upset but he was quite happy when he couldn’t turn the house into a weapon.”

Matt thought he would have to defend himself but instead all five of the Clans Ascenders nodded.

Brian nodded. “I’m incredibly jealous. Umm. I mean, I get it. A house is a house. It wouldn’t be a house if it was also used for combat.”

Aster asked the obvious question, “Why don’t you just… commission one? I’m sure you could find someone that could make you what you want.”

Ellen scoffed, “Boney would never let it bond to anyone else, and there’s no way I’m letting my house be run by Boney. He once made us a campsite entirely out of skeletons and tendons, and never again.”

“Why not just get multiple houses, one for each of you, then?” Allie swooped in for the kill.

“I just told you. I’m not living in a house run by Boney. Now, if it was Bottle that would be different. Bottle runs a tight tavern, which I’m cool with. Liquor cabinets to raid for days!”

“Then…”

“No way it could ever happen, not in a million years. Now, a million and three, we might be in business,” she huffed slightly, “Which is how long it might take us to figure out how to catch up to Aiden. That cheater. I’m the universal expert, not him!”

“Hey Miss Universal Expert, toss me a drink!” Wun piped up, “And don’t miss this time!”

“That was once!” Ellen protested, spinning an open tankard into reality with her fingers and throwing it underhand to the other Legend. Midway through the air, the tankard seemed to strike something invisible and shattered. The liquid inside still flew in a perfect arc, dunking Wun in beer without a single drop going elsewhere. Wun spluttered, but Ellen cut him off, “As requested, I didn’t miss.”

She winked and spread her hands, “Behold the might of a useless Talent, eh?”

“Useless, huh?” Allie poked, “Not from what I hear.”

“Bah, you Empire peeps could never understand. Your Talent scanner actually works.”

The phoenix-Liz in the corner self-immolated as she held back laughter.

“Poor poor me, with a Talent readout of just ‘Ancestral Knowledge,’” she shook her head. “There I was, a bright-eyed little girl hoping to learn what she was good at, only to be told that it was nothing. According to the public Talent evaluation, I had a Talent that did literally nothing.”

“Ancestral Knowledge is what you call Innate Understanding Talents, right?” Matt confirmed.

Ellen nodded, “Yep. I always liked your guys’ name for it better, it feels more accurate. Anyway, our scanner tries to explain what we can do with a Talent, lets people know what they’ll be good at. But it’s hilarious what it’ll diagnose sometimes. Usually it’s pretty straightforward, Boney’s good at necromancy, Lug’s good at breaking stuff, and Bottle is good at skills. But as you can infer, if something’s good at many things, it’ll pick out whatever it’s best at and spit that out.” she mimed wiping away a tear, “I was told I was best at nothing, poor, poor me.”

She shook her head sadly, “And it’s true, no matter how you look at it. There’s nothing that my knowledge helps me with more than anything else. I was obviously doomed to be a shadow of myself, because everyone knows that if you have Ancestral Knowledge, you’ll never get good at whatever it is that your Talent does all the heavy lifting for.”

“Yeah. Like us. Lug does all the heavy lifting, so we never get good at it ourselves,” Brian quipped. Matt got the impression that Ellen told the story like this regularly, because her teammates seemed to be engaged in some silent competition revolving around mirroring her and winning opportunities to interrupt her as a result.

“I’m not sure I really buy that,” Matt tossed in, thinking about how many people he knew who had pushed their Understanding talents pretty far. Susanne was obvious, though she only really used her Understanding to make her swordfighting be ‘calligraphy’ for the purposes of her Tier 3 and 25 Talents. Ai’la and Joy were much more straightforward examples, and lots of crafters had a career built on their innate understanding.

Then again, Team Zero might not have been the best example, but they also weren’t the only ones who he knew with one, “I’ve got a friend from early on who’s got a Talent she uses for archery, and she’s… well, she’s at least ten Tiers weaker than me by now, so I don’t know if she’s better than me, but certainly Tier-adjusted she’s amazing.”

“I’m sure she is,” Ellen replied with an audible eye roll, “Has she ever described what it’s like for her to use her Talent?”

“Like muscle memory,” Matt recalled, “Not the actual memory, just sort of being capable of doing what she needs to do to accomplish a certain result as though she’d done that exact shot a hundred times before.”

“So she’s got a decently strong one. Good example, then. Some still need a couple of goes to really get into the swing of things. But she wants to shoot something. So she listens to her Talent, and boom, she knows exactly what she needs to do to make it work. It’s like you’ve got a giant library on a certain subject in your brain, and the ability to speed-read to learn that subject whenever you want.”

Ellen nibbled on a cracker, cantaloupe, and cheese sandwich before saying, “It doesn’t matter if it’s how to shoot with a bow, how to make a basket, or the history of your hometown, but the example I always like to use is math. Talents being Talents, there are always weird caveats and such but math is something that starts simple and gets very complex as you delve deeper, but you’ll always have access to the books in your head. You can look it up at any time, instantly get it. So it doesn’t matter if you were only taught addition and subtraction in school, you can suddenly just look at advanced calculus and thanks to the massive stack of books in your head, you can now find the function of a non-linear slope; even if they might still need a pen and paper to do it, they understand it and the logic of how to do it all. Sure, they might need a bit of time to puzzle through abstract algebra, but they’ve got all the books in their head, ready to go at a moment’s notice. They’re already a good mathematician, and know everything there is to know about the subject. There’s nothing more to learn or comprehend.”

Ellen snapped her fingers making a nearly painfully sharp sound. “And that's the trap. Why bother studying the books if you already know it all? You just run on autopilot, never understanding it, because you already know it like that. So you never actually get good at anything, you just coast through on what your Talent dropped into your head. Static and unchanging, no matter how hard you work, you’re already as good as you’ll ever be.”

Susanne added, “I still don’t know if that’s a great analogy. I mean, I’ve got an innate understanding for a particular type of calligraphy, but I definitely didn’t know how to write with a sword at the start. That took more than a century of work.”

Matt nodded as it fit with what he understood of the Talent type.

“Sure but that only proves my point. It took work to grow it. Work you didn’t have to do to use the Talent in the way it was intended.”

Ellen paused her explanation trying to steal another piece of cantaloupe but continued with a glare as Aster and Allie devoured the last few pieces. “Now, some knowledge Talents are really powerful, and others are kind of weak. There’s not a direct correlation between scope and strength, but there’s a bit of a link. Like if your library goes really in-depth on a certain topic, you’ve got that many more books to reference. But if you’ve got a lot of different books on various subjects, they can’t be as focused on one thing. Your friend, who’s got archery knowledge, is she limited to one type of bow or something? Or a certain type of archery? ”

“Nope,” Matt replied, “All ranged weapons.”

“Really?” Ellen sounded impressed, “That’s cool. Wide scope and strong effect, good for her. Perfect example as to how it’s not a perfect link. If you don’t mind, could you send me her contact info? I wouldn’t mind swinging by for a chat next time I’m in the Empire. Anyway, my Talent is really ‘weak’. I don’t even get a book or a chapter of additional information on any given topic. I get the next singular word.”

