“That was not my intent,” Cai Renxiang said, considering her words as she raised the blade from her lap, studying the gleaming curve of the metal. “I was speaking bluntly. Marriage and betrothal are simply business contracts like any other, if generally longer in their terms.”

Ling Qi sat up, eyeing the other girl with a dubious look. “You actually believe that, don’t you?”

<Of course she does. Did you forget who you were talking to?> Sixiang snarked.

“If you are concerned about an imbalance of power from your mother’s experiences, you should know that your talent and my backing will put paid to any such abuses. I will extend the Cai family's resources to reviewing your contract,” Cai Renxiang offered, lowering the blade as pale blue threads began to weave together around it, reforming its scabbard.

Ling Qi stared at her. It wasn’t that she didn’t appreciate the offer, but the offer seemed to miss the point. “There is more to it than that. You’re… There’s supposed to be more to this kind of relationship than that.” It definitely wasn’t supposed to just be business. She hadn’t run away from Mother just to dive right back in.

Cai Renxiang frowned at her. “It is not something to be spoken of in public, but the emotional fulfillment you are speaking of is something to be taken care of on the side. Even Mother does so with Minister Linqin. But I suggest you keep such matters better hidden. You do not have the might to ignore convention as Mother does.”

Ling Qi opened her mouth to respond and then closed it again as her thoughts caught up with the words she had just heard. “What?”

<I have to agree,> Sixiang said faintly.

“It is hardly something to be spoken of in polite company, but most…” Cai Renxiang began.

“No, the bit about the Duchess,” Ling Qi said, not even caring that she interrupted her liege.

Cai Renxiang’s frown deepened. “It is one of her more incomprehensible decisions. She treats the Minister as her wife in most every social situation, often with undue public affection despite the damage the scandal does.”

“Is this something you should be telling me?” Ling Qi asked with alarm.

“Normally not, but for whatever reason, it is public knowledge,” Cai Renxiang said. “Obviously, Mother has some plan to which I am not privy which explains the matter. Perhaps it is because Minister Linqin is effectively the Diao Matriarch, and thus, much more valuable and powerful than my father. I would not speculate too much on matters clearly beyond me. The point is, if you seek… romance, there is no need for that to affect your marriage prospects.”

Ling Qi stared at the other girl, attempting to process the idea of the radiant monster she had met at the tournament expressing “undue public affection.” She failed.

<For once, I’m not going to help you on that,> Sixiang said bluntly.

Ling Qi was thankful. She supposed she should be thankful that the surreality of the words had shaken her out of her fugue. “I will take your words under advisement,” she said faintly.

The dimmed light around her liege brightened for a moment, and the other girl nodded, seeming satisfied. “Good. I hope that you can resolve the matter satisfactorily.” Cai Renxiang glanced up at the sky, and her lips thinned. “It is growing late however. I trust that you will look into the other matter as time allows?”

Ling Qi nodded as she stood up, brushing dust and stone powder from her hands. “Yeah, I want to know what Sun Liling is playing at as well. I’ll keep track of who she talks to at the gatherings.”

“Very good,” her liege replied, all business once more. “Thank you for the spar.”

“Thank you for the spar,” Ling Qi repeated, tucking the letter away. She still had a month or two until she had to worry about the letter and its contents. For now, she had to get back to her own plans. She had several matters of cultivation to finish, and the moon was calling.
