“Wait—” Shiv saw a blur explode across the room toward Veronica—but the mirror flickered once, and she was gone. He found himself staring back at his own slack-jawed expression instead. “What the hells was that?”

“Oh. Probably an Assassin,” Jessica answered nonchalantly. “Plenty of those.”

“And you’re not worried?” Adam asked.

The Giantsbane barked a laugh. “Nope. Bitch was slow as a legless dog dragging its ass through a swamp. He’s probably dead already. If he’s lucky. If he’s not, Veronica’s probably going to give him to Kathereine.”

“Why?” Uva asked.

Shiv cringed. He had a guess. It was an ugly one.

“Because the Songbringer is a hopeless romantic who likes getting to know new people intimately,” Jessica said with every ounce of sarcasm she could muster.

Uva’s stoicism broke as a look of horror and disgust shone through. “How vile.”

Jessica shrugged. “Gods gotta get their kicks somehow.”

“Perhaps they could consider picking up an instrument or playing a song?” Uva said flatly.

“Sometimes, suffering is a melody,” Jessica mused.

“Well, this has been another horrible experience,” Adam said, interrupting them. “Are you sure about this, Shiv? Valor?”

“Chaos,” Valor answered. “Chaos is what we must learn to contain, control, and direct. You, more than Shiv, must learn uncertainty. But it is also important for you to gain as varied a population as possible for your Gate.”

The Gate Lord froze. “You’re doing this for my Gate Quest too…”

“Quite. And for the skills you might obtain. And the influence you might exert on the Republic once this fight turns political. And if things progress along the path I hope they do, it will turn political.” Valor looked aside, as if glimpsing something no one else could see.

“Well, at least with this done, I’ll finally be able to head into the Fairwoods and get this Curse-shit dealt with.” Shiv still wasn’t sure if he trusted Veronica’s information, but Gardener of Doubt had detected no lies. But there was more than one way to deceive someone. Partial truth was sometimes a sharper blade than outright duplicity. “Court of Winter… Mother of Moons. And then the Court of Spring. See if those leads actually pan out, or if she was just bullshitting me.”

“Veronica doesn’t lie,” Jessica said. “She misdirects. She twists your beliefs. But she doesn’t lie.” The swordswoman let out a sigh. “But I also didn’t think she could get her feelings hurt, until you fucking grabbed the shriveled bits of her heart and twisted, you absolute bastard. What was that? And you’re still going after Daughter?”

“Yeah. Someone’s gotta make sure the Inquisition stops butchering orphans, right?” Shiv’s open disdain washed over Jessica.

“Hey, listen—” she began, but she was already vibrating with a building lie.

“No,” Shiv said. “You bullshit yourself. You don’t need to say anything to me. You wanna feud with Roland? Go ahead. You wanna mourn those you lost? Great. I’m sorry. I’ll bring them back if I can. You wanna be loyal to the Republic? Whatever. But don’t felling tell me you didn’t know or couldn’t stop them. You’re a Legend, Jessica. Not some helpless Adept. And you’re behind the curtain. You know what they do. You know how they are. You let things happen because you chose to be helpless, not because you actually are.” Shiv shook his head and looked down at Jessica. “The one the smallfolk love and the nobles fear, was it? I'd say there's little hope for all the children in the Republic if their most beloved Legends pretend they don’t exist and their gods just burn them for fuel.”

For the second time in a few minutes, Shiv’s Sticks and Stones triggered, and Jessica’s face turned brittle in an instant. Veronica was hurt, but Jessica was ashamed. “I… You…”

“There’s going to come a point where you need to decide what kind of Pathbearer you want to be,” Shiv continued. “I’m not forcing you to choose your loyalty. But I’ve been around you long enough to see that you’re just a woman tearing herself apart down two forking paths. Veronica wants you to pretend to be blind and kill your heart. But there’s another part of you. The part that refuses to see your family because you hate yourself. Because you didn’t stay who you were. Who Jackie loved. And the two are going to fight. Maybe they’ve fought before. Maybe that’s why you keep going to that bar to drink yourself to death. Maybe, maybe, maybe. But it’s not me you gotta face down in the end. Can’t run from yourself, Jessica. And just like you told me how a Legendary Pathbearer will always kill a monster, I’m going to tell you that you can’t walk two ways through your life and not break yourself in half.”

Shiv took a step toward her, and it felt like she almost took a step back as he did. “Now. Someday soon. Maybe in a week. Maybe in a day. Maybe in a month or a year, Veronica is going to tell you to do something to us. And right now, you’ll do it. You’ll try to kill Roland. You’ll stab me in the back. You’ll go back to being with the Inquisition. But you’ll also be ripping another piece out of yourself if you do, because you’ll go right back to pretending the gods you serve aren’t monsters, and your Councilwoman who gives you fuzzy dreams isn’t a snake-fuck pretending to be human.” Shiv took another step toward Jessica and glared her down. “And I see you after enough days have passed after that. I don’t even need a Divination Skill. You’ll find that place in the Educator's painting. You’ll go back there. You’ll drug yourself with whatever you got. And maybe you'll even finally muster up your godsdamned courage and kill yourself. So. Be a piece of shit. Don’t be a piece of shit. But don’t do this halfway shit and end up running yourself through with your best friend. I guess I still like you far too much for that to be your end. Rather kill you instead.”

Shiv finished speaking. The lights behind Jessica’s eyes were gone. She stared ahead, her jaw slightly agape, and her hands were shaking like willows brushed by wind.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 153 > 166

Sticks and Stones 88 > 93

“Jessica?” Rusty asked, sounding concerned. “You… Why would say such a thing, Deathless? Deathless!”

Shiv ignored the sword and gestured for everyone to leave. “Anyway. Time for vacation. Let’s go to the Fairwoods and see if I can get this Curse finally lifted. Finally. Only been a few hours since I got interrupted, but it feels like I've been waiting for weeks.”

He noted how everyone stared at him, slack-jawed or terrified.

Adam kept looking between him and Jessica. “Shiv… what was that?”

“Hm? Oh. Veronica was right: I wasn’t using my Sage to its limit. Not even close. But enough about that. I’m going to give the guard a body, and we’re going straight to the Fairwoods. No more delays. I need this. I really, really need this.”

***

And while the Deathless and others walked away. The Culturist and Valor stayed with Jessica.

“Legend Hawgrave?” Valor asked, trying to be gentle. “Are you… there?”

“I fear not, Valor,” the Culturist said, bending down and squinting at Jessica. He waved a massive hand in front of her eyes, to no reaction. “I fear his words have induced a traumatic shutdown in her.”

A grunt of astonished laughter escaped him. “I thought the boy was a physical specimen. A monster of a Vanguard. I was wrong. His talent for brutality and instincts for combat are nothing compared to his natural grasp of psychology and cruelty. A breaker of souls he will be. The envy of all orcs and monsters… His grandmother has woken something great and terrible inside him. Hm… Perhaps you should give him a few more ethics lessons to go with this new development.”

“You? Suggesting ethics?” Valor shook his head in awe as he met the Culturist’s eyes. He was the only one here who could do so without looking up. “Great and terrible indeed. Oh, Udraal. What have you planted inside him now?”

“Something tells me this isn’t Udraal,” the Culturist replied. “Something tells me this is Shiv’s gift alone.”
