It was easy to forget about the horrors of this world up here, with the wind in her hair and the floating sensation of traveling over an infinite valley. It smelled like ripe grain and growing things. The light of a late summer afternoon shone on her armored mage robe like a warm caress. Out there, people were dying but here? Here she was airborne and safe.

For a long while, nothing happened. Just two people crossing the sea of grass. Eventually Tylek’s trail left the other behind. If it were up to Viv and she were the other contestant, she would cut a path to Tylek’s trail and follow him to enjoy the fruits of his labor, only attempting to overtake it in the last hour. It didn’t happen. Maybe the other contestant was honorable or perhaps he had no way of knowing where Tylek was. Viv made sure to check with the other overseer on occasion, though they couldn’t really communicate. His wariness towards her never fully faded. Humans probably had a bad rep here.

A large hill eventually rose in the distance as the night fell, but before they reached it, they had to cross a large, flat expanse of low grass. The two picked up the pace then, and the other began to overtake Tylek who made sure to step lightly, and stop regularly. Viv watched them move in the moonless shadows thanks to her improved vision. What was Tylek doing? It was like he was losing on purpose.

She spotted something moving, something large. It was coming from the side. At first, the trail of moving grass hesitated between the two runners, but then it seemed to lose Tylek, resolutely focusing on the other runner instead.  Viv understood that the old shadow hunter was using stealth. Did he know something was coming? She landed next to the pakar raider and mimicked something moving in the grass. He panicked.

“It Sha! It Sha!”

Ah yes, the Sudden Deaths. Kark-eating worms that used ground magic. Too bad Arthur was off doing the gods knew what since she found them delicious. Viv flew out. She couldn’t let the other contestant die and not feel like an absolute asshole, but Marruk had been offered an opportunity: Viv could intervene if someone was about to die. Key term: about to. She moved closer to the warchief’s candidate.

Sudden Death Worms attacked from beneath, through bites. She knew what to do. Somehow, the candidate felt the worm’s presence at the last moment. He jumped to the side with a yelp.

Viv cast deadland domain on the ground. Immediately, the black mana saturated the earth and prevented the worm from swimming through it. The creature burst out with an angry hiss. It was pink and as large as a tree trunk but also quite short, with a large mandible lined by three inward-facing fangs.

“Guillotine.”

Not taking any chances, she severed the thing in four segments, hoping they wouldn’t run away or something. The pieces fell apart. It was all a bit anticlimactic.

“Well, it’s done.”

Whatever. The pakar raider arrived soon after. He hugged the shocked contestant which Viv assumed meant they were close. She didn’t quite follow what they said afterward and anyway, Tylek could use some backup, so she left with a little wave. They sounded grateful so it was probably ok.

Tylek reached the flag-passing spot near midnight. Without surprise, the other contestant had fallen behind, but that wouldn’t have mattered anyway.

“What are you doing here?” Viv asked.

Marruk is my borgling friend.

I want to help her!

I am the fastest; no one can catch me.

“Isn’t it cheating to use a dragon in a race?” Viv asked.

Her daughter waved her concerns away.

Having a dragon on your side is always cheating.

Because it is a dragon.

So Marruk is always cheating.

Therefore, it does not matter.

Because if they want to complain.

I am dragon.

Therefore they will not complain.

If they know what is best for them.

Viv couldn’t fault her logic. A short look at the examiner confirmed he wasn’t in the mood for complaining either, so Arthur delicately bit the flag before taking off like a jet fighter on steroids. Damn gray mana casters and their fancy acrobatics.

So that was why Marruk was confident. Hell, just Tylek would have been enough to get a solid lead. Now, the race was as good as won. Viv still stayed a few hours to make sure nothing else would eat the contestants, and to enjoy what felt like the calm before the storm. She followed the last contestant back with the dawn.

***

Marruk’s last runner was the first to arrive. He was several hours early to the disbelief of the participants, however the observers and other runners quickly returned to confirm that no one had cheated. In fact, Viv’s decision to save the worm victim painted her in a favorable light, for which she got loud recognition. It would have been enough to declare her side the winner, except that the kark insisted on following the tradition to the end. It was a strange and novel experience for Viv to meet people who not only participated honestly, but were also willing to lose out of a strange sense of honor. No one accused her of cheating. No one said she had used sorcery to make her people go faster. No one had ever complained about using non-kark people in the trial. It was all above board, just, and without prejudice. Truly, the kark were doomed as a species.

With the first task complete, Viv expected some delay before they could proceed with the next, however the old shaman surprised everyone by raising his voice before people even returned to the secluded valley.

“Congratulations to Marruk for her victory. The second task starts immediately! For the test of wisdom, your duty is to find what… what happened to the spear shaft clan, then offer succor if it can be done,” one of the soldiers translated in a dark tone.

Somber whispers dampened the mood. Sighs and wails came from all around, audible above the wind.

“What does it mean? They were supposed to be here?” Viv asked.

“They should have arrived three days ago. If they are late with no messengers, then it can only mean one thing. The Pure League found them.”

***

The warchief left with his fastest riders. From the River Tribe’s ill-fated attempt to stop her, Viv could guess this was the usual way of doing things here: ride out with a group of pakar riders in the hope of catching something. Her land ship was not only much faster, it would also carry food, healers, and medicine to help if the worst had come to pass.

“The main host of the Pure League advances slowly because it has many men on foot. Poor soldiers. They hope to earn land,” Marruk explained. “The richer men have horses. They ride to the best pastures or to the lakes and then they kill everyone they find. They leave quickly because the pakar are not as fast as horses, but they have better stamina, then they do it somewhere else until we are enraged. This draws my people into battle. Many times, we lose, and many sons never return. Sometimes we win and the attacks stop for a while. The main army shouldn’t be upon us just yet, so it must be a raid.”

She didn’t say anything after that. Viv clenched her fists. She’d seen death before. A lot of carnage. It would be fine. She was used to it by now, almost jaded. Bodies were bodies, when they were dead. And she would be here to help. There would be survivors. She was going to make a difference. There was no reason to panic.

The land rose a bit though it remained the same tall grass, the same wind that was now losing some of its charm. She just wanted it to stop for a while so she could hear herself think. Later, she retired to her cabin at night to sleep but found that the place was so quiet and deserted she just couldn’t do it. Her ears rang from an absence of noise, an unnatural stillness that screamed that something was wrong. She only managed to close her eyes after hours of meditation.

She knew the clan had been hit when the smoke and the birds of prey became visible the next morning. Every free person climbed to the deck to look ahead even though nothing could be seen yet. Eyes searched the foggy plain for anything they could see. It appeared the spear shaft clan was camping by a small lake when they were attacked. It was still out of view. And quiet. Even with the wind, they would have heard something, anything if it was still ongoing. Whatever had happened, it was now over.

“We’ll be there soon,” Frosthawk mumbled.

No one replied. They knew.

The first they saw of the village was a gaggle of villagers struck in the back as they were running. The raiders hadn’t even finished them off. They’d just left them to bleed out. Frosthawk stopped the land ship there so everyone could drop down.

One of the healers managed to find someone who was still alive. The rest looked towards the village in the distance. Viv could spot smoldering tents, past a wall of grass.

“Alright, spread out. Search for survivors.”

“Be wary of traps,” Marruk said, then she translated Viv’s orders.

As for Viv, she flew towards the village at good speed with a shield ready. The silence confirmed that nobody had stayed behind. Except for the dogs.

They were eating.

Dogs were not common here. Kazar had a solid pack of guard mastiffs, but otherwise they were considered expensive. Those dogs were mutts, and she could see how they could be cheap seeing as they were feeding on kark corpses, of which there were many. They ignored Viv but jumped on Marruk as soon as she came into view.

Viv killed them quickly. Marruk handled the closest ones without trouble and, apparently, without surprise.

“They hunt survivors when they get hungry,” the kark woman explained in a grim voice. “Trained to attack only the kark.”

While they talked, Viv took in her surroundings.

It was worse than what she’d expected. The village was ravaged with a systematic hatred that left her speechless. Every detail came at the same time, but her mind refused to accept them. Even the tales of Lancer’s occupation hadn’t prepared her for that. Even the battle against Octas hadn’t started that badly. Each tent had been burnt to the ground. The pakar were all slaughtered where they stood, then left to rot. They hadn’t even been stolen: they were just slaughtered for slaughter’s sake. It was the same with the rest. Every pottery was smashed, every piece of cloth was burnt. Nothing had been spared. Nothing. Especially not the people. The stench of carrion assaulted Viv’s nose. That one was an old companion. The sight of the dead, this time, was much less so. Old people, teenagers, men and women. Children. One of the healers rushed to a toddler clinging to the headless corpse of his mother.

“Babies keep drinking from the dead,” Marruk explained. “The child might still be alive.”

Viv didn’t wait to find out. She searched around but the raiders had been thorough.

There wasn’t anything left alive here that was larger than a bird. Viv looked around for something to do, somewhere to help.

“Wait, there is something there.”

A knoll stood at some distance from the carnage. There had been an attempt to set it on fire but it had failed. Only part of its surface was burnt. Viv hurried there. She needed some kind of success.

There was a hole on the far side. It was a hiding spot of sorts, maybe? A granary, or perhaps something more? The entrance was blocked by a gate. It was partially damaged and she could spot something on the far side. The raiders had clearly tried to break in and failed.

“Come on.”

She cut it open but the heat of the fire near the entrance made her flinch. It was still enough to see inside. There were kids huddled on the far end of what was obviously a storage space.

Arthur picked that moment to land next to her.

“Oh, here you are. Can you help me with the flames?”

The dragon dispelled the fire with a wave of her paw, and Viv was inside. She needed to learn a spell to quench flames herself. It might turn out to be useful in the future.

“Come and help. Hey Marruk?”

The woman didn’t hurry.

“There are kids there!”

They are dead.

“What? No, the flames haven’t gotten in.”

Suffocated.

Aaaaand of course.

Of course.

That was why Marruk wasn’t in a hurry. Viv should have guessed. She was just being naive.

“Sorry, I should have guessed. I mean, it’s obvious. Happens in fires all the time,” Viv said.

She had a better look at the children. It was harder to see because of the kark’s natural red skin but their lips were far too dark, even though it looked like they were sleeping. Clear signs of discoloration.

“I thought… they might have hidden.”

“It’s not a place to hide,” Marruk explained. “The raiders put them there. They blocked the door, then punched openings in it. For the smoke. It’s quicker and easier than killing the children one by one.”

“Ah. I misunderstood.”

“Don’t stop now. We must keep looking.”

“Right.”

Viv wasn’t sure what to do. She slapped her cheeks to center herself.

“Come on. You’ve seen dead children before. Don’t grow soft now. Not now. I need to be there to help.”

She left the knoll behind, finding the edge of the sea of grass a little farther. Many tracks led out. Maybe more runners. Another larger path attracted her gaze. It led further east.

