There was a battlefield there, if one could call it that. Around fifty kark warriors lay dead near the entrance of the village. The way they clumped on the field showed they had never retreated, doubtlessly trying to buy time for the others. It hadn’t worked very well. They’d been left to rot where they fell, but there was also a pile of partially burnt dead humans stacked in a half-assed pyre. One of the raiders at the edge was still unburnt. He had a large gut wound, though it hadn’t killed him. Someone had also slit his throat. It had been done with something really sharp. A kark would have used a spear.

“Wait, the raiders finished off their own wounded?”

Humans can be very cruel, I see.

“They might have thought it was a mercy compared to what the kark reinforcement would have done,” Viv remarked.

Arthur huffed.

“Not that I would blame them,” Viv finished.

We can go after them.

“Yeah. I just… need to see them. And we can scout along the way. I need to understand. Let’s just tell the others we’re leaving, in case they still need us for something.”

A kark blew a horn in the distance. Perhaps a safe signal or something. Viv wasn’t sure she could care anymore. Useless. She was useless here, now that the land ship had arrived. She was no healer.

Fuck.

The veterans on her team back on earth had been right. It just wasn’t the same, seeing a real ethnic cleansing. She wasn’t sure why. Perhaps It was probably because those were just… people. Not warriors clashing on the field of battle for important ideals, but people. Victims. They just never had a chance. Or was it really different? She wasn’t sure. She just wasn’t sure what made it so gutting.

She understood the drinking nights and the lost gazes now.

***

Viv followed the trail from up high. She found it difficult to keep her rage down. It wasn’t even the horrors of what she’d seen, it was the casual disregard for… for humanity. She knew the kark were not humans, but they were people. Dragons were people, as were the merls. Golems too. Doing this to harmless children was something she found hard to process. It was just the perfect blend of casual cruelty and brutal efficiency that set her off, and yet she wouldn’t kill them. Not yet. She had to do things properly now, because she represented the empire.

Otherwise she would have used the raiders’ intestines as garlands. It might still happen.

The raiders had made no attempt to hide, relying on speed instead. She caught up to them after only a couple of hours. There were about a hundred and fifty of them left with around fifty horses laden with food, fabric, and other loot. They wore mismatched armor when they wore any at all, a multicolor convoy of murderers as jolly as they were murderous. Hell, the lead rider wore garish red from head to toe.

Kill.

“No. I am the Empress and you are my heir. We are not at war with them at the moment.”

So?

I am dragon; you are elemental.

We do what we want to do.

“We are safe from repercussions but our people are not. Consider this… delayed gratification.”

Fine.

You always cause the most terror.

I will follow your lead.

For now.

“I’ll land in front of them. I want to talk to them. I need to understand.”

Viv let herself fall from Arthur’s back until she landed far in front of the Pure League raid. The leader saw her and hesitated, so to make sure she would get her answers, Viv raised eldritch walls on either side of her as far as she could control, leaving only one opening: her.

The leader hesitated. He was an older man, scarred, and wearing a red-dyed armor made of studded leather. He had a cruel face. Several heads were attached to his saddle.

Viv breathed deep. He seemed to hesitate and Viv didn’t feel like running after him so she gave them a sign to approach. If they ran, she wasn’t sure what her response would be.

The noble approached along with a burly warrior and a woman with a longbow. Viv didn’t recognize their sigils but she assumed they were Lutenese. Maybe the newly minted nobles who ruled over their stolen lands. Honestly, she didn’t give much of a shit.

He stopped at a good distance.

“Why?” Viv asked.

He only looked confused.

“Why what? Speak up, stranger.”

“Why the children in the oven? Why the dogs? Why… this? Like that?”

He blinked like he wasn’t getting it.

“Stranger, you are not making sense.”

The archer whispered in his ear.

“Oh, you’re a kark fu—”

He winced.

“A peace-lover, ey? Listen, do not believe what the Neriad weaklings tell you. The kark are like locusts. They serve no purpose and they ruin everything they touch, alright? Just look around you.”

He waved at the dusty land, a brown desolation oozing dry soil with every gust of wind.

“What they can’t get, they poison. It’s plain for everyone who has eyes to see.”

He sighed, annoyed. Viv withheld her aura for now.

“You have to understand that we are helping our entire race a favor by doing what needs to be done. You softlanders don’t get it. You look out from your castles and see blood and you get the vapors. The kark must be extinguished, or there will never be peace. If you leave the children behind, it’s just more pain down the road. For everyone.”

The burly man spat on the ground.

“Thankless softies.”

“He’s right. We’re doing this for all of us. You can’t make the kark good. So they gotta die, so mankind can take its rightful place. Become free.”

“Whether the kark fuckers want it or not,” the burly man added.

That was all Viv wanted to know. Wordlessly, she floated up, up, and out of view until the riders left. Arthur picked her up a bit later.

You let them go?

“We follow.”

And they did, for another hour. The raiders led Viv to their main camp. There were around four to five thousand of them. They outnumbered the Kark warriors by a factor of two.

“We know where they are now.”

We could burn it down.

They cannot stop us.

Only their best elites could do so.

“There could be extremely competent dark blades so I wouldn’t bet my life on it, and besides, it can’t be done by us. It must be the kark, or the Pure League will just claim only humans could stop other humans.”

I am not human.

Yet I understand.

It is their war.

“Yeah. Now that we know where they are, we can guide the others here and… make sure the battle starts properly.”

Head back?

“No. There is one last thing we must do. Remember, we are here on legal business. Gotta do things properly.”

***

It was a complicated time for Luten. The governor of the border town smiled anyway, for it was when one was weak that they must appear the strongest. No expense had been spared to make the reception hall a haven of style and elegance. Inside, open windows led to the ballroom where soft music played. Cooling enchantments refreshed the guests as they picked finger food and flutes of exquisite liquor from passing waiters. The gardens awaited the revelers outside, in the warm air of this late summer, its perfumed paths lit with warm candles shining on blooming flowers. Everywhere, the fastuous surroundings and the soft susurrus of conversations denied the rumors that things were not going so well. Luten was not out of money. A generation of its brightest soldiers and operatives had not been lost at the front. Those were merely growing pains while the city refocused on its sadly neglected core: ship-building. No, the core had never been the trade with Enoria, which was now entirely captured by Zazas because of that uppity black bitch, thank you very much.

A complicated time, to be sure. Nevertheless, the governor walked and smiled. He greeted the new nobles, brutes, all of them. He placated the old nobility whose sons and daughters rotted on the dusty plains where the steppes used to spread. He distracted the tense merchants with vague promises. Inside of this courtyard, within those mighty walls, he was prince. Outside, well, there was only so much he could do. The latest expedition had a good chance of finishing off the entire Red Tribe forever, which would open a lot of new, perennial land, but there were other tribes beyond… and he had heard that promise before.

“I was informed that our mages have come up with a suitable way of dealing with the situation, ser. Sardanal’s priests insist that the phenomenon is due to earth being lifted by the wind. More trees and uncultivated patches will permanently solve our problem.”

“It is not sustainable!” the old landowner spat.

“It is better than the alternative, yes? With revitalized land, your domain shall become arable again.”

“It’s looking more and more like a pierced basket, old friend. This is the last time,” the merchant said with clear regret.

The governor feared the merchant might be right.

“Fear not. I —”

A boom. The fortress wall in front of the garden shook. Shards of stones fell from on high.  Something crawled down its smooth surface with sinuous grace. It was white and long as three men.

The governor thought he might be going mad.

“Dr — dragon!” the merchant whispered.

An aura of hatred and domination washed over the assembly, pushing back even grizzled captains. It was fury, barely restrained. It was a promise, also. The intensity of it was breathtaking, yet there was a restraint there that made him want to stop moving in case that last limit vanished, and the entire palace disappeared in a blazing inferno. The beast growled but it didn’t kill them. Instead, its lips pulled back in the macabre parody of a smile.

A form descended from its back. It hovered above them like a dark shape backlit on the sea of stars, but the impression faded and there was a woman instead. She was pale and armored in robes and crystallized mana, with strange void blades emerging from her back. Her eyes were two rings of emerald on spheres of nothingness, and upon her brow was a crown of bone fit for a king. The aura of hatred grew to a suffocating crescendo when she softly stopped in front of him. It was coming from her.

Against all expectations, she handed him a scroll.

He looked at it like it was a venomous snake.

“Take it,” she ordered, and he did.

“My name is Viviane, Empress of New Harrak and elemental arch-witch. By this missive, I am formally notifying you, a representative of Luten,  that following your attack on my embassy, and with the approval of the Paramese Alliance, I am exerting my limited casus belli to declare war on the Pure League. As per protocol, you are granted a one-day period of grace following which I will be conducting military operations. Consider yourselves warned, and may Enttiku have mercy on your souls. Enjoy your evening.”

The woman turned around without another sound. She and the dragon took off amid the screams of panicked guards.

The governor was left holding the scroll as if it were a fireball on the verge of explosion. This was the Empress of Harrak, an arcane juggernaut capable of killing superior aberrants in one spell. Reports from the beastling war spoke of curses to destroy entire armies. The dragon was there too.

Just the two of them could have obliterated everyone present, leaving the entire town a sea of fire.

It was now a very complicated time for Luten.

Who the fuck had decided that attacking her embassy was a good idea?
