A wave of excitement followed Marruk’s declaration, yet the council was not immediately swayed. They devolved into arguments and deliberations. This was all very shocking to them. It went against tradition, a soldier explained to Viv. A woman could not become a warchief, just as a man could not decide how a child ought to be raised. Those were customs that had lasted since time immemorial. Before long, elite warriors gently pushed them away from the stone while the elders deliberated.

Under normal circumstances, Viv wouldn’t have given Marruk’s bid a snowball’s chance in hell, but these were desperate times. It was painfully obvious in the way the younger soldiers’ eyes glittered when her soldiers distributed steel spearheads, how they whispered and scurried excitedly to fit them on their weapons. Grizzled veterans watched the land ship roll back with the haunted gazes of people who didn’t dare hope, who had been scarred by life so many times that no good news could possibly come without a solid side of disappointment. They were not expecting success, but for the other shoe to drop instead. They had never had any true victories - therefore, it was all a lie. Viv then realized she had come at the very last moment. This was the last stand of the Red Tribe. They were no longer thinking of victory.

Maybe the Steppes would have survived, and the kark bounced back in time, but it wouldn’t have been done by them. Those people were at the bottom of the hole and waiting to see if it would sink lower. So Viv did what she did best: looking supremely confident that yes, she would find a way through disaster once more. The kark hesitantly gathering around them needed her cocky posture even more than the steel being passed around. Marruk played her part as savior with more ease than Viv expected as they walked through the gathered tribes, exchanging greetings and wishes.

“I have spotted Talyk Shadow-Hunter,” Marruk told Viv after she was done screaming salutations to someone.

She pointed at a squat, gray kark standing at some distance over a tiny hillock. Other men in camouflage garbs gathered around him with bows made of bones strapped to their backs.

“The one who was interested in becoming an assassin?”

“He… talked about it. Which is more than I can say about any others. Let us meet him, at least.”

The shadow hunter didn’t show much enthusiasm when they made their way to him, yet when Marruk approached, he eagerly touched her hand. His voice quavered a bit when he addressed the younger woman, and Marruk replied in a comforting tone. They clearly knew each other well.

“You, you are the shaman that kills and rules, yes?” he finally asked Viv in broken northerner.

“That is so.”

The hunters bristled. Viv wondered what was going on until the explanation was given quickly.

“You sound like a northerner too.”

“I studied the tongue in Helock so I would not have an accent. I can speak Enorian as well, if you prefer.”

“No, we are not River Tribe. We do not speak the southern tongue. I am sorry. You do not sound exactly like a Lutenese. It is just…”

“Difficult to listen to a human speaking the tongue of your enemy?”

“I will not allow my hatred to annoy an ally. Apologies.”

“No harm done.”

The shadow hunter nodded. He spoke a few words to his men who settled in shame. Viv realized that Tylek was one of the quietest kark she’d ever met, except for Marruk.

“The girl says you have men who know the way of killing,” Tylek continued. “She says, it is not so different from hunting. Is that true?”

Viv felt a pulse of black mana at her side, so subtle most mages would have missed it. It was difficult to hold back a smile.

“I believe you should be talking to my friend and the leader of our scouts and assassins — when they bother. This is Irao. All you said, and also a good friend.”

The kark jumped back when the Hadal bowed to greet them. He uttered a few words in perfect kark before pointing to the side. Tylek spoke with awe and within ten seconds, they were off to a more secluded corner of the valley. Above Viv, the wind picked up. It moaned over the crest like a dirge. Distant clouds fled west.

Marruk sighed.

“This was the easy part, I think. Tylek will hear Irao out. Maybe we should return to the land ship.”

“I think you ought to greet all of the clans before we return to wait,” Viv said. “Especially those who are not so friendly.”

“Ah, yes. Respect. This, I shall grant them.”

It sounded like Marruk was trying to convince herself when the poor girl clearly wanted to hunker down somewhere after far too much social excitement. Viv gently encouraged her down the slope, towards a waiting group of Kark. Viv could tell they were waiting because they were trying their absolute best to look casual about it, yet when Marruk hailed them, they swarmed her with questions.

Viv let the kark take over. She was rather good at appearing confident though Viv suspected it might be anger propping her up. That, or properly channeled anxiety. The most awkward meeting came from her own clan, half of whom loved her unconditionally while the other half thought their wayward daughter was shaming her ancestors or whatnot. The exchange was tense and as brief as Marruk could manage, then they greeted one last clan on the way to the stone. They were being summoned.

“It was very short. Normally, the old codgers love to hear themselves posture,” Marruk grumbled.

“Is that good?”

“No.”

Fortunately, Viv could tell the discussion had gone in their favor from how grumpy Marruk’s dad was. It was the old shaman who addressed them. Well, he only did so after five minutes of bellowing about the ancestors but Viv was used to it, by now.

“Because of the wealth of steel and allies your warrior Marruk as brought to us in our hour of need, we, the council, grant you permission to challenge Warchief Matar for his title —”

Roars of surprise and approval erupted across the clans, but the shaman’s voice grew to a deafening volume, silencing them instantly.

“Under the condition! Under the condition that should she lose, she would still join us with her warband and the steel she brought for the duration of the campaign. And when she leaves, she would not try to get her gifts back.”

“I accept,” Marruk replied.

The clans beat their chest, whistled, and screamed with approval. Well, Viv wasn’t sure it was approval, but they were clearly animated now. Even the old ones standing on the stone smiled, tension melting from their faces. Nothing had been achieved so far but after decades of hopeless war, something has changed, and that was enough. Enough to believe again. Oh, many remained somber but Viv knew no amount of weaponry could lift the weight of trauma from their shoulders.

“It won’t be that easy, daughter of mine,” Warchief Matar said.

“I know, but I would never have left my tribe alone, even if you had refused me.”

“The first contest will happen as soon as our preparations are complete. It shall be a contest of speed! Each team will select three runners!” the shaman bellowed.

As the clans made to leave the valley, Marruk explained the rules. The contest of speed was a relay race that would last a day, with three runners expected to cross dozens of leagues on dangerous ground.

“The candidate backed by the best hunter wins. Some of my soldiers would do well, but not me. I am too slow.”

“Maybe you should ask Tylek?”

Marruk nodded.

“Yes. I need to show local allies, and there was something else. A person can only participate in one of the events, and I would like you for the contest of wisdom.”

“Wow. That’s the first time someone implies I am very wise!”

“It is more a contest of politics.”

“Ah.”

“I would still ask you to monitor the event. Watchers and scouts will make sure the contestants do not attack each other, as it would be against the rules. You can also save a contestant if it looks like they might die, although it might disqualify them.”

“Sure, I can do that.”

“Thank you.”

“What about the contest of strength? I assume there will be fighting involved.”

Marruk shook her head.

“No. I am already going against tradition. Magic is not strength. It is magic. For the kark, strength is more…”

“Brawn?”

“Yes. I need to prove we are the better fighters.”

Viv hesitated.

“Gear can go a long way, but…”

“I am confident we can win the speed contest. Your magic will help us tremendously during the contest of wisdom, whatever it may be. I think we can win with those two, then if we do, I will allow the third contest to take place anyway. I need… to face my father.”

“Alright.”

Marruk stopped talking. She stopped walking as well.

“Is something wrong?”

“No, nothing.”

“Liar.”

Marruk looked around. Plenty of people milled around. People talked loudly while council envoys sent runners and men to prepare for the first contest. They had a moment.

“It is the first time I talk with my father since my mother died, and it does not end in screams.”

“Is that a good thing?”

The tough kark clenched her armored fist.

“I do not know. There are many feelings. Too many broken links. He could be trying to fill the ditch between us, also. That is because all my brothers have died so he only has me left who has not married into other clans.”

“Fuck, Marruk…”

“I don’t think my people can move on before this is done. I don’t think I can do it either. It needs to stop. The bleeding must be staunched.”

“And I am here to help.”

***

The council rushed to finish the preparations. Viv’s understanding was that they had little time to waste because the northerners were gathering strength, but at the same time, they were glad for the distraction. Even the despondent families started to cook food and build decorations, distracted from their anguish by the unexpected development. Tylek the Shadow Hunter agreed to run for Marruk as their first which was a good sign. Her swiftest soldier would be their third.

“Who will be your second?” Viv asked Marruk.

But the kark would not answer out of fear of being overheard. While the clans slowly moved to the endless plains, Irao briefly appeared at Viv’s side.

“How is it going?”

“Poorly. Good attention. Good hiding. Good aim. No mindset.”

“You mean they don’t think like assassins?”

He nodded.

“Assassins need to blend. The kark cannot blend with northerners, but they could still use tricks. They do not like tricks.”

“Too cowardly?”

“Yes. Too… dishonest.”

The old hadal sounded completely baffled.

“War is dishonest. Why are they like this?”

“Fuck, this is bad. Maybe we can find a workaround?”

“I will think on it more.”

“Me as well. Ah, someone is here for me.”

An old kark warrior calmly explained Viv’s role as observer. Her task was to accompany the first two runners as they made their way across the plain, but she could stay longer to look after others. The first runner would carry a flag to the second, who would take it and bring it to a third who would bring it back to the starting point. Runners could take nothing with them but their clothes, which made it a contest of endurance as well. They were also forbidden from directly interfering with each other. The role of the observers was to make sure that rule was respected, and that the flag transfer was done properly. There would be several observers along the way. Viv was Marruk’s first pick but there would be more. It sounded simple enough.

A crowd of thousands waited in silence for the trial to start, at the edge of the plains where the grass grew as tall as two men. Tylek was there in a simple shirt and short fit alongside another wiry kark she didn’t know. They were not even wearing shoes. The start off ceremony was quick for kark standards. Soon, the two contestants rushed into the sea of grass along with their red flags. Viv took off so she could fly over them and get a good view. She didn’t expect shenanigans but wildlife might be an issue.

Below her, the two contestants walked at a brisk pace along a narrow pathway, walls of shifting green on either side. An old pakar rider bristling with weapons waved at her from the side, so she landed next to him. The two of them kept pace with each other. He tried to talk to her but she couldn’t understand, so instead, he pointed to the side and to her eyes. She got the message.

With both watchers providing cover, the runners kept on. Viv knew they had to have some good skills or at the very least strong related stats, yet they were both conserving their energy. The reason became clear soon enough: the path they were traveling angled east but their destination was to the north, and so they had to enter the sea of grass. Without tools, they had no choice but to brute force it, so now Viv could follow them by the fluttering surface of the sea of grass. They both left a visible trail behind.

From above, the race looked like two lines slowly drawn on a shifting emerald canvas. Viv didn’t lower her guard. Her mental stats allowed her to stay focused for extended periods of time, but even as she kept an eye on things, her mind wandered.

How could she win the war for the kark? A better question would be, how could she convince the Pure League to abandon their expansion? Winning a battle was a thing, but she needed to win a war. And she couldn’t just bring her troops here, not without a mountain of complications. Viv sighed, then she tried to relax.

