I shake my head. “No, I trust you. I can tell how amazing these samples are just by looking at them.” I close the box and gently set it aside. “Are you ready to see what I have for you?” I motion over to my full cart.

“Very much so.” Kervin and his two bodyguards move beside my cart and look inside.

“I have 26 spears and three chameleon spider’s worth of materials.” I saved the rest of the chameleon spider parts to make more arrows and experiment with the materials more.

“That’s what I’m looking for.” Kervin eyes everything like a hungry shark. “How much do you want for all of them?” His skills flare to life.

My skills activate in return as I question him. “How did selling the organs of the chameleon spiders go?”

“It was profitable for me. Alchemists will take anything if the price is right.” That means it’s worth it to harvest them.

“Well, I have more set aside. I’m sure we can agree on the ‘right’ price. I’m thinking three and a half gold for everything.”

Kervin feigns shock. “Do you think I carry that much coin with me to a rural village like this? I’ll give you two and a half gold for everything.”

“Please! Knowing you, you probably have at least five gold on you in case you find something you can make a profit on. Just going off of the prices we agreed on last time I should get at least 2.9 gold for everything in my cart and that’s selling the organs for nothing. I need at least 3.3 gold for my hard work.”

“I didn’t say the organs were made out of gold. 3 gold coins and that’s leaving me with almost nothing for a profit.” I don’t believe him for a second.

As usual, his merchant skills easily suppress mine. Thankfully I have Mental Resistance allowing me to further negotiate.

“What if we come to a different agreement?” I test the waters.

“What are you talking about?” Kervin rubs the stubble on his chin.

“I get 3.1 gold for my wares.” Kervin immediately tries to disagree but I hold my hand up. “I’m not done yet. I want 3.1 gold minus 30 silver for your finder’s fee procuring the materials I needed. I need 10 silver for me but the remaining 2.7 gold I want you buy some more stuff for me. That means you only give me 10 silver right now and take everything with you.” Kervin looks surprised by my offer.

“You need more materials? If so, they can’t be like the mithril or magic gem. I had to run around like crazy to find you those materials. I can’t sacrifice my other stops just to hunt down materials for you.” He folds his hands in front of him.

“You have it all wrong. I don’t need specific materials. This time you have much more freedom in what you buy.”

“Oh, you don’t care what I spend your money on?” Kervin cocks an eyebrow at me obviously skeptic of my words.

“Yes and no. I need semi-magical tools and even any cheap magical tools you can get your hands on. Duplicates are ok but I mostly need a variety of magical items.” I explain to him.

He hums to himself while staring at me. “Your trying to copy magical tools, aren’t you?”

I flinch at the accusation.

He notices my reaction and shows me his merchant smile. “While asking around about your materials I also asked what they could be used for. Most people said they’re the basic ingredients for a good weapon but others told me they were needed to make an enchanting pen.” I try to keep a poker face when he mentions the pen.

“Now you want any magical items I can get my hands on. You’re going to start forging magical items, I’m right aren’t I?”

A million thoughts burst through my head with his accusation. Master warned me this might happen. I can’t tell him master isn’t able to teach me enchanting because he doesn’t have any magic. I’ve also denied selling him magical items on numerous occasions in the past, I can’t just say now its ok. How do I handle this?

….

Kervin stands there looking smug, waiting patiently for my answer. A crazy idea pops into my head, lie my ass off with a little bit of truth mixed in. “You got me Kervin but it isn’t what you think.”

“Oh, do tell.”

“After master let me place my makers mark on my work, he said I was ready for the next step. Only the next step comes with a challenge. Stone Kin build off of each other’s work and master said I need to do the same thing. The only problem is I don’t have the resources to do that. Master is giving me the basic knowledge to get started but I need to reach a certain point by myself before he teaches me anything else. If you’re expecting magical items next month or even by the end of winter I’ll have to disappoint you. All I can promise is a lot of business in the future and if you cooperate with me, we can continue trading like we did last month. No need to move a lot of coins to a small village out in the middle of nowhere.” I wait for his response.

“When you do start enchanting your work, will you move to Drey?”

A look of confusion crosses my face. “No, why would I?”

His smile looks like it widens a little if that’s even possible. “I was worried I would lose our partnership if you reached a level like that. Call me sentimental but I consider us friends and I don’t want to lose a friend.”

“A friend, huh?” I give him my own questionable look.

“Of course! And as a friend, we need to help one another out. I’ll gladly accept your deal as long as you promise as a friend, you’ll sell all your extra goods to me in the future. In exchange, I’ll help keep your magic skills a secret from prying eyes.” He offers me a handshake.

That doesn’t sound like a bad deal?

I go to shake his hand but he retracts it at the last second. “Before you take my hand, as a friend, I’ll warn you this will be binding with my Contract skill.” He holds his hand out again, offering me the deal.

It doesn’t take a genius to realize that his skill would compel me to follow our deal in the future. My smile widens and I immediately shake on it. His smile falters into insecurity because of my quick response.

I feel his skill activate and watch a small sliver of his soul dissipate throughout my own. Unlike Camden’s skill that compelled me to take for the village, Kervin’s skill goes completely dormant after it settles and doesn’t bother me at all.

“Didn’t waste any time there, did you? I’ll get you what you need and I’m willing to invest in you if you need some extra coin?” Kervin motions to his guards to have them transfer all the goods over to his empty cart.

“Thanks for the offer but my mother taught me to never fall in debt with a merchant. I’ll make sure to keep making more weapons for you and the spiders don’t look like they’re going anywhere soon. I should be able to get my hands on enough coin to fund my enchanting practice.”

“That’s good.” Kervin hides his disappointment really well behind his smile.

Kervin hands me my 10 silver coins and we spend the rest of the time chatting about the village and the problems we’re facing with the magic beasts. He subtly tries to ask about my willingness to agree to his skill which I deflect with some platitudes towards his character.

Kervin’s two guards appear to be even warier of me than last month. They work fast, trying to finish their job and return to Kervin’s side. Thanks to their rushing everything is moved quickly from my cart over to his.

“I have to work tomorrow, so I won’t be stopping by but I can’t wait for you to return next month with my delivery.” I hold the box with my rare materials in one hand and wave goodbye with the other. I move over to my cart and start pushing the cart into the distance.

“See you then. You’ll be happy with our friendship!” He yells behind me.

“I know I will.” I quietly mumble to myself. Kervin might think because I agreed to his skill, he has me locked into this agreement but sadly for him, I can easily destroy the hold his skill has on me if I need to. His Contract skill feels similar enough to Camden’s skill that I’m confident I can remove it from my soul with enough practice. Tonight, I might just gather all the fragments of his skill scattered throughout my soul and leave them bundled together just in case I need to eject them for some reason.

If he does try to take advantage of me, I’ll just have to send word to the Silver Heard Trading Co about acquiring a better deal with a more reputable merchant. Of course, I’ll wait until I can properly enchant items before I do that.

Let’s hope my new friend stays a friend in the future… for his sake.
