I want to have someone carry father away too but I don’t have time to make eye contact with anybody else. I spin around to see the Spider making its way towards me.

I reapply Mana Skin and pump some more mana into my sword leaving me with only 520 mana left. A quick check of my Stamina isn’t any better. I only have around 670 Stamina left. Fighting this much after my morning training is consuming my Stamina at a rapid pace.

I move forward closing the distance between the spider and me trying to keep it away from father. I cut the beast as many times as I can no matter how shallow they may be. Thanks to the flames on my sword each cut ignites part of the creature’s wind mana. The flames on each of the wounds spread a few inches before puttering out.

I focus more on dodging in hopes that reinforcements will arrive soon.

Waving around the eight remaining legs I get an opening I can’t refuse. The leg I injured when I first arrived is close enough for me to cut.

I trigger Precise Strike and fully sever the injured limb.

The spider backs off once again giving me a few precious seconds to catch my breath. Sadly, the magic beast doesn’t hesitate for long and once again shuffles towards me with its remaining seven legs.

I twirl, escaping the spider’s frenzied attack. I try attacking another one of the legs that the beast is using to keep its balance but the beast is getting used to attack patterns. The spider shifts its weight and strikes at me with the leg I was aiming for.

Not only does my slash barely cut into the carapace but I’m knocked back again and this time the spider doesn’t wait for me to get to my feet before closing the distance. A rain of spider legs starts falling around me. The sharpened tips of each of the legs combined with the weight of the beast would easily piece through Mana Skin if I’m hit. Without any time to get to my feet, I start rolling around on the ground, trying to avoid being skewered alive.

The spider is attacking too fast for me to completely dodge everything. The many legs scrape against my barrier and rip holes in my defense. Each cut in Mana Skin requires more and more of my mana to repair it.

With both my Mana and Stamina bars reaching dangerous levels I need to call it. While continuing to dodge the spider’s legs on the ground I shout hoping any villagers nearby will hear me. “I can’t hold it back any longer! Retreat! Retreat!”

I don’t know if anyone heard my frantic shouting but it’s the best I can do to warn them.

Before my Stamina bottoms out and I collapse from exhaustion I need to grab father and get us to safety. I take a deep breath and ready to activate multiple skills at once so I can flee with father.

“AAAAAGGGGG!”

A war cry echoes from behind me and a meteor crashes into the side of the distracted spider. I’m so shocked by the scene I can’t comprehend seeing master fall from the sky and snatching me up from the ground.

A sense of vertigo overcomes me as he drags me away from the reeling spider. It isn’t until I’m dragged next to father that the situation dawns on me for what it is, a rescue.

I look up at master standing in front of me with his pickaxe raised. “Master!” I cry out with tears in my eyes.

He doesn’t respond to me instead he watches the spider recover from his body slam. It’s hard to read a spider’s expression but anyone could tell the magic beast was extra pissed that it lost yet another meal to someone interfering with its breakfast.

I expect master to charge the beast but instead, I hear the loud twang of multiple bows releasing arrows behind me. Two of the beast’s eyes are pierced with my special arrows while others sink into the spider’s leg joints.

I look behind me and see Ronald alongside Braddon, Arash, and Hayk. All four of them are using the special bows we made for them. Ronald’s arrows pierce the deepest but the other three hunters refuse to be outdone. The four men constantly fire their bows aiming for any weak spot they can find.

Master hasn’t moved from guarding us yet but I can tell he’s waiting for an opening to strike. “Master, bring your pickaxe over!” I shout at the man’s back.

He doesn’t turn around but instead waves his pickaxe behind himself, positioning it in front of me. I waste no time pouring some of my remaining mana into the weapon. Before I can tell master, his pickaxe is charged, he pushes off of the ground with all his strength. Dirt and snow impact my remaining Mana Skin obscuring my view of master’s attack.

I wave my hands across the part of the barrier protecting my face in time to see master land on top of the chameleon spider. The beast tries to buck him off but with it missing three of its legs and having arrows in its remaining joins limits its range of movement.

Master activates his Multi-Strike skill and delivers five incredible blows in a single spot on the spiders back. His last strike leaves his pickaxe embedded in the spider's bleeding carapace. When he yanks his pickaxe back out a huge chunk of carapace and meat is ripped away with it.

The four hunters aren’t standing by waiting for master to have all the fun. Two more of the spider’s eyes are blinded by arrows and three of its remaining legs are locking up with all the arrows stuck in its joints.

The spider’s mouth starts dripping blood and soon the creature topples over onto its side. Master jumped off of the beast at the last moment and lands next to me and father. The monster bleeds out slowly before us. I curse the spider in my mind as I watch the life drain out of its remaining eyes.

I shiver in my seat, thinking back on this morning. Everything felt like a blur after the spider finally died. Father and I were escorted home to a worried mother while the village fell into a frenzied panic. This was the first time the average villager saw the beasts stalking the woods in their full menacing entirety.

It took me ten minutes to reassure mother I wasn’t injured thanks to Mana Skin and that I was able to stand. Even though I was tired, I helped mother bandage father up and move him to his bed to rest. We both cried together when we realized, thankfully father wasn’t badly injured.

An hour after the attack Nicolas came to check up on us and asked if I was feeling ok enough to meet with Camden. Father was fast asleep, so mother and I made our way over to the headman’s house.

“How much meat do you think we can get from the beast?” Camden questions his son.

“We’re lucky if we get fifteen hundred pounds of edible meat from the magic beast. Enough meat to last the village four days, six if we stretch it.” Nicolas replies to his father.

“That’s good. Kervin should arrive tomorrow with our order of dried meets. That should be enough meat to supply the village for the next month if we’re careful.”

“That’s good and all but what are we going to do about the village's safety,” Mother asks Camden not concealing her sharp tone.

“It was my fault,” I mumble in a low voice.

“How could this be your fault, sweety?” Mother moves close to me and wraps me in a hug.

“If I didn’t put off my morning run, then this wouldn’t have happened and dad wouldn’t have been hurt.” I choke out the words in between my sniffling.

“The safety of the village doesn’t only fall on your shoulders.” Camden looks me in the eye. “The sad fact of the matter was we became complacent with our logging to spot the chameleon spiders. This just shows we need to have people who can spot the difference with the trees patrolling the forest.” Camden moves his gaze over to mother. “When Darrius wakes up, I hope he can teach a few of the villagers with a higher Senses stat to spot the hidden beasts?”

“I’ll talk to him when he wakes up.” It’s easy to see that mother is getting tired of our family always being the ones to participate in the dangerous aspects of our village.

“I know I haven’t said it in a while but we are all grateful for your family, especially over the last two months. This village owes the three of you a debt of gratitude that I fear will only get bigger in the future. And I can’t forget about you Master Del-Razen and Ronald, thank you for protecting the village.” Camden lowers his head followed by his family doing the same.

After a minute of silence, the headman raises his head and addresses Ronald. “I need you and the hunters to establish a patrol around the edge of the village. When Darrius gets better, we can find villagers that can help but until then we can’t have something like this happening again.

Ronald nods his head in agreement.

“Good. I want to thank you all again for coming after everything you did this morning. If any of you need anything please find Nicolas or myself.” Camden once again lowers his head.

Mother and I decide now is a good time as any to leave. We offer everyone a farewell and make our way back home to check up on father.

He woke up when we entered my parents’ room but quickly fell asleep again once we assured him everything was ok.

I helped mother with dinner and we all ate on top of my parent’s bed. Father had to eat slowly but otherwise, he was healing quickly thanks to his physical stats.

A sudden feeling of being trapped washes over me. My eyes open and gaze through the darkness. My head is fuzzy but I think I must have fallen asleep at some point?

The feeling of being constricted doesn’t lessen once I realize I’m now awake. I try grabbing my sheets and slowly pull on them hoping they loosen so I can get more comfortable. My eyes adjust to the darkness and I see the two shapes on either side of me.

I relax once I see I’m snuggled in between mother and father. Hearing their even breathing is like a metronome that calms my worried nerves. I know mother and father’s bed isn’t that big so maybe I should sneak out and move back to my own bed?

I slowly start adjusting myself so I can crawl out of the bed but my mother’s hand moves over me, locking me in place. “Shh, it’s ok,” she whispers in her sleep.

I give up any idea of escape and surrender myself to the warmth and comfort of the bed.

I slowly nod off back to sleep feeling the safest I’ve been in a while.

“Yes, all of them are for the village!” Kervin shouts at the mass of villages swarming his cart.

“Take them to our house so we can divide them later!” Nicolas helps direct the villagers carrying large bags of smoked meats towards the village.

I’m standing off to the side with my own cart waiting for Kervin to finish with his food delivery. Normally I would meet with him the day after he arrives but I gave master a day off after yesterday and decided to do my trading today.

…

And maybe I’m a little excited about getting my hands on the materials I ordered.

I don’t think I’ll have to wait much longer. 80% of Kervin’s cart was stuffed with bags of food while the other 20% are things people asked him to acquire last month. While most of the villagers are unloading the meat, Kervin is selling his remaining goods at an alarming pace.

One by one the food is hauled off to the headman’s house and the remaining villagers haggle over the remaining goods.

When the last person leaves, I push my cart next to Kervins and greet the merchant. “Anything left?!” I sarcastically eyeball the inside of his empty cart.

“For you, I have the most luxurious gown enchanted with invisibility, so light you can’t even feel the material.” Kervin snickers at me.

“Have you ever known me to buy a dress?” I smile wryly at the man.

“Sorry, I miss spoke. I have a cart full of invisible ore. Only 100 gold for you.”

We both laugh at his joke. “Good to see you again Kervin.” I shake the man’s hand.

“Always a pleasure.” He rubs his two hands together giving him the perfect greedy merchant look. “Do you have some weapons for me this time?” His grin stretches ear to ear.

“That depends, do you have my order?” My own excitement is hard to hide.

“Sure do, let me grab it.” Kervin moves over to his cart and unlocks his safe hidden under his seat. He pulls out a box a little bigger than my hand.

He gently carries the jewelry box over to me. “You have no idea how many people I had to get in touch with to get this for you. When I finally met with the person selling the materials, he wouldn’t even let me see his specimens without me showing him proof I could afford them.” With both hands, he hands me the box.

I flip a small latch on the front of the box and with a racing heart, I open the lid. The inside of the jewelry box is lined with fluffy fabric and sitting on top are my materials. A rectangle bar of silver that has a bluish sheen immediately catches my eye. Next to the bar of mithril is a small elongated gem shaped like a piece of rice only twice its size. The uncut gem is mostly clear but has a small amount of white fog swirling around its insides.

My mana sense shows an entirely different picture than my eyes. The bluish mithril has more mana inside it than any other metal I’ve ever seen before, including the fire iron I bought a few months ago. And even then, comparing the gem to the mithril beside it is like comparing a thunderstorm to a small lake. Both forces of nature but one is more impressive than the other. The mithril is packed with beautiful flowing mana like a tranquil lake while the gem contains a storm of mana that I’ve only seen before in magicite. Both of the materials in my hands are leagues above anything I’ve ever worked with before.

“Beautiful, aren’t they?” Kervin shows me a proud smile. ‘If you need to confirm them with your master I don’t mind waiting?”

