“How is the processing of the chameleon spider from this morning coming along, Nicolas?” Everyone in the drawing-room turns to Camden’s son.

The poor man wipes a bit of sweat from his brow and straitens his posture before he answers his father. “Because the creature was slain on the outskirts of the village, I gathered as many spare hands as I could to dismantle the beast. The carapace and salvageable materials are being set aside as we speak and should be ready by the time our meeting ends.”

I sit back in my chair and sip from my cup of tea that Misses Downs brewed for all of us. I send a worried glance at Ronald and master sitting close to me. Both men are sweaty and have dried blood on them from earlier today.

The village let its guard down and we paid for it with the attack this morning.

“How are the injured doing?” Sarette questions her son.

“Delbuc lost an arm and two others suffered extensive wounds. If Mr. Darrius wasn’t there to buy time for everyone to retreat, we would be planning more funerals right now.” Nicolas solemnly relays the grim news.

“How is your husband doing, Silvia?” Concerned, Sarette turns and asks mother.

“It will take more than an overgrown spider to bring down Darrius. We left him sleeping back at our house. He suffered a few small injuries but he should be up and moving around again tomorrow.” Mother confidently relays father’s condition but we can all see her teacup shaking in her hands.

“That’s good to hear. We now know where Aaliyah gets her bravery from.” Mother tries to smile at the headman’s words but gives up and chooses to look down at the cup of tea in her hands.

Camden doesn’t further comment on father’s situation and instead turns back to his son. “Did you talk to others who were present? Did the beast try to enter the village?”

“Only a few passing villagers were nearby when Mr. Darrius yelled out about the danger. I managed to peace their statements together but I can only guess about the beast’s instincts. According to the people I talked to, the felling team was starting to clear trees for the day and right before they could begin Mr. Darrius noticed the weird trees that weren’t there yesterday. Unfortunately, Delbuc and a few others were already too close to the creature. It attacked and the only reason no one died was thanks to Aaliyah’s father valiantly occupying the beast’s attention, buying time for reinforcements to arrive.” I shiver listening to Nicolas’s account of what happened before I could arrive earlier today. I can’t help but to question myself if I did everything right when I think back on how my day started.

“Aaaaaaa!” I shout as I swing my blade.

I take a step forward slashing upwards with my katana. I dance around imaginary goblins, slaying them until I get to the point, I need to imagine something more of a challenge.

I get back into a starting position but I let my body move naturally and continue swinging my sword. I only gave myself an hour to practice before I have to get to Del’s and start-up the forge.

I flick the tip of my sword and try to slash a falling snowflake. The falling snow dodges my sword thanks to the wind pressure of my strike.

I move to try again but I flinch when a drop of sweat falls into my eye. I sheath my sword and move over to a towel I have resting on a nearby boulder. A quick flick of the fabric and the snow that accumulated on the top of it is sent falling to the ground.

Slowly, I raise the cold towel to my face and adjust the barrier protecting my head.

It’s been two weeks since I got Mana Skin to level 41 and I’m finally able to let things pass through my barrier as I need them, though still with some difficulty. I can change clothes without deactivating my barrier and even grip items with my real hands if I need to.

The ice-cold towel glides across my face providing a cool and refreshing sensation. I’m wearing a long-sleeved shirt and pants but I left my jacket at home. Now that Mana Skin is much stronger than before I could probably run naked through the forest and not feel even a slight chill from the falling snow. The barrier works so well it retains most of my body heat making me constantly sweat while training.

I might be a little paranoid but I keep Mana Skin activated whenever I leave the house these days. We’ve hunted three chameleon spiders in fourteen days all of which were quite close to the village. The beasts appear to be either moving towards our village in search of an easy meal or dispersing into the surrounding forest.

Master Del, Ronald, and I may no longer have trouble with the beasts but their presence is becoming increasingly bad for the environment. Other than birds, the only beasts the hunters have found remaining in the area are karhu who are more skin and bones than anything else.

The three of us decided as a group to give the meat from our kills to the village. People didn’t even complain about the origin of the meat after three days of only vegetables. Even with levels and stats, people who live in villages like ours need a large number of calories at least once a day and a good chunk of it needs to be protein.

Luckily for the village, Kervin should be back soon. Camden and Kervin sealed a deal before the trader left and part of that deal was sending a message once he was coming back to our village. Camden was ecstatic two days ago when he received a letter from Kervin saying he was on his way. We should be getting a delivery of dried meats sometime tomorrow. We’ll have to ration it out but the meat should last us until he can come again next month.

Kervin should also be bringing me my mana gem alongside my first real fantasy metal, mithril. Food may be important but I can’t help but be more excited about the materials being brought to me. Learning to engrave will take my crafting skills to the next tier. It may eat up all my money for years to come but once I can engrave my work it will jump in price and pay for itself in no time.

I’m counting my kips before they hatch. I need to center myself.

I should check my status page.

LV: 62 Experience: 81,073/ 481,032

Health: 2,060/2,060

Stamina: 897.41/1,386

Mana: 807.64/1,000

Vitality: 206.00

Endurance: 80.09

Strength: 130.00

Dexterity: 120.00

Senses: 60.43

Mind: 62.49

Magic: 100.62

Clarity: 75.37

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV72), Blacksmithing (LV59), Axe Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV50), Chanting (LV46), Mining (LV46), Drawing (LV37), Cooking (LV36), Trading (LV32), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV21), Sword Skills(LV21), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV56), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV41), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase price (LV13), Lower Price (LV12), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV7), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV56), Mana Manipulation (LV50), Double Strike (LV31), Precise Strike (LV30), Weighted Strike (LV19), Flash Step (LV13)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV44), Mana Skin (LV44), Mental Resistance (LV40), Extract Mana (LV21), Magic Blacksmithing (LV16)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV30)

Increased Skill Levels

Running (LV72) 3,600exp

Blacksmithing (LV59) 2,950exp

Sword Skills (LV20-21) 2,050exp

Double Step (LV56) 5,600exp

Measurement (LV41) 4,100exp

Intimidating Shout (LV31) 3,100exp

Sword Arts (LV7) 700exp

Mana Manipulation (LV50) 7,500exp

Double Strike (LV31) 4,650exp

Weighted Strike (LV18-19) 5,550exp

Flash Step (LV13) 1,950exp

Inject mana (LV44) 11,000

Mana Skin (LV43-44) 21,750exp

Extract Mana (LV20-21) 10,250exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV16) 4,000exp

Sense Soul (LV30) 15,000exp

Skill Experience: 103,750exp

Crafting Experience: 32,313exp

Fighting Experience: 13,128exp

Total experience Gained: 149,191exp

As soon as I pull my status page up, I distribute my status points. I dumped 6 into Strength to pull it up to 130 and 3 into Dexterity to make it an even 120. The last point goes into Vitality.

I watch my soul release the colorful energy and grin when I feel my body becoming stronger. Most of my commonly used skills leveled up once but I choose to focus on the one that matters the most, Sense Soul. Just like I was told its first test was at level 30 and if rumors are to be believed, I’ll have to pass another test every ten levels from here on out.

I look down at my hands and flex my fingers. I can’t help but feel positive about my future with this new energy flowing through me. I should practice before the feeling of strength becomes normal to me.

I move to draw my sword again.

“Aaaaaaa!”

I freeze in place. The wind and falling snow muffles it, but that was screaming I heard!

Using my new Strength and continuously activate Double Step to run around my house and speed through the village.

“Aaaaaaaaaaaa!”

I’m getting closing in the screams.

“Help! Spider!”

I don’t stop as I pass the woman shouting spider at the top of her lungs. Damn, did a chameleon spider make it into the village!

A part of me is worried about facing the beast by myself but my blood runs cold when I hear a familiar voice yelling, “Get back!”

That was father! It dawns on me the screams for help are coming from the felling site father was working on yesterday.

I immediately activate Flash Step. The world slows and villagers’ heads can’t turn fast enough as I zoom past them. “Hold on dad, I’m coming!” Please let him be ok!

I round a house and find myself in a horror scene. Two unconscious men are being dragged away by their arms by blood-soaked villagers. Blood is spattered all over the ground and covering the giant man charging the magic beast. A leg flashes in front of father and sends him skipping across the ground like someone would skip a stone across the water. Father’s wounds open deeper yet he springs to his feet readying another charge.

I use Flash Step one more time to get in front of my recklessly charging father. Drawing my sword in one smooth motion, I slice into the leg that would have sent father flying again. I don’t have enough time to activate anymore of my skills, so the blade only makes it a third of the way through the spider’s leg.

The chameleon spider’s leg doesn’t stop with my strike and crashes into me sending me colliding into dad crashing us both to the ground. I tuck and roll before springing back to my feet but father stays on his hands and knees heaving up a mouthful of blood.

“Stay Down!” I shout at dad as he tries to get up once he manages to catch a breath.

“Derlbuc.” Dad wheezes and points towards the base of the chameleon spider.

I didn’t notice because I was so focused on dad but there’s a man lying face down in a pool of blood missing his arm directly underneath the magic beast. Everything clicks into place when I see the spider repositioning itself over the unconscious man.

Dad was distracting the beast so it couldn’t eat him.

I have no time to come up with a strategy so I run at the beast just like father tried to do. If I hold back now the man will die. Despite a few villagers watching in the distance I inject mana into my sword and ignite it. I restabilize my Mana Skin barrier and run straight for the injured man.

The spider hisses at me and clearly understands I’m trying to steal its prey. Two of its ten legs come flying at me trying to deter me from approaching. If I’m by myself I need to get rid of some of these legs.

“Weighted Strike! Double Strike!” In the heat of the moment, I shout out my two skills as I swing at the fast-approaching limbs.

I feel my sword make contact with the first limb and I put every ounce of Strength I have behind my sword.

My blade slices cleanly through the first leg and does the same to the second.

Suddenly missing two of its limbs, the magic beast reels back in pain and produces a high-pitched screech that reverberates through my body.

Too bad for the spider, I have experience against its scream and use the opportunity given to me to grab the unconscious man with my left hand.

The spider sees what I’m doing and realizes I’m unaffected by its screech. It stops the horrible noise and instead shuffles towards me at full speed. I can’t outrun the beast while dragging the man behind me.

I make the choice to face the beast instead of running. Wilding my sword with one hand I try to block a strike coming at the middle of my chest. My sword cuts into the spider slightly but is pushed away by the force. I can’t wield my sword with enough strength to injure the magic beast with only a single hand. The spider's leg slams directly into me popping the outer layer of Mana Skin.

A horrible smile crosses my face as I’m launched into the air. “Thanks, stupid, that’s what I wanted.”

My vice-like grip holds onto the shirt of the unconscious man letting me pull him away from the beast using the momentum of its strike against it.

With my superb senses, I have just enough time to toss the man further behind me before I hit the ground. The inner layer of Mana Skin keeps me from getting hurt from the fall.

I watch out for my unsheathed sword as I tumble across the snow-covered ground. A few rocks come close to puncturing the inner layer of Mana Skin but I thank the gods that it luckily holds up against the punishment.

I stumble to my feet and turn towards two men hiding behind the closest building. “You two, grab him and take him to Anastasia!” The two men pale at my command and don’t move a muscle.

“Now!” With my shout, they finally dash towards the injured man and start dragging him away.

