The treeline disappeared abruptly as Vithar rode into a clearing, his breath catching at the sight of dozens of soldiers arrayed before him. A voice shouted, “Loose,” and his eyes tracked the speaker, landing on the child who’d lured him here, wearing a murderous scowl fit for a true warrior of the North. Vithar almost laughed before the arrows struck, knocking the air from his lungs as he sailed away, thrown from his dead or dying garo.

Landing hard in the tall grass, Vithar blinked at the wooden arrows protruding from his chest, like tiny spears planted in the dirt. A single hilt ruined the imagery, a thrown knife just barely missing his heart, yet somehow burning him from within. Stifling his groans, he sat up and pulled on the knife hilt, an inhuman sound tearing from his throat as the heated metal slid from his flesh, burning the wound shut. Blood frothing from his mouth, he gasped and tossed the blade aside, moving on to the arrows that remained. Most of the projectiles barely penetrated his armour, aside from one metal shaft buried so deep he couldn’t get his fingers around the blood-soaked protrusion. Calling on the ancestors for strength, he pushed himself to his feet and leaned on his axe, unable to draw breath to sound the retreat. Helpless, he watched his tribesmen die one by one as they filtered into the clearing.

Hobbling away, he flagged down a tribesman and mounted the garo, handing the horn on his belt to his rescuer. A few gestures was all it took to convey his message, the signal for retreat booming through the forest. Turning to look back, Vithar spotted the enemy riding in on their horses, cutting down his people as they fled. Cold calculation confirmed his suspicions: it would be impossible to escape on a garo burdened by two riders.

Crushing his rescuer’s neck with a single hand, Vithar tossed the corpse aside and took the reins. Heading north and east with all the speed the beast could muster, he hoped to reach the five-thousand allied southerners camped outside the city before his enemy caught him. Any of his tribesmen who survived would do the same, and together, they would crush these hateful southerners another day. A cunning ploy, distracting him with the vulnerable army to the south and striking with a second, well-hidden army from the west, those fearsome arrows and projectiles almost put an end to Vithar. Again, the leather and fur-clad southerners showed their mettle, easily discerned from the metal encased weaklings that made up the majority of southerners. It seemed he lacked no end of challenge so long as Kalil’s people survived.

Bleeding from a dozen wounds, bruised ribs and a pierced lung, Vithar faded in and out of consciousness as he rode, the ancestors whispering in his dreams.

Death calls to you, comes for your fleshly vessel.

Join us and together, we will wreak immeasurable destruction upon your enemies.

Surrender.

Surrender.

Surrender.

Snorting awake, Vithar shook his head and growled. “I’m not dead yet. Away with your nagging and tend to my injuries.” With renewed focus and flagging strength, he rode towards the city, alone but determined to survive and fight another day. Though he’d been defeated, he still drew breath, and Vithar was not a man to make the same mistake twice.

Chapter Meme
