“Now get in the wheelchair so I can deliver you to the torture room.” Stella said and smiled.

“Yes, Ma'am.” Ren said and sat in the wheelchair. “See you tonight, Barbara.”

“Bye, Ren.” Barbara said, and Stella took him to therapy.

Thankfully, with Stella to run interference every time the therapist tried to manhandle Ren, the session actually went pretty well. Ren wasn't as stressed as he had been after the last time he had therapy, and he also wasn't as tired.

“I'm glad that's over for today.” Ren said and tried to peel off his sweat-soaked t-shirt. “Help me out of these clothes.”

“Ooo, I thought you'd never ask.” Stella said and Ren chuckled.

“You might want to keep your hands to yourself.” He said as she gently pulled off his t-shirt. “I've apparently got a girlfriend now.”

“I heard.” Stella said. “Brown chicken, brown cow.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “What was that?”

“You know.” She said. “That funky music they play in the old movies when something sexy is going to happen.”

“I think you mean 'boom-chicka, bow-wow'.”

“That's what I said.” Stella said, put a hand on her hip, and the other hand on the back of her head. She swung her hips and gyrated. “Brown chicken, brown cow.”

Ren started to laugh. Stella turned around and said it again as she shook her butt at him, then exaggerated the motion.

“Stop! I can't take it!” Ren laughed and tears came to his eyes.

“Suffer at the sight of my sexiness!” Stella grinned and over-exaggerated the movement, started to lose her balance, and caught herself against the dresser before she fell. “Oops.”

Ren leaned against the bed and held his sides, and tried his best to stop laughing. Stella let him laugh a bit more, helped him dry his eyes, and took him to the bathroom to finish getting undressed. He had a quick shower, with only a little bit of help from Stella in the back-washing department, and she wrapped him in a towel.

“Are you heading back into the game before we go to the television studio?” Stella asked him as she helped to dry him off.

“No.” Ren said. “I don't want to take the chance that I'll get sweat-soaked again, especially if I'm in the bed for several hours before we leave.”

“Yeah, that's always a risk.” Stella said and dried his hair. “I heard that Elise wanted to be there.”

Ren nodded, and she smiled at him.

“I also heard that you put an end to that idea for her.”

“I tried to explain to her how much I appreciate everything she's been doing for me; but, she can't give up her job just so she can spend time with me.” Ren said. “I'm not sure she got the message, though.”

“It's hard to tell people something that they don't want to hear.”

Ren nodded. “Is it ever.”

“What did she say?”

“That I shouldn't tell people how to live their lives.”

Stella smiled crookedly. “I can tell that's not all she said. I see that glimmer.”

“What glimmer?” Ren asked, and put a hand on his face.

“That glimmer.” Stella said, and pointed to his eye. “She said something else. What was it?”

“She said...” Ren sighed. “...that nothing was as important as me.”

“Oho!” Stella said and grinned. “Way to go, little stud!”

Ren chuckled. “I still don't know why she likes me so much.”

“You're handsome, funny, rich, humble, young, innocent...”

“Hey, I resemble those comments!” Ren joked, and she laughed.

“I said you were humble, not obnoxious.” Stella said, and it was Ren's turn to laugh.
