Having been raised from birth at the Imperial Academy, Luo-Luo received an extensive and comprehensive education, far beyond that which even the wealthiest nobles of the outer provinces had access to.

Becoming an Imperial Servant wasn’t just about looking pretty and warming beds, for one could never know what one’s Patron would require of them. There were plenty of Luo-Luo’s peers serving in less intimate roles, from nannies and tutors for children of high Peerage to accountants and quartermasters for more militaristic minded masters. Still others served as advisors or confidants, a friendly ear to listen and offer advice without fear of judgment or betrayal, unless of course said Patron intended to rebel against the Emperor. Luo-Luo herself once dreamed of serving in the role of a performance artist, playing music for her Patron’s guests and creating all manner of artwork to decorate his or her household, but of course, the final say would have always belonged to her Patron.

That being said, though she loved the arts and music in particular, her other subjects did not suffer for her lack of affection. While they were graded through written exams alone, Luo-Luo received top or close to the top marks in every class of every year. She excelled in the fields of arithmetic, finance, subterfuge, and business management, and while child care, communication, and espionage were her lowest scoring subjects, even then she scored in the top ten of her class. It wasn’t that her peers lacked talent or ambition either, for they were an exceedingly competitive group of overachieving individuals when compared to the classes that came after. It was strange to see so many younger Imperial Servants working together and celebrating the victories of their peers, for Luo-Luo’s class lacked any and all such camaraderie. Instead, every last one of her fellow students had made her their target instead, a rival to surpass and overcome. Not without good reason, for every single one of her peers had been aware of her status as a first generation Imperial Scion, mostly because her tutors were always quick to point it out whenever she made any sort of achievement. As a child, Luo-Luo simply believed her talent was due to her close relation to the Emperor, a true dragon among men who surely had Divine blood running through his veins, so of course she too would have benefited from her close relation. Looking back on it now with the benefit of hindsight however, she realized her tutors had brought this up time and time again to incite rivalry and competition among the students, a tactic she agreed with, but thought was a bit cruel to use on children as young as five.

Still, despite all the odds stacked against her, Luo-Luo overcame the trials and tribulations before her to graduate as the undisputed number one student of her class, though at great cost. One she was all too happy to bear now that she’d seen where her Path brought her, but those gruelling years of schooling followed by the joyless years spent waiting for her fate to arrive had been difficult to say the least. The initial shock of being gifted as a concubine to an ‘outlander savage’ had not made it any easier to accept her new lot in life, especially since she still had her aspirations of being more than a mere bed-warmer and child-bearer, but at that point, she’d been already six years graduated and twenty four years old, and thus was relieved to serve in any capacity at all.

Which of course made it all the more heart-breaking when her new Lord Husband ‘absolved’ Luo-Luo of all her ‘concubinely duties’ within seconds of their first meeting.

That had been a grievous blow to her pride, and what followed after stomped it flat into the ground. In return for misappropriating her 360 Death Corps Honour Guard, Lord Husband offered her fifteen percent of his personal business holdings, a pittance she scorned before learning the full value of his financial portfolio. As far as she could tell, all his wealth had been obtained on his own, as he received no seed money from his parents because the Bekhai put minimal value on coin when making trades among their own people, and generally only needed it to trade with outsiders from the nearby cities, but Lord Husband still amassed a sizable nest egg for himself. While he could not be considered wealthy compared to most nobles, he was still well off, and only because he grossly ‘mismanaged’ his businesses until they were barely even profitable. He set wages too high and offered all manner of additional securities, such as a pension for his caravan guards and an annuity for the families of fallen Warriors. In Luo-Luo’s eyes, he was taking on too much risk for too little profit, and tying up much of his wealth in long term, low interest investments to ensure he would always have funds available for any unexpected payouts. If he were to instead put that coin to good use, he could easily earn far more coin and see an exponential growth in wealth within a matter of years, though this was not without risk of course.

Instead of growing his own wealth however, the bulk of the profits from Lord Husband’s initial ventures in medicines were invested back into his hometown. Though not optimal for the growth of his personal wealth, it showed an entrepreneurial and philanthropic spirit that suited him well. After he handed control over to Luo-Luo, she sought to match his generous efforts while growing his wealth, but despite her having received one of the finest educations available to anyone below an illustrious Royal Scion, she found that she was sorely lacking in comparison to Lord Husband’s magnificent financial and commercial genius. A brilliant mind to match a brilliant Warrior, he had a unique way of approaching business and economics which put all of Luo-Luo’s teachings to shame, for it was easy to see just how superior his methodology proved to be.

Take cast iron for example, his first large-scale commercial success. Though Luo-Luo had been the first to bring up the potential profits to be had, Lord Husband was the one who led them to success, not by making deals to supply a certain product or undercutting the competition, but by insisting on a partnership with an already established merchant and ensuring said partner held the majority stake. While most would have struggled to get a meeting with the younger brother of Central’s Marshal much less enter into a partnership with him, Lord Husband’s tactic of profiting with minimal effort paid off in spades, because by operating as a lesser stakeholder, he also minimized his risks and ensured that his partner stood to lose more should their joint venture fall through.

A simple, yet effective tactic to put others to work for him, this was a style which perfectly suited Lord Husband’s hands off personality, but Luo-Luo saw in this the future of financial prosperity. Currently, most merchant families earned their fortunes through establishing local monopolies, but Lord Husband wasn’t interested in so narrow an approach. Instead, he preferred to diversify his investments and own a small portion of many industries, which afforded him a degree of freedom that few other merchant families enjoyed. Their fortunes rose and fell based on the price of base materials required to sustain their monopolies, which was why their rivals in the cast iron business banded together to price him out of the business, but they failed dearly in the end. Lord Husband prepared for such an attack by purchasing iron ore mines and futures, outlasting his rivals and eventually even purchasing their hoarded iron ore for a pittance of what they paid for, but he also knew when to divest himself of his cast iron properties which allowed him to obtain yet another fortune before the earning potential of said properties plummeted due to the now naturally climbing price of iron ore.

There was more to it than that, as Lord Husband insisted on paying higher wages to attract more dedicated and loyal workers while simultaneously ensuring matters such as food, shelter, and education were available to the workers at a reasonable price, a ploy which he said would return to their pockets, and he was absolutely correct. This was an economic concept that went above and beyond the simplicity of maximizing profits, because it offered his employees something beyond mere wages, while also helping bring up a loyal and educated pool of workers to hire from in the future.

Luo-Luo imagined her teachers back at the Academy would be exceedingly interested in hearing a first-hand account of the entire journey, but the cast iron endeavour was merely one of many business ventures Lord Husband had her manage on his behalf, and though it was the most profitable to date, it was far from the most impactful. Supply and demand was a basic concept of mercantile enterprise, but whereas most sought to compete in areas other were already working in, Lord Husband went to great efforts to monopolize supply before creating a new demand, and this was best seen in his concrete ventures. Through the Spring and Autumn Consortium, Lord Husband was now earning himself coin hand over fist by severely underbidding other construction companies in both cost and time, while providing a superior product at a laughably low cost. The lion’s share of the expenses went towards labour, unlike with other construction companies who spent most of their budget on materials, but with Lord Husband’s diverse holdings combined with the Spring and Autumn Consortium’s vast wealth of talent, he was able to supply his own companies and his allies at cost in order to make a greater profit than any one of those holdings could on their own.

Since coming into Lord Husband’s employ, Luo-Luo had watched his personal wealth grow at a near unbelievable rate, but all that was merely a drop in the well compared to the vast fortunes he spent now. As Legate of the Outer Provinces, he went to great efforts to ensure the provinces were run using the same principles as his personal businesses, by offering the merchants and nobles involved the lion’s share of the profit in each and every venture, often at great cost to the provinces themselves. “Running the province based on profit is stupid,” he once declared, when Luo-Luo brought up Marshal Yuzhen’s concerns regarding her growing debts during one of their many private meetings. “So what if we owe people money? What are they gonna do if we don’t pay on time? Replace us? Go right ahead. The debt belongs to the province and Empire, so I doubt the next person in line will be eager to pay what’s owed. Hell, they’ll be lucky if our replacement even cares to acknowledge the debt as legitimate, so it’s actually in our best interest to owe more people money, as it means they have a vested interest in keeping us in power.”

Another simple yet profound truth. The best way to rope people in was not to offer them benefits, but rather through ties of debt. Lord Husband was also completely correct in pointing out that neither he nor his Marshals were personally taking on the debt, and thus should not be incentivized by profits or scared to take on debts. Lord Husband took this concept to another level using War Bonds to raise enormous amounts of coin, essentially convincing nobles to hand him cold hard coin in return for paper. More surprising was how the financial theory behind his War Bonds was perfectly sound and not at all the scam it appeared to be at first glance, because now those bonds were worth far more than what the initial investors paid for. Though he’d lost the means to legally produce more War Bonds due to his agreements with the offices of the Prime Minister and Grand Marshal, this was less of a barrier and more of a stepping stone for Lord Husband to introduce his Treasure Notes, which thus far were completely under the purview of the Minister of Finance and stamped solely by his Divine Turtle Seal. Easier to ask for forgiveness than permission, and even if the Grand Marshal was displeased by these Treasure Notes, the rice was already cooked. The Imperial Clan could hardly renege on a debt issued by an appointed Imperial Official, so with this added tool in her prodigious arsenal of weapons, Luo-Luo soon discovered she had near unlimited coin to work with while carrying out Lord Husband’s official duties, for if she ever ran low on coin, she only needed to get in touch with her Treasure Officer and have him print more Treasure Notes.

Of course, this didn’t mean she could spend it all without a care in the world, as Lord Husband warned her that Treasure Notes only held value because others perceived them as such. Thus, if his office treated Treasure Notes like paper garbage and threw it about without restraint, others would see this and their perceived value would plummet, so Luo-Luo treated Treasure Notes like they were worth more than coin. Partial payment in gold up front and lump sum in paper on delivery, that was her standard operating procedure for two reasons. First, it kept her spending in check proportional to how much coin she had on hand, and secondly, it made others work hard to earn those Treasure Notes, which would raise the perceived value of what was essentially worthless paper. Lord Husband wasn’t even using the silk paper that War Bonds were printed on, as he lacked access to the means of production, but that mattered little in the grand scheme of things. Though others could try and counterfeit his Treasure Notes, they were currently only issued in denominations of a ten-thousand gold at a minimum, meaning that any transactions using said notes would undergo close scrutiny, and Lord Husband went a step further and publicized all his Official transactions so everyone could see where those Treasure Notes went.

