There was no choice for it... except to abandon her dignity and plead. “Mother-in-Law,” Luo-Luo began, affecting a helpless pout that was in no way feigned, “I am at a loss on how to deal with Lord Husband. I’ve spent the last two months arguing against most of his actions, and every time, he forges ahead with his initial decision regardless of what I say. What happened to the man who knew how to accept small losses now in favour of greater returns later? The one who roped in his allies and enemies alike through mutual benefit and understood how to manipulate the hearts of men? He was rarely subtle, but frighteningly effective when he put his mind to it, but now, he refuses to give ground and presses forward without caring about the danger on all sides. It’s like he’s become a different man these last few weeks, a stubborn, bloodthirsty bully who tramples over everyone in his path and is dead set on alienating everyone around him with his boundless paranoia. This behaviour is unbecoming of an Imperial Official and more akin to that of a... of a...”

“Of a savage?” Cheeks flushing at having been caught out, Luo-Luo heaved a sigh of relief as Mother-in-Law Sarnai chuckled at her blunder. “Silly girl,” she said, patting Luo-Luo’s cheek fondly, with a glint in her eye. “I sometimes forget how little you truly know about my boy, and how much you still have yet to learn. You see business and military command as two sides of the same coin, and since you have seen him excel in one facet, you expect to see the same in the other, correct?” Luo-Luo nodded, and even Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s tastefully subtle makeup couldn’t hide her sorrow. “Alas, you failed to account for one important difference. When it comes to coin, Rain cares not for the outcome, because he believes that any wealth lost can be earned again later. Despite his prodigious talents with regards to earning and spending coin, it is only a means to an end for little Rain, unlike most merchants who spend their lives in pursuit of ‘more’.”

Realizing what Mother-in-Law was hinting at, Luo-Luo straightened up with a gasp. “But things are different when the price paid is in human lives.” Eyes widening in surprise, she hesitated to give voice to her next thoughts, but Mother-in-Law Sarnai saw through her with a glance.

“Yes,” she said, nodding sagely as she stroked Luo-Luo’s hair. “My son is afraid, because he knows that men and women will die regardless of the decisions he makes, and even more will suffer if he makes the wrong ones. Alas, he has grown accustomed to fighting fear with anger, and while this serves him well on the battlefield, it might well have become a hindrance on these matters.”

“Might?”

“Yes girl, might.” Swatting Luo-Luo lightly on the forehead, Mother-in-Law Sarnai uttered a dainty snort and said, “You, on the other hand, are too lenient and merciful. You run the province similar to how one would run a business, but profits alone are not what drives little Rain’s political opponents. You claim the spoilage of Merchant Kung’s rations were due to factors outside his control, but I ask you this; why were said rations sitting in a leaky warehouse long enough to grow moldy instead of sitting on ship bound for SuiHua to make good on delivery as promised? Don’t tell me you believe his malarkey about fulfilling the order all at once. I’ve never met a merchant who would turn down extra warehouse space.”

Blinking in surprise, Luo-Luo saw the gaping hole in her own logic now that it’d been pointed out to her, and she felt her cheeks flush once again. “Because he was waiting to see if Lord Husband and the Commander General would have a falling out.” Even though Lord Husband’s orders to muster in SuiHua were given in secret, it was difficult to hide something so large as a military campaign to retake the West. Merchants traded information as readily as they traded goods, and a conglomerate as large as the Shingen Mercantile group would easily notice the sheer scale of orders involved with such a move. Add in the fact that Central and South had yet to move any soldiers, and even the most foolish of wastrels would know something was afoot, to say nothing of the cunning merchant lords of the land.

“So you think Lord Husband is right to seize Merchant Kung’s property and have the man whipped? Apologies, Mother-in-Law, but I do not see the benefit in such an extreme action.”

“Difficult to say.” Such was the way with Mother-in-Law Sarnai, who was always careful to only advise rather than give Luo-Luo an easy way out by making the decisions for her. “On the one hand, seizing this merchant’s goods and bloodying his back sends the message that there will be a steep price to pay for playing games of politics while the lives of soldiers are on the line. On the other, you make a good argument regarding precedent and how other merchants will be reluctant to work with the military going forwards.” Shrugging, the clever older woman offered a sly smile and said, “So if you are still not convinced by his decision, then the only thing left to do is to bring it up with your beloved Lord Husband and see if he has better reasons for his decision. As luck would have it, they’re on their way over as we speak for a little afternoon tea and snacks, so you might as well wait until he arrives to discuss the matter in person. Craving anything in particular? Egg waffles perhaps?”

Luo-Luo wasn’t sure if she should be grateful or resentful for this opportunity, because as much as she wanted to spend more time with Lord Husband, she also hated how she disappointed him with her poor interpretation of the political landscape and didn’t know how to face him. He had yet to bring it up, though Luo-Luo assumed it was because he’d been too tired from butting heads with the Commander General, but after the issue was resolved, he’d had the whole night to think things through. Perhaps he intended to make some changes and have Luo-Luo replaced as his Secretary of Office, a position that would win him much favour if bestowed upon one of his other, more competent allies. Granted, he would then have to guard against them misusing his Seal, but the simplest solution would be to keep the physical Seal with Luo-Luo who would then have final say on all decisions, a more stressful, but less impactful role she could easily serve. Then again, why even bother with her at all? Lord Husband could just keep the Seal himself and authorize orders from afar, though things would get tricky once he left for the Western Province. Regardless of what may come, there was little Luo-Luo could do to change things now, so she requested a serving of egg waffles and a spicy lamb skewer before making a fresh pot of tea whilst playing with Noodle.

The snake sat heavy on Luo-Luo’s shoulders now that she’d grown so large, almost as long as her arm and about half as thick. Not exactly an unbearable burden, but not a negligible one either, and the little darling made things awkward when she shifted around from inside Luo-Luo’s dress. No longer was she able to wear those tight, formfitting outfits that so often caught Lord Husband’s eye, and instead switched to lighter, more airy outfits that were multi-layered to combat the sheer transparency of the silk. Of course, Noodle’s emerald green and bright yellow often shone through, and now Luo-Luo had even more people staring at her body for all the wrong reasons, but the sweet girl simply refused to stay away from Luo-Luo’s side. Lord Husband even brought Noodle a new, larger glass enclosure to stay in, one that covered an entire room’s wall, but come morning, Luo-Luo found the clever snake tapping at the roof in a plea to be let out.

A thoughtful gesture which was much appreciated, but Luo-Luo was mildly resentful to see Lord Husband be affectionate to everyone besides her.

“Knock Knock,” he said, but only because the Death Corps Guards opened the door for him as he arrived. “I got an order of lamb skewers and egg waffles here, get ‘em while they’re hot.”

A novel sight, the most politically powerful man in the outer provinces bringing street food to his mother, but Luo-Luo’s heart warmed to see it. No matter how much power he wielded, he was still the same kind and gentle man when facing his family, and it made his ruthless actions these past two months all the more jarring to behold. Accepting her share of the snacks with a smile, Luo-Luo poured tea and sat silently to one side as Lord Husband laughed and joked with his wives and Mother while reacquainting himself with Noodle. Even though the snake paid him no mind at all, poor Blackjack was absolutely terrified of the snake and constantly hopping about to get away, but eventually Lord Husband managed to get the hare to settle down and eat his drumstick, one which was larger than he was and always unsettling to see. Blackjack was so small and fluffy, it was difficult to imagine him hunting down birds in the wild, but after stripping the meat clean from the bone, he gnawed on the remains until it snapped in two before devouring shards and marrow both.

“So,” Lord Husband began, once tea time came to an end. “How’d the thing go with Merchant Kung? Anyone make any demands yet? I would love an excuse to make a second example.”

From sweet and lovable to angry and aggressive, it was shocking how abrupt the change was, especially in light of his inability to restrain his emotional Aura. Hesitating only for an instant, Luo-Luo found her courage inside his beautiful amber eyes, because no matter how ruthless he might be, he would never treat her harshly without good reason. “Apologies Lord Husband, but I have yet to order his arrest.”

“Why not?”

There was no annoyance directed towards her, only impatience and confusion at the delay, which did much to bolster Luo-Luo’s confidence. “Because I do not believe it is the right move.” There was the annoyance now, so she quickly added, “I intended to discuss the matter through Sending, but Mother-in-Law mentioned you would be here soon, and I thought it better if we spoke in person.”

“Okay. Then speak.”

Curt and concise. A bad sign, all things considered, but at least – no, and now he was crossing his arms, showing he already disagreed with her stance. Wishing she still had more tea to wet her mysteriously dry lips, Luo-Luo repeated the same explanation she gave Mother-in-Law Sarnai and tried to emphasize the key points as much as possible. “There must be give and take in any partnership,” Luo-Luo concluded, hoping she pleaded her case well. “You are well within your right to demand a punishment, but even the most pliant donkey will learn fear if it sees its brothers whipped too often.”

Lord Husband’s lip’s didn’t even twitch at the comparison of the nobles of the Empire to mere donkeys, a bad sign if there ever were one, and instead he shook his head in stubborn, unspoken denial. “Were this anything other than rations, I would agree with you, but I’m almost completely sure this shipment was withheld with malicious intent. If civil war broke out, the Shingen Mercantile group would have wanted those rations feeding ‘loyalists’ allied to Shuai Jiao. They’ve thrown their lot behind him after Mitsue Juichi stepped back or I’m a monkey’s uncle, but they’ve yet to come out and declare it because they think me blind and foolish.” Which Luo-Luo must have been, because she’d seen no sign of this just yet, but Lord Husband offered no proof and simply continued, “This sort of divisive thinking must be removed root and stem in order for this war to be won, because the last thing I need is for merchants to hold their goods hostage for some political reason or the other while my soldiers are fighting and dying to keep them safe.”

“That’s just it though,” Luo-Luo retorted, without taking the time to think things through. “You worry about divisive actions and talk of uniting the provinces, but you yourself are the reason why the people are so divided.” That caught his attention, as well as the attention of everyone else in the room, but Luo-Luo’s attention was wholly fixated on Lord Husband. A good thing too, else she would’ve missed the flash of surprise and hurt in his expression, one which disappeared as quickly as it arrived.

“Explain.”

Not even the hint of courtesy anymore, just curt demands, which meant his temper was close to erupting. “You’ve taken a group of low-born merchants under your wing and raised them to become wealthy and influential nobles beholden only to you. You accepted a group of common born Warriors who only recently succeeded at Core Formation as your personal guards, after refusing to accept any Warriors into your personal retinue due to your ‘lacking rank’. You honoured the dead with your words and monuments, and in doing so have given those families with fallen soldiers a nigh unshakable position, most of whom are now firmly in your camp.” Crossing her own arms to match him, Luo-Luo wasn’t even upset by his lack of interest in her bosom this time, because she was too heated to care. “Your words speak of unity, but your actions tell a different story. You clear away the old to make room for the new, while sparing those who serve you well. That is how many have interpreted your actions, and though you and I know this to be false, mere words will not be enough to assuage their fears, and your harsh measures will only stoke them.”

