Which had the added benefit of showing he was truly accepting the lowest bid, rather than enriching his allies by presenting them with all-too profitable contracts. Of course, most missed out on the fact that Lord Husband was not above letting his allies know exactly how low to bid on a contract in order to secure it, not to mention how he could hide his less than immaculate dealings by paying in coin alone, which he had a surplus of now that he could pay 90% of his large transactions using Treasure Notes alone.

Of course, Luo-Luo lived in terror that the nobles of the outer provinces would band together to demand the Legate’s Office honour all of their Treasure Notes at the same time. Though the debt had yet to grow so large as to beggar the Empire, Lord Husband would find it impossible to match the vast sums using only what coin was available to him, even if his considerable personal wealth was added into the equation. Why Lord Husband’s enemies didn’t do so was a mystery to her, right up until she found the courage to ask. “If anyone dares demand my Office pay equal value to the Treasure Notes,” Lord Husband wrote, in the neat, mechanical, and boring characters etched out by his steel pen, “Then tell them that neither the Legate nor the Minister of Finance are banking institutions and they’ll have to exchange their Treasure Notes for smaller denominations elsewhere. If they insist we pay them full value of the Notes, explain to them how the concept differs from War Bonds. The latter was an investment device which the Empire is obligated to repay, while Treasure Notes are paper currency, meaning they differ greatly in purpose. When issued by the Minster of Finance, a Treasure Note is analogous to a gold coin, in that even though the buying power of a single gold coin might change, it will always be worth exactly one gold coin, and the same can be said for Treasure Notes. If anyone demands we honour the value of their notes, at most you can smile, accept the notes, and hand them back those same notes as equal value. Or hand them a different stack of equal value notes, but not new ones because that would send the wrong message. One Treasure Note worth ten-thousand gold is equivalent in value to another Treasure Note worth ten-thousand gold, and that’s that.”

Though technically correct, it was a solution that was legal and permissible, but lacking in tact. This was a growing trend with Lord Husband, for even though he’d always been aggressive and disrespectful in his approach, he almost always favoured the carrot over the stick, and thus his aggression was received more kindly by his targets. Now, as the deadline for his western offensive drew close, he grew increasingly frustrated with his allies and enemies alike and had taken to browbeating everyone into submission before testing their loyalty to boot. Either do things his way, or not at all, an approach which saw Lord Husband ready to assassinate the Commander General if Shuai Jiao refused to bow to his demands, an increasingly aggressive stance which was worrying to behold. Although the Bekhai and Lord Husband’s family in particular saw nothing wrong with his behaviour, Luo-Luo sensed a growing dissatisfaction amongst his supporters and detractors alike, especially in Central and South. After being forced to rein them in by coming to the Central Citadel and winning over the Commander General, Lord Husband had wholly abandoned his tried and true approach of mutual benefit and now relied solely on the whip to get everyone in line.

He denied requests for promotions and enforced his contracts to the word, refusing to bend even a centimetre to allow for unexpected outcomes. Renegotiating deals was entirely off the table, and he even went as far as to abandon a long time supplier of bridles and tack in favour of signing a different consortium simply because the initial merchant wanted a minor three percent increase on the contract, which was not out of line with inflation. Then there was his refusal to wine and dine with any of the greater powers of Central and South in favour of rubbing elbows with his own allies, or worse, the enemies of his enemies which were no allies of his at all. It seemed like Lord Husband was hell-bent on fostering antipathy in the people of Central and South, even going so far as to publicly cut ties with the Ryo family and deny Geom-Chi a place in the coming offensive because, as he so indelicately put it, he had not time to ‘watch his back’ while out in the field. A stance he later relented by offering Geom-Chi a commission, but it was hardly diplomatic to hold a grudge after matters had been smoothed over, a fact Lord Husband had previously demonstrated awareness of, but no longer cared to acknowledge.

Which had brought them here, to this turning point which left Luo-Luo unsure as to how to proceed.

After sharing Lord Husband’s Sent commands with Mother-in-Law Sarnai, Luo-Luo simply sat idly by and waited for the other woman to weigh in, unable to process the abrupt shift in emotions. It was irksome to know that he was present in the Citadel and yet still unwilling to discuss these matters in person, instead frittering his time away in the markets with Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin while conversing with Luo-Luo through Sending. Luo-Luo had so desperately wanted to join them, and while Lord Husband stopped by to ask if she wanted to come along, he’d been unable to look her in the eyes when he asked and immediately left upon accepting her polite refusal. Truth be told, though there was still much to do to prepare for Lord Husband’s campaign, only a few select items required her direct attention, and she could have easily overseen things from the market or the district fields. Alas, Lord Husband’s offer didn’t seem all too genuine given how he didn’t insist she come along, more of a polite suggestion in an attempt to spare her feelings since he was already here.

Despite her confession some weeks ago just before Lin-Lin’s wedding, nothing had changed with regards to Luo-Luo’s relationship with Lord Husband. He was still politely distant and spent even less time in her company now, but mostly because she remained here in Central while he preferred to live close to his family off in the Northern Citadel. He still dropped by once every week to visit his mother, who kept Luo-Luo company all these lonely weeks and more importantly, safe. Unfortunately, not only was she unable to keep Central and South in line, she failed so spectacularly that Lord Husband had been forced to come down to in person and almost murdered the highest ranking military commander in order to get things done.

All that aside, Lord Husband’s letters had improved greatly ever since he took to using his metal pen, but he’d also gotten plenty of practice now that their primary method of communication was through correspondence. Ones that would henceforth be delivered solely through trusted Bekhai Warriors, as civilian and military couriers could no longer be trusted. Lady Jeong’s ability to manipulate and withhold messages from Grandpa Du, Fung, BoShui, and so many of Lord Husband’s other allies was impressive to say the least, especially considering there was still no evidence of tampering that Luo-Luo or MuYang could find. Of course, it was possible some like Ishin Ken Shibu were just using her as an excuse and the interference was not as widespread as it would seem. Alas, Lord Husband never trusted Imperial Messengers, Royal Guardians, or even the Death Corps Guards, because he knew their first loyalty was to the Emperor. A terrifying thought that dwarfed all other horrors, to guard oneself against the Emperor, but Lord Husband was determined to walk his own Path, which was why he butted heads with his Patron, Shen ZhenWu.

Mother knows the Emperor might not take so kindly to Lord Husband’s refusal to bend the knee, so it was best that they just never meet, though that was looking more and more unlikely with each passing day.

“So,” Mother-in-Law Sarnai began, folding her hands together in what Luo-Luo suspected was passive aggression after hearing what Lord Husband had commanded. “What are your thoughts on this matter, girl? Be honest, no one short of a Divinity can listen in on us here, and not without escaping notice.”

“It’s a mistake.”

Having worked together for many weeks now, Luo-Luo had grown close to the sharp-tongued woman, and though lacking in traditional business acumen, Mother-in-Law Sarnai possessed a wealth of knowledge and experience regarding what she called ‘people wrangling’ which Luo-Luo had come to rely on. What’s more, even though she had a gruff exterior, Mother-in-Law Sarnai was warm and affectionate to those she cared for, and Luo-Luo was no exception. There were even times when Mother-in-Law came to her with complaints about Lord Husband’s wives, muttering about how they all let him do as he pleased and were unable to rein him in as they should. Not that Luo-Luo could do any better, but she simply nodded along with her mother-in-law and prayed she would not be subject to such criticism in the future.

Sipping her BoHe tea, a leaf she’d once scorned for being too extravagant yet had fallen in love with since, Mother-in-Law Sarnai stopped to consider her next words carefully. “Why? The merchant failed to fulfill his contractual obligations, and military law states that such failures are punishable by seizure of property and possibly even death.”

“True, in the event of malfeasance or fraud.” Glancing at the letter in question, Luo-Luo wrung her fingers and sighed. “But even though Lord Husband is well within his rights to punish Merchant Kung harshly for his failure to deliver the promised military rations, it still would not be right to do so. It sets a dangerous precedent going forward considering the spoilage was due to factors outside Merchant Kung’s control, and others will be less willing to do business with Lord Husband without significant profit to be had.”

A leaky roof in one of Merchant Kung’s storehouses managed to ruin a considerable stockpile of travel rations, but there was no sign of foul play afoot, nor any reason to suspect it. As such, seizing his property seemed too severe a reaction, especially considering the comparatively minor cost of the contract. Merchant Kung was not someone of great importance, a mid-sized family merchant only loosely affiliated with the Shingen Mercantile group, which was the sole reason Lord Husband believed this was intentional sabotage and wanted the merchant executed. The Shingens were a Central Clan in firm opposition to Lord Husband’s business interests, but they had no vested political power to speak of anymore after their most prominent backer Mitsue Juichi retreated from the public eye. That being said, the Shingens were a stubborn bunch who continued to butt heads with Lord Husband, and even recently colluded with several other merchant groups to renegotiate their military contracts by fabricating bandit attacks on their caravans.

To which Lord Husband responded with unchecked aggression by sending his Death Corps to ‘inspect’ local warehouses and seizing everything that lacked proper documentation. His justification was that if something lacked proper documentation, it had been smuggled into the Citadel to avoid discovery and taxes, and thus must have been brought in by said imaginary bandits. A move which again, was wholly within his legal rights, but Luo-Luo disagreed with. People died for wealth just as birds died for food, and placating the merchants with some slightly higher profit margins was not entirely unjustified considering the extensive disruption Lord Husband’s own Districts had on local markets. Many of those mercantile groups were hard hit by the changes, and while they would not be begging in the streets any time soon, lower profits and losses were always difficult for men of means to swallow.

And now Lord Husband wanted to have just such a man publicly whipped and seize his manor and warehouses over a late shipment of rations worth less than ten-thousand gold. Legal and justified? Absolutely. A punishment proportional to the crime? Hardly.

Luo-Luo explained it all to Mother-in-Law Sarnai, half expecting her to suck her teeth and defend her son’s decision, but the lovely woman batted her curled eyelashes and simply asked, “Since you have a valid concern, why do you not argue your case with him? This old woman only knows that this mistake must be rectified, for hungry soldiers do not fight, a concern we must keep in mind when campaigning in the barren West. It matters not if it’s ten or ten-thousand gold short, a hungry soldier is either destined to die or defect, and there are no two ways about it.”

This was also true, so Luo-Luo revised her earlier attitude regarding the missing rations, as Lord Husband no doubt saw them as important as spears and armour, if not more so. “Even then, seizing the man’s property will not make more rations appear,” Luo-Luo replied, avoiding the actual question of speaking to Lord Husband herself. She’d already failed him thus far, and the last thing she wanted was to go against his wishes now, especially given his newfangled fondness for harsh measures. Then again, having seen Mila feign helplessness to entice Lord Husband to ‘attack’, Luo-Luo wasn’t sure if his ire was something to avoid or attract, but that was a matter for later. Right now, a decision had to be made, and Mother-in-Law Sarnai clearly wasn’t going to bring Luo-Luo’s concerns to Lord Husband, not without prompting. Unfortunately, Luo-Luo had also learned how to Send and could not ask her mother-in-law to pass word along for her, though the contrary woman would’ve likely just asked Lord Husband to come pay a visit in person if that were the case.

