“Huh.” Arms still crossed in pique, Lord Husband sank back into his chair to think, which was neither good nor bad. Long seconds passed in silence save for Blackjack’s noisy crunching, interspersed with plaintive squeaks in demand for more as the growing, greedy, and gluttonous hare was always hungry these days. “So what do you suggest we do?”

“Fine him,” Luo-Luo said, so relieved she already had an answer. “A harsh one, while refusing to let him out of his contract, for which the penalties are severe.”

“But all he will lose is coin, and not much considering the size of the contract.”

Proving Mother-in-Law Sarnai correct. Rain truly placed no value on coin, and thus saw it as no real punishment, but the wealthiest merchants tended to be the greediest as well, and even losing a copper more than they needed to would pain them to some extent. “True, which is why you should also send a message by publicly blacklisting Merchant Kung from any and all Imperial contracts going forward.” Thereby dooming the man to mediocrity, as he was no longer eligible for the most lucrative contracts given by the Legate’s Office, the Imperial Army, and the Marshal’s Office.

“Still don’t love it.” Brooding on the decision a few seconds longer, he tapped Blackjack’s nose to get him to stop whining, though the adorable hare simply begged a little more quietly. A good sign, as his arms were finally uncrossed. “You sure it’s enough?”

“It sends the right message,” Luo-Luo replied, “That such games of politics will not be tolerated if they care to do business, and leaves the door open for future negotiation once Merchant Kung has repented.”

Taking a deep breath, Lord Husband’s nodded with obvious reluctance and said, “Fine. We’ll do as you suggest. I’ve been pushing our enemies in an effort to see where they stand and maybe even force them to act against me prematurely, but if you think this will cross a line, then you’re probably right. You haven’t steered me wrong yet, so I’d be an idiot to ignore your advice.”

All of a sudden, Lord Husband’s actions made so much more sense, but Luo-Luo fixated on the last part of his statement. Hesitant to point out her own flaws, Luo-Luo nonetheless could not contain her doubts. “But... the matter between you and the Commander General... do you not hold me responsible?”

“Uh, no? Why would I?” Eyes widening in surprise, Lord Husband sat up and cocked his head in an adorably youthful manner. “Is that why you didn’t want to come shopping? Because you thought I was angry? No, never. You did great, but Shuai Jiao was never going to come along quietly. I uh... forgot I was keeping so much vital information to myself. Happens when you just get used to keeping so many secrets.”

...What other secrets was Lord Husband keeping then? Something more than being able to Cleanse the Father’s contagion from loyal Imperial citizens? Luo-Luo couldn’t even imagine what such a secret might be, but Lord Husband quickly caught himself and changed the subject, a ploy which no one in the room fell for, but went along with regardless. “Anyway, now that that’s been cleared up, how about you and mom join us for a lazy afternoon in the basin? They have these lovely little boats that are so steady even Mila’s delicate stomach should handle them fine, and I’d love to take a little trip out to the monument.”

“I think I’ll go find your father instead,” Mother-in-Law Sarnai said, going on out loud about something or the other while Sending to Luo-Luo, “Do not refuse him this time. He is marching to war and knows that he might not return, so strike while the iron is hot and make a memory to remember him by.”

Warmed by the sentiment for two differing reasons, Luo-Luo accepted his offer and was delighted to see his face light up with joy, mirrored by his Aura which filled her with warmth. Much as she yearned to always be at his side, the prospect of marching into the Defiled infested west filled her with terror beyond what she could describe, and she could do so much more for him from here in Central. A shame considering how much her Martial skills had improved since her last run in with the Enemy, most of which was due to Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s helpful suggestions disguised as harsh criticism, and partly due to her burning desire for vengeance against Mitsue Hideo.

A shame. Luo-Luo had crushed that traitor’s manhood the last time they met, and had since dreamt of taking his life, but she would be more than happy to let another Warrior claim that honour, so long as the cretin died. For now though, she put aside all thoughts of vengeance and set her charms to work on winning over Lord Husband, because if the Heavens were generous, there was a possibility that Luo-Luo might have more than a mere memory if she were to find success this night.

One could only hope, even if her hopes were all but doomed from the start...

Chapter Meme
