“Please, Miss Ryoka. You practically ooze wariness. Even if I did not have my [Sense Intentions] Skill—which I do and am quite adept at using—I would be able to tell how tense you are. Relax, my dear. You are not in danger. Yet.”
Mind games. Right off the bat. She’s not even pretending—not that I’d believe her—damn. I blink, try to catch my balance. What’s my response here?
“I’m not thirsty.”
Brilliant, Ryoka. You’re really showing off your debating skills right now. Dad would be so proud. I grit my teeth and stare at the tea pot. Magnolia raises her eyebrows. She glances up at Ressa, and shrugs.
“At least you weren’t foolish enough to ask if the tea is poisoned. Honestly, why would anyone waste good tea like that?”
“I can think of a few reasons.”
“Really? It must be terrible, being so paranoid so young. Don’t you think, Ressa?”
“Indeed.”
Behind Lady Magnolia, the maid nods briefly. I stare at her.
“Thanks for sending your maid to personally escort me. I was touched.”
“Think nothing of it, please. It would have been so inconvenient if you’d fled, and Ressa did manage to protect you from those Goblins, after all.”
Lady Magnolia chuckles about that, as if Goblin armies are a regular occurrence. Which…is actually not that far from the truth. I stare at her.
“And the rain cloud? Your handiwork as well?”
“A greeting. I know it was a naughty prank; I couldn’t resist. Do forgive me.”
And there’s no way to turn it on her. I could…what? Get angry? Pursue the issue? We haven’t even gotten down to the brass tacks yet. I move on.
“And you made time to see me right away. I must be so important.”
Across from me, Lady Magnolia sips from her tea and smiles.
“Well, some might think so. Myself, I was just bored of meeting stuffy dignitaries. I needed some entertainment, so I cancelled my discussion with one of my visitors to see you.”
“How…kind.”
She twinkles at me, all flowers and blades hidden in the petals.
“Isn’t it? I did consider letting you wait for a few hours while I attended to other business, but I feared you might run off again if I did.”
“No fear. I’m not stupid enough to run.”
“Really?”
And there it is again! The woman wears the most bland expression possible as she delivers a damn good retort. I just stare at her for a second. The Magnolia I’m used to dealing with did not act like this. Why is she taking the gloves off so early?
Regain the flow of the conversation. I glance at the tea pot. There’s an empty cup and saucer. I reach for it and pour myself a cup. Ressa and Magnolia watch me, one disapprovingly, the other amused.
“Thirsty? My dear, let Ressa do that for you. She is a [Maid].”
“And a [Ninja].”
I mutter as I fill my teacup. Magnolia laughs again.
“A [Ninja]? You think Ressa has a [Ninja] class?”
She sounds delighted. I stare at her as she turns and laughs in Ressa’s face.
“Ressa, did you hear that?”
“I did, milady.”
“A [Ninja]! Wouldn’t that be quite amazing to see? If I bought you some dark clothing, would you hang from the ceiling and jump out of the shadows to fill my cup?”
The Lady Reinhart practically chokes on her drink as she giggles. I just stare at her, and then realize Ressa’s giving me a death glare. Um. Looks like I was mistaken.
“So she’s not a ninja.”
“Oh please. Does Ressa look like an islander to you? [Assassins] are the class of choice here; a [Ninja] would be a completely different culture!”
Magnolia snorts as she takes a deep drink of tea. I cautiously do likewise. I’m pretty sure the cup isn’t poisoned—why bother if I’m here and she can just do whatever she wants by force? But—
The instant my tongue touches the tea, it practically goes numb. Poison? I nearly spit out the liquid before I realize what I’m tasting.
Sugar. It’s practically liquid sugar! I don’t know how many sugar cubes died to make the tea this sweet—all I know is that I’ve tasted sodas that weren’t nearly this bad for your health. Instantly I put the cup down.
“What is this filth?”
Lady Magnolia frowns at me as I make a face and shove the tea cup back onto the table. Not gently either; a bit slops over the side at which point I’m sure it adhered to the table like glue.
“Well now, how rude! That is perfectly good tea, Miss Ryoka. And it is not poisonous in the slightest.”
I scrub at my tongue with my teeth before I reply.
“It might as well be poison. There’s way too much sugar in that pot!”
“She’s right about that.”
Ressa interjects, voice disapproving. Magnolia glances up at her in clear irritation and drinks from her own cup. It’s got to be the same tea—she’s drinking it like water! And pouring herself another cup!
“You two don’t understand my passions at all. You’re too much like Ressa, dear Ryoka.”
That’s an insult. Ressa and I exchange a glance and then I go back to staring at Magnolia. Once she’s done filling up her own cup, she sighs.
“Well, that’s enough mindless chatter for now.”
She looks at me suddenly, and it’s as if the mask she was wearing, the smiling noble [Lady]—suddenly falls off. All at once I feel pressure in the room, a hot, stifling gaze that sends a chill throughout my body fixing me in place.
This is the true face of Lady Magnolia. But she doesn’t leap at me and tear my eyes out. She just keeps speaking, in that calm, level voice.
“It has been a long time since we last saw each other, hasn’t it?”
It’s hard to speak, but I force my tongue to work.
“I guess. It’s only been about a month? Two?”
“Mm. But so much can happen in so short a time. As I’m sure you’re aware in your profession.”
Lady Magnolia nods at me. She extends a pinkie and points at my right hand with it.
“I see you have lost something.”
I blink at her and then remember. My fingers. They suddenly ache, and burn with the reminder of their absence. I realize I’m clenching my hand and relax it.
There’s something almost like sympathy in the other woman’s gaze as she looks at me.
“A harsh price to pay. Did you lose it on a delivery?”
“Yes.”
She nods as there’s nothing more to say than that.
“You have gone through much, if what I suspect is correct. I know for a fact that you are richer—are you wiser as well, I wonder?”
I don’t respond. I just cross my arms—hiding my stumps under my other arm—and wait. She’s leading the conversation; I’ll let her get to the point.
“Hmm.”
Lady Magnolia doesn’t seem bothered by my silence. She taps her ring finger on the cup as she stares at me.
“I trust you’ve met Erin Solstice? She was quite a feisty young woman, but I was pleased to meet her, if only briefly.”
No response. I say not a word.
“And Teriarch? I do know you met him. How is the old fool doing? He did mention you to me, you know. Apparently you had a rather interesting conversation.”
Just wait. She’s trying to lure me into conversation. Magnolia eyes me again.
“So, do you have any theory as to why you are here? Any suspicions? Or am I simply the villain in your uncomplicated view of the world?”
My lips are sealed. Magnolia sighs, exasperated.
“Very well, I suppose I should spell it out for you. You are here because I wish to talk to you. And I sent Ressa because you have a habit of refusing to listen to other people. So you have come all this way to have a conversation, with me, Lady Magnolia.”
I just stare at her. I can keep silent. I’ve had teachers, principals, police officers, and my parents all shouting at me. I can stonewall.
Magnolia keeps chattering, though.
“I do enjoy talking. You see, when two people meet, it is customary for them to talk. I understand this may be difficult in your case, and perhaps it is an imposition on your limited mental faculties. However, the custom is that when one person says something—we call this a statement, the other person says something as well, usually in the same vein of topic. This is what we call a reply—”
“I get it. I’ll talk.”
I have a feeling she could do that all day if I didn’t interrupt. Magnolia stops talking and stares at me. Without saying another word.
Great, she’s waiting for me to reply. I roll my eyes, but now the full intensity of her stare is on me. Multiplied by Ressa’s death gaze. Great. I take a breath, and launch into things.
“I guess you’ve gotten the letter I sent you.”
“Letter?”
For a second Magnolia blinks, then her eyes widen.
“Oh, the letter! Yes, I’d nearly forgotten about that!”
“You did?”
That’s odd. I thought this all stemmed from the letter I sent Lady Magnolia by way of Valceif a while ago. I’d expected an immediate response back then, and I’d been prepared to negotiate—
But Lady Magnolia just waves her hand as if that’s ancient history.
“Oh yes, your cryptic little hint that was supposed to intrigue me enough to pursue you. I recall that. It was quite interesting—I wonder, what did you hope to gain from talking with me?”
I’m not sure. It was so long ago—so long and not so long ago. I hadn’t gotten to know the faeries, and I was desperate for something to help both me and Erin.
Magnolia watches my expression, and although I’m sure my face doesn’t change, I know she’s reading my thoughts through that skill of hers. But even if she can do that, there’s a way to beat that skill. Tell the truth.
“I’m not sure what I was thinking. But I was open to talking, back then.”
“Indeed? No doubt you had your own goals. Perhaps you were thinking of selling me some secrets.”
“Perhaps.”
Yeah, that was probably it. Magnolia smiles enigmatically.
“And perhaps I would have taken you up on that offer. But alas, by the time your letter reached me I had already found other people like you. Thus, I had no need to keep searching for you.”
And there it is. Part of the issue’s out in the open at last. I breathe out.
“Yeah. The others. Erin told me you have other people from my world here.”
Not a bat of an eyelid. Lady Magnolia smiles and shrugs.
“Oh yes. They are guests here, for as long as my patience allows. Pestilential, inconsiderate brats that they are, that might not be for too much longer.”
Wow. That’s something. I know Erin said Magnolia didn’t like the others, but—
“Okay, so you have people from my world. You know everything. Why am I here, then?”
“Dead gods. Here we go again.”
To my surprise, Lady Magnolia touches her eyes with one hand and sighs gustily. I stare at her. When she looks up, her irritation is suddenly plain across her face.
“She’s doing it, Ressa. I thought she wouldn’t—but she’s doing it.”
“Yes, milady.”
“First that girl Erin—are all young women from her world inbred, do you think?”
“Doing what?”
“There she goes again!”
Magnolia scowls at me and points accusingly at my chest as if I were some kind of monster.
“Stop asking thoughtless questions! I know you’re not that stupid, Miss Ryoka. Or at least, I hope you’re not because if I have to have another conversation like the one I had with Erin Solstice, I will throw this tea pot at you.”
What’s with her? It’s like a switch has flipped. Suddenly Magnolia Reinhart is all action and no pretense. She glares at me.
“A word of advice, Ryoka Griffin. Few things annoy me as much as feigned ignorance. Do not pretend you don’t know why you are here. You and I both know that I know almost everything. That you come from another world? Obvious. That your world has different technology and inventions? Of course! Your fellow travelers have told me all about the wondrous things of your world—phones, planes, guns, cars—and you know that I have a vested interest in such things.”
Lady Magnolia drinks more of the sugary liquid that vaguely resembles tea in her cup as she stares at me.
“I know everything. Everything except the details. You know, or you might have guessed that while your friends can chatter on to me about the wonders of guns and warfare as your world practices it, they are remarkably empty-headed when it comes to producing such miracles. It’s rather like having a boastful idiot claim to be able to fly without a shred of evidence to back it up. But you do know how to fly, don’t you, Ryoka Griffin?”
My lips clamp shut. Magnolia eyes me.
“Yes. You do. Or at least, you know more than the others. And you know that is why you are here, Ryoka. I want you to tell me what you know.”
The woman sighs, looking suddenly exhausted.
“So here we are. That skips—how much needless back-and-forth? Honestly, I was willing to play along for a while, but when you started acting like an idiot I lost my patience.”
I just look at her. This is Magnolia Reinhart? Is this her true face? Is she being honest with me for a reason or—
“Well? Say something!”
I barely see it coming. Magnolia flicks her wrist, and suddenly the saucer of the tea cup comes spinning at me. I catch it reflexively.
“What the—?”
“Don’t you dare ask what that was. It was a saucer. And I threw it at you because I am irate.”
I just stare at her. She’s violent! Is it the sugar working? No—this is a completely different approach. She’s doing this on purpose too! I’ll bet—she’s seized complete hold of the conversation.
Well—fine. Let’s just dive into this. No pretenses, no holds barred. I grit my teeth.
“Okay, let’s assume you’re right about everything. In that case, at what point do you strap me to the rack and torture me for information?”
“Torture? Oh, please. Why would I need torture when I can just use magic? Or a Skill?”
Magnolia snorts at me, but she seems mollified by my response. She takes something out of the pocket of her dress and peers at me. For a second I’m thrown—I didn’t even see the cunning pocket sewn into her dress. Well now, she’s not obeying medieval fashion standards with that.
But in her hands—what is that? A monocle? I instantly have a bad feeling about it, and it gets worse when she puts it to her eyes and…studies me.
Yeah, she’s looking at me. And that monocle—
Oh no. Is she reading my mind?
No—she couldn’t be. Think. My mind races as Magnolia peers at me. I’m…pretty sure she can’t read minds, even with an artifact. If she could, she’d wear that thing all the time. It’s definitely for revealing some aspect about me—a lie detector?
Don’t get thrown by it. I fold my arms and wait. But Magnolia seems satisfied. She tucks the monocle back in her secret pocket.
“Hmf. Now, as to getting you to spill your much-vaunted secrets. Tell me, do you really think it would be that difficult for me?”
I hesitate.
“Yes.”
“Really? How arrogant of you.”
Magnolia rolls her eyes in exasperation. She stares at me with a bit of contempt, or is it disappointment?
