“You astound me, Ryoka Griffin. For someone who appears so intelligent—could it be you’ve forgotten my Skills? Surely not.”
She smiles at me, and every hair on the back of my neck tingles.
“I’m curious. What would you do, if I, oh, asked you to tell me everything you know?”
It’s like lightning. Pink lightning. The words hit me and go inside my head, effortlessly opening the vault of my mind. My mouth opens. I should tell her everything, right? Isn’t that the best—
No.
I waver, grit my teeth. I’ve felt this before. This…is like Teriarch’s geas spell! God—I did forget she could do this!
Magnolia smiles at me, and puts more intensity into her silken voice.
“Come now. You know you want to. This is quite simple for me—if you can’t even stop me from doing this, you are truly foolish. Tell me everything, Ryoka Griffin.”
I want to tell her. My jaw is clamped shut, but I can feel the muscles spasming. It’s taking all I’ve got to hold still. Magnolia’s waiting for me to crack. But—I—
I’ve done this before!
My mouth opens. But what comes out is a wordless shout. I jump up, fist flashing towards Magnolia’s face—
And find myself tumbling backwards onto the couch, ears ringing, pain bursting from my chest and cheek. Ressa’s standing in front of Lady Magnolia, hands raised. I reel backwards and sit down hard on the sofa.
“Um. Well, that was surprising.”
The only sound in the room comes from Lady Magnolia. I can see her blinking at me from behind Ressa. She looks as surprised as I’ve ever seen her. I sit on the couch, staring up at Ressa. I didn’t even see her move. I’m tempted to try and hit her, but—
“Very well, Ressa, please step aside.”
Lady Magnolia’s hands push at Ressa. The surprised [Maid] moves sideways. Lady Magnolia blinks a few more times, and then looks down at her lap.
“Spilled tea. How wasteful.”
A small pool of tea is puddled in her dress. It’s ruining the expensive pink silk. But to my surprise, Magnolia just sighs and stands up. She shakes the dress—
And the tea slides off it and onto the carpet. I blink. Magnolia catches my eye and shrugs.
“Ward spells on the dress. Prevents staining. Too bad about the tea, though.”
Then she sits down as if nothing has happened and pours herself more tea. I rub at my cheek as Ressa takes a place behind Magnolia again. She’s staring at me hard, but I’m in no mood to fight.
Once there’s a fresh cup of tea in her hands, Magnolia looks at her maid and then at me.
“That was a bit too quick for my eyes, Ressa my dear. Am I right in thinking you stopped her from pummeling me?”
“Yes, milady.”
“I thought as much. Well, I seem to have misjudged you slightly, Ryoka my dear. I thought you might resist my Skill, but nothing as impressive as that. How did you do it, pray? You have no magical items on you—none for that purpose at any rate—and you have no Skills.”
So the monocle was looking at that? I just stare at Magnolia and shrug.
“That’s a secret.”
“Hmf. Well, I’m not too curious so I won’t pry. May I congratulate you, however? It isn’t often that someone has directly struck at me. The last person to do it was, well, your friend, Erin Solstice.”
Erin tried to hit Lady Magnolia? I just blink at her. Magnolia turns to Ressa.
“Didn’t you take a teapot to the face that time?”
“It was to the chest, and it was lukewarm tea.”
“Ah, of course.”
I eye Ressa. The maid eyes me. I definitely feel like the mouse if we’re in a cat and mouse relationship. She got in front of Magnolia from behind the couch before I could hit her. And she hit me in the cheek and chest in an instant.
“Your maid’s quite dedicated.”
That’s code for ‘what kind of freak of nature is your maid’? Magnolia just shrugs at me.
“Of course she is. Ressa possesses many skills, some of which include cleaning and pouring tea—others of which involve preventing people with blades from stabbing me.”
“And that’s normal for a [Maid]?”
“It’s normal for maids under my employ. Do you think I would carelessly walk around—even in my own home—and entertain guests without a bodyguard of some kind?”
“I suppose not.”
“But you didn’t think of it, did you? Really.”
Magnolia sighs and looks at her maid.
“They grow more simpleminded every year, it seems. Erin was like that, wasn’t she, Ressa? She was rather surprising in some ways, but she was as thoughtless as a rock in others.”
Okay, I feel like I should stand up for Erin even if what Magnolia’s saying is true. I grit my teeth and force myself to ignore the stinging pain in my chest and on my cheek.
“Erin is my friend.”
“How wonderful for you.”
Magnolia gives me a look that tells me she could care less. I keep going, ignoring her expression.
“She’s my friend. But I’ll admit she’s also an idiot in some ways. She doesn’t understand your goals. But I do. I know what you want, so let’s get to it.”
“Do you really?”
The other woman eyes me with more skepticism. She shrugs.
“Well then, go on. Enlighten me. What do I so desperately want from you?”
I open my mouth. Magnolia raises a finger.
“However—if you haven’t thought this through, Ressa will beat you quite black and blue.”
“What is your problem with stupid questions?”
I snap at Magnolia and barrel on before she can tell her maid to kick the crap out of me for that question.
“I know what you want. You know about my world by now. You’ve talked with people who’ve told you about guns, bombs, and all of our technology. I know you told Erin you don’t want that information spread, but there’s no way in hell you wouldn’t want to manufacture those kinds of weapons for yourself.”
“Really? And why is that?”
“Isn’t it obvious? Fear. Even if no one in your world has weapons yet, what if you run into more people from my world? What if someone else creates guns in secret? If that happens, it’s too late. You need to make weapons or else you’ll be overwhelmed.”
I don’t know how Erin didn’t consider that. For all Magnolia says she can suppress that technology—that’s impossible. But to my surprise, Magnolia doesn’t even bat an eyelash at my answer. Instead, she laughs.
“Good answer! Unfortunately—you are wrong, my dear Ryoka. Right in one way, but terribly wrong in the other.”
What? I stare at Magnolia. She smiles at me, shaking her head.
“You really are new to this world, aren’t you? I sometimes forget—but you really know nothing.”
“What do you mean?”
I’m right. I’m sure of it. But Magnolia clearly thinks I’m wrong. She puts down her tea cup and stretches her fingers out.
“I’m sure you’d say I’m being overconfident. But the truth is, Ryoka Griffin, guns are nothing to fear if it’s just a war we speak of. If one side has guns, they have an advantage, yes, but it does not mean they would necessarily win.”
“You—clearly don’t understand weapons from my world.”
I shake my head, trying to explain to Magnolia how insane her claim is. One side with swords and arrows taking on an army with guns? I suppose if it were guerilla attacks and attrition warfare—but no, she’s wrong!
“Oh? You disagree, Ryoka? Are guns really that fearsome?”
“Of course! They—”
I raise my voice in anger, trying to get Magnolia to understand, to be wary when I hear a slight knock. Instantly, I go silent. Magnolia frowns, and Ressa immediately turns her head to the door. Magnolia raises her voice and calls out.
“Yes?”
The door opens and a maid enters the room. She looks nervous, and nearly freezes up when she sees me, Ressa, and Lady Magnolia all staring at her. But she’s clearly more afraid of doing her job wrong in front of Ressa, so she speaks quickly and clearly while bobbing a curtsy.
“I am extremely sorry to bother you, Lady Reinhart. But your guest—the Great Mage Nemor—requests the pleasure of speaking with you forthwith.”
Great Mage? Is that a class? But Magnolia just frowns, looking irritated.
“Tell him to go away. I’m busy.”
The maid hesitates. But when Ressa glares she immediately bobs a curtsy and closes the door. Magnolia turns back to me, frowning.
“Great Mage Nemor? That’s hardly accurate.”
“Is that someone important?”
My mind’s still on Magnolia’s outrageous claim, but I ask just in case. Magnolia snorts in idle amusement.
“He’s useful, but hardly important—or entertaining. He will wait. Now, go on. You were going to tell me how the armies of your world would destroy mine in an instant. Let’s assume you had an army – or simply the technology from your world. What would make them so fearsome?”
I glare at her. She’s so damn cavalier. Fine. She wants an explanation?
“A tank.”
“A tank? Oh, the others did mention one of them. A metal moving box that fires another type of gun, aren’t they?”
It sounds so simple when Magnolia says it. I shake my head as I try to explain.
“If an army had a tank—just one!—it would be able to destroy thousands of soldiers. A tank has armor that can withstand any number of spells you throw at it. It can hurl an explosion miles away that can demolish a building—”
“A spell can do the same.”
I pause. Magnolia stares at me, one eyebrow raised.
“Your tanks sound slow and cumbersome. Can they really beat a mage hiding in the grass with a [Grand Fireball] spell?”
Grand fireball? Could that destroy a tank? I—hesitate.
“That’s not the point! That’s one tank. But an army could have hundreds. And a mage takes years, decades to train. A soldier with a gun can shoot countless people and he only takes a few days to train. While a mage—”
“Hm. Yes. I see your point.”
Magnolia waves me into silence, not looking daunted in the least. She taps a fingernail on her dress, talking as she does.
“An army of tanks and guns, you say? I still find it hard to imagine, but I am told a gun is like a crossbow that shoots hundreds of bolts per minute, farther than any normal bow. Is that right?”
Pretty much. I nod. Magnolia nods as well.
“Fearsome indeed. But these are just arrows, aren’t they? Excuse me, ‘bullets’. Nonmagical bits of iron. Your…wonderful armies from your world—they lack magic. And that is a crucial flaw. Let us say you have, oh, ten thousand soldiers with guns and several tanks. And any number of your aircrafts as well.”
Magnolia leans over the coffee table, eyes glittering. Her smile has teeth.
“I could destroy an army like that in less than ten minutes.”
I believe her. I stare into Magnolia’s eyes, and I believe she could do it. How? A spell? Enchanted armor? Would enchanted armor even suffer dents? Could you really send a few warriors in plate mail and take down tanks that easily?
“You really don’t fear guns?”
“I didn’t say that.”
Magnolia frowns at me irately. She looks as if she’s considering tossing her tea cup at me and then shrugs and goes on.
“Anyone with half a brain knows that a gun is a dangerous weapon. But anyone with a full brain knows that even an army with guns is quite easy to destroy.”
“Oh really?”
“I will hit you, you know. Or rather, order Ressa to do it for me.”
Magnolia glares at me and sighs. She settles back into her seat.
“I can destroy two armies as easily as I can destroy one. That is not the issue.”
She raises one delicate finger.
“One gun, or even ten thousand will not change the world. But a million will.”
I think I get it. Magnolia nods as she goes on.
“I do not want to create guns and other such technologies. I do not want such secrets to spread either. And the reason for that is simple: while such devices might provide power to me in the short term, it will inevitably change the world for the worse. If every [Soldier] has a gun, then it is likely the larger army will prevail. If a child can kill a man in full plate armor, then levels lose much of their meaning.”
“And if anyone can field an army, then you lose your power.”
Magnolia eyes me sternly, as if I’ve missed the point.
“Everyone loses. Don’t you understand? If it becomes an issue of numbers, then the most numerous races will conquer the others. If the balance of power is upset so far, then it will be a war where guns become the only meaningful value. As it is, an army with guns would be a significant threat, but one any world power would be able to deal with.”
She sighs.
“But only if it were an army. If guns were commonplace? In time, guns would dominate everything. In time. A nation able to manufacture more arms of a better quality would inevitably defeat the others. It will lead to a war to end all wars, where the victor will stand upon the corpses of all.”
My blood goes cold as I think of that kind of war. That’s what I envisioned as well. True, there might be ways to change such a war, but in the end it would just be an arms race, and countless battles where people with guns fight people with swords. A bloodbath.
Lady Magnolia seems to agree. She shakes her head.
“What a pointless war. It will occur if word of this technology spreads. A war with your world is one thing; if it occurs it will be inevitable. But if I can, I will prevent this world from seizing such dangerous weapons.”
Can I trust her? I don’t know. But Magnolia seems to have thought this through. She looks at me, and I feel the weight of her gaze pressing down on me, trying to force me to tell the truth, to speak.
“So, here is my most pressing question, one which I believe you will answer. How long will it take for these dangerous weapons to be developed? If one of the people from your world were to cooperate—or give up such information to a powerful individual or nation, how long would it take for them to engineer such inventions?”
The question catches me off guard. For a second I’m not sure if I should answer it. But from what Magnolia’s said—I do some quick calculations. I’m obviously not an expert in firearms, but let’s think about it rationally. If someone needed to find all the ingredients of gunpowder, sulfur, saltpeter, charcoal—and secure them as a long-term resource…testing…building prototypes…
“You could probably have a prototype gun ready in less than a month if you had a kingdom’s worth of resources at your disposal. But a gun that’s ready for war? A proper gun? An army? That would take years.”
The more dangerous route would be a cannon. That’s easier to make, honestly. I share that with Magnolia and she nods thoughtfully.
“A cannon? Intriguing. But if that’s anything like a trebuchet, it’s not as much of a problem.”
She’s so…calm about this. I just stare at Magnolia, a woman unafraid of guns or cannons. She stares back.
