“Take Sage’s Grass for instance. It was super-rare, worth more than gemstones, and the most powerful ingredient in the world, say, five thousand years back. I don’t actually know. Ten thousand years back, it didn’t exist. That’s because a [Sage], a really powerful one, bred the plant. Hence the name. He died, and [Alchemists] all over the world rejoiced. Because this is cheap, magical, and no one has to kill a Unicorn or milk a magic cow for it.”
She began pouring the magical water into the vessel. Numbtongue, at this point, had graduated to assistant, and he carefully stirred the honey, minerals, Eir Gel base, and magical water together, watching it mix and gently glow.
“And that’s it? You mix and…?”
“There’s a bit more. But yes. I have an easier time than you will. Careful—I do need to boil it again to help it all come together. It’s, uh, yeah, it’s my recipe. But like I said, everyone has a different one. That’s why no potion looks the same.”
“Is it because no one shares?”
Octavia smiled as she worked, stirring the liquid, checking the heat, making sure it was looking how it was supposed to.
“Not just that. Look…alchemy is a very specific thing. It’s not like being a [Warrior] and hitting things with sticks. For a [Warrior], it’s all about flavor, right? I have [Enhanced Strength]! Or I have [Quick Movement]! Either way, you still hit things in the end. But in alchemy, if you have just one thing missing or one thing extra, the result changes. Take this formula, for instance. You probably can’t replicate it even if you copied me. You could get the same result eventually, but not exactly the same.”
Octavia pointed down at the glowing, yellow potion taking shape before Numbtongue’s eyes.
“Skills affect an [Alchemist]’s career greatly. What we have or don’t have allows us to make different potions, creations. That’s why Xif asked if I had Skills he didn’t. Each one can help me out a lot. For instance. This simple potion?”
She paused and raised four fingers.
“[Low-Grade Synthesis], [Cleansing Heat], [Mineral Distillation], and [Magic-Water Solvent]. Those are the Skills that went into this recipe as well as the ingredients. Without any one of them, this wouldn’t work.”
“I see.”
Numbtongue was disappointed. But also elated that alchemy wasn’t that simple. And you could still learn the end result! His eyes focused on the Eir Gel. Maybe a Goblin couldn’t get their hands on that. But the theory of alchemy? A Goblin could do that. Octavia kept chattering as Numbtongue sat next to her.
“[Alchemists] rely on figuring out specific combinations of ingredients, processes, and Skills more than any other class. We create workarounds—like my Sage’s Grass water. It’s cheap around Celum because this Wailant fellow grows it, but it’s harder to get elsewhere, so [Alchemists] have to invent other types of boosters.”
She paused. Octavia had been smiling, energetic near the end of making the potions. Now, as she looked into the bubbling liquid and slowly turned the burner off, she paused, and Numbtongue saw her droop.
“That’s why we spend so much time and money getting new ingredients, tools. Why we need money to invent new things or find out our way of doing what other people do. So if I always seem like I’m trying to get as much money as possible—”
She paused and rubbed at one eye. Then she turned her head away from the liquid below. Numbtongue heard her voice catch.
“I—I’m not a good [Alchemist]. Low-level, really. The matches were my big success, and Erin’s baking soda, I guess. Does she even use it? I guess in bread. No [Baker] wanted to try it. I leveled both times, faster than I have in…but I’m not nearly as good as one of the Pallassian [Alchemists]. Let alone Xif.”
She sniffed. Numbtongue saw her brush at her face and then saw her wipe a bit of liquid. She stepped back before it could foul her potion. Octavia’s voice came out painfully now.
“I just want to be better. To improve. But it’s so hard. Sands and silks, I moved from Chandrar to Izril because I thought there’d be less competition. But here I am. In a city with four [Alchemists]. Well, two now. Jeffil’s arms are broken, and Quelm’ll be in jail if he’s lucky. So it’s Mabel the Magnificent and I. I guess that’ll make things easier?”
Her voice was desperate and forlorn. And—lonely. Numbtongue sat on his stool staring at the glowing liquid. He had no answer for Octavia. He couldn’t relate to most of it. Shops, business. Moving from a continent. But he could say something that was honest, that he understood.
“It’s hard not being strong. And getting stronger is hard. Leveling up is hard. Muscles only get so big.”
He thought of Grimalkin.
“Mostly they stop getting big. But it’s hard. Being weaker.”
“Yeah.”
Octavia sniffed. She plucked out an eye and wiped at the other one furiously. Numbtongue gazed at the cloth eye. It was damp with tears. He stared at Octavia. She was very strange. Foreign. If you looked at her wrong, you’d call her a monster.
“Is it…is it good to have rare things? Rocks? Shiny rocks? Glowing rocks? Mana stones?”
He ventured a guess. Octavia laughed as she put her eye back into the socket and it became flesh and blood again.
“Mana stones? Of course! They’re the foundation of powerful potions! It used to be [Alchemists] used only them in potions since it was so hard to find other magical ingredients.”
“So…you use them?”
Numbtongue felt at his side. Octavia shook her head despairingly.
“You think I have the coin to buy mana stones? Well, if I’d kept my control over the matches, maybe.”
“Hm. What about…emeralds? Gold? Ooh, silver.”
Octavia smiled again, not looking at Numbtongue. She checked the healing potion, cutting a tiny part of her wrist and using the potion to heal it.
“Yeah, all of that. I’d rather sell it, but if I had enough money—you can use gold in some potions. Silver—it’s all about reactions. Finding a way to distill ingredients into other forms, mix them. Water mixed with gold dust is just water and gold dust in the end. But there’s a way to meld the two together. And with that liquid…it doesn’t matter. Too rich for my blood.”
“But you could make a powerful potion.”
“The very best. Or maybe just another weak one. We don’t know. Rare ingredients are rare for that reason. But I’m willing to bet some of them, with the right boosters and combinations? They could make something no one’s seen before.”
Octavia looked longingly at the plain, glowing potion in front of her. With a sigh, she added three drops of coloring and swirled it. The potion became orange and blue, spiraling, an enchanted mixture. The Stitch-girl caught Numbtongue’s eye and smiled weakly.
“For the appeal. I’m a fraud. Honestly, Numbtongue, if you want a good potion, find a way to get it from Xif. Heck, if Erin sells those Faerie Flowers to him, he might cut her an exclusive deal. And then I’m sure I won’t be needed at the inn.”
“Maybe.”
The Hobgoblin thought Octavia was right. Xif was clearly better. Experienced. And many other things. But in that moment, as Numbtongue looked at the potion that Octavia had walked him through step-by-step, he thought of Xif and the look on the Gnoll’s face when he saw Numbtongue.
Maybe the Gnoll was nice and Numbtongue hadn’t seen his good side. He’d apologized. But Numbtongue also remembered the [Guards] posted on the door to Pallass. He couldn’t walk around the Walled City. He could barely walk around Liscor. As for Celum…
He looked around Octavia’s shop. Her shop, where she had trusted him to protect her if there were [Thugs]. And then he looked at his pouch and the shiny and, to a Goblin, fairly worthless objects inside.
Octavia was pouring the potion into jars, stoppering them up, when she heard the clacking. She turned around. And stared.
“What is—where did you get that?”
Numbtongue paused as he put down a bit of silver next to some mana stones, an emerald, and other pieces of his collection from the mountain. Some were his. Others had been mined by Pyrite.
“Shiny rocks.”
“Shiny—do you know what those are? How did you find them? Did you take them from—”
Numbtongue shook his head as she glanced up at him, suddenly worried.
“They’re not hard to get. I—another Goblin used to find them all the time. Mining.”
“You can find these? Mining?”
“Sure. Here. This one makes a good potion, right?”
Numbtongue found a glowing red stone with pink-red fire. Octavia’s eyes nearly popped back out of her head. She reached for it with a trembling hand, then stopped.
“But—but—what do you want in return? Money? Gold? I can’t offer you nearly what this is—”
She trailed off, staring at it. For a second, Numbtongue saw her eyes flicker to him, calculating, assessing. Octavia opened her mouth, reaching for the stone—and then let her hand go limp.
“I can’t pay you what this is worth. But if I could offer you anything in trade? Anything?”
She looked at him hopefully. Numbtongue considered it. He smacked his lips together thoughtfully and nodded.
“Mm. Potions.”
“How many?”
The Hobgoblin thought. The [Alchemist] was tense.
“Two of those?”
He pointed to the bottled healing potions. Octavia stared. Numbtongue frowned.
“Four?”
He waited.
“…Eight?”
The [Alchemist] shook her head.
“You don’t know how valuable these stones are, do you? And my potions are crap compared to—it’s not fair. You know that. You do know that, right?”
She looked up. And Numbtongue’s smile was knowing. He nodded, shrugging casually. A Goblin’s shrug.
“Sure I do. But I want potions. So. Show me how to make them. And make good ones. From these.”
He tapped the mana stone.
“Ones that explode or do good things. Like invisibility. Those are good potions. And give some to me.”
“But the cost—”
“I don’t use shiny rocks. I just throw them at adventurers. To play fetch.”
Numbtongue laughed. Octavia didn’t get the joke. He went on.
“Only other thing is—I eat stones.”
“Mana stones?”
“Yup. Other Goblin did that too. Tasted good too. But sharp. Potions are better. Probably. I tasted good potion once. Invisibility. So you make them. I drink them. Good deal, right?”
Numbtongue smacked his lips, remembering that. Octavia stared at him. Then her eyes welled up with tears.
“You’re just giving them to me? After all I—do you know how much I’d have to fight or bargain for—giving them to me?”
“Mhm.”
The Hobgoblin was prepared for tears. And the shock. But not the hug. Octavia cried, and then she grabbed the stones, talking about finding out what each one did—then she ran around her shop grabbing potions and offering them to Numbtongue. He couldn’t fit them on his belt and said so. After a while, Erin opened the door, and of course, that never made things quiet.
But it was okay. Numbtongue sat in Stitchworks as Octavia calmed down and looked around. It was very quiet here. Not noisy like Erin’s inn was at all hours. You know—he wanted to try copying what Octavia had done. That wouldn’t end badly, right?
Thoughtfully, the Goblin considered the [Thugs]. And other things. And then he looked at Octavia and Erin, who was wondering if you could make an Eir Gel sandwich.
“You know, I’ve been meaning to up my [Wondrous Fare] game. Hey, Numbtongue, you really okay with giving Octavia all the shiny stuff?”
He waved a claw at her. He was lost in his own thoughts. His and Pyrite’s. Imagine if Goblins could be [Alchemists]? Imagine if the Redfangs could have made their own potions instead of hoarding the ones they took from adventurers and raids? Imagine what they might have become?
It was true, what he’d said to Octavia. Numbtongue understood their worth, but shiny stones were shiny stones. But potions? He held up one of the fresh healing potions Octavia had made. It glowed in his claws. This was worth everything. If he could learn this…
After a while, he looked up. He had another thought, and Erin was willing to hear it. She was shocked—so was Octavia at first—and protested. But then she agreed. Because Numbtongue was smiling.
And so, that night, as Erin’s customers learned the pleasures of hot-tub drinking and a very irate Ceria stared at her boiled, pruney fingers while eating greens and Erin played more board games with some of Pallass’ [Strategists] and Chaldion, Numbtongue was not there at the inn. He was, in fact, a hundred miles north. Sitting in an [Alchemist]’s shop, guitar in hands, strumming, while Octavia snored in her room in The Wandering Inn.
The Hobgoblin’s crimson eyes glowed in the darkness. And the sparks that shot from his claws as he played earthed themselves well away from any of Octavia’s goods. He had a bed. A sleeping bag, really, but the Goblin liked it, and Erin vouched for sleeping in the kitchen, where it was installed. Breakfast was at her inn, anyways. He was just here as an employee. Being paid and everything.
Outside, it was raining. The clouds obscured the sky, but if someone were to stand outside Octavia’s boarded-up shop, they’d see a new sign installed there, the paint freshly-dried and varnished. It read this:
 
Stitchworks is under the protection of the Redfang Goblins!*
            	    	*(Bronze-rank team. Attack the Goblin and he’s allowed to hit you. He can also talk, listen, and see. If you throw rocks, he’ll throw them back.)
 
That was all. It wouldn’t stop stones or stares, but Numbtongue was good at catching and throwing, and he could stare right back. And there he was. A Hobgoblin in a city. It wasn’t Liscor. But it was pretty good.
As the Hobgoblin played, quietly, sitting in the dark of the night, the person, or rather, people who were in a position to read the sign crept closer. And one of them, a man, drew a long, curved knife coated in a dark orange substance. He crept towards the shop and paused. Just in time to hear the faint music playing. Then there was a flash.
A bolt of lightning shot down from the sky. It landed in the city, blasting a hole in the street, waking up Celum’s residents in fear and panic—until they looked to their windows and saw nothing was burning or collapsed and they relaxed. Their gazes missed the black body lying on the cobblestones.
The strike had flung the [Blackguard] across the street. He lay there as the [Nightstalker] stared at his body in horror and then turned back to the shop. She saw two crimson eyes blinking at her, then a grin. The Sister of Chell backed away towards her fallen companion.
