“As it is, you’re a disgusting waste of potential. Your [Necromancer] class is designed for raising armies of undead. These specialized Bone Horrors are useful as walls, but [Necromancers] specialize in overwhelming their opponents with minions. You need to keep…three high-grade mana potions on your person at all times and triple the amount of bones you have stockpiled. Then you can raise a small army of skeletons for any given battle. Animal bones? Good. I’d have to hit you if they were Drake, Gnoll, or Human.”
He sighed louder.
“You pass. But either upgrade that rapier and learn more duelist spells or stop using it. It won’t cut my scales; good luck fighting a Wyvern or anything with a tough hide.”
Pisces preened. Yvlon rolled her eyes in disgust as he adjusted his robes and sat up, smiling contentedly.
“I’ll keep that in mind. But, ah, Magus Grimalkin, you’re referring to Miss Byres as close to Gold-rank—Ksmvr obviously simply has too few levels—but what did you mean about ‘certifying us’? You mean, giving us a Gold-rank status as adventurers? I assumed that was a matter for Adventurer’s Guilds to take on…”
Grimalkin looked affronted.
“Of course I can certify someone as Gold-rank. I recommended two of my apprentices to the Adventurer’s Guild in Pallass when they graduated from my training. One for Gold-rank, the other for Silver. She hit Gold-rank in four months. Human Adventurer’s Guilds don’t take recommendations? Haven’t you gotten one from a Gold-rank team?”
The Horns went uncomfortably silent. Grimalkin smiled.
“They probably agreed with me. Now, onto Ceria Springwalker.”
He pointed at Ceria, and her heart sank. She raised her flesh and skeletal hand, smiling weakly.
“I get it. Stop eating, start learning from my spellbook…I can do that.”
She noticed Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr all looking at her skeptically. Even Ksmvr, which hurt.
“I can! Honestly! It’s just that I don’t have any more ice spells in that spellbook of Warmage Thresk’s. But I taught myself how to use [Frozen Armor] in the Raskghar den, remember? I just need to put my back to the wall and…we can buy a spellbook, right?”
“Hm. I may be able to help with spellbooks. I have a few duplicates. But your issue is that you need to practice magic. The [Necromancer] can fiddle about with bones, but you need to practice magic. And not just aiming spells or quickening your incantation. Your [Ice Walls] need to be strengthened. You need to improve your mastery of frost; that’s what [Elementalists] do. They specialize.”
Grimalkin drummed his claws on one arm absently. Ceria looked at him blankly.
“How am I supposed to do that? Gain more Skills? I already have [Weak Frost Resistance], [Ice Magic Affinity], and [Frozen Quickshape], but…”
She jumped as Grimalkin thumped his thigh. The [Sinew Magus] glared at her.
“Dead gods! Do you think magic is all about Skills? I’m talking about practice! Honest work! You need a regimen. Structure! And this is what I specialize in!”
He snapped his fingers, and the pop of sound made the Horns jump. Grimalkin got up in one movement and strode over to Ceria. She found herself standing as he nodded, practically vibrating with energy.
“I’m no [Cryomancer]. I know a few dozen spells involving ice magic, but it’s not my specialty. But I do know how they train. We’re going to have you work on your fundamentals, Springwalker! It’ll be intense! Possibly life-threatening! But. That. Is. Why. It. Works!”
He jabbed her in the chest. Ceria rocked back on her feet with each impact and opened her mouth. He couldn’t mean—she turned red again.
“Hold on! I know what my master talked about having me do, but that’s a bit extreme, right? I can’t even…”
She hesitated. Grimalkin paused as he paced over to the door and came back. Pisces and Yvlon looked interestedly at her.
“Do what?”
Ceria hesitated and turned red. She coughed.
“Uh. W-well. She said that when she learned ice magic, she, er, went to Terandria and walked in the worst blizzards she could find. Naked.”
Ksmvr stared blankly at Ceria. Pisces, on the other hand, let out a cackle, and Yvlon covered her face. Grimalkin just looked nonplussed. He shook his head.
“Walking around in a blizzard naked? Why would that help? You’re in your element. No. That’s idiotic. What I have planned is much more efficient. And you can do it without needing inclement weather. I just need one thing…”
He paused. The Horns of Hammerad looked at him expectantly. Grimalkin looked around, frowning, and then he leaned over to Ceria.
“…This inn wouldn’t happen to have a bathtub, would it? I need to borrow it.”
 
—–
 
“Aaah! Aaah! It hurts!”
Erin Solstice heard Ceria screaming outside. She stared at Chaldion—they were playing Go at this point to break up the Shogi games. He was new to them, but he’d won three games out of eight. Erin was enjoying herself so much she really didn’t want to look. But after four minutes of Ceria screaming, she got up and, with a sigh, went outside.
She found Ceria standing in the bathtub. Or rather—lying down in it. It was a nice, round, wooden tub, big enough to hold even Relc if he lay down and submerged in it. Not that he’d ever used it. Erin herself didn’t use it much; Liscor’s bathhouses were much nicer. And it was a pain to fill.
But the bathtub was filled now. With water. In fact, with boiling water. And Ceria was lying in it. Grimalkin had set up a raging fire around the bottom of the tub and, heedless of the way it kept on scorching the sides, was stoking it mercilessly. The only thing that was keeping the tub from burning itself was the water Ceria kept splashing over the sides as she thrashed. But Ksmvr was helping to fill the tub with a bucket. Yvlon and Pisces were just watching.
“What on earth? Ceria!”
Erin was horrified. The half-Elf was going to cook her brains! At the very least scald her skin off! Already, the half-Elf’s arms were red and cooked, but Erin realized the tub was blazing with heat! It wasn’t just scald-yourself hot, it was you’ll-actually-die-it’s-that-hot! She looked at Grimalkin in horror. The [Sinew Magus] looked up cheerfully.
“More heat! Come on, [Necromancer], help me with these flames. We’ll probably need a copper tub if this thing keeps burning. Feel the burn, Springwalker! That’s how you know you’re alive!”
He flexed, raising his arms up and roaring encouragement. Ceria just screamed.
“I’m burning alive, you monster! It’s too hot! It’s too hot!”
“She’s going to die! Grimalkin, what are you doing!”
Erin had to walk around the fire towards Grimalkin. The Muscle Mage looked at her, beaming.
“Not if she does what she has to! Ah, Erin Solstice, admiring my custom-made course? I told you I’d deliver! Fancy talking about parkour? I could try working up something for the [Necromancer], but Miss Springwalker was the one I thought was really—whoops, sorry, it’s getting too cool. Hold on a moment.”
He pointed and shot a bunch of blue flames into the fire. Ceria screamed, and Erin panicked.
“Put it out! Why’s she in there? What kind of training needs this?”
She looked around and grabbed a spare bucket, but Grimalkin held her back.
“Ice magic training, of course! Miss Springwalker’s lowering the heat in the water! Or how else would she be alive? This is training her core! Her magical core!”
He pointed, and Erin saw that he was right! Ceria was flailing about and screaming curses at her team, but she wasn’t looking nearly as bad as the fierce heat suggested. She stared at Grimalkin.
“Wh—really? [Mages] have a core too?”
He hesitated.
“Well, not really. It’s a good analogy, though. She’s really training her ability to freeze things. The faster and more intense she can do it, the stronger her ice spells will be. Especially the higher-level spells. This is a precursor to her learning more advanced ice magics, and it’ll strengthen her [Ice Wall] and [Ice Spear] spell—when she learns it. I’m going to have Ferkr check if I have the spell in my collection. You haven’t seen her around, have you?”
Erin stared at Grimalkin. Then she heard Ceria shout from the tub.
“I can’t do it anymore! Put the fire out! Put it out or I’ll die!”
“Nonsense! You’ve only been in there…eight minutes! Keep going! And you, Pisces, more heat! You need to work, Springwalker, or you’ll never improve! Push those limits! Look at Miss Solstice here. She fought a Goblin Lord—”
“I’m going to kill you!”
“If you have the spare magic for that, I’d welcome the attempt!”
Grimalkin waited. Ceria just stared at him through the steam and started uttering profanities. Erin saw Mrsha, who was padding out to look at what all the fuss was about, promptly be pulled back in by a motherly Lyonette. Grimalkin turned to Erin.
“Anyways, we’ll see what Springwalker’s limit is with this test. I have a few others, but this is actually a very good method to force her to improve. She’s acknowledged she’s become complacent, and her team’s very willing to help her improve. I admire that. Team spirit can force people even further past their limits!”
He gestured at Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr. It looked to Erin like they were placing bets on how long Ceria would last as she cursed them. But—Pisces leaned over and said something to Ceria that made her splash boiling water at him. He retreated, howling, but Yvlon was there, and Ksmvr happily waved as he splashed water into Ceria’s tub.
It was madness, but it was their kind of madness. Erin laughed. Then she looked at the tub.
“Huh. Hot tubs.”
She thought about it, and then her eyes widened. Erin turned to Grimalkin, who was inspecting the heat and muttering about it being ‘only as hot as a cook fire’.
“Hot tubs! That’s it! Grimalkin, you’re a genius!”
“What?”
The [Sinew Magus] looked up blankly. Erin danced about excitedly.
“Oh my god. Hey, Lyonette! Pawn! Belgrade! Get out here! We need hot tubs for the inn! Can we build…”
She rushed back inside before Grimalkin could blink. He straightened, looking at Erin as the door slammed shut. Ceria, boiling, glared at him from her bath. She was still wearing her robes. Grimalkin pointed at the door.
“Is she always like that?”
“I hate you.”
The Muscle Mage met Ceria’s gaze and shrugged.
“Well, keep freezing. You’re clearly out of practice from when your master trained you. Freeze the hot water! Or do you think you’ll be allowed to skip fighting in the summer? [Cryomancers] generate their own cold, or they switch to water magic! But we do need to hydrate you. Drink the water in the tub! Or you’ll sweat to death! Come on, Springwalker! This is barely hot enough to boil my tea in. Do you want to improve, or do you want to improve?”
A strangled scream was his only reply. But Grimalkin saw Ceria thrust herself deeper into the boiling water, and he smiled. She had spirit, that half-Elf. Then Grimalkin saw Ksmvr sidling over. The Antinium splashed Ceria with water and conspiratorially leaned over to Grimalkin.
“Magus Grimalkin, I believe there is one more glaring weakness I possess that I would like you to address if you have the time. It is a crucial flaw in my team’s makeup, and I believe it is just as pressing as Captain Ceria’s weakness in magic, if not more so.”
The [Mage] regarded Ksmvr with distrust, but also a bit of interest. He folded his arms.
“Go on…”
Ksmvr took a deep breath. He looked at Ceria boiling in her bathtub, then at Grimalkin, then at Ceria and came out with it in a rush.
“You see, I have a fear of drowning in water…”
“Because you can’t swim?”
Ksmvr nodded repeatedly.
“Yes. Antinium are incapable of swimming. But I was hoping you could help me.”
Grimalkin paused.
“Get over your fear of drowning in water when you’ll die if you enter it.”
“Yes. Exactly.”
Ksmvr waited. Grimalkin stared at him, looked him up and down, and shook his head.
“In your case, I’d stay afraid, Antinium.”
He walked away. Ksmvr stared down at the dregs of water in the bucket he held and nodded. He whispered at the bucket as he solemnly emptied the rest into Ceria’s tub.
“I knew it.”
 
—–
 
While Ceria practiced her ice magic outside with Grimalkin, Erin’s attempts to convince Lyonette to install a hot spring in the new inn’s plans were derailed when she saw a familiar, quiet figure sitting in her inn. She stared and then slapped her head and ran over to a Gnoll happily inspecting a flower in a cup at the bar.
Xif the [Alchemist] looked up warily but, after a moment, went over to speak with Octavia. Because Erin had asked him to, up front. He coughed as Octavia doodled on the table with one finger; she’d taken it off her hand by undoing the stitching. She looked up blankly as Xif smiled politely.
“Ah, Miss Octavia. Might I have a word? My name is Xif, and Miss Solstice invited me to chat with you. I understand you’ve had some trouble in your shop? I’d be glad to discuss the matter with you for a few minutes.”
Octavia jumped and blinked up at Xif. And then her eyes were round. She felt at her eyes, pulled one out, and then put it back in and stared at the Gnoll. She stuttered.
“X-x-x-Xif? As in, Xif the [Alchemist], the one who developed the modern cure-all basic antidote formula?”
He smiled kindly at her.
“I wouldn’t go that far. I just improved the formula. It was quite well-received, though. May I sit?”
“Of course! Please! Take my chair! Take his chair too!”
Octavia shot to her feet and began offering Xif every chair in reach. Numbtongue growled as she reached for a chair at his table, but Xif, chuckling, sat down and beckoned her to sit with him. Octavia did, staring at Xif wide-eyed over her empty cup and plate. She hesitated and then burst out.
“I would love to exchange notes. Formulas? Apprentice myself to you and cook and clean up after you? Please?”
The Gnoll paused only for a moment before shaking his head.
“I’m afraid not, Miss Octavia. You know how we are with secret formulas and recipes. I don’t take apprentices, and if I did—it would have to be someone with a Skillset outside of mine. If you do have any unique Skills, I’d be willing to discuss it. Ah—for reference, I’m specialized in plant work. [Poison Immunity] and [Perfect Reduction] would be some of my focused Skills. And you?”
Octavia hesitated. She lost her sudden burst of energy and looked down at the table, flushing behind her dark, stitched skin.
“[M-Magic-Water Solvent]. And…[Mineral Distillation].”
