Numbtongue, listening with one ear to the conversation as he ate an entire plate of macaroni and cheese, heard the embarrassment in her voice. Were they bad Skills for an [Alchemist]? He turned his head and saw Xif smile again. Not condescendingly, but with a knowing look that told Numbtongue his guess was right.
“Ah, of course. Celum’s farm. Rocks and magical liquid. It’s a fine start, Miss Cotton, but I’m afraid it’s not worth my time to teach you. There’s no malice; I hope you understand? Erin Solstice herself couldn’t persuade me to take on an apprentice, not even if she sold me half her flowers. If she has two rare ingredients, though…”
“No, I understand. I’m sorry, I just—I’d offer anything to study under a master. I…uh, has Erin talked about my matches? I’m also studying this Haste Potion—I could show it to you—”
Octavia’s hands were fumbling nervously under the table. For a second time, Xif smiled apologetically and shook his furry head.
“I did see them. Fascinating. I’m afraid most [Alchemists] will be able to copy them once they arrive in Pallass, Miss Octavia. I’m…going to be quite busy with this flower, so I’ll forget I saw them for a bit. But—and I do apologize—I don’t wish to owe you a favor. A Haste Potion, you said? I have seen Potions of Quickness before. Haste would be…but are you sure of the effects?”
“I—I think I am. I’m sorry, I’m not trying to push—”
Octavia’s voice was far meeker than Numbtongue remembered too. But Xif was kindly, even if Numbtongue felt like turning around and kicking him in the back. He’d seen everything the Gnoll had done with Erin. He’d taken her flower! Never mind that he left all that gold there—for the Hobgoblin, theft was theft. If Xif took a single mug from Erin’s inn, he, Numbtongue, would happily beat him to death with it. And then get a new mug. That was how Goblins did things. You didn’t steal. Okay, Goblins had few possessions, but it was like if Numbtongue had taken Shorthilt’s sword—
The Hobgoblin looked down at the steel sword hanging from his side. He only paid attention to the conversation between the two [Alchemists] when he heard Octavia stuttering.
“I—it was my fault, really. I started it—”
“Ah, that sounds like the Chandrarian way. Throwing potions at each other? Insults in public? I miss that. Do they still have alchemy duels between competing shops in public and huge feuds? They must!”
Xif was laughing. Then he grew serious.
“But really, Miss Cotton. You might have been improper as far as the law’s concerned, but hiring a gang to vandalize your shop? Extorting money? We [Alchemists] in Pallass have our fights, but they never go to that extreme. I would say this Mister Quelm is receiving his just rewards. And with his absence, the remaining [Alchemists] in Celum have less competition, yes?”
He nodded, and Octavia nodded as well. She fiddled with a fork nervously.
“There’s only Mabel now that Jeffil’s out of the game. But…my name’s mud with Celum’s City Watch. And that gang could still be hanging around.”
Xif nodded again, his eyes alert, considering. He leaned forwards as Drassi brought over a tray with some drinks.
“Now, as I said, I can’t help your shop with recipes or training, Miss Cotton. I don’t know what Miss Solstice had in mind, but I do take Grimalkin’s position. You know what secrets are to [Alchemists]; we’re always stealing each other’s best products.”
Octavia nodded miserably, and Xif held up one furry finger.
“However, I’m quite content to talk about how I run my business. And I do remember starting up in a small city—I have travelled abroad, and I understand customers. The agony of pricing that accursed stamina potion as well! As humble as it may be, I think I know price points in cities even as far north as Celum—I have a number of [Merchants] who make the journey north of Pallass during the winter. I could recommend your matches to a few and discuss what I know of the business? If that suits you?”
He looked at Octavia. Numbtongue peeked at her face and saw it turn hopeful.
“I’d—I’d appreciate that very much, Alchemist Xif. Would you mind if I, er, took notes?”
“Xif, please. By all means. Let me lend you my quill. It’s magical.”
The two began a heated discussion that Numbtongue stopped following after it began diving into the economics of potions and how much copper you could get away with charging. Lighting? Presentation? The Hobgoblin contented himself with ordering another plate of noodles.
Briefly, yes, briefly, he felt guilty that he wasn’t sharing this with Pyrite. But Numbtongue had a sense that it took…at least eight hours to reuse his Skill to bring Pyrite back. And it was completely different from using Pyrite’s memories too. The other Hobgoblin was there with his Skills and personality. It was amazing. Incredible.
Painful. Numbtongue resolved that, if he could, he’d ‘treat’ Pyrite to at least one meal a day. The Hobgoblin really loved fish; most Goblins did. But Numbtongue was sure he’d love meatloaf. And what might he say to Erin? What might he do? Numbtongue couldn’t wait—but as he was finishing his second plate, he realized Xif had finished with Octavia. Now the [Alchemist] was coming over to his table!
Numbtongue looked up warily. Xif smiled and nodded.
“Er, Numbtongue is it? May I sit?”
Numbtongue thought about it.
“No.”
Xif hesitated. He was halfway sitting, but he stood up after a moment and his smile became forced. He looked at Numbtongue, and the Hobgoblin remembered the way he’d recoiled from him when they first met. Of course, most people did that. That young woman named Garia had kicked him. Numbtongue was more embarrassed than anything else about that. But Xif…the Hobgoblin waited.
“I’d, ah, like to make you an offer, Numbtongue. You are the first Goblin I’ve encountered, let alone Hobgoblin…forgive me, but would you be willing to part with some nail clippings? I notice yours are quite long, and I’d be willing to pay for them.”
Xif indicated Numbtongue’s hands. Reflexively, the Goblin hid his hands and stared.
“What?”
“Your fingernails. I’d like to buy them. Toenails too. I know some of my peers have looked into it, but I thought I’d ask since today seems to be a day of windfalls. Would you consider it?”
Xif smiled at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin thought he looked wary. If he shouted, would Xif run or throw a potion in his face? The Hobgoblin decided to just sit back and fold his arms. Xif sighed.
“I really would like to use them. For potions? It would earn you money as well. How much would you take for them?”
“One million gold pieces.”
Xif blinked. Numbtongue didn’t know if he’d used his Skill or not, but the Gnoll’s face instantly turned rueful. He regarded Numbtongue and then looked knowingly towards the flowers in the beds on the far wall.
“I see. Well, I would be willing to pay a few gold pieces for your clippings if I could regularly acquire them. Do let me know if you change your mind.”
“Sure.”
Numbtongue sneered. Xif hesitated, but in the end, clearly disappointed, he moved away from the table. He sighed, then brightened.
“Ah! Now where is that Mrsha child? White fur—is it magical, different from Gnoll fur, or just cosmetic? These are the questions.”
Numbtongue watched him hurry off, head turning. The Hobgoblin glared at his back and stuck out his tongue as Erin sometimes did. It made Numbtongue feel better. He turned in his seat and realized Octavia was staring at him. The Hobgoblin jumped. She jumped too.
“Numbtongue, right?”
He nodded warily. Octavia gulped. She looked at him. Not afraid—how long had she known him? Since all five Redfangs had been here, that’s how long. Numbtongue felt a pang. The [Alchemist] looked like she had pain of her own. Her hands tightened over a few pages of messy, inky notes.
“I, uh—I wanted to say thanks—”
“For what?”
Numbtongue looked blank. Octavia hesitated.
“Saving my shop? Chasing off those [Thugs]?”
“Oh.”
Numbtongue thought about it. Then he hesitated. What were you supposed to say? He remembered at last.
“You’re…welcome.”
He stared at Octavia. She stared back. Numbtongue realized that was the first time someone besides Erin or Lyonette had ever thanked him for anything. The sensation felt…odd. But good. Octavia smiled weakly.
“Hey, come to my shop and I’ll treat you to a few potions. On the house. Not that I have much of a career. Lots of…trouble. But I’ll pull myself up. I’m really grateful to Erin. I—”
She broke off. Numbtongue and Octavia looked around as someone started screaming outside. Numbtongue grabbed his sword, but then he relaxed. It was just Ceria, still enduring her bath. Some people went to the windows and laughed. On the basis of that, the Hobgoblin relaxed a bit. So did the [Alchemist].
“Always something in Erin’s inn.”
“Mhm.”
Numbtongue nodded absently. He looked at Octavia and then pointed at Xif. The [Alchemist] was bending over, talking to Mrsha.
“Who’s that?”
“Xif? He’s an [Alchemist]. Really high-level. One of the best in…the world? Pallass is known for its alchemy. His potions are leagues beyond anything I could come up with.”
Octavia looked jealously at the Gnoll’s back. Numbtongue grunted.
“I don’t like him.”
He crossed his arms. Octavia glanced at him.
“Why? Because he made Erin sell him a flower? There are a lot of nastier ways he could have done it. And he offered you gold for your nails. Why not take it?”
“Because they’re my nails.”
“You know he could get Hobgoblin nails from…”
“Yes.”
Octavia trailed off. She cleared her throat.
“Sorry.”
Numbtongue shrugged.
“For what?”
The [Alchemist] didn’t have anything to say to that. Silently, she and Numbtongue watched as Xif solemnly shook Mrsha’s paw and handed over several gold pieces. Her look was envious. Numbtongue still was fuzzy on the money thing—mainly because he didn’t really care—but he knew that Xif was a lot wealthier than Octavia. More successful. Numbtongue knew how that must feel.
“I should go back to my shop. I won’t get anywhere if I keep running.”
Octavia muttered. She was staring at the notes. Numbtongue nodded. That seemed like a correct statement. He saw the [Alchemist] getting up, staring nervously at the open door to Pallass. Numbtongue had a thought and remembered what she just said. Casually, abandoning the two licked-clean plates, he stood up too. Just in time for Erin to hurry over.
“Hey, guys! I’m going to have Pawn and Belgrade build a big hot tub! Want to get in? The water’s fine! Hot, but not as hot as Ceria’s!”
She beamed at them. Numbtongue blinked.
“Hot…tubs?”
Erin nodded. She had to explain the idea to him, then she turned to Octavia.
“What about it? You’re both invited! Bathing suits, of course; no skinny dipping! Want to come, Octavia? Numbtongue?”
“No, I—I might go to my room. Upstairs. I’m thinking about visiting my shop later tonight. If that’s not a bother, Erin?”
Octavia mumbled. Erin shook her head.
“Of course not! Just say when—but we’ll have the Horns or someone go with you! Just in case those jerks come back! You’re sure you and Numbtongue don’t want to try…?”
Erin hesitated as she realized who her audience was. Octavia was a Stitch-girl, made out of fabric, which was flammable and probably didn’t like getting wet. Even if it looked like skin. Numbtongue was a Hobgoblin, and there were a lot of people outside. Erin nodded.
“Okay, we can work it out later. Hey! Xif! You need a bath!”
She wandered off. Numbtongue and Octavia watched her pull the [Alchemist] towards the door, then Chaldion, who gladly came with a large tumbler of alcohol, and she closed the door. After a moment, Numbtongue looked at Octavia. She smiled weakly.
“That’s Erin! I, um, I’m going upstairs. Nice talking to you?”
She looked at Numbtongue. He blinked at her and then pointed at the magical door.
“Want to go?”
“What—to Celum? No, I wouldn’t want to trouble Erin. And the door has to be switched…”
“It’s not hard. I can do it.”
Numbtongue puffed out his chest proudly. Octavia hesitated. She looked around the busy inn.
“But the Horns are outside, and I wouldn’t want to trouble anyone. If the [Thugs] are there—”
“That’s fine. I’ll go.”
Numbtongue poked his chest with a thumb. Octavia blinked.
“You? But—”
She halted as she looked Numbtongue up and down. He had his guitar strapped to his back and the steel sword at his side. And that was more than he’d had yesterday by far. After a moment, she nodded.
“Thank you. If you’re okay with it, we can ask Lyonette. Uh—or wait for the play to end?”
“Doesn’t matter.”
Numbtongue shrugged. Inwardly delighted, he shepherded Octavia over to the door. The citizens of Pallass and Liscor stared at Numbtongue and edged back. The Hobgoblin had a huge smile on his face. He looked around—and then reached out and slammed the door. Instantly, there was a roar of protest from the crowd in the inn and, Numbtongue liked to imagine, an even louder one on Pallass’ side.
“Numbtongue! What’re you doing?”
Lyonette hurried over in alarm. The Hobgoblin scratched under one armpit casually.
“Going to Celum. With her.”
He pointed at Octavia. Lyonette hesitated. Octavia waved weakly, looking at the outraged faces.
“With her? But—”
Whatever Lyonette was about to say was drowned out by the people demanding the door be reopened. She looked around and grimaced.
“Okay! You have your guitar? And sword? I’ll check in five minutes!”
Numbtongue nodded. He adjusted the dial, opened the door, and walked through, head swiveling. Octavia hurried after him, and the door closed after a pause and went dark. Numbtongue stared around Octavia’s shop. It was dark, empty, the boarded-up windows leaking light, but he hadn’t spotted anyone. Octavia looked around and breathed out slowly.
“Thank you.”
“Sure.”
Numbtongue sat down, still looking around the shop. No matter how many times he saw it, the inner Redfang in him wanted to loot the precious potions off the shelves. They were so valuable! Erin had called Octavia’s potions ‘third-rate’, but to a Goblin, they were a priceless treasure. He pulled his guitar off his back and tuned it absently before glancing outside. The street was empty. But come to think of it, yesterday…
Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed. But he saw no one aside from a few pedestrians. Pyrite did have a thought, though, and Numbtongue agreed. He made a little plan and was so engrossed in it and strumming a tune that he didn’t realize Octavia was doing something until he heard the clink of glassware behind him. The Hobgoblin turned his head.
