Octavia paused as she set up some kind of apparatus behind Numbtongue. She smiled guiltily.
“Sorry.”
Numbtongue eyed the glowing jelly, the red-green herbs in liquid, powder, herbs, and all the other stuff she was setting up. He pointed.
“What’re you doing?”
Octavia shrugged self-consciously.
“Just—just making a healing potion. Something low-grade. It’s nothing. Not worth anything compared to what Alchemist Xif makes. Sorry. I’ll go back if you’re bored. Do you think Erin would let me bring some of this into her inn?”
Numbtongue shrugged. But his eyes were locked on Octavia’s equipment. She kept setting up, after a moment, but she was clearly conscious of the stare. After a second, she coughed.
“Sorry. I’m not used to guests while I work. I had Erin—but she mainly melted holes in my kitchen pot. I, er, you heard what Xif said? About [Alchemists] not sharing recipes?”
Numbtongue nodded. Octavia sighed.
“Cloth moths to that. I know it’s all the thing in most continents, but back home we used to share recipes. I mean, everyone had their secret recipe, but I could at least swap tips. I guess Xif really is the top [Alchemist], of course. But back home, any [Alchemist] would stop by to check out my Haste Potion sample, top-tier or not! I hoped—but I got some tips from him. That’s something. Sorry. Anyways, I’m just going to make the potion. Don’t mind the lights. Or smell.”
She lit a burner with a match. It was some kind of magical burner, although Numbtongue saw it was running on coals—heating them up and igniting them. Octavia grinned weakly.
“Magical burner. I paid for it. Helps with the process. Not necessary; I could make healing potions with a few pots and a kitchen fire.”
“How?”
Numbtongue couldn’t help but ask. Octavia shrugged.
“What? Healing potions? It’s just a small formula. A few Skills. Nothing interesting. I mean—unless you’re actually interested?”
She looked up and blinked. Numbtongue was nodding rapidly. Octavia seemed perplexed.
“Really? Most people don’t like [Alchemy]. It stinks, and it can be, uh, messy. Do Goblins like alchemy? Are there…Goblin [Alchemists]?”
Numbtongue shook his head.
“Goblins don’t make potions. Goblins steal potions. No Goblin knows how to make potions. Not even [Shamans].”
“Really? Do your [Shamans] have special recipes?”
Octavia looked hopeful. Numbtongue considered that.
“Healing paste. You put herbs in mouth and chew. Then spit.”
“Oh. How useful is it?”
“Stops bleeding. Heals a tiny bit.”
Both the Stitch-girl and Hobgoblin grimaced. Octavia hesitated. She looked thoughtfully at the ingredients.
“Well, I’m just a low-level [Alchemist]. Little better than a [Mixer], really. That’s an apprentice, by the way. Kids get that class. But if you want—”
“Hey! Anyone bullying Numbtongue?”
The door blasted open as Erin appeared. Numbtongue fell out of his chair, and Octavia’s jump nearly sent her ingredients flying. Erin looked around and paused, frying pan in hand.
“Oh. Never mind. Hey, Numbtongue, Octavia, you want to come back? Just say when!”
She stared at them. They stared back. Numbtongue slowly shook his head.
“Okay! Cool! Check in thirty minutes?”
Another nod. The door slammed shut. Octavia caught her breath after Erin was gone. She turned to Numbtongue, and he met her eyes with his wide ones. Then, suddenly, they both started laughing. And that was a connection. After that, Octavia set up, and Numbtongue scooted a stool over and learned how to make a potion.
 
—–
 
“It’s really very simple. A Goblin could definitely make a potion if he had a few containers. Something clean; cleanliness is very important for alchemy. You never know what’ll react, so a bit of soot or dirt could have explosive effects. Especially with some of the more potent ingredients. That’s why you clean everything. With soap, and then you clean the soap out.”
Octavia explained as Numbtongue sat watching her set up on one of her counters. The Hobgoblin nodded, committing everything to memory. Octavia was a little put off by the Hobgoblin’s intensity, to be honest. She loved alchemy, despite it all. Gold was a second love to the sheer joy you could have, but Goblins? And yet, Numbtongue took this more seriously than she did. He watched as she set up her ingredients and equipment with long experience and pointed.
“What’s that?”
“A triangle flask. I use it to boil stuff. It’s glass.”
“Why’s it look like a triangle?”
Octavia smiled.
“I used to ask my teacher that every day. You know what he told me? To come up with the answer on my own. It took me two years—you want to know what I eventually figured out?”
The Hobgoblin paused. His eyes flickered, then widened.
“The…steam comes out less from the small opening.”
Octavia nearly dropped the flask on the floor.
“How did—”
She saw Numbtongue grinning, pleased at his answer. Octavia had to smile herself.
“I was six! But yeah, that’s the reason. Also, because the wide base allows more heat to affect the mixture, see? You can also balance ingredients in some of the glassware—never mind. Here’s the foundation to any healing potion made in the modern day. Memorize it. Love it. Don’t touch it bare-handed unless you’re me and you can take your hand off.”
She placed something on the counter. Numbtongue peered at the jar full of glowing, orange-yellow gel. It had some fragments caught inside. Seeds or bits of something. He stared. This time, Octavia didn’t have to be prompted. She placed one hand on the jar proudly.
“This is Eir Gel. It’s a primary component of healing potions. Well, I say primary, but you can substitute it with a few other things. But Eir Gel’s very effective. And cheap! Older potions, hah, well, they used all kinds of stuff, but modern formulas work fast based on this stuff. It’s also extremely cost-efficient.”
“What’s that mean? Cost-efficient?”
Numbtongue scratched his head. Octavia frowned. He knew almost every word she said, but stuff like that stumped him.
“It means…you can make a lot of healing potion with comparatively little. Good for selling. You see, a single island off of Baleros practically supplies the entire world with what they need—and there’s such a surplus since it’s so cost-efficient that you can get it even in Celum. Although it’s a lot more expensive since [Merchants] have to bring it inland—but look!”
She pointed. Numbtongue saw she was dabbing only a little into a jar full of water. Octavia had a measuring spoon, and she put in one solid spoonful.
“That’s all?
“For the effect? Yes. I just mix it with water, and I have a mixture. We do need to strain to get rid of the kelp and seeds. Poison needles, if they’re in there too. But this is the essential stuff. It’s a base.”
“Base.”
Numbtongue savored the word. Octavia nodded.
“Yes. You see? Potion making works like this, at least at low levels. First, you take a substance that has an effect you want. Like Eir Gel. It helps flesh regenerate quickly. But it’s not nearly as strong as a potion, it has to be applied on a wound to take effect, and it makes some people break out into a rash. It takes days for Eir Gel to work, so the key is making it faster, more effective, and less rashy, right?”
“Right.”
Numbtongue watched as Octavia pulled out a fine-meshed strainer and began sieving the liquid. It was thicker, thanks to the jelly mixed with the water, and she carefully removed all the flecks until it was a pure orange-yellow color. It still glowed, but it was only noticeable because Stitchworks was so dark. Octavia nodded, checking it for impurities.
“The water’s there just to help me remove the non-Gel. We’re not keeping it this way. Now we put it over the burner—”
“But it’s the wrong glass thing. See?”
Numbtongue objected. Octavia was using a cylinder-type beaker, not the narrow-mouthed one with the wide base. She grinned.
“Right! But what if I want it to all evaporate fast?”
The Hobgoblin gave Octavia a very wary look. Why?
For an answer, Octavia lit the burner, grabbed a tool of the trade—a glass tube bent in a very specific arc downwards—and delicately inserted it into a lid, which she placed on top of the cylinder. Then, swiftly, she put the other end of the tube into a second cup as the Eir Gel base began to boil. She explained to a mystified Numbtongue what it was all about.
“We’re distilling it. The base. See the condensation—er, steam—rising? It becomes a gas, which becomes a liquid that goes through the tube and ends up…”
She pointed at the second cup. Sure enough, a drop of very bright liquid, paler yellow than orange now, was dripping into the cup. Numbtongue stared. Octavia went on, tapping the boiling cylinder.
“The gas becomes a liquid. What’s not boiled away—that powdery stuff—is also a component. I don’t use it for healing potions—but you see, we’ve separated two parts.”
She pointed to the first cylinder, which was indeed developing a layer of powder while all the liquid was transferring to the second cup. Octavia watched the mixture boil like a hawk and, at the right moment, she took the burner away—before the precious powder could start to burn. Now she had the powder, which she put away for later, and a very distilled version of the base.
“Why burn it?”
“Boil. It’s a process to make the Eir Gel—look, it changes the mixture a bit. Makes it easier to work with. And also you can get sick from Eir Gel as it is. Burning—I mean, boiling substances is often very important. You can cold-mix potions, but those can get tricky. Believe me. Anyways, look at this.”
Octavia swirled the yellow liquid as Numbtongue stared at it. The cup wasn’t that large compared to the cylinder she’d filled, but the liquid was potent. It also had a smell that made Numbtongue wrinkle his nose.
“Stinks a bit like burnt kelp, doesn’t it? You get used to it. And this is valuable stuff, Numbtongue! This liquid is the base of our healing potion. But to make a proper potion, we need to enhance its effects.”
The Stitch-girl happily sloshed the liquid a bit and put it down. She grabbed a few ingredients next and began tossing them into a much, much larger vessel. Numbtongue blinked and asked what each one was. Octavia dutifully answered as she worked.
“Those? Minerals. I don’t know my exact list; I keep them sorted. I’ll show you later, but this is my variety. The important stuff is this.”
Numbtongue stared at the golden syrup Octavia was coating the mixture with. He sniffed, then exclaimed.
“Ashfire Bee honey?”
“Counters the allergic reaction. You see? It’s a simple formula. Base effect plus boosting agent and extras to counter side effects or add more qualities. The trick is knowing what reacts with what.”
“So this—”
Numbtongue waved aimlessly at the second vessel as Octavia mixed the Eir Gel base with it. She nodded.
“Yup. It’s just to keep you from breaking out into itchy bumps. Also, the honey makes it taste better. I used, uh, dried leeches and some other stuff instead before Erin sold me all the honey. Anyways, I’ve countered the allergic stuff and added a few tricks that keep the potion lasting longer—they do go bad, you know. Especially if air gets in.”
The Hobgoblin’s brow darkened.
“I know. Very bad.”
Octavia nodded solemnly.
“Well, that’s all preparatory work. You want to know the real magic behind a potion besides the Eir Gel? It’s your booster.”
“Booster. Base.”
Numbtongue looked at Octavia for confirmation. She nodded.
“Booster, Base, Reactor—I don’t use those or anything else on healing potions. Those are simple. Reactors are mixtures you combine with something—to give it a completely new effect. Those are, uh, the things that tend to explode. But Eir Gel is so good at healing already, all we need to do is give it more power.”
“Ah.”
Numbtongue’s sigh was one of comprehension. Octavia wondered if he really did understand. He was sharp. But she’d never heard of a Goblin [Alchemist]. Then again…how many got the chance? She nodded, and a smile played over her lips.
“This is where most [Alchemists] have their own recipe. Eir Gel’s common, you see? But potions, even basic healing potions, are all different. Because everyone has their best recipe. What’s most cost-efficient, what’s cheapest to buy or easiest—or has the best effect. I bet Xif uses only the most powerful boosters, but this—this is what I can afford.”
So saying, she pulled out the jar of water with the red-green herbs in it. Numbtongue peered at the plant floating in the water. He thought he recognized it vaguely, something he’d seen growing somewhere. So did Pyrite. The red-green herb was long, grass-like. And it was glowing—no, the water itself had a faint luminescence! Octavia smiled proudly.
“This booster is low-grade. It’s cheap—you just need a few ingredients. Sage’s Grass, which is just a slightly magical grass some [Farmers] cultivate in huge amounts—a local [Farmer] guy sells a huge harvest to Celum—sugar water, demi-Newt skins dried and powdered, and, er, roach shells. I use roach shells a lot. That’s my formula, at any rate.”
“And what does it do? The mixture.”
The [Bard] pointed at the jar. Octavia blinked.
“Do? Nothing. It just feeds the Sage’s Grass. The Sage’s Grass is magical already, you see? And if I soak it in this water for a week or a month—”
“The water gets magic.”
“Exactly. Sugar feeds the Sage’s Grass in the jar. So do the roach shells. The demi-Newts are slightly magical and don’t contribute much in the way of reaction. So it’s a cheap booster to make. And guess what? This stuff might be cheap today, but there was a time when it would have been worth its weight in sapphires. Even a low-grade healing potion would have been golden.”
Octavia sighed. Numbtongue blinked.
“Really? Why?”
“Oh—back in the day, potions weren’t so easy to make. That’s the thing about alchemy. Even if a…super high-level [Alchemist] dies and no one can make Potions of Great Regeneration anymore, they leave behind notes. Often in code, but more importantly, ingredients. It’s why [Mage] empires collapse and all the artifacts can’t be replicated but why alchemy’s gotten to the point where cheap potions can close a big wound.”
She swirled the jar of magical water as she brought it over to the mixing station.
