There was a feeling Yvlon had now and then. One of comprehension. It wasn’t something she could put into words. But if she had to try, it was of her body, the instinctual part of the back of her mind that took over in fights, trying to communicate with the rest of her brain.
It said things like: you can win this if she were eying a monster before they engaged. Or—don’t get overconfident if, say, she were measuring herself against Embria on the practice courts. Sometimes it was a simple warning like duck before someone threw a mug at her head and a brawl started. But sometimes, the subconscious part of Yvlon did appraisals. And she could see someone more clearly than she had a few months ago.
Like her brother, Ylawes. He had always been a [Squire] as long as Yvlon could remember. Then a [Knight]. And always better than her in training, to the point where she couldn’t even judge how skillful he was—only that he was far better than she could dream of being at that moment.
But recently, Yvlon had had the feeling in the back of her mind that she could almost judge him in regards to her own Skills. He had powerful defensive Skills, and he was a Gold-rank adventurer, but he wasn’t an enigma. If they fought, she could land a few blows, maybe even surprise him. It was a welcome realization. And yet—sometimes Yvlon’s mind told her nothing about her opponent other than that they were too far beyond her.
She remembered each instance. First had been Skinner and the sheer terror of an army of undead bearing down on her. Next had come the Fire Elemental and not knowing what it could do. After that? The mysterious Human [Mage] who’d dropped by to kick her entire team about with Tier 1 and Tier 0 spells. The last instance had been Regrika Blackpaw, the traitorous Named Adventurer. There had been others, but those had been the only ones Yvlon couldn’t understand.
Bevussa. Jelaqua. Relc. Seborn. Embria. Halrac. Any one you wanted to name, Yvlon understood they were better than her, but she could understand their strength relative to hers. So she understood that she and her team were far stronger than the Silver Spears had ever been. The Horns might not be Gold-rank yet…! But they were the best of the Silver-ranks, no question. On the cusp of the next level. It was only a matter of time. So they could be a little bit cocky, value themselves a tiny bit. Right?
Right?
“Ksmvr, left!”
Yvlon swung with a shout. Her enchanted sword cut the air as she swung two-handed at Grimalkin’s left. He glanced at her as Ksmvr dashed left. The Antinium was moving incredibly fast! The newly-leveled [Skirmisher] ran like a blur thanks to his [Quick Movement] Skill, and when he struck with his shortsword, he uttered a Skill.
“[Quick Slash].”
His shortsword lanced out towards Grimalkin from the left as Yvlon struck from the right. And the [Sinew Magus] saw her, Yvlon knew. But he only glanced at the trajectory of her sword.
The three met in a clash that took a second to happen, but far longer for Yvlon to process. As she lay on her back, she recalled what had happened. She’d swung, Grimalkin had stepped left, blocked Ksmvr’s shortsword with one arm, and then turned back and hit—
She sat up and looked down at her chest plate. It had cushioned the blow, but Yvlon still felt bruised. Had he sent her flying? With a punch? She was wearing plate armor!
But that was Grimalkin. Yvlon got up, teeth gritted, and saw him. He was letting Ksmvr attack him from the side, blocking the shortsword with one claw while the other was held back in a fist at his side. Ksmvr’s rapid attack with his shortsword slowed, and Grimalkin punched. Yvlon saw Ksmvr block and heard a sound like thunder. The Forceshield the Antinium held rippled as the magical protection resisted the blow, and he skidded back.
“I am unable to harm Grimalkin. Switching to Flamecoat Dagger and arrow. Fleeing in cowardice!”
The Antinium shouted as he turned and ran away, sheathing his shortsword. Grimalkin barked a peal of laughter. He turned as Yvlon rushed at him from behind. Two-handed, the [Wounded Warrior] swung, lashing at Grimalkin’s body, going for speed, not strength. He twisted back, his feet moving across the grass, watching her blade and arms.
Casually. He was so relaxed! Not dismissive; he never took his eyes off her as Yvlon cursed and advanced, slashing faster. But that little part in her head was screaming at her. It was telling Yvlon two things.
One. She could understand Grimalkin a bit. She could judge his strength, even if he was still in a realm above hers. Because she could, she knew how outclassed she was.
Someone as big as he was had no right to move that quick! But he did, and as he leaned out of the way of another slash, he jumped in and gave her a punch to her midsection that sent her stumbling back. Again, her armor caught the blow—
“Weak enchantment. If I hit it too hard, it’ll dent.”
The Drake’s comment made Yvlon pause. She lowered her sword too slowly; he kicked her, and she went stumbling backwards. And then she realized she was on the edge of the muddy hill.
Down she tumbled. Yvlon rolled, feeling her arms take the force of the fall. Something creaked—but Pisces’ bone reinforcement held. And she couldn’t feel her arms. The rest of her—hurt. But it was humiliation. As Yvlon charged back up the hill, she saw something else. Ice fragments. A shower of ice.
Yvlon held up her gauntlets, covering her helmet. An unlucky splinter could put an eye out! Only when the sound had faded did she look and see Ceria was running from Grimalkin, firing [Ice Spikes] at him. He was blocking them with a barrier spell of some kind; Yvlon could see the distorted air. Ksmvr was firing arrows at the back of Grimalkin’s head, and he was ignoring them too.
“Ceria! Let me!”
The Human woman bellowed as she charged Grimalkin again. This time, he pointed at her, and she, realizing what was coming, tried to run sideways. The ray of frost hit her right shoulder; Yvlon swore as her right side went numb and heavy. But she ran on.
“This—”
Her swing hit Grimalkin’s barrier, and she felt pressure, then her sword cutting through. The magic exploded with a pop of sound, and Grimalkin stepped back. Ceria fired an [Ice Spike] at his chest. Ksmvr loosed an arrow from behind.
“Good! [Steel Hide]!”
The ice shattered on his front. The arrow snapped on his back. Yvlon looked up, raised her sword, and felt a hand grab the hilt. She struggled, but Grimalkin had both hands in one steely claw. He raised a fist, and she braced.
“I’ve seen enough. Byres! Out! Antinium! Out! Alright, [Necromancer], Springwalker, show me what you two can do alone.”
He let go. Yvlon stumbled back and saw Ksmvr lower his bow and walk to one side. As Yvlon lowered her sword, panting, she saw a blur of white. Pisces stepped in, his [Flash Step] spell carrying him towards Grimalkin’s chest. He slashed with his flaming rapier, and the Drake blinked. The tip of the blade skidded across Grimalkin’s chest.
Pisces stared at the Drake. He disappeared backwards and then, as Yvlon hurried out of the way, stabbed from the side. This time, the [Necromancer] stared at the tip of his blade. It was wedged between a pair of scales on Grimalkin’s hand. The Muscle Mage lowered his blocking hand and regarded Pisces.
“Is that your best? Show me—”
Grimalkin looked up and raised one arm. The Warbear Bone Horror slammed both claws down with a silent roar, and Yvlon saw Grimalkin stagger. Pisces stepped backwards as a trio of [Ice Spikes] hit Grimalkin on the tail, back, and shoulder. The young man flicked his fingers and shot a stream of fire from them. Grimalkin was engulfed! Yvlon stirred uneasily.
“Pisces—!”
Powerful or not, Grimalkin was a [Mage], and he didn’t have enchanted robes or armor as far as Yvlon could tell. That had to still hurt! She saw the Bone Horror snapping, straining against Grimalkin as he held it off him, but it was unable to crush him. And then—
“—Strength].”
Yvlon caught the last part of the spell. But she saw Grimalkin step back, hit the Bone Horror, and spray half of its head across the hilltop. The audience watching the training session from the windows and outside the inn ducked. Grimalkin exhaled. His scales were smoking, but he looked annoyed more than anything else. Pisces stared and flicked more fire at him.
“[Snow Flume].”
A blast of snow extinguished the flames, and Pisces blurred out of the way. He stared at Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] stared back grimly.
“That’s really your best? Don’t hold back. Where’s your [Fireb—”
An ice spike twice as large as the last two shattered on the back of Grimalkin’s head, and he growled. Ceria was peeking around one of her [Ice Walls] as Grimalkin pointed a finger towards her.
“[Fast Fireball]!”
“Oh shi—”
The explosion was smaller than a regular fireball, but it still cracked the [Ice Walls]. The half-Elf standing behind them was caught in the impact and went flying. Grimalkin shook his head.
“I’ve seen enough from you, Ceria Springwalker. [Necromancer].”
He turned his head and bent backwards. Pisces missed the tip of Grimalkin’s face with his flaming rapier. He pointed with his free hand.
“[Stone Spray]! [Shock Volt]! [Summon Bone Horror—]”
“[Gazelle’s Dexterity].”
Yvlon saw Grimalkin twist, and his claws blocked the lightning. He punched out with one fist, and Pisces blurred left. But Grimalkin leapt forwards, and then he and Pisces were dodging, punching, while the [Necromancer] slashed desperately with his rapier, trying to gain distance—but Grimalkin blocked with his claws, and he was just as fast! The two went back and forth, flicking across the grass for five seconds, ten—
And then Pisces jumped back and vanished. Grimalkin paused, looked around, and saw the Bone Horror behind him rising. It was reconfiguring into the strange, tall creature with whip arms. Grimalkin snorted.
“[Dispel Magic].”
He pointed, and the Bone Horror fell to pieces. Yvlon heard a quiet curse. She held still as Grimalkin peered around. He sighed, folded his arms, and regarded his audience. A wincing Ceria climbed up the hill; Ksmvr and Yvlon stood in front of a crowd of Drakes, Gnolls, and adventurers who’d come out to see Grimalkin testing them. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.
“That was your best spell yet. I’ve cast [See Invisibility] by the way. It’s good to see you’re able to cast incantationless magic. And you are—there.”
He pointed straight at Yvlon. She didn’t hear anything, but she could still feel Pisces about. She blushed a bit; everyone was staring at her, and she had the distinct feeling that Pisces was trying to hide behind her back.
“Stop hiding.”
Grimalkin folded his arms. Yvlon jumped as Pisces appeared behind her, looking sour. The [Necromancer]’s voice had a note of complaint in it.
“How did you see me? I was quite sure that even with a spell, I would be invisible—”
“I saw the grass move. What do you expect me to do when you turn invisible? You should have used a jumping spell right away or lost me first. Or both.”
Grimalkin pointed down. Yvlon and everyone else stared at the grass around The Wandering Inn. Pisces turned red.
“Oh.”
He gazed at Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] rubbed the back of his neck where Ceria had hit him, sighing. He folded his arms and regarded the Horns of Hammerad. Somewhat shamefaced, they looked at him. Yvlon had mud and grass all over her armor, a slight dent around her stomach, and bruises. She wasn’t sure about her arms, but she felt like the skin might be torn and bleeding under her armor.
She looked left and saw Ksmvr was mainly undamaged. Grimalkin hadn’t hit him, but the Antinium’s antennae were twitching with what Yvlon now understood as shame. Pisces was panting a bit, but he seemed embarrassed more than anything.
And Ceria? She looked at Yvlon and bit her lip. She was slightly battered, and her cheek was swollen. She’d tried to use her [Ice Armor] spell in the first sparring session—right before Grimalkin had punched her.
Grimalkin was unharmed. He smelled like smoke, and he had a bit of wood tangled in his neck spines, but all the Horns had managed to put on him was his irked expression. He looked at them, and Yvlon, flushing, waited for him to say something cutting. But all he did was nod.
“Good. You’re better than you look. Yvlon Byres, passed. Antinium?”
“I am Ksmvr—”
“Passed. I don’t need to do much to either of you. Ten more levels and/or the right gear and you’d both give me trouble.”
“Really?”
Yvlon exchanged a wide-eyed glance with Ksmvr. Grimalkin nodded.
“As [Warriors] go, you’re fine for your levels and equipment. I’ll address that. But my concern is with the [Necromancer]. Pisces, is it?”
He regarded Pisces with an unfriendly look, which Pisces returned. But Grimalkin eventually sighed.
“It’s a single Tier 4 spell, which is good. And I’d be satisfied, by and large. There’s always room for improvement, but that’s far better than Erin Solstice had me thinking. And I don’t know necromancy, so there’s that. No…that’s not what I saw.”
Pisces stared. Grimalkin ignored him as he turned his head. He pointed at the last member of their group.
“Yes. You’re the problem, aren’t you?”
Every eye turned to Ceria. She blinked.
“Me?”
 
—–
 
“There has to be some mistake, Magus Grimalkin.”
Yvlon protested as the Horns gathered around Grimalkin and the audience filed back indoors. The four adventurers stood with the [Mage] just outside The Wandering Inn, talking in privacy.
Well—moderate privacy—the line for the outhouses was still there, although the Antinium had added in two more spaces, so five regular people and one Moore-sized guest could go at once with comfortable space in between. Naturally, all five were standing well upwind and far from the outhouses. Grimalkin sighed as he dug the tip of one claw in an earhole.
“Didn’t you hear me, Miss Byres? I’m not accustomed to repeating myself! I said your weak link, your poorest team member is your Captain. Ceria Springwalker.”
He raised his voice a few decibels, and Yvlon winced. She looked at Ceria. The half-Elf was stunned. And embarrassed. Yvlon frowned at Grimalkin.
“Magus Grimalkin. Er—that’s how I should be addressing you, correct?”
“As you wish.”
The Drake waved a claw as he stood impatiently on the balls of his feet. Yvlon nodded. Even standing still, Grimalkin managed to convey both energy and impatience.
“I appreciate you agreeing to help train our team—”
He held up a claw.
