“Consult. That’s a better word for it. I have no interest in training your team, but Erin Solstice has expressed a desire for me to help you in her roundabout way. So as long as she provides me with the information I want, I will put aside some of my time to help your team out.”
“How generous of you.”
Pisces sneered as he stood furthest away from Grimalkin. He still looked peeved—no, almost competitive as he stared at Grimalkin. Yvlon assumed his ego was hurt after the beating Grimalkin had just given her team. She shot him a glare, and he sullenly looked away. She wasn’t happy either, but this was an experienced [Mage]! The best in Pallass, if you believed Grimalkin’s words.
“Were you born with that tone of voice, or do you always sound like a sulking child?”
Grimalkin glanced at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] turned red. He opened his mouth, and Grimalkin spoke over him.
“I’m just referring to your—”
“Do you think this is free? Or that I should be less than stingy with my time? How valuable do you think my time is that I can take a few hours out of my day to train any adventuring team? Did you think, when I referred to myself as the ‘greatest [Mage] in Pallass’, I was being hyperbolic? I would be grateful to Miss Solstice for interceding. I would also shut up if I were you, Necromancer Pisces. Because I tolerate snide comments like I tolerate rats in my home.”
Pisces flushed again, but the reply on the tip of his tongue went unsaid. Grimalkin eyed him and went on.
“Good. Now, Yvlon Byres. I’m giving you my frank and professional opinion as someone who regularly consults with and trains [Mages], the elite units of Pallass’ army, and who’s fought on the front lines in six wars over the course of his life. If you have objections to my credentials or my abilities that you witnessed first-hand, feel free to voice them.”
He looked at Yvlon. She hesitated.
“It’s just that—Ceria’s our weakest link?”
She looked at Ceria. The half-Elf nodded hesitantly.
“I know we can all improve, and I know I’m not the best, but I thought that at my level—”
“You misunderstand me. I am saying that at your level, you are by far the weakest of you four. I’m not evaluating you on the merits of your levels or overall current ability, but your potential at this moment. If I was basing my judgment on pure fighting ability, it would go the [Necromancer], you, Miss Byres, then the Antinium.”
“Ksmvr.”
Said Antinium interjected helpfully. It was now Yvlon’s turn to blush at the frank appraisal. Ceria hesitated.
“But you don’t even know our levels. Unless Erin—she doesn’t know them exactly. So how do you?”
“I don’t need to know them to make correct assumptions. You. [Necromancer]. Level 30 plus. Ceria, [Cryomancer]. Below Level 30. Upper mid-twenties I’ll guess. Yvlon Byres, same level range. [Warrior], most likely generic. Antinium…”
“Ksmvr.”
Grimalkin gave Ksmvr a long and distasteful look.
“[Skirmisher]. Level 20.”
“That is very accurate. How did you know?”
Yvlon nodded, impressed despite herself. That was close! She was a Level 28 [Wounded Warrior], having leveled up once during training with Ksmvr and fighting low-level monsters over the last month. Grimalkin shrugged.
“Your Skills. You fight well, Miss Byres, but you lack any of the powerful moves that one associates with a Level 30 class. That truly is a breakpoint in terms of power; many [Warriors] gain lower-level attack Skills like your footwork Skill, [Lesser Strength], what I assume was a Skill that lightens your armor—you felt lighter when I hit you than you should have been—and was that a cutting Skill?”
“[Keener Edge]. Yes. That’s right—”
“Exactly! If you were Level 30, I would expect you to be a specialized class with a very distinct ability. Such as a [Shieldbreaker Axeman], which develops around level…30 to 35, I think, and has a [Shield Destroyer] Skill. Failing that, you would have at least one passive ability of note. The Antinium is easy as well; he has [Quick Movement] and [Quick Slash], but little else. The [Necromancer] has to be above Level 30 if he can summon Bone Horrors, but he’s a lower-level [Mage]. His spell list includes only one Tier 4 spell. And Miss Springwalker knows only a couple higher-Tier ice spells. It’s all very basic when you’ve seen as many classes as I have.”
Grimalkin looked around at the Horns. Yvlon wiped at her helmet with a cloth, and looked around. She got a begrudging nod from Pisces, an awkward smile from Ceria, and a wave from Ksmvr. They glanced at each other, impressed. She turned back to Grimalkin.
“Okay then. You’re clearly an expert. But why is Ceria so much worse than the rest of us? She could tie both Ksmvr and me up with her [Ice Wall] spell if she needed to, and her [Ice Spikes] are accurate! We have our holes, but we’re close to Gold-rank.”
Grimalkin sighed.
“From a certain point of view? Yes. Magical items make a team, and you have two—no, three good ones. That enchanted sword, Miss Byres, already qualifies you. The Forceshield is splendid. The Ring of Jumping that Antinium uses is solid. But your [Mages] need work. Springwalker! Front and center!”
“Me? Why—”
Ceria didn’t get a chance to object. Grimalkin grabbed her and yanked her over to stand in front of him. He spoke in a half-bellow.
“You were the weakest member of your team in that mock battle by far! Even the Antinium managed to aim for my eyes! You relied too much on your spells and hunkering behind your [Ice Walls]! And why? Because you’re out of shape!”
He poked her in the stomach. Ceria turned red as Yvlon peered at her stomach.
“I’m not—”
“Your leg muscles are atrophied! You think you can sit on your fattening ass and cast spells? Your [Ice Wall] is weaker than my toilet paper, and you have no dexterity on your feet! Move and cast! That’s what my apprentices learn once they pass my basic physical baselines! The rest of your team can move, but you hunker down like my grandmother on her deathbed and rely on your magic to protect you. That. Is. Naïve!”
He shouted in Ceria’s face. The half-Elf blinked up at him and silently wiped spit from her face. Grimalkin poked at her chest.
“You lack firepower! I could have stood in front of you and let you hit me with [Ice Spikes] until my enchantment wore off. What can you do besides raise ice walls and cover yourself in ice? Sneeze at me?”
“I—uh—well, I can cast [Fireball]. With a wand.”
Ceria waved her wand weakly. Grimalkin’s eyes popped.
“Then do it! What, are you too good for fire spells? Or is your [Fireball] as weak as your arms?”
“It’s not the greatest around, but—”
“You need stronger magic! Otherwise, you’re filling no role against a stronger enemy other than bait and being a nuisance! Low-level enemies might be stymied by those [Ice Walls], but anything that can smash through them isn’t going to be slowed by an [Ice Spike]! Your team has one [Skirmisher], and he has an enchanted dagger, a Ring of Jumping, and the luxury of being Level 20! What’s your excuse?”
“I, uh—well, I don’t have the spellbooks just yet—I’ve been looking into them and—”
“And? I see rapid weight gain here. Here. And here. You smell like alcohol, and I saw you drinking and eating twice what I would have fed my apprentices, and its lunch. You’re lazy. How many spells did you learn this month? Last month?”
“W-well…”
Ceria turned beet red. Yvlon looked at her and remembered. Ceria’s usual routine in The Wandering Inn was to eat, read her spellbook while having a drink or a snack, and usually stop reading and socialize with Erin or the team until she staggered up to her room, very drunk. Even Pisces, for all he was bound to his bouts of laziness, went to his room earlier than everyone else, and Yvlon suspected he did a lot of [Necromancer] things in there. Ceria wavered.
“Well, not any spells—I did learn [Ice Armor]!”
“From a spellbook?”
“No…but hold on! Pisces hasn’t learned any spells recently! Right?”
Ceria looked at Pisces. The [Necromancer] avoided her gaze. Grimalkin snorted.
“He’s probably playing with his undead. [Necromancers] don’t need to learn as many spells. They create monsters. And I don’t have to look twice to see that both Bone Horrors he made were optimized. Disgusting, but improved in economy of motion and bone.”
Pisces looked startled, then embarrassed and pleased.
“You saw that? I have been improving them, and my primary Bone Horror is twenty percent more eff—”
“Shut up. You are slothful! Miss Byres and the Antinium Ksmvr thing both show evidence of training. You see her face? A lot less baby fat than yours! [Mages] burn energy like [Warriors]—the fact that you’re gaining a paunch tells me you’re slacking. You need to get your head back in shape, stop stuffing your face, and learn some magic!”
When Grimalkin had finished, Ceria finally stopped blocking her ears with the heels of her palms. She was very embarrassed, and as Yvlon unplugged her ears, a guilty silence stole over the Horns. When you put it like that—she couldn’t quite look at her team leader. Grimalkin had hit a nail on the head with all the tact of a hammer. Only Ksmvr was pleased.
“You remembered my name. I had thought you had trouble remembering.”
Grimalkin glared at him. Then he looked at Ceria and sighed.
“Well then. That’s my reprimand concluded. I hope you take this to heart. I could have been harsher, but you’re not a [Soldier] or one of my apprentices. Now then, shall we discuss how you can improve? Inside the inn, I think. Is the second floor open? I dislike standing outside. Far too humid, and it looks like it will rain soon.”
He waved at an errant Acid Fly glowing and buzzing past him and the cloudy skies. The Horns looked at each other. Yvlon blinked.
“Harsher?”
 
—–
 
It was tough…love. Or just toughness and a good deal of instructorly concern. Because Grimalkin did remind Yvlon of the [Trainer] her father had hired to teach both her and her brother how to fight. He didn’t mince words, and upstairs, in Yvlon’s room, he addressed Ceria again, pacing back and forth restlessly, tail swishing on the floorboards behind him.
“With that said, your spells are colder than most [Ice Mages] I’ve met. Or killed. Fast freezing too. Your aim is excellent. Combat-wise, you’re still a cut above most Wistram graduates.”
“Really? Well, we did graduate from Wistram.”
Ceria perked up at that. She was still a bit red around the tips of her pointed ears. Grimalkin paused and looked at her.
“You graduated?”
“That’s right.”
He frowned.
“From what program? Are they allowing students to pay to graduate these days?”
Ceria choked on some tea Yvlon had gotten from below. The [Wounded Warrior] glared at Ceria; she was sitting on Yvlon’s bed! Ceria wiped at her mouth.
“No! Pisces and I both graduated. It’s the truth!”
Grimalkin shook his head.
“Wrong. Wistram doesn’t allow their [Mages] to graduate at your level of spellcraft. You could probably fool non-Wistram [Mages], but it’s obvious to me.”
“We did graduate, Magus Grimalkin. You may cast [Detect Lies] if you wish. But it is true. There were extenuating circumstances, but I trust you’ll take us at our word.”
Pisces frowned at Grimalkin. He’d switched back to politeness as he balanced a teacup on four fingers. Grimalkin frowned at him.
“Really? Fine then, I’ll take you at your word, but my point stands. Most [Mages] Wistram churns out know multiple Tier 4 spells after they graduate. At least three to five. Not always combat spells, but I would expect that from you two. With that said, they’re terrible fighters, so you still pass in terms of experience.”
“Really?”
Ceria and Pisces looked pleased at that. Yvlon just frowned. She began to ask—but Ksmvr was already raising his hand. Grimalkin stared at him.
“Speak.”
“Excuse me, Magus Grimalkin. What makes Wistram’s Mages inferior despite their advanced spellcasting, which is apparently superior to Comrade Pisces’ and Captain Ceria’s?”
Grimalkin grunted as Pisces and Ceria shot Ksmvr a dirty look.
“Like I said. Experience. Just…experience. And common sense in battle. Oh, they may be fully-accredited [Mages] with over half a decade’s worth of studying, but that amounts to little field experience in most cases. Sometimes when we have to clash with Humans in the north or fight off a Terandrian fleet, I meet Wistram graduates fresh off the boats. They can cast [Grand Fireball] and link spells in practice, but in an actual battle?”
He scratched absently at his chin.
“The ones who don’t freeze up at the sight of someone having their spine torn out don’t have any awareness. Generally, I wait until they try and cast a huge spell and throw a rock at them from the side. Idiots don’t even use encompassing barrier spells. Or if they do, a second rock does it. That always raises tensions when I visit the academy, of course.”
Yvlon gaped at Grimalkin and burnt her tongue on her tea.
“You make it sound so easy.”
“Well, it’s easier than fighting a veteran [Mage]. This is just comparing Ceria and Pisces to freshly-graduated Wistram [Mages], which they’re around the age of. You are around sixty, aren’t you, Miss Springwalker? Half-Elf bodies get difficult to place after around a hundred years.”
Grimalkin didn’t bother to wait for an answer. He went on, filling a tea cup and sipping it himself as he spoke.
“Wistram may be the premier academy of mages, but they’ve lost all their true craft and magic to the Golems. They’ve neutered themselves for fresh bed sheets, clean-swept floors, and predictability. I told your Archmages that, but none of them besides Amerys and Viltach gave me the passing time of day.”
Pisces looked delighted at the [Sinew Magus]’ words. Ceria just looked shocked. The [Necromancer] leaned forwards eagerly.
“So you agree that Wistram is a shadow of itself, Magus Grimalkin?”
“Of course! Or haven’t you ever visited another academy of magic? Wistram still leads, but the gap is far, far narrower than it used to be. Take my school of learning: Fissival. Our Walled City may not have the illustrious history of the Isle of Mages, but we never lost our artifacts of old or our spellbooks. We train [Mages] for war or academia, and in battle, ours tend to survive longer than most Wistram graduates. Although I will admit that academic [Mages] are common wherever you go. At least Fissival allows for [Scholars] and non-spellcasters. But I wasn’t ever a researcher.”
The Drake trailed off again, sighing. Then he looked around sharply and pointed at Ceria. She jumped and slopped more tea onto Yvlon’s bed.
