“So. Why are you so half-done? Your foundation is excellent. But you don’t even know [Icy Spear]. If you graduated from Wistram, why did they let you leave? Or—didn’t you have a master? I’ve heard how brutal the academy is on some students. Don’t tell me they made you take basic courses all six years?”
Ceria swallowed hard and paled. She looked at Pisces and shook her head. Yvlon, knowing what was coming, sat back a bit in her chair.
“No. No, we were expelled. By Wistram’s Council of Mages. But we were allowed to graduate because, um, Cognita, the Golem, declared us graduates. But…”
She trailed off. Pisces lowered his cup and glanced at Ceria and then quietly closed his eyes. The Drake [Mage] glanced quizzically at him as Pisces spoke.
“It was my fault. I committed an error in judgment. However, I was always planning on leaving. I was…revealed as a [Necromancer]. But to be brief, the entirety of the tale is this. Ceria’s master was—”
“Illphres. Illphres, the [Ice Mage].”
Ceria breathed the words. And the look in her eyes was sad and cold. Grimalkin frowned. He listened, and so did Yvlon. The tale of the days the two had spent in Wistram was one she’d heard from them once on the ride back from Celum to Liscor. Hearing the abbreviated version again didn’t make it any less tragic.
An academy managed by Golems. Cognita, the Truestone Golem, and the test to reach the higher floors. Pisces, the young, popular talent exposed as a [Necromancer]. Illphres, the expert [Ice Mage] who’d taken Ceria in. The test that had claimed the lives of Illphres and four other senior [Mages]. Pisces animating their corpses to rob the grave of Archmage Nekhret. Death. Judgment. Expulsion.
“Montressa. Beatrice—our friends. And Calvaron. He died there too.”
Ceria shook her head, her expression bleak. It was the past. And yet, Yvlon knew all too well, the past could cut you in the present with a knife as sharp as memory. Grimalkin stared at her and Pisces, and his impatient expression flickered.
“You two were the students at the heart of that incident? The one with the Specters?”
Ceria and Pisces looked up.
“You’ve heard of us? Wait—you know about that day? The Council and Archmage Feor told people?”
Grimalkin snorted.
“Know about it? It was the talk of Fissival and the [Mage] community for nearly a year afterwards! An Archmage’s guardian undead killing twelve students and faculty and leaving fifty-three injured? Do you really expect Wistram of all places to be able to keep that secret?”
Ceria bit her lip. Yvlon remembered her talking about the currency of secrets that the academy used.
“Probably not. What did you hear, Mage Grimalkin?”
“Just the basics. I was fascinated—specter-type undead that even the current Archmages struggled against? It was as bad as fighting Ghosts that Az’kerash summoned. Of course, my interest was just theoretical; I wanted to be sure Pallass could stand up against an attack from that kind of threat. But you two were…now I see.”
Grimalkin trailed off. He looked at Ceria’s miserable expression and Pisces’ haunted one. Then he nodded. He sucked in his breath.
“TESTICLES!”
 
—–
 
Downstairs, Erin heard the shout through the ceiling and jumped. The Shogi piece she was holding went flying, and Chaldion winced. The old Drake grumbled as the entire inn looked up.
“That annoying muscle-head is at it again. You set him on that adventuring team, did you? You must either love or hate them, girl.”
Erin winced. She could hear Grimalkin thumping around upstairs, and his voice was loud enough to be heard through the floorboards.
“Is he always like this?”
Chaldion gave Erin a long look. He sourly picked up the piece she’d dropped and placed it back on the board.
“Guess.”
 
—–
 
Ceria’s ears were ringing. Grimalkin’s shout had actually made the windows rattle. He strode down the length of Yvlon’s room and then turned back and pointed at her.
“Testicles! Gonads! Wait, Human females don’t actually have them, do they? I don’t focus on reproductive organs, just muscle. Anyways. Ceria Springwalker! Your master was one of the few [Mages] to take on the so-called ‘test’ Archmage Zelkyr left behind, wasn’t she? I applaud her. She was brave. Truly brave! But foolish. I wish she hadn’t thrown away her life. If she hadn’t, you’d be twice the [Cryomancer] you are today. And she would be alive. But the testicles she must have had—I wish I’d known her.”
“Wh—but—she wasn’t a fool!”
Ceria felt both pleased and angry at Grimalkin’s comments at once. The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.
“She was. Brave! As brave as any [Mage] I’ve met to take on the test! But she was a poor master.”
“Take that back!”
The half-Elf flushed in true anger this time, not embarrassment. She’d take Grimalkin insulting her all day—he was right, which was why it hurt so much—but badmouthing Illphres? She stood up, hand and skeletal hand clenched. Grimalkin didn’t bat an eye.
“I won’t. She was a fool. Or else, why would she have left her apprentice behind without so much as a spellbook? Any decent master would have arranged for you to get something or have someone else teach you. She did neither.”
Ceria turned pale.
“She—I wasn’t her apprentice long. She probably forgot, and we were expelled before I could ask about her things. But she was a great master! Illphres was—”
“A fool. And I don’t blame Wistram’s [Mages] for not trying the upper levels, even though I think it’s destroyed their potential.”
Grimalkin sighed and pulled a spare chair up. Ceria clenched her fists, but Pisces spoke up.
“I’d hope that you had more respect for the dead, Magus Grimalkin. Illphres and her comrades were trying to restore true magic to the halls of Wistram. Isn’t that a noble deed?”
Ceria breathed out. She looked at Pisces and saw his eyes were sharp on Grimalkin’s face. Not angry, just—observant. Grimalkin nodded.
“The cause is noble. The attempt is suicidal. Let’s be honest, you two former Wistram graduates. I’ve been to Wistram. I visit it every few years. And I’m familiar with Cognita. Moreover, I took a look at the ‘test’ Archmage Zelkyr left behind. Have you?”
He looked pointedly at Ceria. She hesitated and nodded silently. Her stomach was tearing itself into knots. Yvlon looked over from her seat and carefully rested a hand on Ceria’s shoulder. The half-Elf nodded gratefully to her. Grimalkin nodded as well, and his expression was dark.
“The test of Archmage Zelkyr. Defeat his guardians and pass. Four Golems plus your famous Cognita. The Armor Golem isn’t much, although it is exquisitely made. I could take that one down, in theory, with the right preparations and some artifacts. But the magma creation? That thing made of metal? That invisible flesh-monster?”
He shook his head. Ceria started, recalling each in turn. Yvlon and Ksmvr just looked silently at her and Pisces, and the [Necromancer] shuddered. Grimalkin kept going.
“I’ve seen advanced Golems fight, like the War Golems the Terlands still use. Have you seen them? They can shoot beams of light, cast spells—no. You know, I thought about challenging the test myself when I was younger and I thought it would make me a hero.”
“You did?”
Ceria looked up. Grimalkin nodded, smiling ruefully.
“Doesn’t every [Mage] who hears about it? Of course I did. And no disrespect to your master, but I imagine I have at least a few levels on her. If I did it, I thought, I’d bring the best team. One with the greatest [Mages] the world had to offer. From Fissival as well as Wistram. But even if I took the best six [Mages] I know, I’d only give us a one-in-three chance of victory. And that includes Archmage Amerys and Viltach.”
Ceria swallowed hard. Archmage Amerys? She remembered her as well. And Illphres had said Amerys had more levels…she bit her lip, remembering Illphres’ last words. The way she smiled.
“Someone had to try. Someone—it wasn’t in vain.”
The look in Grimalkin’s eyes softened just a bit. He cleared his throat awkwardly.
“No. But as long as that monster guards Wistram, no [Mage] will pass that test. I guarantee it. The other Golems you could handle, at risk and at cost. But Cognita? She’s stronger than all four of the others put together.”
“You know Cognita, then, Magus Grimalkin?”
Pisces’ voice was quiet. Grimalkin nodded, baring his teeth.
“Why wouldn’t I know her? Cognita, the Truestone Golem. She was made by a Drake. By one of our Archmages less than two hundred years ago. Archmage Zelkyr was a genius who transformed the world, and his creations live on to this day. Historically, Cognita walked Pallass’ walls. She fought against the Five Families—helped crush the foothold they established on our shores, and killed two other Archmages in battle herself. You should look up her history. We have libraries, you know.”
He looked at Pisces and Ceria. The half-Elf shook her head. She didn’t want to think of Cognita. Pisces’ eyes were alight with interest.
“I’m aware of her history, Magus Grimalkin. But I also know that many artifacts belong to the Walled Cities and in the vaults of the current Archmages. Two Archmages and yourself and you wouldn’t try? Ever? Was it just a matter of logistics or the others refusing?”
“No. I decided not to. Because of Cognita. Let me repeat myself. She killed. Two. Archmages. In battle. Back when Zelkyr walked the earth and [Archmage] was a class, not a title. No disrespect to your former master, Miss Springwalker, but I don’t blame any [Mage] for refusing to fight her. If I took every Gold-rank adventurer in your inn and threw them at her, she would probably finish the fight in less than five minutes.”
Fortunately, they weren’t in the common room where everyone could hear. Grimalkin ignored the incredulous look Yvlon was giving him.
“Gold-rank’s nowhere near the level you need to be to hurt something like her. Even Saliss of Lights, our Named Adventurer—well, if he prepped, he might actually do her some damage. But once she caught him, he’d be dead too. I’m just surprised Wistram’s [Mages] are so comfortable walking around with a superior being judging their every move and their petty squabbling for the scraps of power she lets them have.”
Pisces’ eyes lit up. Ksmvr leaned forwards too, excited.
“Really? Is this Saliss truly that powerful? More so than you, Magus Grimalkin, by comparison?”
The huge Drake paused and, for a moment, looked uncomfortable.
“Well, he’s a Named Adventurer for a reason. And he possesses one of the highest, if limited, combat potentials in the world. He is on my list of people who could kill me—if he took me off-guard. In a fair fight, I’d be prepared, of course. But he’s still…”
He broke off, grumbling, as he folded his arms. Yvlon frowned.
“You have a list of people who can kill you in a fight?”
“Of course I have a list of everyone who can kill me in combat. Any such individual is a threat to the Walled Cities!”
The Horns exchanged a glance. Ceria knew they were way off-topic, but she couldn’t help but ask.
“Who’s on it? Elia Arcsinger?”
“Hah!”
Grimalkin laughed as he took a sip of tea. Then he frowned.
“Wait, were you serious?”
He eyed Ceria and then shrugged.
“Never mind. We’re missing the point. I see now why you two lack some magical knowledge. Nothing to be done about it. Your master’s dead, and you don’t have a master.”
He pointed at Pisces. The [Necromancer] nodded stiffly. Ceria sat up as Grimalkin got up and paced once more.
“As I said, it shows. In Ceria most of all. You lack spells! The rest of your team is solid.”
“I don’t feel solid. I realized how far I have to go. I never touched you in that sparring session! Honestly, aren’t I a big weak link?”
Yvlon shook her head. Grimalkin just laughed.
“You? Miss Byres, if I see a sword enchanted like yours, I avoid it! Moreover, you’re not at Level 30. [Warriors] like you tend to gain a powerful Skill along with a class then—and often in a specific direction. Offensive Skills. Defensive. Or utility, like mobility. Each one has its strengths. Given your fighting style, I’d guess you’ll gain something offensive or mobility-based, but who knows?”
Yvlon blinked as he thrust a claw at her. Ceria looked at her. A Level 30 Skill? Ceria had been dreaming of what she’d get, but Yvlon? The Muscle Mage went on.
“Either way, if you gained, say, [Hundred-Foot Lunge] or [Whirlwind Cleave], you’d solve your issue of reaching the enemy neatly. Most foes can’t dodge like I can; your sword puts you at Gold-rank, and if you gain a decent Skill at Level 30, I’ll certify you as Gold-rank on the spot. The Antinium needs levels and gear, but for his level he’s the most effective of you. As for you two—”
He pointed at Pisces and Ceria and paused. Reluctantly, frowning, he stared at Pisces.
“Low-level spells. Fast casting with your bare hands. [Fencer]’s footwork and a [Fencer]’s Skills. Your technique…you lack Skills, but [Flash Step] makes up for your agility. Huh.”
He tapped one foot impatiently on the floorboards. Pisces looked somewhat pleased and wary. After a moment, Grimalkin nodded reluctantly.
“[Fireball]. [Lightning Bolt]. [Acid Orb]. [Ice Spear]—well, your half-Elf companion would learn that. What’s the [Necromancer] equivalent? Ah, yes. [Deathbolt]. But that’s a poorer spell. Hm. Fine. [Fireball], [Lightning Bolt], [Acid Orb], and—[Stone Spear]. Take your pick.”
“What?”
Pisces blinked. Ceria sat up on the tea-spattered bed. Grimalkin sighed.
“Take your pick. I’ll give you a scroll with the spell. They’re Tier 3; if you can master [Invisibility], they shouldn’t take more than a few weeks at most for you. And they’re simple enough that I have copies. I’ll charge Miss Solstice’s account.”
“What?”
The other Horns sat up. Grimalkin nodded reluctantly at Pisces.
“You pass. Your dodging ability is superior to my apprentices, you have a melee weapon, and you’re practicing fast-casting in the modern style. If you weren’t a [Necromancer], I’d bring you back to have my students learn from your style.”
He paused. Pisces looked delighted, and Ceria was sure his ego was expanding like a toad. Grimalkin shook his head.
