Oh. They thought Zach was the leader of this group. Probably because of his old family connections and the fact that he'd beat the shit out of elf children as a kid. Maybe that’s what they considered leadership material.

Thomas wasn't sure how he was going to play this yet, but Vanya saved him the trouble by speaking first.

"I believe before we go further, it would be advantageous for you to learn a little historical context."

Jo broke in. "How are you speaking English? I don't even hear an accent on you. Have you been watching Earth for a long time?"

"My dear woman," Hathas drawled, "what makes you think we are speaking English right now?"

That gave them all pause, and to his slight disgruntlement, Thomas realized Hathas was right. If he concentrated hard, he realized that the elf's lips didn't match his words, but something had stopped him from fully realizing it.

"Part of the System's gifts is the ability to communicate from one world to another," Akilah said mildly. "You will find that our world was once like yours, with many languages, but after the full System integration, we found that we could all perfectly understand each other."

"Which circles back to my point," Vanya said. "The Terrans require context if they are to properly understand what we are asking for, much less agree."

Hathas rolled his hand at her in a go-right-ahead motion, and Akilah leaned back, obviously giving her the floor.

Vanya laced her odd-looking hands together in front of her and straightened her shoulders. Then she started to speak.

"Five generations ago, our own world went through its own System integration. As on Earth, those few who were able to access dungeons early consolidated their power rather than using their advanced riches and knowledge to prepare society."

"Do any planets actually get it right?" Jo asked with some asperity. "Does any society help prepare their people instead of taking the power for themselves?"

Akilah spoke in a measured tone. "Roughly half. It is not a given either way."

"However, there is one difference between your world and ours," Vanya said, pointedly seizing the conversation again. "Where you have one, our planet has four separate and distinct peoples: Dark elves, such as ourselves, Wood elves, Ice elves... and Light elves." There was a slight bite when she said Light elves. "In the decades before the integration, Light elves worked systematically to seed distrust within Dark and Wood elf communities. This came in the form of misinformation, manufactured scandals, and, ah, perceived cultural wedges."

"Conspiracy theories," Akilah said heavily. "Eventually, people fell into the dirty habit of pointless belligerence and denial of facts itself that created nothing but argument and noise."

Vanya gave him a look as if she agreed with their overall message but disagreed with the nuances. Then she continued.

"By the time the System countdown began, Dark elf societies were fractured enough that a significant portion dismissed it as a hoax, doubled down on denial, or simply retreated into religion for answers they preferred to hear. The Wood elves suffered similarly, though not to such a degree." She heaved a sigh. "The outcome was that the Dark elves were disproportionately placed into the tutorial dungeon completely unprepared."

Hathas took up the narrative. "Five generations later, we still suffer from that initial disadvantage. Light elves are ascendant, closely followed by Ice elves. Wood elves have finally started to gain some progress over the last several hundred years, but unfortunately our people remain subservient. We were, essentially, shattered."

It was pretty damn easy to draw a parallel between the story the elders were spinning and what Thomas had seen in the protesters.

"I'm sorry," Jo said, "what exactly happens now at the end of the countdown?"

Thomas answered her quietly. "I just found out about it myself. If you don't participate by going into dungeons, the System will force you into one, give you a Gift that is meant for a support role, and then pop you out somewhere random on Earth so you can begin serving people who have been diving."

"Understand that these are true support Gifts," Akilah said, as Jo rocked back in her chair trying to process that. "Not merely utility Gifts which are sometimes mislabeled as support. The non-participants are intentionally crippled so that they must lean on others to survive. While their children are given the opportunity for the usual Gifts, they do not have the advantage of an early start, or access to knowledge, tricks, and mana. The chances they become successful divers are low."

"And even though it has been five full generations," Vanya said heavily, "our people have not recovered. The Light elves have all but ensured that continues. Our village is by far the best situated out of our people."

Zach had been silent up to this point, but he did prove that he had a brain somewhere under all that fire when he said, "So you want to start a colony away from Light elf influence, am I right?"

"Bluntly put," Akilah said, "yes."

Oh... wonderful. Thomas couldn't think of a single time in human history where that had ever gone well for the less technologically advanced culture. "And what if we say no?" he asked tightly.

Vanya smiled at him, and it turned out that Dark elves had pointed eyeteeth. Good to know. "Let me rephrase that. We are starting a colony. We aren't asking for permission. However, we would like human consultants to ensure there are fewer difficulties."

"Other races are doing the same," Akilah broke in, with a quelling glance at her. "It is an extremely common practice. In several thousand years, when your planet is stabilized and the next is chosen for the next System Integration, your people will no doubt establish colonies of their own. I can see the look on your face, Thomas. The reason why we are asking for consultants is to best smooth the way for our new home. The situation with the uncanny valley disguises you mentioned, for example, can be avoided."

"You said other races are doing the same," Zach said, in an almost bored drawl Thomas was starting to recognize as him at his most serious. "The Light elves, too?"

At the mention of Light elves, Hathas curled his lip, Vanya leaned back, and Akilah nodded gravely. "I believe, being the scion of the de'Montvallon house, you are aware that their colony preparations are well underway."

Still sounding bored, Zach shot back, "I know that siding with you would be siding against them."

"Also in part against the Ice elves. I believe they are seeking to start a colony in your... Canadian Territory?" Hathas looked at Akilah as if making sure that was the correct phrasing. Akilah nodded, and Hathas went on. "The Wood elves are our allies, and they plan to set up a colony in your... San Diego area." The name came out correctly thanks to System shenanigans, but the expression on his face said that he still struggled with it.

"Good weather for a colony," Zach said, deadpan.

"We much prefer the one in your nearby mountain range," Akilah said, "which was another reason why we wished to reach out to you."

Ah crap, they wanted Tahoe. Maybe Thomas could convince them that Incline Village was a better area instead. No one liked that place.

"All this in exchange for what?" Jo asked. Her expression was about as sour as Thomas felt.

"Five generations of accumulated understanding of gifts, mana cultivation, and System mechanics that your people don't have," Hathas said promptly. "Also, as part of the arrangement, you three would have access to level 4 and 5 dungeons on our world before Integration date. I trust you understand that building your cores with higher grade mana is more advantageous? Your world will be restricted to dungeons at level three or below until the full System integration occurs. Think about what being stronger than the average of your world would mean."

Thomas's greedy loot heart sat up and took notice.

Akilah leaned forward, earnest. "This is not some attempt at subjugation of Terrans. We wish to be long-standing allies to the people in your region. From what I understand of your biology, we have different comfort temperatures than you. Our colony would not be located where your existing cities are. As consultants, we want to hear from you to help smooth the way so we may learn about our new home. What Hathas says about rewards is true, but we also bring our assistance to convince as many humans as possible to enter the dungeons before the clock runs out. If there's any way that we can help nonviolently, we will."

"Nonviolently?" Zach asked, a beat before Thomas could.

Akilah smiled slightly. "We are restricted by the System. It is a reason why I was only able to treat you with level 3 mana. Any adult with a Gift cannot attack or interpose unduly on your planet. I cannot give you over level 3 items or mana... though of course you can certainly earn those yourselves through your own efforts, which is why we offer open access to our dungeons."

"I understand that you have no reason to trust us," Vanya said, and damn it all, she actually looked earnest. "We have time, as we cannot actually start the colony until after Integration Day. That, too, is imposed by the System. Until then, you would have access to our dungeons on this planet. Take the time to dive and ask questions of our citizens, and see for yourselves if what we have told you is true."

"We do not ask that you give us an answer right away," Hathas added.

Which was damn good, because at that moment Thomas had no idea what he was going to do.
