“What skill does it say!” the man exclaimed louder as he waved a hand at those behind him.

“Uh… it says…” Max trailed off as he watched the people moving toward him.

Max couldn’t speak as his voice failed him. His mind was racing, and things were moving so fast. Why were those four coming near him? That only happened when things were bad.

The man's face contorted, and he shook his head from side to side.

Motioning to a woman standing behind him, he whispered in her ear.

Glancing around the courtyard, Max realized everyone was staring at him and that his mother was crying. His dad was holding her back as she reached her hands out toward him and wept.

His sister’s face was white as snow as she stared at him. Glancing next to her, he noticed that Nancy was not there. The basket she had been holding was upside down on the street, and some muffins that he loved were crushed under the feet of those near it. Scanning the crowd, he saw a patch of red hair bobbing and weaving through the crowd, leaving the street.

Turning around, he saw Caleb looking at him with tears in his eyes.

“What is wrong?” Max asked Caleb as his friend pointed behind him.

“Unskilled! Unskilled!” The cry rose from the crowd, and Max turned around, confused as to why they would say that. As he turned, he saw the four people behind the older man moving toward him.

“Unskilled! Unskilled!” the cry echoed again all around him.

“Do not resist, and they will not strike you down before your family,” the older man stated as the men and women surrounded him. “If you fight, your family may die as well.”

Glancing at the older man, Max saw rage and anger burning in his eyes. It was like he had done something evil to this man every day of his life to earn a look like this.

Looking at the other four, he saw they each wore the same expression as the two on his side grabbed his arm and yanked him in the direction away from the crowd, his family, and friends.

“Why?” Max shouted at the four who were dragging him away. “I have a skill! Why…”

A fist, harder than any blow he had ever received, hit his jaw, causing his knees to buckle, and the world began to shimmer.

The woman who had struck him spoke in a hushed tone as they yanked him along.

“Put him in the cart, and we will deal with him once we are gone.”

The cart she was talking about was not that far away, and before they had thrown him into it, he was already lost to the looming darkness that beckoned him.
