The expulsion of contaminants—both physical and meta-physical—moved up her arms in a slow, agonizing wave. At the same time, she pulled on her own store of white-steel, having a trickling stream of the material flow downward to prevent any sort of shrinking of her form.

She, of course, purified and refined that material before she reincorporated it as well, otherwise the process would have been at least a bit counter productive.

As a result, she had tendrils of white flowing out of her torso and into her arms, connecting just below the progressing wave of expulsion, contaminants falling free of the tendrils on their path as well.

In that way, her body did not diminish, but her white steel armor did lessen by a bit.

She tried to distract her internally screaming mind with a happy thought. I’ll have to try to pass this information on to Mom. Imagine how much more the Talons could do with improved material in their weapons and armor.

Talax, at least, would benefit from having such improved metal at his disposal, if it worked. Because she wasn’t actually sure that it could be improved in the same way for them. After all, they were using ‘ambient’ magic, rather than her triune of power.

It was something worth testing and considering… later. Even though the line of thought was a good distraction from the pain, she needed more of her focus if she was going to continue to fight.

Eskau Pallaun seemed to have finally broken through the defenses of the commander, as when Lea now caught glimpses of that automaton, it was increasingly ragged.

With the two others at her side, she no longer had as many close calls, and the whole battle became a foregone conclusion despite her tribulation. Well, it’s more that we can use magic against them than simply that the three of us are together.

There were only a few hundred legionnaires left on the superficial when Lea felt an odd tug ripple through her.

In that moment, every automaton turned and sprinted toward the closest rip into the Doman-Imithe.

Several even ripped new holes before others dove through, closing them behind the group. She saw the captain that she hadn’t been able to quite finish off, close one of the closer breaches.

What followed was a frantic minute where they destroyed far more of the beings, but they couldn’t possibly catch them all.

Less than two minutes later, the four were left in a broken wasteland of a battlefield, shattered automata strewn about like broken toys.

Eskau Kanabo was sitting, addressing a severe gash in his right thigh, and Pillar Tili had a clearly splintered wing. They each had innumerable smaller injuries, but they were otherwise still in fighting shape.

Eskau Pallaun arrived beside them, holding the clearly non-functional commander. “Good, you all survived. Well done.”

They all exchanged nods.

“It is a shame that some got away, but I suppose even their soul-spirit pairs could have reported what happened here.” He grimaced, then gave Lea a consoling smile. “That was a useful thing you did, but if I understood it correctly, don’t expect it to work again.”

She sighed and nodded. “I showed that I was no ‘wayward child.’ I don’t know how they’ll counter it, but you’re right. I should expect some sort of counter if I have the opportunity to try that again.”

She grit her teeth, letting out a small whimper as her wave of Refining swept down her legs with measured progress, and Eskau Pallaun arched an eyebrow. “You figured it out?”

She grinned despite her mental exhaustion and the pain that the process caused. “I believe so. I can feel my gate advancing as the body it's bound to is purified, perfected, Refined. I guess we’ll know soon if it’s enough to get me the whole way.”

As the dual waves finished at the tips of her toes, a pulse of power radiated outward, her aura flaring yellow for a brief moment, bringing a laugh of triumph from Lea and congratulations from her three guardians.

Lea Sappherrous, human souled and automaton bodied, had Refined.
