He had so much to do and so little time. So he didn’t stop, even to lean on an old friend’s shoulder and weep. The tears would undo them both, like a crack in a mountain that a river tore through. And he was no great mountain.
Not yet, not ever in likeliness. But he was all Liscor had, so the half-Giant walked.
 
——
 
It had always been like this, you see. Whenever he ducked to enter a room, heads turned. He was never unnoticed; even after weeks, the young Gnoll woman lounging on her couch jumped when she saw him.
“Oh, hey. It’s you again.”
Liska was taking her ease, idly sending people through the door, but she sped up when she saw Lord Moore in line. The half-Giant smiled faintly. He often smiled. In the past, he’d hunched over and even picked flowers to wear.
Anything to make the small people feel less nervous. Because when they were nervous, they got violent. As if his being larger than them alone was a threat.
It was enough to drive you to madness. To hate them. But you had to also love them and their silly little ways. Silly, in that they did all the things that he did. They loved, laughed, and had secrets and ambitions—but whenever they saw him, they seemed to think he was somehow grander, more dangerous, more important than they were. Just because he was tall.
Liska was sending people through the doors faster now, but they lingered, turning to stare up at him. Lord Moore found this, too, funny. He was merely ten feet tall. True, taller than even a Minotaur might be, horns and all, taller than Centaurs, but quite, quite short for a half-Giant. Still, they stared, and children pointed as their parents hurried them back, as if he might fall on them.
It was true, if Moore fell and hit someone, it would hurt them more than he. But the danger was exaggerated. Strong men tried to puff out their chests around him. Warriors checked their blades, then pretended not to. [Mages] were the worst; they tried to act as if he were natural and they were unimpressed.
To walk amongst smallfolk was to always be an outsider, to ever be noticed. It was hard. A younger man, a younger Moore had been more self-conscious, more embarrassed, more alone. The Halfseekers had given him a family.
The [Lord] of future days, who called himself Mireden Raithland, the Moore of a world where Erin Solstice had never woken up, ten long years into the future—he gazed around, and everything here hurt him. It was all so…innocent. For all they had endured, this city had never fallen. The inn still lived.
He had sworn the moment he turned around and ran back towards that door in the [Palace of Fates] that he would keep his future from ever becoming reality. But he had…no…time.
So much to do, but he did not shove ahead in line and took the moment to speak to Liska.
“Hey, Lord M—Raithland. Uh, sorry about the delay. How’s it, uh—I always wanted to know, is being tall really inconvenient?”
His lips cracked into a real grin as she blinked up at him. He had never really known the Liska of his world well. This one was higher-level, and her banal questions were funny, because she asked the ones everyone did. He replied in a low voice that could boom over anyone else’s.
“A funny question, Liska. I once met a group of Fraerlings in Baleros.”
Her eyes widened. The people in line turned to him, fascinated by a species they thought never to meet. If any of them wanted, they could have made the journey, and it was far easier with Paeth. But so many said, ‘that shall never happen to me.’
If they wanted to, they could have an adventure. They dreamed of it, wrote it in their books, made great boasts. Few realized they could if they dared it. Fewer still had the courage.
What a waste, Moore would have said as a younger man. In his forties, now, he thought it made sense. If you were happy, why make the journey into the unknown? If you never saw monsters and wonders with your own eyes, well, had you lived a life any worse than his? Moore had slain horrors and held Relics of the old world in his hands.
He had no children of his own. He had never married in his other world. You could place his deeds and the city he had helped rebuild on a scale with a father and his son, and who could say which weighed more?
So—the half-Giant smiled down at Liska.
“The Fraerlings I met asked me the same question. What is it like being so tall? I told them that it was surely special. I must be the most unique of people for I am so much taller, just as they are extraordinary and their lives so much harder for being so small.”
He paused.
“We laughed upon it for hours.”
Liska was slightly open-mouthed as she gazed up at him. She didn’t realize he had finished until she saw him ducking towards the [Door of Portals]. The half-Giant felt rainwater touch his skin. He shielded his face with one hand, then straightened.
A [Guardswoman] standing in front of the [Door of Portals] backed up, the Drake’s mouth open as the half-Giant emerged from the door to Liscor. The people in line backed up a step, and again, Lord Moore grinned.
He stood in his city, in Shivertail Plaza, and gazed around, breathing in the wet odors of the spring rains. To him, it was so familiar though this city seemed too poor, too dingy and small compared to the one he remembered. His heart still wept for the citizens, so few of whom had escaped into the [Palace of Fates].
This time, I will build it better. Rest easy, Moore of the Halfseekers. This is my task, and I am readier for it than you could ever be. 
He was Mireden Raithland now, he reminded himself. Not Moore. He bore only his memories and knowledge from the future. The other Moore, the one who had lived and died on Liscor’s grounds, was an old stranger to him. He might not approve of all that Lord Raithland did. The half-Giant wished that version of him who had left for another world all the love and life he deserved.
This was no task for young men. He had a silent and secret war to wage against the Mother of Graves.
He had a city to protect, to lead, and to do that, he would have to play the powergames he’d learned over the course of a decade.
Most of all…he wished to keep that legacy of the Halfseekers and to put a finger on the tiller of the events that would occur in this world, and that was not an easy nor light thing to do. It was a thorny garden he would have to water with gold, blood, sweat, and tears. Even he had no idea which flowers would bloom from them, but he could prune what he didn’t like.
So. The half-Giant set about his first task of the day. Not stealthily; eyes followed him as he walked out of the plaza. He could never be stealthy, so he did the opposite. He spun his staff, and when it struck the cobblestones, people walking ahead of him glanced up for the thunder in the skies.
 
——
 
Liscor’s elections were ongoing, a fact that concerned few in The Wandering Inn. Given what they had endured, it was no surprise to Lord Moore. The inn was rapidly becoming an independent force; the taxes incident was just further proof of this. They could let Liscor be, but he cared about these elections greatly.
It was his goal to win a seat on the Council. The problem was the contest for Liscor’s seats had been underway for months when he had appeared. He was a nobody, without support or backing. Also, technically, he wasn’t even a Liscorian citizen. He had no district to run in.
But if he wanted to move Liscor, he had to be on the Council. So the half-Giant had made several steps. First, he had borrowed money from Lyonette to buy a home in the 3rd District of Liscor. Citizenship was quite easy given the current Council’s attitude towards immigration. He was then in a runoff with anyone in his district, which would be accorded three new seats in the Council.
Technically, that was too low if Lord Moore’s rough count of the population in the new area of Liscor was correct. But the Drakes and Gnolls of the old city did not want to cede more of their seats to the new Human-majority areas in 3rd District. Even the old Council was biased, though he rather suspected he might like them more than the new one if the votes went ill.
It didn’t matter. He didn’t have the political capital to move any elections for candidates he favored. Getting a seat was hard enough.
Residency established—there was already some understanding of his presence in Liscor. People had seen him blocking spells when the Goblin King had been rampaging. And the rumor of ‘Moore’s uncle’ also gave him some credence as a [Lord]—a class he did possess.
Lord Moore was a [Green Lord of the Cured City]. His level, well…he’d thought about disclosing it. It might win him the Council seat on the merits of that alone, but he’d rather lay low in that sense.
Too many questions arose when people realized what level he was. In this, or his world, he was a dangerous force, but again, unsupported by a city’s might. So! The half-Giant’s task of the day was simple.
Establish his credibility and, in simpler terms still, attract attention. For a half-Giant?
It was so easy. He could do it even walking.
Lord Moore’s staff was a piece of Oteslia’s great tree. A branch had fallen to earth when, in his world, its Dragon rebelled and fled. He had paid a handsome sum for a carving of it; it was a broad staff, even for his hand, crowned with a huge emerald from Salazsar’s mines.
Not the finest Relic-class item ever to exist, but powerful and, most importantly, sturdy. It was wider than the legs of some Humans. As Lord Moore walked, he casually began to twirl it in the rain.
He had no fear of hitting anyone; even wagon drivers tried to avoid him before the huge staff began to spin. It whirled through the air, faster than you could believe, spraying water around as he rotated it one-handed.
Moore transferred the staff to his other hand as a vendor at their stall ducked, fearing the staff might slip from his grip. He saw a Gnoll boy gazing at him, mouth open, and winked one eye.
Thum.
When the butt of the staff struck the ground, it sounded like thunder. People around the half-Giant jumped, and he struck the ground twice more.
Thum-thum!
Then he whirled it around overhead before his right hand caught it again. The simple whirling pattern was so easy to do as he walked; he could have done it for hours. Lord Moore debated throwing the staff up, but suspected he would be asked to stop if he did that.
These were not the capabilities of old Moore, incidentally. In magic and combat, Lord Mireden was far ahead of the Gold-rank adventurer.
And it worked. As was the way of things, it was children who first paid attention to the thrumming in their shoes or saw the figure moving through the crowd and tugged at their parents’ hands to see. The busy men and women saw the spinning staff and first moved back out of ‘danger’, then hesitated.
They had jobs, lives to lead. This emergency or that event. Did they have time for…?
Then they looked twice and remembered something they’d been told.
The last half-Giant of Izril was dead. Then who was this? They felt their knees shaking and saw the bearded head turn as he walked with robes that rustled like the whisper of old forests. His gaze passed over adults who remembered reading stories as children, books about Giants.
So, shoppers stepped out of line. [Shopkeepers] locked up for a second. Parents and children followed, pointing, and a procession began. Like people going to a festival. Hurrying, steps tripping over each other to keep up, as if they had to follow.
In case they missed seeing something that never would be again. The last sight of their lifetime, and the world’s. He walked so proudly, as if he knew it all. And he nodded at them as they halted, unsure if they were just bothering this stranger. But his smile said, silently:
Yes. Follow me. I do not mind. I know who I am.
So, they did.
 
——
 
The half-Giant strode across the main street of Liscor, people parting around him, until he reached his destination. Surveyed it in a moment and nodded. He was conscious of the crowds following him, and also unbothered at the same time. They would always be there. Like background noise. He happened to need witnesses, now and later, so it was doubly fine. But his words were only to himself.
“Yes. This will do.”
His destination was the northern gates of Liscor. Lord Moore swept his eyes over the little altar that Jelaqua had found, closed them, breathed in and out, and then did something odd, if anyone was watching. And everyone was watching out of the corner of their eyes.
He planted his staff in the ground where it stood straight, without wavering, and then clapped his hands together. He bowed his head, briefly, then picked up his staff and turned around. He began marching back the way he’d come. As if he’d confirmed…something.
Odd. Baffling. Perhaps he was paying respects to the shrine for his nephew? But he hadn’t even approached it. Again, if you were watching, he was an enigma, this half-Giant. Lord Moore felt vaguely sorry if you were lurking in an alleyway, rain dripping onto your raincoat like, say, a certain Watch Captain and two other [Guards].
He knew he’d gotten on Watch Captain Zevara’s list after his first encounter with her in Invrisil. She was an unknown quantity to him; she’d died before he’d become enmeshed in Liscor, and he knew Embria far better. The Watch following him wasn’t a problem, anyways. Moore strode back the way he’d come at a pace that would have them running to keep up.
He only halted once when he heard the familiar sounds of a commotion. The half-Giant turned his head as he passed a side street, then went down it.
In a city, there was always daily strife of some kind. In this case, a crowd of dozens, people hurrying out of the way, calls for the Watch, to stop—people hurrying children back or watching—the half-Giant saw the cause since he could easily gaze over the heads of everyone else.
A fight. A Drake and a Human man going bare-knuckle in the rain. One had a bloody mouth, and the other’s shirt was ripped off as well as his raincloak; he had two bruises on his scales. They were grappling with each other, cursing and slipping on the cobblestone street, when Lord Moore walked through the crowd.
Without slowing, he let go of his quarterstaff, grabbed both men, and pulled them apart. So gently that they were still throwing punches and kicks when they glanced up and froze.
So did the crowd. One of the fighters gasped.
“Who the—let go of me! Who the hell are you?”
“This your backup, Human?”
The Drake sneered, but he took a step back, searching around for his buddies. They all gazed up at Moore with that sudden reassessment of men wondering if they wanted to fight someone four feet taller than they were, counting their numbers.
