“Excuse me, gentlemen. It seems too wet for a brawl on the streets. May I ask what started this?”
Lord Moore’s voice was pleasant. And because it was, instantly, both fighters took umbrage.
“None of your business! Hands off! Who are you to interfere?”
The Drake slashed at Moore’s hand as he let go. The Human man made a beckoning gesture.
“That’s right. You want some, you can get in line!”
The glance he gave Moore suggested that if the half-Giant did get in line, he’d quickly get out of it. But it sounded good, and their dander was up. Lord Moore raised his brows.
He could have said he was technically Junior Guardsman Raithland. Or claimed, rightly, that he was a [Lord]. Or a former adventurer.
Instead, the half-Giant smiled around at the crowd.
“A busybody. What’s this over? Something important?”
Neither man really wanted to say. They were eying each other, but clearly wondering if Moore was going to pick them up like children again, which would be embarrassing. They edged back.
“Just stay out of it…whoever you are!”
The Drake snapped. To his great surprise, Lord Moore nodded. He picked up his staff and took one step backwards to give them space.
“Very well. If all parties agree, then I will stand here as witness. The first man to not get up is defeated. No blades, no others in the ring, no magic. So, fight well.”
He struck the ground with his staff and left it standing there, then folded his arms in the crowd as every eye turned to the two brawlers. And they…hesitated. The Human raised a fist, looked around, and the Drake half-heartedly brought his fists up.
They suddenly grew conscious of the crowd of nearly a hundred people, swelling as more came to see what was going on. The two circled, and after a moment, Moore made an encouraging motion.
“Well? What’s the matter?”
One of them had just been about to go for a kick to the balls. Moore’s comment drained the momentum out of the two fighters, and one of them glared at him.
“We’re all waiting.”
The half-Giant smiled at him, and the Drake snapped back.
“You interrupted us! How the hell are we supposed to fight with—?”
He lamely gestured around at the onlookers, who were murmuring, eying his form, even placing a few tentative bets—the things crowds did. Only, without his blood running hot, the Drake was suddenly awkward. Self-conscious.
Like that dream many people had about showing up naked to a party. Neither man was a [Fistfighter] or used to this much attention. The Human clearly felt different and spat on the ground.
“I’m not getting in trouble with the Watch in front of everyone. I’ll settle this with you later. You’d best not see me on the streets!”
He jabbed a finger at the Drake, and some of the man’s buddies jeered. It was a good way to salvage the situation. Moore didn’t let them get away with it. He loomed over the two fighters as they tried to retreat from the ring.
“No fight in the two of you? Truly? And here I thought it was important. For if it was, you two would fight even in the center of a wake. It surely had to have been. Important enough to endanger bystanders and children and interfere with everyone’s day. Come now, tell us. What was so pressing?”
His smile invited the two to tell the class what was wrong. Then the Drake and Human were glancing at each other, and cheeks reddened.
“I think one of them walked into the other. Then one called the other a name.”
An annoyed [Shopkeeper] volunteered. Someone else in the crowd corroborated this, and a few jeers rose. The two fighters began to protest as Lord Moore folded his arms.
“Ah, a terrible offense. There is no use talking it out. Right, back at it, you two.”
That was enough. As faint laughter arose, the Drake strode back to his buddies, shoving at them as some of them laughed at him as well. The Human man tried to slink back into the crowd. Moore smiled as someone blew a whistle.
“Alright, break it up!”
A [Guard] was coming to break the brawl up—to the officer’s surprise, the crowd was already dispersing. He stared around, then at Moore as if the half-Giant was the culprit.
“What’s all this then? You, sir, what are you doing?”
Some things never changed. Lord Moore turned with great patience to explain his part in this, but someone interrupted.
“I have eyes on it, yes, Guardsman. This half-Giant wasn’t part of the fight.”
One of his shadows detached themselves from an alleyway and strode over. The [Guardsman] turned, then saluted.
“Watch Captain! Um, I—right! Sorry, I didn’t realize you were here!”
The Watch Captain of 3rd District gave Moore a sideways glance as she nodded to him. There went the [Guard], and Lord Moore glanced around. He was about to keep walking when someone waved a claw at him.
“Excuse me, Mister half-Giant?”
A girl holding an Antinium doll, Human, was standing with her parents. She stared up at Moore and backed up when he knelt, but he smiled.
“Yes, young one?”
“I have a question! May I ask a question?”
“Of course.”
The girl’s parents watched as she piped up.
“Dad says you’re a half-Giant. But if you are, then isn’t that wrong? Everyone was saying the last half-Giant of Izril was dead. So what are you?”
His father opened his mouth, filled with chagrin, and Moore’s heart hurt as he listened to the girl’s plain question. He saw Beilmark’s ears perk up as he chose his words carefully.
“It’s true. The last half-Giant of Izril did die. Moore of Raithland. I am merely his uncle. I wasn’t on Izril when he fell. So yes, it was true at the time. Once more, I am the last half-Giant. Perhaps the last you will ever know on Izril’s shores.”
Everyone in earshot went silent. Lord Moore stood and looked around.
“I am Lord Mireden Raithland. I have made Liscor my home to honor my nephew’s sacrifice. If you see me, treat me as a neighbor and friend, please.”
He smiled. Then turned to the girl.
“Does that answer your question?”
She gave him a serious stare with faintly orange eyes.
“Yes, Mister half-Giant. Thank you. Um. Is it hard, being the last half-Giant? It seems really lonely.”
He blinked at her, then smiled ruefully.
“Perhaps it is. I wouldn’t know; we half-Giants have been the last for a long time. It’s not that scary. Being the last friend, the last member of a team, is far, far harder. So long as you have friends and family, being the ‘last’ anything isn’t hard, Miss. Do you have any more questions?”
She blinked up at him as her parents stirred, and he thought she saw some comprehension flicker in her tiny face. An inkling of mortality. She held her doll tighter, thinking, then pointed.
“…Is that a magic staff?”
He laughed and reached up to the emerald gem. To her delight and awe, he pulled a glowing flower with petals that shone like moonbeams out and handed it to her. Then he rose, nodded at her parents, and continued on his way.
After a moment, the Watch Captain followed.
 
——
 
Beilmark was not Zevara, a fact she was keenly grateful for. She had a different approach than the smoke-spitting Watch Captain that was simultaneously more subtle and, sometimes, more direct than the Drake.
Zevara probably would have been here in the rain, following the half-Giant around, but every person who saw her wanted to talk about the Hissl-Moass incident, so she was no good undercover. She’d tried a huge trench coat and hat, but that was so silly everyone in the 3rd District Watchhouse had laughed their tails off when they heard about that.
The Gnoll caught up to the mystery half-Giant after two streets. He did slow when he saw her, and she raised a paw.
“Excuse me, Lord Raithland. Do you have time for a friendly word? You are not under arrest, yes?”
“I had no fear of that, Watch Captain. You have the better of me; I confess, I thought you were Captain Zevara.”
“Ah, she is busy looking into someone stealing water or something silly of that kind. Now she is a detective, everyone has problems for her to solve. She’s found four lost cats already. I am Watch Captain Beilmark. 3rd District. May I ask what you were doing back there?”
“Merely interfering in a silly fight. I am sure your Watch would have handled the matter, but I interfered, as anyone might.”
She peered up at him. He wore a mysterious smile, and she had no read on him. The Gnoll sniffed, trying to memorize his scent.
“Hrr. Anyone of your size, perhaps. Did you mean what you said, that you intend to live here?”
He continued walking, a touch slower, still spinning his staff.
“Of course.”
Beilmark eyed the whirling haft of wood. It wasn’t too close to her, but she felt like ducking.
“I may ask you to stop swinging that staff around, Lord Mireden. It would be a tragedy if it hit someone, no? Where does one learn tricks like that?”
Obligingly, he stopped spinning his staff. But rather contrarily, the half-Giant seemed to place it in the air, where it floated after him, slowly rotating around his body. He winked at her as even more heads turned.
“I picked the trick up on Chandrar when I lived half a year in the company of the Nomads of the Sky.”
“Oh, the ones who follow the King of Destruction?”
There were very few groups of half-Giants left. Moore nodded.
“Yes…though not when they were at war. Not all of them fight, you see. It was one of the few things I picked up of value there. The rest?”
He flicked a hand, shaking his head and smoothing his beard ruefully.
“It’s a silly fancy that comes across species who grow up far from ‘home’, Watch Captain. I was trying to find my people, much like that girl asked me about. Playing drums on the sand, mimicking the customs I thought would make me more of a half-Giant…”
He laughed and shook his head.
“Chandrarian [Nomads] are so far from how I was raised and lived. I wonder if you can relate?”
Despite herself, she grinned. The Watch Captain shrugged.
“You speak in a way most City Gnolls would understand, yes? Some of us aspire to be ‘real’ Gnolls, whatever that is, and copy our kin in the tribes. From how Plains Gnolls talk to how they act, as if that makes them more Gnollish. Myself, I have been a child of Liscor since before the Silverfangs came, so it is opposite for me, in a way. All their customs and habits seemed foreign to me. I’ve never longed to be on the plains. Too many bugs in the fur, I imagine.”
The half-Giant nodded with that twinkle in his eyes. He gestured at the quarterstaff.
“Well, if that concludes your investigation, you may write down that I am quite good with a quarterstaff, Watch Captain Beilmark. As a younger man, I used my fists until I realized I kept getting hurt…a quarterstaff is far more useful, especially as this is a magical staff as well. Everyone has heard the tale of the [Farmer] who beat a [Swordmaster] with a staff.”
Beilmark nodded. Moore tapped his staff and winked at her.
“I rather fancy I have better odds than most [Farmers], don’t you?”
The Gnoll woman grinned. And she privately resolved to never get into a fight with this half-Giant and make a note for the Watch to be highly careful of this Mireden Raithland. She thanked him for his time.
“And may I ask one last question, Lord Mireden? I noticed you had put your name in the elections for City Council in your area. Hrr. There are fifty candidates, and I doubt many would know you by name. By height, yes…if you fail to win your election, what will you do? Are you an adventurer? Or are you going to be a—a [Lord]? Forgive me, I do not know how that class lives.”
The half-Giant nodded at her as they came back to Shivertail Plaza. He halted in line and smiled at her.
“Fear not, Watch Captain. I have utter faith I will win. But regardless, even if I should fail, I intend to do a bit of business in Liscor.”
“Enchanting? Magical services?”
He shook his head, still with that twinkle in his eye that was slightly annoying.
“No. Sewer cleaning. I am a [Green Mage]. Artisanal work as well. Not that I’m a fine crafter. I practice some alchemy as well—I do invite you to visit the first shop I open.”
With that, he ducked back into the door and vanished. Beilmark folded her arms and sniffed as some of the other [Guards] who had been surveilling him came over. She growled at one of them.
“Alright, put him on the list of Crazy Inn People. At the top of the list, yes? Right next to the Archmage. He makes my fur stand on end. I hope he’s on our side.”
“Are you gonna vote for him, Watch Captain? You moved to his district, didn’t you?”
Beilmark snorted at one of the younger [Guards].
“I don’t even know what he’s offering Liscor. Shut up about politics. Back to work!”
 
——
 
Something to offer Liscor. Yes, that was the problem. He had to show them his value more than just being a helpful [Mage] who had blocked spells.
Gold was no good. No one respected someone just handing out gold. They might need someone like that, the quintessential [Lord] who could buy influence, but who really believed in someone like that?
…Well, enough idiots, maybe. But Lord Moore wanted genuine appreciation. He wasn’t worried. He had a plan, and he’d just confirmed it would work.
What he needed was help, though. He doubted he’d find it in Liscor; the city wasn’t quite right. Too much business flowing in, ironically. So the half-Giant went to the only other location he thought worked on multiple levels.
If Moore intended Liscor to be under his aegis, then Invrisil had been claimed by Magnolia Reinhart and her kin. Celum was, likewise, under the purview of Xitegen—he could almost see the Thigh Lord’s influence around it. Moore didn’t need to butt heads with Lord Xitegen yet. The same with Riverfarm. That [Emperor] was so…prickly in Lord Moore’s experience. And he’d broken up with Durene six years early. Definitely not.
So he went to the only other place that made sense.
Esthelm.
Not that the city was poor, mind you. Just not as prosperous as Liscor. Moore eyed the walls that had been reconstructed by the Antinium; they were actually more impressive than Liscor’s.
The waterproof solid walls of Liscor were impressive on an engineering level, but they didn’t have spikes. Nor cauldrons you could fill with boiling oil or three glittering enchantments that glowed at all hours.
More Wistram magic. Esthelm’s Watch appeared sharp too. Moore noted the clay streets had been paved over with good, quarried stone in most places, and there were a lot of [Miners] going to work.
A good number of Drakes and Gnolls too; probably visiting to buy said gemstones or to try to order from the forges he could hear in the distance. Pelt was transforming Esthelm into a real city of industry. A good ally to have!
