However, the Dwarf couldn’t revitalize everything, and the city’s association with Liscor had actually led to downsides. Just as Moore predicted as he walked down Gemcutter Avenue, aptly named for its stores, he noted more than one shuttered business or empty storefront.
He nodded to himself, then stopped someone on the street.
“Excuse me, do you know who the best charm-expert in the city would be?”
The surprised woman hesitated, but then pointed.
“That’d be Miss Ediya. Bezoar Street. Right at the statue of the [Florist] in the main square. Although, uh—if you came for charms, you might as well try Pallass.”
She gave him a guilty look as she glanced around, aware she was throwing the local artisans under the wagon. The half-Giant just nodded.
“Miss Ediya will do excellently. Thank you, Miss.”
He strode off. The [Florist]’s statue?
Ah. Of course.
 
——
 
The problem with the magic door in Liscor was that it allowed other cities to send goods through the door or buyers enter Invrisil and Esthelm. The effect on prices had already been felt by Liscorians, but the reverse was also true.
Buying ore in Esthelm cheap was an excellent thing for [Smiths]! Riverfarm’s huge agricultural industry suppressed food prices, and there was a valuable network of trade goods enabled by the magical door and Liska. No wonder she was levelling.
However, lowering the price of food meant local [Farmers] earned a lot less. In the same way, other cities could ruin local industries. To wit: Pallass.
The City of Inventions had too much magical expertise. Too many goods flowed into it; Salazsar’s gemstone mines could fill most of Izril’s southern cities with gems, and many [Merchants] brought such gems north to sell at high fees.
What happened when that many gems and higher-level classes in Pallass met Esthelm, who had their own [Runecrafters], [Gemcutters], [Jewelers], and so on?
Shuttered businesses or prosperous owners now struggling to make a decent wage. In fact, when Lord Moore checked Miss Ediya’s shop, she wasn’t even in. A rather dispirited half-Elf sitting in a rocking chair outside his home told the half-Giant she might not be in today.
“Sorry, Mister. There’s little point to us opening our stores. Not this week.”
“Why this week? I’m Lord Mireden. And you are?”
The half-Elf shook Moore’s hand, then gestured at his store.
“Malack’s Mystiques. That’s me, Malack. Ediya used to sell her runes, and I’m a [Gemcutter]. I used to have an [Enchanter] charm everything up, and we’d compete for business. She does cooling charms for the summer and warming for the winter; mine are good for keeping mice out of flour, teeth from rotting, that sort of thing. Just hang them up over your bed or wherever. They work.”
“I take it that’s not the case any longer?”
The half-Elf sighed.
“Oh, no. They still work fine. But my [Enchanter]’s moved to Liscor. And there are so many gems from Salazsar, pre-cut, that I don’t have much work. I’d say there is still a need for our charms, even if we can’t match a Walled City or Invrisil, but…we were doing good business on Lundas. Then the [Witches] put on a festival.”
He pulled a face, and the half-Giant nodded.
“Ah. They sell charms?”
Malack’s face soured with envy as much as despair.
“The kind of stuff none of us can make! Crow’s teeth—I didn’t even know they had teeth—weird wickerworks to catch bad dreams. I went there, and you know what the first thing I saw was? A charm made out of a bunch of teeth—real teeth. Tree rot, that turned my stomach. I was telling the [Witch] no one would buy it when she told me it unrots your teeth. Each tooth takes on the rot somehow. So it wears out, but if you have a mouth of cavities…”
Moore saw the problem.
“Hard to compete?”
Malack jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“I bought all she had. Sold them all at twice the cost. Unfortunately, my customers got wise to that, and they just go to Riverfarm. We won’t see work for the week, Ediya and I. Makes me want to move back home.”
“You’re from Terandria? Not many half-Elves live in Izril.”
The [Gemcutter] shrugged.
“It’s fine enough. Better than home. I lived in Pheislant. One day, I got a bit too tired of all the little comments. Fathers thinking I was charming daughters. Mothers asking about my charms to give them long life, better looks. [Mages] asking me where all my half-Elven secret spells of the ancients were. I’m seventy. I feel seventy.”
He looked thirty, though time had weathered him a bit up. Moore chuckled.
“And the Drakes and Gnolls and Izrilian Humans are that much better?”
The half-Elf winked at him.
“Why, sure. I’m better than those Drakes and Gnolls with the Izrilian Humans, and better than those Humans and Gnolls with the Drakes. The Gnolls think I’m better than the Drakes and Humans, and I can’t be worse than Antinium! Myself, I like the Antinium the most. They can’t even tell I’m a half-Elf most of the time.”
They had a good laugh about that. Malack seemed quite happy to chat about Esthelm—he’d fled the Goblin Lord then came back to rebuild. He was all too happy to credit Pelt with the improvement in the city’s fortunes.
“The door ruining our business is bad luck. But I won’t say bad things about that [Innkeeper] for all she’s unpopular in other cities. Nor will Ediya. She stayed and survived the Goblin Lord’s attack. Hid out in her cellar with three families. Brave as can be. She helped us rebuild our walls, you know.”
“Hmm. I do have a proposal for Miss Ediya. I don’t need Pallass-made gems or charms, Malack. Can you help me find her? That might mean some work for you as well.”
The half-Elf raised his brows. He noted Lord Moore’s clothing, which showed no signs of the rain he’d been in; the water just slid off the enchanted cloth. The half-Elf got out of his rocking chair.
“I can do that. If she’s not out shopping, like as not she’ll be in the main square with the statue. We’ve been having more and more guests to the city defacing it.”
They headed down the street and came to the square in no time at all. When he saw the image of the [Florist] and the thirteen Goblins standing around her with weapons in hand, Lord Moore nodded. Then he focused on the splotches on the stone.
It seemed someone had decided to throw mud, or possibly feces, at the statue. Probably mud; you had to be prepared to throw poop. There was a little fountain behind the statue, and the half-Giant and half-Elf saw an old woman with brown skin tossing water up on the statue.
It wasn’t the most effective method, but she seemed hardly able to climb up and just scrub it herself. The half-Giant halted with approval on his face, if not for the besmirched statue, then the actions of the old woman.
What drew his attention was actually the second statue in the square. Because he’d rather forgotten it existed.
In ten year’s time, it was long-since destroyed, an act of vandalism by unnamed culprits, probably Vampires. But even in this world, the second statue facing the opposite direction just seemed…well, less important. Perhaps, and this was unfair but accurate, perhaps it was just that Ylawes Byres was less interesting.
The [Knight] had one of those quintessential heroic poses as he stood with shield in hand, facing towards the southern gates, and the statue to the Captain of the Silver Swords commemorated his team’s efforts in saving the city. It was a good likeness of him, bold chin and jaw, good-looking armor.
But it just wasn’t the same as that [Florist] pointing ahead, a bouquet of flowers in hand, flanked by Goblins. Both were of Esthelm’s heroes, but the [Knight] was expected, praiseworthy, even mundane. The Goblins and the [Florist] were the story that made you ask questions.
There was nothing in the Ylawes statue that Lord Moore needed, but he did nod to it once. It looked good enough; no one was throwing poo at this statue as of yet. Certainly, Malack just strode past it as he cupped his hands to his mouth, loath to get mud on his shoes from the street.
“Ediya! I have a customer for you!”
Malack called out, shaking his head as he eyed the statues. The grouchy woman shouted back.
“It’ll wait, Malack! Send them to Riverfarm or Pallass! This is the third time this week! The Watch should post a guard out!”
Trying to clean a statue commemorating Goblins would have been unthinkable in another city. But Esthelm? Moore closed his eyes a moment as he approached and nodded.
Yes, here too. He saw several passersby eying Ediya and the statue. Visitors were askance, but citizens of Esthelm were not. Some looked like they might have actually come over to help if they weren’t so busy.
The cursing woman was telling Malack to bring her a long broom when Lord Moore strode over. He raised his staff, and she pointed a warning finger at him.
“Don’t touch the statue with that. If you damage it—”
“[Mass Cleanse].”
The mud and grime vanished. So did the water and all detritus on the street in a thirty-foot radius. The fountain was left untouched, though the waters now had a clear sheen to them.
Malack leapt back, and Ediya halted, open-mouthed, as the statue gleamed in the sun. The half-Giant calmly lowered his staff and bowed to her.
“I apologize for wasting your effort, Miss Ediya. May I introduce myself? I am Lord Mireden Raithland, and I hoped I could speak to you and Malack about a business proposal.”
She was sharp and spirited. Only a moment passed before she began wading out of the fountain.
“Well, if it’s something you can’t enchant yourself, I doubt I can help. But I’ll hear you out for saving my back the effort and giving the [Florist] her due. You know her, do you? Or are you new to the city? Not many look at her without questions.”
Lord Moore glanced at the Goblins.
“I come from The Wandering Inn.”
“Ah.”
They asked no more questions after that. Well, about the statue. Ediya leapt to the ground, and Moore conjured some warm air, though the sunlight was fair enough. She raised her brows at him.
“How could we help you, Lord Mireden? You have more magic in that staff than I have in my entire body. Every [Crafter] on Bezoar Street combined couldn’t match your mana pool, I’ll wager.”
He smiled at her.
“I hope to meet them all. And if you will help me, I intend to put a proposal before all of you for new work. It will pay well. I can offer you an hour’s worth of coin to follow me and hear me out.”
Her brows rose. Ediya glanced at Malack, then lifted a finger.
“I don’t take coin to hear a man out. It might take a second to find them all, but Gemcutter Avenue has more of us. This had better not be like the Golden Triangle.”
“Not at all. It’s a quick walk to Liscor, a demonstration, and then back to Esthelm. I can cover the door fees.”
She folded her arms, then shrugged and nodded.
“Malack, you take Gemcutter’s, I’ll take Lord Mireden to Bezoar. We’ll be back in twenty minutes by the statue. I’ve been meaning to visit Liscor anyways. Ever since that City Runner, what was his name? Fals. Ever since he came by, my fortunes have gone up and down.”
The [Runecrafter] eyed him, not quite concealing the faint hope that he had brought a shift for the better. Lord Mireden just gazed at the statue.
“The fortune was here all along, Miss Ediya. I just hope to show it to you.”
After a second, she snorted.
“You had better not be a [Charlatan]. Or I will carve a [Rune of Itchy Feet] into your boots.”
He laughed at that.
 
——
 
When Liska saw Lord Moore returning for a third time in the same hour, with thirty artisans from Esthelm in tow, she had to protest.
“Oh come on. I know you’re a guest, but there’s limits to the door’s reserves! We’re at 36% today already! Some idiots just had to bring in a bunch of goods from Invrisil. Idiot [Merchant] complained when I charged him for it too. We’re not made of mana here! Okay, we have lots, but…”
Lord Moore turned and tapped the [Door of Portals] with a finger. Mana didn’t work like lightning; it didn’t arc from his fingers to the door. Rather, a nimbus of magic swirled around the door, almost like water moving in three-dimensional space.
A far more complex technique than any of the other [Mages] had ever seen; a regular artifact might just draw the mana from an unguarded source, like a gravitational pull of airborne particles. But the half-Giant seemed to create a cloud that infused the very air with force, then…melded into the floorboards, the wall, and the doorframe?
Some of the crafters following him from Esthelm gasped at the display of magical power. Miss Ediya just nodded to herself.
Liska halted mid-rant, mouth open. She croaked.
“Okay, we’re at 120%. I thought you couldn’t recharge…er, where do you want to go? Priority location change!”
“Liscor, please, Liska. Thank you.”
The half-Giant moved through the door and spoke in a carrying voice as the [Crafters] filed through behind him.
“My hope is that you’ll all sell the new type of charm I intend to teach you. There are those in Liscor who could do the same, and I hope, in time, they do want to learn. But I would prefer you to have the first chance.”
Malack glanced at some of the other men and women, mostly in their advanced years, who were following him. Ediya spoke in a carrying voice.
“For a cut of our profits? If it sells well, you can be sure we’ll do it, but how much of a cut will determine whether or not we’re working ourselves for nothing, Lord Mireden.”
He lifted a hand.
“A small cut, perhaps, for the teaching. But I would rather take my investment in the form of charms. I may need…quite a lot. I intend to be your best customer.”
That provoked skepticism, as well it might. Malack frowned as he shivered under the rain. Then he glanced up as a barrier spell bloomed overhead like a huge flower, shielding them. He nudged Ediya silently and then spoke.
“I don’t need to tell you this, but most charms conflict like artifacts, Lord Mireden. They don’t explode—mostly—but if you put too many together, they’d just…tangle. Nor are ours the sort that can last more than a few months. Ediya could do half a year, maybe? No more.”
They were all peering at him. Ediya nodded.
“I could do years if I worked my best, but charms are a trinket at best. Even a Gold-rank adventurer would only carry two if they had the magical capacity.”
“Not these ones.”
Lord Moore was remembering an archway hung with hundreds, thousands of bells. He lifted his hand, and the vision was replaced by grey skies. He turned to the others.
