“These ones only grow in conjunction with each other. And they can last forever, even if made by a Level 10 [Artisan]. The making might take six times, ten times as long as a regular charm. But the cost is low in raw material, usually. It’s time and other factors that determine the difficulty and complexity.”
“You’re selling us an idea made out of Dreamleaf smoke, Lord Mireden. No such charm exists…that I know of. Are you from Wistram’s Terras faction?”
Ediya shot back, and everyone gazed at him hopefully. Once more, Lord Moore grinned.
“No. I’m from The Wandering Inn.”
A few of the crafters trailing behind glanced at each other, then picked up the pace. And some of Liscor’s citizens who had that nose for these moments, like Miss Ambiese who had just come out of The Wandering Inn, followed.
 
——
 
He took them to the only place that mattered. He could have never left Esthelm, of course, but this was his selfishness.
Lord Moore halted at his destination. The north gate of Liscor was closed, obviously. It was reinforced by a glowing barrier spell, and the door had been caulked up with mud and braced—beyond it lay the floodwaters of the filled plains, so of course it was inspected daily and people were kept well clear of it.
However, he didn’t need to get close. The small crowd of people gazed at the place he had brought them. The artisans were in fact a group within a group, for again, he had summoned a crowd just by his nature and walk.
Well, that and the floating umbrella spell that sheltered everyone from the rain. It followed the group as they moved, and Liscorians, especially those with magical backgrounds, were drawn to it.
They were used to parasols, and yes, some umbrellas, but this one looked…different. And movable magical barriers? The Archmage of Izril and her apprentice didn’t do that; even when Valeterisa shielded Relc from the rains, it was static barriers.
Yet the place that the half-Giant had taken them to hardly seemed impressive. The object by the gates was mundane, even. Nonmagical.
It was an altar on the side of the street, on the sidewalk in a gap between buildings. A simple structure, the kind that you found in the wilds, by a crossroads, or in places like this.
They were spontaneous; someone had nailed together a simple frame, and Lord Moore was surprised by how much they resembled the altars he knew.
But he supposed it was a kind of universal thing. Beneath the rain pattering off the sides of the slate roof shingles, he saw fresh flowers, some old. A colorful stone, a letter stamped and sealed. No coins; someone would just take them out when no one was watching.
Beneath the altar had been more flowers. When he’d first appeared here, he’d seen a profusion, battered by the rain, scattering petals onto the ground and being swept into the sewers. That there were still fresh tokens…
He stood there for a while until an older man, shivering despite the umbrella spell, spoke in a querulous voice.
“Ah, I, ah, I don’t understand why we’re here, Lord Raithland.”
Moore turned his head, the trance broken. He swung around and saw the familiar outline of Watch Captain Beilmark among the watchers. People staring up at him.
Now, the half-Giant stopped whispering. He spoke at his normal volume, and a street away, heads turned. His voice was no great shout, no roar for attention. He spoke, and they listened, like the very earth had once heeded the voice of Giants.
“This is where my nephew, Moore of the Halfseekers of Izril, died. Spellslinger Ulinde—this is the last place the Gold-rank team fought. They died to stop a Hag Queen from breaching the gates, and countless Draugr.”
His words provoked a silence from Esthelm’s people, who might not have known what this place meant. A few of them made arcane gestures; Ediya touched her lips, then drew a four-pointed symbol on her heart. The half-Giant looked around, then back at the gates.
I do not know what he faced. But he stopped whatever it was. He felt his skin chilling, though water didn’t touch it. His grip tightened on his staff.
“Do you feel it?”
Then he swung around to Malack and Ediya, and the crafters regarded each other. A few cast spells or muttered Skills. Then they shook their heads.
“What are we supposed to feel, Lord Mireden…?”
The half-Giant ignored Malack’s query. He spun, and then, faster now, he strode down the street. Faster—they parted before him, and his staff struck the ground.
Thum.
Below him, Antinium in their Hive glanced up, curious about the strange sound coming from above. Their antennae waved as they heard it again.
Thum.
Could she hear it in her prison? The Mother? It was like the sound of a heart beating through Liscor.
When the half-Giant halted again, he seemed even taller. A group of schoolchildren peeked through the windows of their classrooms. [Builders] repairing an apartment in the northern section of the city turned, hammers in hand, nails clenched between their teeth.
Another altar, two hundred paces down the street. This one—different. It was larger, and he didn’t begrudge her that. There were flowers, yes, but not as many.
Instead, there were…objects laid against the altar in the rain. Placed beneath it, like offerings to some strange god of battles. And Mireden knew the divine.
Tekshia Shivertail’s altar had spears laid before it. Practice spears, those hand-carved out of wood. Weapons used to kill monsters—a [Soldier]’s weapon of war. Senior Guardsman Relc had left the first one for Liscor’s [Spearmistress], and they were still here.
Beside this altar was a second one—and it had no weapons in the smaller shrine. Just…hats.
Worn hats, placed here before they were discarded. Some had holes in them or were frayed to the point where the cloth was almost transparent. That was how you know they’d been loved and served their purpose. Hats for gentlemen; spears for the Guildmistress of Liscor.
Moore spoke.
“Look. Here is where Tekshia Shivertail died. She and five Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings halted the Draugr who broke through the gates. Right here.”
If not exactly this street, then this place was where it had happened, and that was what mattered. This marker. This moment.
The half-Giant took a step into the center of the street, where the cobblestones were newly patched, but he could still see cracks around the place they had been repaired. He had noticed people walking around this spot.
Lord Mireden bent to one knee and touched the spot.
“This is where a Gold-rank adventurer died.”
His eyes stung. And he had not known her that well. But he remembered the grumpy old Drake who knew their job. When his eyes rose, they glowed. He planted the staff down, hard, and the streets shivered.
“A hundred thousand Draugr crashed down on Liscor, and they were halted. Outside these gates, Face-Eater Moths died. If I walked from here to the Bloodfields, I could show you that place where dozens of Silver-rank adventurers fell fighting the blight from Rhir. Then they downed an Adult Creler. Hell’s Wardens were made in blood there. And there—”
He pointed eastwards.
“Those gates are where Skinner once broke through. Where he was stopped by the Black Tide. He died on the Floodplains of Liscor, where the Goblin Lord Reiss met his end. All of this, and more, I know. You know. Do you sense it?”
Lord Moore turned to the man who had asked, and the [Enchanter] shook his head.
“I can’t detect anything. Lord Mireden—”
The half-Giant’s voice rose to a shout now.
“How can you not feel it?”
The old [Enchanter] flinched. Lord Moore swept his gaze around, seeking understanding in anyone’s faces. He felt it. It was the chill on his skin, the stinging in his eyes. The pain of his heart. The tingling of fate as it touched his shoulder and pointed.
Miss Ediya spoke.
“I feel it. But that isn’t magic, Lord Mireden.”
There were goosebumps on her arms. She gazed at the altars like she had the [Florist]’s statue. She understood part of it. The half-Giant spread his arms.
“Did I say I was taking you to find mere magic? You feel it. All of you do. You just think that is all there is to it. This spot means something.”
He pointed down at the ground. Who would dare deny it? The half-Giant whispered.
“If I dared to tear down this altar, I would be fought. It would be rebuilt. If I spat on this ground, of all the many streets in Liscor, someone would speak out. Why? If it is nothing but bare earth and stone, why is that true?”
No one replied. So, the half-Giant walked over and gently lifted a spear from the altar. It was almost a profane act, but he held it so gently and turned to them.
“Is this an ordinary spear? No. If I were to place a spear here and ask for courage before a battle I knew I might never win—is it the same spear I could buy in any shop? No. Is that statue in Esthelm’s heart made of mere stone and history?”
“No.”
The [Runecrafter] wasn’t the only person to say it. Malack was gazing down at the flagstones.
“I’d rather set fire to my shop than pry up a cobblestone or steal these spears to carve up and sell as trinkets, Lord Mireden.”
“I would too.”
The half-Giant gently put the spear back where it belonged. Then he produced something from his pockets. He hung it in the air as they all looked at it.
It was made by his own hands, but he was no great crafter. He had just enough talent with magic and his fingers to take a piece of wood he had carved from a tree in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and a piece of metal he’d shaped into a point.
“This sliver of wood I took from the oldest tree I could find in the [Garden of Sanctuary] where her statue rests. I burnt the wood with the flame of glory in the Order of Solstice’s keep. The metal I took from a spear that had been used until it broke. I would never dare to steal anything or profane her will. But I knew Tekshia Shivertail. And I hope that if she were here, she would grant anyone worthy the thing she had too much of.”
He clapped his hands together in an act none of them, save for a watching Antinium Worker, knew.
Prayer.
Lord Mireden closed his eyes and thought of Tekshia. The wind blew faintly on his skin as it chilled, and he saw the Drake raising her spear.
“A bit of courage.”
When he opened his eyes, he could see it. Faintly, ever-so-faintly, for he was no [Priest], nor had he been a true believer of the Prophet Pawn. But sometimes, in this world, you could see it with your own eyes.
Malack gasped as he pointed, and they saw the faintest glow touching the edge of the little spear-charm. Like light glancing off the edge of it, but the skies were rainy and dark. The half-Giant reached up, but he didn’t take the charm.
“It should hang here long. And there are more ways to respectfully harness the meaning here.”
“What is…what is this called?”
Ediya spoke, dry-mouthed, and the half-Giant turned to her.
“It is like faith, but the [Witches] know it too. I simply call it meaning. Sites of power. Liscor has so many. But [Witches] cannot harness this; it is not their city.”
“Nor is it ours.”
The [Runecrafter] pointed out, and the [Lord] smiled.
“Yours and Liscor are connected. But more importantly—you are not [Witches]. Their craft does have rules, Miss Ediya. And if all that failed, you have at least one place in your city.”
The statue was overflowing with the very same meaning. The [Runecrafter]’s eyes widened, and she nodded. Lord Moore reached out and then spoke.
“…In time it might become too easy to make them. Yet I would love a city filled with such charms as the world has never seen. The belief in them will make them stronger. But the greatest ones will always be made by those who know the reason why they matter. They will only shine in the hands of those who take the time to listen. If I teach you, that is what I desire. One for every ten you make.”
They had such small value at first, until you added them up and they became an avalanche that could sweep aside mountains. Like the smallfolk.
The half-Giant swept his cloak around him as he began to walk back. To Esthelm, to show them how it was done in their city where it would be easiest.
He knew they were listening. Cityfolk and the Watch, murmuring. Disbelieving or, perhaps, believing and wanting to learn what he knew.
Let them try. There were rules they didn’t understand. Faith was one of them. The Lord of Liscor advanced. And the first thing he brought to Liscor, how they knew him? He came as a [Shopkeeper] with something new to sell. Lord Raithland was well aware of how Liscor stole everything new.
Try to steal this. 
He sat at a silly little stall later that day, as Miss Ediya and the other crafters of Esthelm rushed to work, and sold exactly three charms.
The first one was to a little Gnoll girl who spent all her allowance on a tiny spear. Her mother paid for it as Tirra listened on how she should use it and care for it.
The next was a Human man, Nule, who bought a blooming flower that a certain half-Giant had always loved with orange flowers and a yellow heart, carved and painted and hanging from a chain of soft ashwood.
The last was a Drake, Miss Ambiese, who stared for a long time at the little frying pan made of cast iron. She took it in trembling claws.
“Does it bring good luck or bad? Sorry. I know most charms don’t work like that. But this?”
She peered at him, and the half-Giant smiled as a line a hundred people long stared at him and he closed his shop. He stood like the mountains.
“Yes,” he told her. Then his eyes twinkled, and the city whispered his name. He began walking again, towards a vision of the future only he knew, taking them on a path away from the worst.
Once more on a strange and wonderful journey.
