For as long as Gerel could remember, he’d lived his life with one purpose in mind; to reach the pinnacle of the Martial Dao and take up arms against the Enemy.

This was his calling, a holy mission bestowed upon him by the Mother Above, to rise up and become a weapon capable of striking a blow against the Foul Father Himself and bring Balance to the world once more. That was why his trials and tribulations were difficult and demanding, for it was well known that She gave her hardest tasks to Her strongest soldiers. Adversity was his crucible, and battle his forge, and through this tempering, he would rise above his peers to one day stand at the Peak of Martial strength, which in his eyes, was merely another step in his journey to ultimately soar high into the Heavens and join hands with the Mother Above.

Truth be told, Gerel couldn’t remember where he’d first heard all this from, but it was a common enough belief that he never thought to question it, not until recently. Easy to see why, for this belief was all he’d had left to him after he lost everything he held dear. He’d been five years old when his world was shattered, and he remembered little of his life before, only that he’d been a happy child born in a happy family, with a mother, father, and grandparents who loved him so. Theirs was a family of Martial Warriors, amber-eyed denizens of the People one and all, and his parents often told him their eye colour meant they were special and marked for greatness, something Gerel simply accepted as the truth without question. Most people he knew had similar coloured eyes, so it wasn’t even anything all too out of the ordinary really, just a fact of the world like how grass was green and the sky was blue.

Things were as they should be, until one fateful night when he was startled awake by his mother as she swept him up into her arms before carrying him out into the skies, moving so quickly the wind made his eyes hurt. “Mama?” he’d asked, only to be shushed in reprimand, and he remembered how she squeezed him so tightly it almost hurt.

“Hush now, my little light,” Mama replied, not speaking out loud but through Sending. “Close your eyes and be quiet now. Can you do that for Mama?”

He remembered how scared she sounded and how her fear spilled over to him, how tightly he clung to her until his hands ached and hurt, but he did not make another sound as they fled from the safety and comfort of home. They moved through the darkness for long minutes, but not in silence, for the night was alive with the sounds of battle and bloodshed, though he’d been unable to identify it as such at the time. Clashing steel and screams of rage sent chills down his spine, but Mama stroked his hair and told him everything would be okay.

Gerel didn’t open his eyes again until he heard his father speak, his tone cold and angry like he’d never heard him before. “I told you to leave first,” he snarled, his rage rolling off him in waves as he slammed his blood-stained spear in the dirt, and to this day, Gerel remembered how the droplets of blood sparkled in the torchlight as they sailed through the air after parting from the glimmering blade. “And you delayed us for this?”

“For him. Gerel, our child and the light of my life,” Mama retorted, her words no less heated than his as she turned away to shield Gerel from his glare. She was a small woman, but no less fierce or formidable than the man she married, if not more so. “I will not leave him to be raised by cowards, Ankhbayar.”

That was his father’s name, one which meant ‘First Joy’, and he hated when people called him by it. He preferred to shorten it to Ankh, which meant Mama was purposely using his full name to make her point. Even as a child, Gerel knew this much, and he remembered peeking over Mama’s shoulder and peering through her hair to see his father visibly deflate, his fury draining as he settled back on his heels and tried to explain. “He would have been safe and well cared for, and we would have come back for him soon enough, but now we must move while burdened by him. Our brothers and sisters have left their children behind for the greater good, so how will it look when I bring my son away with us?”

Mama didn’t answer, but her actions spoke volumes as she set out with Gerel still in her arms, and he stayed silent out of fear he’d be left behind. The day before, he’d never have even considered it a possibility, for his father loved him so, always quick to smile and laugh whenever he came home with hugs and kisses aplenty. The man he saw back there was a side of his father that he’d never before seen, and he feared him so. He remembered clinging even tighter to his Mama who consoled him through Sending, telling him that she and Papa loved him more than anything in the world, and that Papa only said that because he was an important man with important duties who had to lead by example, but Gerel was merely a child of five who didn’t wholly understand. He thought he’d become a burden and that his father no longer wanted him, so he quietly sobbed in his mother’s arms and mourned the loss of his father’s love.

There was more running and more fighting, more bloodshed and death, but Gerel saw and heard little to nothing of it, for his eyes were filled with tears and his hearing muffled by sobs, which made the next memory all the more difficult to bear. Mama stroked his hair, kissed his head, and whispered “I’m sorry, little light”, and the next thing Gerel knew he was in the arms of a stranger, screaming for his Mama to come back to him. She’d abandoned him to escape, tossed him aside like all the other children who were left behind, most of whom he met later on in the orphanage. The kindly caregivers did their best to shelter them all from the repercussions of that night, tried to console them and let them all know they were loved and care for, but not everyone was so kind to the children of traitors and apostates.

Especially the other children, who were all too happy to parrot the hurtful things they’d overheard their parents say regarding that fateful night he’d been abandoned, which was how Gerel learned the harsh truth in the first place. Ankhbayar was a radical, an extremist who hated the Empire and believed that the people of the Saint’s Tribulations should secede from it. Hardly an uncommon attitude considering how little they saw of the Empire, but he did more than just rant and rave about serving a sovereign none of them had ever seen. He and many others also believed that the amber eyes of the People were the Mother’s way of marking Her chosen people for greatness, and thus they should reign over all other ‘lesser’ individuals. Separatist talk was one thing, supremacist another, and while the former was often bandied about over drinks by the various villages united under the Sentinel banner, the latter was looked down on by most. An individual’s contributions mattered more than their birthright, but Ankhbayar was charismatic enough to have a sizable following of like-minded individuals from amongst his peers and the older generations as well, most of whom were amber-eyed themselves.

Of course, while such talk was frowned upon, it would have been tolerated had he not taken to raiding Imperial caravans like a base bandit in his spare time. That was the publicly released reason for exiling so many members of the People at once, two generations of amber-eyed folk and their supporters, those including Gerel’s parents and grandparents to boot. All too many of them had fallen under the sway of Ankhbayar’s divisive rhetoric, for there was no denying the fact that the Empire looked down on the People in truth. Many still remembered how Akanai and her heroic Sentinels had gone down to Central to receive their accolades only to be hunted down and chased out of the province. They’d left home as heroes to be celebrated, yet most never made it back alive, dying not to the foul machinations of the Enemy, but at the hands of their supposed allies and countrymen instead.

This was how Ankhbayar became the face of the movement, for not only was his father one of those who’d been wronged by the Empire, he himself was also a rising dragon of his generation and a Warrior without peer, which lent weight to his words about being the Mother’s Chosen people. Of course, there was no proof that having amber eyes meant you would succeed as a Warrior, and there were many examples to draw from both in history and all around them, but most never bothered looking too deeply at the truth once they’d found a pleasant alternative to hold fast to.

All of this Gerel knew and understood now that he was a man grown, but as a child, he’d struggled to come to terms with the truth. In his eyes, his parents had been wronged and chased out of their homes, for if they’d been exiled in truth, then what need was there to attack in the middle of the night and separate them from their children as well? He spent many long, lonely, angry years lashing out at anyone who said otherwise, which meant he lashed out at everyone until they stopped speaking to him at all. This only further fueled his growing hatred for his People and the village both, for if not for them, his parents would never have abandoned him and they would still be a happy family yet. That anger was also laced with guilt aplenty, for he knew he was to blame for being a burden to his parents, and so he gave his all to the Martial Path in hopes of one day being strong enough to strike out on his own to find them.

At ten years young, Gerel Formed his Core without telling anyone and immediately prepared to ‘escape’, spending a handful of days scrounging up food to bring on his journey into the wilds. A clever child, but still a child all the same, meaning everyone watching him knew of his plans to escape and his caregivers quietly looked the other way while leaving food and water unattended for him to ‘steal’ away. Embarrassing to reflect on as a man grown, but he understood why they did what they did, because it was better to humour him and let him make this simple mistake to understand the obstacles before him rather than confine him to his room to stew in his rage. Of course, they never would have let him step foot outside unsupervised if they didn’t know he had a warden watching over him as well, someone to ensure he wouldn’t stray too far from the Mother’s light or come to any harm in the wilds.

Not that he got too far regardless. He left the orphanage an hour after bedtime and was lost before the moon reached its zenith in the night’s sky, whereupon he hunkered down in the hollow of a tree and he cried himself to sleep. Come morning, he saw that no one had come after him, which he saw as a lack of concern in his well-being, yet another betrayal which left its scars on his young heart and convinced him that he was on the right path. For three days, he wandered aimlessly down the mountain in search of his parents, which was two days longer than he’d expected to have to look. In his young mind, a week’s travel might well have taken him to the ends of the earth, so three days was a significant amount of time indeed, when in truth he was barely a two-hour ride from the village and only lost because the patrolling Sentinels had gone to great lengths to avoid him until he was ready to turn back around.

Soon enough, he ran out of food, energy, and determination as he sat himself down in the dirt and sobbed, heartbroken because he’d failed to find his parents and would soon starve to death or worse, for he’d heard many a tale of the beasts lurking in the darkness and how they loved to dine on young, tender flesh. Unloved, unwanted, and unwilling to admit defeat, Gerel sat there crying for Mother knows how long until he realized there was someone squatting before him.

A woman, with round, hazel eyes and creamy, coppery skin, as well as two furry rabbit ears dropping down on either side of her head, peering at him in undisguised curiosity. “Why are you so far from home, sweet child?” she asked, and in his misery, Gerel acted without thinking and threw himself into her embrace. Little did he know how this singular act would change his fate, for his Mentor was a woman of instinct, and it’d been many years since she’d had a child of her own to raise or a lover to hold close. “No tears now, sweet child,” she crooned, cradling him close like how Mama had held him the last time he’d seen her. “They ruin your beautiful eyes. I had a husband with eyes like yours once, and hoped our child would inherit them, but they weren’t so lucky.”

