Even now, Rain was working with a mind towards victory, buying precious seconds for his soldiers to rest while everyone stopped to listen to this exchange, one which was somehow being broadcast to them all without the signature booming echo. The Enemy’s work, no doubt, for this conversation was intended to cast doubt on Rain’s origins and perhaps even unseat him as Legate, but that was a matter for another day. No doubt Ankhbayar knew as much and truly wanted Rain to join him, and it stung that he had yet to even look Gerel in the eyes. “To overthrow the hateful Emperor of course!” Throwing his arms out to gesture at all of Shi Bei, Ankhbayar raised his voice and said, “Behold what your allegiance has earned you, the glory of dying in the defense of strangers and ingrates. Fifteen days this siege has gone on, five days longer than it would take for reinforcements to come relieve you, and yet still you stand alone. Not through any work of our own, for we are the Chosen of Heaven and would welcome the chance to slaughter more of the Emperor’s loyal dogs, but he cares not to meet us on the field of battle. Why waste his own strength when the outer provinces still have plenty to spare? You’ve pledged your loyalty to a man you’ll never meet, but are you truly so willing to die for him? Why not join us instead, as we march ever eastward to rid ourselves of this blight which calls itself the Imperial Clan, a blight which has plagued the people of the Azure Empire for too long!”

“Hmph.” Now it was Rain’s turn to sneer, and he had a wealth of practice which he put to good use as the Energy of the Heavens continued to surge all around him, a veritable tidal wave of energy to match the one he rode in on. “All you crazies are reading off the same pages, and it really shows. Seriously, who buys this bullshit?” Turning to Gerel and shaking his head in disbelief, Rain asked, “Can you believe this guy? Talking like he’s already won when he’s been here for fifteen days with nothing to show for it.”

“What do you know, child?” Rain’s dismissive attitude had touched a nerve, and Ankhbayar was no longer able to pretend otherwise. “We could take the city as easily as turning a hand, but just as you were tempered in the mines, so too are these foreign tribesmen being tempered here, for only then will they be worthy to stand among the Chosen.”

Since they were already facing one another, Gerel was quick to spot Rain’s smile as his ‘fury’ dissipated alongside the churning Energy of the Heavens. Ankhbayar saw it only a moment later and realized his mistake, as even the crazed and murderous Defiled would not be pleased to hear that all their death and sacrifice was merely meant to trim the fat, so to speak. Most didn’t understand the Common language, but their Chieftains would understand it well enough, to say nothing of the recent converts who’d lost themselves to the Father’s foul lies, and none of them would be pleased to hear that they’d been so obviously used. Turnabout was fair play however, for just as Ankhbayar tried to sow dissension in the Imperial ranks, Rain was now doing the same to the Defiled, though Gerel wasn’t sure how much of an effect it would have. Still flashing that smug smile, Rain shrugged and said, “Well far be it for me to speak up when my enemies are making a huge mistake. By all means, continue throwing yourselves upon our spears as you were. I’m sure this time things will work out differently.”

Were the Enemy an Imperial force, Bai Qi would not have the face to order the attack to resume, for doing so would be all but admitting he was sending the Defiled in to be slaughtered. It was one thing for the crazed tribesmen to rush headlong into death of their own volition, and another thing altogether to order it, and Gerel was curious to see how this would play out. One of two ways in all likelihood; either a direct assault with the Chosen or Half-Demons leading the way, or a series of issued challenges with the goal of restoring their morale and inciting bloodlust in the savage tribesmen once again.

Regardless of the outcome, that would be decided by Bai Qi, not Ankhbayar, so Gerel seized this opportunity to ask, “Where is she?”

Even after all this time, Gerel couldn’t bring himself to say her name or even call her mama again, but Ankhbayar understood well enough. “How deplorable for you not to recognize your mother, even after all these years. She’s been right here with us all along, and I can tell how much she’s missed you.” Rain’s hand shot out to clasp Gerel’s wrist while Baatar took hold of his shoulder from behind, for Ankhbayar slowly tapped his armour with his index finger while he spoke and smiled as the blood drained from Gerel’s face. “She was so distraught after being forced to leave you behind,” he continued, looking fondly down at his own chest, “By her own father-in-law no less. She never was the same again. We had other children, but none of them were able to replace you in her heart and she would inevitably reject them and want to try again. After she failed to connect with the runt beside you, she lost herself to her grief and could no longer retain her humanity, but in doing so, has transcended beyond her mortal failings.” Smiling so warmly one would think him still deeply in love, he sighed and said, “She’s still here you know? Hidden deep inside, protecting me to make up for her past failures, but I can sense her desire to protect you instead, as any mother wishes to protect her son. Would you like that son? Join me, and I will allow it.”

“Ignore him,” Rain said, speaking over Ankhbayar as Gerel struggled to stand in place, wanting nothing more than to throw himself at the hateful bastard and cut him down where he stood. “Don’t give him the satisfaction of seeing your pain. That’s what he’s here for, not to convince us to join him, but to needle us and throw us off our game, so the best way for us to respond is by keeping our cool.”

“I’ll kill him,” Gerel snarled. “Cut his head off where he stands.”

“You can’t. He’s stronger than you.” Emerging from Concealment beside him, Mentor patted his back in her own gentle way, so timid and unsure when showing emotion. Others saw her stoic demeanour and thought her cold and indifferent, but the truth was she had yet to truly understand which emotions were acceptable to share. That’s why she was always so quick to take a husband, for only then did she feel comfortable showing someone who she truly was, but now she had her sights set on the Medical Saint who was a fool who wanted nothing to do with her romantically. “Even if you do kill him,” she continued, still patting Gerel’s back and no doubt struggling to keep herself from embracing him instead, “What then? Nothing will change, for the fires of fury have embedded themselves deep in your soul, and you will only direct them towards another.” Tilting her head in curiosity, one of the few mannerisms which came to her so naturally, Mentor asked, “Why is it you mourn your mother so, when you know she was every bit as culpable as your father.”

Because she held him close and tried to bring him away. Because she wanted them to be a family. Because she was his mother, and he, her little light, and he wanted that memory to remain… untainted.

“You know,” Rain began, reluctantly and gingerly patting Gerel on the shoulder to comfort him despite seething with dejection and resentment. “Her being Defiled doesn’t make her love for you any less meaningful.” Gesturing towards the Defiled ranks, Rain switched to Sending and said, “We call them the Enemy to make it easier to hate and kill them, but while the Defiled have lost their way, they’re still human yet, else we would be facing an army of nothing but Demons. Your mother was flawed, but she loved you, and that is a truth which will never change no matter what anyone else says.”

There was a hint of melancholy in Rain’s voice, something that made Gerel suspect he knew more than he was willing to share, perhaps even more than he was willing to admit to himself, and this more than anything helped cool the flames of Gerel’s rage. From the way Ankhbayar had been speaking, it sounded like he was unaware that Rain remembered nothing of his past before he found himself in the mines, not even the name he supposedly cast aside, but it appeared that they’d spent a considerable amount of time together before then. Those memories were buried deep now, and they were Rain’s to share or keep, so Gerel would not do him the disservice of picking at old wounds and simply nodded in quiet thanks.

“Well?” Ankhbayar interjected, seemingly all too eager to put his spear to use. “Here I stand before my father and two sons, all of whom are too cowardly to accept the truth. Come then, let me put you both out of your misery and send you on to your next lives in a world freed from the dog Emperor’s oppression. Which of you would like to be first? I can’t say I have a preference, but if you are both frozen with indecision, then I will be forced to make the choice for you.”

“No need for Gerel to fight, for I will be enough.” Naaran’s voice still had that same gravelly tone Gerel remembered from his earliest years, though now it was devoid of all joy and merriment. This was a man who used to carry him around on his shoulders and bring him out for rides on his giant quin, but all that went away the night their family broke apart. Their eyes met briefly, but there were no words to be exchanged, only pain and regret reflected in his gaze before he turned to Baatar. “The Patriarch is yours. Likes to feint high and strike high. Keeps you on your toes.” Taking his stance as he faced his foe, Naaran sighed and said, “Come son. It is long past time your suffering came to an end.”

A dark smile flashed across Ankhbayar’s face, only to be replaced by a look of surprise as he was sent toppling off the battlements in a flash of steel, but not from a blow dealt by Naaran. “Excuse me,” Rain interrupted, catching the flying sword he’d thrown at Ankhbayar while pulling Naaran back by the belt, which in and of itself was a sight to behold. “This is a battlefield, not the sparring grounds, so no one will be issuing or accepting any duels today.” Another flash shot out without warning, but the Mataram Patriarch was ready to react and retreated with far more grace than his comrade. “Any Enemy Peak Experts who show their face will be open game,” Rain continued, all the while raising his Spiritual Rifle to his shoulder before unleashing a shot at the retreating YuGan, one which sent him crashing down to the sands below. “Tch. Blocked it. Stupid armour.” Finally looking up to meet everyone’s incredulous stares, he asked, “What? It only makes sense right? I’m no match for a Peak Expert in single combat, but I can still target them while they’re fighting, so why accept a duel that constrains me from acting?”

“The boy is right, for once.” Coming out of Concealment from beside them, Akanai proudly patted the boy’s cheek while glowering at Baatar and Naaran both, and it was a sight to see them visibly quail before her like scolded schoolboys caught stealing sweets. “His ability to target his foes from afar is unprecedented to say the least, and he has proven himself a threat capable of killing anyone on this battlefield. Since his arrival, the Enemy has been unable to use their Demons and loath to use their Peak Experts because they have yet to come up with a countermeasure for him. Targeting him is the best way to remove him from the board, but he is also our most guarded asset.” A pointed glare showed just how disappointed she was in Baatar’s failure to protect Rain properly, though Gerel shared at least an equal amount of blame. He never expected Alsantset to move so quickly to protect him, for her speed was unlike anything he’d ever seen from anyone short of a Divinity, much less from someone who wasn’t even a Peak Expert, but from here on out, he would stay close to Rain’s side and be ready for anything and everything.

Long seconds of silence passed as the other Peak Experts retreated under shrouds of Concealment leaving Rain and Gerel standing in plain view, all but daring the Enemy to come try for their heads. “So…” Rain drawled, never one to know when to shut his mouth. “We really brothers?”

“Only by blood,” Gerel replied, and he knew they both were less than thrilled at the prospect of having to open up to one another.

“And Naaran’s our grandfather then?” Gerel nodded, and Rain sighed and nodded as if everything made sense. “Makes sense. Guess we’ll have more to talk about over that drink that I thought. I’m not calling you big brother though.”

“So long as you don’t expect me to call you little brother either.”

