Gerel instantly formed a bond with this stranger due to her comment about his eyes alone, for it was a taboo subject to speak of for the villagers and no one had spoken of his namesake since he last saw his mother. Luck and happenstance brought them together, and from that day onward, he lived with his Mentor, the Ancestral Rabbit Hua Lie, a change which had its upsides and downsides both. Objectively speaking, she was terrible at all her motherly duties, as she expected him to feed and clean himself without prompting or oversight. She also had no interest in teaching him how to read or write, a job she fobbed off on Gerel’s Senior Martial Sister, Sarnai. The same went for the Forms, and really most of Gerel’s Martial training, with his only sparring partner being the fierce and proud Alsantset whom he eventually fell in love with, or at least, fell in love with the idea of loving. That being said, one thing his Mentor understood well was how to manage emotions, for though she was beholden to hers most of the time, she also had to know how to restrain them in times of extreme duress. She taught him how to harness his anger in battle, but more importantly, how to set it aside, to let his rage simmer in the back of his mind even when he wanted to do nothing more than act upon it, and she did so by revealing the truth of what happened that dark and fateful night, which was far worse than Gerel could ever have imagined.

The People exiled Ankhbayar and his faction, yes, but only after the fact, for there was no need to hunt them down in the dead of night if that had been the goal all along. No, Gerel’s paternal grandfather had stumbled across evidence that his son had turned Defiled, as were the majority of those people most loyal to him. That was why they set out raiding, not to strike at Imperial interests, but to commit their atrocities away from the prying eyes of Akanai’s Sentinels. The blood on Ankhbayar’s spear had belonged to Gerel’s grandfather, one who still lived in the village unbeknownst to him, the very same Naaran who stood beside him now and whose story had spurred so many of his fellow amber-eyed People to turn against the Empire itself. Naaran tried to talk sense into his son, but Ankhbayar would have none of it, and in their rage, they exchanged blows which led to the midnight escape in which Gerel’s mother abandoned him.

There was proof aplenty of their atrocities, more than Gerel could stomach, which made him all the more certain of his calling as a Martial Warrior. Of course, he didn’t have much of a choice either way, for his Mentor kicked him out of her home the day he turned twenty. Not because she didn’t love him anymore, but because she loved him too much, and as an Ancestral Rabbit, she found it all but impossible to differentiate between familial and romantic love. Even though he was still the same child she brought home all those years ago, his appearance no longer appealed to her motherly instincts and instead whispered to her womanly ones instead. That’s why they couldn’t live together anymore, for it would confuse her all too much, but visits for lessons were still fine, so long as they weren’t every day and kept their relationship cool. Having grown up with her for so many years, he understood that it was simply her nature as an Ancestral Beast and he didn’t hold it against her, for she was his Mentor and the one person who dared tell him the truth of his family’s dark past.

With no friends, family, or purpose of his own, he decided then and there to take up his holy duties and make up for the crimes of his parents by hunting down the Defiled wherever they might gather and leave none behind, but he could not bring himself to join Akanai’s Sentinels. Instead, he joined Baatar’s Iron Banner, and chafed when his grandfather soon followed suit, but Gerel refused to give the old man the time of day. Not that Naaran seemed to even care, never once approaching to explain why he felt the need to abandon his five-year-old grandson in his time of need. So what if the old man was heartbroken over his son’s betrayal? Was that reason enough to punish Gerel? For more than a decade, he thought his scarred but kindly old grandfather had absconded with the rest of them, when in fact he’d been here in the village all along, caring for his quin instead of his grandchild. That was a betrayal Gerel could never forgive, and to this day, he’d never spoken more than a handful of words with the old man, most of which were exchanged the day an amber-eyed slave child stumbled his way into their camp.

“You know what this means,” Gerel had said, his jaw clenched and chest burning with anger aplenty. “Ankhbayar is still alive and hiding nearby.”

“You think the boy’s your brother?” Naaran replied, not even bothering to look at Gerel as he stared at a child who they’d no doubt have to put down soon enough. “Difficult to tell with him so starved and injured, but he looks so much like you when you were younger…”

That was the end of their conversation, for Gerel could no longer stomach the old man’s presence, a beaten dog mourning the loss of his family yet unwilling to cherish what he still had. A fool is what he was, and Gerel would have no more of it, so instead he put his mind towards hunting down his traitorous parents instead. For years, he rode out with the Iron Banner and patrolled through the mountains slaughtering as many Defiled as he could, which usually was little more than a handful or two at a time. Far from enough to sate his fury, but his holy mission and desire to bring his parents to justice drove him ever forwards along his Path. Now, after all that time spent searching aimlessly about for his traitorous family, Gerel’s father was here standing before him, with Naaran and Falling Rain both present as well, three generations gathered here on the battlefield and standing on opposing sides.

And Rain’s response to this harrowing development? An obviously feigned and painfully drawn-out scream of distress and treating this as if it were for some kind of sick joke.

“….ooOOoooooooooo!!!” Taking a much-needed breath to reinflate his emptied lungs, Rain made a face as if he’d wasted good money to watch himself act in a play and shook his head in disgust. “Sorry, sorry, I hear it now, that was just terrible, absolutely terrible. My fault entirely, I focused too much on volume and it didn’t sound natural enough.” Pointing at their father across them with both index fingers, he continued, “You did great. Love the energy you bring and how you removed the helmet for dramatic effect, riveting stuff, but this time, instead of ‘my children’, you should use our names instead, to really drive home the point and make that connection, you know? Alrighty people, back to your stations and let’s go at this again, starting from after my last line about not expecting you to understand. Andddd… action.”

Truth be told, Rain was taking this far better than any of them expected, as jokes made in poor taste was a far better alternative to unchecked rage, pained betrayal, or lost confusion. The last thing any of them wanted was for him to be seen sympathizing with a Defiled traitor, even one that was ostensibly his father, but with Rain making light of it all in this mocking fashion, it made it all the more difficult for others to believe it to be true. There were already rumours aplenty about Gerel and Rain being brothers, but to be fair, many people also thought Charok was his brother and Alsantset his sister-in-law, which led to even more rumours about scandal and impropriety. That didn’t make Gerel any less annoyed to have to share this long-awaited moment with a little brother he never asked for nor wanted, especially considering how this was the culmination of a decades long tribulation that had plagued him for all his life.

Of course, seeing the smug smirk fall off of Ankhbayar’s face was almost worth it, and more importantly gave Gerel some much-needed time to rein in the deluge of emotions threatening to overwhelm him. “You… are mocking… me?”

“Oh, I’m sorry.” The very picture of contrition as he covered his mouth with both hands, Rain gasped and asked, “Was that not clear? I’ll try to be more obvious about it from here on out.” Scrunching up his face in the ugliest expression imaginable, Rain proceeded to do just that. “YoUuuU… ArrRreeE moCKinG… MeeeEEEE!!? Better?”

The boy had no sense of propriety, as a man of his station should behave with more dignity, but even Gerel had to choke back the urge to laugh. Across from them, Ankhbayar was none too amused and wholly disgruntled by Rain’s lack of respect, but rather than explode in anger, he snorted instead. “Hmph. Did you forget the face of your father? Or are you foolish enough to believe the lies the People told you? You must be, to dare do so much for a half-breed bitch and cast away the name your parents gave you.”

By now, a lull had fallen around them as the nearby soldiers struggled to listen in on the dramatic turn of events, with even the Mataram Patriarch falling back to stand alongside Ankhbayar while Baatar moved to stand with Rain. Looking up at the half-wolf, Rain greeted him with a smile so warm and loving Gerel envied him for it. “Here’s the truth. I have no idea who you are or what you’re going on about. My name is Falling Rain, son of Baatar and Sarnai.” Turning aside to help his sister to her feet, he continued, “Brother to Alsantset and Charok, Uncle to Tali and Tate, and Husband to Sumila, Du Min Yan, Mei Lin, and Zheng Luo. That’s who I am and that’s my family. Not by blood, but by choice, making us more of a family than most. There is the truth as I see it.” Passing his injured sister over to his father, Rain shed all pretense of humour and whimsy and underwent a transformation as he turned back to face the Half-Demon across from him. Gone was the smile and his easy-going demeanour, and in its place a steely grimace and a fire burning in his chest, so full of pent-up rage and resentment it was a wonder how he hid it in the first place. “As for you, you are a stranger to me, but if you are who you claim to be, namely the owner of the spunk-trumpet which sired me, then you’re also the scum-sucking shit-stain who sold me into slavery, which means you and I have a score to settle.”

It was moments like these when Gerel never doubted for a second that Rain was his brother by blood, for he was every bit as fierce and formidable as their mother, albeit far more foul mouthed than anyone had any right to be.

“You were weak and unable to live up to expectation,” Ankhbayar replied, sounding neither upset nor defensive. “I invested so much time and effort into you and had nothing to show for it, so why should I not sell you to recoup my losses?” Shrugging in a lackadaisical manner which was both familiar and infuriating, Ankhbayar smiled and continued, “Yet see how far you have come? Had I coddled you and kept you close, then you would have lived and died a failure, but the tempering of the mines enabled you to unlock the potential laying dormant within your blood, for the Mother gives her hardest tasks to her strongest soldiers.”

…So that was where Gerel heard it from, a realization which soured him greatly on his own world-view, but he still believed in his calling and holy mission.

“And what would you know of my… tempering?”

Rain’s voice grew quiet and his tone fell flat, a sure a sign as any that his anger was mounting. He had this aggravating way about him which made it all but impossible for him to take anything seriously, right up until he did and went too far. Gerel had been there that first week when they brought him back to the village, heard him cry himself to sleep and scream himself awake several times each night, but Ankhbayar was unaware of just how much hatred and enmity lay lurking just beneath the surface of Rain’s strangely calm exterior. “I know enough,” Ankhbayar replied, still wearing that infuriating half-smile that meant he thought he was being clever. “I never planned on you being purchased by the Canston Trading Group, but it was a most fortuitous coincidence to be sure. When they contacted me to make sure you hadn’t been misplaced, I told them to show you no mercy. Either you would die in obscurity or rise to the occasion, at which point you would have either furthered the cause or reclaimed the right to stand at my side once more.”

“I see.” Still as a statue, Rain stood and stared for long seconds before speaking again, and everyone in Shi Bei could feel why. The Energy of the Heavens surged all around him, roiling about as if there were a thousand Peak Experts demonstrating Purity all at once as Rain struggled with his fury. Just standing in his presence was enough to set Gerel’s skin to tingling, his Domain struggling to remain deployed beneath the pressure as the Heavens readied to rescind their authority in order to unleash all hell at Rain’s command. You wouldn’t know it from looking at him however, seeming so calm and relaxed on the surface if not for the complete and utter lack of movement as he struggled against the will of the Heavens itself. “So I suppose I should thank you for my suffering? Join you in your deranged quest to… do what exactly?”

