“But it's not the same with the Faceless Queen,” Shiv concluded, his mind turning. The subject of the discussion was absent in presence, though part of him suspected she was always there. He kept his Garden at a distance now. He'd studied it in the Backstage together with Adam's sister, trying to see if any part of it was different or obviously compromised. They found no clue. And that just made the Faceless Queen ever more threatening. “She has no story, no narrative thread. You don't know how she connects to her own empire, or how to anticipate her. No influence over her at all, outside of threats to her nation as a whole.”

Veronica hummed with an approximation of approval. “Regarding both of us, she has an absolute advantage in understanding. We cannot help but be ignorant when it comes to her. Meanwhile, she understands you clearly and vividly. She's drawn to you because you're interesting. However, even if you are interesting, you are ultimately a pawn while she is the one seated at the table. You cannot move her in any way because you don't know what vectors or pressures to exert, except for on New Albion, which is something very literal you and I can strike at. However, if we try that, a series of harmful cascades might follow. Deaths might occur mysteriously. People will fall out of windows. People will be poisoned. People will commit suicide randomly, spontaneously, in mass eruptions that seem like a spreading mania of self-removal.”

Veronica's eyes glowed with the color of rusted silver. She examined Shiv. She was taking his measure at present. No longer was she trying to wear him down through criticism. This was a full lesson now, a lesson that she was more than enthusiastic about teaching.

“I don't fault you for wishing to counter me in some way, to circumvent my influence over you. That's just politics—being a Pathbearer, really. Life in and of itself. It would be unnatural if you were so accepting. I am offended, however, that you've decided to embroil yourself with someone far more dangerous, alien, and indifferent to your fate than I as a potential means of rebuffing me.”

“It's because you didn't notice her and because she knows so much that I thought I could get some use out of her.” Shiv paused. “Also, because I can't read her. I can read you a little bit. I can't get a good grasp of her. I see your empathetic core. I can feel your emotions sometimes. I can crack you a little bit. Her? Nothing at all.”

“And it's alluring, isn't it? Enticing to face someone so far beyond your greatest power that you're not quite sure what to do, and you find yourself slightly obsessed. You want to solve her. She almost pulled the same trick on me when I was a Hero.” Veronica rolled her eyes. “But part of the fault is mine. I should have anticipated this of her. I should have suspected she might go for you. The only surprise in the grand scheme is that she hasn't gone for you sooner. Maybe she was waiting for you to show yourself as something capable of higher thought instead of just a reckless, mindless brute, no different from a Tarrasque.”

“That's the sweetest thing you've ever said to me, Grandma,” Shiv drawled, sniffling.

“Truth is not flattery. However, the truth is that while you might be a budding power, you remain an ignoramus when it comes to influence and power brokering. She offers you bargains, valuable nuggets of information. She declares herself arriving in person, and with that she doubtlessly lures Valor back because he believes he must face her, and that provokes an appearance on my part as well. Me, Valor, and a group of other incredibly influential, incredibly important individuals must make an appearance, for the Faceless Queen is declaring to make herself known. A rare occasion, so rare they can be counted on a single hand since New Albion received its name. Do you see how she's using you to create cascades?”

“Yeah,” Shiv admitted. “I’m her lever.”

“Yes. And now you have done the wise thing in seeking to use me as yours.” And for the first time, she laughed—and Shiv didn't hate the sound. It was a laugh of self-flattery, self-pride, but also the faintest bit of affection for him. For he actually came to her. He swallowed his pride, he took his wounds, he bled in front of her, and he made the bargain against the Queen. One social expert against another. “Look at me. Look at me and listen. This is why this arrangement between us works. We understand one another—so we can bargain. We see a worth in each other and know our place in the civilization canon. Weight. Place. Purpose. She will never be the same. Even in a situation where you manage to get a promise on her part to stand against me, to help you strike me down, I suspect she will betray you at the last moment because it is more useful for her to avoid losses facing the Yellowstone Republic than it is for her to cast all her lot in with your Gate.”

“But you said you don’t know her,” Shiv said. “How are you sure she’ll do that?”

“Because of the shape of my threat versus the shape of yours. The words I’ve been writing are bombs, boy. I will send this to one of her embassies. Everything and everyone in the building will die when my displeasure is read. Only that building. Only when it is read. You can throw yourself at New Albion, but you are still a question of force arithmetic. I am not so simple.” With that, she folded the letter and offered it to Shiv. “This is for the Queen. You will give it to her. Tell her I will not succumb to these games, and will be absent from the Gate so long as she is there.”

The rebellious part of Shiv wanted to rip the letter in half out of spite, but the growing bits of him that learned, that wanted to understand, that paid the price of pride to grow in actual power and political acumen glistened and heated. And so he took it; he held it gingerly, as he might a Necromantic spell threatening to breach his resistance.

“You will also carry my thanks for revealing the Salamander's true identity and the fact that the Southern Gods might be in league with the Challenger. Stress that this is my personal thanks and nothing more, and that I do not consider it a favor of any kind.”

“Okay. And?”

“And then you watch, and you wait. If I were you, I would place more guards on Roland while he is still within his Delve, and perhaps even assign Valor to watch over him. The Faceless Queen seems the type to sell information regarding the Dread Horizon's vulnerability—another thing you should consider.”

Veronica's suggestion was packed with so much information that Shiv almost missed the worst part of all. “Wait, how did you know he was Delving?”

“Because I'm not an idiot, boy—of course he’s Delving. Roland was not reported to be injured or troubled, and with your Gate under threat, what is the most likely answer?” Veronica shook her head. “I've been too lax and distracted from you. This is to change. Two things right now: in regard to the Gate, I want you to take the Queen into your confidence as much as you can. Let her use you. Get closer to her. Let her assume that you are still playing to her tune. In return, I need a service from you: service and practice. You are already proving yourself adept at cleaning the detritus from my Republic. You are to help House Stormhalt with an internal matter—but you are not permitted to harm any of its members in any fashion. I will not brook dissent on this; offend this decree and face true penalty. Understood?”

“What’s the internal matter?” Shiv asked, unsure if he wanted to accept.

“A dispute over inheritance and property exacerbated by ill emotions between the family’s most esteemed scions. What else?” Veronica sounded sick of things from describing the issue alone. “Without intervention, I suspect that the House itself will come asunder, especially without the presence of Havel and the Endbreaker looming over them. You are to make sure this doesn't happen. You are to understand the worth of power and influence. You will be their Faceless Queen to some extent. No violence. Just influence. Learn, and promise me no bloodshed. Promise. And I will strive to devise a countermeasure against the Queen herself.”

The word felt disgusting, but Shiv managed it. “Promise.”

“Good. Now, take the letter back to the Gate, and—actually, something before that. You are to attend the theater with me as a start to your new training.”

“Theater?” Shiv said, confused. “Why?”

“Because Deathless, before I can instruct you on how to play the great game against the Queen of Spies, you must know how to break an actor.”
