“Not this time, Shiv,” Valor said soothingly. “My intentions are surgical and silent rather than bombastic and brutal. I would invite you if time and opportunity were on our side. There's much you could learn about infiltrating and sabotaging a closed-off enemy dimension from within, but I will instruct you on that at a later date. After all, Vulketh isn't going anywhere, and there is little the sovereign of this place can do to stop our intrusion.”

A growl of a chuckle escaped Shiv. “Sure, sure. I know the actual truth, though, Valor. You're just afraid I'll knock off more people than you in your advanced age.”

“Oh. Is that what your Harbinger is whispering?”

A telepathic wince came from Adam, who'd been silently listening thus far. “You're an absolute glutton for punishment, aren't you? He's going to make you pay for that, Shiv.”

“He’s gonna try,” Shiv said haughtily. “But I have some new tricks to show off.”

“I look forward to being disappointed when I return.” Valor kept his tone light, but there was a measure of truth to his words. Everything Shiv did, everything he thought of, how he operated, was spawned from Valor and his own creativity. But that was the thing about creativity: strange minds still followed patterns, and the Deathless was utterly predictable to a true master. “You have four hours to prepare. If you do surprise me after all, I will spare you another trip into the Cube of Existentiality.”

“Oh shit,” Shiv hissed. “I need to go figure something out—Adam!”

Adam snorted. “Don't expect me to work a spell on your behalf. You incurred our usually magnanimous teacher’s wrath through your boastful words, and now you will choke on them as you stew in the cube.”

“I mean, I might get the better of him this time. I might. It's possible. Why doesn't anyone have any faith in me?”

Uva hummed softly. “My dear, sweet brute, if we were talking about anyone else but He Who Stills Eternity, I would have nothing but confidence in you. Right now, I feel only pity. And a bit of amusement. Fail gloriously.”

Then Shiv started grumbling about how he would show them all—that he had a plan this time, which no one would see coming. A plan so cunning that one could stick a pair of glasses on it, and it would be able to teach a course on how to be the cunningest man in a cunningness competition.

A balm of warmth spread through Valor, like sunrise piercing between parting clouds of dour gray. There would be consequences to sparing Corcusa, but life was about more than consequences. There were other seeds too: seeds of potential, seeds of hope. In Gate Piety, there were already three such seeds mid-bloom, each of them fusing with one another, their eventual paths fully uncertain. But, at least for now, they were going to grow, and Valor would make sure of it—mainly through pest removal, to ensure the children got all the nutrition they needed.

You have your life now, Legend-Assassin, but let us see how many other Legendary Shadows, Assassins, and Thieves are in Scorn's employ. If I kill all who walk in his darkness, who will guide him? Who will guard him when night falls? Of this, I wonder. I wonder indeed…

***

There were few things in life Shiv hated more than Veronica's laughter. She wasn't the laughing kind of woman. She only expressed mirth to mock, to prod, or to hint at something. There was an edge to her joy, for she found it in the failure and weakness of her enemies. And though she wielded, trained, and shaped Shiv in certain ways, they were still cold adversaries waiting to thaw once more.

“You are not a fool, boy. Rather a buffoon of the finest sort. These schemes you hatch, these ideas you have, do you think that no one else possesses them? That no one else has gone down this road before?” The Councilwoman leaned back in her chair, and a quiet aria mocked Shiv. A tune sung by the Songbringer to add salt to his humiliation. A humiliation that wasn't fully there. He had breached the confines of her personal sanctuary for one reason: he wanted to find a potential solution for the Faceless Queen problem.

The ruler of New Albion was a rival to Veronica in the sense that she knew things no one else did and could affect and infiltrate places that might prove tricky even for Valor. Veronica was clearly a formidable threat to New Albion in its entirety as well. Such was why the Faceless Queen brought up her messages: there was the faintest glimmer of fear there, a passing puff of darkness that was the closest thing the Faceless Queen ever expressed to dread.

Now he stood before the Councilwoman, seeking to manipulate her in whatever way he could. If the Queen could be used against her, then she could be used against the Queen. That was the entire point of why he'd struck this bargain with her to begin with—using her as a deterrent against Udraal, and vice versa. Perhaps she could assume the same role against the Faceless Queen if she overstepped.

But with the way she shook her head, with the vicious whipping strokes she inflicted upon her page as her quill flowed, Shiv found himself filled not with humiliation or pain but disappointment. He shouldn't have come here. If she was just going to mock him, then what purpose was there in seeking her aid?

Shiv folded his arms and stared her down. “Come on, you can't fault me for trying. You would have done the same thing in my position, or are you telling me that you’d just be a little obedient—”

“Oh no. You misunderstand your sin, which is another terrible mistake to make. I am not ashamed of you because you have plans and machinations. That's natural. That's normal. Your attempt to solve me as if I were a problem you were capable of solving is perhaps even commendable in certain ways. Audacious, yes, but you are too young, too naive, too unrefined to ever come close to approaching this problem to begin with. No, your sin is a lack of creativity. You are a banal boy. You are simple-minded. You did not think this through.”

She almost drove the sharp end of her quill through the page and scarred the stone runes lining the surface of her table. She lifted her dark eyes and met him, and for a moment, it felt like they were clashing against each other, sabers ringing off one another and coming in for another slash, both seeking to score blood.

“Now, let me explain a few things to you. First, trying to learn from a master, a powerful master at that, is useful. However, you need to have something they want. You need to have a measure of control. You do not have any measure of control over the Faceless Queen. I do not have any measure of control over the Faceless Queen, but I do have a means of deterring her. I can threaten her, not with resolving the enigma of her continued existence, as that has deigned to ignore my best attempts to kill her, but with great inconvenience to her on a geopolitical scale.”

“So what?” Shiv asked. “You want me to like… threaten to bomb New Albion? Tell her to piss off or play ball? If she doesn't comply, I'll just fly over the ocean and detonate my bodies with Necromancy in her capital, like that?”

Veronica sighed, but he caught sight of something in her eyes: a glimmer of dark pleasure. She liked part of the idea, crude though it was. New Albion was a pest to her, a pest she couldn't control, a pest that lined her walls, that infested her Republic. Him acting as a wrecking ball might just spice things up a little, but ultimately it was still overshadowed by the most dominant emotion she felt toward him: continued disappointment.

“Do you know why she gave you those details about the Salamander? Why she allowed you to confirm his identity as a rogue agent? How the actual man lay dead where she claimed?” Veronica stopped speaking, as she wanted Shiv to offer an answer. When he did, she would cut him down some more. She would rebuff and belittle him if he was too foolish in his explanation.

Her little power play brought a sneer to his face. He could see someone with lesser presence and charisma being ground down by her. Her criticism was quite literally cutting, and Shiv bled from a few places, as some of her points scored deep wounds in his physically indestructible body, but he let the blood flow. He remained unashamed of himself, for the burden of misery was cast upon the Councilwoman. He would be on his own side. He was a pillar. She could mar him, but she couldn't break him, and so the impasse between them played on. Even if she was his social superior, that didn't mean he had to treat himself as an inferior.

A bear might be able to kill a badger, but that didn’t mean the badger would ever choose to stop thrashing until it was dead.

“She's trying to buy favors from me, trying to ingratiate herself. Get me reliant on her information and network till I'm eating out of her palm and playing to her tune. Like you.”

Veronica’s eyes narrowed ever so slightly. He'd annoyed her. A small victory if he ever knew of one. “Not like me. Not like me at all. Whatever I have done to you, whatever you think this relationship is, we are open. Things are clear, subtextually and on the surface. I will take. I will bludgeon. I will brutalize you how I see fit. I will not, however, play games with you where I move you from one square to another, where I make unreasonable demands that you spare one of your hated enemies, that you stay your hand in exchange for useful information that you operate to my tempo on my request toward the benefit of my nation, so that yours might be further enriched and preserved. This is what we call becoming a vassal state. Is that your intention, to make Gate Piety a vassal state of two separate empires? To pit us against each other?”

“The thought crossed me,” Shiv grunted. “But honestly? I’m just trying to—”

“Maximize your own self-interest. Yes, I understand.” And suddenly, her demeanor shifted. She went from being excruciating and severe to educational and informative. “The reason why she provided you that information is the same reason why you're telling me right now. She is reveling in her power over you, but furthermore using that power to signal to me how much she knows and I don't. She is using you to try and rattle me. You are more than a jab. You are a man unwittingly turned asset by the queen of spies, who has enslaved so many without ever snapping a collar around their neck, without ever so much as a formal agreement or even an ounce of blackmail.”

Shiv considered her words in silence. "So you're saying this isn't about me at all? You're saying that she's just using me to get at you and the Republic?”

“I'm saying you are likely aware of this on some subconscious level, which is why you placed this out in the open with me. You're afraid that she now holds too much monopoly over your fate, and so you seek to reveal some of your cards to the devil that you know, hoping to counter the other devil that you're slowly getting to know and are uncertain about.”

The song playing in the backdrop began to rise, but Veronica directed a vicious glare upwards. "Not now, Grandmother. I need to help this boy see before he drives me toward the embrace of a sweet and tempting aneurysm."

The pitched aria plunged to a low, depressed note as the Songbringer turned a mocking tune to a drone of displeasure. Veronica ignored her, showing the same reverence toward her as Shiv did toward her. “It's quite simple. The power the Faceless Queen holds is in information. It's in controlling what you want and what you need, or what you think you need. And if nothing else, New Albion has a lot of very exclusive, very valuable information. The type I would sack entire empires to seize. Yet I've never bargained with the Faceless Queen. Why?”

“Because you can't control her.”

“Because I cannot even reason with her,” Veronica corrected. “I cannot reason with her because I genuinely do not have the slightest idea what she wants. I have barely a guess as to what motivates and drives her. I do not know what makes her smile, what makes her frown, what makes her furious. I do not understand her place in her country's mythology. There was always a tradition of spycraft in Albion; that much is nothing noteworthy. But a nation’s spies butchering all of their nobility, taking over the entire governmental body and creating a new infrastructure where all the elites are cast from the mold of spies—unthinkable, unheard of, but somehow made functional by the Faceless Queen despite it all. How did she come to be? Who was she? Where did she come from?” She held an open hand toward Shiv, palm raised upward. “Can you answer any one of these questions?”

Shiv shook his head. His action was mockingly mirrored by Veronica herself. “Exactly what I expected, and to my own shame and humiliation, I have to concur. I don't know anything about her. Now, as to my point with all of this, center yourself. Find yourself in this room. Focus on me. You can come over and strike me. You can try to slay me. I can try to slay you. However, if we are to engage in renewed hostilities, if I am to destroy you and you come back and you make another attempt on my life, and we do this over and over again, there is a straight vector. You have a concept or potential idea on how to remove me and what that might do to the Republic, how that might affect the structure of my nation. I think the same when it comes to you and the benefits you provide my Yellowstone and your Gate Piety. We are part of a grand system, both with and without the capital S, and the effects of our actions ripple across it in myriad ways we can anticipate and project for.”

