I've served under good leaders. I've served under bad leaders. Personally, I think I myself am an okay leader. Nothing special, but I'll do my best not to get you killed—which sometimes makes me a remarkable leader on the battlefield. You won't believe how many people mix being stupid with being heartless at the same time. Usually, those people don't last that long.

You need to know what you have at your disposal and what obstacles are placed against you. Everything is decided by the details, and you have to pick the right tools for the job. If you need to set up a tent and you have someone who possesses Master-Tier Architecting Skill, you might think that the job will practically handle itself, but then you realize that your Architect is so haughty that they refuse to do such a meager job, or that they're bad at time management, or that their Skill Evolution only applies to underground megastructures. I've run into all of these cases before, and trust me, you don't want to pick wrong when the time comes.

And sometimes the finest act of leadership you can perform is letting someone else take the lead because you know you are not the right person for the job. For the sake of everyone around you and the mission at hand, you gotta swallow your pride and let another tool take the stage.

In that sense, being a good leader and being a powerful Pathbearer are more than a little bit opposed.

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

397

The Right Tools [I]

Damming a concentrated torrent of Eldritch mana using one's body was like trying to wrestle a tidal wave into submission. Ultimately, the problem was leverage, mass, and surface area. Even if a Pathbearer possessed an adequate level of Physicality, a human body simply wasn't anywhere near as large as a dam; every bit of water they failed to block would surge right past and carry on with the momentum.

Such a task would have been a hopeless endeavor for most, with only the mad or suicidal willing to try, fated to be wrenched away and cast out into the heartless ocean by the riptides as they were.

For the Deathless of Gate Piety, however, this was simply to be another assignment of manual labor.

The sheer amount of outsider magic tearing out of Uva was immense, dense, and destructive; it was pure luck that no one had perished when the sudden rush of overwhelming mana usurped her control. Even so, it came close. Her beam carved twin curves into the surface district where the slaves and residents resided. A series of major structural supports had been melted down to Eldritch slurry, dissolving to become dappled colors staining the air. Rows of buildings began to pitch and tilt—the grand platform holding the district aloft gave a groaning noise as if metal slid against metal.

Shiv could hear the sounds of instability build behind him even now—even over the cacophonous noises emanating from within Uva’s magical expulsion. Gotta keep an eye on that too. If that starts coming down, I'll need to catch it. I don't really know much about physics or how Marikos' Physicality Skill works, but I doubt he can hold it up without punching clean through the plating keeping the district together.

And that was only the lesser issue. Getting Marikos to do something you wanted required more than just persuasion. At present, he was using his shield to drive the Eldritch beams back, causing them to diffract in all directions as he screamed for Valor to reveal himself. He exploded forward at an alarming pace. If he kept going at this pace, he'd reach the building Uva was in sooner or later.

Shiv couldn't accept that outcome either, mainly due to the risk of Marikos simply smashing the building down to rubble or immolating it in a violent tantrum.

Thus, he was forced to keep pace and stay close to Marikos. He had separated his Shapeless Tides into two formations. The first was planted against the mana torrents, stabilizing the eldritch current and keeping them contained rather than diffracting in all directions and risking collateral damage like Marikos. Shiv stacked his secondary formation behind the first, gradually pulling himself ahead, working to keep pace with Marikos without burning through his strength resources in an instant.

The difference between their respective Physicality Skills was evident—Marikos’ absurd strength seemed to be a thing of pure muscle, something he could keep tense and use in any situation until he was spent with stamina or broken of body. Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides, meanwhile, was an economy, and if Shiv used his mind with calculated consideration, the overflow tides he generated would compound or replace all that he lost. That meant if Shiv kept the tides he lost and gained in perfect balance, he could apply a perpetual output of force.

Maybe that's my advantage over him, Shiv thought, trying to cope with how superior Marikos' Physicality seemed. Though Shiv could maintain his strength in perpetuity, he struggled against the onrush of matter while Marikos swam against the current—as if it didn't exist at all.

As Shiv crawled forward, he tried to call out to Marikos, yet was surprised as the Dragon-Knight was suddenly driven back, making them parallel to each other for the first time.

“Marikos, you alright?” Shiv sent through his Harbinger.

Marikos let out a snarl of pure frustration. Shiv's eyes narrowed as he saw blood leaking out from Marikos' eyeballs, and gleaming, fractured limbs that resembled the twitching limbs of a spider were sliding into the wounds. “Do not expose your eyes, Deathless! That contemptible cur, Valor, has used a dishonorable implement to blind me!” Another swarm of fractured spiderlings leapt out from the surface of the eldritch stream and clambered down Marikos’ throat. Marikos choked and gagged, letting out a chuffed cry of outrage. “Valor! Will your perfidy never cease? Face me like a proper Pathbearer!”

Shiv winced and then flinched as he was ambushed by his own cadre of eldritch arachnids. They crashed into him, and since he didn't possess a building-sized shield to protect himself, the fractured spiderlings were upon him immediately. A hurricane of razor-thin shrapnel assailed him. Shiv's scar-forged shell was shrouded in a dense layer of fine scars, but after the first dozen cuts, the weight ceased as the spiderlings bounced off him, breaking themselves upon his adapted Toughness. In an instant, the hurricane of shrapnel became a hurricane of glass. The spiderlings impacted him at such extreme velocities they barely had time to be fragments at all, turning to powder and then nothingness in an instant.

As even more of the eldritch summons crashed into Shiv, his body was wreathed within a veil of bursting geometries. Each of their bodies glowed and gleamed like Uva's did, yet they were far more brittle than she and possessed none of her elasticity. Her tainted mana crashed against him and began burrowing into his Magical Resistance and infesting his other attunements. Shiv tore at the crawling spell-sickness that began to eat away at his magical Skills like a fast-developing cavity, but found himself fighting a losing battle. Every thread he ripped out of himself was replaced by another—divided into another.

Yet, Shiv wasn’t done. Sometimes the best solution for a Unique Feat was a Unique Skill. Shiv called upon his scintillating flame and set himself ablaze. He concentrated his Pyromancy and cauterized sections of compromised mana, boiling himself in a wreath of mystical incineration and sparing himself from further compromise. Uva’s infectious mana spread into his Pyromancy, but Shiv countered by blasting the infected bits of the Nihilist’s flame back against the eldritch stream. Thus, he spent his compromised mana while also blowtorching chunks out of the rolling river of Outsider magic.

“Beware, Deathless! Shield your face. And keep your mouth closed.” Shiv turned to see how Marikos was doing and found the dragon's eye woundless, with neither blemish nor scratch disfiguring his scales or armor.

Some spiderlings definitely tore into his eyes earlier. A bunch of them went down his throat too. And now he's completely fine. Just what kind of Toughness does he have? And how isn’t he tainted by Uva’s Unique Feat? And Shiv's questions were compounded as Mariko's mind and core both resonated in unison, signaling something Shiv didn't understand yet.

“Let us push together as one!” Marikos barked. “The magic we face is mighty, but together we are far stronger. Let us drive this tide back and reach Valor. Let us rend him asunder and finally claim deserved revenge!”

Once more, Marikos began pushing forward without waiting for Shiv to respond. This time, the dragon wasn't in such a hurry. He kept his guard high, and Shiv narrowed his eyes as he saw the surface of Marikos' tower shield gleam bright and pure, adopting the qualities of a mirror.

Wait, is he reflecting the eldritch torrent back at itself? How the hells did he evolve that skill? Is that how he managed to move so fast earlier? He wasn't actually using his Physicality at all. He was just directing the Eldritch mana back at itself.

Again, Marikos roared. His bellow of rage sent shockwaves through the Gate, and Shiv winced as he heard some more of the Surface District start to crumble and sink. “Your spell will delay my wrath no longer! Ye who stills eternity! I have come to still your eternity! I have come to take forever from you! Face me! Come out and face me!”

“Marikos! Marikos, calm the hells down!” Shiv shouted telepathically, gritting his teeth as he repressed his frustration. He should have seen this coming. Marikos was a destructive legend, more akin to a war hammer rather than a scalpel. And it wasn't even that he was cruel, but simply thoughtless and utterly consumed by his emotions. How someone could be so powerful in only one way felt wrong.

And in that moment, Shiv saw a reflection of his older self in Marikos. “You said you wanted to do this together! You left me behind! Is that something a Dragon-Knight does?”

Shiv cast his Harbinger free, letting his bound field glide across both space and time. Unfused from Shiv's physical body, the Harbinger couldn't strike matter without a sacrifice of memories and a subsequent alchemization. But Shiv wasn't aiming for matter. He dredged up all his regret and shame, recalling the collateral damage he'd caused and the lives needlessly lost. Pitch-black flames spilled out from the cracks of his Harbinger, hissing free like steam from a fissuring teapot.

The Harbinger crossed three hundred meters in an instant and drove a brutal hook against the back of Marikos's head. An explosion of enkindled flame followed, searing the Dragon-Knight deep. Marikos cried out, but his voice was strained, not with pain but with mental anguish. In that carnage, Shiv called his Harbinger back before Marikos realized his crisis of shame was inflicted upon him rather than a natural emotion.

A ragged cry of anguish escaped the Dragon-Knight, and slowly, all too reluctantly, he allowed Shiv to catch up as he held in place. “This is not the way of a Dragon-Knight, and I have shamed myself. I know I have shamed myself several times over, and I know I have threatened your hospitality. If you demand my head when this is done, then it is yours to take. I am unworthy. I am a failure, a humiliation, a wastrel!”

Marikos was on the verge of an emotional breakdown, and Shiv was left speechless as waves of pure depression flooded the insides of his core. It seemed every emotion Marikos felt was amplified to the extreme. And that was connected to his Toughness as well, judging by that ripple of resonance that went off between the Marikos’ mind and heart.

Shiv shook off his unease. Marikos was unstable, so Shiv couldn't be. He needed to be the calm and focused one here. Shiv channeled the spirit of Uva and spoke to Marikos not as a chastising host or an understanding friend, but a comrade-in-arms who needed his ally to master himself. “No, enough self-flagellation. Marikos, if you want to avenge your wife at all, if you ever want to slay Valor, you're not going to rush in, adverse in that trap. You're not going to go off on your own. We're doing this together for a reason. There are two streams of outsider matter. There is a surface district that might be on the verge of collapse at any moment, and so one of us is going to have to break off. Now, you probably can't hold up the entire district, so in the meantime I'm going to need you to be calm, to be steady, and to work with me. If we charge in as I told you earlier, he'll get away; we won't be able to solve anything. We need to hold this in place rather than trying to strike the source down. That way we can buy Roland enough time to actually solve this problem. I know Valor hurt you. I know. I don't understand how bad, but I know. But you're responsible for more than just yourself right now. You're responsible for me, and you're responsible for the people behind you. Your creed means always faithful, right? Well, you better live up to it right now, because I can't do this alone. I need you now.”

Shiv paused and hardened his heart as he performed a final, perverse act of psychological manipulation. “Just like your wife needed you then when Valor was upon her. You can't make your past right, but you might be able to prevent your present from being another tragedy.”

