"And maybe a few other things along the way," Zach added with a slightly evil grin.

"Okay." Jo's voice was a little high-pitched, but Thomas saw her reach down and grab one of the daggers she had on her belt. Instantly her expression eased. "Okay," she said again, calmer. She looked between the two. "Who's first?"

"Thomas," Zach said. "He can keep an eye on the guards, and if you have to retreat, I'll provide the cover fire."

****

There was no outcry from the guards. Either this was a trap set by extremely patient people or, like Zach said, the two guards were underpaid slackers who weren't expecting any trouble.

Thomas devoutly hoped it was the latter.

Also, since he was making wishes, he hoped this particular dungeon's loot made it worth all this hassle.

The entrance to the dungeon wasn't visible until they got close, and it looked like it wavered between green and brown. Very swamp-like, which was on brand with everything he had read in the dungeon guide.

Thomas waited, feeling the dungeon's energy buzz against his back, until Jo arrived with her hand on Zach's shoulder to cover him under her Gift. They all exchanged one final look, then entered the dungeon.

At level 3, the entrance safe room was large enough to fit them semi-comfortably. The first thing Thomas did was pull out his pocket watch and note the time.

"We'll wait here for 10 minutes," he said. "Let's gear up and then go in."

Jo looked around, eyes lingering on the simply tiled floor. The pattern was simple, but it made for nicer ambiance than a blank, closet-sized white room of levels 1 and 2. "Why 10 minutes?"

"To make sure nobody follows us in," Thomas said grimly, then he started pulling out one of the Kevlar vests he had stashed in his extra storage backpack. "Here, try this on."

"Oh right, don't forget these," Zach said, also handing out the rip-off AirPod-looking cases to each of them. "They're weak personal protective shields. They'll only zap bugs, but it's a swamp."

"And swamps are gross," Thomas finished. "Which reminds me: I need both of you to let me know immediately if you get hit by one of the mosquitoes. According to the dungeon guide, they have a 1 in 10 possibility of transmitting dengue fever. The pictures I found on WebMD are a horror show, so let's avoid that. I have health potions that should clear it up."

Jo looked a little overwhelmed by all the items and warnings. "Feels like I should have brought something for the picnic," she muttered, zipping up her Kevlar vest.

"You're here to do the stabbing," Thomas reminded her. He pulled out his mace. It wasn't his favorite weapon, but at least it killed things with prejudice.

She nodded, gripped her sword, and again that seemed to settle her. "Let me make the first strike."

"Ladies first," Zach agreed easily.

Thomas looked at his pocket watch. "30 seconds."

They waited in silence until it passed. No one attempted to breach the dungeon to stop them. They were in the clear.

"All right," Thomas said. "Remember: it's gonna be weird in there." With that, he opened the door.
