They came in the night, under the cover of darkness. And by morning, Mi’ir Valdanis was no more. I see them still, the relentless armies of the dead; they are there in my nightmares. They haunt me when I close my eyes. I dare not sleep, for I fear I will drown in the blood of the fallen. - Journal of Eldorien Spellsage, Recordkeeper, Mi’ir Valdanis.

Ryn rubbed her eyes, trying in vain to remove some of the tiredness, but her exhaustion was not skin-deep, to be wiped away by a gesture. She had reread the mad ravings of the Spellsage one too many times, and now the words seemed to blur and shift on the pages, a visual mimicry of the warped insanity that had progressively infiltrated his words. Not even the ancient, forgotten tomes Tiraza had dredged up shed any light on the problem.

It was not like rereading the journal even helped. With her skills, she had easily memorized it the first time through and could recall every single page with perfect clarity. The problem wasn’t remembering the words – it was deciphering meaning and extracting truth from a literary swamp of aimless ramblings and incoherent ravings.

Take the current chapter, for example.

It seemed to be discussing the sage’s recollections of the signing of the Accords of Aalion, describing everything from the color of the pennants flying high off the spires of the ancient city nestled high in the Thousand Celestial Peaks, to the style of the invitations sent out, and even the sense of urgency in the attendants. Then, it went on to discuss the problems navigating the ‘roiling waters of the tides’ and the ‘shattered, flying stone fragments the size of buildings’. What was she to make of such a contradiction?

The problem was obviously that the Thousand Celestial Peaks had been nowhere near the ocean – a vast mountain range, with peaks thrusting up several thousand feet into the skies. The Sun Elves had boasted that it brought them closer to the heavens, although, in Elven lore, the word ‘heavens’ was more a translation glitch than accurate. The Elves of Aalion had believed in a source of divinity that shared nothing with the beliefs of most other races, other than that everyone seemed to agree it was in an ‘upward’ direction.

No, it made far more sense that the author had simply gotten confused, mixing up his memories. Perhaps he’d been referring to Ared Culyn or a similar major seaport of the time? If he hadn’t just spun it out of whole cloth. It was sad how the revered sage’s hallucinations had crept into his writing, an invasive corruption of mind that could be tracked through the passages he’d penned thousands of years after he’d lost the siege against his sanity.

She reached for a heavy tome that lay on the table beside her. Julian Pellast’s ‘The History of Ancient Kingdoms,’ and flipped through the index, searching for references to the Accords of Aalion.

“So it was in the north,” she muttered, scanning the pages. “Seems like it might have been somewhere around the location of the modern-day kingdom of Brast…” She glanced at one of several continent maps she had pinned to a borrowed easel she had lugged to the dragon god’s library for this discussion, ignoring all the markers and notes tacked to it. It made sense; Brast was north of the Spine of the World, mostly peopled by nomadic desert dwellers, which probably meant Aalion could be found somewhere in the Spine of the World. It was, after all, the largest mountain range on the continent.

“Maybe people just forgot it was called the Thousand Celestial Peaks?” Ryn mused. It was hard to believe that everyone would have forgotten such a significant name, even over several thousand years, especially given the existence of long-lived individuals like Lirasia and Val’korr, who would have had firsthand memories, but Ryn had long ago deduced that the Breaking had included one of the most significant workings of knowledge magic in recorded history. A spell or ritual that had erased significant knowledge from the realm, something she could only deduce, but never prove, discovered by tracking shadows and gaps to see what could not be seen written on the pages of history. It was like knowing a rogue was present, even though they were invisible. A feeling of being watched, a sense of something present without a direct way to observe it.

It was as though the contents of the dragon god’s library that Tiraza tirelessly dredged up for them referred to an entirely different realm, an alternate history, unrelated to the events recorded in the Grand Library Arcana, and the notion that someone may have meddled with the integrity of the library had left Ryn dealing with the unfamiliar embers of fury. If the Blind Lich had raised an impenetrable defense on the board, denying access to his Emperor, she would borrow a strategy she’d learned from Cael: change the rules. Create a portal to a different board. Which was why she was conducting her research here in Azryet’s library – in a different realm – and she was close to something.

“I’m not sure that book is worth the paper it’s printed on,” Val’korr grumbled, peering over her shoulder.

“But Pellast is one of the most trusted historians of that age!” Ryn exclaimed.

“True. But that whelp wasn’t around for the Age he is discussing,” the ancient troll added, frowning at the book in question.

“And I suppose you were?” It was, Ryn reflected, an obviously rhetorical question, but she couldn’t help herself. Knowledgeable as he was, Val’korr was… grouchy, and she could rarely avoid poking at him. Still, she found herself grown rather fond of the old Troll, in a grandfatherly sort of way. Maybe he just needed a steaming mug of hot chocolate to mellow him out? Lirasia’s passing had definitely hit him harder than he would ever admit.

“Yes,” he said, grinning smugly. “Take this passage, for example. Here, he deduces that the deserts of Brast were a thousand leagues south of Ared Culyn, right?”

“Yes,” Ryn answered, not quite following the reasoning, even if the ancient finger tracing the map was easy to track.

“That would put Ared Culyn, about here on today’s map, right?”

Ryn nodded. “Thereabouts, yes.”

“I happen to know for a fact that we Trolls had to journey for a month to get there. This is far too close to Aman Rak to be credible, even with the amount of shifting that happened due to the Breaking. Ared Culyn must be at least three times farther north than this.”

“You walked?” Ryn gasped, her finger tracing the sheer enormity of the supposed journey.

“Yes,” Val’korr said. “I was still not much past my second millennium, and my bones weren’t quite as creaky then as now. And nobody had these new-fangled, extensive teleportation networks that we have today.”

“I suppose it must have been a challenge dealing with all that snow, then?” Ryn asked, certain Ali had mentioned teleportation to Ared Culyn once, so she wasn’t quite buying the aged Troll’s story.

“It was terrible,” Val’korr agreed. “I almost got frostbite. My left hip still aches on cold mornings.”

“Must have been so tiring going uphill for so long,” Ryn nodded.

“I’m glad you understand the toil I had to put up with,” Val’korr said, straightening up his chest and beaming proudly. “Young people these days never appreciate…”

“… both ways,” Ryn finished.

“Yes,” Val’korr added emphatically, and then he glared at her. “Why, you little whippersnapper!”

Tiraza chuckled in the background, her eyes whirling with mirth.

Ryn caught the book he lobbed at her head with her Library Domain skill, effective here because of her mentorship with Tiraza, and gently returned it to its rightful place on the nearby bookshelf. If the ancient Troll was right, and the distances in Eldorien Spellsage’s journal could be trusted instead of being the deranged ravings of a madman, as she’d initially assumed, that would put Aalion…

She traced her finger westward along the far northern coast of the continent until it reached the massive hole – a hundred-mile-wide bite taken out of the continent.

The Sea of Fractured Dreams.

Suddenly, it all clicked into place. Her divinations had repeatedly directed her to Eldorien’s journal as the key piece she most needed to read. On every recast, it had guided her to precisely this chapter. She had been certain her magic had failed her, but… it was precisely correct. As always. She just hadn’t had the wits to see it until she had so elegantly put the ancient Troll Seeker of the First Age in his place.

It’s so much further than we thought.

She had been hunting for the Thousand Celestial Peaks in a mountain range, and had never considered the sea, but the Sea of Fractured Dreams was a remnant of the Breaking. A cataclysm – one of dozens from that time – that had left a giant crater, a hole in the world that was filled with seething waters, wild storms of chaotic magic, and maelstroms of levitating boulders. Water that flowed upwards in defiance of any reasonable laws, to reach islands floating in the skies.

“Upwards both ways,” she murmured, suddenly certain. Upwards, implying further north on the map, but also upwards following the aberrant flow of water high into the air. Nobody would buy the reasoning that got her there, but she felt it in her bones. In the subtle stirring of her mana. Is this a divination? Those boulders levitating high above the sea had to be the remnants of the Thousand Celestial Peaks. “This is it. This is where Aalion was.”

“Congratulations,” Tiraza rumbled from above both of them, her voice echoing around the library. “I see you’ve found your answer.”

“That’s a dangerous spot,” Val’korr said, his irate grumbling vanishing like a mirage. “How will you check for the Well of Divinity? There are deadly elementals of wind and fractured celestials that inhabit that realm, not to mention the crazy storms.”

But neither of them seemed to doubt her reasoning.

“It’s a good thing I happen to know an amazing scout,” Ryn said. Calen had achieved the impossible when he tracked the Blind Lich to his phylactery and discovered the Crypt of Kings. With what she’d uncovered, she was certain he would be able to track the fading glimmers of a once-radiant empire to the ancient Well of Divinity they had guarded like a holy relic. If it still existed.

“Farin, they are dead on their feet. Just look at ‘em. They canna possibly take another step,” Vilda hissed, bristling angrily and getting closer and closer to his face.

“Aye, I can see that,” Farin sighed, backing up slightly. “But we cannot camp so close ta Telim Gor. Remember what we saw?”

The problem was that she was right. The children and the unclassed stood about with the glassy-eyed stares of total exhaustion, many of them collapsing to the rocky ground the moment they stopped the march, already passed out where they landed. In fact, everyone without a physical class seemed to be bone-weary and spent. Unfortunately, that was by far the majority of their group of nearly a thousand refugees that had fled the sacking of Thorel Moldur with him when he had opened that passage through the mines.

Vilda just glowered at him without words. After all, what was there to say?

How did I end up in charge? Farin’s fighting days were long gone, and he was better suited now for slightly embellished stories told while he enjoyed his ale, not for traipsing through the snow and mud playing hide-and-seek with the undead. Unfortunately, his was the highest-level combat class in their entire group, and everyone had immediately deferred to him for protection and leadership.

It was a false hope, but he hadn’t had the heart to crush it. Vilda knew, and several of the others. The ones that had seen fighting in the last incursion, back when he was still a younger lad.

Still, now they all knew. When that monster had marched slowly by making ice grow up the stone walls, it had sown fear that crushed his soul and left him cowering, unable to move even a muscle. His measly seventy levels and his axe would count for less than an insect against what had torn Thorel Moldur to rubble and dust.

Death Knights.

That was why he didn’t push Vilda. She had seen it all and was just as afraid as he was. They were supposed to be stories, Death Knights. Ancient history. Scary stories to remind children not to misbehave.

“We should be going to Southport anyway. Why are you taking us east?” Vilda demanded. This was hardly the first time they had argued over this, and his answer was the same as always.

“You heard the realm notifications, just as well as me,” Farin answered. Indeed, everyone had heard them. It was impossible to ignore the gong that rang through the granite foundations of the mountains. Someone had restored the Well of Souls, which meant someone was fighting for the fallen city of Ciradyl. Whoever it was must be strong enough to survive the undead, and that meant the only safe place for them was beside these strong warriors. Not traipsing off to find an undead army surrounding Southport. They just had to get there. Alive.

“Aye, and I heard it again the next day and the next,” Vilda grumbled. “Whoever is doing that didn’t succeed.”

“They have to,” Farin said. They had threaded the needle between Aman Rak and Telim Gor without rousing the ire of the undead. It had been days underground in the mines with neither food nor rest; there was no way they would make it back. No, Ciradyl was the only choice now, and the thin vein of hope that whoever was responsible for those notifications would honor the kinship of the living. Even if it’s the Elves.

“One more hour, and then we will be far enough from Telim Gor that we can safely make camp. Carry the children and those who are too tired to continue,” he said.

“Right,” Vilda said, turning back to the weary refugees to relay his instructions. Steady, she was. With a heart as strong as forged steel.

Then, in the confines of his own heart, he worried about the terrifying implications of a Skeletal Frost Dragon that had cast the legendary spell, causing the realm to tremble under the sound of the gong. Why was it an undead monster? Was he leading his kin to their doom? Would they even survive being near such a cataclysmic battle? He grimaced. There was no choice, now. All that was left was faith. The remnants of Thorel Moldur could not march all the way to Southport and bypass the Lich’s armies. No. They would find their savior at Ciradyl, for there was no other option left to them.

