Ali studied the glowing purple barrier. It was, she reflected, a stark reminder of their repeated failures. Her domain encircled it, entirely surrounding it, and still she could not break through. Deep within the cursed heart of the dungeon, she found the malevolent eyes of the ethereal wraith of Nathaniel Sunstrider staring back at her. She glared at him as if she could defeat him through the sheer weight of her frustration. For nearly two weeks now, the guild had faced him, relentless in their focus, returning every single time Nendir the Corrupted respawned and they could make another Soul Jewel.

In all fairness, she could allow them to skip that part of the process if she wished. She could summon Nendir’s undead revenant now, and harvest the soul fragment herself, but the raid group needed so much time between attempts – for rest, and the recovery of critical recharge timers – that they would have to face the respawn anyway. Besides, it would be a cruel thing indeed to summon him unnecessarily in front of those with freshly broken hearts.

After the first few days, Ali had grown annoyed. The repeated realm messages had drawn a huge host of Nevyn Eld’s armies to Ciradyl, and she had to substantially boost the defenses throughout the reclaimed territory surrounding the final ring of the Well of Corruption dungeon. Even now, she could feel the continuous assault of her champion Sylvan archers, wielding the powerful new domain magic skill she had lifted from Nendir.

One positive result had come out of that, though. Under the pressure of the dual siege of Myrin’s Keep and Ciradyl, any minion she could make that could survive combat had been leveled up to maximum overnight.

But after a week, she had begun to dream repeatedly about the fight; waking in the middle of the night, sweating, shaking, and with muscles knotted from tension and stress. She felt thin, wrung-out like a dishcloth, and beginning to fray. It was not just her; everyone was growing irritable, frustrated, or beginning to lose hope. Their morale had taken a sharp dive over the last few days, when they had finally endured more than twenty minutes of the fight only to discover that Nathaniel could re-corrupt the Well in that time. The crushing defeat of having him restore the Soul Well Corruption aura in the middle of combat had been a bitter pill to swallow. Worse, Nathaniel retained more than half his life when they had been forced to abandon the fight. They were not even close.

It had been nearly a month of unrelenting dungeon rage and near-continuous assault, and she was tired.

“I need a vacation,” Ali muttered.

“If the dead are fighting us here, they’re not killing people in Southport or elsewhere,” Malika said, somehow knowing just the right words to say. Sure, the Blind Lich had been sighted with his armies near Southport, so it was not a huge consolation, but any undead they killed here were soldiers that he could not use to reinforce his offensive armies and carry out his ruinous plans.

While she balked at summoning Nendir, himself, his bow was another story. The Sylvan Storm archers arrayed in neat lines on the ground behind her were all maximum level, and every single one of them wielded a pair of legendary bows. It was a force the likes of which she doubted the continent had ever seen. Still, it hadn’t proved enough yet. More was needed, and she was scraping the bottom of the barrel already.

“I think we’re ready. Aliandra? One more time?” Lyeneru said. Even her stoic face was strained, and her signature confident authority seemed to be showing cracks.

“Ok,” Ali said, holding back a huge sigh. What else could she do? She slipped the Eye of the Lich onto her finger, grimacing at the shroud of darkness that billowed from it, enveloping her hand. Across the raid, and her entire dungeon, her minions shrank, while their magic blazed intensely brighter. She downed two potions and summoned her arcane needles of disruption to dismantle the barrier.

You have gained Greater Intellect.You have gained Alacrity of Mind.

The disintegration of the giant barrier and the billowing of the resulting clouds of corrupted mana slowed dramatically as her mind accelerated under the influence of Morwynne Fizzlebang’s best work. She would need it for what was to come.

As the purple dome collapsed, and Seth’s plummeting Skeletal Frost Dragon approached the corruption of the Well, Ali studied her opponent. Nathaniel always tried to kill the jewel-bearer, and it was almost always with an empowered and accelerated fireball.

And, it never worked.

The sheer immensity of the Soul Well Corruption rendered the undead dragon nigh invulnerable to anything Nathaniel Sunstrider cared to throw at it. Unfortunately, it also rendered him immune to the damage of their entire raid.

Still, it always proved the perfect distraction for her opening move.

Right as the fireball shot up into the sky, blazing like an ill-advised, overly large firework given the intensity of the metamagic he had spent on it, Ali retaliated.

“Interrupted Casting,” she commanded, and one of her pair of eye demons cast the curse, her response in the superficially predictable opening moves of this game of Kings and Emperors before the real battle of wits commenced.

Right on cue, Nathaniel’s staff glowed, drawing the curse into the Spell Steal enchantment like a moth to a Glitter Dragonet.

“Thank you for...”

Ali tuned out the wraith’s voice – she had heard it far too many times – instead clicking the button on the beautifully crafted stopwatch she had purchased from the auction house. It was an exquisite device fashioned from mithril gears and delicate runework. Most likely it was far too accurate – and certainly too expensive – for this job, but she would definitely lose it if they failed because she had cheaped out on her alarm, and misjudged the five-minute Spell Steal recharge timer.

The Skeletal Frost Dragon lit up like a firework as Nathaniel’s overloaded ball of fire detonated within its ribcage with enough force to level the entirety of Myrin’s Keep’s artisan district, but Seth’s minion continued plummeting down into the seething blackness of the Well.

[Realm] Skeletal Frost Dragon has cast the legendary spell: True Purification.

Act two, Ali thought.

Nathaniel snapped his furious gaze back at her as the dragon splashed down into the Well, and the staff glowed as her Interrupted Casting curse flew back at her. She eyed it impassively as it hit her, and then tracked his weave of mana as he immediately began summoning domain magic to create the first raid boss.

“Decurse,” Ali instructed, and two witch doctors immediately removed her curse. Technically, they would have done it without her instruction, but it was a dance, and performing all the steps made it smoother. It was a redundancy she could afford simply because she had so many witch doctors and only one disrupt recharge. Control magic casters were quite rare, and in fact, there was only one other in the guild, a Dwarf mage who simply did not have the class levels or the sheer mental speed to go head-to-head with the Archmage. Nor could she fashion a wand, given each disruption had to be tailor-made for the target spell. Instead, the raid group had the Dwarf focused on disrupting any dangerous spells from the lower-level raid bosses, leaving Nathaniel as Ali’s exclusive task. She made a mental note, as she did every single attempt, to prioritize leveling up her kobold arcane mages and ensure that in the future she had an army of casters with a versatile repertoire of disruption spells. That project was already well underway, and she held hope that between her own class, the Grimoire, and her shrine, she would unlock the proper spell advancements.

She cast Arcane Recall.

Instantly, Nathaniel’s domain summoning collapsed as a cascade of disruptions blasted outward toward her, and leveraging her extreme mental haste, she canceled her spell at the last possible moment.

“Interrupted Casting,” she called. Her second Eye of Agnor cast the devastating curse, and now that Nathaniel’s anti-magic tools were on recharge, he was forced to take it. Ali grinned in satisfaction at the sight of the frustrating curse settling its tendrils into him. He had ways to remove it in his respawned spellbook, but they were all costly, and burning his Greater Mass Dispel Magic to remove a curse was easily a worthwhile trade in her book.

There were very few things in her repertoire that could disrupt domain magic. The first was her ability to present a far more dangerous spell that he needed to counter immediately, forcing him to interrupt his own spell casting. The second was Interrupted Casting – a twenty percent chance to fail a raid boss summoning was a critical advantage in this fight. Keeping the curse on him as long as possible would be key to surviving the fight.

And now it comes.

Ali waited. A sequence of flickering formations pulsed within the dark wraith’s ethereal chest, and she read the increased area and maximized damage meteor storm, allowing it to be cast unmolested. She had far bigger fish to fry. Her only concession to the ludicrous damage from the earth and fire spell was to shield the healers with her barrier magic. She didn’t even have to warn the raid anymore; they were already guarding against it.

Mana swirled again.

Amplify Casting.

Empower Spell.

Increased Duration.

This is it! Ali realized, instantly recognizing the pattern. He always used this combination of metamagic enhancements with Time Stop.

Leaning heavily into her accelerated mind, she spun up the anti-formation. The well-practiced formation sprang to her fingers instantaneously, but she knew he wouldn’t miss it. Instead of releasing it immediately, she feinted, holding it in case he canceled and tried recasting. Even without his metamagic enhancements, Time Stop was too powerful to miss. Especially while the Well was being cleansed.

At the last possible instant, Ali unleashed her magic. Golden darts crossed the gap at the speed of thought, shredding the nearly completed formation, turning it into a puff of unbound sparks that rained to the ground, punctuated by an angry hiss.

The gong rang, shaking the world.

[Realm] The Well of Souls has been restored.

Even after so many times, the purity of the Well of Souls took her breath away. As the water of the Well of Souls clarified, Ali sighed, relieved that she had successfully pulled off her first showdown. For a brief moment, she wondered if people were annoyed by the daily realm-notification spam, but her attention quickly returned to the task at hand. With both his Disruption and Spell Steal on recharge – and his Time Stop foiled for now – Nathaniel would need to hard-cast his raid boss summoning, and all his defensive enchantments, taking valuable time.

Time that she fully intended to abuse to the maximum extent possible.

“Attack,” she commanded.

A storm of arcane bolts erupted from Nathaniel’s fingertips, raining down across the whole raid group with distinctive thumps and cracks. Ali’s squad of ice mages returned fire with a steady stream of swishing ice bolts that pierced through Nathaniel’s glittering mana shield and barrier, beginning the long slog. Dark and twisted tendrils of corruption burst from his ethereal body, plunging into the clarity of the Well, and Ali clicked the second button on her stopwatch: the twenty-minute timer. The hard stop, when his corruption would reclaim the Well and destroy their hopes once again.

As Nathaniel began the laborious summoning, drawing in domain mana for a defender, both of Ali’s Eyes of Agnor teleported right up beside him and unleashed their cones of Arcane Mana Burn, ripping into his mana and shields. But his shield spell was so powerful, he was still able to fend off the attack, and moments later, an oversized Reaper of Ruin appeared, and her demons fled.

“Overpowering Strike,” Malika announced.

“Zone of Destruction and Enhanced Strength,” Ali called out, reading the abilities directly from the mana formations he’d used to create the monster. Identifying the various domain magic abilities Nathaniel could imbue upon his summons had grown easy after so many failures. There were some combinations – at least somewhat random – that required an instant shift of the raid’s strategy, and a few that were so dangerous that the raid was immediately aborted the instant they were summoned. This was not one of them.

Sabri picked up the elemental, tanking it beside the rest of the raid, leaving Havok free in case the next was undead, and Mato in Tree Form to eke out the most from his regeneration before he had to be called on for a potential third boss, though things would have to be going fairly badly for that to be required.

Ali ignored them, keeping her eyes glued to the rapid flickering of pages of Nathaniel’s spell book.

Greater Mass Dispel Magic. She ignored it, instead downing two more potions to restore her buffs and resummoning her barriers to protect the mages.

Several raiders joined in the assault on Nathaniel – any damage that could be spared from the summoned bosses and could pass through his barriers went to assaulting the wraith. Calen’s potent Power Shot attacks and Malika’s Soul Strike were regularly piercing the barriers. A guild light mage wove in a few beam attacks. Two of Ali’s witch doctors lurked in the Spirit Realm, calling spirit beasts to phase through and attack from within his protection.

And there were the two Scions of Azryet, circling overhead.

To Ali’s delight, she’d discovered that the infinitely black beams of their void breath, enhanced with Void Nullification, tore into the purple barriers and shields, slowly disintegrating the core formations. They, and the Arcane Mana Burn spell, were a critical part of Ali’s strategy of opening Nathaniel up to damage, an important play even if he kept repairing them.

Mass Summon Elementals. Ali ignored this one, too. The raid itself was competent, and moments later, Havok was taking four earth elementals beside Sabri’s raid boss.

Mass Curse. There was only one in his spell book that he used this metamagic on, but as the page disintegrated, Ali snapped her mind into razor-sharp focus. A spell that had wiped their raid more times than she cared to admit. And her Disrupt was still on recharge.

You have been cursed with Eldritch Arcana+75% chance to disrupt any mana ability or spell. Curse – Duration: 15 minutes.

The curse flickered across the entire raid, cursing every single raider, all their minions, pets, and summons simultaneously.

“Decurse,” Ali commanded. One of the two witch doctors she had stashed in the Spirit Realm shimmered, reappearing in the regular realm and cast his curse removal.

Instantaneous Casting.

Mind Control.

