“Second decurse,” Ali called out, instantly trapping her mind-controlled witch doctor in a bubble of her barrier magic. There was a shimmer as Kir’vella shifted across the veil, immediately assisting Ali with removing the curses from the other witch doctors and priests before prioritizing the rest of the healers. Ali breathed another sigh of relief when the insidious curse vanished from the raid. The terrifying part of this curse was that it not only interrupted three-quarters of all healing spells – a disaster for any raid – but it also disrupted escape magic spells that relied on mana, making the first couple of attempts to abort due to the curse insanely dangerous.

“Ribbit!” Ali said, and then frowned as she dismantled the frog hex her own witch doctor had cast on her. “Curse down,” she announced.

She felt the prickle of readiness when her Disrupt recharge expired. Which told her two things. Nathaniel’s Disrupt was available again, and so was his Time Stop.

“Refresh Interrupted Casting,” she instructed. It was the cheap alternative – occasionally she could draw his Disrupt with a redundant cast of the curse, but this time he failed to take the bait. Moments later, she witnessed his metamagic flickering, and she responded by feinting with Arcane Recall again.

Of all her magic, that spell was guaranteed to draw his Disrupt. It was clear he understood her spell well enough to recognize the danger, and so his formations dropped instantly, and he responded with seven simultaneous Disrupt casts – the Domain Magic enhancement rendering his spell more-or-less invulnerable to interruption from normal spells. One targeted her, while the rest seemed to attack random spells raid-wide.

But once again, Ali succeeded in canceling her spell before his Disrupt landed, a feat only possible due to the ridiculous Alacrity of Mind Basil had learned to concoct; a novel use he had researched for her Eternal Reverie flowers. I need to remember to thank him again.

Again, Nathaniel’s metamagic formations pulsed and flickered, and again she managed to outmaneuver him and Disrupt his Time Stop. Just like a dance. Again, he began to summon a new raid monster. Ali was forced to allow the spell to complete.

“Calhedron. Empowered Arcane Bolt, Mass Summon, and Elemental Storm!” she yelled. Anxiety spiked as she identified the dangerous combination. With four earth elementals and another raid boss up, Elemental Storm was likely a raid wipe, if it triggered successfully.

“Ready!” Lyeneru shouted. Behind her, Ali could see the warping of Mato’s magic as his body transformed, and he launched himself across the intervening space, finishing his bear transformation along the way. He collided with the newly summoned monster, roaring and tearing into it with claws trailing void mana.

“All out!” Lyeneru yelled.

“Bloodlust,” Ali instructed. Every minion and raider switched from whatever they were doing to attack the dangerous Calhedron as Mato dragged it across the way to the tanking area. As soon as he had it placed correctly, every single area damage skill was unleashed.

The amount of damage the raid put out boggled the mind – and threatened to overwhelm Ali’s mana-sight. Ali winced and focused. Missing a critical spell in the background noise would send them packing yet again. Most of the raid was approaching the level of the summoned boss, and they had two and a half times the normal group size. The health of the boss melted away, but at the cost of leaving Nathaniel uncontested.

Ali grimaced as he successfully cast a Mass Summoning of ghosts and banshees, followed by four potent defensive magic formations he had been forced to skip by her lockdown of his Time Stop. But there was no recourse; the threat of Elemental Storm was far too great.

Her stopwatch chimed, and she quickly lured out the Spell Steal with another Interrupted Casting curse, immediately decursing it when he hurled it back at her.

“Four minutes, twenty-three seconds,” Calen announced, as the raid shattered the elemental. It was impressive, but still too close for comfort. The earliest she had seen them use elemental storm was five minutes after summoning, and now that they had burned so many potent raid damage buffs, it was unlikely they would be able to duplicate that feat, at least till bloodlust recharged. But by then, Nathaniel’s corruption would have been completed anyway.

Ali glanced back at him, studying the dark and twisted tendrils pulsing disturbingly as they pumped corruption into the well. It was a kind of magic that sent cold fingers of fear down her spine, far too reminiscent of Baaoht Yll’shuum’s magic, and the sheer force of despair Nevyn Eld had exuded.

But she forced herself to look.

As much as she hated and feared it, this was the one spell that had prevented them from progressing in the last two attempts. The instant the corruption aura had burst forth from the well, Nathaniel had been healed to full, and the fight had been lost. Yet, the nature of the strangely twisted eldritch magic, shifting in and out of reality, still eluded her understanding.

With a thought, she redirected her minions back to Nathaniel, carefully timing the Void Nullification and the Arcane Mana Burn, studying the effect they had upon his defensive shields and working around his retaliation spells.

Domain magic surged within him, but this wasn’t another summoning. Instead, it was his runic magic skill.

“Traps!” Ali yelled. Across the breadth of the torn-up battlefield, glowing runic circles blossomed on the ground. Immediately, several of them detonated with devastating arcane explosions. Ali and those other mages who could dispel rapidly set to destroying the formations before more of them could be set off, but it was a time-consuming effort. Each had to be carefully handled because the Archmage’s traps were sensitive to tampering.

A second surge of domain magic appeared, and Ali snapped her attention to the raid summoning, but as the spell completed, they finally caught a much-needed break. The summon formation twisted and unraveled right at the last moment, and she sent a silent thank-you to the Interrupted Casting curse.

“Summon interrupted,” Ali yelled. And then, as the void beams of her dragons blasted down from the sky, the mana shield and barrier finally unraveled. “He’s open!”

With incredible precision, the entire raid pivoted, switching all their damage to Nathaniel’s ethereal form. Several damage buffs went off, but the most powerful ones had already been spent. Still, his health plummeted with very satisfying speed.

Accelerated Casting.

Greater Invisibility.

Instantaneous Casting.

Teleport.

Ali twitched, so tempted to Disrupt it, but she forced herself to hold back. The light of Calen’s Mote spell rendered Nathaniel partially visible, and with just that, several other archers immediately lit him up with mark curses, and the raid once again pivoted to his new location.

Ali unleashed everything she had; every single arrow, spell, and enhancement, desperate to drop him lower. She successfully faked out his Disrupt again and then countered his Time Stop, but moments later, his shields snapped back into place.

“Switch targets,” Lyeneru announced.

Ali stared in dismay at Nathaniel’s health and then at her stopwatch.

There’s no chance. We didn’t do enough damage. We can’t. Not with so little time… how’s this ever going to work?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
