And Orodan’s talent would be considered great even within an academy. So the Sergeant was truly nervous about allowing Orodan to risk himself doing even simple patrol work. Especially now that the Observer orb had been used and records were automatically sent to the Militia Headquarters in Trumbetton. The Sergeant would be under heavy scrutiny for not immediately delivering such a talented youth to Trumbetton for a better future and superior tutelage.

“Look… this is genuinely above my paygrade. If I don’t immediately take you off the roster and put in for you to go to Trumbetton, I’ll be in big trouble. Please be reasonable… surely you’re aware of how talented you are for your age? Can you not see how badly I’ll be disciplined if I don’t immediately send you to headquarters for further examination?”

This was without a doubt, the most awkward situation Orodan had been in. Sergeant Woodgard, the man whose face went red with spittle every time he roared orders at militia… was actually speaking softly and pleading with Orodan to understand his position.

Orodan sighed.

“Alright sir, I’ll agree to the transfer,” he replied.

He truly didn’t want to put the Sergeant in a miserable spot, so he quietly agreed to the transfer. Plus, although his warrior spirit protested avoiding the fight… him being near Eversong Plaza in this loop was tantamount to committing suicide, and it would drag the county militia into a potential fight as well. His own death was one thing, but to see his troop harmed by association didn’t sit well with him.

House Argon undoubtedly knew that their enforcer had failed to kill him and they now knew who he was.

Frankly, it was truly lucky that he even survived the run back to Ogdenborough from Scarmorrow without any other enforcers trying to go after him.

Showing his face in Eversong Plaza this loop would just end in him being killed on the spot as there were way too many enemies present and House Argon already showed that they had no issues acting publicly and trying to brazenly have him murdered right outside a Temple.

***

Orodan was in the back of a rather nice-looking horse drawn carriage, with members of the mounted unit flanking him on multiple sides as they rode for Trumbetton.

The escort was sent in by the Trumbetton headquarters of the Volarbury County Militia who diverted an additional troop of ten riders specifically for his escort. Apparently once they received the transmission of his Observer orb readings, they immediately insisted on it.

The ride was smooth, and the members of the mounted unit were oddly respectful with an accompanying captain who was an Adept-level spearman introducing himself as Keharion Taj; saying he looked forward to working with Orodan in the future.

Talent really did change everyone’s tune.

Orodan wondered for a second why the county militia would waste such resources on simply transporting a private like himself and then recalled that training even one talented youth to the level of an Elite was worth more than training a hundred Adepts. And given Orodan’s current skill levels and the Blessing he hadn’t even disclosed yet… becoming an Elite was definitely in the cards across his lifetime. And this was without factoring in his ability to go back in time.

Noon went by and the announcement came and went, with the battle of Ogdenborough undoubtedly being underway.

Orodan had done his best to inform the mounted unit of his ‘prophetic vision’, and they passed the message onto the headquarters of the militia at Trumbetton. And the reaction was… nil?

Nothing changed in the response of the militia, their patrols weren’t stepped up, and there was no impact whatsoever. Which Orodan found highly suspect. There was undoubtedly foul play involved. Either House Argon or maybe even House Firesword in Trumbetton was in on it?

It was an hour since the announcement and surely the battle had been won by now?

Suddenly, Orodan felt a tremor, and the horses did too as they bucked and were terrified.

And in the distance, many hours away, Mount Castarian… moved.

And the peak of the mountain which Orodan thought was massive enough, shifted as something emerged and wore the peak atop its head like a mere cap.

Multiple metallic arms pulled themselves free and Orodan watched on in amazement and wonder as whatever this machine was, it was almost divine in nature.

It had a humanoid face, and finally stood tall appearing like a humanoid metal golem, except, as tall as a small town’s length as its head went past the cloud layer.

It was utterly gigantic at a scale Orodan had never seen before.

It had a brilliant red jewel on its forehead, and it began to glow very ominously.

And then it flashed red.

A wave of approaching red destruction was the last thing he saw.

[Quest Failed → Battle of Ogdenborough - You have died]

***

A keening wail ringing in the sky awoke him.

[Quest Bestowed → Battle of Ogdenborough - Defeat the Novarrians and their allies as they attempt to activate and commandeer the ancient war machine beneath Mount Castarian]

He brushed past the quest messages that showed themselves and simply thought to himself…

“…so that’s the ancient war machine the Quest talks about.”

It was an unpleasant fact to learn that the Republic would always lose, and the war machine was fated to awaken without any intervention.

It seemed there was no escaping the day until this Quest was resolved. Yet, Orodan had absolutely no idea how to go about fighting such a thing which was bigger than Mount Castarian to the point that its head broke through the cloud layer.

Orodan doubted even a group of the Republic’s rumoured Master-level combatants could bring that thing down. He was starting to understand why a Quest had been bestowed upon him in relation to this machine’s awakening. In the history of the continent the times Quests were issued to certain remarkable individuals was when the very sanctity of the world was somehow threatened, or a great disaster would befall the people.

It was just hard to think of himself, the Apprentice-level warrior as being of the same cloth as one of those great and remarkable individuals who the world bestowed Quests upon in history. But then again, he had seemingly infinite tries to get it right. Orodan had heard of nobody else with such a strange ability.

He was a bull-headed individual with a propensity towards violence and straightforward solutions, and it seemed as though this situation truly was tailor-made for someone like him. The stories that the matrons would read to him had scheming and smart individuals who would undoubtedly try to plan, gather allies and maximize their odds of success via diplomacy in these situations.

Orodan unfortunately, was not one of those individuals. His pride wouldn’t allow it and he genuinely believed that the only way to complete this Quest was brute force and personal power.

And on the note of his personal power and advancement; he had already advanced to the point where he could fight off a low-level Adept and survive against them. The archer-assassin outside the Temple in Scarmorrow was beginning to provide diminishing returns near the end.

So, it was time to find new foes to sharpen himself against. And Orodan knew just the nearby town to spend the next many loops doing so in.

A nearby town full of the troops of House Argon.
