…Orodan decided to throw his shield right at it.

[New Skill (Uncommon) → Shield Throw 1]

As soon as he threw the shield, he didn’t bother waiting to see the result. He dove away to cover as a loud shattering and hissing noise rang out and a deadly looking green smoke erupted. The smoke wasn’t too contagious and lazily drifted down to the ground where it settled into a thick liquid which chewed through more than a foot of the dirt road before it lost efficacy. His shield was utterly disintegrated of course.

“Now get back here and let’s finish this fight!” Orodan yelled as he angrily waved his sword.

The assassin was taken aback and remained silent for a moment before speaking.

“Are you really that same rat Orodan Wainwright who would ask for beatings every day in the plaza?” A grizzled voice asked, and it confirmed that this archer was definitely one of House Argon’s enforcers.

“One and the same! Now get down here and face me like a warrior! Let me show you that you messed with the wrong kid back then!” Orodan declared, but to his utter surprise the assassin simply clenched his fist and shook his head.

“I don’t know how the hells you got so strong… but you won’t live long you damned street rat, nobody in this stupid town will,” The man proclaimed and then… leapt away.

Orodan took a second to do a double take at the absurdity of how the situation ended, and then attempted to give chase.

“Hey! Get back here! You owe me a conclusion to this battle!”

A fruitless endeavour as the assassin had Adept level abilities and while Orodan might have fought him to a standstill and prevented his assassination attempt, chasing him down while having inferior levels in skills was another thing.

“Damn it! I’ll get you next time!” Orodan roared and swung a fist at a nearby stall, breaking it in half. His Physical Fitness had come a decent way since the beginning of his attempts at beating that cravenly archer.

He mentally called his Status screen forth.

[Name: Orodan Wainwright

Age: 17

Title 1: Sword Apprentice

Available Titles:

One Who Has Experienced DeathShield ApprenticeCombat ApprenticePhysical Apprentice

Skills:

Unyielding Vitality 11 (Initiate - Rare)

Perfect Parry 21 (Initiate - Uncommon)Evasiveness 18 (Initiate - Uncommon)Dying Struggle 14 (Initiate - Uncommon)Shield Throw 1 (Initiate - Uncommon)

Sword Mastery 46 (Apprentice)Shield Mastery 37 (Apprentice)Combat Mastery 32 (Apprentice)Physical Fitness 31 (Apprentice)Unarmed Combat Mastery 28 (Initiate)Cleaning 27 (Initiate)Pain Resistance 20 (Initiate)Laboring 18 (Initiate)Bleeding Control 17 (Initiate)Sprinting 16 (Initiate)Club Mastery 15 (Initiate)Maintenance 8 (Initiate)Repair 7 (Initiate)Thievery 6 (Initiate)Intimidation 6 (Initiate)Deception 4 (Initiate)

Blessings:

Warrior’s Heart - Increased talent and learning rate for all warrior related skills as determined by Agathor]

Let it not be said that Orodan’s stone-headed approach to brute forcing an issue didn’t have results.

Three new uncommon skills and a rare skill; alongside many skill increases which made him an apprentice in Shield Mastery, Combat Mastery and Physical Fitness. Hells, he didn’t even know that Uncommon and Rare skills had their own little section on the Status until now.

It just took dying over forty times.

Orodan took a moment to reflect on the fact that his life had just changed immeasurably. Previously he was a hard worker with slightly above average talent, but now with the ability to time loop and all these skills, he had essentially changed his lot in life within the course of a day’s worth of battle altogether.

Unless one had a Blessing, a Bloodline, or was a supreme talent, advancing from a fresh Apprentice at 30 to nearing the Adept-level threshold of 50 at the mid-40s was something that took at least a year of dedicated training for the decently talented; and many years for the average person. And Orodan had just crossed that gulf within fifty attempts, via the circumstances that let him loop.

Nobody else could match this insane rate of learning, and if people knew how fast he could grow in skill… they might be willing to kill him or worse. Life and death battles were widely agreed upon as the single best way to raise skill levels, however it was incredibly risky, and the rate of skill gain was commensurate with the danger to oneself in these battles.

Coddled rich youths attempting to kill slimes and goblins with someone overseeing their safety experienced growth rates slightly higher than regular training. Whereas soldiers who survived hellish battles and situations often came back with incredible gains which changed their lots in life. Such was the System which governed all aspects of life upon their world.

But who could dare to consistently train the way Orodan did? For him, dying meant nothing as he’d just reset back to being awoken by harpies in the deep night. So, having almost fifty life and death battles within the course of a single day and dying in forty-three of those fights held no consequences.

In fact, right at this moment based on his talent and age alone, Orodan could leave the Volarbury county militia behind and apply to the Capital Guard or an academy. While not at the level of a prodigy, he would certainly qualify as being called a very good talent if he were to undergo the examination right now for the average academy.

But was that even what he wanted? To merely be a great talent in an average academy?

No.

Orodan’s ambitions extended higher than simply attending an academy. Maybe one day once he had resolved the issues of this calamitous day, he’d think about sitting down and attending classes in a structured environment. But an academy lacked the edge of death and real experiences that were allowing him to advance so quickly now.

He changed his active title to Combat Apprentice, and for the first time in forty-four loops, moved on from the damned Temple.

***

Orodan managed to make it to his local barracks in Ogdenborough with time to spare before roll call. Physical Fitness was a skill that naturally lagged behind by ten to twenty levels for almost everyone but the most insane of people. And even Orodan who was considered a very hard worker with a high level in Physical Fitness wasn’t exempt from this.

But having 31 Physical Fitness now made running between towns dramatically easier for him. The additional two levels he gained in Sprinting during his battles against that Argon archer-assassin now made what was a half-hour’s travel, into a sprint he finished in less than ten minutes.

He went straight for Sergeant Woodgard’s office and knocked on the door.

“Come in!” a man barked from inside.

Orodan walked in and saw the man swamped with paperwork and looking rather stressed.

“Sergeant, I’d like to report a crime, sir,” Orodan said and stood at attention.

“What the bloody hells, Wainwright! It’s Liberation Day, a half-hour before shift and you want to put more on my plate?!” The man barked, but not with any real venom. He then sighed and continued. “Well? Out with it.”

“On the way back from the Temple in Scarmorrow this morning I was attacked by an enforcer of House Argon who tried to kill me. I managed to fight him to a standstill and get away, but I overheard something about a plot of theirs to smuggle Guzuharan raiders into Volarbury County via the tavern at Eversong Plaza,” Orodan finished, and he noticed the Sergeant’s face getting redder by the second.

“So that was you?! Wainwright, why the flying fuck are you fighting the men of a noble house in another town?! Do you understand how much work you’ve created for me?! I’ve been hearing reports about that fight for the last half hour!” The man roared with spittle flying from his mouth. He then calmed himself for a moment and spoke more calmly. “But… eyewitness reports are conflicting as the county militia got there well after the fact. Some reports say it was an Adept-level fight, some are saying it was at least high-level Apprentices doing battle. So… care to explain why you’re coming to me claiming to have fought off someone that’s on the cusp of reaching Adept-level at least?”

“Sir, if you pull out the Observer orb, I can show you,” Orodan calmly explained, and to his credit Sergeant Woodgard stopped his usual angry tirade and simply pulled the orb out, seemingly interested in what he was about to see.

Observer orbs were commonplace. It was the artificers’ solution to making the common Observe spell that diviners and nobles used available for widespread use. It was a technological innovation widespread across the continent and beyond. As long as the individual voluntarily placed their hand on the orb, the reading would show up on a mana-powered display.

Orodan placed his hand on the orb and after a moment the readings began to display. Titles and skills were what was displayed. Available titles were not shown only the ones someone chose to display. And neither were Blessings, although any competent diviner, or a priest of the relevant divinity could detect Blessings if in close proximity to someone.

“Alright… now let’s see here…” Sergeant Woodgard muttered and began to look through the display. And then he promptly froze.

He remained silent and his face made a range of different expressions before he finally spoke.

“Combat Apprentice?” He quietly asked in the most subdued voice he’d ever heard from the man. “Apprentice level in Shield Mastery and Physical Fitness too? Three Uncommon skills and a Rare skill? Two of which are active combat skills…”

“Yes sir,” Orodan happily replied, although he wouldn’t deny he was feeling at least a bit smug and enjoying Sergeant Woodgard’s reaction and complete change of demeanour.

“This is…” He stopped for a moment to gather himself. “Your last examination at the Observer orb was over a year ago when you first signed up with the county militia… and your skills, while promising, weren’t anywhere near this at the time.” Sergeant Woodgard slowly spoke, almost taking care not to talk out of turn.

Truthfully, to Orodan while this was initially amusing, it was now slightly awkward.

Sergeant Woodgard was essentially now treating him as though he was a superior that couldn’t be spoken down to.

Which… in a sense wasn’t an unwise attitude. Orodan used to be the second strongest member of the barracks, but now he currently was the most powerful person by a ridiculous gap. He could legitimately fight against an Adept level combatant and hold his own given all his skills, and the active combat skills he had.

In fact, only the nearest mounted unit might have individuals that could beat him one-on-one at this time. And not just the rank and file among them but the mounted unit captains who were Adepts would be needed to take him on.

But most glaring was his Combat Mastery skill, sitting at 32, which gave him a massive advantage over most people at the same level. Combat Mastery was an amplifier type skill which determined someone’s combat instincts and how good they were at fighting in general.

It governed technique, instincts, reflexes and an understanding of the flow of combat. It was an amplifier on almost everything a warrior had available to them in a fight. And most people at the Apprentice level were lucky to have it exceed 10. Even Orodan originally having it at 11 was considered quite excellent in the context of the militia and indicative of his rough upbringing.

The world was bigger than just the Volarbury county militia however.

But 32? Level 32 Combat Mastery alongside everything else shown on the display?

Sergeant Woodgard did not want to offend such an individual. And he certainly believed Orodan now about his earlier claim about fighting a near-Adept level member of House Argon. And if he knew the truth, that he’d fought a full-on Adept level individual, he’d tread even more carefully.

“Well then… allow me to congratulate you. I’ll immediately put in for your transfer to Trumbetton, they’ll likely want to sponsor you for entry into the academy in Trumbetton given your talent and age. You can take the rest of the day off… fully paid of course,” Sergeant Woodgard said, with a very deferential tone of voice.

“Thank you, sir, but I’d like to remain on-shift and assist with today, particularly with the matter involving House Argon I just spoke of,” Orodan replied.

Sergeant Woodgard nervously bit his lip and seemed as though he wanted to pull his little remaining hair out.

As much as the Republic of Aden claimed to be a… republic; the Volarbury county militia were primarily funded by and under the authority of House Firesword whose base of power was in Trumbetton, the largest town in Volarbury County. And the leadership of every barracks in the county knew that Burgher Ignatius Firesword, the head of the noble house, was a seeker of talent who expected the county militia to deliver all talented youth to Trumbetton where they would be assessed and sent to academies or placed under apprenticeships as suitable.

It was a decent system which led to a good life for aspiring youth, where if they displayed exceptional talent in the martial arts they would be sponsored to enter a martial academy and serve the Volarbury county militia in a specialized unit, or serve House Firesword directly depending on the needs of the House.

