“What is he doing?” Stella asked. She and Elise had come out of the house and saw Donald's dive bomb attack.

“Digging his grave.” Ren said and shook his head. “That poor man.”

Elise snorted a laugh. “He'll be fine.” She said and put a hand on Ren's shoulder. “They've been married a long time.”

“I hope they stay that way.” Ren said and looked at the churning water. Barbara and Donald broke the surface of the water, and she was already slapping him all over.

“I'm going to kill you!” *Slap* “How could you do that to me?” *Slap* “You embarrassed me in front of Ren!” *Slap*

All Donald did was laugh in response.

“They started playing already?” Barbi asked after she had come out of the change room. “It looks like fun.”

Ren, Denise, Stella, and Elise turned to look at her, and they all stared at her. She was wearing a nice one piece bathing suit that would fit anyone comfortably; but for some reason, it looked scandalous on her. Her breasts were almost popping out of it, even though it was a conservative swimsuit. It was also so tight on the bottom that it was like she wasn't wearing anything at all.

“Can I take a turn next?” Barbi asked and looked at Ren and the other women. “What is it?” She asked and looked down at herself. “I know it's not on backwards, because I put it on right.” She said and turned around to stick out her well-formed backside as she pointed to a small square bulge at the top of her butt. “The tag is right there.”

“Good god.” Ren whispered because he could clearly see... well, everything. The rest of her might resemble a Barbie doll; but, she is definitely anatomically correct.

“You're looking pretty intensely.” Barbi said and bent over further and Ren caught his breath. “Don't tell me I stained it already?” She asked, then reached between her legs and started to rub herself. “I can't see it.” She said. “Is it wet? It doesn't feel wet.”

Ren's mouth dropped open, and Elise reached over and gently closed it for him.

“You're fine, Barbi.” Elise said.

“What a relief.” Barbi stopped rubbing herself and stood up. “I'll get it dry cleaned if it happens.”

“You don't have to do that.” Elise said. “We usually just let them soak overnight.”

“Okay.” Barbi said. “This one is pinching a little; but, it's the only one that fit me from shoulder to hip.” She reached down to grab the crotch and pulled it down, wiggled a little, and let it snap back into place. “There, that's better.” She beamed a smile. “I'll bring my own swimsuit over tomorrow.”

Officer Holly came out of the change room, and she wore a nice blue pair of bikini bottoms and a baggy t-shirt. “I'm here.” She said. “Let's get this party going.”

“Ren's already going.” Stella laughed, and everyone looked down at Ren. He had his hands over himself and his face was red; but, there was no stopping anyone from noticing his excited condition.

“Was that for me?” Barbi asked, and Ren nodded. “That's so sweet.” She said. “Thank you.”

Ren blinked his eyes for a moment. “You're not insulted?”

“Of course not.” Barbi laughed. “It's a compliment.”

“You really think that?” Officer Holly asked, and Barbi nodded.

“It means I still got it.” Barbi said and licked her fingertip and touched her hip. “Hsss.”

“Hey, what's going on?” Lisa asked from the water near the side of the pool closest to them.

“Barbi's still got it, apparently.” Officer Holly said, and Barbi did the same motion and hissed again.

Lisa laughed. “Are you too hot to get in the pool?”

“We were just waiting for the epic war to end.” Stella said and pointed.

Everyone turned to see Barbara and Donald making out in the shallow end of the pool.

“I guess peace was declared.” Elise said.

“Everyone into the pool!” Ren said to distract them from his embarrassment, stood up from the wheelchair, and jumped into the pool.

“You said you were just going to watch, you little sneak!” Denise said and jumped in after him.

Stella, Elise, Barbi and Officer Holly exchanged glances, shrugged their shoulders, and jumped in, too.
