Swallowing her fear, Yuzhen pressed on. “I understand your anger, but if you consider the matter from a broader perspective, you will see he has no choice in the matter. Had Rain brought his findings to the Legate in private, then perhaps justice could have been served, but he didn’t. With the citizens up in arms, if the Legate confirms that the attack was planned, then it could spark a riot which will only end with bloodshed, an outcome we can ill-afford. Ruling the shark attack an act of nature was the only way to resolve the situation peaceably, and sending guards to watch over Rain would run counter to the ruling.”

“Hmph. You think me a mule-headed fool? I know this much and I agree with the Legate’s decision, though his actions leave me wanting.” Glaring out the corner of her eye, Akanai sneered and continued. “Ask yourself this, child: Why do you think the boy did what he did?”

Damn. Yuzhen had hoped to avoid this topic. “Because,” she Sent, inwardly sighing, “Rain doesn’t trust the Legate.”

“And for good reason. The Imperials all tout on about stability and solidarity, of uniting to face our enemies, but they would leave us all to burn if it suited their purpose.”

A bleak and fatalistic outlook, but having heard about Akanai’s last run-in with an Imperial Scion and Central in particular, Yuzhen could hardly blame her. As reward for her heroic service, Akanai was publicly mocked by an Imperial representative, which gave the nobles of Central courage enough to hunt her down for sport. Still hoping to keep Akanai from making a rash decision, Yuzhen tried a different approach. “Yes, but now circumstances have changed. They need us, but we also need them, now more than ever. If Central falls to the Defiled, the North and South will follow soon after. The only way for the Empire to survive is to work together.”

“No point telling me, child. Tell the Legate. He does nothing to win us over, leaving little Rain to fend for himself and doing nothing to dissuade our would-be assassins. What does it matter to him if a talented Bekhai youth dies young? The Empire needs capable experts now, not ten years from now.” Leaping onto her waiting quin, Akanai’s penetrating stare locked Yuzhen in place, her voice soft yet determined as she spoke aloud. “As a young child, I left home to join the Imperial Army, dreaming of finding honour and glory through battle. I served my time fighting brigands, hunting Defiled, escorting caravans, and guarding nobles, all the while watching in envy as lesser warriors rose through the ranks above me. For fifty years I toiled and bled for the Empire as an unranked soldier, my efforts and achievements ignored because of my gender and heritage, and when my term of service came to an end, I left with no rank and no reward, with nothing to show for my sacrifice.”

Forestalling Yuzhen’s rebuttal with an upraised hand, Akanai shook her head and continued. “Let me finish. Upon returning home, I realized how fortunate I was to escape intact. Many of those who I’d left with or followed in my footsteps had returned home crippled and broken, and they were the lucky ones. Still yearning to serve the Empire, I created the Khishigs to protect the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains and give our children a place to hone their skills without subjecting themselves to the harsh treatment of the Empire.” Chuckling, she added, “After fifty years of service, I finally obtained a promotion, given the rank of Major sight unseen just because I had five-thousand Martial Warriors standing behind me.”

“Why are you telling me all of this?” Yuzhen asked, worried she already knew the answer.

With a sad smile, Akanai sighed and shrugged. “So you will understand why I believe the Empire will always be divided. Unity, harmony, solidarity, these are all dreams which will never come to pass, not entirely. Just look at your own Society and you will know this to be true. As we speak, every faction in the Empire is busy making allies and jockeying for position, hoping to save their strength at the expense of another during the upcoming war.” Speaking over her shoulder as she turned to leave, Akanai added, “We will face the Defiled and emerge victorious, of this I have no doubt. My only concern is making sure enough of my people survive to see it through.”

Mind blanking at the implications, Yuzhen stood in shock and watched Akanai ride away, unable to refute her arguments. Worse, Akanai touched on another issue without outright mentioning it, but it was a matter which kept Yuzhen awake at night. The Society would come together when faced with an outsider, but they went right back to squabbling the moment the threat was taken care of. How would the Empire fare if there were no Defiled around to threaten it?

“She likes you,” Gerel said as he brought her horse around.

“Oh yes, I can tell,” Yuzhen replied, voice dripping with sarcasm.

“No, I mean it.” Covertly patting her behind while pretending to help her onto her horse, Gerel smirked in the face of her glare. “She wouldn’t speak to you if she didn’t.” Switching to Sending, Gerel added, “Baatar told me she hated talking about her time in the army. It was harder than she lets on. Truth is, she loves the Empire more than most, or at least the ideals behind the Empire. ‘Every man and woman working towards a common goal, for the safety and well-being of all’. When she discovered those ideals were nothing but lies, she returned home and made a community which fit those ideals, our own little Empress of the mountains.”

Smiling at how proud he looked, Yuzhen asked, “You admire her. Are you trying to make me jealous?”

“Yes. Is it working?” Wagging his eyebrows, he set out after his ‘little Empress’ and Sent, “Come, let’s go check on Rain. It’s not often you get a chance to see someone go through an Awakening for the second time.”

...

“What?”

Chapter Meme
