The two spent the rest of the day together, with Elise answering hundreds of questions, and giving a few brief lessons on how to behave properly when Charlotte did something particularly feral. Elise stayed a day after that as well, this time taking the day to go hunting and fill up Astrid’s Star with some food reserves. She also showed Charlotte how to butcher a deer. Elise wasn’t exactly an expert on this, but she had picked up a few things here and there, and at least knew how to do it better than Charlotte’s method of wrapping it in web, and tearing off pieces when hungry.

That night, Elise used dreamwalking to contact Sophie, only to find that their time zones were quite far off. It was the middle of the night for her, but it was morning for Sophie, and she was sitting on the couch in the living room with Nick and Bianca while a group of investigators swept the house. Elise managed to tell Sophie that she was alright, but one of the investigators started giving Sophie a funny look as Elise spoke, so she cut the connection as soon as she could.

The rest of the night passed peacefully before it was finally time for Elise to head back underground. Charlotte grew a bit defiant again at that point, trying to convince Elise to take her along again, but Elise remained firm. Charlotte could not come. Not yet, at least.

“I’ll be back in a week, though,” said Elise. “So it won’t be long.”

“A week…”

“Seven days,” Elise clarified. “So just keep practicing your soul techniques as much as you can, and see if you can figure out how to be stealthy. If you can be stealthy, I can take you down sooner.”

Charlotte nodded.

“I will be the stealthiest.”

“I’m sure you will.”

“And I will make you a shirt.”

“You will?”

“Yes. Shirts for friends.”

“Well… Thank you. I would love to have a shirt made by you.”

Charlotte beamed, then pulled Elise into a nearly rib-crushing hug.

“Char– lotte–” Elise wheezed.

“I will miss you,” said Charlotte.

“Me. Too. Now. Please. Put. Me. Down.”

Charlotte held on a little longer, then finally released Elise, who took a few unsteady steps back before righting herself.

“When I come back, we’re going to have a lesson about appropriate force for hugs,” Elise said. “If I was any weaker, you could have killed me.”

“R– really?”

“Really. You need to be careful with your strength.”

“Oh.”

“But it’s okay. We can work on it next time. For now, goodbye, and good luck hunting.”

Elise waved, and Charlotte waved back, and then Elise tore the scroll, trading the rising sun for the darkness of the abandoned city. Shortly after she appeared, the ground hummed as another booming sound came from the center of the city. Not wanting to find out what that was, Elise immediately flew away, out of the territory of whatever that thing was, and toward the edge of the cave.

Now, where’s a good place to settle down…?
