Jane began, “I’ve been invited to join the Army because Bulgan is the lowest man on the totem pole and me being there, flaunting him, will keep him down at the bottom, and not a threat to Spur. Or anyone else that he wasn’t already a threat to.” She paused. When Erick didn’t immediately interrupt, Jane continued, “I’m going to accept. [Teleport] is blocked if a Shade so much as looks at you, but as soon as I eat enough shadow essences, I’ll be able to [Shadowalk], both as a spider, and as a person. That skill still works in my human body.” She added, “That’s one of the main reasons the Mage Trio were willing to pay 10000 gold on the corpse.”

Erick gazed at her, saying nothing.

She waited.

Erick remained quiet. He stood there at the entrance to the kitchen dining room, thinking.

He sighed.

“Good.” Erick sat down at the table, in front of his plate. “I approve. Be sure to run away as fast as you can if you ever see a Shade. They don’t look like those big monsters we saw yesterday… Ah… No two days ago.” Erick stared at her, saying, “They look like they looked in life, but with all the powers of those giant forms.”

“Um. Yeah? Okay?” Jane was flummoxed. Her words didn’t work right. Erick was supposed to yell and scream. Not… Accept what Jane was saying. But. She could take the win. “Well. Sure. Uh.” She started digging in to her own plate of steak and eggs and salad. She stopped. She turned to Erick. “It’s called [Avatar of Melemizargo]. I’ve read up on the place and the various known dangers… rather extensively. Both first hand accounts and accredited treatises. I’ve done a lot of research before I decided to pursue this option. Ar’Kendrithyst is home to some of the highest level monsters on the continent… unless I were to go mucking around in the forests nine thousand kilometers up north. But the rogue dragons up there are much more dangerous than giants and… And other things… in the Dead City.” She quickly added, “And unless I attack the wrong things, I might not ever see a Shade. There’s only 38 known and another 2 suspected Shades, in nearly a million cubic kilometers of dense cityscape. Stay away from the Spire and the Gardens, and the territories, and you… you should be safe.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I approve, Jane. You’re smart, you’re good. Just promise me that you’ll always escape instead of fight, if you look overwhelmed.”

“… I promise to help my teams and myself survive to the best of my ability.”

“… I guess that’s as good as I’m going to get.” Erick sighed. “I’d love to tell you not to go searching for so much danger, but that’s impossible. We’re in danger all the time; but you’re aware of it, and you’re proactive. I approve.”

Jane had dished out dinner, and now sat down at her seat, unsure of everything.

As Erick cut in to his steak, Jane still didn’t know what was going on. She expected a massive fight. She glanced over to Teressa and Poi and Rats, who were divvying up the other steaks Jane had cooked; they had been expecting a massive fight, too.

What was going on, here?

She asked, “What’s going on here, Dad? I expected a fight.”

“You’ve been right about a lot of things. And I had like… four days to think about this, I think? Time was funny during a godly intercession I had with Rozeta. She introduced me to the souls of the people I killed, and there was some closure, and then I spent a lot of time thinking.” He shrugged. “These are my conclusions.”

Rats almost dropped the food, but Teressa and Poi were right there to stop a problem before it happened. A plate still clattered, though. Jane turned away from the drama in the kitchen to focus on her father. He pointedly looked away from Rats, too.

Jane said, “Okay. That’s… Good? Good conclusions.”

“Yup!” Erick had already eaten a bite of steak; as he sliced into the rest, he said, “This is good.”

“… Thanks, Dad.”

“You used those spices from Ratchet, yeah?”

“I did. A bit of both blends, actually.”

“It’s good!” He took a bite of salad. “I miss ranch dressing, though.”

Jane giggled.

The change of atmosphere from some dreadful thing to talking about ranch dressing was par for the course, for her father. He liked to keep things light and airy, except when he didn’t.

Jane had expected this to be a heavy conversation.

But it wasn’t.

Jane returned to eating her olive oil and vinegar dressing salad.

Then she had a thought.

“Ranch dressing is...” Jane rattled off, “Equal parts mayo, buttermilk, sour cream, a bit of chives, onion powder, garlic powder, and more dill than the other herbs. And salt, black pepper, and lemon.” Jane paused. She waved off, “And something else, too. Parsley? Maybe.”

Erick stopped eating, then laughed. He asked, “Why haven’t you made any! You love it, too.”

“It’s just food. And I don’t have [Grow].”

“Food is wonderful! You should get [Grow]!”

“You know what’s wonderful? Potatoes. I miss potatoes, Dad. And corn! Grilled corn to go with the grilled steaks.”

“I’ll make some when you make me ranch dressing~”

Jane smiled. “I’ll write down the recipe. Not sure how to make mayo, though.”

“Oh! That’s easy. Oil, egg, mustard seeds, and salt. Blend, then drizzle more oil in slowly while blending really well the whole time. Add some lemon juice at the end. I made some spicy mayo for the last neighborhood party and got to shove that gourmet mix right in Francine’s face. You remember her— of course you remember her! Well! My bowl was empty. Hers was full.” He stopped. He said, “I need to make lemons. Lemon juice is in everything.”

“Don’t forget the potatoes!” She paused. She asked, “How do you make sour cream? Can’t have mashed potatoes without sour cream.”

“Cream and lemon juice!”

Jane laughed. Erick smiled.

Jane liked seeing her dad smile; he was usually full of laughs and jokes, and while most of them were terrible, he tried so, so much harder than the dads of all of the other kids, back when Jane was a kid herself. He was a really good guy. Jane hoped that this adjustment she was seeing was something good; something to be encouraged. Not just a candle flickering bright right before it guttered to ash.

Jane and Erick both stayed up for a few hours, then they both went back to their own beds.

They both slept till the sun came up.

Poi, Rats, and Teressa took turns staying awake, though, each of them catching a few more hours of sleep during the night.

- - - -

The next morning, Jane did some stretches, had a light breakfast, said ‘later’ to her father, then went to the Courthouse to sign up for Spur’s ‘Army’. She filled out her paperwork, then got called in to the Lieutenant’s office. There sat Jane’s first problem, in the form of a grey metal wrought dragonkin named Liquid, second in command to Spur’s Army.

“DENIED.” Liquid gleefully smiled as she slammed a red stamp across Jane’s paperwork. “You’re missing several necessary skills! Good bye!”

Jane almost phhhbt’d. “What am I missing?”

Liquid slid Jane back her failed paperwork. “I’m not your mother; do some research.”

Jane snapped up her paperwork, then went to figure out where she fucked up. Jane had heard stories about the logistical side of the Army being led by a grade-A asshole, but to actually see it in person was a different experience entirely.

She paused in the middle of the Courthouse. She remembered back to her first day, when she and her father were being led by a bluescale rookie to Irogh’s office, and the bluescale got into some yelling match with a grey metal wrought dragonkin; that grey metal wrought was the one Jane had just spoken to.

That had been Liquid.

Jane experimentally clapped with one hand, like Bluescale had done.

Redscale Taro was walking by, on his way to somewhere, but he stopped and laughed when he saw Jane clap with one hand. “She’s kind of a sandflea, isn’t she?” He clapped with one hand, his claws clacking against scales.

“What does the hand thing mean? I’ve never seen anyone else use the gesture.”

Taro shook his head. “No one knows; but it pisses her off.” He pointed to her papers, “Don’t do it while you’re actually in the Army, though. She’ll make your life hell.”

She asked, “Would you happen to know the full prerequisite—”

Some other people rushed over to talk to Taro. The new people looked concerned and talked loudly.

Jane said, “Nevermind. Thanks, Taro,” as she walked away.

Taro waved her goodbye, but was already trying to defuse whatever situation the new people were throwing at him.

Jane looked around, trying to decide where to find out what she needed to know. She had thought she was prepared; she had read up on the prerequisites for joining the Army, and she had already ticked off every box. But apparently she hadn’t.

Irogh’s blue door was ajar.

Well that was as good a lead as any.

Jane walked across the courthouse and knocked on the open blue door.

“Come in!”

Jane entered. “Hello. Quick questions, if you have a moment?”

Irogh set down his book. “I certainly do.”

Jane stepped into the room. She did not sit down. “What prerequisites am I missing to get past Lieutenant Liquid and into the Army? Killzone invited me, and I checked all the boxes, so… I’m not sure what’s the problem.”

Irogh made a small gesture with one hand and the blue door shut. He said, “There are several unlisted prerequisites: [Telepathy], [Prestidigitation], and some way to kill 10 to 20 shadowolves at once, under ideal conditions. Most people achieve this with [Force Crash: Decay], or [Chain Force Beam], or some other method. If you have [Shadowalk] you can forgo the kill requirement, but there’s no way around [Telepathy] and [Prestidigitation]. The first is used to communicate, the second is used to communicate when the first can’t be used, and to leave trails for others to follow. You are also required to have 2 free points that a commander can call upon to spend how they see fit, at any point in time.”

“… Literally none of that was in the paperwork.”

“Yup.” Irogh just nodded, like he could say more, but also he couldn’t.

“What other requirements can [Shadowalk] let you ignore?”

“Do you have [Shadowalk]?”

Jane frowned. She did not. She asked, “Is there a way to get about a thousand more shadow essences?”

“Yes. You could go to the Underworld entrance, to the north; a lot of shadow monsters spill out from the Sinkhole. Though you should be exceptionally careful about using your spider form there; being an adventurer is already dangerous enough without painting a target on your back, and there are a lot of adventurers in that area. Other than that, you should be able to find a shadow essence every hundred wolves or so.”

Jane felt her stomach drop. So much for wolf farming.

“One last question: I thought [Telepathy] was restricted by law?”

“It is. But you won’t get prosecuted unless you abuse it; every soldier has [Telepathy].” Irogh asked, “Are you sure that’s all your questions? I can help more than this.”

Jane thought. She asked, “Would wading into a pack of wolves with a [Force Shard Aura] check off that box of ‘capable of killing 20 wolves at once’?”

“Yes. They swarm when they can. So, if there aren’t any cats directing the wolves, and you can survive such a maneuver, an invisible [Force Shard Aura] will satisfy this requirement. But wolves won’t approach if they see danger flying all around you. They’re dumb, but not that dumb.”

Jane smiled. She already had [Invisible Shard Aura].

Invisible Shard Aura, 4 MP per second, close range

A storm of invisible blades surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage.

Jane said, “Thank you very much, Irogh.”

He gestured at the door; it opened with a click. “Anytime, Jane.”

- - - -

Jane stood on the Courthouse steps and looked at her Status.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 33, Class: None

Exp: 381,601/570,288,700

Class: -/-

Points: 2

HP

1500/1500

1500 per day

MP

1800/1800

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

30

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

2 free points. Enough for [Prestidigitation] and [Telepathy], but not enough to satisfy the ‘2 free points’ requirement.

… She could do this. She could get this done today. One more level was only, like, 30 mimics? That’s… doable. Theoretically. Jane frowned. For not the first time, she was more than a little jealous of her father, and especially of [Withering].

Jane rushed over to the Adventurer’s Guild and picked up a kill quest for 10 crystal mimics. Getting the quest itself didn’t take long. Mimic kill quests were basically just rolling up to the window and telling the receptionist that you’re going to kill some mimics. But Paril, the tealscale on duty, liked to talk.

“Are you venturing with anyone else?” asked Paril.

“Solo,” said Jane. “Not sure where, though.”

“You be careful out there, love. There’s hunters out there in the Forest.”

Jane thought this would be a quick trip to the Guild, but hearing ‘hunter’, Jane paused. “Hunter?” she asked. “Really?” She looked to the board. “Is there a bounty? What level are they? Where are they?”

