“Oh, gosh, no. No bounty yet. A team came in missing four of six people not an hour ago, claiming the killers were at least level 40. Mog’s debriefing them now.” Paril said, “The quest will probably go up this afternoon but hunters don’t like to stick around. Or maybe they will? This particular group was out west at the thousand kilometer ring. So just don’t stick around that and you should be fine. But you never know with adventurer killers. Sickos sometimes stick around, taunting others into ambushes in hopes of a high level payday.” Paril chastised, “Don’t get suckered into those kinds of fights, Jane!”

“I don’t plan on it, but if there’s no quest, then I have work to do. Thanks for the warning, Paril.”

“You take care, now, and watch your back!”

Jane smiled, nodding. She would have eight eyes out there; she could certainly watch her own back, and front, and sides, and the skies, all at the same time.

- - - -

Jane stood under the open sky, far from Spur, but her view was from a thousand feet above, with a [Scry] eye. She was alone out here, as far as she could see. She had to [Teleport] twice, traveling 1570 kilometers east with two trips, to get to this barren hunting ground.

There shouldn’t be any interruptions. She wasn’t anywhere near the thousand kilometer ring around Spur where adventurers liked to congregate.

She plotted a preliminary course, her [Scry] eye traveling fast and sure, from the crystal mimic in front of her to the next, and the next. Jane stopped at four mimics, then she returned to herself. She stripped, and for a brief moment, the sun felt good on her bare skin, and wind flowed through her hair. She breathed. She relaxed. She read her skill one more time. It hadn’t changed since she ate that entire spider.

Polymorph, instant, 500 MP

Change your physical body.

Familiar Forms: 2/6

~Jane Flatt

~Shadow Spider

She had read a lot of books about [Polymorph] and spoken to several people in the Guild, and the Oceanside Trio, about [Polymorph]; they all said the same thing. [Polymorph] is perfectly safe as long as you keep 2 or more under your Familiar Form cap. At 1 Familiar Form slot every 5 Willpower, she had room for 2 more forms before problems started to happen.

[Polymorph].

Everything turned to numb, unfeeling mush, for one bright second.

Feeling came back, slowly, first with thousands of tiny air currents across hundreds of thousands of sensory hairs, all across her body. Then came sight from eight eyes, two large forward eyes evolved for maximum hunting ability, six smaller ones to make sure nothing and no one was sneaking up on her. Her fangs felt like daggers attached to her lips, her feet gripped the sand and sunk in a bit. She tapped the ground with her forelegs, she tapped the ground with her back legs. She wiggled her long abdomen and tapped all around with each leg.

[Scry].

A ninth eye, a nightsky blue, appeared in front of Jane’s forward two eyes.

Shadow spiders had a lot of innate abilities, but aside from this one's [Shadowblend] that even worked in Jane’s normal form, none of the spider’s abilities were listed under any Script description that Jane could find; she wasn’t a [Polymage]. She could only activate monster abilities by knowing what they were. Her eyes were the easiest to activate; they were always on. Some sort of [Detect Magic] ability was obvious enough; that’s how the spiders saw the house [Ward]s so clearly. There was also [Darkvision] and [Detect Heat], though Jane was sure the abilities, whatever they were, weren’t called that. The point was, is that Jane saw her own [Scry] eye looking like a floating ball of magic, even without Meditation active.

And Jane saw herself at the same time.

She was a terrifying monster; absolute black with flickering darkness here and there, but the shadows on her were less than those on the original spider.

Jane-Spider was an 8 foot wide hunting spider of unequal measure. She had a long, tapered abdomen with spinnerets able to produce several types of thread, including sticky, steel, anti-magic, gossamer, and net versions of spider silk. Her legs were strong, able to fully utilize her 25 Strength; she could bend inch thick metal bars in both forms. The Guild had lots of those so people could prove their Strength, and Jane had taken one home with her for her own experimentation. Her fangs were massive, combat-knife type fangs, and could apparently suck a cow dry, though she never tried that, nor would she want to. They should be able to also inject paralyzing venom, [Decay] venom, and [Anti-Mind] venom —accounts were hazy about the specifics— but Jane only felt one venom sac behind each of her fangs.

Diet probably accounted for the various known effects.

Jane would likely never have access to anything except [Decay] venom.

She had doubts about her ability to produce anti-magic silk, too. She had tested many different types of silk on herself, and none of them produced the absolute disconnect from the Script that Jane remembered. This was also likely a failure of diet that she would have to live with; she wasn’t about to go live life as a spider.

With the preliminary study of her body done, she abandoned the [Scry], and prepared for the combat portion of her experimentation.

Flex. Then—

Hop!

Jane-spider launched fifteen feet into the air.

She laughed, and her crackling, spider-voice carried on the wind.

The world seemed to unveil itself as she reached the ultimate height of her jump. She saw so, so much, her eight eyes picking up so many details that her human eyes would have missed completely. Her [Detect Magic] effect, or whatever it was, picked up on every Crystal Mimic for miles; they were little beacons to her spider sight. It was beautiful; it was surprising.

Jane was still working out exactly what abilities she had.

Except for one.

Shadowblend, close range, 1 to 10 MP per second

Become one with the shadows.

[Shadowblend] was the only skill that translated into her normal self, and, like all monster skills, only had one rank, and almost no description. Normally, [Shadowblend] would have been considered a failure; people want [Shadowalk]. But Killzone seemed to imply that she could upgrade [Shadowblend] to [Shadowalk] if she ate enough shadow essences as a spider.

How many essences to [Shadowalk] if you started off with the body of a shadowol—

Too much thinking. Get your head in the game, Jane. You’re here for a reason.

[Conjure Armor].

Brilliant blue cloth armor folded around her black chitin, enveloping her body. She gathered up her clothes and wrapped them in a bundle of normal silk, pulled from her spinnerets. With a bit of sticky silk to attach the clothes-sack to her abdomen, she was almost ready.

[Conjure Weapon].

A pair of foot long blue blades attached themselves to her raised forward legs, like spikes at the end of spikes. She attacked the air with them, testing balance.

Jab! Jab! Jab!

Balance felt good. Weight was great. Weapons seemed quick, and sure. They felt like punching daggers, but made her long legs look like spears. They were probably the correct choice of weapon. She would find out soon enough. This was her first time experimenting with her spider-self in a combat setting.

She turned to the crystal mimic, still fifty feet away, still playing the part of an agave, but Jane saw through the lie. It was so easy! With her spider eyes, she saw the magics in the monster’s body; the location of the rad at the mimic’s heart, and the streamers of magic that flowed in veins through the rest of the crystal form. She wouldn’t even need to [Scry] between mimics; she could just jump and spot the next nearest one.

Shadow spiders seemed the perfect ambush predator, especially if this [Detect Magic] ability translated to people using ongoing magical effects.

Too bad Jane was more the direct-type.

She tore across the sands of the Crystal Forest, rushing with six main legs, preparing two forward punching daggers to tear deep into the mimic. Tap tap tap. The mimic noticed. Tap tap tap. Jane ran faster; the mimic started to move. Taptaptaptaptaptap—

Leap!

[Invisible Shard Aura]!

A hundred blades of invisible force swung around Jane, sweeping in from the right like the start of a concentrated, glass-filled tornado. Jane’s six back legs found perfect footholds on the edge of the agave’s sharp spines, then grabbed hold with all of her Strength score behind them. The monster thrashed, but couldn’t attack, not through Jane’s superior, 6 legged leverage. Jane’s forward spear-knives slipped deep into the monster’s center, directly left and right of the central rad, ripping through magical and mundane arteries. Her shard aura shredded the monster, as she held there, digging deep gouges into crystal flesh, spilling clear goop across the sands.

The monster flailed. It didn’t matter.

Twenty damage here, forty damage there; the monster tried to stab, but couldn’t land a direct blow, Jane’s grips and Strength keeping its most dangerous spines in check, her invisible storm of blades constantly slicing deep into faux crystal flesh, clipping off 50 HP, five times a second.

Bigger monsters suffered more with AoE auras, and Jane's aura covered the whole body of the mimic.

The monster thrashed. One spider-foot slipped, a hundred damage cut into her [Ward] as her leg skidded along the sharp edge. More heavy damage came as Jane lost her footing. She leapt away before the mimic could land a critical blow, [Strike]ing her own two swords wide as she left, ripping through the central stalk, almost splitting it in half. The monster screamed, shrill, then quieter.

The mimic tried to run, tried to fight, but it just bled out, too much damage done near its central mass for it to survive. Jane watched as it died. A message popped up out of the corner of her vision.

You have slain Crystal Mimic A!

95% participation!

+20,693,935 exp

The whole fight took about ten seconds.

Good experience, but the kill was kind of sloppy. Dad was right about at least one thing: no need to inflict excess suffering, especially on a pest species. This mimic had suffered too much. Jane could definitely do better. She harvested the rad from the mimic, and slipped it into a silk pouch. By the time she made her way to the next mimic, her mana and her personal [Ward] were both back up to full.

She killed Mimic B much quicker. The key was [Strike]ing multiple times in quick succession, which was easily accomplished with two quick thrusting forelegs. Everything else was the same, from holding down the counter attack, to attacking around the central rad.

Mimic C went even faster. She used [Silent Movement X], this time.

The remaining mimics never knew what killed them.

- - - -

Jane finished off mimic #22 with perfectly practiced silent ease, when the notification came. She leveled.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 34, Class: None

Exp: 13,255,031/922,746,500

Class: -/-

Points: 4

HP

1500/1500

1500 per day

MP

1800/1800

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

30

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

She bought [Prestidigitation] and [Telepathy].

Prestidigitation 1, 1 hour, short range, 10 MP

Create minor magical effects that last for 5 minutes per spell level.

Exp: 0/100

Telepathy 1, self, super long range, 1 MP per minute + Variable

Communicate with the minds of people you know. 1 connection available per level. Unwanted connections are harmful to caster.

Exp: 0/100

A few hours had passed since she started killing mimics, but she was done, for now. If she really needed to, she could probably push to level 35. Maybe 36, if she really had to, but that would take hundreds of mimics.

… She could do that.

But did she need to? No. She planned on getting into the Dead City today. Even though her Mana Exhaustion limit was something like 15000, she had already gone through a few thousand by now. Who knew how much she would need to keep in reserve once she got inside the walls?

She dispelled her weapons and her armor.

[Polymorph].

Jane slipped out of her spider self, back into human form. The spider silk bag that had been wrapped around her abdomen now hung loose around her legs. She felt her skin as she extracted herself from the silk net. Yup. All normal skin. She felt her scalp, and slipped her fingers through smooth, human hair that barely touched her shoulders. Two eyes, no fangs. Just to be sure nothing was off, she looked at herself with [Scry].

Yup. All normal.

There had not been a single instance where she had retained other-animals body parts after she had transformed back, but still… She was a little paranoid. Transforming into that not-bear abomination had really freaked her out.

She ripped open the silk bag and put on her clothes, then placed the sack of rads into her shoulderbag, leaving the rest of the spider silk behind, to dry out in the midday sun. It was good to be human again, so she took off on a light jog toward Spur. Jane reveled in the feel of blood pumping through her body, savoring the desert air. Her hair hit her in the face, though. She slowed. She took a hair clip from her bag, and put her hair up in a bun at the back of her head. She had had short hair, but every time she came back to her own body, her hair was shoulder length, again.

When she had enough of a jog, she stopped to stare at the sky.

