In a blip of blue, Jane moved a thousand kilometers closer to Spur, then in another blip, she was one kilometer from the eastern gates. Here and there in a wide open part of the Crystal Forest around her, other people were either blipping in, or blipping out, in teams or singular. There weren’t any roads to Spur; [Teleport] was the only way to travel. If you weren’t in the Wayfarer’s Guild, the Guard tended to frown upon people ‘porting into the city proper.

She said hello to the guards at the gates; they said ‘hello’ back. They knew her well.

- - - -

Jane turned in her mimic kill quest by verifying the truth of her actions over a glowing green stone.

“They caught the hunters,” said Paril, the tealscale receptionist, writing down Jane’s actions in her ledger. “It’s so weird, too!”

“Who were they?”

“The guy who came in lied to Guildmaster Mog. He was the hunter, trying to cover his ass.” Paril handed over 15 gold—

Jane put her hand up. “Ah. Direct deposit, actually. Sorry about that. What about this liar, now?”

“Sure thing, hon.” Paril took the gold back. “This guy thought he could pull one over on us! Anywho, he’s sitting in jail now, but he’s headed for execution unless a [Witness] reveals something we don’t already know. The nerve of some people. Are you going out again?”

“Not for any quests, no.” Jane smiled. “I like talking to you, Paril, but I won’t be able to talk for a while. I’m joining Spur’s Army, if I can get through the prerequisites.”

Paril paused. She frowned. “Jane. You’re reckless. Don’t get your father mad. He’s liable to blow a hole in that wall if you die, and then we’re all screwed.”

“I have [Shadowblend] and I’ve read about how the city works.” Jane smirked. “I’m glad to know where your concern actually lies, though.”

“Adventurers got to look out for themselves, then everyone else. I used to be out there with all of you, till I saw one too many people lie down and never get back up. Don’t let that happen to you, you hear?”

“I won’t let that happen to me.” Jane waved, walking away, saying, “See you later, Paril.”

“Bye, Jane! I mean it! Be careful in there.”

- - - -

Jane laid an updated application on the receptionist’s desk. In a few minutes, she was called in to see Liquid. The grey metal wrought was not very gleeful, this time.

This time, Jane had added [Telepathy] and [Prestidigitation] in the ‘extra competencies section’, along with 2 extra points to spend, and her ability to wade into a pack of monsters with an AOE damage aura, as well as [Shadowblend]. The application made no hint that any of that was needed. All the application expected of the applicant was at least 600 HP, 600 MP, the ability to kill shadowolves, a 1 month commitment to start, and a letter of recommendation or a contact in the Army. Jane had no letter, but she listed her contact as ‘Killzone’.

Liquid sighed. She picked up a different rubber stamp, and said, “Approved,” as she stamped the word across the application. Liquid looked straight at Jane, saying, “This is not a game. You should have taken the failed application and stuck to the world outside the Dead City. People like you die all the time in there.”

“No offense meant, ma’am, but you’ve never seen anyone like me.”

“I am two hundred and eighty years old. I have seen every single type of person there ever was, or ever will be.” Liquid frowned. “And I have loved every single one of them like they were family. 90% of them died in the first year. I keep telling myself to stop caring for the new kids, but I can’t help it. So if you could, be more of a bitch so I can write you off early.”

“Then maybe we should kill all the Shades, ma’am, and take back the city.”

Liquid full stopped. She began to chuckle, breaking into a full laugh. Then she sighed, and said, “If you can do it without inciting Great Purge… More power to us all.” She frowned. “You have been accepted into Spur’s Army. Your contract is renewed monthly at the discretion of me, up to the first year, where you can then sign on for a longer contract and be awarded better duties. As a new recruit, your main duties will be monster killing, and whatever the officers on location demand of you…”

Jane listened. She knew everything Liquid was saying before she signed up, but it was Liquid’s prerogative to make sure Jane knew what she was getting into. Jane wasn’t ready to commit years to Ar’Kendrithyst, but after a few months, who knew? Maybe she would. From what she had read and heard around the Guild and around town, the Army and the Guard were two of the best jobs around, and in the Army, Jane could expect to help a lot of people, and gain a lot of levels.

The Army hadn’t been Jane’s initial choice, but the soldier life might actually be better than the life of a solo adventurer.

Liquid handed Jane some more papers, saying, “Even if you haven’t listened to everything I’ve said—”

Okay. Maybe Jane should listen a bit more.

“—Hold this in your heart: Spur’s Army is not traditional. We are an army of irregulars, since transient adventurers do become soldiers of Spur for short periods of time. Our two main goals are to secure our territory, and rescue adventuring teams from themselves, UNLESS they are under direct attack from a Shade. In the case of a Shade, if the team can make it back to Forward Base on their own, they’re safe. We WILL NOT rescue people from Shades outside of our territory. You can let people try to rescue their own members, but be aware that letting anyone fight a Shade will only end in them dying, too. Even if an unfortunate soul is just one step outside the boundary, we will not rescue them from a Shade. Do you need me to repeat any of that? Have I made myself clear?”

“As air.” Jane gathered the papers. They were directions to Forward Camp, a map of the camp and the surrounding area, processing papers for the person on duty there, and a map of Ar’Kendrithyst. Jane flipped through the main map; it was several pages long and about as detailed as any other map she had been able to find. A top layer, three middle layers, three bottom layers, most of them with great big blank spots. A lot of blank spots, actually. “What’s with the blank spots?”

“Killzone is waiting for you.” Liquid put her right fist over where her heart would have been, if she were an actual dragonkin and not a grey metal wrought. “Dismissed. May the Relevant Entities of the Script look kindly upon your soul.”

Jane stood, put her fist over her heart, and walked out of Liquid’s office.

- - - -

First, Jane went to her dad.

He was in the garden, making not-lemon trees. Greyscale spice lady Ratchet was there, talking with him about the citrus he was [Grow]ing, as they cut into the sunshine yellow fruits for a taste.

“Oh! So sour!” Ratchet said, her mouth scrunching. “I like it!”

“This one’s the winner!” Erick saw Jane. “Jane! Welcome back.”

“I got approved for the Army. I’m going there right now.”

While Erick’s face suddenly dropped, Jane turned on [Telepathy], and spoke to him in her mind.

‘I also got this, so I’ll ‘call’ you whenever.’

Erick smiled wide, rushing to hug Jane, flooding the feeler of her own mana that linked her to him, projecting his voice into her mind, ‘Ah haha! Good! Yes! Call me and talk to me!’

They embraced, then Jane pulled away, thinking,‘You can probably ask Poi if you want to talk to me, you know. Otherwise I’ll call you every… Every other day. I’m going to be very busy.’

‘Yes yes! You will. I’ll be busy—’

“What’s all this quietness!” Ratchet asked, “Am I losing my best customer to the Army?”

Jane smiled. “Yes, Ms Ratchet. Going there right now; just had to say good bye to Dad, but also ‘I’ll talk to you tonight’.” She turned to Erick. “I love you, Dad. I’m not going very far, but you should not come. I don’t want you in the Dead City, okay?”

“You’re worried about me?” Erick said, “I’m worried about you!”

“I’ll be fine. Don’t go inventing any more world altering spells, though, please.”

Teressa was guarding Erick right now; from her position several feet away and without a helmet on, she was faintly smiling.

“I’ll try not to, but who knows what the future holds?” Erick smiled, a tear quickly falling, then brushed away by the back of his hand. “I love you, Jane. Call me when you get settled.”

“I will.” Jane pulled her shoulderbag around to her front, then pulled out the spidersilk wrapped rads she had harvested from the mimics. “And these are for you.”

Erick stepped away from the silk bag. “Please don’t tell me that’s an egg sack.”

Jane burst out laughing. “No! It’s rads from mimics!” She shoved them at her father. “Take them!”

Erick reluctantly held the spider silk bag. Then he set it down on the ground.

He said, “When I get grandchildren, they better be humanoid.”

Jane laughed again. “I love you, Dad.”

“I love you, too, Jane.” He wiped a tear away. His voice choked, “Ca— Call me later. Okay?”

“I will.”

Jane stepped away, waved, then blipped into the desert north east of Ar’Kendrithyst.

She stared at the sky.

Then she had a little cry.

When she was done, she looked up at the Dead City. She frowned. Her [Teleport] was supposed to get her a little closer than this.

Were the Shades already looking at her?

They might be.

They were. Definitely. One of them was, at least; probably that one.

Probably.

She gazed at the massive, towering walls, then looked right. Spur was somewhere far off in the distance, maybe 40 kilometers in that direction. She turned back toward the wall, to look up, and up. And up. The Dead City was at least two miles away. She could walk… but she had the mana. And she had to make sure of what she was seeing.

[Teleport].

She blipped three feet to the left, not gaining any forward distance. She knew she hadn't gone far because she looked to the right, and saw her footprints in the sand.

Yup. That Shade was here, watching her, preventing her [Teleport].

Jane started walking.

The walls got much, much bigger than she ever thought they could be.

It was early afternoon by the time Jane saw the first overt evidence of the magic of the Dead City. The sun was just over the walls; its shadow in front of Jane a clearly marked line of darkness. The shadow flexed as it crept forward, keeping pace with the sun’s travel across the sky.

Jane smiled and stepped through the dark line. Cold crept up her jeans as the sun vanished. She sighed. It was a refreshing cold. Bracing. Invigorating. Not nearly as deadly as she expected. The line of shadow wasn’t the Shade watching, it was just a well known effect of the Dead City. The Shade was somewhere else.

Soon, Jane saw the Crack in the Wall and the flapping blue flag; she was right on course. As she neared, the walls seemed to loom directly overhead, and the sheer magnitude of it all finally began to feel real.

Jane shook a little, and whether that was from excitement, or fear, she couldn’t tell.

Probably a bit of both.

The Crack beckoned; a massive rent a third of the height of the wall, wide enough for ten people to run side by side. A giant solid blue flag on a hundred foot pole, right in the middle of the Crack, flapped on a strong breeze streaming out from inside the city. As Jane neared, the flapping of the flag and the wind were the only sounds for miles around. The Crack was dark black just inside the edge of the wall, which showed the wall’s browns and whites as nothing more than a thin, foot-wide veneer. Jane walked past the flag, into the Crack. The walls did not feel oppressive from this angle, because, as she walked further, darkness gave way to brilliant crystal light.

She easily passed a hundred feet of dark stone wall, and now, the walls were not black at all.

Deep reds, smokey grey glows, shimmering violets; The wall was not a wall of stone, stacked and manufactured by long dead artisans, but rather, it was grown. And here, Jane was seeing for the first time, exactly what the Dead City truly was.

Ar’Kendrithyst was a geode.

Kendrithyst was both the name of the original city, and the name for the red-violet-smokey crystal that filled the interior.

Jane walked down the sands that had filled in the Crack, into the wind pouring from the interior of the Dead City. She smelled nothing. The air was moist, but not full of life. The light of the afternoon sun bounced in the walls all around her, shimmering smoke and red and purple inside the solid, cracked crystal city wall. The path ahead of her was flat, and clear, with shimmering kendrithyst lights playing across brown sands. There were no obstructions; this path was routinely cleared, but not by the Army.

“HellooOOooooOO! New SoOOldier!”

Jane paused. She had been expecting this.

A very old woman appeared on the sands in the middle of the path. She was a human, wearing rather boring clothes; tunic, pants, no shoes. But the staff in her hands was kendrithyst crystal, and her eyes were black with white irises. She was Fallopolis, Fall of the Metropolis, the only Shade everyone knew was absolutely crazy. All the Shades enjoyed tormenting new people, so the Crack had never been sealed, but Fallopolis actively and openly worked against the other Shades.

That’s what people said, anyway. Mostly, Fallopolis just kept the Crack open, and generally ensured people made it to Forward Base.

Generally.

Jane waited for the Shade to say something else; she wasn’t about to hang herself with her own words, at least not right now.

Fallopolis had paused, too.

Five seconds passed.

