“OH oh OH!” Fallopolis spoke with a wide, happy grin, “It’s yoOOu! You’re on your own, girly. Better run! They’re coming for yoOOu!” She instantly vanished.

The barking of shadowolves crowded the Crack.

Jane ran forward. She had one brief moment to enjoy the view, so she took it.

Ar’Kendrithyst truly was a jewel. The afternoon sun spilled across a landscape of crystal towers and countless bridges, all made of shimmering reds and dozens of violets and smokey quartz of all kinds. There was no horizon, no end to the magnificent crystal city, and all of it glowed brilliant in the sunlight.

Ahead of Jane, the sands of the Crystal Forest spilled directly onto a dark red crystal road.

To her left and her right, were about a hundred wolves on either side, running through the crystal buildings, for shadow played with light everywhere in Ar’Kendrithyst, and if you had the ability, you could walk through the kendrithyst itself.

Jane activated [Swift Movement] without a conscious thought; the skill was so ingrained that she used it almost unconsciously. The next skill did take conscious thought, though.

[Radiant Shard Aura].

Pure radiance flowed from Jane as she raced directly ahead, Forward Base was a good two kilometers away at the end of the red crystal bridge. Nearby wolves cried out in pain; the light blinding to everyone but her. As she left the sands and touched down on the road, her radiance crashed through the road, blinding a hundred more wolves who had been waiting for her. Some of them failed to lift through the road and attack. Others fell from their perch, howling as they fell down, down, into the city, dozens of feet if they were lucky, thousands if they were not.

Jane raced forward, quickly leaving the ambush behind. Her aura scraped and crashed against the crystal road, but whatever kendrithyst was, it was far, far stronger than a tier 2 [Force Shrapnel] aura.

A giant hand appeared in front of Jane; grasping, reaching.

[Shadowblend].

If the wolves could do it, so could she. Jane turned off her aura and melded into the crystal bridge.

This was the easiest [Shadowblend] Jane had ever done. She stayed inside the bridge until she passed the giant—

Until she passed two giants!

She popped up onto the bridge, racing forward, Forward Base was still far, but she could still see what awaited her. Soldiers stood behind barricades at the end of the bridge. Killzone stood behind the soldiers.

Jane [Shadowblend]ed back into the bridge as a third giant tried to slap her into paste with a ten foot wide hand. He slapped the bridge instead, and the bridge cracked. Jane was already past the impact. She slipped onto the surface, out of shadow, as the bridge behind her began to break. Three hundred wolves had been chasing her, but now they weren’t. They scrambled to—

Killzone spoke to her mind, ‘Run faster.’

Jane ignored whatever was going on behind her and ran.

She ran straight ahead for two minutes, [Swift Movement] active the whole time.

She crossed the finish line to zero applause.

… She hadn’t been expecting applause. But she was expecting something. Anything, really.

A nearby orcol with a bit stronger bearing than everyone else, said, “Welcome to Hell Month, rookie. I’m Sargent Nanark. You are the lowest woman on the team, right now.” He pointed back the way Jane had come. “For your first mission, kill your welcoming committee. Giants require concentrated head shots and Decay magic.”

Jane turned around.

Firstly, she noticed how magnificent everything was. Spur-sized towers of crystal, smaller towers of crystal; red, violet, and smokey white, all glittering in the sun. Bridges of crystal ran throughout the whole tangled mess.

Then she looked at the giants. Three of them, each five hundred feet tall, climbing around the city like they were toddlers on a jungle gym. Hundreds of shadowolves followed their own paths through the kendrithyst.

A redscale soldier next to Jane asked, “You don’t also have [Withering], do you?”

“Afraid not!”

“Figured.” Redscale readied a staff. “They wouldn’t let you in here if you did.”

Sargent Nanark stepped to Jane’s side. “Do you have [Force Beam]? Some other long range attack?”

“No sir, but I do have 2 points to spend and 1800 mana. Scion of Balance as well.”

Nanark schooled away a quick smile. “Buy [Force Beam]. Decay it, if you can. Giants constantly heal themselves. Aim for the heads.”

Giants roared as they crashed forward. Shadowolves echoed that roar with a shrill, cascade of anger, as they poured up from the darker depths, up through kendrithyst towers, onto the only bridge leading to Forward Base. Wolves raced around giant feet, rushing forward, slobbering for an easy meal.

Force Beam 1, instant, medium range, 25 mana

A piercing, slicing beam of hardened mana that deals 25 + ½ WIL damage for 1 second

Purchase [Force Beam] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

[Force Beam].

Jane’s new [Force Beam] skill was one of twenty different beams and several different varieties that erupted from Forward Base to strike the first giant. Redscale next to Jane released one of thirty fireballs that exploded the horde. Dozens of specialized [Ward]s clipped into the bridge. Wolves who were trying to pass through the red crystal struck the [Ward Wall] and went tumbling down into kendrithyst depths.

One giant went down. A hundred wolves perished. The second and third giant died much faster, once the rhythm of Forward Base swung into high gear. Jane cast [Force Beam] enough to get up to level 5, sweeping the enemy lines with destructive force, activating the spell as fast as she could, enough to have multiples going at the same time. With Chain, from Mana Altering 9, and Decay, from Mana Altering 8, [Force Beam] cost almost 40 mana a shot, but one beam hit dozens of wolves, though the damage dropped off significantly past the first impact. That was okay, though. Jane saw why Nanark recommended Decay; the wolves couldn’t meld with the kendrithyst crystal bridge while Decay was active, either because they physically couldn’t, or because the pain of Decay destroyed their ability to [Shadowblend]. Decay also prevented healing, but she didn’t get much of a chance to observe that with the giants; they died too fast.

Jane would need to test Decay on herself to make sure she was understanding what she was seeing.

And with that bit of introspection, she looked around the courtyard; Jane was the only one going all out, firing four beams at once into the rushing horde.

This kind of attack was common. Jane needed to pull back a bit. Conserve her mana. With [Force Beam 5] lasting 5 seconds, it was already pretty efficient, but 40 mana a pop added up rather fast.

Jane eased her counter attack, making sure to keep her mana high with Meditation and only attack when the wolves got within 50 feet. Half an hour later, the final wolves chose to break from the assault rather than die to the defenders of Forward Base.

Jane was pumped. She almost smiled at her soldier neighbor, but refrained, when no one else seemed to be smiling.

Nanark spoke to her mind, ‘Inside, rookie.’

Jane turned, blood still pumping hard. Everyone except for Redscale and a few other defenders were going back inside Forward Base. She couldn’t even see Nanark, or Killzone. What she could see was Forward Base.

Like few other buildings in sight, Forward Base was very opaque, and very, very large. Easily two or maybe even three normal city blocks in diameter. From this angle, Forward Base was deep purple. Almost black. The exterior had spell slits and a few platforms for shooters, but aside from the courtyard grounds where Jane and others had repelled the assault, which was itself only about forty square feet and sandy, Forward Base was extremely plain. Like a tower in the middle of a field, with zero ornamentation, Forward Base was definitely a military structure.

‘Inside, rookie. Now,’ Killzone said.

Jane obeyed. She rushed across the small exterior grounds, toward a darkened door.

No. Not a door. A [Ward], solid black.

She frowned. She knew a little bit of what to expect from Forward Base and the monster response to someone entering from the Crack, but she was very much at the end of expectations. She did not expect a solid black [Ward], or the actual base to be occluded from sight. She poked her left hand into the [Ward], and when it came back fine, she walked through.

Jane entered into a room of bright sunlight and happy voices, of comfortable furniture and people talking and someone slinging beer behind a counter while a fountain bubbled in the center. Killzone stood right in front of her, wearing his usual solid-black orcol body, and a small smile.

“Welcome to Forward Base, rookie.” Killzone handed her a beer. “Welcome to the Army.”

Jane refrained from laughing for joy, but she did take the beer and a hearty gulp of the gold, cold brew.

A cheer rolled up from the rest of the people in the room.

“Welcome!”

“She shot good!”

“[Shadowblend], too! Welcome aboard.”

“Bulgan is going to show, though.”

Forward Base rocked with the sudden words, “FUCK BULGAN!”

Jane toasted to that, saying, “Fuck Bulgan!”

“FUCK BULGAN!”

Jane was too giddy to put anger into her cheer, but when all the people of Forward Base said those words a second time, she felt their animosity. She understood their hatred. If Bulgan showed, these people were all prepared to kill him, no matter what it cost.

Joy at arrival turned to shared anger, and she remembered, again, one of the main reasons she joined the Army.

She was here to kill Bulgan.

- - - -

Outside, at the edge of the receiving courtyard, Redscale complained to his neighbor, ‘I want beer.’

Crimsonscale said, ‘We’ll get drunk soon enough. Long as nothing else happens.’

Redscale practically shouted, ‘You just had to jinx it, didn’t you! Idiot rookie.’

Crimsonscale spat back, ‘I’ve been here for two years! Superstitious veteran.’
