She glanced up to find an extremely agile, black-skinned bat with prominent red markings all along its body, swooping and diving across the battlefield, shooting beams of its blood magic at everything in sight.

Vampiric Nightwing – Bat – level 43 (Blood).

The witch doctor glared at Ali, waving a hand angrily in her direction, presumably annoyed that she had dispelled his curse. With an uncomfortable lurch, her body was yanked into the Spirit Realm, and, as she faded across, she was treated to the bizarre sight of one of her frogs breathing dragon’s fire at two charging Bone Warriors.

Despite the seriousness of the battle, Ali chuckled at the incongruous image. While the drake wouldn’t be able to hit anything with a paltry five strength and its body reduced to the size of a small fist, its fire breath was still potent, and Ali had proved the curse did not limit spells. Although, as with her magic, the flame seemed to be scaled in proportion to the drake’s frog-sized body.

Everything faded to gray, and she found herself once again in the monochromatic world of the Spirit Realm. Already the Ghostly Spiders were converging on her, seen by the shock of blue in the otherwise entirely bleak and gray world. She retrieved one of Mato’s tasty Ghost Mushroom snacks from her ring. It appeared in her gray hand, glowing an intense vibrant blue, and this time did not fall to the ground in the real world. Quickly she popped it into her mouth and bit into the crispy, salty snack, immediately feeling the strange effects take hold. But in this world, instead of distortion, everything became clearer and somehow sharper. She took a step backward, surprised to find her body substantial and real, with color flooding her skin. Before the spiders reached her, she created a bubble of barrier magic around her body. The shimmering golden magic gleamed brightly in the dark world, no longer gray.

It works!

Ali fashioned several needle-sharp slivers of barrier magic and fired them at the spiders, slicing through the low-level spirit creatures with ease. She slipped her awareness into the senses of her shaman, simply because the spiders were not much of a challenge, and she found that, even from here, she was easily able to use her shaman to survey the unfolding battle.

Mato had two of the Bone Warriors and the shaman locked down on him, but the two other troll warriors were running wild, trying to attack everything in sight. She had two drake-frogs breathing tiny fire every now and then, and the Malika-frog was leaping about in the air, flickers of soul magic flashing constantly, but she was struggling to have a meaningful effect.

“Refresh the bleeds,” she instructed. Her shaman turned to slash the flying Malika-frog, and she immediately reverted to her normal form, but as she did, beams of blood magic lanced down into her shaman, draining her health.

You have been infected by Blood ContagionYour blood bubbles grotesquely, hemorrhaging from suppurating sores. +3 Blood damage per second, to you and the surrounding area. Targets hit by Blood Contagion have a chance to be infected. Range: 10 feet.Small chance per vitality point to recover from Blood Contagion.Disease – Count: 1.

Her eyes widened in surprise at the horrific disease afflicting her shaman, clearly propagated by the Vampiric Nightwing’s blood magic siphon, but there was no way for her to warn Calen.

“Spread out,” she sent, trying at least to mitigate the damage among her minions. Wait, there is a way! She’d forgotten that Calen had learned the Troll language, and she quickly instructed her shaman to spread the word.

Suddenly, an enormous flash slammed into the witch doctor’s chest, knocking him to the ground as Calen unleashed his Ambush attack from the cover of the forest. The witch doctor immediately shimmered away, and Ali refocused on herself in the Spirit Realm, finding him appear in a flash of mana right in front of her. He thrust forward a hand and cast his drain beam but her barrier blocked it, much to his consternation – if his expression was anything to go by.

“Hi,” Ali said in the Troll language, waving from inside her golden glowing bubble, and slammed all her barrier shards into his side. She had not had to fight alone since the early days when she had been trying to figure out how to use Arcane Bolt, and already she missed her minions, but here, she was far from helpless. The troll screeched in frustration and pain as her barrier shards sliced at him while the golden bubble around her rendered her impervious to his drain. He scampered around trying to avoid the slicing barriers, conjuring and tossing a strange concoction at her, but it detonated harmlessly against her powerful barrier. Ali hounded him relentlessly, chasing him with her shards until he gave up and escaped back to the normal world.

“Catch, Calen,” she said, even though he wouldn’t be able to hear her from here.

She still had almost a minute left on her Spirit Banishment, so she switched to observing the battle from the other side while deconstructing several dead Ghostly Spiders.

Variant: Ghostly Spider added to Imprint: Spider.

There was another flash of light and hellfire as Calen’s Ambush struck the Witchdoctor at the same time one of the Hellfire Imps managed to land a fireball. The witch doctor shimmered back into the Spirit Realm, trying to dodge the flame, and Ali was ready for him, her barrier shards slamming into his body the instant he appeared.

Calen is a genius, she decided. Abusing the witch doctor’s own banishment curse to pin him down from both sides was unfairly effective. The outside world seemed much more chaotic though. Her two shamans were healing furiously through the enemy Bloodlust, and the Blood Contagion which had spread like wildfire through the melee, but none of her minions had been killed yet. The witch doctor shifted back, and Ali found herself rippling too as she returned to the normal world.

That’s odd, it was early, she thought. She turned at an angry sound and found herself suddenly staring at the blood-filled eyes of a Bloodlusted warrior slamming her hastily created barrier with both his bone blades. Mato was no longer here, and she realized the witch doctor had traded her for him in the Spirit Realm, and all the trolls he had been tanking were now running around free.

Am I too much to handle? Mato can handle the witch doctor in the Spirit Realm, she thought, quickly dispelling Malika’s Frog Hex. She reinforced her barrier and formed new barrier shards while Malika punched the Bone Warrior trying to get at her through the barrier and dragged him away. With a directed thought, Ali ran her infected Blood Shaman past a frogged drake, and the area damage from Blood Contagion broke the curse, releasing the enormous dragon. It immediately slashed at the loose trolls and the battlefield stabilized.

“Bloodlust!” she commanded.

Her nearest shaman complied immediately – the powerful blood magic surging out to adorn the heads of all their forces with blood runes and grim bloody tears. Even the remaining frog-drake hopped around in fury with tiny blood runes of power.

Ugh, I forgot to tell it to exclude me, she thought, smearing the blood leaking across her face again.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
