He could say that because of Goldie and Queen’s actions, Songli is now positioned to prosper more than any other nation of Nelboor? That those two Shades each have Divine Quests that recognize their own drive to repent? That the Blessing upon them works exactly as intended? And that Hangzi knows this, since he has Raidu under his control, and he knows that the Blessing of Empathy is uniquely powerful, and capable of making someone truly repent who they were?

No. There was no argument here that would work against Hangzi’s trauma. It was time to turn back to kindness.

Erick said, “I’m sorry for your loss. I’ll be working on that magic for Warzi starting tomorrow. I’m going to go back to doing magic for a while, actually. If there’s any other spellwork I can do for you, please don’t hesitate to ask.”

Hangzi did not hesitate. “Can you resurrect the dead? [True Resurrection]?”

Erick paused. He could theoretically talk to Messalina and—

Hangzi noticed the pause, and the thoughts, and he recoiled from himself, as he said, “I shouldn’t have asked you that. I don’t know what came over me. I—”

“The Lifebinder could do it,” Erick interrupted. “Though it might be too late. I have no idea how that works.”

Hangzi looked away. Then, resolute, he turned back toward Erick. “I will not be pursuing that option at this time, or ever. Thank you for your consideration.” He stood.

Erick stood with him.

Hangzi said, “I will inform Warzi that he can expect assistance with his mana sense in a timely manner.” He added, “Raidu’s soul will be sundered in three days. If you wish to speak to him before then, please make an appointment through Devouring Nightmare. Otherwise, your questions are already on the docket. Personally, I suspect that the angels are not involved. I suspect there is a hidden artifact somewhere. But as of right now, and according to what you have told Elder Arilitilo, I also suspect that a world war is coming.

“If, in the future of your Worldly Path, you get the chance to be brutal in the oppression of an enemy state, I suggest you be brutal, so that millions are spared from an improperly handled [First Strike].” He added, “I have seen recordings of what you did to the ballooning spider hordes. I am sure you have stronger spells, or that you can make them. Two hundred thousand dead terrorists is better than two hundred thousand dead terrorists and four-point-three million civilians.”

Erick felt stunned, but his mouth still worked, somewhat; he spoke reflexively, “You are correct, of course.”

“I know I am.” Hangzi said, “But it is good to hear you say it. Good night, Archmage Flatt.”

Hangzi walked away.

In moments, Erick was alone in the room… Except for the servants and his own people.

Stepping down off of the high platform, he walked to his people.

Jane had a soft, yet determined look upon her face. She had overheard Hangzi’s words, too. Thankfully, she didn’t say anything. As for the other two, Poi and Teressa both seemed like simple observers to what had happened. No one said anything until they got back to the rooms.

No one said anything to him before bed, either.

Jane did give him a nice hug, though.

- - - -

Erick needed a kinder way to walk this Worldly Path.

That was the background thought racing through his mind when a formal invitation arrived at his doorstep, held reverently in the hand of a Holorulo courier. Erick sent the man off with a small ‘thank you’, but his heart wasn’t in it, for he had already mana sensed the letter’s contents and read the words therein.

Sikali’s funeral was in a few hours. Erick and his people had been invited. Shortly afterward, the wakes for everyone in Star Song would be held at the same time, on Star Song’s clan mountain in Eralis.

Hours later, dressed in white and under the bright sky, Erick stood in the background of a gathering of twenty four, all of them standing around a short flight of stairs leading into a bright hallway down below. Xue stood by the stairs, holding Sikali’s urn, filled with her powdered bones and intact skull. It was a work of metal art, with flowers and vines and Sikali’s name engraved upon it, in red and black and gold and white. With tears running down his face, Xue handed Sikali’s urn to the man who stood one step down the staircase; the keeper of bones. The keeper then bowed, and took the urn down the small flight of stairs. Sikali’s bones would find their final rest in the mausoleum of Star Song, along with many others.

Xue bowed, his eyes to the ground as his wife’s urn vanished down the bright hallway. And then he stepped away, and a woman came forward, holding a different urn to hand off to another keeper of bones.

Many people in the gathering of Enforcers held similar urns. Xue had just been the one to go first.

Erick let his own small tears flow. This was entirely too sad.

He needed a kinder way to walk this Path…

One that wasn’t murdering the opposition before they could get a chance to murder the people he cared about.

- - - -

All across Songli, funerals were underway. Some were joyous events, celebrating the life of those who had gone before. Some went unnoticed, except by the single remaining child of the murdered parents, and the mausoleum keeper who took the urns of those who were gone forever. Some funerals were affairs with too many people talking to each other, networking over the fall of business owners, attempting to bring their companies or storefronts or markets back from the brink of annihilation, or figuring out what to do now that they were the only ones left in their border city able to provide blacksmith services, or construction spells.

For many, there were no individual funerals. There were only mass interments by overworked priests into newly-made mausoleums, while a few remaining survivors watched, many of them with glazed-over eyes.

And then there were the outliers.

People who partied hard, with alcohol and drugs and wanton sex, looking for joy wherever they could find it. The bordellos around Eralis were filled with such people.

If Sikali had lived, she and Xue would be doing that, right now, and trying to get others to open up about their sadness.

But Sikali had not lived.

Xue looked upon the [Viewing Screen] of one of their favorite courtesan houses, and lamented. After a battle, when her blood was up, was always a fun time. But that would never happen again. Xue glanced once more at the screen, then willed it away to sit in silence with his rice wine. Sikali didn’t get her own wake; in a little while, a wake was to be held at Star Song for everyone who died.

He was an Elder of Enforcement, now, and so, he needed to be there.

Riri was the Elder of Lore.

Arilitilo was off in Holorulo, outed as a Soul Mage, which was unfortunate. Xue would have liked to have her around for guidance and to help hold the place together, but Holorulo called upon her, and they would not be denied. With Zalindi dead, and Mirizo ascended to Patriarch, Star Song would be more than fine going forward. After all, Mirizo was a vicious political animal with the appropriate amount of leanings toward nicety when needed—

A knock came at his door.

Xue allowed him to enter. It was the new Captain of Capture Squad Four, Enforcer Peroit, the man who Mirizo tagged to take over Sikali’s position. The two of them had already had it out days ago, after Xue became an Elder, with Peroit barely surviving the fight. Now, the man who had come for his wife’s position as captain was falsely contrite, and playing the part of a dutiful clansman.

Peroit said something about the wake starting soon. Xue acknowledged him, and told him to go clean something. Peroit walked away, his mask slipping, betraying his deep anger as he shut the door.

Fuck him!

Xue was about to call him back and tell him to clean the floor with his tongue! But then the anger flowed out of him.

He took Sikali’s position as captain…

… A few more days. A few more days of treating him like shit, then Xue would allow the man to do his job properly. Peroit was a good captain, but…

This was hard.

Xue got out of his chair. He finished off his rice wine and delighted in the burn as it went down his throat. It was time to be political.

Getting to the party was easy enough; down three hallways and up a flight of stairs.

Seeing the people there was harder. The wine helped to dull his senses, but he couldn’t help but feel the eyes upon him. He couldn’t help but understand the expressions of those who turned his way, and saw him walk out upon the courtyard. There was pity. Sadness. Rage from some newly risen clansmen, for some reason, though not directed at him, specifically; he was just the proper target at the moment. Xue would need to look into that.

… Ah.

It was time to get over it all, and to become the center of power that was needed in this trying time.

And then he spied Ezeki— Erick. He saw Archmage Erick Flatt, and saw the man’s sorrow.

Xue wasn’t the only one that needed to get a fucking grip. Erick looked like he was about to break, and that was disrespectful to all that he had done, and all the lives of those he had saved. Calling him the savior of Songli would not be going too far, and though he had likely heard those words of praise from others…

Erick had once helped Xue to come to terms with his paranoia, to manage who he was, and who he was going to be.

Xue would do the same.

- - - -

Erick watched as people gave speeches about the dead.

When people came to him, to thank him for saving their life or the lives of people they knew, he welcomed them with as much warmth as he could. Others saw him, and could barely hold their rage in check. Erick had not managed to save everyone. Clearly, some people here thought this war had been Erick’s fault.

And then Xue appeared out from a hallway, and much of the ire directed Erick’s way, went to Xue.

Xue locked eyes with Erick… And then he glanced to Erick’s left, and briefly looked to Jane. It was Erick’s understanding that they had worked together recently, on various things… Erick wasn’t entirely sure about all of that. Jane hadn’t shared much. But then Xue turned back to Erick, and walked directly toward him.

Ah.

Here it comes.

The vilification.

Erick felt himself sweat, as he tried to keep a cool demeanor. He felt the eyes of others upon him, watching as Xue walked his way. No one else had dared to speak out loud of Erick’s failures, and of his presence which caused all this, and of how he could have ended this war before it truly began if only he had pressed that button—

Xue stood before Erick, saying, “I want to talk.”

Erick felt himself nodding. “Sure.”

Xue went back down the hallway he had arrived from. Erick followed. Poi followed behind Erick, but Teressa and Jane stayed at the wake, for Jane was talking to Mirizo about plans and people and Erick didn’t want to interrupt that.

Along the way, the trio of them came across a man walking in the hallways, wearing the white and black of a clan Enforcer and casting [Cleanse] in the hallways. The man saw Xue, and there was hate in that look, but it was well hidden.

In an easy voice, Xue told the man, “Ignore this task, Captain Peroit. The initiates can do this, later. Sorry for foisting my anger out on you; I was being petty and you had nothing to do with Sikali’s death.” He stared the man in the eyes, and said, “Believe me; I checked.”

Peroit’s hidden anger quailed to hidden fear; the man stood straight and then bowed.

Xue said, “Dismissed.”

Peroit walked away, to the wake.

Xue and Erick soon reached a set of rooms on the northside of Star Song’s mountain; a minor gathering location, or perhaps a bar of some sort. The rooms were empty, though. The place looked high class, especially the large windows and the plush furniture, and the bookshelf-like wall with a half-dozen alcohol bottles that were gently illuminated from below by wardlights. There was space for a hundred bottles, but there were only six, here; this place had probably been trashed in the fighting.

With barely any hesitation, Xue grabbed one of the bottles off of the second-to-top shelf. It was mostly full. Another grab netted a pair of glass tumblers from the lower shelves. Xue poured the two of them drinks, then handed him one.

Xue said, “To better times ahead.” And then he downed the drink.

Erick downed his own, afterward. Xue refilled the cups, and gestured to the seats nearby. He took one; Erick took the other.

Xue started off with, “Looks like you’re the paranoid one, now. I saw how you eyed that drink, thinking it might be poisoned.” It was meant to be a dark joke, some gallows humor.

Erick appreciated it for what it tried to be, and not for how accurate it was. The two of them had talked in passing in the last few days, but nothing substantial; nothing beyond the ‘this is happening over here, who is doing something about that’.

Now, here, Erick said what he had failed to say for the last week. “I’m sorry about Sikali. I didn’t hear about it till afterward. That time was… It was quick and terrible and many things happened outside of my sight.”

Xue froze, then wiped away a quick tear, then downed his drink and then refilled it again, saying, “It happened outside of my sight as well. I didn’t hear about it till three hours after the fact. When I heard, I was arms deep in the guts of some initiate, trying to heal out the decay spells that someone had cast into him. That kid survived. Many didn’t.” He said, “Thank you for coming to the funeral, and the wake.”

Erick nodded, and downed his drink, feeling the burn as it went down.

Xue refilled his glass, saying, “So it looks like you’re having some trouble dealing with the aftermath of the war.”

Erick reflectively recoiled. “Aren’t you?”

“Yeah. I am. But your world was much simpler than this one, and now you have power you never expected to have. I bet a dozen people have already yelled at you for not doing something larger, and sooner.”

“… That is not incorrect.”

“You once gave me some good advice, to not jump at shadows and thus make them real by jumping. To separate out those who were truly out to get me, from those who were just being who they were.” Xue said, “I’m going to give you some advice now, from one man who grew up powerless but who gained power through a knack for magic that many others never possessed. The scale is different, obviously, but the fact remains: People have to look out for themselves. You can’t save everyone.”

Erick felt like he had been seen through, and he probably had.

But the immediate feeling after that overwhelmed the first.

Erick asked, “But what if you could.”

