Chapter 384

Hearing that over a dozen of their aura shipments had been hit immediately set alarm bells ringing, and Matt flew down to their floating island that was currently pretending to be a more standard island on one of Palustris’ seas as it was being renovated.

Liz was already there and waiting for him, which meant he couldn’t even really enjoy Palustris as he descended to ground level.

Matt hadn’t expected how much he liked seeing something under his care flourish, but he found it addicting. Seeing something grow might seem adjacent to gardening or crafting, but while he could do the first and enjoyed the second, neither had given him such a rush as leading a planet itself.

There was something majestic about seeing his world develop and its people grow and thrive under his guidance.

On the rare occurrence that he didn’t have something to do, he would take the trip from his guild on the moon to the planet slow and steady to enjoy it. This time, however, he moved fast enough that if he wasn’t isolating himself from the atmosphere, he would have ignited like a meteor and caused serious weather pattern deviation. But with only a thought, his Concept separated him from reality well enough that he didn’t even cause a stray gust.

Landing, he found Liz in what they had taken to wearing based on the local styles: robes in a loose fashion, more draped around oneself then held in place. But the lack of formality didn’t take away from her beauty.

Around thirty years ago, in the process of merging her Ichor with her combat abilities, Liz had expanded her tattoos into more of a full body art of golden highlights that stood in contrast to her now slightly darker tanned skin.

In their various body modifications over the years, they had played with a few looks before settling down once more.

He hadn’t let Liz live down her failed attempt at a look akin to a stereotypical vampire, complete with incredibly pale skin, dark hair, and sallow eyes. Meanwhile, she never let him live down his attempt to toughen his skin, which just made him look like he had contracted a disease.

But that was part of the fun of being an immortal and being able to test things. If they didn’t work, it was easy enough to change it.

Really it was all Zack's fault who, after being teased by Allie one too many times for being an old man, showed up to a gathering looking closer to fifty than his original young twenties appearance.

Ultimately, they had settled on something fairly close to what they originally started as, even if they went a little wild in the process. Liz with her tanned skin, Zack being older, Matt brightening his hair a little as well as growing a short beard, it was fun.

And even with a crisis looming, Matt couldn’t help but take in his wife.

“What happened?”

Liz sent him a pulse of information even as she explained. “Someone just attacked us. Fifteen out of twenty of our current traveling shipments of aura potions out of the duchy were attacked. Word is still spotty with the captains reporting things from their nearest worlds, but I wouldn’t be surprised if a few of the others were also hit and we just haven’t gotten word yet.”

After reviewing the information, Matt agreed with her assessment.

Piracy wasn’t common in the Empire, but it wasn’t rare either. The Empire was massive, and the spaces between worlds in chaotic space were inherently dangerous. Even without outside provocation, it wasn’t unheard of for ships to experience issues and be lost. Even mortal-run ships, rare as they were, rarely had deaths from those incidents, but they did happen given the size of the Empire and the sheer number of ships that were moving at any given moment.

When bad actors were added into the mix, things got interesting.

In absolute numbers, the Empire had a lot of pirates. Millions of Tier 15 and higher groups occasionally preyed upon a lone shipping vessel traversing chaotic space, and at any given moment, there were probably a dozen ships being robbed. But in percentage terms, pirates were rare.

One or two bandit groups might pop up every so often per duchy, but usually they hit a ship or two before fading back into the masses of cultivators for decades at a time, hardly daring to do another hit.

Banditry, piracy, and all manner of waylayment was strictly illegal, but the Empire was so large that it was usually left up to the local powers to deal with, meaning if one was careful enough, they could get away with the occasional pilfer. The only surefire way a bandit could get the Imperial government itself searching for them was if they crossed a few very basic bottom lines, namely touching mortal foods, killing the crews of the ships, stealing Imperial goods, or trying to form a bandit cabal not tied to one of the established thieves guilds.

Doing any of those things was a one-way ticket to a Tier 46 divination team hunting down the perpetrators with ruthless efficiency. However those teams had other jobs, so everyone understood that if they didn’t cross those lines, the central government couldn’t be bothered.

They and their duchy had had a few scrapes with bandits in their early years, but they hadn’t had any issues since he and Liz had ruthlessly hunted down those groups, showing everyone they had a zero-tolerance policy. So the fact that fifteen ships transporting one of their main exports had been hit all at once was suspicious.

Extremely suspicious.

Especially considering his guild had just had its business agreements tampered with.

“Someone's targeting us. They hit my guild as well. Any word from your bloodline group?”

Liz’s expression turned even more sour upon hearing that. “No, but it's still based out of the Capital. Anyone we recently pissed off that might do this off the top of your head? Easier to go to the source rather than chasing down underlings.”

“If your people have been hit, that changes the list drastically. Currently, it could just be someone really mad at me striking out at the guild and things related to it. Or—”

“Or someone who is mad at your guild and took an opportunity to sell the information about the aura potions routes. They are mildly obfuscated, as are all high-value shipments, but anyone looking into your guild would probably be able to track the shipments well enough to sell the routes to anyone interested.” Liz finished for him.

“Exactly my thought, and I’m not liking the look of this picture.”

Mostly because it tied into Kees’ comment about how the guild was making enemies that now seemed all too accurate.

But who would do this?

If Liz was right, and they were only targeting the guild or things related to it, that didn’t really narrow things down at all.

Even in the last century since the aura rifts, the guild had stepped on a lot of toes. Not all of it was intentional, but they stepped all the same and that built resentment. It was easy to say that taking out a fraction of one percent of a company's bottom line by releasing a competing but free product license wasn’t enough to declare this kind of corporate shadow war, but people's hearts were unpredictable and wars had been fought over less. That made his list of potential suspects a mile long, since not everyone who had their hands in low-Tier business were low Tiers themselves.

Matt’s gut told him things were more complicated than someone just selling the information to bandit groups, thanks to the cancellation of the supply shipments.

That didn’t mean he could write off the bandits if he didn’t want his guilds shipments to attract true opportunist bandits.

All of which depended on if they were real bandits. This wouldn’t be the first time that corporate battles bled into real life via ‘bandits’. There was every possibility that the bandits had actually been corporate muscle pretending to be bandits just to strike out at him.

Or they could be real bandits who had been used as disposable pawns.

Few bandits were actually stupid enough to attack an Ascender's shipments, but there were a dozen possible reasons as to why they would, including but not limited to them just not knowing whose goods they were stealing. If it was just one ship that had been hit, Matt and Liz would be mad and they would just write it off as the price of doing business, but now they needed to send a message.

Making up his mind, Matt said, “I’m going to go chase down a few of the bandit groups. They probably know nothing, but we can’t let this go unanswered or we'll never be able to ship anything.”

Liz nodded. “Agreed. If you're ranging out I’m going to stick close to home in case they are trying to lure us both away from Palustris.”

During their goodbye kiss, she sent to him through their skin contact, ‘I’ll hit a few of the nearest locations and see what I can find out quietly.’

Taking to space, Matt didn’t enter one of their luxury ships, and instead boarded a much smaller vessel more similar to a long-range scout ship.

It had been a gift from Lila, who had tried to tempt him into joining her guild on an expedition or two into chaotic space. The ship was Tier 30 and only had room for one person, but what it lacked in comfort it made up for in speed. Even before the engines had been replaced with travel mana engines built by Origami for him, the ship had been fast, but now it was something else.

Entering the ship in real space, Matt felt his [AI] merge with the ship’s controls and visuals as the engine pulled four million mana a second to initiate its startup procedure. Instead of the typical transition into chaotic space he was used to, which involved the engines performing the jump via spatial twisting, the scout ship cut a hole through space and he had to drive through.

Pulling out of reality, Matt felt the turbulence of chaotic space buffett his ship like he was on a rowboat in the middle of a hurricane, but all of that vanished as he started the ship forward.

At a tenth of the engine's max power, it was moving fast enough that he felt nothing as he cut through the eddies. With his 83 million mana per second generation, he was more than able to max the engine out, but that put him at a level beyond what typical Tier 35 ships could do.

Even with the fast iteration of travel mana engines changing the transportation landscape, speed was still stratified by Tier. As the high-Tier companies and guilds released their second and third generation travel mana engines, the engines typically settled in at about one Tier faster and more efficient than their older counterparts, but even that was changing as everyone was trying to one up each other.

Titan’s Torch had even kept their hand in the travel mana race as they iterated upon their initial designs. The gains were smaller in the lower Tiers, but each iota of savings was worth the expense for him.

On a more personal note, another company had finally figured out how to make a practical personal flight enchantment that worked with travel mana, leading to the boom of travel mana flying devices. The Tier 40 corporation was an old hand in the personal flying device scene, which made the discovery not too unexpected, as it was only a matter of time before someone figured it out. They had also surprised no one when they had immediately patented the idea and were only licensing the idea in brand deals, ensuring they had a dominant market lead.

Another company had tried to file their own patent, but it had been ruled too similar to the first and struck down, showing the fate of those who came in second.

Their discovery had at least forced the government to allow the company to license their design after a shorter period, but that still meant they had five hundred years of exclusivity to strangle out their competition.

While Matt liked the idea and had bought one of the first prototypes to play with, it was that breakthrough that had given his people the idea of how to create mana engines that would be more feasible for smaller vehicles such as buses, personal cars, or small planet-bound boats. It was doubtful they would ever be better than existing engines for such small-scale vehicles, with how rarely they can go full speed for long stretches of time, but maybe there was a use case he was overlooking where it did make sense.

It was projects like that which Matt would have liked to look in on while he traveled, but his ship was so fast that he needed his full concentration to ensure he didn’t run into another ship. Chaotic space was vast and empty, a lot like normal space, and even if he was traveling away from the teleportation tethers, thanks to the way chaotic space limited the senses of himself and his ship, he needed to focus at all times.

It took almost two days for Matt to travel across part of his and then through Aster's duchy to the next one over, arriving where the first ship was hit, but he wasn’t too worried about the time.

He had known from the moment he left that he wasn’t going to make it in time to find the bandits just lingering or anything so easy. Thankfully, Luna had trained them for situations like this and he knew what to look for.

Arriving at the spot between worlds where the supply ship had been hit, Matt inspected the area looking for all the little details Luna had drilled into their heads.

The area was in a longer tether between two worlds, which made it isolated, but as if that wasn’t enough, it was also in a relatively poorer county that innately had less traffic. But none of that was as damming as the fact that the region’s count had been in a rift for the last three years.

He knew his perspective was skewed because of his combat prowess, but needing years to complete a Tier 25 rift was just sad.

