Even if Aster was alone and going for a full clear, it would at most take her a few months, but they were far from the normal delving party that understandably took their time to ensure their chance at messing up and dying was as low as possible.

Matt couldn’t complain, but that absence had turned this region into a prime location for bandits.

Putting himself into the bandits’ shoes, he ran through what he would do and where he would go depending on if they knew who they were hitting and if they didn’t know. Then he had his [AI] simulate the same scenario to check himself.

When both of them agreed, he headed to the county capital, a Tier 16 world.

It would be easiest to fence stolen goods there and easy to blend in with the immortal population.

The shipping captain had reported to the guards that the pirates had been Tier 20 to his Tier 15 senses but that was easy enough to fake, as were physical appearances. Spiritual signatures were possible to fake in the short term, so long as one didn’t fluctuate them too much. But as the ship's captain had rightly surrendered when boarded, he had to assume the sample readings the ship had taken were faked.

Two hours later, Matt arrived at the county capital and entered its real space; his ship stowed away before he arrived to keep any of the inevitable watchers guessing at how he was moving so quickly.

They would probably suspect he would grab Allie for this, and while he was sure she’d be willing to play spy, he didn’t want to escalate this unless he had to.

Currently, it looked like an attack on him and his guild, and bringing in others beyond Liz and Aster, his immediate family, could escalate things further. And he’d prefer to keep things as contained as possible. For now.

As Manny had said when they got their duchies, these issues were opportunities for them to grow, learn about their weakness, and interact with the Empire as a part of it. Ignoring his Royal connections, Matt could just call in his allies, and they could carve a path through any opposition near their Tier. For those too strong, they could call in Aiden or Lila, either of whom would be happy to smash heads together, but Matt was willing to play this game so long as it kept to the typical rules, and that meant dealing with things with his and his guild’s own powers.

And it wasn't like he couldn’t call in reinforcements later.

To that end, Matt decided to play the part of angry Ascender.

Sure, he was angry, but probably not for the reasons his opponents would think.

He didn’t really care about the aura potions. They were expensive enough that the loss of so many shipments would hurt the duchy’s bottom line for this year, and he’d be covering the losses out of his pocket. But by the same token, the aura potions were valuable enough they would be sold on various gray and black markets, and would still end up in the hands of Tier 4s.

What he was more irritated at was that the bandits had stolen everything their storage items could fit, which inconvenienced everyone else involved just because someone wanted to hit him.

Controlling himself, Matt entered the world’s real space just outside the main planet’s atmosphere and let his spiritual perception cover the entire planet, letting it seep in and through wards and walls alike, letting his [AI] scan for hits.

He quickly found some, but not as many as he expected.

His aura potions were in a dozen shops spread across the planet. The bandits, or the shops themselves, had replaced the identifying markers placed on each bottle with their own or a generic fake label. But as part of their process, Liz had taken great efforts into making their duchy’s aura potions stand out.

First, they used a subtly different bottle shape that highlighted the aura potions’ unique glimmers better than a standard bottle. Second, the aura potions they exported were of the highest quality. Anything less than perfect was sold at cost in the duchy, even though few could tell them apart, but the difference let someone like Matt who was intimately familiar with the process identify the potions.

What Matt hadn’t found were the bandits.

They could have already left, but he doubted that.

If these had been professionals, they would have never fenced the stolen goods so close to the hit, which only further confirmed that these people were bait left out to test his reaction to the opening salvo in this little war.

He also couldn’t find any watchers.

His enemy might have relied entirely on mundane or technological surveillance, but Matt suspected there was a higher Tier invisible to his senses watching over the planet and him, just as he was doing to the planet.

If they wanted to see how he would react to their probe, he would happily show them.

Feeding his [AI] with all the mana it wanted, Matt brute forced the problem, and two minutes later he identified fifteen anomaly sites in the star system. Nine of them were on the closest world, while the other six were spread out between the Tier 4 gas giant and the Tier 8 secondary world, but they were both well outside his spiritual perception and only identified by reviewing the various Planetary AI. And yet, none of them were high enough Tier for what he was looking for.

Instead, he turned his attention to the planet and went over the nine anomalies there.

Three were local corporation secret research bunkers which he ignored after checking to make sure they weren't covers for a bandit hideout. Two were hidden bunkers for local bigwigs to escape to if something happened, but the remaining four were harder to crack.

One had wards that far outclassed anything a Tier 20 planet should have, let alone a Tier 16 planet, and he suspected it was his target, but he still checked the others before dismissing them.

One of those he reported to the local government because they were manufacturing a variation of ClearView, which was very illegal, but the rest either weren't illegal or not so illegal that he felt the need to step in.

Gathering his spiritual perception, Matt created a spike and drove it through the wards giving no care to subtlety.

Alarms blared, additional wards flared to life, and a Tier 28’s spiritual perception tried to crush his spiritual own, but Matt had already scanned the inside of the hidden location.

A thieves guild.

While technically a legal entity, they only existed because the Empire found it was easier for thieves, assassins, and other less than legal ‘jobs’ to manage themselves and so allowed them a degree of leniency.

Technically, upon seeing the guild sanctum, Matt should have retreated since he didn’t have a warrant in someone else's duchy, but he didn’t care. With a pulse of power, he scanned the guild looking for anyone who even vaguely matched the descriptions he had been given.

Before he could finish a second layer of wards, this time controlled by the Tier 28, which were strong enough to force his spiritual perception out of the building, he got an angry message from the Tier 28, telling him to desist.

Matt’s reply was simple. “You are being used as a pawn in a game you want no part of. Drop the wards, let me find who raided my goods, and we can all go our separate ways.”

The moment he heard a negative response, Matt dropped the connection. He didn’t mind cleaning up this little den of rogues. Neither he nor Liz would hunt such groups down for no reason, but neither would they tolerate them if they encountered them.

Dropping into the planet's atmosphere, Matt looked to the side where his gut told him any watcher would be and said, “Your masters wanted a show. Now you have one. Tell them I’ll play their game, but if they step out of line, I’ll step further.”

As he neared the seemingly normal building in one of the teleporter city’s downtown that was the camouflaged thieves guild, Matt didn’t stop or slow.

He hit the barrier with a glowing fist that unleashed a wave of lightning that would have killed everyone in a ten mile radius if he hadn’t kept the power contained. It wasn’t a spell, just him gathering friction and choosing how it manifested upon his attack, but he was going for flashy and so went for a bang. He also didn’t bother to hide the lightshow the attack caused which shocked everyone.

Seeing the shield didn’t go down, Matt looked up at the spot the watcher was probably hiding, and without looking away pointed his left pointer finger at the barrier and cast [Mana Beam].

The barrier popped in less than a second, and the beam of mana cut directly into the core of the formation and destroyed it.

“Do you know whose guild you are attacking?” The Tier 28 either didn’t realize who Matt was, had been paid really well to test Matt, or he was an idiot.

The Tier 28 moved to attack him even as the guild went up in flames, but Matt glared at him.

“Open your mouth again and I’ll tear it off. I’m busy.” He didn’t stop the tinge of his anger from leaking into the words.

The man opened his mouth, and so Matt flared his cultivation boosting spells and flashed in front of the man, gripping his jaw and skull.

Looking up once more, Matt pulled and followed through with his promise.

Throwing the Tier 28’s jaw to the side, Matt scanned the guild even as it was in the process of collapsing, thanks to his second attack.

Because things were never easy, the three people who had robbed the ship weren’t inside, but he did find the room that held records and scanned through them.

Most of them were just petty crimes, but he did get the names of those thieves who had done the robbing.

Grabbing the LocalNet node that the Tier 28 had already turned off and wiped, Matt forcefully rebooted it and using his [AI], recreated what he could of the data that had been stored inside, but the wipe had been clean.

Having little recourse, Matt turned to one of the Tier 15s who had been lingering in the building and stepped in front of them, even as they were still trying to react to the first attack on the barrier.

Dropping his perception to a Tier 15’s, Matt demanded, “Give me the real identities of those who just hit the cargo ship last week.”

The man stammered as fear at facing a high Tier morphed into sheer terror as he recognized Matt.

Unlike the Tier 28, the Tier 15 immediately spilled the beans and sent who he suspected the three were.

Using his [AI], Matt identified them and smiled. Unlike most immortals within spiritual perception range who were either hunkering in place or trying to scan the area to find out what was going on, the three of them were panicking.

Tier 17s and actual siblings, if he wasn’t wrong.

Two wanted to play it cool and act innocent, while the third wanted to start running and try their luck.

Not that any of it mattered.

Matt used his Concept to keep the flames from spreading to nearby buildings, but he didn’t extinguish them outright nor did he stop the thieves who had been at the guild from running.

He even let the Tier 28 run, but he was tracking them all looking for further anomalies.

Otherwise, this would have been for naught.

With a step, he appeared in the siblings’ living room, and from the panic and terror, he had nearly confirmed they were the ones who had stolen from him.

Arms crossed, Matt put on his best Manny impression and looked down at the three of them.

“The three of you stole from me.”

The terror factor ratcheted up a dozen notches, but the oldest and peak Tier 17 had enough courage to throw himself on the sword of Matt’s wrath for his siblings.

“It was just me. I did it with a domain clone.”

Matt didn’t let his mild appreciation for sibling protection change his expression as he asked, “Who told you about the information of the ship? Tell me everything.”

The three instantly caved and babbled to tell him.

The information was as he feared, and it had simply been a tip sold to the guild through an anonymous source, like most high-value target hints were.

The trio even sent proof they had recorded with their [AI].

Matt asked a few more questions but nothing was very useful, and by the end, he knew how he wanted to handle these three.

“Turn yourselves in and pay restitutions for the other goods you have stolen and I won’t kill you here and now.”

They would end up paying a lot more than they had earned, but they would stay alive, and that was mercy enough.

That wasn’t the only loose end Matt needed to clean up.

Taking another step, Matt appeared in one of the shops selling his stolen aura potions.

The proprietor, an older looking Tier 15 woman, grasped her heart and stammered a greeting, but Matt could tell that everything but the terror was fake, so he cut through it all.

“You are selling my stolen goods.” It wasn’t a question but a statement and he glared at her until she broke and nodded feverishly while apologizing.

“What price did you buy them at?” Shocked at the seeming non sequitur, the woman stammered until she told him the price. It was about two thirds of the retail price and she was selling them for ten percent over that. It was that last bit he took issue with.

“How much are you selling them for?”

She must have known he could see the prices, but she was also smart enough to understand what he was telling her, and she immediately changed the price to below what she had bought them for.

Seeing that, Matt went to the next shop and repeated the same procedure until he had finally gone to them all.

He then took another step to arrive next to the Tier 28 who had fled to one of the safe houses he had scanned earlier.

The interrogation wasn’t clean or as thorough as it could have been, but the man was thoroughly cowed by Matt’s earlier performance and told him what little he knew.

The guild had bought the information on a valuable ship through an unidentified source that seemed reliable, nothing more.

