Brilliant! Somehow, Ali never ceased to amaze. Mato grinned in feral pleasure as Tol’brekk whirled past him in the throes of his suddenly half-power Blood Vortex and he retaliated, unleashing his most powerful Swipe, fully loaded with all his support skills. Thick roots sprouted from the ground, slipping off the troll’s ankles as he zipped by, failing to snare him. The Blood Vortex tore at his flesh and hide as the troll raced away from him but, thanks to Ali, the damage was manageable – even without his Last Stand – and easily erased by the focus and dedication of Malika and the shamans.

Mato backed up, enjoying the brief soothing rush of regeneration from the three-dozen stacks of Battle Trance he racked up during the passing vortex, shifting his position as he prepared for the return leap. This fight was dangerous enough that he was using all his most powerful attacks and defensive abilities almost as soon as they recharged, but as the ground bucked under the powerful leaping attack of the berserker boss, Mato sensed his Critical Block becoming available once more. He grinned up at the massive incoming troll, and with a roar he triggered his skill, feeling the shockwave of compressed air from the force of the impact. Without hesitation, he loaded it up with Brutal Restoration and Bestial Combat.

You have gained Azryet’s Favor.

The retaliatory block punched through the giant troll, powered with the full force of all his supporting skills, sending blood spraying high into the air.

Nice timing. Thanks for the damage!

“Last Stand!” Malika yelled.

Critical Block had been the trigger that sent the giant troll past the threshold, and Mato responded by using his own Last Stand; whatever happened from here out, the battle would be decided by the time the buff ended.

“All out!” Calen yelled, triggering his potent Righteous Fury.

“Bloodlust!” Ali screamed.

You have gained Bloodlust.

Mato felt the surge of power as his strength grew and his attacks accelerated from the haste of the Blood Shaman’s potent magic. He empowered his Swipe with everything: Calen’s buff, Bloodlust, Brutal Restoration, and Bestial Combat, and his claws tore great slashes through the troll’s belly. The boss roared incoherently and retaliated with a potent axe strike that smashed him up against the wall, knocking him rolling to the side. He sprang to his feet, shifting sideways to place himself directly between the boss and the wall. He had no desire to get knocked into the middle of the jungle where he would have to face the troll’s wrath alone.

The red mist flowing from the berserker grew denser as he sacrificed another prisoner. Excess mana spilled over from the harvested energy of the troll, causing a sea of blue Soulshade Blossoms to bloom at his feet. Mato could only watch the horrifying spell activate as it formed the runes of power to match the Bloodlust he had, but Ali was ready, dispelling the powerful spell with a golden flicker of delicate darts.

Survival Instinct accelerated his perceptions, warning him of danger right as the blood erupted and the boss used his Blood Vortex. Anticipating the trajectory, Mato prepared his retaliation, however, this time, Tol’brekk did not fly out into the courtyard – instead he continued attacking Mato.

Shit! If he moved, he would be knocked flying, but if he stayed, he would have to take the full brunt of the vortex to his face.

“I got you,” Malika said, appearing beside him like an apparition through the storm of blood and blades. She slapped his shoulder, and her potent healing magic burned through his body.

He leaned heavily on the melee haste and his newly improved dexterity to block as fast as possible, but the strikes from the blood blades came thick and fast and his health dwindled rapidly. Malika’s magic tore through his body, forcing his wounds to close even against the onslaught. He lashed out, waiting desperately for the monstrous attack skill to end. Another heal surged through him as Malika somehow weathered the storm beside him. Between heals he could still see her punches flickering against the backdrop of whirling blood, but she seemed serene and relaxed, dodging only the bloodsteel axes, while the blood blades seemed to simply slide off her without effect.

She got something new. So unfair! He was jealous of her skills, but at the same time grateful that they allowed her to stand her ground against the onslaught and provide him with all the extra healing he needed.

The blood from the vortex splashed to the ground right as his Survival Instinct warned him of an enormously powerful overhead attack. At that very moment, he felt the release of his Critical Block recharge. Without a thought, he used it, stepping forward into the gap, interposing his body between the brutal blade and Malika, bracing against the steel greataxe powered with the full fury of the nearly dead berserker’s rage. The shockwave of the overpowering rage-fueled axe strike and the force of his Critical Block retaliation blasted the mist of red away in a second, cracking the stone below his feet and sending chunks of the stone wall behind him flying.

Holy shit, that was strong!

For a long moment, Tol’brekk stood motionless before him, and then, like a felled tree, he slowly toppled sideways, hitting the dirt with a great crash, and lay still, blood still pouring from his many self-inflicted wounds. All was silent for a moment, and then a wave of black Spectral Wraithroses sprouted around him, the undead flowers rising from the pulverized remains of the Soulshade Blossom patch.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
