Like Jason, both Gabriel and Rufus mixed afflictions onto their attacks. Gabriel wielded fire, while Rufus’ sun and moon afflictions were more exotic. Unlike Jason, they both had plenty of power behind the initial attacks as well. They may not have matched Humphrey’s punch, but they still carved through silver-rank monsters, quickly racking up kill tallies. Gabriel’s attacks left many monsters cripples, and the flames he left behind finished the job. His victims fell from the sky, plucked from the air by toads or splashing into the water. That was not enough to extinguish the fires, which set the water to boiling.

“You’re falling behind, son,” Gabriel’s voice boomed as he flew past Rufus, trailing fire.

Rufus was the textbook Vitesse adventurer, with an eclectic mix of powers. In the hands of a lesser adventurer, he would have been the jack of all trades that Rimaros adventurers like to mock. But with his extensive training and raw talent, Rufus turned his versatile power set into a series of force multipliers.

Rufus’ afflictions were less effective than his father’s, at least until he turned the sky dark. The sun was eclipsed, turning day into night, and every affliction Rufus had left behind exploded violently. Almost every active silver-rank monster from the current wave died on the spot, more than two hundred at once. Then, a massive beam of transcendent light shot from the sky.

Realm of the Infinite Eclipse was one of the most powerful attacks available to any essence. Despite that, it was extremely rare, not for how hard it was to unlock, but for how hard it was to use. It required tens of enemies for even the most basic version, and hundreds to reach full effectiveness. It also required more time than most battles took to set up. Finally, it required not just a large horde of enemies, but also powerful singular ones to be worth targeting.

It was a spell of war, almost unusable at low ranks, making it famously hard to rank up. If not for the Builder Cult war, the grand monster surge and being able to hunt the outer reaches of Jason’s astral spaces, Rufus might well have been languishing at silver-rank, or even bronze.

The reward for decades of dedication and training was a power that dwarfed almost anything else an essence user could produce. Even Farrah and her limit breaking powers could not equal the single moment of all-consuming annihilation that Rufus could produce, given the right circumstances and enough time.

The eclipse beam of transcendent light walked across the battlefield at Rufus’ direction. It settled on one gold-rank monster, then a second and a third before the power was finally expended. Not a scrap of the monsters remained, and for a strange moment, everything fell still and silent. Zara’s storm had faded, and even the animalistic spider-gorillas stopped, staring in shock.

Even amongst the experienced adventurers present, none had seen power on that level from anyone below diamond rank. Many of them cast their minds back to the Builder War, and Dawn wiping out a city with one spell. It wasn’t a match for that event, but that was what it felt like, coming from a gold-ranker. The ambient mana sizzled against supernatural senses, as if Rufus had scorched it with the raw power of his display.

Then the moment passed, and conflict resumed. Zara recast her storm and Danielle directed their forces to face the hundreds of monsters still streaming out of Jason’s light column. For the many gold-rank monsters that remained, Danielle followed Rufus’ example. No one else could match that power alone, but the adventurers with the heaviest burst damage could recreate it in the aggregate with focus fire. Some even managed solo kills, with Farrah taking the speed record after Rufus. By overcharging her abilities and dumping her entire mana pool in short order, she could turn two gold-rank monsters into glowing piles of slag before needing to stop and rest. What was left of the monsters fell into the river, letting off ugly brown smoke as they cooled.

While letting the stacked group buffs replenish her mana, Farrah didn’t waste her downtime. Resting up in Onslow’s shell, she made use of tools borrowed from Clive to examining the ongoing manifestation. The grid was somehow sustaining the manifestation, allowing it to keep producing monsters. If that wasn’t cut off, the manifestation would keep going until the adventurers were too exhausted to fight or the dimensional membrane ripped, triggering a transformation zone or worse.

Most of Team Biscuit were in the main fight now, except for Jason chasing down monsters that slipped the cordon, and Sophie, back at the dam. She and Prince Valdis were tasked with protecting the barrage, using their absurd speed to cover its two kilometre length. For any monster that came that way, Sophie set it up and Valdis cut it down.

Danielle had assigned herself to the gold-rank killing group. At silver, her kill-speed had been below average, but ranking up had changed that drastically. She could, if she pushed it, do a passable imitation of Farrah’s approach, including the hefty recovery time. She arrived in Onslow’s shell to rest and take stock of the overall battle.

“How is it going?” she asked Farrah. “Got anything?”

“I have,” Farrah said. “I wasn’t optimistic about a quick solution—”

“That’s all anyone ever wants on this team,” Clive called out as he blasted beams and bolts from his rod and staff weapons.

“Not right now, please Clive,” Danielle said.

“No one ever says that to Jason,” Clive complained.

“That’s because he’s not going to listen,” Farrah said.

“Sure,” Clive said, “let’s only be nice to Clive when we need him to practically invent a new branch of magic in the next twenty-seven minutes or an entire civilisation gets wiped out.”

“Yeah, I don’t think he listens either,” Farrah loudly confided to Danielle.

“You were saying you had something?” Danielle asked pointedly.

“Yes, sorry. This is kind of how Team Biscuit operates.”

“I’ve noticed.”

“Anyway, I’ve been looking at what’s happening to the grid, and I recognise some of the patterns here. I think I know who developed the magic that what we’re seeing here was based on.”

“Who?” Danielle asked.

“Me.”
