Ali hovered above the raid group, the sounds of sober, quiet conversation drifting upward as they finalized their preparations. But her eyes – and the senses of all her minions – were fixed on the Avatar of Annihilation floating serenely above the dense magical energy pouring out of the rune construct below it.

It was a named Theuronic Crystal, just as Calen had said, a monster she remembered vividly from the fall of Ciradyl. It could fly and had powerful melee attacks due to its ability to instantly change its form, but the signature of the Theuronic Crystal had been the astonishingly large and potent arcane explosions it could generate.

The rune array is doing something to it, too, she realized, studying the flow of mana from the safety of distance, but it only revealed tantalizing tidbits, as if luring her in to examine it closer.

Four minions hovered around the boss, all clearly enhanced by the domain, but she could instantly see the strangeness Calen had observed. Something about them reminded her of the spirit realm echoes, but not echoes of memory and reality, somehow an echo of mana. They’re not quite… real? It looked like a summoning spell gone wrong, perhaps not quite completed, and then frozen like that. That’s impossible, isn’t it? But every single perception skill she brought to bear insisted they were not illusions either, even though they were shockingly invisible to her Healer’s Sight.

Her eyes drifted upward to the orbiting disk-like platforms and their floating crystal spires, studying the complexity of the runic magic inscribed upon their surfaces – yet again, wishing she could be closer.

How are they inscribed into a barrier? She could infuse runes into stone or metal. Or many other kinds of materials when she created wands or rods. She could even inscribe runes into tattoos and imbue them with the mana of the recipient. But she had never imagined runes could be woven into constructs of pure magic like her barrier. I never tried that, though, she told herself. In truth, the idea had never even occurred to her, except for her old aerial teleportation trap that had dumped zombies into the lake, but that had been done differently. That was more like painting; these runes appeared to be part of the barrier magic itself. A mana tattoo applied to a mana construct? If I wasn’t seeing it with my own eyes…

These platforms would be her responsibility in this first fight. She needed to figure out how to destroy them or at least block the mind control from impacting the raid. She grimaced. If she failed, she would easily find herself fighting her friends. And if she – or Seth – were taken by the mind control, the raid would wipe as they found all the minions turning on them.

“Is anyone not ready?” Lyeneru asked. There were murmurs and shuffling through the group, but the chatter silenced as nobody raised any objections. “Ok. Take your mental fortitude elixirs. Let’s begin.”

Ali reached into her storage and retrieved the elixir made from the strange, dreamlike azure flowers she had recovered from the nightmare, and she downed it. They were ridiculously expensive – the price literally skyrocketing when Weldin and Basil had begun listing them on the auction house – and she was almost certain they would not help all that much against a domain magic mind-control ability. Still, the expense was nothing compared to the risk they were taking – more of an opportunity cost in her case, really, given she could grow the flowers and actually summon the potions herself. Her domain already tingled with the sensation of the half dozen groups of guild members too weak to join the raids that were out scouring her dungeon to harvest the pretty flowers as they respawned. Gold and silver adventurers, herbalists, and alchemists working tirelessly to ensure that the main raid groups would remain supplied – it really took an entire town, didn’t it?

You have gained Mental Fortitude – Eternal Reverie.

“Tanks, begin,” Lyeneru called, her voice carrying clearly across the field, and Ali responded by gathering a sphere of dense barrier magic around herself.

On the bubbling plain below, Mato’s bulky form lumbered forward, followed closely by the shiny, mithril-armored forms of Havok and Sabri bearing heavy shields and looks of intense focus on their faces.

Battle was joined with a crash and a reciprocal detonation of arcane power that hammered outward from the central form and then was echoed an instant later by all four minions. Ali felt the surge of fresh mana as the arcane energies rocked her barrier even at a distance, but she ignored it, her eyes already focused on the buzzing platforms which had suddenly shot off in frenzied swoops and circles.

Even with her focus locked onto the platforms, she still retained enough attention to register curiosity at the sight of the four minions being separated from the boss, transitioning into hulking elementals of death magic as soon as Sabri and Havok dragged them out of the runic circle. This had been one of Calen’s ideas – keeping the boss and its minions locked into opposite affinities should help mitigate the damage amplification. Or so the theory went.

“Shoot them,” she commanded. In response, Sylvan arrows of lightning and nature soared into the air, accompanied by the glacial blue ice bolts from her troll mages. Moments later, her Pyromancer added a blazing dash of orange-red firebolts, and around her eager fire user and the rest of the melee fighters, holy fireballs began to land, rocking the ground with a buffet of shockwaves and white flames.

Ali frowned at the sight of the platforms and their unexpected interaction with the rain of spells. They’re absorbing it? All of it? The four platforms zipped out of the blast zone, and if her assault had caused any damage, she could find no sign of it.

With a loud, droning buzz, a purple crystal platform swooped down upon the melee, and Ali immediately encased it in a sphere of her own barrier magic, perfectly trapping it inside a bubble, but without hesitation, it teleported out of her trap, appearing amongst the fighters and turning her smile into a sudden frown. Hey!

The glittering purple crystal spire floating above the runed platform darkened suddenly, shadowed by a dense formation that rapidly coalesced within its faceted core and fed power through an enormous conduit of mana drawn from the domain. A bolt of black lightning shot out from it, striking Devan on the back of her head. The deadly demon hunter stumbled, but the lightning continued to arc, crackling between her and the crystal and pulsing with an ominous energy. Sparks of black wreathed her head, and she stood up, surveying her surroundings with eyes shockingly devoid of awareness. Then her dagger flashed, burying itself in Mato’s flank.

Fuck! She’s mind-controlled! Ali instantly summoned a barrier to contain the pulsating crystal, but the dark lightning continued to arc downward, passing through her golden magic as if it were not even there. Ali had no time to study the effect: Devan’s dagger flickered again, and Mato’s health dropped dramatically. In a flash of alarm, Ali summoned a new barrier, this time trapping Devan within a sphere of glittering gold.

She ignored the bolts of death magic detonating against the golden barrier before her and the pulsing shockwaves of dense purple Arcane Blasts, focusing all her mind and skills on the dark, crackling mind control tether. Her primary task in this attempt, assigned to her unanimously by the raid leaders, was to figure out a way to neutralize the mind control spell. It had the greatest potential to destabilize their teamwork and safety. It didn’t take long for her to understand the spell; it wasn’t particularly complex, but within the presence of domain mana, it was enormously powerful. A thing of brute force, not subtlety. Carefully, Ali adjusted her arcane formation until it was the perfect counter. She released the needles of gold, sending them flying outward in a tight fan and studied the mana as they pierced the black magic that tethered Devan’s mind to the crystal, but to her dismay, her Dismantle disintegrated on contact, her delicate spell failing to penetrate and instead being ripped apart by the raging torrent.

Again, she ground out, gritting her teeth. She would not be defeated by a mere crystal. Ali crammed more mana into her formation, every little trick she had learned, every detail, every scrap of efficiency, and she unleashed it again the instant she was able. But her thread of hope riding along upon those glittering golden needles shattered just as abruptly as they did.

Another buzzing platform zipped by, its attached crystal darkening like a cloud-covered sun, and Ali saw the nascent mind-control spell forming within. Urgently, she formed her needles again, this time using Disrupt, but the domain protection was just as powerful, rebuffing her magic before it had even the slightest effect. The arc of black lightning struck Calen between his shoulder blades, and he instantly whirled about, turning his bow upon her and her healers. His arrows shattered spectacularly, blowing up in his face as Ali’s barrier penned him in. Another droning buzz whined past her left-hand side, and a fresh arc of lightning shot downward, and Ali was forced to trap another mind-controlled adventurer, not even able to try Disruption now that her skill was recharging.

I need to break the runic structure of the entire platform, she realized suddenly. Just like breaking Nevyn Eld’s array. There had to be a reason the crystals were flying around with the rune-covered platforms. If she could just get to the runes to study them, she might have a chance. Surely, breaking a mind-control spell platform was easier than the death knight array at Aman Rak?

There was only one problem. Getting close to the evil mind control crystal when she knew it would ignore her barrier was taking an extreme risk, especially considering the raid was counting on her to deal with them. On the other hand, dealing with them without reading the runic structure was going to be impossible. She had the highest wisdom in the raid, and she was using an Eternal Reverie elixir, but the group would almost certainly collapse if she were mind-controlled and her minions turned on them.

On the other hand, she was a summoner, and she had access to tools most people could only dream of. She summoned a flight of Glitter Dragonets and released them into the smoke-filled air, and before she immersed her awareness into them, she surrounded herself in a thick bubble of barrier magic. Her second-tier barrier skill clicked into place, quieting the sounds from outside, and she set it to keep her aloft while she followed her golden flight.

Comfortably ensconced in the bodies of her tiny dragons, she gave chase, swooping and diving after the crazy zigs and zags as they followed the demented platform wherever it went. Seen from the perspective of draconic eyes, the smoke-filled battlefield below took on an indefinite sharpness as their instincts tracked danger and mana wherever they saw it. She swooped and dove at the nearest platform, fanning out her tiny minions in an effort to bracket the platform. It dodged, banking hard, but Ali had a dragon flying on that flank. As the platform swooped by, she folded her wings and fell like a stone.

The instant she reached the platform, all sense of crazy inertia and momentum vanished, and she found herself standing easily upon a motionless disk of mana while the world spun and tilted outside. She ignored it, directing the full force of her gleaming draconic eyes to memorizing and analyzing the glowing runes beneath her tiny draconic claws.

There was a loud but oddly distant buzzing, and the world flared with a dense, dark burst of mana, and then something struck her a ringing blow on the back of her head.

Mato felt the difference from his first Swipe. While the heavy adamantium mace and shield had vanished, incorporated into his Dire Bear Form by the magic of the shapeshifting transformation, the weight was most definitely still present. He felt it in the momentum of his paws.

His claws struck a resounding blow on the crystalline surface of the arcane elemental. Nature damage surged like a bright, popping flare, ripping into the pristine purple surface and leaving claw trails and flying crystal shards.

Is that Spell Piercer? he wondered. Or just the extra damage? It was hard to tell, really, but it hardly mattered. He was grinning from ear to ear – probably a terrifying look on a dire bear, but he didn’t care to give it that much thought.

He braced in response to his Survival Instinct and found himself somehow naturally blocking a huge burst of arcane energy. Oh, I can definitely get used to this!

You have been afflicted with Arcane Amplification.

But the giant elemental before him was not simply going to stand there and blast him with magical explosions. A shaft as thick as his thigh suddenly shot out of the featureless surface before him, completing a wide arc and smashing into his head and shoulder and driving him back two feet. His claws scraped through the dirt, all the way to the dense magical runework below.

Your Arcane Amplification has increased to 2.You have been afflicted with Rend Armor.-1% to Armor. Duration refreshes on reapplication.Physical – Duration: 30 seconds. Count: 1

He shook his head, trying to clear the ringing, his grin getting broader. This guy can hit!

A spike lanced out from the other side, aiming to impale him, but he had Critical Block ready and waiting. A great crash rang out across the battlefield as his block shook the ground.

You have gained Onslaught.

His claws glittered as the blow accelerated, trails of void magic slicing through arcane armor like butter. At least, if he were slicing butter with a knife hot enough to vaporize it. He fed power to all his support skills, resulting in a spray of shards and cracks that spiderwebbed across the glasslike surface before him. A nova of nature magic rippled outward, healing his allies and doing even more nature damage as Brutal Restoration triggered off the Crushing Blow.

But it was the new surge of nature magic, settling upon the monster like a glowing cluster of twining branches within it, clutching for its heart.

Is that…

But his next strike answered his question instantly. The nature damage inflicted by his mace’s enchantment struck deep and powerfully, clearly benefiting from the sudden application of his Nature Vulnerability curse proc. Oh, boy! That’s really cool!

But the boss clearly did not like that. Not even one bit. Three spikes shot out simultaneously to impale him, and a heavy blunt protrusion smacked him hard in the chest, cracking several ribs.

