Your Arcane Amplification has increased to 5 (+4).Your Rend Armor has increased to 5 (+4).

He coughed up some blood, but his healers were already landing their potent spells, restoring him to the range where his own Brutal Restoration could take care of him. But as he felt his health stabilize, something powerful stabbed him in the ribs so fast not even Survival Instinct could help him avoid it.

You have been poisoned.

He risked a glance to the side, just in time to see Devan wearing a halo of black lightning and stabbing him a second time.

What the fuck? Devan?

There was no way to defend himself against the sudden betrayal as he immediately found himself blocking several new spikes and another Arcane Blast from the boss, but before she could lift the dagger again, a thick golden globe of barrier magic snapped into place around her, leaving her raging inside like a trapped, feral animal as she tried to stab her way out.

“Thanks, Ali.”

Carefully, he shifted the boss sideways to give himself room to fight as the huge elemental boss belched out a vast swarm of small flying elementals into the sky.

Ali woke curled up tightly into a fetal ball in Malika’s lap. Her head throbbed like it had been cracked by Thuli’s hammer.

“What… happened?”

You have gained Clarity.

The sudden infusion of Malika’s intense healing ripped her headache away, shredding it and leaving her suddenly gasping in its wake.

“You got mind-controlled,” Malika answered, matter-of-factly.

“Oh,” Ali said, her memories coming back in a rush. She had been in the process of studying the runes when something had snuck up on her and hit her head. Some dark magic.

“Most of the damage to the town will respawn, and nobody was seriously injured, thank goodness,” Malika continued. “Havok and Lamyndra have a line of people to heal, but they should all be fine.”

“Wait, what?” Ali gasped.

“You got mind-controlled by the boss,” Malika said. “What do you think it did with all your minions?”

“Oh, no!” Ali exclaimed, jumping to her feet. Ugh! Too fast. She had to grab Malika’s shoulder or she would have fallen over.

Seriously? I got – just like that? She had been worried about her raid summons messing up the guild group, but she had not even imagined it would take over the bosses she’d placed on the battlements and the monsters guarding the town. How did it even do that? That’s far worse than any of us imagined. My whole dungeon?

“It’s ok,” Malika said. “I just said everyone is taken care of.”

“But I hurt them.” Not all the townsfolk were her friends, not even a lot of them, but many of them she had no grudge against, and hurting innocent people was not something she was even remotely comfortable with.

“The boss did, not you.”

“I didn’t know it could use my skills like that,” Ali said. Of course, in hindsight, it made a crazy sort of sense – a bit like her efforts to control the minions of a minion she’d turned into a dungeon with Nevyn Eld’s artifact.

“Yes. You started disrupting spells, casting barriers on random people, and all your minions went berserk. Lyeneru called the retreat immediately. The mind control has a range; it dropped the instant I got you out of there. You were out for no more than twenty seconds.”

Ali felt the weight of shame and embarrassment falling heavily on her heart. When Devan or Calen had been mind-controlled, she had simply locked them away in a bubble of her magic; it had never occurred to her that she might be vastly harder to contain. A disruption of that magnitude in the middle of a champion-level raid was how people got killed.

“I can’t let that happen again,” Ali muttered.

***

Ali sat in the library, notes and runic reference manuals strewn across the table before her, but her heart was not in it. Sure, she’d memorized the entire layout of the platform’s runic structure the moment she’d smuggled her dragonet on board, and she’d easily been able to interpolate some of the most important functions, but her attention was elsewhere. Out in the dungeon, she watched the guild struggling with the Avatar of Annihilation through the eyes of her minions. This would be the third try since she had decided to sit out, and it was going just as badly as the first two.

The fight had begun as normal, the tanks splitting the boss’s minions over to the death aspect, while Mato tanked the boss in its arcane form in the center. The platforms buzzed around, randomly controlling people right up until they got someone strong enough, or in the wrong place.

Then, the entire raid fell apart.

Seth had shown up to all the subsequent attempts after her failure without any minions, instead relying on curse magic only, but the one time Mato had been mind-controlled, their whole strategy had instantly collapsed.

Unfortunately, without her barrier magic, nearly everyone other than the healers had the power to cause serious mayhem to the delicate balance of a raid group struggling against a powerful foe.

She closed her eyes as Lyeneru called the retreat, yet again. Perhaps the last one for today.

Ali blinked a few times, battling against a sudden upwelling of sadness and frustration. Her abilities were so critical to the raid, and yet her presence there was a real danger to the town and all her friends. People had gotten hurt because she had been mind controlled. Innocent folks who were just out shopping, working, or enjoying their day. She sighed, wishing for the millionth time that she could turn once again to Lira for a few kind words of wisdom.

She always knew what to say. And, remember Mieriel?

Suddenly, all those feelings of violation, of utter helplessness, welled up from the pits of her darkest nightmares. The tears came spilling out. She did not sob or cry, but still, they just tracked down her face as a chasm of loneliness split her heart. Lira was gone, and Ali couldn’t even fight to help the raid out there, struggling to recover the Well of Souls. The Well that she needed to cleanse her aunt’s acorn – if that even worked, if she could even allow herself the smallest sliver of hope.

It's unfair. So… so damn unfair! As her silent tears ran down her cheeks and waves of thick, impossibly overwhelming emotions surged over her repeatedly, something heavy settled in her lap, shuffling about a little. She glanced down to find an Eldritch Tome trying to snuggle up against her.

“Clarence? Are you trying to cheer me up?” she asked, wiping her face with the back of her hand.

The moment she noticed him, the book snapped open, riffling through its pages in clear excitement – a bookish ‘look at this!’ that made her lips quirk into a small, sad smile. Then, he flopped open and shifted his covers a little in her lap as if encouraging her to read. Ali slipped her hand down and scratched along his spine where she knew he liked it, and got a shiver of happiness from the book. Her eyes settled on the pages, and suddenly she froze.

Chapter 1173: A Few Notes on the Subversion of Magic.

What is this? Why did you open here? But her eyes were already rapidly scanning the dense text written in her mother’s impeccable hand, and suddenly her sense of sadness and frustration vanished, replaced with astonishment and excitement at what Clarence had found to share. In seconds, she had her Study Trance running, and her hands were reaching for all the notes she had made of the runic magic from the platforms.

If this can work…

***

“… so, if I can just replace the fundamental meta-structure of the formation with these runes here, I think we can access the main target module directly via this conduit in the second layer,” Ali said, and looked at the faces around the conference table expectantly.

But they just stared blankly at her.

“What?” she asked.

“Ali, none of us have any idea what you’re talking about,” Calen said. Sitting beside him, Lyeneru and Vivian both nodded.

“Can you simplify it?” Malika asked gently.

“I need to get on one of those platforms. There’s something I need to check about the runes powering the mind-control spells,” Ali said, not allowing the frustration to creep back into her voice. The idea was at once so simple, and yet so profound that she simply couldn’t even imagine what might be possible – but she had to see. “If I’m right, I think I can neutralize those crystals.”

“Can you do it remotely?” Calen asked, clearly worried about the implications.

“No, I don’t think so,” she said. She would likely need her Study Trance to run for at least twenty to thirty seconds, and there was a section she would need to verify, and the only way she knew how was with her own second-tier mana sight. Unfortunately, the chances of her getting mind-controlled again were high.

“What about the town?” Aiden asked.

“I was thinking I could despawn the monsters while we’re raiding,” Ali said. “Maybe we can ban people from raiding in my dungeon for a bit? I’m almost certain I’ll get mind-controlled again.” She would need to completely change her minions for the raid, too, but she had a few interesting ideas.

“Good enough for me,” Lyeneru said, letting her frustration at the fight show on her face. “We could use a breakthrough.”

“Not everyone will listen to a ban from the guild,” Vivian said. “But I don’t think that’s your responsibility, then. I’m good with it, too. It’s certainly a better idea than what we’re currently trying.”

“But you said you didn’t even understand it,” Ali objected.

“Yes,” Vivian answered, leaving her implication loudly unspoken.

“It was really that bad?” she asked. She had been watching, participating, at least remotely. But the chorus of agreement and nods around the table told her the full story.

***

Ali hovered above the raid group, the sounds of sober, quiet conversation drifting upward as they finalized their preparations.

“I’ll give you Clarity,” Malika said. “And get you out if it takes you again.”

“Thanks,” Ali said, smiling at her friend.

For this attempt, Ali was accompanied by the most bizarre set of minions she had ever brought to a fight. A veritable glittering horde of thousands of low-level golden arcane elementals swarmed around her. Every single one of them was chosen for two abilities: immunity to arcane damage and the ability to fly, and, just in case that wasn’t sufficient, she had a cloud of thousands of Glitter Dragonets cavorting above her head.

She had two objectives: get herself on the platform, a task that promised to be extremely challenging, and give herself enough time on the platform to complete her work.

“Ready, Aliandra?” Lyeneru asked.

“Yes,” she said, nodding firmly and trying to ignore the racing in her heart.

“Time to kill this boss with glitter and sparkles,” Mato said, his joke causing a ripple of chuckles and snorts to travel through the group of ready raiders.

“Hush, you,” Calen said.

“Begin,” Lyeneru commanded.

Mato charged forth with Havok and Sabri flanking him, beginning the fight as usual. The only change to their normal strategy manifested early when Sabri and Havok kept the minion elementals within the arcane circle on the ground. The raid would be stacking up Arcane Amplification far faster this way, but it did mean all the damage would be only arcane magic.

Brimming with determination, Ali released her swarm into the battlefield, filling the air with elementals spread out as evenly as possible. The swarm formed a stunning starscape of glittering golden light. They shimmered and shifted like gossamer curtains under the compression waves of the continuous purple spheres of exploding arcane damage.

The buzz of the crystal platforms filled the air, and they shot out in their crazy, unpredictable trajectories, cutting jagged lines through her starfield of elementals. She reached out with her mind, connecting to every single one of them. She calculated trajectories, estimated speed, and computed velocities using thousands of perception skills dotted throughout the space. No matter where the platforms went, she had a teleportation target ready and waiting.

There! She suddenly chose, triggering Minion Teleport and appearing right in the path of a crystal platform. But at the last instant, it changed trajectories, darting sideways, and she fell past the edge.

With a thought, she summoned a barrier by her feet, watching nervously as the dark lightning flickered outward, hopping between elementals at random, but she couldn’t risk waiting, so she used Arcane Recall and reset her teleportation recharge. She teleported again. This time, her calculations proved far more accurate, and she appeared right on top of the platform.

Instantly, all momentum ceased, and Ali found herself standing easily upon the runic magic she had studied in the library for hours. It took less than a fraction of a second for her accelerated perceptions to verify the runic formation, quickly discarding several of her leading theories as she saw the mana flow with her own Arcane Insight. Option six, it is, she said, although there were a few minor variations she hadn’t predicted. Now to see if it works. She summoned her prepared counter formation, making a few tweaks before unleashing it upon the platform itself. Tiny needles of golden mana shot down into the runic structure, instantly seeking the targets she had marked out during her studies in the library.

Please work, she thought as the magic in the crystal suddenly darkened.

To her utter amazement, the runes twisted, and the magic warped. A great bolt of dark lightning burst forth, arcing down from the crystal to the ground to pierce one of the boss’s quasi-real Theuronic Crystal arcane minion elementals, and for a fraction of a second, she felt the connection.

Oh, goodness! Can it do that?

Ali’s notification chimes sounded in the back of her mind. Several lines of glittering gold text appeared in her mind’s eye.

Arcane Insight has reached level 120 (+2).Runic Script has reached level 88 (+3).Sage of Learning has reached level 90 (+2).

And then, something hard hit her on the side of her head, and everything went black.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
