“Those fancy little digital signature devices automatically ping their host computer to confirm the package was signed for.” He said over his shoulder as he hit the door almost at a run. “We got the address where the thing is registered!”

“Then what are you waiting for?” Officer Stonewall asked as she easily ran passed him in the hallway and reached the door to the outside long before he did. “Let's go!”

*

“Do we have that address?” Agent Smith asked the other Agent Smith, who smiled.

“We do now.” He said as his phone beeped, and looked at the text message with the address. He told his partner where it was, and the car eased out of the parking lot located behind the police station, then sped down the road to the destination.

*

“That was great, Denise.” Ren said as he finished eating. “Thank you.”

“I'm glad you took your time and didn't wolf it down.”

“Hey, I'm not that reckless.” Ren said, and she gave him a knowing look. “What? I'm not!”

“Who ran through a forest thick with giants, and jumped a giant pit trap on the back of an armored ram?” Denise asked him.

Ren's mouth dropped open, and Elise chuckled.

“I... uh...”

“Yeah, that's right Mr. I'm Not Reckless.” Denise said, and laughed as she picked up the tray the food had been on. “I'll be back in a little bit.” She said, and looked at Elise. “I've got to do the dishes. Can you watch him for a little while?”

“No problem.” Elise said. “Take your time.”

Denise smiled and left the room. Everything went quiet, and the only thing Ren could hear was Elise as she breathed. He looked at her, and smiled.

“I really like your outfit.” Ren said. “The purple makes it look like your skin is glowing.”

“It does?”

Ren nodded. “I don't know if it's because of the contrast to your bright red hair, or if you're just that beautiful; but, you look amazing.”

“Thank you.” Elise said as she stood up, and a slight blush flowed up her neck and to her cheeks as she did a little twirl for him.

“That top must be really comfortable.” Ren said. “It doesn't cling to you like some of the other things you wear.”

“You... you noticed...”

“How could I not notice?” Ren chuckled. “You better not tell me that people don't normally notice you.”

Elise smiled at him, and bent over the edge of the bed. The loose-fitting top let gravity take it's toll, and it fell away to reveal the barely there purple-colored bra.

“I don't normally have someone to dress this way for.” Elise said, and Ren swallowed loudly. “Most men think they can buy me with expensive gifts or fancy dinners.” She ran a hand through his hair, and she sighed in pleasure. “I have my own money. I don't need anything like that.” She licked her lips and leaned closer. “None of them understand that all I want...” Elise spoke in a soft and sexy voice. “...all that I need...” She whispered to him, and his eyes widened as she came in for a kiss. “...is someone to care about...” Her lips pressed lightly onto his for a brief moment, then she backed away slightly. “...and for them to care about me.”

Ren reached both of his hands up. Elise thought he would take a hold of her chest, since she was presenting it to him despite telling herself earlier that she wouldn't; but instead of grabbing all that available flesh, his fingertips touched the sides of her face and he caressed the soft skin.

“You should have hundreds of men fighting over who gets a chance to look into your eyes like this, and yet here you are, giving me that honor.” Ren said, and kissed her just as gently as she had kissed him a moment before. “Thank you.”

Elise blinked her eyes at him. “You... you're thanking me...”

Ren smiled, and ran his hands through her flowing red hair as he stared at her. “I could get lost in your eyes.”

“My... my... eyes?”

“You're wearing contacts, too.” Ren said, as he saw the little round circles around her pupils. “I was wondering what happened to your glasses.”

“You...” Elise tried to articulate her thoughts. Screw it! “Why are you focusing on my eyes and not my chest?”

Ren gave her another quick kiss and smiled. “Which would you rather I be focused on?”

“I... I don't know.” She said and blushed.

“I do.” He said, and traced a line from her eyebrow, across her cheek, to her chin. “You've had so many men focus on only your chest, that you don't know what to do when they focus on you instead.”

Elise took in a breath, and let it out slowly. “I... I want you to touch them.” She said, as she finally admitted it to herself. “A lot.” She said. “Use them.” She smiled. “Play with them.” She was almost desperate as she begged. “Please, Ren.” She sighed. “They're yours to do with as you wish.”

“Okay.” Ren said, and she closed her eyes in anticipation of the sensations she was about to receive. He reached out and used both of his hands to grab her earlobes. Her eyes flew open and her mouth made that little 'o' of surprise, because that was not the sensation she had expected. Ren kissed her surprised mouth, and then the door to his room opened.

“Just what do you think you're doing?” Barbara asked as she came into the room, and carried a small basket. Ren broke the kiss and smiled.

“Isn't it obvious?” He said. “I'm kissing one of the most enchantingly beautiful women on the planet.”

Barbara looked at Elise's face, and it still had that little 'o' of surprise on it. “I think someone else is the one that's enchanted.”

Ren chuckled as he massaged Elise's earlobes for another moment, then let them go. Elise licked her lips as she looked at him, then stood up.

“Hi, Barbara.” Elise said in a normal voice.

“Hi, Elise.” Barbara said. “How are you?”

“I... I'm fine.” Elise said. “I just... um... I'll be right back.” She picked up her purse and went into the bathroom.

*

Elise leaned on the sink and sighed. I told him I wanted him to... to... and he didn't! She lifted her skirt and checked herself to find that everything was fine; so she went back out to confront him. Barbara had put the basket she'd brought in by the television, and sat in the chair on the other side of the bed.

“So who's ready to watch last week's episode?” Barbara asked.

Denise had come back into the room by this point; but no one responded except with smiles.

“Great!” Barbara said. “Everyone have a seat, and I'll start it.”

Ren moved over on the bed, and pat the space beside him while smiling at her. Elise nodded slightly, she put her purse and tablet on the dresser, and carefully climbed onto the bed. She half-laid down beside him, propped up on her elbows, while Denise sat in the chair the tablet had been on.

*

Elise looks kind of mad. Ren thought, as the theme music of his show came on the television. “A penny for your thoughts.” He whispered to Elise, and she looked at him. She took a breath, and spoke.

“I asked... no, begged... for you to touch me.” Elise whispered back. “Why didn't you?”

Ren leaned in close, and put his lips by her ear. “I want to see them the first time I get to touch them.” He said, and she shivered as his breath tickled her ear. “Denise was coming right back, so I knew I only had a few moments alone with you.”

Ren was tempted to kiss her neck, then thought there was no better time with her head turned like it was; because her hair blocked everyone's view. His lips touched her skin, and Elise bit her lip as she closed her eyes.

“That it was Barbara that came in makes no difference.” He whispered. “We still didn't have the time for me to...”

The theme music ended, and Ren moved back to a sitting position. He watched the television screen after he gave Elise a quick glance, and saw her smile.
