A shame Rain’s mind and spirit was unable to revel in the fresh air and sunlight, or at least not in any discernible way. The animals were more than happy with the arrangements however, with free access to the beach and dutiful Li-Li to bring them over to play each and every morning before returning to wake Mila and Lin-Lin for lunch. Still sopping wet and indifferent to everyone’s desire to avoid the same, the bears bunny-hopped over in gleeful greeting, one Mila intercepted on behalf of her husband since Baloo had a habit of resting his head on Rain’s lap. Comatose or otherwise, even the People would whisper if it looked like the Legate of the Outer Provinces had wet his pants, though Rain himself would probably get a good laugh out of it. Forced to settle with resting his soggy chin on Mila’s hand instead, Baloo gingerly settled back on his haunches like an ungainly dog sitting with legs splayed out in different directions, chortling all the while as he enjoyed his vigorous head-rubbing.

Grinning like a fool and unable to hide it, Mila looked away from Baloo’s half-lidded gaze for fear of melting into a puddle and greeted her sister instead, who was strolling over with Mama Bun coddled in her arms. “Morning Li-Li.”

“Morning.”

It wasn’t much, but knowing Li-Li was finally able to casually greet her in a less than formal manner made Mila’s heart swell with joy. “You have fun at the beach?”

“Yes.” Though still somewhat stony-faced, there was a slackness to her brows and a faint, almost imperceptible curve to her lips that told Mila her sister was inwardly smiling, a message even her Aura of love and contentment could not wholly convey. “Banjo and Baloo are a sight to behold as they splash around in the water, and Rakky is becoming more confident with each passing day.” If there was one thing the warhorse-sized tiger didn’t need, it was more confidence, but Mila let it slide as she watched her sister bask in her joy. Cat-ears fluttering with delight, Li-Li hugged Mama Bun even tighter and nuzzled her softly, but the rabbit was having none of it, wiggling this way and that in an effort to escape so that she might go greet Rain as well. “Mama Bun spent a good hour trying to fill the sea with sand though. She wanted to join in on the fun, but still hasn’t learned how to swim.”

Rain had told them all about the rabbit’s adventures in his Natal Palace, where he conjured up a magic raft that kept her afloat no matter where she hopped. Alas, poor Mama Bun didn’t understand the difference between the real world and Rain’s Natal Palace, so she suffered through several self-inflicted dunkings before she finally accepted that the raft would not appear. Giving up on keeping the rabbit to herself, Li-Li gently placed Mama Bun in Rain’s lap beside Guai-Guai and sighed as the forlorn floof stared into his eyes, a ritual she repeated several times a day ever since he lapsed into a coma. Patient as ever, Li-Li knelt beside Rain’s wheelchair and stroked the inconsolable rabbit’s ears, a testament to her compassion and understanding. She too would make for an outstanding mother, a tender and empathetic soul who just had so much love to give, but had yet to learn how to properly express it without Aura.

Lessons Mila would benefit from taking part in, as she was unsure what to say here except to try and solve the problem for her sister, which apparently wasn’t always the best decision. Still, she gave it a try knowing Li-Li would at least recognize and appreciate the effort. “If she’s so unhappy about going to the beach, you could always leave Mama Bun with us in the mornings. I doubt she’d object to more time spent snuggling in bed.”

“Perhaps.” Except Li-Li meant no, judging by the way she tensed up and refused to look at Mila, as she was reluctant to flat out disagree. Though she’d come a long way in these last few years, there was still much healing to be done before Li-Li wholly recovered from her ordeals. “Letting her roam free seems to help. After her tantrum, she spent the rest of the morning grooming her children, which she hasn’t been doing all too often of late. A set routine is good for all the animals, as they crave structure and familiarity. To them, new and unfamiliar are synonyms for danger first and foremost, rather than the adventure and excitement many people desire.”

This wasn’t all that different from how Li-Li saw the world, which explained why she understood the animals so well. Now that Mila thought about it though, the floofs did seem happier with a schedule to adhere to, with no sign of the mopey, downcast expressions they all had the last time Rain fell into a coma. Back then, Li-Li had tried all manner of activities to try and cheer them up, like running obstacle courses, taking walks through the market, and exploring the District and bamboo grove, but nothing she tried had worked. Now it appeared as if she’d learned from her failures, which explained her strict adherence to their new daily schedule. The bears in particular seemed more assured and undaunted, happy to run ahead of Li-Li rather than stick closely to her heels, while Aurie, Jimjam, and Sarankho were all relaxed and splayed out about the makeshift courtyard, lazing without a care in the world as if they were wholly safe and content. The rabbits... well, they never seemed to have any fear whatsoever, and the same could be said of the laughing birds, which was ironic considering their places in the food chain compared to the bears and wildcats.

“Well, you know best,” Mila replied, to which Li-Li’s ears wiggled in surprised delight. Though Rakky had no need for more confidence, Mila’s sister was another story and she would do everything she could to help her along. Acquiescing to Princess’s demanding grunts, Mila gave Baloo one last pat on the head before lifting the weasel-bear into her arms like a baby to rub her floofy belly, which set the sweet girl’s feet to paddling in delight. Thankfully, the weasel-bear was not fond of swimming and preferred to burrow herself in the sand, which left her coat softer and shinier than ever before, and most importantly, dry. Thinking to change the subject and fill the silence, Mila asked, “So have you decided on a new Spiritual Weapon yet?”

A question she regretted the instant she voiced it, because to Mila it was merely idle conversation, but to Li-Li it was a topic rife with struggle and indecision, and the last thing she wanted was more pressure. Then again, perhaps a little pressure was needed given their current circumstances, occupying a newly raised fortification in Enemy territory with an Imperial offensive soon to commence. Though Mama had yet to say anything on the topic, it was clear to each and every soldier in Meng Sha that the wheels were turning and deployment orders forthcoming, for their beloved Legate had not sailed them all this way to merely hold a few harbours. No, the goal was to retake the West, and regardless of anyone’s personal opinion regarding the feasibility of such a grand undertaking, they all knew they had to at least try. The Enemy had come a-knocking and now occupied a full fifth of the Empire, a fact which weighed heavily on the pride of all Martial Warriors, if not their conscience. The least they could do was spit in the Father’s eye before giving up the West for lost, if only so that they could say that they didn’t give up the West without a fight.

After all, not all Warriors were as callous and indifferent as the Emperor Himself, who had done just that without thinking twice. There would be a reckoning in days to come, for Rain’s crusade to retake the Western Province was in express defiance of the Imperial Mandate which closed the borders some two years ago, and Emperors were rarely known to accept defiance without reprisal. A matter for another day however, but one Li-Li would not be likely to see if she sought to do battle without a Spiritual Weapon. The Enemy would have their eye on her now that she’d revealed herself as the only Warrior capable of countering their Demonic Aura of dread and terror aside from the monks, who were unreliable at best. Li-Li was so important now that even Tenjin and Tursinai were not enough to protect her on their own, so Mama arranged for an entire cadre of Peak Experts to guard her day and night, an elite force led by none other than Yaruq herself, a Warrior on par with Father-in-Law Baatar, or close to his level at least. To say Mila wasn’t jealous would be an outright lie, as what Warrior didn’t dream of being a pivotal piece on the board, one capable of turning the tides of battle alone? Unfortunately, Emotional Aura was not so easy to learn as neither Rain nor Li-Li were able to wholly explain it in any meaningful manner, while the monks of the Brotherhood were unwilling to guide anyone along the Martial Path without including a hefty heaping of pontification on the side.

Still, seeing Li-Li’s silent distress made Mila’s heart ache with sorrow. Her sister was a strong, capable Martial Warrior, so this lack of self-confidence was almost criminal to behold. That being said, confidence built on a shaky foundation was worse than no confidence at all, so Mila left off rubbing Princess’s belly and wrapped her arm around Li-Li instead. “Sorry,” she whispered, kissing her sister’s temple to convey her love and support in spite of her burning desire to solve the problem for her. “Ignore the question. Take all the time you need, as a Spiritual Weapon is not a decision you want to rush.”

Li-Li’s slight nod of the head spoke volumes to her indecision, unable to bring herself to agree or disagree with the statement, but thankfully, Yan arrived on the scene with Grandpa Du and Kyung to save Mila from this awkward lull of her own devising. Skipping over in what could only be described as girlish delight, Yan scooped Lin-Lin up in her arms as she passed to twirl her about, and by the end of it, they both wore matching toothy grins. Brimming with envy as she watched their dainty exchange, Mila wished she had the confidence to express her femininity in so public a manner, because while the courtyard here was under a cloak of Concealment, Yan had skipped all the way over without a care in the world for who might see her. Time and time again, Mama had stressed the necessity of stoic decorum to Mila, for only then would other Warriors see her as a soldier and officer rather than just a silly girl playing at war. She’d seen it time and time again as reputable women of note were disparaged for doing things that no one would blink twice at if they were a man, like taking more than one lover or dressing in fine clothes while out on campaign. Even someone as talented as Da’in had to walk the fine line between Warrior and woman, while the powerful and accomplished Exarch Erienne was often criticized for ‘flaunting’ her femininity. To be fair, the woman wore scandalously little and seemed to enjoy the extra attention it afforded her, to the point where she once even tried to entice Rain into her embrace, or at least that’s what he claimed. But Yan? No one seemed to blink twice at anything she did now, and she was all too happy to push her limits as far as they would go. There were no disparaging scowls when she wore her form-fitting outfits, jokingly referred to her soldiers as her children, or leapt into Rain’s embrace in public, but Mila could never find the courage to do the same, not when even Mama kept her distance from Papa in public.

It was silly and unfair, but such was life, or at least so Mila had thought until Yan proved herself the exception to the rule. Quashing her feelings of bitter envy, she instead tried to share in her sister-wife’s joy, a feat which was not too difficult to accomplish given how infectious her smile proved to be. “You seem in a good mood,” Mila said, grinning from ear to ear like a fool as Yan came over to tickle Princess’s feet and set the weasel-bear to squirming.

“I am.” Wrapping her arms around Mila’s waist, Yan pulled her close into an intimate hug so similar to how Rain held her, causing her heart to flutter in confused excitement. Perhaps that’s why Yan got away with flaunting her femininity, because it went hand in hand with the inexplicably masculine habits she’d picked up along the way. “Not without reason though. I just Formed my Natal Palace.”

A girlish squeal slipped out and Mila gave thanks to the Experts Concealing her, for she would have melted in shame if someone else had heard her. “Congratulations! I knew you could do it!”

