Alternating between her sister and father, Mila wrung her hands and tried not to look or sound too afraid as she replied, “But Mama said Li-Li needed to decide for herself.” It was ridiculous, as Mila was a woman grown with a husband of her own now, so there was no need to fear her mother so, but there were some constants she worried would never change.

“I have decided,” Li-Li declared, much to Papa and Mila’s surprise. “I have decided to seek advice from my father and sister who are both Divine Blacksmiths of note. Papa has said his piece, so now I would like to hear what you think.”

While probably not entirely what Mama had intended, it seemed like Li-Li had found her confidence after all, the confidence to admit her own ignorance and seek help from experts who knew more. A lesson Mama could use as well, but Mila would never have the courage to say so out loud, and she pitied the poor fool who dared do so. “Well, I have given it some thought,” she began, beaming as she squeezed Li-Li’s hand and wrapped her other arm around Papa’s. “See Li-Li, your greatest strength isn’t speed or power, but rather your ability to adjust how much power or speed you use at any given time. Most Warriors fall into a rhythm, but you dance to your own tune as you please. That isn’t to say you don’t favour certain habits, but your ability to switch things up at the drop of a hat can easily catch an opponent off-guard, so I think you need a weapon that will play to those strengths.” A familiar and welcome sensation came over Mila as she spoke, and recognizing it for what it was, she released her hold on Li-Li and Papa and took up one of the discarded swords to use as a pen. Scrawling pictures and characters in the dirt for fear of forgetting any of the information coursing through her head, Mila let the words flow out of her as she gave herself over to the throes of Divine Inspiration. “Nothing too unfamiliar of course, but with a few adjustments...”

The world blurred around her as everything faded out of focus save for what she needed to work, the sword, the dirt, and sometimes Li-Li and Papa offering their own input to the mix. Soon enough, Mila had her plans all laid out, a welcome relief after committing to a haphazard approach to the Martial Path, but then Papa showed her the Spiritual ore he intended to use, and all of her best laid plans went awry. If she proceeded as is, her work would only end in failure as she produced a sub-par product lacking the proper balance, for she failed to factor in the unique density of this ore. As such, Mila took up brush and parchment to make the necessary calculations once again to ensure her sister’s weapon would be perfect for her and her alone.

This was Mila’s Path, she understood this now, something she’d known all along yet resisted because she had different aspirations. She wanted to be a great leader and commander like Mama, but also a talented craftsman like Papa, yet she never took the effort to bring her two chosen Disciplines together into one, singular Path. It was always her dream to be a Warrior first and Divine Blacksmith second, but what need was there for differentiation? This was her Path, one unique to her and her alone, and one bound for inevitable failure if she tried to follow in another’s footsteps. A simple truth, merely a different way of saying one must forge their own Path, but now Mila finally had the courage to move forward once again and see her current Path through to the end.

And when she took up her hammer, ready to forge the weapon itself, Mila felt the Divine Hand of the Mother reach down to guide her actions from on high. A sign from the Heavens that Mila was on the right Path, but a sign she did not need, for she now knew why she sought strength. Not for the sake of strength itself, or even to emulate her parents, husband, or anyone else. No, Mila desired strength so that she could support the people she loved most, her parents, her husband, her sister-wives, and everyone else she cared for. That was her ambition, above all else, to see her loved ones succeed, and her first course of action now was to forge a weapon for Li-Li that would aid her in combating the Defiled threat.

One step at a time, walk before you can run, and yet as Mila fell into the rhythm of the hammer and bellows, she felt herself progressing by leaps and bounds as the Heavenly Dao unveiled itself before her. All Paths lead to the Peak, yet another truth she knew but failed to comprehend until now, and with this, she hoped to soon stand alongside her husband once again at the forefront of their generation. Not to overtake him, but to better support him just like Mama and Papa supported one another, which turned out, was the greatest lesson Mila’s parents had ever imparted upon her, and one she would do well to never forget.

Chapter Meme
