The last vestiges of sweet slumber slipped away as Mila stirred awake to the sounds and sensations of disgruntled grumblings and gentle ministrations.

Blinking away the blurriness of a long night’s sleep, the world came alive to reveal the source of said disturbances, a sight which warmed her heart indeed. Looming overhead on two furry feet was none other than little Guai-Guai himself, scowling up a storm with arms raised high in a most adorably threatening manner. Uttering the softest of grunts, he struck with the speed of a slug and the strength of a fly as he slammed his paws on her shoulder without lifting his feet off the cot. Though intended as a strike, his monumental efforts resulted in little more than a light pat rather than the rude awakening he no doubt intended, disgruntled that she was still in bed instead of feeding him lunch as she was supposed to. Judging by how hard he was huffing his little chest, he’d clearly been at this for at least a minute, though thankfully Mila woke before he resorted to striking her face instead. This was their daily routine now, one in which Li-Li employed this most adorable of accomplices to help rouse Mila from slumber each and every morning. Though his efforts seemed wholly unsuited for this most arduous of tasks, Guai-Guai struck the perfect balance between gentle efforts and steadfast persistence which enabled him to not only succeed where so many others failed, but also avoid Mila’s inadvertently violent responses in the process.

A good thing too, for Guai-Guai’s efforts were a pleasant alternative to having Mama or Papa pull her out of bed, an indignity she would much rather avoid now that she was a married woman, but before Li-Li accidentally discovered Guai-Guai’s talents, only two others were capable of waking Mila so gently. Unfortunately for her, both said individuals were fast asleep beside her, her husband’s faint yet steady breathing wholly covered by Lin-Lin’s dainty snores, sounds so familiar they threatened to lull Mila back to sleep. Resisting the urge to sink back into a blissful stupor, she pulled little Guai-Guai close into a warm embrace and giggled as he grumbled and accepted her affections with indignant pique, though that didn’t stop him from nuzzling into her arms. Small wonder red pandas were called ‘bear-cats’, for Guai-Guai possessed the gruff disposition of a disgruntled bear and the ambivalent disregard for others that many cats seemed to share, an attitude that seemed entirely out of place in a creature so small and weak. This sort of personality would have been more suited to the massive red-panda Rain described seeing in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace, but this little tantrum only made Guai-Guai that much cuter.

Shifting closer to her comatose husband, Mila nuzzled his shoulder and luxuriated in his presence. Though bedridden for the better part of a month now, Rain still smelled fresh as a daisy and possessed velvety smooth skin to boot, a far cry from how it was during his last comatose stint. Back then, the lack of a Core meant having to deal with mild unpleasantness like body odour, acne, and other basic hygiene issues, on top of the more serious concerns like bed sores and muscle atrophy. As a Martial Warrior however, Rain still benefited from the cleansing properties of Heavenly Energy which made him much more pleasant to snuggle with, and Mila took it all in like a heady, addictive drug which she could no longer live without. Uttering a silent prayer to the Mother in Heaven, Mila implored Her to look after Rain and bring him back as soon as possible, and hoped against all hope that today would be the day when he woke again. She wanted nothing more than to see him open his beautiful eyes and flash his captivating smile, but when she raised her head to take him in once again, he continued to lay there in bed, asleep and unresponsive as ever.

No matter, she told herself, swallowing back her disappointment and clinging fast to hope. He would wake eventually, just not soon enough for her tastes, but she would stay strong and patient until he was able to rejoin the waking world. Kissing his shoulder ever so chastely, she couldn’t help but run her fingers over his chest and marvel at how soft and smooth his skin was, his body hair so sparse and thin it might as well not exist. A good thing too, for there was enough fur in Mila’s life that it was nice not to have a shaggy beast for a husband as well. She loved the sensation of his bare skin against her cheek and couldn’t imagine life any other way, because even though her husband was far from perfect, he was absolutely perfect for her.

A soft giggle interrupted Mila’s visceral appreciation of Rain’s physical attributes, and she opened her eyes to find Lin-Lin peering at her from the other side. There was a time when Mila’s cheeks would have erupted into flames at the mere thought of anyone bearing witness to so intimate a moment, but sharing this with her sister-wife was nothing to be ashamed of, for Lin-Lin loved Rain every bit as much as she did. “Morning,” Mila said, and Lin-Lin responded in kind, grinning as she pressed her pliable cheek against Rain’s chest and indulged in his presence with a similar lack of shame. There was no competition in her actions, no rivalry between them, just a mutual appreciation of their husband’s best traits, of which they both agreed there were many. They also agreed that waking to find him still beside them was one of the few benefits of their husband’s comatose state, as it was rare for him to stay in bed so late. Much as he liked to complain about having too much to do, Rain was never one to sit idle, for his curious and anxious nature would never allow it. Since the day he arrived in the village, he sought to make progress in every facet of life, harbouring an ambition to improve and advance in a way few could ever match. A large part of this was driven by fear, but recently, Mila had come to realize that her husband was a man of grand aspirations, and she loved him all the more for it. It wasn’t that he sought to become a great man, but rather that his nature demanded he become one, for only then could accomplish his heart’s desire and lead humanity into a new era of progress and prosperity.

As such, he was far too driven to lay around in bed until mid-day, though admittedly he had been sleeping in a bit more of late. Or at least he had until stupid Shuai Jiao’s political machinations drew Rain away from home and hearth, but for a few weeks, Mila, Lin-Lin, and Yan had enjoyed a blissful marital life with their amorous and insatiable husband, a teasing glimpse into what their lives would be like once they returned home to the North after all this unpleasantness. Of course, there was a chance this would never happen, as great men could rarely afford the luxury of a simple, quiet life, but Mila could still dream. No longer did she care to be a great hero and Warrior, for she’d seen how the Empire treated its own and found it a lacking reception indeed. All she wanted now was a quiet life back home with her husband and sister-wives, however many there might be.

With children to come when they were ready of course, though Mila felt far from it. Ready that was, because while Mama and Papa taught her everything she needed to know about the Martial Path and blacksmithing, Mila knew next to nothing regarding domestic affairs. It wasn’t their fault since she resisted learning anything outside of her two chosen disciplines and her parents were more than happy to spoil her in their own way, but her flaws were sorely felt now that she was a married woman. While Rain had no intention of adhering to traditional gender roles, which were admittedly outdated and chauvinistic, Mila still wanted to do something nice for her husband every once in awhile, not to mention take on her fair share of the household chores, but she lacked the skills to do so. She could barely steep a pot of decent tea, much less cook a meal or launder clothes, so how would she fare when raising a child of her own? Not well, and not just because she lacked the necessary skills, but also the patience and understanding a child would demand from her. She could barely keep her temper when discussing the Dao with Rain, as she always grew frustrated by her lack of answers, so how could she be expected to teach a child everything they needed to know about life?

She wasn’t like Lin-Lin, who would be an amazing mother when the time came, as evidenced by how patient and gentle she was while caring for comatose Rain, the very picture of a motherly saint as she hummed a cheery little tune while dutifully washing his face and checking his body for bed sores. She even knew how to brew medicine, which meant she could easily pick up the art of cooking if she cared to, not to mention how her natural aptitude at wrangling animals and getting them to heed her commands would translate to raising children. Then there was Luo-Luo, who probably knew a thousand different ways to swaddle a baby and could list out the circumstances in which each variation should be used, which would barely be scratching the depths of the knowledge she possessed. The trained Imperial Servant was no doubt well prepped to raise a child, not to mention so fortuitously equipped with the functioning organs needed to give birth to a child of her own, one that would be blood of her blood and more importantly, Rain’s as well.

Therein lay the crux of most of Mila’s fears, her inability to bear her husband’s children. What if he ended up loving his ‘real’ children more than his adopted ones? He wouldn’t do so with malicious intent, but even with his pets, it was obvious he favoured some over the others. Though he went out of his way to play with each and every one of them as much as he could, Aurie and Mama Bun were quite clearly the most spoiled of the lot, to the point where even diffident Jimjam could tell and harboured some resentment. Granted, the independent wildcat didn’t seem to mind too much, as he was content with only a bare modicum of affection from Rain and much preferred playing with his bear siblings instead, but Mila worried a human or demi-human child would not be so understanding.

Worse, what if she couldn’t love her child, the same way Guan Suo couldn’t find it in his heart to love her? Mother knows he’d tried, an indisputable fact Mila had come to accept in the months since his death, which was more than what most Ancestral Beasts could claim. While her circumstances were completely different, Mila wasn’t like Yan who cooed at babies and made faces at toddlers in passing, a woman clearly gripped by baby fever and unashamed to show it. Having a child always just seemed like an eventuality to Mila, a milestone in life the same way a Natal Palace was a milestone along the Martial Dao, but she wasn’t sure if she had it in her to love the child of a stranger the same way Mama and Papa loved her. While one needn’t look far to find heartwarming stories of adoption among the People, but Mila knew all too well that the less inspiring tales of failure and heartbreak were quickly swept under the rug and hidden from plain sight. If not, how could someone like Yan go so many years without finding a family for herself? She wasn’t the only one either, for there were far more orphans among the People than there were couples willing to adopt them, a harsh truth few cared to face.

All this and more weighed heavily on Mila’s mind as she wheeled her husband out of their yurt with Guai-Guai sprawled across his lap and a procession of laughing birds taking turns to fly down and greet him. A ring of other yurts formed a little courtyard of sorts, one under heavy Concealment to hide the fact that Rain was stationed out in the field among the Sentinels rather than ensconced inside the newly raised fort at Meng Sha. Security through obscurity, as Rain would say, though Heavens knew why he smiled every time he did, as if he’d said something particularly clever or witty. Still, it wasn’t the worst idea he’d ever had and staying out here meant they could bring him about in a wheelchair and take him for walks without having to worry too much about being seen, for the People looked after their own. Though likely crafted in one of his factories, this wheelchair in particular had been borrowed from the stocks of the Army Healers, who’d been quick to adopt Rain’s ingenious little contraption and were thus far his biggest customers. Healers knew better than most that injuries taken in the line of duty were not to the body alone, but also the mind and spirit as well. Many a recovering soldier could benefit greatly from fresh air and sunlight, and these chairs allowed them to partake in the outdoors without having to suffer the indignity of being carried around like a sack of rice, yet another manner in which Mila’s husband had reshaped the world around them.

