Li-Li and Lin-Lin chimed in with their acclaim, which Yan soaked up with glee, and Mila was genuinely delighted for her. The half-deer was a talented Warrior few could match, for she’d rivalled Mila without any real dedicated guidance. Knowing without knowing, that was how Mama explained it, so even without a Mentor, Yan would have found a way to progress along the Martial Path and excel in her career. This was why Yan had been left to her own devices even after Mama saw her struggling with her Awakening all those years ago, because she was confident the talented young girl would eventually find her own answers and be stronger for it. In fact, Mila had harboured a mild resentment over how Grandpa Du had snatched Yan up to claim credit where none was due, but that all changed when she saw how much the old man loved Yan and how hard he worked to guide her along her Path. Now it would seem his efforts had borne fruit, for one only needed to look at his glowing expression to know that he’d had a hand in Yan’s most recent success. If he hadn’t, he would still be happy, but much less proud and more like he’d swallowed some bitter medicine instead, the same expression Mila had seen on his face during parts of Yan’s wedding.

In contrast, Mila was struggling to find her own way now that Mama was no longer able to guide her in the same direct and precise manner she’d grown accustomed to, a fish floundering on land and desperate to find the water once again. Though she’d long since formed her own Natal Palace, Mila was so desperate for direction that she wanted to hear everything about Yan’s experience to see how it matched with her own, but when asked, Yan turned to Grandpa Du first rather than saying anything. Hiding a smile of approval, the old veteran stroked his beard and milked the moment for as long as he could before saying, “So long as everyone present already possesses a Natal Palace, then I see no harm in sharing your tale.”

Though on the surface, it appeared as if he was giving Yan permission, he ended his statement with a none too subtle sideways look at Lin-Lin, who was none the wiser as she was too busy nuzzling Tawny One to notice. As rude and prying as it might be, Mila had to admit that he wasn’t the only one deathly curious as to Lin-Lin’s Martial status, which was still a mystery even now after all these years. Though she’d always known her best friend was hiding much of her talents, to hear that sweet, dainty, carefree Lin-Lin had somehow redirected the attack of an Ancestral Beast was a surprise to say the least, but even Rain wasn’t willing to come out and demand answers from Lin-Lin or his teacher, so who was Mila to say otherwise?

It took long seconds for Lin-Lin to notice all their stares, at which point she merely cocked her head in question. When Yan explained why they were all looking at her, Lin-Lin nodded in understanding. “Oh, don’t worry about me,” she said, flashing the most innocent of smiles without even having to try. “I’m not a Warrior like the rest of you, so it’s not like you can affect my Dao or anything, ya?”

Neither an answer nor a denial to the question they wanted answered, but it was enough to stymie their curiosity for now. Having been given the go ahead, Yan launched into a rendition of this mornings’ events and how she came to Form her Natal Palace, with only a few minor interruptions from Grandpa Du to keep her from going too deep into the specifics. Unfortunately for Mila, nothing Yan shared was similar to what she herself experienced, which gave rise to all manner of doubts and insecurities. Never before had Mila heard of anyone Forming a Natal Palace from what Yan termed a ‘Concept’, for how could one anchor something so broad and expansive like the wind in memory at all times?

The more she thought about it however, the more Yan’s experience made sense, for what was Mila’s own Natal Palace if not a working proof of her own personal Concept? She’d long since arrived at the conclusion that the bamboo grove within her Natal Palace was the embodiment of her Blessing of the Sun, a representation of how sunlight affected the physical world in so many different ways. The only difference was that Yan’s understanding of the Concept of Wind lacked a proper visual representation, but that didn’t make her knowledge any less real. As for Mila, she identified several of her own Concepts to ponder, such as the way shadows and light interwove to form something else altogether, or how water caught the light and distorted it as it passed through, or how bamboo and grass relied upon sunlight to grow. These were but a few of the Concepts present in Mila’s Natal Palace, and now that she recognized them for what they were, she finally had a lead that might point her towards the answers she was so desperate to find.

Answers which would not reveal themselves so quickly, but even as Mila resolved to think this all through later, she was struck by a sudden epiphany. Does the moon need directions to follow the sun? Do shadows need direction on where to stretch and shrink? Does a plant need direction to grow? No, they simply strive to survive, and the rest sorted itself out as time progressed. A lack of direction was not the same as a lack of progress, but Mila had allowed her feet to fall idle rather than move aimlessly without direction, a grievous mistake that she only just now realized. The goal was important, but as Mama once told her, the Martial Path was not just about reaching the Peak, but rather the culmination of the steps one took to arrive there.

So what if Mila was lacking direction? So long as she continued to strive to improve, then she would sooner or later find the right Path forward. All this time, she’d been too afraid to move for fear of making a mistake, when instead she could have been more like Rain and looked forward to learning from her mistakes instead. Was that not how she formed her Natal Palace in the first place? She had no direction or plan when she set out to accomplish what she did, just a general idea of what she wanted and the knowledge that whatever she created had to adhere to Balance. Though she lacked a clear image of what she wanted and the words to describe her inner vision, she still strove to create her Natal Palace through a process of trial and error, painstakingly setting every blade of grass and pebble of stone in their optimal place until the myriad of cascading, interacting forces holding her Natal Palace together matched with what she knew to be true in the real world. While the end result was far from perfect, it was still more than suitable for her needs and far more complex than most Natal Palaces needed to be, so why was she so afraid to take this same approach with the Martial Path? Sure, she might take longer than otherwise necessary, but so what? With Rain around, Mila could only ever strive for second best, so why did it matter if others should overtake her for now? Everyone must forge their own Path to the Peak, and while some routes might prove longer than others, the important thing was that Mila had the confidence to see her own Path to the Peak.

The mere act of acknowledging this single thought was enough to relieve Mila of her hefty burdens of fear, doubt, and frustration, a welcome relief after suffering under them for so long. Regardless of the trials and tribulations before her, she would tackle them as they came, and while some planning and preparation would still be needed, she didn’t have to go at it all alone. She had her supportive family, two sister-wives, and a devoted husband to help her, and between them all, there was no calamity they could not overcome together.

A lesson Li-Li would do well to also learn, and one Papa was too enthusiastic about delivering. Arriving in a flurry soon after lunch, he pulled Li-Li aside for a secretive meeting Mila couldn’t help but join for the sake of her curiosity. “Don’t neither of ye tell yer mother about what I say next, ye hear?” Papa began, kissing Mila and Li-Li on the temple to take away the sting of his demand. “Most times, she knows best, especially when it comes to the Martial Path, but she also don’t rightly know how to admit she might be... wrong.” Looking left and right with wide, conspiratorial eyes, he gently took Li-Li by the shoulders as he knelt to look her in the eyes. A comical sight it was, this massive, scarred Warrior bending his knee before a slender girl half his size, but Mila was warmed by the sight of it, and Li-Li seemed to be as well. “Listen here lass,” he rumbled, hunching his back and slumping his shoulders to look both non-threatening and serious at the same time. “We’re fighting a war here, and action is soon coming, so there ain’t anymore time fer dawdlin’. No way I’ll let me girlie go into battle with naught but cold steel to fight with. Fer heaven’s sake, ye don’t even have a bow to keep ye safe and away from the fightin’.” Reaching into his robes, his hand emerged with a bundle of wrapped leather which he unfurled to reveal a varied selection of swords, though contrary to his words, they were all mundane in nature. “Now I made these so ye can get a feel fer how the end result will handle, though there might be some minor differences in the end product when it comes to weight distribution and balance. Can’t be helped, as ye never fully know how Spiritual Hearts will take to steel, especially not with something as rare and unique as the Spiritual ore I got me eye on. It’s light as a feather it is, but tougher than steel even before it’s been refined, and I can’t think of a better material to make yer weapon out of, but I need ye to pick a design before I start.”

Urged on by Papa’s demands, Song cautiously pulled out the first sword to test out, but Mila had already written it off in her mind. Though similar to the sabre Li-Li had lost, it was too long and sharply curved for her to comfortably quick-draw. Papa knew that of course, but he didn’t want to limit Li-Li in any way whatsoever, so he included various examples which didn’t suit her current style in case she should want to switch. A sweet thought, but hardly necessary as everyone knew Li-Li was a creature of habit.

The next few swords were similarly unsuited for Li-Li, but try as she might, Mila could not find a weapon wholly compatible with her sister’s style, not even the perfect replica of her old sabre which Papa had forged. Though undoubtedly familiar to Li-Li, one must not forget that Grandpa Du had not put much thought into what weapon to bestow upon his slave, if he’d thought about it at all, so now was a perfect chance to rectify past mistakes. Though modelled after Grandpa Du’s style, anyone with eyes could see that Li-Li had taken what she learned and modified it to suit her own needs, which meant using the same style of thin, long sabre was not entirely optimal. While Grandpa Du focused on grand, sweeping two-handed attacks delivered with explosive speed and power, Li-Li’s style put more emphasis on one-handed fencing with more reliance on grace and finesse. Though capable of delivering the same overbearing attacks, she was also capable of defeating her foes with little more than good timing and proper footwork, a true duellist in contrast to Grandpa Du’s overbearing battlefield prowess.

In combat, Mila’s style was akin to a rhino, powerful, unstoppable, but lacking in flexibility. She could attack, she could defend, and she could run roughshod over her foes, but the moment she encountered someone she could not catch or overpower, then she had no moves left to play. Li-Li on the other hand was far less domineering, but no less deadly or dangerous, for despite being weaker and less durable than Mila, she was more capable of taking on foes who were stronger than she. One only needed to look back at their time in Sanshu to understand, for while Mila had been helpless against the teleporting Demon Bei, Li-Li adapted to the circumstances and dealt the monster a fearsome blow during their first exchange. The long and short of it was that Li-Li encapsulated her wildcat nature almost perfectly. She wasn’t the most dangerous predator roaming the lands, neither the strongest, fastest, or most durable, yet under the right circumstances, there was no prey she wasn’t capable of taking down on her own, which meant she needed a weapon flexible enough to allow her access to the full range of her innate talents.

Yet another example of a Concept, but one that applied to fighting style rather than Martial Dao. Another curious thought to explore later, when there was more time to get into it.

“Sister,” Li-Li began, tugging on Mila’s sleeve and putting an end to her inner tirade. “What are your thoughts?”

“This is your decision to make,” Mila replied, the answer leaving her lips on reflex, for Mama had stressed the importance of letting Li-Li find her own way. Though they would always be there to support her, Li-Li needed to learn how to take charge of her own life and make decisions for herself, a fact which Mila wholeheartedly agreed with.

“Bah.” Flicking her all-too-gently with his massive finger, Papa snorted and said, “One look at yer scrunched nose and pinched face is enough to know ye got words to say, so say it. Yer an accomplished enough blacksmith now, and only a fool would dismiss yer advice, so if ye see somethin’ I missed, then be quick to point it out. No need to spare my feelings girlie, I’ve made more mistakes smithin’ than you have total hours lived, so it won’t be anything new to me.”

