The expeditionary force traveled aerially. A mass of clouds carried them across the sky, and formations of griffon riders, aerial magi, and flying automata formed their protective perimeter. At the center of the formation was a tall, bald man. A swirling mass of shadow constituted something of a coat around his body, and he had a staff planted in the middle of the cloud. His eyes were black, and the air around him was choked with flakes of spinning ash. By his side was a large automaton sporting four arms and six legs. The automaton's head was also more of a drill than a face, and wires dangled from its body, dragging behind as if something of a skirt.

"And I suspect we have eyes on our Inquisitor Sijik."

"The bald one?" Shiv asked.

"Correct," Adam replied. "The automaton talking to him, I suspect, might be Master-Interrogator Harare, or Salamander Glass, a Heroic-Tier Captain he mentioned before. He could also be someone I am entirely unfamiliar with."

“Heroic-Tier?” Whisper breathed. “Good. Perhaps this will be more battle than slaughter.”

“There are only two thousand of them still?” Bonk asked.

“Yes,” Adam confirmed.

The large orc sighed mournfully. “Yeah. I think that’s not going to be possible, Whisper. It’s gonna be a slaughter. You can’t match two thousand against twenty.”

“What happened to the world is for the individual?” Shiv asked.

“Basic arithmetic,” Bonk replied.

Shiv just laughed. “Alright. Orcs! We got eyes on the target. We—” He hesitated as he thought of how to frame this. “Keep all the bald Inquisitors alive. Especially the ones that have ash-shrouds for coats!”

“And the other elites too,” Adam added.

“Take some of their Heroes and Masters if you can. The rest…” Shiv shrugged. “I guess you can finally scratch that itch of yours.”

And though he could see the orcs pump their fists high, he couldn’t hear them cheering through the veil. But he could hear the ground tremoring, and he could taste their excitement.

“Those poor, poor surfacers,” Uva muttered. But her heart wasn't in it.
