My yelling might attract more of them, but I didn't want these ones to find Jason and Margret in the house. It would be too much to find another member of my family hurt or worse. A pack of skittering insects ran out of the forest. They were like scorpions with eyes at the end of their tails, along with stingers. Their legs curled up, letting them spring forward in great leaps, and their beady eyes sat as massive orbs on their tails.

I shivered at the sight of them. They looked like harbingers of death, but I waved my club in my hand, ready to go at em. They scuttled towards me, trying to encircle my position. I already knew that was coming. As the first scorpion scuttled off to my side, I darted sideways. The ground cracked under my heels as I shot towards the beast. It leaped back, escaping my first swing.

I followed the momentum of my swing, doing a spin. I viewed it again, and I chunked my club at the beast, the metal clobbering through its shell. It cracked into a spray of brown ooze, a putrid stench spreading from its wounds.

The other bugs hopped at me as I sprinted forward to my club. They leaped at me, but I darted sideways, jumping back and forth. The scorpions tackled into the ground, ruining patches of crops as they did. I reached the corpse I clobbered as one of the crawlers pounced at my back.

I ripped the club from its body, turning towards the insect lunging through the air. I splattered it across our farmland, its corpse exploding from the pressure of impact. Three scorpions remained, each of them warier now that I took out two so quickly. Their mandibles drooled at the sight of me, however, so I charged towards them. I found that attacking first gave me an advantage.

As I reached them, they grouped up together. Using their claws and stingers, they rained down a spray of attacks on me. I parried several snaps of their pincers and stings from their tails before one of them nicked me in the arm. A fire like radiance spread from the wound as I fell back. Their teamwork made up for my better physicality, and before I knew it, my left arm went numb. Holding my bludgeon in my right arm, I swung at the scorpions while howling,

"Back. Back. I said back."

They pressured me until I was at the edge of the house. I heaved for breath, the venom spreading to my chest. Sweat dripped down my forehead as the scorpions kept snipping at me. They pursued with the relentlessness common to their kind. I cursed them as my backfoot stepped onto my porch.

From inside, Jason shouted, "Dad, are you ok?"

I roared back, "Stay inside and be quiet. I'll handle this."

Jason stared on, fear in his eyes. The scorpions stopped attacking, pulling back. As they did, they inspected the house and my heavy breathing. A few seconds passed before they split their tails into three parts apiece. After interweaving those tendrils together, a voice echoed from their combined minds. It was raspy and snakelike, the sound unsettling,

"I see you are the guardian of this place, a sheep who guards the other sheep here."

I narrowed my eyes, "And what of it?"

"Do you love those that are in there? We will eat them unless you surrender now."

The eldritch never stopped eating, and I didn't believe them for a second,

"You won't be getting near them unless it's over my dead body."

"Then let it be so."

Their tails split back apart, and they continued their onslaught of attacks. I parried two more clamping claws, and I smashed one of their arms into the ground. A tail slit my forearm as I did. I hit two more stinger swipes sideways before kicking one of their skulls in, but another stinger pierced into my thigh, the wound deep.

I ended up tearing two of their bottom claws out, but they nicked me three more times. At this point, two more scorpions remained, and they waited for me to pass out. As they did, blood dripped from me like I was a walking wound. My nose ran, and my eyes teared up. I made one last swing before falling down, unable to move.

I lost.

The scorpions ran up to me, their mandibles jittering about in a frenzy. They stopped short of my face, however. I watched as they stormed the house, tearing through the defenses we set up. Dread welled in my belly while wood cracked under their claws like ice blocks under a hammer. After many minutes of struggle, they pulled Margret and Jason out of our house.

I watched as the scorpions pulled me upright. They threw my family in front of me, both of them struggling to stay alive. Jason wept, his eyes bloodshot. Margret stayed listless, her expression indifferent. I wished I could do the same. The scorpions interwove their tails again, and the same voice echoed out,

"Now watch them be devoured, as was our promise from before. This fault is your own."

I wanted to shout, but no words left my mouth. It was as if I was trapped inside my body, unable to vent my frustration, hatred, and anger. It pooled inside me, forging my mind like a furnace. I hated these monsters. I hated the eldritch. I hated this new world we found ourselves in.

Day after day, month after month, we lost everything. My faith in myself was gone, along with any self-respect and dignity. I didn't need those things. I needed Jason and Margret. Without them, I was nothing. It would be worse than dying. It would be torture.

The abominations grabbed Margret first, my highschool sweetheart now weeping. The wind whistled in the trees, and my own eyes watered. A scorpion held her upright while the other one opened its mandibles wide. Brown, disgusting drool leaked from the monster, and its mouth was like a thousand branches ending in thorns.

They neared Margret's face. I watched in horror as a mandible made contact with her cheek. It cut through her soft skin, blood leaking out. Several more mandibles sliced into her face, and I screamed inside. It was a wail I'd never imagine I could make, a lamentation from deep within.

An alien, crackling sound echoed from the trees. The scorpions glanced at it, their mealtime interrupted. I prayed another eldritch would fight them. Instead, a mechanized horror strutted out of the trees. It was an all too familiar sight, but I never imagined I'd see one in person.

It stood tall, over ten feet high with writhing hands. Orange pustules pulsed over its corded frame. The being left quakes in the ground as it stomped forward. Trees nearby shook with violence at its passing, and the monster's eyeless frame unsettled even the eldritch.

The scorpions locked eyes with the Hybrid, and so did I. We all stared at this new threat, each of us far too weak to fight something like this off. We were all going to die. This endless moment right before chaos broke loose, it stretched on for an eternity. In the pits of my chest, I dreaded the being in front of me. It was one of the only ways to die that was even worse than by these scorpions.

The Hybrid moved first. It dashed across our farm, laying waste to the ground near it. The scorpions released Margret, racing away. As the Hybrid stomped towards us, I screamed in my mind, terrified of this abomination. It got near Jason, and cords unveiled from its frame like branches from a tree. These cords ended in metallic blades, ready to pierce their victim.

I watched in horror as it passed Jason entirely.

The Hybrid shot into the forest, catching the scorpions. The bugs wallowed and thundered out in agony, their sickening cackles only outdid by the sounds of their bodies being consumed. As the siphoning process ended, the Hybrid skulked out of the forest. It stumbled, its body swollen with the remains of the eldritch.

It walked up to us, getting to the middle of our family. It stayed there, watching us from all directions. We remained petrified in place, unable to so much as move. A half-hour passed, my heart almost bursting in my chest as it stayed this close.

Another rustle echoed from the trees. An espen walked out of the forest, the alien comfortable here on Earth. I only knew what it was because of watching the Harbinger's streams. This mystery espen snapped its fingers, and the Hybrid walked towards her. As the espen reached us, she stared down,

"So that's why my watchdog ran off. It's good to see it made it here in time. We've been clearing out a scorpion's nest nearby, but a few of these guys escaped through the trees. Sorry they got a hold of you all."

She rustled through her bag, pulling out three vials of green liquid. She smiled, "Let me get you guys some antivenom."

We were alive.

She popped the top off one while giving us a cheeky grin,

"The name's Melania by the way. It's good to meet you all."
