“It’s something to do with a shift in potency; a dilute effect grows stronger as the plant ages and naturally matures, but once monsterfication occurs all that potency is subsumed into the growth of sentience and malfeasance. That’s about all I know on the subject, though.” Tasar said, “I’ve spent a few decades here and there playing around with plants, but— My biology is different from yours, so this stuff is not my focus. I do grow magic crystals, though. Those are pretty useful as a wrought. Like sagetree soup; a long term buff to all spellwork.”

Erick decided that he had enough of immortality talk for now. It wasn’t like there was any pressing need to learn the ropes, anyway. He had eternity if everything went right.

… And suddenly eternity seemed like a very long time.

Erick pulled away from that sudden abyss of thought and focused on the present as he changed the subject. “To change the subject: I’ve been trying to understand a specific type of spell that I don’t know if it actually exists, but you would know. [Spelleport]; [Teleport] but targeting other people’s spellwork, to shift it to some other space or direction.” He added, “Specifically, the moving of very, very strong magic. Like— Did you hear of the Red Dot that some mage threw at Spur? That sort of magnitude 9 sort of spell. I want to be able to redirect that sort of thing.”

Tasar brightened at the subject of Spatial Magic, or maybe at the specific subject, Erick wasn’t sure. And then she focused, and said, “This is a very simple answer, but for very complicated reasons.

“No.

“That doesn’t work.

“You cannot [Teleport] magnitude 9 spellwork cast by another, in any way, shape, or form. You can only mitigate it.” Tasar happily said, “But! Anything below mag 5 you can [Teleport Magic] to some other location or aimed in a different direction. Anything at or below mag 7 you can [Spatial Domain] to some other location. Mag 8 and 9 spellwork can only be altered by other mag 8 or 9 spellwork, or mitigated by a lot of lower level spellwork.

“In almost all scenarios where facing high magnitude magic, you should simply run the other way, or if you must try to counter it then you should use as many layers of defense and mitigation as you can. Transmutation from one Element to another works best, if you got it. Reflection broadly does well in all scenarios. Simple Force can mitigate a lot, if it’s thick enough and ablative enough.

“The reason you can’t do much against high mag spellwork is because high mag spellwork alters the very nature of the manasphere in an area.” Tasar said, “It’s almost always Domain-based, first of all, which means you have to break that to alter the spell, but secondly, high mag spells are almost always very, very high mana cost—” Tasar waved a hand, saying, “It gets complicated. We can speak on that if you wish but—

“But if you want to learn [Teleport Magic] anyway, I can certainly teach you that! It’s a lot less useful than you might think, but it’s surely useful in some scenarios.” Tasar added, “A [Spatial Domain] is much more useful, though.”

Erick said, “I want to learn [Teleport Magic], if you are willing, but before we get there: What about using [Gate] to move a Red Dot?”

Tasar gave a small smile. “This tactic works. One of the many, many reasons to get [Gate].”

“… Okay.” Erick said, “Lower mag spellwork has a hard time affecting higher mag spellwork.”

“Broadly true, yes,” Tasar agreed.

“Does that mean that [Gate] is mag 10?”

Tasar jerked as if slapped. Slowly, she spoke, “… Noooo… ooh?” She shook her head. “No. I mean… [Gate] is already out there and we know the functionality of the spell. There are historical records of [Gate] being used to move mag 9 spellwork around— Okay. So. I don’t know the reasoning why it works, but I never imagined it worked because [Gate] is mag 10. [Gate] is probably not mag 10. It just looks that way because of the effect, which is to seamlessly connect two parts of the world together and to allow free movement between those two points.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “But if, as my current Worldly Path suggests, [Gate] is actually just a Fae Domain and a Spatial Domain and some existence inside the mana connecting two places together, maybe [Gate] just looks like it seamlessly connects two places together.” He added, “Plus, we already know that back in the Rage Wars the Raging orcols tried to capture the Gate Network. They did this by breaking open a [Gate] to get at the space between the seemingly-solid ring of magic that is [Gate]’s magical manifestation. The records of that are spotty, but this is what I gathered from Archmage Tenebrae’s books on the subject.”

Tasar frowned a little. Erick could tell that she did not like Tenebrae; no one did, it seemed. But she said nothing.

Erick continued, “So this might mean that [Gate] is mag 10. Maybe that is what a Wizard is meant to do to the Walker’s [Spatial Domain] or [Fae Domain]. Maybe a Wizard is not meant to actually combine those two Domains into one, but to heighten the power of a Domain all the way to mag 10.”

Tasar scowled, but Erick could tell it was directed at herself. She muttered, “I suppose a direct-increase of a spell’s power is one of the easiest things for a Wizard to do… But this would break the magnitude limits set by the Script...” She said, “But then again this is what Wizards do, so… I don’t know. It’s a theory...”

As her voice trailed off, Erick threw another idea out there, “How about this idea then:

“[Teleport] works in this way: A physical space spreads out between multiple endpoints in the mana, and then the user decides to be at one of those different end points.

“So maybe [Gate] is the opposite. I am partial to my idea of a construct existing in the mana, so maybe [Gate] is mana moving into this side of reality and deciding it wants to be two places at once, and people can step through this hole in reality.” Erick added, “I don’t have that idea fully fleshed out, but the bare bones are there; something in the mana that is multiple places at once.”

“… Maybe.” Tasar said, “Let’s go back to the magnitude stuff for a moment: You can throw antirhine through the center of a [Gate] and the [Gate] is not disturbed. This means that the two areas at either end are truly connected, and that there is no ‘tunnel’ inside the mana. In this way, what is happening is not an overriding of reality with a high magnitude spell, but more like Tricking Magic. It might be that [Gate] is mag 10, but I doubt it.”

Erick shrugged. “I knew that extreme-light materials could go through a [Gate] and not break it, but I didn’t know that about antirhine, too… But: What happens when you touch the ring of the Script-enabled [Gate] with antirhine?”

“… Ah.” Tasar said, “It explodes, actually. Very large explosion. Only a mag 5, though.”

“Defensive measure against tampering, then? The explosion disallows entry into the base workings of the [Gate]?”

“Unknown, but highly likely—” Tasar froze. She frowned. She said, “If you throw antirhine at a mag 9 spell you will break that spell down to a lower magnitude. I mean… Effects vary depending on the spell you’re trying to break with antirhine. The most common decrease in power is from mag 9 to mag 7 or 6.”

For a long moment both of them just sat there.

“Whatever the case, we're not solving this mystery just sitting here.” Erick asked, “I’m going to eat that food and then I want your help with [Teleport Magic], if you are willing. I would also be willing to help you with making your own [Fairy House].”

Tasar smiled a lot, then said, “Sure! That sounds great.”

Erick reached over and grabbed the bowl of sagetree soup, asking, “Could I get a seed from a sagetree?”

“I don’t foresee that being a problem; I’ll look into it. Maybe I can get you one by this afternoon.”

“Thank you.” Erick reached over and picked up the immortality primer, too. “After magic making.”

Tasar stood up, saying, “Then I’m going back to the Domainwork. Let me know when you’re ready.”

She walked away and Erick had breakfast in private.

The soup tasted like grass.

The black tea tasted pretty great, actually. Like a durian fruit; horrible smell, great taste. Acquired taste, of course, but that was fine.

The soul balm palm sap worked well as a candy. Erick sucked on the caramel/buttery/coconut-like hunks of dried and prepared sap while he read the primer on immortality.

It was a pretty boring read from a culture that had a specific view of immortality. There were a lot of rules and guidelines to ‘follow’, or to at least be aware of, as a new immortal. There were actually different levels of immortals, as most immortal-capable beings did not live past 25, if they chose a life of monster fighting, or 150, because catastrophic events happened pretty often around the Geodes. Once you got past those hurdles of time then you were considered a ‘real’ immortal.

But even before that, there were rules to follow, because no one planned to die at 25 or 150; everyone tried to live a whole lot longer than that, and thus they followed commensurately longer-view ideologies.

‘Don’t get too close to mortals, but as this is likely your first hundred years of life, you will likely not want to follow this guideline; do as you will.’ ‘Do place more emphasis on courtesy and propriety than you have before.’ ‘Don’t worry too much about money between fellow immortals, though there are exceptions and the young immortals value money quite a lot. Favors are more valuable to the old immortals.’ ‘Don’t get too involved with mortal affairs such as commerce, unless you can handle the disappointment of needing to explain the same thing over and over; to train up yet another person every 20 years, or however long you wish to be involved in mortal affairs.’ ‘Do help out mortals, but stay away from them as well; their society might seem like your society, but it is not.’ ‘Don’t put yourself in a position of power over mortals, for one of them will eventually come along and try to replace you, and they will likely use violence and ruin everything you have tried to make.’

And then, in big bold red letters near the middle of the book:

‘Do keep your word. Don’t lie. Don’t lie through obfuscation. Don’t lie through misinterpretation. There are always new mortals who will know of you, but if you break your word or a promise with a fellow immortal, this news will spread and remain remembered, forever. You will be looked down upon for this transgression. Depending on the severity of your lies and possible betrayal, you may not ever be trusted again.’

Well, shit.

Erick had fucked that guideline pretty hard.

Oh well.

Erick felt he understood a lot more about the Geode wrought and their brand of immortality after reading the book, but this collection of words was obviously not the full story.

Wrought lived everywhere on Veird, though it was usually hard to find them out in the open like you would a dragonkin or a human or incani. According to this book, this arrangement was by the design of their culture, or at least this was the design of the primary culture of Stratagold, from which this book was created.

Come to think of it… The only wrought Erick ever really saw on the Surface were Silverite, Killzone, Liquid, Anhelia, and a few others, but all of them were inside Spur. There were a few more here and there out in the world, but not nearly as many as there were in Spur. Spur’s immortal wrought were all around 600 to 1000 years old, too, if Erick had those numbers right. No one really knows how old Silverite or Killzone were but there was a lot of speculation.

Erick put the book away and went to Tasar.

It was time to learn [Spelleport]! It would likely not solve his Red Dot worries, but new magic was great, anyway. In Erick’s opinion, it was both better to know a bunch of esoteric magic and never need it, than it was to potentially find oneself without the proper spell in any given scenario.

And, even if [Spelleport] turned out to be a dud, as Tasar said it was, it would still be incredibly useful when it came to shutting down lower-level mages. Now Erick wasn’t one to gloat, but the fact is that most other mages are lower-level mages. And all the warriors out there were even lower than that!

… Not that Erick would ever say those unkind words. But truth was truth. [Spelleport] might even be more useful than Elemental Mercy.

- - - -

They practiced magic upon a tangle of Yggdrasil’s bright white roots that arced above the water about half a kilometer away from the trunk. The first thirty minutes went rather well, as it was basically just a reiteration of how Spatial Magic worked. There were also some various experiments where Erick manually blipped a whole bunch of stuff, from fish to Ophiel, to prove he could. Tasar was quite surprised by his manual magic dexterity, but then she got over that and told him how he could do better. He used [Greater Lightwalk] to enact his manual Spatial Magic, as his aura control was still rather shoddy, so there was a lot of room for improvement there; he should learn how to do this with aura control, as soon as his aura was actually under his control completely.

There was no need to show that he could blip people, for Tasar had seen enough.

And then they started talking. Tasar had a lot more depth to the subject of Spatial Magic than anyone Erick had ever encountered before, but that was to be expected. She was a Spatial Mage before she transitioned to a Summoner, back when she tried to make [Gate] centuries ago. She was still a Summoner these days, mainly because—

“Spatial Magic only really does one thing very well,” Tasar said. “It alters the position of a currently-existing object in reality, through the stretching of the caster’s personalized Reality. Spatial Magic doesn’t harm, unless putting something into a specific place would then cause harm, but even then, Spatial Magic works best when you’re working within certain rules.

“Broadly, those rules are ‘where would this item be if its past had been slightly different’.

