The silver star in the mists stepped forward, resolving into a pale, lithe human man with small incani horns. The new person wore very little in the way of clothing. Erick felt a spike of nostalgia for his own former 22 year old body.

Rozeta said, “We recognize Koyabez, God of Peace, the Silver Star.”

Erick liked the guy even more, now.

Koyabez spoke, “There’s no danger of this being another Sundering because, while powerful, Particle Magic does not come close to a [Reality Warp], or [Apocalypse]. It only feels big because it follows natural grooves in reality. Particle Magic is, in fact, a self solving problem, if we allow it to be. We’ve already seen what happened when Erick tried to use his [Lightning Aura] on his own [Call Lightning]. One spell killed the other. We can simply alter the Script so that this functionality occurs in all situations of Particle Magic, and thus it will become just another school of magic, like the Shaping spells, or Force spells, or Mental magic.

“We have come a long way since the Sundering. Many of us who were there are no longer here. Many of us who are here were never there. We aren’t here today to fight, but to ensure the survival and solidity of the Script. I feel that the only one true worry of this gathering is in the mind of various Relevant Entities, and their various agendas.”

Mists swirled, and no one said anything.

Sininindi broke the silence, “I have a problem with how easy it is for him to make new magic.”

There was a round of assents across the caldera.

She added, “Even if I accept that he’s pioneering Particle Magic, why is the magic he’s making so incredibly good? That Ice Mage in Spur is barely doing better than the equivalent Force spells. His experience is more normal.”

Rozeta said, “I could point to that meeting with Melemizargo, or the fact that Erick created a new school of magic, or that he thinks of magic very differently than the rest of us, but honestly? I do not know. As far as we’ve been able to work out, he and his daughter came to Veird through some quirk of reality. A tunnel that opened and is now as though it never existed, exactly how it is for most of those like him. There was no rhyme or reason to their arrival; they had no patron pulling them here.

“Atunir might have been closest to the truth. Erick might be ‘loved by the lightning’. That particular magic has roots in the collective mind of Veird as old as the Fey, may they rest in peace, and the Old Magic still blooms here and there in strange Classes or alternatively tiered spells.”

Her words hung on the air. The gathered crowd spoke among themselves.

Sininindi exclaimed, “That’s the answer! Lock the magic behind a new Class. Particle Mage. He hasn’t gotten to level 50, but that’s a formality. I’m willing to lay down my sword for this compromise.”

Atunir yelled, “No! [Miracle Rain] will be a spell for all of my people! I won’t see it locked behind some pitiful generalist Class!”

“Atunir. We’re not doing this dance with you, when we wouldn’t entertain the idea with Sininindi.” Rozeta said, “I’ve already gotten a 73% approval for Sininindi’s suggestion. … 85%. 91%.”

“Do I get a say in any of this?” Erick spoke, “I don’t want this to keep happening every time I make a new spell.”

Phagar stepped around Erick. He asked, “Why are you making new magic? Are the options not enough for you? Until your arrival, I always felt we were rather thorough in growing the Script to its full potential. Your [Call Lightning] is mostly already there; under the name [Nature’s Fury]. I know it wasn’t what you were going for, but there’s no need to reinvent the wheel.”

No one spoke among the crowd. All eyes were on Erick.

“… I arrived on Veird and saw the Script, and thought it nice, but not how I wanted to experience magic. I like the mystical, and I have a problem with such organized arcana.” Erick pointed all around him. “I have a problem with this too. This almost-courtroom setting. It’s all too formal, organized. There’s not enough magic in your magic, though I gather that was what you were going for.” Erick added, “But for what it’s worth, I’m glad that you’ve banned atomic magic.”

Some yelled at him, some smiled. Most held neutral faces.

Phagar chuckled. “Fair answer.” He said to Rozeta. “Make him a new Class. Restrict [Call Lightning] and this growth rain spell behind that prerequisite. And don’t call it [Miracle Rain], for Reality’s sake. No non-divine source is getting any abilities labeled ‘Miracle’.”

Now that Phagar was talking, something bugged Erick about what the God of Death and Time had said much earlier. Something about immortality.

Erick asked, “Aren’t wrought and dragons immortal?”

Phagar laughed. “And don’t I hate it! But you aren’t making anyone else immortal, young man.” He smiled, he frowned. He tilted his head. “I changed my mind. I doubt you’re going to be able to do it with one of those little rhymes, but if you can make someone immortal, I will allow its application in one instance, if only so Rozeta can squash that quirk of the Script.”

Rozeta asked, “Are you sure about that, Phagar?”

The God of Death nodded. “I am.” He added, “It’ll be ageless immortality, though. Not complete immortality. No reviving from a single drop of blood or any of that horrid nonsense.”

Erick thought about watching Jane grow old and instantly changed his mind on immortality.

Erick asked, “What if I just wanted to reverse aging?”

Phagar smiled. “That’s already in the Script. Go look for it.” He looked all around. “Unless there are any objections, we’re done here.”

The mists of the black caldera flowed away, the gathered crowd vanishing with the fog. Atunir slipped away with a frown and a whisper of promises of priestly visitations. Sininindi blew apart like so much storm tossed seafoam, her shipsail dress flying off into the distance. Phagar was gone from one blink to the next.

Koyabez, God of Peace, The Silver Star, lingered. “As long as Angels and Demons and the people who create them exist, the Quiet War will flourish in the loud open spaces, and in the quiet, private hearts of the living. But as for Participation values, Silverite knows the secret to dropping that number to 1%, and she’s already implemented this fix in the land surrounding Spur.

“This fix of hers is one of the reasons why Frontier and Kal’Duresh exist.”

And then he, too, vanished on the mist.

Rozeta and Erick stood in the middle of a black caldera.

He asked, “Am I going to be dragged off like this every time some deity gets a hair up their ass about me trying to make a new spell?”

Rozeta, stunned, stared at Erick for a moment.

Then she burst out laughing.

Erick frowned.

Rozeta collected herself. “Sorry. It’s… This is the best they’ve behaved in a thousand years. I don’t think you understand exactly how much you’ve upset normal affairs. 91% approval for an idea? Literally never happened before. Maybe with all this cooperation they’ll stop sending their followers after each other long enough to see they could be doing better things with their time, and with my time.”

“Better things with my time, too.”

“Quite.” She said, “You’re getting this class and your new spell as soon as you go back. I’ll organize everything on my end, but are there any requests?”

“What’s a Class? I never even thought to care about that part of my Status.”

She smiled. “I like that about you.”

- - - -

Erick grumbled awake. A book closed nearby, while the sun shone across his legs.

He grumbled, “This is a familiar situation.”

Al said, “Jane is pissed. She’d be here in a few hours but she got outvoted by her team.”

Erick sat up on the couch. Al was sitting on his own couch, his book at his side. He frowned at Erick.

“Okay.” Erick said, “I get it. I’m mad too. Probably not why you’re mad, though.”

“Oh? Why do you think I’m mad?”

Erick dodged the question. “How long was I out?”

“Only a few hours, this time. So. Why do you think I’m mad?”

“Reckless endangerment of self and others.” Erick looked at the rod of [Treat Wounds] on the coffee table between them. “Use of limited items. The fact that I’m not young anymore and you warned me about over eagerness. In my defense, I had only spent maybe a thousand mana by that time of day.” He groaned. Soreness stretched through his muscles and needled his skin. The pain wasn’t bad this time, but it wasn’t great, either. “Passing out the first through third time was my fault, but those were tiny. The fourth time... I can truthfully state that the fourth time I passed out was due to godly intervention.”

“… That would explain part of the problem.” Al sighed. “What happened?”

“Had a chat with 5 Relevant Entities of the Script while surrounded by all the rest.”

Al’s frustration turned to surprise. “Fuck!”

“Lots more news than that! Particle Magic is now a separate school of magic, like the Force spells or the Shaping spells. Particle magic and Mana Altering are officially incompatible. Particle spells now have special anti-interactions with other Particle spells. And...” Erick was looking over his Status and skills as he spoke to Al, and... Yup. There it was. “And [Call Lightning] is part of my new Class. Particle Mage.”

Al stared at him like he had grown another head.

Erick said, “I really would like if all the gods and such would not abduct me in the middle of my experiments.” He continued to read his new Status, and spells. “Oh. Wow. I like this spell. Oh! Points! This is tier 3.”

Al stressed, “I need to see.”

Erick smiled at him. “Okay.” He pushed some boxes Al’s way. “What do you think?”

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 19, Particle Mage

Exp: 287621/676500

Class: 6/6

Points: 10

HP

90/90

150 per day

MP

600/600

1050 per day

Strength

9

+0

[9]

Vitality

15

+0

[15]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

35

+0

[35]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Call Lightning X, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lightning bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Particle Mage Only

Lightning Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the air around you to strike for <damage>. One strike available every 50 MP.

Particle Mage Only

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 3 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+2 ability points!

Exalted Storm Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range

Anoint the land with blessed rain, rapidly growing all <crops and pasture> to <harvest size> and restoring vibrancy to all other <desired> plant life and soil. If used in a <prepared field> <devoid of crops>, highly nutritious beans will sprout after <a full day of rain>.

Particle Mage Only

Particle Mage, 6/6

Your ability to unlock new Particle spells is greatly increased.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Your ability to affect the Particle spells of others is greatly increased.

Your own Particle spells are less affected by the abilities of non Particle Mages.

Your Particle spells deal more damage.

You take less damage from Particle spells.

<I gave you most of the Force Mage skillset except with a few additions and subtractions and relevant changes. You’ve also gotten the Class unlocked at max level, because I need to witness this new magic unfold. This is all subject to change. ~Rozeta>

Al read the blue boxes hovering in front of him.

Erick watched him read.

Eventually, Al said, “A Class before level 50, and without a Registrar Quest. And fully leveled, too. And you’re the recognized creator of a new branch of magic.” He laughed, loud and happy. “Glad to know you before you become a mover and shaker! Ha ha!” He held up the [Exalted Storm Aura] spell. “And this! A full day of casting to achieve free food! Most casters would need to assign a Favored Spell to it for 900 MP an hour instead of 1800 an hour, but...” Al breathed out. “They’re going to do that. A lot of people are going to spec for Scion of Focus, too. Though... Class requirements… To specialize in magic which is stopped by all wards and itself…” He shook his head. “They’re going to, though. Someone in every kingdom is going to take this class. At least one. Probably two or three to keep the first one in check. This is… This is…”

A voice in the air said, “You’ve changed the world, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

Erick turned. The air shimmered gold, then flattened. Like a video call, a man appeared upon the flat screen of light. He was a human man, maybe in his sixties, wearing formal yellow and white robes like some Chinese emperor. He held a steaming cup of tea, as he sat on a porch, overlooking a craggy ocean shore. He set his cup aside.

Normally, Erick would have launched out of his seat and hid, if a strange spell effect just appeared in front of him. Al did; he was already by the stairs, almost completely hidden. But Erick was quite tired of a lot of today’s shit, and if asked ‘why didn’t you run from the funky spell’, he would have answered with ‘because I didn’t think it was dangerous’. Though the real answer would be that he couldn’t move that fast anymore.

“Greetings, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

