Erick knew that voice, but it was much gentler this time. Maybe not running was both the correct choice, and the very incorrect choice.

Erick asked, “Headmaster?”

The man smiled. “That is correct.”

Erick turned to Al. He was watching from the stairs. Al made a shushing motion with his hands.

That was weird.

Erick turned back to the Headmaster. “Uh. To what do I owe the pleasure of your company?”

“It is I who must owe someone, to have one such as yourself appear in such an otherwise boring part of history. I am sure you have had a trying day, but I simply had to appear to offer my congratulations.”

“Uh. Thanks!” Erick smiled. “Is this where you threaten me? I’d like to hurry this up and take a nap, so if you could, go ahead?”

The Headmaster frowned. Slowly he returned to gentle neutrality. “No. I never would have done that. I had wished to offer you a free enrollment at Oceanside or at any of my arcanaeums around the world; to court your favor in that regard. But I see now that my offer would be taken as something violent. Something that it is not. If you change your mind, the offer is open, but please do not feel that acceptance is necessary for anyone’s wellbeing.” He tilted his head forward in a small bow of courtesy. “Good day, Archmage.”

“Good day, uh, Headmaster.”

The [Video Call], or whatever it was, ended with the magic screen flitzing out like so many glitterbugs scattering to the wind.

Al gradually walked back into the room.

It was time for a joke, and Erick had a good one. “What the fuck, Al? Are you secretly a dragon and you’re scared he’s going to eat you?”

“N—NO! No! Why—” Al composed himself. “Why would you think that?”

… Not where Erick thought that was going to go.

“… Okay.” Erick pointed all over Al. “I’m not stepping into whatever that was, right there.” Erick changed the subject. “I want dinner at that orcol place you took us to. I’m buying. You’re coming. I have to stop by the bank, first.”

Still looking quite a bit uncertain about everything, Al chanced to say, “… Use your Mage Guild badge to charge the bill to your account.”

Erick shouted, “How the hell don’t I know that already! I’ve been carrying around gold all this time! Fucking hell.” He asked, “Do all the shops work on this system?”

Al looked at Erick for several moments.

“No. Just the expensive places.” Al said, “Let’s go. I’m hungry, too.”

- - - -

Erick ate too much. He drank too much. He probably ogled too many orcol asses and tits and biceps and bulges and wow, those faces. Her inviting eyes. The stubbled jaw on that dude. That long hair on her.

But who cared! Not Erick. He was three sheets to the wind and two plates deep —appetizers and then first course!— into monster meat. Monsterized chicken was tonight's featured meat.

Monster chickens! How clucking funny was that!

And then he showed off [Exalted Storm Aura] to the very hot waiter, and the people at the table next to him.

Al wasn’t fast enough to stop him.

The entire restaurant exploded into a great big party after that. Erick wasn’t buying his own food or drinks anymore. Everyone else was buying for him.

Apogough showed up. He started drinking, laughing and celebrating.

Valok showed up with Krakina in tow. They started drinking and laughing. Krakina was pretty damn pissed that she wouldn’t get to play around with [Call Lightning] herself; she was an adamant WeatherWitch. But this meant that she could get a lot more done with her own magic, too. The size of the farms might easily quintuple! She did have to prove the power of her Class, though, now that Erick had one. She showed off [Nature’s Fury], turning the sunset sky into crackling wind. A tornado—

Even the guard was here now! What a fun party.

And there’s Silverite! Everyone else got quiet, except for Erick.

“Oh hey! Silverite!” Erick sloshed his… sixth drink? Maybe his seventh. “Have you heard the news?”

“I have, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

The restaurant erupted in shouts of ‘Archmage!’ for about the fortieth time.

Silverite smiled, and brought out a black bottle. She held it up to the watching crowd, her thumb cracking the cap off the bottle without any apparent effort. “A toast, to a prosperous Spur! Congratulations, Erick!”

She took a swig, and the rest of the restaurant drank with her.

There were some other random events after that, but Erick was on his eighth drink now.

He wouldn’t remember a damn thing in the morning except that he hated hangovers.
