Then, a gauntlet of glowing sky-blue shot over the edge and caught him by the hand. “Hold on!” came a cry from above, and suddenly, Shiv found himself drawn back upward. He rolled over the edge as he coughed. His ribs were a nest of festering agony, and his heart was screaming. But still, he was alive. Thank the System, he was alive.

Helping hands took him under an arm. “Are you alright? Do you need a potion? What you just did was—absolutely mad!” Adam Arrow laughed. Shiv blinked. “But I’ll see that my father has you—” By this point, the Young Lord finally noticed who he was trying to help back to safety, and the admiration and happiness died on his face. “You… What are you…” He looked at Shiv’s crumpled cuirass. “Why are you—”

“I was here as a… a guest chef,” Shiv wheezed, doing his best not to double over from pain. “I got… this armor from Feather… he gave it to me for… protection… before he died… I came… help Georges.”

Adam Arrow just stared at Shiv for a long time, like he couldn’t process what was happening. Slowly, he stepped away from Shiv.

It occurred to Shiv that he was exceptionally lucky the Young Lord didn’t see him earlier, for he might have just let Shiv fall.

“I—” Adam began.

“I can vouch for him! I can—Shiv!” Georges was crawling over a small mountain of bodies, both monster and human.

“Georges,” Shiv coughed in relief.

“Wait? You’re actually a chef?” Adam muttered.

Shiv looked at the Young Lord and sighed. “You gotta have an actual job. Most of us do, anyway. Can’t all be born well.”Adam’s mouth fell slightly open.

“My, my. The Young Hawk is still standing. You do your parents proud, Young Adept Arrow.”

Adam stepped out from behind Shiv, and the Omenborn lifted his head to see a lone figure walking toward them. They were dressed in garb that overtly reminded Shiv of a raven, with an ink-black feathered coat draped over their body and a strange, beaked helmet of black metal hiding their facial features. Shiv couldn’t see if they were holding any weapons, but there was a menacing aura to the approaching enemy that was unlike anything he had ever felt.

Everything inside him told him to run. To throw himself off Blackedge and die rather than fight this man. Shiv told his fear to shove it and forced himself to stand.

“Stay behind me,” Adam said, his voice hard. Over the mound of bodies, his fiancée and several others joined Georges as spectators to the scene.

Shiv wanted to say something about how Adam could have this one because Shiv already dealt with all the mages, but a bow from the raven-helmed stranger made him pause.

“I salute you for being resilient. It seems that the tales of your talent were no exaggerations.”

“Who are you?” Adam Arrow growled. He drew his arm back, and a bow flowed into shape in his hands like it was made from water. His magical arms bearing other weapons spawned around him as well.

Shiv glared at the flourish and pulled out another dagger, filling both his hands with steel. It didn’t look like much beside the Young Lord, but it was something.

“I am a representative for a few interested parties,” the raven-helmed stranger continued. “And I am here for you. Surrender and come with me. Or don’t. And we can test the true extent of your skills.”

From his tone, Shiv got the impression that the man was grinning under his helmet.

Adam scoffed. “Fine.” The Young Lord loosed an arrow. The shockwave from the string’s release nearly sent Shiv tumbling off the edge again. His ears were ringing, but he still saw how Adam attacked. He launched his arrow—and then teleported it with a burst of spatial magic. A gap in space opened behind the raven-masked stranger.

Who dodged it with a casual step—still barely perceptible to Shiv’s vision—and a laugh. “Ah. You look so much like your father, but something of your mother remains in you after all.”

Adam snarled. But in a blink, the raven-helmed stranger was upon him.

He was faster than Shiv could follow—faster than anyone he’d seen by far. The man was more than just a blur—he vanished from places and reappeared like there was no travel time in between. He didn’t even leave shockwaves or trails of destruction like most Pathbearers.

The Young Lord fought back, launching two more arrows and striking out with all three of his magical hands. Several sparking impacts flashed as metal sang against metal, but with a resounding crack, Adam was launched like a small pebble across the lawn, digging up a tunnel of dirt.

Shiv couldn’t even comprehend what had just happened. All he knew was that the raven-helmed stranger looked unharmed, while Adam was coughing and crawling out of a deep pit in the ground.

“Adam!” his fiancée cried out as she came down from the mess of bodies. Just then, however, several shapes landed before her. Each of these figures was dressed like the raven-helmed stranger, but their helmets more resembled crows. They drew wicked daggers as they closed in on the survivors. Georges pulled out two cooking knives in alarm, and Shiv cursed.

He tried to rush toward them, but nearly doubled over from nausea and pain. He couldn’t save them if he tried. But… He looked to Adam Arrow. He could maybe help Adam deal with the raven. Shiv had that much left in him at least.

Shiv gathered his Stealth Skill, pushing beyond the pain as he loomed close behind the raven-helmed stranger. Adam noticed his approach as he summoned his bow again. Shiv swallowed and prepared himself.

The raven-helmed stranger looked thin. Shouldn’t weigh much. If Shiv could get close enough, he could maybe trip them. It was madness, but… what else was he supposed to do?

I could run…

No, he couldn’t. He couldn’t save Georges and the others. Only Adam could do that. And Adam couldn’t help if he was killed by this bastard.

One step. Two steps. Three steps. Shiv got closer. And the raven-helmed stranger saw fit to approach Adam with a casual stroll.

“You need to work more on your Reflexes and Awareness, Young Lord Adept. Some more close-combat as well. Your skills are many, but so few are in the Adept Tier. I fear that though you possess the potential of an ocean, you have spread yourself so thin that you are as shallow as a puddle.”

“You really like to hear yourself talk, don’t you?” Adam spat.

“Quite,” the raven-helmed stranger said. “It’s my second favorite thing about this.”

Just two steps away, Shiv crouched low.

“Yeah? And what’s the first?” Adam asked, nocking a new arrow to his bow.

“Oh. The violence.” Shiv moved. Adam fired his arrow. The stranger vanished. And the world disappeared into a maelstrom of pain.

Chestpiece: [Starhawk Arrow Cuirass]

Condition: Damaged > Destroyed

Starhawk Arrow Cuirass can no longer be equipped

Two spikes of agony sank into Shiv’s back and twisted upward. Swords peeled what remained of his broken armor away, the metal parting from Shiv’s body in pieces as he choked on the blood flooding his lungs. Looking down, he saw two blades jutting from his chest. One was far longer than the other, but both were spreading a blackness across his skin.

Shiv tried to kick, but found himself unable to feel his legs.

“Tanner!” Adam cried out, his face breaking into a look of pure horror.

Tanner? Shiv blinked. Almost no one called him that. He himself didn’t even use his first name anymore.

“Oh, no, Young Lord, was this your friend?” the raven-helmed stranger chuckled. “I fear it is unwise to befriend the Pathless. They are so very fragile.”

“Put him down!” Adam shouted.

“Shiv!” Georges cried at the same time.

“Shoot—through me!” Shiv cried, spitting mouthfuls of blood. Adam hesitated. “Shoot! Shoot, damn you! I’m already dead—I’m… I’m not like them… I tried…I really did…” He wheezed.

Adam swallowed. But before he could act, the raven scoffed. Shiv felt a heavy foot slam into his back and launch him forward. The world lurched. The horizon zoomed. And the last thing Shiv heard before his death was a horrible cry from Adam as the Omenborn splattered apart against the Young Lord’s body.

Yet… Despite this, Shiv’s senses remained. Darkness didn’t claim him. No afterlife arrived.

For a few moments, he lingered at the place of his death, all sense of pain gone, his body weightless, and his mind reeling.

Just then, a System notification appeared.

Conditions for Curse “Omenborn” have been fulfilled > Path restrictions lifted!

Path Gained: [Deathless]

Skill Gained: Revenant (Unique) > 1

Skill Gained: Vitality Drain (Legendary) > 1

Feat slot unlocked!

Feats Gained [1/1]: [He Who Rises From Ash Eternal] - Allows the Pathbearer to quickly learn new Skills and advance existing Skills through repeated deaths.
