Rather than avoiding the sounds of fighting, he followed them, inching closer to the conflict. The air grew colder, and he could feel currents curving around the corner as if a window was open. This was odd, as he was in the middle of the castle, and there shouldn't be any windows around. Shiv reached the end of his corridor and held up his dagger again to peek at what was around the corner. More bodies. More undead. Where were—

A section of the wall exploded beside him. Something heavy tore through the room. The sheer force of the impact launched Shiv off his feet, while what felt like a series of hammers smashed into his borrowed chestpiece. Shiv coughed but rolled with the fall. Years of fighting lesser vampires during his off-time taught him an important lesson: you stay still, you die.

As he clambered back to his feet, he felt himself for injuries. His right shoulder felt like he just rammed it into a wall, and the dust made it hard to see, but otherwise… Fragments of marble and rebar were stuck inside his damaged chestpiece. Shiv swallowed and mentally thanked Feather again. Shrapnel was a deadly problem for someone that lacked the Toughness of a Pathbearer. Following the furrowed path of destruction before him, Shiv found a huge beast with wide fangs and deep-red eyes lying dead with a cerulean arrow in its chest. Its body was the color of mucus, and Shiv worked his memory to recall where he had seen this thing before.

Was this an Abyssal Troll? It looked like one from the bestiary. Broken Moon, those hadn't been sighted in ages. Were the Necrotechs really attacking again?

The sounds of heavy combat made him look out through the new “opening” carved into the castle. Shiv blinked as he found himself taking in rows of guards and other Pathbearers fighting a desperate defense on the rear lawn of Starhawk’s Perch. Hordes of monsters attacked the Pathbearers, only to be repelled by steel and spell. A bright-blue arrow shot into the air and exploded into a few hundred identical copies of itself, pelting the oncoming enemies like a hailstorm of death.

In the chaos, Shiv caught sight of Adam Arrow. The Young Lord was an echo of his father, and he seemed to fight like Roland too. Except, rather than creating a hundred new arms to fire arrows ceaselessly from a single bow, Adam had three hovering arms wielding a shield, a hammer, and a sword.

Part of Shiv hated the sight. He could have achieved that in his life if he wasn’t so deprived. He knew he could have.

For a few heartbeats, Shiv watched Adam Arrow and the others fight and endure against the enemies. The Omenborn knew there wasn’t much he could add to the struggle, and it seemed they would survive. The better choice was to leave anyway.

There were a lot of people to help, and the ugly truth of it was that though he understood Adam Arrow, that didn’t mean Shiv much liked the Young Lord. And liking mattered a lot, especially when it was about risking your life for someone.

But then, Shiv caught sight of a man in the middle of the crowd among another group of non-combatants. His lion’s mane of dirty blonde hair immediately made Shiv recognize who it was.

Georges.

And there was no choice at all. Shiv was already walking out through the rubble and creeping toward the fray before he knew what he was doing. He couldn’t leave Georges here without making sure the man was safe. Yes, Georges was a Pathbearer, and yes, Shiv didn’t have much power, but…

Whatever he had, he would give to Georges, because who else in his short, miserable life had given as much for him?

But he didn’t make his approach recklessly. Recklessness and blindness were fatal mistakes for a hunter, and Shiv had no room for incompetence as a Pathless. If he rushed into the fight, he would be a liability at best and dead from collateral damage at worst.

He surveyed the battlefield. There looked to be about twenty or so Pathbearers holding the rear garden. It wasn’t that way to start. Shiv looked at the ground and counted quite a few dead guards. The remaining survivors had rallied around Adam Arrow and his beloved in a final defense. Her hammer sent walls of earthly spikes smashing into the attacking hordes of monsters, and she erected barricades from her surroundings almost as fast as the Abyssal Trolls could smash through them.

The struggle was at a stalemate for now, but the number of enemies seemed ceaseless. Shiv wondered how the enemy could teleport in with such impunity, but then he recalled the Slayers Guild vanishing in a rising column of fire. Along with the teleportation anchor. A dull horror built in the back of Shiv’s mind. He thought of Tran for a moment. The revelation that the man had been working for Roland was hurtful, but he’d still been nice. Nicer than most to Shiv.

Hopefully he survived.

That led to another thought, however: Jump Mages. Most people didn’t have the ability to teleport. Spatial Magic was a dedicated skill bound to a select few Paths. The enemy must have a Jump Mage nearby if they were spawning in so many monsters. And after a bit of looking, Shiv found them at the far edge of the lawn.

Five Jump Mages covered in shadowy hoods and large cloaks worked in unison, wielding staffs and focus crystals to pull horde after horde of horrors onto the battlefield. Spatial pockets burst around them, birthing dozens of monsters at a time. Though Shiv couldn’t quite tell what kind of plate they were wearing with their cloaks, he did get a glimpse of their feet and caught a gleam of heavy metal.

The Omenborn sighed. Damn mages. Damn their stupidly thick armor. Life would have been easier if spells couldn’t work in heavy armor or metal or something.

Clenching his dagger, Shiv plotted a solution to his problem. A direct attack was out of the question. He wouldn’t bet on himself in a direct brawl against a lesser vampire without a great deal of planning. He would need to use his Stealth to get closer. Once he did, though… These might be mages, but they were likely still tougher than he was by far. He might be able to do some damage by stabbing them in the eye or under the armpits, but if their Toughness was well past twenty, then even that was in doubt.

What he was absolutely sure about was how he couldn’t beat all five of them in a melee, even if he did surprise them. He needed something that would take them out of the fight at once—or interrupt them long enough for Adam Arrow and the others to mount a counterattack. And that couldn’t be achieved through brute force.

And so Shiv thought. He planned. He watched. Until he saw a badly cracked stone statue of a large hawk at the edge of the garden behind a torn protective fence. A statue that stood on a ledge that loomed over open air and the abyss below…

An idea came to Shiv. An idea connected to something he realized earlier. He wasn’t nearly strong enough to out-wrestle a Pathbearer, but he was still about as strong as a mundane human could possibly be, and they probably weren’t that heavy. If he was lucky, the enemy Jump Mages had Weightlessness enchantments on their armor as well. If he wasn’t… Well, he wasn’t the one that was going to be pulling them. Gravity was going to do most of the work for him.

He'd once heard from Heather, Tran’s Jump Mage, that teleporting someone took a lot of focus. Focus one would be struggling for when in free-fall.

Shiv just needed good rope and a hook of some kind…

***

A few minutes later, Shiv had both rope and hook taken from a heavy chandelier looped around his chest as he shimmied along the edge of Blackedge with his hands. His feet dangled above open air, and with each swing, he inched a bit more to his right. Using his Stealth Skill, he avoided detection and took a roundabout route to flank the Jump Mages. Such was why he was clinging to dear life, trying not to fall.

Distant sounds of battle came from below. As Shiv looked down at the Abyss, he realized the aerial protectors guarding Blackedge had engaged the enemy before they could emerge from the cracks. Flashes of fire and light dotted the space just above the darkness below, and Shiv caught sight of a great many moving objects between the shutters of light.

“Looks like there really is going to be war again,” he breathed. Part of him couldn’t believe it, but another part of him was filled with hope. If he survived this, maybe he could be drafted into the republic’s forces, despite what Roland thought. That would ensure he had a Path at least.

He reached where the statue was with minimal noise and slowly began to pull himself up. He thanked his own high Physicality Skill and the weightlessness of his armor for making this attempt possible, and slowly, he pulled himself up and hid behind the statue. It was barely large enough to cover his body, and he clung to what remained of the fence for dear life. This close, he couldn’t risk peeking at his enemy using his knife—a gleam would be too obvious, even with the imminent twilight.

Instead, he inched his head out and saw the Jump Mages still consumed by their tasks, ignorant of his presence. Shiv swallowed and began wrapping his rope around the statue. It creaked ominously, and he did his best to avoid sending it toppling over prematurely. It took all his considerable Stealth to hide the noise he was making, matching the pace of his work with the wind, but in the end, he managed the first part.

What came next was all or nothing: He let the hooked end of the rope slip from his hand as he stepped out. His heart was pounding, but this was the moment that he either turned the tide or died a horrible death. He spun his hook and regarded the Jump Mages. They were standing close together. Weaving streams of translucent disturbances snaked out from the casters and melded into various pockets. Good. He just needed to wrap his rope around their waists and tighten it. It would need to be fast, but surprise might give him the edge, even if his enemy had a higher Reflexes Skill.

He focused. He spun. And when he was ready, he let the hook fly. It curved through the air and went taut as Shiv swung left. One of the Jump Mages paused and then turned at the noise. The rope struck and folded around their chest as the hooked end swung like an anchor, wrapping around the others.

As the hook came back around, Shiv tugged the rope hard. It took a small act of luck—and a sudden skill level—for him to catch the hook and draw the entire rope taut.

Reflexes > 17

Shiv latched the hook onto the statue in a frantic motion and slammed into it hard with his entire body. The stone hawk cracked—jolted for a second—failed to fall, and so Shiv slammed his shoulder into it again, his heart screaming.

As one of the Jump Mages reached a hand out and prepared to hit Shiv with a spell, a crack resounded. The base of the statue broke, and it toppled over the edge. Shiv dove to the side. A beat later, the Jump Mages were torn off their feet, dragged toward the edge.

Yet. Nothing was ever so easy.

At the last moment, Shiv felt someone sink their fingers into his pants, gripping him by the ankle, and he lurched toward the edge as well. His mind screamed. He pulled out one of the many daggers he scavenged. He cut up once. His blade sparked off armored fingers. He slammed into the broken railing, but his armor protected his chest from suffering any real damage. The weight pulling against him quickly made it hard to break, however. As he tried to cut again, he realized his first knife had flown out of his hand and was nowhere to be seen. That was fine. This was why one looted as many knives as they could—you could never have too many knives.

He cut again this time, targeting the fabric of his pants rather than the Jump Mage holding him. He caught a glimpse of a pointed, armored visor beneath that dark hood, but the Jump Mage’s body language screamed of fear. Shiv sliced away the fabric, and before the mage could do anything else, they were falling with the others.

“Enjoy the scenic route down,” Shiv chuckled, adrenaline making him slightly giddy.

It was then that a shadow loomed over him. Slowly, the Pathless turned, and he saw a not-so-dead Abyssal Troll glaring down at him with those big sharp fangs, and red, beady eyes.

“Shit,” Shiv muttered. He tried to move—but the troll snatched him off the ground in a blast of speed that shouldn’t be possible for a creature at over four meters of height. Shiv kicked, stabbed, and cursed at the troll. The beast clenched its hand in response, and Shiv felt his armor buckle and fold inward—breaking a few of his ribs in the process.

Chestpiece: [Starhawk Arrow Cuirass]

Condition: Damaged > Severely Damaged

Shiv groaned and wheezed as his vision went black. Once more, the world saw fit to remind him of his place at the moment of his triumph. Just after his wits prevailed, his mortal body failed him. The troll laughed as it crushed him with a single hand and pulled him closer to take a bite. “Tasty little morsel!”

Shiv could smell the fetid stench of the beast’s breath and dense plaque lining its teeth, but he found himself mostly stunned by the fact that the beast could speak. It was intelligent. The bestiary didn’t say that.

Before the troll could take a piece out of Shiv’s confused mind, however, a comet of bright blue burst through its chest, and the monster gurgled. “H-hole?”

It staggered forward, and Shiv looked down to see himself dangling over the edge. The Pathless croaked. “No! No! Fall backward! Backward!”

The troll didn’t listen. It released Shiv from its hand as it smashed through the fence and toppled over. Shiv let out a final muttered curse as he clawed out to grab the ledge—but it was too far. Shiv dropped. There wasn’t anything he could do about it.

