Fetohep of Khelt: Be that as it may, I am not a Djinni. I do not ‘grant wishes’, nor am I interested in guiding any among the living outside of my kingdom. This is a matter that goes to the heart of Gnollkind.
Mri: Yes. So are you not friends with Gnolls? That’s racist. You’re racist.
Fetohep of Khelt: I am not. ‘Mri’, you misunderstand my point. What you suggest is intelligent, original, and has a chance of success even the most precocious of children would envy for such a scheme. However, I will not do it simply because it is righteous. Even if it is easy for me.
 
Mrsha’s brow wrinkled up. She sat there as Fetohep wrote on.
 
Fetohep of Khelt: This is a Gnoll issue. Gnolls must overcome their own trials. You are a Gnoll. You may petition me as a penpal, to act in some small way. But the whole of it? I leave that to you.
Mri: Me? By myself? 
Fetohep of Khelt: Yes.
Mri: But I’m a child.
Fetohep of Khelt: You will always be one until the day you decide not to act as one. It need not be you alone. Think. When you have a request I will agree to, I will heed your words.
 
Then he left her alone. Mrsha punched the [Message] scroll, hurting her paw, and rolled around, crying silently.
Fetohep was a jerk after all! The biggest jerk, who was stingy because he could do things and didn’t! She saw Satar look at her as Gire exhaled.
“That’s too bad, Mri.”
“What?”
Satar was done crying and looked exceptionally embarrassed to have done it in front of everyone. Yelroan, Adetr, and Rose saw Mrsha waving her [Message] scroll to show the others.
Look at my brilliant idea! It would work! But he didn’t want to do anything.
Satar blinked down at Mrsha’s plan. Her eyes widened.
“Mri? That’s brilliant! Of course there would be—oh. He won’t do it?”
Crestfallen, the [Storyteller] read Fetohep’s replies. However…as Mrsha threw a tantrum, she saw what the undead king meant. It made her fur rise slightly.
Gnolls must overcome their own trials.
That spoke to her. Mrsha didn’t understand, perhaps because she was so used to a certain Human solving people’s issues. Fetohep—King Fetohep of Khelt understood something about pride.
“It might not be the same, but I could at least…ask.”
Satar’s mumble caught Mrsha’s attention. The girl looked up as Gire picked up her little friend.
“Ask who? Fetohep of Khelt is the most influential person I know too. How do you know him again, Mri?”
The Gnoll shook her head mutely. It was a long story. Satar didn’t know any [Kings] herself, but…
“I don’t have to ask a foreign [King]. What if I…wrote to someone? Like a [Librarian]. Or—well, it doesn’t hurt to ask, does it? All it takes is a few silver at most, and you can send a [Message] to anyone in the world.”
The problem was most people wouldn’t answer it. It couldn’t hurt to ask, though. Mrsha’s ears perked up.
“Who could I ask, though? Um…um…is there a [Librarian] in the—uh—a nation in Terandria? What would that be?”
Desonis? I know Earl Altestiel too! 
“How do you—nevermind. What if you wrote a letter to him?”
Mrsha scratched at her head. That sounded like work! Gire gently pulled at one of Mrsha’s ears.
“It’s not that much work, milady du etiquette, is it? And you know how to be fancy.”
My paw hurts when I write too much. And it gets inky.
Mrsha sulked, still in a pet about Fetohep. Gire tossed her up and down.
“What if I wrote for you?”
Mrsha the Dictator—no, wait, that sounded bad—thought about it and brightened up. She nodded eagerly.
“I’ll help too! I just…I don’t know an Earl Altestiel. I need a book of current nations. Um. Oh no, I need to find someone who I can [Message]. Not the rulers or leaders, obviously.”
Satar felt that frustration of not knowing exactly what to do. She’d have to grab a book, maybe bother a [Mage] who could send [Messages], and the cost—!
Mrsha plopped a huge bag of gold on the table. She could send [Messages] all day. However, the contact details?
Yelroan’s sunglasses blinded Satar.
“Exactly how many people did you need to talk to? Because I have a list of contact details for almost every major nation and group. Plus, the Plain’s Eye tribe knows who to actually talk to if you want a response.”
Satar turned to look at him, and Rose waved a hand, mostly because she wanted to be helpful.
“I could write to Drassi! And I just bet Joseph could help; he can run down to Pallass’ library.”
Adetr scratched at his head, still confused.
“I don’t see how this will all help. But I can help you send the [Messages]. There’s a group of [Mages] who do it for coin. Steelfur can reserve a few.”
Satar looked at the others and then bent over a piece of parchment.
“We could just ask them all. Even if he’s not willing to help do it all, Mrsha, can you write back to Fetohep? Be nice!”
Mrsha sighed, but with Gire translating her fast sign-language into writing, she began to ‘dictate’ a [Message], which was a lot of fun. Adetr trotted off to grab a Human [Mage], Rose began scribbling a note to Drassi, and Satar composed her own first letter to a [Librarian] in…
“Where should I start? Who would have what we want?”
She turned to Yelroan, and the [Mathematician] smiled.
“You can bother as many people as you want. From experience, I would guess that a rich company or nation has the best shot. Why not the Forgotten Wing Company?”
Mrsha’s ears perked up, but she decided not to interject as Satar stammered.
“The—the—you think they’ll respond?”
Yelroan shrugged.
“It’s worth a shot, yes? Oh—I have a contact for you. [Strategist] Perorn and—wait, don’t send it to [Chamberlain] Peclir. Not a good move. But send it to…let me grab a file.”
He headed off, and Satar began to write. She took her time on the first letter, but she got into the rhythm of it soon enough. Even if only one of the fifty [Messages] she sent got through…then a hundred…
Gire was massaging her paw, but Satar had no cramping, so she wrote on. It was an exciting gambit, like throwing a letter in a bottle into the sea. It was unlikely it would bear fruit, in her mind.
However, she hadn’t realized just how astute Fetohep’s observation was. Mrsha might have been young, and she certainly lacked for table manners, the ability to dress herself, and she was distressingly bad at math, much to Yelroan’s chagrin.
But a certain [Princess] had used many, many [Flawless Attempts] to hammer in the very foundation of proper formality in letter-writing.
Arguably worse, she had instilled the very best…worst…of Calanferian traditions in Mrsha’s mind. Gire laughed about it, and Satar didn’t read Mrsha’s letters, so she had no idea the vengeful Gnoll girl wrote her letters along these lines.
 
Dear Sir or Madam (Gire, write in their name and titles!),
I, Satar Silverfang, would humbly like to request your attention on a certain matter which I have corresponded with His Majesty, Fetohep of Khelt upon, and I believe Drassi of Wistram News Network is also considering a television segment regarding said issue. I would deeply appreciate a letter at soonest convenience, as the Meeting of Tribes is ending, and it behooves me to bring this matter forwards as an issue of highest importance among my people.
It may be that you have an object in your possession that may help my inquiry into the history of the Gnoll peoples. To be precise, I am referring to…
 
——
 
Satar felt a flash of hope as she wrote nearly a hundred letters—and she thanked Mrsha, who helped bankroll the entire affair. Adetr, who mainly got paper, convinced the [Mages] to send so many spells and refilled ink pots because his handwriting was atrocious and he couldn’t spell. Rose ended up going with Feshi—who’d waited for everyone at the Weatherfur camp for nearly an hour—to come back with food, and Feshi herself joined in after realizing what they were about.
She felt like she had done something! Then…Satar closed her eyes and realized no level ups were coming. She’d already gotten to Level 25, of course, but she’d thought maybe after all that writing…?
No. No levels for all her hard work. Mainly because she’d been writing letters, not a story.
So she rolled over and tried to sleep, despondent. Why would anyone respond? She was just Satar and…
The Gnoll girl went to sleep, in the particular expectation of nothing tomorrow but disappointment and silence. Because she had never seen anything marvelous happen except between the covers of a book. Those were stories.
 
——
 
Throughout the night, an undead king from ages of yore when the dead ruled the living did not sleep. Six hundred years old, a mayfly in immortal years but heir to one of the great kingdoms of Chandrar, Fetohep of Khelt sat upon his throne and considered one thing.
“They make much of the blinding ego of Dragons. The arrogance of Drakes. The wrath of gentle men, the enmity of Dullahans. Worst of all, it would appear, is the pettiness of little children.”
[Message] after [Message] flashed upon the dozens of scrolls surrounding him, all asking for a polite confirmation that, yes, this [Message] was genuine? Was there a plan to…? Would he like to speak with Grand Magus Eldavin now or later? Wistram News Network calling. Was this in relation to—?
A little girl did this. One who knew how to name-drop his name into the ears of the high and mighty.
“Calanfer. The Kingdom of the ‘Eternal Throne’ has changed markedly from its original ruler’s inception.”
Fetohep would have had a headache if such luxuries were afforded the undead. He looked at the chess board he’d set up with Mrsha’s last game. Despite all her help, a lone king-piece sat surrounded by his pawns. Fetohep looked at Mrsha’s personal request to him.
In the darkness, the Revenant smiled. Well enough for a child’s effort. He rose and gave the children’s plan a little nudge.
 
——
 
They had done something today. Each of the Gnolls and singular Human could rest easy, even if it might not come to anything, even if that good feeling didn’t last. They tried. They made friends. They slept well.
All save for one.
Yelroan.
He didn’t sleep. Chieftain Xherw found him with his head in his paws.
“Yelroan? Is something amiss?”
The [Mathematician] looked up. He spoke carefully, hanging his head.
“I…can’t make sense of it, Chieftain.”
“About what? Your investigation? Are you done, already?”
The [Chieftain] looked sharply at Yelroan and the [Mathematician] nodded. He pushed something across to Xherw and the Gnoll saw a jumble of numbers.
“What’s this?”
“Oh, facts, figures about Qwera. I can’t make them add up, Chieftain. I’m afraid…I can’t help you. I keep trying, but I can’t create a direct link between her being a Doombringer and…”
Yelroan shrugged, speaking very carefully. He tapped the paper with the confusing list of numbers. Qwera’s birth date, income, money earned, locations visited represented as coordinates.
Xherw studied the paper, but briefly. He shook his head, sighing hard.
“If you cannot, I believe you.”
“I’ll keep working, Chieftain! I don’t want to doubt your intuition, it’s just as a [Mathematician]…”
Yelroan trailed off. He gestured at the paper and knew every word he spoke was true. There was no mathematical way to make all the numbers about Qwera’s life line up into something that spelled Doombringer.
Math wasn’t silly. Xherw just smiled.
“I can be wrong. It may be she’s just…lucky. Keep working, but we will need you for this Earth-matter. Thank you, Yelroan.”
The Gnoll nodded and sat back down. He stared at the closed tent flaps, then began shaking uncontrollably. But he did it. He…
He wondered what Merish, his friend, was doing. Merish was a good Gnoll. A warrior.
Had he tried to kill that little girl? Yelroan sat in the darkness…then he pulled out more lists. More information, since he had insisted they keep such data. Older information too. It was time to begin another investigation. A better one.
He didn’t know what he’d find, or even what he was looking for beyond the obvious. Only…that he thought, now…it was there.
 
——
 
The next day, Satar was fast asleep when a Gnoll landed on her. Cers hit Satar, went flying as she yelped and rolled over, and jumped on her again.
“Cers! I’m going to hurt you! Leave me be!”
“Satar! Satar! What did you do? What did you do?”
Something had riled her younger brother up even more than normal. Satar raised a fist, but then saw how excited he was.
“What? Has the Meeting of Chieftains decided something?”
Blearily, the Gnoll girl stared at him. The Gnoll cub stopped, looked at her, and a gleeful expression filled his face.
“You don’t know? Satar! You’re on the scrying orb! Satar, what did you do? You’re in trouble! Cetrule’s looking for you!”
Satar sat up fast, blinking.
“What? Don’t lie, Cers. That’s a stupid lie.”
“Am not! Everyone’s watching! You’re in trouble—”
He raced out of her tent. Satar looked after him, heart suddenly pounding wildly. Did that have anything to do with…? But surely not—! They had just been letters! Why the scrying orb? Wait. Wait. Had Rose said she was writing to Drassi?
What did she write?
Satar stumbled out of her tent a second before Cetrule came running to find her. The [Shaman of Purity] was panting. He had something in his paw.
“Satar?”
She looked at him in confusion and then at the orb he was holding. And she heard her name echoing from it.
Across the Meeting of Tribes, as Gnolls tuned into the scrying orbs for the news and any major events in what was rapidly becoming a habit, the siege of Reim, on its sixth day, was interrupted by a special call in.
Fetohep of Khelt had begun his address and claimed the right to occupy the world’s attention in the following manner.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt. I have a moment of import to communicate. You are free to ignore me. At your peril.”
He was talking to Drassi and Noass. The [Reporter] and [Commentator] were listening as the Revenant-king spoke.
“Yes. Satar Silverfang, I believe. A…penpal of mine of whom I have found myself regularly corresponding brought up the issue. Naturally, it was within my vast purview, and I have taken it upon myself to answer the request in part.”
Satar stopped breathing when she heard her name. Cers touched her arm, then jumped as she inhaled.
“Gnolls. Gnolls have now come to Chandrar, and that was the cause of the King of Destruction’s war with Belchan and Jecrass. I listened to your commentary, Noass of Pallass.”
It was amazing that Fetohep didn’t laugh, and pronounced the Drake’s name so seriously. The Drake shifted uneasily.
“Er, yes, Your Majesty?”
