“Oh! So pretty!”
Rose marveled. Because the stamp, the little symbol written therein, which looked like a book and quill as Satar would have preferred it, felt…like truth. Now, if only you could shake it from the aether and find what was lost.
Alas. Mrsha went cross-eyed trying to see it.
“It lasts as long as it’s true, Mri. I think it changes color if it’s less true. Go on! Try it!”
Mrsha frowned. Then she wrote, carefully, and held up a notecard for all to see.
I am always a good girl.
Instantly, the seal glowing a gentle green-blue, and even slightly changing to hues of yellow or purple—turned red, burst into flames, and fell off Mrsha’s forehead. The girl stared down at it.
“Well, it’s good for a job. You know, you could make some decent money just applying that once every day.”
Yelroan chuckled. Mrsha looked at Satar and handed her a note.
Your Skill doesn’t work. Stupid.
Then she went back to her [Message] scroll.
“Veracity isn’t like a simple truth stone. It’s…oh, fine.”
Satar stuck out her tongue at Mrsha’s back. She sat up, feeling a tiny bit better—but still upset over the entire lack of stories thing. Mrsha glanced up at Satar, remembering how sad the [Shaman] had been. She kept scribbling and that click-click continued.
Feshi came back; she had apparently gone out to the bathroom or something.
“They’re passing out food. Anyone want to eat at Weatherfur’s camp? We’re eating some fresh salmon someone brought. Even a tuna from deep at sea. Big. Gire couldn’t finish all of it herself. Anyone interested?”
Gire shot up.
“Me, me! I’ll go!”
The others murmured agreement, and Feshi assured them they wouldn’t be disturbing anyone, and it wouldn’t be for another twenty minutes. Yelroan looked down.
“It’s an equation. Sin, cos, tan…I can almost…”
His eyes were glittering, but he kept glancing at Mrsha. Caught between delight and…
The little Gnoll glared down and slapped something. The clack made Feshi, Satar, and even Rose and Adetr look up. Mrsha rolled over and whined in the back of her throat…then raised a notecard.
Feshi! Help me, please! Beat this stinky person up!
She wanted Feshi to help her? With…Satar looked over and saw what Mrsha was doing at last. She was writing on the [Message] scroll to her penpal. And…
Playing chess.
Feshi’s ears perked up instantly, and she crouched down.
“What is this, Mri? Wait a second…”
Everyone else crowded around, except Gire, who read the scroll upside-down. They all blinked down. Mrsha folded her arms.
She and her penpal had been corresponding. Incidentally…Satar had heard Krshia had been involved in some kind of amazing conversation via Wistram the other day, but she hadn’t known what. Now? She looked down and saw a conversation.
 
Fetohep of Khelt: Good evening, ‘Mri’. Would you kindly desist sending [Messages] to my palace?
Mri: But we’re penpals! Can I have a throne? Or a crown? Or jewels?
Fetohep of Khelt: No. You are a child.
Mri: You thought I was intelligent!
Fetohep of Khelt: Age is but a concept, yet a child remains a child.
Mri: Ur a bully. I hate you.
Fetohep of Khelt: Insolence is unwise. I am Fetohep of Khelt. A ruler of Eternal Khelt. Do you think it is wise, even for a child, to taunt me?
Mri: …I’m sorry. But you’ll forgive me! Because I’m cute :)
Fetohep of Khelt: I cannot behold any appearance of yours, Mri.
Mri: What do I do!? Everyone is nice to me! I am very cute and cuddly, Fetohep! Forsooth! No child hath more delightful appearance than mine own!
Fetohep of Khelt: You are a precocious child. 
Mri: Please help Erin. 
Fetohep of Khelt: I am in the process of doing so. There are…complications, however.
Mri: You should help Erin. She could teach you chess. Do you like chess?
Fetohep of Khelt: I am exceptionally adept in the game.
Mri: Erin’s better, you know. She’s so good no one can beat her. I’m one of her pupils. I bet I could whoop you like a backwards salmon being smacked on steps!
Fetohep of Khelt: That is a preposterous statement.
Mri: Nuh uh.
Fetohep of Khelt: Indeed? Then, I shall move Pawn to E4.
Mri: What are you doing?
Fetohep of Khelt: Playing chess. Or can you not visualize the game?
Mri: I can! Give me a minute!
 
It appeared the smack talk and conversation had taken place over the last few days, and the chess game had been carefully recreated on the board Mrsha was using, with Fetohep’s pieces on hers.
Oh—and this wasn’t the original game. This was game #8. The score was 7-0 so far, and if you understood how often you tied in games of chess…
Feshi looked at the winner of all zero games.
“You want me to beat him?”
Mrsha nodded rapidly. Feshi folded her arms.
“No. For one thing, he gave me the dagger. For another—that’s cheating.”
But I have to beat him! Just once! Please? It’s too hard! He’s cheating by being too good!
It reminded Satar of Cers, actually. Mrsha, for all she could write like a jaded [Lady] of Terandria sipping wine while staring out an ivory tower in the twilight of Terandria—could also be a little child.
Feshi refused. Mrsha slapped the chessboard—then her face fell. She scrambled to redo the pieces and then started crying…or fake-crying.
It’s not fair! It’s too hard! I can’t do it in my head! The pieces are stupid! You’re all mean! I’m cute! Be nicer to me!
She rolled around on the ground, and Feshi sighed. Gire calmly put the chess pieces back and nudged a bishop.
“Move that into check?”
Mrsha instantly sat up, and Feshi looked at Gire.
“Gireulashia, you shouldn’t help her. Mri needs to either learn the game or admit defeat. She won’t grow or level from cheating. Except as a [Slacker].”
A what now? Mrsha the Sloth sat up and contemplated her new career path. Feshi tried to show Mrsha what she was doing wrong.
“You’re starting a new game, and you have all your pieces. It looks like you don’t really know how knights work, do you?”
L-shapes?
Mrsha was, in fact, Erin Solstice’s worst student, and that included Toren. She hadn’t paid attention when Erin taught her, and…well, she didn’t even really understand how Fetohep kept checking her behind her own lines.
That was because she created a wall of Pawns and expected them to hold the line, like the actual Pawn would with [Holy Barrier]. Feshi, Gire, and even Rose tried to explain, but Mrsha held her head in her paws.
It’s too hard! Too many moves! Too many ways!
Fetohep had one of her knights in distress, and she kept nearly moving it into an early-demise. She understood how the knight moved, but the endless loop of possibilities and moves from each individual piece?
There was a reason why, even if a computer could do it better, people liked this game. Even Apista could beat Mrsha. Even a bee.
Feshi looked sympathetically at Mrsha, but then she snapped her furry fingers together. Which was a lot harder than when a Human did it.
“I know! Mri, I won’t help you cheat…but what if I help you play? Hmm? Sit down.”
Mrsha plomped her butt down, and Feshi waved a paw over the gameboard. Satar, watching, who was also bad at chess and, she feared privately, worse than Mrsha, saw Feshi speak.
“[Visualize Outcomes]. There. How’s that?”
Mrsha’s eyes went round. Satar, looking down, gasped. She saw Mrsha pick up the endangered knight piece—and saw a bunch of little squares light up on the board.
In L-shapes, just like where it was legally allowed to move. Mrsha looked around and saw all the spots the knight could move.
“Oh! Like a chess program! That’s genius, Feshi!”
Rose clapped her hand in delight. Adetr muttered in her ear.
“Yet another thing Humans can do that we need a Skill for.”
She slapped his arm and winced as her hand met metal. However, thanks to Feshi’s Skill, Mrsha could now see each piece’s threat zone and how they moved when she picked it up. She found a safe spot at last and smugly wrote in her move to Fetohep. Two seconds later, he checked her.
Feshi watched Mrsha throw a tantrum. In truth, that Skill’s application in chess had recently been discovered. It was more useful for a [Strategist] to see how a group might try to execute a maneuver and realize the terrain was too rocky, the shallows too deep in actuality to wade, etcetera.
“Not a bad Skill. You do visualization Skills too?”
Yelroan interrupted. Feshi turned to him.
“I do. Just that. Do you, Mathematician Yelroan?”
He smiled and adjusted his sunglasses, but modestly.
“I do. Take a look. Let me just find something like…how about all your ages? And then I…[Visualize Data Set].”
He did a quick scribble with their names, and ages, and then used his Skill. Instantly, the piece of paper turned into a little, floating graph. A crude drawing of Mrsha and her name shot up only a tiny bit with her age represented. Next, Gire. Then…Adetr?
“You’re younger than me?”
The Gnoll exclaimed as his bar came to rest just below Satar and above Rose. Feshi was next, then Yelroan. Mrsha looked up from angrily scribbling with Fetohep.
“See? Look how many times older I am. Seeing data is very useful to me. I’m amazed [Strategists] don’t all have the Skill.”
Mrsha handed Yelroan a card. He flipped it over and read two words.
You’re old.
Adetr looked at Feshi and Yelroan and cleared his throat.
“I have a Skill too. Only, I see battle in its entirety.”
“And a fat lot of good that does.”
Rose muttered. Feshi raised her brows.
“I’ve heard of [Battle Seekers], but not that you can visualize it. Can I ask how it works? Do fights shape up the way you see them?”
Adetr shook his head.
“Almost never. But some things I can learn—even enemy Skills or gear they carry. It’s not…precise. It is for a warrior to train their spirit, to learn how to defeat their foes. But I do not learn enough, not like a [Strategist] would want. My tribe’s [Strategists] gave up long ago on asking me to find out information. Part of it is simply…to sate my hunger.”
He looked embarrassed at the admission. Rose peered at him.
“Really. But that’s so powerful!”
“Hrr. Yes, well…it was my Level 20 capstone Skill.”
Rose and Adetr looked at each other, and the Gnoll bowed his head.
“I’m sorry. I’m only trying to protect my people.”
“Not from me.”
He hesitated.
“No. Not from you, Rose.”
 
——
 
The good mood in the group broke upon Adetr and Rose’s quarrel like waves on a beach. Both looked guilty and broke off their arguments, but it was true. This had been a pleasant distraction from the greater issue of Earth, but Feshi could not let go of Adetr’s fear either.
Feshi longed to believe Rose when she assured them Earth had enough good to balance out the bad, but she had a vision of a metal flying-thing dropping weapons—even stones—from a mile up. And Humans had a population of eight billion. Even if most were non-combatants? Even if they were armed with rocks…
They could outproduce us. They could take over our lands. We can’t let them reach our world. We need to be careful, to learn what they’re doing. We need…to tell the Professor?
She had been having nightmares of Humans flying through the sky. Feshi suddenly realized where Eldavin had gotten his new armor idea from. More danger.
 
——
 
Satar saw Feshi’s face grow troubled and looked at this strange group, from Gire to Mrsha, Rose, Adetr, Feshi, and Yelroan. They were nice people. They had all come together to help one another, and they had done their best. But Satar had tried to find out the truth in stories for Doombringers…and failed.
They really had lost so much. Mrsha’s ears drooped, and Satar saw her listening to Rose and Adetr arguing.
Satar remembered what she herself had said in the Retelling.
We were here.
We were there. But…no one could prove it. Kingdoms vanished. They lost their library. Mrsha sighed. Satar wiped at her eyes and sniffed again. Everyone avoided looking at her. Rose and Adetr argued again.
Mrsha looked down as Gire gulped down a snack, Yelroan fidgeted with his sunglasses, and Feshi headed over to see if dinner was ready yet.
 
——
 
Satar’s crying was perfectly understandable, given how hard she’d tried, only to be foiled by time and malice. She was a [Detective] with no leads, only questions, and it frustrated her to tears.
She had not found her answer in the Doombringer stories, only noticed the absence. She would keep trying, but her Skill had not miraculously solved all problems. If that were so, Gnolls would never want for anything.
Yet there was more to miracles than just luck. Even a Doombringer knew that. So while Satar had cried, Mrsha had been thinking big.
Mrsha could not predict when a bishop would swan into enemy lines and hold a king-piece hostage. But she had learned something from Erin Solstice, the master herself.
And that was that other people could do things for you. Mrsha, the [Slacker]-in-training—which pretty much meant she’d never get the class because she kept trying to work for it—had made a little plan. And the thing about little plans? When you handed them to giants or geniuses, they always turned them into big plans.
Mrsha the Delegator quietly wrote onto her [Message] scroll as Gire watched her out of the corner of one big eye. The [Paragon] winked at Mrsha, but Satar never noticed.
 
Mri the Magnificent Mind: Old guy. Old guy, I have a biiig favor to ask. Will you help me? Pwease?
Fetohep of Khelt: If you address me in such an obnoxious fashion again, child, I will be forced to hire an [Assassin] to burn your [Message] scroll. There is such a thing as etiquette.
Mri: In that case, um…forsooth—
Fetohep of Khelt: I will post the bounty at 1,000 gold coins within the hour.
Mri du Marquin: Your Gracious Eminence, I humbly beg your forgiveness for my misconduct. It is unbecoming for a young lady, and I can only apologize that I have taken leave of my senses. It would not only honor my house, but do justice to the endless bounty of Khelt’s munificence if you would consent to heed my petition.
Fetohep of Khelt: Who taught you to write like this? Truly.
Mri: My mother.
Fetohep of Khelt: Ah. I do not employ any such individuals in my palace permanently, as I have not needed to address foreign powers substantively these last five hundred years. Someone of her talents would be useful. Would she be interested in a position in my Mage’s Guild? 
Mri: Nope. Can I tell you my big idea now? It’s smart!
Fetohep of Khelt: You may.
 
She outlined it in great detail and waited for him to agree. However, Fetohep’s response was succinct.
 
Fetohep of Khelt: I will not do this for you, Mri.
Mri: What? Why? Stinky! Rude! It’s so nice! You’d be on television! And you have lots of old things! You’d love it!
