She joined a [Shaman] and Gireulashia, and the [Paragon] swept her onto her shoulders. Yelroan heard them speaking.
“Why didn’t you stay in the camp? Or go with Tesy to see Qwera? You wanted me? Aw.”
Well, that blew the coincidence theory right out of the water. But Yelroan had gone still, dead still, for another reason.
Which was that he was not an idiot. Little Gnoll girl. Golden Gnoll. Merish was hunting for Mrsha of Liscor. Yelroan’s breath caught, and he didn’t even whisper it…
[Perfect Measurement]. He stood up, adjusted his glasses, left a huge tip, and walked off. He almost ran back to his tent and searched around.
“[Shaman]. Do you have a recording of the Doombringer? The one Xherw had me look at?”
One of Plain’s Eye’s [Shamans] sighed but dug out the recording for Yelroan. The [Mathematician] took one look at a little, white Gnoll girl and used the same Skill. She was an inch taller than the girl in the scrying orb, but he knew how children changed. A Gnollish feature, which was distinct and didn’t change as markedly, was the length of your tail to the base of your body.
It could vary a good amount, although Drake tails were far longer. Yelroan ran the math. Every number was almost dead-on, with a little bit of growth.
“Is that all, Mathematician?”
The [Shaman] sighed, clearly eager to be back to her work. Yelroan didn’t answer at first. He had just felt a shiver run all the way through his body and straight through his soul.
Two of them?
 
——
 
It would be quick. In the Meeting of Tribes, they would have to find out if they were right or not. So Plain’s Eye would strike Silverfang fast. Not hurt Silverfang’s guard, but go in, grab both girl and [Merchant], and apply a simple test to remove any dye from their fur.
Xherw might lead it himself. Fast. He’d take his best [Warriors], grab them, and if they were Doombringers?
Execute them on the spot. It would explain some of the events going on in the Meeting of Tribes. Yelroan would have two feathers in his cap and be inducted in the highest part of Plain’s Eye, and be able to make changes for the better. Take real apprentices and figure out what math…was. What sin was.
He knew that. Xherw was coming back from the Meeting of Chieftains, and the rumor was that it was so big each Chieftain refused to talk about it. Yelroan didn’t wait for him or Ulcre.
He didn’t tell anyone Mri, or rather, Mrsha—another oddity in names—was a Doombringer. Not yet.
He knew that was Mrsha Stone Spears. Mrsha from Liscor and ‘The Wandering Inn’. Numbers didn’t lie like that. Everything, even the inner pink of her ears, matched the girl in the scrying orb in dimensions. He could see the numbers adding up.
So she was a Doombringer. The same one Merish had hunted and who had slipped through his paws. Qwera might be one too.
Two, under their very noses. All he had to do was speak, and she’d die and stop plaguing the world with the curse she carried.
No—no, with the very evil she was.
Because it wasn’t a curse. A curse was different. That would mean she was innocent. There was a very good reason the girl giggling and licking the cone of ice cream had to die.
He just had to figure it out. He knew the answer. She was a Doombringer. But face-to-face with one, for the first time, Yelroan couldn’t help but think he was staring at a little girl.
Doombringers had to die. He kept hearing that. But the trio, Gireulashia, this Satar, and Mri, weren’t doing more than…their own investigation?
The little girl insisted on buying the biggest hat she could and wanted a ‘magnifying glass’, though all she did was write down her requests or do some fast sign-language with Gire. Another sign she was the mute Mrsha from Liscor.
The [Mathematician] watched them try on hats for a while. He had to step away.
“Just tell Xherw. You might be wrong. You might be wrong. But tell him and…he knows what to do. He’s the Chieftain.”
Xherw had to wrestle with difficult decisions all the time. Yelroan knew it was right. He was trying to do it, and his feet weren’t moving. He kept…staring at them.
“Yelroan? What are you doing out of your tent? Are you on your day off?”
A voice called out to him. Yelroan spun around, and one of Merish’s friends, Ghamen, another [Warrior], lowered his paw.
“What’s with you? You look like you’ve seen a ghost.”
“I…er, I’m just walking about.”
Yelroan looked at the warrior from one of Plain’s Eye’s other subtribes and saw him chomping down on a few sticks of meat, like he had. He was with a few other Plain’s Eye Gnolls.
“Well, if you want to walk about with us, feel free. This is Yelroan. Merish’s friend. A…math-person. What’s the class?”
“[Mathematician].”
Yelroan didn’t pose or do his sunglasses trick, so the other Gnolls eyed him and asked what that class meant and what his job was. He answered, not really paying attention.
“…Doombringer.”
“What was that?”
Yelroan glanced up. Ghamen looked at him and lowered his voice.
“Sorry. I just said that Merish is off hunting them. He hasn’t come back—you don’t know what’s happened, do you, Yelroan? He’s safe, right?”
“I…I can’t say. Chieftain Xherw’s orders. Confidential.”
“Chieftain Xherw speaks to you? Directly?”
One of the other Gnolls stared at Yelroan incredulously. Ghamen glanced at him and rolled his eyes.
“Yelroan’s a big-shot. Bigger than Merish, somehow. We all grew up in the same place, but look at them. Dead gods, but I can’t do more than count to a hundred, and I’m not hunting…them. I’d have nightmares.”
“Me too. I’d be too scared to move. Merish is tough.”
Yelroan saw the other Gnolls agree. He licked his lips and glanced over his shoulder at something.
“Do you remember, growing up, all the stories about Doombringers?”
Ghamen was asking the others. They nodded. Yelroan muttered.
“You mean, the [Shamans] dressing up in white and grabbing you out of bed before they’re chased away by warriors?”
The other Gnolls chuckled. One of them nodded, baring his teeth.
“I remember that. I wet my bedroll for three months afterwards. You know, I told that story to some other warriors the other day and they looked at me like I was crazy? They don’t do that.”
“Not chasing off Doombringers either? Really? It just goes to show what kind of traditions the other tribes keep…”
“Don’t start a fight, now. Let them do what they want. Plain’s Eye’s honor.”
“Here’s to that. What’s wrong, Yelroan? You look sick.”
There’s a Doombringer over there. Go kill it. The other warriors looked at the [Mathematician] as he stood there.
He felt a sudden, abrupt wave of nausea spill over him. Someone offered Yelroan a stick of meat just in time to see him clap a paw over his mouth—and vomit anyways, around it. The other Gnolls leapt back. They shouted and called for a [Healer] but had no idea why he was suddenly sick. Yelroan looked around, shaking.
He felt it too. That sudden, burning intuition that wasn’t math. But because it ran in his blood, he thought of it like that. An equation that didn’t add up at all.
There was something deeper here. Far, far deeper than tradition. And he was part of it. His eyes went back to the little girl heading through the Meeting of Tribes. He brushed off the paws of the other warriors and went after her.
He had to see.
 
——
 
The last investigation had taken over a month, and it was nowhere near its conclusion. The person leading it realized it might never conclude to his satisfaction.
But now, the news was out.
Feshi Weatherfur stared at Rose like she had giant Demon horns sticking out of her head and wings. The Earth girl shifted uncomfortably, but that was the same look Adetr gave her.
The [Battle Seeker] and warrior of the Steelfur tribe looked at Rose.
“Tell me…tell us more stories of Earth.”
“I’ve told you so many. History, my life…what more do you want?”
Rose complained, but mildly. She was flattered by Feshi’s attention and a little overwhelmed. Inkar had vanished on a ride with Tkrn once the secret came out.
The Chieftains knew. Their most trusted warriors and [Shamans]—they all knew. Now, they were struggling with the revelation.
Only, Adetr had learned a completely different way than Torishi, Feshi, and the rest. He had walked into a simulation of Earth’s [Soldiers] fighting on Rose’s behalf with his Skill. He had seen their weapons. Guns. Tanks. Even an aircraft dropping what Rose thought was a nuke on him.
So he looked at her completely differently than Feshi, for all the [Strategist] was clever and intelligent enough to understand what this meant. Adetr had seen enough to understand what they didn’t understand.
“Oh—okay. Just for Feshi. So, where I lived, Los Angeles—that’s one of the biggest cities in the world—”
“How big, exactly?”
“Um…if you included the suburbs, four m—”
“The what? What are ‘suburbs’?”
That was the thing. Rose backtracked, but she was really, really…bad at explaining a different world.
To be fair, not many people were good at it. Still, she kept forgetting that her audience had no grounding for anything. Adetr, after a month of talking with Rose, still couldn’t picture it.
Planes in the sky. Skyscrapers on the ground. Humans all connected to this internet…he felt like all of them had some kind of invisible tether attached to a giant cloud. That was how he saw it, and Rose kept correcting him, but he had gotten a rundown of Earth’s history and a lot of major events and factoids, even if she refused to tell him everything about their weapons and so on.
So as some other Chieftains approached them in the Silverfang camp, Adetr rose and bowed. Feshi caught sight of them and instantly did the same.
“Chieftain Iraz! Chieftain Reizet, Chieftain Werri!”
“Strategist Feshi. I should have known you would beat us here. Intelligent, while we sit on our paws…”
Rose blinked as three famous Chieftains joined them, despite two being rivals. They all looked at her, and the young woman licked her lips.
“Oh, wow.”
“May we speak with Miss…Rose? Please, join us. Adetr.”
Iraz nodded at his nephew, and Adetr bowed his head.
“Of course, Chieftain. I have been speaking with her too.”
“Ah, so Steelfur knew ahead of time? Well, I suppose that’s fine.”
Werri bared her teeth. She looked Rose up and down and sniffed the young woman, which Rose clearly found uncomfortable. They were all sitting when Adetr turned, and Feshi’s mouth opened.
“No way.”
Garsine Wallbreaker strode into the Silverfang camp. The tallest Gnoll in the Meeting of Tribes, nay, the world, was thin, stretched out, wearing the hide of the magic bear she could transform into.
“I have come to meet them. May I enter your discussion?”
Her voice was far lighter than Adetr imagined—still deep—but the other Chieftains instantly bowed to make room for a hero of their people. Rose gulped as Garsine bent.
“So you are Rose. From…”
She hesitated and looked around.
“We’re well warded, Honored Garsine. Please, speak freely!”
Feshi urged her. Garsine nodded.
“Well thought. You are from Earth. Another world. Is this true?”
“I—y-y—oh my god. Yes.”
If anything could have proven she was from Earth, it was that. All the Gnolls looked at each other. Garsine exhaled.
“I thought the grandest thing of my age would be the Antinium, and feared to leave the world behind with them. Now? Now, I fear I am too old for what will come. I must sit. I must listen. Chieftain Werri, it is good you and Feshi Weatherfur are here. The young must hear this. They must all hear this. Where is Lehra Ruinstrider? Where are our Named Adventurers? All must…”
“They are with their own tribes, deliberating, Garsine. But rest assured—all will hear Rose’s words. We are merely the first.”
Iraz assured the older Gnoll, and Garsine nodded slowly.
“This world apart. Earth, you call it. Earth…such a strange name for an entire world. Why that? Please tell me everything.”
“I—I—where would I—oh man, this is so—”
Rose was overwhelmed. It was one thing for Adetr to talk to her, and he was already intimidating enough with his body of steel and his piercing intensity. But Garsine?
Draped in the fur of the Racdelbear, she looked like half a beast herself. Her arms were so long that Adetr thought they were longer than he was. She smelled of the pelt, of nature itself, and it was not unpleasant, but it made even the Gnolls here feel like they were intruders into a wild place.
Garsine’s eyes were that of one of the greatest warriors of her generation, the Wallbreaker tribe’s hero, who had smashed through Drake stone again and again. Not to mention…her presence.
Her aura. Combined with Werri, Iraz, and Reizet, leader of Az’muzarre, that tribe of legends? Even when they weren’t trying, the air had that intensity you sometimes felt. That surging chill that ran down your spine when you felt inspired or scared or…saw something wondrous?
That was in the air, and intensified many times over. And that was when they weren’t upset. Right now, they were so intent that they magnified the aura, and Rose was like a bug being slapped repeatedly by the sky.
“Start from the beginning. How did Humans come to your world?”
Iraz suggested, with a look to Adetr.
Feshi leaned forward excitedly.
“Have you explored all of it? Why do you say Earth is a ‘planet’, as Honored Krshia claimed?”
Werri broke in before Rose could answer.
“No. Start with your weapons.”
The young woman started to panic. And in that sense, she was not the woman for the job. Of course, if Erin were here…and alive, she would have been chatty, aggravating, and less helpful. Ryoka Griffin would have already run off.
But there were still better people; Inkar perhaps, because she was close to the Gnolls and could relate to them and thus explain her perspective better. Or Kevin, who would be casually charming. Or…
Rose began stuttering, trying to clarify, and Adetr saw she was overwhelmed. Regular Gnolls did this too, when faced with this kind of pressure. So he raised a paw.
“Chieftains. I believe you’re pressuring her.”
All four Gnolls looked at Adetr and realized he was right. They had cups of water. The water was defying regular physics and pressed against the other side of the cup to get away from them.
“Apologies. We should introduce ourselves, go slow. This is a long lesson, and we must learn each part of it.”
Reizet muttered. She relaxed a hair, but was clearly antsy.
