“I’ll never be respected here. How can I impress the [Chieftain] when she’s you? I’m…I’ll go somewhere where I’m not the [Chieftain]’s daughter. Like Demas Metal or Woven Bladegrass.”
She could do that.
That was how they had done it, long ago. She wished she were part of those tales.
Satar sniffled as she sat in her tent. It wasn’t fair. She knew her mother had to be a [Chieftain], but she couldn’t make Satar be both her daughter and keep secrets.
Satar wasn’t joking about leaving her tribe, either. It was something she thought of more and more. It was a terrifying prospect, but could she ever become more than Akrisa Silverfang’s daughter here? Aunt Krshia herself had left. Perhaps Satar had to as well, and if so, there would never be a time more fitting than the Meeting of Tribes. But, oh—
She didn’t want to leave her little brother, or mother, or Cetrule. It was too hard because she loved them, but her position made being family…difficult.
Satar looked around, and Cers wasn’t here for once. Even so, Satar cast a [Locking Ward] spell on the tent flaps. She looked around again and then went over to the comfortable roll of cloth rather than a bulky bed that she slept on. She hesitated and then felt around at a small package tucked into the corner of her bed.
Slowly, the [Shaman] pulled something out of its hiding place. Her secret…hobby. Obsession? Satar’s paws shook slightly as she unwrapped the object and held it up. It was…
A magical book. Thin as a journal, and with more pages than Satar could count. She rifled through it, as the little bundle of books she’d bought with her own coin sat around her. Yet that wasn’t what Satar was focused on. Slowly, she found where she had stopped, and her paw hesitated over the last passage. She traced the line with a furry finger and read out loud.
“…then, Ferkr Shallenside stood before the Meeting of Tribes as the Earth Elemental of the Gaarh Marsh tribe raised the crystal overhead. All secrets were revealed then; the treachery of the Drakes…”
She hesitated. Satar fiddled with something, and then lifted a quill. A magic quill, because she had no inkwell, and industriously scribbled. She re-checked her passage.
All secrets were revealed then; the treachery of the Drakes’ crystal, which had been buried under Az’muzarre’s traditional grounds, seemingly unbeknownst to all, shone plainly for all to see. Later, allegations that this was a part of Fissival’s ancient network repurposed to steal Gnolls’ magic, or a planted artifact by some other enemy of Gnolls, would surface. However, the truth of it was not yet borne out as of writing, in the 16th of Eviun, currently…
She left a blank. She’d have to figure out the exact year and write in multiple dates. And she felt strongly about writing down multiple dates, not just Wistram’s calendar, or the Gnolls’. This had to be an unbiased…less biased take. Especially if people would one day read it.
Satar sat, working hard, pouring her frustrations and anger into the book.
The book, which was entitled A Record of Satar, Volume 1. The world as she saw it, the news as she heard it. Someday, someone might read it, or she’d have it bound and copied by a [Scribe] and [Bookbinder]. Someday…
She might be a [Historian]. Or simply a [Writer], or even someone as famous as Krsysl Wordsmith. Satar tried to mix storytelling with history, because she didn’t like dry anecdotes. She liked [Shaman] stories. But she was more than a spellcaster, in fact.
She was…
A [Storyteller].
 
——
 
Classes had variations and secrets, but there was an order to classes as they pertained to storytellers, entertainers, and so on that most people cared not about. Like a [Soldier] became [Lieutenant] or [Sergeant]—which could be a dead-end class—or someday rose to [General] and beyond [General]…
Most great [Bards], [Writers], and advanced classes like [Historian] started as [Storyteller]. Or [Speaker]. Or [Scribe] or [Scribbler]. [Scrivener] was, of course, higher-level.
The class Satar had wasn’t secret to her mother or Cetrule; appraisal spells existed, and Satar was honest—especially because she liked the gifts and accolades for a level. However, she had justified it as being part of the Retellings, and her mother had allowed it because classes were something to be celebrated among the Gnoll people, regardless of what they were. You didn’t have to pursue a passion if you didn’t want to; her mother was a Level 7 [Fisher], for instance, and sometimes talked with [Anglers] when they visited the coast for hours about the double-line backflip supreme jagged hook or whatever.
Satar actually had a proper list of fishing terms and fish and hooks and whatnot lying around somewhere, but she was allowed to be petty. Indeed, her journal/chronicle obsessively noted a lot of details, like new monsters, any classes or Skills she learned the true nature of, and so forth.
Political events, important figures—especially the King of Destruction! All of it was grist to Satar’s level-mill, and, oh, she wanted to level up. She had found that the most economical way to level was by writing down everything important.
She wanted to level up. Everyone did, and Satar had an obsession with it. She was a bog-standard Level 16 [Shaman], which was fine for a nineteen year-old. Hitting Level 20 sometime in her 20’s was good progress.
But Satar did not want that. She knew that every famous Gnoll had stories of hitting Level 30 before they had turned thirty! Sometimes before they turned twenty!
She wanted to be important, especially because she was the Chieftain’s daughter. She might not become [Chieftain], but she wanted…
Levels. Her mother knew she was a [Storyteller], and she didn’t cast [Appraisal] since you had to pay for a [Mage], spell scroll, or have a Skill, none of which she actually had. So she had no idea that Satar had long surpassed her [Shaman] levels. She was, in fact, a Level 23 [Archival Storyteller].
[Archival Storyteller] wasn’t that great a class, incidentally. Satar suspected it was because she kept writing down the world around her, rather than telling a story. She wanted [Historian] or [Writer]…that earned you real respect among the community.
Not that the community of writers was very strong among Plains Gnolls. Of course, any Gnoll enjoyed a good book, but they had a very oral tradition, so a Gnoll who finished a book might end up telling the entire book with their own embellishments to friends over the course of a week or a hunt. The thing was…
They talked. They were good talkers, but that meant they were not strong writers. Books, paper, those were harder to get for a nomadic people, as was storage. [Shamans] remembered and did Retellings and passed on their information by word-of-mouth.
Satar listened and wrote it down. Because someone had to! She knew there was a place for it in libraries, and she wanted her story to be that.
The trick to leveling up as a [Writer] was to find what gained you the most levels. Other people were less deliberate about levelling. Satar? Immensely dedicated to each new level. She wrote down news and events every night and kept a little record of the days she leveled up. What made her gain her new level?
Often, at the start, it was just…writing down a big event, like the King of Destruction waking up. Devote enough pages to the account and she leveled, especially if she felt she had done a good job evoking the entire narrative. Satar realized that describing the world, describing appearances, the setting, earned her levels faster, so she did that.
However, like all classes, you slowed in leveling rapidly after Level 10, and more after Level 20…by Level 30 and Level 40, you were lucky if you leveled once a year unless you did something dramatic. For a [Warrior]? Fighting huge battles or in wars was how they levelled; people who just trained in peace stagnated at the same level for years.
Satar had wondered the obvious question—how did you gain massive levels as a [Storyteller]? If a [Mage] got levels from mastering a grand spell, and a [Warrior] for slaying some beast…
The answer was publication. Or—if you were a vocal storyteller like a [Bard]—performances, especially to important audiences. The only problem was that publishing a book wasn’t as easy as just…writing something down and magically copying it around.
Satar wished she could do that, but the truth was a book took a dedicated [Scribe]—or you had to do each book by copying over line after line with your best handwriting—getting good, quality paper, binding it—and you had to pay an expert for that—and doing that a few hundred to a few thousand times and finding a way to sell it! Distribute it! Get anyone to read—
…There were ways. And there were more than a few ways to level and write. You could level in [Storyteller] in other ways, like doing Retellings well. Or…
Reading. [Reader] was inherently tied to [Writer]; they were sides of the same coin. One could level in the other’s class at a slower rate by doing the opposite, and Satar had been a Level 11 [Book Reader] when it consolidated into her [Archival Storyteller]. Now, reading a good book might move her towards her next level.
Of course, you had to have a book to read first, and Gnolls didn’t own libraries. Satar couldn’t imagine a worse species to have been born as to be a book-loving writer-reader. Maybe Garuda? But they could fly and visit cities easily. Goblins didn’t count. Nor did Antinium. Fraerlings? Did they have tiny books?
They must have libraries! Satar wanted to visit one, go to a Walled City…but she was Akrisa Silverfang’s daughter. Sometimes, Satar wondered if she would have to tell her mother and what it would mean. Would she become a Gnoll of Silverfang or would she…
Leave? She hadn’t intended to leave at the Meeting of Tribes as some Gnolls could do, to seek fortune and fame. After today? She thought about it.
…But Silverfang was her tribe. Satar didn’t earn money, and she couldn’t fend for herself. Silverfang was a fairly rich tribe, so she had a good stipend of money, which she spent on her secret hobby. Only Cers knew she even had a book, and he just thought she liked drawing on the pages like he did, that book-defacing monster.
Satar had gear, Skills, and levels. She was unto the world of writing a Silver-rank adventurer in her mind. Her biggest weapon was her quill, which she had saved up for four years to buy.
It was a magic quill that you ‘linked’ to a bottle of ink with a simple dip of the pen. Then it wrote without needing to be dipped or running dry. It had cost her four gold coins and nine silver, down five silver from haggling with the [Enchanter] when she mentioned a book he liked and how she wanted to write as well.
Ink would have eaten the rest of Satar’s writing budget in a heartbeat, and in the past she’d even experimented with trying to make it herself—with bad results, as the ‘ink’ bled through the cheap parchment, ruining one of her earlier pieces of work completely.
The thing about leveling was that it made your life easier. For instance—the first Skill most [Writer]-based storytellers got was [Corrected Spelling]. Minor mistakes vanished.
Another great Skill Satar had gotten was [Quickened Scribing], which changed her writing pace with a quill to double its speed at Level 23. Another? [Remove Inkstains]. Perfect for fur.
Those were lower-level Skills. [Anti-Cramping Muscles] was actually universally useful, and Satar had once helped mend nets for the Silverfang [Hunters] while they visited a coast for two days straight without needing a healing potion once.
Her capstone Skills at Level 10 and Level 20 were naturally the best, though. For her Level 10 Skill, Satar had gotten the prize of a lifetime—at least in her eyes when the girl had received it at 15 years old.
[A Bottle A Day: Ink]. Every day, she’d wake up, and one of her carefully-placed bottles of ink would be full to the brim with whatever basic color she wanted. She’d experimented, and she could get red, blue, or even yellow and green—but not more than that. No fancy inks, and only a small inkwell, not a big one—although the amount of ink had grown as she gained the next thirteen levels.
It was beyond useful because, not only could Satar save her free ink, she could sell it—although, often, the cost of the glass bottle outweighed the ink itself. But she had made silver at times, selling it to [Scribes].
Her Level 20 Skill was a bit more mundane, but a bit more powerful. [Narrative: Spot Inconsistencies]. Far less materials, and seemingly useless…
Until Satar looked at her writing and saw how many times she used the word, ‘or’. Or realizing she had never given context to the Ferkr-Grimalkin connection in her anecdotes about him and wrote a section explaining who Grimalkin of Pallass was and referring readers to her notes on Pallass and the Walled Cities…
She wondered what her Level 30 Skill was and was determined to find out before she turned…twenty-five. Yes, that seemed possible.
Indeed, Satar had high hopes of leaving the Meeting of Tribes Level 25. She had come here at Level 21 and already leveled up twice from recording the dramatic events. And…
Well, if publishing was the goal of a [Writer], Satar was on baby-steps since she showed no one her work, right? She would never get to higher levels until she got enough money to really publish, and that was sort of a snowball effect because you had to have money to publish a lot and become famous, and you had to be famous and have an audience to have the money to…
Wrong. In fact, even among Gnolls, there were ways to get ahead. The storytelling community was not without…means.
Later that day, in the Meeting of Tribes, two hooded figures met behind one of the communal tents, this one reserved to let visitors see a [Performer]’s act. Amid the hubbub of someone juggling knives and the gasps of admiration, loud voices, and occasional suppressed screams as someone got stabbed—
Two figures met and were joined by a third. All three could smell each other; they smelled like paper and ink, and the disguises weren’t waterproof. Nevertheless, the first two growled at the third.
“Password?”
“Password? I don’t know a password—”
“Guess.”
“Um. Uh…‘Quintessential Literature’?”
The two looked at each other. The first thought about it.
“That’s got enough syllables. We’ll accept it.”
“I would have held out for ‘Nomenclature’. Literature’s too common a word.”
The other two figures turned to the first. The new Gnoll held up her paw.
“…What does nomenclature mean?”
The wordy-hooded figure cleared their throat. H—e—it was definitely a he—spoke.
