“Her name is Mrsha. She is the girl that was kidnapped from Liscor. She is under our protection, and the Silverfangs of Liscor know her.”
“She’s that girl?”
Satar started. Again, Cetrule was surprised, but she remembered that broadcast. The [Shaman of Purity] sighed.
“Yes. It is a long story, and Akrisa or Krshia can tell you the rest. Even Beilmark or Tkrn—they all know. But you will not speak of it without a secrecy-ward in place, Satar. As [Chief Shaman], I order you to keep it secret. Understood?”
She nodded rapidly. This changed everything. She wanted to record all this down—then she saw Cetrule watching her and realized—she couldn’t.
“I won’t tell anyone.”
“Or write it down?”
“Cetrule! I’m not stupid!”
Satar blushed, knowing the last hour hadn’t really helped her case. But she put her paws together.
“By the pride of Silverfang, I won’t. I mean it. This isn’t about my class. This is…huge.”
“Wait until you hear about Rose and Inkarr.”
Cetrule muttered, and Satar’s mouth fell open. So he had to tell her about that. She nearly burst their secrecy ward from her voice alone.
“They’re from another world?”
Cetrule shielded his ears.
“Yes! Stop shouting!”
“Why aren’t you more excited about that?”
“We have every issue in front of us, Satar! Mrsha is in trouble, and her name is ‘Mri’—remember that. Be careful of even speaking about her in front of Plain’s Eye. They are one of the most active groups hunting her.”
“But another world—and you just—have you talked with them? Can I?”
Satar had three people she needed to interview. She had wanted to talk to Feshi, of course, but now Feshi was an ant compared to the mountain of treasure…none of which she could write! Someday! Someday—Satar just wanted to know.
Another world. Cetrule disappointed her with his mentality, but he just shrugged helplessly.
“I did. They are fascinating and have objects of another world—ah, that tragedy. Chieftain Orelighn found a vessel that crashed out of the skies from their world. With dead children in it. Young people. They always seem to be young. But I honestly cannot imagine what they tell me. They have pictures, though. I will make sure you speak with them. Again, we must wait for the Meeting of Chieftains to bring it up. I will let your mother explain the rest. But I have told you…and that will simplify things.”
He sighed, and Satar realized he had done all this on his authority as the Silverfang’s [Chief Shaman].
“Thank you, Cetrule.”
He smiled as he broke the ward and tried to reclaim the dust. He’d have to purify it and the dirt, but it was worth it to him to see the [Shaman] happy again. They headed out of the tent and smelled smoke on the air and grilled meats.
“I hope you will accept that, for me telling Akrisa about your hobby. Did you write that history of Ferkr?”
“Yes…I like stories. I wrote down all the Retellings. Someone should, Cetrule.”
The Gnoll didn’t argue like she expected, just rubbed his chin and hmmed.
“Someone should. There are books like that, you know.”
Her heart leapt and sank.
“There are?”
“You are not the only one to have that idea, but we never maintained a central library. We did once—but like everything, we lose and gain. The older [Shamans] might know more. But it is not a bad idea. You could very well write down stories of our people—Akrisa would surely let you do that and sell copies. We can bring it up after the Meeting of Tribes ends. I think she’ll be proud to hear of your levels. Hurt you didn’t tell her.”
“It’s just…I didn’t want to…”
The young woman was trying to explain what it was like to strike out, to do something in secret on her own without parental supervision, to be her own person to Cetrule, as if he had never heard of the idea before, when they came to the celebration as it passed by the Silverfang tribe.
That was when Satar saw Mrsha, really saw her for the first time.
A white Gnoll. A Doombringer.
Of course, what Satar saw was a little girl, roughly Cers’ age. Old enough to stand on her two legs if she wanted to, which she was doing now, clinging to a giant Gnoll’s hand. A [Paragon], so tall that she had to bend slightly to let Mrsha squeeze it.
Gireulashia, whose fur shone, perfect in mind and appearance. Compared to her, Mrsha looked so plain.
One child among others, although the tips of her ears had been painted gold. Golden, like the Golden Gnoll, Qwera. Aside from that? She was so plain that Satar hadn’t really noticed her.
Mrsha was a silly girl. She had, of all things, a crab’s shell strapped to the top of her head like a silly hat, and Gire had one too. A child’s fancy. She had a bag full of gold and a magic wand, and in that she was not like other children.
However, what Satar noticed now, as she coughed and smelled meat, burning wood, and heard a [Shaman] shouting and a crowd cheering happily, were Mrsha’s eyes.
Brown eyes, a Gnoll’s eyes. A girl’s eyes…
And far older than they should be. At times, like now, it seemed like someone far older, still a child, but older, ancient, was staring out of the little girl’s face. Not for knowledge or the weight of years.
Simply…weariness. A weary, sad expression. A terrible weight all in one look. Not directed at Satar or Cetrule. The [Storyteller] nearly ran into the [Shaman]’s back.
Then she noticed the celebration. So caught up in staring at Mrsha, Satar never saw…the event.
It was a simple one. Gnolls ate hot meat from a hunt. They laughed and drank and talked and followed the [Shaman] from the Plain’s Eye tribe as they led a strange contraption forward, hoisted on a few poles by Gnolls careful not to let the embers burn anything down or touch their fur.
It was an effigy. The kind of thing you burned. The flames were halfway up, and the smoke was acrid because of the paint. Satar looked up and saw a white Gnoll burning.
A Doombringer. The Gnolls cheered as it burned, and it passed by the Silverfang camp. Some Gnolls came out to join them, not knowing why Liscor’s representatives and some of the Gnolls went so silent.
But they weren’t Doombringers. The little girl watched the white Gnoll burning as Gire tried to distract her. The worst part? If Satar could have written it down, she would have put it like this:
 
The little girl looked like my brother. She didn’t look evil, and Doombringers were always described as evil to me. In every story. As bad as Raskghar. I wondered, then, if any stories were true. Because if she was evil, no one was good. 
Maybe she was cursed. I didn’t know. But the saddest part as she watched the effigy of the Doombringer burning wasn’t that the other Gnolls were cheering. Or that none of us could say anything. The saddest part—was that she didn’t look surprised.
 
Satar would never write this down. Not until the day came when it wouldn’t endanger anyone. Never, never. But she kept writing in her heart, in her mental diary.
 
That was the moment when I knew I had to help her. Find the truth. Doombringer. What…
Were we lied to?
 
Something began to tingle in her mind. That rare class, that rare Skill…began to reach out. Highlight the mistakes in red, and they were everywhere. Satar reached for her Skill and felt it.
[Narrative: Spot Inconsistencies].
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin stood with her crab-hat on her head. It had seemed like such a good idea when she had crab legs with Gire today.
Now? She looked at the little bit of string looped through the crab shell and decided it was a mockery of a dead crab’s life. She took it off. She didn’t want to play anymore.
“Mrsha? Are you okay?”
Gire hovered around Mrsha, like an anxious terrier the size of a water buffalo. She nudged Mrsha.
“Want to play? I have the smartphone. Let’s play, Mrsha.”
The girl stared up at Gire. She reached for her notecard and wrote, staring up at the blue sky tarnished by smoke.
 
I am adequately entertained, Gire. I will lie here now and rest recumbent forevermore. Or until I get tired, thank you.
 
Gire hesitated. Her brows crossed. In anyone else but a Terandrian noble, Mrsha’s eloquent writing would have stumped them, much less from a child. Gire, though?
“Verily, Mrsha, I quite comprehend the impetus to laxitudity, but maudlin does not become you. I would that you repast yourself on fine foods or find something of import and would help you find that. What about…cookies?”
Mrsha almost smiled.
Forsooth, dear friend. It seems I needs must join you in some small measure of delight. Let us abscond, then. Carry me.
So Gire scooped her up, and Mrsha hugged her great friend. She buried her face into Gire’s arm. The [Paragon] hugged her gently and glared at the burning Gnoll effigy as she turned away.
It was then that Rose burst into tears. She started blubbering so hard for Mrsha, for Gire, that Adetr Steelfur stopped walking towards her, hesitated, and went to buy a gift and wait for her to stop.
 
——
 
Someone else was covertly watching the chaotic scene, yet he ignored everyone but the white Gnoll. That poor child.
Mrsha. How much more did she have to put up with? Didn’t you—if you knew what she had been through to get here—didn’t you want to pick her up, hold her, and tell her it would be all right and that that would never happen to her?
That was exactly why a Gnoll started forwards, paws outstretched. He never went through the Silverfang camp. A group of Gnolls stopped him.
“Chieftain Mrell. Chieftain Torishi Weatherfur has spoken. You are not permitted within the camp without invitation.”
A Gnoll patterned like the blue sky and clouds, with both on his fur, looked at Mrell as he casually put an arm out. He did not draw the glass sword at his side, but he didn’t have to.
Weatherfur’s Gnolls were guarding Silverfang’s camp, something confusing to anyone who thought about it. Mrell looked at the Gnoll.
“But I—”
He tried to push past the [Guard] without an explanation. Just that he had to hold…his daughter.
His daughter, who he had left. Who he…his daughter, left with his tribe who had perished while he’d been away starting a new life.
He had no right, and Torishi had told him that to his face. And yet. The Weatherfur Gnoll carefully grabbed Mrell, and two more Gnolls held him.
“Chieftain Mrell! what’s going on?”
One of his bodyguards had no idea what was going on, and the Gnolls of the Demas Metal tribe slowed. A Great Tribe like Weatherfur—no one wanted to cause an altercation, but they put their paws on their weapon hilts. Demas Metal—they were all armed with the new weaponry.
“Enough. Hold. It’s…just for a second? I—she needs me.”
“She does not need you, Chieftain Mrell. She has someone to look after her. You would make it worse.”
The lead-warrior looked at Mrell and delivered the address without direct hostility, but still, planted a dagger in Mrell’s chest and twisted it a few times. What Mrell deserved? Yet—the Gnoll looked up as a babble of voices broke out.
“Wait! Let me—”
Someone went down hard as three Ekhtouch guards appeared out of the shadows and tackled her. Of the two estranged parents—Prha got it worse because she had tried to stealth over the edge of the Silverfang camp walls. She was jumped on by three Gnolls who had a head and a lot of mass on her. Even so, the [Warrior] of the Sofang tribe looked after her daughter.
“Mrsha! Mr—”
“Silence.”
The struggling Gnoll woman and Mrell turned as someone walked through the camp. The guards nodded to Shaman Cetrule as he stalked forwards. He was angry. He cast a spell, and Prha’s words were swallowed away.
“You two are not permitted in the Silverfang camp. Begone, now. Are you mad? Do not speak that name. Begone and do not come back.”
He snapped, and Mrell remembered—Prha was using Mrsha’s real name. She was Mri, here. He had almost said it himself. The Gnoll stirred, and she was picked up, hustled to the edge of the camp, and Mrell was pushed back.
“Can I send her a message? Anything?”
“No. You have no right.”
“But she’s our…”
Prha and Mrell stood together, and the two glanced at each other, then away. Mrell, Chieftain of the new tribe, the up-and-coming Demas Metal with their wondrous steel, looked into Cetrule’s eyes. A young [Shaman] stared at him, confused, and then at Cetrule’s hostile face.
“That is why you have even less of a right. Begone. Stop trying to insert yourself into her life. The best thing that ever happened to Mri was that you two left.”
Cetrule jabbed a finger in Mrell’s face, and the [Chieftain] recoiled. He stalked into the camp, and the Silverfangs who had overheard blinked at the chief [Shaman]. They had seldom seen him so confrontational.
They left, because they had no other choice, but both of them kept looking towards the Silverfang camp. They listened…but they heard nothing. Their daughter never said a word. So the Gnolls sniffed, trying to pick up her scent. And they knew her.
Doombringer. Mrell had thought she had been cursed when she had been born mute. He had tried to abandon her, then.
Now? He wanted to make up for then and now. Do something. Something…
 
——
 
It came back to Doombringers. It came back to tradition, every time. The Waning World, this era, the smaller tribes, their situation—it was all based in the past. So long ago all they had were legends and fragmented memories.
Chieftain Akrisa met her sister’s eyes and knew it was time. Chieftain Firrelle of Ekhtouch, Chieftain Orelighn of Greenpaw, Chieftain Eska of Longstalker’s Fang, and Chieftain Torishi Weatherfur of her clan with Feshi Weatherfur, the [Strategist] of the Titan of Baleros, met in a tent.
Akrisa cleared her throat as she looked from face to face.
“I have a plan to propose the change to the Doombringer’s fate. I hope you will all stand with me on this.”
“Now? Today? We haven’t finished arguing about what to do about Fissival and the Drakes stealing our magic. Nor about the Raskghar. Or about Earth.”
Chieftain Firrelle frowned. Akrisa looked at her and wondered if she were on their side. She was—for Earthers. But Ekhtouch had never made their position on Doombringers clear. She looked at Eska and got a nod of support. Orelighn was also a good Gnoll.
Torishi? The Weatherfur’s Chieftain gazed at Firrelle, and the light shone down upon her, a beam of light from the skies, which followed Weatherfur’s [Chieftain of Countless Skies] at all times.
