“Maybe you will be. The thing is, Cers, we are in other species’ stories if they bother to tell them right. Think about it. We’re in their stories. When Goldesh the Vanquisher reclaimed Izril’s north from the Troll King, on the eve of the last battle, he sent a Courier to rouse every paw, hand, and claw to battle. He sent Tekre Fleetpaw. When the [Knight-King] Zotn went into his duel against his mortal nemesis, the shape-changing Venom Dragon, Ischeveil, he entrusted his belongings and will to the Explorer Enheirr, who later took it through his kingdom, as it descended into chaos, to his daughter.”
Stories. Cers wrinkled his nose, trying to figure out what they had in common. Satar explained it for him.
“We were travelers. Explorers! We went everywhere, from Baleros to Chandrar, to the depths of the sea, to the highest mountains. Into the sky, just like they say in Great Plains Sing. Remember? ‘Chieftain Seru’nial took her tribe beyond the clouds’. We were there.”
“Why aren’t we now?”
Satar exhaled quietly.
“Terrible things, Cers. Some people did terrible things. We survived them all. When Dragons scorched the entire world, we hid underground for a long, long time. A terrible time, in the darkness. We had terrible enemies. Humans took the north from us, and Drakes have always made war with us. We were exiled from Terandria. The storm that covered Chandrar in darkness and midnight and created Zeikhal—we fled Baleros. We shrank. We waned. Every species has, but we…we have great enemies.”
It was not a fair story. It was a story to explain why they were here, in a fraction of a continent, and not the world over. A story to remember.
“Not just other species or monsters or calamity either. There are…things out there Gnolls must be wary of. Like..Raskghar. If you’re bad, if you’re naughty and break the rules, they’ll come for you.”
The little boy would hide his head in her fur. She wouldn’t tell him the really bad stories, the ones that made her stay up at night. But that was what she had to tell them.
 
——
 
Her audience was listening quietly now. Even a Drake, a Gazer, and some other non-Gnolls were listening. Satar liked stories, and she told the glorious days of the Gnolls well. They had known kingdoms. They had sailed across the world, often helping other species in their stories. Now, though, she uttered one word and felt the hair on her own fur stand up.
“Raskghar.”
The children drew together or looked for their parents, because it was no longer a myth. It was real. Satar hesitated, but the Retellings were largely the same, even if the circumstances had changed.
“Remember to watch for them. Light the camps at night. Be good. Help your tribe. Because Gnolls have faded not when calamity struck—when it has struck, we have always survived. Terrible things happen, but we fell because we did not stand together. When we quarreled and fought in the darkness and turned on each other or acted like monsters…then came the Raskghar, creeping. Remember we are all Gnolls.”
She saw them nodding, looking at each other. Gnolls from every tribe, at this Meeting of Gnolls. They drew together, and Satar, emboldened, went on.
“Raskghar and…one more thing. If ever you should meet a strange Gnoll on your journey, or see one upon the plains with pale white fur, beware. Beware, for there is one kind of Gnoll that is marked that way. Not with color, but with fur as white as snow, all over.”
Her audience looked up, and someone murmured the name as Satar spoke it.
“Doombringers.”
The very word made the adults who’d been idly listening suddenly sit up. The children had already been transfixed, Satar saw, as she looked around solemnly.
“It’s not to scare you. Well, not just to scare you, young ones. They exist. Gnolls with no tribe—though they are of Plains Gnolls, not City Gnolls. Let me tell you a story of the Knocte Tribe and the Beast of Albez.”
The way you did a Retelling was stories within stories. So Satar set up the small, prosperous Knocte tribe, who lived in the foothills of Albez, long ago.
“They were a happy tribe, not one with great, high-level Gnolls, but happy. One day, one of the [Shepherds] saw a white Gnoll in the distance. She was headed towards their tribe, and though the [Shepherd] knew better, she did not chase the Gnoll off. She went to her [Chieftain], and her [Chieftain] knew better, but the Knocte tribe did not leave, though they saw the white Gnoll and knew what she was. The white Gnoll came among them, and they refused to deal with the white Gnoll, the Doombringer. But they did not do anything more, and for that—they suffered. The travelling Gnoll left, and the Knocte tribe thought that was the end of it. The next night—a terrible beast emerged from the foothills of Albez and fell upon them.”
 
——
 
When she heard the word, ‘Doombringer’, one of the Silverfangs leaning on a table and listening sat up. She was Silverfang, but she was also from Liscor, and the word meant more to her than other Gnolls.
Senior Guardswoman Beilmark glanced at Satar, but the [Shaman] was doing a Retelling. And she didn’t know. As she went on, her young audience drew together.
Wide eyes. Beilmark had heard stories like this growing up, but she’d forgotten how…grisly they were. The Beast of Albez fell upon the Knocte tribe, devouring them, unable to be killed. They tried to flee or hide, but it hunted them down. The [Guardswoman] gritted her teeth, listening as Satar told the Beast of Albez story.
The wide-eyed children were shaking when Satar’s low voice came to the end of it. Not just because the young Gnoll could project her voice or she had a way with words. She was a good storyteller and augmented her story with little bits of powder or magical components from her pouch.
A darkening of the air. Little shapes of Gnolls—the hint of teeth, a growl in the air as she cast cantrips.
“They did not heed the warning. By the last day of the week, the Beast of Albez had devoured the tribe. It sat there, fat and evil and sleeping—until a warrior came to slay it. Another Gnoll, who took vengeance for the Knocte tribe. But, oh! If only they had listened to the warnings. When you see a Doombringer—stay away. Flee the doom it brings! Tell your Chieftain so tragedy can be avoided. That is what white fur betokens. They bring doom. Misfortune. Wherever they go…”
She looked around, and Beilmark heard the Retellings again. As every Gnoll child heard it many times throughout their lives.
“…they bring only misfortune and death. But let us not speak too long on Doombringers and Raskghar and darkness, yes? My next tale…”
It was just one part of the Retellings. And the Retellings were a tradition that encompassed so much history that Satar could speak for seven days and nights and not come close to recounting all the tales—not that she knew all of them.
[Shamans] spoke like this; it was one of their duties. An activity for children, a peaceful one rather than hunts or gathering. Just part of life in the tribes.
Beilmark listened. However, she couldn’t smile or applaud Satar like Cers or the audience when the [Shaman] was done. They were stories of Doombringers, glory, downfall, and evil.
But they were wrong. A little girl with white fur lived in the Silverfang’s own camp. And this was the story they told about her. This was why they hunted her. These were the stories Mrsha had heard about Doombringers herself, growing up, Beilmark had no doubt.
Now Mrsha was one. A Gnoll with white fur. Doombringer. Beilmark shook her head. She turned away from the tribal activity she had remembered so fondly.
It was wrong.
 
——
 
Satar got into trouble for her Retelling, and she didn’t know why. She stood in the [Chieftain]’s tent, her home, with Cers whining and pacing around the tent outside. A weary Gnoll with silver-paint markings, a metal-tooth necklace, and that put-upon hunch to her shoulders when she was angry sat there.
Akrisa Silverfang. To her right was her sister, the [Shopkeeper], the Councilwoman of Liscor that had brought back an amazing gift—who had helped expose the Drakes’ treachery in stealing their magic. Krshia Silverfang.
Also present was Cetrule. The [Shaman of Purity] was silently at work, casting a spell. He could make sure ore mined was pure enough to go to the [Smelter], or ensure drinking water was clean, or the food. He was a practical [Shaman] for a practical tribe.
All three adults were angry at her. Akrisa spoke sharply.
“Why did you retell the Doombringer story, Satar? Of all the things…you’re only lucky our guests didn’t hear! Now? At this time?”
“Mother, I…”
Satar was confused. She had been riding high after her Retelling, and she’d thought she’d done a fine job. Everyone had said so. She’d come to see Akrisa and expected to be congratulated.
Instead? Krshia nodded slightly.
“Thank goodness she did not hear. But this…this is the heart of the issue. Each tribe tells it so, Akrisa. How will we put a motion before the gathered Chieftains? Now is the time. It must be the time, yes? But…”
She trailed off. Akrisa shook her head, but not to gainsay her sister.
“You are right, Krshia. I see it now. Like poison, seeping into our ears. From my own tribe and daughter! Satar!”
“What?”
The young Gnoll burst out, and all three adults looked at her. Satar was nearly in tears.
“I just told the Retelling like I’ve been taught! Cetrule—Volah herself says I tell the stories as well as she does!”
She didn’t understand. Akrisa opened her mouth angrily.
“That is not the point. With Mri here and—”
“Hold on. Chieftain Akrisa. Honored Krshia. I think we have made a mistake.”
Cetrule interrupted suddenly. All three heads turned to him as the [Shaman] looked at Satar, then glanced around.
“Satar…she doesn’t know about Mri. Or the situation.”
Satar looked up, and Akrisa’s angry expression turned to one of surprise—then regret. Krshia rose slightly.
“We did not…?”
“What about Mri? What’s this, Mother? You sent me away.”
Chieftain Akrisa hesitated. She glanced at Krshia, then back at Satar. A flash of shame colored her features.
“Satar, I…no, you wouldn’t know. I have made a mistake in anger.”
“As did I. Beilmark thought she knew.”
“Knew what?”
But both sisters were looking at each other with that meaningful stare, and Cetrule kept glancing sideways at Satar—but said not a word.
“What, Mother?”
Akrisa rested her paws on her knees. She looked at Satar, hesitating, and then spoke.
“—I cannot say, Satar. Forgive me. I have been the one to make the mistake. You could not know. But—no more stories about Doombringers. No more Retellings at all, in fact.”
“What? Why? Tell me. I am a [Shaman] of the Silverfangs, aren’t I?”
Satar stomped one foot. She knew that was a bad idea. But suddenly she was outraged! This wasn’t her fault after all!
“You are…”
Akrisa sighed. Satar waited and saw Krshia look at her with a keen analysis, then back to her sister.
“It might be wise, sister. But I will let you be the judge.”
Cetrule looked up from inspecting a bowl of silver dust.
“There is a danger in it.”
Krshia blinked.
“To Satar?”
The older [Shaman] could only shrug.
“To us all, Honored Krshia, Chieftain. Until a decision is made or even proposed…I am uncomfortable with the leeway Mri has to begin with to run about.”
“She is being watched, but she is a precocious child. You are right, Cetrule, but raising suspicions is equally as dangerous. I am comforted that…”
The adults all noticed Satar listening keenly, trying to piece it together, and fell silent. They looked to Akrisa, and the [Chieftain] of the Silverfangs hesitated. For a long moment, Satar waited—and then Akrisa looked her daughter in the eye.
“This is a matter between Chieftains, Satar.”
“But I’m—”
“Even other [Shamans] are not aware of what is going on. I am sorry, but…you do not need to know. Not yet. Nor will I take that risk. Satar, I apologize for—Satar!”
The young Gnoll didn’t reply. She whirled and stormed out of the tent. Krshia slowly reached for a cup of tea and took a sip in the ugly silence after she was gone.
“That could have gone better, no? We…could have told her, Akrisa.”
Her older sister stared down at the ground.
“It is dangerous. Satar is young.”
“Capable.”
Cetrule returned carefully. Akrisa glared at him, but not with any real rancor.
“She makes mistakes. All of us did, but we cannot. Not with Mrsha. It would take one off-hand comment to the wrong [Shaman] and all of the Meeting of Tribes would know a Doombringer was here. And some are murderous.”
“Would she do that? She’s a sensible young woman, from what I see.”
Krshia offered. Akrisa shook her head.
“You do not understand how deeply Doombringers are rooted in the tribes, Krshia. I myself felt a chill until you explained it to me many times. Cetrule?”
“I confess…I thought of every story. We tell many. I will not gainsay you, Akrisa, but I sympathize for Satar.”
“Yet she is immature. She has her head—not in the clouds, but in stories. She is good at Retellings, but if anyone were to take the stories seriously…”
Krshia looked curiously at Akrisa. This was a part of her family among the Silverfangs that she didn’t know about.
“Anything Satar has done?”
“Just silly things young women get up to. Nothing illegal or dangerous. Just silly. I was far too harsh to her with no reason. As for not trusting her…”
Krshia winced.
“It might have been a bad idea. Imagine how we would have taken that?”
Akrisa stared blankly ahead.
“Yes. I regret that already. But it is done. The Meeting of Chieftains awaits. We must bring it up then, Krshia. If all the rest of these disasters and moments of note don’t interfere.”
She sat, with a heavy weight on her shoulders. So heavy, she gave little thought to her daughter’s feelings when weighed against the life of a little girl and the fate of the tribes.
 
——
 
Satar did not slam into her rooms because she didn’t have a door. The yurt flaps didn’t slam. But she did hurl her staff down and tear off her [Shaman]’s dress.
She sniffed. So that was how it was! She was still just the [Chieftain]’s daughter. Not important enough to be trusted with…what was that about Mri? About her stories?
She couldn’t make sense of it—or if she did have a thought, it was so outlandish as to be impossible.
“How was I supposed to know I wasn’t to tell Doombringer tales? Is that fair judgment, Mother? Why did you bite my head off, and why won’t you tell me why it matters if I’m in trouble? Instead, you send me away like I’m Cers.”
She tossed her [Shaman]’s satchel down and rubbed at her eyes.
