“This is not my story alone. So I ask Chieftain Eska of Longstalker’s Fang and Orelighn of Greenpaw to tell parts of it. But I will begin—my sister, in Liscor, was one of the Gnolls who first encountered Raskghar. She also worked to buy magical spellbooks, but that is not the revelation she considers most important. She found something last year, or rather…someone. A strange story, which she thought was madness at first, then realized could only be true. Perhaps—perhaps you have encountered hints of it yourself, but Chieftain Eska and Chieftain Orelighn have as well.”
The Chieftains looked at each other. Iraz was watching them, for he knew, but Xherw looked uneasy—confused. He didn’t know where this was going, nor did even Torishi, who gave Akrisa a sharp look.
Powerful Chieftains. Famous Gnolls like Garsine Wallbreaker, who raised her head as Akrisa went on. Thousands of Gnolls. The largest gathering in the world listened as Akrisa told them the secret spreading across the world.
“Each one of us met someone. Or found their passage. Each one…a Human or Humans. They are always Humans, you see, and, I think, always young. They are Humans among many in this world, but they are all different because they wear strange dresses or carry strange objects or…do not know what levels and classes are. They smell of oil and smoke at first, and things you cannot imagine. Perhaps you know them.”
There was a sound. One of the Chieftains that Krshia didn’t recognize sat up suddenly, and everyone glanced at him. Chieftain Mrell turned his head, then blinked at Akrisa as she went on.
“This is not a trick. Nor a coincidence. You will know these people when you meet them—and we must meet them, find them! We must learn from them and protect them and befriend them, because they are lost children. From nations no one here has ever heard of. They are travelers—by accident, or so we think.”
“From where? Drath? From a lost dimension, some magical accident?”
Reizet demanded. Even Chieftain Firrelle was peering at Akrisa. She didn’t know either. Akrisa smiled, and Krshia heard the tremble in her voice.
“No, Chieftains. They come from another world entirely. A world without magic. A world of Humans and technology more advanced than ours—but without classes or levels. They call it ‘Earth’, and they, like us, believed they were alone in the…universe. Now, they are coming here, though we do not know how. They are even at the Meeting of Tribes. We have proof.”
Dead silence. Chieftains gaped at each other. Torishi kept blinking. Theikha frowned at Akrisa, and Iraz sat back, looking towards Xherw and giving him a nod. The Plain’s Eye Chieftain looked at Iraz, then Akrisa, and he believed.
Chieftain Werri burst out into laughter. She guffawed, slapping her legs, and countless other Gnolls joined her.
“A fine jest, Chieftain Akrisa! Or do you believe it? That must be a trick or a great magic. Come now. You don’t believe that, do you? What evidence is there? Some artifact you can’t figure out?”
Akrisa held her ground.
“It is realer than you know, Chieftain Werri. Already, we think Wistram has some Earthers, and there are children in Terandria. One you might have even heard? They call her the ‘Singer of Terandria’.”
Werri stopped laughing abruptly.
“Come now. A [Singer]?”
“Have you ever heard the like of her music, Chieftain Werri? Do you not wonder about the strange new ideas appearing? Plays? Gelato? What about the news? Why did someone gain the idea to link scrying orbs together? Do you recall the game of football and Joseph of Pallass? Isn’t it strange how fast the world is changing?”
Chieftain Eska rose to her feet next, and she looked about. Werri stared at her.
“The world is always changing. So that means nothing.”
“Always Humans, though. Are Humans the font of all knowledge and innovation?”
Orelighn spoke, grasping something in his bag of holding.
“They’d say they are.”
Laughter as someone said that, but Akrisa was turning to Krshia. The Gnoll handed her something, and Akrisa lifted it up. It gleamed in the light, and the Gnolls focused on it. A strange…rectangle of metal. Metal and something else.
It looked a bit like glass, but even a [Smith] like Mrell didn’t know quite what it was. It was beautifully made, he could believe that. Akrisa handed it to the Gnoll on her left.
“We have objects that we will show you. Be exceedingly careful with them. But you will see—they contain no magic. Maybe it is hidden—but I think not. The material is not metal, nor is it any I have ever encountered. It is called plastic. These objects light up and do things no [Mage] I have ever met could dream of. They play music. They even create scenes that cannot exist. And these are small objects. Orelighn?”
“I have…something upon my lands, Chieftains. My gifts to the Meeting of Tribes. It is a giant vessel. Not as large as a warship, but made entirely of steel and strange substances. No—I say it wrong. Not steel. Something else. A hard, light metal. Yet it is broken. It fell out of the skies, and the children within were dead when we found them. A vessel meant to fly through clouds at speeds beyond the fastest Courier. They call it an airplane. This is a piece of it.”
The Greenpaw Chieftain was next, and he brought something else out; a piece of metal which he handed around. Salvaged, burnt electronics.
A watch that had been fixed with [Repair] such that it was even ticking.
Tick, tick, tick…the sensitive ears of Gnolls heard a strange sound they had never encountered before. One stared through the glass at unfamiliar parts more intricate than Pallass could dream of.
Slowly, Werri’s laughing face stopped being so merry. She looked around and sat uncertainly. Torishi was standing, breathing in hard.
She listened. Not quite sure what she was hearing. No—she couldn’t even imagine it. Even as the other three Chieftains, then Akrisa and the others tried to explain, the Gnolls couldn’t imagine it because the ones explaining didn’t have a full grasp.
But believe? They looked at the objects. Listened to strange music and saw a movie that could not exist play on the laptop. Xherw rose to his feet. One of the [Shamans] jerked away from a Dragon. The Chieftains of the Meeting of Tribes looked at each other and realized Akrisa had not lied.
The greatest revelation yet had just begun.
 
——
 
Investigations were a strange thing. It could take you ages to get anywhere. Satar realized she was in for the long haul after her very first [Shaman] interview. A kindly, old, male [Shaman] sat her down, answered her questions, fed her a toffee-like snack, and talked for three hours straight.
[Shamans] were good at talking to people. It was practically the job description; unlike a [Mage], a [Shaman] had to be part of the community. The problem was the [Shamans] that Satar had to talk to were old. Which meant they remembered everything and would tell you…everything.
“Old Doombringer stories? Why, I remember most of my Retellings. Not that they’re always spot-on. [Historians] call it a drifting in accuracy based on an oral tradition, but at least it’s communal. Compare that to one biased [Writer] like Krsysl Wordsmith who gets printed a hundred thousand times and everyone takes as the truth—you know, I met the Drake when I was young. Fantastic Drake. You think I’d be angry? Well, at the time he was eager, forthright, but fame got to his head. Now, Doombringers have always been such a contentious topic. I don’t tell stories like Plain’s Eye does—they have some horrific stories. I actually recall when one appeared and the tribes were terrified. But now the Raskghar are here—did you see them? Let me tell you about the Raskghar. When I was young, we thought there were Raskghar preying on us. This was back in the day—long before the Antinium came to Izril, mind you. You think they’ve been here forever? It’s been only twenty years. So as I was saying, we thought it was Raskghar…”
It was like a wall of words that someone was slamming Satar into. She was impressed; she’d read history books with much the same effect.
But she couldn’t get away. Each part of the [Shaman]’s story connected to the other, so when she hinted they should get back to the Doombringers, he just had to clarify one point or wouldn’t she like a toffee or meat…?
Three hours passed by very slowly. Satar survived via her journal. She took notes, doodled, and went to the next [Shaman]. The first [Shaman] had been from Greenpaw, the elderly Dolegroh, who did know a plethora of stories. She used it as the basis for her record-keeping. She had already pestered Cetrule and her own [Shamans] to recount the Doombringer stories.
Wild Wastes’ [Wild Shaman] was far more direct. She told Satar the story the entire time while wrestling an angry cow.
“Stand still and let me milk you. You want a fight? I’ll give you a fight—”
A cow. Not a bull. A cow with horns, the most ornery look that Satar had ever seen, and it took a [Shaman] with the muscle to force the cow to let her milk her and not knock her flat with a headbutt or just sit on her—which she tried to do twice.
The female [Shaman] looked at Satar as the [Storyteller] backed up from a stray hoof. Unlike domesticated cows, with their black and white spots, this cow had a dark brown coloration shot with small, pale yellow marks. Also, a thicker fur more like a yak, and horns. Not big horns, though the bulls in their own pasture looked like they could run through multiple people with one charge. They were even wavy, like a sword design.
This was just a female milking cow, and her milk was far more yellow. It tasted amazingly savory and buttery, but the effort didn’t seem worth it. The [Wild Shaman] explained apologetically to Satar that this was normal.
“Sorry. Our [Cowfriend Milker] is sick. And yes—it’s a very specialized class. Don’t laugh. Only he can do this and feed the bulls safely. These cows are the ones that our new warriors get to fight.”
“Fight. A cow?”
“Yep. Barehanded. Don’t worry, the cows are used to it. I think they enjoy it; the new warriors seldom win. Once you’ve met a cow who blinds you with a hoof, rolls over you, or kicks you with both hooves, you learn you’re not invincible. Good training—terrible for milking. Where were we?”
“Doombringer stories?”
The [Wild Shaman] grunted.
“Oh, those? I don’t tell them.”
“What, not at all? I thought Wild Wastes’ [Shamans] were…um, traditional?”
The Gnoll shrugged.
“We are. I just don’t tell those stories. Or Raskghar stories unless I have a mixed audience. Retellings are for the clan, right?”
“Right.”
“Well, Doombringer and Raskghar stories scare little cubs. They have enough to watch out for from real monsters without wetting themselves at night thinking a Doombringer is going to wipe out the tribe.”
“Oh. That’s…”
Actually sensible. The [Wild Shaman] obliged her by retelling the stories anyways, and Satar frowned at her journal.
Something was off.
Maybe it was just this tribe…but Satar’s instincts as a [Storyteller] told her she was onto something. She was halfway towards the third [Shaman] when someone appeared behind her.
“So you’re investigating Mri’s past. You’re helping. I see that. I don’t have to hit you. Good. Is that milk?”
Satar spun around and saw someone’s lower chest. Gireulashia loomed over her, and Satar’s mouth went dry.
“Honored Gire!”
“Is that milk?”
Satar was holding a jug of milk the [Shaman] had gifted her. She had intended it as a gift for the next [Shaman] she met, but Gire licked her lips, and Satar handed it to her. The Gnoll [Paragon] happily began drinking it.
“Yum. So good.”
It was practically a normal bottle in her paws. Satar was still wondering how a nine-foot-tall Gnoll girl snuck up on you, but that was Ekhtouch. And Gire was a [Paragon].
One of her Skills was literally called [Superiority Made Manifest]. Another was [Perfect Basic Action]. If it sounded arrogant to say she could do anything…Satar had seen it. One of Silverfang’s best [Archers] had tried to beat Gire in an archery competition. She had split his arrows three times, then hit the target blindfolded without using her Skills when he conceded.
“Did you follow me, Honored Gire?”
The [Paragon] lowered the bottle; she was sipping rather than wasting the milk, but greedily, savoring it. Satar had heard she wasn’t allowed to eat anything not on her diet; the [Paragon] seemed good at getting around that restriction of late.
“Yes. You can call me Gire since you’re on Mri’s side. I thought you were going to tell someone, but you’re gathering stories about them, aren’t you? Doombringers.”
“How did you…?”
Did she overhear Satar? Gire looked at the [Shaman].
“I listened to you, and I figured out what you were doing. It’s not hard. Secretive people act secretive. They tense up. When people lie, they move their eyes up and to the right. It’s simple.”
It was to her, but Satar was amazed nonetheless. The [Paragon] crouched down.
“I’m glad you’re helping. What are you looking for? Truth in stories? Lies?”
“Um…something. I—where’s Mri?”
“She’s writing to her penpal. She’s sad, so I left her be.”
Of all the things she would expect Mrsha to do, something as mundane as writing to a penpal was the last thing Satar expected.
“She has a penpal? Who?”
Gire took another big sip from her cup and shrugged nonchalantly.
“I don’t know who it is. Mri says it’s ‘a funny old guy’. Which to her means anyone over thirty. She’s occupied, is the point. I’ll help you search if you want. That old [Shaman] was boring.”
Suddenly, Satar found Gire had joined her investigation into the Doombringer stories. Gire knew a lot of [Shamans], and her very presence opened doors for Satar. She was intelligent, physically perfect…
But she was no [Storyteller]. She listened like a child, open-mouthed if the [Shaman] was good, fidgeting if not—although, when she caught herself, she was the model of attention. Faked attention.
The point was that she was an uncritical audience, insofar as that, while she was intelligent enough to read into a story, she didn’t read it like a [Storyteller]. She was yawning after [Shaman] number four.
“Are you just collecting a list of stories, Satar? Maybe I’ll go find Mri.”
“No…I thought it was just my imagination, but my Skill pointed it out, and now I’m sure. I thought it was just Wild Wastes at first—but it’s…strange. Beyond strange.”
The [Paragon]’s droopy ears perked up. She looked at Satar curiously, and the [Shaman] told her about her Skill.
“[Narrative: Spot Inconsistencies]. Sounds like something an [Interrogator] or [Guardsman] would use. Why is it working now?”
