No one had noticed because she’d let someone else take over, but someone hadn’t been there to lead the Meeting of Chieftains.
Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh had been absent. Now…she stood there. Akrisa half-rose and made a choked sound. Not because of Theikha—but because of who stood with her.
“Satar?”
Satar Silverfang was shaking so hard it looked like there were two of her. Yet she stood by Theikha’s side. The [Shaman of Tribe and Plain] was holding her staff and dressed in the full regalia of her office.
In clothing not much different from Satar’s, honestly. Dyed and worn…but she had put them on for this moment.
And Satar and Theikha were not the only ones who stood there. When Satar had proposed the idea, she had known that executing it would not fall to her. She hadn’t a fraction of what that would require. Satar had thought, recalled something her new friends had said that had a common link, and gone to each one.
They had all agreed, but even together, they doubted it would work. Satar hadn’t known either. There was no guarantee you could just…make a miracle.
So she had gone to the greatest Gnoll she knew, the [Shaman] who had lived over a century and a half without a drop of immortality in her veins.
Shaman Theikha. The [Shaman] had heard her, her eyes had crinkled up, and she had placed a paw on Satar’s shoulder.
“You are the future we need, Satar Silverfang. Yes, it will work.”
“But the power…we don’t know how.”
Theikha had laughed softly. She had looked around at the others and smiled.
“You are in the Meeting of Tribes, Satar. At the heart of a people, gathered together in strength, even in this age. Believe anything is possible, and it will be so.”
 
——
 
This is how they came to the Meeting of Chieftains. They met each other, looking the others up and down, as nervous as could be.
Satar Silverfang, of course, to explain it. To take responsibility if it failed and see what would happen if it succeeded. Journal in hand, quill poised to write.
Then was Rose, because she had to be there. Rose and Inkar, who were the heart of it. But they didn’t have the Skills.
Feshi did. Feshi Weatherfur, the Diamond Dagger of Serept at her side, turned and nodded to the Gnoll made of metal, who stopped, so heavy he left a trail of sunken footprints where he walked. Adetr Steelfur.
Mrsha ran over to them, and Gire picked her up, handed her to Tkrn, and Mrsha was captured. Because she would not be joining them. It was dangerous and besides—they didn’t need a Mrsha. She turned as the third Gnoll who most certainly had to be there walked forwards.
“Great Shaman. Are you sure you’ll need…me? This is old magic.”
Yelroan, the [Mathematician], looked nervously at Theikha. The old Gnoll chuckled.
“And since when has math not been old, young man? You have a Skill, just as Satar said.”
“But can we combine them? It doesn’t work like that. It’s about chance. Luck, working hard, and a confluence—”
Adetr demanded, but Theikha lightly tapped his forehead with her staff.
“That’s how you think it works, Adetr Steelfur. Which is fair. Now let me tell you how it truly is.”
She walked forwards, adjusting her [Shaman]’s outfit. Satar had helped her put it on. She had thought it mattered, but Theikha had just laughed.
“There’s no grand magic in these clothes, Satar. Nor would that necessarily help. It’s just so I look the part. And that matters.”
Now, she took the staff and walked out of her tent. She had called for the Gnolls, of course, but she had also prevailed on Cetrule, Gire herself—and others for help.
Because this was more than Theikha, Gire, Feshi, Adetr, Satar, and Yelroan. Six Gnolls stood inside the tent as Mrsha tried to kick Tkrn in the crotch and make him let go. Rose and Inkar walked over to Theikha as she gestured for them.
“We’re supposed to be there already. Are we going to be late?”
“You are going to the Meeting of Chieftains. As am I. Late? Satar, we are [Shamans]. We are always perfectly on time. Now…follow me.”
Theikha winked one huge, brown eye, and left her tent. Satar saw the others follow, and was last to go. She walked outside and stopped.
Stopped dead in her tracks, like the others, because she had seen many great things at the Meeting of Tribes—but always as an observer. Right now? She was at the heart of it all.
Gaarh Marsh stood around Theikha’s tent. Not one Gnoll, or a dozen, or even a fraction of the tribe. Nor even a thousand solemn faces, brown eyes shining behind fur adorned with gifts of the wetlands. Nor ten thousand. So many stood, silent, not a whisper passing as insects landed on fur, and animals like little packrats bounded forwards to watch, eyes too-intelligent, a sea of faces.
Such a stillness in the air that Satar’s heart juddered in her chest. She looked around and it seemed like there was no limit to them. This was Gaarh Marsh’s people.
All of them. Every Gnoll had come, forming a huge, vast crowd, parted on two sides. Leaving a wide walkway, positioning themselves, holding children and shorter Gnolls up so they could see one Gnoll who had asked them to do this for her.
They did it. Not for anyone. Not even for their Chieftain. But for her? Shaman Theikha?
Of course they did.
Other Gnolls in the Meeting of Tribes had seen the strange gathering. They saw Shaman Theikha emerge from her tent—then the sea of Gnolls forming a line straight to the Meeting of Chieftains’ tent.
Not just Gaarh Marsh. Oh, no. Ekhtouch was barely a drop in the bucket, but they stood there. Silverfang too. So too did a number of Plain’s Eye, though they had no idea what was happening. Longstalker’s Fang, Greenpaw…
Weatherfur.
Six tribes looked at Theikha as she walked forwards, the others following her. Just…walked. Head held high, pace measured.
 
——
 
The younger [Shaman], the [Storyteller], stumbled a bit as she walked through that ocean of gazes. She did very well, but for all her training, she was not prepared for this.
Satar hadn’t known how hard it was to simply…walk in front of so many people. To do it normally was one thing, but to do it in front of countless thousands? Yet Theikha did it, and as she passed, the first ranks of Gnolls slowly sank to their knees. They knelt—or sat—but they did it for her. Theikha smiled at them, and Mrsha, still in Tkrn’s arms, saw something familiar.
Something she had seen only once. The first Gnolls—[Shamans]—reached up for something and then they handed it to the next Gnoll. Those Gnolls took it, just for a second, and handed it to the next Gnolls.
It was invisible. But Mrsha thought she could see it, almost. Something. Passed from one Gnoll to the next. Small, but growing. And there were…hundreds of these things. Passed along.
“To create great magic is very simple, you know, children.”
The other Gnolls and Humans started and looked at Theikha as she passed along. The Gnoll turned her head, smiling, speaking almost conversationally. But this moment was anything but casual.
It was growing, in a wave, moving across the Meeting of Tribes, and now every Gnoll was watching. Something completely different than Eldavin’s great ritual, but something the Archmage of Memory would have recognized and respected beyond all else.
Theikha went on.
“To work grand magic, to do great things together is difficult and simple. It takes the heart to trust. The love to place yourself in another’s paws. Such difficult things. But to combine your Skills is easy.”
She turned, and her plain staff of wood set with a simple crystal rose, to show them the tribes passing along their magic. The countless faces, lives, all looking at them.
“All it takes is this.”
It was growing heavier, as each Gnoll passed it along. Heavier…yet still lighter than air. The Gnolls looked up, and Satar saw their gazes change.
Many Gnolls could demand they do what they did. But only a handful in the entire world could walk along like so. Theikha raised her voice and asked them one question as she lifted her staff overhead.
“Do you believe me, my people? Believe that I will create great wonders for you?”
The answer was in the burden they passed along, merging into one thing. The greatest [Shaman] carried it now, letting Gnolls touch it. It was too heavy, too vast to carry unaided.
It divided further, until only a few Gnolls were left. Then—Theikha reached the top of the hill. Six [Shamans], one from each tribe, bowed deeply to her and lifted something in their paws.
There was nothing there. There was…everything there. Theikha took it from them and threw her head back. Then she motioned to the Gnolls and Humans to follow her.
 
——
 
That was what the guards saw. That was why they let her in.
Now, Theikha walked slowly down the amphitheater, passing by Chieftains and Gnolls who were every bit as famous as she. They all turned to her and watched.
Satar could not take her eyes off Theikha. She still walked with that measured tread, but now it seemed like the [Shaman] was walking through the world as if it were mist. She was the only real thing in the world. When she looked back to smile at Satar—her eyes!
Oh, her eyes were filled with a thousand shining stars of light. Like the reaches of space. The air around her glimmered with magic. It was all contained in her chest.
The great [Shaman] of the Gnolls stopped in the center of the floor and turned. Rose and Inkar tripped after her. There came Gire, looking up at Firrelle, Satar, watching, as three Gnolls halted.
Yelroan, who looked at Xherw and smiled at his [Chieftain]’s surprise. Feshi looked at Torishi and saw her aunt beaming proudly. Adetr looked up at Iraz and bowed his head.
“Gnolls of Izril! You have heard the revelations of another world. They are terrifying. The world is changing. You fear what they have done and might do—rightly. I will never say that the world has been kind to us. Yet—as a young Gnoll pointed out to me—we lack perspective. It is too hard to look through another’s eyes.”
Theikha spoke to the assembled Gnolls, and one of them, Akrisa, almost guessed what was intended. She looked down at Satar and saw Theikha gesture.
“A great magic took place here once, to reveal the truth. Now—I hope to work one again. For only good, this time. For understanding. Permit me this moment. Rose, Inkarr. Take my paws.”
She reached out, and the staff floated upwards around her, curling her body as it defied gravity. Inkar and Rose gulped, then both young women reached out and took Theikha’s hands. They gasped as if they were touching the font of some immense power.
A Giant’s hands. That was how she looked to Adetr. But the [Battle Seeker] slowly looked at Rose and saw her glance at him.
“Will you try to see more than just death and battle?”
“I will try.”
He whispered and took her hand in his paws as gently as he could. On the other side, Feshi looked at Inkar.
“My teacher, the Titan of Baleros, always told me the world looks differently from where you stand. I want to see what he means.”
Inkar smiled.
“Me too. I want to show you.”
They linked hands. Then was Yelroan. He hesitated. He looked at them.
“I can’t…I have math, but I have no understanding of the rest. I don’t know people as well. I’ve been a fool and blind.”
He looked at Theikha. She didn’t respond. A current was running around them. Feshi nodded.
“I want to see. I can provide understanding. I have seen many peoples.”
“I have seen war. But I do not—I cannot make sense of the rest. You can. But I cannot understand it all.”
Adetr hesitated as well. Theikha’s head rose. It was incomplete. They were missing something.
So a giant girl stepped forward and Gire captured Yelroan’s paw in hers. She took Feshi’s paw and looked around.
“I can understand it. Whatever they made—I can understand it. Whatever you can do, I can do better. Trust me.”
She smiled, that arrogant [Paragon].
“We’re still missing something.”
Theikha’s voice was dreamy. Not a [Chieftain] moved. Not a Gnoll made a sound. The [Shaman]’s head turned, searching. She did not have to look far.
Satar started. The [Storyteller] saw the [Shaman] nod.
“Satar. Join us.”
“But I don’t have a Skill…”
“We have logic and math and understanding. We have the children of another world. But that is not enough. We need someone to fill in the gaps. Stand with us, Satar.”
So the [Storyteller] walked forwards like she was in a dream. She took Yelroan’s other paw and Adetr’s. One by one, they lowered their heads.
“I call upon something greater than each of us. I am [Shaman of Tribe and Plains]. I summon the magic of the tribes. My magic is [Magic of a Thousand Souls].”
Rose gasped, and Inkar lifted her gaze upwards to Eska and Honored Deskie watching her. Rose looked to Adetr. The [Battle Seeker]’s jaw was clenched. As if fighting for every word, to show them, for good or ill, he spoke. It was so hard—then he met Rose’s gaze and spoke.
“See what I have beheld. Our end. And…something else. Show me. [Vision of Greatest Battle].”
He added his other Skills into it, everything he could. Next, Feshi. She whispered.
“[Visualize Outcomes]. Let us see this world apart and know what it is!”
Yelroan lowered his head. His sunglasses flashed in the light now pooling around them. Shaman Theikha’s magic, shining like countless stars.
“My eyes!”
“[Visualize Data Set]. Let’s see who they really are, not just numbers.”
Gire joined them, her voice strong and level, but quivering with something she couldn’t process herself.
“[Superiority Made Manifest].”
She looked at Theikha and gasped. The magic ran around the ring of hands and people. Satar felt it building, but like a circuit with no end, an infinite loop, there was no outlet.
They knew what they wanted. Theikha had the power, each a piece of the puzzle. But there was no answer. The magic built—until Satar thought she would scream. 
Maybe she was. Adetr’s mouth was open, and Feshi was silently howling. Yelroan’s eyes were wide, and Rose and Inkar were looking up.
At a vision of their home. But it was only what they knew. Satar’s soul cried out, looking at them.
If only I could see what you see! If only I could tell your story perfectly!
If only my words would one day reach into every heart and deliver meaning like that. It was too easy to be confused by poor words, by other people who couldn’t show you what they meant.
If…if it were possible. Let it be now.
Theikha was struggling to carry the magic with her. The others fought to share her burden, but still—it wouldn’t happen!
It was so close! Satar could see it, struggling to get out.
