“Sit, sit! We are all Gnolls. Let us never forget that. And I have all the time for young Gnolls who ask serious questions, no matter what my minders say. Not least for gifts! These must be cookies. I will help myself and keep them as gifts.”
Her eyes lit up at the cookies Mrsha had bought as a gift. A big basket…and soft, nice, chewy cinnamon ones. Theikha took one and ate with great humor as Satar laid out her problem. She watched Mrsha anxiously, but the Gnoll had refused to leave. She wanted to hear the truth too, and, of all the [Shamans]…well, Satar hoped Theikha wouldn’t say anything grisly. The old Gnoll was certainly frowning as she listened, though.
“Hm? Each story of Doombringers is changed? That is odd. I have noticed…odd things in our Retellings, but you understand, each tribe keeps to itself aside from the Meeting of Tribes. Oh, we join up, but no wonder we seldom look at it as a whole.”
Theikha put aside her cookie as Satar showed her the notebook. She frowned as she saw how each story changed.
“It could simply be the style of it.”
“But…is it possible that we have an incomplete story, Shaman Theikha? Or if there is one, unified copy…is it possible we’ve written it down somewhere? Or someone has a Skill to recite it perfectly?”
“They would only have [Perfect Recall] as it was told to them, in most cases. Perfect truth in what are already myths? I do not know about a Skill, Satar. But I do know there is a library. Was a library, containing every record and scrap of history and knowledge we ever had.”
Satar’s heart leapt…then she heard the word.
“Was?”
Gire looked up from stuffing her face with a whole cheese round. Mrsha glanced up too, and Theikha nodded, protectively covering her gift basket from Gire’s wandering paws.
“Was. Do you know the old stories of the times Gnolls had silly things like [Kings]? Do you remember that, once, we had a Kingdom of Gnolls?”
The three shivered. Theikha smiled, and she was the [Storyteller] Satar longed to be. Her voice deepened, and she flicked sparks into the air with a simple wave of her paw.
“Once, there was a Kingdom of Gnolls. Ah, but I cannot tell you the whole story of its rise and fall. We have made grand edifices before, and great Gnolls arose. Kerash was one of the last, and I knew him. He would have led us into a new age but for…the Necromancer. Each time we build something, it falls. The Kingdom of Gnolls—at least, Izril’s—was here, in the Great Plains itself. It was one of our repositories of knowledge, craft, and wisdom.”
 
——
 
All three children listened as Theikha conjured a kingdom out of words. Satar tried to envision it, a nation where Gnolls had borders and land. Mrsha could almost see it too. Did they have [Knights]? A [King]?
Were they like Brunkr?
Then…Mrsha saw the kingdom shake.
“It fell into ruin. I do not know exactly how, because, in the chaos, it led to a dark age of our people as well as others. Some say treachery, but my mentors agreed—it was then that Raskghar crept in. They do when we fall. Raskghar appear, and darkness consumes our people.”
Mrsha hugged Gire and felt the [Paragon] squeeze her tight. Theikha glanced at her and smiled. The sparks lightened.
“I shouldn’t tell such scary stories to children. That was one of the last repositories of knowledge, Satar.”
“So it was lost long ago.”
“Was. Yes. And then we made a second library.”
Gire nearly choked on her cheese wheel. Theikha chuckled as Satar sat up.
“What, do you think we lose everything, throw up our paws, and give up? We made more libraries than that! The last one was a grand place that tribes came and went to. Do you want to know something strange?”
“What?”
Theikha looked at Satar, and her face grew mightily troubled.
“The last one was around four hundred years ago. A great library that had existed long before that. It burned one day. Burned—and I don’t need to tell you any [Librarian], [Shaman], or [Architect] would invest in magical spells against fire. But it was destroyed, and the tribes hunted for whoever had done it. They never found out, and Drakes were blamed since that is a safe bet. However, when you tell me these things…I wonder.”
Satar frowned and felt a tinge of unease creeping up her spine.
“It could be a coincidence.”
“Perhaps. But I know Doombringers were not always…so vilified.”
Mrsha, Gire, and Satar looked up as Theikha hunted around for cookies in her basket.
“Wh-what do you mean, Shaman Theikha?”
The Shaman glanced up, and Satar felt like she was the one being interrogated. Theikha looked calmly at the three children and spoke.
“Only that I am so old that I recall, very vaguely, my oldest mentors—that would be someone who was as old as I was when I was as young as Mri—disputing some of the tales about Doombringers. I don’t even recall the conversation, but I feel as though I remember it. That’s the trouble. I feel, as you now come to me, that Doombringers might have more of a story behind them. But I have never fought to know more. Frankly, they are rare, and I do know for a fact that trouble tends to follow them.”
Mrsha looked urgently at Gireulashia, who tried to clarify.
“But are they evil and cursed like the stories say?”
“Plain’s Eye certainly believes it. I know what you will say, Honored Gire, and the truth is I haven’t thought of them for a long time. For twenty years, I was consumed with fighting Antinium and rebuilding after the destruction they wrought—and the Goblin King. Before that? Zelkyr was striding about with his Golem armies, telling us to ‘do this, do that’. That was still before my time—I’m not old enough to remember more than when he died and a bit before that.”
Wouldn’t that put her at over a hundred and…? Gire silently did the math. Theikha threw a cookie at her to distract her.
“Stop uncovering my age. Uncover the truth instead, you silly child! Zelkyr marched about with his Golem armies, and the Walled Cities still had them when he died. Such fighting.”
“So it’s not just this era that has a lot of wars. Even without the Antinium.”
Satar murmured as Mrsha reached for a cookie, and her paw was slapped down. Theikha looked sad.
“No, Satar. But perhaps we can make tomorrow better. Everyone is abuzz about…well, you will learn soon enough.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. Earth? But they weren’t supposed to know, and the [Shaman] did not elaborate if that was what she was referring to. She sat with a sigh.
“The truth is that we lost our history. Yes, Chieftain Seru’nial took her people into the sky, or so it is said. But we have no proof, so even Garuda laugh at us—as if they could fly that high! We went to Chandrar and Baleros, Rhir and Terandria, but we lost our histories, and Gnolls don’t write books as often as we should. So we can only claim it.”
She looked sad and weary.
“If there were any records of Doombringers, it would be from those Gnolls, but they are long gone, Satar. Here? I will tell you my version, but it is the same as Weatherfur’s. I wish…”
The [Shaman] looked at them, then around the room.
“I wish I could take you back and tell you all the stories as they were written. But I have forgotten, and even Skills cannot stop time and age. I wish you luck on your search, but I must prepare for tomorrow. Please, forgive me.”
And there they had to leave it. Satar rose and kissed Theikha’s cheek. Theikha pinched Mrsha’s ear gently as the Gnoll tried to swipe a last cookie, and bid them farewell. The three quietly left her tent. They felt enlightened, grateful to have talked to Theikha and hear her stories and…lost.
What did they do next? Not one had any idea.
 
——
 
Here they sat, by nightfall. Mrsha, Gire, Satar, staring down at her journal, Yelroan, Rose, arguing with Adetr and Feshi.
Uh…
Everyone had looked at Yelroan. The [Mathematician] had come and sat down with them without a word, and no one had told him to shove off.
Feshi was here because she was trying to wrap her head around Earth and wanted to talk to Rose. Rose was here to shout at Adetr.
“Why did you have to say it like that? Why do you have to talk about Earth’s weapons? We’re not all warmongers!”
He growled back.
“I told you. I saw them. I saw them shoot me through the eyes, Rose—and then I didn’t see anything after that!”
“You saw a projection! It wasn’t even real people! Do you think we’d just gun you down the instant we saw you?”
“Why not? You told me you love making movies about killing species you haven’t even met!”
“Most of them attack us!”
“You make the movies!”
The screaming match in the background made Mrsha shift slightly. She looked at Yelroan, hesitated, and poked his side. He jumped, nearly leapt into one of the campfires they were sitting around, and stuttered.
“D—er—yes?”
He stared at Mrsha like she was a monster. She eyed him, then pointed.
“Can Mri try on your sunglasses, Mister Yelroan?”
Gire knew who he was. The Gnoll hesitated, then handed them to Mrsha. She put them on and then began to do poses. I am so cool! This is the best pair of sunglasses ever!
The [Mathematician] looked at the girl laughing and doing poses that made Satar giggle with such an expression of pain that he had to turn away. He focused on the screaming match instead.
“You’re so unreasonable!”
Rose hollered. Adetr shouted, his nerves breaking at last.
“Well, I cannot help it! I’m afraid of you!”
Rose stopped. The young woman from California stared up at the Gnoll who had a head and a half on her, and probably three hundred pounds with his steel body. She spoke, surprisingly calmly.
“Adetr. You’re a huge, metal Gnoll. You scare me.”
He looked her in her eyes.
“Your people could kill us all. It would be easy.”
Yelroan turned to frown at Adetr, and the two looked at him guiltily, but the [Mathematician] waved a paw.
“I know about…it. Does everyone else?”
They all nodded. Yelroan had been summoned to Xherw and Ulcre with the other leaders to explain what eight billion was in context of their tribes. Horrifyingly huge numbers that appeared from adding a few digits onto the end of the last.
“I just wish we had stories. I want to tell stories, but what’s the use if everything I write will disappear?”
Satar whispered, and Adetr, Rose, Mrsha, Gire, and Yelroan looked at her. Satar rubbed at one eye.
“We were everywhere…and there’s not one book? Not one? Someone burned it all? We explored Baleros! We climbed mountains and fought with other species. And…all we have are Retellings. And they’re wrong.”
She thumped the journal and Yelroan eyed it. Mrsha looked at Satar and patted her on the knee. She handed her a note.
Forsooth, it will be alright, child. 
Satar glared at Mrsha. Why did a child have better writing than she did? She started sniffing hard. At first, all of the other Gnolls thought she had smelled something. Then they realized Satar was trying hard not to cry.
Adetr patently didn’t know what to do, so he looked at Rose to do something.
“There, there…Mri, don’t bully Satar.”
“She isn’t bullying me!”
As if to prove Mrsha’s subtle bullying, Satar teared up harder. And not for reasons she could explain. It wasn’t just Doombringers somehow—she knew—being misrepresented in stories.
It was the dearth of stories that bothered her. Libraries. A kingdom. She hadn’t even known what the kingdom’s name was. Why didn’t Theikha and the others tell the story? When she asked, the [Shaman] had looked abashed.
Theikha, the oldest [Shaman] ever. Not a mere [Chief Shaman], but a [Shaman of Tribe and Plain], a class that only one Gnoll got. The great [Shaman], who would one day pass and leave less stories and memory of the world, looked embarrassed.
“I suppose, we are ashamed to try and tell the stories we no longer have, young Satar. To tell a story incomplete? We have our pride. We lost the right to tell it.”
Even things written down vanished. Satar kept sniffing, but she didn’t really cry. The others busied themselves by doing other things.
“You’re the intruder who wrote sin on my chalkboard?”
Yelroan exclaimed as Gire asked if he’d figured out how it worked. She promptly produced Inkar’s smartphone, and they bent over it as Yelroan’s mind tried to explode. This was it. This was—
He looked to Mrsha. Rose was sitting with Adetr, trying again to explain her world to him, and he was shaking his head, trying to see something besides blood and death.
Feshi Weatherfur watched Mrsha too. That sad little girl. So did Satar. She saw Mrsha bend down over a [Message] scroll, one of the more expensive ones, not a one-use one. Ink appeared and vanished, and the little Gnoll pulled something else she’d bought out of her bag of holding.
Satar closed her eyes. She lay back as a faint, click, click, followed by the familiar scritching of a quill made her small tantrum fade. She closed her eyes and drifted off, mind wearied by an entire day of listening to [Shaman] stories.
If only I could read their stories. Then I’d know how to tell stories about my people. I just…
There was a reason why she wrote a history. Not fanciful stories about people loving each other like Heartslayi or even great adventures like Sandquen. More than that—and that mattered to Satar—
She wanted to know they had happened. That they were…
True.
 
[Archival Storyteller Level 25!]
[Skill – Seal of Veracity obtained!]
 
With a yelp, Satar sat up. She’d been asleep for twenty minutes, but as soon as her thoughts reached that Skill, she woke. Mrsha jumped, and Gire, beating Adetr in an arm-wrestling competition, looked up.
“I leveled up!”
Satar smiled. With wondrous happiness. Two levels for her hard work?
“What is it? A new Skill about the past?”
Gire was excited, but Satar knew it wasn’t that. Unfortunately, this was no new Skill the likes of which no one had ever heard of, whose meaning was to be learnt.
“It’s…[Seal of Veracity].”
The [Paragon] looked at Satar and then rolled over.
“Oh. [Historian] Skills.”
Which was unfair, because [Contract Makers], [Notaries], people who inspected magical goods and documents, and so on, all had this Skill. It was the kind of thing Satar wanted.
She could put that on her writings and reassure her reader that the following was correct. Mind you, it had caveats; it could be correct as she understood it, but factually wrong, and so on, but it was still a seal.
Seal? So cool! Can you show me?
Mrsha danced about excitedly, looking away from her [Message] scroll and penpal. Obligingly, Satar reached out and drew…a magical stamp out of the air. Mrsha went cross eyed, and Satar pressed it into Mrsha’s forehead.
The magical stamper glowed and vanished, leaving a little, glowing stamp on Mrsha’s forehead.
