“Because of this. Look at this. I’ve written down the points of each Retelling of the Doombringer stories, as if I were giving you details so you could do it.”
“Oh…you simplified it.”
Without the gregariousness of details, or lurid, descriptive scenes, Satar had broken down each story into component parts, since writing down each [Shaman]’s story verbatim would have killed her ink supply, although it would have given her a great insight into how each one told stories.
However, when you broke down a story, you could make it very simple:
Doombringer comes. They’re chased off with sticks. Tribe dies. Tribe survives? Magic sword is found…
These were the parts of a story, the bare bones. It was arguable there was no story without the details, the meat and muscle and whatnot, but Satar had done this because she had noticed something.
“Look at this. Do you remember the Beast of Albez story?”
“Yes.”
“Well…look at how each [Shaman] tells it.”
Satar showed Gire the list. The [Paragon] flipped through page after page, reading at a speed Satar thought was fake. Her brows furrowed.
“Huh?”
The young [Storyteller] nodded. She felt it. She saw it on the page.
She had asked all the [Shamans] for the Beast of Albez story, and each one had told her it. They all knew it…but as she broke down the components into parts?
Each story was different. Not in the main elements, but in one key way:
The Doombringer.
It was the exact same story. Take out the Doombringer, and you had a fine, if generic tale.
Once upon a time, there was a tribe. Knocte. They lived in the foothills of Albez. However, they failed to heed a warning and the Beast of Albez emerged. One by one, it killed the tribe and lay fat and bloated among their bones. Amidst the tragedy, a Gnoll came to slay it. 
The end.
The odd thing was…the Doombringer popped up in Satar’s story at the start. The Gnoll who was the dire warning to run and flee that the Knocte tribe ignored.
In the Wild Wastes [Shaman]’s story, it was completely different. The Doombringer didn’t appear at the start, but at the very end.
“And as the Beast of Albez lay sleeping, the last Gnoll escaped its clutches and ran off. Their fur turned white, and when other tribes beheld them, they knew Doom had touched the boy. For he carried the doom of Knocte upon him, for the rest of his days. The beast lay dozing, fat and horrid, until one day…”
Another [Shaman] from Weatherfur had the Doombringer at the absolute end, to Satar’s surprise.
“Lo, then came a Gnoll with a magic blade to slay the Beast of Albez. Not to avenge the tribe, but to answer doom with doom. A white Gnoll came, stole sleeping up to the beast, and planted the sword in its belly. Then it rose with a scream that made the foothills shake and the two did battle. Doom against doom, for where Doombringers walk, only calamity has followed.”
That was the oddest story. Gire’s brows furrowed.
“A Doombringer killed the Beast of Albez? But in the story I was told…I remember it perfectly. My [Shamans] had it like yours. A white Gnoll appeared, and the tribe was warned. They didn’t listen.”
“Yes, but look. There are multiple accounts of the Beast of Albez. Each [Shaman] is telling it differently. Why?”
Gire frowned, trying to work it out. Satar thought she had an answer.
“Gire. It makes no sense. We do change Retellings slightly, but the core of a story doesn’t really change. Not so fast, at least. And even if it did—other [Shamans] would be on the same page. This…this is like someone’s put the Doombringer into the original story.”
Gire’s eyes sharpened. She looked at Satar.
“Someone’s edited the story.”
“Yes. The question is why? And what’s the real story?”
Satar thought she knew the reason why. She closed her journal.
“Doombringers can’t be evil. They just can’t be, Gire. Mri doesn’t look evil. Maybe it’s just a curse. There have to be…records. Don’t there?”
“You mean, besides Retellings and [Shaman]’s memory.”
“Yes! Surely there are books? Cetrule said some people kept them. That we even used to have written records. Who would know if we have any left, even just one book?”
Gireulashia thought for only a moment, then she snapped her fingers.
“I know who would know. Come with me.”
She took Satar by the paw and led her off through the Meeting of Tribes. The investigation had taken five hours so far, and both were tired, but the Meeting of Chieftains had broken up. Little did they know their absence had been noted. Gire’s little friend wanted her big friend, so she found them.
“Mri! You shouldn’t leave without guards!”
Satar exclaimed as a little brown Gnoll with painted gold ears raced over. Gire turned, and Satar’s heart beat faster as Mrsha waved at her.
“Hello, hello. I’m Mri.”
Her pre-recorded words played, and Gire tossed her up and put her on her shoulder. Mrsha waved a little [Message] scroll at Satar.
“Did you talk to your friend? Are you bored? I’ve been listening to the same stories all day. We should bring food to Shaman Theikha, Mri. Do you want to buy something to eat?”
Mrsha indulgently patted Gire on the head, and Satar watched her carefully. So ordinary. So normal. Doombringer—
No. She seemed like a normal girl. She waved at Satar, and Satar smiled.
“We’re going to see Shaman Theikha, Mri. Do you want to come with us? Your guards…”
“They’re over there.”
Gire pointed. Satar looked around and saw no one in the hustling, bustling Gnolls and other people. Gire pointed to a Gnoll casually watching one of the fair games.
“See?”
Mri and Satar looked at Gire, but both were learning to expect that. So they went off to see Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh. None of them noticed the Gnoll with sunglasses glance up and stare after Mrsha.
“What in the name of logarithms…?”
 
——
 
Yelroan’s investigation took him about twenty minutes. By twenty minutes and halfway through the cup of bitter coffee, which he wanted more of already, he had already found out that Qwera Hatail had been sighted in the very city where they’d searched for the Doombringer last—and failed to find her.
Then she had made a beeline straight for the Meeting of Tribes, which was not on her caravan’s published route.
Oh—also that she had no formal record before an eleven-year-old Gnoll girl apprenticed herself to the Mudrock Caravan under one of the [Merchants]. Which meant he was tracing down eleven-year-old Gnoll girls in any city around that time period, right? A labor-intensive task that might require months and a dedicated team, correct?
Wrong. Yelroan was a [Mathematician]. He did a pose, turned to a cabinet full of records of every deceased tribe that he had ever compiled for Doombringer hunts, and pointed.
“[Locate Number: Eleven]. Any tribe past then! Cutoff…let’s say, twenty years?”
The drawer shot open, and eight files popped up. He grabbed them. Yelroan sat down—after doing another pose for his nonexistent watchers.
The truth was that this wasn’t actually math. It was more to do with his job, which was a glorified accountant/secretary/whatever else had to do with filing and organization. Yelroan sighed to himself.
He was a [Mathematician], but most of his Skills and indeed his class had a lot to do with the real world. Which made sense to everyone when he explained it. What’s the problem?
How could he tell Merish that most of the Skills and powers he wanted didn’t apply to the real world? For instance, he had [Check Sum], which checked equations. Handy in making sure the sums were right. He could [Locate Number], which helped him do all kinds of things filing-wise. But these were Skills a [Secretary] or [Scribe] could get.
The thing was…that was how he’d started. Using math to do practical things. Yet Yelroan knew, knew in his heart of hearts, that he was only beginning.
“I stand at the precipice of a cliff, not a path forwards. A glass cliff, and no one’s told me how to fly.”
That was how he saw his class. He didn’t know how to advance [Mathematician] because no one used math like him. Only [Engineers] in Pallass had any idea what he talked about, and they used it to calculate weight, drag, the angle of trebuchets.
But math was deeper than that. Sin? Yelroan felt it was the first light on a new road forwards. For now, though, he looked through the lists of tribes and any hints as to ones who had perished in a reasonable timeframe for Qwera to have been born in.
Gnolls didn’t keep good records. However, Plain’s Eye had kept lists of dead tribes for this exact reason. This was not math, just logic. Yelroan discarded four tribes for not matching the criteria, another two for having confirmed Doombringers…and ended up with two tribes.
Kelmsand and Lairef Fur. Both had been destroyed by actual calamity around the time when a girl might have escaped and made it to a city. One of the two had been in the south, along the coast. The other?
Yelroan checked where Qwera the apprentice had once signed on as an [Apprentice Trader] and the Lairef Fur tribe.
“Within forty miles of each other. That’s a really unlikely coincidence.”
So he had a likely tribe, and an odd coincidence with the other Doombringer to show Xherw. The Chieftain might order an investigation just based on that, but Yelroan wanted to be thorough. Impress him!
Next, the [Mathematician] hit the mean streets. By which, most Gnolls gave him mean looks mainly because of his odd dress or sunglasses occasionally blinding everyone when he put them on.
He wanted to see Qwera with his own eyes.
Doombringer. It chilled him just to imagine it. Was he in danger for doing it? But if Merish could hunt down two, Yelroan could brave this. He found Qwera at the [Merchant]’s block, swanning around, making deals, stepping large.
A golden Gnoll, with obviously dyed fur. Yelroan’s own fur stood on end as he pretended to check out the small stand of spectacles one Gnoll was selling. What a brilliant trick! Paint your fur gold if it was white.
But…he stared at the Gnoll woman, not feeling too out-of-place doing that. Everyone stared at the Golden Gnoll of Izril. She was charismatic, smiling, a show woman…
She must be some twisted fiend underneath that look. By all Yelroan could dig up on her, she was an accomplished businesswoman who sold her advice as much as her goods. Respected…
He didn’t see horrors following her. But if she were a Doombringer, maybe he didn’t see what it was.
Disturbed, Yelroan decided not to linger. But he stopped and stared at something before he went. The [Glass Merchant] sighed. Male Gnolls.
Yelroan was staring at a patch of reddish-brown fur juuuuust below Qwera’s navel. Brown fur. It tended to draw the eye, and it was certainly provocative. But it stumped him.
Was he wrong?
 
——
 
Yelroan stood at his favorite place in the Meeting of Tribes to think. That was, the fair games. All the game-organizers stared at Yelroan with pure hatred because he won their prizes and cost them money.
The string-game he was at was the one where you pulled strings, and they were attached to costly items. Few people won even with Skills; the strings were enchanted, some were invisible, and the stall owner did her absolute best to make sure you lost money rather than get an enchanted shortsword, like one of the strings was attached to.
Yelroan had won three times already. He was watching her booth, calmly tracing each of the hundred plus strings and figuring out which ones were real.
He knew there was only one or two at most; not all the prizes even had a real string attached to them. Some were hidden, but it didn’t matter. He was using a combination of seeing people lose to the game to eliminate bad strings as well as sheer math and probability—and his own math skills.
The problem was, he did have too many skills that quantified the world in terms of math rather than math as a concept. Applied versus theoretical, and he wanted theoretical.
One of his Skills? The one that let him do most of what he wanted?
[Perfect Measurement: Length]. The string connected to that scrying mirror was exactly eighty-two inches long. Exceptionally long. Why was it…? 
She must have looped it around or done something cunning with it. Maybe put it through a drawer of holding?
The stall owner was sweating as Yelroan used his Skills. Math was hard to counter as opposed to the cunning [Rogue] who could be fooled. The thing was—
Doombringers weren’t math. Why would Qwera have brown fur? Yelroan felt stupid as he gazed at the strings.
“Of course! It’s a fakeout! It’s a decoy!”
A Drake girl reaching for a string hesitated, looked at Yelroan and the stall owner, and chose another one.
“You’re banned!”
The stall owner pointed at Yelroan. The [Mathematician] sighed and wandered away, but he’d figured it out!
The brown patch of fur was fake too! What was cleverer than making people think that was your original fur? If she covered her entire body in gold paint, why not one spot too?
He could point that out to Xherw. Yelroan sighed. He gave himself over 80% odds he was right. Then they’d find out, and if she was a Doombringer?
Kill her.
The [Mathematician] stopped as he paid for a little stick with sautéed meat on it.
Well, obviously, yes. You had to kill Doombringers. You had to. The sky was blue, grass grew…
Doombringers died.
Would they…kill a respected [Merchant] in public? They’d tell everyone she was a Doombringer. Anything else, and that would be murder.
Yelroan was chewing on his meat, but it tasted off. Maybe he’d gotten some undercooked or bad food? He stared at the stick.
That…was against the law. For anyone but a Doombringer that would be murder, even if they were a convicted criminal. But he knew Doomslayer teams would put an arrow through a Doombringer’s chest as they were walking down the street.
Because they were Doombringers. It was just—knowing that and knowing it was right were different. He’d never seen a Doombringer before.
That was when Yelroan wondered why Qwera had come here, to the Meeting of Tribes, when she’d be in the most danger. He was thinking about that when a little Gnoll ran past him, and he heard a voice.
“Mri!”
He looked up and saw a little Gnoll girl with painted gold ears race over to the tallest Gnoll he’d seen besides Garsine. That had to be Ekhtouch’s [Paragon].
Qwera had a child? No! She didn’t, nor any registered apprentice. Who was this? The [Mathematician] lowered his sunglasses and blinded the stall owner cooking meat.
“My eyes!”
The little girl was clearly affiliated with Qwera. Either she was a fan, or she had a hold of gold paint dye; even Weatherfur didn’t dabble with gold paint. But Yelroan thought she had to be with Qwera. So…he stared at the little girl.
“What in the name of logarithms…?”
