Why didn’t Theikha reach for it? The Gnoll was staggering, falling, failing. It was going away. It was right there in front of them. But not even Gire saw it. She was struggling to carry the weight of it all and failing.
“It’s…almost…”
Theikha looked up. Her eyes met Satar’s and her voice rose.
“Do it, Satar. Show us! Only you can.”
The [Storyteller] felt Yelroan’s paw tear away. Then Adetr’s. She looked at Theikha. And then—she reached out.
It was right there, trying to materialize. Something—an idea that had never been before. The Gnoll felt like every fraction of space was an eternity to reach across. But she had to see. It was not will, or courage—but simply curiosity.
She reached out and grabbed something. The other Gnolls were on their feet, and they saw it, for a moment.
It was…a book. Just a book. A book, shining with all the things written between them all. Written in magic, glowing. Satar looked at it and tried to lift the page.
It was there. She needed to see it. She would uncover the truth of the Doombringers. She would tell this story. And tell it right.
The truth of the world was not one fact. It was never one thing you could point to—but it was still truth. Satar gasped. She reached out, and with all of her might—
Turned that glowing page.
 
[Conditions Met: Archival Storyteller → Historian of the World Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Shaman removed.]
[Historian of the World Level 25!]
 
[Skill – Tribe: F—
 
All the shouting voices in her head, trying to tell her so many things, removing, changing—were silenced by the loudest one of all.
 
[Combination Skill — The World of You and Me created!]
 
It activated as Satar turned that wondrous page. She turned the page—
And the world vanished.
 
——
 
“Satar?”
Akrisa looked around for her daughter, but she saw nothing at all. Then—everything. She jerked with surprise and looked around.
Krshia Silverfang, staring, also looked around wildly. She turned—and nearly fell over. The Gnoll woman had an odd dress on. Akrisa looked down for her daughter…and saw something in front of her.
It was…a tiramisu tart. On a plate of white porcelain, and she was sitting in one of those precarious stools which crashed over as Krshia overbalanced and went down.
Everyone who saw it winced, and someone hurried over.
“Are you alright, Ma’am?”
Someone helped Krshia get up. The Gnoll got to her feet, dizzy.
“I’m fine. I’m fine, thank you…”
She stopped and stared at a polite young man wearing a server’s uniform, but in bright, monochrome cloth, with the little cafe’s emblem sewn onto it.
A young Human man. Akrisa stared at him and then around the cafe. Other diners looked at them. Her eyes fixed on a chalkboard where someone had spelled out all the food in what looked like…dollars?
She realized her clothing had changed too. She even had a handbag. Akrisa dug in it and found it was not a bag of holding but rather inconvenient. She pulled out green pieces of paper and stared at the number on them and the man staring back.
“What—where are we?”
Krshia staggered to her feet. The two Gnolls looked around—then caught sight of themselves in a mirror.
Two Human women stared back. Sisters. They looked around the cafe and then wandered out of it. They walked into the streets of a city and saw strange vehicles zooming past them. And everywhere they looked…
Were Humans. Most were going about their day. Some looked bored, or harassed, or angry or sad. Some were odd; others tried to blend in. There was a honking sound that made both Gnolls wince—and they looked overhead at a flying object that Krshia and Akrisa had only ever seen the wreckage of.
Akrisa stared up at a stoplight, and then Krshia pulled out her personal smartphone. She looked around at Humans.
Not at their best or worst. Not even caring about the two women. Someone in a giant fur-costume of a walking rat-thing moved past them. A Human, wearing it for reasons you could only guess at.
Humans at their weirdest. Humans at their finest. You could stop and talk to them, but they were probably busy.
Also, this was Los Angeles.
 
——
 
Inkar looked about and found she was lying on her back, staring up at the sky. She looked about and saw she was home. Home—and tears sprang to her eyes. There was no one around, though; she was in the middle of one of the rolling grasslands.
Only after a while did she see someone riding a horse around, poking it, checking the saddle, the gear. Chieftain Werri rode across the ground, looking up at the bright sky and laughing at how small it was.
 
——
 
Xherw jerked in his plane seat and tried to get up.
“Sir, stay seated until we’re at cruising altitude.”
A strange man in a uniform warned him. Ulcreziek looked about wildly as the two were crammed into tiny seats. Not even first class.
 
——
 
How did they know some things? It was like dream-logic. He knew the rules in vague, like ‘don’t walk into that street when the light is red’. However, seeing a traffic light was still a shock beyond shocks.
He looked upon Earth with fresh eyes, and everything else…fell to him. Yet he was not alone.
Adetr opened his eyes, and Rose was there. She was looking up at something.
“Come here, Adetr.”
The Gnoll looked around for Iraz and saw only Cetrule, the Gnoll tugging open a manhole to peek inside. Both Gnolls looked up as Rose pointed towards her house. She was trembling. Afraid of what was inside.
Longing to see it, if only for a moment.
 
——
 
“Math. Maaaaath—”
Yelroan ran about the university until someone called for campus security. Elsewhere, Theikha collapsed into one of those handy massage chairs at the airport as Gire brought her a drink and everyone stared at the nine-foot tall woman. Someone tried to recruit her for their university basketball team.
 
——
 
It was only for a second. It was only for an hour. The Gnolls within the tent walked out of it early, or just left because it was too much. Some died. They died like a dreamer, and some woke shaking, running from the tent, and others clutched at their heads, overwhelmed by what they could not, would not comprehend.
It was a story, and it told itself across each person differently. Wonderfully, with great joy and sights they loved—others like a horror unfolding piece by piece, a nightmare and warning.
But they did see, and for every Gnoll that ran, a dozen stayed to talk, ask questions or just walk down a street. Others walked into a pub, had a drink, and decided they had Earth beat on beers. Or they checked the news, played games, found out what coffee tasted like when done right.
 
——
 
Even the terrible moments. Chieftain Orelighn of Greenpaw could not take his eyes off a Human without a home. Without anyone who would take his hand, alone among so many. He followed the Human around and watched. A steel and glass city with flaws in how they had made it.
 
——
 
“So they are not that much happier.”
Iraz Steelfur murmured to himself. He realized how blind he had been.
Two nations represented themselves for the Gnolls, Rose’s and Inkar’s. Beyond that, the world turned to mist, but the Gnoll had the most unpleasantly nonviolent experience of being crammed into a metal box with other people going to work. He could not imagine it was pleasant.
He looked around and saw no great warriors here. Or at least, not a nation of conquerors. Just people. Look at their miserable, empty faces. His tribe could lead them forwards and show them something better.
 
——
 
That was how they passed the time, all of the Gnolls who stayed.
Looking at Humans. Not sterling examples of the world, especially depending on where you landed. Far from perfect. Rude, or helpful, or surprisingly gracious. With odd customs and beliefs and far too much of an obsession with navels.
But people. Not monsters, running around with weapons, making war. They did make war and do terrible things. But…if ever their worlds should collide? If those lost children found their way to them—
The Tribes of Izril would not welcome them with walls or distrust. They would treat a people like a people, varied, strange. And the children?
They would protect the children and let them choose who they wanted to be.
That was wisdom. And Satar Silverfang looked around, as she sat in a movie theater. She walked around and saw the story she wanted to write. The story of the world, as a proper account, never unbiased, but proper and true.
The story of two worlds. So she looked around for a journal, found a pad of paper and a handy scribbling pen. She looked at it with a frown.
Satar had seen a keyboard for the first time and decided she was done with quills forever. Just as soon as she could figure out how to make a computer. She sat down…
And began to write.
