“Weatherfur will not allow that child to be killed. I say tradition is wrong, Firrelle. At least, where it intersects with Doombringers. If I must drag every Great Tribe with me—I will. We will put to motion the other issues. Akrisa will not bring it up just yet. She has a plan, but you must stand with her until it is time to strike, or else it will not succeed, yes?”
Firrelle raised her brows as Torishi deferred to Akrisa and let the Silverfang [Chieftain] explain.
“We will speak of Earth, today. Tell them of Inkarr and Rose—although their presentation must be careful and secret. But in the doing, we will bind other tribes to our cause. They have already seen we were right about magic.”
“A grand alliance of tribes. A majority to force the last, pivotal issue.”
Eska murmured. She fiddled with the dagger at her side.
“Tribes do not simply go along with each other.”
Orelighn pointed out reasonably. Akrisa nodded, and Cetrule bowed to him.
“Yet they do trust wisdom. Chieftains have already seen that we stand united and have been right about magic. So—if we present Earth to them, and garner their trust, they will come to see we are also right about Mrsh—Mri. We will present her to them and win them over.”
“Authority by winning each vote. Hrr. Very well. I agree on Earth, so I will back your words in the Meeting of Chieftains so long as they are the ones we discussed.”
Firrelle allowed after a moment, and Akrisa nodded tightly. However, amid the Chieftains and their [Chief Shamans] and occasionally seconds like Feshi, it was clear Firrelle and her [Chief Shaman] were reluctant to back the Doombringer plot.
Krshia and Akrisa would have left it there to avoid offending Ekhtouch, but a finger reached out and poked Firrelle in the arm.
“And Mri, Firrelle? Let me hear you say it.”
Torishi looked at Firrelle. The Ekhtouch’s [Chieftain] scowled at her.
“I have yet to make up my mind. There is evidence—”
“She is no monster to be burned. Say it, or you and I will discuss this in less than amiable words.”
Weatherfur’s Chieftain looked dangerous, and Akrisa saw Feshi grab the dagger at her side. The Diamond Dagger of Serept. Ekhtouch’s [Chief Shaman] looked warningly at Feshi, and Firrelle bared her teeth, completely unafraid of the threat. Torishi was a mighty woman, but Firrelle was Ekhtouch and, while lighter than Torishi by a bit, they were of a height.
“I will not be threatened by you, Torishi, or anyone. There is evidence that Mrsha is no…evil thing, but cursed? My [Shamans] have been looking into the issue, quietly. But I will not be hasty or…”
“We’ll help Mrsha.”
The Chieftains frowned at Firrelle. Firrelle frowned. She opened her mouth and spoke.
“I will help Mrsha.”
It was her voice…but it didn’t sound right. Also, Firrelle’s open mouth didn’t open and close. The trick was very good, and if they were distracted and Firrelle tired, you could almost believe it was her voice. However, Gire could throw her voice and imitate Firrelle—but not make her open and close her mouth.
“Gire! How did you get…?”
The [Paragon] had infiltrated Akrisa’s tent somehow, slipping inside past the [Guards]. She must have copied some kind of [Rogue]’s Skill. She rose calmly.
“You will help her, Firrelle.”
“You do not give me orders. Go to your rooms, Gireulashia.”
Firrelle turned red under her fur as the [Paragon] folded her arms at her She loomed over Firrelle. Like the best loomers over the world, she could loom while standing still, loom horizontally, and even speak in loom.
“We will help Mrsha. Or I will be angry, Firrelle. I am on her side, so you will be. You will help her. Or else.”
“Or else what?”
Firrelle might not have been Gire’s mother, but she had a part in raising her, and, like any good parent, she had the warning tone down. Unfortunately, unlike Akrisa, she had not realized Gire had entered a new stage of her adolescence.
Rebellion. Akrisa watched as Gire calmly raised a paw.
“Or else I will hit you, Firrelle. And if you do not listen, I will drag you out in front of Ekhtouch’s tribe and challenge you with one paw tied behind my back.”
“You are insolent—”
Firrelle growled, then looked up at Gire, who had three feet on her, probably at least a hundred…two hundred pounds? And the Ekhtouch Chieftain realized that Gire could probably pull her out in front of her tribe and punch her until she fell over. With one paw tied behind her back.
It was an amazing, dawning realization on her face. As a mother, Akrisa hoped it wouldn’t happen to her.
At the same time…she looked at Gire and wondered who could take her in hand if the young [Paragon] didn’t want them to. Torishi didn’t seem to mind.
“Firrelle?”
“I—fine. Present Earth to them!”
“And?”
Gire reached out and caught Firrelle as she went for the door. The Ekhtouch Chieftain tried to get away. She was fast—but Gire lifted her off her feet and shook her. It was so fast a dizzy Firrelle was yanked back before Akrisa could blink.
“Get off—”
Gire shook Firrelle. Akrisa had never seen someone shake someone like a child shook a figurine. It disturbed her because it was unnerving. It looked—painful. Firrelle made a sound. Gire put her down. The Ekhtouch Chieftain stood there, looking at Gire with such a mix of anger and shock—and sudden unease—she spoke curtly.
“I promise. I will stand for speaking against hunting Doombringers.”
Firrelle muttered, and the Chieftains eyed Gire. The [Paragon] nodded once and walked out of the tent. Firrelle followed Gire’s back with an ominous look, but she said nothing.
Either way—Torishi met Akrisa’s eyes, and the Chieftain exhaled.
Either way. It was time to go to the heart of it all. She had her alliance.
 
——
 
“We must stand together on the issues of the stolen magic and all to come, or we will perish. Tradition. Tradition and unity. If nothing else, Ulcreziek, I fear we will all perish.”
“Yes, Chieftain Xherw.”
The [Shaman], Ulcreziek of the Plain’s Eye tribe, frowned as he turned to Xherw. The Chieftain of the largest Gnoll tribe in the entire world looked—stressed. Small wonder, with all the unwelcome revelations.
All the danger.
“We must resist any…incorrect decisions. Most of all, we must avoid any unwelcome truths coming out.”
That was all Xherw said, even between the two. Ulcreziek nodded.
“That is a separate matter from the Meeting of Chieftains, surely. Any investigation will not matter for political support as much as if any evidence is uncovered. And short of the Walled Cities—all they have are allegations. There is no proof.”
“Yes…”
Xherw stretched out the word. He shifted, shook his head.
“Yes. You are correct, Ulcreziek, but there is also Earth, and Silverfang is poised to lead the arguments along with the other Great Tribes. I think Akrisa is a reasonable Gnoll, but I fear making a mistake in that or other things to come. I am simply worried. You are right. However, the easiest thing would be to find that Doombringer. To—reaffirm traditions.”
Ulcreziek frowned, then nodded.
“Ah. Focus the tribes on that.”
“What matters. Yes. The Raskghar—or doom. I feel odd, Ulcreziek. Almost as if Merish’s hunt was in vain in more ways than one.”
“He did his best by all accounts, though the Lizardman caused trouble. Will you hold it against him?”
Xherw shook his head.
“He is a brave, talented warrior. Why would I? Ulcre, no. I almost feel…”
He frowned and tasted the air, sniffing it. The Plain’s Eye [Shaman], with his one regular eye, the other he had inherited from the previous [Chief Shaman], looked at Xherw. Then the shadow he cast—the shadow in the air, the invisible presence Gnolls felt. Ulcreziek could see it.
Xherw spoke slowly, weighing each word.
“I feel as though one of them is in the Meeting of Tribes. And I did not feel so a while ago.”
The [Chief Shaman] looked at him sharply.
“That would explain a lot.”
“Misfortune? All of this? It would, Ulcreziek. It would be just what we need. Post watchers. Look around…carefully.”
Xherw touched Ulcre’s shoulder and turned.
“I will look myself, Chieftain Xherw, as long as I can take time from the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Split your time. And put our watchers out. Though, if it is that child or…they are so good at hiding. But I have a theory.”
Xherw’s eyes glittered.
“I think I know who it might be. But I will make sure.”
“How? Magic? My eyes?”
The Chieftain of the Plain’s Eye tribe shrugged. He began walking in a pointed direction.
“These things are too overt and would make them flee, especially if they know us, Ulcreziek. We have a talented way of finding things out. I will ask him.”
Him? Who…the Chief Shaman realized who Xherw was speaking of and rolled his eyes. In Plain’s Eye, the most traditional of tribes, they just had to spontaneously create the one Gnoll who had a class and mentality completely opposite of them.
 
——
 
Yelroan posed in front of the mirror and adjusted his signature look. To attract attention, of course, and inspire a new generation into believing the future was math. He tried striking another pose and adjusted his carefully-designed sunglasses so a ray of light blinded everything in a thirty-foot radius.
“Math. Arithmetic. Algebra. Statistics. Calculations. Geometry—oh, hello, Chieftain. Did you need something?”
Chieftain Xherw of the Plain’s Eye tribe was not a tall Gnoll, but he had a weight upon the world, and he was one of the most famous Gnolls in existence. Being around him was electrifying, and he never went most places without his bodyguard. He was a seasoned warrior, a great leader—and he rubbed at his forehead as if Yelroan were more styming than fighting one of the Centenium, which he had done.
“Yelroan. That is…Mathematician Yelroan.”
He used Yelroan’s title with a slight wince. He tried, unlike Ulcre and many others in Plain’s Eye, who patently hated the blonde Gnoll who dressed snappily and showily and did, to them, silly and stupid things in a worthless class.
That was why Yelroan liked Xherw. He tried. So Yelroan swept some papers to the side and offered him some cold tea.
“What can I do for you, Chieftain? Did you hear about the attempt on my life? Some issue come up with a tribe that needs accounting? Merish? Did he find the Doombringer? I’ve lost the trail, but I can try to find more data points…”
He worried for his friend. Honestly, statistics wasn’t his strongest suit, nor analysis-based models. Naturally, Xherw thought it was all one thing, if he even understood how math applied to such things to begin with.
Math was so complex and deep, yet people thought that all you could do with it was figure out how to supply an army. That was logistics, which, yes, had calculations, but was as much to do with knowing how much someone ate or terrain and whatnot as actual math.
Get a [Secretary of War] or [Strategist] for that! Sometimes it hurt Yelroan, feeling like a glorified [Accountant]. But then he saw how Xherw prized him, and how he showed up [Mages] and [Chieftains] and all those other classes with applied mathematics.
And he felt better about himself. Mathematics was deeper than that. It was a way of looking at the world. An entire perspective that you could see…everything through. Just like how a pair of spectacles brought things into focus, math was the lens by which Yelroan understood everything.
No one, especially Plain’s Eye, should look down on a new way of seeing the world. That was why he loved his craft, the numbers that could make sense of vast concepts with ease.
That was math. Yelroan really thought he should figure out how to explain it like that, but he had less of a way with words.
“No, Yelroan. I came to ask you to investigate something with your…math-Skills. I do not know if you can, but I suspect you can, and it will be a great service to the tribe. I hold you in high confidence and…did you say ‘attempt on your life’?”
Xherw must have been stressed. He normally caught things like that right away. He stiffened and looked around Yelroan’s organized tent.
Maps, data sheets, cabinets of holding—many cabinets of holding—and all kinds of tools that Yelroan used, from an abacus to sheets to plot data and more. Xherw glanced up and whistled softly.
Instantly, one of his [Bodyguards] appeared right behind Xherw, an axe raised. Yelroan saw the magical paint glowing, shedding the [Invisibility] spell. He knew Xherw’s bodyguards did that, but still slopped his tea all over himself.
“What issue, Chieftain?”
“Is there anyone nearby? Do a sweep.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] nodded. Yelroan clarified as Xherw looked at him.
“I don’t know if it was an assassination attempt. I just think my life might be under threat. Or maybe it’s a prank?”
“Why would this be? Did you…anger someone ag—at all?”
Yelroan coughed.
“Not that I can remember. But someone did break into my tent. I checked, but I don’t think they stole anything. They might have copied data down, but if they did, why would they tell me?”
“And who would use it?”
Xherw mused. Yelroan raised his brows.
“Chieftain, I have all the income, supply reports, even classes of all of Plain’s Eye and our allies written down.”
“Ah. That is concerning. But you say you don’t think it was that?”
Yelroan rubbed at one ear.
“No, Chieftain. If that were so, I’d never know about it—and I would like some bodyguards because I do have precious data. I know the other sub-[Chieftains] wouldn’t think of it like that…”
“You will have whatever you need, Yelroan. I understand. Tell me what was so odd.”
That was Xherw. He listened. Yelroan got up. He walked over to one of the chalkboards, flipped it over, and Xherw blinked. Yelroan pointed to it.
“See?”
Xherw looked at the big word written in chalk across the board. Yelroan had circled it, added question marks, but the original writing was clear. One word:
 
Sin.
 
“…Have you done anything to upset anyone, Yelroan? Beyond your usual antics? Slept with anyone? Injured someone, by chance?”
Yelroan threw up his paws.
“Honestly, Chieftain! I haven’t! I swear! It doesn’t even make sense. But look—”
He pointed. Xherw frowned. He saw…numbers after the word.
“I assume you wrote them.”
“Ah, you would normally be correct, Chieftain! Except I didn’t. Not this time.”
There was an odd set of numbers that made no sense to Xherw. If he read the entire thing and assumed it came from the mysterious intruder, it read…
 
Sin. 5
= (-) 0.95892427466
 
“…What does that mean?”
Yelroan’s eyes glinted excitedly behind his tinted sunglasses.
“I have no idea, Chieftain. But it might be…a puzzle? Look—there are more, and I think they’re examples.”
