“Why? How is that even possible?”
“Some dark ritual. It must be. Raskghar appeared during the dark years of our people. During the Age of Hiding—we dug deep. Deep, to escape dragonfire and Drakes. We were never meant to live belowground, but we did. It was a terrible era that drove many of us to madness, but we survived it. It is then that Raskghar appeared.”
Chieftain Ulcreziek rose to his feet. He knew his history, and other [Shamans] nodded darkly, even Torishi, who had been trained as one.
“Raskghar split from Gnolls. Some stories claimed them as our faults and sins made manifest; others simply that they were made of darkness in our image. The truth may not matter. The stories agree; Raskghar hunted us. This is why. Chieftain Akrisa—no, Krshia Silverfang. You were at Liscor when they were found in the dungeon. Can you give us an accounting of what you saw?”
Even Asoma turned to Krshia as she spoke. She relayed the first encounters with the Raskghar simply. Mrell’s blood chilled to hear how they scaled the walls during the flooding, outfought the [Guards], and abducted Gnolls.
“They are three times more dangerous under moonlight. Stronger, smarter…”
“I know of that transformation under the moon. But not from this.”
Chieftain Perale spoke up. The Wild Wastes’ best warrior nodded uncertainly.
“Is it a shared power?”
“I refuse to believe we share anything with that! Even ancestry!”
Another Chieftain exclaimed. Chieftain Firrelle of Ekhtouch snorted.
“How can you? It is obvious. Look at that thing’s…her teeth. Her claws. Her fur and body—do you think she sprung up naturally from the ground?”
She rose too, and Asoma eyed her curiously, licking her lips. She seemed to be picking around the room, finding Gnolls she…liked. Like Xherw, Torishi, Firrelle…
High-level Gnolls. Firrelle looked down at Asoma with visible unease, but spoke to the room.
“We are Ekhtouch. We understand how traits are passed down. Raskghar look like us. But split off, long ago. They are related to us; I would swear every level I have ever gained on that.”
It seemed like a fair statement, but even so, the uproar it presented was enormous. Some Gnolls didn’t want to believe it.
“Enough. Enough. We can deliberate their origins later. Or that is a task for [Shamans]. Shaman Theikha, why did you bring this one here? For us to see it alone?”
Xherw spoke, and Theikha nodded to him.
“No. You are correct. I have a few questions to ask. Then we will deliberate in peace. You have seen the Raskghar. Now…Asoma. Answer a question for me.”
She turned to the Raskghar, and Asoma grinned.
“Feed me. I answer.”
“Answer, or you will regret it, Raskghar.”
One of the Az’muzarre guards didn’t even lower her voice. Asoma glared, and Theikha raised a paw.
“Answer, Asoma. You have killed Gnolls.”
Asoma’s face contorted with effort. She frowned, searching for words.
“Not me. I…surrender. Mercy. Forgiveness. You make us better. You feed us. Nice Gnolls. We surrender. Forgive. Let us out?”
She looked around, grinning, and the feeling of appalled anger in Mrell’s stomach grew. Theikha ignored that.
“Your people have killed Gnolls. Why? Why did you know to…sacrifice us? Why do you attack us?”
Asoma hesitated.
“Don’t know?”
She had the look of a child evading a question. Chieftain Reizet slowly rose, but Shaman Theikha planted her staff. She did not raise her voice…but the air around her grew dark.
Each Gnoll in the room felt a chill through the air. Theikha did not get bigger, but she seemed to focus, or the rest of the world grew blurry. It was unnerving to watch.
“Answer my question. Why do you hunt Gnolls? Who told you?”
No longer smiling or confident, the Raskghar backed up.
“Don’t know! Hungry. Know. We know food.”
Theikha took a step forward.
“Then—where did you come from? How long have Raskghar been below Liscor?”
“Don’t know. Long. Many lives. Lost. Can’t get out. Waiting.”
Mrell leaned forwards. Theikha glanced around.
“Did anyone put you there, Asoma?”
“Don’t know. When moons come, we look. But below is death. Above—no way out. Want to leave. Try to leave. No way out. Until bugs dig in.”
Antinium. The Antinium had unearthed the dungeon. The Raskghar had been…trapped? A buzz began, following this new idea, but Theikha had already lifted a paw.
“One more question, Asoma. Then you can go and eat. Tell me what you told Chieftain Reizet. What you told the others. Raskghar want to eat Gnolls. Your tribe wanted to be free of the dungeon.”
“Yes. Facestealer. Hrr. Facestealer. Mother. Bad things. Facestealer killed Stalker. Can’t kill Facestealer. Nothing kills Facestealer. And Mother is there.”
“Who is…?”
“Some kind of high-level monster down there.”
Mrell’s [Shaman] whispered back. But he didn’t know who…Mother was.
“Where would you go if you left the dungeon? If you didn’t—couldn’t eat Gnolls? Tell me what you said, Asoma. You can eat as much meat as you want. What did you say?”
Theikha coaxed. Asoma stared at her and around the room. She was clearly thinking, trying to figure out if she should say it. But the lure was too appealing, and she…she didn’t understand why it would matter. So she grinned and said it.
“Find people. Find more. Make more Raskghar. More, and more.”
Suddenly, Mrell had stopped breathing. He leaned over his seat, and Theikha whispered.
“Now, how would you do that, Asoma? Your tribe is the only one, isn’t it?”
The Raskghar frowned, then smiled.
“No. No…more Raskghar. Down deep. More Raskghar. Right there. See? See?”
She lifted one talon and pointed. Mrell saw her point, not randomly, but to the side—and down. Down. Theikha heard the low moan around the room and raised a paw.
“That’s enough. Take her away.”
 
——
 
It was a long time before order was restored. Even then, Krshia’s breathing was shaky.
There were more Raskghar? She hadn’t known that. Now, she understood why Theikha had brought Asoma here.
“The Raskghar revealed that during questioning. They didn’t even think to hide it, and they do have more secrets. They didn’t think it was something to hide. Mind you—we questioned them during the day, far away from full moon cycles. They’re too intelligent under the moons. They tried picking locks, and communicated—even by thumping the ground and hearing each other. We’ve begun putting them to sleep those nights.”
Reizet finished the summary. She looked around as Theikha retired. The [Shaman] seemed exhausted from that brief encounter, and it was the [Chieftains]’ turn to take the stage.
“I don’t know about you, but I see it one way. The Raskghar live. They live…in dungeons. In places hidden away from time. As Grand Strategist Chaldion said—we have enemies. We have enemies, and the Raskghar live, despite our wars to destroy them. Now, who could arrange that? Plant a seed of death to emerge later? Whenever they wanted to hurt us?”
The Az’muzarre Chieftain’s voice was too calm. Too…she looked around, and her answer came in an instant.
“Drakes. Only Drakes build dungeons. They did this. Just like our magic. It’s always them.”
A cursing voice. Growls of agreement. Xherw rose to his feet.
“I will not say it outright, but yes. Perhaps Drakes. The truth is we do not know. Maybe they fled. I counsel thought, Chieftains.”
“What is there to think, Xherw? Plain’s Eye counsels patience, counsels listening—first Raskghar, then our magic! How much more must we think on until we realize what the Drakes have done and always do? They march armies into our land. When will the Chieftains agree to force them back and punish them? A warrior does not think while her tribe is being slaughtered. She acts!”
Chieftain Werri of the Woven Bladegrass tribe stood. The younger and more radical Chieftains all stood with her, growling assent.
Instantly, Iraz of Steelfur rose to oppose her, and a wave of tribes that respected Steelfur as well, a clear split.
“I am a warrior as well, Chieftain Werri, and I will not risk a great war that will leave us open to death from the Antinium.”
“In that case, I propose to accept the Grand Queen’s truce offer! Let’s take their land.”
Werri grinned, and the Meeting of Chieftains went into an uproar. Theikha rose and lifted a weary paw.
“Is that a true suggestion or bravado, Werri? You brought the Grand Queen’s offer before the Meeting of Tribes—if you will ask it seriously, we will vote on it.”
Werri hesitated. She looked at Theikha and bowed slowly.
“…It is not a true suggestion, Shaman Theikha. Merely a point.”
She jerked her chin up at Iraz, and he gave her a slow nod.
“I do not take it lightly, Werri. We do not see eye-to-eye. But I have not forgiven the Drakes either.”
His eyes glinted, and he looked around to make sure everyone saw he was serious. Werri gave him a reluctant smile.
“Good.”
She was sitting when another Gnoll stood. This one had feathers attached to his fur. Krshia thought he was from Satest Fletching, a tribe known for their connection with birds and the sky. She thought Bird would have loved to meet him.
“I…do have a proposal to lay before the Meeting of Tribes, Shaman Theikha. I know Silverfang has its right, but since it is brought up, may I speak?”
“Each Chieftain is equal, Chieftain Yiew. Speak.”
The [Shaman] nodded, and the Chieftain looked around.
“I do propose that we take the Grand Queen’s offer for peace. Failing that? I propose—as I have heard rumored that other tribes will propose—that after this Meeting of Tribes, we head north. Past the High Passes into the north if Magnolia Reinhart will offer it. I will sign her contract. Or—if both fail? I will leave Izril and go to Chandrar and join the King of Destruction’s armies. Or even go to Baleros or Terandria. Anywhere but here.”
For a second, everyone just stared at Chieftain Yiew. Then there was shouting, howls of discord, and sheer disbelief. Theikha had to slam her staff on the ground three times and produce a charge in the air that made their fur crackle before there was silence.
Krshia looked at Yiew in disbelief.
“You would leave our home, Yiew? Truly? This isn’t just bravado for the sake of talk? Ally with the Antinium? They killed thousands of us, and the King of Destruction—”
Reizet argued angrily. Yiew didn’t raise his head. It was bowed, and his paws were clenched, but he did not flinch either. He spoke, and his tone was one of exhaustion. Calm exhaustion, after you had wasted every scrap of anger, burnt away everything.
“The King of Destruction? I see he is under siege, Reizet. Maybe he dies. Maybe he lives and kills his foes. But what I see is that he does not kill many Gnolls, if any. Antinium? Why are you so worried about peace with them?”
Reizet snarled with sheer disbelief at his stupidity.
“Because they will turn on us once they destroy the Drakes!”
“And how is that different than the Drakes slowly killing us? Better to have one enemy than two.”
Yiew countered. The Az’muzarre Chieftain hesitated, and Yiew went on.
“I’m simply tired of it. Tired of Drakes doing this and that. I am serious. I will take the Grand Queen’s peace, take her land if she will make a lesser offer. I will ally with the Antinium or flee Izril—go wherever other tribes will. But when I say this, I mean it. I will take the Antinium’s peace here and now and damn the Walled Cities. My tribe will never walk in their shadow. We are done with them. Be it war or peace or we flee—there is nothing to trust. We have no allies in Izril, only more and more enemies. I hear whispers of Doombringers, I see Raskghar—this Meeting of Tribes has revealed to me the foes set against us, and so I give up. They hate us. Raskghar. Drakes. We have such few allies.”
The Meeting of Chieftains was so silent after Yiew spoke. Not simply for what he was saying—but because it was so bleak. Even Theikha said nothing as he sat back.
They should have voted for the Antinium’s proposal, but it had not a chance of passing…or did it? How many Chieftains were like Yiew?
Krshia didn’t know, but she thought it was time. And because she thought it, her sister rose. Chieftain Akrisa’s silverfang pendant swung in the light as she stood.
“Though it may be out of turn…Shaman Theikha. I ask to speak. To speak to Yiew and the other Chieftains who see what I do and despair. Because such dire tidings—even if they are truth—have come to the Meeting of Tribes. Great gifts, yes!”
She reminded them of the magic tome and the hope of casting magic. The Chieftains’ heads rose, and they recalled that no tribe save for two had even offered their gifts. This was supposed to be a grand occasion for the bettering of all.
It did not feel it. But Akrisa turned to them and spoke, trying to meet every eye.
“There is one thing we of Silverfang, Longstalker’s Fang, and Greenpaw have not told you all. One final gift and revelation which—I would say—perhaps trumps even the revelation of magic. Well, perhaps not that, but is equal to it and the Raskghar’s warning.”
“Bold claims, Chieftain Akrisa.”
Chieftain Perale murmured. It was Iraz who looked at Akrisa and Krshia knew who spoke up.
“Yes, bold. But I say Silverfang has proven they do not boast idly time and time again. I will hear this, if you all will.”
He looked around for nods of support, and Akrisa turned. Among the Meeting of Chieftains, she called out.
“I ask for all the [Shamans] of the Great Tribes to seal this room!”
“It is already warded.”
One of the [Shamans] pointed out, miffed. Akrisa looked at her.
“I do not doubt it is, [Shaman]. But I ask you all to cast spells beyond the most stringent protections. You have already done so—cast your best spells. Cast the spells that cost you, because this secret must not leave this room until it is time.”
The [Shamans] glanced at each other, and Ulcreziek rose.
“I will do this.”
He drew a shining gemstone from his belt pouch, placed it on the ground, and smashed it with his staff before casting a spell. Theikha herself linked paws with Az’muzarre’s [Shaman], and the Gnolls looked sharply at Akrisa.
Even Ferkr, though she might have had an inkling of what was going on. Akrisa was trembling, but Krshia touched her paw and Cetrule stood next to her. When the room was secure, Akrisa spoke.
