When she was unhappy or upset, the young woman could always count on a ball of fur to slowly somersault into the room. Light brown fur, like fresh spring bark, two ears, which perked up, and a little black nose that still seemed too large for his face. Curious brown eyes—and that high-pitched voice which had yet to deepen.
“Satar. I’m bored.”
He never came when she was in a good mood. Somehow, her little brother always knew when the least convenient time was.
She wished she had a cat instead. Or a dog. Little brothers were far less adorable, although other people doted on him.
“Go away, Cers.”
The Gnoll boy did another somersault forwards.
“But I’m bored.”
“I’m busy.”
She snapped back. The young [Shaman] of the Silverfang tribe put in her earrings—silver, of course, but with a bit of orange jade hung in one, and a tiny sigil of Silverfang’s crest…a silver fang…in the other.
Normally she wore other jewelry, because the traditional earrings were a bit…embarrassing. Big dangling earrings that marked her as a [Shaman]. She felt they were too old for her. Something she’d be happier wearing in…twenty years. Thirty. But they did make her look the part.
The occasion meant that Satar had gotten out her best [Shaman] attire, and she had even cleaned specks of wood off the largely ornamental staff. Cers poked a paw into her folded clothes, and she snapped.
“Cers. I’ll tell Cetrule!”
His ears flattened. Cetrule was his father. Also, the [Chief Shaman] of the Silverfangs, although Satar happened to know his real class was [Shaman of Purity]. He was Satar’s step-father, and Satar’s mother was Akrisa Silverfang, so she was privy to information like that.
“You won’t. Mother said [Shamans] are supposed to be responsible and deal with matters themselves.”
The Gnoll cub peered up suspiciously at Satar. She ground her teeth together as she snatched the top of her outfit up.
No robes for her like a [Mage]. That was fine; they looked hot with fur. Satar got a Corusdeer hide top—again, decorated with Silverfang motifs and lined with silvery fur—and leggings.
Not full-body cloth. On a Human or Drake it might have been considered scandalous, but Cers was still allowed to run around without any clothes on. Gnolls had a natural set of clothes. It was called fur, and some Gnolls walked around with only a loincloth. Some Gnolls didn’t walk around with any clothing.
Satar had seen them in the Meeting of Tribes, and they were fully-grown adults. Weird. For her, the old [Shaman]’s apparel was a bit too loose. She didn’t use it often. She preferred casual clothes, something like she saw Humans and Drakes in cities wearing.
There was a difference between species. Differences and similarities, but one was that Satar didn’t think of Cetrule strictly as a step-father or even a parent. She sometimes did, but that was because she was aware that was how Drakes would look at it.
He was just Cetrule. Satar had never known her father, but she did know his tribe.
Ekhtouch. The famously talented Gnoll tribe of mere hundreds who sometimes intermarried or had children with other Gnolls. Her mother had met an Ekhtouch Gnoll and had her.
Because of that, Satar was gifted. It wasn’t just that Ekhtouch Gnolls were taller from exercise, diet, and obsessive pair-matching through countless generations alone. They had Skills and passed down the best of their traits to their children.
That didn’t mean Satar was as tall as some of Ekhtouch, who were giants to rival Minotaurs, Centaurs, or even people with faint Giant blood. She was ‘only’ six feet and two inches, which was average for Gnolls. Some of Ekhtouch were up to eight feet tall, and there was one of them—their [Paragon]—who was over nine feet tall!
Thinking of them, Satar had an idea. The older sister turned to her brother with that too-casual air. She was nineteen; he was nine.
“Cers, why don’t you find the other kids if you’re bored?”
“I don’t want to play. They’re all with the Ekhtouch kids, and they cheat. They just want to play Triumphs.”
That was that game where you did complex things to prove your superior coordination.
“They’re just more coordinated than you, Cers. They’re Ekhtouch; it was how they were born.”
“That’s cheating.”
Satar sighed. But she had to admit—the other tribe she had come from was snobbish. She’d half-hoped they might like her…but the first night their tribes had met, one of the Ekhtouch Gnolls had come up to her and said she had done alright for herself, despite her mother’s line.
That happened to be Akrisa Silverfang, Chieftain of the Silverfangs, the mining-merchant tribe. But that was how they saw it, and Cetrule, her mentor and [Chief Shaman], had told her not to make an issue of it.
Satar had wanted to, but Cetrule was probably right. She wished he weren’t her mentor, though.
He was Silverfang’s best [Shaman] bar none, but he was also her mother’s partner, and it was…not unpleasant, but awkward. Sometimes she heard him dressing down another [Shaman], but he was always suggesting and offering opinions rather than telling her she was out of line.
Gnolls were not shy about that, usually. You earned your place in a tribe, if you were Honored—and Cetrule as [Chief Shaman] was certainly Honored Cetrule—you could tell another Gnoll when they were making a mistake. But Satar was Akrisa’s daughter…
She didn’t want to let him down. But Cers was poking his head into Satar’s spell-pouch, and she raised a fist.
“Cers—I’ll hit you! I have to take part in the Retellings. Wait for me, or go play!”
“I don’t want to.”
“Go find—yes, go find the new girl! Krshia’s ward! Mri! She’s with Gireulashia—the [Paragon]. Don’t you want to see what she’s up to?”
Satar wheedled. She felt like that wasn’t Mri’s name, but the little brown Gnoll with the gold ears was a mystery to Satar. Not only had she befriended Gireulashia, the [Paragon] of Ekhtouch herself, she seemed…important for reasons no one would explain.
Akrisa had stopped meeting other Chieftains just to welcome Mri personally and speak to her in her tent. Alone.
Well, with Krshia, her sister, Satar’s aunt, who fascinated the young [Shaman] so much, and Cetrule. But not with Satar or Cers…that meant it was important. Also, no less than Torishi Weatherfur and Feshi Weatherfur, both famous Gnolls from a famous tribe, also visited Mri. Oh! And the Golden Gnoll, Qwera, and her two friends. And Rose and Inkar seemed to know who Mri was, and all the other Silverfangs from Liscor!
She was important, and Satar ground her teeth, resenting not being trusted with the secret. Akrisa told her she was a full [Shaman] of the tribe despite her age because of her status—yet she didn’t tell her important information. She was lumped in the same category as Cers.
Cers smelled his own poo when he was done.
However, it seemed Cers was on the same page as his sister, for once. He glared and flopped onto his side.
“I don’t like her.”
“Why?”
“She doesn’t talk to me. And everyone says nice things to her. And Mother says I can’t bother her. And she gets to eat lobster whenever she wants. And she’s got a magic wand and I don’t.”
“Woe is you. Cers, get away from my spell-pouch.”
He was sniffing at it. Satar snatched it up and made sure she had all the compartments in order. She was almost ready…she took a few deep breaths.
“I’m ready. I can do this.”
“Why are you nervous? It’s boring. Anyone could do it, even you. Only baby cubs like Retellings.”
So said the nine-year-old. Satar glared at him.
“So don’t follow me.”
Of course, he did. Maybe it was some twisted form of support. As Satar hurried out of the Silverfang camp and towards the platform just outside the private area, she saw a crowd had gathered.
True to Cers’ words, they were all very young Gnolls, some with parents or older siblings or guardians in attendance. It did nothing to stop the man-eating butterflies in Satar’s stomach. She saw them turn to her and put on her best smile.
Her head rose, and she gazed out over the heads of little Gnolls who ran about on all fours. Brown fur, jet-black, even reds or blondes, though those were far less common. She had even seen Gnolls with faint purple to their fur, although it might have been dye.
The older Gnolls turned to grey, but kept most of their original color. Not that they were just fur; they wore colorful clothing mixed with dyes from across Izril and the world. Some had jewelry like her; others had dyed parts of their fur. Weatherfur’s Gnolls were practically pieces of art in and of themselves, having bright splashes of color on their fur.
Some Gnolls even dyed themselves in more dramatic ways. Fur, like clothing, was an expression, and every Plains Gnoll tribe of note was here, so they were incredibly varied. Any color of fur, brown eyes for the most part…
But no white fur. Never pure white fur, even as an aesthetic. Satar approached them at a trot, then realized she needed to slow down.
Slow. Walk! [Shamans] do not run! Unless there’s a fire or monster attack. Cetrule’s words came to her, and she tried to turn her stride into a confident stroll.
Cers slammed into the back of her legs and she nearly went over. The boy backed up, and Satar heard a titter from her audience.
Wonderful. She was sweating already, and not from her costume. She wished another older [Shaman] like Volah was here. But she was experienced enough to do this on her own.
Satar strode up onto the platform for her audience of maybe…at least a hundred…and her mind went blank. She hadn’t done this before so many. Hundred? There might be three hundred here!
Silverfang was a big tribe, but these were guests and this was the Meeting of Tribes—this was a free event anyone could attend. The Gnoll children were chewing on food from the free stalls, and Satar saw Cers plop down in the grass. She tried to speak, and her memorized lines she hadn’t bothered to refresh slipped away from her and tripped out of her tongue.
“Good morning. Um—greetings, Gnolls of the Meetings of Tribes! I am Satar. Shaman Satar of the Silverfangs. The Silverfang Tribe, that is! On behalf of the Meeting of Tribes, it is my honor to offer a small Retelling to you all now.”
Oh no. She saw some of the older Gnolls look resigned, just like her heart sank when she had to go to a Retelling and a bad speaker was doing it. Satar tried to rally.
She looked at Cers, cursing him for all of it, and saw the little Gnoll boy staring up at her. He hadn’t run off, and strangely…he was sitting there, not fidgeting at all. His head propped on his paws, and he stared up at her. Because she was doing a Retelling.
Like he always did, her little brother stared up at Satar when he was bored. He would seek out the [Shaman], or even when she was younger, as an [Apprentice]…and he would always say…
“Tell me a story?”
The young Gnoll woman stopped panicking. Satar saw her people look at her, even a few non-Gnolls passing by pausing to listen. She began as if she were talking to Cers.
“Tell me a story, Satar?”
Oh, alright…
 
——
 
This was how she told it to Cers each time, since he’d beg her to tell it to him again and again.
“Once, long ago, so long that every book ever written about it has crumbled to dust, so long that stone almost forgot and the world looked very different, Dragons flew the skies of the world in great numbers. Hundreds.”
“Hundreds?”
“Thousands. Tens of thousands, maybe.”
“Is that a lot?”
“That’s…yes. Dragons of every color and scale. Good ones, bad ones—Dragons. They lived on Izril, you know. Before the High Passes ever existed, Dragons were a species you could find everywhere. So were Giants.”
“I’ve seen Giants.”
“Not half-Giants, Cers. Real Giants. So tall they would get tired of walking through clouds and sit. Back then, you know, there were other species too. Djinni—you know them?”
“Bottle people?”
“Yes…and Jinn. Their half-mortal descendants. There were also, oh…Harpies? Lots of species. I don’t know them all, but there were Harpies who flew like Garuda, only they had no hands; they were more like people with wings for arms. We also had Elves, back then. Gnomes too. Halflings, I think.”
“What’re they?”
“Half…people? I don’t know. Stop interrupting my story. I’m just repeating the Retellings, and I have to get it right.”
“Okay.”
“In those days, Dragons created Drakes, their descendants. They built the first Walled Cities afterwards. Afterwards…the last Elves vanished, and only half-Elves remained. The Dwarves appeared, but they grew taller. The Gnomes vanished, and some species died. Some moved; many fought. There were times when other species ruled the world. Selphids, half-Elves, Humans…other species appeared, like Stitch-Folk.”
“Goblins?”
“No, they were always there too.”
“How about…Antinium?”
A little face shivered as Cers curled up. The girl stopped and shivered too, but Satar shook her head.
“This is long ago, Cers. Long before the Antinium. Before Humans even came to Izril. The point is…back then. When Drakes appeared. When the Walled Cities rose and fell. Through empire and war and cataclysm…always, always. We were here.”
Gnolls.
Across every age were Gnolls. But the same could be said of every species. That they had survived was an accomplishment in itself, but there was more to it than that.
“How come we don’t have a Walled City, Satar? Drakes have six. Why don’t we have a kingdom? I want an orchard.”
The boy would run around her, too impatient to sit, and miss the pained look in his mother’s eyes. Satar would have to catch him, sit him in her lap and comb his hair as she explained. She’d hand him a grasshopper she found in his fur, and he’d watch it hop away as she lowered her voice.
“We did. We had many things, Cers. We had a kingdom and cities. In older days, we were everywhere. We were in the stories each species tells.”
“Everyone is in stories, Satar. I’m going to be in stories. I’ll be a [Hero].”
“Not a [Chieftain]? You were a [Chieftain] yesterday.”
“Then I’ll be a [Hero Chieftain]. You can tell my story.”
She pulled at his ears and he squirmed. Satar shook her head.
