“It is just—without intelligence about Earth, we do not know if this transportation system is stealing our people. Whether a portal will open, or what will occur. And a world of Humans? That could spell a war worse than the Antinium. Assuming they are dangerous and not…weak from lack of magic.”
She looked hopeful at that, but Feshi bit her lip. And that was imagination for you. Adetr would have agreed with Reizet instantly before seeing Earth’s armies, even if he thought about it.
You cannot imagine what a gun is. They had no frame of reference for machine-technology, even Adetr. It was literally out of their understanding.
But he had seen it.
“Chieftain Iraz, Honored Gnolls. I think I can help. Rose has been speaking with me this last month; I happened to uncover the secret early. I have not understood Earth at all in many respects, but I understand it from a military angle. I can answer questions for you and take that burden from her.”
Rose turned to Adetr with surprise. The [Battle Seeker] clasped his paws behind his back so they couldn’t see them tremble as the other Gnolls looked at him. Iraz raised his brows.
“You do understand battle well, Adetr. Yes, he uncovered Rose’s secret through his ability.”
“[Analysis: Vision of Greatest Battle]. Annoying Skill. Makes my fur itch.”
Garsine growled, but she looked at Adetr as he bowed to her, shamefaced.
“I apologize for disturbing you, Honored Garsine. But I can see Earth’s warriors. Thanks to that, I understand more than I ever would without. I can tell you all, Chieftains, honestly, that we must prepare for Earth to meet our world. If we have time, I suggest we race to develop arms like theirs. If we have years…we may survive. If they appear next month, next year? We must find the best way to hide or surrender.”
The Gnolls looked at him, astonished. This, coming from Adetr Steelfur, the [Battle Seeker] and [Vanguard of Metal]?
It had far more weight than coming from even Rose herself. Werri sat up, and Iraz blinked at his nephew.
“You truly say this, Adetr? You did not say it to me.”
“I was making sure, Chieftain Iraz. But I am certain. Rose has spoken to me about Earth. I have…facts. They have superior weapons to ours. Not magically—we can use magic against them—but if two sides meet unprepared, ours will lose. Not just Gnolls. Any army in the world. Named Adventurers would stand a chance, depending on their Skills and artifacts. But if we meet tomorrow, and every nation allies without restraint, enemies and allies, and both worlds go to war—we will lose absolutely and instantly.”
Adetr was shaking. Now that he could say it, it was a relief. Rose sat upright.
“Adetr! That wasn’t what we talked about. I told you about Earth because…you were nervous! I thought you understood we’re not like that.”
He looked at her and almost smiled at her.
“I have talked with you, Rose, and you have told me many things. I cannot imagine your world fully. But I can understand your numbers. This is the number you should know first, Honored Gnolls, Chieftain. Seven billion. Possibly eight. That is a thousand times a million. Eight billion Humans reside on Earth.”
The Gnolls all looked at Adetr, completely unable to understand that number. Feshi’s fur drained of color, and she lowered her notepad.
“Eight…I cannot…the Walled Cities number in the millions, and they are among the grandest cities in the world.”
The huge [Shapechanger] rubbed at her head. Adetr nodded to her.
“Rose’s city is four million people strong, Honored Garsine. And it is one of many. But not just that—Earth Humans have the ability to fly in vehicles and launch explosive weapons at us, greater than [Fireball] spells. They can fly a mile up, and they have created metal vehicles like Golem armor—but controlled, with weapons capable of knocking down a Drake City’s walls with one shot. I have seen it.”
“With your Skill. I cannot credit that. Where is one of these weapons? How would Az’muzarre fare against them?”
Chieftain Reizet was patently incredulous. Adetr met her eyes, and saw the Gnoll woman stiffen as he delivered the next words.
“Chieftain Reizet. I say this with no insult but with the truth. There is a scenario where their average warriors—average warriors, with their weapons, guns, firearms, rifles—could face all of Az’muzarre from afar. And, before you took one of their lives, they could kill your entire tribe. Steelfur as well. I have seen it.”
The Chieftain of Az’muzarre stared at Adetr for a second in pure astonishment before she grew angry. But she was forestalled—
Iraz dropped his cup out of his paws. He didn’t even look at the water splashing down. All the Chieftains looked at him. Werri shot up, cursing, then saw Iraz staring at Adetr. Because what sounded like alarmist talk, or someone exaggerating?
Iraz knew Adetr. He didn’t lie.
“But—but listen. Adetr. I thought we talked. I thought…”
Rose broke in and saw all of the Gnolls stare at her like she were laying Creler eggs. Adetr turned to her, and Rose looked up at her friend.
She thought they had been growing to become friends. Adetr was a battle-obsessed Gnoll with poor manners. Who had looked at her like that. Like she was terrifying. But she hadn’t seen that look, of late.
“Adetr. I thought you weren’t scared of me. Do you fear me? Me, Rose, who can’t even open a bottle properly?”
She tried to smile, but Adetr looked so…so…
The [Battle Seeker] nodded after a moment.
“I don’t fear you, Rose. That’s true.”
She smiled, but he didn’t. The Gnoll went on.
“I don’t fear you, but your people scare me to death. A million soldiers in one nation’s army, all armed with weapons that can kill a Level 30 [Warrior] in a single shot. I do not fear you, but your people? There are eight billion to fear. I do not know them. I cannot imagine your world. You have tried to tell me the good, and I hear it…but I hear how many wars your people make and how you kill each other. And I wonder—what would Humans do to us? Especially if we have something they want, like magic, or gems, which you say you have so much less of?”
Someone else stood.
“We must discuss this. Adetr, you know our tribes. You can tell us most directly. We will return. Honored Feshi, you are welcome to join us, but you must explain it to us again, Adetr. I cannot believe it.”
“I will, Chieftain Werri.”
He nodded, and they rose. Rose reached out, but Adetr looked at her.
“You don’t have anything to fear, Rose.”
You don’t. He stared down at her, and she saw a flash of it. That fear.
What had he seen? He couldn’t tell her, only describe it. Not the other Gnolls…what did you see?
He couldn’t imagine Earth, even after a month of talking. But he could remember what he saw. A war. The Gnoll walked off, and Rose saw the Gnolls looking at her. Not like a guest, or something to be exploited. It was almost refreshing that of all the species, Gnolls looked at Earth’s Humans and saw another threat.
 
——
 
Adetr’s testimony didn’t help. Krshia wanted to kick him, but she felt like she’d break her foot if she tried that.
It was understandable, given what he had seen, but it did not help.
…Nor was it the only problem. When the Chieftains reconvened the next day, his words weren’t the only ones echoing around. The first thing a Chieftain did was bow to Akrisa.
“Once again, Silverfang delivers us the most important warnings. We know Earth exists. Now…we must prepare for it. I do not know if we tell other species. We surely must if the threat is this grave and prepare for the worst. But in what manner? Do we strike an alliance between all species or tell only those we know can be trusted? These are grave and dark considerations. Perhaps—and I say this not lightly—but perhaps we must find a place to hide. Prepare an escape, that some of our people might survive.”
A rumble went through the room. Not in disagreement. Just plain unease. Akrisa shot upright.
“Chieftains! There is no need for that! I will speak plainly—I had hoped we could agree to find, shelter, and work with the Earthers. To make them our allies, so that if we go to Earth, or find a way to return them or bridge worlds, we would greet them with open arms.”
“An easy way to be shot with one of their bullets.”
Chieftain Reizet muttered. Adetr nodded, next to Iraz, and Krshia glared at him. However, even Chieftains who hadn’t heard his horror stories shook their heads.
“It seems to me the tribes must agree that if there is a doorway, to slam it shut. To devote all our efforts—more than punishing Drakes, more than addressing the Raskghar or Antinium—to keeping Earth from our world. At least, until we can hold our own. Eight billion Humans could wipe out every nation combined in numbers alone. I vote to create a list of allies. Perhaps we begin with trusted guardians? The Blighted Kingdom, the Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar…the House of Minos? Would they be able to stand against even one billion, if they linked arms?”
“How many?”
“What’s a billion?”
“Someone get me a [Mathematician]. Xherw, what’s yours say a billion is…?”
The number ran around the room in a heartbeat. Krshia closed her eyes. She only opened them when someone else spoke.
“I agree. They have powerful, even wondrous technologies. It is already changing our world—but we cannot trust them. These…Human-Earthers are no less deadly than the other ones. For our survival, we must be wary.”
“Wary? Why must we call the first other species from another world enemies, Chieftain Thost?”
It was Torishi who spoke, but even she appeared troubled. The Gnoll looked down at her, and something like Yiew’s look was in his eyes.
“Why would we assume they are peaceful given that we know their world is not, Torishi? We have seen other species and how they treat us. Some have been friends. But many? Look at the Humans of this world! They took Izril’s north from us and the Drakes because they could. The Drakes have stolen our magic. What are the Humans doing, poisoning our rivers in secret?”
There was a broad murmur in the room of agreement, despite the hyperbole. Krshia Silverfang and her sister looked around and saw even Firrelle and close allies looked unnerved.
Too late, Krshia realized they had made a mistake. This…this shouldn’t have followed the revelations of the Raskghar and theft of magic. This was not the time to propose peace with another world after so much treachery and darkness was unveiled.
All the Chieftains were disquieted, and not least because when you looked for examples of Earth doing terrible things? Rose had told Adetr some things in confidence, but even when they asked her…she wanted to be honest.
So when he asked, ‘what had Earth done that was evil? What should I fear?’ she had far too many examples. Rose tried to cut it with the good, but he had seen only war.
And Rose had also told him the worst of it because it mattered to her not to lie. Not to hide it.
Genocide and gas chambers. Nuclear weapons capable of wiping out any world multiple times over. Rose was principled, if unwise in how she told them.
They had to know. So the Meeting of Chieftains listened. They looked at another world.
Collectively, they drew back in fear. Krshia Silverfang rose to her feet and spoke.
“Gnolls. Chieftains, Honored guests. Hear me.”
They fell silent. Akrisa looked at Krshia with a vestige of hope, and Krshia searched for the words to turn this around.
“It is true Earth has done terrible things, or so I hear. So has our world. They are one species, but is it not true Humans have done good and ill? Let me tell you—I would not be here to uncover the truth of magic to you, I might not be here at all but for one Human. One girl from Earth, who I knew. Who was a great friend. She was…is named Erin Solstice. She was the one who helped stop the Raskghar. I saw her stop the siege of Liscor myself. If there are Humans who are the worst of a species, remember. There are ones who are better.”
She turned to her right.
“Perhaps you have seen how many new goods come from Longstalker’s Fang this Meeting of Tribes. Well, what would you say if I told you much of it was made this last year? Inkar came to you, didn’t she, Chieftain Eska? Did she come with wrath or ill-intent?”
Chieftain Eska rose.
“I have nothing ill to say of her, Krshia. She gave us new knowledge and was nothing but credit—even when my own tribe was unkind to her. She was so beloved that Honored Deskie—Deskie, whom you all know—wove her very clothing herself. A mark of respect, for Honored Inkar, a Human who we are proud to call our own.”
Krshia nodded, turning desperately to her audience. Her words were not in vain; they swayed some of the Gnolls. But again, someone spoke, and this time it was Yiew. He looked at her with hollow eyes.
“You tell us of good individuals, Krshia Silverfang, Chieftain Eska. But I hear individuals. I do not know this people. I only hear what they are capable of. Good, yes, or ill. I cannot imagine a world where smoke belches into the sky and metal and lightning rules. I fear it.”
How could you imagine it? Krshia tried to argue, but the Chieftains, even Adetr, had never seen Erin Solstice. They had no idea what she was like, even if words could capture the way she laughed.
 
——
 
In an age long gone, aeons ago, if the Gnolls of another Meeting of Tribes had heard another world existed, they would not have feared a world of Humans. In those days, some would have prepared for strife, and others gone with open arms, but their people would have not feared, but gone as equals.
They would have rejoiced, because it meant there was twice as much of reality to explore, and been the first to walk across the furthest lands, for better or worse. A fearless people who walked arm-in-arm with myth and legend.
Once, Gnolls traveled the world. Once, we were explorers.
But that is only what the stories said. How could you prove it? Perhaps…perhaps someone had written it down?
Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh entertained her guests in the evening, although she had to rest for tomorrow’s meeting on Earth. The Gaarh Marsh [Shamans] and guards wouldn’t have let them meet her normally, because Theikha was so important and wise—but Gireulashia was the [Paragon] of Ekhtouch.
“Ah, now, who is this? Mri?”
The girl hid behind Gire, and the Gnoll hurried to introduce her. Theikha gave Mrsha a keen-eyed look but turned to Satar.
“Well met, Shaman Satar.”
“You honor me too greatly, Shaman Theikha.”
Satar was red beneath her fur, and also petrified. Theikha herself! The oldest [Shaman] living smiled at her and gestured.
