“I found it inaccurate. You speak as if Gnolls came to Chandrar for the first time. As if one of their great [Archmages] did not hail from Chandrar itself. This question about Gnolls practicing magic could have been resolved by simply reading a book. Ah, but I am told that such books are passing rare in Izril. I communicated my surprise that the existence of Gnolls across the world was in such doubt. Even Feshi Weatherfur, who bears one of the Diamond Swords of Serept, did not have sufficient proof.”
“Satar, Satar, what did you do?”
Cetrule was shaking her urgently. Satar burst out.
“I don’t know! I didn’t do anything. We just sent letters, but I didn’t tell Fetohep to do anything. He refused to help at first! Why’s he on the news? It had to be—Mri!”
There was only one person who could even possibly be responsible for this. Cetrule looked around, and the smuggest little girl in the world poked her head out of her tent to look at Satar, confirming Satar’s suspicions. Mrsha’s satisfaction lasted only about five seconds until Krshia stormed out of her tent.
“Mrsh—Mri! You are in big trouble!”
Off the little girl ran, helter-skelter, but it was far too late. Fetohep of Khelt was still speaking.
“Feshi Weatherfur. I have no doubt you are listening to my address.”
“She could be asleep.”
Noass pointed out reasonably. Drassi elbowed him; annoying Fetohep didn’t seem wise. The golden undead’s eyes flashed.
“Then she will hear my words. Feshi Weatherfur, do you doubt your kind’s boast that you came across the world? You are a talented [Strategist]. But you are young. Investigate your possessions. Learn. Hold the dagger above your head. And call for Dorrer of Khelt.”
 
——
 
In the Weatherfur camp, all of the Gnolls turned to Feshi. The Gnoll [Strategist] paled. Then—at Fetohep’s words, raised the dagger over her head. She spoke.
“Dorrer of Khelt?”
The dagger flashed. Black diamond opened a portal to somewhere else, and something rose from the ground.
An undead. A servant in undeath, like the Minotaur champion of old. Like the other warriors bound to serve the wielder and Khelt eternal.
Of course, Feshi knew she could summon warriors to fight for her. But she had never thought…the Gnoll looked down and stepped back as a figure rose.
Like the others, the mummified corpse was so old it had lost almost all of its fur. It was bone in places. Yet even bones revealed the original form. And this warrior, armored in ancient golden metal and holding a spear and shield?
This was a Gnoll. A Gnoll? A Gnoll had once lived in Khelt? Feshi turned, and Fetohep of Khelt had his servants bring in a tapestry so everyone could see it.
“This hangs on the Serept-era hallways, quite appropriately. I had it brought out that I might illustrate my point.”
He smiled with modest satisfaction at his joke. Everyone looked at the illustration, and Drassi gasped.
“Oh my.”
It was one of those classic pictures of overwhelming victory. A half-Giant king—Serept himself—stood, pointing down at his enemies who were fleeing or surrendering in a rather craven manner. His trusted vassals, mostly half-Giants, were arrayed around him, each bearing a Diamond Sword of Serept. The same dagger that Feshi carried was in a Garuda’s grip.
But look. Among the vast—and it was a vast tapestry, maybe five hundred paces from end to end, because a half-Giant had commissioned it to be properly big—there was one tiny figure. Just one, but visible amid the scene of operadic triumph.
A Gnoll stood upon a hill of his foes. He was armored in the same way as the undead standing before Feshi, raising a blade in triumph.
“Just one Gnoll. Rather…kitschy. Tapestries are largely exaggerations.”
Fetohep actually made his eye-flames do something like a roll as Noass broke the silence.
“Unsurprisingly, you fail to take my point, Noass of Pallass. Behold. In the era of Serept, a Gnoll warrior was vaunted enough to be represented among Serept’s finest vassals. I happen to know Dorrer of Khelt traveled from Izril to Khelt and won Serept’s favor. It is a small, but noted passage in The Hammer of Giants, one of the many biographies of Serept published in Khelt’s library. It is my will that Satar of Tribe Silverfang receive it. She has no stories of Gnolls that remain in ink and paper? She will have one.”
Feshi stared as Fetohep lifted the book he intended to send across the sea—and handed it to a Courier ready to take it to a boat chartered to make a direct delivery. Such was Fetohep’s largesse.
 
——
 
Satar was sitting now, with her mother and Silverfangs watching. If that were it, it would already have been a small, but special moment. A book from Fetohep himself! So ancient! She’d probably level from reading it.
But that was not all. Fetohep did not know the meaning of restraint. He thought he did, and he knew the dictionary definition, but nothing about the undead king ever indicated he could put the word into practice.
“This is one example from Khelt. Now, I cede my time upon the orb to a ruler of surpassing respect. From Eternal Khelt, we salute the skies and the Shield Kingdom of Qualvekkaras, the Kingdom of the Winds. Sapki Makhita of the Garuda, I salute you.”
Fetohep made a complex gesture to imitate a wing-arm, and both Drakes on television gulped as they realized they’d have to pronounce that.
Then Fetohep vanished, and a Garuda appeared in a shower of trumpets and song. She stood upon a cliff, the clear skies behind her, and her royal guard bowed in a flash of feathers and armor.
Someone who knew how to make an entrance. And, forewarned by Fetohep, Makhita used her time to capture the eye. Nor did she waste time.
“In the days when Gnolls lived upon Chandrar, the greatest of them who raced across ground and sky came to us. When Fetohep of Khelt asked if her story remained, I laughed. Of course we remember her! Few species born without wings ever learned to fly without artifacts or magic alone. We have stories and books with her name.”
She turned and, with a flourish, produced a tome that looked like it was a well-worn novel.
The Gnoll Who Flew.
Somewhere, the Flying Gnoll of Pallass fell over in a dead faint. Satar nearly fell over as the Sapki of the Shield Kingdom of Chandrar lifted her head.
Her feathers were white. Because, to Garuda, that was special, even royal. Mrsha stared up at her as Makhita spoke. Not in the royal tones, but almost conversationally.
“I grew up reading stories of her! I would wager many rulers of Qualvekkaras did! We have books of her and her stories. Other Gnolls too! The thought that the tales of Arculen Jawbreaker were lost—I myself will pledge to send a copy of our stories to Izril. Although it may be simpler just to have a [Scribe] copy it. But I will send our tales to the Gnolls of Izril.”
“And who is this flying Gnoll?”
Drassi leaned forwards, and Satar’s fur began to rise of its own accord. It couldn’t be. But wasn’t it right there, in one of the most famous songs ever written and sung? The white-feathered Garuda looked at Drassi in shock and then threw her head back and caw-laughed. So did her retainers.
“I didn’t even say! I thought everyone would know her! She was the [Great Chieftain of the Skies], and she flew higher than most Garuda ever dreamed. Her name was—”
“Seru’nial.”
The Gnolls whispered it. The Gnoll who took her tribe into the clouds. The Sapki looked around, beaming.
“She came to us to learn to fly! Well, of course she did. Imagine if she’d been taught by Drakes! She’d have crashed before she got halfway up!”
All the Garuda exploded with laughter and slapped each other with their wings. Noass opened his mouth—and Makhita looked up.
“Ah, but I’m wasting time. Who’s next? Um—ah, yes. It’s written right here. Gorgon Lixctoria.”
“Wait, but—”
The image changed, and a Gorgon appeared—or rather, one slitted eye. Noass nearly fell out of his seat, and Drassi recoiled. The Gorgon boomed as a plethora of Lizardfolk clamored to get into the shot.
“Of course we had Gnolls. We have books of how they explored the Dyed Lands with the first of us. Or do you mean older? They came across the sea in ages past. Gnolls, who lived across this land. We were sorry when they left—we didn’t do it. Blame the Centaurs and Dullahans.”
She held up a book and brandished it, before one of the Lizardmen raced onto the scrying orb. One of them produced a ring and tried to kneel down as he spoke rapidly.
“Drassi, will you marry m—”
The Gorgon slapped him out of frame with her tail so fast they never heard the rest. And she was the last person Fetohep had prepared. But, of course, she was hardly the last.
“Gnolls? We had them. Obviously. There are records of Gnoll-[Knights]. You’d think they’d be called [Fur Knights] or something, but apparently that was a slur back in the day.”
A Terandrian [Historian] did his best to explain, but the energetic King of Avel was the one to use the unfortunate appellation, jostling for his screen time.
Satar said nothing. She just listened. And she looked. Not just at the stories each nation had…
At their books. The [Bow King] raised it triumphantly.
It wasn’t all about them. Some books were, but the others? It was just a single passage, or a side-character. But there they were.
We were here. Gnolls. They were in the other species’ stories. Heroes and villains and helpers, cunning tricksters and stalwart friends. More and more nations began cracking books open. Even nations that Satar had never heard of.
A Dullahan wearing what looked like coral armor from an island pointed to a library of a hundred books.
“We have a hundred books in our library. Of the stories with histories or adventures, over sixty have Gnolls. We counted. They’re here.”
“Well—of course. We have stories with Gnolls too, you know. Lots of Gnolls. We just don’t go waving them about.”
Noass tried to bluster. The Dullahan looked at him and frowned.
“Shut up, Pallass.”
They were there. Not just Gnolls…white Gnolls. Some of the pictures on the books definitely showed Gnolls with white fur—but Satar didn’t know what the books contained. It didn’t matter—later, she’d read everything anyone wanted to give her. Who turned down free books?
…Unless they were bad books, of course. But these? These were their history.
We were there. And they remember. Mrsha watched the scrying orb and knew this made up for all the missed dessert in the world.
 
Mri: Good work, old guy. You’re old.
Fetohep of Khelt: I am aware.
 
Satar was less sardonic. She was crying again. She saw her people across the books of the world. And not from their perspective. Other species wrote of them. Critically, complimentary—but in such ways that you couldn’t deny that they had been there and done great things.
She saw the world differently, and all because they had stood there and told her the truth. She looked around and saw the longing in even Cers’ eyes. Cers, who didn’t like reading.
He wanted to know those stories. If only they could know those stories…
Maybe we’ll know the truth behind Doombringers. See it.
Someone had tried to erase the history of Gnolls, and they had done a thorough job, especially with a certain Wyrm accidentally aiding them at one point in history. But they couldn’t erase everything and burn every book.
And that truth would set everything right. If any descendants of the original conspirators were still trying to hide the truth, this was a very unhappy day for them.
It was then, looking at this display of goodwill from people eager to give Gnolls something, however small, and stick it to the Drakes, that Satar realized what the Meeting of Tribes was missing.
She looked at Inkar, holding hands with Tkrn. The least monstrous person you could imagine to represent Earth. Rose too, come to it.
Adetr knew that. But still, he feared what he’d seen. Like Mrsha, in a way, Doombringers were a nightmare if all you knew were the Retellings. But if you looked at Mrsha, lying bloated after too many bites of tuna or rolling down a hill with Gire?
Could you see a monster?
Yelroan knew the answer, but Satar had no idea of what he had found. Or whom he now feared.
As more texts with Gnolls were unveiled and Noass’ name was made fun of at least a dozen times, which was bordering cruelty, Satar turned away. Because she had an idea. The only question was—could it be done?
Surely. They had to try.
 
——
 
Back to the Meeting of Tribes that morning. The [Chieftains] didn’t get to watch their achievements reflected in the literature of the world. They were tired of dark revelations.
Scared by the prospect of another world. A people they couldn’t comprehend.
Truly couldn’t. Adetr had watched Rose’s movies, and she’d realized something when he had ducked when he thought something was coming towards him.
The first Humans who saw movies, like a simple clip of a train coming their way, had ducked and gone for cover. They had been uncritical viewers incapable of that level of abstraction to understand it was simply an image because they had never seen the like before.
In the same way, Gnolls had no reference for a skyscraper. They imagined a tall building, but even that was largely foreign to Plains Gnolls.
It truly was hard for them to think of Earth and all too easy to understand the worst of them. Just like, frankly, Earth would fear a world where something like A’ctelios Salash just lay buried in the sand or Crelers roamed.
It cut both ways. Yet the point was not to cut. Another species—Drakes—could react by making a giant wall or reaching for a sword.
Not her people. Krshia Silverfang had wanted, had believed that they would be better than that. She argued desperately, alongside a few other voices like Torishi, but she was outnumbered. It was not that they were fools or bad people. They had simply seen betrayal and darkness too soon.
They needed something else.
So—as the Meeting of Chieftains began to swing one way, someone interrupted it. The guards at the tents raised their spears, but warily, remembering Ferkr. They took one look at who was coming their way, put up their spears, stepped aside, and threw open the tent flaps.
“Hold. I say, hold. Before we vote upon Earth and what happens—hold. For what we lack in perspective. You have not heard the children of Earth.”
Akrisa petitioned the [Chieftains]. Werri snorted.
“Some of us have talked to them. Will it change our minds, to hear one of them speak? One Human is not all. Just like the King of Destruction is one man—we understand there is good and evil, Akrisa Silverfang.”
“But you do not understand it.”
A voice rang from the opening at the entrance to the Meeting of Chieftains. As the Gnolls turned to look up, they saw someone standing there.
