“The way of devising or choosing names for things. Not the words themselves; that’s lexicon. The method.”
“…Can you use it in a sentence?”
A loud sigh. The hooded figures kept up their quiet banter as they rustled for bags of holdings or items.
“Alright, let’s see it. What do you have?”
“I have…two of the latest off-the-cover stories of Tales of Adventure and Woe. Big names—fresh off the Mage’s Guild. Literal hours.”
“Ooh. Who?”
“Heartslayi and Sandquen themselves.”
The new Gnoll groaned.
“Them? They’re romance.”
The nomenclature-Gnoll grunted beneath his hood as he waved the pieces of bound parchment at the other two. It was cheap; the other two had paper goods, but quality varied.
“Yeah, well, not this time. You know Sandquen?”
“I’ve read their work. Somehow; I bet she pays people to read it because there’s no other way it gets traded around. Even in her genre. Not impressed.”
Sandquen had never been published in Tales of Adventure and Woe. She lacked in some fundamentals, but she was just a weird writer too, who jumped to the glorious moments without proper buildup. Amateurs.
However…the Gnoll insisted on showing the others the first paragraph.
“She’s gotten better. This one’s about the ‘Silver Swordswoman’ in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Very sentimental, and full of platitudes and whatnot, but it reads realistic and better than anything else.”
“Huh. It is…better.”
The new Gnoll paged through the story before it was snatched back and felt a pang of grudging envy. Both writers had an actual audience to be featured here. To have people peddling their works. They had to level up to that.
“What about Heartslayi?”
“Also different. It’s a mystery—she calls it a ‘heist’ story. It’s a breakout of a magical prison, but it’s come out in installments. No one knows how it’ll end, and she’s not updated—she normally posts a new one every few days.”
“Weird. Is it good?”
“Very. How much do you want for it?”
“Will you…trade for some poetry? I’ve got about fifty-two poems…”
“Pass.”
“It’s good poetry. Written by a Level 16 [Poet]!”
The second hooded figure’s voice was defensive. Both first and third Gnoll shifted, and one coughed. The second hooded figure’s voice grew louder.
“It’s not me! Swear by the tribes! Look, just read it—it’ll help someone level, alright?”
“Oh—fine. But I’m trading all of it for the Heartslayi copy, and you’re paying for the rest. I guess I can share it with people in the city…”
Grumbling, the first hooded Gnoll made the trade. The third, Satar, piped up uncertainly.
“I—I have a story too. Three copies. It’s entitled, ‘The Revelation of Ferkr’. It’s about what happened at the Meeting of Chieftains.”
The two other Gnolls looked at her. Satar was beet red under her hood, but the first Gnoll made a sound.
“Interesting. I heard Krsysl Wordsmith and other [Writers] were tackling it…is that a copy or something?”
“No. It’s…written from the perspective of someone who was here. It’s historical.”
No one had to say who wrote what, but the other two Gnolls exchanged glances. They took the pieces of paper Satar had paid for and worked so hard on and read.
“…Huh. History? But we’re all here. Why do we need this?”
“Because not everyone was here.”
The two looked at her, and the first Gnoll, who had been to a Mage’s Guild, nodded.
“Interesting. I’ll take…how many copies do you have?”
Her heart leapt.
“Six.”
“I’ll take four, then.”
“One for me. I bet you can get the others sold off, especially if you can get more. How much per?”
“I—I can get more! Eight copper.”
The others fished for coins. Satar held her breath; she priced her stuff low, mostly so that the people who attended these gatherings would buy. She took a loss most times, but gained in levels.
“Pleasure doing business with you. We have a meeting tomorrow. We’ll go to a big tent. Someone’ll hang a fish on the tent so you can find it—near the Steelfur camps. Late night.”
“A fish? That’ll stink to the skies.”
“I think it’s a carved fish, but we’ll see.”
The group of three had traded goods, and Satar had a copy of some poetry, the two new stories, and even a free little story she suspected the Gnoll with the poetry had written. But she’d read it all. This was the underground black market of words, and there was no better place for it than the Meeting of Tribes.
“See you there, then. Alright…”
Which also begged the question why all three bothered to do it in secret. The three hooded Gnolls standing behind the tent were turning to go when suddenly, someone howled. They froze—and then a Gnoll came bounding around the tent, a huge, spiked mace in hand.
Three more Gnolls, all wearing extremely dangerous-looking armor, what looked like shell armor to Satar, delicate mithril scale mail, and a poor Gnoll with plain leather, bounded around the corner, all holding weapons.
“By order of the Meeting of Tribes! Freeze!”
The Az’muzarre Gnoll brandished the club with spikes made of some monster’s teeth, and the Gnolls in hoods threw up their paws. One of the Gnolls sniffed.
“We were just—”
“Shut up. You lot make me sick. What are you selling? Selphid Dust? It can’t be Dreamleaf. Smells like rolls of parchment and ink.”
“Killing spells? Watch for traps—”
“Move and die! Hey, you. [Guardsman]. How do you want to search them?”
The Gnoll with leather armor gulped as the three high-level Gnolls, each from a different tribe, turned to him.
Guardsman Tkrn of Liscor hesitated.
“Well, if we think they’ve got something deadly—make them place it, and if they so much as twitch on the [Detect Magic] radar, we take them down. Hoods off, robes off, lying down so they can’t twist and stab us.”
“Good idea. Do it.”
The [Guardsman] watched as the Gnolls placed their suspicious cargo on the ground. Unlike the last three busts, which had seen Gnolls stealing everything from secret recipes from other tribes to dangerous drugs to stolen goods—he eyed the books and manuscripts.
“What’s this? Secrets? Hoods off!”
“But—”
“Now.”
The Az’muzarre Gnoll didn’t ask twice. The hoods came off, and Tkrn looked at Satar as she stared at him. He blinked.
“Satar?”
 
——
 
Held by her captors, the young woman stared the Archmage in the eyes. His sharp goatee and twisted smile on his face were like a piercing razor, but she never looked away. Her chest rose and fell as he snipped the first layer of cloth away with a spell.
“This would be easier if you told me where you were hiding the key,” he said. But the young woman refused to speak. Across from her, the bared chest and sculpted muscles of the young [Mage] shone with the faintest sheen of perspiration in the cell’s thin light.
“Then, some incentive will do. Call for the Golems—”
 
At this point, one of the [Shamans] had to put down the manuscript of Heartslayi’s latest novella. Another fanned himself.
“Is it getting hot in here, or is it just me, yes? So this is the illicit goods, eh?”
He turned, and Satar wanted to vanish into the ground like a [Shaman of the Earth]. She sat, burning with embarrassment under her fur.
“I thought you said she wasn’t writing romance!”
One of the two Gnolls sitting with her hissed at their companion. The male Gnoll, who was actually a [Tracker] from the Plain’s Eye tribe, held up his paws.
“It isn’t romance! Not really! She—it’s Heartslayi. What did you expect?”
“Silence.”
The Az’muzarre Gnoll glared at them, but even the [Warrior] was trying very hard not to laugh. He sighed loudly.
“Why were you hiding? Behind a tent? You wasted our time and yours, unless there’s some secret in it? Hidden codes?”
“If there is, it’s hidden under all the abdominal muscles and light torture. What is it with Humans and bellies?”
“Probably the lack of fur.”
A group of [Shamans] from each Gnoll’s tribe and a few others were investigating the criminality. Satar wanted to die; not least because she and the two other Gnolls were now known.
A [Tracker], a [Shaman], and a [Netweaver], all from different tribes, all with a secret uniting passion. The worst part? The reason Satar wished they’d all been killed on the spot?
Cetrule was half-covering his face, avoiding her expression as the [Shamans] read out another passage from the manuscript. They were all much amused.
“They’re definitely not in trouble—unless liking this is a crime.”
“It should be. This is bad poetry.”
“Hey! I know the Gnoll who wrote that!”
The [Netweaver] protested. The [Shamans] glanced over and one looked at Satar.
“This is hardly illegal, Warrior Kuzait. We regret the wasted time, but perhaps these Gnolls will stop doing this in the future. It is not embarrassing to have a hobby, yes? More openness might help.”
“As you say, Shaman.”
Kuzait sighed loudly. He turned to the trio with him, one of whom was Tkrn.
“Thank you for your help, fellow warriors. We are surely done with our parts. Tomorrow?”
“If we don’t go to war before then. Yes. An honor to meet you all.”
The Gnolls broke up, and the [Shamans] turned. One looked at the three [Readers] with some mischief in her eyes.
“You are also free to go, although I’m afraid this might get out among the tribes. Fear not. There’s nothing to be embarrassed about. I’ll buy one of these ‘Heartslayi’ stories myself. How much?”
And that was that. The other two Gnolls left the tent fast—after selling one copy to the [Shaman]—with their trade-goods. It was a lighthearted moment, if hugely embarrassing.
Satar sat where she was for a long while, before Cetrule walked over. He inspected her works and picked them up, offering them to her.
“We should, ah, get back to the Silverfang tribe. Akrisa sent me right away when she heard. She will want to know all is well.”
“Oh.”
So her mother knew she’d been arrested. Satar walked after Cetrule, head hung low. She tried to say something as they left the tent.
“Chieftain Akrisa doesn’t have to know why I was stopped, does she…?”
Cetrule hesitated, clearly torn.
“She…will want to know why. And not knowing the answer will bother her more than the reason. Which is not—awful? Not at all.”
He looked at Satar, and the [Shaman] didn’t say anything.
“It’s not a shame to have a hobby, Satar. If it is what you like—she knows you are a [Storyteller]. She might even be glad to hear of your level. Level 23 [Archival Storyteller]. You didn’t tell us you were Level 23! She would have thrown you a celebration.”
“I was going to. Later. I wanted it to be a surprise.”
The [Shamans] had used [Appraisal] on her to make sure she had no untoward classes. They were thorough. Cetrule nodded, looking at her.
“Then, you prefer this class over being a [Shaman].”
“I like being a [Shaman]!”
She protested, but she heard the disappointment in his voice. Satar looked at Cetrule wretchedly.
“I just like stories too. I didn’t want to do anything wrong.”
“You didn’t.”
“I was arrested. Mother will think I’m a child. That’s why she doesn’t trust me, isn’t it?”
Satar was close to tears again. Cetrule hesitated. He touched one of the silver charms hanging from his bracelet as he slowed. They were coming close to the Silverfang tribe, and more celebrations were on the way.
The Meeting of Tribes was winding down, but the threat of Drake armies, the revelation of the magic-theft…it was complicating the ending. Still, there was always an event, and Satar’s Retellings were one of a dozen on even the slowest day. It looked like a little parade, a celebration passing by their tribe, so Cetrule turned to Satar.
“She regretted that, Satar. Truly. It is unimaginably stressful for your mother and her sister right now, and they do not even trust the secret with the other Honored Gnolls of the Silverfangs. Only a handful know; even the Chieftains of other tribes working with us tell no one but their most trusted Gnolls.”
Satar’s head rose. The [Storyteller] felt a tingle on the back of her paws.
“Is it something like…Ferkr? Or our gift to the Meeting of Tribes?”
“Bigger still in its way.”
“Bigger? What, Cetrule?”
He hesitated. The [Shaman] looked around, then drew her into one of the tents not being used yet. He sighed.
“Give me five minutes. I would have to do this in the Silverfang tribe anyways.”
He drew something on the ground. A circle, no, a warding sigil Satar recognized. It took Cetrule seven minutes, and he actually pulled out silver dust to complete it. It was one of the most complete wards for privacy he could manage.
“There. I can tell you, now. But turn this way so no one can read my lips.”
The Gnoll angled his back to the closed flaps, and Satar’s fur prickled. She was excited—but suddenly nervous at the precautions Cetrule had taken. He leaned forwards, and Satar held her breath.
“That child who is in the Silverfang tribe—who Krshia and Akrisa made a fuss over when she arrived?”
“The one Qwera, the Golden Gnoll, brought? I thought she was her daughter or helper. Mri, you mean?”
“Yes…that one. She is not Qwera’s daughter, though she is under her protection. The protection of Silverfang, Weatherfur, Longstalker’s Fang, Ekhtouch, and Greenpaw. I fear it might not be enough for all that.”
“Not for two great tribes, Longstalker’s Fang, and Silverfang? Is she in danger or something?”
Satar wondered how that was possible. Cetrule nodded shortly.
“She is. And not from…Drakes. Or anyone else. She is in danger of other Gnolls killing her.”
“Why? Why…”
Satar felt like she knew. That little girl with the brown fur and painted ears who Cers didn’t like? Gire’s friend? But suddenly, the [Storyteller] found her mind wandering back to her mother’s anger. The story…
“A white Gnoll.”
The young Gnoll whispered suddenly, and Cetrule jerked.
“How did you—?”
“It makes sense. It’s obvious. It has to be—or Mother wouldn’t have been angry. I’m right? She’s a Doombringer?”
“Never say that.”
Satar blinked. Cetrule was pale. She grinned in delight—then her mouth opened wide.
“Wait. I am right? She’s a…?”
Suddenly every story she had ever been told flashed in her mind. Cetrule looked at Satar.
“You are.”
“She’s a—”
Satar was going through surprise the wrong way, from confidence to realizing more and more what that meant. Incredulously, she looked at Cetrule and suddenly—she wanted to talk to Mri. A Doombringer? How? Why would Akrisa let her in?
But she was a child. So the stories…Cetrule watched Satar thinking. She didn’t draw back in horror as her mother had feared. If anything—it confirmed he was right to tell her. He exhaled in relief.
