He pointed to another number, which corresponded to another random series of smaller numbers. Xherw’s eyes began to cross just trying to figure it out. He understood the decimal point, percentages, and even ‘exponents’, something from advanced math that Yelroan had studied, but there he had to stop.
The question was, who would break in, leave a random math problem for a [Mathematician], and leave?
The answer was, of course, a [Paragon] who didn’t know what it meant either. However, neither Gnoll knew that. Yelroan rubbed at his chin, and Xherw shook his head.
“I think we must assume it is a prank or…or a mystery. I will assign a guard to you, Yelroan, but I have more important business. Guards. Seal the tent and stand watch.”
They did, and Yelroan felt his fur rise as Xherw looked at him. The Chieftain chose his words carefully.
“You have always been loyal to Plain’s Eye. I do not trust you with everything—but I have motioned for it, and those who are privy are slowly seeing your great worth, Yelroan. I could overrule them, but I want you to prove your class is good.”
“You honor me, Chieftain. That’s why I stick around.”
Yelroan answered, trying to be genuine. He saw Xherw smile tiredly.
“That is what I see, and I will make sure the Gnoll who replaces me one day understands it. But Yelroan…while I cannot trust you with the full weight of Plain’s Eye yet—I have involved you in the hunt for the Doombringers because you could do what the others did not. You predicted their course.”
“And lost them. That wasn’t math so much as my Skills, Chieftain…”
Xherw lifted a paw, and the younger Gnoll fell quiet.
“Peace, Yelroan. We cannot be perfect. But you have a talent for finding the truth in ways that others cannot ward against. So…I am trusting you with this. I believe there is a Doombringer at the Meeting of Tribes. I can feel them.”
Every hair on Yelroan’s body stood up abruptly. The [Mathematician] licked suddenly dry lips.
“A Doombringer, Chieftain? Here? That would explain all the things that have gone so wrong, wouldn’t it?”
‘Doombringer, Doombringer, run away!’
The childhood game came back to him. Of course, he had always been…Xherw studied Yelroan carefully.
“Yes. It would explain things, and help us immensely to find one. Especially with all this uncertainty. And a Doombringer…?”
“…must die.”
It came out of Yelroan’s mouth before he even thought about it. Every Plain’s Eye Gnoll knew that. Xherw nodded.
“I need you to prove they are one before we strike. They are canny—and if they evaded Merish and all of us for so long, we must be certain. A false accusation will hurt Plain’s Eye beyond belief. So I need you to prove they are from a tribe, that they lost their tribe…with math.”
“…You mean, with records.”
Yelroan clarified after a second. Xherw blinked.
“Yes. That is in your purview, isn’t it?”
“Er…yes, Chieftain. I can certainly open drawers and read paper like the best of them.”
Xherw hesitated but then nodded.
“Whatever you must do to prove it, Yelroan. Of course, we can explain later, but there are ways to dye fur, and they have allies. But I can help you: I think I know who it is. I need you to investigate. I almost missed it, but I felt doom’s…presence.”
“It has a presence?”
The Plain’s Eye Chieftain nodded slowly, meeting Yelroan’s eyes.
“It does. I can sense it because of my class. Know this, Yelroan. I am fairly certain—but it could be—conflicting Skills or factors. So you will make certain. The feeling was strong though, but it could be something else. Even so, she tried to hide from me; she stays away from our camp, and that is also odd for her.”
“She?”
Yelroan whispered. Xherw nodded. He bent over and whispered.
“Investigate this Gnoll. Report back to me as swiftly as possible, and make sure, very sure, she is doom. Then we will kill her. Look for her tribe. Her name is Qwera. The Golden Gnoll of Izril.”
 
——
 
It was time to begin the investigation. Doombringers. Doombringers and secrets.
The Gnoll prepared as simply and thoroughly as possible. They could, after all, leave no overt traces. There were enemies who would stymie them or attack.
Satar Silverfang had only a notepad and enchanted quill. But she did don her [Shaman]’s vestments of authority; a [Shaman] could go where they wanted.
Yelroan put on his sleek, semi-reflective pants. He adjusted his sunglasses and collected a small plethora of items from the [Quartermaster], who sniffed at him, but Yelroan did have Xherw’s direct authority. Invisibility scroll, potions to mask scent, seeing artifacts…he also had a [Message] scroll and access to most Mage’s Guild records and Plain’s Eye’s own knowledge.
Satar saw her mother, Akrisa Silverfang, Krshia, and the other [Chieftains] off to the Meeting of Chieftains. It was going to be a day of grand deliberations. Maybe not about Doombringers, but…she narrowed her eyes. That just gave her more time to search, before Akrisa brought the issue up at the Meeting of Chieftains.
What did it all mean? Was it connected? She was going to find out.
Satar walked into the Meeting of Tribes, never knowing she was being watched and followed. Yelroan? He geared himself up, then went back to his tent.
He sat down, adjusted his seat, got up, found a cushion, and put it down on the chair. Then he reached over for a cup of tea and saw a new product had been sent to the Plain’s Eye tribe.
A ‘for-your-consideration’ gift from…Oteslia. He read the label.
“Ooh. Coffee? What’s this now?”
He put on a kettle and read the instructions as he pulled out the first file. Absently, at some point, Yelroan took a sip as he read through the pages, tracing the facts, the math, and the Doombringer.
His life was never the same.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Chieftains within the Meeting of Tribes was unsettled. That was the only word for it. Normally, they gathered with banter, arguments, a preview of the discussion that would lie ahead.
This time, there was a palpable unease as Chieftains of every stripe, age, and color joined the gathering in the largest tent. They looked towards the Great Tribes, to leaders like Xherw…and to the Silverfangs.
Not with excitement, though. More like a fearful anticipation. What would be next?
Some were ready. They waited, still angry, furious. They did not have to wait long for a target of their anger.
“Chieftains. Once more we must gather to discuss great issues. We have had enough—enough arguments over who was to blame for stealing magic.”
It was the oldest [Shaman], Theikha of Gaarh Marsh, who once again convened the discussions. Unlike before, though, there was no respectful silence.
“And what about the traitors who helped them? What about retribution? Are we to let that go?”
One of the younger Chieftains shot to her feet. Instantly, Chieftain Reizet of the Az’muzarre tribe rose.
“Silence. No one will interrupt Shaman Theikha!”
Her glare and the force of that stare, her very aura, was enough to send the other Chieftain staggering back into her seat. However, Chieftain Reizet’s glare was in turn subsumed as Theikha turned.
“That is true of any Chieftain, Chieftain Reizet. I will lead this discussion myself.”
Reizet hesitated, then sat with a stiff nod, chastened. Theikha waited, then spoke again, her voice carrying around the domed room.
In her seat, Krshia wished she could be that intimidating when she was older. Gnolls leaned forwards, for the calm reassurance in Theikha’s tone as much as her wisdom.
“We will find if conspirators aided the Walled Cities. We will do what we must. Yes, Chieftains, we will do these things, but we have already voted to investigate the matter. Each tribe pursues it on their own time; it is fruitless to waste time. So we will not, for ours is fleeting. The Meeting of Tribes must end. We are at war with the Drakes whether we say it openly or not. So we must continue. We will vote and discuss and argue as we always do. However, two great issues lie before us…for today.”
A susurration as she glanced around. Akrisa was tense by Krshia’s side. Waiting.
“The first is another part of the gift of Silverfang—Silverfang, Longstalker’s Fang, and Greenpaw.”
Chieftain Orelighn looked like he was going to have a heart-attack as everyone turned to stare at him. This was it. Today, that long secret would be unveiled to the tribes of Izril. Neither Rose nor Inkar were here yet, but Krshia had borrowed something.
Inkar’s upgraded smartphone. Also, Rose’s laptop. Orelighn had samples of the plane wreck, and what they had was the authority to tell this story without it being questioned. After Ferkr…
Ferkr was one of the Gnolls in attendance. The Gnoll was very nervous as she sat by Chieftain Torishi and the Chieftain of the Wild Wastes tribe, Perale, but she had been accorded a place here for her bravery and role.
A rare honor. Theikha looked at Akrisa. Then she paused and sniffed the air. Her expression darkened.
“But first…I think the second issue is more pressing. It will be quick, Chieftains. But as Chaldion of Pallass hinted—there are dark tidings from our past. Enemies we thought long dead. We have not spoken of them or deliberated the matter. What is there to deliberate, save that our enemies live? That is up to you. Before we discuss the last gift—Chieftain Reizet? Bring in the…Raskghar.”
Raskghar. A sudden chill ran down Krshia’s spine. She knew what she would see. The other Chieftains? A low growl swept through the room, tinged with uncertainty.
They had only seen them once, from afar, before they were spirited away. Krshia had seen them up close multiple times, so she knew what to expect.
But even so, seeing the…monster as it was moved into the center of the Meeting of Chieftains, behind steel bars—and shackled beyond that—was enough to send Gnolls to their feet, or drawing their weapons.
It was instinctual. Not just because the huge beast-person was bigger than any normal Gnoll, hugely muscled, with bigger fangs, a hunched body, and ripping talon claws—a match for any Level 20 [Warrior] already, more than a match—there was something else.
The Raskghar was instinctually, instantly, recognizable. Everything in Krshia screamed one word.
Enemy. Or was it…
Predator? She felt a fear that went to the root of childhood fears about the dark, the unease of the unknown. There it sat, in front of them. The font of all stories. Raskghar.
“Kill it.”
 
——
 
The first Gnoll to stand was another Chieftain. This one had a throwing axe. Chieftain Mrell, his hand on his own Demas Metal blade, saw her rise and throw the hatchet down towards the Raskghar.
It was chained. Mrell saw it in a flash. A chained Raskghar—then someone leapt from their seat. The Az’muzarre guards were a hair too slow, but this Chieftain was not.
Chieftain Iraz Steelfur didn’t try to catch the spinning hatchet. He just threw himself forwards, raised an arm, and blocked it. The enchanted axe struck his arm and he grunted, but it only cut his steel body. He tore it out, checked the light wound, and bellowed up.
“Have you lost your minds? That is a prisoner!”
The Chieftain was dragged down before she could cast another hatchet. Shaman Theikha restored order.
“The next Gnoll who casts a weapon will be exiled from this place until the Meeting of Tribes ends. The Raskghar is chained and caged. We must speak to it.”
“Can it even speak?”
Chieftain Xherw spoke next, and Mrell was amazed at how composed he was. The Plain’s Eye Chieftain looked down at the Raskghar as Shaman Ulcre leaned forwards.
Neither one flinched away from the Raskghar. What amazed Mrell more was, even when the axe was thrown, even under the stares of so many Gnolls…
The Raskghar didn’t flinch either. So the audience hesitated, because each Chieftain realized what Mrell already had.
That was no monster. Or if it were a monster, it was in the same category as Goblins or Trolls. The Raskghar watched them.
“The Az’muzarre tribe has kept the Raskghar from harm—to them or from others. They are…uncooperative. However, you should at least know the truth of the legends.”
Theikha approached the cage fearlessly, although the bars, guards, and chains did keep her safe. The Raskghar stared at her as the [Shaman] spoke, her voice and the Raskghar’s magnified for the benefit of the room.
“You are named Asoma.”
When the Raskghar spoke, Mrell felt another chill. It—she was female. And she spoke.
Badly. Each word looked like it pained her. He had heard they grew more intelligent when one or both of the moons was full. They had been found in Liscor’s dungeon. Why had so much come from Liscor?
“Yes. I am Asoma.”
The Raskghar growled. She was sniffing Theikha, and the [Shaman] didn’t draw away, but even she didn’t hide the displeasure on her face.
Mrell couldn’t explain the horror fully at first. It wasn’t just seeing a monster; he had seen Crelers, and they were nightmares. The fear of the Raskghar was entirely different. It was like looking at a person…twisted. Like seeing all the mannerisms you yourself had, but sinister.
Asoma watched Theikha and licked her lips.
“You are Raskghar. You call yourselves that, don’t you?”
Unlike what Mrell would have done, Theikha didn’t pace around the cage or walk back and forth. She just leaned on her staff and looked at Asoma.
“Yes. We are Raskghar.”
“Why do you call yourselves that? Do you know what we are?”
The female Raskghar narrowed her eyes. She tilted her head and tried to hunch over, but the chains restrained her too well.
“Gnolls?”
Interesting. Mrell forgot his fear for a second. He saw some other [Chieftains] look around sharply and murmur.
“Why do you know your name and not ours?”
Theikha pressed. Asoma blinked at her. Her eyes were smaller, as if she didn’t need them as much, but Mrell thought she could move around in the darkness with perfect ease. Yes, a stalker, who would grab you and—
He realized he still had a hold of his sword and forced himself to relax. His [Shaman] was visibly trembling, but everyone was listening, now. Theikha was showing them this and conducting this conversation for a reason.
“Don’t know food’s name.”
There it was. That mad grin. This time, Asoma pulled forwards until the mithril chains clinked tight, but Theikha didn’t lean back. That seemed to frustrate Asoma, so she growled and snapped her head. Theikha looked at her.
“Why are we prey? Who told you that?”
Asoma growled.
“Don’t know. Smell it. Hungry.”
She looked around. Repeating the word.
“Hungry.”
“They sacrifice Gnolls and eat their hearts. To gain intelligence.”
Someone spoke; Chieftain Akrisa? No—her sister. Krshia Silverfang rose to her feet, looking down at Asoma.
