Al rummaged around for another black bottle of wine, saying, “We pull an average equivalent 5400 gold from the pools per month, 4100 is immediately deducted by the City of Spur, as is their due.” He opened a new bottle and rejoined them on the couches. “1300 is left. 400 of that goes into sewer maintenance which is handled through daily [Mend] and [Cleanse] quests posted at the Adventurer’s Guild.” He sipped his wine, which was more like taking a huge gulp, then filled his glass before setting the bottle on the coffee table. “Leaving 900 for pay. I take 600 of that since I personally do the magic and the business necessary to control the sewerhouse. 80 goes to Savral, 60 to Bacci. There’s another pair of employees at the other gold building in town, you might have seen it? They both take another 50. That leaves 60 for any part-timer that wants to cast the correct spells, correctly, and who isn’t a liability.”

He looked at Erick. “Can you do the work, or are you a liability until you can?”

Smiling, Erick said, “A liability for sure, but I still want to get paid.”

“Ha!” Al said, “Half pay, provided you do your best to level. If I think you’re slacking, you’re fired. You’ll also need [Ward] at some point in time, but that’s easy to level. [Ward] is also useful to make money outside of this sewerhouse.” Al pointed at the window and down. “See those lights in the streets outside? I made those. Some last for years, but a good warder is never destitute for long. The Mages Guild organizes all that, so talk to them if you want to do some warding.” Al turned serious for a second. “But this job comes first, okay.”

“Of course— But! I need to buy [Ward]?” Erick smiled at Jane. “Jane here thought it was a bad buy.”

“I don’t know what the hell I’m talking about sometimes. It happens.”

Savral and Al laughed. Erick smiled.

The smells of frying meat and grilled veggies filled the air as two earthlings talked with two veirdlings about nothing in particular, and about everything that everyone should know. For instance, Erick and Jane could probably buy a house in the human part of Spur for cheap, maybe four hundred gold, while 1 gold a night was the average price for a decent hotel room. They would spend tonight here at the sewerhouse, though, Al wouldn’t take no for an answer. The resting rooms downstairs were made to be rested in, and if the sound of water bothered them, Al could close the door to the river room

Erick enthusiastically wished for the door to the river room to be closed for the night.

Dinner was great. Fried meats, vegetable stir-fry, and a rice-like grain that was brown and round.

When it came to the topic of killing shadowolves, Erick was widely panned for his pacifist views.

Night had come in full while they ate. Al cleaned up the mess with a simple [Cleanse], leaving the plates and utensils on the table where they had been since before dinner was served. Al bid them to retake the couches for more talking before Jane and Erick went downstairs for the night, so they did.

As Erick sipped his wine, he looked out over the dark city. Sure, there were lights here and there and the streetlight orbs illuminated the roads, but the buildings mostly stood dark against the night sky. Either there was no night life here, or something else was wrong with the city. Erick was leaning toward the second possibility.

Al noticed Erick’s stare. He said, “If you’d listen to any of the wrought who lived through the Great Purge of Spur over a hundred years ago, they would tell you stories about this city being a beacon for all adventurers. A jewel of the crystal forest. A beachhead keeping Ar'Kendrithyst contained. Overpopulated in the extreme.”

Jane sipped her wine.

Erick asked, “A hundred years? And it still hasn’t recovered?”

“It can’t. Fundamentally, Spur will always be weak from now on. The Human city of Frontier was established after the Great Purge, and then the Incani built to the west in response to the Humans.”

Savral spoke up, “You two are the only humans in Spur.”

“Well that’s fun,” Erick said.

Jane added, “Humans are a drag, anyway.”

Savral laughed.

Al said, “When I spoke earlier about you buying a house in the human district for cheap, I meant the former human district. That part of Spur is a ghost town. People have been asking for it to be torn down to make way for parks and permanent farmland, but the Mayor, Silverite, won’t allow it. I hope you two choose to stay in Spur. Maybe you can even revitalize that part of town.”

With a yawn from Jane, the night was over. With compliments to Savral’s cooking and a ‘good night’, Al led them downstairs then rolled a vault door over the entrance to the underground river. How had Erick not noticed that door there before? Maybe he was just too scared. Whatever the case, he felt a lot better about sleeping here for the night. Al pointed out the employee washroom, and pulled out some blankets for both of them, trusting them to find their own accommodations inside the first resting room.

Erick cast 16 [Cleanse]s, making sure Al saw. He did. He smiled. He bid them good night.

Erick hit the pillow and instantly fell asleep.

He woke up later, cast 15 more [Cleanse]s, used the wash room, cast a [Cleanse], then went back to bed. This time he stayed asleep for the rest of the night.

- - - -

In the morning Al brought down breakfast for the three of them. Toast, fruit jam, and hot tea. He gave Erick five gold as an advance on his job as apprentice Aura Mage; 3 gold coins and twenty silver. Erick handed most of it to Jane, who could already spend it on getting them a room at the Guild and opening a Guild bank account. She was going to start hunting in Ar'Kendrithyst with another group of rookies.

When she left, Erick almost broke down and cried. “She’s taken so well to this world, but there are people-eating monsters around every bend in the road.”

“There are.” Al nodded. “But she’s already stronger than most rookies that I’ve ever seen. I checked up on her while you were resting yesterday. I doubt you have anything to worry about.”

Erick looked at him.

He laughed. “What did you expect? That I would allow strangers in my house? I have friends everywhere in this town, and they tell me many things.”

Erick nodded, saying, “That’s sensible. More sensible than I’ve been.”

“You’re almost as bad as I was with Savral! He was much worse than your daughter. Bumbling into slimes. Letting shadowolves surround him. Failing out of the Guild’s close combat course three times. Though your daughter lacks the levels to back up her obvious skill, levels will come with time.” Al asked, “What was she doing before she came here?”

Now it was Erick’s turn to be mysterious. He smiled, and said, “I can’t tell you that.”

“Ha ha!” Al stood. “And that is your right as a father. Come! Let us begin. Have you leveled from yesterday? Assigned your points?”

“Mostly.”

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 4, Class: None

Exp: 420/500

Class: -/-

Points: 4

HP

80/80

150 per day

MP

160/160

466 per day

Strength

8

+0

[8]

Vitality

15

+0

[15]

Willpower

16

+0

[16]

Focus

20

+0

[20]

Cleanse 4, instant, short range, 10 mana.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Exp: 220/500

Concentration 4

Multiply your base MP regen by 2.33

Requirements: 20 Focus

Exp: 36/500

I should have bought Concentration when I was at 0% MP or 100% MP. That non-round number is going to bother me, I can already see it happening.

“Very nice. Do you have [Meditation] and Mana Shaping yet?”

“Uh.”

Meditation 1

You are at Rest while Meditating.

Afflicted ailments: Immobile, blind, deaf, ten minutes to begin.

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Purchase [Meditation] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

“Yes.”

Keeping a point or two in reserve was already the plan, in case he needed to buy some sort of defense, like [Force Shrapnel].

Force Shrapnel 1, instant, forward cone, 5 mana

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 5 + ½ WIL physical damage.

Purchase [Force Shrapnel] for 1 point? Yes/No

No. Not yet.

Those numbers were pretty low, but as an AOE spell it was eligible for Aurify.

Which would unlock at Mana Shaping 5.

… Which might take a while depending on how the Mana Shaping gains experience.

Mana Shaping 1

Alter spell AOE in subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 0/100

It looks rather expensive.

“We will walk and talk, then.” Al led the way, having already opened the river door earlier. As they descended, Al explained some of the finer points of magic. “Proper Mana Shaping —not just with the skill’s effects— is the start of being a real mage. Everything else you’ve taken, all the spells you have cast, they mean nothing in the shape of true mana mastery.” Al paused, then said, “Ah. Sorry. I forget you are not a youngling.”

“I’m rather new at this, so it’s fine.”

Al nodded, continuing downward. The sounds of the river echoed in the twisting staircase, but Al’s voice stayed above the noise, “The mana costs the Script gives you are approximate costs. [Cleanse] is usually 10 mana, but if you control where the magic happens, it could be more or less expensive. It takes skill, and years of practice to achieve this, so for now, you should be aware of this possibility. Do not try to alter what the skills are enabling you to achieve. Not yet. Just pay the costs and get to a higher level.”

The river room was as loud as ever as they crossed the threshold of the staircase. Below the balcony the torrent of water held the same power as it had yesterday, rushing like a dark frothing snake, traveling faster from left to right than Erick thought he could run.

When they stepped into the left hallway leading to the settling pools, which was a much better name than cesspool, Al resumed talking, “I expect you to spend most of the gold you earn buying some equipment to boost your base stats. Leveling will be easier once you have a Circlet of Willpower, and you have an extra hundred mana to spend.” Al opened up door #1, the leftmost door. He looked inside, then stepped into the room, saying, “They run about ten gold for the cheapest version. Now try using Mana Shaping to [Cleanse] this pool and keep the [Cleanse] focused on the bottom.”

Erick stood near the edge of the dirty, motionless water. He knew how deep the pool was, so he focused on a point out of sight, then thought [Cleanse]. A huge hole of pure water opened up in a perfect sphere, only to be swallowed by muck sliding into the freed space.

“You need to link your Mana Shaping skill with the [Cleanse].”

Right. He did not do that. Whoops.

Mana Shaping.

Hold that thought, focus on a different part of the pool.

Down and out [Cleanse]!

Below the surface of muck, there was a vacancy. The entire underwater surface layer of brown seemed to fall, clouding the water as it went.

Oh god. This is such a nasty job.

“Vomit into the pool if you have to, ha ha!” Al laughed, saying, “This is why I cannot find good help! It is a nasty job, but someone has to do it.”

Seven Shaped [Cleanse]s later, the pool was emptied of muck, but more yet poured into the settling pool from the inflow. One final unshaped [Cleanse] wiped Erick out.

“Now we go back up and you can rest then work on that [Meditation].”

Erick was all too happy to comply.

- - - -

Sitting in the pillow room, Erick wanted to sleep, but Al would not let him.

They both sat on their own couches.

“[Meditation] is one of the most disorienting skills to work on in the beginning. The blindness and deafness are absolute. Some enjoy the experience. I did not. You may start whenever you wish. For now, I will remain here while you meditate.”

Erick frowned. This was not going to be a pleasant experience.

“Focus on the skill. You should feel something click—”

Everything was darkness. Erick screamed into the swallowing abyss but there was no sound.

Al’s hands gripped his shoulders, shaking him awake. He stopped screaming.

Al sat back down, saying, “That was an uncommonly bad reaction.”

“… Fuck.” He said, “I’m going to try again.”

Al nodded.

Erick focused on [Meditation]—

He slipped into darkness. He held his scream inside, like holding the lid on an overflowing pot. He breathed, but he could not hear himself breathe. He waited there in the center of the abyss, either holding himself still or forced to not move, he couldn’t tell.

The darkness shifted.

Erick started humming to himself, and mumbling the same song he sang to the Darkness before.

He felt another shift in the abyss. Something moved. An eye appeared, then looked away. A feeling of amusement flowed across Erick. And then he felt at Rest. Mana started to flow; his mind started to focus again as exhaustion began to ebb away.

When Erick opened his eyes, Al was still there. Laid back on his own couch, one arm behind him, Al’s giant body pulled the fabric of his outfit tight in all the right ways. He smiled.

“Welcome back. You only sang about half the words of your song, but it was still pleasant.”

“Ah. Sorry. Kinda lost it in the darkness. That wasn’t my song; just a song from my world.”

He sat up, asking, “Did you level in anything?”

“… There’s progress.”
