Ali’s heart reeled from the news, but some sliver of hope desperately clung to her Aunt’s words. Maybe, just maybe there would be a way that didn’t force her life to be Ali versus the world.

“Sometimes loneliness will find you, and there is nothing you can do,” Lira said, her eyes taking on a faraway look. “After the fall of Dal’mohra, I chose loneliness and isolation, and I suffered greatly because of it. I’m sure your friends had their reasons – even good friends may make mistakes and hurt one another – but they have been searching for you for days, worried that you were dead or dying. That Ahn Khen girl loves you; it is plain to see. The others too, in their way. If you will accept the advice of an old woman who has made more mistakes than you ever will, do not throw them away without good reason. Certainly not just because you feel hurt and didn’t want to try.”

Ali fell silent, the thoughts and the emotions within her churning. Her hurt and pain did not pair well with Lira’s words, but she was unable to deny the wisdom of what she had said. Nor was she able to ignore the thoughts and experiences of someone so close to her heart.

Someone who was spending her dying moments trying to help her avoid being alone. The conflict in her heart raged without easy resolution.

“Do you think the mana is strong enough?” Ali said, not quite ignoring the issue, but putting it down for the moment to address the urgency of Lira’s affliction.

“I believe it is.” Lira carefully got to her feet and approached the oak.

“How does this work?” Ali asked. She had no idea what establishing a domain entailed for a dryad. Hers had happened entirely by accident overnight.

“I will claim the tree, and establish my mana within it,” she answered, reaching out a hand to the trunk of the tree. “I just hope my mana doesn’t conflict with yours.”

“We’re family.”

The Dryad smiled. “We are.” Yet her tone betrayed what they both knew: when it came to mana, that simply might not matter.

Within Lira’s body, a dense emerald-green orb of pulsing mana condensed near her heart. Brilliant, living tendrils shot out, flowing down through her arm toward the fingers that rested lightly upon the bark of the tree.

The instant Lira’s mana pierced her tree, Ali doubled over screaming, and dropped to the ground, the brutal stabbing pain of an overwhelming dungeon-rage tearing through her, ripping her apart from the inside. Where Lira’s mana met hers, there was only violence as the flows of mana annihilated each other in an endless, silent explosion visible only to her mana sight.

“Oh, no! I’m sorry, Aliandra,” Lira gasped, turning to her with a horrified expression on her face. “Our mana is destroying each other. I will release the tree and free you from this.” Immediately, the streams of mana flowing from Lira’s fingers began to recede and with them, the pain eased.

“No!” Ali shouted in desperation as Lira withdrew her mana. “You’ll die!” Ali’s health spiraled rapidly dwindling; torn away by the proximity of the mana annihilation just like domain withdrawal, only vastly quicker.

“Don’t be silly, child, I will not be responsible for killing you to save myself. You cannot survive this,” Lira said, her frail body shaking from the effort, and presumably the pain she too felt.

There is no time. The thought appeared with stark clarity in Ali’s pain-ravaged mind. Her health continued its downward plummet, but if Lira withdrew her mana, she would most certainly die.

Acting on instinct, she turned on her Sage of Learning and then slammed her mana into Arcane Recall.

Time stopped.

The sudden release from excruciating pain hit her with a shock almost as powerful as the pain itself, and it took a few moments, frozen in the grayness of the strange static world, for her mind to restart.

Ali had no idea what she was going to do, but this place – her mother’s refuge – would buy her a moment to think.

Out in front of her was a frozen explosion-front where the green-and-gold of her domain met with the emerald-green that was Lira’s – a concentrated wave of annihilation – now visible as a gray moment stretched well beyond its time.

But it was the concern and worry etched into Lira’s dying face that struck her hard, piercing the void of emptiness and loneliness deep within her heart. Frozen in time as it was, her devastated expression could not be missed, and more than any of the words, her selfless consideration for Ali and her wellbeing weighed on her, heavier than the entire mountain. She struggled to breathe under the pressure, not remembering that in this place she didn’t need to.

She did not need to be alone. Not while people like Lira lived.

The gray world flickered then, and the white oak she had planted vanished, replaced with a frozen scene of Lira lying bleeding on the ground, while Mato, Malika, and Calen battled two glowing spectral wolves. It appeared like a painting of an epic battle, only rendered in exquisite detail. Right then Ali knew what she had to do.

But first, I must save Lira.

The world flickered again, snapping back to the new majestic oak and the picture of exploding mana. She studied it closely, wishing she could approach to see it a little better. But her Arcane Insight skill provided enough resolution for her to perceive the detailed structure of her domain, and the similar, though incompatible structure emerging from Lira’s body.

It seems to be a matter of alignment, she realized, while her Sage of Learning drew heavily from her mana pool. And my arcane affinity mana. Her mana was more analogous to a crystalline lattice with threads of nature mana woven around an ordered structure of arcane. Lira’s mana worked more like Mato’s Sanctuary aura, more fluid, but seemingly structured and ordered too. Where the two met, they collided, causing the arcane to slice the nature mana, severing it from the structure, and the release of energy was ripping both ordered structures, just like the tearing of paper propagating a rip across the entire surface.

But how do I fix it?

She recalled to memory a passive mastery she had not yet figured out how to use and studied the description of her Domain Mastery skill.

Domain Mastery – level 9You can manipulate the structure and mana of your domain. All your magic within your domain is empowered by the domain itself.Mana: Adjust the shape and composition of any non-living material that is part of your domain. Range: Domain.Nature, Arcane, Mastery, Domain, Intelligence

That must be the clue. Can I realign my domain so that it is compatible? She tried, but her skill did nothing here. Ali briefly considered that messing with her domain might be a disastrous idea, but she pushed that aside. Lira simply did not have the time for her to be cautious.

Carefully, she considered her options, studying the mana structure further. I need to release it and fix it in the real world. But then she would need to maintain her focus while under the agonizing pain of the full dungeon-rage and survive long enough to figure it out and make the change. Hopefully, she could understand it well enough to get it right, because her Arcane Recall skill required a full day to recharge before she could use it again.

She studied the structures of the annihilating domains, committing everything to memory before she finally summoned her Grimoire and began to create the minion that would end her Arcane Recall spell. She braced herself, anticipating the sudden return of the brutal pain.

Her spell completed, and the golden-scaled Kobold Acolyte she had chosen to make suddenly appeared beside her. The gray world vanished, replaced by one of color, and the pain hammered into her mind, driving her to her knees in agony once more. She ground her teeth, tasting blood as she battled the dungeon-rage, struggling to regain control. Dimly, she registered a surge of holy mana beside her; the instant pillar of bright light as her Kobold immediately went into overdrive healing both her and Lira.

Ali cried out and reached for the fabric of her domain. Enhanced by the magic of her Domain Mastery skill, she gripped, twisting and pulling with the urgency of pain driving her on, and the knowledge that both their lives were at stake.

It slipped out of her grasp, and the backlash sent her reeling. She blacked out momentarily and came to screaming, gripping her head in her hands.

“Aliandra!”

“I’m… ok,” she said, forcing the words out between clenched teeth and shoving the pain down. “I’ve got this.” She was most certainly not ok. She had just passed out, and her health was in a rapid downward spiral, kept alive only by the constant stream of healing magic that her little Kobold was valiantly pumping out.

If she passed out for good, she would never wake up.

She reached again, grasping the fabric, somehow finding a way to hold it firmer and more securely. Fortifying her mind against the pain, she delicately twisted the mana of her domain, feeling it shiver and slip at her touch, but somehow, she held it. She twisted the rest of her nature mana in the opposite direction, trying to line it up with Lira’s domain and how she had memorized the structure layout. Then she pulled, warping her arcane mana in a direction that she couldn’t find a name for, and didn’t make a whole lot of sense to her mind, but somehow felt right. Then she shoved both, meshing the two domains together – Lira’s one of nature and fluidity, and her newly aligned more crystalline structure.

Something snapped, releasing Lira’s mana in a surge to flow unrestrained into the tree. Everywhere the domains touched, mana flared into brilliance as the structures interlocked, reinforcing and enhancing each other in a runaway, rising crescendo of mana that filled the tree and erupted outward into the air around it.

It finally stabilized, leaving an enormous sphere of softly pulsing dense mana the likes of which Ali had never seen before. Both structures were present, overlapping painlessly, and enhancing each other beyond what either was capable of on its own.

“What did you do?” Lira gasped, staring at the tree in awe.

“I think I introduced our domains and they finally made friends,” Ali answered, sinking to the mossy ground and allowing the pain to flow away, leaving her with a profound sense of relief and peace.

It worked.

“You don’t really know what you did, do you child?” Lira chided, looking over at her.

“Not really, no,” Ali admitted. “But I think it worked?”

“That it did,” Lira answered, some amazement spilling over into her voice. “I have never seen two domains coexist like this; they seem to be reinforcing each other in this tree – both more powerful together than separate.”

“Is it enough to save you?” Ali asked. For now, she didn’t care about the amazing synergy, nor how it had been achieved. She just cared if Lira would be taken from her.

“It is more than enough,” she answered, a smile finally gracing her lips. “Thank you, Aliandra. I will need to rest for a few hours.”

Lira approached the tree, and then slowly began to merge herself with it, falling deeper and deeper into the trunk. Fascinated, Ali watched as more and more of her mana soaked into the oak, stretching and flowing up through the branches, and down through the roots into the ground below.

Just before Lira was fully absorbed into the tree, she met Ali’s eyes. “Please consider making up with your friends. At least try?”

“I’ll think about –”

“Promise me!”

“I… will, I promise,” Ali answered, not wanting to at all, but understanding that it was the wise course of action. She was happy Lira would only be gone for a few hours, and then they would be able to talk again.

“Good friends can be your strength,” she said as she completed her Tree Meld.

She sounds so sad.

Ali sat for a long while under the spreading branches of Lira’s tree, basking in the warmth of the dense mana it was emitting. She was still in shock having found someone alive from her past life, and someone so important to her. She sighed considering Lira’s wisdom and the undercurrent of personal pain in her voice when she had spoken. She didn’t know what had caused her to experience so much pain, but it lent a lot of weight to her suggestion. Ali considered Lira, and her friends for a long while.

I had better get a good apology, like the best apology in the last three thousand years! she thought, turning to her glowing Grimoire once more and summoning a new Forest Guardian.

“Please guard this tree, and the Dryad within,” she instructed, receiving a rumble of acknowledgment as the huge Elemental lumbered over to stand beside the oak. Ali was not certain it would do anything, but she hoped the Guardian’s regeneration aura might help Lira recover quicker. Then she set to the task of summoning plants to bolster the strength of her domain mana in the area, heavily favoring the Living Bamboo for the nature affinity mana Lira needed.

Arcane Insight has reached level 25Sage of Learning has reached level 18Domain Mastery has reached level 12 (+3)Arcane Recall has reached level 5

She sat, soaking in the feeling of the intense field of mana, strong enough to make her skin tingle, but it felt alive, unlike the dangerous mana of the nature spawning pool in the jungle. Within the tree, the emerald-green of Lira’s mana gradually brightened, while little by little the dark influence of the blight began to fade. In the distance, she heard the muffled sounds of battle as her friends fought the Kobolds.

Friends.

The word felt loaded with emotions, emotions she struggled to untangle. Carefully, she rose to her feet and returned to the familiar library by way of the newly excavated passage, leaving her Forest Guardian to watch over Lira and her tree, deciding that she needed to make herself busy.

She flew down into the library and retrieved Nevyn Eld’s dangerous book before descending to the bottom level. A connection existed between whatever domain she had in the jungle and the tree she had made for Lira up above, but the connection felt tenuous and fragile. She wrestled with her memories, but they remained opaque. Like nothing existed after she had entered the library, fleeing the Town Watch. After she had dropped the Lich’s book, her mind was blank until she had woken by the doorway and found her friends and Lira.

