She hadn’t found much time to restore the library, save what she had cleaned up on the top floor. Down here it was still very much a ruined mess of bone and rubble. Summoning her Grimoire, she got to work, taking some measure of solace in the act of creating jasmine and ivy to cover all the pillars, and using her Domain Mastery to erase the ancient layers of bone and dust. A simple task to strengthen her domain and give her room with her thoughts.

I’m a dungeon.

It was a fact, and how she had not seen it before had to have been willful ignorance. All the signs were clear to her – now – and it was not just Malika, Calen, and Mato who knew. Even Naia had outright told her, and she had simply chosen to misinterpret her.

They will try to kill me.

Perhaps the most terrifying experience had been facing Roderik. It wasn’t just the power of his overwhelming ice magic – it was the fact that he had clearly been enjoying the process of hurting her, and desperately wanted to murder her in the most painful way possible. She knew he had damaged her in ways that would not heal easily – her own value, her self-worth struggled to cope with the tacit, palpable existence of a person who would make her suffer for his enjoyment.

He's dead now. I killed him.

How she was calm right now was rather beyond her. Looking about, she found she liked the much cleaner ground floor. Turning the pages, she began to create granite planters filled with her blue mana grass, bolstering her domain to spread it throughout the space, while also offering a soft glow to illuminate it.

Her mind replayed the image she had witnessed while in her Arcane Recall – the picture of the others fighting to save Lira.

“…they have been searching for you for days, worried that you were dead or dying.” Lira’s words came clearly to her mind as she saw the image.

She pushed the words away. She knew now that they had not been trying to kill her, but the sense of betrayal still twisted like a knife in her gut. How could they have withheld something so important? They had set her up for facing Roderik without any defenses or knowing any better.

“That Ahn Khen girl loves you; it is plain to see. The others too, in their way.”

Love?

She was about to angrily sweep the thought away when she recalled the look on Malika’s face when she had angrily told her to go away. A look of anguish and profound pain. There had been defeat in her frame as Mato led her off to fight the Kobolds.

What do I feel?

The question popped into her head so suddenly, she stopped working. It shifted her thinking in an entirely new direction. She had been upset about what they had been thinking, what they had been feeling.

But what do I feel? To her surprise, the answer did not come easily to her. When she reflected on all that she had experienced, she found a torrent of confusing images and memories. She had awoken to this time in fear and weakness, only to be saved from certain death by all three of them. She had helped them with their classes. Cried with Malika over their past. Endured the ruins of Dal’mohra with Mato and his violent Primal Rage. She had thrown herself off the floating city to save Calen and had stood by Malika, refusing to let her face Adrik and Edrik alone. Countless times, she had saved their lives and been saved by them.

To her surprise, she found that she would do it all again, in a heartbeat, just because it was them. Is this what she meant? Ali thought, finally beginning to make sense of Lira’s parting words.

I think I owe them an apology. She hadn’t even acknowledged Calen, who must have been the one to find the way into the huge cavern, saving Lira. She had attacked Mato with her Forest Guardian, and he hadn’t said a word. In her selfish pain, she had lashed out, dismissing Malika without even asking why she had done it.

She continued her cleanup of the library for a while, dwelling silently on her thoughts.

“Ali, can we come down?” Malika’s voice broke through her somber mood triggering a flash of guilt at the events which forced her to ask if her presence was unwanted.

Ali took a deep breath and swallowed, looking at the expectant, hopeful eyes of her friends.

“I’m sorry I hurt you, Malika,” Ali rasped, managing to get the words out past the lump in her throat. “You didn’t deserve that.” Malika’s mouth opened, but she said no words and closed it again, her face a study in conflicting emotions.

Ali turned. “Calen, thank you for finding Lira in time to save her. It means so much to me to have her. And thank you for searching the mountain to find me.” Calen nodded to her, but she could tell her words, her acknowledgment had touched his heart.

“And Mato, I’m sorry I hit you with my guardian. Thank you for giving me room to think.”

“No problem,” he answered gruffly.

“I was scared you all would hate me like everyone else. I thought you were here to kill me. When I heard that you already knew what I was, I felt hurt and betrayed. I don’t understand why you wouldn’t tell me something so important.”

She stood silent for a moment, trembling a little and unable to continue, overwhelmed by the raw hurt and the vulnerability of opening up and sharing her pain.

“I’m really sorry, Ali,” Malika said, quietly filling the silence. “I wanted to tell you so many times, but I was afraid I would lose you as a friend. I know it’s not a good excuse and it ended up hurting you a whole lot more. I hope you will forgive me.”

Ali trembled, but tried to nod. “Yes.”

“I’m sorry, too,” Calen said before Ali could recover her voice. “It was my skill that let us know you’re a dungeon. I was the one who suggested not telling you. I thought it was best to not give you more trauma than you already had. I realize now that I had no right to make that decision for you.”

She nodded again, struck by a particular note in his voice – caring, maybe? Had they been trying to protect her… from herself? “Thank you.”

“I’m also sorry, Ali,” Mato said. “I was really worried you were hurt. I’m just glad you made it through ok. And your Guardian hits wicked hard. That really hurt – but I probably deserved it.”

“I felt so alone,” Ali said, finally finding her voice. She hadn’t known what to expect, but their words were genuine and heartfelt, and she struggled with the emotions that flooded her heart. “Were you guys really searching for me?”

“Yes, for four days,” Malika said. “After we killed the guys who were attacking you.”

“You killed them?” Ali asked in surprise.

“Yes,” Malika said, her mouth compressing into a grim line. “There was a whole group of Town Watch thugs hunting you down and burning everything in sight. They blew up the passage to the ruins and attacked us immediately, knowing we were your friends. We had to kill most of them, which is good for Myrin’s Keep, but it means we’re probably outlaws, now. I was terrified they had killed you already, but Calen could tell you were in the library, so that’s when we started searching for another way in.”

“I had to kill someone, too,” Ali said, shuddering at the memory of Roderik’s sneer and gloating voice while he hunted her down. She retrieved his gear, offering it to Malika. “He was playing with me. He enjoyed hurting me.” She hated that the memory of him made her shiver with fear and disgust.

Malika simply stepped forward and knelt, offering her a hug, and in her face, Ali could find only concern and kindness.

She reached out and hugged her friend, and her pent-up emotions finally overwhelmed her, spilling tears down her cheeks and onto Malika’s shoulder.

When she finally straightened up and wiped her face, Calen picked up the white robe.

“You killed Roderik Icecrown,” he said, letting out a low whistle.

“Shit,” Malika exclaimed, with both worry and admiration in her voice.

“Who’s that?” Ali asked. She remembered the man only from the Goblin siege – a person from the Town Watch sent to help them.

“He’s nobility – the most powerful ice mage in Myrin’s Keep – but he’s a true monster. We probably made a lot of enemies killing him,” Malika answered. “And many friends among the commoners.”

“It doesn’t matter, we’re already all outlaws,” Mato said. “So, what did you do while you were down here?”

Ali still didn’t really remember, so she just pointed at the doorway to the jungle. With a look of curiosity on his face, Mato walked over and looked through.

“Holy… holy shit!”

Everyone scrambled to see what had caused such a reaction in him.

The dense jungle that had once encroached right up to the ruined library was gone, replaced with a field of total devastation for hundreds of meters in all directions. There were bodies of all kinds of monsters strewn about. Large trees lay on the ground, snapped like kindling. Scattered all throughout were hundreds of glowing golden shards of her barrier magic, kept alive by her domain mana. They stuck out of the ground, like a forest of shattered golden spears, driven through trees or impaling bodies. Some of them even simply hovered in the air.

“Scary,” Calen said quietly.

“What did you do, Ali?” Malika asked, staring at her.

“I don’t really remember,” she answered. The devastation of the jungle was just as shocking to her as to them. And I did that by myself. Perhaps they’re right to call me a monster.

Just as Ali began to worry about her fragile reconciliation, Mato broke the silence, “So… would the scary dungeon girl like some dinner?”

She began to growl, “Mato, I don’t think –”

That was the moment when her stomach voiced a loud, eager gurgle.

The Beastkin grinned, “Is that so?”

“Mato!” Her stomach let rip a second time. Ali blushed furiously. “Well, it’s probably been four days since I’ve eaten …”

Despite the emotional rollercoaster of the last week, she couldn’t help but laugh, and soon everyone was laughing too. While they set up a makeshift camp and Mato began to cook, Ali could tell everyone was tiptoeing around the fragile and tentative mood, but at least it was a start.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge/https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
