Ali snapped awake, bumping her head painfully on the wall of bone beside her as she tried to shake off the recurrent nightmare. Malika and Calen had been hunting her for what seemed like days, and when she finally reached the safety of the library, she had run into Mato’s snarling angry bear. She had fled, and Ryn was there, but instead of helping her, Ryn had changed into a giant black dragon that ate books and breathed fire that seared her flesh.

Ali groaned softly and sat up, her eyes slowly taking in the dimly lit expanse of the library’s lower floor. Her hip ached from sleeping on the hard flagstones covered in rough bone and she seemed to be covered in dust and dried mud. She had a pounding headache and a giant void in the center of her chest that threatened to consume her. Everything was gone, her parents, her friends, her town, her domain, her home. She had nothing.

I don’t deserve anything, I’m a dungeon.

People killed dungeons. People enjoyed killing dungeons. If nothing else, Roderik proved that. She shuddered.

She glanced around at the giant doors behind her which leaked the strangely wild mana into the ancient, ruined chamber, taking note of her spot nestled up against the wall in a hollow of encrusted bone. How did I get down here? The jungle was untamed and dangerous.

“Ali? Ali… are you in here?”

The sudden voice breaking through the stillness of the library set Ali’s heart pounding. She panicked, They found me! She knew they would come for her, but she wasn’t ready to die yet. She scrambled behind an ancient decaying bookcase, urgently sending out a mental summons to her minions, but almost all of them were too far away – deep in the jungle for some reason.

“I heard something, over there…”

One, however, was right beside her. With two heavy steps, the Forest Guardian approached, lowering its great head to nuzzle her back.

A broad-shouldered figure emerged from the darkness, approaching her hiding spot.

“Ali?”

The sound of Mato’s familiar voice cut deep. That her friends had been the ones to come hunt her hurt badly enough, but he even had the sound of concern in his voice. How could he?

“Go away!” she screamed at him. “Leave me alone!”

“Ali, you’re alive!” Malika cried, appearing beside Mato. A moment later Calen emerged, his blonde hair mussed up with his bow resting in his hand.

“You’re just here to kill me now that you know I’m a dungeon,” Ali yelled. Anger and rage surged within her, and she called out to her Forest Guardian. It responded, charging toward them in a thunderous Rush that echoed loudly in the stone chamber. Mato stepped into its path, and with an enormous crash, he was tossed flying, bouncing off a bone-covered shelf and cartwheeling out of sight. The Guardian stood protectively over Ali, head lowered and rumbling threateningly at Malika.

“Ali, we already knew you were a dungeon,” Malika said.

What?

“You knew?” Ali gasped. She stood and stared at Malika, grappling with the torrent of conflicting emotions her words had unleashed. She had expected anger and hate toward her as a dungeon. She had expected them to try and kill her. But this was not something she had imagined in even her worst dreams.

“Yes, we’ve known for a few weeks,” Malika replied, far too calm for the feelings warring inside Ali, emotions stretched taut, well past their limits.

“And you didn’t tell me?” she screamed again, her voice echoing hoarse and ragged, provoking a sympathetic roar from the Guardian towering above her. “They tried to kill me! They burned my forest!”

“I’m sorry, Ali,” Malika said, still calm and not moving even in the face of the ferocious roaring Forest Guardian.

“Go away,” Ali said quietly. “Just leave me alone.” It was all too much for her. She wanted to sob, but her anger was too strong. She had been prepared for their hate, been prepared to fight them. But this felt like a fresh betrayal, and it gouged deep wounds into her heart.

Why didn’t they tell me? Had they been plotting all those weeks while being nice to her face?

“Ali, I understand you’re probably feeling hurt and betrayed by us,” Malika said. “We didn’t know what else to do and I’m really… sorry. I know this must hurt, but please, listen to me. We need your help. This person is dying. This Dryad… please help her.”

Ali’s anger surged at Malika’s audacity to ask for her help after hurting her so much, and she was about to scream for her to leave. But the anger evaporated the instant she saw the slender, frail-looking woman leaning on Calen for enough support just to be able to stand.

She had green skin and seemed to be clothed entirely with oak leaves. All over her body, black patches oozed dark sap and leaked twisted, ugly, death affinity mana into the surroundings.

Dryad [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] – Sylvan, Tree Spirit – level ??? (Nature)

Her gaze reached the soft, brown, pain-filled eyes, and Ali experienced a jolt of recognition.

“Aunt Lira?” Ali asked in a tiny, aghast voice, automatically speaking in ancient Dal’mohran.

“Aliandra?”

The ancient Dryad spoke Dal’mohran in the same soft, kind voice Ali remembered from her childhood, though hoarse and short of breath now from her weakened state. Her heart wobbled wildly in her chest as she gasped at her relative. This… she could not bear this.

“What are you doing here, child? I thought you perished three thousand years ago along with the great city.”

Not quite believing what she was seeing, Ali emerged from under her Guardian’s protective bulk and tentatively approached, reaching up and taking Lira’s hand like she used to when they would go on walks through the forest looking for pretty flowers. She gasped at the touch, and Lira did not evaporate, dispersing like a half-remembered dream. Nor did she turn to hate and try to kill her. She simply held her hand.

“Mom saved me with her magic,” Ali finally answered, looking up at her.

“Elowynn still lives?” Lira asked, her eyes widening at the news.

Ali shook her head sadly. Blinking back fresh tears at the painful memory, she said, “She spent her life energy protecting me from Nevyn Eld. She died with the city. She gave her life to save me, and her magic is the only reason I’m still alive.”

“I’m truly sorry, Aliandra,” Lira said, compassion replacing the pain in her eyes for a moment.

“Why are you here, Aunt Lira?” Ali asked, switching back to Common finally. “And why are you so sick?”

“Aunt?” Calen echoed in shock. Malika hushed him.

“My forest was destroyed by foul necromancy, and I was driven out,” she answered. “But I’m glad I got to see you before I die.” Then, as if noticing it for the first time, she glanced down at Ali’s hand clasped in her own and recoiled, severing the connection. “We can’t… the blight…”

“I…” Ali swallowed and ate her words at the sight of fresh pain in Lira’s eyes, and the hand that had just been holding hers clutched to her heart. Instead, Ali focused on Lira’s story, “Your forest is… gone?” Ali had always known Lira had a domain in the southern forest before she even knew what ‘domain’ meant. She had always accepted that Lira could only visit for a couple of days at a time – it was just the way things worked. Now, having experienced a domain personally, she finally understood. “You have domain withdrawal?”

“Yes.”

“How long?”

“The cursed necromancer, Alexander Gray, poisoned my mana and infected me with the undead blight, I have a few hours left at most.” Lira’s kind face twisted into an ugly emotion when she named the necromancer, an expression the likes of which Ali had never seen marring the face of the kindly old dryad. “I came seeking the dense nature mana emanating from this town in hopes I might find an oak and establish a new home. I never expected to find you here, dear.”

“If you have an oak, will you be able to recover?” Ali asked, her heart grasping for hope like a lifeline.

“If I establish a new home in a mana-dense area, I should be able to rest in the tree and regenerate. Provided the mana is compatible,” Lira said, but her entire frame radiated despondency. “But it’s impossible, now.”

“They burned my forest, but I think there might be some oak trees back there,” Ali said, pointing back to the giant open stone doorway leading to the jungle. There was a blank spot in her memories and she couldn’t quite remember what she had done, only that she had spent quite some time in there with her Grimoire. “You can have as many trees as you want.” If a tree could save Lira, Ali would give her a thousand – she simply couldn’t bear seeing Lira so frail. Gently, she tugged Lira’s hand, drawing her toward the jungle.

Meantime, Ali shut down all thoughts, all doubt, not daring to meet her friends’ concerned gazes. They had come for her. They knew – they had kept the horrific truth from her – and still… her mind balked at the implications. They… no. There had to be some trick, surely? Yet none of that mattered, not while Aunt Lira was dying. She crushed her emotions and shoved them away. Later.

But as they approached the doorway, Lira recoiled. “I can’t, the mana within… it is twisted.”

“There is a large cavern above the library,” Calen suggested. “Maybe you have the time to grow some trees up there?”

Ali didn’t trust herself to answer him. Instead, she created a broad barrier powered by her domain mana and led Lira onto it, allowing Mato to join them supporting Lira on his arm. Then Ali levitated the three of them up through the central atrium, following the light of Calen’s brilliant wings. Malika sprinted alongside, her feet occasionally touching the pillars or railing, but more often than not simply stepping on empty air.

At the top of the atrium’s spiral staircase, she found a landing. Large boulders and rubble had been recently moved, shoved up against the side of the walls, revealing a passage that led out into an enormous dark cavern.

I didn’t even know this was here. She gazed around, but all she could see were rocks and dirt, several ancient, blackened tree trunks supporting the rock far above their heads, and some pinpricks of reddish light in the distance that might have been fires. She stepped off her barrier and onto the dirt right at the edge of her domain leaking up from the library below.

“Thank you, young Druid,” Lira murmured as Mato helped her off the barrier.

She doesn’t have much time. Ali summoned her Grimoire and got to work at once. She channeled her mana for several minutes making a giant white oak that would hopefully become the first tree in Lira’s new home. Ali glanced at Lira leaning on Mato and studying her magic with curiosity. She needs the mana too. Lira had mentioned requiring a mana-dense area several times. All I have is my domain, she thought, but it was going to take a lot more than just a tree. I can make mana. Dense mana. I have the imprints… I just hope there’s time.

She quickly considered and discarded several options as she paged through her Grimoire before she summoned two Moss Creepers and a Spore Spreader. “Fill this area with Verdant Moss and Common Glowcaps,” she instructed. They scampered off to begin seeding the area around the tree for her domain to grow. Then she paged back to the grass chapter and summoned a dense half-circle of Living Bamboo around the oak. It was her strongest nature affinity plant, and it immediately began spilling dense mana into the area. I just hope it’s enough. Come on, grow! Work!

“It will take some time for the mana to build up properly,” Ali explained, studying the trickles and flows of her domain as the new plants began to draw it in, linking themselves to the mana emerging from the library.

“Thank you for helping, Ali,” Malika said.

“I’m still mad at you guys,” Ali snapped. In truth, she didn’t want to talk to any of them. “Could you leave us alone for a bit?”

Her words hit Malika like an invisible gut punch, and she winced, her countenance crumbling in an instant. Ali felt a brief surge of satisfaction that she would experience a little taste of the pain and betrayal that still raged in her heart, yet the sensation felt hollow and she regretted her reaction at the same time.

“Come, there are still Kobolds in here, let’s make ourselves useful,” Mato said, drawing a choked-up Malika away with him. Calen eyed Ali for a moment with an unreadable expression before he spun on his heel and followed them.

Ali plopped herself down beside Lira, overwhelmed by the intense feelings that churned inside. Her friends had returned, but they had betrayed her. How could they do this? She couldn’t trust them ever again. I’m a dungeon, I can’t trust anyone.

“You have good friends,” Lira’s soft voice intruded on her thoughts.

Ali’s eyes snapped up, meeting those kind hazel eyes filled with wisdom and patience. She looked away. “I’m a dungeon, Lira. How could they keep that from me? A powerful mage came to kill me, just because of my class. He was enjoying it – he was excited to see me suffer and bleed.” Roderik’s gloating face loomed large in her mind; lit with joy and pleasure every time his magic struck her, every time he made her bleed.

Lira sat calmly beside her, quietly listening to her pain.

“What do I do, Lira? I’ve lost all my friends. Nobody is going to help me because of what I am.”

Ali looked up at a touch on her hand, but it was simply Lira offering her own to hold. She took it, taking comfort in the contact.

“Did you know your father was a dungeon, too?” Lira asked.

Ali’s head snapped up as she stared in surprise at Lira, but the Dryad’s face contained no trickery, only sadness and kindness.

“He was?” she asked, feeling tiny all of a sudden.

“Yes, dear. Do you remember him teaching you about domain withdrawal, and the reason he couldn’t travel with your mother?” Lira asked. “Do you remember his shrine? While some resourceful mages have learned to make shrines, they are pale imitations of the shrines grown by a true dungeon.”

Ali could scarcely believe what she was saying, but her rational mind put all the pieces together, finding that they all fit. Her Shrine of the Ancient Grove had been her father’s shrine, and from what Malika had said, it was vastly more capable than the one possessed by the town. It was even the reason she had been able to offer class advancement to Ryn and Basil, and the novice guild members.

“Your father was a dungeon, and he married your mother, and they had a beautiful daughter. He was a respected and valued member of Dal’mohra,” Lira said. “Do not give up hope, there is a path for you.”

