“Why no guests for new people?” he asked.

There was a brief pause. “It’s because a lot of kids are homesick, and seeing family regularly actually makes it harder for them to adjust. Some people spend sixteen hours a day staring at their old life through their interface. We discourage that however we can, but it happens way too often. In some cases there are also just…family dynamic problems. Parents who want to involve themselves way too heavily, coattail riders, anti-alien cultists who’d rather murder their own children than see them under the Contract…”

Hopefully not too many of those last ones, Alden thought.

“Your intake period is your transition,” Neha continued. “Between whoever you were before and who you want to be now that you’ve got new powers, new responsibilities, and a new home. And it’s a big transition. We try to make sure everyone gets a fair shot at making that leap in their own way, with as little outside baggage as possible.”

“That makes sense to me.”

“Well, I’m glad. Your situation is pretty unfair. Usually as soon as you register, it sets a whole pre-arrival process in motion so that you get a lot of time and help thinking about these things before you make your final landing here on the island. Not everyone takes advantage, but plenty of people spend their last three months settling things with their families and friends and crossing stuff off their to-do lists.”

“I didn’t do any of that.”

“I don’t see how you could have. And actually, I want to recommend that you schedule a couple of private planning sessions with either me or Gus so we can help you figure out what exactly you want to take care of before you launch yourself full-tilt at…I don’t even know what you think you might want to do with yourself after you leave intake. I can usually pull up a list of a kid’s personal goals so I can make sure they’re not swimming out to sea.”

Swimming out to sea? That was a very Anesidoran way of saying “going off track,” he guessed.

“Gus is the night counselor?”

“That’s him. Gustavo. And to answer your original question from back before I went off on a tangent—yes. You can absolutely bring your family member back to the dorms with you. Just be aware that most people don’t get to, and don’t rub anyone’s nose in it.”

“I won’t.”

“All right, I’ll let you go. But first let’s do my own personal get-to-know-Counselor Neha icebreaker.”

Alden brushed corn chip crumbs off his leg and smiled. “What is it?”

“Ask me what the worst thing about being a Rabbit is.”

“…what’s the worst thing about being a Rabbit?”

“I’ll be straight with you, Alden. It’s the fact that if you’re very talented at your job, the Artonans keep you busy. It can be the same for other Avowed. But moreso for us. We just tend to interact with them a lot more because for some reason, despite saying things to the contrary, wizards seem to want friendly domestic help way more often than they want hard-bitten warriors. They should boost Rabbit numbers. Don’t know why they keep it so low. Anyway, I spend about two thirds of my year on the Triplanets. It’s good work, but I don’t need it at this point in my career. And I still get called to do it.”

“That is a ton of work time for an Avowed,” Alden said, surprised. “Even for a Rabbit.”

Her skillset must have been really valuable. And she must basically be counseling new Rabbits out of the goodness of her heart because there was no way she needed the money.

“It is,” she agreed. “Now ask me what the best thing about being a Rabbit is.”

“What’s the best thing about being a Rabbit?”

“You get the extra-special answer I reserve for my S-ranks and my very busy bunnies who start getting themselves zapped to the Triplanets weekly before they’re even out of intake: eternal youth.”

Alden blinked. “Isn’t that more of an elite Healer thing?”

“It’s an elite thing,” she said. “Plain and simple. Here on Earth, you’ve got to have an obscene amount of money for it and get your hands on the right healer ahead of everyone else who wants them. On the Triplanets…only slightly less obscene. But it’s easier to actually find someone who can give you rejuvenation treatments. And frequently summoned Rabbits spend enough time on the Triplanets to make that happen for ourselves. Think about it.”

“I will?” he said.

“No. I’m serious. Think about it. Before you spend whatever money they must have given you for that teleporter disaster they put you through. I became an Avowed in 1964, and—”

“Holy shit,” Alden blurted out. “I thought you were in your early twenties!”

He’d also thought from her accent that she was a native Anesidoran, but the place hadn’t even existed then.

“I was in my twenties,” Neha replied, “when I jumped all the way off the aging train and waved goodbye to it.”

She does not act like an old person.

“I know what you’re thinking…wow, she doesn’t talk like an old person!”

“Erm…”

“Kids always say stuff like that. You don’t get a special old-person personality when you hit a certain age. Old people are just members of a different generation than you, which is to say, a different peer group. They usually act like their friends instead of yours.”

Alden guessed that made sense.

“When you stay young forever, you naturally tend to make friends with other young people. Or eternally young people. Or high-class wizards. Makes you a bit different, but it’s not a bad thing. And it more than makes up for the main bad thing about being a Rabbit.”

“Being away from Earth so much?”

Her voice was serious. “I intend to see more than a human lifetime’s worth of sunrises right here on the planet where I was born. I’ll just do it at a different pace than most people.”

Alden didn’t know how he felt about that announcement. But he had to admit that, as far as icebreakers went, Neha’s was pretty mind-blowing.

“Anyway,” she said, “I just wanted to give you the special talk before you bought a house or something. You might not know if you’re the kind of Rabbit who gets summoned all the time yet, but you had this one terrible and no-doubt lucrative incident. So, advice from an old person—save it. In case you decide you want to be laughing about this phone call with me in a century without your mind and body suffering from the ravages of time. Despite what all the fiction tells you, death isn’t the main thing that makes life meaningful. I like being alive even more now that I did when I was your age.”

“I…will consider that.”

“Have fun with you aunt!”

She hung up and left Alden blinking up at a gleaming red drone, feeling bemused. Yeah. It might take me even longer than I thought to get used to all of this.

***********

Alden took a city bus to the Teleportation Complex. He sat beside a Shaper of Life who was wearing vines as accessories.

When he entered the building through the automatic doors, he had a strange moment. He thought he heard an extremely loud toilet flush. He looked to his right in confusion.

I guess there is a bathroom over there?

It was right beside the big metal post drop he’d used to send his letter to the Velras.

That was forever ago. At least they probably won’t bother me while I’m staying in intake, since there’s a no random locals policy.

He kept walking. He heard another toilet flush. He wondered if they had really insane plumbing in that restroom.

A few minutes later, he finally got to see his aunt face to face.

He was glad they’d had the emotional, tear-jerker phone call while he was still hanging out in the forest. Mostly what he felt when she ran out of the local arrivals hall at the Teleportation Complex was pure happiness. They threw their arms around each other and hugged for ages, while she shouted in his ear about the fact that he’d gotten taller.

When they stepped apart, he said, “You’re imagining things. It’s just a quarter of an inch.”

“You measured yourself as soon as you got home? You’re not still racing Jeremy, are you?” She smiled. “I hate to tell you this, but he’s winning.”

He laughed. “I only know because I had the System send my measurements to some guy named Dragon Rabbit so that he could buy me clothes.”

He was 176.4 cm tall.

“You said you didn’t need clothes! I was going to pull your things down out of the attic—”

“Maybe later. I thought it would be more fun if we went shopping.”

It was a good day.

They spent most of it wandering around Rosa Grove Mall. It was the largest shopping center on the island. There were hundreds of stores, and in between buying too much stuff and eating too much food, Alden managed to put together a picture of his aunt’s current life.

She had been devastated he was gone, but these days, she was mostly happy. He could tell. Mr. Tiger Shorts—actually an RV salesman named Brodie—was okay. He had a big messy family, and he’d introduced Connie to them.

Alden was glad, though a little overwhelmed, to hear her chatter about all of the man’s cousins, step siblings, and siblings like they were characters in a show he’d never seen.

In turn, he talked a lot about Kibby and all of the interesting, not-awful things he’d experienced while he was away.

Late in the afternoon, they split a celebratory cupcake in honor of the fact that they had missed each other’s sixteenth and thirty-third birthdays. And Alden decided it was a good time to broach a subject he hoped would only be slightly awkward for them both.

“Can I give you money, Aunt Connie? Without it being weird?”

“No,” she said, licking a finger and using it to pick up stray sprinkles from the cupcake wrapper.

“I really want you to let me. I have a lot more than I need, and it would make me way more comfortable about leaving home.”

She considered him for a moment, scanning his face with blue eyes that sometimes made Alden think he really remembered exactly what his mother’s had looked like.

“I left home at sixteen, too,” she said finally. “I thought the world owed me something grander than life in a trailer park in Tennessee. Pretty different from what you’re doing.”

“I know.”

Connie rarely mentioned it. Both of Alden’s maternal grandparents had died a couple of years later. Alden thought, mostly based on context clues and not anything he’d ever been told for sure, that his mother had never forgiven her much younger sister for breaking their parents’ hearts.

“I meant to grow up,” she said. “At some point. But I felt like everything was forcing me to do it all at once when your mom died, and I think maybe I missed a couple of steps. Because I was busy feeling sorry for myself.”

“You did fine.”

She reached for her drink and jabbed at the ice in the cup with the straw.

“You didn’t tell me,” she said finally. “When you got selected as an Avowed. I just kept thinking about it, every night lying in bed after you went missing. The fact that you didn’t tell me right away.”

Alden took a deep breath. “I was going to—”

“I was always so disappointed in my parents when I was a teenager.” She looked down at the melting ice. “I don’t even know why. They were good people. Maybe I was angry that they weren’t impressive people. Or something like that. But…if I’d been chosen as an Avowed when I was your age, I know I’d have run straight home to my mother and told her. Because even though I was ungrateful, deep down I knew I could always count on her for the things that really mattered.”

Alden sat frozen across the pink laminate table from her.

“I’m sorry I didn’t give you that,” she said finally. “When you’re a kid, you need grown-ups you can trust like that.”

“Aunt Connie,” Alden said quietly, “I trust you. Don’t—”

“You love me.” She rubbed a single tear away from her cheek with the palm of her hand. She smiled at him. “There’s a difference. And I think it might be okay…it might be best…if you were mad at me. A little. I wasn’t too young or too dumb to know I should do better. I knew. You were just so mature for your age, and I kept using it as an excuse to let you take care of yourself. And you should be mad about that. You were supposed to have more.”

She stood up suddenly and started clearing the trash before Alden could even begin to respond.

“Anyway,” she said in a brisk voice as she came back from the recycling bins and shoved her chair under the table, “you said you wanted exercise clothes and weights. So we still need to go to the athletic supply store.”

“Ah…but…okay. Um…according to the map on my interface it’s on the fourth floor.” He stood up, too. “Also, I didn’t want weights.”

“You need weights. Or you need to go to that place full of the sweaty, grunting people we passed on the way over here.”

“The Brutes-only gym?” said Alden. “Why?”

“You picked the bunny class, baby. People are gonna pick on you. You need to be able to protect yourself.”

“Nobody’s going to pick on me. And if some of them want to, then going to the gym is not going to stop them.”

He did want to find a good gym, but not for that reason.

“We’ll get you some pepper spray, then,” she said. She narrowed her eyes. “Or bear spray. And a knife.”

“Sure. Carrying those around will make me look so approachable while I try to make new friends.”
