In the center lay the huge atrium, a yawning opening that led down to the lower library levels where the advanced magic texts were stored. Her eyes lingered longingly on the landing and the long spiral staircase clinging to the edge of the atrium, teasing at the extraordinary knowledge that awaited mages who had achieved sufficiently high class levels.

Ali had never been down there – for an unclassed person like her, just being near many of those enchanted books would pose a mortal danger.

Once I unlock my Class. She sighed, reiterating her thought like a mantra. She was so close. Only a week or two more.

“Aliandra Amariel?”

The voice carried the formal, cultured overtones of someone more familiar with the high Elven speech favored in many academic circles. One with which Ali was rather familiar. She turned to find a tall blonde Sun-Elf woman sitting at a long table frowning at her over expensive-looking platinum-rimmed glasses. Even at this distance, she could feel the enchantments and mana emanating from her. Holding back a little smile, she turned and answered in Elvish instead of the common language of Dal’mohra. “Yes, teacher.”

Remembering to practice her Identify skill on high-level people, she used it as she stepped forward to hand her the dean’s letter.

Mage – Sun Elf – level ??

“You’re late,” the Elven woman said, conspicuously retaining the common language, rather than answering her in Elvish. “Come join the others and we will get started.”

Ali felt the flush rising all the way to the points of her ears, but she rushed over and took a seat at the table – one of the taller chairs beside the Gnome who was glaring judgment daggers at her. Ali glanced around the table finding two Human women, one of which smiled at her and gave her a little wave, a male Dwarf, and a pair of Wood Elves that looked like twins: brother and sister. Everyone was dressed in expensive-looking robes, and she was suddenly grateful that her coat covered her far too casual t-shirt and shorts.

“Now that we’re all here, my name is Maeria Runeweaver. Professor of Runic Magic at the University of Dal’mohra, and Head of Magical Research at the Grand Library Arcana. Thank you for your interest in the academic and scholar path, both the library and the university are always in need of magical researchers, assistants, librarians, and non-combat mages. So, if you unlock any class in one of these domains, you will be in good hands. I will be responsible for your Class Trials. In order to create the proper challenges so that you can earn the correct experience traits, I will need to know what sorts of classes you’re each studying for or hoping to unlock.”

“Why don’t we begin with you, Dimble?” Maeria asked, gesturing toward the Gnome Ali was sitting beside.

“Sure, Professor Runeweaver,” he said, bobbing his head. “I’m Dimble Bollywoggle, and I’m hoping for an engineering class. I wish to specialize in magical power couplings and my dream job is to work on improving the formations for the mana converters.” Dimble stuck his chin out and glanced askance at Ali.

What’s his problem? she thought, deciding she didn’t like him much.

Maeria raised an eyebrow. “I assume that you’re here instead of the engineering guild because you want to focus more on research than practical applications?”

“Yes,” he answered, his head bobbing up and down so quickly Ali worried it might come loose.

“Very well,” she said, jotting something down. “I will need to talk with the engineering guild regardless, I’m not as familiar with what would constitute a good trial for you.”

“What about you, Ilorna?” Maeria asked, looking at the Wood Elf twin sister.

“Librarian, miss,” she said, bowing her head.

“Very good.”

“And you, Celkor?”

“Archivist,” her brother answered. “Or Librarian would do, too. I want to study Elven social and cultural anthropology.”

“How about we try for both of those, and add Historian to your list? That way when you use Mr. Amariel’s shrine you’re certain to get at least one of them. If you unlock all of them, you can just pick your favorite?”

“Yes, Professor Runeweaver,” Celkor said, his tone formal but his face betrayed substantial excitement.

Ali got a couple of surprised looks from around the table as the more observant students put two-and-two together connecting her family name to her father’s shrine.

“Aliandra?” Maeria asked, still finishing up her notetaking.

“Rune Sage,” she said, the words just spilling out of her mouth before she could catch them.

“You’re aware that’s a rare class?” Maeria said, looking at her over the tops of her glasses.

“Yes, Professor,” she answered. Whatever had possessed her to just blurt that out like that? “I meant to say, I’m interested in magical research, particularly runic magic and formations. Rune Sage is my dream class, but I would be happy with Arcane or Runic Scholar or some similar common class to start with.”

“That seems more appropriate,” Maeria said. “What makes you think you could get a rare class like that right at the start? People must work to grow their skills and evolve their classes.”

That was the proper official position. Rare classes were just that – rare. Very rare. Starting with a rare class was nigh impossible, and Ali knew that. It had been drilled into her from the start by every single teacher, instructor, and professor. Hard work was what paid off and grew a Class into something more. But… Is it so bad to dream?

“I have a nature and arcane affinity already, and two cantrip spells as general skills. I can create all the foundational arcane runes, and most of the nature ones. Obviously, I can’t imbue them with mana yet…” her words trailed off as she realized everyone was staring at her.

“So unfair,” Dimble muttered. “How does she have an affinity already?”

“Be nice, Dimble,” Maeria said. “The Fae are a magical race, they sometimes unlock affinities and spells before their Class. They have real disadvantages that you don’t have to worry about too.” And then Maeria turned to regard Ali for a long moment. “So, you are Elowynn Amariel’s daughter?”

Ali nodded.

“Would you mind showing me your magic?”

“Uh… ok,” she answered. She hadn’t expected to have to do a demonstration, but she didn’t mind. She never minded using her magic – even as weak as it was. She frowned a little as she saw Dimble staring, but she trickled a little of her mana into her Arcane Cantrip skill. Warmth surged from her heart, flowing smoothly through her chest and down her arm to emerge before her outstretched fingers as a growing spark of shining golden energy. She ignored the sharp intake of breath from across the table and just focused on directing her magic, sculpting it in the air with her mind until she had formed the first rune her mother had taught her: the foundational arcane power rune.

“It’s gold…” someone whispered.

It hung there, floating in the air, a construct of pure mana. It sparkled. It was a silly thing, a childish vanity perhaps, but she had always loved that her arcane mana matched her amber eyes, while her nature mana matched her hair.

“Excellent,” Maeria said. “You said you have two spells?”

“The other one is a nature affinity cantrip that lets me influence the growth of plants,” she said. Almost certainly she had inherited that affinity from her father. However, it had been Aunt Lira and the Dryadic insight of her tree that had inspired Ali to take her first steps along the path of nature magic. She mostly just used it to encourage the wildflowers in the Grove to bloom, but lately she had been limited to using it on the potted plants in her apartment.

“We can take a look at that one later. Perhaps aiming for an advanced rune magic class is not such a bad idea for you,” Maeria said, pausing momentarily in thought, and then making some rapid notes. “My book, Advanced Classes for the Runic Scholar, is up on the third row, four across. You’re a Fae, why don’t you zip up there and get it quickly? Look for the white book with purple runes on the spine.”

Maeria’s words hit like a sudden gut-punch. Blood drained from Ali’s face while the voices and lights faded to a dull background roar. She gasped as everyone stared at her, curling up inside herself, desperately wishing the ground would open up and swallow her whole.

“What’s wrong?” Maeria, asked, suddenly looking up. “It’s just up there.” She pointed to the bookshelf that hung more than fifteen meters above them.

It might as well have been on another planet.

“I can’t fly,” Ali whispered, the words barely leaving her lips before she tried to swallow them back. But the tiny sound of her voice was a clarion bell alerting everyone to her shame. Her stubby golden wings had never developed properly. Now they jutted out from the back of her coat, a painful reminder that what should have been a beautiful hallmark of her race was instead a beacon for childhood bullies and later, adult pity.

Maeria Runeweaver gasped, her hand flying to her mouth as her eyes widened in shock. “I… I am so sorry,” she said. “Aliandra, please, I didn’t mean…”

She seemed to be in such distress that it shocked Ali right out of her own dark emotional pit. “It’s ok… you didn’t know,” she managed.

“I’m really sorry, Aliandra,” Maeria said, clearly trying to collect herself. “Here, let me get it for you. I still want you to read it.”

Ali’s Mana Sense prickled with an invigorating energy that suddenly rushed through her like a fresh warm breeze. Purple runes flickered into existence around Maeria’s hand and something barely visible shot out toward the shelf far above. A white book with purple runic inscriptions extracted itself from among its peers and flew back down to alight upon the table before Ali.

Ali blinked in astonishment at the casual use of runic magic.

“Telekinesis via runic casting,” Maeria said, a peace offering of a sort. “One of the benefits of the Class you so desire.”

“That was beautiful,” Ali said, her body still trembling from her slowly fading emotional overload. She’s a Rune Sage? She glanced down at the white book before her, bearing Maeria Runeweaver’s name.

“Why don’t you start reading that while I finish with everyone else?”

Ali nodded, grateful for the distraction, and opened the cover while Maeria worked her way through the rest of the hopefuls sitting around the table. Each chapter covered a class, including expected class skills, directions for growth, known requirements for unlocking it, and generally everything someone like Maeria may need in order to help her with her pre-class trial. Common classes such as Runic Scholar near the front of the book had detailed information, drawn from the research of thousands of people, but as she approached the less common classes near the end of the book, the content grew progressively more speculative.

She turned the page and froze as her eyes drank in the words that leapt from the page.

Runic Sage. Rare. At the time of writing, the author is aware of only eleven class-holders and was only able to secure six for study. A powerful non-combat, arcane-affinity magic class focused heavily on creative application and research of runic magic and formations. It appears to be based on a strong foundation of Intelligence and the Knowledge trait. Known skills include Runic Formations, Rune Casting, Inscription, Runic Script, Craft Runic Artifact, Runic Circle, Mana Circuit Comprehension, and various forms of mental haste or knowledge enhancement buffs. Broader arcane affinity related skills such as Mana Sight, Flying, or various forms of Teleportation have also been observed.

Requirements: Unknown. At the very least, a strong affinity for arcane magic and understanding of runes has always been present before unlocking the class, but there are too few examples to draw any further conclusions.

All her life Ali had been aware that her mother and father were quite well regarded in Dal’mohra, but it was only when she had started at the university that she had truly begun to appreciate the sheer importance of her mother’s research. While she would be unable to aspire to her mother’s unique Class, Rune Sage would at least allow her to take her first steps down that path.

Before diving into the details laid out before her, Ali flickered a little mana into her Arcane Cantrip. One golden rune appeared hovering around her hand as she clung fervently to the intricate image of Maeria Runeweaver’s telekinesis spell. More mana, and a second rune appeared. She bit her lip, her brow furrowed in concentration, and forced a little more mana into her skill. A golden blob appeared. She willed it into shape, but it wobbled precariously in the air, refusing to comply. She focused all her will on it, forcing it into shape, but as she did, the other two runes popped, falling to the table as golden glitter.

With the crazy emotional rollercoaster her day had become, what should have been a minor setback caused her throat to close up, and she blinked away sudden moisture in her eyes.

“That was a pretty good effort, Aliandra,” Maeria said. “Don’t give up, that’s a fantastic way to work toward your class.”

She was about to answer, but at that very moment, a deathly chill washed over her. Her body froze, and it was as if she stood on the precipice of her own suddenly opened grave. She gasped at the sudden ominous premonition.

“Did… you feel… that?” she managed.

“What?”

Suddenly a heavy thump echoed up from the bottom of the atrium and the entire building shuddered.

Gasps sounded from the table, and a distant scream rose from a level below. Wide eyes stared at each other uncomprehendingly.

And then the lights went out.

Another scream. This one, far closer.

Glowing red orbs popped into existence floating all through the library, casting it in a strangely terrifying light. And then a siren began wailing and an enchanted voice echoed through the library.

“Alert. Dal’mohra is under attack. Return to your homes and shelter in place. The Guard is deployed, and the barrier domes are active. Do not panic.”

Another thump shook the library, jarring the stone underfoot and knocking books from their high shelves.

“Let’s all not panic,” Maeria said. But her wide eyes and shallow breathing were anything but reassuring.

And then the cold sepulchral pressure suddenly spiked as the air behind the Professor ripped like an invisible knife had slashed downward through the fabric of reality.

