Aliandra

I’m late!

Ali charged the length of her apartment at breakneck speed, snatching up the few essentials by the door: the letter, her enchanted communication panel, and most importantly, her library card. She paused just long enough to mist her hanging orchid with a little revitalizing boost of nature mana before she stuffed one arm into the sleeve of her warm coat, yanked the door open, and rushed out. She shoved the door shut with a foot, but it got away from her and slammed with a loud bang that would most certainly earn her a nasty message from the nosy Humans living downstairs.

She took the narrow stairs two at a time and leapt onto the patiently waiting disk hovering above the pavement at the bottom. She slipped and landed sideways, the panel and her library card slipping from her hands and clattering across the hard surface, but fortunately this transport platform was made to accommodate the larger races, and she was able to catch her things before they spilled out into the street.

“Go!” she said.

Purple runes lit up around the edge of the platform, making it hum and rise higher above the ground as the warm rush of nearby active mana washed over her skin. The disk turned, accelerating smoothly as it shot out to merge with the traffic.

Ali took a breath.

It was a good thing she had scheduled the transport yesterday. Getting lost in a good book and missing her appointment with the Head of Magical Research at the Grand Library Arcana was not the recommended way to make a good first impression.

Her faculty t-shirt was doing nothing to break the chill of the wind rushing past as her transport banked into the main arterial boulevard and the traffic of thousands of commuters rushing back and forth. But as she wrestled with her coat, she caught her stunted wings on the edge of the wing-slots, wrenching them painfully. She winced. She should have known better – she always managed to catch the useless things on nearly everything, especially when she was rushing. She twisted, finally getting them to slip through and pulled the coat closed against the cold.

Do I have everything?

She turned the rectangular communication panel on, verifying that the enchantments were still charged with mana and shoved it into her coat pocket. She straightened the cover letter from the dean of the university and stuffed it in the same pocket, and then picked up the shiny platinum card embossed with the library insignia on one side, and several enchanted runes on the other. Without her library card, she would not be able to even enter. At the touch of her fingers, the runes on the card activated, projecting a few glowing silvery lines of text and an image of herself into the air above it.

Name: Aliandra Amariel.Race: Fae.Access: Research Assistant, Unclassed.

She didn’t love the image they had recorded of her, but she was going to need to replace the card when she affixed her Class anyway.

Finally, her heart slowed to a more normal pace, and her breathing eased up. I’m going to make it, she thought. It would be close, but she would be on time. Elegantly crafted buildings whipped by on either side – Dal’mohra boasted some of the best stone- and metal-mages on the continent, and the sheer wealth and power of the grand city was on display in every artifice and construction. Thousands of magical vehicles and platforms flowed through the spotless streets like lifeblood through arteries, invigorating all reaches of the city. Overhead, the blazing solar orbs hovered, powered by the giant mana condensers a level below, radiating soft yellow light and warmth down upon the bustling city nestled in its deep underground cavern.

The backdrop of chaotic busyness blended into a familiar symphony of order – that emergent sense of purpose woven from the fabric of the city. It was that pervasive and exhilarating heartbeat, the very essence of Dal’mohra, which had always resonated so deeply with her.

Mana Sense prickled just a fraction of a second before her communication panel vibrated in her pocket. She reached in and pulled it out.

“Mom: Don’t forget dinner tonight at my place.”

“Yes mom,” she sent.

“Mom: I invited some of the Faculty. They will be excellent contacts when you’re looking for a job after you earn your Class. Can you stop by the bakery and pick up a cake for dessert?”

“Sure.”

Ali had been hoping for a quiet dinner with her mom and dad, a chance to catch up and maybe some private discussion about her options, but her mother was always trying to ‘look out for her future’ with plans and engagements. Contacts and networking. She probably shouldn’t have been all that surprised. But it was a problem for later.

Her transport disk slowed and eventually slid to a halt at the entrance to the grand plaza, depositing her at the feet of the three kings – Artur Dragonsworn wielding his flaming legendary sword, Bragni Doomhammer with his massive mithril Hammer of Justice, and Thaldorien Stormshaper with his piercing eyes focused on the distance, casting lightning from his outstretched fingers. All three were legends in their own time, and the kings of Dal’mohra, rendered far larger than life in gorgeous marble embellished with expensive enchantments to depict their magical affinities. The three faced outward, watching over the residential district of Dal’mohra, and the artist had contrived to grant them that far-off stare of heroes.

Ali’s eyes lingered a little longer on the Elf-king, Thaldorien Stormshaper. A phenomenal archmage of incredible wisdom and knowledge. A man who, in his youth, had added the creation of the Grand Library Arcana to his impressive list of achievements. She remembered him as a kindly Elf who had encouraged an eight-year-old Ali to follow her dreams to study magic. It had not occurred to her till many years later that one of the kings visiting your mother was something remarkable.

She stepped off her transport, releasing it back into the traffic. A sudden chill caught her, sending goosebumps running down the back of her arms. Quickly, she buttoned her coat and set off to negotiate her way through the throngs of people gathered on the plaza, trying to ignore the delightful medley of aromas arising from the vendors with their colorful food carts.

She struggled a little through the press of Dwarves, Elves, and Humans, all towering over her. Students, researchers, and visitors dressed in outfits she could not even place. But most of them moved when she called out, and she didn’t get stepped on, or tripped over this time. And when she finally emerged from the crowds, she beheld the magnificent edifice rising before her.

The Grand Library Arcana.

It was the world’s preeminent library, easily surpassing even the Sun Elves’ storied Library of Light at Aalion. There were more books here than anywhere in the entire realm, including an unmatched collection of the most advanced magical works and knowledge. More importantly, scholars and sages journeyed from far and wide to study in these vaunted halls. The very air crackled with possibility, creativity, and the heady rush of inspiration as researchers fervently toiled to unveil the secrets of the universe and the very nature of magic itself.

This, more than anywhere in the vast and infinite expanse of the realms, was where she belonged.

The towering cylindrical edifice of enchanted stone rose up from the ground, vanishing into the darkness – far above even the floating solar orbs. She knew it spanned the full extent of Dal’mohra, from the bedrock three city levels below all the way up to the surface far above. Glowing runes circled the outside of the building, illuminating the relief sculpted murals upon the walls, and the immense doors of black stone stood open, inviting her to enter.

Ever since she had begged her parents for a library card as a child, she had visited every chance she got. Every time, it took her breath away.

She took a step forward, approaching the hallowed chambers she knew to be filled with hushed patrons seeking information, soft illumination, and the indefinable scent of parchment, ink, and the weight of knowledge.

Suddenly something huge and gleaming slithered out in front of her, blocking her way. Looped in heavy muscular coils, his bronze-scaled serpent body shone in the magical light. Four powerful arms folded across his broad chest and a surprisingly human-like face looked down at her from more than three meters above. Minus the scales, of course. Double membranes blinked across his vertically slit reptilian eyes and a forked tongue flickered between razor-sharp fangs.

“What is thisss? A Fae creature? Are you to be my sssnack?” His powerful voice resonated with an exaggerated sibilant hissing undertone. Four matching scimitars were worn across his back, their leather-bound grips poking out above his shoulders.

“I have this,” she declared, brandishing her library card. “And I’m not afraid to use it!”

“Oh no! The dreaded library card of legends!” he exclaimed. And then his mock-serious face cracked into a broad grin. “Hi Ali.”

“Hi Armand, how’s the guard gig treating you?”

“It’s awesome! I hit level seven yesterday!”

“What? In only a month?” Ali trickled just a little mana into her Identify skill and directed it at the giant before her. A soft chime sounded in her mind and a short notification appeared.

Warrior – Desert Naga – level ?

Already I can’t identify his level, she thought, but she hid her frown, not wanting to take away from Armand’s excitement. Either she needed to practice her skill more, or… I really need to unlock my Class soon.

“Yup, my mentor said I’m progressing really fast. Soon I’ll hit level ten and then you’ll see two marks instead of one!”

“Is that when my all-powerful library card will stop working?” she asked.

He chuckled happily. But then his voice grew serious, “She said she will take me on a dungeon run when I hit ten to level up faster.”

“That’s… uh, great?” Ali said. Obviously, a combat class like his would need to go delving or monster hunting, she knew that, but the very idea still made her heart jump against her ribs and her breath hitch in her chest. “Be careful, please?” She was just glad she would never have to deal with something as scary as a dungeon.

“I know, Ali. I will. And she said she will come with me and keep me safe,” Armand said, but then his smile returned. “When are you getting your Class?”

“I just unlocked my primary class slot yesterday!” she said. She had been expecting it for a couple of months now but waking up to see that notification had filled her with such excitement. Probably she had annoyed her family with all the messages, but they had let her enjoy it. “Dad said he’ll unlock me as soon as I settle on a trial. A week. Two at the most.”

“You going to unlock at your dad’s shrine? It’s so cool he has that. Much respect to your family for offering its services for free.”

“Yes, and thank you,” Ali said. She dearly loved the Grove with the shrine, and she had spent so much of her youth playing in her father’s forest, or lying under the trees with a good book until the sun set and it grew too cold. But lately she had been so busy with studying to earn the Class she wanted that she hadn’t had any time to go topside and visit him.

“Well, good luck Ali. Professor Maeria Runeweaver arrived just a few minutes ago, and she’s probably waiting for you inside.”

“Oh!” Ali’s eyes widened suddenly as Armand reminded her this wasn’t a social visit. “Chat later!”

“Seize the future, Ali,” Armand said, pressing his lower pair of hands together just below his heart and bowing his head as she rushed towards the yawning darkness of the giant arched doors and the dim light of the legendary library beyond.

Despite the urgency driving her haste, she paused upon the threshold and took a deep breath.

Some things should not be rushed.

Warm and dry air filled her lungs, teasing her nostrils with the scent of parchment, ancient books, and the anticipation that had never diminished as she stood staring into the library. At her feet, thousands of purple runes glowed, a tiny segment of the ancient runic circle that wreathed the entire library in its profound enchantment. She recognized a rune here and there – the simpler ones – from her studies. But the vast majority lay far beyond her current abilities.

Once I unlock my Class…

For an instant, a chill breeze caught her, sending cold shivers and goosebumps down her neck and back, but her coat was tightly buttoned and the actual air emanating from the library was warm as usual.

What was that?

But the sensation vanished, leaving her puzzled – and blocking the doorway. And she would still be late if she stood here woolgathering.

The feeling as she stepped across the runes and into the library was just as incredible as always. An electrifying power rippled across her skin as if she had walked through a veil of pure energy. Her heart suddenly beat a little faster, the library grew lighter, colors deepened, and the familiar scent of ancient books filled her nostrils as she breathed deeply.

Aah, magic. She could never get tired of this feeling. Her Mana Sense did not react so strongly to ordinary magic, but the library’s runic circle was legendary grade magic, powered by the full output of two of the giant mana condensers, and inscribed into the stone foundations using the most advanced rune magic known to the foremost scholars and archmages. She had heard many of the professors at the university – and the visiting scholars too – describe it as one of the wonders of the modern world. Researchers and mages traveled across continents just to study in these halls.

And one day, I will understand it. It was the promise she made to herself every time she stepped through this doorway. In the back of her mind, two soft chimes sounded, and two notifications appeared.

You have entered the Grand Library Arcana.

All Learning and Knowledge magic is enhanced by 10%

All the tension from the last half hour of frantic rushing drained away. Her head tilted back as she stared up at the soaring bookcases that lined the walls. Great circular shelves laden with uncountable tomes lined the inner walls of the library, rising layer after layer until all she could see was the flickering light of the hundreds of clerks, librarians, assistants, and researchers darting about like fireflies in the air above.

