It was as though all the empty space between the locals was part of a mind-bogglingly huge creature. It was too early to say whether it was friendly or hostile, and Zac had no interest in finding out. The attention of such a powerful entity could be deadly even if it was without malice. It didn’t matter which grade it was. Like Mossy, such a powerful consciousness would effortlessly be able to overwhelm their souls.

The three picked up their speed, zipping across the chasm. Below were two more layers of locals. There could very well be even more, but a layer of green mist obscured their vision. The view disappeared as they landed on the temple stairs, and the oppressive feeling vanished with it. However, they weren’t given the time to relax before the temple came alive.

The row of pillars by the entrance detached from their base with a rumble, inching toward Zac’s group like the tentacles of an octopus. The columns didn’t exhibit the properties of stone, bending and extending as if they’d been turned into rubber. Patterns of life decidedly different from the Limitless Empire’s heritage lit up across the pillars as a wave of Divine Energy swept over the three.

The tendrils stopped before Zac a little longer than Ogras and even longer on Tavza. Just when Zac feared the temple would reject her presence, the tendrils returned to their original position. The main gate had remained open throughout the process, but the idea of stepping inside left Zac leery. Between the malleable stone and the steady stream of energy pouring into the opening, the gate felt more like the maw of a disguised beast.

Still, they were certain the temple was only the equivalent of a Late D-grade Beast King, so they carefully stepped inside. The temple seemed more surprised than alarmed at having visitors. Their actions may very well seem odd, and the creature was happy to accommodate their eccentricities. However, they didn’t get far before their exploration came to a halt.

The nave was almost unrecognizable, nothing like the one they saw in the memory domain, and the rest of the temple was only accessible to Ogras’s shadows.

“It’s all twisted and random. Hallways leading nowhere, rooms without proper entrances, and nothing resembling a maintenance array. I can’t find any preserved items. Unless the items are stored somewhere out of reach, this spirit must have eaten or discarded them,” Ogras said with annoyance. “Shouldn’t a natural-born Spirit Tool make more sense than this?”

“You shouldn’t consider this a Spirit Tool. It’s a lifeform born without a Tool Spirit’s innate knowledge, closer to a Revenant’s awakening,” Tavza said as she looked around. “I encountered something similar to this when exploring the Imperial Graveyard. In that case, a fortress had come alive due to the installation of an incompatible formation. Only the areas with intact defenses were preserved in the castle. I cannot sense any lingering traces of arrays here.”

“Should we try asking? It’s clearly watching our every move,” Ogras suggested, raising his voice. “Hello? My friend, you don’t happen to have some junk taking up room? We’ll be happy to take it off your hands. Jade and gold, we do it all.”

There was nothing.

Zac gave it some thought before taking out his Token of Fertile Earth. “My friend, could you lend some assistance?”

A powerful fluctuation immediately slammed into Zac’s mind. His vision moved beyond the physical confines of the temple and the spiritual confines of his soul. It sailed down a vast river invisible to the naked eye, moving toward the heart of the universe as the temple knew it. Soon enough, Zac noticed thin, hidden threads below the surging river and the countless lives drawing on it for sustenance.

It was unblemished groundwater providing the river with its lifegiving gift. Zac traced their origin, moving closer like a fish swimming upriver. The river grew more powerful, as did the lifeforms living in symbiosis with it. Zac could feel his body and soul back in the temple tremble with hunger and had to contain himself lest he triggered his Void Emperor Bloodline again. Then, he saw the source.

The drop shimmered with archaic light, millions upon millions of patterns that were both profoundly complex and inexplicably simple. A wellspring of Life filled with boundless grace.
