The look in his eyes is familiar, the same haunted look I see reflected in the water when I wash my face every morning. Whatever wretched misery Pong Pong’s Aura dredged up, he’s desperate to rid himself of it and never feel so hopeless and forlorn ever again. It’s a sentiment I know too well, but sadly I have no solution to offer. “Go back to normal? Misery and despair is normal, at least for people like me. Maybe you’ve forgotten, being a peak Martial Expert and all, but we live in a world filled with pain and suffering. That hopeless resignation you’re feeling? It’s always been there, a dagger hanging above your head or a noose around your neck, and today, you were merely reminded of its existence. There’s no shaking it off, you find a level of despair you can tolerate and call that happiness, because that’s as good as it gets.” Shrugging, I add, “Soldier on or give up, simple as that.”

Both of which are valid options.

The silence is deafening in the wake of my explanation, and I realize everyone is staring at me with mixed emotions. Even Guard Leader has broken out of her daze and joined in the staring session, but I have no idea what expression she’s hiding behind her veil. Unwilling to meet Taduk’s gaze, I glance at the sun to check the time and realize it’s almost noon, which means we’ve been out on the water for almost five hours now. “Wow, we should get back, Alsantset will be worried. Need a ride back to land?”

“Er, about that.” Running a hand through his tangled beard, Lei Gong winces and says, “I was hoping you could ask the Divine Turtle to help raise our ship. It cost a pretty penny to make and the big boss won’t be too happy about losing it.”

“Not that I don’t want to help, but I’m not sure I can. Contrary to the rumours, I don’t control animals, I merely feed them and they never leave.” With a helpless shrug, I add, “Hell, I don’t even feed the turtle, she just followed me here.” Sorta. I think I understand why she follows me around, but I won’t know for sure before I test my theory out on dry land.

“I might be able to convince the old girl.” Sitting on Ping Ping’s shoulder, Guan Suo gently strokes Ping Ping’s head as she comes awake with a mournful squeak, yet another victim of Pong Pong’s powerful Aura. Drawing on my depleted reserves, I bolster her spirits with an Aura of Love, but since I still have yet to meditate, I don’t have much to spare. Seeing no change in her demeanour, I sigh and sit down to rest while Guan Suo guides Ping Ping into lifting the sinking barge out of the water, which she does with relative ease using a combination of muscle and Water Chi.

This morning, I would have been shocked and awed by her power and control, but now? Eh. Pong Pong raised the bar on impressive, and Ping Ping falls short in comparison.

Groaning in frustration, the Tyrant inspects the intricate markings on the side of the barge, as large swathes of it have seemingly been wiped away. “It’s ruined,” she says, while looking over her work. “Absolutely ruined. How did this happen?”

“Everything’s taken care of Rain my boy,” Taduk Sends. “Won’t need to worry about GangShu finding out about your little friend, not for a few months at least.”

Huh. I thought it was weird Guan Suo was in such a helpful mood. He probably did something to the Runes using... whatever it is he uses to explode sharks or something. Hooray! Now I have a few months to learn all of Pong Pong’s secrets and become stronger than an Ancestral Beast. Easy Peasy. Whatever. Pong Pong is plenty strong enough to take care of himself right?

Unless... GangShu is feeling vindictive and tells the world I have not one, but two drops of Heavenly Water. Yea, that would probably ruin my day. It’d ruin more, but I doubt I’d survive long enough to find out. Well shit. No wonder Pong Pong was looking for the safety of home. Strong as he is, he’s no match for an entire nation.

...

Is it too late to throw him back?

Chapter Meme
