After a few steps down the hallway, up some stairs, and around a corner, Erick arrived at the actually-most-promising space in the building; the whole fourth-floor hallway. There were two student laboratories and one professor’s office, and none of them looked like the rest of the wrecked university.

These rooms had lights, solid walls, and more. Erick couldn’t see the light from outside the hallway, or even in the manasphere, since the windows to the rooms were all blocked and boarded up, and there was some fuckery going on with the nature of reality here in the dungeon.

As for the rooms themselves, they were pretty special.

The first laboratory had what appeared to be a metal-working furnace on one side, which was not meant for simple work, like cast iron or steel, with their beds of coals. This furnace was smaller, and looked like something that one would use with specialty metals, like for making enchanted items. The other half of that room held wax and carving tools, which seemed to fit with the specialty furnace Erick was looking at. It was all stuff to use in the lost wax casting method, where a person would take a wax shape, bury it in plaster or other materials, then burn out the wax, leaving a hollow that could then be filled with liquid metal. Only in small quantities, though. The rest of the lab had some benches set before tiny anvils and assortments of metal files, which was again like what Erick would expect to find in a jewelry shop, or enchanter’s workshop.

This first room looked like a good place to cast metiron.

… But maybe not, now that Erick was looking closer. Maybe this ‘display’ was more of a hint of things to come, for though the room existed, it looked more like a museum piece or reenactment, than a valid work place. There was no visible fuel for the furnace and where the fuel should have been, all there was were pipes leading off into empty air. Over at the wax station, there was no sand or plaster or other material with which to surround a wax casting. Perhaps Erick could turn this location into a working workshop, through gathering supplies located in other parts of the arcanaeum, but for now, the other two rooms held a lot more promise.

For the other two rooms had actual dungeon script floating across their doorways, like ephemeral barriers Erick would need to break to cross.

The professor’s room read: Ask a professor ONE question.

The other laboratory read: Make a new spell, using remnants of other spells.

Erick didn’t go into either room, but he did look around inside both. The professor’s room was a standard office space, but without any personal effects at all. The walls were bare. The book shelves were empty. All the room held was one nice leather professor’s chair, a desk, and then a student’s chair sitting on the other side of the desk.

Across the way from the professor’s office sat the spell-making lab. That laboratory had quite a lot of stuff, and it looked set up for multiple experiments. There were black lab tables and bits of metamonds sitting on those tables, alongside various arcane tools. None of those metamonds were whole, though; they were all broken. Erick suspected that they would be used as fodder for the creation of new spells, as the writing on the doorway said. The most interesting item sat in the back of that space, beyond the lab tables. It was a large, dull-grey metal box, maybe 3 meters cubed, with a vault-like door and several small windows. It was large enough for most people to fit inside.

The walls of the container were opaque to his mana sense, but the vault was open, so he could mana sense inside just fine, and there was nothing in there. Looked to be easy to open from both sides of the vault-like door, too.

Erick was… Not sure what he was supposed to do in the laboratory. He had ideas. Some of them were probably correct. Obviously he had to make a new spell using remnant metamonds sitting on the various lab tables. But how? By using the vault in the back? Well sure; that was the obvious answer.

The goal of Floor One was for a person to make their own spell, using a spell creation tome, and then advance to the next floor. None of this here was a ‘spell creation tome’. But…

At the very least this probably served as instruction on how to use a spell tome.

Erick felt the [Murky] gem in his pocket, and wondered if he could use the stuff in these rooms to make that gem into something useful. [Murky] was an intact metamond, fully spherical and filled with sparking grey light, while all the metamonds in this room were broken.

Each table only had one color of broken marbles…

There were six tables, and each of those gems were color-coded to match the Six Primary Elements, of Light, Shadow, Stone, Fire, Air, and Water. Hard to tell the exact colors, but the flavor of mana there seemed pure to Erick’s mana senses. Metamonds weren’t normal items to sense, though, so Erick wasn’t quite sure if he was correct about them being ‘pure elemental’, but he was pretty sure they were pure.

Well.

There was one place to get answers about all this, and it wasn’t this lab.

Erick turned toward the professor’s room, where the words ‘Ask the professor ONE question’ floated, and he walked through the script—

The room came to life.

“Look, Debbie,” said the professor to her student, “Your grades are down, and if you can’t get a 60% on the upcoming exam, then your scholarship is over. I cannot state it any plainer than that, and it does not matter that mana is faltering faster and faster. The entire arcanaeum has adjusted its curriculum to help young dabblers overcome this Emptying and it is your duty to compensate right alongside the rest of us. Now please leave, and join one of the many study groups I have outlined for you. You have taken up enough of my student hours, and I have a new arrival.”

The professor was an average human woman of brown everything, from skin to hair to eyes, who seemed stern and solid in the face of Debbie, who looked just about ready to throw a punch.

And then Debbie suddenly burst into tears and raced out of the room, almost colliding with Erick on the way out. Erick stepped out of the way, though, and Debbie kept rushing away, down a hallway filled with students lined up for the professor’s office.

Erick was next in line, though, since he was already inside the room.

Politeness demanded he not take up too much time with the professor, and though Erick thought he had a question about how to work the vault-like thing sitting in the other room, he suddenly had a different question entirely.

Erick got right into it, “Hello, Professor. I would like to know how to make this item non-depleted, and what that would mean.”

He set the Rod of the Guardian onto the professor’s desk.

And the professor arched her brow. When she had spoken to the student, it had been with a voice filled with stern concern. Now, though, her voice came out as though half-robotic, without any real inflection or stress on any particular words, “I have more experience with meta-diamonds, for the meta-irons are rather more reservoirs than anything truly special. Are you sure this is your question?”

Erick realized he was not speaking to a real person rather quickly, but that little act with Debbie had almost thrown him for a loop. He had almost thought that he would be talking to a real person, who was just sitting behind the scenes, as people sometimes did in dungeons. But, no. This was more like interfacing with a [Familiar] who was still a good half-century away from maturing into an actual person.

He was probably talking to a routine created from the Dungeon Core itself.

He almost asked some much deeper questions about the [Witness] he had seen with Ashes in the courtyard back by the guardhouse. But… He had time for that, later.

Erick stayed on task. “Yes, I am sure these are my questions.”

“Metairons are all created with specific metamonds in mind, for the whole process of item creation begins with a function, and form comes later. The metamond comes first. The metairon comes afterward.

“You have a depleted form. The function it should have is already ‘baked into the cake’.

“Therefore, create or find a metamond that will bond to the iron in the way the rod is missing, then soak the iron in enough of its own mana in order to loosen the metal, and then join the metamond to the metiron.

“Repairing a weapon-shaped metiron is almost impossible, though, so I suggest you focus your efforts on any other endeavor instead, and only use this weapon for as long as it serves. When you find an upgrade, or when you need one, break this iron and reshape it entirely into a new form, around a new function.” The professor tried to lift the rod to hand it back to Erick, but she failed due to the weight. She left it on the table, and said, “Please take your weapon and depart. There are more students to deal with after you.”

Erick easily picked up the weapon and clipped it onto his belt, saying, “Thanks,” as he took his leave.

Another student stepped into the professor’s office as Erick entered the hallway—

The professor’s office went dark. Every single person in the hallway vanished, and the sounds of soft conversation vanished with them. Only two rooms remained lit in the hallway; the metamond laboratory with its 6 elemental fragments, and the furnace room that had no supplies besides wax.

… Erick turned back toward the professor’s office. He wanted to see if he could get another [Witness]. And so, Erick cast his sight through the manasphere, into the distant past—

The world flickered.

- - - -

Ashes paused at the closed door, in the dim hallway. Classes were out, but the professor, Markie’s wife, was in. Or at least she was supposed to be. Her door was closed, and the hallway was silent...

The only sound was of soft crying coming from behind the closed door.

Ashes felt a chill sweep through his body at that sound. He froze, unsure how to handle what lay beyond that closed door. Ashes had never been the most empathetic when it came to crying people, and Sofie had told him that she was fine, and that she was taking some time off. But upon hearing that Sofie was here in her office, he had to go talk to her.

And here she was crying.

He realized what he needed to do. Stepping back softly, maybe ten steps and outside of hearing range, Ashes leapt up and came down on the floor rather solidly. With briefly loud steps, he made his way back to the office.

Markie’s wife, Sofie, was no longer crying.

Ashes knocked on the door.

“Co—” Sofie’s voice broke. “Come in!”

Ashes opened the door.

Sofie’s face was puffy and reddened, and tears marred all of the paperwork in front of her, but she noticed Ashes noticing her paperwork, she tried to smile at him as she slid a folder over what she had been working on. With false joy, she said, “Ashes! What brings you here?”

“Don’t tell me they told you to come in after what happened. You should be at home, Sofie.”

Sofie froze, and then her smile became both more strained, and more true. “I’m fine. We expected it might happen. And… There’s no baby leave if there’s no baby, right? I’m fine. Please, distract me with whatever you came in here for, for you never do social visits.”

Ashes frowned. He went over to their house for dinner and beers every week… But she was mostly correct. He wasn’t here at the arcanaeum for a social visit. Ashes got right to it. “I’m looking to contact the resistance.”

Sofie sobered up instantly. “… I don’t know about them.”

Ashes had stayed away from this specific conversation with Sofie and Markie…

But the time for subtlety was over.

“Even though you kept it quiet, I know you and Markie are talking about leaving. Until this recent horror, you called yourself never-leavers. And you’re a professor here, where students talk all the time about new stuff. You know about the resistance, Sofie. I never spoke about this around you, and you and Markie never talked about it around me, but I know. Sofie. I know.” Ashes stated, “And I’m looking to join.”

Ashes had taken a chance.

And Sofie took a deep breath as the full weight of his words settled upon her.

Ashes waited.

Sofie said, “Close the door.”

Ashes closed the door, then sat down across from Sofie.

Sofie brushed away a few stray tears. “Are you really doing this?”

“I am.”

“… Ramblewood Arcanaeum and University has absolutely nothing to do with the resistance. Nothing. We simply teach everyone who walks through our doors, and we try not to ask too many questions about any of our students, aside from what we’re legally required to ask. The Adjudicators of Riam routinely monitor RAU for violations in our lesson plans, and misappropriations are handled by them. People disappear, Ashes.”

Ashes knew a little bit about the disappearances, but his captain always told him that it wasn’t his duty. And Ashes had always accepted that it wasn’t his duty. But things had changed. It was hard to pinpoint exactly where the change had happened, but Ashes could not ignore what he was seeing anymore.

“What can you tell me?” Ashes asked.

“Not everyone can make a core and learn magic, and even cores can’t truly hold mana in the face of the coming True Emptying. So look to the ways in which mana and thus magic can survive the Emptying. In how mana can be collected and used outside of Riam’s power.” Sofie said, “Look to the ways in which magic is put into the hands of the common people, and how that magic can be used even in a True Void.”

Ashes furrowed his brow. “… Magic item creation?” He glanced at the silver bracelet on his wrist, and felt the weight of the rod at his side. Both of them were hand-down gifts from his father a decade ago, when he retired from the guard. The rod had become depleted long ago, somewhere in his father’s time, but the bracelet still functioned passably well. Neither of them would survive a True Emptying, a True Void, but then again, the plane itself wouldn’t survive that, either, so worrying about that was like worrying about what would happen ten thousand years from now. And yet... “They’re working on items that can survive a True Void?”

“And all other low-mana environments, too. The first working prototypes came out—” Sofie caught herself. “I heard the first working prototypes came out three years ago. Some of the resistance even used them to assault a Siphon and it worked. They could control their mana around the Siphon. Maybe one day soon you can upgrade the stuff you have now into something that can also survive whatever Riam may inflict upon us all.”

