Ashes looked at Sofie, deeply, for that last line of hers had been well over the threshold that would get the Adjudicators looking at her.

Sofie knew that, too. She did not say another word.

Both of them were taking risks, but Sophie more so than Ashes.

Ashes nodded. “Thanks, Sofie.” He got up from his chair. “Thank you.”

Sofie struggled with something for a moment, then she went still, and simply said, “I don’t know how the resistance does it with their item creation, Ashes, but it's about mana crystals. Goodbye, Ashes.”

—Ashes paused.

‘Goodbye’?

He glanced again at Sofie’s paperwork, where she hadn’t managed to cover it up with that folder. He wasn’t entirely sure, but it looked to be paperwork to request true time off. Months or more, fully paid. But that was a ruse. If Sofie wanted true time off, then she could have it. She didn’t need to fill out a small stack of papers… So why would—

A realization.

Ashes looked down at the paperwork, and asked, “Tenure termination?”

Sofie looked down and away, saying nothing.

Ah.

She was cutting tenure and taking her money.

Sofie was leaving.

Markie would be leaving with her.

Sofie and Markie would be vanishing as soon as she got her money.

With a sad tone, Ashes said, “I’ll see you when I see you.”

Sofie froze. And then tears fell once again. “See you when I see you, Ashes. Good luck.”

“Good luck to you, too. Both of you. If I don’t see Markie, tell him I’ll look after his bees.”

Sofie sniffled once. “Thank you, Ashes.”

Ashes left. He closed the door behind him and soft crying once again filled the air.

- - - -

Erick yanked back into his own body.

For a moment he stood there, thinking about what he had seen. Yet again, casting his mana sense into the past had not produced a typical [Witness]. Instead of vaguely seeing the world as it had been hours, days, or however long ago it had been, Erick had been transported into the body of ‘Ashes Woodfield’, located somewhere in the distant past, and he had become that person for that interaction. He had known things that he did not know, and he had seen things that did not actually exist, for this dungeon was just a dungeon. It was not real…

It wasn’t real, right?

No, of course it wasn’t.

Not really.

Historically, all of this war and Emptying might have been true. There might have been a ‘Ramblewood Arcanaeum and University’ in the city of Iben, on the plane of Insten. But Erick seriously doubted that ‘Ashes’ and ‘Sofie’ and ‘Markie’ ever really existed. It was a story that the dungeon masters had put in here for those who went… Looking into the past? Or something? An ‘easter egg’, as Jane would have called it?

But how could an easter egg be tailored to Erick’s character’s name?

Well. Actually. That wasn’t too surprising at all. Erick had logged his name with the dungeon, and the dungeon had built a narrative around that name. It was some impressive magic, really. Erick could only assume that Wizardry had to be involved. Dungeons were in direct control of a lot of mana, so in a technically-true way, they were almost like Wizards. Though… Maybe not. Not really.

Erick moved on.

‘Sofie’ had mentioned mana crystals.

Erick pulled [Murky] out of his pocket and looked at the gem again. It was a ‘marble’ about two centimeters across, with grey edging from every possible viewing angle, while the inner fractal smash in the center was mostly black and grey. Erick rotated the metamond in his grip and shadowy light danced inside.

Full Wizards were fully-crystallized mana crystals made of their own particular mana.

Metamonds were crystallized power, twisted into a singular direction; into a single spell.

They were mana crystals, eh? Somehow Erick had expected them to be… Something else.

“This Second Script is cleaving rather near to how Wizards and soul-imbued spells function, eh?” Erick said to himself, to the empty, well-lit hallway. “Except the ‘cores’ and ‘spells’ are separated into metirons and metamonds…”

It was a bit complicated to do it that way, but separating the base mana capability from the spells would allow spells to be changed out as desired, and limit the base power capable through limiting publicly available meta-irons to something more the size of Erick’s bracelet, rather than his Rod of the Guardian. Even the mana in the rod wasn’t that great, though…

You’d probably need a meta-iron the size of a building to do any large, Wizard-sized magics.

Which was both a plus, and a minus.

… Eh.

Erick went into the gem laboratory, walking right through the floating script strung across the door.

The room had six lab tables, each with a single small metal box sitting on them, along with some assorted measuring tools and hammers and general arcane devices. Each of those small boxes had a broken metamond, each of them looking like broken, brightly-colored children’s candy sitting in a container that would have otherwise been used for frog dissection.

Erick recalled the Rod of the Guardian that Ashes had, in the visions. The rod had also been depleted for Ashes, and he was only really able to use mana to keep the rod properly shaped and maintained, which was, quite honestly, already amazing for a magical item. A weapon that never wore down was a fantastic thing to own. But when Ashes’s father had the Rod…

What had the rod been capable of doing...

“[Force Binding],” Erick said, recalling how it had been in the memory. He wasn’t 100% on that, because those [Witness] memories were all foggy around the edges, but he was pretty sure. And then he frowned, and looked around the room. “I don’t have any Force options here.”

White, black, yellow, red, magenta, blue; those were the colors of the gems. Just the Primary Elements, and all of them were broken anyway. He didn’t actually need these pieces right now, though. Erick turned his gaze toward the metal room in the back of the laboratory.

He went into that metal room, through the door set onto the corner of the metal box, and closed the door behind him, the metal sliding shut without a sound. First, he checked to see if he could get out again, and he could. The door operated perfectly well from both sides. So Erick shut the door again, and this time he flicked the locking mechanism.

Metal shifted inside the door, and inside the walls of the cubic room. Erick couldn’t see any of that, though. Shutting the room had fully shut his mana senses off from the rest of the world.

He could still look outside the small windows set on the edges of the chamber. The lab was still illuminated by wardlights in the ceiling. This small, metal room was also illuminated by lights, but they were lights that sat beyond special glass portals in the roof of the room.

This room was a special room, that prevented the transmission of mana beyond its walls. Erick’s initial guess was that the room was probably made of antirhine, but antirhine alone wasn’t completely capable of closing off a space from mana intrusion. When a person took in an antirhine potion, for example, they could still express mana from themselves, but that antirhine poisoned their body and their aura. They couldn’t shape that mana at all, since antirhine stripped all intent away from all magic, turning that magic back into mana. A poisoned person couldn’t make magic at all.

But antirhine —lead— still allowed mana to pass through, if that mana was in sufficient quantities.

Ever since Songli got their chelation treatments working well, there had been a lot more experimentation with antirhine potions, since it was possible to clear lead out of people after just a month of treatment. Of the more savory applications of chelation treatment, there was Tadashi, the original discoverer of the possibilities of chelation before Erick showed up. He ran a whole hospital now, dedicated to cleaning up antirhine the world over. He was once again a healthy young man and Erick had even given him a [Reincarnation] and Intelligence to help him along in his journey to remove poison from the world.

Erick knew a lot more about antirhine than most people.

Rozeta still hadn’t allowed Erick to know exactly how the Script worked, but he was almost 100% sure that lead was used as a grand filter, to strip all possible intent from all mana that anyone produced, the world over. This stripping of intent made that mana able to be filtered back into people, to be used by anyone with Script access.

As for Erick’s current predicament, with the antirhine walls all around him, the little bit of mana currently in the air of this room would generally stay inside the room, until the mana pressure inside the room got turned way up. Higher than what was required to create a mana crystal, too.

Since Erick was planning on doing exactly that, the lead room itself couldn’t be strong enough to pressurize mana into condensing into a crystal. So either this room was dungeon magic, and it worked better than it should, or else they had some secondary system surrounding the antirhine room, to truly contain the mana inside; like an Edge to the Script, but not really that at all.

Ar’Cosmos had some fae fuckery going on to make their mana crystals. One could make mana crystals over there a whole lot easier than one could make mana crystals on Veird itself, for a whole host of reasons. Over there, they used a system similar to this antirhine one here, but they used an Elemental Fae Edge and avoided antirhine entirely, to make a room that contained mana perfectly. Once they managed that, they simply turned up the mana pressure on the fairy box and if the mana inside was pure enough, it turned into first a liquid, and then crystal.

Mana was kinda special when it came to other forms than the form found in the manasphere.

When mana became magic, that was technically a phase change, but that phase never lasted that long, unless the caster put some Permanency methodology into that casting.

True liquid and crystal form mana remained in those forms, forever. Rozeta even had a vast collection of mana crystals as storage to use to power Veird, should an emergency ever occur. A lot of people in-the-know considered the entire Core of Veird as one giant mana crystal, and Erick was one of them. The Core was a very special mana crystal, but it was still a mana crystal.

And like a quartz crystal removed from the forces that made it, a mana crystal once it was removed from that pressure could be selectively transformed (mostly through aura control) into a work of perpetual magic. That was how Fairy Moon had transformed a block of mana into a stat counter all those years ago, to allow Erick use that block of mana to check on his stats while inside Ar’Cosmos.

Mana crystals and cores were not the same, for crystals were inert, dead things, while cores were alive with souls. But they were similar. It was like how a living person and a dead person were the same in a lot of physical ways, except for that most important one; an anima.

Years ago, Erick had done a pressurization of mana unto himself, to turn himself into a pure crystal of Benevolence, back when he was still trying to become a Full Wizard. He had done that pressurization through Domain work, and it had worked, but it hadn’t worked permanently for whatever reason.

Once Sofie had mentioned mana crystals inside that Ashes memory, a great many things clicked for Erick about this whole scenario. The meta-irons were cores for the common man; disconnected from the self, yet powered by the self. The meta-diamonds were mana crystals for the common man, also disconnected from the self, instead of how the Script did it, which was to imbue spells directly into a person’s soul.

With all those thoughts in his head, Erick gripped the Rod of the Guardian and flicked his aura through the thing, causing it to glow brightest white as it released mana into the room. Lightning flickered as pure white filled the air—

And collided with the walls.

The walls held—

Erick suddenly felt… pretty good. Which, as soon as he felt that way, he realized that of course he would feel that way. He felt a loosening of his soul, as though he had stepped into a warm bath, as the lightning in the room slowly faded into the manasphere and the mana pressure of the room gradually increased. Within moments, Erick relaxed against the wall of the room, his eyes half closing, his Domain around his core relaxing, as though he was finally setting down a weight. Which he was. It was a pain in the ass to actively hold 50k+ mana in his core all the damned time.

At least a thousand mana had already leaked out, despite his best attentions.

It looked like the room wouldn’t be leaking any mana, though.

Concentric rings formed upon the six walls of the room, looking like targets. Erick backed away from the ring he rested against and stood in the corner, out of the way of all six sets of rings. Maybe the walls weren’t actually antirhine at all, because the lines appeared directly atop the metal, and those lines were clearly a magical effect.

So this was more like an Ar’Cosmos crystal creation setup; done through magic, and not using antirhine at all.

Erick watched as the concentric rings began to glow brighter and brighter…

But they were still only glowing with the power of a distant candle. Erick looked to the rod in his hand, and it had lost most of its glow. Erick sent a flex of his aura into the rod, trying to make it pulse out more mana... Nothing… Ah. Erick realized. The room had reached equilibrium. He hadn’t poured enough mana into the space in order for anything to manifest.

Didn’t mean nothing was happening, though.

He had clearly tripped the minimum level of mana needed to activate the space, but he was only producing 315 dungeon mana per day, and the rod had a cap of 300 mana inside. Erick glanced at the rod again, trying to figure out how much mana he had released from the thing…

Since the mana density of the air outside this mana box was around 80% normal Veird-levels, but even on Veird the mana density was not a fully uniform thing, Erick suspected that he had dropped the mana of the rod from… 300 to 150? 125, maybe? Maybe a lot less. Hard to say without specialized tools, and the ones sitting out there in the lab were foreign tools to him. He could probably figure them out—

“Or I can just say: Status, Rod of the Guardian.”

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 79/300

Ah. So Erick had been off by a lot.

… The discrepancy was probably in the 2.5 meter diameter rings of light on every single interior wall of the room, and all the smaller concentric rings located inside the bigger ones.

Erick studied those rings now.

… They were rings of light; unknown spellwork. Erick had no real clue what he was looking at.

