The night was dark, and the university standing before Erick was pretty damned dark, too. Only a few roof gators prowled the walls and flat surfaces above the water lines, their illuminated noses adding star-like glows here and there. Or at least that’s what Erick assumed those lights were. Erick barely saw any actual roof gator bodies from this angle, for their noses were the only part of them that was truly visible when they weren’t moving around.

It was more than most other people would see, Erick assumed.

Erick suspected, if the drops of the dungeon were tailored for him, that other people in this same situation would have gotten [Light] spells, or something like that, to help them counter the darkness. Maybe the sky would have had more stars, or maybe this whole thing would take place during the day. The Old Cosmology had daystars, after all; they were like suns, but not, and every inhabited plane had at least one. There was surely at least one daystar up there… Somewhere?

Unless Riam had taken it for themselves, but then it would be orbiting Riam, wouldn’t it. Most planes of the Old Cosmology had multiple ‘daystars’, with one daystar serving as a sun and the rest serving as moons.

The [Witness] Erick had experienced back at the guardhouse, with ‘Ashes Woodfield’ overlooking the market, had been at day.

Eh.

Erick was fine in the dark, and he could find his way to the university, anyway, if that’s what it was. Now that he was here, he was absolutely sure that it was a university… Or maybe an arcanaeum. It was all about 25% destroyed, with rubble and open floors here and there, but this was definitely a place of learning.

The landscape itself was expansive, with hills and valleys, or at least it would have been before the war, and the flooding. Half of the buildings were still above the waterline. Erick suspected that many of the low areas should have had trees, but no trees grew in the water. Maybe they had been blasted away?

There were maybe 10 or 12 buildings in all, for Erick could not see everything from this particular angle, but he could see a lot. Most prominently, there was a coliseum-like place taking up a full city block in the back of the campus, while most of the rest of the place had a few different ‘main’ buildings, surrounded by satellite structures.

Erick would need to wade or swim between some of the places, but…

If he started over there, and moved through there…

He could avoid most of the need to swim unless he felt like visiting… Looked like 3 places were fully flooded. Maybe 75% of the campus was open to him, with a bit of wading.

It had been a depressing sight to see a city so torn up by war, as Erick hopped from rooftop to rooftop, but what actually sent a chill down Erick’s back was the fact that there was no reconstruction anywhere at all. No wooden bridges ramshackled together between buildings, to help people get from place to place; not even a single wooden board stuck across rooftops. No boats anywhere. No fires in the night, illuminating tiny spots of civilization here or there. No people manning the walls to fight off monsters. That big castle way on the other side of the city was completely dark.

This was a fully abandoned city.

Whatever destruction had happened here, in the course of the story of Insten’s past, had been complete. But then again, this was a dungeon. Maybe the story had become more apocryphal in the retelling.

Currently, Erick stood on some sort of business or apartment-like building across the street from the gated entrance to the university. That gate was blown to shit. According to the remains of the statues standing on both sides of what had likely been a very nice entrance, there had probably been some school name, done up in wrought iron and arching across that entrance. But that signage was gone, now. Erick couldn’t mana sense anything like a sign anywhere near the front entrance, and he was surely close enough to do that, if such signage existed.

Erick turned his attentions to other matters.

Erick had enough experience to understand what ‘a monster in the area’ looked like to his mana sense, and there was no characteristic cloud of unknown space down there, at the gate to this place of learning. He could go in that way. If he wanted.

He wasn’t going to go in the front way, though, because the front entrance led to a very wide, open lake-like space, and the front building nearest to that space was still a good hundred meters further in from that entrance. That was a lot of water to wade and swim through.

So Erick hopped across a few more buildings to the right, until he came to a space where the average land of the city rose a little, and only half a meter of water covered the roads. Over here, a gatehouse leading into the campus and the iron-bar fence had been ripped apart by some wartime force, giving Erick a clear line of entry into one of the buildings that was almost above the waterline.

Erick killed another two roof gators for another pair of MP-ups and made his way down to ground level, jumping from broken rooftop to broken upper floor, and then sliding down a rubble pile to finally splash down into the water. Rocks tumbled and water splashed as Erick trudged across a wide, open street.

He was the only one making a sound in the area, his tiny splashes echoing into the night, so Erick tried to make less—

Something growl-yelped from beyond the broken fence ahead, from inside the university. And then that sound deepened, becoming a minor horror that was the sound of death, crawling across the world, and then slipping back into the shadows—

Beyond the waters, up the incline, the entrance to the nearest university building was covered in shadows. And then some of those shadows split away from the broken door. It was only a small blob of shadows. No more than the height of a normal house cat. In fact, it was a normal house cat. The blob had become a black housecat. All Veird’s house cats were all 20 kilo tiny tigers, though, and this one was no different. It was as big as most normal dogs.

Erick hesitated to call it a shadowcat; those shadowy masterminds who, through shadow control, could turn most lesser animals into formidable infantry units. Shadowcats had multiple tails and were made of shadow stretched over exposed bone and meat and pain. This cat was quite different from that. It only had one tail. As far as Erick could tell, this cat was completely normal. It had normal cat eyes that did not glow at all…

Well maybe there was a bit of a golden glow, there? Could just be the tapetum lucidum; the ‘shining layer’ in cat eyes shining back at him... No. Ah. Yes. Those eyes were glowing a slight gold color. Yes. They were glowing, and flexing, focused on Erick, and glowing a little bit brighter as the cat recognized that Erick had seen it, and was looking at it.

The cat looked at Erick, over in the waters.

Erick stared back. He unlatched his rod of the guardian from his belt and hefted it, waiting for the fight.

The cat sat down on its butt, its tail languidly swishing back and forth in the air. It yawned, and half its body opened up, the face and ribs and all the way to the pelvis opening up into a great big maw, leading into some dark place beyond the cat, and letting out a tiny roar, before the cat closed up again, and resumed its patient wait. It was not about to get into the water.

It was a horror, and it was okay with waiting for Erick to come to it.

Erick walked forward, ready to oblige.

The cat stretched out, its butt raising into the air as it reached forward and clawed the ground with claws that were each suddenly the size of a tiger’s, carving five grooves in the ground for every claw scraping through stone. The cat soon stopped stretching. Its massive claws returned to normal size.

And Erick stepped out of the waters, to stand ten meters away from the cat.

The cat paced forward, not thinking Erick a threat at all. And then it casually leapt into the air, aiming to fall upon Erick with tiger claws spread wide and its body half open, its mouth ready to bite his head off, its purr turned into a hunting growl.

Erick stepped to the right, raised his rod of the guardian, and smashed to the left, aiming to catch the cat right at its butt, the only part of the creature that couldn’t turn into a full mouth.

The cat went spinning through the air with a sudden yelp.

It was like hitting a thousand-kilo boulder. Erick still managed to adequately deflect the cat, of course. He had put his entire force into that swing. The cat went tumbling into the waters, its yelp turning into a sudden shriek as it touched dark water. Freaking the fuck out, terrified for its life, and making sure everyone knew that by the tone of its roar, that cat was still unable to do anything but paddle around, frantically trying to get out of the water.

Erick thought about going out into the waters to kill it, but he had smashed that cat ten meters out there into the waters, and he wasn’t going to allow it to pull a watery trick on him. Instead, Erick stepped back, further onto dry land, to see what happened to the cat when it came out of the water. If it ever stopped panicking—

The cat suddenly stopped panicking.

Fully wet, and treading water easily, even though Erick thought that it should have sunk right to the bottom, the cat looked at Erick with hateful, golden eyes.

And then it melted into the shadows of the water, vanishing from sight, and all the water for fifty meters around suddenly turned invisible to Erick’s mana sense. The cat was out there, in the water. Waiting. Erick stared at the wate—

Erick’s mana sense returned to everywhere but right behind him, where a shadow leapt out of the waters, aiming straight for his head.

A twirl and a smash sent the cat back toward the university, where it turned in the air, righted itself, and landed on its feet right in front of the university door. Again, striking the cat had been like hitting a ton of rock. The cat looked fine, too. The cat sat down on its butt, its tail not moving at all, as it looked at Erick with bright gold eyes.

It was completely silent. No purrs. No roars. No whines of anger.

The cat turned around and slinked into the shadows. It was gone. Within a moment, even the shadowy space in Erick’s mana sense had vanished.

You have cleared a part of The Arcanaeum of an unknown threat! 1/13!

MP up! +50 mana production per day!

… Well okay then.

It was a good thing that the fight had ended there, Erick considered, as he looked at his Rod of the Guardian, and saw it healing from great scars. The rod had been fine as Erick killed all those roof gators and spiders, but every single time he used it too hard, it took damage. Before its two confrontations with the boulder cat, the thing had been pristine. But after two contacts with the boulder cat it had gained some scratches, as though the beast had managed to scratch the metal when Erick wasn’t looking. But he had always been looking, so that was odd. Perhaps the cat had a damage-reflection power? Possible.

Probably just had a damaging aura. Kinda surprising for it to have an aura when Erick couldn’t use his aura properly…

Maybe it had a Domain, then? And it was using it?

… Maybe.

Anyway. Whatever damage the cat had done to the rod had healed the very moment that Erick ‘won’ the battle, driven the cat off, and gained that 50 mana. A good portion of that mana had instantly slicked away from him, falling directly into the rod. Repairs happened immediately.

Erick suspected that once he gained enough mana per day and a [Meditation] skill that could turn his per-day into per-hour, any damage to his weapons would be instantly repaired, all the time, even in the heat of battle. But for now, the rod seemed to take small damages all the time when in use.

“Status: Rod of the Guardian,” Erick said to the air.

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 274/300

The weapon being ‘depleted’ probably had something to do with it taking damage, too. But Erick was at an arcanaeum now, according to the previous message. Surely something here could tell Erick a bunch about how these metirons and metamonds actually worked, and allow him to actually make some magic of his own.

Erick fully expected to need to kill that cat later, but for now, he grinned as he stepped forward into the dark halls of the arcanaeum.

- - - -

If you’ve been to one arcanaeum, you’ve been to them all. This one was mostly the same as all the rest, and subsequently filled with lecture halls, classrooms, and a few specialized casting rooms. There were even a few different libraries.

No monsters at all, which was nice to see. There weren’t even any eels down in the flooded basement. Maybe the cat ate them all. Or maybe this was just part of the story. Erick didn’t feel safe enough to walk around without a care, but the game-like nature of the dungeon seemed to have certain rules, and those rules included things like ‘making noise in one area doesn’t attract every monster from kilometers around’ and ‘once an area is clear, it remains clear’. That might not be strictly true, but from Erick’s experiences so far, it seemed true.

According to the quest marker that told Erick that he had cleared out 1/13 of the arcanaeum, he suspected that would need to fight that cat 11 more times, and then another time at an unknown 13th location, in order to clear away that quest and actually kill that cat. Erick had gotten a better look at the rest of the buildings through the various holes in this one, though, and he only counted 12 buildings out there, including the coliseum. Maybe the 13th spot was a courtyard somewhere? Some hidden location?

Eh. Erick would figure out all that eventually.

For now, he searched this particular building for bits of magic, wherever that magic might be, starting with the least-most promising area. The library. There was a major problem with the library, though.

“All the books are fake!” Erick said, slamming the tenth book shut, and throwing it down into the rubble of the nearby broken wall. The library had been shelled by heavy ordnance and was half gone, but still… He had been hoping for something good. Some trove of information. Maybe even a ‘spell tome’; whatever those might be. Erick stared down at all the illegible pages inside all the open books laying on the ground, and sighed. “It’s all scribbles.”

Erick grabbed out a few more books, just to be sure that what he was seeing with his mana sense was what he was seeing.

And then he tossed those books to the ground, too.

The library was a bust, but then again, he had expected it to be… Well. Not a complete bust. There were many places in this particular building that looked promising. The library simply hadn’t been one of those places.

Erick moved on.

- - - -

