But Erick did manage to suss out, through his mana sense, that the mana in the room was solidly inside the room, and being directed into columns of power that rose from the center of each concentric ring, to link with the direct other side of the cube.

Three columns of mana each intersected in the center of the room.

Something was there, in that intersection, but right now it was nothing more than an oddity of thickness.

Erick would need to pump a lot more mana into this room in order to make anything appear in the center. This is probably what the various broken meta-diamonds in the lab were for; for fodder for new spell gem creation.

Which is what the text floating in front of the room had told him this room was for. Duh.

One thing still confused Erick, though. Metal, like in his Rod of the Guardian, could hold a lot of mana. Erick felt that this rod should be able to hold millions of mana, if it was anything like the metal found on Veird, like platinum or gold or even iron, when properly runed to not decay as soon as mana touched it. But for whatever reason, the Rod of the Guardian only held 300 mana.

Even Erick’s bracelet, if it were made of platinum and this was Veird, should have been able to hold thousands of mana.

Eh.

Mana crystals, like the one inside Erick’s Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], should hold about… Hmm. Anywhere between 250 and 4000 mana. Hard to say with crystals. And yet the crystal itself wasn’t counted at all for the mana capacity of his bracelet… Was it?

… Maybe it was? Didn’t seem to be.

Eh.

Erick would figure all that out eventually. He had already figured out that he could freely use his aura inside this mana-soaked space. As Erick extended a few mana tendrils into the air, they glowed white in the mana-soaked space, just like his Rod of the Guardian. It was a bit odd to see his aura so clearly visible in the air, and Erick couldn’t seem to make his aura invisible at all, but at least his aura didn’t break apart. His sudden ability to use his aura like normal probably had to do with the mana in this room already being his… Or something.

He could make magic in here.

In order to take that magic outside, though, the magic had to be inside a meta-diamond.

So he needed to go out there, grab some mana pieces, and break that shit inside this room to release its mana into the space… Or something. Erick wasn’t too clear on that right now, but more importantly, he wasn’t too keen on leaving the mana density of this room either.

“Two more minutes, and then I’ll go check out the metamonds,” Erick told himself, as he relaxed in the density of mana all around.

- - - -

Erick waited three minutes before getting back to it.

Opening the vault door was like a shower suddenly running out of hot water.

Erick powered through. Then he spared a glance toward the various broken metamonds sitting on the lab tables, and spared a mana sense glance toward the [Murky] sitting in his pocket. And then he thought of how little mana was in his rod right now.

Even if those hammers and those gems were all suspiciously close to each other, suggesting that he take the gems into the vault and then break them and then… Make a mana crystal out of them? Sure. Sounded right. But that would just fill up the space with some mana, and probably not be enough to enable recrystallization. So Erick needed more mana before he did more experiments. If possible, he needed to find [Meditation], to turn his mana per day into per hour, and then he could really fill up that space in there.

So where to start?

Erick knew where. He needed to kill that cat, get +50 base MP every time, and gain access to the other buildings of the arcanaeum, whereupon he would likely have access to more looting opportunities. The rest of this place should have a lot of neat stuff! Which meant he had to leave this reward room.

Which might be a problem.

This lab would probably keep if he left before using it, and if it broke as soon as he left, like the professor’s office had broken, then that sort of event would hold true for every encounter going forward. In that case, it was best to find out now that leaving a reward room would void that reward.

So Erick stepped out of the lab.

Nothing happened to the lab behind him. The lights remained on, and the mana crystals remained there, on the lab tables, just as they were before Erick had arrived. He could leave reward rooms without taking anything, and the room would remain… Or at least in this case it worked like that. With a tiny smile, Erick left the hallway of educational rewards, and ventured back out into the night-cloaked arcanaeum.
