“I’ve heard of Threadstealer. Whispers. I’d rather cross the Assassin’s Guild than her.”
Griffon Hunt looked around. And it was on their leader that they settled. Halrac looked at the note. He silently handed it back to the [Mage].
“Give this to Guildmaster Tealve. Now. I don’t care who he’s talking to. Give this to him. And tell him the adventurers are in pursuit of the Stitch Witch.”
“Yes, Adventurer—”
Halrac pushed him. The [Mage] turned and ran. Halrac turned. He checked his quiver.
“Briganda, get us three horses. You’re not coming.”
“Halrac!”
The woman exclaimed. Revi started. She looked at Halrac.
“We’re going?”
The man met her eyes.
“Todi’s headed straight for her. We have to stop him, and the teams who went with them. There are at least eight Gold-rank teams’ worth and many Silver-ranks. Briganda, the horses. Move.”
Revi turned to the east. Where no one had raised the alarm over the flesh-giant. And she heard it in Halrac’s voice. They weren’t going to reinforce the other teams.
They were going to prevent a slaughter. Griffon Hunt found four horses waiting for them. They leapt into the saddles and raced out of the city gates, east, pursuing the adventurers who’d rushed to find the perpetrator of this monstrosity.
Briganda refused to stay back. And there was no time to argue. They galloped their horses, as [Messages] were sent, ordering Todi and the others to retreat. But Griffon Hunt went in person. Hoping to catch the other adventurers.
They arrived too late.
 
——
 
In a lonely village stood a woman. She was tall. And her clothes were dark blue, almost black. Like the abyssal depths of the deepest seas. Her hat was pointed. And her eyes were orange, ringed.
She stood still. Like a statue. In the darkest hour before dawn.
The witching hour. Belavierr, the Stitch Witch, didn’t move as the adventurers found her.
In wrath and vengeance. Righteous fury. They surrounded the village. Saw her standing there.
The houses were empty. Not a light flickered in the windows. No one lived in this village. They should have. It was close to Invrisil.
But it had been emptied. Now, the Stitch Witch waited. She ignored the man roaring his furious questions at her. The adventurers shouting. Her gaze was absent. Far away. The shadows crawled around her, on her dress. And the fury of the adventurers turned cold. They felt a chill that had nothing to do with the warm air.
“Did you do this?”
Todi didn’t know why his voice was shaking. He didn’t hear Griffon Hunt, racing towards the village, shouting at him. The woman in the black dress, the [Witch], seemed to hear at last.
Her head rotated. It twisted. She looked at him sideways, and her eyes shone. The rings seemed to draw him in. Todi’s mouth went dry.
“I said—put up your hands. You’re surrounded.”
Multiple teams of adventurers stared at the woman. They hesitated.
“Todi—my [Dangersense] is screaming. It wasn’t going off a second ago. Now it’s—”
One of his teammates whispered. She had gone white. Todi realized the truth. Too late. The [Witch] slowly took a step forwards. The air…groaned. The shadows seemed to nip at the adventurer’s heels.
And the [Witch] whispered.
“Yes.”
Just that word. Nothing more. The mortal adventurers stared at her. They searched for the fury they had felt a second ago. But it was extinguished. Slowly, Todi aimed his wand at Belavierr’s face. He saw her lips move, into a wide smile.
The adventurers attacked as one as Griffon Hunt raced into the village. Revi saw arrows flying at the figure. Jewel unsheathed her blade and charged.
“[Fireball].”
Six fireballs flew at Belavierr. The [Witch] turned. She walked through the waves of spells and arrows. And a needle appeared in her hands.
The arrows turned in the air. The fletching screamed and the arrows flickered back to their owners. Screams. Jewel’s eyes went wide in shock. The Stitch Witch was gone. She had walked in a single step—
There. To the side. Jewel tried to move. And then she realized she couldn’t. She struggled. Little threads were binding her. Her arms slowly moved, back, back.
Snap. Belavierr listened to the scream. She pivoted. And the [Fireballs] hovered in midair. Todi’s Elites stared as their magic halted. The Stitch Witch tilted her head right and left. And then—Revi saw her reach out and pluck a strand of fire from the first glowing spell.
The fireballs, swirling masses of fire, moved. They became strands of fire weaving together, becoming a tangled, larger orb of fire. Belavierr surveyed it. And then she pointed.
“Teleport!”
Todi’s team vanished. The fireball detonated. And the fire—
The flash and heat kicked Revi, even a hundred feet distant. She landed on her back as her horse reared, throwing her. She heard screams. Halrac’s voice.
“Retreat! Fall back!”
Adventurers were screaming. In a second, dozens had been downed. The arrows, the string webs around Belavierr that snapped limbs like twigs—
And the needles. They flashed through the air.
“Behind me! [Shield Wall]!”
Briganda threw up her buckler. Revi saw her shield glow—a hail of needles snapped as they hit the barrier. Briganda grunted.
“Halrac—”
“Cover me, Typhenous.”
“I’ll try.”
The [Mage] raised his staff as Halrac drew an arrow. Belavierr turned her head as the [Mage] threw an orb at her, a glowing violet ball of energy. She lifted the needle in her hand.
Revi saw the magical ball of power vanish. Typhenous turned pale.
“How…?”
“[Mages] weave magic carelessly. Look. I see a cloth-child.”
Belavierr’s voice was deep. Quiet. Absent. But then she refocused. And she was looking at Revi.
“[Piercing Shot]. [Double Shot].”
Halrac loosed. Two arrows flew. Belavierr lifted her hand. They snapped in midair, as the fletching moved.
“How did she—”
“String. Stitches.”
Briganda breathed. Revi lifted her wand, reaching for a summoning stone. Her wand pointed at Belavierr’s chest. And then moved down. Revi stared at her arm. Belavierr looked at her.
“Do you know me, child?”
“Revi, get back!”
Halrac was doing something. He raised another arrow to his string. Typhenous was trying to conjure another spell. But something was wrong.
“I can’t use magic. She’s—unweaving my spells.”
“Revi—”
“I can’t move.”
The [Summoner] tried. But her strings, her cloth was—vibrating. Belavierr turned her head left and right.
“Even the String People forget me. Perhaps I have been gone too long. My daughter was right. I forget. So these are adventurers?”
She turned her head. Jewel was lying on the ground, arms broken. Todi aimed a wand at her. This time a bolt of lightning shot at her, fast as thought. It curved up and gently formed a loop. It hit the man in the chest and he went flying. Alive? His amulets—
“Todi!”
“Spells don’t work. Nothing with cloth. We have to fight her—”
Typhenous drew his dagger. Belavierr looked at him as he lunged. He was fast—
His robes threw him into the air. Briganda swore. She dove, catching the old [Mage]. She whirled, hatchet raised—
Belavierr reached down and grabbed the [Shield Maiden]’s foot. She stood up. And threw Briganda at a wall.
The Gold-rank adventurer went through the brickwork wall. Revi stared. So did Belavierr.
“So this is Gold-rank now. Intriguing.”
“Fall back! Fall back!”
Someone was screaming the word. Briganda was moving weakly.
“Strong—”
“Get back, everyone. Typhenous, grab Revi and go.”
Adventurers were screaming, clawing at needles that stung their bodies. Some were cutting their friends free. But things were moving in the village.
Misshapen things. Golems, made of flesh. Lengths of rope, like snakes, which twined around necks and limbs.
Revi tried to summon her warriors. They were needed. They could buy time—she just had to move her hand to the pouch—
Belavierr was looking at her. The Stitch Witch seemed fascinated by Revi.
“I have been in Terandria far too long. Tell me, girl. Do you know me?”
“N—n—”
“Revi.”
Halrac was aiming at Belavierr’s chest. The Stitch Witch ignored him. Typhenous, clutching at his ribs, grabbed Revi. Then—his robes twisted, choking him.
They were being obliterated. Revi trembled as she saw Briganda trying to sneak up on Belavierr. But her armor—it had thread in it. Belavierr flicked a finger and Briganda went flying again.
They were not prepared for this. Adventurers prepared. They shouldn’t have trusted in numbers. They should have prepared for her.
They should have brought fire. Revi shuddered. Belavierr looked at her.
“Do you know me?”
And now, the words triggered something in her head. Revi went cold. Her stitch-heart beat in her cloth chest. And her lips opened. Because the [Witch] let her.
“You. You—are you—? Are you one of the Threadmakers?”
Once upon a time, someone made the Stitch-folk. And they had won their freedom. Long ago.
Belavierr smiled and her eyes drew Revi deeper, deeper.
“Close. I did not make you. But I gave your people something. And you have always remembered me. Come here. And let me see what binds you. What you are made of.”
Revi’s legs moved. The Stitch Witch’s face filled her vision. She began walking to Belavierr. And the [Witch] reached for Revi’s strings.
Halrac loosed his arrow. Belavierr flicked a tip of a finger, dismissively. Revi heard a thunk.
An arrow appeared in Belavierr’s chest. In her heart. The [Witch] blinked. She stared at the arrow shaft.
“Ow.”
That was the most normal thing she’d said. Revi felt the control leaving her. She stumbled backwards. Typhenous gasped. Belavierr looked at Halrac, blinking. He loosed another arrow.
This time she flicked her wrist. The arrow went through her neck. The [Witch] made a sound. And Revi realized—
Halrac had stripped his arrows of the fletching. No string. The [Witch] kept moving, though. She wasn’t bleeding. She pointed and Halrac’s armor and clothes moved. He went flying into the air.
He loosed a third arrow, somehow, before he hit the ground. Belavierr staggered and looked at the arrow in her leg.
“Pain. That bow is powerful.”
That was all she said as she pulled the arrow out of her neck. Revi was dragging Typhenous backwards. The [Mage] was gasping, strangled. Briganda was backing up.
They were going to be killed. The Stitch Witch didn’t even seem slowed by what should have been two mortal wounds. She just sewed both holes in her body shut as she ignored the arrow in her leg. Then she moved.
An arrow stopped, vibrating in her hand. The Stitch Witch stared at it.
“Without fletching. Can you fire an arrow without?”
Halrac was standing a hundred yards distant. He was aiming at her with his invisible bow. The Stitch Witch checked behind her.
Adventurers were lying on the street. Few dead. Most immobilized, under assault. She nodded.
“Hm. Good.”
She peered around. Todi was running, with his team. Belavierr lifted a finger and the adventurers flew. Revi saw the distant shapes soaring up, ten feet. And then they smacked into the ground.
Like a woman playing with puppets. Belavierr just looked…interested. Her hand moved—it caught another arrow. She paused. And then—nodded. She looked at Revi.
“Witnesses.”
“Huh?”
The Stitch Witch nodded again.
“Witnesses.”
She lifted her hand—and the shadows stopped moving. The things vanished into the shadows. Belavierr stepped back.
An arrow shot towards her hat. The Stitch Witch made a sound; the arrow detonated. She walked out of the explosion, her hat and clothing harder than armor for a second. That orange gaze landed on Halrac.
“Another time. Tell them what you saw.”
That was all. She turned to go. And Revi realized. It was a message. The Stitch Witch began to walk out of the village.
“Stop!”
Halrac shouted. The idiot was still loosing arrows. A mundane one snapped on Belavierr’s clothing. The Stitch Witch turned her head.
“Hm?”
“Why did you do this? Why?”
The Gold-ranked adventurer aimed at Belavierr’s face. She stared at the glowing arrow tip. And she tilted her head left and right.
Waiting for him to fire. Revi felt her skin crawling.
“Halrac…”
The Gold-rank adventurer halted. Something was flickering in Belavierr’s gaze. The disinterest, that vacant, distant, immortal look was becoming more lucid. And as she came into the world—Revi saw it.
A bit of malice. She looked at the [Veteran Scout]. He stopped.
And lowered his bow. The Stitch Witch, the Spider of Terandria, nodded. She spoke one word, an answer.
“Evil.”
A word, as abstract as could be. Almost a question. She paused, looking around. And then she turned. Belavierr walked away. A shadow, flickering across the ground.
She was gone. Revi collapsed onto the ground. She felt as though her strings were cut. She looked at her team. The other adventurers, miraculously alive. Because death wasn’t the point. Only the byproduct.
All of this? An empty village? The flesh-giant? It was a [Witch] playing at evil. A symbol, a message.
A mother’s love.
 
——
 
The adventurers. The flesh-golem. Even events now as minor as Lacel the Leaper’s crippling. It had happened, and rumors spread.
Invrisil, the City of Adventurers, heard a name that night. A legend, rekindled. The spider scuttled out into the light.
Belavierr. And the Guild of Assassins was for once out-shadowed. But they had sent a message to Izril. Runners could be targeted. And the people who believed in things like ‘pillars of society’, and ‘law’, and ‘justice’ realized the truth. Such things only existed as long as the Stitch Witch decided to obey them.
But her actions were not unnoticed. Nor that of the powerful Assassin’s Guild. Gold-ranks could not stop either one. But they were not the only people who opposed such things. Nor even the Hunter’s Guild, or [Knights] alone. There were others.
It had been a bad night. Magnolia Reinhart sipped from a cup of tea. She had not slept. But the daylight felt false to her.
The shadows were long. And she tasted it, despite the sugar in her drink.
“An old monster has scuttled into my lands, Ressa. And the Assassins are making their move. Something will have to be done.”
“Yes, Lady Magnolia. Should we get brooms and dustpans?”
“Not for a spider, Ressa. Send some [Messages]. The Guild can wait. But this is one large spider. Let the Runner’s Guild handle the [Assassins] for now.”
“Surely they received the [Message].”
The [Lady], Magnolia Reinhart, sighed. She felt the dark presence on her lands. Taunting her. Contemptuous. Magnolia clenched one hand.
“I’m sure they did. But the Guild of Assassins believes too strongly in their myth. They’ve forgotten what Runners are. Guildmistress Godfrey of First Landing has not. Leave the Runners to her. As for me?”
