“You’d better hope they’re accepted. Because the Sisters are irked. The Brothers—might get it. But watch your back. You’re playing a game with more costs than rewards. And for a face as old as yours, it’s odd to see.”
The old man hunched his shoulders at the booth. Typhenous looked up at Eltistiman. The Plague Mage smiled, wearily.
“Perhaps. But some things are worth more gold than you can count. I’m with my team, Eltistiman. And it is my team I owe. If I have debts, I will settle them and not involve them.”
“As you like. Let’s go tell the flatfoots we’re square. But for Grev, they’re good, upstanding folk.”
Typhenous had to smile at that.
“So are my people.”
 
——
 
That night, after Eltistiman and Typhenous rejoined the party, everyone was celebrating. Revi relaxed as Typhenous gave his team the all-clear. They’d discuss it, but Eltistiman wasn’t holding a grudge.
For now, relax. Marvel, and enjoy meeting old friends. New strangers. The stars glowed in the sky and they glowed brighter in the inn, with the Players of Celum. And Griffon Hunt was rubbing shoulders with Invrisil’s most famous.
So famous, in fact, that even a Courier could barely get a spot at their inn. Lacel the Leaper, eating in a corner of the inn, nearly died when he saw Griffon Hunt eating in the center with the Players of Celum.
“You—you were able to reserve a spot at the inn too?”
The Courier, star of the saga with Lady Whatsherface and Lord Whomever stuttered weakly at Griffon Hunt. Revi blew a mocking kiss at him.
“How’s the run going?”
“I’m going to be travelling far tomorrow. It’s a risky run, but you know how it is…”
The Courier watched as Jasi listened to the entire thing with Lady Hetessana and Lord Bein. And he had a definite…sense of inferiority.
“I think I’ll retire early.”
He stood, and went up to his rooms—not the biggest suite in the inn—annoyed. Miffed. But the Courier did have a job to do, and so he went to his rooms.
He felt unusually tired. He’d had to deal with two [Thieves] trying to go for his bag of holding earlier today. It was an inconvenient request, for all Lady Hetessana was willing to pay. But he’d get the damn pendant there, or he wasn’t Lacel the Leaper…
The Courier practically fell into bed, clothes on. He was tired. He rolled himself into his sheets as, below, the Players of Celum and Griffon Hunt celebrated and talked.
The Courier was dozing, aware something was…off…when the door opened. He opened his eyes, wary, but exhausted. And he saw a figure slip into the room.
“No. How did you…”
Lacel the Leaper, Courier, tried to raise his head. But the sleeping draught was in full effect. He looked up—
And the [Bartender] smiled. Not Typhenous. Or Eltistiman. Just the [Bartender] no one gave a second glance to the inn. She reached up and carefully adjusted her mask. She took it off and the artifact which had allowed her to mimic the actual [Bartender]’s face vanished.
“The Guild has a contract on your head, Lacel the Leaper. But don’t worry.”
“Please—”
The Courier tried to reach for any of his items. He was supposed to be safe here! But this wasn’t a regular gang member or [Thief]. How’d she infiltrate such an upstanding inn?
Wait. The Guild? The Courier looked up. And the [Assassin] bent.
“Don’t worry. It’s not your life we want. It’s a message. Magnolia Reinhart holds no sway over us any longer. So—apologies. But consider this advertising.”
She carefully put a gag over the Courier’s mouth. He tried to scream, but the [Assassin]’s gag was enchanted. She reached into a bag of holding and pulled out…
A hammer. She adjusted Lacel on the bed.
“It’s not just about the pendant. I’m not taking it. When they find you—you can tell them it was the Guild. In fact, we’d prefer it. And the next day? You’ll send Lord Bein the pendant of your own will. Your run ends here. But don’t worry—we’ll make sure this isn’t permanent. Sorry, again. This may hurt.”
He stared as she took aim at his legs. And raised the hammer and brought it down.
 
——
 
“Pst. Eltistiman. Did you see that?”
Typhenous paused in his drink. He was unsteady on his feet, but he had seen the [Bartender] move. And old you might be, but stupid or unobservant people didn’t get old.
“I saw it. You think it’s a face?”
“Can’t be. Grev tells me the Players are beloved in Invrisil by gangs. It would be unwise. An outsider, maybe.”
“Should we check?”
“Mm. Let’s. Halrac.”
The [Scout] looked up. Typhenous pointed.
“There’s a situation.”
The man’s good mood vanished again. Halrac growled.
“If this is another cause of—”
“Don’t be stupid. This is me seeing something. Get the team ready. Someone’s going after Lacel the Leaper.”
The leader of Griffon Hunt stiffened. He grabbed Briganda and Revi. They followed Typhenous and Eltistiman up the stairs, silently.
“Stay behind us. If it’s one of the street, she’ll be fast and good at close-quarters fighting. Maybe a poison expert. What do you think? Ward spells and immobilization?”
Typhenous cautioned the others, none of whom were good at extremely close-quarters fights. Eltistiman nodded.
“There are two of us—plus your team. Let’s go in first. Talk—then cast. Ward spells on us.”
“Thanks for the confidence. Who is it?”
“We don’t know. Someone pursuing the bounty. Now—[Muffle]. And…”
Lacel’s room wasn’t hard to find. The two [Mages] moved in front, and approached the door. Halrac pointed at himself and Briganda, but Typhenous shook his head. He motioned to Eltistiman. The younger man nodded, pushed the door open.
“Stop.”
The [Assassin] was waiting for them. She aimed a crossbow at them as the two [Mages] aimed at her with staff and wand. She stood by the open window; they’d caught her just as she was leaving.
Lacel the Leaper lay in the bed. His eyes were bulging but he made no sound behind the cloth wrapped around his face. He was secured to the bed. And a blanket was covering his legs…
It was stained with red. Revi stared. She aimed her wand at the woman.
“Who are you!?”
“Don’t move!”
Halrac aimed his bow at her chest. The woman made a tsking sound. She had a mask on her face, concealing her identity.
“I don’t know if you’re a face, but this is the Player of Celum’s inn. This was unwise. Drop it. And if you go through the window—we’ll catch you.”
Eltistiman’s eyes flashed. His wand was glowing, aimed at her. The woman paused.
“I’m no face. And if I were you, I’d pretend you didn’t see me. Well done on spotting me.”
“And we should just let you go?”
“His legs!”
Revi stared at Lacel in horror. Briganda’s hatchet was raised. She looked at Typhenous and Eltistiman. The woman sighed behind her mask.
“I’m sure you could stop me. But—look. This is who I represent. We’re not abiding by Reinhart’s laws.”
She traced a sigil in the air. It glowed darkly, with black light. Revi didn’t recognize it. But Typhenous and Eltistiman did. They inhaled sharply. And both instantly lowered their weapons.
“The Guild. Halrac, don’t shoot her. You too, Revi.”
Typhenous murmured. The female [Assassin] nodded.
“This is a public statement. No hard feelings. I love the plays. I’d ask for an autograph, but something tells me I’m not welcome. If that’s all—”
She leapt out the window. Halrac swore, but Eltistiman and Typhenous blocked him. The [Scout] rushed to the window, but the woman was gone.
“Typhenous!”
“Hm. Legs are well and truly broken. This is definitely a message. He’s even got his bag of holding, see? Still locked.”
The Plague Mage wearily walked over to inspect Lacel. The Courier was shaking in his bindings. Eltistiman rubbed at his face.
“Yes. Dead gods, I’ll have to tell Emme and the others. They’re in danger. Not that many hate them, but if Reinhart really has lost control over the Guild—I wouldn’t want to be a Runner. She’s kept them off the Runner’s Guild, but this? A Courier?”
He gestured at Lacel. Halrac shouted.
“Typhenous! Who was that?”
“It was the Assassin’s Guild, Halrac. They accepted the bounty on Lacel. No—they did this just to prove they’re willing to accept contracts on Runners, now. And that they’ll operate in Invrisil. We just walked into a massive incident.”
Typhenous sat in a chair. Halrac and Revi and Briganda stared at him. The [Shield Maiden] paled. She looked towards the door, where Cade was slumbering, having fallen asleep early in the night.
“The Assassin’s…?”
“You don’t want to cross them. They have many members. And—well, they used to be under Magnolia Reinhart’s control, or at least, she dictated who they didn’t go after. No longer. I heard rumors…”
The two [Mages] were conferring. Revi just looked at Lacel the Leaper.
A message. She reached for his gag. The Courier inhaled as Revi removed the enchanted cloth. And then he began to scream.
 
——
 
A real drama took place in the Player’s inn that night. The infallibility of Couriers and Magnolia Reinhart’s will were both questioned. The [Actors] and staff gathered to see Lacel being brought out of the inn to a [Healer], screaming. He still had the pendant. But his legs were broken and words raced through the city like fire. Dark, frightening flames, like whispers.
The Guild of Assassins. And Magnolia Reinhart’s power was questioned yet again.
That was not the only news that put a dampener on the night. Halrac sat in the inn, drinking with the worried people around him. Now, the [Actors] weren’t stars, just ordinary people. And the one who thought about the [Assassin] was the Gold-rank adventurer. The one who could fight.
But even Gold-ranks didn’t cross the Guild of Assassins. Halrac drank, and glowered. And he had worse news. His face went still as his team sat with him. Briganda was soothing Cade as she talked. He was upset by the screaming and by what he hadn’t understood in the mood of the adults. He was falling asleep thanks to a sleeping tincture, very mild.
“I’m sorry, Halrac. I kept an ear out. I did—but it was way back. I thought you might have heard…”
“I don’t get—word from there often. It’s been a long time since I was there. When was it?”
“During the Goblin Lord’s attacks. It was raids from the mountain that did it. I’m sorry. Windrest is gone.”
“That’s where you grew up, wasn’t it, Halrac?”
Revi looked at the [Veteran Scout]. His face was still.
“Yes. It’s a small village. If the Goblins were raiding…they’d have been unable to hire enough adventurers to fight them off.”
“It was fast. I heard most escaped. But there was that, and the fires. They say Drakes started them. That’s the rumor I heard. Even if you’d been at Invrisil and heard about it, you probably wouldn’t have reached them in time.”
Briganda looked at Halrac. His face never moved.
“I know that. The survivors. Where are they? Are there any…?”
He stopped. Briganda nodded quickly.
“I think a lot of them did live. Halrac, they’re all at Riverfarm.”
“Riverfarm?”
The man stirred. He blinked at Briganda. She nodded.
“Apparently, they all joined the Unseen Empire. That’s what they’re calling it. Some powerful noble—they say an actual [Emperor]—is there.”
“An [Emperor] in Izril? Get out of here.”
Revi snorted. But softly. Briganda shook her head.
“That’s all I heard, Revi. Halrac, I think a lot of Windrest is there. Riverfarm was hit by the Goblins and the fires too, but—they did better than any other area. There was a plague in the Radivaek lands. But…”
“I see.”
“It’s not far to there. We could check on them.”
Revi suggested. Halrac paused.
“I’ll—send a [Message] first. I know someone from the village. Master Helm—the [Blacksmith] and [Village Head]. If he’s alive…but we have careers.”
This was an adventuring team. Everyone nodded, but—family also came first. Home too. Revi didn’t have any stakes in Izril, but if they’d been in Chandrar? Well, she wouldn’t have asked her team to fight in a war.
Even so.
“You know, there was that interesting job request from Riverfarm. I can find it. I thought it was funny—it was that one that didn’t offer anything but pittance and deferred payment. Hold on.”
Briganda put Cade in Revi’s arms. The Stitch-woman stared at the boy, curled up, as Briganda got up and looked about. Halrac was just sitting there.
“I think most of them got out, Halrac.”
“Yeah. Thanks for telling me.”
That was all the [Scout] said. And as Revi tried to rock Cade, unsure of what to do, she felt it.
The Players of Celum. Invrisil. The door, coming soon. The Assassin’s Guild on the rise. Riverfarm. A day of fun and relaxation and sudden worry and shock—
Halted. And ceased to matter. Because the adventurers felt it.
Something, running through the city. A chill on Revi’s cloth-skin. She stopped, as Cade yawned. And Halrac and Briganda shot up.
“[Dangersense].”
They chorused as one. The Players of Celum looked up as the adventurers shot out of their seats. Eltistiman grabbed his wand, covering the door. Halrac swung his bow up as Revi put Cade on the table.
“Summons out, Revi—”
“More [Assassins]?”
“No. It’s distant. Something’s—”
A bell began to toll. Everyone in the inn looked up.
“That’s a city-wide alarm. The Watch has felt it.”
Eltistiman breathed. Halrac looked around.
“Jasi! Wesle, take care of Cade.”
“Got it. What are you—”
“Griffon Hunt, with me!”
Halrac ran out of the door. The three adventurers ran after him. Eltistiman stayed with the Players. And Revi eyed the street.
“Get to the walls! Find the Watch!”
The adventurers ran as everyone else shouted, or panicked or ran for what they thought was safety. But Gold-ranks ran into fire. They saw more adventurers in the streets. Some, Silver-ranks, were hesitating. But Gold-ranks?
The Glitterblades raced out of the Adventurer’s Guild late into the night. They pointed.
“That way!”
Someone was blowing a horn, signaling the area the danger was coming from. Adventurers ran. They passed by the Watch. And Invrisil had a large Watch, well-armed. Not the kind that fought with the criminal underworld, though.
And not prepared…
For this. Revi climbed the eastern walls and stopped. She froze. And Halrac’s [Dangersense]—Briganda’s—no wonder it had gone off.
Her stitches moved. Her cloth-skin crawled. Revi looked up and she beheld the shadow walking towards Invrisil. A vast thing. A giant.
“Dead gods. What is that?”
Someone breathed. The adventurers looked at each other.
“It’s a giant. An actual Giant or—I can’t see! Halrac!”
They turned to him. The [Scout] was aiming his bow, staring through the darkness.
