“I was just going to use a voice-amplifying spell and shout.”
“Soundproofed walls, Revi. No, we must find a better way to get in touch with them.”
“And you have a plan?”
Typhenous’ eyes glittered.
“As a matter of fact—I know someone who would recognize us. Someone I think we can find, if we know the right people. Follow me. And—be prepared to spend a few gold pieces, Halrac.”
The old [Plague Mage] smiled knowingly. Halrac and Revi looked at each other. But Typhenous, for all his habits, didn’t lie. To them, at least.
“Well, if it means entertainment—lead on. I was going to spend some of my gold on some fabric treatment tonight, but we’ll be here for a bit, right?”
Revi nodded; this sounded like fun, rather than work. Halrac was nodding, but caught himself. As they began to walk he looked at Revi.
“Like what, fabric softener…?”
“It’s like that oil you people rub into your skin, Halrac.”
“…Skin cream? I don’t use it.”
“I’ve noticed.”
The old man chuckled as Halrac sighed. Typhenous walked down the street, leaning on his staff. And he was old. Old enough to have white hair.
That meant he was a grandfather in Gold-rank teams. Few adventurers reached his age. And—fewer teams would risk taking someone like him with them. Typhenous didn’t look like he could outrun a charging Bicorn. And he probably couldn’t. He slept like a log, had slower reactions than his younger counterparts—
But he had survived this long on more than just reflexes. And it was his utility that had brought him to Griffon Hunt’s attention. It had been helpful in many ways.
And also—it had led to the Griffin plague. It had led to Erin’s door getting stolen. And then retrieved, but Revi had been bothered by the revelation.
Typhenous…had a past. Like everyone, but few people slept with a poisoned dagger on them at all times. And Typhenous, old though he might be, was a surprisingly good infighter if you weren’t watching out for him. And in times like this—
“So what are we doing, Typhenous?”
Halrac’s voice was suspicious. He folded his arms as Typhenous led them down the street, away from the inn. The old [Mage] was looking about.
“Just making inquiries through certain—channels, Halrac. Nothing untoward.”
“You mean…your contacts. I told you, Typhenous. No more of it.”
“Halrac, it is entirely above board. Completely. You can watch the entire affair. This isn’t criminal; it’s just—my world.”
The old man sounded a bit peeved at the allegation of pure criminality. The [Scout] glowered. He had a definite view about anything illegal. Revi was a bit nervous too.
“Your world, Typh?”
“Revi, my dear. I have a history in any number of occupations.”
Which she’d known. But Typhenous’ smile looked more knowing than your average [Mage]’s air of mystery. Especially because Revi could pretend to be wise and powerful too for the plebeians. But here they were. Typhenous led them down the street to his world.
The underworld of crime. The shadowed side of cities and Izril, that you could use when the legal options were out. Revi felt herself growing tense, and regretted agreeing so cheerfully. She checked to make sure her summoning tools and wand were ready for quick use. Halrac was doing the same; his invisible bow was on his back. The adventurers waited as their teammate found his first lead.
Typhenous found the first denizen of darkness, purveyor of misdeeds, by poking the first street urchin he came across with his staff. A passing boy with somewhat ill-kept clothes jerked as he looked up from a game of dice with his pals.
“Watch it, old bugger! What d’you want?”
The kindly old man wearing [Mage]’s robes smiled down at him as Halrac and Revi watched. The other members of the gang stood up—they were young, ranging from eight to just their early teens; some were caught in a growth spurt.
They looked…er…tough. Staring at the adventurers without fear. Revi covered a smile. And she saw Typhenous lean over.
“I beg your pardon, young man. I was just wondering if you could direct me to…Grev. I’m told he’s a face in these parts. You wouldn’t happen to have an in by which my crew and I could do a greeting with? I’d be willing to pay for it.”
The urchin blinked and his eyes narrowed. So did Halrac and Revi—for a second there, in between his polite, mage-like speech, Typhenous had used what sounded like slang. The boy stared up at Typhenous and nodded, warily.
“Grev? Yeah. He’s a face-of-faces, y’know? We’ve talked.”
That was a mark of pride, clearly. The gang nodded. The boy went on.
“We can probably get you a greeting, yeah. But we’d need to run it by our boss.”
“Of course. Can we make the request there?”
Typhenous nodded. The boy rubbed finger and thumb together.
“How about a token for the boss?”
He blinked as the [Mage] flipped him a silver coin. Typhenous had already been expecting it. The boy fumbled catching the coin. He blinked at Typhenous and took a second measure. But then he shrugged.
“Sure. Come on. You running with this crew? Looks like flatfoots to me.”
“Oh, the flattest and straightest of feet. But they’re adventurers. As am I.”
“What, Silver?”
“Gold, actually.”
Revi smiled at the boy. He gave her a sideways look.
“Oh yeah? Good fer you. This way.”
Then he and his gang shot down the street, beckoning for the adults to follow. Revi faltered. Typhenous just smiled, stroking his beard.
“You see? Nothing untoward.”
“They’re children, Typhenous.”
“Children know everything in a city. And that’s a gang, Revi. Young they might be, but we’ve paid for an introduction to their leader. Follow me.”
The team hurried after the kids. Halrac was narrowing his eyes as they headed deeper into the city, away from the commercial districts. He kept glancing up and about and Revi knew the [Scout] was assessing everything. He halted as the gang waved them down a street.
“Halrac?”
“We’re surrounded.”
Revi blinked. Halrac nodded behind him.
“Someone’s on our rear.”
“More children. The gang. Looks like three. It’s a precaution, Halrac. Don’t worry.”
Typhenous nodded behind him. He walked forwards confidently, into a small intersection in the alleyway. There was indeed a gang of boys and a few girls standing there. They were being led by a teenager—he couldn’t have been more than fifteen.
But he had a knife. He was flipping it, in one of those classic games where the point was to be as dangerous as possible without embarrassing yourself. He was, in fact, sitting at a crude wooden table.
Revi stared. Someone had hung cloth over a wood frame overhead and created a miniature fortress in this alley. And as she and Halrac walked forwards—she heard a sound.
“So these are the flatfoots who want to meet Grev? Look like marks to me. All shine and no grit.”
The [Gang Boss] called out. Revi turned her head. Two other gangs of kids were blocking the alleyway. And ‘kids’ began to lose its meaning because some were in their teens. Which meant that while they weren’t full adults—there were a lot of them. And most had some kind of weapon.
A cudgel, made of makeshift wood. A half-brick in a sock, a classic weapon. A knife. Weak weapons for a Gold-rank. But get stabbed by one of those, or hit, and it still…hurt. Revi eyed the gang.
“Typh?”
“Hello, young man. We are indeed seeking a meeting with Grev, of the Players of Celum. I was told you could introduce us?”
Typhenous’ voice was smooth, and he seemed blithely unaware of the people boxing them into the alleyway. And he was speaking…eloquently again. Revi and Halrac eyed him.
So did the urchin who’d brought them here. Typhenous smiled, stroking his beard as the [Gang Boss] snorted.
“You’n half the city, old man. Grev don’t have time for anyone who calls. But sure, we can probably arrange it. No promises you’ll get a fancy ticket.”
“Leave that to us. We just desire a rendezvous.”
The boy cocked his head and then laughed. So did his gang, with the kind of fearlessness that told Revi that they thought they had the upper hand. Her skin was crawling a bit. You heard stories about gangs. Still—she didn’t want them to try anything. She didn’t want to fight kids. If she had to summon one of her phantoms, it would tear through a gang like this.
On the other hand, Halrac looked more tense than Revi. He had uncrossed his arms and put his back against a wall. And he was glancing up; Revi saw a figure disappearing from the rooftops. She hesitated. Dropping stones on their heads? Now this was a really good ambush…
But Typhenous was still smiling. The [Gang Leader] heaved himself upright. He flipped the dagger up in the air, twirling it as he came over. The adventurers watched.
“You want to meet Grev? We’re gonna have to talk coin. Gold, right? I hear you’re Gold-ranks.”
More laughter. The young man saw Revi eying the dagger. He grinned.
“Don’t worry, Miss. I don’t mean no harm by this trick.”
He flipped the dagger. Revi reached out and grabbed the blade. She…missed.
Oh, she caught the dagger. But she grabbed it blade-first. Everyone winced as Revi’s hand opened up and the Stitch-girl grimaced. Red blood ran from her hands from a very deep cut. The young man recoiled in shock.
And Revi smiled.
“What, this? We don’t play these games where I come from. Not much risk.”
She tossed the dagger back. Then she opened her hand. It hurt like hell. That was a stupid move. But she didn’t let it show as she carefully pulled out a needle and stitched closed the flesh. It sealed, with magical speed.
“Fucking Clothheads.”
A girl muttered from the back. The [Gang Leader] recovered his poise. He wiped the dagger on his shirt and twirled it back into a sheathe.
“You’re not too bright, Miss. If I had anything on the blade, you’d be regretting it. But let’s talk coin.”
“Indeed. What sort of remuneration did you have in mind?”
Typhenous was smiling. Just—smiling. The [Gang Leader] laughed. He performed the same gesture as the urchin had.
“We’re talking gold to meet Grev. Lotta people need speaking to—we don’t run with him regularly. You want access? It’s gonna cost you. Twenty gold.”
“Twenty—”
Revi inhaled. That was way too much! Typhenous stroked his beard.
“That’s a high price.”
“Not high for a ticket, which is what you want, right? You want a good one, tonight? They run you higher. And we’re talking meeting with Grev. And he runs with the Players of Celum. You play your cards right, he might introduce you to the cast.”
The young man’s eyes gleamed as he gave Griffon Hunt the upsell. Revi recognized it; he was trying to milk them for coins. She raised her eyebrows. But Typhenous flicked his fingers. He was going to speak.
“This is very true, young man. Mm. But I wonder if we could renegotiate to a lower price? Twenty gold coins is an awful lot of money. And Gold-rank we might be, but we don’t care to spend that much.”
“But you can. That’s my price, old [Mage].”
Typhenous sighed as the [Gang Leader] stepped closer. He looked vaguely around at the kids and teens, who were suddenly looking more…intent. Halrac shifted.
“Typhenous…”
The name made one of the urchins near the back start. But the old [Mage] waved at Halrac.
“Halrac, it’s fine. I don’t intend to spend more gold. As I told you. Perhaps we should find another gang, then.”
“You can’t just talk to the boss and walk off, flatfoot.”
One of the other kids warned the adventurers from behind. Halrac shifted. He had a shortsword, enchanted, and his bow. But he clearly didn’t want to use it.
“Boss, boss—”
Someone was calling out from behind the [Gang Leader]. But he was glowering.
“Listen up, old man. You clearly don’t know how this works. You don’t pay for a meeting and back out.”
“But the price is rather high. Can’t we negotiate?”
“Boss—”
The street urchin was fighting forwards. The [Gang Leader]’s eyes narrowed.
“We don’t negotiate with outsiders who don’t know the score, old timer. And we’re not afraid of adventurers. Bring ‘em. Named-rank, or whatever you have. This is our territory. And you—”
He leaned forwards, hand on the dagger. Revi tensed—and Typhenous moved. Quick as a snake, he grabbed the young man as he moved forwards.
A loose tunic. Bad to have something you could snag in a fight. Of course, Typhenous was wearing robes, but they were enchanted. And as the young man’s eyes widened, he tried to pull back—
And froze. The old, kindly [Mage] with a grandfatherly look, posh talk, and not a lot of sense was holding the tip of a dagger right next to the young man’s ear. And he looked…well, mostly as kindly and good-natured as he had before. But when he leaned down amid the frozen children in their gangs, his voice was somehow a bit less…refined. And friendly. Well, he sounded friendly, but you know how it was.
“Young man. I’m no flatfoot or outsider. I’ve run with more gangs than you’ve seen. If I come to this city, people know that I’m neither flash nor builder or viner or whatever low-scores you’ve seen. I’m all score—when I care to be. And no one takes me for a loop.”
Silence. Halrac and Revi stared at Typhenous. The [Gang Leader]’s face was pale as the dagger hovered right in his ear canal; he was trying not to breathe.
“Shitrats, he’s got the boss!”
A girl exclaimed. She had a sling, but she was staring at Typhenous. The rest of the gangs stared too.
“Who’re you, old man?”
The [Gang Leader] whispered. He stared at Typhenous. And the old man answered.
“If you did your work, young man, you’d know the name and the face. I run with Gold-ranks now. Respectable. And this is a favor, all straight and above-board. But if you have to ask—they call me Typhenous. The Plague Mage.”
There was a murmur at this. The [Gang Leader] cast his eyes sideways—the boy who’d recognized Typhenous from his name was waving his hands. Wide-eyed. Revi looked around.
“Let’s try this again. Apologies for the grab; I just feel it pays to make an impression.”
Typhenous let go, sheathing the dagger. The young man stumbled backwards, feeling at his ear. He stared at Typhenous. He laughed, shakily.
“Dead fucking gods, old man! You just had to say your name and we’d’ve changed our tune!”
The Plague Mage smiled. He went back to his lugubrious, innocent manner of speech.
“Ah, but if you were trying to…trick us, that would have been pertinent information. A gang without manners can’t be trusted, whoever they deal with.”
“And if we’d been false?”
One of the younger members queried. She looked worried; Revi noticed all the weapons were disappearing, rather quickly. And the kids were backing up from Typhenous.
