And spent it. Revi wasn’t going to adventure until the day she died. She had dreams. She was going to go home to Chandrar someday. Or—or find a nice place in Izril. Settle down. Have a family. Sew a child with some Stitch-man.
Or…adopt one. Probably not Humans. Or Drakes. But Revi was thinking of Gnoll cubs these days. Mrsha had been very cute and adorable. Of course, it really depended on who she met. And going to Chandrar was dicey; her homeland of Doran was…well, it had sort of been erased.
Conquered. It was now part of the Empire of Sands. So that made going home sort of awkward. But maybe by the time she got back, Doran would be back again. Chandrar had those sort of moments, not like Izril, with the north and south unchanging. Well, except for the Antinium.
The point was that Revi had a purpose. And in the meantime, well, for all the hard days of riding in cramped wagons and listening to Typhenous smack his mouth as he slept, or Halrac’s scowls, Revi got to live like a [Queen] when she reached civilization.
“Hey. Hey, which way to the Cloth District? Don’t give me that look. Just point. No idea? People like me? Hey, you. Cloth District? That way? Thanks.”
Revi navigated Invrisil much like she navigated life. By finding someone to help her. She was a [Summoner]. That meant she could call upon long-dead Stitch-people to fight for her, her ancestors mostly, summoned through pieces of their life-string embedded in summoning stones that recreated them.
Or she could summon animals. Like a giant Face-Eater moth and…other monsters. Corusdeer, etc. Revi was only limited by her mana pool and will, which allowed her creations to fight.
For some reason, most of the people she stopped stared at her and didn’t give her a straight answer, or just pointed wordlessly. That was helpful, but it was only as Revi was walking past a glass storefront that she realized she’d forgotten to put her nose back on.
“Dead gods damn it, Halrac! Typhenous!”
The Stitch-girl swore. Her teammates had to have noticed and she’d not realized she hadn’t smelled anything the last little bit. So that was them getting back at her! Annoyed, Revi found a tiny needle and sewed the nose hurriedly back on. She caught the person inside—a [Barber]—staring at her through the window.
“What? Haven’t you ever seen—never mind.”
Revi stomped off. She’d never have gone into the barber’s shop. No matter how nice it looked, or how high-level the hairdresser was. What was the point for her?
No, Revi’s goal was the Cloth District. Many cities with a sizable Stitch-person population had them and Invrisil was large enough that a good number existed.
The Cloth District. String People. Those who made themselves. Revi sighed as she smelled familiar scents. That of dyes, mordants—and she saw people with stitches on their arms and legs and body.
Sometimes disguised, like the flesh-colored stitches around Revi’s nose, and each Stitch-person was different. Some were cut from large bits of carefully sewn cloth, such that an entire arm had no seams except for where it connected at the shoulder.
Others, like Revi, had bodies such that every single part was detachable; she could even take off individual fingers. You needed to do that if you had a hand snagged by a monster and you wanted to detach it and replace it fast. But many preferred to have fewer stitches; it meant fewer to grow loose or fray over time. Plus…knots.
Also, the binding thread being obvious or camouflaged was its own thing. Very…charged as topics went. You got everyone from people who insisted on bright stitches to make sure people knew they were String People, to people who tried to blend in with Humans. Fleshies, they were called. Traitors to their cloth.
Politics. But it came to the forefront whenever you walked in a Cloth District. Indeed—Revi paused by the first shop she saw, and eyed it carefully.
“The Silken Touch. Huh. How about—Generic Store Name?”
She shook her head. But Revi was more concerned with the clientele and staff. And after a careful peer through the glass, she decided to risk it.
“Hello! Welcome, Miss!”
One of the Stitch-girls welcomed Revi in. She was a beautiful, petite young woman with incredible features. Just absolutely themed. Eyes, ears, nose, facial structure and her body all complementing the ‘short and gorgeous’ look, more of a friend’s vibe than someone going for pure, beauteous impact.
Revi didn’t give the young woman a second glance when it came to beauty. For Stitch-people, it mattered, a lot, but…their standards were incredibly high. They could be whomever they wanted, so what impressed the flesh-folk didn’t impress Revi.
But what did matter was the young attendant’s skin—that was to say, her cloth. It looked like skin. Normal skin. Very fine, soft, wonderful skin without cracking or roughness to add to her aesthetic.
But skin. Not some impossibly radiant skin that shone with a hidden glow, or made her look even more inhumanly beautiful. That meant the young woman was of the Cotton-caste.
Revi was Cotton. Her name was Revi Cotton—well, if you were going by Chandrarian address. Which was like saying…Halrac Human. But Cotton mattered.
If you were Hemp, you were born lower than Cotton. And if you were of Silk, you were born with a diamond spoon in your mouth. Or rather, sewn into your body. And oh, the castes did not get along. Silk was on top, but they were resented. And Cottons fought among themselves—Cotton was a general term for their quality of fabric—and everyone hated Hemps.
“Hi, I’m looking for some care and touching up. I’ve got an hour—make it forty minutes? You have time?”
“Of course, Miss…”
“Revi. Adventurer. Gold-rank.”
The word made the other attendants and clients look up. Revi pulled rank. And the woman in charge herself, a [Seamstress], hurried over.
“Miss Revi, we can absolutely fit you in. Would you prefer a private room?”
“Hm…sure.”
The adventurer found herself being led by the woman and two attendants into a lovely room. There was a soft, leather sofa-table to lie on, and Revi did just that.
“My name is Dewlana. I’m the [Seamstress] in charge of The Silken Touch—apologies about the name, but it does pull in clients.”
Revi smirked. She eyed Dewlana carefully. Because this was a woman made of silk.
Silk. When you made a Stitch-person’s body out of it, they looked…well, unreal. The higher-quality a cloth, the more impressive the result. Dewlana’s body was lithe, supple, and yes, silky, but it seemed to pick up and reflect the light better. And Revi knew—she’d be stronger than regular cloth-folk, tougher, too.
Normally, Revi would have avoided any Stitch-shop catering to her kind that had Silk-caste in it. Because they would make her experience…a pain. But Dewlana was the only Silk-bodied person in the shop; all her workers were Cotton. Besides…Revi had a thought as she glanced at Dewlana’s face.
“What can we do for you, Miss Revi?”
The [Seamstress]’ tone was very hospitable. And why not? Caste aside, Gold-rank adventurers could toss around money like water. Revi smiled.
“I’d like my stitches redone. All of them. Make it good thread. Actually, make it silk.”
The attendants shivered at the word. Silk. Every Stitch-person longed to make a body of silk, or even some more costly fabric. Revi’s body was cotton, but silk threads were an upgrade she could pay for.
She’d gotten the money from Liscor’s dungeon, after all. Dewlana smiled wide.
“Of course. Can we upgrade any part of you? Replace any limbs?”
“Mm…no, I just want everything tightened. I don’t want to replace some legs and get mismatched.”
“Naturally. And can we offer you a massage? It’s a specialty; my own design.”
“A massage? Why not?”
Revi didn’t have sore muscles. Stitch-person, again. But as she lay on her back, the attendants began undoing her threads. And—piece by piece—they took Revi apart.
It was an unnerving experience for most to see. But Revi was made, like everyone else. When the attendants took off Revi’s leg, the flesh turned into cloth at once. A life-sized cloth replica, amazingly detailed—the more detailed it was, the better it functioned—but cloth nonetheless. They hurried it off and came back with delicate spools of silk thread. In the meantime, Dewlana attended to Revi personally.
“My, your back stitches are somewhat haphazard, Miss Revi. And you’ve burst a few stitches.”
“Hazard of the trade. Also, I had to re-stitch myself to play this game. Baseball.”
“I’ve never heard of it. But there’s all sorts of new things coming to Invrisil. Have you heard of the plays?”
“Hm…? Oh, yes. Are they here, then?”
The [Seamstress] looked a bit disappointed as she began to sew Revi back up. The process felt good, reconnecting. Revi felt firm; her limbs fully-bound. The two gossiped as Dewlana worked.
“You’ve been here before, then, Miss Revi?”
“Not in a bit. But they have them in the south. Liscor.”
“That is a long way. I saw them just in the scrying orb a while back. Wait—you wouldn’t happen to have been around when…?”
Revi smirked.
“You mean, the moths? I was there for that. Goblin Lord? I was on the walls.”
“Really?”
Some of the attendants came back in. Revi enjoyed herself as they begged to hear from her. There was no concept of signing autographs, but Stitch-people had something just as good. Revi’s old threads were taken and made a part of the bodies of the other Stitch-people. They’d show it off and say—that was from Revi, Gold-rank adventurer.
After a while, Dewlana shooed the attendants away; this was about Revi, after all. As she sewed, she talked.
“Well, Miss Revi, you’ve been at the center of more things of interest than I! And here most of my clients are talking about the King of Destruction—”
“Right, Chandrar. How many are from home?”
Home was Chandrar, where String People had been created. Dewlana shrugged.
“A fair amount. But I get a number of non-Cloth folk.”
“Really? For what?”
This was a Stitch-shop, for repairing and maintaining and yes, upgrading bodies. Dewlana’s eyes twinkled.
“Actual massages. We repair your clothes at the same time. We are better at it than most.”
Revi laughed. That was Stitch-people for you. She felt Dewlana moving around her, spooling more silk out to do the more obvious stitches around her waist, shoulders, etc.
“No concealing threads?”
“What am I? A fleshie?”
Revi regretted the comment; Dewlana’s threads were nearly invisible. The [Seamstress] passed it off, though.
“Keep it noticeable. I understand.”
“Right. Sorry.”
Dewlana got back to work. Revi paused.
“So…home, huh? Are you from…?”
“Nerrhavia. Yourself?”
“Doran.”
“Oh, wasn’t that—?”
“Yep.”
“My condolences.”
“Eh, you know how it goes. It’ll be back or it won’t. But I don’t miss it too much. Frankly—the only thing I think about sometimes are…Alterkinds.”
The fingers paused in tying a knot.
“You don’t see many, indeed.”
“Yeah. Well, I was in Liscor and I can’t say they’d take kindly to seeing a…Cloth-Drake walking about. But I miss the creativity. No judgment.”
That was important. Revi opened the metaphorical door and Dewlana walked through. Dewlana casually kicked the actual door to the private room shut to prevent anyone overhearing their conversation.
“Of course. You know, I knew someone. A friend. He experimented with—wings.”
“Really? Did they…?”
“No. You know how it is. The flesh moves, but he was too heavy.”
“You ever experiment?”
Another pause. Revi felt herself being unlaced at the waist. She was at her most vulnerable in this moment. Anyone could attack her when she was helpless. And yes, it was a concern. But not in this shop, in Invrisil. Any Stitch-person who preyed on another in this scenario?
They’d be burned, piece by piece.
“…Well, you know.”
“Mhm. What did you try? I did—scales. You know, decoration. And a bit of protection.”
“Really? What kind of cloth…”
“You have to have really hard fabrics. But they have it.”
“Ah. Well—I—this is embarrassing.”
“Spill it. We’re both Cotton.”
Revi twisted her head. And she caught Dewlana mid-nod. The [Seamstress] froze. And then she exhaled. She paused, stepped back, and gave Revi a rueful look.
“What gave me away?”
“Aside from the fact that you employ Cotton-castes? And you’re sewing me up without so much as a sniff? I’m from home. I can see a cloth-craft.”
The [Summoner] nodded at Dewlana’s face. The [Seamstress]’ face looked like the rest of her body. Until you gazed closer and could see the micro-stitching holding the silk onto the original cotton. Dewlana sighed.
“You have no idea how hard it is to reduce your face’s cloth enough to layer silk over it. How obvious am I? No one’s ever commented…”
“Please. I told you, I hung out with Alterkind. They know all the tricks. Did it…”
“Hurt? I can’t remove my head. So it was flesh.”
Revi paused. That meant Dewlana had peeled her skin…she looked at Dewlana a second time.
“Was it worth it?”
“To run a shop as a [Seamstress] and not be stared down by other Silks? Absolutely.”
The woman’s eyes flashed. Revi nodded slowly. [Seamstress] was a prestigious class in Stitch-people society.
“Lips sealed. Don’t sew ‘em up.”
Dewlana relaxed. They were, after all, Cottons, and you had to stick together, even if one was passing for Silk. She spoke after a few minutes of quiet rethreading.
“…Ears.”
“What?”
“I had…er…you know Beastkin?”
“Yup. What about them?”
“I…altered my ears. Well, I added ears from other species. Bunny, dog—”
“Cat?”
“Once or twice. It was a look. But I grew tired of it. You hear way too much. And frankly—you can make them look awful if you mess them up. And you know, Alterkind—”
Revi laughed and nodded. There were people who didn’t look like ‘normal’ Stitch-people. Like Humans. Some looked like Drakes, or other species until you stared really close. And some were more…experimental still. Sometimes it could be awful.
But mostly it was just a phase for young String People. In some Stitch-nations it was considered profane, disgusting. But most were tolerant of low-level alterations.
“Well, now that you’ve thoroughly uncovered my secrets, do you want that massage?”
“I mean, sure. I don’t have any pain, though. I could always re-stuff myself. What…ow! Hey!”
Revi felt a sharp ache appear in her shoulders. She looked over.
“What are you doing?”
“Inducing muscular pain, Miss Revi. It will only be for a moment. And then—”
“Oh. Wow.”
