“No problem, Miss. Griffon Hunt’s a friend of the Players! So’re any of the folks who went to The Wandering Inn. Come to that, we have a recruit who was at the inn. Fancy fellow, does our special effects.”
“Let’s go! Now!”
And they did. Griffon Hunt walked towards the Season Theatre and the inn where the Players were located. There was a crowd. But Grev walked right past them and strode up to the door. The [Bouncer] blinked when he saw Griffon Hunt again.
“You know this lot, Grev?”
“Sure do, Redit. They’re Griffon Hunt. The originals. Is Jasi in?”
“Upstairs. Getting ready for the show. Wait, they’re really…”
He stood aside as Grev walked through. Revi gave him a triumphant look as he stared, wide-eyed, at them.
The inn wasn’t The Wandering Inn. But it was run by a Level 30+ [Innkeeper] who knew his stuff. It was three times as large as The Wandering Inn, and it was amazingly fine. And the Players of Celum were the only customers inside, save for the staff and a few very star-struck patrons who paid for the privilege.
“Jasi! Wesle! Emme! Look who I found!”
Grev hollered into the room. Revi, staring at the dozens and dozens of [Actors] and stagehands and people all talking or rehearsing, saw a group in the center look up. A Drake swept to her feet. She looked amazing, in makeup, and when she stood, the room stilled.
“As I live and breathe! Griffon Hunt!”
A man stood as well. Wesle’s voice filled the room as he pointed. And Griffon Hunt, the door still open, heard a roar of surprise from the crowd who’d heard. They turned at the exclamation and then the cheering.
Suddenly, they were in the spotlight. On the stage. The Players of Celum all shot to their feet. The ones who were from the inn leapt out of their chairs, half with flamboyant acting, but also genuine pleasure. They strode over, and the Gold-rank adventurers found themselves shaking hands.
“It has been months! Or so it feels! Hello! Revi, isn’t it?”
The Drake leaned over, shaking Revi’s hand. She was taller than Revi, but she felt…larger. Not like Briganda, but with that air of importance. Revi found herself nodding at Jasi.
“Yes—I’m sorry, but we heard you were here, so—”
“Of course! You’re from Erin’s inn! And we’re delighted! Was it hard getting in? Did you come via the door?”
“They came on foot! Found me, they did! And they didn’t know.”
The boy was practically dancing with glee. But Griffon Hunt was overawed by the change in the Players of Celum. They’d rented an inn that the Gold-ranks would have stayed at, permanently. And they had a crowd begging to see them. And yet—the Players were delighted to meet Griffon Hunt. Friends from Liscor!
“You haven’t heard about the Crelers? Oh, Five Families! I was in shock when I heard. But the Horns are Gold-rank! They brought down an Adult Creler! And the inn was attacked by Crelers! Destroyed.”
Halrac sprayed his drink. Revi’s jaw dropped. Briganda was staring at the others in shock.
“Wait—an Adult Creler?”
“When was this? Are they alive? What about Erin?”
Halrac demanded. Typhenous was blinking. Revi’s heart twisted. An Adult…? Those were team-killers! Even Gold-ranks wouldn’t go up against one of them unprepared.
“They survived! Some teams died, but the Horns all lived! Yvlon’s arms changed—Ceria’s eyes too! Dead gods! It’s the kind of tale that we have to perform! But how can you do it justice? Andel tried, but it was fight scenes, not the easiest to turn into a play.”
Wesle rested one foot on the chair, as people fussed over his wardrobe. He nodded to a [Writer] sitting in the corner, in his own booth, bestrewn with paper, snacks, and drinks.
“We have to tell you everything. But later. We’re performing tonight. You must come see us. We want to perform for Erin when she gets here. We’re holding a booth just for her. You know? Phantom of the Opera style? We’re putting that play on. I can’t believe she forgot about it—but it’s wonderful. I need to practice my singing, but we have an actual [Singer] we’ve added to our main roster.”
A half-Dwarven woman was nodding, ordering the [Actors] about. Emme spoke to the adventurers as she snapped at the underlings who were now her crew.
“We perform each night. All day, every day, really. But we have multiple teams to take the load off. Still—you came at a perfect time. We’re doing Lady Macbeth. Jasi’s the lead, and our star team is taking the stage. Hey! Someone find the special tickets! For the Solstice Booth!”
There was a stir among the new [Actors] watching. Kilkran, the [Actor] with a voice like deep honey, laughed.
“It’ll stir up the audience to see you there! Where’re the tickets? Also, you must see—it’s Macbeth, but altered for a female lead. I wasn’t sure about it, but it is immensely popular—Lady Reinhart herself has expressed interest in seeing it!”
“We’ve seen Macbeth—er, but it sounds great. Solstice Booth…?”
Briganda was nodding rapidly at Revi. The Stitch-girl was overwhelmed. Jasi smiled as she reached for her [Performance Supplies].
“We have to go on stage in the next hour. But after that, you’re invited to the after-party. It’ll take a bit—we do go out and shake hands and sign autographs, but…truly, we’d love to have you. Do you have any more friends? We can get more tickets—”
“Can I bring some of my friends? I saw one of your plays, Miss Jasi. I’d love an autograph.”
Briganda was awestruck. Revi’s jaw dropped as she held out a piece of cardboard for Jasi to sign. The Drake did so with a flourish. Jasi nodded.
“Anyone, by all means. We have tickets reserved—I know they’re valuable, so Emme has to manage them, and the special seating. We’re upgrading the theatre constantly to be bigger and bigger. Some of the nobles want their own sections, and of course everyone wants a ticket. We were performing with Elia Arcsinger’s team in the balconies just last week—”
“Elia…”
The Stitch-girl stared. Her eyes bulged. Her jaw—well, it wasn’t on the floor, but only because her stitching was good. Revi’s mouth was open—and it stayed open as she left the theatre and the crowds lined the streets, shouting at the Players of Celum.
Revi sat, open-mouthed through being led into the Solstice Booth by the security at the theater. As people stared up at her in the packed auditorium. As the Players performed on stage. Jasi strode onto the scene, as Lady Macbeth, and she blew Revi away. The Stitch-girl said nothing, just watched as the play opened, ran, and closed to a thunderous, standing ovation.
It was nothing like the play she had seen in Erin’s inn, in the background. The Players had special effects! Fight scenes with actual limb cuts, so real Revi felt alarmed. And—they’d improved their craft beyond all recognition.
This was the stage. And it blew the Gold-rank team away. Revi found herself sitting in the inn, with the Players of Celum celebrating after their performance. Only then did her mouth close, and only to swallow the drinks and food.
“That was—incredible.”
“We’ve improved a bit.”
Wesle remarked modestly. But his eyes were twinkling. Revi stared at him. And she had a definite sense—that they were close in levels. Which was unreal, for someone who’d gained the [Actor] class just a while ago.
But the Players of Celum were the premier group in Invrisil. Halrac watched the [Actors], as Briganda alternated between star-struck and delighted. Cade was on her lap, gaping at the shining [Actors].
Typhenous, ironically, was most relaxed. He was collecting signatures, talking with the group—fully immersed in the scene. He was enjoying himself as the crew introduced themselves—to legends in turn.
After all, the Siege of Liscor was a play they put on and Griffon Hunt was a part of it. Revi nearly sprayed her drink all over Cade and Briganda when she saw a young Stitch-girl playing her! Her skin was fair, but she was nearly the spitting image of Revi!
“And here’s our Halrac! Do the face!”
A man roughly Halrac’s size and vaguely like him put on a scowl that was the exact match of the [Scout]’s. Halrac’s eyes bulged and Briganda had to put Cade on the table before she fell out of her seat with laughter.
It felt like a bit of a dream. Revi looked at the changed fortunes of the Players and was glad and amazed. But it was when they recounted what had happened to the inn that she had to stop in amazement.
The Bloodfields. Creler attacks. Erin in Pallass during the Wyvern assault. The magic garden, her fire.
“We missed so much. The Horns are Gold-rank? Yvlon’s arms are fixed?”
“They killed an Adult Creler?”
Halrac just stared as Jasi and Wesle beamed. Grev was laughing at their expressions.
“We may see them. They’re bound for Invrisil. Speaking of which—the Wyvern bounty is insane. Each one is being paid out at an Adult Creler’s rate! Well, not if you add up local bounties on top of Rhir’s payment. But who put it up?”
“Magnolia Reinhart could. But do you think she would…? But we are looking forwards to the door, definitely. Actually, we’re debating linking our theatres with Liscor. Maybe sending money to Temile to build one in Liscor? Or Pallass? But we’ve invitations to go further north still. To First Landing. But we have no shortage of audiences here, so…”
As Jasi, Wesle, and some of the [Actors] were chatting about their ambitions to Halrac and Revi, Grev was introducing the cast to Briganda and Typhenous.
“We’ve got boats of people, so only the best of ‘em get to audition with us. We have multiple teams. Jasi and Wesle are in the first one, obviously. But the rest are being trained up. And we have special effects.”
“Ah, like the mist for your [Witches]. Magnificent thunder effects.”
Typhenous was nodding, delighted as he shook hands. Grev laughed.
“Yeah! You shoulda seen what we had to do before that. But we’ve got a top-level illusionist. Wait, he’s a [Magician]. Eltistiman! Come and meet—”
Typhenous was smiling and looking around when he heard the name. And the [Magician], who had a drink in one hand, was turning to meet the people the Players were excited about.
The younger [Magician], his robes flamboyant and colorful, locked eyes with the older [Mage]. Eltistiman dropped his mug. Typhenous recoiled.
One went for his wand, the other reached for his staff and dagger. Eltistiman pointed, faster on the draw.
“You!”
The Players turned. The [Magician]’s wand was glowing, aimed at Typhenous’ face. The old [Mage] froze, hand on his staff.
“What’s going on? Eltistiman?”
Jasi turned her head, alarmed.
“Oh, mothballs—”
Revi choked on her food. She remembered the name, too late. The [Magician] that Typhenous had said—the one who’d been there to stop the door from being—and Typhenous had—
“I know this [Mage]. Jasi, Wesle. We have a—history.”
Eltistiman’s wand never moved. Halrac was frozen—a hand on his invisible bow. He could draw and loose in a second—but Eltistiman had the wand aimed at Typhenous.
“Stop that! They’re guests! I don’t know what went down, but lower the wand!”
Emme barked. Eltistiman hesitated. He looked around at the Players of Celum, his friends, and slowly, he did lower the wand. Revi breathed.
“What happened? Eltistiman’s been a part of our troupe for a while now. He helped us—is there some past between you and him?”
Wesle looked at Typhenous, concerned. The older [Mage] was breathing slowly, watching Eltistiman warily.
“We—have had our incidents. I’m sorry. Perhaps we should discuss it? Civilly?”
He looked at Eltistiman, and the [Magician] nodded.
“Civilly. We’re both quits, anyways—it was a scene, Wesle. No hard feelings…”
He stared at Typhenous. And Revi sensed that hidden undercurrent of the street. Typhenous nodded.
“Let’s talk.”
He stood up. The Players watched the two walk over to a table. The air blurred around them and sound vanished. Revi let herself breathe. She met Halrac’s gaze. The [Scout] was frowning again.
“What do you think…?”
“I don’t know. But I think we might be entangled again. Damn.”
The [Veteran Scout] drained his drink. Cade nodded solemnly. Briganda sighed.
“It’s never a dull moment. Catch me up. What’re we in for now?”
 
——
 
“Never thought to see you here. Frankly, I’d as soon have kicked you in the ribs, but I’m with the Players of Celum now. So I suppose we can let it lie. You didn’t let them slit my throat.”
Eltistiman eyed Typhenous as the two sat together. Both were…calm. Wary, but not tense. They knew the score. They were both—faces. And they spoke with the same understanding that the Players and Griffon Hunt did. That of people with a shared background.
“I did convince them to leave you. The Sisters weren’t amenable to it, but the Brothers…”
“Dead gods, both of them? Maybe you saved me from a fight.”
Eltistiman grimaced. He took another drink and looked at Typhenous. The old [Mage] nodded carefully.
“You escaped without incident?”
A shrug.
“I woke up in the basement and walked out, invisible, of course. The Flower Lady wasn’t happy, but she understood. It was still a black mark—but I found the Players of Celum. And the door never got stolen. So—let’s call it quits.”
Typhenous relaxed a bit. Words had meaning and a promise, even one not bound by magic or blood, carried weight. He nodded.
“You have my apologies.”
“Frankly, I should have checked the door. That was an amateur’s mistake. But yes. Good job on your victory.”
The [Magician] glowered. But he sighed.
“Still—two big gangs lost some members that night. I feel…I don’t want to ask, because I know you won’t give it to me straight.”
“I’d prefer that.”
Typhenous kept his face straight. And he was wary. Eltistiman nodded.
“I don’t want to know. But…people have been asking questions, you understand? A [Nightstalker] and her guard visited me. And an [Enforcer]. They asked questions on behalf of their people.”
The Plague Mage…paused. He slowly raised his mug.
“And?”
“I told them what I knew. But they’re not happy. Maybe it was an accident. But I think you’ve got some debts to pay. And if you stick around in Invrisil—well, you’re here, but people saw you in the Solstice Booth. And they heard Wesle saying Griffon Hunt. They know you’re here. Neither one’ll intrude because the Players are here and because this is Reinhart’s territory, but…”
Typhenous saw Eltistiman raise his brows. The [Mage] nodded slowly.
“I have debts. And explanations. I will pay both.”
