The Plague Mage. His eyes twinkled. And then stopped shining.
“Well, you know what happens next. I’m willing to pay for a meeting, by all means. At a reasonable rate. But convey to anyone you meet, please, that I’m serious. I’d hate to pay for topsoil.”
The [Gang Leader]’s face paled. His gang members murmured and drew back further. Revi heard Typhenous’ title repeated.
The Plague Mage. She hadn’t given it much thought. Adventurers got nicknames—the Named Ranks all got them. But there was clearly some significance in this world to a name too. And Typhenous had one.
“—We’ll put out some fingers. We have met Grev. We’re not sewn together, but we can get you to him.”
The [Gang Leader] replied after a long break. Typhenous smiled.
“Good. Tell him we’re friends. Griffon Hunt.”
“Right, right. Be one sec. I’ll get my best [Finders] on it. And get you an escort…”
The young man backed up fast. He began ordering his gang around and Typhenous turned to his team. He smiled as they gave him a look akin to the other ones he was getting from everyone else.
“As I said. Nothing to worry about. It’s all about how you present yourself.”
Halrac glowered. But he kept his mouth shut until the gang dispersed. The same urchin they’d first met pointed. And his tone was far more respectful as twelve of his fellow members moved out ahead of him, down the alleyway.
“We gotta make some other meetings, Mister Typhenous. Make some palms shine. This way.”
He led the team out of the gang’s hideout. When they were out on the street, the gang began pointing them further into the city. Typhenous nodded for them to lead the way. Only then did Halrac confront him.
“What was that?”
“An introduction. I know, the theatrics. But despite what that young man said, he wouldn’t have taken us seriously unless I demonstrated I knew what was happening. We won’t be paying a ludicrous amount. We will have to give some money, but I think it won’t be much of anything.”
Typhenous nodded to Halrac. The [Scout] opened and closed his mouth. He clenched one fist.
“You scared that boy. To save us gold?”
Rather than apologize, the old [Mage]’s eyes glinted.
“I did what that young man was familiar with, Halrac. He respects a display, nothing else. The gang understands and we have their respect as well. It’s their world and mine. I was one of them, once. I know how it works. I understand your objections, but trust me, Halrac. This is how it is done. It would rather be like me telling you how to hunt.”
Halrac chewed that over and nodded, slowly. He wasn’t entirely an idiot.
Neither was Revi. But she gave Typhenous another sideways look.
“I heard you had connections when you got signed to Griffon Hunt. How much of that was your level, and how much was the other stuff?”
“Ironically, neither Ulrien nor anyone else even cared, apart from my spellcasting ability. I’ve tried to help in small ways to make up for my—errors. To greater or lesser effects.”
Typhenous nodded apologetically at Halrac. The [Scout] grunted.
“I disapprove of it.”
“I know. And I am sorry, but the door incident was going to happen with or without my interference. I mitigated the damage; they were two very good gangs who could have had the door to Invrisil within three days without being caught. And we came up a few thousand gold pieces higher for it.”
“And the consequences you mentioned?”
The Plague Mage paused. A kid was waving at them and another gang of kids—these ones marked by black sashes tied around their arms—was waiting, staring at the Gold-ranks.
“I’ll deal with them as they come up. But we have the door to Liscor. On the whole, I’d say it was worth it.”
“Hmf.”
That was all the [Scout] said. But he let Typhenous do the rest. And what Revi saw after that, as she met other gangs who seemed to progressively get older was…
A celebrity. Typhenous was conveyed by the same group of kids from the first gang. But they went from place to place in the city, speaking to people who knew where Grev might be, or who had an ‘in’. And the older they got, the more they started as they heard Typhenous’ name.
“The Plague Mage. My da says he knew you when he was running tricks!”
An awed gang boss actually shook Typhenous’ hand; he led a group of [Toughs] and [Thugs]. Typhenous smiled.
“Those days are past me. I’m merely an adventurer now.”
“Yeah, that’s what my da says. He’s a huge admirer. He says if one’ve the Knives can run straight, and a Scorer like you gets to be Gold-rank, anyone can. You want to meet Grev? We’ll do it—and give you the proper discount. Favor, Mister Typhenous. Who’re your people? Your new crew?”
He looked at Halrac and Revi. They blinked as the rest of the gang had to meet Typhenous. They barely looked twice at the other Gold-ranks. Typhenous was smiling, downplaying the accolades. And that was only one gang.
“You were in a gang?”
“Most people who grow up without a proper job or class do. It was nothing special.”
“Sure. And the Knives? What’s a scorer?”
Typhenous’ eyes twinkled. He winked at Revi.
“Just terms from the past. Oh—”
He paused as the young [Tough]’s father himself rushed out to exclaim and shake Typhenous’ hand. Revi looked at the old man. And she realized.
He was a hero. To the people he met. Someone with a history that anyone in the know knew. Or if not a hero—the Stitch-woman leaned over to Halrac.
“You know anything about this, Halrac?”
“No.”
“Who’s Typhenous, then?”
“A face. Whatever that means.”
Revi looked at Typhenous. And she saw an old mage, a man with white hair, an adventurer. Walking amid the streets and gangs and the hidden side of a city. He fit—and yet, he had left it all behind a long while ago. He had become a Gold-rank. And Revi began to appreciate what that meant. For someone like Typhenous, to the people who knew where he came from. And he was using his past for his team.
Gangs or adventuring teams—loyalty mattered to both. And it made sense. Griffon Hunt was more mercenary than the other teams like the Silver Swords or the Horns or Halfseekers. But they looked after their own. They had splintered, rather than give up on Typhenous after the mistake. And he remembered that.
Revi wondered if he still felt guilty. She still remembered the plague, when she slept, sometimes.
Everyone had things they regretted.
 
——
 
In the end, Griffon Hunt did end up paying gold to meet Grev. But only four gold pieces, spread out in smaller bribes. Making palms shine. It took them nearly thirty minutes of walking from spot to spot, getting closer and closer to access to Grev himself. And when they found him, it was almost at random.
“Grev? What d’you want? He’s not entertaining any flatfoots—”
The suspicious boy broke off as the guide whispered urgently in his ear. He paused.
“Not even fer a face—alright, alright! I’ll tell him. But he might rat off. He don’t like being bothered.”
“Kindly inform him that Griffon Hunt would like to speak with him, if he has time. Halrac, Revi, Typhenous. From the inn. Those exact words.”
The boy’s mouth moved as he glanced at the adventurers. He nodded.
“Alright. No promises.”
He sidled back through the door he’d been guarding. Revi got the impression it was something like a bar—or another hideout. Only, not one you could get into regularly. And the gang that Grev was hanging out with was a lot better-dressed than the gang Typhenous had asked to help.
Indeed, the Plague Mage handed a few silvers over and made the urchin’s face light up. They disappeared as the adventurers found themselves alone in front of the door.
“I swear, Typh. If this is all a waste of time…”
“They wouldn’t lead us around like that, Revi. There are consequences.”
The [Mage] was relaxed. He took a little sip from a healing potion and then a stamina potion. Halrac and Revi weren’t bothered, but Typhenous smiled after he did that.
“Aching joints?”
“Age, Revi. I should buy a liniment while I’m here. But I find most potions do their job. A shame their effect loses its power the more times you use them. But—ah!”
The door opened. Revi saw a kid, only around thirteen years old, standing in the doorway. He had yet to hit his growth, and he had been scrawny, underfed. But he’d filled out since then, and he was wearing good clothes. Still—he had some of the street on him, and his hair was messy, most likely on purpose.
He had a gap in his teeth if he smiled. The gang behind him looked warily at the adventurers.
“You know these flatfoots, Grev? They say they know you.”
The boy stopped gaping. He grinned. The [Street Rat], Grev Redigal, younger brother of Jasi from Celum, who had once tried to lead Erin Solstice into a mugging, laughed in delight.
“Know ‘em? They’re part of the crew! Miss Erin’s crew! They’re all right! Dead gods, the Players’re gonna flip when they see you! That’s Halrac, right?”
“Grev.”
The [Scout] nodded. Grev cackled.
“I’d know that scowl everywhere! Guys, I’m gonna rat. These’re friends. They need me for anything, they get it. Just like the rest of the ones I told you about.”
The gang of kids relaxed. The leader, a girl, tapped Grev’s shoulder lightly with a fist. He was clearly with them and yet apart, much like Typhenous.
“You got it, Grev. Favor. Thanks for the tickets. My mum flipped twice when she got them.”
“Anytime. Come on, you three! How’d you find me? They were saying a face was askin’ about me and I got worried. That you, Typhenous? You never said!”
“A [Mage] must have his secrets, Grev. It’s good to see you.”
“Revi too?”
“Hey. Grev.”
Revi waved awkwardly. She hadn’t really known Grev from the inn. She remembered him, of course, the kid who’d been with the Players. But Revi had to admit, her contact with the Players of Celum was mostly remote.
And yet—it was like adventuring teams. They knew each other. And ironically, this far from the inn they’d been at, the bond felt stronger. Short it might have been, only a few months—but it felt like years. And The Wandering Inn had left a mark on them all.
“It’s amazing to see you all. Is the door to Liscor open? I’ve been watching, but there’s been no word.”
“We came on foot. We were hoping the door would be active too.”
Grev led them back on the street. He tugged up a hood over his head as he chatted with the adventurers.
“Because of the Wyverns? Right. I’ve been keeping my ear to Liscor. Heard about the Crelers.”
“Crelers?”
Griffon Hunt started. Grev gave them a wide-eyed look.
“You don’t know? Dead fucking gods kicking rats! You’ve gotta hear about it! But maybe let’s find the Players first! They’ll love to see you. Mind you, it was good you came to me. Smart. Favor for that—respect, I mean—no one can get near the inn with the cast. They’re more famous than…anyone right now. Lots of people want to be their friends.”
“So we noticed. It’s incredible.”
Indeed—there were posters of the Players of Celum on the more populated, commercial districts. Revi had to stare at a full-scale poster, hand-painted by an [Artist]. It depicted Jasi—or rather, a beautiful Drake standing with [Soldiers] in the background, and the heads of Wesle and a Human that Revi didn’t recognize in the background. It looked like some grand story, and the caption just read—‘Elisial, now showing at the Season Theatre’.
Fame. Grev himself was hiding his face. Whereas he was walking with Gold-ranks and chattering away.
“You have no idea. The cast have to wear illusion spells just to go out. They’re signing—you know the autographs? I’m getting more than I can deal with, so I hafta wear a hood. And Jasi—you can’t beat the guys off her with sticks! Myself, I’ve got a few girls…”
Revi rolled her eyes. Halrac just stared at another poster, this time of Wesle and advertising Macbeth.
“Have you heard from Erin?”
“Nah. I mean, I keep up, and we get [Messages] from Temile. New plays, some stuff. She’s out of Celum. They kicked her out and the Players went with her. Dumb as a bag of rocks, that lot. The Players are now in Liscor. And they’ve got Drakes and Gnoll [Actors]. Maybe even Dullahans and Garudas if that door to Pallass works with the magic grass. Dead gods, that’d be something! Emme wants to bring the crew from Liscor over when the door opens. We’d be able to have flying Garuda, Dullahans with detachable body parts for the fight scenes and such…”
“Whoa, hold on. Magic grass? Erin’s out of Celum? What?”
Revi was trying to catch up. Grev cackled at the look on her face.
“You don’t know! This is great! You don’t know about the Horns—dead gods! Did you at least hear about the Wyverns in Pallass?”
Halrac nodded. Grev was leading them back to the Players of Celum’s inn.
“Of course. We didn’t have a scrying orb, but we heard about it. Wait—”
The [Veteran Scout]’s brows crossed together. And he had a…thought. Born purely out of his knowledge of Erin. He looked at Revi. The [Summoner]’s jaw dropped and Typhenous blinked.
“She was there! Miss Erin! And one of the Antinium was in Pallass! You’re gonna flip! Come on, I have to show you! The Players should be in the inn!”
The young boy was overjoyed. And Revi felt her smile growing larger. Erin had been at Pallass? During the Wyvern…? No way. Was she a magnet for trouble or something?
“She’s got magical fire too. Temile said it was glorious. And a garden-thing! That’s how she’s charged up her door—apparently it can take a lot more people to Pallass! We could travel back and forth fairly regularly!”
“Hold on. We have a teammate we want to introduce to the Players. Can we find her first?”
“Sure! Who’s she?”
Briganda was scheduled to meet her team at the same pub. She was already waiting.
“I put Cade to bed. Who’s this? Wait…”
She stared at Grev. None of her teammates had told her about knowing the Players of Celum. They hadn’t put together the significance. But when Briganda heard that they knew the famous [Actors] who’d hit Invrisil like a Tier 8 spell, she flipped three times.
“Dead gods! We’re going to meet the Players of Celum? You’re Grev!”
“That’s right, Miss.”
Briganda looked awed. Revi felt discombobulated. They were all Gold-ranks, but when she heard she could meet Jasi and Wesle, Briganda was like a girl meeting…Gold-ranks.
“I’ve got to buy some paper! For signing! And Cade! I want him to meet them! And you know them, Halrac? You never said!”
“They were just…at the inn.”
Halrac looked as close to stunned as he got by Briganda’s reaction. Grev laughed.
