The other adventurers glanced at each other. Now, here was a common and uncommon offer. Join a new team. It was tricky, fitting adventurers together who ‘worked’. Many preferred to work alone or changed teams often for that reason.
“Who’re you looking for? I’m a [Hammerer]. And don’t let the class fool you; I’ve consolidated twice. Can I ask about shares and so on? Also, what’s your focus?”
“We’re equal share.”
Revi eyed the bald man who spoke up first. Halrac paused.
“We don’t have a set target in mind, but we do specialize in Griffins.”
The Gold-rank made a face.
“Eh. I haven’t fought ‘em, but I’d be willing to learn. But—I’m looking for a group to fight Wyverns, not much else. There’s pure gold there. If you’re heading south, give me a shout. Otherwise…some other time?”
“Of course.”
A few more adventurers came over to test the waters. Revi had only a good feeling about one of them, a young woman who was just new to Gold-rank with a smile. She was a throwing expert.
“She was nice. Good, long-range—if we get Briganda with us, we could get her and another shield-person.”
Halrac shrugged, reserving judgment as always. It was Typhenous who leaned over. And the old [Mage]’s face was serious.
“No.”
His teammates looked at him.
“No?”
Halrac frowned. Typhenous eyed the young woman’s back.
“She’s…a [Murderer]. Not just an adventurer. That young lady? She’s killed more people than I have.”
Revi and Halrac looked at Typhenous. The old [Mage] did have his wide and often eclectic sources of information, but Revi had to call him out on this one.
“How do you know that, Typh? And don’t tell me it’s a Skill or something.”
“Hardly. I’m no [Arbiter] or…I was inquiring after the state of affairs in Invrisil. Obviously I asked about people of interest. That young lady is known. She has a history—she’s gone clean now, but she had to pay off a substantial bounty. And that was the one she was convicted of.”
The [Scout] paused.
“Definitely not, then.”
“Humans. You think you know someone…”
Revi shuddered as she stared after the young woman. She turned back to Typhenous.
“Anything else you want to share before I shake another monster’s hand?”
The old man smiled.
“Two things. Firstly, we may not see them here, but there’s a Named Adventurer in the city.”
“Who?”
“Elia Arcsinger herself. The Goblin King Slayer.”
Halrac and Revi both blinked.
“You mean, the—”
“She was the one who helped rout the Goblins in the Dwarfhalls Rest mountain, wasn’t she?”
“Exactly. Her contract expired, but she hasn’t left for the north. Apparently, she and her team have been living it up.”
“Can we meet her? I mean—wait, is her team Named?”
“Just her. And I’m sorry to say that she’s reclusive. I doubt she’d be drinking with Todi.”
The Stitch-girl nodded, disappointed but understanding. Named-rank adventurers and teams were another level, even with Gold-ranks. Halrac eyed Typhenous.
“What’s the last bit of news? The thing you went out to find? Out with it.”
Typhenous spread his arms, smiling.
“It appears the Players of Celum have arrived at Invrisil. They’re putting on plays in a theatre—and they are the most coveted and famous thing in Invrisil right now.”
The two adventurers stared. And then Revi sat back and laughed. Heads turned as Revi exclaimed.
“No way. That’s incredible! And are they—”
“Jasi and Wesle, the two star [Actors] on stage. I did check. It’s impossible to get a ticket to their shows without waiting for weeks, and apparently, some of the nobility have invited them to do personal performances. The Players of Celum…declined, and so the nobility are coming here.”
The [Mage]’s eyes glittered with amusement and delight. Revi was beaming. Even Halrac had a faint smile.
“We have to meet them! I remember Wesle and Jasi! I think! One of them’s a Drake, right?”
Typhenous was nodding.
“We can look into it afterwards. It may be hard to even see them, much less get face-to-face. Apparently, they’re so popular they generate crowds. There was this other acting troupe, but apparently they’ve been disbanded because they were so…inferior. A few have joined the Players, and they’re currently performing almost constantly. They have over a hundred—”
Halrac’s head turned. The [Scout] held out a hand.
“Wait on that, Typhenous. She’s here.”
Griffon Hunt stopped. Revi looked over and she saw a woman, Human, scarred from a life of battle, in her late thirties, making her way over to them.
A [Shield Maiden]. She wasn’t as burly as Ulrien had been, but she did have muscle. And she had a stocky build, and Revi knew she could block a charging bull—or Griffin. Once. But even without her Skills, Briganda was tough. She’d split more monster’s heads with the enchanted hatchet she carried than Revi could count. Even before Revi had been an official member of Griffon Hunt, they’d shared a number of adventures together, on team-ups and then on an ad hoc basis before becoming an official member. That same hand that had saved Revi’s life half a dozen times was now leading a little toddler…past the tables…
The team stared. Briganda halted and watched them. She looked—shocked. Revi felt almost as shocked, seeing her.
That bad night, when Griffon Hunt had disbanded, they’d all parted ways. Now, it was painful to see the old teammates again, especially because she and Typhenous were outsiders. But—
There was also the kid. Briganda smiled after a second. She had violet in her hair. Violet, mixed with brown—a hereditary trait from some magic in her ancestry.
“Here you go. Up!”
She lifted the little boy up. Revi saw a young, young boy, flesh and blood and big eyes. He had a head of dark violet hair, deeper than Briganda’s, fair skin—he looked like his mother. He stared at her, wide-eyed. He couldn’t have been more than…four?
“Mom. She has threads in her face.”
He instantly pointed at Revi’s face. The Stitch-girl blinked. Briganda sighed, affectionately, as she pulled out a chair.
“Don’t point, love. It’s rude. Halrac. Revi, Typhenous. It’s been one hell of a year since we saw each other. Or…two? Closer to two, now.”
She nodded at them. Briganda was at once familiar—and different. The same woman who would unapologetically kick her teammates out of the way to use the bathroom—and a mother. But…Revi had known this.
“Briganda. And—it’s Cabe, right?”
“Cade.”
“Right, I knew that. Wow. He got big.”
Cade had been just a tiny boy when she’d seen him last. And he was still a boy. But now he talked.
“I’m Cade. Are you Mom’s friends? Why do you have that in your neck?”
He stared at them. Revi felt for the threads in her neck.
“Why don’t you?”
The boy contemplated Revi with a slightly open mouth, trying to figure out what to say. Briganda sighed.
“Cade, I’m going to have a long talk with my team, okay? Can you sit and have fun?”
“Can I have—can I—can I get—the—the—box?”
The boy instantly grew excited. Briganda nodded. Smiling, she handed him a little…box. Revi saw it had hinges and it was clearly magical. Cade reached for it, and slowly, opened the lid.
A Dragon flew out. Cade and Revi’s eyes went round as the tiny Dragon flew around him. He instantly reached for it, missed—but the illusion perched on his hand. He petted at it, and Revi saw the Dragon’s head move. It had substance!
“Remember, no breaking the things that come out or you have to wait a long time for them to come back.”
Briganda cautioned Cade. He nodded slowly.
“Ah, a trick box. Or are they real? A Box of Simulacra. I saw a few on the market—but for practicing a war simulation, not entertainment. I can recharge the magic if it runs out.”
Typhenous chuckled as he watched Cade stroking the Dragon’s head. Briganda sighed as Cade sat, oblivious to the world, playing with his magical toy.
“Don’t tell him that, or he’ll lose what caution he has. It cost me an arm and a leg to buy, but it was worth it. Nothing else keeps his attention when I’m working.”
“Briganda. It’s good to see you. And Cade. I’d…forgotten.”
Halrac’s voice was strained. Revi had forgotten too, although she hadn’t said it. Cade was Briganda’s child. She’d had him in the course of being an adventurer. Somehow, she hadn’t noticed until she was close to delivering him and then the [Healer] had advised her that it might complicate matters if she didn’t have him.
She’d decided to have Cade. And while travelling alongside Griffon Hunt, she’d kept Cade in the care of actual [Carers], [Nursemaids], and so on. Revi remembered seeing a young boy, but this one was different.
“Well, I’ve been Cade’s full-time mother. Mostly. He’s big enough to come along…sometimes. But it’s a hell of a thing. I almost miss the days he was just a baby.”
Briganda smiled tiredly. She nodded at Cade.
“I still can’t believe you never noticed you were pregnant.”
“I told you, I thought I was getting fat. And being a [Fighter] means I don’t have as many symptoms. Well, I never puked in the mornings. Best part of my class.”
The woman shrugged. Revi wanted to roll her eyes, but—Briganda all over again. She’d walk into a trap Cassielle had set five minutes ago if you let her.
“…Thanks for meeting us. We weren’t sure you’d agree.”
Halrac seemed to decide he was going to stay on track. He nodded at Briganda. She smiled, but…reserved. She looked Halrac up and down, and then nodded at Revi and Typhenous. She was the original part of Griffon Hunt, though. And so she spoke mainly to him.
“I owed it to you to speak, even if it was just about Ulrien. Named-rank, huh?”
“Yes.”
Halrac’s brow darkened. Briganda reached out and grasped his shoulder.
“Regrika Blackpaw. I remembered, but she’s a Gnoll. Still—it shouldn’t have happened. To tell you the truth, I felt guilty about it. So did the others, I think. They’re still mad, Elm especially, but Cassielle’ll want to talk. But he’s in Terandria.”
The [Scout] nodded silently. He paused.
“You keep in touch?”
“Some. Cassielle drops in and out; he’s always on long missions, like the old days, and you know how it is at a distance. But Elm messaged me last week.”
Revi and Typhenous winced. Briganda studied Halrac. The man paused.
“I regret that.”
“I don’t blame you. Sounds like Elm said—what Elm said. I can imagine. But he told me something of what happened and what you offered so…here I am. What do you want to say?”
Briganda leaned back, waving for a drink. Cade looked up.
“Can I have a fruit?”
“Can you get one of those fruit drinks for my boy?”
The server nodded. Briganda sipped from her cup as Halrac paused. When the [Scout] spoke, his voice was calm, flat.
“I know we parted on bad terms. I’m not here to make excuses. Or argue about the past. Ulrien—let’s talk about him later. Right now, as Captain of Griffon Hunt, I’m here to tell you that we want to make things right. We can’t undo the past, but we’re offering recompense. After that? We’re fully quits. No grudges held, no old debts.”
“What’s the recompense? Elm said he turned his down.”
Halrac looked at Revi and Typhenous. She felt her stomach twisting—it was almost all of what they’d gotten from the dungeon! But it had to be done.
“Elm can claim his share if he asks. We’re putting it to use if he doesn’t claim it by the time we reach out to Cassielle—but its 6,000 gold pieces. To each of you. If you don’t want—”
“I’ll take it.”
Briganda sipped from her mug. Halrac paused.
“Just like that?”
She looked at him. The [Shield Maiden] nodded to her child.
“Halrac, I have Cade, I’m not working as an adventurer these days—and I have no idea who the father is. Nor am I exactly shopping around. Of course I’ll take it. But that’s not all Elm said, was it?”
She looked at Revi. The Stitch-girl shook her head. So far this was going far better than with Elm. The [Ranger] had tossed his drink in Halrac’s face before they even listed the amount. Revi nodded.
“We’re asking if you want to rejoin Griffon Hunt, Briggy.”
The old nickname made Briganda smile at Revi and Typhenous.
“The old gang, getting back together? You’re not calling it quits, then, Halrac?”
“We’re recruiting. We don’t stop. Not unless everyone leaves. You and Cassielle are first on our lists. If you say yes—we don’t pay you all six thousand gold. You’re part of the team. You get something—but we keep going. As we have. I’ll lead.”
“Huh.”
Briganda had to take that all in. Cade was giggling as a bunch of [Knights] trotted out of the box and faced off against the Dragon. They were bravely waving their swords as the Dragon assailed them from above with fiery breath. Then he smacked the Dragon as it picked up a tiny, flailing [Knight].
“Be careful, Cade. Remember, if you break them, even to help out, it’s gone for at least eight hours! That’s until nap time!”
The woman waved at Cade. Halrac hesitated.
“I understand you’ve moved on, Briganda. We can just—”
She held up a hand.
“Hold on, Everam. I didn’t say no. Tell me about rejoining. What do I get and give?”
Halrac paused. Typhenous steepled his fingers as he slyly pointed a finger. Cade giggled as the Dragon flapped away, blown by a stiff little gust of wind. The boy reached out—Briganda steadied him before he could go over the table.
“I believe our Captain will pay you two thousand gold pieces for personal funds, Briganda. Four thousand of the six goes back into our pool, to be used as needed.”
It would still go to equipment and whatnot, just not necessarily to her. Briganda nodded.
“Sounds fair. Two thousand enlistment? Sweet pot you have there.”
“Recompense.”
Halrac clarified. Briganda paused.
“Yeah. I’ll take the gold either way. But joining up? I’d…yeah. Let’s do that too.”
She nodded. Revi blinked. But Briganda had never, ever, taken more than a minute deciding anything. That was why she was so good in a fight; she didn’t hesitate.
“Just like—no. In that case, Briganda, we’d be delighted to have you. But your son…”
Halrac caught himself, and then gestured at Cade as Briganda let him watch a marching band. Briganda paused.
“Cade?”
“How will you manage him? He’s older now. We might be gone from Invrisil—”
“No. This time I’m taking him on the road with me. I can find someone in most places we stop. And he’s old enough to handle wagon rides. If I join up, he comes with. That’s not an argument.”
The woman made a slashing motion with one hand. Halrac looked at his teammates.
