The adventurer sighed as Dewlana began kneading her back hard. She’d induced the pain such that she was now hitting it perfectly. Revi sighed as she felt herself relaxing. And it was better than not having the massage at all.
“That’s so brilliant.”
“It is a hit. The only problem I have are with Humans—mostly Humans—who come in and expect something more than a massage.”
Revi rolled her eyes.
“And you look amazing. I love your stitches. Is the dark skin…?”
“I didn’t change skin colors.”
Revi nodded. They both had darker skin tones than Izrilians. Dewlana sighed.
“It is a problem. Human women always ask me what ointments I’m using.”
Both Revi and Dewlana laughed at the thought. Then Dewlana sighed.
“And I can’t but sit at a Human bar without men falling over themselves.”
“Appearances. They can’t change. I feel it. At least my two teammates don’t have that problem, much. But I’m not exactly changing my appearance for flirting, you know?”
If appearance mattered for Humans and other species…it didn’t as much for Stitch-people. They were the most looks-focused species in the world, and yet, they understood change was only a stitch away.
“Maybe you should sew on some regular cotton. Pretend you’re ordinary, find a good fellow, and then show him what you’re made of. Put on the cat ears when you do.”
Dewlana nearly laughed her own stitches off. By the time the forty minutes were done, Revi felt refreshed, restrung, and good. The silk threads were not cheap, but she felt like they were adding to her structure. And if she could someday pay for a silk body?
…Well, she was attached to her cotton. And that was a struggle many had. Before Revi left, she leaned forwards and whispered to Dewlana.
“Silk body, cotton heart. Keep it together.”
“You too, sister.”
The two parted, smiling. Revi stretched in the sunlight. She smiled. Then her smile slipped.
“Aw. Moths. Now we have to meet the old crew.”
She sighed. If meeting Briganda was as bad as Elm, she’d splurge on a nice, new…arm? Silk? Ooh, it might not match, but imagine how that would feel? Revi converted herself as she went to settle old debts.
After all—it was Typhenous’ and her fault that Griffon Hunt had split up. Mostly Typhenous’ fault.
But hers too.
 
——
 
The door to the Adventurer’s Guild swung open and Halrac stepped into the room followed by Revi and Typhenous.
The adventurers in the vast, rather plush Guild that was one of, if not the largest in the continent looked up. Some stood at queues at desks tended to by receptionists, others were clustered around the bulletin boards listing bounties.
Normally, an Adventurer’s Guild was smallish, and had a regular cast of teams. Not so in Invrisil. This was one of the spots to be. You could find Gold-rank teams here at any hour. And the guild was open at all times. Even Named Adventurers might walk through these doors. The Guildmaster himself had been part of a Named-rank team.
Not a Named individual himself; there was an important distinction. Teams could be as powerful or more powerful than a Named-rank person, but the individual members might not be as formidable.
Even so—this was the spot. And Griffon Hunt, seasoned veterans that they were, knew the score.
They casually walked forwards, past Bronze-ranks who were covered in muck after slaying rats in the sewers, or had been gathering [Alchemist] ingredients. Typical errand-work to make ends meet. Past chatting Silver-ranks who looked up, appraising for competition, and then looked down.
The Gold-ranks had their own section of the guild. You had to walk through a door. It was just a door; no magic runes, no guards. But if you didn’t fit…you’d be seen.
The second door opened at a touch. Halrac walked through and glanced about.
Slowly. Carefully. There were far fewer adventurers in here. Six teams and a number of individuals. When they looked up, it was as equals, assessing, weighing the new competition that had just come in.
“And here’s the rat race, all over again. I miss Liscor. There we were big names. Until Pallass swanned in.”
Revi grumbled. She was relaxed, standing with her team. But Typhenous, nodding as he bent to murmur to her, Halrac, cool and cold—they were all aware of themselves. They moved deliberately, calmly.
Because they were being watched. Because this was competition and how you presented yourself was important. Especially among Gold-ranks. How you were perceived, favors—it all mattered.
Not all Gold-ranks were equal, of course. Griffon Hunt moved with a confidence that made some of the other Gold-ranks decide not to try hazing them. Indeed, some Gold-ranks were low-level, at least, comparatively. Some were veterans.
Some were near Named-rank and only one thing, or recognition, held them back. But that was gold for you.
Sometimes it was mundane, and duller than you imagined. Other times it was Truegold, with a luster and magic beyond regular minerals.
Other times it was…pyrite.
“Griffon Hunt. I knew I placed you, but without those damn dogs, I never woulda guessed.”
Someone murmured their name. A few of the Gold-rank adventurers snapped their fingers in recognition. Halrac turned and saw a familiar face.
“Todi.”
“That’s Captain Todi to you, Everam. I heard about Ulrien. Sorry about that. Was it true a Named-rank got him?”
Griffon Hunt saw a man in a silk doublet, armed with a club and a wand. Captain Todi was an odd fellow; he dressed much like the Silk-caste of the Stitch-folk made their bodies. Expensively, and to impress. But he had a wider face, and a nose that had been broken more than once.
“Todi?”
Revi murmured to Typhenous. He sub-vocalized a response into her ears with a flick of his fingers.
“I know him by name. Todi, leader of Todi’s Elites. Yes, I know. But his team specializes in magical attacks and rapid movement. [Fireball] and Teleport.”
“Oh. That sort.”
Revi rolled her eyes. She wasn’t a schooled [Mage]—she’d learned summoning through her family—and neither was Typhenous. But they both knew the sort of Gold-rank that Todi was.
One that relied on artifacts. His team of six all had magical gear. Maybe lesser teleport scrolls, or, if they were [Mages], they knew the spell. Maybe an artifact that did the same thing. And their wands? Wands of [Fireball] would mean they could shoot six all at once.
Any Silver-rank team would have trouble matching that kind of firepower. But was it…well, high-Gold?
No. Still, they deserved the rank if they’d gone through enough battles, and Todi looked like he’d been through a war. Halrac introduced him.
“This is Revi and Typhenous. You two—Todi. I knew him in Silver-ranks. He pulled himself out of Bronze all the way to the top.”
“And don’t you forget it, Everam. So this is your crew? Damn. And Ulrien bit it?”
Halrac…paused. Revi had an urge to nudge him before he belted Todi in the face, because—he looked like he was going to. But to her relief, the [Scout] only nodded.
“Not a Named-rank. A criminal. Regrika Blackpaw. Gnoll.”
“Damn. A criminal? Well, Ulrien always had balls to even try taking one of them on, sideways or not. So you were at Liscor, huh? You should’ve stayed is what I hear. I’m planning on going south myself. Can I get you a drink?”
Halrac considered. He glanced over the wait staff.
“We can sit. I don’t see the person we’re waiting for yet.”
He nodded and Griffon Hunt sat down. Todi waved his team off; they nodded at him. Then he called out.
“Hey! Jewel! Get over here and meet Halrac!”
Another Gold-rank adventurer looked up. She glared, but stood up and broke away from the team she’d been talking with. Jewel, as it turned out, was a Balerosian. Her team came with her. All two of them.
“Everam, meet Jewel. She’s part of…fuck…what was it? Glistening Spear?”
“Glitterblade, Todi. Don’t play games. Well met. Everam?”
“Halrac. Griffon Hunt.”
Jewel was no [Mage], and her entire team were, in fact, [Fighters]. Well, variants on the class, but mobile, comparatively lightly-armored warriors. One was a [Duelist], the other a [Spellblade]—a variant on [Spellsword] that had Skills which enhanced the artifact he carried, a flyssa, and Jewel herself was a [Swashbuckler].
“Nimble as a cat. She made a name for herself fighting the damn Ogres who came out of the hills a while back. Her team’s new to Gold-rank. Four months. Be respectful to Halrac! He’s been in Griffon Hunt at Gold-rank for over two years, Jewel. Longer than me.”
“Pleased.”
The woman looked resigned at Todi casually ordering about, although her comrades were less than cool with it. But he had seniority, which mattered…up to a point.
“Of course, they used to be a squad of six. And then eight. Rolled about the north hunting Griffins. And they had dogs.”
“Griffon dogs?”
One of the Glitterblades looked delighted at the play-on-words. Halrac nodded. He was sitting with Todi and the Glitterblades as Revi broke into the conversation.
“Nice team you have, Todi. They don’t want to join us?”
“Captain Todi. And they’re not my crew. Not like Everam and Ulrien. They roll with me, I give them gear, and if we split, we split. No hard feelings.”
Todi’s method was another sort you found sometimes. His team wasn’t a group that stuck with each other through thick-and-thin, just adventurers, almost like mercenaries, fighting together for a brief window. It was closer to how Griffon Hunt operated, but even more casually.
“You were a fan of that. You own all the wands and artifacts? It’s been a long time since we saw each other.”
Halrac spoke in a noncommittal tone of voice. Todi snorted.
“What, a year? Yeah. But like I kept telling you—artifacts. Bug out if it gets hot. None of your ‘kill em even if you die’ crap. That’s how your team got blacklisted in the north.”
Ears perked up. Jewel hesitated.
“What’s this now?”
“Ah, well, Griffon Hunt used to be the Griffin-slaying team. But during that migration of the things a few years back? Things got out of control and there was a plague—”
“You mean—the Griffin-plague a year and a half back?”
Halrac’s eyes narrowed.
“You can catch them up later, Todi. Why are you here? I thought you operated around First Landing because the contracts were bigger.”
The other man’s eyebrows rose as he swallowed his drink.
“You mean you don’t know? Have you been on the road the last few days?”
“That’s road, Toady. What’s the news?”
Revi smiled as Todi glared at her.
“She’s got a mouth on her, this one. You really—hey! Where’s the Wyvern bounty?”
A few Gold-ranks pointed. Todi adjusted a ring on his finger, flicked his wrist. A bounty flew across the room and he caught the paper.
“Feast your eyes—”
He showed Griffon Hunt the bounty. The team read in silence. Revi choked on her drink.
“Two thousand gold pieces per Wyvern head!? Eighty thousand for—”
“This can’t be real. It’s a prank.”
Halrac tossed the paper down. Todi waved a finger.
“Not so fast. Do you think I’d be here if it was fake? They confirmed it. It’s real. Someone sent the gold to First Landing’s Adventurer’s Guild. Remotely. Via spell transfer.”
“Impossible. There’s no way that’s cost-efficient. Someone must be making some move politically. One of the Walled Cities? But why?”
Typhenous’ eyes narrowed as he tried to consider it. Halrac just stared. Revi gulped. They’d gotten a huge haul from their treasure in Liscor’s dungeon, even split three ways. But 80,000 gold pieces put all that to shame. That—you could think about being a Named-rank adventurer if you had that much gold to outfit yourself with. Or buy one serious artifact.
“And the regular Wyverns are made of gold. Tell you the truth, I thought it was all shit. Like the ‘Golden Goblin’ rumors, you know? But since it’s real—I’m cashing in. I bet you wish you’d stayed at Liscor.”
“It’s the High Passes. Not exactly safe.”
Halrac muttered. Todi just laughed.
“I’ve heard that! But as far as I’m concerned, it’s a race to the High Passes and my team moves out tonight! You want to join in, we can team up. But otherwise, we’ll be taking Wyvern kills. Sorry about Ulrien, again.”
He slapped the table and stood. Halrac murmured a goodbye.
“That guy was made of a donkey and a mule’s ass.”
Revi glared at his back. Jewel snorted.
“Sorry. Is he like that…?”
She glanced at Halrac. The [Scout] focused on her.
“Not all teams. Todi’s just the loudest. Ignore him—except when he’s working. He earned Gold-rank.”
“What’s your thought on the Wyverns? As anti-air specialists.”
Another Gold-rank adventurer chimed in, a solo [Mage]. He wanted to chat now the loud adventurer was gone. Halrac pursed his lips and Typhenous and Revi paused. He was the expert; some might be reluctant to give their opinions, but it depended on the adventurer.
“I’d weigh it against your team. We’re understaffed to hunt Griffins or Wyverns.”
“Even as a group of three?”
Jewel was dismayed. Halrac looked at her.
“They need at least four, preferably five. Monsters that large can kill even someone with artifacts if you don’t anticipate the attacks. A Wyvern drops on their prey. And they weigh…”
The other Gold-ranks murmured.
“Can’t you just shoot them in the eyes? I saw that Antinium-thing doing it.”
“Sure. And if you miss, you’re flatbread. With jam.”
Revi snorted. The Gold-ranks quieted. Halrac nodded.
“The real trick is that the High Passes have other threats. Eater Goats. Gargoyles. Worse monsters. You’ll be under attack while you’re staring up at the skies. And Eater Goats can sneak up on even Named Ranks at night and eat you as you sleep.”
The other adventurers sighed, or shook their heads. A few more were chatting as Halrac gave them tips. Jewel was nodding to him, looking grateful.
“We’ll invest in protective gear, or spells if we hunt them. More than we do normally, I mean. We were worried it was some kind of trick—maybe the Drakes want us to die in the High Passes, but if the gold’s there…thank you for the advice. We don’t get it from most of the teams we meet.”
She shot a glare at Todi’s back as another solo Gold-rank adventurer nodded.
“It’s nothing. We’re all just sharing tips, and making our gold one monster at a time.”
Revi was feeling generous. It was Typhenous who stroked his beard and nodded around.
“We may work together in the future. It’s good to meet young people in the Gold-ranks.”
That was exactly it. You built connections in case you needed a hand. And in fact—Halrac cleared his throat.
“Actually, we’re looking for new Gold-ranks. My team’s meeting an old comrade, but do you know anyone who’s looking for a team?”
