Their reputation had been tarnished, and the group had nearly disbanded. Four had kept working, including Revi and Typhenous, the newest [Mages] who had been blamed for the incident, Typhenous especially. They had gone south seeking a fortune, a new break.
Three now rode north. And only one was of the old guard, the originals. More still lived. Like Elm, one of the original founders of the team. But he…hadn’t taken meeting his former comrades well.
About a week ago, they’d met Elm. One of the old members of Griffon Hunt who’d left after the plague incident. They’d met him, though, to re-establish their bonds, to make amends, as Halrac put it.
It had not been a good meeting. There might have been—tension. Perhaps a bit of enmity. In fact, there might have been a fight. That involved Halrac putting Elm, the [Ranger], through a door. Headfirst.
“Hey, at least he didn’t want any of the gold we offered him. That’s something, right? We’re six thousand gold up. And we didn’t even pay for the door.”
Halrac glared. Revi hesitated.
“So…look, I know it was bad. But he said his thing, we said ours. He’s quits. What do we do, Halrac?”
The [Scout] had a way with looks. But in his new role as team captain, he couldn’t get by on glares alone. He replied slowly, his hands clenched on the reins.
“Elm’s not joining us. If he wants the gold, he can get it. We owe that to the old team. And we keep reaching out. Briganda’s meeting us at Invrisil.”
“Right. But if we get into a fight with her—maybe don’t fight with your fists? She’s a [Shield Maiden].”
“I started nothing. Elm was the one who—”
Halrac glanced at Typhenous. The white-haired [Mage] lowered his head slightly, a nod at Halrac. Revi glanced between the two. Tensions had been strained. In the past, and recently.
“Right, right. He deserved it. All I’m saying is—don’t do that with Briganda. Because she could probably thrash all three of us in a fight. And if she says no?”
“We reach out to Cassielle. And then we’re done.”
The last member of the original team. Revi nodded.
“Cool. Yeah. Where is he?”
“Terandria.”
“Riiiiiight…are we going to visit him? Because if we are—”
“He hasn’t sent a [Message] back. But we’ll contact him. We’re making things right. Even if they don’t want it. Any problems?”
“None. No, I agreed. I mean, it’s our treasure from Liscor. Which we fought for. And you know, nearly died for. But hey, let’s give it back.”
Revi grumped, but she subsided after a bit. It was—well, it was just like this. In silence, the three adventurers rode on. And the best word for them was…decent. Good. Competent, well-practiced, a team that could wipe out low-level [Raiders] and handle threats most Silver-rank teams couldn’t.
But understaffed. Still, Revi was in this team down to her threads. And she’d keep this team together if she had to be the anchor, damn it. This was a good team!
“So—[Raiders], huh? That was Lacel the Leaper, you know?”
“Hrgh.”
Halrac might have been responding there. Typhenous on the other hand stroked his beard.
“Ah. Was it? Then we might have interfered with Izrilian drama in the making.”
He winked at Revi. The [Summoner] was nodding, a pleased look on her face. Silence, then. After a second, Halrac turned his head.
“…What drama?”
“You haven’t heard about Lady Hetessana and Lord Bein? And Lady Dealia? Halrac!”
Revi was shocked. The [Scout] just stared at her.
“What does that have to do with a Courier and…”
He paused.
“Oh. Some kind of drama?”
Revi had to recount the tale of sordid betrayal for Halrac.
“Of course, they don’t know she’s telling the truth, but I heard that she hired a Courier to take the pendant! And if that was him—her estates are some of the most southern. So…”
“So?”
Typhenous chuckled.
“So, Lady Dealia may be receiving a package, Halrac. And if it is the pendant, she will be able to appraise it very quickly. And Lord Bein will be in a lot of trouble.”
Revi grinned happily.
“I hear that Lady Dealia’s promised to call off the engagement if it’s true. And her brothers have sworn to stab Lord Bein through the heart if it is. I can’t wait. And I’m happy I can be part of it. Makes me feel warm inside.”
She poked at her chest for emphasis. Halrac just looked at her, nonplussed.
“Why are you so interested in gossip about the nobility, Revi?”
The Stitch-girl shrugged.
“Eh. I just really like hearing about the stupid stuff they get up to. Keeps me entertained.”
“And I keep my ear to all sources of information, Halrac. Speaking of which—while I haven’t heard of a magic door in Invrisil, I think there is at least one familiar thing in the City of Adventurers for us.”
“And that would be?”
Halrac eyed Typhenous, and then turned forwards. And there was the City of Adventurers.
Vast, sprawling, guarded by low, ten-foot walls that seemed to be expanding with each passing year, the City of Adventurers was a metropolis, one of the largest cities in the continent, like First Landing in the north. Invrisil was a hub which connected the heart of the Human’s northern lands.
It was also owned, at least in part, by Magnolia Reinhart. And it was generally safe—from war or [Raiders], or at least, more so than other lands. The Goblin Lord and the [Raiders] of this morning being notable exceptions.
One of the many gates into the city had a queue in front of it. Revi exclaimed as the horses snorted, catching unfamiliar scents. Invrisil was vast, too vast to take in all at once.
“Aha! Culture! I can’t wait to sleep in an actual bed for once!”
“What’s in Invrisil, Typhenous?”
Even Halrac had to relax upon seeing the city, with its abundance of things to see or do. But he eyed Typhenous. The [Plague Mage] raised a soothing hand.
“I wouldn’t want to say until I’m sure. Rumors are rumors…and there was a group of imposters…”
“Impostor what? I don’t want any more surprises, Typhenous.”
Not after the door incident. Halrac’s tone was warning, but Typhenous just stroked his beard.
“Nothing untoward, I promise, glorious Captain.”
“Don’t call me that.”
“Yes, Captain.”
“As you wish, Sir.”
Halrac Everam glowered. The three adventurers lined up the horses to the side of the gates, or rather, Revi’s summons did. But the three adventurers waited patiently in line with everyone else, slowly moving forwards.
There were [Guards] at the gates, checking cargo or waving people through. And it might have been odd, for a Gold-rank team to wait behind a humble [Trader] or wagons full of produce. But again—they might have been Gold-rank, and that was important, but there were rules.
Of course, there were people the rules didn’t apply to. The three adventurers saw Lacel the Leaper. He’d made it to Invrisil, but had been stalled here at the gates.
Not because the [Guards] wouldn’t let him through. As a Runner, all he had to do was show his seal and he could race past. But he’d stopped…
To shake hands. And talk with the people in line. They were crowded around the Courier for a chance to meet him—and to ask if he was carrying the pendant. Lacel refused to show them the hidden package. Halrac stared at him as the Courier’s voice became audible.
“Runner’s confidentiality, people! But I can promise you, I’m doing my best! Those [Raiders] weren’t much of a threat—there’s always desperate sorts. But low-level [Bandits]?”
He laughed. The people crowded around him laughed too, some looking awed. Halrac just snorted. Revi sighed.
“Ooh. And Lacel the Leaper has a fat head. That’s a shame. If he were a Stitch-man, we could take some of the stuffing out.”
Typhenous looked extremely interested.
“Really?”
“Nah, I wish. It doesn’t work that way.”
Lacel was smiling, shaking hands. He must have been doing it the last thirty minutes because he was going down the line of people. Revi leaned out of her saddle.
“Hey Lacel! What happens if the Bloodfeast Raiders take that ten thousand gold bounty on the pendant?”
The Courier’s broad smile slipped. He froze, and then saw her.
“Well, Miss—I’d have to weigh my options, wouldn’t I? But a Courier must deliver! Say—aren’t you the adventurers from the ambush?”
He did a double-take and then strode over to them. Everyone turned to Griffon Hunt. Halrac found a hand being thrust up at him. He shook it reluctantly and saw Lacel smiling at him.
“Thank you for the help, sir. Not that I couldn’t deal with the [Raiders], but I prefer to outrun them! I appreciate the help!”
“It wasn’t a problem.”
“Nevertheless! I’ll buy you a drink if you’re staying in the city. I’m staying the night—I’d rather jog from big city to city.”
“You’re not worried about [Thieves]?”
Revi queried, interested. Lacel smiled.
“Footpads? Thieves? Most are too low-level and a good inn keeps them out. No, it’s safer to stick to cities with good lodging. While I’m awake, I can’t be jumped by anyone below my level!”
“So…just adventurers and the Bloodfeast Raiders, then? How do you know we weren’t hired?”
Lacel’s smile slipped. Revi gave him a pleased grin. He coughed.
“Well, I doubt Lord Bein—er, any unscrupulous persons trying to delay my package, that is—can persuade adventurers to break their code. To the Adventurer’s Guilds. Er—are you Silver-ranks? Gold, I presume…”
“We’re Griffon Hunt. Gold-ranks!”
Revi snapped. There was a murmur. But—and it was funny—Couriers were more well-known than a lot of Gold-rank teams. After all, some Gold-ranks were seen bringing in a Cyclops’ head, or treasure from the ruins. But they mostly fought in caves, or places where people weren’t likely to be alive. Couriers ran in public.
“Well, thank you again. And I owe you that drink!”
Lacel smiled. He stepped back from the crowd and with a flourish, jogged towards the walls. He accelerated, and then leapt—straight over the heads of the startled [Guards].
“Show off.”
Halrac muttered, disapprovingly. Revi nodded.
“I almost hope someone gets him with an arrow. Almost. But I’m on Lady Hetessana’s side. I just can’t believe some arrogant [Lords].”
“Indeed. One fortunate enough to find such a [Lady]? Ah, but if I were ten…twenty years younger, I’d have tried courting her.”
Typhenous nodded sagely. Revi rolled her eyes. The adventurers ignored the people staring at them; they were used to being noticed. Indeed, Halrac heard an excited group at the north-eastern gates chattering ahead of them.
“Did you see that guy jump? That’s a Courier!”
“Is Ryoka a Courier?”
“No, she’s a City Runner. She’s got the wind, but she can’t do that. And that other guy? With the grumpy face? I told you! He’s got the Invisibow! He’s the Invisibow guy!”
The [Veteran Scout] turned his head and saw a group of young men and women chattering. He stared at them. Had he heard…?
“Invisibow. Hah!”
The [Summoner] nearly fell out of her saddle laughing. Typhenous hid a smile behind his hand.
“It’s er, a powerful artifact, Halrac. Useful, and it has an enchantment that propels arrows faster and further.”
“I know that. I’m just not used to it. I can’t see my arrows when I aim them.”
“You and your invisibow. Dead gods, that’s hilarious. Let’s hope it has another feature when we get it appraised.”
Revi sniggered. Halrac rubbed at his forehead.
“Revi. Did you hear them say…‘Ryoka’ just now?”
The Stitch-girl stopped laughing. She sat up and glanced at the young people. From Earth.
“I heard it.”
Typhenous regarded the Earthers, but only with idle curiosity. He didn’t know who they were. And nor did they know who he was—they were staring at Revi’s stitches next, exclaiming over them.
“Hm. Maybe she knows them.”
Halrac paused. But he had gotten no communication about Ryoka. Nor about the Earthers. Because Erin hadn’t contacted Griffon Hunt. The Silver Swords, yes. The Horns of Hammerad, yes, to find Ryoka.
But not Griffon Hunt. They had a connection with Ryoka. After all—Regrika Blackpaw had come for Ryoka. And they might not know it, but Erin did. And so did Ryoka. Thus, enough. Enough had been asked of them.
So the young people from Earth and Griffon Hunt passed each other by. The adventurers got to the gates.
“Adventurers?”
“Yes. Griffon Hunt. Gold-rank.”
The [Guards] eyed the adventurers a second time when they heard that. And the horses. But they directed the Gold-rank team into the city and pointed them to a stables—within a stone’s throw from the outer walls. Halrac, Revi, and Typhenous entered Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. Normally, orderly. And then they got to work.
 
——
 
“We’re here. I’ll send a Street Runner to find Briganda. We’ll meet at the Adventurer’s Guild in an hour if she’s able. I’ll also send a note to…hold on. What’s his name again?”
“Er—the [Enchanter]? Hedault, I think.”
Halrac snapped his fingers.
“Yes, him. We’ll ask if he can fit us into his schedule to appraise what we have and sell everything off. It might take a few days.”
“Or weeks.”
Revi sighed. Halrac shrugged. They were standing with the horses lined up outside the stables. A [Hostler] was waiting for them.
“I’ll let him know we have something he wants. He’s generally interested in…”
Halrac nodded to the bag of holding he had Griffon Hunt’s share of the treasure in. Revi nodded back.
“Man, I hate that guy. He cannot take a joke.”
Her teammates looked at her. Typhenous coughed and Halrac nodded.
“Good point. Revi doesn’t have to come with us when we get everything appraised.”
The Stitch-girl scowled.
“Thanks, Commander Everam.”
“Stop calling—we have an hour. Everyone’s free to do what they want. Who’s selling horses?”
“I’m gonna relax. Typhenous, you like haggling.”
“I’d prefer to check on my hunch. I’ll meet everyone at the guild in an hour. Best of luck, glorious leader!”
The elderly [Mage] was already edging down the street, with surprising spryness. Halrac opened his mouth, and saw Revi hurrying off. He realized he was now in charge of selling the horses and getting the other three stabled until they found an inn.
And of finding an inn. And people wondered why Halrac scowled all the time.
For her part, Revi smirked as she left Halrac with the horses. And then—she smiled. Because she was in Invrisil! And that meant she could relax.
After all, she wasn’t in her job for just the thrill of wading through a swamp at three in the morning and feeling mud bonding with your thread. Revi was an adventurer’s adventurer. And that meant she earned money—
