“It’s some kind of Golem. It’s—made of—flesh.”
Everyone turned to him. And then they stared up at the thing. It had to be at least fifty feet tall. Taller than even the half-Giants. Revi’s skin was crawling.
“Flesh?”
“I see—faces.”
Halrac drew an arrow and loosed it. The invisible missile sped through the air. Revi saw it detonate.
A flash of flame. From afar, the giant golem appeared. It was made of…flesh. A giant, humanoid figure, walking slowly. Huge stitch-marks were visible. But from afar, Revi could see hair. Arms—what had been bodies. And yes, staring faces.
“The Blighted Kingdom preserve us. What is that? Who made it?”
Briganda whispered. The thing lumbered at the city. For one purpose. Halrac loosed another arrow. Another magical arrowhead exploded.
The thing didn’t even stagger. It just walked through the fire that scorched it. A monster made of—
“Bring it down! As Watch Captain, I am ordering you to join the fight!”
A man was bellowing at the Adventurers. People were blowing horns and the Watch was aiming longbows, wands. But the giant creation was impossibly big. The Gold-rank teams looked at each other. They beheld a monstrosity. So they did what adventurers do.
 
——
 
“Griffon Hunt, forwards!”
Halrac bellowed. His team raced out of Invrisil’s gates, staring up at the huge Flesh Golem. Revi’s glowing warriors raced past her, without fear. But the [Summoner] was afraid.
This wasn’t a Gold-rank threat. It was massive. It could step over the walls and destroy the city if it wasn’t stopped. Her team couldn’t hope to halt it alone; even at full-strength they would have balked at a fight like this.
But they were not alone. More voices bellowed.
“Elites, get fucking ready for a fight! On me!”
Todi strode forwards with his team. Jewel and the Glitterblades raced left.
“We’re flanking it!”
“[Chain Lightning] outgoing! Brace!”
Someone howled from the walls. The adventurers racing below, especially those in armor, ducked. And lightning lit up the night. A Gold-rank team of [Mages] threw lightning and then fire, blasting at the giant colossus.
“Set up a firing spot here! Wailbows, with me—”
“Don’t get near the feet! It’ll crush you!”
“I’m setting up barriers at the gates—cover me—”
Hundreds of adventurers. Both Gold-rank teams and Silver-rank teams streamed out the gates. It was like the battle against the Crelers but on a larger scale.
This was the City of Adventurers, Invrisil. And the adventurers lit up the night.
“With me. We’re attacking it from the side.”
Halrac ordered his team left. He drew and loosed in a single motion.
“[Piercing Shot].”
His arrow embedded itself in the flesh-giant’s side, detonated. A bloom of light tore a chunk out of its body. But it was—solid. And it wasn’t a living thing. It stopped, swiping down at the adventurers racing around it. But they dodged.
“It’s got no mobility!”
“It’s solid the entire way through, though! We have to stop it before it gets to the city!”
Revi and Briganda shouted at each other. The colossus’ target was the city; it only attacked those around it, and it kept walking, slowly, crushing ground and everything else in its way.
“Typhenous, use [Valmira’s Comets]. Revi—advance! Send your summoned warriors forwards!”
Revi pointed. Her glowing warriors ran forwards, slashing at the giant’s legs, dodging back. Briganda stared up as Halrac loosed another arrow.
“Engage the legs! Don’t block each other!”
A Gold-rank warrior with an axe cleaved through hardened flesh. But the Golem didn’t even react. Revi shot a bolt of fire and watched it scorch flesh, but—it was so big.
“It’s not going down! It’s—”
“Take down the legs!”
Halrac bellowed at the other teams lighting up the skies with spells. Some heard him and began aiming lower, but there were adventurers in the way.
“Comet outgoing! Dodge!”
Typhenous shouted. Adventurers dodged out of the way as a glowing meteor hit the giant in the left leg. It—paused. But that was all. It bent, aiming a fist at Typhenous.
“Get out of there!”
Revi and Briganda grabbed Typhenous. They fled and the fist shook the ground as it landed. No one could have blocked it. Jewel raced up the arm, copying the famous King of Duels. She began hacking at the head. But this was no half-Giant.
“We have to take it down. Take it to pieces! Use an acid-jar!”
“There’s not enough acid in the world for that thing!”
Griffon Hunt was loosing spells and arrows. Jewel flinched as more spells hit the giant’s head. She jumped, and her fall slowed before she hit the ground.
“Watch your fire!”
“Don’t climb up on the damn thing! Let’s bring it down. Backwards! Elites, aim with me! [Marked Target]!”
A voice from the left. Revi saw a familiar man. Todi aimed a wand, coolly, with Todi’s Elites. He pointed.
“[Fireball].”
Six fireballs shot from the wands. They exploded as one. The flesh giant felt that. It stumbled. Lurching. Part of its leg was destroyed. Todi roared, and his voice was louder than the rest.
“Aim for the fucking left leg you worthless pieces of shit! Bring it down!”
The other adventurers heard him. All of them changed their focus. And the flesh-giant seemed to realize the threat at last.
It moved towards Todi’s team. The Elites launched another volley of [Fireballs] and it stumbled, but it swung an arm down. Horizontally—you couldn’t dodge that and only Lacel could have leapt over it! Three teams screamed as they were hit—Revi saw a man go under, crushed by the arm—
“Get clear!”
Griffon Hunt had seen the motion and had already moved out of range. Revi spun and shouted at Todi. But his team launched a third set of [Fireballs]. Todi watched the arm sweeping at him.
“Mass-teleport on my mark.”
He paused. The arm swung, like oblivion, crashing through magical walls, obliterating tripvines. Todi nodded.
“Mark.”
Revi saw his team vanish. They reappeared behind the giant. Todi pointed.
“Volley. Bring the damn thing down.”
More fire. The flesh-giant hunted for the next victim. It put its foot down, crushing a ground slick with oil or something greasy.
“Don’t try to make it slip you idiots! It’s too heavy!”
Revi howled. She and the other [Mages] were firing. The melee warriors, the brave ones who’d stuck around after the sweep, shouted.
“The leg’s going! Get clear!”
The Flesh Golem stumbled as more explosions tore away it’s body. It fell, one leg snapping. It hit the earth and Revi felt the ground quake. She saw the giant trying to stand. And then sweeping its legs.
“Get around it! Hack it to pieces!”
The adventurers swarmed it. Silver-ranks fought shoulder to shoulder with Golds, ducking out of the way as big spells hit the giant. Briganda blocked a slow punch, saving a bunch of Silver-rank [Mages] who’d frozen at the blow. Halrac blew off a finger with Typhenous’ help.
The walls of Invrisil were filled with adventurers, throwing spells and arrows. The Watch helped, but their arrows were actually more hindrance than not. It did nothing to the giant, and Todi began roaring expletives when the arrows hit one of the adventurers fighting. They ceased.
The giant kept trying to crawl, kept trying to attack the adventurers. But it was outnumbered by far. And it did not die. It was not alive. Nor would it stop moving until it was completely destroyed.
So that is what they did. Piece by piece, the adventurers vaporized the giant, made of flesh and skin. They hacked it to bits, burnt everything to ash. Until all that remained was the smell and memory.
It was not a battle of heroics. Of desperate last measures and levels. Revi was panting, her clothes and armor smelling of burnt flesh. Nauseating, and almost partially appealing, which was worse.
“What—what was that?”
“A monster.”
Halrac’s voice was raw from shouting orders. He stared at the last bloom of fire in the darkness.
“Fucking useless. If we weren’t here, it’d have smashed the city up, but it wouldn’t have gotten there in a million tries with us. What the hell—did someone make that? It was flesh. Where did it come from?”
Todi spat, looking shaken. The other adventurers conferred. Now the blood wasn’t rushing in her ears, Revi could hear more than Halrac and the other adventurer’s words. She leaned on Briganda.
“There were people in it. It was sewn.”
“Children. Families. It came from the east. But—no one reported it until just now. But there were villages…”
The adventurers looked at each other. They stared at what remained.
Bits of skin, like fabric. Black thread, lying amid the ash, unwilling to be burned. The Watch stared. Some—people who had not seen worse, adventurers and guards, vomited.
The smell. The sight. Revi had seen worse things. But not—recently. She looked at her team.
“Who did this?”
She was shaking. And she was not the only one. Jewel was looking at a scrap of…Revi looked away. The adventurers all wanted to know.
“It came from the east. Can anyone raise a [Message] to any of the villages? Anyone?”
The Watch Captain was asking questions, staring. He looked over the walls, the way the thing had come.
East. Dozens of adventuring teams looked at each other.
“Someone made that. I saw the stitch-marks. Let’s get a posse. Any Gold-rank teams. Where’s Arcsinger’s team? Let’s find whoever made that thing! Anyone with me?”
Todi shouted. Instantly, dozens of teams volunteered. The adventurers were shaken. But exhausted? Their horror kept them moving.
“Hold on, we have to wait. Let’s figure out what the hell that was—”
“Damn waiting. Let’s figure it out! Anyone with tracking Skills take the lead! [Scouts] forwards!”
Todi was enraged. He was organizing the teams. He was good at it. Halrac pushed forwards.
“Todi, wait. I’m going to investigate that—”
“With who? I’m finding whatever the fuck made that and putting my fist through its face. We’ve got more Gold-ranks than I can count! Come on!”
The man shook Halrac off. The [Scout] was arguing—and then he stomped away.
“What the hell was that? In the name of Rhir—do they have things like that?”
Revi was still panting. Her cloth felt ill from that. As if something was wriggling in her stitches.
“We have to find out what that was. Where’s the Adventurer’s Guild people?”
They were on the walls, of course. Half of Invrisil was gathered at the gates, staring in horror at what they had seen. It was a mercy the giant had died outside the walls. They asked the adventurers who were coming back what they had seen.
Better not to know. The teams going each moved out, most on horseback. Halrac cursed.
“Where’s the Guildmaster?”
“He’s talking with Adventurer Arcsinger. She’s not joining the hunt—”
“Did she even participate? I didn’t see a powerful blow.”
Revi frowned. She’d expected the Named-rank to have been more obvious. But perhaps she’d missed it? Halrac saw the Guildmaster talking urgently and cursed.
“Find me a [Historian] or [Naturalist] or someone with a bestiary! Now!”
The crowds parted. One of the Adventurer’s Guild staff hurried forwards.
“Here. Adventurer Everam—”
“What was that?”
The man with the Adventurer’s Guild copy of the bestiary hesitated. He held the pages open.
“It—looked like a Flesh Golem. A variant, at least. But the scale of it—”
“Do you have any information on what could make that? How it exists?”
“No, Adventurer—but—”
Halrac pushed him aside. The [Scout] whirled.
“Damn.”
“Are we going with Todi, Halrac? We can catch up. We’re not letting whatever made that slide, right? If it was a [Necromancer] or…”
Revi was shuddering. She wanted to take out her eyes and nose. But she couldn’t remove her brain, the memory of it. Halrac paused.
“We lack information. Whatever made that had to be Level 40 at the minimum. Level 50—if it was a monster of some kind, a spell?”
He paused.
“Hold on. We have another source of information. Typhenous. Cast a spell.”
“Which one?”
The old [Mage] was panting, sipping from a mana potion. Halrac paused.
“Send it to Terandria. The Hunter’s Guild.”
Typhenous paused.
“I don’t know their location. I’d have to look it up—”
Instantly, Halrac and Briganda turned.
“[Mage]! We need a message-[Mage] now! Mage’s Guild!”
It took them only a moment to get one of the [Mages] normally on duty. The man was frazzled, panting; he’d participated in the battle.
“Adventurers, what can I do for—”
Halrac interrupted him.
“Halrac Everam. Griffon Hunt. To Terandria’s Guild of Hunters. Kingdom of Shade. I don’t remember the actual name. I need to send a [Message] now, asking for information.”
“Er…Noelictus?”
Halrac looked at Briganda. She nodded.
“Noelictus. Send it to their people. Top priority! They have a [Mage] who can receive. Tell them we need to know what that was. Ask for Cassielle.”
“I’d have to run that by the Guildmaster if it’s top priority—”
The man hesitated. Halrac grabbed him.
“Do it now.”
The [Scout] never shouted, normally. Or raised his voice or changed expression. The [Mage] stared at Halrac the Grim and raised a finger to his temple.
“I have them. One moment. Sending details. Please speak a description of the monster.”
The adventurers spoke over each other.
“Giant—made of flesh—”
“I detected magic from the stitches, which refused to burn—”
“Faces. It was made of faces and arms—someone took apart people and stitched—”
“Fifty feet tall. Solid flesh interior. Enchantment didn’t break until it was nearly completely destroyed.”
The [Mage] tried to send it all. He closed his eyes, reaching for a piece of paper. Revi saw him pause. And his voice became flat, inflectionless.
“Response incoming. Priority to Halrac Everam.”
He wrote, mechanically, on the piece of paper. And then he unfocused. The man slowly handed the paper to Halrac. Revi crowded around with her team. They read. Revi felt her stitches grow cold. The message was short. And it read as followed:
 
Flesh-Giant confirmed as work of Belavierr, [Stitch Witch]. Aliases—the Spider, the Weaver of Terandria. Threadstealer. Max bounty in excess of 60,000 gold pieces. Named-rank threat. Currently not advised to pursue.
 
And below that, another message, more personal.
 
She killed a team of elite [Hunters] and a [Knight]. Equivalent to a Named Adventurer and a Named-rank team. Stay away from her.
–Cassielle
 
“The Stitch Witch?”
Revi felt her threads moving. The name sounded familiar. But…she looked up.
“A Named-rank threat? She killed…”
Briganda paled. She looked at Typhenous. The [Mage] had gone dead white. He looked at his team.
