In times past, Briganda had left Cade at safer places, not moving him around except if Griffon Hunt changed their working base. Halrac frowned.
“Surely you can leave him somewhere safe. It’s never entirely secure on the road, Briganda. We had [Raiders] just this morning. We might be able to leave him at an inn. And it’s convenient—”
“No. He goes where I go. He nearly forgot I was his mother, Halrac. I’m not leaving him again.”
Briganda met Halrac’s eyes. She glanced at Revi. The Stitch-woman felt a pang in her chest.
“How’s it been, Briganda?”
The [Shield Maiden] sighed. She rubbed at her hair, and she looked tired.
“Honestly? I’m jumping at the opportunity. Quitting Griffon Hunt with my name…? No, even if I’d been regular, I forgot how dangerous it is to go solo. It’s hard to find a team, and with Cade, I can’t just walk at an Ogre and not care what happens next. I have to take safe work. Escorting caravans if they let Cade come with, guard duty—I can get work because I’m over Level 30, but I’m always underpaid. You get me?”
She looked at the others. They nodded. It was indeed a sudden change, moving from Gold-rank to any other sort of work, which was always less well-paying. Briganda went on, her voice steady.
“And I can’t afford the gear I need. I found a hole in my chainmail last month and nearly burst into tears. Because I can’t earn enough to maintain even my non-magical gear. So yeah—sign me up.”
“But it’s dangerous. I won’t take a child into the areas we go to.”
Briganda paused, clearly thinking fast.
“It’s dangerous in the city, Everam. Listen—Cade needs a mother. You think I don’t know the dangers? I worry about him all the time and he’s tried to climb off the balcony more’n once. But I’m not going to be the adventurer who runs off and he doesn’t remember me. He goes where I go. That’s the deal breaker.”
Halrac looked—conflicted. He glanced at Revi and Typhenous.
“That’s not what I expected, Briganda. I’m going to have to talk it over with my team.”
“I get that. You want more time or…?”
“Give us a few minutes and we’ll decide if we do.”
The [Shield Maiden] nodded. She stood up, and took a breath. She touched the buckler and hatchet she wore.
“Some of my armor’s worn down, but my magical gear’s all here. I had to pawn a ring, but that’s all. And I’ve leveled once. That’s my best sell. I’d like to rejoin, honestly. Cassielle might too, although he has good work. He’ll take the money, at least. Thank you for that. Honestly. No hard feelings either way.”
She nodded at them and then urged Cade to a distant table. Halrac watched her go. And Revi?
She was shaken. A bit. That had sounded a bit like desperation in Briganda’s voice. Revi wanted to remind her she was getting six thousand gold either way. You could live on that! Not like Revi liked to, but still.
“Thoughts?”
Halrac looked at his teammates. Typhenous was peering at Cade. He made a face as the boy peeked back and Cade laughed. The old man turned to Halrac, smiling, and then replied.
“If you want to decline, don’t wait to do so.”
Cold. Revi stared at him.
“We can’t turn Briganda down! Didn’t you hear…?”
“The road’s no place for a child.”
Halrac sounded uncertain. Typhenous shrugged.
“It’s certainly dangerous. But it’s your choice, Halrac. Briganda isn’t irreplaceable, but she is a good woman. Still—impartially, I can argue both against and for her. Cade will slow us down. And we might be unable to take some contracts. He might be put in danger inadvertently and put us all at risk. That is motherhood, and Briganda is a mother.”
He looked at Halrac. Revi opened her mouth. But Briganda was a teammate!
However—there was no room for hesitation or distraction fighting monsters. She swallowed her words. Halrac closed his eyes.
“Arguments for?”
“She knows our tactics. She’s got a powerful one-off Skill, and she’s got gear, she’s giving us four thousand back—if we assume we give money to Cassielle, but not to Elm, that’s…how much is it, Typhenous?”
“We’re estimating our money at around 35,000 when appraised. Hedault will give us a clearer number, but assuming that’s true, we will have 27,000 gold pieces to work with if Briganda joins us. 23,000 if not.”
And that was a large number. If they paid out to all three…they’d be spending nearly half of the dungeon haul. But this wasn’t about just that. It was about…Revi looked pleadingly at Halrac.
The [Scout] inhaled. He closed his eyes. He scowled—opened his gaze and looked at his teammates.
“Fine. I’ve made my choice. First off, I don’t like being Captain. Ulrien was better at this than I was.”
Revi half-smiled, but she waited, nervous. Typhenous steepled his fingers. Halrac went on.
“Briganda’s everything you two said. I know her. The issue with her child is new. I don’t like putting people at risk and sometimes we can’t protect ourselves. So—the answer is no.”
The Stitch-girl’s face fell. She stared at Halrac as he motioned Briganda over. He delivered the news and she nodded, heavily.
“Any chance I can change your mind?”
“No. Sorry, Briganda, but your son’s a risk.”
“I am?”
Cade looked at Halrac. The [Scout]’s expression didn’t change. He flicked his gaze to Briganda.
“It’s my decision. Our team is probably going to hunt Wyverns. But the High Passes—there’s nowhere safe anywhere around the mountains. At all. You know that. And there aren’t any big bounties I know of, anywhere else. We’re going to try and increase our funds with that—and we can gear up, maybe take temporary help. Once that’s done, if you’re still in the area—we can talk.”
Briganda had been nodding. She stirred. Revi looked at Halrac.
“Wait—but you said—”
“We can work with Briganda on a…provisional basis. We’ll look at what we’re taking on. If we think we can get there, Briganda can join us. Otherwise…no.”
The [Shield Maiden]’s face lit up. She reached out and punched Halrac on the shoulder.
“You bastard! Whoops, don’t repeat that, Cade. That’s the Halrac I know. Stone-faced and soft as an unboiled egg on the inside. Wish you’d been the father, or Ulrien. Pretty glad it wasn’t Elm. Cassielle? Eh. I’d live with the half-Elf.”
Halrac tried to play it off, but he smiled a bit as Briganda gripped his shoulder. It was Typhenous who had a thought.
“Halrac, perhaps Briganda can sign with us immediately.”
“What?”
Briganda and Halrac looked at him. The [Mage] rubbed at his chin.
“As I recall, a certain friend may deliver a…transportation method to Invrisil. Not to the High Passes—and it would be a few day’s ride. But Briganda might be satisfied leaving Cade in the area.”
“What? Transportation method?”
The woman narrowed her eyes. She still had an adventurer’s instincts for the important. Halrac hesitated.
“I didn’t think of that. It’s not exactly safe there—that’s where Ulrien…”
“Maybe in the city? But we’d still be using the passageway. Consider it. And if we are waiting for Hedault…”
The [Scout] paused. He looked at Briganda. He looked at Typhenous.
“That’s an excellent point. Briganda—we can catch you up to speed. But if it was—”
“Halrac, I can leave Cade somewhere for a week or two. As long as I’m coming back to him after we get out of the swamp or something. He’s not camping with us near a monster. I’m in. All the way. What’s this you’re telling me?”
Briganda’s eyes were hopeful. Halrac hesitated. Then he reached out.
“I hate leading. I guess I have to rephrase my answer. Briganda—would you rejoin Griffon Hunt?”
“Absolutely.”
The two clasped hands. Revi shot to her feet, eyes shining. She hugged Briganda and Typhenous rose as well. Cade looked confused.
“Mom? Are you crying?”
“It’s good news, Cade. The best. I’m joining up with my old team. My friends. Do you remember them?”
Briganda reassured her worried son. Cade peered at Revi. At Typhenous, who smiled down at him, and Halrac, who tried his best not to be a grim-faced man who could make a child cry at a hundred paces. Cade paused.
“…No.”
 
——
 
They had to have a drink, of course. To celebrate. But even here—Briganda stopped after two cups. She was a mother now, and she had a lot to do. Quit her old job, tell some of her friends, assess her gear…
And her team had to catch her up on everything that had happened. Briganda swore a blue streak before Cade asked her what the words meant when she heard about everything.
Ulrien, the haul from Liscor’s dungeon, Erin Solstice and her inn, Halrac’s bow…and they hadn’t even told her the big things.
Like speculation about Dragons near Liscor. But they’d already moved out of the Gold-rank area; adventurers had long ears.
“Honestly, I don’t like the idea of competing on hunting Wyverns. We’ll be fighting too many dangerous monsters, even if there are hundreds of teams heading to the High Passes. And we’ll foul each other up. And we might get kill-thieves. Actual [Thieves]—even conflicts with other adventurers.”
Halrac was grousing, unable to admit that he was in a good mood. Briganda, clearly trying to get back into full adventurer-mode, was nodding.
“I hear you, Everam. I mean—I’m out of practice, so Revi, Typhenous?”
The two laughed.
“You’ve been in the team longer than we have, Briggy! Speak your mind!”
“It does sound really like a trap. Who put that ridiculous bounty up? And why? I’ve been speculating with some of the old guard. But it’s a chance, and you know us…”
The [Scout] frowned.
“I just don’t like being one of the many. Griffon Hunt took a risk on Liscor and it paid off because we were first. But if there was just one request we could take while everyone focused on the big, obvious score…”
He trailed off. Briganda scratched her head.
“I’ve seen nothing with numbers like that, Halrac. You might as well go after one of the Goblin Chieftains in the north, and that’s a lesser payout by far. There are a few Gold-rank offers, and I can remember one funny one—but nothing that pays anything. Heh. They were offering ‘deferred payment’ in exchange for later rewards. Might as well say we’re adventuring for exposure and fame.”
The other adventurers had to groan or chuckle at that. No indeed. Gold-ranks needed to be paid for their risks. Briganda slapped her thighs as Cade leaned against her, yawning.
“Cade’s sleepy. And I need to tell everyone about this. Can I call on you in a bit?”
“Sure. We’ll have to organize…the situation with Cade. But as I said, we have a route straight back to Liscor. Hopefully we can intercept Erin, and get a few days’ jump on everyone else.”
“Halrac, you delight me. Subterfuge from you?”
Typhenous exclaimed, grinning behind his beard. Briganda had to pace back and forth as she held Cade, who was yawning.
“I am so excited for this. It’s been too long! I’ll meet you in…an hour, okay? I can put Cade to bed, get a babysitter—I’ll still be hiring those! Maybe we can even get some with us?”
“It sure beats Erin and her inn. Dead gods, imagine if that skeleton was still about? Best nursemaid. Free.”
Revi muttered. Halrac nearly snorted out his drink. He put down his mug, wiping his mouth.
“It’ll be good to see her. And if the Halfseekers do arrive—we could even intercept them, get the door here faster. I don’t know what’s taken them so long. Either way, we might beat all but the local teams to the High Passes. Again, I don’t like risking us, especially because there’s a Weyr up there. One wrong move and we’re not fighting a few Wyverns, but a Greater Wyvern, and a few hundred Wyverns.”
His team sobered. That was what Griffon Hunt was good at, weighing the odds. Revi nodded slowly.
“We’ll look into it. But for now—we can take some time off, right?”
“Right. We’ll catch Briganda up on the…situation and speculation later. Tonight, we celebrate.”
Griffon Hunt tapped each other’s mugs. Typhenous wiped his mouth and smiled.
“And to do that, I think we should have a night on the town. Perhaps with Cade, although I fear it might be too adult for him.”
Revi eyed her teammate.
“…Do you mean a brothel?”
“No. The theatre, Revi. The Players of Celum are apparently far better than when we knew them! And they have new plays!”
The other two adventurer’s eyes lit up. Halrac paused.
“I thought obtaining tickets was impossible?”
“For tonight? And cheaply? Certainly impossible, Halrac. For anyone but good friends of Jasi and Wesle. I assume they’d remember us. And it might be worth a shot.”
“It would. How good are the plays?”
Halrac had something of an affection for some of the theatre he’d seen. And Revi wouldn’t mind it either—especially to treat Briganda to the plays. Typhenous smiled.
“Good enough to have the entire city demanding more? To have people reselling tickets? Halrac, consider that the [Actors] may have leveled. I think we should try and seek the Players of Celum out while we wait for Briganda to get back to us. Any opposed?”
There were none. And Griffon Hunt marched out of the pub where they’d been drinking to find some…well, free tickets.
It turned out to be harder than they thought. For one thing—while everyone knew where the Players of Celum were now located, the theatre, the Season Theatre, which sounded rather close to ‘Solstice’, or an homage of sorts, was guarded from anyone without a ticket.
And the [Actors] were secluded from their adoring public by guards on an inn which catered only to them. And not even a Gold-rank adventurer could get past the security.
“Everyone knows Miss Jasi or Mister Wesle. If they knew you, they’d say. And forget waiting about to ‘pretend’ to meet them. No exceptions!”
“But we’re in their plays! The Siege of Liscor? We’re Griffon Hunt!”
The man talking to them rolled his eyes.
“Yes, yes. Well done. I’ve heard most of the teams, and all the individuals. Good for memorizing the name—Griffon Hunt’s a four-person team, though.”
“No. It’s wasn’t—well, it was, but it wasn’t and now it is—but our teammate—”
Griffon Hunt stared as the bouncer slammed the door in their faces. And they’d done better than most to get to the door. Typhenous stroked his beard.
“Ah, a challenge.”
“If we can’t meet them, let’s just send a [Message] and wait.”
Halrac suggested. Typhenous looked askance.
“My dear Halrac.”
“Don’t call me dear anything.”
“Captain Everam, how many [Messages] do you think they get each day? Especially from people claiming to know them? No, we’ll get nowhere arguing. Or burning down the inn, Revi.”
The [Summoner] looked offended. She stowed the wand.
