Ten feet. Then twenty. Thirty—and his back arced as he landed on the top of the hill. The gang stared. Lacel looked around wildly, and then he leapt again. He flew, and the [Raid Leader] turned her horse.
“Get him! He’s only good at jumping! Get him and—”
She ducked as the Courier threw something at her. An explosion; he was throwing damn Alchemist’s Fire! She swore, but her [Raiders] were tasting blood. They raced after him, shooting arrows that swerved as they neared the Courier. And he was jumping, throwing exploding flasks.
It was a running battle and the people on the road hid as the [Raiders] tried to bring down the Courier. But he was a Courier. And not only could he run almost as fast as the horses they rode, he was armed.
And he jumped high. Still, he was making for Invrisil at best speed rather than trying to wipe the [Raiders] out like another Courier might. And as the fighting entered the second minute, the [Raiders] racing after Lacel, the terrified family in the covered wagons were huddled together. And from the rear one, a figure poked his head out.
Three figures, actually. A yawning Stitch-woman adjusted the stitches around her neck. A slumbering old [Mage] was still waking up, rather disoriented. The Stitch-woman, who had a wand in one hand, nodded at the [Raiders] racing past them.
“What’s the word, Halrac? Summons?”
“No. Cover me.”
The voice came from inside the wagon. And the man, the [Veteran Scout], a scruffy, yet-to-be-shaved beard on his face, and an expression that suggested that smiling was a foreign idea to him, pushed out of the wagon’s interior.
The family stared at him. Because the man wasn’t armed. He carried no weapons.
Or rather—it looked like he was carrying nothing. But—why was he holding his hand like that? As if he was pretending to aim a bow. But it looked realistic. And he did have a quiver.
One of the two young boys in the family watched as the grim man plucked an arrow from the quiver. He was still…holding nothing but air. But then he did something and the arrow vanished.
The young boy gaped. He saw the [Scout], the Gold-Rank adventurer, pause. And then—the shimmering patch of air shifted. The invisible bow and the now-invisible arrow moved.
Tft. The family stared ahead. They saw the galloping [Raiders] rushing forwards. And then—up ahead—the [Raid Leader] fell out of her saddle. Lacel the Leaper blinked. He eyed the now-visible arrow buried in the back of her head. Halrac grunted. He drew another arrow, sighted, loosed.
A second [Raider] fell. The gang shouted in panic, staring at Lacel. They thought the arrows were coming from the Courier. They only realized they were being assaulted from behind after two more arrows sent their riders tumbling out of the saddles, screaming.
“I think they saw us.”
“Hm? Are we under attack?”
Typhenous was still waking up. The old [Mage] had white hair and a beard, but he moved surprisingly quickly for someone his age. The two boys in the family’s wagon stared as Typhenous unsheathed a wicked dagger as he lifted his staff.
“You missed it, old man. We’re attacking them. They’re looking this way, Halrac.”
Revi warned the leader of Griffon Hunt. Halrac shrugged.
“What do they see?”
He paused as he lowered his bow. From afar he looked unarmed. And the [Raiders] indeed looked straight past him—until he raised his bow and shot another through the nose. As in—straight through the bridge of the nose and the rest of the woman’s head.
“Ah! Dead gods, Halrac!”
Revi recoiled from the sight. The [Raiders] froze as Halrac aimed again.
“Cover me if they charge, Revi. Typhenous, shields up.”
“Is this an attack? I missed the beginning. [Force Wall]. Just below your chin, Halrac.”
“Got it.”
The shimmering barrier appeared as Typhenous cast his spell. The [Raiders] were debating charging or fleeing the threat. But Halrac kept loosing arrows.
Some of them charged. The rest fled. But their arrows and spells hit the [Force Wall]. The barrier was mostly invisible as well, and did indeed cover the entire frightened family in the wagon and Halrac—just up to his chin. He shot over the magical barrier. Revi lifted her wand—but never cast a single spell.
The [Raiders] died on that busy road. The horses, terrified, galloped around until they were captured. And the patrol of Invrisil’s Watch arrived too late.
They’d arrived quickly. Fifteen minutes and they were out on the trade road in force. But they just found the dead [Raiders] and a bunch of lined-up horses being shepherded together by glowing, summoned warriors.
And Griffon Hunt. Lacel the Leaper had run on without so much as pausing. But the Gold-rank adventurers were taking their dues.
Applause. And the [Raider]’s horses and gear. Halrac halted in prying the [Raid Leader]’s mace out of her stiff hands as the [Sergeant] on horseback waved at him.
“Excuse me! Are you an adventurer?”
“That’s right. Halrac…Captain of Griffon Hunt.”
The [Scout]’s voice hitched a second as he gave his title. The [Sergeant] relaxed.
“Well then, you’ve done us a favor. Thank you, sir. Did you see what those [Bandits] were after?”
“Not [Bandits], [Raiders].”
Typhenous corrected the [Sergeant]. He casually yanked a gold tooth out of an open mouth. The [Guards] winced. So did Revi, who was helping.
“Typhenous!”
“It’s gold, Revi. Be a dear and help me with the bag of holding? [Raiders], indeed. You can tell by their armor and style. Bandits operate from a base. [Raiders] are hit-and-run—aha. Another tooth. Silver. Revi, stop fidgeting.”
The [Sergeant] swallowed as Typhenous bent over the corpse. But that was adventurers for you. He cleared his throat and noticed Revi’s summoned warriors herding the horses together.
“Adventurer Halrac, er, can I assume your team is claiming salvage rights on the [Raiders]?”
“That’s right. We can dispose of the bodies as well.”
“Ah, well then.”
The Watch brightened a bit. So did the [Sergeant].
This was protocol. It might have been alien to the travellers watching as the Gold-rank adventurers, er…looted the dead, but the Watch and the adventurers were used to it.
Salvage rights for the criminals’ possessions. Griffon Hunt was entitled to it, but that meant also disposing of the corpses or paying the Watch a fee. If you just looted the bodies and left them to rot, well, you could be fined for it. You could get away with that around Celum, maybe.
But this was Invrisil. There were rules, for adventurers and the Watch. And in accordance with the rules, Halrac paused from collecting items he could sell and let the [Sergeant] take down his team’s name.
“It’s Griffon Hunt with a ‘o’. Griffon. As in, the dog. G-r-i-f-f-o-n.”
“Ah, I see. Let me just—Halrac Everam?”
“Yes. Our team used to be led by Ulrien—the records might not have changed.”
“Thank you, sir. Oh. I mean—I’m sorry, if it was a loss—”
“It was.”
Halrac folded his arms, waiting. Flustered, the [Sergeant] recorded the details. Then he thanked Halrac again, went to reassure everyone that everything was under control, and left. Halrac watched him go, then he sighed and went back to the [Raiders]. There was a nice bit of chainmail on the [Raid Leader] and, unsavory as it was, it would fetch a good price.
Griffon Hunt couldn’t afford to turn down free money. So, tedious as it was, and as much as he’d like to get to Invrisil, Halrac began to strip the dead woman. He’d been on the road a long time, and delayed from reaching Invrisil for ages. He hoped that the magic door was working there, but he hadn’t heard a rumor about that yet. And you would hear rumors if The Wandering Inn reached Invrisil.
It hadn’t been a productive month, by and large. And Halrac was in a bad mood.
But then—what was new?
 
——
 
“I think that’s everything. I’ve got all the bodies lined up. How’re we doing this? Burning? Acid? Valmira’s Comet?”
About twenty minutes later, Revi dusted her palms as she turned to the three-person team that was Griffon Hunt. She was looking at Halrac, their leader, but it was Typhenous who replied.
“Unless you’d like to scatter body parts across a hundred feet, Revi, I think fire will do. Halrac?”
“Do it. Revi, why is that family waiting?”
Halrac gestured at the wagon that they’d been hitching a ride on. Revi squinted.
“I…think they’re waiting for us to come with them?”
“We have the [Raider]’s horses. We’ll ride them to Invrisil and find a [Hostler]. Let them know.”
“Yes, boss. I’ll endure them thanking you and being grateful so you don’t have to.”
Revi mock-saluted Halrac as she ambled over to the wagon and anxious family. Halrac scowled at her back. Typhenous chuckled. He aimed his staff at the bodies—already beginning to smell a tiny bit in the heat—and shot flames from his staff.
Cremation. Halrac watched impassively. His nose stung with the smoke and smell, but Typhenous didn’t bat an eyelash. Halrac’s face was locked in a scowl as he saw travellers moving past. Some called out, asking what had happened, but the Gold-rank adventurer didn’t respond.
He was in a foul mood. Not from the [Raiders]. But he’d been scowling the last…week. And yes, Halrac, sometimes known as ‘Halrac the Grim’ for that very feature, usually didn’t smile. But his team had learned to tell the varying levels of dissatisfaction or non-emotion contained on his face.
“They’re off. And they’d love to thank you in person, Halrac. What with you being a hero to the little boys and everything. But I told them that a big, important adventurer didn’t have time to spend on goodbyes.”
Revi came back. If Halrac’s default mode was dour, hers was probably nettling people. Halrac turned his glare on her.
“If you said that, Revi—”
He almost started back towards the wagon, which was indeed turning back onto the road. Revi threw up her hands.
“I didn’t! It was a joke! Calm down, Halrac.”
The surly adventurer glared at her, but relaxed.
“Don’t lie, then.”
“Don’t take your bad mood out on me. Pshaw! It stinks! Hold on, I’m taking my nose off.”
Revi gagged at the smell. She reached up and began to undo the tiny, invisible stitches on her nose. She pulled off her nose, revealing just blank skin underneath. Halrac and Typhenous ignored her as the bodies burned nicely. They were used to it.
“Give it five minutes and they should be fit to douse with water. Revi, my dear—”
“Don’t call me that, old man. I’ll get you the nicest horse.”
“You know me too well.”
Revi rolled her eyes as she whistled. The glowing apparitions herded the nervous horses closer. Typhenous, still projecting flames from his staff, eyed them.
“Decent horseflesh. I think we could get a good price for some of them. If we don’t keep them.”
“I’d like a horse. That one’s beautiful.”
“Mm. Bad lines, Revi. But indeed, a lovely coat.”
Typhenous studied the horses with a practiced eye. Revi deferred to him with a sigh.
“There’s a nice saddle on that one. You want? And can I ride the lovely one?”
“If we’re not in a hurry, by all means.”
“That’s mine, then. Halrac, you want a horse?”
“I. Don’t. Care. Let’s just get them moving. And we’re selling all but three at the nearest stables.”
Revi and Typhenous exchanged a glance. Their smiles faltered. Silently, they found their horses. By the time Typhenous extinguished the fire with a jet of water, the corpses were mostly destroyed by the fire. The horses were herded by the summons, who ran behind the three adventurers as they travelled down the road.
Towards Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. It was their destination that they’d been heading to for about two weeks. They’d made a detour, taken well over a month to head east first—but now they were on the way.
It had been…wasted time. Time badly spent. And for adventurers, that was a problem.
Time was money. Also, money was money. Artifacts were money. Levels were money. In the end, they really just wanted money. Money, and fame, and levels, and power. That was why adventurers existed. Some lived for the glory of it, or the thrill, or even…because it was necessary and right to fight against monsters. But to most, it was a career choice.
This was Griffon Hunt’s perspective. They weren’t a rag-tag group of unlikely souls, like the Horns of Hammerad, united despite disparate motives. Nor were they the easy-going group of friends and outcasts like the Halfseekers. And they were certainly not altruistic heroes like the Silver Swords.
They were a team of co-workers who adventured for a living. And they had lost their leader, Ulrien. In Liscor, in a fight in an inn against a Named Adventurer who’d turned out to be a murderer, Regrika Blackpaw. They had lost him, and yet, they had also come away with a windfall from the dungeon.
A magical bow, the one Halrac now used. Treasure. Gold, and artifacts, ready to be sold! An adventurer’s dream.
And yet. Griffon Hunt could be said to be down on its luck. Even now. Like the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt had been larger, once. And if they hadn’t been one of the top Gold-rank teams, somewhat famous north and south of Izril like the Halfseekers had been—they had been larger. Three times as large, almost. Respected for being one of the hunting teams who fought Griffins with…Griffons. Hunting dogs.
Now—they were this. They rode in silence. Halrac in a foul mood, and Revi and Typhenous knew why. Moreover—the two [Mages] exchanged glances. It was Revi, the [Summoner], whose magical apparitions were helping guide the rest of the horses, who brought it up.
“Um. Captain.”
Halrac turned his head.
“Don’t call me that.”
“Yes, boss. Leader. Uh—”
“Commander Everam.”
“Good one, Typh.”
Halrac just glared. Revi went on after a moment.
“Look, I’m sorry about Elm. But…do you want to talk about it or something? I mean, what do we do?”
She and Typhenous looked at each other again. And there it was.
A bit of distance. Because they weren’t exactly the oldest of pals. Revi and Typhenous were new to Griffon Hunt. Two years as teammates, but not like Ulrien had been, a fellow [Soldier] Halrac had served with.
Or even the rest of Griffon Hunt. They were new. And they’d stuck with the team after half of its members had upped and quit. After a disaster with Griffins.
Griffon Hunt was still remembered in parts of the north for the plague they’d unleashed to combat a huge influx of migrating Griffins. It had stopped the rampaging Griffins, but the plague had spread and killed…a lot of people.
