When even the sixth was a success, Odonestra nodded with a big smile. Vesperia had already surpassed expectations and achieved a result everyone would praise her for, but that didn’t mean they weren’t all curious to see if even a seventh guard would be born.

With careful movements and under the gaze of all her sisters and newborn guards, Vesperia moved in front of the seventh and final egg. As the six times before, she placed a palm on it and infused her energy, ordering her final Queen’s Guard to awaken.

As with all times prior, the egg opened like a blooming flower, revealing the female body within. A second passed, the tension high as ever, before the seventh guard opened her eyes, looked at Vesperia, and bowed her head.

“Your Majesty.”

Odonestra smiled, scanning all seven guards with her senses, quickly confirming that none of them had any problems. What’s more, they were all in great condition, not at all lacking in power despite just being born.

One by one, the Queen’s Guards proceeded to fully absorb the eggs they had been born from, each changing shape to form loose robes that they would later be able to model into whatever shape they desired.

Vesperia watched on with a smile of her own as she allowed them to do their thing. After a little while, she looked toward the onlooking gods, thanked them for having come, and subtly let them know that she would like some privacy to better get acquainted with her new lifelong servants.

Only Odonestra remained behind by the time all the Queen’s Guards were done absorbing the eggs they had been born from. As they each got done, they greeted each other, out of politeness more than anything, as they all innately knew what they were and the purpose of their existences. Still, that didn’t mean they couldn’t show individuality; in fact, it was hoped they would.

Of course, the hive would always be above anything else, but a bit of personality had never hurt anyone.

Looking at Vesperia surrounded by her Queen’s Guards, they all looked like sisters, perhaps even twins. A definite strategic advantage, as the Queen’s Guard all had the ability to mimic Vesperia’s aura and would look identical to her in their full combat forms, allowing them to act as perfect bait to protect their queen.

Giving the Queen’s Guard a moment to themselves, Vesperia exited the morphic pool and walked up to stand beside Odonestra. The two shared a look as the divine True Royal nodded her head.

“I’ll admit defeat this time around. I shouldn’t have questioned your capabilities,” she said with a smile. “Though I do have to question... something disturbed you about midway through. What happened?”

Vesperia looked at her seven guards as she sighed. “I just felt a moment of regret, which made my thoughts wander.”

“Oh?” Odonestra exclaimed. “What about?”

“I should have tried for eight,” Vesperia let out a sigh, making Odonestra stare at her for several seconds.

“Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying I could have definitely done it, but the difficulty struck me as being at a comfortable level with seven,” Vesperia explained. “I know every additional one makes it exponentially harder, but I would have at least liked to give it a try. Not that I regret what I gained.”

Odonestra continued staring at Vesperia before she couldn’t help but chuckle. The Vespernat True Royal was indeed as arrogant as all of them, if not more so.

“I wouldn’t complain either, but ensure that your new guards get a good start in life,” Odonestra said.

“Don’t worry,” Vesperia assured her. “They are my Queen’s Guard; I’m certain they will not disappoint.”

The two stood together for a bit longer before all the Queen’s Guards were fully prepared. As one unit, they approached Vesperia and bowed their heads as the firstborn stepped forward and spoke.

“Your Majesty, on behalf of us all, I thank you for granting us life, and despite it being nothing more than a sentimental gesture, we all wish to reiterate our absolute loyalty and swear an oath of allegiance,” the Queen’s Guard spoke, her speech pattern surprisingly elaborate, showing that she definitely possessed a high level of intelligence despite just being born.

“I accept your oath and look forward to seeing what you shall all become,” Vesperia said with a smile. “I will not dictate any of your Paths but allow you time to discover your own talents and develop into the beings you want to be. Follow me, and I shall also swear that the only one you’ll ever need to kneel before is this queen.”

“Yes, your Majesty,” all seven said in unison, making Odonestra nod in approval. They all seemed like good seeds, and considering Vesperia’s own personal combat prowess... she wasn’t sure who or what being her own level stood a chance should it come to blows.

Vesperia nodded one final time before saying a few words to her Queen’s Guards, after which she brought them into her Inner Hive – the small dimension she stored within herself, containing an entire army.

“I thank you and the other elders for your assistance this time,” Vesperia said to Odonestra. “And I hope you will not protest when I say that I wish to act selfishly once more.”

Odonestra just chuckled and shook her head. “No need to say anything; we all expected and even counted on it. Based on current evaluations, the Records revolving around this Seat of the Exalted Prima event mean it’s something we cannot afford to ignore, and we would be remiss if we did not participate. Though I do hope that rather than merely return to the same galaxy...”

“Don’t worry,” Vesperia calmed the other True Royal. “I shall go there initially, but when the true event begins, I doubt they’ll need my assistance. Instead, I’m sure there are plenty of other galaxies that would appreciate my presence and allow my Queen’s Guard to exercise and discover themselves a little.”

“Glad to hear we are in agreement,” Odonestra nodded in approval. “With you leading the charge, the Endless Empire hopes to reap quite the benefits from this event, though I will warn you... We are far from the only faction with these thoughts, and competition will be steep. Also, while I do have confidence in your abilities, there are some characters you should do all you can to avoid coming into conflict with.”

Vesperia allowed Odonestra to continue as she summoned a small list. Odonestra handed Vesperia the list as she started reading it, as the other True Royal spoke.

“Besides the obvious, there are a few people to avoid above all others. Many of the names you should already recognize from the Nevermore Leaderboards, but allow me to reiterate. Lopas, the Beast of Sloth, Wintermaul, an elemental we have limited information on, and the Chosen of Lucenti, who has already proven their Nevermore performance was no fluke. The Holy Church also has some powerful figures this time around, including someone who is slated to, and may already have become, the Chosen of the Holy Son. However, more than anything, there is one character you must avoid at all costs: the Eastbound Monk.”
