The second reason Numbtongue was tense was because he was here. In aforementioned farmhouse, with Wailant and…he turned as someone came from the kitchen.
“Did I miss anything?”
“Nothing, love. Just them showing this High King or whatsit. Medain. I remember sailing there once. Ornery bastards, all of them. You can get into a fight with adventurers in any bar in the port. We have any more of the good wine?”
Wailant waved his cup. His wife, Viceria Strongheart and a [Green Mage] from Wistram, came out. She had a bottle in her hands.
“Before we drink, dear—a word?”
Wailant paused in gulping his wine. He stood up slowly. Viceria smiled at Numbtongue.
“One moment, Numbtongue?”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin stared. He had had a dinner here. After Wailant had helped smuggle him from Celum, he’d found himself invited—dragged, really—to the Strongheart family farm.
It was a fairly small farm, if you compared it to, say, what Erin might have thought of as a farm from her world. Wailant worked only a few fields, and they were all small. But they had tremendous yields, faster than a regular field by two or even four times. And one of his specialties was the beloved and expensive Sage’s Grass.
It had made the man rich. Wailant, along with his wife, were decent [Farmers], but they were both high-level enough to protect a farm like this themselves. They had magical fences, wards, and—well, Numbtongue had met Viceria.
She was a lovely woman, with brown hair tied back in a braid that reached down to her waist. She wore a robe at home, and she looked younger than she was. Numbtongue only knew she was older because Wailant had told him, and his wife had laughed and kicked Wailant under the table.
The surreal part was how polite she was to Numbtongue. And how relaxed Wailant was. They’d drawn him into their home, treating him like any other guest. And for the Hobgoblin, that was a strange experience.
He’d been relieved that the dinner had been mostly watching the events at Belchan. Numbtongue began to eat more of the dumplings with rice as he listened to the couple in the kitchen. He had good ears and he was still hungry.
“What’s the matter? Is this about Celum?”
“Yes, it is. Don’t dodge me again, Wailant. Bringing back a guest? I know something happened. Tell me.”
A pause. Wailant coughed.
“Okay, so I may have been banned—”
“Wailant!”
“Listen, hear me out. There was this [Merchant], see—”
Numbtongue listened to Wailant’s version of the events as he filled his bowl again. What a strange place. Wailant was apparently Garia’s father. And he seemed nice. Numbtongue had still picked an escape route in case this turned out to be a trap. Side window. Two steps and he’d go through. He was pretty sure the food wasn’t poisoned, too, but you never knew.
“—So, there I was, and she rolls on past me with a smirk. I may have done something to her wheels, but I asked her to move first! And then, er, well, she hired a bunch of [Mercs] to threaten me!”
“And you slapped her. Wailant…”
“I know.”
The man’s voice was guilty. Viceria sighed quietly. Numbtongue stared at the two Drakes gesticulating to a map in the scrying orb.
“Wailant…”
“I know, I know. But you should have seen that woman’s face! Riding about as if she owned the road because she had a better class than mine.”
“I understand, believe me, Wailant, dear. But we can’t afford to lose more clients—”
“I’ll take care of it. If I have to find ‘em myself. I can ride to Remendia or Wales tomorrow. It’ll be fine, Vicci. We’re not lacking for gold and we could pawn half of the stuff here if we had to—”
“That’s not the point.”
Another sigh. Numbtongue’s ears twitched. Wailant paused.
“I know. I’ll mind myself. Maybe see about paying a fine? If it takes an apology to get them to let me in faster—I’ll do it.”
“Thank you. And we’ll go together to Remendia.”
“But—”
“We’ll set up the wards. But we go together.”
Wailant made a grumbling noise, but he must have agreed because Numbtongue heard nothing more for a second. After a moment, Wailant spoke.
“You haven’t asked me about the Goblin this entire night, my darling.”
Numbtongue eyed the window. And here was his moment…or was the door better? He had seen the trap runes on the door, but they hadn’t activated. Yet.
But Viceria’s voice was lightly amused.
“What about him? I assumed he was the same Goblin that Garia mentioned. Or is it five?”
Numbtongue stopped eating for a moment. Then, he continued eating because it was good food. His old comrades would have approved of eating.
“Didn’t ask. Let’s go ask the bugger, shall we?”
The two reappeared from the kitchen. Numbtongue waved at them as if he hadn’t heard a thing. Viceria smiled as she sat down.
“Apologies, Numbtongue, was it? Would you like another drink?”
“…Yes. Please?”
Numbtongue stared as Viceria reached for the wine bottle.
“I’ll have some too, lady love.”
Wailant lifted his glass hopefully. Viceria shot him a cool look and served Numbtongue first. The Hobgoblin felt like someone was pulling a prank on him. He hoped it was Erin.
This couple was beyond strange for one reason. Not because they were hospitable. Erin was beyond hospitable and the awe of that had actually faded with time. Just a bit. But Wailant and Viceria were different from even Erin.
“So, you told me a bit of how you got here. Mind sharing it again? Wait till you hear this, Vicci. This Hob apparently fought his way through the Goblin Lord’s lot, ended up near Liscor in that inn Garia likes. Some kind of elite Hobgoblin tribe.”
“Really? Do tell us. The Goblin Lord’s army passed by Celum, but our home was left alone.”
“Good thing for them. The cellar’s strong enough to keep all of ‘em out and they’d have died by the hundreds on the trap spells. Don’t glare, Vicci! I can say that—he’s not one of the Goblin Lord’s buddies. I think. Right?”
Wailant snorted. Viceria smiled as she filled her husband’s glass. The Hobgoblin surreptitiously sniffed the drink. But he was sure neither was drunk yet.
Numbtongue had never met anyone who didn’t care. Not about him being a Hobgoblin in Celum; that was why Wailant had brought him to his home. And he’d certainly tried to beat Numbtongue into a pulp when he’d thought the Hob was a threat.
But when he knew what Numbtongue was, he didn’t really seem to…care. Again, not about the fact that Numbtongue was a Hobgoblin who’d survived against all odds. Wailant respected that. But the sheer fact of Numbtongue being a Goblin who could think? Speak? Wailant Strongheart took that at face value.
Even Erin treated it as a fact to be shared as far and wide as possible. But Wailant didn’t. It was as natural as breathing. A fascination to meet a friendly Goblin to be sure, but not miraculous. He explained after Numbtongue had recounted his adventurers in brief.
“See, I’m not surprised to find a Hob who can speak. Vicci is, but she’s being polite. And she’s Wistram. Used to weird things.”
He grinned at his wife. Viceria smiled at Numbtongue. She had her own cup, which she’d filled with a generous helping of wine.
Numbtongue felt awkward around her; a Human that smiled at him was a rare thing and immediately made him want to check for hidden daggers. He didn’t know her, like Erin or Lyonette, or Octavia and Drassi. He didn’t trust her.
“My husband lacks tact, Numbtongue. But I am open to new meetings. I do know Goblins aren’t savages.”
She gave Wailant a look. He shrugged apologetically as he took a gulp. Viceria raised her cup—and downed it.
Numbtongue paused. The wine was strong. He was on his second cup, as was Wailant. Viceria caught up in one go, and filled her cup. Then she took another deep gulp. Numbtongue had to sniff the jar surreptitiously, but it was the same wine. Wailant laughed as he saw that.
“And my girl calls me a lush. Well, I get properly drunk. Viceria—she’s from Wistram. And [Pirate] ships run out of alcohol! My lady love has two bags of holding in each boot.”
Numbtongue looked. Viceria had sandals on. The Hobgoblin blushed mildly as she wiggled her toes and winked at him.
“You were saying, Wailant?”
“Right. Goblins. I’ve met more of you lot. At sea.”
“What?”
Numbtongue nearly dropped his bowl of rice. Wailant grinned at his expression.
“Surprised? ‘Swhy I knew you weren’t a monster. Mind you, it surprised the hell out of me when you appeared. Sorry for knocking you around a bit. Don’t know my own strength. And I’m good on land or sea.”
Numbtongue shrugged and muttered into his cup.
“I didn’t use my guitar. Didn’t want to hurt you.”
“Hah! See? I knew I liked this one.”
Wailant reached over and slapped Numbtongue on the back. Viceria laughed at Numbtongue’s expression. She floated over a bowl of cold dumplings and made them hot again.
“But Goblins are monsters. Everyone knows that. Not at sea?”
Wailant shook his head in response to Numbtongue’s question.
“Goblins? Monsters? Sure, we know what everyone says. Goblin Kings? Bastards. But Goblins, savages? That’s just what they tell you, in your fancy landfolk nations. Even in Izril; you think you’re free, but all you know is what Wistram and all the other rulers tell you. Like that line about Rhir, ‘the Blighted Kingdom’, hah!”
He was half-talking to Numbtongue as a representation of ‘landfolk’, half to Viceria. She sighed; it sounded like an old quarrel.
“Wailant, they’re right about Rhir.”
The former [Pirate] rolled his eyes.
“Pah, you’ve never met them, Vicci. Demons aren’t so bad. They’re a folk. Drowned Men and [Pirates] trade with them. So do some of the Dullahans. And Drathians. They’re not any more monstrous than the things you can find in the Blighted Kingdom. Like their damned [Flesh Reapers]. I’ve never been far inland, but the Demons are just people. No worse than their enemies, or places like Roshal.”
“What’s Roshal?”
Numbtongue was embarrassed by the laughter. But Wailant explained, pointing at one of his maps. It was of the world, in miniature. The ends of the world were clearly marked on either end, as were major ports. The one he pointed to was on the southwestern side of Chandrar.
“Slave port. Lailight Scintillation, the port-capital of Roshal and the Market of Fables. One of the wonders of the world. You take prisoners, you sell them there. And you never cross the [Slavers]. It’s a wondrous place. So long as you don’t stare too hard at the shadows. I looked, once. And I never went ashore again. I’ve been around, you see.”
“And you know so much more than any [Mage] or educated sort.”
Viceria raised her brows. Wailant scowled.
“I know enough to know what’s whale shit. I’ve seen Goblins at sea. In [Pirate] ships, no less! Even once or twice on their own ships. Nasty buggers in a fight, but they leave you alone unless they’re [Pirates]. You can even trade with ‘em. If you think they won’t gut you as soon as you lower the gangplank. But that was how I was raised. Not on tales of Goblins as primitive monsters and so on.”
He pointed at the scrying orb.
“Wistram is the worst of ‘em all! Damned liars, the lot. Always plotting and tricking people. You saw how they were setting up those freaks in A’ctelios? They were trying to set up the King of Destruction. Only, they got caught in their own trap. Shifty bastards.”
Numbtongue looked sideways at Viceria. She was rolling her eyes, exasperated.
“Isn’t your wife from Wistram?”
The couple laughed. Wailant took another gulp.
“Damned right! I married one of the sneakiest! Don’t be surprised by her nice demeanor. She’s craftier than I am, and twice as evil. That’s how I know they’re crooked as a [Seductress] with a shiv hidden across her back! Or hidden up her…”
He leaned over and whispered into Numbtongue’s ear. The Hobgoblin paused.
“…No.”
“Happened once to a fellow I knew. Then she stabbed the rest of him. It happened, I swear it on salt!”
Numbtongue edged away from Wailant a bit. Viceria looked at him and laid a hand on her husband’s arm.
“I think it’s time we let our guest speak, Wailant.”
“Right, right. Hey, Numbtongue. You ever been to sea?”
It was a challenge. Wailant grinned, knowing the answer. Numbtongue frowned.
“No. But I have been in the High Passes.”
“Really?”
Both Viceria and Wailant looked up. The [Pirate] gave Numbtongue another look up and down.
“What’d you fight there. Anything nasty?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged, face straight.
“Not too bad. Do you know Gargoyles?”
Wailant waved off the bravado.
“Gargoyles are tiny bastards compared to a Kraken. You know them? Fleet-killers. Like Sword Whales—they literally crack ships apart unless they’re enchanted! Or—Reefeyes. You drop in the water with those and you’re as good as dead unless you’re at least Level 30 or your mates haul you out in seconds. Land monsters—hah! What’ve you killed on land that’s worse than I’ve seen at sea?”
“Crelers.”
The [Pirate] coughed on his drink. Viceria clapped her hands together with a smile, laughing in delight. Wailant glanced at her, and then looked at Numbtongue, casually.
“Oh? Well, they’re twice as tricky in the water. But er, how many did you run into?”
“Thousands.”
Wailant stared. There was nothing for it but for Numbtongue to relate the battle at the inn. When he was done, Viceria laughed.
“Have you done that, Wailant? I think one of your guests has finally told a better tale than a fine seadog.”
“Argh. Do you have to rub it in?”
“Yes, and relentlessly. Wailant loves telling his sea tales, thank you for taking him down a peg.”
The [Green Mage] winked at Numbtongue. He bared his teeth.
“What about your stories?”
Viceria blinked and both she and Wailant laughed.
“I am poor at fighting. The second monster I ever ran into outside of Wistram nearly killed me. It did kill my entire escort, until Wailant saved me. I rather think I’m three times as good at actual combat as I was before we met. There’s a world of difference from learning to cast combat spells in Wistram to seeing an actual monster.”
“That’s how we met, by the by. I saved her, and we got to talking. Among other things.”
Wailant grinned at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin saw his wife roll her eyes. He thought he liked Wailant, a bit. The man was sort of Garen-like. Overbearing, but in a good way to his friends. The [Pirate]/[Farmer] had to recount the story of how he had persuaded Viceria to stay with him, and how she had made his farming venture an actual success.
“Get yourself a lady like I did, Hobgoblin. It’s the only way to live.”
