“Redfangs practice for a fight. Sparring. Don’t practice…”
Numbtongue copied Garia’s punch. She hesitated.
“Really? Well, maybe that will help me level. I’m asking because I want to increase my class. I’m only Level 17 now. I’ve leveled like crazy. It’s practically a record, but I slowed even though I do a thousand punches and kicks at least per day. But I’m sure I need to do something else to level. What if…could you spar with me?”
The Hobgoblin stared. Garia raised her hands.
“Not to the death or anything! Or even getting hurt! Just—to show me some moves?”
She looked so hopeful, the [Bard] agreed.
“Sure. But I’m not a [Warrior] anymore.”
He walked forwards, swinging his arms up. Garia instantly raised her guard and took her stance.
“What are you, then?”
“[Bard].”
Numbtongue feinted and punched at Garia’s stomach. She blinked, and he nailed her in the gut.
“Ow. That hurt!”
The Hob paused. Of course it had. He’d hit Garia hard. Not as hard as he could, but nearly.
“Too hard? Sorry, Redfangs spar like this.”
“No, it’s okay. I was just expecting—okay. My turn!”
That wasn’t how it worked, but Numbtongue stepped back anyways. He saw Garia step forwards and try to punch.
Instantly, he saw the problem. She was doing that same basic move, which was good for about one type of attack. Not a running punch, or if you were backing up. Just step in and—
“Need different move.”
“Hey! Don’t back up!”
Garia took more swings, trying to keep to her posture. Numbtongue walked backwards.
“Too slow. Need different move. Die in a fight.”
“It’s worked so far! Once I hit you—”
“I’m not a bear.”
The Hobgoblin leaned back as Garia punched at his chest. She ran forwards—he swayed upright. But he still had time as her fist came at his chest. He blocked—
The Hobgoblin staggered backwards, stumbled, and caught himself. He stared at his arms and shook them out. Then at Garia. She had a heavy punch. She grinned.
“See?”
“[Enhanced Strength].”
The Hobgoblin narrowed his eyes. Garia blinked.
“How did you—ah!”
Numbtongue jumped at her and kicked. Garia blocked and stumbled backwards. Numbtongue went low, about to hook her legs, but Garia recovered. She was on the wrong foot, and saw him coming in. So the [Martial Artist] in training shouted.
“[Flash Kick]!”
Her foot blurred. The Hobgoblin saw the kick coming, but he couldn’t dodge in time. It hit his guard, and sent him flying—into the wall of the barn. Numbtongue hit the wall, fell down, and lay there.
“Oh dead gods! Are you alright?”
Garia stared in horror, and then dashed over to him. Numbtongue stared upwards at the rafters as the cows mooed and Viceria came to find her guest with bruised ribs. Garia apologized profusely, but she did point out she’d technically won.
Numbtongue informed her that he hadn’t used his guitar. He was let into bed with a healing potion for his chest, and slept, reflecting that maybe there was something to her class. She certainly hit like Pyrite. The Hob had opined in Numbtongue’s head that he could have beaten Garia in a fight. For now. But he’d prefer an axe.
The Hobgoblin slept, bemused by his encounter with this strange family. The next day, the family came to the inn. And it was Erin’s turn to experience the Erin-effect. Only, Strongheart-style.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice waited by the magical door, a bit anxiously. She knew Numbtongue was safe. Palt had gotten the [Message], and between trying to settle Octavia, Temile and the Players of Celum, and deal with the angry [Messages] she was getting from Celum, Erin hadn’t been able to check on him.
But he was her first priority this morning. Garia had assured Erin that her family would take care of him and apparently they were hosting him overnight? That was weird, but it made Erin hope the other family members weren’t jerks.
“What do you think the family’s like? Ryoka visited, but she didn’t say much. Which was Ryoka. You were there, right Mrsha? Are they nice people?”
Lyonette asked Mrsha as the Gnoll cub stood on two legs and waved her wand, creating a bed of grass. Mrsha paused as she began to uproot the magical grass and nodded, vaguely. Erin waited.
The magical door sprang to life and Erin saw bright sunlight. She heard a voice instantly, as the figures on the other side recoiled.
“Buggering kings, it works! Look at that!”
A man stood in the doorway, staring through at Erin and Lyonette. The [Innkeeper] saw a woman dressed in a [Mage]’s robe, Garia, and—
“Numbtongue! Are you okay?”
Erin waved at the Hobgoblin, smiling in relief. Numbtongue smiled back too. He looked fine. She saw him walk forwards—
And the man with tattoos strode through the door. He stared around at the inn, blinked at Erin, and stuck a hand in her face.
“Wailant Strongheart, humble [Farmer] or something, at your service. This the inn my girl keeps talking up? Here, have a pie as thanks. Mind if I come in? Dead gods! Viceria, come see this!”
“Don’t be rude, Wailant.”
Erin saw Viceria Strongheart and Garia come through. She found a pie in her hands, smelling of rhubarb, and found her hand being crushed by Wailant until Viceria introduced herself. Numbtongue trooped through and caught Mrsha as she tried to dash through the doorway.
“Viceria Strongheart, at your service. Thank you for being a friend to Garia. I’m sorry about my husband—”
“Oh? You’re Garia’s parents! Right! Wow! Hey, Garia, thanks for bringing the door. Um—[Farmers]?”
Erin stared at the tattoos, a bit lost for words. Wailant had already strode up and down the hallway, noticing the traps. He disappeared through the doors to the common room as Viceria sighed.
“Well, we’re both formerly from other classes. I’m a [Green Mage], and my husband was a [Pirate]—”
“A [Pirate]?”
Erin and Lyonette both exclaimed. Mrsha, wiggled in Numbtongue’s arms as he put her down and closed the doors. She glared at him and then waved, signing in her hand-language.
Welcome back! Meanie!
The Hobgoblin blinked at her.
“Hi. I’m not mean.”
“Hello, little Mrsha! Want to go up?”
Garia bent and gave Mrsha cuddles. The Gnoll happily rode on Garia’s shoulders as Wailant stormed back into the hallway, followed by Palt. Erin’s new regular crew was in today, along with Seborn and Ulinde—the two were in Liscor, comparing potential jobs with the ones from Pallass. Wailant himself was agog.
“We’re in Liscor alright! I’d recognize the lumpy landscape anywhere! So this magic door can take us back and forth as much as we want?”
“That’s right. Um—so you’re a pirate—?”
“What? Sure, sure. That’s right. How does this thing work? Ah! Lookit that!”
Wailant had found the dial system Lyonette had built. He exclaimed as he turned the door to Liscor and thrust it open. A couple of Drakes and Gnolls lined up stepped forwards.
“Oh good. We were—”
Wailant slammed the door. Erin opened her mouth as he checked the dial.
“Liscor. And it even says Pallass. Huh. And it really…?”
He thrust the door open. Erin saw the stone room, and the portcullis. Wailant stared through as a Drake behind the gate jerked upright. He had a little viewing port made of glass and he snapped as he saw Wailant and the others.
“Identify yourself! No one’s scheduled to come through for—”
Wailant shut the door in their faces. He turned to Erin.
“Huh. Touchy bastards, aren’t they? Like half the Drakes I’ve met. So that’s Pallass?”
“That’s right. Um—Wailant Strongheart?”
“That’s my name. And you’re Erin Solstice. Listen, I’ve got a business proposition for you. I’m a [Farmer].”
“Right. And a [Pirate].”
“That’s right. I grow a bunch of crap, but I specialize in Sage’s Grass. I have a harvest ready to go, actually. I’d like to sell to Liscor and Pallass. And to Invrisil if you’ve got a door there! I’ll cut you in on the profits. Just a bit, mind! But you benefit and I don’t have to pay some yapping coin-thief to transport my wares. We both win. What do you say?”
Another hand appeared, pushing towards Erin’s chest. She stared at it, and then at Wailant.
“What? Um—selling—”
“Wailant. Slow down!”
Viceria came up from behind her husband and pulled him back. He grumbled as she smiled at Erin.
“I’m sorry, Wailant was up since dawn thinking about the possibilities of trading his goods to a Walled City directly.”
“Not just to a Walled City! I hear the door’s going to Invrisil too! That true?”
“Oh, yeah. When the door gets there. It should be soon.”
“Then I’ll pay for that too. How about it? Just let me push some Sage’s Grass through. We can do a transportation fee. I’ll make it worth your while. How much gold do you want per trip?”
The [Farmer] was rubbing his hands together. Erin blinked.
“Hold on, I haven’t thought about making any deals. I don’t know you. Um, Garia?”
The City Runner was staring up at the ceiling as Mrsha held on to her head. Wailant snorted.
“What’s there to think about? I want money, you want money, unless you’re daft. You have a door which teleports things! That’s as good as Fissival’s network! Here, we can take it slow if we want. I’m Wailant. I sell Sage’s Grass. Do you know what that is?”
“Dad.”
Garia growled at her father. Viceria elbowed her husband. Wailant sighed, but his wife took over.
“Why don’t we introduce ourselves properly, first, Wailant? Erin, may I call you Erin? I’m sorry, but he’s still a [Rogue] at heart.”
“Hah. I’m better than a [Rogue].”
The Stronghearts began to introduce themselves a second time. Off-kilter, Erin led them towards the common room, blinking at Wailant. Viceria seemed nice and Garia seemed embarrassed, but Wailant was another thing entirely. He had tattoos. And a cutlass!
And he was a bit—pushy.
Inside the inn, Octavia blinked around her breakfast, which was in itself a rare experience for the [Alchemist]. She sometimes forgot to eat, apparently.
“Oh! Numbtongue! There you are!”
“Hi.”
The Hobgoblin waved vaguely and instantly went over to sit with her. Garia lifted Mrsha off her shoulders; the Gnoll didn’t want to go. Garia looked at her parents, but then acceded as Mrsha tried to steer her towards Octavia and Numbtongue.
“Nice inn. Pretty good. Better than the ones in Celum. This a Skill?”
“That’s right. And the Players of Celum actually perform here. We have four of them upstairs now.”
Erin was showing the couple about. Viceria’s eyes lit up.
“Will they perform here? Tonight?”
“Yup. Actually, they’re moving in, but they’re going to perform tonight, Temile said. Some new play from Invrisil, actually. Have you seen them?”
“No, Wailant, we’re staying tonight.”
“Don’t see why that’s a problem. We can pop through that door anytime we please.”
“If you have access. Mister Strongheart, Miss Strongheart? Can I get you anything to drink?”
“I’ll have an ale.”
“Wine would be acceptable.”
Day drinkers. Erin blinked, but Lyonette just smiled. She elbowed Erin in the back as she passed, which Erin took to mean ‘talk about money’. She looked at Wailant.
“Let me get this straight. You want to use my door to sell…your plants in Liscor and Pallass?”
“That’s right. What do you think?”
Erin didn’t know what to think. She knew Lyonette was nodding and mouthing ‘yes’, but she was reluctant to make a sudden decision. Her actions had consequences!
“Well—I mean, it sounds okay. But maybe I should consider it.”
“Why—”
Wailant cut off and his eyes crossed slightly in a way that made Erin certain he’d just received a very sharp kick under the table. Viceria smiled at Erin.
“That would be fine, Miss Solstice. It’s a mutually beneficial offer.”
Was it? Erin thought it sounded like that, but she just didn’t know…business-y things. Lyonette seemed to agree.
“It’s a fine proposal, right Erin? A modest fee for transactions and people should use the door to transport cargo.”
“But the Merchant’s Guild in Celum was mad when we did that. Wouldn’t it destabilize the economy, or, I dunno, ruin jobs?”
Viceria was nodding politely, and Lyonette was frowning over her reply. But Wailant just snorted.
“What, screw the [Merchants] out of some of their money and transport fees? Fuck’em. It’s convenient, so why not? To save their pretty little hides and keep things like they always have…? No. You have a magic door, Miss. Why not use it?”
Erin understood the content, even agreed with it, but she didn’t like the delivery. She narrowed her eyes a bit. Viceria kicked her husband again.
“Pardon us. I normally negotiate with new clients, Wailant—but my husband’s right in that your door is underutilized. Normally, we hire [Traders] to sell our goods or just sell to them with the expectation they’ll sell elsewhere, Miss Solstice. But you would allow us to sell directly to our clients.”
“Which would save them money and earn us some.”
Lyonette muttered, as if she was spelling it out.
“I’m not stupid! I just don’t know if that’s nice!”
“Nice? Have you met [Merchants]? This is business. Just the other day, I met this one who—”
Wailant laughed and went quiet as his wife, exasperated, pointed a wand at his face. The [Silence] spell made Wailant mouth silently for a few seconds as she stood up.
“Will you excuse us for a second?”
She dragged Wailant over to have a quick argument. Erin looked at Garia. She had pried the furry leech off her head and jogged over.
“Hey Erin, sorry about my dad. He’s a bit…”
“No, it’s fine. I heard he helped get Numbtongue away from the Watch. But he’s—is he really a [Pirate]?”
Across the inn, a Drowned Man’s head slowly turned as Ulinde happily sorted the copies of the adventuring requests they’d taken from Liscor’s adventuring guild. Garia nodded.
“He is. Former [Pirate], but he’s always been like this. He’s actually a good person. He just…pushes. A lot. Please hear him out?”
“Sure. I mean, it’s okay.”
Erin smiled at Garia. Relieved, the City Runner let Mrsha drag her over to the Garden of Sanctuary. She blinked at the unfamiliar door. Erin looked at Lyonette.
“Maybe we should discuss this?”
“What’s there to discuss, Erin?”
“I dunno, ask around. Find our options? Plan?”
“Erin, what’s there to consider?”
“I dunno, not using the door for goods?”
The [Princess] gave Erin a long look.
“…Why?”
“I don’t know! I just don’t ever do—big business deals!”
