Wailant finished with that sage advice. Numbtongue almost caught himself nodding. Viceria put her hands on her hips.
“And why is it his job and yours to get a woman, Wailant? Can’t we choose?”
The husband laughed, his face flushed with drink.
“Not a chance! Because no lady’d choose one of us, right, Numbtongue?”
He grinned. And Viceria and Numbtongue both burst out laughing. Viceria leaned over.
“Tell me, Numbtongue. I’ve heard Goblins have [Shamans]. Have you ever seen them casting higher-level magics?”
“Here we go. Magic talk. Don’t let her ask you about spells or you’ll talk your mouth off.”
Wailant reached for the wine bottle, found it was empty, and got up. Numbtongue was explaining that the Redfangs hadn’t had many Goblin [Shamans]—a few, but they had died in battle as often as the [Warriors]. Viceria sighed.
“A shame. I was studying different types of green magic. That’s my specialty, incidentally. As a [Green Mage], I wanted to visit Oteslia. Well, I ended up here and I don’t regret it. I had a life of academia ahead of me, and I was rather sheltered—I spent most of my life in Wistram, you know. Most [Mages] do and it leaves us sheltered.”
“Sheltered is better than unsheltered.”
Numbtongue opined. Viceria glanced at him.
“Yes, well, I suppose it is. But we tend to die in accidents or in underestimating our enemies when we leave the academy. I imagine that’s quite amusing to Goblins.”
“A bit. Redfangs…hunt [Mages]. Sort of easy.”
The [Bard] coughed. Viceria glanced at him.
“How so?”
“If we see robes, we run away. [Mages] chase. Forget to put barriers. So then a [Rogue] or [Archer]…sorry.”
Numbtongue gestured, embarrassed. Viceria shrugged.
“I imagine many Wistram [Mages] have it coming. It is an ongoing conflict. But that’s rather disheartening. What happens if a [Mage] is wise enough to keep their barrier up?”
“Run away. Shoot arrows from afar. [Mages] get tired. Have trouble hitting Goblins with [Fireballs], Lightning is the worst.”
The Hobgoblin scowled. Viceria nodded.
“It is, isn’t it? I don’t know if you know this, but Wistram [Mages] duel all the time. And lightning tends to carry a lot of duels. We even have—had—an Archmage famous for her ability with lightning. But among [Mages], it’s seen as a bit of a gimmick. Anti-electricity spells are quite common. And you can stop lightning in other ways.”
“Really?”
Numbtongue’s ears perked up. Viceria stared at them and then nodded.
“A rod of metal in the ground will reliably draw the lightning away.”
“Really?”
Wailant returned and had to give his opinion on lightning at sea—don’t do it. Fire was a nightmare on ships. Numbtongue found himself discussing fighting spells, which was something he knew. Before he had realized it, he was in his third cup and everything felt—better.
“Entertainment. You want to see this. You see, on a [Pirate] ship we don’t fight like landfolk. Formations. [Strategists]. Horses! It’s all action! Boarding the decks! And you fight with a cutlass in one hand and a wand in the other! Or a crossbow or something! See?”
Wailant heaved himself up and went for a set of wands in a case. He tossed one at Numbtongue.
“Don’t worry, it’s just [Light Arrow]. Weak spell, but it’s good for fun. Watch—come on.”
He led Numbtongue and Viceria outside. Wailant had, for his entertainment, set up targets, from glass bottles to metal cans and painted targets. No bullseye targets for him; he’d drawn in glowing paint, or made clumsy illustrations of sea monsters.
“Scit! Scit! That’s the spell. You try!”
Wailant was drunk, but he managed to hit one of the cans on the fourth try. A glowing, orange arrow of light shot from his wand as Viceria laughed. Numbtongue raised his wand, swaying, and tried to aim it. He’d used wands before; they were a nice treasure after a battle for Redfangs and greatly desired.
“Scit.”
The blue arrow shot from his wand, slower than an arrow, but bright and colorful. He nearly hit one of the cans. Wailant laughed as Numbtongue nailed his target after five tries.
“My turn. Scit. Scit. Scit.”
Viceria hit two of her three targets dead-on. She was a good shot. Wailant and Numbtongue applauded, then they took aim at the harder targets. At some point, Wailant decided it was getting hot.
It was a summer’s night and they were still drinking. Numbtongue felt—welcome. He was almost certain he wasn’t going to be attacked and Viceria and Wailant were laughing. And plying him with more drinks. He watched as Wailant tore off his tunic.
“You get naked at sea! Fuck swimming with clothes! Damn them!”
He hurled his tunic to the ground. Numbtongue was nodding—until he saw Viceria toss off her robe. He turned. And then he discovered that nudism was a universal trait. Saliss would have fit right in. And what was Numbtongue to do? Well, Goblins didn’t need clothes either. Just for bugs and keeping warm.
 
——
 
Later that evening, three figures wavered around the outskirts of the Strongheart farm. Lights illuminated the dark buildings and the barnyard animals wisely kept indoors as the three figures shot spells at targets.
They were, all three of them, naked, and shooting wands of [Light Arrow] at some targets on fences, the roof of the farmhouse—a few hanging from a tree—and very drunk.
That was how Garia found them. The City Runner was jogging up to the house, dragging a literal door behind her. It was tied to her waist via a rope and she’d pulled it all the way from Celum; a glittering mana stone lay on the front. She stopped as the three figures turned.
“Who goes there? This is private property. Piss off!”
Wailant shouted. Viceria pointed her wand.
“[Light Beam].”
Garia shaded her eyes as the light illuminated her. There was a pause and Wailant shouted.
“Garia! My girl! Hey! Hey Numb-Hob! Look! There she is!”
He poked a wavering figure. As Garia approached and the light turned into a ball, illuminating all three, she saw a naked Numbtongue blinking at her. Garia blinked. She stared at her mother, her father, and Numbtongue.
They had no clothes on. Garia threw up her hands and shouted.
“Mom! Dad! What are you doing?”
“Entertaining our guest! Come here!”
Wailant went to hug his daughter. He was very drunk, as were Viceria and Numbtongue. Garia dodged him.
“Put some clothes on! Do you know how worried Erin was? I ran all this way—”
“Garia, dear, where’s your bag of holding? Why are you dragging a door?”
“It’s exercise, Mother! Mother! Put some clothes on!”
“My girl, you get naked at sea. What, do you think you swim with clothes on all the time?”
Wailant paused, addressing Garia—or the air next to her. She glared.
“Dad.”
Numbtongue, head spinning, saw Garia arguing with her parents. He had to sit down. He was rather glad she was arguing about the clothes. It was hard to stop staring at Viceria. She didn’t seem to mind, but he did. Naked female Goblins were distracting enough, thank you.
At this point, Pyrite, who had been silent, helpfully added his memories of naked Goblins, opining that there were only a few differences. He had a number of very unhelpful memories. In vivid detail. Nice memories, but ones that were not helpful here—Numbtongue decided to punch himself in the groin. Then he curled up.
The [Bard] didn’t know Garia well. She’d been in the inn a few times, met him and the Redfangs. Or so he thought? But he really only knew Garia from Erin.
Apparently, she’d changed. The Garia standing in front of her parents and waving her hands was Ryoka-ish. But Numbtongue had never met this Ryoka, so that too was lost on him.
What Erin meant by that was that Garia was slim. She had been heavier, apparently. Which was a good thing for Goblins, a mark that you had enough food to live on, but not for Human females. Whatever the case, Garia had changed drastically when she’d gained the [Martial Artist] class. Her Skill, [Weight Control], had led to…
Well, this. Garia Strongheart was, in Numbtongue’s eyes, a young woman with black hair, not long and wavy but full. She had a bit of blue running through hair, just streaks, a legacy from her mother’s side.
She was also incredibly toned. Slim was not the word. Because slim implied a lack of muscle. And Garia Strongheart had muscle. But her body had shed almost all of its excess fat, and she was much changed.
For one thing—she had inherited some of her parent’s disposition for lack of clothing. Garia’s stomach was bare, exposing some magnificent abdominal muscles. Combined with her emerald green eyes, a trait shared by all three Stronghearts, she was striking.
Numbtongue certainly appreciated the sight. But he decided not to punch himself in the groin again as he got up. Wincing, he looked around for his pants.
Garia had been shy, loyal, but timid around Ryoka and Fals in the past. But the Garia of today was more outspoken. Certainly more confident as she harangued her parents. But then, she was at home, and Numbtongue had never known the other one. He eyed her as she talked with her parents.
In a way, Viceria and Wailant also explained why Garia was Garia. She had always seemed ‘normal’ in Erin’s description, a good-natured City Runner. But she had an extraordinary family, one she never talked about. But that almost made sense.
If you had parents like Wailant and Viceria, it was hard to follow in either one’s footsteps. And—seeing two drunk parents staggering around blasting [Light Arrows] around at night might make you yearn for a bit of normality.
Certainly, the exasperation in Garia’s tone was familiar.
“Dad, I heard you were banned from Celum. And you hit an unarmed [Merchant]!”
“She had it coming. She sicced a bunch of [Mercenaries] on me. Harpy. Anyways, look what I found.”
“I know what you found! You kidnapped Numbtongue! He’s part of Erin’s inn? Remember? You were supposed to visit?”
Viceria sighed.
“Garia, don’t shout at your father. Why is your midriff bared? And what are you wearing? Are you trying to make yourself a target on the road?”
She pointed to Garia’s wrapped chest. Which was exposing her bosom in a way part of Numbtongue appreciated—and her parents did not. Viceria frowned. Garia glared at her.
“Mom! You’re the naked one!”
“And I am naked at home, with your father.”
“In front of a guest!”
“So? He’s not one of them raping Goblin bastards. I’d cut him apart before he did. Don’t be racist, my girl.”
Garia stared at Wailant. Viceria murmured.
“It’s speciesist, dear.”
“Right, that.”
Garia threw up her arms.
“I’m home.”
She looked at Numbtongue. He paused in putting his pants on and waved.
“Hi.”
Garia stared at him. Then she stared, fascinated.
“Oh…hi.”
She didn’t look away. Wailant and Viceria turned to look at Numbtongue. He hurried to put on the pants. Viceria eyed her daughter and smiled. Wailant scowled.
“Alright, clothes on!”
 
——
 
A little bit later, Numbtongue was eating cold rice and dumplings again. He rather liked it cold; Garia was eating it hot, and her parents were sitting around their dinner table.
Garia coming home was a bit of a rare occurrence, or so it seemed to Numbtongue. Her parents were pestering her with questions.
“And you’ve just been running? That’s it?”
Viceria sighed as her daughter uncooperatively described her life in the intervening months since she’d been back. Garia shrugged.
“That’s right, mom. It’s just my job. You know.”
“Nothing interesting happened? At all? No fascinating deliveries?”
“Meet any [Bandits] on the road? Monsters?”
Wailant was sipping from some milk to sober up. That sounded good to Numbtongue so he helped himself. Garia glanced at him and shrugged.
“I mean, a few. But I’m not a big name, Mom. You know that. I’m making more of a name now; I still do the big deliveries of heavy stuff, but I’m saving up for a bag of holding.”
“You could take your father’s old one—”
“I can afford it myself! Besides, it’s good training. And I’m safe. I can wear what I want; I knocked out a [Cutthroat] on the road and he had a horse.”
“Aha! Tell us about that!”
“I kicked the horse and then I punched him. That’s all, dad. I don’t take risks, like Ryoka. But I’m getting better requests.”
“And how many of them are from young men?”
Viceria murmured. Garia flushed.
“Some. And so what? But I’m faster!”
“Any of them try to put their hands on you? Remember what I said about the plague you can catch—”
“Dad.”
“Wailant.”
The man subsided. He glanced at Numbtongue. Then he cleared his throat.
“So, darling girl. You’re uh, looking different again. Been a while since we last saw you.”
“I lost more weight. See?”
Garia indicated her body. Wailant paused.
“Yeah. Good for you? Anyways, here’s Numbtongue. You know him, from the inn?”
Garia paused. She looked at her father and nodded.
“Yeah. Erin sent me, actually. She’s worried about Numbtongue, even though Viceria sent a [Message] saying he was safe. She’s hoping you can let him go through the door.”
“Bah. Let him stay the night. What’s the worry?”
“He’s a Hob, dad. You said you punched him!”
“I kicked him in the nuts. And that’s because no one told me he was allowed in the city. But now we’re chums. He’s a fun one. And he likes it here, right Numbtongue?”
“Hi.”
Numbtongue waved at Garia. She nodded at him, trying to smile. She glanced at her parents. Wailant was looking his daughter up and down.
“So—when d’you think you’ll stop changing around, Garia? It seems like you’re fine enough for anyone’s fancy. Not that you weren’t before—”
Garia stood up abruptly. She glared at Wailant.
“I’m going to the bathroom. One second.”
She walked out of the room. Numbtongue paused with a mouthful of food. He saw Viceria glaring at Wailant.
“Stop pestering her! This is why she hasn’t come back!”
“I just—okay, fine! Fine!”
Wailant protested as Viceria aimed her wand at him. He scowled and folded his arms.
“What’s the problem? People trying to have sex with her?”
Numbtongue looked blankly from Viceria to Wailant. The [Green Mage] started. Then she motioned at Wailant. He grimaced.
“That’d be one thing. How do I explain it to you? Well—just look at her. Look what they did, those damned women. Harpies, all of them. You saw how she looked?”
Numbtongue nodded.
“Seems fine to me. Good muscle.”
He patted one arm. Viceria did laugh at that. Wailant shook his head.
“Not that. Her! Damn, you don’t know what she looked like. Take a look—where’s that picture she made us take down, Vicci?”
“I have it. Here. Before she comes back—”
“She’s probably going for a walk. I’ll keep an eye out.”
