Their game of ‘Toss the Mrsha’ was interrupted by Lyonette’s angry voice. The [Princess] had come into the garden to show Wailant around and she pointed at the trio with horror. She strode over and immediately began to lecture.
Numbtongue and Bird endured the tongue-lashing as Mrsha tried to protest. But Lyonette was adamant. No games that involved Mrsha possibly landing on her head! The trio walked away as Wailant stared about, exclaiming again and pointing out a good spot to grow the Sage’s Grass.
“Mean. So strict. Poor Mrsha.”
The Hobgoblin [Bard] squatted in the grass as Mrsha rolled over on her back. She nodded rapidly, and Bird nodded too.
“And she does not let people eat birds. She is very mean. Mrsha must be very sad.”
They understood! Mrsha looked up at them and felt…a kinship. Like Relc, actually. Numbtongue and Bird looked at each other and the Antinium’s mandibles opened and rose. Numbtongue grinned, the same expression on a different face. And Mrsha’s tail wagged and she rolled over.
“Let’s go outside to play next time. Somewhere else. Maybe Strongheart farm. Have wands. Can shoot arrows at targets. Birds?”
“Ooh. Ooh. But that would be breaking the rules.”
“Only bad if they find out.”
The Hobgoblin grinned. And Mrsha’s ears perked up. She looked at Numbtongue.
He was actually…her age. Maybe even younger than Mrsha. Goblins lived short lives. And Bird was two. Mrsha pointed this out and Numbtongue and Bird blinked at her.
They were a family. Erin had called them that, but it had really been them connecting to her. Which wasn’t a family. But now—Mrsha felt close to the two of them. And if they were a family, that might mean she was the big sister!
She pointed a thumb at her chest, emphasizing that last point. Bird and Numbtongue exchanged a glance. The Hobgoblin grinned.
“No.”
“I do not believe that is how it works.”
Bird shook his head slowly. But he smiled, and Numbtongue laughed.
“Should go outside more. Too much inside. Garden is nice. But good things are out there. Will take next time. Not inside caves, but somewhere.”
He pointed towards the sky. Mrsha looked at him. Bird nodded.
“I will go too. I am not allowed to shoot birds, but maybe if I go with you, Numbtongue, and a bird attacks Mrsha, I will kill it. In self-defense. Yes. Yes.”
He rubbed all four hands together. And Mrsha laughed. Then she sat upright as a bolt of inspiration came down on her from above.
And lo. Mrsha’s fur stood on end as she looked at her two companions. No, family. No—teammates.
There came a time when the great wizard of the inn found she was alone. And her power waned in the age of mortals, and the Defenders of the Cave were too far gone, in lands forbidden by the [Princess] of the Inn. So the mighty wizard stood alone.
But she was not alone. For came the singing Green Bard, and the mighty Sky Hunter. And they joined the wizard on more great quests of bravery and glory.
In days to come, in days of yore, they would be known as the most famous adventurers to ever live. The Mrsha Adventuring Team would travel the world, led by Mrsha the Great and Terrible!
The little Gnoll looked up. And Numbtongue grinned at her. And his crimson eyes shone with that wild light of the free. It was a dangerous thing. Because you couldn’t cage them. And Bird stared up at the sky, and he had never been caged by his Hive.
It was the beginning of something powerful. Something new, and definitely not child-safe. And here Lyonette thought she was being astute by making anti-Mrsha precautions with Octavia. She had no idea, no idea at all.
But in time, Mrsha recalled one last thing. And she looked up at Numbtongue and pointed. The Hobgoblin turned his head and saw the last hill, that she had not gone near the entire time. Wailant could not see it. It was only there if you looked for it.
“What is that?”
Mrsha stood up. She looked at Bird. And the Antinium nodded.
“Go. I will stay here in the sun. I cannot be with them forever.”
So the little Gnoll stood up on two legs, and she reached out. Numbtongue paused, because Mrsha’s face was suddenly grave. He took her paw. And she led him up the hill. Past the meadow of flowers. Higher, to a place with fog.
And the statues. And the [Bard]’s eyes went wide. He stumbled forwards. Then, he fell to his knees.
Mrsha stared. There they stood.
Goblins.
The mists cleared, and they stood or sat on the grassy hill. Goblins. Too many to count. They had not been there for Mrsha, or even Erin. It was as if they had been waiting for him. Now, they were here.
Goblins. Every one Erin had known. And she had known so many. From the Goblins who she had buried, that a Senior Guardsman had killed so long ago, to the ones who had died…it felt like yesterday. But it was three of them that crushed Numbtongue’s chest, made him bow his head and clutch at the grass.
Bugear, Headscratcher, and Shorthilt. They stood together. Bugear’s sword was drawn. Shorthilt was kneeling, maintaining his blade. And Headscratcher was leaning on his axe.
They stared ahead, towards some foe in the distance. None of them were relaxed. That was not how they had lived or died. But they looked—content. And they stood as part of a group.
But their companions Erin had not known. And it was enough. Numbtongue could almost see the others, as if they stood there. He curled up, tears running from his crimson eyes. And then he looked. He had to.
So many faces. Spiderslicer, sauntering out of the inn for a duel. Noears, laughing as he had in his last moments on the roof of the inn. Eater of Spears, a silent shadow.
And—Garen Redfang. He sat on the back of a Carn Wolf, and stared down at Numbtongue. Even him. The [Bard] looked up.
“Chieftain.”
He touched at his heart. And he knelt.
They were all there. Goblins whom Erin had known but for a moment. But she cared. Pyrite should have been there. But she had never known him. And the others—
Pyrite was not there. But another Goblin sat, at the lonely table made of stone. Numbtongue had almost missed him. But now he saw the last Goblin, smiling with bitter regret.
Reiss.
He looked as he had when Erin had seen him die. A hole in his chest, held together just by will and a [Necromancer]’s magic. Dying. Numbtongue looked at his face. He looked at Garen, and his brother. And he turned away.
Something struck Numbtongue, as he wandered the hill, looking at faces, battering his heart against memory. He went back to the three Redfangs. And he searched.
But there were no other Goblins. And there should have been. At least two. But no matter how long Numbtongue searched, he couldn’t find them. He came back to the trio at last and realized.
There was no Rabbiteater. Or Badarrow.
And Numbtongue had to believe that meant something. No—surely it did. Or else he would stand among them. And if they weren’t there, that meant one thing.
The Hobgoblin’s legs gave out a second time. But this time he fell on his rear, in the soft grass. And he began to laugh.
The Goblin’s laughter echoed from the lonely hill. It echoed across the garden. Numbtongue laughed so hard his ribs hurt. And then he wept, cried with happiness and sadness.
By the time Mrsha came with Erin, Numbtongue was just sitting there. Staring up at their faces. The little Gnoll shyly hid at the outskirts of that place. The [Goblin Soulbard] looked up as Erin walked over. Her footsteps were faltering. And she stared at the Goblins as he had.
But then she looked at him. Slowly, Erin walked over. She stared at the three Redfangs. And her face was pale. Her voice was soft.
“I just remembered. Sanctuary means a safe place. A reserve. But it also means a sacred place. That’s what the definition is.”
She looked at Numbtongue.
“I’m sorry.”
He smiled. Erin was uncomprehending, but Numbtongue stood up and pointed.
“Look. They’re missing.”
It took Erin a moment to understand. And then she did smile. She laughed, like him.
“So is she. Rags. Missing.”
“Missing!”
He agreed. And Erin turned. She hugged Numbtongue, as tight as she could.
“Thank you. I’m sorry. I’m so sorry for asking—”
“We followed you. It was our choice.”
That was all the [Bard] said. He leaned on her. And she on him. They stood together, such that if one had not been there, the other would have fallen. But together they stood.
They stood there, and Mrsha was embarrassed to be here. No, ashamed. Because it was not her place.
She crept away. And she went down the little hill. It was visible to all for a moment. The Goblin’s laughter had drawn the eye, revealing it. The Stronghearts stared up at that place. And Erin whispered into Numbtongue’s chest.
“If you have to go and find them—I’ll help you. But tell them—don’t forget. This is your home, okay?”
His arms tightened and he hesitated. But then Numbtongue looked up. His eyes ran with tears, but he shook his head.
“It’s fine. I will be strong. Protect you. And this place. And when I find them—I will be strong.”
The Hobgoblin looked around, shaking as he clung to the [Innkeeper], and saw the dead, in the moments he longed to cling to. His friends and brothers and adopted father…
And the Goblin Lord, alone at his table. An enemy—but not in death. Now, only a spirit. They met each other’s gaze and Reiss slowly bowed. Silently, painfully, as he watched a Human and a Goblin embrace in the silence of the garden.
 
——
 
“Yup, this is a damn good spot for Sage’s Grass.”
Below the sacred hill, Wailant inspected the meadow. He seemed pleased by it. A perfect little spot. He glanced up at the distant pair on the hill. Then he turned.
“Are those two fucking? I’m just curious.”
Garia kicked him down the hill. Mrsha watched Wailant go tumbling past her. She waved at Garia and the City Runner waved back. Then Mrsha leapt.
The former [Pirate] was cursing unfilial daughters as he got up. He looked up as a black shape hurtled towards him. Wailant dove. And the Antinium missed him by inches.
Bird was sliding down a hill on his back, since rolling wasn’t as easy. But his domed back-shell meant the Worker achieved commendable speed on the hill.
Mrsha was riding on his stomach.
“Wheeeee.”
The two nearly went into the pond. Bird and Mrsha raced up the hill, and Mrsha found her ball. She pleaded and Bird obliged.
A family. Garia watched as Mrsha raced after a ball that Bird threw. She turned as Viceria watched the same sight.
“Hey, Mom. Um—I’m sorry about not coming home that often.”
The [Green Mage] smiled at Garia.
“You might not have wanted the illusion spells, but you did find your own way, Garia. Don’t mind your father. He’s just adjusting. But you should come home more often.”
They watched as Wailant, grumbling, began to kick over flowers, muttering about fertilizer and hauling everything in here by hand. Garia sighed.
“Sure.”
“And if you would like, I can lend you some better clothes. I don’t mind your style of dress, Garia, but you need more magical gear. And maybe some more fashionable leggings, even if they have to be Runner’s…”
“Mom.”
 
——
 
In time, even Mrsha was tired out by the fun. And that was something that had never happened before. Mrsha poked her stomach to see if her fun-thing was broken, but she was just tired. She flopped onto her back and panted as Bird walked away to pose in the flowers and bask in the sun.
Erin and Numbtongue eventually came down from the hill. And Mrsha let the adults do their thing. They had grand plans that involved some stinky grass.
But Mrsha had plans too. This was her garden! She was going to plant all kinds of things here and make them grow. The [Druid] liked that thought. She raced around the garden after a short nap. Then she found something horribly offensive besides Wailant.
It was in the tropical, humid area. Mrsha had a lot of things that had to go, including the pricker bushes. But this? This had to go too.
It was a big tree with…big pods. They ranged from orange-brown to a deep purple-red, and the fruits-pods were fat. Bigger than blue-juice trees, or anything else Mrsha had ever seen. Some were reddish, but some of the fallen pods had turned yellow too. Mrsha stared up at them, perplexed.
What a yucky tree. Ew! Not in her garden! The [Druid] frowned darkly. She’d be making big changes here! The Faerie Flowers would be perfect on the sad hill. The mean drunk [Pirate Farmer] could grow his stupid Sage’s Grass—whatever that was—in the meadow, but Mrsha was going to plant nice flowers! And blue fruit trees! And—um—more flowers! For Apista!
She wasn’t going to have nasty pod-trees, no sir! Mrsha kicked a pod savagely. Then she sniffed it, and shook her head. It smelled odd! Odd, foreign—she was sure it would be horrible to taste.
Mrsha waved her wand at the tree, furious at its yuckiness. She was about to cast some horrible, Tier 9 spell on it when a Centaur emerged from the bushes.
“Whew! Thank goodness for emergency bushes. Erin really needs an outhouse for—aah!”
He jumped as Mrsha stared at him. Palt immediately backed up. He guiltily shuffled his hooves.
“I uh—disposed of my waste! I can vanish it! Don’t worry about it! It’s just inconvenient for Centaurs to—oh, it’s just you.”
He breathed a sigh of relief as it turned out to just be Mrsha. She glared and signed with her paws. Palt stared at her blankly.
“What’s that, Miss Mrsha? No need to worry. I do actually have my ways. Er—don’t tell Miss Solstice, would you?”
He noticed the tree Mrsha was so furious about as the Gnoll glared. The Centaur eyed the pod Mrsha was kicking and her apparent disgust. He smiled as he levitated the pod up with a flick of the fingers.
“Oh. Cacao trees. That’s a Baleros-native. I think I saw some Chandrarian plants over there in the arid section. They have a fruit on the inside which is edible. Not exactly good if you ask me; too fruity and slimy. But some of our uh, guests at Wistram have been making a fuss over them.”
Mrsha paused. Edible? She wanted to taste it. She pointed and opened her mouth. Even Palt got that one.
“Miss Solstice, would it be fine if I fed this cacao fruit to Mrsha? I can assure you, it’s quite edible.”
The [Innkeeper] was talking with Wailant and the others. Her head turned, vaguely.
“Huh? What’s that, Palt?”
Her eyes were red and Palt stopped. He pointed, lamely.
“You have a tree over there. I don’t mean to disturb. But Miss Mrsha—”
He gestured to Mrsha. The Gnoll signed about Palt pooping. Erin’s brows crossed. She stared at Palt. He turned beet red. Erin’s mouth opened.
And then she paused. The word echoed around her brain a bit. And to be fair, Erin at first assumed it was a word from this world. But had such similarities. And if you knew a bit, a bit at all…
“Say that again? What did you call that tree?”
