“Why not? She’s got a magic door, right? She can charge a mint for it! And we have to look out for the farm, Garia. Don’t want your parents to starve, right?”
The City Runner folded her arms. Erin saw Beza surreptitiously flexing her abdomen behind her. Ulinde was staring. Selphids had a thing for bodies.
“Starve? You bought that wine from Chandrar! And Mom said you bought fourteen books—and a bunch of that Terandrian beef! You didn’t even give me a steak when I came home!”
“Yeah, well, it was too good to leave. Come back home more often.”
“But what if I can’t afford it? Lyonette, can I afford it?”
Erin turned to the [Princess]. Wailant waved a hand.
“Not to worry. You live here. Have a little Gnoll kid and an inn? You’re not going anywhere. I’ll take installments. We’ll work out a contract. Not even a blood contract! We’ll just sign a basic magic contract. We have some, right, Viceria?”
“That’s correct.”
“Mother! Erin’s my friend! Lower the price a bit!”
Garia was red-faced. But her father just laughed. He wagged a finger at Erin.
“Sage’s Grass farming is expensive. Growing the damn stuff and protecting the fields takes a lot of our profits! Not to mention hiring help for harvests, er, mental stress, and so on. Three—four gold a plant? I’m dying here. Do you know how much it costs to ward my fields from monsters? Hire help? Buy a new wagon?”
“And what about me? Having to pay for all this and run my inn?”
“Well, I suppose that’s part of our deal to transport goods. Which is why, if you give us a fair bargain on our contract, we could lower that price a bit. But we’re the ones suffering here.”
Wailant hugged his wife, grinning unrepentantly. Erin stared at him. He rubbed her the wrong way a bit, but she almost liked him despite that. And he was a [Pirate], even a former one.
“We’ll…talk.”
Lyonette was gearing up for a battle; there was no way she was sitting this one out. But Viceria was smiling and Erin was sure that a [Farmer] who sold magic grass had to be good at bargaining—and it wasn’t Wailant who did the bargaining. But the [Pirate] was in it. He held out a hand and Erin finally shook it. He grinned at her, and grabbed two tankards from Ishkr’s tray.
“Let’s talk it out over another drink.”
He toasted her, a gleam in his eyes. Erin looked at the [Pirate]. Then, she shrugged and drank.
[Immunity: Alcohol], on. Wailant’s eyes bulged as he tried to keep up.
In retrospect, that was his one big mistake.
 
——
 
Later that day, the contract was settled. Viceria and Wailant were residing at the inn, having completed a contract that Erin was fairly happy about. And they were not alone.
The Halfseekers had arrived and Moore had joined Viceria and Palt as she toured the garden, exclaiming over the unique, separated biomes. Wailant was drinking with the other Halfseekers and sharing sea stories.
“I understand the Ullsinoi’s interest. That is a fascinating garden. Mage Moore—”
“Just Moore. I’m not Wistram-trained.”
The half-Giant was bowing, smiling as he spoke to a fellow [Green Mage]. Viceria laid a hand on his arm.
“Mage Moore, have you thought about growing anything in there? The Sage’s Grass won’t take that much room, and there are multiple plots of land, each with their own environment. Miss Solstice has a treasure, truly. The greatest upside will be that it will be free from monsters and pests seeking to eat the magical plants.”
The half-Giant smiled with pleasure. Palt cleared his throat, and nodded around the garden and back towards the inn. Erin was talking with Belgrade about tables which were pools—the Centaur itched to listen in, but this was more important.
“I’m trying to negotiate on her behalf. Which means, Mage Viceria, if you’d care to involve your farm, I’m sure the Elusive Lot would make you a deal—”
“We will pass. My husband would cause more trouble than not. However, I foresee a mutually beneficial relationship, assuming Miss Solstice allows us to transport Sage’s Grass.”
Viceria gave Palt a smile and the [Illusionist] sighed. Well, he’d expected as much. He turned his attention to the garden.
“Perhaps a bit of dreamleaf…I don’t suppose we could alter Miss Solstice’s opinions? She’s rather set against…any drugs.”
“Hm. I could try. What is her holdup?”
“An objection to them in principle.”
“Has she tried them?”
“No. I think they were banned in her city, or nation.”
“Well, it is an issue. I could speak to Miss Solstice. Although, myself, it’s not a hobby I’ve ever indulged in. But I’m familiar with it.”
“You don’t try anything, Moore?”
Palt and Viceria looked at him. The half-Giant shrugged, self-consciously.
“At my size, I couldn’t afford—”
He stopped as the two instantly dug in their pouches and began to confer over the best plants.
 
——
 
Inside the inn, Lyonette was speaking with Octavia. The [Alchemist] was in a kind of limbo, as were the Players of Celum. But they were setting up for a play; she couldn’t set up her own business since she had no shop to work in. But Lyonette was doing her best to make the Stitch-Girl more comfortable and reassured about the future.
“We’ll have Belgrade build your shop as soon as he’s done with Erin, Octavia. I promise. You can even design your shop, which has to be a plus! Right now, let’s talk about um, explosiveness and Mrsha…”
All throughout the inn, people were excited, talking, making plans. And that meant the little white Gnoll wandering from person to person found no one to play with.
Not even Garia! The City Runner was in a discussion with Beza about [Martial Arts], and Mrsha didn’t like Beza. Disconsolate, Mrsha wandered around. Everyone was too busy for poor Mrsha! Even Apista! She was clinging to the ceiling after sipping from the faerie flowers. She was off the wagon.
And then she spotted someone who’d almost been forgotten amid the chaos. Someone who wasn’t part of all the big things.
Numbtongue. He, like Mrsha, didn’t have to make adult decisions. He didn’t think about gold or stuff like that. He was sitting at a table, having lunch as he read from a book he’d borrowed from Wailant’s collection. He looked up as Mrsha raced over to his table and waved at him.
“Hm?”
Mrsha made sure she had his attention. Then she began to sign with her paws. She had her own language now, and she could express ideas to anyone who had studied Mrsha-signing.
Come, come! Exciting!
She knew Numbtongue understood her. The Hobgoblin paused, and carefully closed the book. Then he raised his hands and signed back.
How much?
Mrsha nearly fell over in surprise. But—the Hobgoblin looked at her expectantly and she remembered. He was Numbtongue. The [Bard]! And a Goblin. Of course he had learned this language, just like he’d learned the common tongue.
Mrsha stretched her paws as wide as she could.
This much! Very exciting! Come!
Numbtongue stood up. He paused as Moore, Viceria, and Palt hurried out to go outside for a smoke. Somehow, they had a feeling the garden was not the place for it and none wanted to arouse Erin’s wrath. The Hobgoblin had seen the door, of course, but Erin had promised to explain it.
Now, however, prompted by Mrsha, she tugged him into the doorway. And at last, he entered the Garden of Sanctuary.
 
——
 
It was magical. Beautiful. And oh, so very safe. The Hobgoblin [Bard] stared. Mrsha ran about him, showing him flowers, the different spots. But the Hobgoblin just stared.
A safe place. Literally, a safe place filled with plants. It was…incredible. Stunning. He slowly walked up the hill, looking at flowers, peering at mushrooms. He even ate one and confirmed it was, indeed, a mushroom.
So caught up was Numbtongue that he barely noticed the Antinium Worker standing on the hill. Mrsha paused as she raced up the hill, because here was another member of the Erin family household.
Bird. The Worker was spreading his arms as he stared up at the sky. Rather reminiscent of the way he’d stood on the Wyvern’s head in Pallass, actually. But he was just staring up, at the opening in the dome.
Birds were flying overhead. The Worker was staring at them. He turned his head as Mrsha and Numbtongue crested the hill.
“Oh, hello. Mrsha and Numbtongue. I am not shooting birds. Just staring.”
The Worker waved with one of his four arms. Mrsha somersaulted over to him and Numbtongue waved. He’d gotten to know Bird more since their illicit drinking and Wyvern eating sessions.
“Bird. Hello.”
“Hello, Numbtongue. I have already said hello, but hello again. I heard you were abducted. Now you are here. Do you see the birds?”
The [Bard] looked up.
“Yes.”
“They are flying. They fly away when they see me or the Workers, but if I stand here, they cannot see me. I wonder if I shoot them, will they die? From inside here?”
Bird stared up at the magical opening to the sky. He shook his head slowly.
“But I am banned from shooting birds. Which is sad.”
Mrsha tilted her head. She wasn’t exactly sure why Bird liked killing birds. She waved her paws and the Worker looked down.
“Why do I like killing birds when I like to fly? Because…flying things taste good. And I am jealous they fly. So perhaps we are enemies. But I would be sad if all birds died.”
The logic was far from undeniable. Mrsha and Numbtongue exchanged a look, but the [Bird Hunter] just stood, staring up at the sky. He seemed very content to do just that. Numbtongue looked around.
“Wow.”
He’d heard Erin using the word, but this seemed like the appropriate time for him to use it himself. Mrsha nodded. She ran away and raced back with an armful of flowers. She tossed them at Numbtongue. He grinned.
“Tasty?”
Mrsha sniffed at them and shrugged. The Goblin ate a few.
“Bitter. But good. This place is so…large. It can grow lots of food.”
Mrsha nodded excitedly. So did Bird.
“Very defensible. And there is even food so we will not have to eat each other during a siege.”
“Good point.”
Numbtongue and Bird were on the same wavelength about a lot of things. They stood and chatted as Mrsha raced down the hill to show them more things. And pouted when they didn’t immediately follow. They strolled after her.
“So were you kidnapped? I did not ask.”
“No. Strange Humans took me home.”
“Were they nice?”
Numbtongue rubbed his chest where he’d been kicked. And recalled that he’d been hit twice in the groin since meeting Wailant, albeit once self-inflicted.
“Sort of. Not sure. One is…annoying. Sort of.”
“Would you like me to shoot him? Accidentally?”
One of Bird’s antennae waved winsomely, the equivalent of him winking. It was such an Erin gesture that Numbtongue and Mrsha instantly assumed she’d taught him that. He laughed.
“No. But thank you.”
“You are welcome. Oh look. Mrsha has found water. I will die in water, but only if I drown. Belgrade is afraid of it.”
Bird still strode up to his knees in the pond. He splashed around merrily, and Numbtongue marveled.
And Mrsha—smiled. She waved and the two, Hobgoblin and Worker, jogged after her, all too willing to let her show them about. And they had time for it. Neither one said ‘we have to do this now, Mrsha’, or ‘maybe we’ll play in a bit, Mrsha’. They were all-in. And Mrsha looked at them and tentatively asked a question. Bird and Numbtongue stared down at her paws.
Do you want to play?
 
——
 
A few minutes later, Bird poked his head up in the tropical section of the garden. A little, white, furry shape was hiding in a bush. It had taken him a while to find her, with her Skills, but Bird was persistent.
He was also monologuing. Bird whispered as he crept up on the bundle of fur.
“This is Bird the [Hunter]. I am now in sight of my quarry. And now I will sneak up on the helpless Gnoll. I am going to eat her. Probably. Although she might not taste good.”
The bundle of fur quivered with anticipation as the Worker stealthily made his way towards her. Again, except for his voice.
“She has no idea of my approach. And now I will grab her, braise her in a pot—aaah! AAAAAAH!”
He screamed. And Mrsha screamed, silently, and ran. Bird ran after her, still screaming. Numbtongue, hiding in his tree, fell out of it laughing as Mrsha bolted across the garden. Bird kept chasing her until he grabbed her up, and then the Gnoll fought as he bit her gently with his mandibles.
And Mrsha was so happy she nearly threw up laughing and giggling. She had made a discovery today. And that was that Bird and Numbtongue were a thousand times funner than Lyonette and Erin.
Lyonette and Erin were like…Urksh. They were good. But they could be strict! Or mean! You went to them when you wanted to be hugged, or cuddled, or if you were sad. But they couldn’t run about forever. Erin would flop over and gasp for air, even if you jumped on her back. And she and Lyonette got angry at pranks, or just ran out of energy. They had ‘things to do’.
But Bird? Numbtongue? They didn’t get tired. And they knew how to play. When they played tag, they sprinted. Bird might have been slow, but he had a tactical mind that meant he’d run through some of the prickly bushes that Numbtongue and Mrsha refused to dash into. His armored chitin didn’t mind one bit. And Numbtongue was fully willing to throw the ball all day.
“Catch. Catch!”
Bird happily threw the ball in a triangle and Mrsha dashed back and forth, catching her ball and throwing it clumsily. The [Bard] drew his guitar, thwacked his ball across the garden—it bounced off the other side of the dome. His [Reinforced Guitar] meant he could do that with impunity and it made a lovely sound each time he did.
And when that was done? They invented the greatest game ever, totally by chance. Mrsha went soaring through the air as Numbtongue grabbed the ball and she refused to let go. So he threw her at Bird.
The Gnoll flew through the air, screaming silently. She howled when she landed, the only sound she could make, and Bird looked at her.
“Is this a good howl or a bad one?”
Again, again! Mrsha raised her arms and Bird obligingly tossed her back. Numbtongue grinned and caught Mrsha. This time he threw her high and Bird opened his arms to catch her.
“This is almost as good as flying. I am most envious of you, Mrsha. Fly! Fly!”
Mrsha did, flailing her arms and laughing in the air. This was the most fun ever! She went up, panicked as she saw no Numbtongue and fell back to earth—
And the Hob slid down and caught her. Mrsha laughed and smacked his head as he began to heave her, this time towards the pond.
“Numbtongue! Bird! Stop that at once!”
