Across the room, Viceria poured herself a drink and put her head down at the bar. Lyonette gave her a sympathetic look. Wailant spluttered, holding his hands out.
“Don’t be like that, Miss Solstice! It’s seafarer’s—come on, have a drink.”
“I have one on my face!”
“Erin—I’m really sorry. Dad, shut up. Go over there. Here, I have a handkerchief—”
Garia hurried over as Wailant held up his hands in a ‘what did I do wrong?’ gesture. Numbtongue was cracking up a bit, but he went still when Erin glared around. Lyonette came over with some water and they tried to help Erin clean off, but she really needed a bath.
“This isn’t funny!”
“It’s sort of funny.”
“It’s hilarious.”
Seborn disappeared as Erin glared at him. But Lyonette was nodding.
“Erin, give him a second chance. Let’s get you cleaned up—Ishkr! We’re going to need a bath! We have the hot tubs set up, and we’ll have a bathing room when the inn’s finished.”
“He’s a jerk!”
“He reminds me of you, a bit. A male you, Erin.”
“He does not. Stop saying stuff like this! You’re hurting my feelings!”
 
——
 
A bit later, some more guests had come into the inn and Erin was clean. Wailant did apologize, sincerely, as both his wife and daughter coached him and apologized with him. Erin had cooled down a bit, but she did not like Wailant.
He got on her nerves. And Lyonette’s pushy remark didn’t help. But she had to admit, Garia vouchsafing for her parents made sense. And Seborn himself had apologized.
“It is a custom, Erin. I’d have warned you, but it was that or stab him. It’s not just words. His lot have killed Drowned People. Either I hit him or we went for blades.”
“It’s just—fine. Fine. You’re on my bad list, Seborn! I dunno what that means, but you’re on it for today!”
Erin scowled around, but she went back to the table. With Viceria and Palt. The Centaur had come in—he came in every day—and he was chatting with Viceria.
“Mage Viceria, you have my thanks. And it’s a pleasure to see you again.”
“Likewise, Palt. I must say I’m surprised to see you again. And this door!”
Viceria was nodding as they talked. Erin blinked at the two of them.
“Wait, you know each other? Hi, Montressa. Beza.”
She stared at the two [Mages] who were sitting at another table. Beza and Montressa nodded back, polite as ever. Then Erin turned to Palt. He was nodding.
“I stopped by the Strongheart farm on the way here. Miss Viceria is actually a part of my faction.”
“Distantly. One has to be affiliated, but I’m on the outside.”
Viceria smiled. Erin blinked at her.
“Ullsinoi? Hey…are you an [Illusionist]?”
She narrowed her eyes at Viceria and Palt. The woman laughed.
“I’m a [Green Mage], as I said, Miss Erin. Not everyone who’s affiliated with the Ullsinoi faction are [Illusionists]. And it is quite a practical group to associate with. My role is just to supply some of what they need. It’s good marketing, for a [Farmer].”
She nodded at Palt. Erin blinked, and then glanced at the Centaur. He was smoking one of his smokeless cigars.
“So you grow uh, Palt’s stuff?”
The Centaur coughed, looking pained at Erin’s oblique way of referencing his habits. Which was also how she thought about it. It was still illegal stuff in Erin’s mind, but Viceria didn’t miss a beat.
“Dreamleaf? I have a few plants, yes. I can sell you some, Miss Solstice, if you’d like? As well as a gift, for my husband’s behavior.”
“Erin doesn’t smoke any, Miss Viceria. I know, but she’s strictly against all forms of relaxation.”
Palt sighed. Erin opened her mouth to argue it out, but gave up. Wasn’t it bad for you? She didn’t actually know, she just knew it was illegal—and people had been trying to make it un-illegal when she’d left. But she wasn’t a cool kid, in that she’d never taken up invitations to smoke weed. Or drink, that much. Chess was her fuel!
“We’re just acquaintances. But perhaps Palt can help persuade you to let us have another chance. You won’t have to interact with my husband, Miss Solstice. And I’d like to apologize again—”
“It’s fine. Seborn explained it. I guess it’s okay, but look—I’m serious about Pallass. The door has problems. There’s not enough magic, and people are starting to go to Pallass every day! I sent two this morning—and if I sent more, the door runs outta power. It’s two per day, so you’ll have to sign up, and there’s a waiting list of a month now!”
“A month!?”
Wailant shot to his feet. Viceria pointed.
“Sit!”
“Can’t we charge the door up?”
“I mean, that’s what Moore’s doing, but you have to pay for that and clear it with the Pallass [Watch Captain]. Which I doubt they’ll be happy with. The Halfseekers only get special treatment because they helped save the city. And it takes a lot of mana. Moore can only do it for two people before he gets tired and he has a lot of mana, apparently.”
Viceria was frowning. Palt was nodding as he explained about the issue.
“I can charge it once and halfway. Regular [Mages] would struggle, Mage Viceria, but I’m afraid the door’s under strict control after the Pallass incident. And you know Drake regulations…”
“I see. That is a problem.”
The woman was sighing. It was at that moment when Wailant, glancing at the open double doors leading to the hallway, wandered off. He wasn’t allowed in the discussion, so he devoted his time to staring at the other sights the inn had.
And it had plenty. But the [Pirate] was most interested in the Garden of Sanctuary. He swore softly as Mrsha trotted through it, with Garia. Numbtongue kept glancing up, but he didn’t know what the door was, and Octavia was talking to him, worried about suddenly quitting Celum.
Wailant tried to follow Garia through the door with Mrsha. He slammed against the open doorway, cursed a blue streak, and was grudgingly let in for a look as Erin sighed.
Rather than disappear for a while as Erin had hoped, he came storming out of the door a minute later. Viceria glared, but Wailant strode up to the table with a huge grin on his face. He pointed at Erin.
“Aha! Tell you what—I’ll help you upgrade that door of yours.”
The discussion halted as Palt, Viceria, Erin, and everyone else in earshot turned to look at him. Viceria glowered at her husband as the two other Wistram [Mages] looked up.
“Wailant, dear. If Palt, Miss Montressa, Miss Beza, and the other [Mages] couldn’t upgrade the door, I doubt I could do a thing. Nor would I risk it.”
“Oh yeah? I can do it. And what’s more, I can have it done within a few days! Half a week at most! It’ll be simple and it’ll work.”
“What? No way. Pisces and the others couldn’t figure out how to alter the spell!”
Erin gave Wailant a severe look. He waved a hand, laughing.
“Alter the spell? What am I, an [Enchanter]? I know what Viceria said. Hah! [Mages], always making things too complex when there’s simple answers. I’m surprised your Drowned Boy didn’t think of it. I had the idea when I just saw that magical garden of yours. Safe, is it?”
Seborn glanced up from his table. He was lounging about, and Ulinde was doing little cantrips to amuse them as they waited. There were board games, but neither adventurer was interested. Maybe Erin did need more entertainments, like cards. Or…pool? She made a note as she stared at Wailant.
“Yeah, it’s really safe. No one can get in, I think. Why?”
“Well, that’s all I need. Pay me, and I’ll make sure your door can ferry as many as you want to Pallass! Maybe not all the time, but enough to keep it running with a lot more magical power!”
“Wailant, how could you do that?”
Seborn was eying Wailant. The [Pirate] had a gleam in his eyes and a very smug smile. He spread his arms wide.
“When it comes to fancy magic and whale’s crap like that, everyone has a bunch of fancy ideas. New Skills! Enchant it better! Make a gemstone leyline harnessing all the magical power in the region! But look, if you want magic, why not try a [Farmer]’s solution?”
Erin’s brow wrinkled. But across the room, Beza sprayed her drink out her nose. Palt’s mouth opened and the cigar dropped on the table as he got what Wailant was saying. Viceria sat up.
“You don’t mean—”
“What? What?”
Erin looked around. Wailant grinned.
“Miss Solstice, did you know Sage’s Grass is magical stuff? It grows and generates magic. Like rare monsters. That’s why [Alchemists] love it. If you want free mana, just plant a bunch of Sage’s Grass and crap around the inn.”
For a second Erin stared. Then she looked at Palt.
“Wait, would that work?”
“I—”
The Centaur hesitated, and then turned beet red. Wailant laughed, pointing at his face.
“Why not? See? He didn’t think of it! None of you fancy robes did! Tell ‘em, Seborn!”
The Drowned Man rose. He nodded at Erin.
“Now he says it…Drowned Ships have tanks full of Gleamshrimp and magical underwater plants. They can power an entire ship barrier spell. But I’ve never seen a landfolk version of that.”
“Well, I have. And I’m a farmer and I know it can be done. Tell you what, I’ll sell your [Innkeeper] girl a field’s worth of Sage’s Grass—if she can meet my price. And I’ll give her a small discount if she lets me sell to Invrisil direct!”
Wailant jerked a thumb towards his chest. Erin stared at him. It couldn’t be that simple, right? She looked at Viceria, but the [Green Mage] was smiling. And Palt—
“Would that work, Palt? Really?”
“Er, give me one second, Erin. I need to confer with—”
Palt got to his hooves. He hurried over to the table with Montressa and Beza. Even Ulinde rejoined them for a moment as they moved into a huddle and began discussing. Erin heard things like ‘natural leyline’, ‘ambient mana distribution’, and so on being tossed around. And then silence. Then the [Mages] began to argue hotly.
After a while they began to raise their voices and push each other. And given that one was a Centaur, the other a Minotaur, a Gnoll’s corpse and the fourth a slim young Human woman, Montressa got the worst of it.
“Hey! What’s going on?”
Erin looked at them. The Wistram [Mages] turned back to her, looking shamefaced.
“Er, we’re trying to assign blame over which of us is at fault for not coming up with that idea.”
“Hah! Told you!”
The [Innkeeper]’s jaw dropped as Wailant strutted forwards. Montressa closed her eyes.
“Oh dead gods. Are we less intelligent than him?”
Erin turned back, and the [Pirate] winked at her.
“Gotta think practical, Miss Erin Solstice. Like a [Pirate]. So, we making deals or what?”
He held out a hand. Erin blinked at him. She slowly walked over to the table as he smirked with self-satisfaction—
And tossed a drink at him.
 
——
 
A while later, Wailant sat at the table and spoke numbers. He was in a good humor despite being sticky with ale. As he put it, it made them quits. Erin didn’t know about that—she held a grudge—but she was willing to put all that aside.
“A Sage’s Grass garden. You see, the normal issue is that magical plants, especially Sage’s Grass, attract monsters and pests. But you’ve got a damned good Skill. I know [Farmers] who’d sacrifice their children for a Skill like that.”
Wailant was explaining as he gestured towards the Garden of Sanctuary. Lyonette, Palt, Viceria, Montressa, and everyone else interested in this deal, was gathered around, which was practically everyone, really. The [Pirate] was explaining to them how it would work.
“We’ll plant a field right in the middle of the garden. The Sage’s Grass will generate mana, and the door’ll use it. The more Sage’s Grass, the more power recharging that door-thing. Won’t cost you much, either! For planting and us getting the seeds grown—Sage’s Grass dies if you uproot it, damn fragile—it won’t cost you more than…six hundred gold?”
“Six hundred?”
Erin exclaimed, worried. She’d been paid more than that by Ilvriss for her part in fighting the Raskghar, and she knew how much the Horns and the Halfseekers had made, but Lyonette was already spending a lot on the inn! Wailant snorted.
“For an entire field’s worth. A single plant grown to maturity with multiple leaves—with our quality and size, not wild-grown—is three gold pieces. Might not even be that much! Say it’s only sixty Sage’s Grass that you need to keep that door charged. Actually, I remember selling thirty-eight last year to some Gnoll in Pallass. Gouged him a bit, but we’ll give you a friendly rate. So—thirty-eight times three…you do that math.”
Erin paused. She could do that math, but she would have liked a calculator. Erin’s mouth moved wordlessly. Half the people in the crowd and the [Mages] instantly began adding up. But it was Wailant who beat them all.
“38 shares of 3 coin’s loot makes out to 114 gold pieces. Which is nothing. I bet you this inn pulls in that much in a month, at least, eh? Hold on, if each customer pays about a silver coin’s worth per night, which used to be standard in fare, but if we assume one silver coin and eight which is the standard for pricy damn inns, multiply that by say, an average visitor number of say, eighty bastards per night, that’s…7 gold and 4 silver, if I’m right.”
Erin stared. Wailant was counting on his fingers. He shrugged.
“Could be off. Call half that for paying staff and food. You’re looking at 3 gold and 12 silver. Which means you’d pay off a field’s earnings in a month and a day on your daily profits alone! I’m the bastard being set up here!”
“Wait, your math is wrong. I’m not getting that. Wait—how much per each coin?”
Erin was trying to confirm the [Pirate]’s quick calculus. Lyonette whispered to Erin.
“It’s 10 coppers per silver, and 20 silver per gold piece. I think he’s close, Erin. How in the world…?”
Wailant grinned.
“Pirate’s math. Can’t be off when you’re calculating your haul in front of a group with quick hands. See? It could be cheap! But let’s count on an entire field since you’re using that door. Happily, I have a full stock of seeds since we just finished the first harvest…so let’s call it two hundred plants and go up?”
“Two hundred? Wait, that is six hundred gold.”
“Exactly, and we’re selling it to you at the base price. Because we’ll be using your door. Normally, we’d mark it up.”
Wailant tucked his thumbs in his belt. Viceria nudged him.
“Make it eight hundred gold, Wailant. Or four gold and six silver per plant if we go lower. We have to pay more for fertilizer since the trade war’s cutting off our usual supplier.”
“Mom! Erin can’t pay for that!”
Garia protested. Her parents both stared at her, looking hurt at this betrayal. Wailant shook his head.
