Viceria hurried into one of the storage rooms. She came back, levitating a painting out. It was of Garia. The [Artist] had clearly embellished her features as one does for a portrait, but he’d kept what was essentially her. And Numbtongue…shrugged.
“Bigger. Ah.”
He remembered his conversations with Erin, and Lyonette worrying about Mrsha being pudgy. Viceria nodded. Wailant muttered as he stared at the old Garia.
“She used to be a sturdy girl. Not gigantic, mind. But properly tough. The kind you’d see on any crew and think twice about tussling with in a ship fight. Dead gods, the women I knew, who could squeeze your head to pieces with one arm!”
Numbtongue nodded. He knew the same types of Hobs, male and female. He still failed to see Wailant’s problem.
“She decided to change herself. She’s not the little girl I raised. She’s lost weight—I’d not recognize her walking down the street. All because that’s the way she thinks she ought to look. Changing her body around like a Drowned Woman with her Skill—what next? Chop off an arm and replace it with one of them fancy magic ones?”
“Shush.”
Viceria came back around the table with a scowl, having put the painting away. She glared at her husband, looking genuinely annoyed with him for once.
“You should treat your daughter’s choices with respect, Wailant Strongheart. We ought to let her be what she wants. So long as she’s not hurting herself, what does it matter? It’s her choice. [Illusionists] do exactly what she does. Except they can only pretend. I use my tonics and spells; why is her Skill wrong?”
She looked hard at her husband. And Wailant hesitated. He opened and closed his mouth, swallowing arguments, and at last, shook it. He looked at Numbtongue.
“Get yourself a good woman, Numbtongue. And it’s get. No lady’ll fish for copper, eh?”
Numbtongue smiled. When Garia returned, looking sour but calmer, no one said anything about how she looked. And the talk quickly went back to Erin and the inn.
“So there’s this magic door that she got from Albez. I heard about that. The Horns of Hammerad. And they gave it to her and we can walk through it and go to the inn. Anytime we want? And it’s sitting on my porch?”
Wailant stared at Garia. She and Numbtongue nodded.
“That’s right, dad. And apparently, Erin’s banned from Celum. Or—she’s decided to take the door away. There was a huge fuss. The Players of Celum are moving to Liscor, too. It all happened this evening. I ran the door out of the city, but Erin’s still dealing with the fallout.”
“How’d you get the door?”
Numbtongue looked at Garia. He had a hard time imagining all the Humans would have let her. She smiled.
“I grabbed it and ran.”
“Hah! Hustle like a [Pirate]! There’s my girl.”
Wailant fondly poured a drink around. Viceria was tapping her lips.
“I was meaning to see the Players of Celum. Everyone’s been talking about them, but we had that infestation of moles, and I’ve been travelling to Wales—this door goes to Liscor? Without any delay? What about the mana cost?”
“It’s a magic door, mom. And Erin’s inn apparently charges it.”
“It must sit on a leyline.”
“It doesn’t work all the time. Can’t send many people to Pallass. Two or four per day only.”
Numbtongue nodded around the table. Wailant choked on his drink.
“It goes where?”
Garia grinned at Numbtongue, pleased at her parent’s reactions. She explained and Wailant’s brows shot all the way up.
“Really? Pallass? I sell to [Traders] going south, but only during the winter. You can’t get bugger-all past the Bloodfields. But this magic door, it goes all the way?”
He looked at his wife. Viceria leaned over.
“Garia, why isn’t this news larger than it is? Every [Merchant] in a hundred miles should be lined up to use this door. Not just them.”
“Well…that’s the reason Erin was kicked out of Celum, actually. She has a deal not to interfere with trade and the Runner’s Guild and apparently people were.”
“Because that’s smart. Hold on. Pallass. Liscor. Anywhere else it goes?”
“Um, the Bloodfields. And…”
“Invrisil soon. Horns of Hammerad are taking it there. Going slowly. Probably because of lazy half-Elves.”
Numbtongue grunted. He refilled his bowl. Garia offered him some of the dark sauce and he poured it over his rice. They were both eating more than Wailant and Viceria, who’d long since stopped; their metabolisms meant they were packing it in.
“This is really good, dad. Is this the rice you grew?”
“Sure is. Beats buying it from imports. Your mother made one of them wet fields. Take a look in the morning. Don’t fall in. We had to enchant it so bugs wouldn’t find a home, but it’s well enough. Pain to harvest. I’m hiring help to do it next time.”
Wailant picked at his teeth. Then he focused on Numbtongue.
“So, this door doesn’t go all the way to Pallass. But it can take some people, can it? Pallass loves Sage’s Grass. Say, Numbtongue. You think I could get a deal with this [Innkeeper]?”
Numbtongue looked up warily. Garia cut in as she offered him the last dumplings. Numbtongue took half and she grinned at him before looking sternly at her father.
“You can ask her tomorrow, dad. Mom, can you send a message to Erin telling her not to worry? I’m here, but Numbtongue’ll stay the night. That should be fine.”
“I can go back—”
All three Stronghearts shook their head, for once in unison.
“And let you go without hospitality? We’ve got guest beds. Garia, tell me more about the door. You too, Numbtongue.”
“Dad, Numbtongue’s not the boss. Don’t pressure him!”
Garia warned Wailant. He grinned, throwing an arm around Numbtongue.
“Sure, sure. You don’t speak for her. Erin Solstice, you said? Have another drink.”
And Numbtongue felt a bit uneasy. But Garia gave him a reassuring thumbs-up. He didn’t know what her plan was—until he saw her disappear into the kitchen. When she came back, Wailant insisted on everyone having another round.
Garia poured the drinks. Numbtongue sniffed, smelled the wine and the other, more potent alcohol, and took only a sip. Wailant downed his cup and went over.
“Honestly, Garia.”
Viceria had taken a deep drink, but she only sighed at her daughter’s duplicity. Garia stuck out her tongue at her father.
“He’ll be fine. You want me to help put him in bed?”
“No need.”
Viceria sighed. She flicked her fingers and the [Green Mage] and her husband stood. Well, she was levitating him. Numbtongue stared.
“I’ll put him in bed and give him something for the drink. Too much is poisonous, Garia.”
“And you have all kinds of hangover and anti-drunkenness potions. Dad’s pushy. He’d try and get you to agree to something. Watch out for my mom. She’ll try to do the same, which is why I’m here.”
Garia confided in Numbtongue. Viceria shot her daughter a cool look.
“It’s just business, Garia.”
“And Numbtongue’s a friend. So is Erin. The farm’s doing fine.”
“There’s a [Trade War]—”
“Where are those disposable wands dad likes to buy each time the [Merchant] comes around?”
The [Green Mage] sighed.
“I’ll put your father to bed. I might be a while. Garia, will you show Numbtongue our guest room?”
“Sure.”
Garia had a mildly triumphant look as she watched her parents disappear. She seemed proud, so Numbtongue kept chewing his last bites. He was stuffed. But drinking had made him hungry again, so here he was.
Then he and Garia were staring at each other. Awkwardly, now. It was the first time they’d really talked alone, for all Garia claimed friendship. She took a sip from her cup. Numbtongue paused and then nodded towards the parents’ bedroom.
“Your mom is powerful.”
Garia started.
“What? Oh, yeah. She is. I don’t really think about it, but mom is a full [Mage] of Wistram. She mostly just uses her magic to help with the farm, though.”
“Can you do magic?”
Numbtongue eyed Garia. She shook her head.
“Basic spells. I don’t have the talent. I have a few levels, but I don’t like studying magic. It’s confusing and it’s a lot of hard work. You have to spend, like, twenty years to get good at it unless you’re a genius. And I’m not. Mom offered to teach me until I got into Wistram, but I was a [Farmer] and then I wanted to be a Runner.”
“Mm.”
The Hobgoblin nodded. After a moment, he gestured at the room Viceria had pulled Wailant through.
“Thank you.”
“It’s nothing. Sorry my dad kidnapped you. He’s pushy. He does that to people he likes.”
“It was good. I was hiding from the City Watch.”
“Yeah. Um—so. We haven’t talked much, but I just wanted to say I’m sorry.”
“About what?”
“The…battle at Liscor. Erin told me. I only heard about it. I’m—really sorry.”
“You didn’t do anything.”
The Hobgoblin half-turned away, pretending to stare at one of the paintings. Garia hesitated. She put a hand over the table.
“No, but I’m sorry it happened. I didn’t know the others, or you, really. But I’m…sorry. That’s all I wanted to say. Sorry.”
The [Bard] looked back. He stared at Garia. She flushed, and he wondered if that was what she had been like, from how Erin talked about her. But how much had changed? Perhaps, it was just what Wailant saw.
Skin-deep. Numbtongue paused and closed his eyes, breathing in and out. And then he nodded slowly.
“Thank you.”
Garia smiled at him. She sighed as she picked up the plates on the table and tossed them in the kitchen to be cleaned.
“I can show you to your room, but it’s just over there. Say—would you mind following me for a second? Mom’ll come back any second now and I don’t feel like answering questions about what kind of Runner I want to be. Or have her try and get you to sign a contract.”
She gestured towards the door. Numbtongue nodded and followed her.
Garia led Numbtongue a short ways from the farmhouse to the barn. Inside, cows and other animals looked up at the safety-lantern Garia lit. Magical light spilled from it, not fire. Good thing too; Numbtongue was familiar with how fast flames could burn things.
Like [Farms]. He’d participated in more than one Redfang raid for food. The Hobgoblin wished he didn’t remember that. Or the dead [Farmers] who sometimes fought back.
History lay between the two. Garia Strongheart had to have known Goblins are a menace, and Numbtongue had fought and fled Humans. But neither said anything about it. They had history, but the two of them had never met.
Now, Garia stood in the barn and silently adopted a pose. She lowered her posture, changed her footwork, and did…a punch.
Numbtongue stared. It was just a punch, in a rather specific form. It looked…practiced. Garia moved through it slowly at first, and then repeated the move. Faster. She had very good control; the punches always went the same way, in the same posture.
Beyond that…it was just an odd exercise. Redfangs didn’t fight like that. They sparred, or did exercises to increase their muscle, but they didn’t practice this. The [Bard] was interested—and then he saw Garia switch to a kick.
It was another move, a set pattern as she crossed her legs and then kicked out. She was less practiced with this, but she was clearly trying to achieve a perfect form. Again, Numbtongue didn’t get why. You kicked things in any position. But he had to admit, that looked like a powerful kick.
“And then—[Flash Kick]!”
Garia finished her routine with a kick. It came in the exact same motion, but wicked fast. That was a Skill, the kind that could change a battle around in one go. Numbtongue nodded to himself. Not bad for hand-to-hand combat. Garia looked strong. If she had a [Lesser Strength] Skill too, that would hurt.
The [Martial Artist]/[Runner] turned to the Hobgoblin after she was done. She wasn’t panting; she’d done a hundred of each. Numbtongue was sitting on some hay bales, staring at a cow and at her. She waited.
“What do you think? I mean, I think I look good. Right?”
He shrugged.
“Looks fine.”
Garia was slightly crestfallen.
“Is there anything I can improve?”
“Improve? Good kicks. Good punches.”
“I mean—oh, darn. I thought you might know some other moves. Ryoka talked about all kinds of things, but I was hoping a Hobgoblin warrior might know some more. This is martial arts, see. I heard Redfangs were the best. Grimalkin taught me that kick, but he said he’s not a [Martial Artist].”
“Martial…? [Artist]?”
For once, the word was unfamiliar to Numbtongue. Garen had taught his Redfangs all about how to fight different classes, but never about this. But this class was rare in Izril, or anywhere, really. Garia tried to explain.
“Right, I did some research when I first got it. I thought it was a bit weird, but I liked my first Skill, and, well, it’s a new class, right? Apparently they fight with all kinds of weapons, not just fists. But they train different from [Warriors]. They fight like…an art.”
“Oh. I see. Nice moves. But only one punch?”
“No, it’s the form, see?”
Garia showed Numbtongue. She punched at a target at chin-height, then punched downwards, adjusting her form but carrying the same motion. Numbtongue began to understand.
“Oh. Good punching. Like this.”
He showed her a punch. It wasn’t the same, but Numbtongue put his weight and body behind the punch, which was essentially what Garia’s practice was meant to do. She nodded.
“That’s right. Only, you do entire moves. Like jump kicks—”
She stopped as Numbtongue did a jumping kick easily. The Redfang Hobgoblin looked challengingly at Garia.
“It’s different. I have a class.”
“Does it make you stronger?”
Garia hesitated.
“Well—I think so. I have Skills like [Basic Footwork], and I’ve actually beaten a few monsters. Even a rabid bear. Don’t tell my parents. I got cut up, but I knocked it out.”
Numbtongue paused. [Cutthroats] on horses were one thing, but a rabid bear? He stared at Garia. She went on.
“And it gave me [Weight Control]. So I could change how much I weighed. And look—it gave me this.”
She pointed at her bare stomach, proudly. It flexed and Garia glanced up at Numbtongue, perhaps hoping for an impression. The Hobgoblin stared blankly at Garia’s abdomen. Then he pulled up his shirt, and pointed.
“Fine. See?”
“Oh. Oh. Wow!”
Numbtongue had abs too. His weren’t as pronounced as Garia’s, but everyone had them. Especially Redfangs; they were really prominent when you were hungry. His had begun to disappear since he’d been eating food at Erin’s inn, but they were still there. To Numbtongue, Garia looked a bit starved for food, but he understood that Humans had different standards.
“You’re in shape! I thought so, but—do you really not practice any moves?”
