Erin had literally never held a full-time job back home. She had played against chess champions, sometimes in front of crowds, even as a child, and been on television for brief interviews. But it never occurred to Erin that that was, like, adult stuff. Which she conflated with anything where you had to sign a contract and money was involved. She was sweating a bit. Lyonette sighed.
“We’re not agreeing to anything. If they try to use a contract-Skill, I’ll stop them. Just do what you think is best, Erin.”
“But how do I trust my brain?”
The question stumped the [Princess] so much that she was still staring blankly at Erin when the Stronghearts returned.
“Miss Solstice, have you thought about the possibility of letting us use your door? We don’t want to force a decision; please just bear us in mind.”
Viceria was smooth and polite and nice. Erin relaxed a bit as Wailant sighed and put on a fake smile next to her. Erin fiddled with her thumbs.
“Well—I mean, in theory, yeah. It sounds good. Octavia—she’s an [Alchemist]—she makes potions. She uses your grass, right?”
“That Stitch-Girl? I sold to her last week! Is she here?”
Wailant exclaimed. He looked around. Octavia glanced up and groaned.
“Oh dead gods, it’s the [Pirate].”
“Hey! Are you in the inn too?”
“Yes! I got kicked out of Celum! Or I left!”
“You don’t say?”
Viceria sighed, but Erin smiled. Then she looked at the Stronghearts.
“I guess it’s fine. I mean, Liscor might wanna tax you and stuff—”
“We can handle that. If we’re bringing goods into the city, we’re naturally going to deal with the city on its own terms. All we ask from you is transportation, and we will pay for the service.”
The [Green Mage] smiled and Erin smiled back, relieved.
“Well—I mean—sure! Let’s talk! Oh. But you probably can’t go to Pallass easily. Or you’ll have to negotiate.”
“What? Why? Pallass is where we need to be.”
Wailant turned about, frowning. Erin tried to explain about the mana cost and the door.
“Hah! Is that the problem? Just upgrade it. I bet you a decent [Enchanter] could do it.”
The [Farmer] waved a hand. Viceria frowned.
“It’s an artifact, dear. I couldn’t guess at what level you’d have to be to improve this door. Archmage Nailihuaile could do it, I’m certain. But anyone below her?”
“Damn. But you can take things through, yeah? How many people’s worth?”
“Two. Or four, but only one way.”
The young woman spread her hands. Wailant laughed.
“Fine, then! I’ll take it through in bags of holding! Unless—no, I have one right here. I just walk through, sell my stuff, and go back. I’ll negotiate with whoever I need to in Pallass—I mean, my lovely wife will.”
He nodded at Viceria. Erin chewed her lip.
“I guess that’s okay. I mean, if you get permission—”
“Let’s make it a deal, then!”
Wailant exclaimed, threw an arm around Erin’s shoulders, and held out a hand. She frowned and eyed his arm.
“Dear. You’re being rude to Miss Solstice. Don’t pressure her. Some might call that forceful. Or dishonest.”
Viceria’s eyes flashed. Wailant paused.
“I’m as honest as can be! I was a [Pirate], but I’ve turned over a new leaf. Apologies, Miss Erin. You can’t take the salt out of my sails.”
She nodded as he let go. But Erin felt a tiny bit peeved. She was reminded of chess players who tried to bully a girl when she appeared at tournaments. She sort of wished she could checkmate Wailant. But she saw Garia mouthing apologies so she turned to Wailant.
“So you are a former [Pirate]? Like, with a ship? And…you attacked other ships and stuff?”
She tried to imagine a pirate ship without cannons, but they wouldn’t have those, would they? Wailant nodded, taking his seat. He rolled up one sleeve—fortunately not the lewd one, to his family’s relief.
“That’s right. I was a good [Pirate] too. Good enough to retire! But I sailed to every continent, did my fair share of plundering—but I won’t rob you, Miss Solstice! Forgive my manners. I’ve had a good time with your Numbtongue friend and I’m keen to make some money! Have you heard about the [Trade War] in the north? Damned thing. Put our farm through a dry spell of late.”
“Oh, well…”
Erin glanced at Numbtongue, relaxing a bit. Anyone who was a friend of Numbtongue’s couldn’t be that bad. The Hobgoblin shrugged and smiled a tiny bit, so Erin turned back to Wailant. She had so many questions.
…That she could have asked someone else. As Wailant sipped from his tankard of ale, about to launch into some sea shanty tale no doubt, a [Rogue] paused behind his chair. Seborn, Drowned Man, member of the Halfseekers, and…former [Pirate], spoke quietly, but with that kind of resonance that quieted a room.
“A [Pirate], you say? Funny. I could’ve taken you for a [Storm Sailor]. I don’t remember many Humans in the seas where my crew sailed.”
Wailant—paused. His head slowly turned around and the Drowned Man and the Human locked gazes. Slowly, Wailant turned back to stare ahead. He spoke slowly.
“That’s odd. I could’ve sworn I heard one of those Drowned Bastards talking. But they’re not proper [Pirates], are they? Just water-[Raiders], really. Poncing about in their fancy ships and running from a real fight.”
Erin stared at Seborn. The Drowned Man’s non-crustacean half looked at her, and then he pulled up a chair. Viceria, Lyonette, and Erin all saw Wailant turn. The [Pirate]-[Farmer] paused, then exclaimed.
“Well, well, well! A fellow sea dog! I’d not bet on seeing a Drowned Man so far from shore!”
“Salt and shore harbor you. Friend.”
Seborn, the Gold-rank adventurer, and [Rogue]-[Pirate] rested one arm on the table. His claw-arm, which was part crab, or lobster or something. Erin had never really asked.
Nor did Seborn talk about the sea. She only knew he had been a [Pirate] from Jelaqua. But right now…he stared at Wailant. And Erin had a definite sense that his smile was fake.
“What brings a Drowned Man ashore, anyways?”
“I’m an adventurer. Gold-rank. Halfseekers.”
The [Farmer] didn’t budge. He grinned, eying Seborn up and down.
“Adventurer, huh? Respectable, respectable. What, you too tired of the sea-life too, pal? I should’ve brought my deck of cards or dice! Innkeeper, you have any sets?”
“Cards? No, I—”
Erin began, but Seborn spoke over her. She wasn’t really part of the conversation, she realized.
“I just got tired of the waves for a while. As you do. It’s good to meet another of the sea folk. Have you been away from the oceans for long? Buddy?”
Wailant slowly sipped from his mug.
“As a matter of fact, it’s been over a decade. Chum.”
“Wailant…”
Viceria’s tone was a warning, but Wailant just smiled at his wife. She put a hand on his arm.
“Erin! Erin, this is bad!”
An urgent whisper made Erin look around. She got up with Lyonette as Seborn and Wailant kept bantering back and forth. Erin stared at a pale-faced Gnoll. She was unfamiliar until she recognized the dead skin, the peculiar aroma the Selphids used to preserve bodies.
“Ulinde?”
The Selphid [Spellslinger] nodded quickly. Erin glanced at Seborn.
“What’s with Seborn?”
“He’s a [Pirate], Erin. Don’t you know?”
“Yeah, and so is Wailant. Why are they getting mad at each other?”
The Selphid stared at Erin as if she was joking. Then she whispered urgently.
“Erin—Drowned People and regular [Sailors] and [Pirates] do not get along. Oh no. Where’s Jelaqua when you need her? Or Moore?”
“Uh oh. I forgot—”
Lyonette covered her face. Erin stared at Ulinde. Enemies? Why? But now was not the time to ask.
“Jelaqua’s in Pallass with Moore, right? You’ll have to drag Seborn away.”
The Selphid recoiled at the suggestion.
“Me? I’m just a rookie! I can’t—”
Wailant drained half his mug and slammed it onto the table. Erin turned around. The [Pirate] spoke up as every head turned. Some of the regulars were already taking bets.
“Six tables and a chair! At least that, and six silver if it’s below—”
“I bet at least one window—”
“So what’s your crew, Seborn Sailwinds? The Wispguides? Are you part of the Undersea Crews? No—maybe one of the Krakenborne?”
Seborn shifted in his chair and gave Wailant the kind of grin someone saw before they died.
“I sailed with The Siren’s Depths. What about you? Seagrass’ Navy? Bloodtear Pirates?”
Wailant looked offended as Erin edged around the table. She was going to stop this. She began to concentrate. Now, how did it go? She had to pull…or was it—?
“What do you take me for? No, I was with the Steelsails Armada. You ever heard of them?”
“Respectable. That’s a good group.”
Seborn nodded. Wailant paused, staring at Seborn. He glanced at his wife. She glared, but then stood up. Wailant turned back, mug in hand.
“Funny. I’ve actually heard of your crew. Seborn, was it? The Siren’s Depths are part of the Undersea Crews. Pretty good name, right?”
“You could say that. We had our fair share of action over the years.”
Seborn’s Human eye narrowed. Wailant went on, clenching his other fist.
“You know—your ship’s actually sunk some of the Steelsails ships before. Didn’t know if you’d know that.”
“I tend to lose count about land-[Pirate] ships. But that sounds about right. I don’t remember any Steelsails Armada ships personally, but they clashed with some of the Drowned Folk.”
Seborn never blinked. Wailant leaned over.
“Only the bastards that attacked us. Friend.”
The Drowned Man opened his mouth to reply as he tensed. And Erin interrupted both of them.
“But that’s all in the past, right? Nobody is going to start a fight.”
The air grew heavy at the table. Seborn and Wailant looked up. Wailant blinked. Seborn rolled his shoulders. Both men stared at Erin.
And the full force of her aura pressed down on them. Erin wasn’t used to using it; Lyonette said she lacked finesse, but what she had was power. This was her inn. And she was Level 40.
“No one’s going to fight.”
Erin stared at both of them. The pressure wasn’t exactly gravity; if it was, the chairs might have broken. It only affected the two men, and it made movement—slow. Seborn slowly raised a hand, concentrating even to lift it. Wailant stared up at Erin. Then he looked at Seborn.
“Sea salt. Is she real? Or twice as old as she looks?”
“You’d be surprised.”
The Drowned Man gave Erin a cool look. She glared back.
“No fighting. I don’t know what this is about, but I’m not having a fight here!”
“It’s a seafarer’s quarrel, Miss. Mind shoving off?”
Wailant glanced over his shoulder. He had an uncooperative look on his face. Erin scowled back.
“You can sit right here until you make up, then. How about that?”
The [Pirate] eyed Erin. Then he looked at the other [Pirate].
“Salt and sea, this is a strange inn. Well, if that’s the way it’s gotta be, fine.”
Wailant raised his mug, toasted Seborn, and then tossed the contents over his shoulder into Erin’s face. She stumbled backwards, eyes stinging, and her control over her aura vanished. Wailant knocked the table over—
And Seborn’s fist hit him in the face. Wailant went over backwards as the Drowned Man leapt to his feet, but the other [Pirate] was up in an instant.
“Come on, you Drowned bastard!”
The two charged at each other. Seborn was smaller than Wailant by a good bit, but he ducked and punched, retreating as Wailant swung and grabbed a chair. One was big and fast, the other nimble and faster. But Wailant caught Seborn with a kick that sent him skidding away. Seborn flipped backwards and dashed forwards.
“[Dirty Feint]!”
Wailant twisted, arm snaking out.
“[Blur Leap].”
Seborn leapt around him. He got Wailant with three punches, ducked a swipe, and got clipped by a chair.
“Fight! Fight!”
The inn was on its feet as the regulars backed up from the moving whirlwind of punches. The two [Pirates] rolled, fought, cursing each other and swearing as Erin wiped at her face. Mrsha was nowhere to be seen. Viceria had thrown up her hands. Lyonette was getting a drink. Garia was about to leap into the fight with Ulinde when Erin pointed.
“Enough!”
The air grew heavy again. And this time it was weight. Both [Pirates] staggered and stopped, panting. They looked at Erin.
And she was mad. Wailant and Seborn exchanged a glance, and lowered their fists. The room went still. Someone collected their bets on an [Innkeeper] stop.
And a door swung open from the sides. Everyone turned to stare.
Mrsha peeked out from the garden, staring around warily. Lyonette rose.
“Good job, Mrsha!”
The Gnoll trotted out of the Garden of Sanctuary. Wailant stared. Erin stalked over and pointed.
“What was that? I told you—”
Wailant grinned in the angry [Innkeeper]’s face. He raised his arms—with difficulty.
“Sorry, sorry. Just had to get it out there. Can’t let a Drowned Man walk around and think he’s better than a real [Pirate].”
“Seborn?”
Erin rounded on the Drowned Man. Seborn shrugged unapologetically.
“It’s a custom, Erin. His people have killed friends of mine.”
“Custom? You mean, punching each other in the head is normal?”
Both [Pirates] nodded.
“Only way, isn’t it? Can’t let a bastard who’s spilled your crew’s blood walk around. He’s a Drowned Man. They fight other [Pirates]. Think they own the seas.”
Wailant pointed at Seborn. The Drowned Man shrugged.
“I don’t see you breathing in the water.”
“And his lot have sunk more than their fair share of crews. But that’s all. A few punches and we’re set. It’s also part of the code. No use spilling sea-blood when there are all these landfolk around. We’re quits, whatever might have passed. Right, Sailwinds?”
“Fair enough, Strongheart. Let’s call it there.”
Seborn eyed Erin and nodded. Erin stared between the two. Wailant slapped Seborn on the back.
“Then we’ll have a drink, later! We’re staying the night, you know. We can talk about the sea.”
“Sounds good. I’ll introduce you to my team.”
The Drowned Man was nodding. Not exactly smiling, but he’d relaxed. They turned to Erin—the aura was still weighing them down—and gave her a look. Erin threw up her arms.
“What was that?”
“It’s just a greeting. What’s got you so mad?”
Wailant’s flippant remark was the last straw. Erin snapped. She was covered in sticky ale. And annoyed, before the ale had landed. She pointed at Wailant.
“You, buddy! And I don’t think I want to let you sell Sage’s Grass through my inn! I’m not getting in trouble for selling Sage’s Grass to another city! I don’t need to be banned from Liscor and Pallass! And you’re a jerk!”
