The King of Destruction rode to war, and everyone watched. Not directly, but by reactions. In their studio, Noass and Sir Relz scrambled to retell the events, to analyze. Belchan was unresponsive, as was Reim; the nearest nations willing to talk and speculate were Medain and Nerrhavia. And their rulers did.
They were, of course, appalled. Everyone was. Queen Yisame was pale as she declared war again on Belchan. And when you looked at her face, well—you might realize that she had never seen war up front. Not like that, in detail. She was a [Queen] who had seen the truth of battle for the first time.
As had many. Wistram was sending out an apology to those who had witnessed the scene and were venting their fury over seeing dead children and blood. Because, that was, of course, unacceptable to broadcast. Clearly, Wistram would need to put policies in place. Delay the broadcast in case of traumatic scenes? Issue a warning?
But meanwhile, Yisame and Nerrhavia’s horror was genuine. And that earned her appreciation for her sincerity. Medain’s High King, Perric, struck a different chord. He too condemned the atrocities, but his was a measured tone. He had seen death, and you could respect a man who could speak levelly, censuring both Reim and Belchan in equal measures. But it was on Belchan his armies marched, to eat away at the north.
And the world watched it all, of course. That was the new way of things. And—was anyone sick of it? Surely so, like the Titan of Baleros, who rolled his eyes and told Foliana to stop watching the broadcasts.
“It’s politics, Foliana. Politics. I’m going back to my chess game. Tell me if they show the actual battles.”
The Squirrel Beastkin woman didn’t respond. She was perched in front of the scrying mirror, nibbling on walnuts and other nuts. There was a little bowl of honey she occasionally dipped them in. This wasn’t a contract; it was just a favorite snack. But she was watching with that absorbed look of someone experiencing broadcast television for the first time. Also…she might have been studying potential targets, but you couldn’t ever get away from the job.
But she was one of many. And the world…
The world watched.
 
——
 
The world, the world, what a stupid thing…it was always ‘the world’ this, or ‘everyone’ that. Sometimes the dramas of nations could be stupid. Who cared what the King of Destruction did thousands of miles away? What bearing did it have on here?
Nothing. And everything. It would not have mattered as much, that war in Belchan, a single dead Gnoll tribe, if Wistram hadn’t broadcast it. If people didn’t pay attention, it wouldn’t have affected everyone. But they had, and the ripples spread wide.
Tails and Scales, one of the best bars in Pallass, was not a happy place that night. Patrons filled the seats, talking urgently, angrily, or hysterically over what they’d seen. Rufelt, at the bar, was suppressing nausea and anger and a sense of vindication as he did his job. Lasica had gone to her kitchen to feed her clients. She’d shrugged off Rufelt suggesting she sit down. She wanted to work.
The bar wasn’t run by just the two of them of course. Their staff was hurrying about. Two apprentice [Bartenders] and some of Lasica’s assistants were serving tables. One of them, a Garuda, took a trio of drinks to a table where two Drakes were sitting.
“Apologies for the delay, sirs. I have a large water with ice and lemon, a carrot juice, unsweetened, and a Chaldion’s Eye for uh—”
“Me. Thank you, young man.”
Chaldion glanced up from his conversation with Grimalkin. The Garuda bowed and served the cocktail. It was, in fact, a Firebreath Whiskey and an Ultasian bitter made from the Ultasa flower, all mixed together with some lime.
And if that sounded really bitter and sour, well, the key to alleviating the pain was the floating ice ball, carved into the shape of an eye. And inside the already-melting ice was a shot of exceptionally sweet, practically syrupy, wine.
Rufelt’s own blend. It would melt as the drinker imbibed, so long as they had the patience for it. The Chaldion’s Eye was a popular drink in Pallass, especially among the [Strategists]. And the Drake who it had been made for.
“Ah.”
Chaldion sipped the bitter drink as the Garuda bowed. He was new, so he was still star-struck by the clientele. Grimalkin too; the Sinew Magus’ newfound fame made him stand out. As did the bandages.
“Hm. Thank you.”
The two Drakes turned back to their conversation. Around them, the bar buzzed, but the two were fixated on their own conversation. They were, of course, talking about Belchan. They’d both seen the replays, but their own take on the matter was a bit off-kilter to everyone else’s.
“It’s another point in my theory, Grand Strategist. Regardless of the actual origins of the event, you must concede today has not been a normal one.”
Chaldion sighed. He was sipping slowly as the ice melted and the syrup began to release. The [Strategist] was quite content with it. This wasn’t a drink you could get in any bar. Let alone the inn he’d just been in. The Wandering Inn had a different feel than Tails and Scales. It was charming, engaging—but lacked the heights of craft of this place.
And that was fine. But Chaldion liked his drinks. He waved a claw idly as he glanced over at the scrying mirror on the far wall. Rufelt had left it active, but everyone was watching it warily. Pallass’ own Noass and Sir Relz were on it, a mark of pride of the city, but they’d been apologizing non-stop for the vivid depiction of violence. Now they had another [Strategist], from Manus, giving his thoughts on the matter.
“Magus, you’re conflating the issues. The actions of the King of Destruction, or other nations across the world, cannot be the product of one [Innkeeper]’s Skills.”
Grimalkin leaned on the table as he drank from his very large vessel of water. Hydration was important! He raised his clawed hand and shrugged.
“Of course not, Grand Strategist. However, I will put forwards these two points. One—the actions occurred in a timeline where we interacted with Erin Solstice, and were distracted again, after her use of her new Skill. It bears adding to my list of data points. Secondly—where are we now? Are we at Erin Solstice’s inn, inquiring about her origins or Skills and levels?”
Chaldion paused. His one good eye narrowed.
“True. But this has to be a coincidence.”
“And if it’s not? Let’s leave aside the incident with the King of Destruction. Her Skill, the disappearance of the child, Mrsha. Either Erin Solstice really is as oblivious as she seems, or…”
“No one who plays chess like she does is that airheaded. She magnificently deflected all of our questions. And she beat my [Path to Victory].”
The old Drake’s eye narrowed, and then, unexpectedly, he smiled. He was quite pleased by that last bit. Grimalkin eyed him.
“If I might inquire, Grand Strategist—”
“Chaldion is fine, Magus Grimalkin.”
Grimalkin nodded briefly.
“—Then if it is not a matter of security, your Skill. I have always been fascinated by the higher-level Skills as data on them is sparse. When you say she defeated…”
Chaldion raised his left eye patch. The gem in his eye flashed, creating a bubble of privacy. He spoke casually as Grimalkin switched to his carrot juice.
“It’s no large secret. I’ve used it so many times that it’s public record, as you well know. It can be defeated; it just shows me one route to victory in any given battle. Not even the optimal one. It has vast utility, but it’s hardly impregnable. Miss Solstice saw me use it; she was able to change her entire strategy and defeat me. But that was a mark of her skill at the game. The third time we played and I used my Skill, she won.”
“Fascinating. And my assertion?”
Chaldion drummed his claws on the table and nodded.
“You have my full agreement. I may personally investigate this matter, along with you; I doubt an agent would have much success. But I have put out an inquiry on her.”
Grimalkin paused, mid-drink.
“And?”
“Nothing.”
The Magus put down his drink and paused for a moment.
“Hardly surprising for a Human no one’s heard about. Or so the other Walled Cities might assert.”
Chaldion’s eyes glinted.
“Yes. If I hadn’t met her, I’d say that, too.”
The two Drakes paused significantly. But before they could speculate longer, there was an aggrieved shout from the bar.
“Dead gods take it, Saliss! We told you you’re not allowed in here without at least pants! You’re putting people off their food!”
Rufelt was not in a good mood. And Saliss had just emerged from the bathroom. His claws were clean, but, to put it delicately, he had neither had to remove or put on any articles of clothing throughout his entire process. He was still naked.
“Rufelt! Come on. Have a heart!”
Saliss protested, spreading his claws. Rufelt glared.
“There are paying customers. You’re one of them. Clothes on or you go out. I’m not arguing tonight, Saliss—”
He was interrupted by a Gnoll pushing towards him. The Gnoll had dark black fur and a dark look in his eyes. He leaned on the bar, heavily.
“I don’t care about naked Drakes. Just get me a drink, Rufelt. Bartender’s specialty.”
That was code for ‘give me what I need’. Rufelt, as a high-level [Bartender], could tailor his drinks to his clientele. Usually it was a delicate game, teasing out the emotions or state of drunk they needed to be—or not be. But tonight Rufelt didn’t even have to think. He reached for a glass.
“A Salaszarian Rockhammer, coming up, Felkhr.”
The Gnoll, who was a guest tonight, nodded. He was the Flying Gnoll of Pallass, another one of those faces. Rufelt had invited him to Tails and Scales after the Wyvern attack for free food, but Felkhr was a regular. He had stopped coming as much when Tails and Scales became fancy, but their encounter had brought him back into the bar. Felkhr saw Rufelt fill the glass with ice, mix up the steady drink—and then add something from a bottle.
“What’s that?”
Rufelt glanced up as he slid the drink over, without his usual flourishes.
“Calming drink. Everyone needs them tonight. Xif, Saliss, sell me some more of your tonics. We need it.”
The Drake [Alchemist] paused. He dug in his bag of holding and a Gnoll sitting across from him did the same. Xif, the other top [Alchemist] of Pallass, shook his head.
“I can send a Runner unless you have some, Saliss—”
“No problem, Xif. I always carry—aha! Got them. Here, Rufelt!”
He flung them across the bar. Everyone in the path ducked and Rufelt swore. But the potions, all five of them in small vials, slowed as they arced towards his bar. They landed without so much as cracking the glass.
Rufelt glared at Saliss. The Drake waved. But he was toning down his usual riot act. Rufelt nodded. He began pouring the rest of the calming tonic into the drinks he was serving.
Felkhr sighed as he drained half of his drink. His fur had been standing on edge. Now, he relaxed. But his grip on the glass tumbler was still strong.
“Humans.”
That was all he said. But half of the Gnolls around him nodded. Rufelt said nothing as Lasica emerged from the kitchen. Felkhr amended his statement.
“Some of them are decent. But that—”
“Have another drink. I’m doubling up your tonic. Something sour to chase that down with.”
Rufelt advised Felkhr. The Gnoll sighed.
“Thank you. It’s one thing to know or hear about it, but to see it—”
“We’re all shaken. No one’s denying that. Apologies for the delay, Magus, Grand Strategist. Here is tonight’s special, Chaldion—”
Lasica was being followed by orders of food. The [Chef] came to the two Drakes’ table to deliver their orders personally. Chaldion eyed the dish placed in front of them.
“Interesting. What is this?”
He stared at the neatly, even artfully sliced fish on the rice and colorful little bites wrapped in the roll. Well, some were wrapped—some just looked like literal raw fish on rice. And there were little dishes with sauces…
“I’ve heard it’s called ‘sushi’ by Erin, but it’s a traditional Dullahan and Drathian food. Raw fish, rice, seaweed—there are variations, but this is Magus Grimalkin’s request.”
“A Balerosian dish.”
Grimalkin was nodding. Then his eyes narrowed.
“Did you say Miss Solstice had a specific name for it?”
“She has names for everything, Magus.”
Lasica shrugged, unconcerned. Grimalkin gave Chaldion a significant look. The Grand Strategist nodded, his expression calm.
“Ah, I’ve had this. Zeres serves it too. Most excellent, Miss Lasica.”
She smiled. Grimalkin raised one claw.
“I’ll need eight more portions, Chef Lasica. I am attempting to build up my muscles. How about two more of these sushi plates, a stir fry of meats and noodles and vegetables, a steak, no, three—Wyvern cuts? And…any suggestions?”
Lasica eyed Grimalkin. He was thinner than before, but his list of food was making even some of the [Gourmands] who liked to frequent her bar look queasy.
“I’ll throw in some shrimp—fresh from Zeres. I have a quinoa for Saliss—I’ll make two portions. Would you like some lard too, Magus? In a bucket?”
“I’ll think about it.”
The [Chef] shook her head as she went back to the kitchen. Grimalkin turned back to his food as he and Chaldion began to eat. He did not shovel his food; the two Drakes used the lacquered chopsticks they’d been given to eat. Grimalkin was rather adept and Chaldion remembered how to use his in moments.
Grimalkin ate methodically, savoring and chewing each bite. If he hadn’t, Lasica probably would have stopped serving him long ago. She had no room in her establishment for scarfers.
And to be ejected from the bar was to lose your access to it, and that was no light thing. Tails and Scales was one of the best establishments in all of Pallass. That meant husband and wife could cultivate the clientele they wanted.
Rufelt and Lasica had created a very selective clientele. They had a group which were pleasant to serve, got along with each other most of the time, and could pay for quality. And that number expanded seldom and usually by invitation by way of friend, sponsoring. You couldn’t walk into Tails and Scales without being on the list.
Literally. Rufelt had a Skill. [Bar: Selective Admission]. It could literally keep anyone below his level from casually walking in. But emergencies and higher-level individuals were an exception.
And that happened now. The door to the bar burst open and a Dullahan hurried into the room. Or rather—his head. Rufelt looked up from the bar as the apprentice Dullahan hurried him over.
