It was rare to see a Dullahan without their body, but the strange, armored folk of Baleros could separate body parts and send them long distances. Usually only a hundred feet, but with practice, you could go further. It was said the Seer of Steel could control his body thousands of miles from his head.
In this case, the Dullahan was doing this on purpose. He was another [Bartender], whose body could make drinks while his head spoke or interacted with his clients. Tonight, however, the head looked anxious, which meant, for a Dullahan, he was panicking.
“Rufelt! I must seek your help.”
“What’s the matter, Yeart?”
Rufelt didn’t stop fixing his drink, but he turned to the Dullahan as his assistant put the head on the counter and stepped back, bowing. Yeart looked up at Rufelt, worry written all across his face.
“My bar is under siege. You know I just bought a scrying orb? I had a full bar when it happened.”
“Oh no. Were there—”
Yeart nodded, miserably. It was difficult without a neck, but Dullahans could do it.
“Some of the Gnoll families had children watching the broadcast! They’re all howling and I need something to serve them! The parents too!”
Rufelt cursed. Few of his clients had children, but he could just imagine the scene. He looked around.
“Xif, calming tonics. Can Yeart buy some from you?”
“Send a Runner. I’ll bill him later.”
The Gnoll raised a paw. Rufelt nodded to Yeart. The Dullahan was concentrating. His actual body was writing out a request to be fulfilled immediately by a Street Runner; they often lingered around bars or places where they knew they’d find steady work.
“How heavy are the Gnoll kids, Yeart?”
“Um—young. Some are barely old enough to understand what went on, but the ones who are old enough to know what happened must be—ten? Eight? And older!”
Rufelt nodded. He grabbed the calming tonic and brought it down so the Dullahan could see. He shot a drink sideways as he made a second one, demonstrating.
“Listen up. You give them one drop per three stones of weight. Estimate low instead of high. Don’t mix it with alcohol for the kids. Give them milk, juice, and mix it in—”
“No milk.”
The two [Alchemists] chorused instantly. Rufelt and Yeart looked over, the Dullahan apprentice turning the [Bartender]’s head. Saliss waved one claw.
“That’s right, no milk. Not if it’s the whole thing. A tiny amount’s good, but milk reacts with the calming tonic. Juice is fine. No carrot juice, though. Carrots mess with potions.”
“Who drinks carrots—?”
Yeart’s mystified voice was lost as Rufelt kept giving him orders. At his table, Grimalkin snorted. Chaldion smiled as he pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“Doesn’t that Courier drink it too, Magus? Hawk.”
“He put me onto it. A nutritious drink. I’ve persuaded Miss Lasica to keep a stock—with some of her classic infusions for muscular growth. Both he and I drink it.”
The [Chef] was known for her ability to make food that would make you shed weight no matter how much you ate. She could also make dishes that gave you energy all day, and so on. Erin was taking lessons from her.
Grimalkin eyed the roll of paper that Chaldion had pulled out. A small box, actually. It was a thick cigar, known as a ‘puffer’ colloquially. Recreational drugs had an uneasy relationship in Drake cities most of the time, and they were almost always imported from overseas.
“Where did you get that, Grand Strategist?”
“The Centaur offered me some. Palt, I believe. Wistram has its tentacles in the inn, Magus.”
“So I noted. Did I recount the incident with them to you, Chaldion?”
“No. But do tell. Hm. Not a bad gift or bribe, whichever he intended. Would you care for one?”
Chaldion offered a cigar to Grimalkin. The Magus shook his head. He stared as a hand tried to sneak up over the table. Chaldion brought his fork down.
He missed. Saliss yanked his claw out of the way just in time. The Named Adventurer poked his head over the table with a huge smile. Xif wore a pained expression as he watched his dining partner. Saliss looked at Chaldion with as serious a face as he could muster.
“What’s the Assembly’s policy on substances in Pallass, Grand Strategist Chaldion?”
“I don’t recall, you brat. Here. Give me yours.”
Chaldion flicked a cigar at Saliss. The [Alchemist] caught it, and flicked his claws. The cigar lit instantly; the Drake had conjured sparks with a little snap of the claws. He puffed twice and rolled his eyes.
“Weeeeak. But I suppose it’s the best a non-Alchemist can make. Here.”
He fished out two dark purple-brown cigars from his bag of holding. Xif coughed—Saliss flicked out a third and spun it across the bar.
“If you’re handing those out, Saliss—”
Rufelt caught the two flying his way. Other people hopefully called out and Saliss demonstrated his uncanny ability to throw. He was in a generous mood, and this was another reason why people tolerated his nudity and personality. Palt might have had decent quality, but he wouldn’t find a large market in Pallass if he tried selling his wares here.
“Magus.”
Saliss offered Grimalkin the cigar with a grin. Chaldion was already lighting his. Grimalkin held up a claw.
“I don’t smoke. I regulate all my intakes.”
“Don’t be a lizard, Magus. We could all use one. This had better not be one of your prank ones, Saliss. Or I will throw you in the deepest cell.”
Chaldion sighed. Grimalkin hesitated. He eyed the cigar and at last, took it, muttering.
“…I suppose I could check my physical changes. I am eating enough to throw off my nutritional charts anyways.”
He accepted it and lit it with one claw. The Magus inhaled, coughed—Saliss grinned as he gyrated back to Xif’s table.
“Where were we, Xif? Ah, right. That fire helps cut some of my processes in half. Nice flame; has a magical influence on what it burns. Useful, once I figure out how to optimize it.”
The Gnoll’s eyes lit up. They were, as always, comparing alchemical notes.
“You wouldn’t happen to have a sample of this marvelous fire, would you, Saliss?”
“Sure do. Like I said, it burns fuel way too fast. But it works on wood; I just can’t let it go out, since Miss Solstice doesn’t look like she’ll give me any more easily. When I’m not there, I have to feed it with charcoal or even magicore; I need a device to toss wood at the fire so it always has something to eat. Then it’ll be cheap. I’m going to bug an [Engineer] about it tomorrow.”
The Gnoll [Alchemist] had discolored fur and smelled of…everything. Mostly acrid powders or substances, even when he washed. He was the best [Alchemist] in the city—or second-best, if you counted Saliss. But while one was specialized mostly towards war, Xif was specialized towards selling his creations. Naturally, the two were friends. It was that or rivals.
“You can leave it with me. I’d be happy to look after it.”
“Hah! Go eat your tail, Xif.”
Saliss grinned over his shrimp quinoa. Xif sighed; the dark cigar lay at the table, for later. Rufelt had already deployed one of his apprentices with an anti-scent tonic to dab surreptitiously around the bar. It cut some of the good smells, but it meant each booth wouldn’t bother other customers with the smoking.
“Come now, I’ll pay you well—”
“Give me some of your flowers. What’ve you found?”
The Gnoll sighed.
“It’s psychedelic. Extremely so. Magically—I tried an anti-magic blocker, but it went through it. Not sure if I’m missing the components, but it keeps reacting differently. Raw, the nectar has one effect. Mix it with alcohol, and—well, I saw my parents.”
“How awful.”
Saliss’ face was straight. Xif ignored that.
“Almost every bit of it is strongly magical. If I had more, I’d test it, but I’m sure it’s a high-magic sample. As good as Sage’s Grass. It must be due to that inn. The ambient magic is high enough to grow it…I regret pushing Miss Solstice so fast. But I must have more.”
“Can’t you take some cuttings?”
Xif glowered.
“They’re extremely hard to grow. I tried with Miss Velaaia. Twice! They died. I’m not risking my one sample; I’m sending it to Oteslia.”
The Drake’s brows shot up.
“Velaaia failed? They must be hard to grow! I wonder how Erin did it. Say, you do that. I’ll just get more fire from her. And flowers.”
“Don’t you dare. I’ll have them—I’ve been meaning to stop by again. Maybe with a little gift. I’ll tell you what, Saliss. You can probably make a potent sleeping agent. Burning the petals when dried creates an amazing soporific effect…”
“Ooh. Do tell. Can I see it?”
“No.”
The two [Alchemist]’s banter was an anomaly in a sea of talk that all went invariably one way. Belchan, the Gnoll tribes. Tails and Scales was discussing what they’d seen. In fact, Chaldion and Grimalkin soon became a center of that discussion.
“Oteslia will not send an army. Neither will Zeres or the other Walled Cities; the declaration of war was symbolic.”
Chaldion was reassuring some clients. He’d been communicating with the other Walled Cities. He sighed.
“Oteslia does have the highest Gnoll-to-Drake population of all the Walled Cities. The Grand Gardener must have decided to make the declaration.”
“And now it’s war. Good. I say that nation deserves it.”
Felkhr nodded. A cluster of Gnolls and Drakes were sitting together. One of the other Drakes waved a claw.
“But it’s the King of Destruction! He might have cause, but this could all be some—trick.”
“Trick?”
All the Gnolls present looked at the Drake. She wavered.
“Well, not a trick, trick. But a—casus belli. You know? He’s still the King of Destruction. We shouldn’t be glad he’s attacking Belchan. This is exactly what we should be worried about. He was bound by his oath, and if he gets stronger…”
Another Gnoll slowly ground her cigar into an ashtray.
“And? The King of Destruction’s gotten a lot of talk, but I don’t remember him ever attacking Gnoll tribes. Seems like there was one good Human I just saw. And it wasn’t Belchan.”
That provoked a lot of nods, again from the Gnolls. They were angry. The Drakes were worried, but the Gnolls—more than one was nodding at the King of Destruction. Chaldion sipped from his drink, watching carefully as they spoke.
“I remember back when I used to live with my tribe. There were some cities we never went near. Ever. One time, we had to stop at one and the first thing I smelled was a hide cloak. Made of—”
Felkhr made a disgusted sound. Some of the Drakes looked uneasy. But the other Gnolls were nodding.
“Small tribes have it worst. I thought I recognized that Chieftain. Nelrra. Um—um—his tribe’s the Dustfur clan. That’s the one.”
“It’s not all like that. Surely…”
“What would you know? Pallass is one thing. But when they talk about some of the cities—”
“Chandrar looks just as bad.”
“But they have a [King] who went to war for them. That’s something.”
“But they’re not going to the Meeting of Tribes. Or will they?”
“Surely not. But when you think about it, look—I’m not saying I support the King of Destruction. But…”
“White fur, all of them. Do you think it’s really true that—?”
Worrying talk, for some. Rufelt kept his face straight. But Chaldion could see the writing as if someone was indeed scrawling it on the walls. The Gnolls in Pallass, across Izril, were thinking. And their opinion of the King of Destruction was changing.
Grimalkin kept his own counsel, plowing through his food. But he kept a single sushi on one of his plates. And he kept staring at it. The almost unburned cigar lay next to the plate. The Magus frowned.
“Sushi.”
He would remember that.
 
——
 
When the world shifted, butterflies across the world caught indigestion. Or something like that. But concretely, the events such as the war in Belchan could add a dimension to the thinking of Gnolls in Drake cities. It could inform and change the Meeting of Tribes, move a Walled City, from Pallass to Oteslia.
And sometimes, it didn’t matter at all. It was just entertainment. Horrible, but true. Sometimes it would never matter. And what concerned the fate, rights, and dignity of Gnolls mattered little to…everyone else.
Elsewhere, in a farmhouse, Wailant Strongheart leaned back in his plush chair. He waved a hand and nearly sloshed his drink out of his cup.
“Fuck, that’s interesting. Sounds like there’s gonna be another war. Shame about those Gnoll kids. What’s the white fur mean again? That little Gnoll who came over had it. Another drink? Here.”
He waved a bottle at his guest. Said guest refused, and Wailant shrugged.
He was a humble [Farmer], in his farmhouse, entertaining a guest. Although that sentence got almost every nuance of the situation completely wrong.
Wailant Strongheart was a [Farmer]. He was also a [Pirate]. He had retired, but he was still almost as fit as he’d been in his heyday of marauding the seas. He had tattoos, some of them magical, and an enchanted cutlass.
He was not wearing the cutlass now, but reclining in a chair in his farmhouse. And yes, it was a farmhouse in that it was a house on his farm. But it was hardly…rustic.
The home Strongheart had built for his family was large, and extravagant. Not on the level of, say, the nobility, but a rich place. There were paintings by [Artists], one of a ship caught in the middle of a storm, the second a portrait shot of Wailant, his wife, and his family. There was a little girl in the frame.
Wailant also had a hardwood floor carpeted by a Chandrarian rug. He had a library of books over there—two shelves of neatly arranged tomes, a few old sea maps, and his furniture was all padded. No hardwood back rest for the [Farmer] taking his ease.
Right now, Wailant was sitting at a table filled with food. The remains of dinner, rather. He’d had a bowl of the stuff, with some long-grained rice.
It was fried bits of dough and meat. Dumplings. And Wailant actually had this fermented black sauce. It was food from overseas, again. He’d broken it out as a rare treat and to entertain his guest with.
His guest was a Hobgoblin, incidentally. Numbtongue sat in the chair, staring at the small scrying mirror that Wailant had bought to see what all this fuss was about. The Hobgoblin was still a bit tense.
Firstly, because he’d just witnessed the dead Gnolls, the [King] declaring war, and the Hobgoblin felt like he was almost in the proximity of that raging Human, for all he was thousands of miles away. Numbtongue couldn’t help but wonder how you killed a Human like that.
He could tell that Human was strong just by the way he walked; he looked like a Redfang in how he moved. Deliberate. Trained. So had the others with him, and strong Humans made Goblins nervous.
