Mythological Creature Fact: The musk of the Demonsoul Skunk, the Balerosian native creature that deliberately sprays its victims to communicate mating instinct across a wide area, can last long enough to be two months old when scented by potential mates.
The mating pheromones of the adult female Wyrm can last up to three decades.
 
Sergeant Relc Grasstongue, former [Soldier] in the Liscorian army, current Senior Guardsman of Liscor in assigned posting to Cellidel…did not know why this was a salient fact.
He closed the book, one of the many bestiaries he’d checked out of the local library. Cellidel had a library. This was one of those books that had ‘fun facts’ about creatures on some pages littered with biological and other bits of information about monster species, terrain, and so on.
Relc imagined the average Silver-rank adventurer, screaming as something tried to break through the barricade at a cave’s entrance, didn’t have time to appreciate such facts.
“How do they know it lasts three decades? Do they keep sniffing them? Is it obvious or something?”
The Drake asked the really important questions as he scratched at his neck-spines. He frowned.
“Demonsoul Skunks. Now, there’s some bastards. Don’t they spray people for fun instead of to protect themselves? What was their bounty when some showed up? Like…fifty gold a head?”
He shuddered. The book wasn’t that interesting, though, so Relc pushed it under his uncomfortable bed and sighed. His cheap room in one of Cellidel’s apartment complexes for the transient was about as bad as the old one he’d had in Liscor.
However, the book came from a library.
Liscor did not have a library. Which city was better? Based on pure book-economics, it had to be Cellidel. They even let you check out any book you wanted.
One at a time, and you paid a deposit of two silver that you got back when you returned a book on time. You also had to be a citizen of decent standing—no major arrests. Relc, being a Senior Guardsman, didn’t have issues checking out the book.
Free reading, unless I don’t turn it in or mess it up. And I just bet those [Librarians] have [Repair Books] or something.
Relc thought that was neat. He wasn’t a huge book person, but he’d been bored and had heard of the library, a novelty for him. This book had been illustrated, so why not?
Cellidel had an entire class of [Librarian] that Liscor lacked. All their Skills and unique abilities were thus available to this city bordering the Great Plains to the south, which Liscor lacked.
Mind you, that was probably only the ability to track down people who didn’t return books. But it was still a big difference. On the other hand, if you were going to play that game, Cellidel didn’t have half as many [Guards] or [Hunters]. And not one of them had ever hunted a Hollowstone Deceiver.
It had no supply of fresh seafood except by trade and some fish from lakes, but mined ore was also an actual commodity, rather than a given for Liscor with their proximity to Esthelm.
Cellidel and Liscor could have traded fairly equally on a number of issues—probably why Relc had been assigned here by a well-meaning Zevara. Liscor had the magic door, though. And that changed everything.
Oh, yeah. There was one more thing that Cellidel had that Liscor lacked at the moment. Relc sat up and his gut clenched as he checked the time. The sun was setting; his experience told him he had to start getting geared up. He was now on night-to-dawn shift, one of the more dangerous shifts for [Guards]. And…a different Watch House. The Drake lay there, then swung himself onto his feet, groaning. He picked up his spear.
The other thing Cellidel had that Liscor did not was a ‘Gnoll problem’. Which was now a ‘Sellme problem’ given the unrest. What it had, when you boiled down to it, was a problem Drakes had with Gnolls.
And it ran from the Watch to the Council, all the way to the streets.
 
—-
 
“Senior Guardsman Relc, reporting for duty!”
Relc’s life had been one of routine. He had been, in his own way, a [Peerless Master]. Not of spear-fighting, or soldiering, and certainly not guardsman…ing. Rather, he’d been good at going with the flow. Routine.
Two weeks ago, he’d fit into Cellidel with ease, despite having come from Liscor. He’d been able to daydream while walking his beat, and he’d practically been part of the regular Watch unless something big happened.
Now? Senior Guardsman Relc left his room, walked to the Watch House nearly forty minutes away from his apartment, the ‘Hot House’, as it was normally known for its highest arrest-rate and [Guard] turnover, and strode through the door.
He stood to attention as he opened the door. He didn’t miss a step. When he went to his locker, he slapped on the pieces of leather and metal, and was standing to attention before the others. Drakes and the few Gnolls eyed him side-long, whispering. Relc paid no attention.
The Watch Sergeant of this division of Cellidel’s Watch couldn’t find anything on Relc, no matter how hard she tried. And oh, she did try.
“As you were, Guardsman Relc. Your partner’s sick. So I am authorizing you for solo-patrol.”
“Yes, Watch Sergeant!”
She stared at him. She was a veteran of the Watch, and had scars to show for it. Relc had more. Her scars were from knife-wounds, even a stray spell from a wand. His came from war.
Even so, she was good at her job or she wouldn’t be here. Any other time, Relc would have taken her orders with only a bit of joking; you had to trust your Watch Sergeant.
In Cellidel, he trusted no one, and was rewarded for it. Case in point? His partner for the patrols had been ‘sick’, ‘missing’, ‘on holiday’, and so on for two weeks.
Senior Guardsman Relc was Cellidel’s least-popular [Guard] among the Watch. He had committed the biggest mistake you could make: going against the Watch. Like the army, the Watch protected its own. So if you weren’t one of your own…
Relc strode out of the Watch House. He marched down the street, not at the lazy [Guard]’s amble, but at a marching pace.
Some people turned as the big Drake strode along, his bright green scales flashing under the light. Relc was big, to the extent that Gnolls, who often outsized Drakes on average, still looked a bit thin compared to him. His arm-muscles were huge, and he had an ugly face—for a Drake. His tail especially. It was long enough, but too stout, without much of a curve or actual subtlety to it.
Relc had once explained to a confused Erin that for a Drake, it was like seeing a really ugly leg or butt or something. However, the Senior Guardsman had never traded on his looks. He had a huge smile when he grinned with all his teeth, and he maintained his scales. Normally he walked with a saunter, smelling of stall-food and maybe sweat or armor polish.
Today he marched along with his head on a swivel, eyes sharp, but not focusing too long on any one thing. Unfocused even; he had eyes in the back of his head too. Relc also had one more thing.
Over his plain leather armor, worn but carefully maintained and patched, and chainmail undershirt was a gleaming icon. A polished bit of metal, more ornate than the regular [Guards]’. A badge. It gleamed in a way that caught the eye. More than light allowed. Like…a promise. Trust.
[Guardsman of Trust]. [Wear My Integrity]. That was his new class, and one of his two new Skills. Relc walked down the street, on his own beat. However, he didn’t loaf around like normal. He hummed, and some people murmured—especially those of a furry persuasion.
They’d heard there was a new [Guardsman] in Cellidel. A new, new [Guard] who did things that had earned the ire of the rest of the Watch. Moreover, who had a class.
Someone you could trust. Of course, they also picked up what Relc was humming, which either added to or diminished the Drake’s reputation depending on how you looked at it.
“♫ Boom, boom, bum, dum, if you’re a Relc, you do it right. I’m a Relc! Relc, Relc, Relc—something something rhymes with elk. ♪”
How did Bird do it? Relc hummed to himself, pumping his arms and inhaling the fresh…evening…air. People were packing up, getting off the streets, groaning and tired from jobs worked all day.
By contrast, Relc had just woken up. He was used to changing when ‘morning’ was though, so he was fresh. The city of Cellidel was winding down. People were going to the bars, following the colorful paint on wood, or sounds of merriment and drink in the air. They were relaxing, taking their time off, and then slumbering for the next day.
…Of course, that was when work for the Watch picked up. People tired or who’d worked hard got snappy. Drink only exacerbated problems. So, amid the hubbub, the shouts of people navigating the street and driving wagons, talking, gossiping, laughing or arguing, you’d soon hear that familiar cry.
“Guards! Guards!”
…Actually, no one ever shouted that. They usually shouted, ‘help’, or ‘I need a [Guard]!’. Or if they really felt eloquent, ‘dead gods, someone save me, I’m going to be murdered’!
Then the nearest patrol or numerous ones would run, or walk, or sprint if they heard the whistle that meant someone was in trouble wearing their uniform. Relc was used to it all. However, before he heard that cry, someone sought him out.
“G—Senior Guardsman Relc?”
He slowed. Turned. The Drake looked over at a nervous Gnoll. She was a young woman; she might not have even been two decades old. He blinked at her.
“Can I help you, Miss?”
She hesitated, looked around, and nodded as a few more people glanced his way. Relc saw her hurry forwards and lower her voice. He had to lean in to even hear it; possibly other Gnolls wouldn’t have heard her.
“I…I was told you are a good Senior Guardsman, who helps people.”
“I’m a Senior Guard. That’s what I do.”
“Yes, but…”
The Gnoll girl hesitated again, and this time more palpably. Relc took pity on her.
“How can I help you, Miss? I’m here to help.”
She nodded a few times. Then a few more…she was clearly nervous. Apprehensively, she looked around, but then bit her lip. She could not keep it silent. So she leaned in, in a way Relc had grown to recognize, and whispered.
“I’d like to report a crime. Um…there’re some drunkards in a pub. Where I work. Only…well, they’re drunk.”
She looked at him. Relc straightened.
“Disorderly?”
“Yes. Not violent, but we can’t get them out so the [Pub Owner] sent me to…”
Him. Not the nearest Watch patrol. There were many things in this scenario that Klbkch would have sagely observed were ‘anomalous’, whatever that meant. In Liscor, Relc would have agreed.
In Cellidel, it made a kind of sense. This young Gnoll had come to him at the request of the owner of the pub rather than him just shouting for a [Guard] patrol or flagging down one while the drunkards caused trouble.
Why? Well…Relc’s badge shone as he straightened.
“I can sort it out. Peacefully. Where’s the problem? No one needs to be arrested if I just whack a few people over the head or make them leave.”
He added that last part on purpose. The Gnoll looked relieved. She pointed.
“This way. It’s just…”
She began to lead Relc with such speed that he wondered if the drunkards were more of a problem than she’d let on. Well, if they were coming to him…he picked up the pace. The Gnoll [Server] was so relieved that she didn’t see Relc murmur or his own eyes and badge flash for a second.
He used a Skill, then followed her with confidence. He was alert, of course, wary, braced to act, but confident she wasn’t leading him into an alley or place where he’d be jumped by someone who wanted him dead.
His second Skill helped make sure that didn’t happen. Relc was a [Guardsman of Trust], and the badge conferred something onto him that made people like this young woman seek him out. His second Skill made sure he didn’t need to doubt his actions.
[The Law Upheld]. Relc could use it about four times per his entire shift, but it guaranteed she wasn’t lying. So he strode along.
 
—-
 
As it happened, the drunkards were Gnolls. It was a Gnoll pub, in a Gnoll district, with an almost-exclusively Gnoll population. Relc doubled the number of Drakes in the pub by walking in.
“Senior Guardsman. Alright, who’s being drunk and disorderly?”
The Gnolls whirled. They had clearly been carousing and there had been a fight by the looks of it; Relc saw a table knocked over, and shards of pottery and food. So they might have been too loud and been asked to leave, or fought with someone else. There were a hundred scenarios and Relc didn’t care.
They tensed when they saw him.
“We didn’t do anything, Guardsman.”
One of the Gnolls was big. Relc recognized a [Laborer] when he saw one, perhaps someone who’d gotten lucky with [Enhanced Strength]. He also could recognize a [Drunkard] when he saw one.
Which wasn’t fun because they got lovely Skills that made them more dangerous when drunk. Well, some just got fun Skills like ones that let them buy more alcohol, or handle it better. Relc had known a [Guard] who had [Sober Up], a Skill that let him drink five minutes before going to work.
Great Skill. He patiently held up his claws and slipped into routine. In Liscor, it was simple. Someone causes trouble? You get warned. If the place has a [Bouncer] or security, they might handle it. If it’s a problem like this lot clearly were? Three Gnolls, tired, drinking too hard, and belligerent?
You called the Watch and they could be arrested or leave quietly. The trouble was in Cellidel…the Gnolls watching tensed.
“They’ve just been a bit disorderly, Guardsman. Nothing like a fight. Sherr, there’s the Watch here. Leave quietly.”
The [Pub Owner] himself spoke to Relc, then the three troublemakers. Relc had seldom seen the owner of an establishment defend the customers like that. Nor—he eyed the three drinkers and saw how tense they were—was he used to this level of hostility directed at his badge.
It played a different way in Cellidel. Relc had learned the routine, and didn’t like it. Say the [Guard]’s reasonable request was ignored, and he believed they still made it. Say the Gnoll [Drunkard]-[Laborer] spat at him and Relc gave an ultimatum, and he pushed out of his chair swinging a huge fist.
Well…Relc caught the fist and had the satisfaction of seeing the big Gnoll’s eyes go round. He didn’t often run into people with his Skill. Nor was he used to meeting someone who was stronger because he trained even with the Skill.
