The [Soldiers] didn’t stop. They had some kind of [Captain] or [Lieutenant], Relc saw. The [Captain] was bloody-faced. Idiot didn’t have a helmet. The officer pointed and a wall of armed Drakes came at the Watch.
The Watch backed up. If there was a hierarchy of violence, they were also below the army. And the [Soldiers] saw the crowd pressed around the Watch. They saw the opportunity to trap the same people who’d been deviling them for the last four days. Take vengeance.
“Back up! Let the civilians run! Back up—”
The Watch tried to move to let the others escape, but they were hemmed in by the press of terrified people. Relc saw everyone shoving, and the [Soldiers] were pounding forwards, roaring…
“Watch Sergeant. I can stop them. Give me permission.”
A hand grabbed the Sergeant as she shouted, pushing frantically. She turned.
Senior Guardsman Relc stared at her, amid the blood and terrified faces, people pleading, screaming. His face was covered in grime, and the helmet, but his bright yellow eyes locked on hers. She held his gaze in that infinite time when everything seemed slow and fast.
Not an immortal moment. But…then the Watch Sergeant nodded.
“Go. Clear ranks!”
The Watch moved back as a [Guard] strode through the civilians, pushing through them like a rock through the current. The [Soldiers] saw a solo figure break through the wall of bodies with their backs to them.
They didn’t slow. Why would they? The Drake was big, but he was one Drake. And they were an army.
They did slow when they heard the voice. It was a bark. Not a roar. A loud voice. It had more than just volume to it; it was the voice in your earhole, that you didn’t ignore.
[Sergeant’s Command].
“Company, halt! Move your tails and I will pluck them off and shove them so far up your behinds you can chew on them!”
The [Soldiers] skidded to an uncertain stop. The voice was unfamiliar. The threat? Even the other [Sergeants] winced and stopped.
The [Captain], blood running down his face, stared at the Senior Guardsman. He looked at his company.
“What are you waiting for? Advance! I said, advance! Get those b—those criminals!”
The [Soldiers] stepped forwards uncertainly. The spear-Drake planted his spear on the ground.
“Take one more step and I will arrest you and you will be eating soup out of your boots for the rest of your lives! This is not a war!”
“I said, forwards!”
The [Captain] was losing the shouting match. But he was the [Captain]. The [Soldiers] hesitated.
Then Relc lowered his spear. He took a posture they all recognized. The [Spearman]’s guard. As if he were in formation.
“Come any closer and I will run you through.”
That was when the [Dangersenses] began to go off. A [Sergeant], a fellow officer, met the eyes of the [Sergeant] standing across from him.
“Captain. That’s…a high-level [Soldier].”
The [Captain] felt it too. One second he was clutching at a burning face, enraged beyond belief, running down the pests who were attacking his people.
The next? The air felt hot. He felt as if he were standing on the battlefield, facing down an army.
“Who the fuck is that?”
He looked around. The [Soldiers] had no clue. But now they were at a dead stop. Threats aside…they did not want to advance.
The civilians and Watch had slowed their mad flight. They turned back to look at the lone [Spearmaster] holding down an entire company of Cellidel.
“The 2nd Spears will advance on the enemy!”
The [Captain] roared. He activated a Skill. [Reinforce Will]. The [Soldiers]’ weapons swung up. Relc cursed. He stared at the [Captain].
“Alright, you Creler-brained idiot. Do you want a war?”
The [Spearmaster]’s posture lowered further. He was crouched along his spear, but no longer in a set stance. Like a springer, his weight shifted from his back foot to the front.
A hunting posture. Like an animal. His head lowered further. Beneath his helm, two bright yellow orbs stared at the [Soldiers].
Their blood chilled. That was…not the look a person gave them. It was like an animal staring at them. Or the kind of veterans of so many battles that these low-level [Soldiers] couldn’t even dream of how many blood-soaked grounds you had to see to look like that.
Then Relc activated his Skill. The Skill of battlefields. It had been a long, long time since he had used it. Not when Skinner attacked. Not when monsters threatened.
A Skill for the battlefield.
“[Officer Headhunter Mode].”
The [Captain] didn’t hear the voice. Yet he saw the air around Relc change. It turned…darker. He squinted, incredulous.
“What is that? What is…?”
The [Sergeant] glanced at his superior. Then he saw it too, and recoiled.
The street was the same. The Drake was the same in height, build. But what did they see lying there?
Bodies. Was that blood on his armor? The [Sergeant] and [Captain] saw a hand grasping out. A staring face.
A dead Drake, wearing epaulets and the crest of a city they didn’t know. Yet perfect in every detail. Someone who had once been; not a figment of their imagination. He stared at them through a hole in his throat.
Another Gnoll lay, her chest bloodied by three stab wounds that had gotten through her armor.
Officers, like them.
The [Spearmaster] stood with the dead officers lying around him. Crouched. The air smelled like blood.
The [Captain]’s eyes were wide. He saw his death on the tip of that spear. Now he knew the name. Now he remembered.
Did you hear there’s a Senior Guardsman in Cellidel? They say he was a [Soldier] once. Some kind of a stupid name. What was it, again? Oh, yes—
The Gecko of Liscor. Relc Grasstongue. The veteran who had slain countless officers in battle.
Laugh. Go ahead, laugh. What a funny name. What a…
The air stank like carrion. The [Captain] saw something lying there. He saw a body, reaching out, eyes blank, flesh rotting through the hole through the back of the head and mouth.
He looked himself in the eyes.
The [Soldiers] got only a fraction of Relc’s Skill. It was not for them. It was not an aura, but a directed attack. A buff, a boon to help Relc accomplish a deadly goal.
They smelled something. Looked back, saw the Captain’s dead white face under his scales. A [Soldier] stared down at the wet ground incredulously. The [Captain] choked on his words.
“Retreat—re—”
He turned. The [Soldiers] lost their unity. They turned, and backed up, bloodlust gone. Relc stood there, breathing heavily. He tasted blood. He went back in time and hated it.
It was…hard to stand up. When he did, though, his shoulders relaxed. He rubbed at his neck. When he turned around, to the silent crowd and Watch, it was Relc, Senior Guardsman Relc, who grinned and shrugged.
“See? I guess they can be reasonable after all.”
He smiled innocently. It was the better Relc who looked up at the sky and sighed. He put his spear over his shoulders.
“Man. I hate working hard.”
 
—-
 
Relc was still shaken after signing out from the Watch House. Mind you—everyone was. The stares he got, the people who looked at him differently—it was why he hated it.
That mode terrified him. That Skill terrified him. Relc was sure he’d scared the [Captain] if the Drake actually wet himself, but Relc could have died on that street. It was…the scariest thing in the world, charging alone into enemy ranks. Kill the officer or don’t come back.
Well, both sides were scared. They’d started putting bounties on the Gecko before he’d quit. What kind of front-line officer wanted to go into battle knowing he might appear?
“Equal distribution of this sucks. That’s Relc-style.”
Relc smiled to himself, but he was shaken. Cellidel? Cellidel was a nightmare. The four trainees—
He was off-kilter. Yesterday, he had thrown his puzzle through a wall. Today, as dawn broke and he finally returned to the apartment complex?
The Senior Guardsman slowed as he saw the commotion. Shattered wood, broken shutters. A crowd of people, some with weapons—not a mob, but people afraid for their safety.
Then he saw the spear on the ground. The bloody tip. The Gnoll, surrounded by older adults.
Vok. The young man looked up as Relc moved through the crowd, knocking people aside.
“Relc, I—”
“What did you do?”
Relc seized Vok. He lifted him off the ground as people scrambled back. Vok’s eyes went round as Relc ran him into a wall.
“What did you do?”
Vok, terrified, stared down into Relc’s face. Relc was snarling. His heart—he looked at Vok, his nose bloodied, one eye blackened and already swelling. He had two wounds on his body—Relc heard a roaring sound in his head, like the roar during battle that cut all but the most pressing sounds out—
“—Guardsman Relc! Senior Guardsman Relc, please!”
Someone was trying to grab him. They tried to break his grip, realized they had no chance, and tried talking.
“Vok didn’t do anything wrong! He was protecting us!”
Relc heard that. His eyes widened. His claws opened.
Vok dropped, coughing. He stared up at Relc as the Senior Guardsman stopped, and the murderous look on his face turned to one of confusion. He turned around and met the eyes of Vok’s parents. They stared at him wide-eyed, as did the [Landlord], and the other residents.
Relc took in the scene again. Broken bits of wood, shutters—the spear with blood on it. Evidence of a fight.
Vok had stopped a group of [Looters] trying to go through the apartments. The residents, hearing the short fight, had come out. His black eye was from someone who’d thought he was part of the gang and punched him before they realized what had happened.
Relc breathed again. He looked around, at Vok, at the crowd, and…breathed. In. Out. The Gecko faded. Senior Guardsman Relc worked his mouth.
“…Oh.”
 
—-
 
Tesy watched Senior Guardsman Relc from one of the balconies as Relc stood in the courtyard, the reduced trainees standing around him after dawn. Vok stood there too, his injuries healed. Relc had given him a healing potion.
The [Painter] couldn’t understand it. Was this the same Drake who people said stopped an entire company of Cellidel’s Golem-minded bastards from slaughtering innocent people? There was a name on the wind, on people’s tongues that hadn’t been said for a long time.
Gecko. A silly name to insult your enemy. But also…
The Gecko of Liscor.
Tesy watched the huge Drake as Relc just stood there, spear in hand. Thinking.
The four Gnolls who had taken the spears for violence, to join the mob, weren’t here. If they had shown their faces…Relc looked at Vok.
But he had helped defend this place. Little Hickery was here, despite all that had happened to her. His spear-training classes gave the kids something to do. But it was teaching them a deadly weapon. So was Pos right, or Relc? Was neither?
Relc was tired, stressed out, and he really just wanted to sit in an inn and toss popcorn at a little Gnoll girl while he talked to a young Human woman as she played chess, or just sat with him. He wanted to poke a grumpy Antinium and…laugh.
But he was here. So he stood there, mind blank, until he thought of something.
“Oh. Wait a second. I’ve been teaching you all wrong.”
His students and their parents, including Vok’s parents, who had taken time off work, all blinked at Relc. He didn’t know what they thought of him, this weird Drake who was teaching their kids how to fight. Vok’s parents…certainly hadn’t seen Relc at his best.
“Relc?”
Vok rubbed at his still-tender nose. The Senior Guardsman looked around. He could still feel the battle-rage, the same fury. That was the Gecko. No more. Not even if that was the Drake that Embria loved. He was the same kind of thing as the [Soldiers] ready to slaughter civilians.
“I’ve been teaching you all how to use a spear, guys. That’s…stupid. That’s my fault.”
“Aren’t you a [Spearmaster], Mister Relc?”
Hickery sneezed at the smells coming off him; he still hadn’t washed. Relc shook his head.
“I am. But you’re not. [Spearmasters] fight alone. Because we’re awesome. You’re not. You guys are kids. You’ve never fought a battle. You couldn’t beat one of those Cericel, even the weak ones.”
His students looked at each other. Was this ‘be mean to students day’? Relc went on.
“Vok nearly got himself killed because he tried to take on three guys. If it had been thirteen? He’d be dead.”
“I stabbed one!”
Vok protested, but weakly. Relc shook his head. He looked around with clear eyes. This apartment complex had been attacked. That was from looters, true, but how bad was it? The Watch fought with the mobs, and so did the army. No one was keeping order.
“Nah, nah. You’re doing it all wrong. I’m doing it all wrong. See, I can’t just teach you the spear. That’s…”
He stopped. Smiled sadly.
“…That’s just how you make a [Soldier]. A good one, but that’s all she knows. I should have…I should have taught her how to be a [Guard].”
Who was ‘she’? No one knew. Relc didn’t elaborate. He just looked around, then pointed.
“Hickery, you stand there. Right next to Vok. You, and you. Also next to him. Time for some lessons. Stand there. Spears up. That’s important.”
The students stood, confused, a group of four, side-by-side. What new spear-technique was that? Relc paced back and forth in front of them.
“You don’t lower your spears. You don’t fight unless you have to. That’s important. Rule number one? You don’t start the fight. Not unless it’s a monster. But you don’t let them come to you. If they’re inside the range of your spears, you’re in trouble. So here’s what you do. The first thing you do is issue a warning. Then you issue a second one. Only then are you allowed to lower your spears. Obviously, if the situation calls for it, you can go straight to defending yourself, but in cases where deadly force is employed, you should always try to give two warnings, got it?”
“But what if they’re attacking at night? What’s this about, Relc?”
Vok protested, confused. However, one of the parents watching was staring at Relc sharply. The rest were just perplexed. Relc looked at Vok, seriously. He faced the young Gnoll.
“Then you warn them. Twice. You don’t have to get close. You don’t have to argue with them. Warn them twice, then lower your spears. You don’t advance. You choose a spot, and hold them off while you shout for help. Most idiots can’t get past a good spear wall. You never advance into a fight. Hold the best defensive spot. That’s what rookies learn.”
His students looked at him, fascinated. Relc nodded to Hickery.
“Next? You never fight alone. You attack and defend in tandem. I should have taught you all that. You four, lower your spears.”
They did so. Relc stood in front of them.
“Imagine I’m a bad guy. I want you to jab as one. When I get close. Not by yourself, Hickery! Together!”
