He was incredulous. Even angry. Relc Grasstongue looked him in the eye. He glanced back at Cellidel. Miserable Cellidel. Cellidel, which was still on fire. Still in chaos. He pointed at Tesy.
“Yeah. Like I said—if I thought I could fix Cellidel by arresting you, I would. But the problem is…you’re right. Sellme is an annoying brat. A stupid [Magical Painter] with a stupid brush and a stupid face.”
“Hey—”
Relc kept talking. He stomped on the ground, shouting.
“But he’s not why Cellidel is broken. I get that! So…you’re useless. Cellidel can’t be saved by you, and arresting you fixes nothing. So get lost. Think about what you’re doing.”
Tesy gaped at him. He looked…angry.
“You think I’m nothing? I’m Sellme!”
“You’re a pain in my tail. Don’t make me hit you. Get out of here.”
The Senior Guardsman retorted. Tesy hesitated. Common sense might have been interjected into his brain via multiple headbutts…or he just knew he couldn’t do anything. If Relc told Terigrals who Sellme was, his picture would be over every city and that was that. He backed up towards the wall, already flicking his paintbrush and outlining a door.
Yet he had to, just had to turn back, as a blue door with a handle appeared and he opened it.
“You’re going to save Cellidel after I leave, is that it?”
“Tesy—I swear to the Ancestors, I will break your tail. Ever had a broken tail?”
The [Magical Painter] yelped and jumped through the door. Even so, he peered balefully out of the door, prepared to slam it.
“You and I both know Cellidel is rotten. What are you going to do, Relc?”
Something…Relc looked at Tesy. The younger Drake was angry. But he did care. That was why he had come here. Everything he was doing Relc disagreed with. But he and Relc were on the same page here.
The [Guard] shrugged, tiredly. He massaged one shoulder and felt the magical, painted tar and other substances fading away. Relc shook his head.
“I…I don’t know. I don’t think I can save it, Tesy. You can’t either, so shut up. I know one person who could. But I’m just—Relc.”
He stood there and admitted it. Relc rubbed at his face.
“I’m just Relc. I can’t solve this. But I am Relc.”
Tesy gave him a strange look. He saw Relc tap at his chest, grin, weakly. A thought had occurred to him. He looked around. Yeah, that was true.
“Relcs aren’t [Innkeepers]. We don’t wave white flags or set them on fire. I—we—don’t make speeches.”
Set flags on fire? Sellme mouthed silently. Relc was seeing something else, though. He punched a palm with one fist.
“But you know what? When someone waves the flag? When someone shouts, ‘I am the consequences’? We’re right behind them. That’s a Relc.”
His head slowly rose. Relc grinned. He relaxed. He laughed. He looked at Tesy, and there was something bright in his eyes. Sellme, Tesy, the white-scaled Drake looked at Relc’s sudden confidence, confused.
“…What are you going to do?”
He didn’t understand what Relc meant. He didn’t know who Relc was referring to. And that was alright. Relc had realized something for him. He put his spear over his shoulders, and chuckled.
“Me? After you leave…I’m gonna pass this problem, this work, on to someone more qualified. And do whatever they want me to do.”
He beamed, self-satisfied, triumphant. Sellme goggled at him. Relc gave him finger-guns.
“That’s Relc-style.”
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Zevara stared down at the letter she’d received from Cellidel, top priority. She turned it over. She thumped her head on her desk.
And then the Watch Captain burst out laughing. She leaned back in her chair.
“Relc!”
She could almost see him smiling, a bit guiltily, as she prepared to bawl him out over wrecking half a dozen shops in a brawl. This? This was top-tier Relc.
 
Dear Watch Captain Zevara,
It’s me, Relc. I have a tiny bit of a problem. Cellidel’s gone to hell. It’s literally on fire. I see this building burning over here…I’ll sprinkle soot on the paper so you can see. The Watch is bad. The Council’s bad.
It’s all bad is what I’m saying. I’ve done my best to restore order, but I’m only a (Level 24) [Guardsman of Trust]. I am asking you, as a Senior Guardsman of Liscor, to help me intervene.
It is my stated intention to offer the citizens of Cellidel, including a number of [Junior Watchmen] and talented Gnolls, escort to Liscor. Because Liscor is better.
I don’t know how we’ll pay for it. I don’t know if Liscor has room. I don’t actually know which way Liscor is.
However, I consider this a matter for Liscor’s Watch to solve because Cellidel is terrible. I would appreciate any assistance you can give. Sincerely, 
—Senior Guardsman Relc
 
She looked at it. It was a conclusion Relc had come to, clearly after much thought. Leave Cellidel? She wondered how many Gnolls would actually join him if he asked. Then again—how bad was it?
Come to Liscor. Come to a city with Gnolls on the Council. Come to the place where Senior Guardsman Relc was not the outstanding [Guardsman] alone, but one of his kind.
Come home.
And the way he wrote it? I cannot solve this alone? Zevara looked at the letter. She couldn’t answer him.
Not alone. So she rose, and strode from the Watch House.
 
—-
 
“Well, absolutely. Let’s scramble 6th Company. They were headed north, weren’t they? Wing Commander Embria, send word for the nearest company to escort Guardsman Relc! Dead gods, we can pay for a few wagons. How fast could we get a hundred [Guards] out through Pallass?”
Jeiss exploded as he slapped his claws on the table. Embria and Zevara straightened.
“If that’s the will of the Council, we could certainly have them turn.”
“Will of the Council? Damned right it is! What, are we not going to help?”
Alonna exclaimed. Tismel and Zalaiss closed their mouths. Elirr was already nodding.
“The problem is—it’s a long way. We can cover that. Security, transport…I just think Relc won’t get more than a few families. Which is a shame, but who’s going to uproot themselves and lose their homes, their city? No matter how bad it is…”
Alonna mused out loud. She shook her head. It was Lism who frowned and tapped at his lips.
“Yes…Guardsman Relc is clearly in the right here. Let’s send word at once. Wing Commander…?”
She was already out the door. Zevara breathed more easily at that.
“I say we tell them they’ll be safe. Offer them homes for a month. It’s the least we can do. We have all this room.”
“Free.”
Jeiss was nodding. Tismel began to object. But Lism threw a bowl at him. In the silence as the Cobbler’s Guildmaster dove under the table, Lism held up a claw.
“Wait. I have something. We have a…labor shortage. Cellidel is a city. It’s clearly an inferior city to Liscor, but every city has high-level individuals, doesn’t it? Good Gnolls. Drakes too.”
His head was turning. He was…scenting something. Sensing something, like a wolf on the plains, or a warrior hearing the distant thrum of battle.
Only, as a [Shopkeeper] sensed things. Lism’s eyes focused suddenly.
“Stealing.”
“What?”
Elirr glanced at him. Lism pounded the table with a claw.
“We do it in the markets! Get a good apprentice. Get a good worker! Stealing! We steal them!”
The other Councilmembers stared at him, not comprehending what Lism was on about. Ironically, it was Tismel who poked his head over the table and got it.
“We can’t do that! They’ll be furious!”
“What are they going to do? They’re about to implode! Dead gods, it’s brilliant! Doesn’t Invrisil do it? Let’s steal them all!”
He stood up, outlining his idea. The Council of Liscor leaned forwards…and Zalaiss and Alonna actually applauded. Zevara blinked. Then she grinned.
Senior Guardsman Relc called for backup from his city. And backup came. He was alone in Cellidel. But Liscor always had his tail.
 
—-
 
That was how, at the end of it all, Senior Guardsman Relc stared at the scrying orb. Vok was still arguing with his parents. Hickery’s family was on board, but while a lot of Gnolls had said they ‘might go with him’, the prevailing mood of Cellidel was just gloom.
Sellme was gone, and a lot of his followers, but the city was still gripped by chaos. Watch Captain Terigrals had accepted Relc’s transfer request with relief, despite the loss of Relc himself. When Relc had told him his plan, he’d laughed in Relc’s face and said ‘good luck’.
Who would follow even the [Guardsman of Trust] to another city? Uproot themselves? Risk it all? Maybe if Liscor was closer, perhaps. But they didn’t know Liscor. Relc was resigned to taking maybe sixty Gnolls at most. He’d been prepared to guard them himself, with Vok and a few trainees.
But then Embria had written back to him. Check the news this morning.
Relc did. He was already grinning when Drassi appeared. Wistram News Network had a local exclusive.
“I’m in the City of Liscor, my home city, where I am interviewing Councilmembers Elirr and Lism, who are putting together a new law. Or act?”
“A new opportunity, Miss Drassi. And thank you for taking the time to interview us!”
Lism broke in. Elirr nodded. Drassi glanced at them and the camera, an excited look in her eyes.
“So what is this new law? I was told you’re…giving money to people moving to Liscor? That can’t be right.”
Elirr, [Councilmember] Elirr, the caption read under him, nodded in a stately way.
“That is exactly right, Miss Drassi. We have proposed and passed a new law that will grant money to anyone moving to Liscor to work. A modest sum for all, which goes up for a family. And your level. Anyone over Level 30 will receive a large stipend and free housing; everyone else will have rent-free housing for certain periods. If you possess some of the classes we are looking for, we can also offer more.”
Lism had been nodding rapidly. He jumped in, like the sales-Drake he was.
“We are talking real gold, in your claws. We want the best. We can afford the best. If you come from some Creler-infested city and you want to go to a real city where the Watch doesn’t beat you with clubs for sneezing? Come to Liscor!”
Every head turned to Relc. Somewhere, Watch Captain Terigrals was choking on breakfast. Lism had just said that live on the scrying orb. Relc could have…gotten someone else to kiss him!
“Wow. This is an opportunity. I’m told Magnolia Reinhart has done this with Invrisil. Are you basing it on her model?”
“Not exactly. We don’t need to copy Humans…not that Humans can’t do things right.”
Lism harrumphed, then caught himself. He gave the camera a strained smile and hurried on as Elirr sighed. The Gnoll looked at the scrying orb.
“This is a law we all agree on. Gnolls and Drakes. No matter where you are—Liscor is open. And I promise you, there is opportunity for all.”
He nodded into the scrying orb. Councilmember Elirr. He could have stood there and he would have said more than Lism and Drassi combined.
After a moment, Lism nodded. He clapped Elirr on the shoulder.
“…Thank you, Councilmember Elirr. I can’t say it better myself. We are doing this now, Miss Drassi, due to the opportunity and the vast monetary reserves we are just itching to spend. In order to make more money for Liscor! So we are delighted to pass our law. The Celli’delr Maurons law.”
“What a fancy name. Why is it called that?”
“Oh…just something we say in the Council now and then. So, as I was saying…”
Everyone else was frozen. Everyone in Cellidel. But there he stood, a huge Drake with a spear. Not a great mind, but a true mind, a true puzzle-solver. A Senior Guardsman.
And the Drake who would be leading the largest departure of Gnolls that Cellidel had ever seen soon. The city would protest, of course, but who was going to stop him?
The Gecko of Liscor. And Liscor itself would soon find more than just Cellidel’s Gnolls knocking on their gates.
Unexpected consequences. He didn’t care. He was just Relc. He saluted the sky, and Liscor, which was north. Not even that far north. It felt like another world.
“Thanks, Captain Z. That’s why you’re the Watch Captain.”
Senior Guardsman Relc of Liscor. Relc smiled. He prepared to go home. It would not be easy. Things would change.
He would change. He was changing. But at long last, Relc Grasstongue felt like he was a [Guardsman].
The Gecko got a new class.
 
[Trusted Sergeant of the Watch].
 
He was just a little…no.
He was really proud about that.
