In other times, Cellidel’s system would just make life miserable for the Gnolls, many of whom might quit the city or just…endure. Endure, until they tired or snapped or left or were killed. However, these were not normal times. Cellidel had met the balancing force to everything the Drakes had. The thing that made the streets tenser, that put Relc’s scales on edge. Why he stayed. Cellidel had a nightmare that was bringing all these things to light. And that nightmare was called Sellme.
An observer was watching the spear drills. As he always did. He was a pale white Drake, his clothes those of a [Scribe]; neat, tidy, as white as his scales, which had only the slightest hints of yellow and pink.
Sellme was small. Shorter than Selys, even. He was slight and young; if he stood next to Relc, he looked like an actual child. His face, though, was often combative for someone of his stature, and when he was angry, his slitted rose eyes flashed and his tail would slap the ground.
He smelled of an earthy cologne, the kind of thing you wore to hide real bad smells. Not of acrylic paints, and his robes never had any color. It was a good guise; if Relc hadn’t seen him before, he would have never guessed that this was the [Magical Painter], Sellme.
“Yo, Tesy. Want to pick up a spear today? We’ve got light ones! You could be pretty good!”
Relc shouted. The young Drake man made a face.
“No, thank you. I need my hands for writing!”
Drawing. Relc wondered if there were traces on Tesy’s scales which made him reluctant to practice. Then again, it could just be Relc. Relc was a [Guardsman]. Tesy was Sellme and he had opinions on the Watch. He seemed to like Relc.
“Hey, I was on the beat all night. Not actually beating more than a few [Drunks]…”
Relc winked at Vok. He turned his head, pretending to look around.
“…Anyone seen a new Sellme? It’s getting pretty hot on the streets.”
That was putting it lightly. Each painting caused a bigger scene. Sellme exposed corruption and there was a lot of it in Cellidel, like every city. [Merchants] had fled, laws had been passed, and the Watch was being screamed at by powerful people who did not want to be the target of the next Sellme painting. Monsters were being unveiled…often to mob justice.
People had died because of what Sellme had drawn on a wall, or a bridge, or even the street. Yet what they really wanted, many people, what was boiling under the surface, was the Gnoll conflict with the Watch. Relc had already seen large protests that the Watch had broken up—always when he was off-duty.
He felt bigger ones might be coming. And if they did? Well. Apparently entire cities had gone up in flames thanks to Sellme.
“Not today, but everyone thinks it’ll be soon.”
One of the Gnolls called out. Relc glanced around.
“Aw, come on. I was hoping to hear about the latest one before I slept. Weren’t you, Tesy?”
He glanced at the Drake. Tesy rolled his eyes.
“Who pays attention to Sellme all the time, Guardsman Relc?”
“I sort of like him.”
“Really, you? You who—”
The Drake bit back something. Relc grinned.
“I don’t like that people get hurt, or when people are attacked because he draws something. Or when people think they caught Sellme.”
Tesy’s eyes flickered.
“No. That’s terrible. But at least monsters are getting what they deserve.”
“Yeah. And sometimes people die because the Watch didn’t arrest them and instead that person and everyone in the way got torn apart. I mean, hey, the Watch didn’t do anything. That’s our bad. But there’s a lot of angry people.”
“They’ve got reasons to be angry. I haven’t been here long and even I can see it. I got arrested, remember? Some Watch [Thugs] beat me up?”
“Sure, sure. I’m new to Cellidel too. Hey, I was even there. I’m just saying…you know.”
The two barely looked at each other as Relc whirled his spear about in his drills and Tesy leaned on the balcony of the third floor. So much went unsaid. Did Tesy hear it too? Relc smiled.
If he arrested Sellme, the problem didn’t go away. Sellme was not the problem. 
But was he making it worse or better? Relc didn’t know. He might have arrested Sellme if it was Liscor, but the Drake reminded him of Erin. Relc stared up at the sky as his spear never faltered in its course around him.
He missed Erin.
Relc had been the absolute last person to hear what had happened to her. In the same way…Lyonette forgot to tell Embria, who obviously didn’t tell him what had come from Chandrar.
Relc had no idea at all about Mrsha, or anything else. He’d just been wondering what that little rascal was up to, and wishing he’d taught her some spear-drills. Then again, Lyonette would have killed him. Mrsha got into enough trouble as it was.
Wing Commander Embria and Zevara had decided not to distract Relc.
 
—-
 
They came out of the wilds. The savage infiltrators. The untamed, unwashed masses. Criminals and fools all.
A plague upon Cellidel. A plague brought by the ‘so-called’ injustices. By Sellme. By the time the Watch noticed, it was too late. Of course, they tried to bar the gates against the rest of their kind. Too late once more. The rot was in the city.
The first [Anarchists] arrived as Relc was finishing up his day. Spear practice over, he just ambled about, visited the sites, returned that weird book, and enjoyed his life. He did not know that Sellme’s followers had arrived.
They came through the gates, bypassing the appraisal Skills. They weren’t one class; they were [Rebels] and [Dissidents], [Anarchists] being a high-level class. They were an army, of a kind, but not one that the Watch would know to look for.
They were not all Drakes. They were not all Gnolls. They were young, many of them. They tended towards clothing that could be pulled over the head; hats or hoods for preference, or masks, scarves.
And as armies went, well, this one had no scouts. It didn’t reconnoiter. They knew what they were here for.
“Fuck Cellidel! Down with corruption! Down with the walls! Sellme’s here to expose the truth, and we’re going to burn down the damn Council and all these money-grubbing assholes!”
Relc passed by a young Drake woman in the streets. He watched, yawning, as she shouted to a crowd of passersby.
“Huh. Weird.”
Senior Guardsman Relc did nothing about her. He was off-duty. One of the [Guard] patrols did come striding over as the young Drake came shouting.
“You’re all blind! Blind like Follower Chickens! Wake up, people! Can’t you see how bad it is?”
“Hey! Who’s shouting nonsense?”
The [Guards] spotted her and strode over. Quick as a flash, the Drake turned and bolted. She was quick! She pushed into the crowd, and Relc actually lost her.
“Camouflage Skill. Huh.”
He stared at the hooded individual who pushed past the [Guards], who rolled their eyes, assured the person who’d complained they’d keep an eye out, and walked on. Sloppy, but then again, they weren’t good at anti-detection measures like Relc. Besides, it was hot, it was just some idiot shouting…
That was all Relc thought about it. He had no idea this was occurring a hundred times in different places at the same moment. By the end of the day, Watch Captain Terigrals would get reports of nearly four dozen pieces of unauthorized ‘art’ on walls with insults against Cellidel’s governing body, or Sellme-type works. People shouting insults and slander. Someone attempting to incite a mob.
Relc met with his personal dealer right before he went to sleep. He’d just been cruising one of the market-streets when someone flagged him down.
“Hey. Relc. Is that Relc? Drake’s Ancestors, I didn’t expect to find you here!”
A Human man trotted over, waving a hand. Relc glanced up. It was rare to see a Human, and true to form, the only person who regularly walked Drake cities was a [Merchant].
“Is that Bilt? Hey!”
He grinned, and waved a claw. The two met as a few [Merchants] glanced over. Bilt grinned.
“I was just wondering if I was going to head north to Liscor again! Long time no see! What happened? Decided to move cities?”
Relc hesitated.
“Long story. You know, reassigned. I’m here for a bit.”
Bilt was a savvy [Merchant]. Not the highest-level one, and his merchandise was a bit…eclectic. However, he was canny enough to know when to drop a subject.
“Fair’s fair. Everyone likes to travel. It’s amazing we met! I was just leaving…my instincts are telling me now’s the time. Say, that’s not why you’re here, is it? This Sellme business. Bad stuff. Opportunities, but bad stuff.”
He lowered his voice. Relc saw Bilt’s travelling companions, some he actually recognized, packing up. Bilt often travelled with other Humans, [Traders], combining their security and potential to attract crowds. He saw a woman with a nose-ring glancing around, as if her [Dangersense] was going off.
“Skills tingling?”
“Like you wouldn’t believe. Listen, Relc. You’re a good customer and I know you’re the Watch, but we’ve seen Sellme across a dozen cities. Often imitators, but this looks like the real thing. Well, that’s why we’re here…but it’s time to go. No more opportunity.”
“Opportunity?”
“Getting a Sellme! What, you think their name is a joke? I was trying to see if we could pull off one of their art pieces, but the damn brick walls…do you know how hard it is to tear down a wall? Let alone cart it, or pay someone for it? Anyways, we got one piece.”
He nodded at one of the illustrations Relc had seen; the one with the corrupt Merchant’s Guild. It was lying on the back of a wagon, having literally been taken as a huge chunk of masonry. Relc shook his head.
“You [Merchants] are weird.”
“Says the Drake who lives in a city that floods every year. I got stuck in Liscor one spring. Never again. I thought the walls would implode every second I was there. Nightmares.”
Bilt was afraid of water. Hence travelling from north to south Izril by land despite the Bloodfields and other hazards. However, he was connected, and as he talked with Relc, his eyes sharpened.
“Actually, now that I have you…maybe this is coincidence, Relc. Because I just happen to have, er…the good stuff.”
The Senior Guardsman had been yawning, wondering if he had the energy to have a drink with the [Merchant]; maybe even send a letter to Liscor if Bilt was headed there direct. It would be cheaper than a City Runner. Now, though, his eyes sharpened. He leaned in.
“You don’t say? The…good stuff? What kind of quality are we talking?”
A few customers passing by eyed the Drake and Human. Bilt gave them the side-eye. He edged over.
“I’ve never gotten finer. Nor have I unloaded any of it. I’ve got six. And you’re one of the few people who I’d give access to. I have them in the back. They’re hot. Fresh.”
“Fresh? As in—new?”
“New as new, Relc. Believe me, once you get a taste…”
Someone went over to inform the [Guard] on duty there was some kind of illicit activity going on. The Drake glanced over, on alert—spotted Bilt, and rolled her eyes.
So did one of the [Merchants] who knew Bilt and Relc. She watched them go into the back of Bilt’s wagon and rubbed at her face.
“What are they doing, exactly?”
One of her customers asked nervously. The woman sighed.
“Puzzles. They’re talking about puzzles. Damn freaks.”
 
—-
 
Bilt was an odd merchant. He sold any number of things, but he also sold blacksmith’s puzzles, little trick locks, and the like. He had [Thieves] as well as upstanding citizens who loved his merchandise.
However, he refused to sell his most high-quality products to anyone but a ‘true mind’, as he put it. Someone who could solve his puzzles and didn’t cheat by asking for the solution. Relc had demonstrated his acumen, so Bilt led him into his personal trailer, past the weak little wire puzzles, wood block games, and into the back.
“No one’s solved it so far. I have six. And they’ll cost you nigh on four gold, Relc.”
“Four gold? Am I made of money?”
Relc was appalled. He clutched at his money pouch. Bilt held up his hands.
“It cost me nearly two gold per puzzle! And I do have to get it shipped and earn some money! Believe me, Relc. I’m taking a loss on these, almost. They’re just for the best. You’re one. I’ll even offer you credit.”
“Well…okay. So this is new? How’d you get ahold of it? Is it a Wistram? A Samal? A Destrui? Did you get your hands on a Destrui?”
Relc named some of the best puzzle-makers across the world. You knew the companies or individuals, like the famed puzzle-maker from Baleros.
“Hah! You think I have six of his? No, this is a new player, by which I mean an old puzzle-maker. She’s back, though. Feast your eyes on this. The Archmage of Izril just came out with her Gizeal Puzzle!”
Bilt hefted a huge cube up and Relc stared at it. He owned a lot of puzzles. Wire ones, wooden locking mechanisms that you twisted just so. He even had a few magical puzzles, where the trigger was even speaking or sunlight. They were devilish, but he had gotten onto Bilt’s list by solving four.
This? This was a cube with transparent glass and metal panels. A glowing orb inside, but one panel was rotating at all times. He saw, as the metal plate moved, an interior glass design of intricate metalwork, pins, and sliding mechanisms—before it was obscured.
There were three keyholes on the cube, all far different from standard ones. He saw a large cylindrical hole at the base, and what might be a sliding panel on the side. His pulse skyrocketed. His claws trembled, like a [Drug Addict] seeing a chest full of powder.
“Bilt. This is the good stuff. This is only four gold?”
“It’s a mystery. I think the Archmage of Izril is putting these out as a sampler. She only made a hundred; I was on her list. So she gives these out, hooks people in, and they shell out for the next one. She’s been out of the business for ten years, but they said she was the best. What about it, Relc?”
The Drake was already opening up his money pouch. He paid one gold and two silver—all he could afford, and cutting into his food budget—and carried the cube back to his room. He had a project.
By the time he had to sleep—two hours past when he should—Relc had discovered the sliding panel revealed an inner mechanism, a fourth lock. There was even a lockpicking set attached and he worked at it for a good twenty minutes before he realized—of course! The lockpicking set didn’t match any of the four locks. So he inserted a curiously wavy pick of bronze into one of the tiny holes and opened up a slot with a green lens.
Then he had to go to sleep, but he was beaming as he did.
 
—-
 
