Relc’s punch almost laid him out. Sherr’s buddies stared at the Gnoll as he staggered back, reeling. Relc hadn’t actually knocked him out, but he’d certainly punched all the fight out in one go. A pretty tough guy; he’d have given the average [Guard] a fight if they didn’t trip him up or use a Skill. They froze, realizing how badly they’d underestimated this fight, as Relc turned to face the three.
Here was where Cellidel and Liscor differed. Relc looked at the trio. He did not slam Sherr into the table and arrest all three. Nor did Sherr break his jaw from another punch or three. They were not locked up. He dusted his claws.
“Alright. Pick him up and get lost. Don’t let me catch you causing trouble this week, got it? Or do any of you want a [Relc Punch]? Look out for it when you level up. Best punch there is.”
They stared at Relc. After a second, one of Sherr’s buddies shook his head.
“Sorry, Senior Guardsman. Sherr. Sherr, let’s go.”
They scurried out, tossing coins on the table when Relc ‘reminded’ them. The Senior Guardsman glanced around and all the Gnolls turned to their tables. He approached the [Pub Owner].
“All seems sorted. Give me a holler if you have more trouble.”
“Of course, Senior Guardsman…Relc. Thank you.”
The Gnoll glanced at Relc’s badge. He hesitated, a paw almost trailing to his side. His money pouch. Relc turned, and walked out of the pub before the Gnoll could make up his mind.
“No problem.”
 
—-
 
The entire event was a disgrace. Not to Relc; he’d acted perfectly in accordance with the law. And yes, punching drunkards was a-okay by Liscor’s standards. Oh, Klbkch would have probably talked them down, but it was fine guard-work by even Zevara’s standards.
It was the reactions of everyone else that stood out to Relc. How they expected the three to be cuffed and led out, possibly with injuries. How the [Pub Owner] had worried what Relc would do, and why they went for him.
I wonder if there are [Guards] like that? The ones whose names and faces you memorize? 
It should not be like that. But it was. So Relc walked out of the pub. No routine, save for the one he employed. He shook his head.
“…This sucks. It’s way too much work.”
Then he marched back off onto his beat. The Gnoll [Server] was not the last person to approach him for a problem that night. Relc might have had all the subtlety of policing as a fist to the face. It beat Cellidel’s regular law enforcement.
And that was everything. That was why he was here. 
 
—-
 
Relc’s shift ended at dawn. The Drake returned to his rooms after signing out of the Watch House. The Watch Sergeant reviewed his report.
“Twelve reported crimes. One arrest.”
“Minor incidents, Watch Sergeant.”
Relc stared over her head, at one of her neck-spines in a way he knew was annoying. The Watch Sergeant tapped the papers on the table.
“Not worried about repeat offenders, Guardsman Relc?”
“Just saving us the cost of jailing them, Watch Sergeant. Crime doesn’t repeat itself after I punch it.”
Someone snorted. The Watch Sergeant herself nearly laughed, but replaced it with a glare. How dare you make me smile?
“Well…good. That will be all, Senior Guardsman.”
So he signed in his armor, and sauntered back to his apartment with his spear. On the way, he bought some food from a street vendor; one of those fried fruits of theirs they loved so much. Prelons. It was so good Relc went back for a second. Then he gave up and bought six and called it dinner as he went back, scarfing them down.
That was his new routine. Work, ignore the glares, carefully dole out the law while citizens waited for you to smash someone’s face in, and go home.
…Aside from the citizens’ apprehension, that was sort of like his life in Liscor when he was loafing around. Yet Relc felt tired. Exhausted.
“Ancestors. Klb, buddy, I could have really used you. Then everyone would glare at the Antinium, not me. Even if I smashed Pos’ face in.”
Relc sighed. The irony was, he was behaving just like Pos did. The Senior Guardsman—who was back at the central Watch House and had been sick until Relc was reassigned to his new area—had shown he could differentiate between crimes like all good [Guards]. There had been a [Thief], a street-kid, and he’d refrained from cuffing the poor brat.
In the same way, Relc did not need to arrest everyone he met. Warnings were enough. Punches did the job. An arrest cost the city money, so no [Guard] arrested every person who commited a crime.
The only difference was that Relc made no distinction between species and Pos did. It was the most strange, idiotic, aggravating thing Relc had run into.
“Reminds me of being on tour with the army.”
He grumbled as he stuffed another Prelon into his mouth. He could fit three at once, to the amazement of a little boy walking past. A little boy. He had fur, but he was a kid. Gnoll? Who cared?
All of Cellidel’s Watch, apparently. Relc kicked at a loose cobblestone. He’d always known there were cities like this.
Tribes like this too, to be fair. Cellidel had a fairly big Gnoll population by the standards of cities around here, but they were still a significant minority; Relc doubted they comprised even 15% of Cellidel’s population. However, tensions were high.
Gnolls stole more, got into trouble more, caused trouble more, and were generally more savage, having come from the tribes. Indeed, it was the Gnoll tribes who often clashed with the cities, sometimes leading to bloodshed, that led Drakes to say that kind of thing.
Relc had fought Gnoll tribes as well as Drake cities. He got it.
“Anyone who’s ever run into a Gnoll deer-trap and had ten of the bastards come charging out of the grass doesn’t like Gnolls after that, right, buddy?”
The stall-owner selling a lovely fruit juice gave Relc the side-eye.
“…What?”
Relc patiently waited for the Drake man to serve him Prelon-juice, with a generous helping of sugar mixed in. You could do everything with the damn things, apparently.
“Deer traps. Plains Gnolls. See, you get these [Trapsetters] who are also [Warriors]. When the Plains Gnoll tribes go to war, they love to help ambush patrols or even armies. They toss some of those down, you step on a camouflaged one with jaws like steel thanks to Skills, and there goes your leg. Or tail. Then they come out of hiding, shoot you with a few arrows, stab your buddies in the face, and retreat. Do it again until you want to hide behind the walls.”
One of the other customers was frozen mid-order. The stall owner blinked at Relc until the Drake put some coppers on the counter.
“I’m not saying I hate all Gnolls, but it really ruins your day. Of course, there are those bastards on the walls of enemy cities that flip their tails up at you, shoot arrows, and gloat just because they have the high ground. One city used to stockpile crap. Literal crap, and they’d hurl it at you out of catapults.”
He ambled off, grumbling. Damn Drakes. Also, to hell with Humans and their [Knights] who just loved to do cavalry charges. Goblins? Sneaky little bastards and those huge Hobs who raided innocent people. Drowned Folk? Damned [Pirates], striking now and then on the coasts. Don’t even get him started on hunting down Garuda [Raiders]…
Relc had fought countless species. He had lost friends in battles, even seen his l—even seen his w—even seen Embria’s mother die in battle. He had quit because he was tired of it. He could find a bad thing to say about every species in the world.
It took him nearly two weeks to figure out why Cellidel was still bad. When he did, Relc woke up in the middle of the day (that was when he slept) and shouted it.
“Because it’s not everyone! Aha!”
He had been thinking on the issue the entire time he was here. Relc was now ignored by the Watch—they had tried hazing him, and he’d promptly taken out two [Guards] who pissed on his armor and broken their teeth. They had tried disciplining him, but Relc could pass a truth stone test that he hadn’t broken the law, and he was a Senior Guardsman; it would be a problem if they brought up exactly why he was in trouble.
So they were ignoring him. Cutting him off from support. Relc had not yet blown his whistle for backup. He wouldn’t, because if he did…no one would come.
That was how you died. Even Relc, who was the best [Guardsman] in all of Cellidel and Liscor by virtue of his level and experience as a [Spearmaster] in Liscor’s army, would eventually run into trouble that he couldn’t solve alone. He would die, or be forced to leave. They wanted him gone. Watch Captain Terigrals had offered to send Relc back without so much as a spot on his record.
So why was he here? Relc lay awake thinking of it, sometimes. He supposed it was because…he felt like he was needed. He was doing good by not being a [Brute] with a club. By being a Liscorian [Guardsman]. By being Relc, Senior Guardsman Relc.
Only, how could he do more? How could he…fix the problem? Relc really wished Erin were here, or Klbkch. Or Zevara.
He was Relc.
What was he supposed to do besides hit things?
 
—-
 
When he finished his shift, it was dawn, but Relc didn’t sleep right when he got back. True, he had a dinner, or sometimes lunch, but he was used to six, or even four hours of rest and then a battle after a day of marching.
He could go until midday before he slept. So how did he fill that time?
Well, spear-training. That was a classic. In the first days, Relc had practiced alone in the courtyard at dawn. Now? He still did, although it wasn’t right when he woke up. And this time…
“Senior Guardsman Relc! Look! Look, I have a Skill! [Spear Flurry]!”
A little Gnoll girl prodigy ran up first thing that morning and stabbed at the air with the blunt staff, a short spear with a very crude ‘point’. Then she blurred in a series of punishing jabs marred only by the fact she was a little girl less than ten years old.
It still probably hurt like hell. And it was a basic [Warrior]’s Skill across any fighting discipline. Not flashy, but it could kill if you had a steel tip and the enemy wasn’t wearing armor in that spot. Relc took one look at the Skill used by the kid, a rarity among children, and spoke.
“Aw, hells.”
He was going to be in so much trouble with the girl’s parents. But the girl, whose name was Hickery, assured him her parents were happy she had any Skill at her age.
Relc actually saw the two hurrying off to work, eating as they ran. They waved at him and he waved back, smiling guiltily. He didn’t comment on letting their daughter stay here alone; he’d been raised like that. If there were [Carers] in Cellidel, he doubted they could afford them, so maybe Relc was the ‘safe’ option?
“Good job, Hickery.”
He ruffled her hair. She beamed, and Relc saw more of his students, Gnolls and Drakes, but given the apartment’s residents, mostly Gnolls, waiting to join him, or practicing the spear drills he’d shown them. He saw one he recognized on sight.
“Vok. Look! She’s got a spear Skill! Isn’t that amazing? I’m amazing for teaching her too, obviously.”
Vok glanced at Hickery, who was obviously beaming, not realizing how that made the Gnoll twice her age feel.
Relc noticed and slapped Vok on the back.
“Nice Skill. Practice matters more, though. Although…Hickery, I bet your [Spear Flurry] only goes four times, no matter how much you try to use it, right? What’s the recharge time?”
“Tw—three hours. And it’s only four!”
Relc had counted the strikes, which were quick. He nodded and the kids and young adults clustered around.
“See, three hours means you get to use it once a fight. Not even more than once a battle. And it’s not faster. I can stab better; it’s just good for you. Now, if you level up you get more stabs and you can use it better. If you build muscle? Same. And if you get really good, you get to do this. Watch—[Consecutive Spear Flurry]!”
His audience stepped back as Relc began to jab at the air—then the enchanted tip blurred and began to lance an invisible target. It was far faster than Hickery’s strikes, and…Vok blinked.
He couldn’t even count how fast Relc was striking, but he was over eleven…then thirty…
“No way! He’s still attacking!”
Relc’s arms burned and he stopped after fifty eight. Panting, he leaned on his spear.
“Get it? I burn stamina. I don’t have to stop unless I get tired. That’s how you hold off a charging line of enemies.”
He’d used it many times, to make attackers back off or run into a spear through their chests. Yet it had downsides. Relc slapped his chest.
“It burns energy like nothing else, though. Probably three times as much as it would normally. Also, it’s slow.”
“Slow?”
Vok was incredulous. Relc winked at him.
“Slower than [Triple Thrust]. That’s three strikes at the same time. Spear-skills are all about knowing what works best. Believe me; I know a Senior Guardsman, this guy Jeiss, who could take off my arm if I tried [Consecutive Spear Flurry] on him. What you do is you build Skills for every scenario.”
“Can we get that Skill instead of just Hickery?”
Someone whined, jealous. Relc shrugged.
“Sure. You think you get it from luck? Practice your thrusts! Come on! Who’s doing a thousand a day? That’s basic. If you want to level…”
He began exhorting the children, many of whom took to the drills with more discipline than you would have guessed. But these were bored street-kids. And they were levelling. They saw how good Relc was.
And some…Relc glanced sideways at Vok, who was practicing with a determination that went beyond Hickery’s desire to improve and enjoyment. He practiced with a frown, hard, sweating at it.
He wanted to protect himself. Himself, his friends, his family, his neighborhood. Relc could understand that most of all.
The Drake practiced with the kids, watching them, and noting who came and who didn’t stay. He mostly watched the older ones; already, one group had been arrested for having the practice spears he now collected after the dawn session and entrusted to Vok. The Watch did not like potential [Spearfighters] being levelled.
Was he doing good here? Was he needed? Well, in another time, Relc thought this would have been a pleasant diversion. He would have stuck around for a month, gotten frustrated, punched some idiot, and been sent to Liscor and that would be that.
Cellidel had problems with Gnolls. Grass was green. That was how common it was, and Relc might have given up and gone to his city he missed so much. To Erin…he closed his eyes.
“Ow.”
Hickery stabbed him in the stomach as he failed to block one of her stabs. He shrugged, rubbed at the spot, and went back to absent-mindedly blocking her. He couldn’t do it blind anymore; she was a natural.
