“Crossbows up. He comes through that door? Kill him.”
Ellic overturned the table. He drew his own crossbow and aimed an enchanted bolt at the door. He had the name ‘Shanker Ellic’, but he wasn’t above doing the shanking from afar.
Halfblade was on her feet. She paced around, listening, then glanced at him.
“I’m going to take my spot. Don’t wait on me.”
She glided over to one of the support beams and vanished. Ellic cursed her. If she was running—but then he heard a voice.
“In the course of my guarding duties, I have been attacked! That means whoever’s in here is screwed. You’re all under arrest.”
“We haven’t done anything! Who the hell are you?”
Ellic bellowed back. There was a chuckle from outside.
“Me? I’m…”
The gang members inside waited, tense, crossbows drawn and aimed at the door. Ellic felt sweat dripping off a neck spine. He frowned. Then he heard a mutter from outside.
“…Relc? Wait. ‘Your worst nightmare’? Nah. Senior Guardsman Relc? I’m the consequences! Hah, that was really great. Hear that? I’m the consequences! No. It really just doesn’t work when I say it.”
The voice trailed off. Someone coughed in the hallway outside. Only one door separated them, and once they came through it…
Fingers tightened on triggers. Ellic sighted at the door. He waited, as the dimly lit warehouse became taut with tension. As seconds dragged into eternity…
Then he realized. It had been a minute. The other [Thugs] stared at the door, and then at each other.
Another minute passed. The men and women inside waited. A Gnoll hissed at the [Gang Boss].
“Boss, maybe he’s not coming?”
“There’s only one entrance from that hallway. Just watch. Just…”
Ellic glanced at the back door. He pointed, and three of the gang shifted their aim. Ellic hesitated.
“Wait. Maybe that bastard’s going to take aim at us from above?”
There were windows high up that let in some light. The Shank Gang looked up. They all had the image of a bastard with a bow sighting down on them. Ellic cursed.
“You lot get out the back and make sure we aren’t flanked! We’re not getting boxed in!”
“Boss!”
“You heard me! G—”
The door exploded inwards. Everyone turned and a dozen crossbow bolts flew through the gap. Ellic’s detonated. Too late, and too slow. Also—off by nearly fifteen feet.
Relc came through one of the walls in a shower of wood. The Gecko of Liscor charged into the room and saw the nearest [Thug] recoil in horror, scrambling for a club. Relc ran into her. He didn’t stab her, he didn’t punch. He just body slammed his entire weight into the figure and knocked her down.
Then it was a fight.
 
—-
 
Relc was so scared he thought he was going to wet himself. But he never did, and his training took over. But he had never jumped into a warehouse full of criminals alone.
He’d charged into robberies by himself, but he’d always known there would be backup seconds behind. This?
This was like he was back in the army. Charging into enemy lines to take someone’s head. Only, he couldn’t run.
He hated it. He was scared, but his claws didn’t tremble as his spear flurried around the room. Relc was terrified, but he attacked.
The first [Thugs] were too slow to stop him. He crashed like a bouncing ball into three of them, throwing his shoulder into the last’s chest. Then he performed ‘The Frog Bounds Higher’. A spear technique. He threw the butt of the spear onto the ground and leapt with it, a rising move, not an offensive attack.
It was instinctual. It also saved him from the second crack of crossbow bolts and thrown daggers. Relc landed, whirled his spear left, and hit someone in the chest with the butt. He punched with his free hand, caught the second [Thug].
That was when the first blow hit him on the side. Right along the ribs. It stung, but he swung his fist again and the [Mace Thug] dropped.
Speed. He would never take them if they organized. Relc gritted his teeth.
[Extended Sweep]! He swung the spear around and three figures went down. Relc strode over, kicked a head down, and blocked a thrust from some idiot with a sword.
Someone tagged him from behind. The Drake felt a small crossbow bolt punch through his shoulder, but he’d whirled and kept it away from his spine. It lodged halfway in his shoulder.
Powerful bow. That’s enchanted. Nothing else would have hit Relc’s scales like that. He whirled—saw a figure jerk in surprise.
That’s the Face. Relc saw a [Rogue] or some kind of [Dagger Duelist] or something vanish behind one of the pillars. He snarled.
“You b—”
Relc whirled and backhanded someone. They flipped over the table and he charged.
“Get hi—”
Someone had an axe. They swung the axe. Relc blocked it with his spear. The axe bounced off the enchanted spear’s haft. Relc was still charging, so the butt of the axe smacked whoever was swinging it and Relc knocked them flat. Then stomped on their stomach.
Two more [Thugs] went down in a whirl. Relc’s spear thrust out, under a guard, and tapped someone’s ribs. Then broke them. That was when Halfblade appeared and tried to run her two blades through Relc’s sides. He whirled, bellowed.
“[Triple Thrust]!”
There was a curse. Relc saw his spear lance out, striking three places at once. He…
Missed.
“[Perfect Dodge]!”
The figure cried out, after the fact. Relc saw a female Drake leaping away. He charged after her, and saw her dart behind a beam. Relc crashed around it, aiming—
Gone.
Someone shot a crossbow at him. It hit his armor sideways; barely went beneath one scale. Relc whirled, snarling.
“Stop shooting me!”
He realized they actually stopped. The rest of the Shank Gang in the room were running for the doors. Relc debated stopping them for a second. Then realized he’d have no chance.
“Damn—”
This time, he didn’t dodge whatever the Face tossed at him. Relc felt something kick him and he landed, armor smoldering. And there Halfblade was. She aimed the crossbow at him—
“Gaaaaah!”
Relc’s scream of desperation and [Whirlwind Dodge] caught the [Rogue] by surprise. He threw himself to the side so hard he landed on his feet. He charged.
“[Spear Flurry]!”
His jabs hit only air. He tried to track her, but again the Drake blurred, weaving, deflecting one spear thrust, moving to the side. She stood there, rather than duck behind a support beam again. The two stared at each other. Relc gritted his teeth.
“Damn. I hate high-level opponents with dodging Skills.”
She spat.
“What kind of Senior Guard are you?”
The big Drake grinned.
“Relc!”
He lunged and thrust. The spear nearly went through her face. The Face dodged, cursing, and leapt back, unnerved. She threw another explosive bottle, and Relc leapt back. She vanished. Then appeared and tried to stab him.
This time she got through his armor. Twice. Belly-cuts, and they burned. Flame-daggers! Relc roared, swung an arm, and sent her sprawling, but she flipped onto her feet and retreated.
A second staring contest. Relc checked himself.
Not badly hurt. He eyed the Face. She was unnerved.
She had to be over Level 30. [Dagger Duelist] or [Stabmistress] or some class like that. Evasion, armor-penetrating stabs. Simple, effective. Stealth too.
Relc’s highest-levelled class was [Spearmaster] at Level 36. In theory, they were matched, especially because she clearly had gear he lacked. He had on [Guard] armor, and his enchanted spear might be better than her daggers, but it was an armor and mage-killer, not a [Rogue]-hunter.
In theory, they were matched. What was making Halfblade nervous was that she could tell Relc was better. But not why.
[Armored Advance]. The [Spearmaster] came in, jabbing, refusing to give her a big opening. She retreated, slashing, realizing that he had way too much range. She threw a dagger and it touched him—exploded. He cursed.
“How many things go boom in your—”
She nearly stuck a dagger through the bottom of his jaw in a vicious lunge-in. Relc recoiled.
[Counter Backstep]. He moved back, and in, and scored a hit through her armor. She was too quick! But she clutched at her upper right breast, gasping. Her fancy armor hadn’t stopped his spear.
“How…?”
She stopped, circled. They hit each other twice more, both times fruitlessly. But she couldn’t hide her dismay.
How am I losing? The answer was simple. They had roughly equal classes and gear, so it might be anyone’s game. But Relc?
Relc was a [Sergeant]. And a [Guardsman of Trust]. Neither class was over Level 30. But he had more Skills. Case in point? She tried to use her stealth Skill, but a weaker one. His [Eyes in the Back] saw her coming and he struck with the butt of his spear, sending her stumbling back.
Outlevelled. He had more experience, anyways. Relc saw his opportunity as she cursed, stumbling, and took it.
“Aha!”
He threw the spear at her face and she reflexively dodged. But it wasn’t even a javelin’s throw; he’d just heaved the spear lengthwise at her. She raised her daggers—and Relc grabbed her wrists.
“Got you.”
Halfblade’s eyes went wide. She went for a kick to the groin. It bounced off a codpiece.
“Let go! Let—”
Relc didn’t dare let go of one hand, and he had no spear. She was so nimble she might have dodged a kick. But those were problems for people who were not Relc. The Drake began accelerating. Halfblade realized what was happening in an instant and tried to drag free.
“No, no, no, no—”
 
—-
 
It had gone terribly silent inside the Shank Gang’s warehouse. The crowd watching fearfully from afar had thought the Senior Guardsman was dead, even when he kicked the door in. Especially when he hopped on one foot, swearing for a good fifteen seconds.
But then the [Thugs] had come running out of the back and they’d hoped. But now? It was so silent. Gnolls glanced at each other, and their ears couldn’t pick up what was happening inside the enchanted warehouse. A Drake peered on the tips of her toes. Where was the rest of the Watch? They’d shouted for a patrol, but it was too l—
Relc crashed out of a wall with Halfblade. The crowd screamed as the two hit the wall so hard they busted through it in a shower of splinters. Relc cursed.
“That hurts! Alright, let’s do it again!”
“No, sto—”
They hit another wall this time and cracked it. It hurt like hell, but Relc was tough. [Rogues]? He saw the lolling head and the two daggers slipped from her claws. He dropped her, secured the daggers in his belt, and reached for his cuffs. Then he remembered she was a Face. It wouldn’t work. So he just picked her up by one foot and began trudging back to the warehouse.
The Drake stopped when he saw the crowd staring at him, and the trashed Shank Gang. All by one person. Relc stopped. He grinned, thought, then held up one thumb-claw.
“That’s Relc style. No, wait, that’s still terrible.”
 
—-
 
Relc had been afraid someone would yank his spear, or that he’d missed the boss of this gang. As it turned out? He’d backhanded the [Gang Boss], Shanker Ellic, and that had been that.
Halfblade had been the problem. When the Watch patrol slowly picked their way down the street, a full three-squad patrol armed with the same tower shields they’d used in the mob fights, they stopped.
Relc stood over a line of comatose [Thugs], [Rogues], the [Gang Boss], and Halfblade. In point of fact, he had a foot on Halfblade’s back; she was the only one he couldn’t cuff. People were pointing, cheering, and shouting his name.
“Relc! Relc! Relc!”
“That’s right! That’s my name! That’s how you do it!”
The Drake [Guardsman] grinned, on top of the world. He waved the Watch over as the [Guards] stared at Cellidel’s biggest gang, in chains. No less than Vok and Tesy themselves pushed through the crowds, and stopped. The word was all over the city. One Senior Guard had just crushed the Shank Gang!
Relc grinned as he stared at Tesy. How was that? How was that? Did you believe in the Watch now? Tesy was blinking at him, eyes wide. Relc heaved a sigh. He had done the thing that he was good at. And that…
 
—-
 
Changed nothing.
At first, Relc thought it did. After all, well, he got in trouble, but he didn’t at the same time. They hauled him into the Watch Captain’s office where a [Counsellor] was protesting that ‘Mister Ellic’ had done nothing wrong.
Terigrals glared at Relc, but he refused to release Shanker Ellic, on the grounds that he was a [Gang Boss] and any other arguments were stupid. Relc happily stood through the lecture about ‘backup’, and ‘evidence’ and tuned it out to his own theme song he ran in his head.
If you’re a Relc, do it like a Relc. Do it like an elk! Welk! Relc!
This wasn’t like the silly story Mrsha had tried to tell him about, where the ‘Watch’ or ‘po-lice’ of these Humans was corrupt. If you had a [Gang Boss]…you had a [Gang Boss] and a [Counsellor] was not a lawyer. Whatever that was.
There were some asterisks on the victory. For one thing, when it was announced, it was ‘a victory for Cellidel’s Watch’ that neglected to mention one Drake had done all the heavy lifting and the rest had just carted the others off to jail. Mind you—Relc didn’t envy whoever had to watch Halfblade. [Rogues] were hard to keep in a cell.
However, Relc got a parade. He got a grudging commendation from the Watch Captain, delivered by a more sincere Council who weren’t up on ‘reasons to hate Relc’. He got to hear them cheer him and felt good because the big gang was in jail, weren’t they? People like Tesy could see the Watch could do it if they had a Relc.
He was going to sleep in his apartment complex, but everyone had to stop and congratulate him. Vok gave Relc a wide-eyed look.
“You took out an entire gang? By yourself?”
He stared at Relc for injuries, but all of Relc’s were healed; the cauterized wounds from those daggers would take longer, but Relc was tough. The Drake gave him the Erin gesture she called ‘finger guns’.
“All about the spear. And hitting [Rogues] really hard into walls. You just need practice! Who’s coming for spear practice tomorrow, huh?”
His students all cheered. Relc looked around, beaming. Then he saw a pair of Gnolls waving at him.
“Senior Guardsman Relc. Have you seen Hickery?”
Relc realized that he hadn’t seen the Gnoll girl among the parade. He dropped his smile and the finger-guns.
“No. Is something wrong?”
The Gnoll parents hesitated. The father, whose fur was glistening with some kind of—what was it? Oil? Grease?—looked at his wife.
“She hasn’t come back yet.”
“Is she missing? I can go look—”
“No. We thought…”
The female Gnoll smelled of wood dust and had some on her fur, even a whorl of wood shavings. She looked at Relc.
