“So, it’s got this green lens and it turns out that you have to shine light through onto this glass section for it to pop out a part of a puzzle. But, see, you have to have solved these two other pieces for the three to join up. So it’s a puzzle in a puzzle you have to assemble…”
The Watch Sergeant stared at Relc as he stood for muster. The other [Guards] had fingers in their ears.
“Dismissed!”
She tried to get him to leave twice before he went.
 
—-
 
…And I found out that it wasn’t actually sunlight I needed, or moonlight. See, to get the green lens thing to activate the mechanism, you need candlelight! Firelight! I have no idea how you do that kind of thing.
Anyways, once I did that, I was turning it over and over and that’s when I realized there was this little ‘clicking’ sound. So I thought—huh, I’ve done puzzles like that before! I realized you have to turn it around in the right order to get something inside to move. Like a little ball? I’ve gotten to left, right, back, back, up, left—but I keep messing up. Maybe it’s a diagonal?
IT WAS A DIAGONAL. Also, kid! There’s this glowing orb in the center! I think it’s a prize or something; there is no way this was worth two gold, or even four! I think this Archmage is a real puzzle-person. I’ve been up late and I think the lockpicks are meant to do more than that one part I wrote about.
See, maybe you dip them in water or something to get a code? This is like, combining every puzzle I’ve ever had. There was one where you dipped a tool in water in order to get a secret code you entered…
Wing Commander Embria stopped, with her claw at the paragraph, and skimmed down. Then she turned the page. And the second page.
“Nothing. He wrote you three pages on the blacksmithing puzzle before he got to me, Watch Captain?”
Zevara and Embria were comparing notes. The Watch Captain looked amused.
“At least he’s got a hobby. I never knew Relc did blacksmithing puzzles. Is he good?”
“I think he solved a Destrui puzzle once.”
“…A what?”
“A famous puzzle. Something like ‘there are less than ten thousand people who have ever solved it ever’. This [Merchant] gave him a bottle of wine. I think he got put on a list of people who…like puzzles.”
“Huh. I had no clue.”
That was the kind of dialogue that marked out the amateurs from the real puzzle-heads who knew what that meant. Embria went back to reading her father’s letter. She was glad. Her stomach still hurt. Two weeks ago, she’d received a simple message.
 
I know what happened to Erin.
 
Senior Guardsman Relc had not returned to Liscor. He had…a new class, and a new calling. This was the happiest letter she’d gotten from him. She knew he had some friends, and a lot of problems and worries, although Liscor had its fair share of worries she hadn’t told Relc about.
The army had left and was heading south. Liscor’s new army, that was. Hectval had made it clear they weren’t going to relent. Embria’s 4th Company had stayed for security, another problem…
Well. She’d write back. She kept reading. Zevara’s lips moved as she read another aspect of Relc’s puzzle-solving battle.
“There’s a way to hum and open a slot? He’s making this up, isn’t he?”
 
—-
 
“See? I told you! Hum like—huiiighghg—and it opens!”
With a pop, a slot shot out and nearly punched Tesy in the face. The Drake [Painter] recoiled and Vok shot back in his seat. Relc, beaming, offered around one of his two cups.
“Anyways, who wants water? I can’t afford more than Prelons and water, but it’s great, isn’t it?”
Vok and Tesy sat in Relc’s room for a morning chat. It was a bit of a custom; none of them had many friends, Vok being the most social of the lot and having grown up in Cellidel. Tesy? He kept to himself and Relc’s buddies were in the Watch. Since that had soured, they had ended up sharing some meals or drinking or talking.
“I knew it. I’ll bring some wine over.”
Tesy sighed. He got up and came back five minutes later with a bottle of wine. And snacks. The Drake had more money than the other two and watched as Vok and Relc fought over some dried Prelon chips. Truly, anything could be made of them.
“So you really like this cube, huh?”
Vok tapped the cube. Relc hugged it.
“It’s the greatest thing ever. So what are we doing? Cards?”
Tesy had a deck of magical cards, which awed Vok. Relc had played with such decks. He would have questioned where Tesy got the money, but Sellme also had dice, and other games to pass the time.
“Sure. What are we wagering?”
“Weeeeeell…if Tesy brings out those nice spicy chips, we could all use them as money.”
“Ancestors! Am I buying all the food?”
The Drake grumbled, but soon they were bidding on chips, and the winner—Vok—got to eat them and then share them as he gulped water. That was fun. Relc was having fun.
 
—-
 
“There he is! Kill him!”
The Drake ran. Relc saw him charging and tensed, but the [Plumber] just dove behind the wall of [Guards]. They had tower shields, batons. The mob slowed, but only just.
“This is an order from the Council! Disperse!”
Relc saw something flying at him and raised his shield. He blocked something—a Prelon. The sewer manager for Cellidel cowered as a [Guard] dragged him back.
Sellme’s latest painting had revealed that the sewers—a Drake city phenomenon compared to a lot of Human ones, which still used chamber pots in many places or conventional, dug outhouses—had not been suffering from ‘bad luck’. Rather, as the colorful illustration of a Drake dropping dung onto passersby as he lined his pockets with gold indicated, it had been deliberate neglect.
Corruption, again. Countless streets had been plagued by backups, rats, and the like for years. Bad smells, even sewage getting into the well water.
They wanted that Drake dead. It was the Watch’s job not to let that happen.
This was the third protest Relc had seen so far. Each time, it was a Sellme that kicked it off. Even Liscor got this kind of thing.
Usually, the Watch held the line. With big shields and armor, a mob didn’t generally pick a fight with them. They just shouted insults, threw things like the Prelons, and got tired after a while. The Sewer Manager would be arrested, the matter investigated.
This time was different. The [Guards] stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Relc, his bad blood forgotten, at least for now. No one wanted a gap in their lines to incite the crowd.
They were outnumbered. Barely three dozen [Guards] and a few hundred angry citizens. The Watch was slowly moving back, because of course what terrified them most was being surrounded.
Terrified? Yes, Relc sensed it on the other [Guards]. They were tensed. Worried. This was not what they liked; every single veteran had seen what a mob could do to you in seconds if you were swarmed.
Relc was more tense than afraid. He’d seen worse. Even so…his [Dangersense] was muttering in his earhole. This time, something was off.
The last two riots had been shouting, a few people who nearly approached the line of guards and had to be warned off. Then showers of rotten Prelons, a few stones before the [Guards] barked and kids or idiots fled.
This time? The Prelon came first out of the crowd which Relc blocked. Not a bad throw; just a lobbed fruit. Something to vent anger. But then his [Dangersense] purred and Relc heard a voice.
“Look at them, protecting this monster! Damn the Watch! Damn the walls!”
From out of the crowd, a figure in a hood jumped up and threw an object. Properly threw one, with all the force and speed of a rock leaving a slingshot. Relc saw a whirling bottle flash past his head, strike a shield, and shower the [Guards] with glass.
Someone shouted in the ranks of the Watch. It was a cry of surprise. Fear? Relc saw a shield lower.
“Don’t lower your—”
He saw a second rock shoot out of the crowd and hit a [Guard]. But for the helmet, it would have hit them right across the brow.
Someone in that crowd had a throwing Skill. Relc saw the [Guard] stagger. He shoved someone aside and yanked the shield up.
“Heads down! Someone’s tossing danger!”
He shouted. The Watch backed up further, but now a shower of more dangerous debris was coming out of the crowd. Relc guarded his face, ignoring the impacts on his armor. He had [Iron Scales] and [Thick Skin]; there was little they could do to him, even if whoever had the best arm hit him square-on. The rest of the [Guards] weren’t so lucky. A glancing hit hurt if it got you, and someone was clever.
Glass bottles exploded and the shrapnel didn’t cut you if you wore armor often, but it was scary. Then someone threw another bottle and it struck the top of a shield over their heads. Relc heard the difference in the sound before a [Guard] shouted.
“What the f—”
Relc smelled the urine as it showered down. The [Guards] shouted in disgust and fury. Then someone snapped.
“You bastards!”
A Drake pounded out of the line of [Guards]. Relc cursed. Someone else shouted.
“Glorisa, no—”
The [Guards] hesitated—then charged after her. The crowd saw the enraged [Guardswoman] coming their way, stinking of urine. They hesitated. Someone threw one last stone that bounced off her chestplate, but the crowd was full of angry civilians.
Mostly. Three figures among them were last to toss what they held and run. They all had hoods, and Relc saw the rest of the crowd take to their heels first. Those last three, though…they were who made his [Dangersense] tingle.
 
—-
 
“We have [Rebels] in the city. So-called [Dissidents], and [Anarchists], even. Sellme’s lot. No one breaks rank, understood?”
Watch Captain Terigrals himself came to address Relc’s Watch House. He walked down their lines as they stood to attention. He even met Relc’s eye—before glancing past him.
The mob had broken this time in front of the angry [Guards]. But it had been close. If Glorisa hadn’t gotten them to come after her, or they’d been a bit angrier? The Watch Captain stopped in front of her and poked her in the chest.
“No one breaks rank. You go after them, and you endanger everyone.”
The Drake’s scales were dark with her blush.
“But Watch Captain, they were throwing bottles of piss! What are we supposed to do, just take it?”
Terigrals hesitated.
“—There are a lot of rabble rousers in the city, Guardswoman. We will not provoke more violence, understood?”
“We’re not the ones starting this, Watch Captain.”
One of the [Guards] protested. Terigrals held up his claws.
“I am aware of this, but the Council is concerned. You all just raise your shields. Ignore it. We’ll get through this; I have our best Senior Guard patrols dedicated to tracking down these people, and Sellme.”
The [Guards] murmured, before being called to order. Catch Sellme? It was true their troubles might end, but no one had caught the [Magical Painter] yet.
Nor had anyone asked Relc to do that. He still stank. They all did. The Drake fidgeted as Terigrals walked past him.
“We’ll get through this. There are some criminals in the city. We hold the line, we do not go after civilians and give them ammunition, and they’ll calm down. It’s people like Sellme who do this.”
And the Sewer Manager. Relc held his tongue. But he couldn’t help but wonder. Was it just the bad apples, the bad Prelons in the city being targeted by Sellme? Or was this unearthing all of the problems that had always been waiting for a moment like this?
 
—-
 
“You stink, Relc. Ancestors—Vok, open a window.”
“I got hit by a bottle of pee. Someone tossed it at us when we were covering the Sewage Manager. People wanted to kill him. Another Sellme painting. Seems like there’s only trouble when one appears.”
Tesy glanced up over their game of cards as Vok went to open the window. His tail curled up and so did his lip.
“And you did? Typical. That Sewage Manager let hundreds of people go without proper plumbing for weeks. People got sick thanks to him!”
“So we should just let him die? Mind you, I think someone in the Watch kicked him in the guts. We don’t like him, but we had to arrest him. That’s how the law works. Or something.”
“Or something. You’re a Senior Guardsman. Why didn’t anyone do anything before?”
“I think the Council was looking into it.”
Relc studied his cards. He plucked one, tossed it down. Tesy instantly trumped it and Relc sighed.
“A fine job they did.”
Vok glanced from player to player as Relc and Sellme played for coppers. He studied his hand. Relc shrugged. He glanced at Tesy over the top of his cards. He toyed with one.
“Someone in that crowd was throwing some pretty dangerous stones. Good arm. I hear there are [Rebels] in the city. People who support Sellme. We could have gotten hurt.”
The white-scale Drake hesitated. His claws held a card up before he played it, slowly.
“Sellme’s got a lot of followers. So I hear. They hate the Watch. You should be careful, Relc.”
“Me? I’m Relc. No one’s taking me down. All I’m saying is—we didn’t do anything wrong. Why does someone have to throw bottles of pee at us?”
“You didn’t do anything wrong today.”
Relc slowed in picking up a slice of buttered bread, his dinner. His eyes focused on Tesy.
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“So uh, it’s been nice weather of late, right? Nearly turning to fall.”
Vok tried to interject, playing two cards hurriedly that joined into one as they glowed. Tesy ignored the comment. So did Relc. The [Magical Painter] leaned forwards, tail lashing agitatedly.
“Why did no one fix the problem with the Sewer Manager before? He was investigated? The problem was here for months before Sellme arrived. Over a year and a half! Where’s the Watch when you really need them? Sure, you stop small crimes. What about actual gangs getting people killed? There’s a p—”
He hesitated. Relc’s head moved up sharply. Tesy went on, claws suddenly tight on his cards.
“There’s a new Sellme on that corner with the domed building. Brand new.”
Vok and Relc’s heads rose. Vok blinked, excited. Relc just looked at Tesy.
“What’s it about?”
“Crime. Some [Guard] looking the other way and lecturing a low-level [Thief] while a real monster beats down someone for coin. You know that section of the city? The one past the big [Butcher]’s shop down—whatever they call it—Brassflame Way?”
Relc’s pulse was steady, but it upticked a bit.
“I know it. Tough neighborhood.”
Tesy smiled bitterly.
“Well, it’s not patrolled by the Watch nearly as much as other places, is it? The Gangs rule there. Where’s the Watch then, Relc?”
The Drake slowly picked up his bread, and bit into it. He chewed, slowly, determinedly.
