A Gnoll girl whispered. There were six of them, but they were scrawny, underfed young adults. Relc? He was a six foot six tall Drake, who weighed twice as much as any two of them without his armor, with muscles that Magus Grimalkin had once called ‘impressive’.
Relc waved a claw.
“No, no. That’s just exploring every option. I had no idea what to do, but see, in Liscor, we actually have a system. If there were some brats like you who did this, we’d haul them off, and make you join the army, or work in a mandatory job for two weeks. You even get paid. It’s ingenious, you see? You might even get your class if you’re apprenticed to fillet fish for a month. Or you join the army…that’s how I got into it. Cellidel? I arrest you, and you’re always ‘criminals’.”
That was the Gnoll problem, in a way. You arrested a drunkard? They had a record and no one, Drake or Gnoll, wanted to hire a criminal. Nevermind that the offense was slight. And that was the other key. That little street-kid that Pos had grabbed he let go. Vok? He’d been ready to arrest Vok for having a tussle with his friends.
The street kid had stolen. Vok had arguably been in a fight with other people who were eager participants, he might have even been defending himself. In both cases, neither one was a huge criminal, but the difference was species.
Which was stupid. Relc laid this out for the six kids as he slapped the [Thug] into cuffs. The big Drake turned to the six, who’d dropped their weapons.
“So what’s my solution here? Do I go full-Relc and break some legs? Do I arrest you?”
They looked at each other, too afraid to say anything to the [Guardsman] who was clearly losing his mind. Relc sighed. He picked up the groaning [Thug] and looked at the kids.
“Alright. I can see we’re not getting anywhere. So.”
They tensed. Relc stared at them, terribly, frighteningly silent. Then he waved a claw.
“…Get lost. If I see you again, I’m arresting you.”
The six [Thieves] stared at each other. Relc glared. They fled. He turned to the [Shopkeeper], who was staring at her ruined shop and the weapons lying on the ground. Relc sighed.
“See, even if I do that, the damage is still done. So who pays for the shop? We’ve already lost gold, and so the problem with crime is—if it happens, we’ve already lost. But then again…”
 
—-
 
Relc’s head hurt. It hurt day and night. He was thinking so hard he thought his brain was going to come out his earholes.
People were dying. Two civilians were dead, and one [Soldier]. Relc had not been there; he’d arrested the [Thug] and heard about it. Of course, the army said the [Soldier] had died and they’d defended themselves.
Three people were dead. And everyone, Drakes and Gnolls, were turning on the army. And Watch.
‘Like the blood on your boots, you monster?’
Relc stared at the scrawl on his door in red paint. He chewed on the Prelon, glanced around. He saw a face duck back behind a corner. Tesy’s friend?
Relc shrugged. The half-eaten Prelon hit the graffiti-artist so hard it knocked them flat. Then he went inside and stared at the Gizeal Puzzle.
He sat down, prodded it. Shook it. Turned it upside down. Inspected the keys, fiddled with them. Hummed. Shone some light on various places. Re-checked some of the puzzles. Used the magnifying glass to peer around…and then realized someone had peed on his door along with drawing on it.
“DAMN IT!”
The roar woke up the entire apartment complex. Vok, practicing with Hickery, looked up just in time to see Relc throw the Gizeal Puzzle through his wall, the railing, and into the courtyard below.
The shattered wood and stone rained down as Hickery and Vok scrambled away, staring. Relc stood in his ruined apartment, staring at the door. It had a huge hole in it, and so did the balcony, now missing a guardrail. He closed his eyes.
Someone had to pay for that. That…that was a Tesy move right there. He didn’t have to pay for what was burned down.
A frozen [Dissident] was holding a paintbrush just in front of the hole next to her head. She looked at Relc and ran away, screaming.
Relc slowly descended into the courtyard to pick up the broken puzzle. To his amazement, he saw the cube was lying on its side. Intact. Relc stared at it.
Then he saw one of the glass panels light up, and glittering words projected themselves a few feet into the air. The Drake…read the words.
 
Feeling annoyed or frustrated? Contact Archmage Valeterisa or the Terras faction of Wistram for support, hints, tips, and tricks for a nominal fee!
 
Relc’s lower left eyelid twitched. He opened and clenched his claws, then saw a second message appear, tracing itself underneath the writing.
 
Of course, a true mind would solve any puzzle without help.
 
“Ooh.”
Relc muttered. People were coming out of their rooms and the [Landlord] was staring up at the devastation and at Relc. He looked at the puzzle. Then he started laughing.
It wasn’t happy laughter. But at least he laughed for a second.
 
—-
 
The worst fighting took place the next day. Relc was sleeping in his new room, after paying a lot of money for repairs and helping board up the railing one moment.
The next? It felt like he was sweltering in the hot armor, underneath the helmet he had to wear to protect himself from projectiles.
“Stay back! Do not throw objects!”
The civilians were…counter levelling. This mob was the latest to attack Relc and the Watch, who were deployed alongside six companies of the army. The thing was—they weren’t levelling as [Warriors] or [Soldiers].
Why would they? The Watch had handcuffs out. Oh, they smashed heads, knocked people back, but they weren’t killing anyone. People were dying or getting hurt, but for all Tesy and his friends called it ‘blood on their boots’, Relc longed to tell them this wasn’t a war.
If it was a war? He held his shield up, holding back the impacts from people smashing clubs, makeshift weapons on it. He stared into a snarling Gnoll woman’s face.
They’d all be dead. He could almost see someone stabbing her, running her through before a [Mage] threw a [Fireball] into the crowd. It would be so easy…too easy.
The [Mage] cast a spell.
“[Sticky Webs]! [Earbreak Siren]!”
The wail of sound made every Gnoll scream and clap their paws to their ears. It hurt Relc, and his hearing was way worse. The sticky webs tangled people up. He relaxed a bit, but they would come back. They always did.
The hours on duty were beginning to blend together. There was just the mob, chasing after [Looters], being hit by projectiles from roofs or windows, until it was time to stop. A [Guard] shouted.
“They’re coming down Greywater Street! They’ve got weapons!”
Relc heard groans. He turned with the wall of [Guards] and set himself. He was miserable, filthy, hot…
But what hurt most was when he saw the new group being led by the kids holding familiar training spears.
The Senior Guardsman stopped. So did the four Gnolls he vaguely recognized. They had proper training spears. Tipped with only wood, but someone had taken shards of knife blades or something else and attached them to form a killing weapon. Relc saw them holding the spears at guard-rest, ready to stab or whirl up.
Just like he’d taught them.
They hadn’t expected to run into Relc. They stared at the Senior Guardsman, who was identifiable from his badge. And from his size and the spear he carried.
“Drop them.”
The Watch slowed as one of their number broke ranks and advanced forwards. Relc ignored the calls to come back. He wasn’t afraid.
He was…angry. The four spear-wielders hesitated, but someone was egging them on. They were probably the vanguard of this group; able to actually harass anyone. Were they [Looters]? Were Pos and Terigrals right?
“I said, drop them! Now!”
They wavered, but refused to drop them. The crowd was jeering, but they backed up a bit. Nevertheless…Relc saw a butcher’s cleaver, a pitchfork, a pruning scythe—all deadly weapons if you swung them right. He halted; if he came into close contact with the crowd, they’d be all over him.
He didn’t need to. He looked at the makeshift weapons and the four spears. They were real weapons. You could kill someone with anything. A rock, a stick. But…
A spear? He brought up his enchanted spear and the four trainees flinched. One jabbed, but Relc knew the length of his spear and thus, theirs, perfectly. He swung his around so the butt, the plain wooden end, faced them.
“I said…”
Relc took a step forwards. And the trainees saw his spear rise.
Such a…long weapon. Not as long as a pike, or the weapons that could reach over ten feet. Even so. Eight feet long, taller than Relc. The kind of weapon he always lugged around, using as a walking staff, back-scratcher, balance-beam…
Until he held it, and you realized how long it was. How simple. A piece of metal on the end of a shaft of wood. But unlike a pitchfork, it was designed to be simple. It had one purpose, which meant it could be so many things.
If you choked up on it, it was a short, slashing, jabbing weapon. You could plant it in the ground, use it as a quarterstaff. And…
The [Spearmaster] took two more steps in. The four spears rose. The trainees knew what he was doing. The long-range thrust was simple, basic, and even a child could pick it up. Anyone could dodge it, in theory.
But an entire rank of spears jabbing you before your stupid little swords even got close enough to swing? That was how you won a war. They aimed at Relc. He might be strong, but—
They realized he was stepping in. The spears wavered. Relc’s own spear shot forwards. One of the trainees recoiled.
The flat of the spear’s base tapped a skull. The spear-holder stumbled, nearly went down. One of the Gnolls tried to stab at Relc, but one-handed he slapped the tip of her spear down.
Contemptuously. Relc’s eyes were staring. They had never seen it, not in all of the morning practices. A stare as focused as the edge of a blade.
You think that’s a stab? He could knock it astray with a claw. It would never penetrate armor.
This?
“I’ll block him! I’ll—”
Some idiot had a shield. A big kid, maybe twenty years old, held a half-rusted shield up. Sloppy.
Relc hit him in the stomach and he doubled over, puking. His spear jabbed. Once, twice…
People screamed. He was hitting them hard. Not hard enough to break bones, but only just. A few began to run forwards. They ended up on the ground, curled up. One tried to charge and ran into a spear that hit them so hard in the knee they curled up, clutching at it.
The spear-holders saw Relc standing there. Just…standing. Daring the crowd to advance. He hadn’t even used his Skills. If he reversed the spear, if he used [Spear Flurry]? Could they even get close to him before he killed them all? They would have to climb over the dead bodies impaled by that spear.
“That’s your last lesson.”
The Drake spoke, and the Gnoll kids started. As if he could read their minds. They looked at the spears they held. Then…
At the [Spearmaster]. Relc stood there, holding down the entire street. No one could block, or dodge, that simple thrust that broke every block, and was impossible to knock aside. A spear thrust.
“Drop them.”
Three spears hit the ground. The crowd backed up. Relc picked up the four spears, letting the last trainee he’d knocked down stumble away.
“Relc. Aren’t you going t—”
The Watch had seen the entire tableau take place. They looked after the four spear-wielders as they hurried off. Their instinct was to arrest them.
Relc held up one of the spears he’d made for them. A good, strong shaft of wood…with a shard of glass attached. Was there blood dried on the tip? He stared at it. Then—held it out lengthwise, and flexed it with his arms.
The spear cracked. He snapped it with a grunt. Tossed it down.
The [Guards] stared as Relc did the same with the other three spears. Someone muttered an uneasy oath.
You…should not have been able to do that to a spear. Not with regular strength.
“Let’s keep working.”
Relc walked back to them.
No one said a word. Especially about going after the other trainees.
Relc marched with them in silence. He needed to go home. He needed…his partner.
Klbkch. Not the Slayer. Not Klbkch the Revalantor. Good old Klbkch. Relc was a Drake alone. In this moment, he was with the Watch. But a Senior Guard needed a partner.
Klbkch could have stopped that idiot instead of me needing to break her leg. He’d have tripped her up. He’d be the one telling me not to teach kids how to use deadly weapons. He’d…have a solution. 
I miss Klbkch.
In that moment, Relc realized something. He missed Klbkch. Needed his buddy.
Possibly…perhaps…Klbkch needed Relc too. To be the relaxed guy. To be the Drake instead of the uptight Antinium. To tell him Pawn was okay. Relc should have been a better buddy, rather than let Klbkch get to where he had. He’d leaned on Klbkch so long that without him, Relc kept falling over.
Maybe the two friends needed each other. That was a nice thought. Could Relc send him a letter? Did the Antinium take mail? Maybe—
“Help! Help!”
The screaming made Relc break out of his thoughts. He saw the Watch halt, in confusion.
A rush of people were charging down the street. Reflexively, the Watch brought up their shields and clubs, but they weren’t here to fight.
They were running. Relc saw masks, helmets and hoods askew, tools to keep them from being identified forgotten. People running, blood on their clothing. Blood, open cuts, wounds…
He heard a familiar roar behind them. Voices raised in anger, until you forgot there were words.
Cellidel’s army came down the street, [Soldiers], Drakes advancing in tight-knit formation, blood on their blades, following the crowd they’d clashed with.
“Ancestors!”
The Watch Sergeant gasped. The crowd fled around the Watch, screaming, a few people falling, being trampled. Relc saw the [Soldiers] coming on.
Not in a mass like the crowd. In formation. That was the scary thing. They were out for blood, but they fought like a unit. Unless they were greatly outnumbered, they’d crush a mob, [Anarchists] or not.
“Watch Sergeant! They’re going to run the civilians down!”
One of the Senior Guards barked in horror. He saw a [Soldier] kicking at a fallen figure as they marched after the crowd. Relc guessed someone had killed one of the [Soldiers], and they were out for blood.
The army sticks together. The Watch Sergeant tore herself out of her stupor. Hatred for her or not, she was still a Watch Sergeant. She took a breath and bellowed into the stone that magnified her voice.
“This is the Watch! Hold your ground! We have this street under control!”
