Zevara blinked. Jeiss was standing up, concern on his face. Alonna, Lism, even the other Councilmembers looked up.
“Is Guardsman Relc alright? I hadn’t seen him around but I didn’t know he’d left the city.”
“Indeed. You need time? Take all the time you need, Watch Captain. He was always a bit obtuse, but a fine Senior Guard. Is he well?”
To Zevara’s surprise, the entire Council was concerned, even Zalaiss and Tismel. Senior Guardsman Relc was Senior Guardsman Relc. A face everyone knew in the city.
“He’s…well. It’s complicated.”
Zevara ended up telling them all about it. Lism hammered the table.
“Gnoll issues? Shouting at a child?”
He nearly spat fire himself. Elirr raised a weary eyebrow.
“Imagine that in a Drake city.”
His comment provoked intense, embarrassed silence, but Jeiss shook his head.
“I…taking on a Gang without support? That’s a problem.”
Embria stared at Zevara in such a way the Watch Captain knew her father hadn’t told her about this. Zevara waved the letter.
“That’s why I have to get a response back. Excuse me, Councilmembers…”
She walked out of City Hall and spent the next three hours walking around her city, trying to figure out a response. She came up with the best one she could, and was headed back to the barracks to draft it. It wasn’t great, but it was all she could do.
When she got there, one of the Senior Guards leaned out past the desk.
“Watch Captain. A word?”
“Mm? What’s the matter, Yill?”
Senior Guardsman Yill, the Desk Sergeant, glanced at Zevara. A few other [Guards] stopped and gathered over as they realized she’d returned and she tensed. But Yill just glanced at the letter in her claws.
“We heard old Relc’s in a bit of trouble. Anything we can help with?”
“What’s he gotten into now, Watch Captain? Heard there are some bastards who need his [Relc Kick] up their asses in Cellidel.”
Another [Guard] chimed in. Before Zevara knew it, the rest of the Watch not on duty were gathering around, demanding to hear the story. How had they…?
She glanced up and saw Jeiss wink at her. The Councilmember trotted out the door. Zevara stood there, with Relc’s friends and coworkers asking after him. She wished she could show him that.
 
—-
 
‘To Senior Guardsman Relc. In regards to your query, as Watch Captain of Liscor, I have to tell you there are no easy solutions. As you yourself wrote, it is not a matter of bad individuals, but a culture.
In my deliberations, with input from Liscor’s Council and fellow guards, who all wish you success, I have concluded that it is an uneven balance of power. A solution within a Drake-led Watch, with almost only Drakes and a Council that is made up of the same opinions, cannot address inequality with Gnolls because it lacks any perspective.
I would suggest, firstly, meeting with any Gnolls in positions of power in the city. Secondly, within the Watch, if there are any upstanding [Guards], I would seek them out. Also in regards to individuals like Sellme, I have historically…’
Relc read Zevara’s letter. Then he read it again. Then he pulled out a book he had almost never read, but picked up when he got the letter.
The actual handbook of Liscorian law. Relc read that one too…okay, he skimmed the parts she referenced.
It was perhaps the first time he’d ever read it. The Drake was reading it now, and taking her seriously. What Zevara said was this: he was in trouble. The Watch was bad, and she knew it. However, she told him to find Gnolls and ask what they would do.
…Which made sense. Relc was a Drake. Gnolls were Gnolls. He hadn’t known about Hickery. He didn’t know what was making them mad. What he saw was a fraction of the bug pie, and Cellidel’s bug pies tasted a lot worse than Garry’s.
 
[Guardsman of Trust Level 21!]
 
“Whoa. Reading books makes you stronger! Yeah!”
…But only that one level. Relc didn’t level from what had been a fairly easy, if dangerous fight against Shank Gang. This? This was [Guardsman]-ing, so he supposed he’d earned it.
His head hurt from reading the book, anyways. Thinking on this?
It was so much work.
Relc took a break by trying to figure out the Gizeal Puzzle. Valeterisa’s work was fiendish. He had solved, to his count, eighteen mini-puzzles and they had only gotten harder after the easy ones he’d done in the first few days.
He sat with a tiny magnifying glass, going over every inch of the cube from the outside, then inside, waiting for views of the interior and doing mini-sketches with charcoal and parchment to get clues as to how to fix it. It was relaxing and soothed the soul. Relc finally uncovered the mini-ridgelines of wood you slid across the exterior of the puzzle, eighty two slots in total, over four hours, and finally collected the first jade key.
“Yes!”
That was a good time. Then he went to meet with the Gnollish authority in Cellidel.
 
—-
 
The burned stall had come from a Drake who refused to sell to Gnoll customers. Relc watched ashes being swept away, then turned to the old Gnoll with silver-grey fur.
“It’s getting worse of late.”
“It is, Senior Guardsman. Please, sit.”
The two sat at an outdoor cafe. Like Krshia, Relin Seftail was a business Gnoll first. He kept Pawprint Bites, the cafe, open even after the commotion, and was sitting with Relc. They had some tea.
“…So about my question?”
Relc prompted the Gnoll when the silence grew overlong. He felt…odd. This was not a Relc thing to do. He had asked for a meeting with the Gnoll, feeling foolish, and now?
Well. Some Gnolls glanced at him, hostile. The fights had been getting worse. The Watch had arrested everyone at a Gnoll gathering, and the [Anarchists] had retaliated by burning a Watch prisoner wagon by tarring it with a fiery pitch and setting it alight. The Watch had retaliated by arresting more people, who were injured in the arrests, two badly.
It had ended with this stall being burned. Here was what chilled Relc.
The stall owner had gone up with the stall. They’d found the owner, charred, and rushed them to the [Healer]. It had been the fire and smoke that killed them, despite the [Healer]’s best efforts, but someone had hit the owner and left them to burn as the fire blazed.
So now a Drake was dead. A Drake who had been outspokenly against serving Gnolls, but who was dead. It was a Watch matter.
“This is a terrible business, Guardsman Relc. The Watch has never…gotten along with us. But we’ve been amicable. Or have I just forgotten how bad it gets? I can’t tell, some days. It feels the worst it’s ever been, but the tragedy is that it’s not worse than it ever was. Does that make sense?”
Relin spoke at last. He looked tired. Relc nodded.
“I’m grateful you’re speaking with me, sir. I want to help.”
The [Cafe Manager] stared at Relc for a while, over the tea with wisps of pleasant, aromatic Prelon leaves filling the air instead of smoke and…burnt meat.
“You know, Guardsman Relc, I believe you. If it were anyone else—any other Drake in a position of authority, I’d not have answered your request. But you?”
He glanced around. The hostile looks prickled Relc’s scales, but the instinctive anger faded when they saw his badge. He was back on duty; after today, Terigrals needed all [Guards], even Relc. He could calm the angriest crowds by being there.
“I’m…just Relc.”
“But it’s Relc who we remember. No one else stopped the Shank Gang. And you have a name for being fair. Not corrupt. You don’t let criminals go when they’ve done wrong, Gnoll or Drake. Fair. This city needs Drakes like you, and Gnolls, but it’s too late, I fear.”
Relc ducked his head. He stared at the stall again.
“Sellme’s making this worse. It was always bad, I get that. But this…”
“Sellme didn’t do this.”
The Gnoll’s voice was quiet. Relin looked at the stall, his face bleak.
“Sellme’s followers, then.”
The Gnoll shook his head once more. Relc’s head moved slightly. He glanced at Relin.
“No. They started it and they cause it to get worse. These days? I think many young Gnolls—and Drakes—are fed up. Cellidel was never perfect. Sellme is the crest of a wave, Guardsman Relc. But not the body of it. This is just Gnolls who are tired.”
Relc looked at the silver Gnoll. He leaned forwards, urgently.
“How can we fix it?”
Relin took his time in replying. When he did, he smiled, ruefully.
“I would have been so happy to talk to you a month ago, Guardsman Relc. Before? I would have said this: put us on the Council. Put us on the Council, even just one Gnoll, and we’ll see hope. Give us a fair spot. Put more Gnoll Senior Guards in the Watch! Maybe not as Watch Captain; I understand Drakes would be hesitant if it looked like we were taking over. But give us a say in places that matter. Do that, and we’re already further ahead than we’ve ever been.”
Relc was writing this down. This was exactly what Zevara had said. Come to it…his claw slowed.
This was what the Silverfangs had done in Liscor. He looked at Relin.
“If you got…let’s say. Three slots on the Council, uh, a third of the Senior Guards in the Watch as Gnolls. Would that stop the riots?”
The [Cafe Manager] sat there. He looked at Relc, and sighed, putting his tea cup down, untouched.
“We’ve waited a long time, Guardsman Relc. That would be progress. That would be more than I could dream of, realistically. Are you asking if it would stop the riots? Maybe. Probably. Is it enough? Never. But if we had that, I could believe Cellidel would get better. Give us hope. Give us tangible progress. That’s what we’re lacking. Without it? This.”
He waved a paw at the burnt wreckage. Relc nodded slowly. He stared at the list. How was he supposed to get Senior Guards into the Watch? There weren’t enough active-duty Gnolls to even fill that slot, and Senior Guards needed mass approval.
If we got Gnolls to vouch for them…it would probably fit the requirements. But you need more Gnolls or you won’t get the right ones. Not everyone can be a Senior Guard. So you need more Gnolls in the Watch. But who wants to join up when Pos is there? As for the Council?
His head hurt. But he felt like there was something there. At least he had Relin’s perspective. That was something.
“Thank you, Honored Relin. Can I call on you again? To ask more questions?”
“Any time, Guardsman Relc. I hope you can help. And if I can say—”
The two were rising and shaking hands when Relc saw the quiet, practically empty cafe’s back doors open. A voice called out.
“I can still smell her, father. It’s—it’s in my mind. I can still—”
A Gnoll came stumbling out of the back, far younger than Relin himself. He looked pale, haunted. His fur smelled of soot and some of it was burned along his paw and legs. Relc stopped. Relin turned quickly.
“Ashel, we have a guest. Senior Guardsman Relc, my son. He’s been resting. Go inside, Ashel.”
The young man had stopped the instant he saw Relc at the table. One look conveyed so many things. Sudden terror, apprehension, guilt…
Relief? Then the young man started. Relin stepped over, guiding Ashel back. Relc stood there.
Oh no. Suddenly, a few things Relin had said, his certainty, fit into place. Relc stared at Ashel. Burnt fur? I can smell her?
When people thought of crimes, they used to think of the [Serial Killer] Relc and Klbkch had caught one time. Yet even that was gathering a bit of evidence, seeing a pattern, and waiting.
Many crimes? They were…easy. If there were hard crimes, it was career-criminals who knew how to run and hide.
“Mister Ashel, isn’t it?”
The two Gnolls stopped. Relc spoke, around a leaden feeling in his stomach. He willed himself to be wrong. Relin had turned. So had Ashel, and the look on his face…
“Senior Guardsman, my son is tired. He was…caught up in putting out the fire. Perhaps we can speak another time?”
Relin looked at Relc. And again, the Drake hesitated. It would be so easy to agree. He didn’t know anything.
Except he knew. Except one look was enough. He was not on duty, but he’d brought his badge, hadn’t he? Relc stared down at it.
If he turned away, did the light fade? Or would it fade now? He didn’t know. But he knew what Zevara would do.
“I won’t be long, Honored Relin. I would just like to ask your son something about yesterday. Just for a second. We are still seeking the individuals involved in the death of that [Shopkeeper]. Could I ask…?”
Ashel was shaking as Relc stepped forwards. Some of the people gathered around the stall were turning, as Relin blocked Relc’s way.
“Guardsman Relc. Please.”
That was all he said. He looked Relc in the eye. Relc had to force himself to meet Relin’s gaze.
“I’m a [Guardsman of Trust], Relin. I do not choose to do my duty, but I must be fair. Fair. As we said. I only need to ask one thing, Ashel. [The Law Upheld]. Can you tell me what happened last night?”
Relin closed his eyes. Tears began to fall from the corners.
“I…didn’t think she’d be there. It was—”
The [Cafe Manager] collapsed into a chair as Senior Guardsman Relc reached for his side, and realized he had no cuffs. He didn’t bother to cuff Ashel.
But he did arrest him. Gnolls saw the Drake clasp Ashel’s arms behind his back. They began to shout. Then bombard Relc. He had to blow a whistle to call for backup. By the end of the hour, he had arrested a murderer.
His name tarnished as fast as people could speak it. How quickly it happened, even if you did your job. That was why…Relc came to a conclusion as a rain of stones pelted off the Watch House’s windows and roofs.
That was why it couldn’t be one person. Everything was wrong. He stared at the report he was writing and felt the second puzzle he was working on, even more complex and invisible than the Gizeal Puzzle, tangle even further in his head.
 
—-
 
Here is how it broke down. After Relc arrested Ashel, he and Tesy fought. About the arrest. About having to arrest Ashel.
Relc went to work in the evening. He stood in line with the other [Guards] as they blocked a road, pelted by debris. That was easy.
The crowd screamed, like enemy soldiers, but altogether too close. The other [Guards] were tense. Terrified.
Like rookie [Soldiers] facing their first battle. No wonder they lashed out and tried to break up gatherings. They knew they were outnumbered, and panicked.
Relc? Relc had charged alone into that mass, into what looked like death. He faced them down quietly. It was not bravery, or a kind of superior resolve. If anything, it was a greater cowardice.
He knew he’d survive. Even if a thousand civilians charged their lines, and every [Guard] ran—he, Relc, would live. He could run faster, take more on. Relc could afford not to kill the Shank Gang because he was high-enough level to take the risk.
