“The Gangs are dangerous. Good [Guards] die every year—in Cellidel and Liscor—fighting them. You want to tell a patrol to go into a place where someone will take a crossbow and aim at them? We keep the peace, but the Watch isn’t the army.”
“Well, they should send the army in, then.”
“The Gangs’ll go to ground. They’ve done it before. If you send a huge force, they run. Small ones? They take shots at you. You have to work at it. That’s why—”
Tesy snapped. The Drake hurled his handful of cards at Relc.
“Well, you’ve got an answer for everything, don’t you? This is why Cellidel has problems, Relc! This is why Sellme’s here!”
Relc brushed a card off his lap as the Drake stormed out of the room. He sat there, head lowered, staring at the last piece of bread, the heel. He only moved when he heard a sound. Vok nervously, nervously laid down a card, fidgeting.
Relc had completely forgotten the young Gnoll was here.
 
—-
 
Senior Guardsman Relc thought about Tesy’s argument later that evening, during his patrol.
Obviously, Tesy was young so Relc had let him storm off. Throwing cards in someone’s face wasn’t exactly the most mature way of ending an argument. Then again…he had a point and he didn’t.
Organized crime plagued every city. From Terandria to Chandrar…even Rhir, although Relc bet they kept their heads down. The fact was that the Watch could never stamp them out.
Maybe in that nation everyone was talking about—Khelt—maybe you could. But you’d need eyes on every street, and the willingness to kill anyone who broke the law—or deal with it some other way.
The Watch? Well, here was how to look at it. Relc was the highest-levelled [Guard] in all of Liscor. In all of Cellidel. Perhaps all of Izril, frankly. No one besides a Watch Captain was close to his level, and he had two classes…three, now, with [Guardsman of Trust] that were high-level. A Level 20 [Senior Guard], which was the baseline requirement for the rank, could not run up against the worst criminals in Izril.
A Level 40 [Thug] like those Gentlemen Callers could wipe out two squads of Senior Guards. Did Tesy want them to risk being slaughtered? Rather, if this was the problem, it wasn’t that the Watch didn’t care, it was that they couldn’t do what they wanted to.
That was it. The Watch could take on the Gangs, but it just wasn’t practical to ask them to. Besides which, everyone knew the Gangs had laws of their own. They knew when to lie low—the smart ones, at least. In a sense, they were better to deal with than a bunch of random criminals; you could always smack the gang because they were a target.
“I wish I could think of these things when I’m arguing! Argh!”
Relc growled to himself. Mister Soot was a good example. Liscor had a good Watch. It had a better Watch than Cellidel’s, and Mister Soot had been there as long as Relc had been in the Watch. He was just…untouchable. He kept his illicit activities hidden for the most part, and the Watch, including Zevara, could never nab him.
Put another way—Mister Soot’s gang would never trouble Erin Solstice or Selys while they were about their business. They were criminals, yes, but they were inconspicuous ones.
Tesy wanting the Watch to take them on? Well. Relc stared at the Sellme illustration grimly. The crowd was not happy and he was glad he had his badge off.
“It’s the Shank Gang. It has to be about them.”
“Who?”
Relc interrupted a muttering pair. The Drake and Gnoll glanced at him warily, but one explained.
“They rule this district. They mug people, rob others. The Watch has never gotten rid of them. They barely patrol near their base.”
The Senior Guardsman frowned.
“They have an actual base? And no one stops them?”
“Who’s going to? They have…a Face. You know, one of their high-level gang members? Who’d take them on? Not the damn Watch patrols. Those murdering…”
“Shh. They’ll hear you!”
Relc stood there, chewing on his lip. He stared at the painting. There was the [Guard], arresting a scrawny little [Thief] stealing a Prelon, while a huge thug beat down on a Gnoll reaching out for the [Guard] who was clearly ignoring them. You had to hand it to Sellme; it was well-done. And about as subtle as Tesy.
 
—-
 
So it was a bad gang. And a high-level criminal. Relc was stuck on his Gizeal Puzzle. He poked at it, listlessly, thinking that morning.
Trouble was, Tesy was right about this gang. That wasn’t how Mister Soot operated; if his gang attacked people, it was usually rival gangs. The other trouble?
Well, it was sort of a self-inflicted wound. Like someone shooting their own foot with an arrow. Cellidel’s Watch patrolled some parts of the city more than others. It just so happened that the Shank Gang occupied a Gnoll district. Perhaps because of the gang—or maybe the Watch’s inattention caused it.
“Ancestors damn it, do you think about this kind of problem? Huh? Terigrals?”
Relc growled, and raised a fist to punch the cube. He stopped, sighed.
He didn’t think of this kind of thing. His head hurt. Relc had never thought about the implications of taking down a gang; he left that kind of thing to Zevara. Just point Relc at a problem and let him loose.
Now, though? If Gnolls thought the Watch didn’t protect them, they had every right to be mad. How did you fix a city? Fix a Watch that wasn’t liked, and the people who didn’t trust them? Relc sat there, and his heart began to pound with anxiety and fear. But he had a thought.
You had to restore their trust. Show them, show Tesy that the badge meant something.
 
—-
 
The sun was setting, and the heat was leaving the streets of Cellidel. Light bounced off glass windows, or more often, paint on shutters.
The cobblestones on the street were cooling too, and Cellidel’s people were hurrying out of one street that had another backed-up sewer reeking. They hurried down this street, though; the huge, former warehouse with permanently closed windows was not a place they liked to linger.
The ‘Shank Gang’ was known for killing people who didn’t cooperate, hence the name. But they didn’t actually murder many people each month as the Watch couldn’t ignore it. Still, they had a reputation, and the [Gang Boss], Shanker Ellic, was in charge of so many people all he had to do was keep order, rather than earn money for the gang himself.
He got to relax in the warehouse, and his only complaint was the closed windows when the summer’s heat baked the inside and brought out the last traces of what the place had been: a cold house for the butchers’ meat. It always began to smell a bit of that, and the odor was so annoying the Shank Gang actually hung up mint and other sprigs of natural scents to relieve it.
The city was hushed; the Watch was out in force, and the latest Sellme had people talking. Quietly, in that deliberate way of worried people. The pedestrians hurrying back to their homes glanced at the hideout.
There were no Watch patrols here. They usually stopped three streets out. That was the demarcation line. Beyond here, the Shank Gang kept their order and you were safe…so long as you paid protection. Or paid them if they gave you the ultimatum; a knife or your money pouch. Well, either way, you gave them your money pouch.
The quiet street was starting to be invaded by the septic scent. Rotted meat and sewer stench mixed with the slightest old mint smell. Shanker Ellic snarled.
“Damn sewers! Someone get the scent wand.”
He growled at some of his loyal people. A Drake, coughing, went to check as the [Gang Boss] sneezed into a handkerchief he’d dosed with strong vinegar. He was just grateful he wasn’t a Gnoll; he couldn’t imagine how bad this was for them.
Into this quietly unpleasant but mundane day came the most unusual of sights. People on the street looked up, did a double-take, and grabbed the others nearest to them. They pointed.
“What is…? Is that…?”
A [Day Laborer] halted his wife. They both stared as a figure came marching down the street. Light shone on leather armor. Chainmail shone, flashing from underneath, and on his breast gleamed an object rarely ever seen here.
A Watchman’s badge.
The citizens of this district stared at the Senior Guardsman as he marched along. Many of them knew him. The new one. The one who patrolled alone. The [Guardsman of Trust] that you could trust, or so they said.
Guardsman Relc. He had to be new, or he wouldn’t be here.
“He’s alone? There has to be a patrol—”
“I heard he didn’t have a partner. Maybe he’s that good? He shouldn’t be here. If a Shank Gangmember sees him—”
“Should someone tell him?”
Possibly, but who? Right next to the headquarters of…? The citizens stared at Relc as he marched along. They heard something, as he strode closer. He was…singing?
“Boom, boom, if you’re a Relc, here comes the Relc. Nothing rhymes with Relc!”
He was headed straight for the Shank Gang’s hideout. People stared in horror, like watching someone who had never met a Demonsoul Skunk before walking towards one as the tail slowly rose.
Senior Guardsman Relc, oblivious to the looks of horror and dozens of people trying to catch his eye and mouth ‘turn around’, consulted a little sketch he had.
“This one? No. This one? No…wait. Yes. Aha.”
The Shank Gang’s sleepy, stinky evening was interrupted as Relc marched up to the door behind which a door guard was snoozing, nose-plugs in. He stopped, cleared his throat.
And then he began to hammer on the door.
“Hey! Hey! This is the Watch, open up! Surprise! It’s inspection time!”
The door guard fell out of their chair in surprise. Inside the warehouse, Shanker Ellic looked up.
“Who is making that idiotic racket…?”
His first thought was that there was some gang member of his or an outsider who wanted a word. Or favor. He pointed and one of his cronies went to investigate.
Outside, the civilians had frozen in horror. The door guard scrambled to his feet. He had been napping, and had clearly not heard that right. He came to the door and the slot opened. He glared at Relc, missing the badge.
“You moron! Don’t hammer, knock! What’s the password?”
He was met by a beaming grin of white teeth. Relc had excellent dental hygiene. The Senior Guardsman stepped back, and the badge came into view. Then…he raised his voice.
“Password? This is the Watch. Open up!”
His voice reached the inside. Shanker Ellic froze. The gang glanced up, and a lounging figure put their feet down. The [Gang Boss] glanced over to a Drake whose eyes shone as she tossed up a glowing dagger and caught it. He whirled.
“The Watch? What did you idiots do?”
His answer came from outside.
“I’m told there is an illicit group of people mugging people on the street, extorting money, making threats, and other blackmail attempts. This is illegal. Pretty sure it is, anyways. In the course of my investigation, I demand you open up at once! Any something something in the way of my duties means I get to hit you and arrest you. You have five seconds.”
“No Crelering way. There’s a [Guardsman] out there, boss!”
One of the gang members came back to confirm what was happening. Shanker Ellic froze.
“How many more?”
“None. Just one.”
The [Gang Boss] stared. His sudden panic resolved into…he stood up, incredulously.
“You mean there’s one idiot out there? It’s not a raid?”
The [Thug] shook his head.
“Nope. Some idiot. New. I know that guy—he’s that Senior Guardsman from another city.”
“Well then…he’s a real idiot. Get rid of him.”
Ellic didn’t have to think twice. He nodded, and four of his [Thugs] grinned. They gestured.
“Backdoor?”
“Sure. Just shut him up. Make sure no one sees you! Clear the street first, idiots.”
The [Gang Boss] sat back down. The [Rogue] with the enchanted dagger glanced at him.
“Want me to handle it?”
“Nah. Maybe they’ll level.”
Besides, you’ll charge me more for ‘helping out’. The Face, known as Halfblade, shrugged. She lay back down. Halfblade? She used two daggers. The reason for the name was because you only saw half of the daggers at any time—usually in someone’s throat.
Ellic waited as the Senior Guardsman went silent. It would take up to ten minutes for the [Thugs] to get some buddies to clear the street and then ‘sort it out’. He might not hear about it, but there was no way that idiot would get into the warehouse. The door guard would stall him, but the door was the kind [Information Brokers] used. Steel. Even mildly enchanted. It would—
Crash.
The [Gang Boss] had just sat down when the sound made him jolt to his feet.
“What was—”
“Dead gods! D—no, nooo—”
There was a shout from inside. Then a scream and a thump. Ellic froze. Then he heard the same, jovial voice.
“Doors cannot stop the [Relc Kick]! That’s why you pay for reinforced walls, idiots! Ow. My foot hurts.”
“There is no way. Someone—you all, go check. No, wait.”
The [Gang Boss] snarled, but he was hesitating. Had that guy just gone through the front door? Even so, there should be four [Thugs] all over Level 15 right behind—
“Whoa! Who are y—”
A shout, and the sounds of fighting. There was a thump—Ellic relaxed. Right until he heard a roar.
“Ow. That hurt!”
Whumph. Something hit the wall. Someone yelped, a high-pitched Gnoll voice.
“Dea—”
“Relc Kick! Relc Kick! Don’t run!”
“Boss, bo—”
Another scream that turned into another whumph of impact. The people inside the warehouse heard a final voice.
“We’re sorry! Don’t do that! Don’t—putmedownputmed—”
The last crash was followed by a scream and whimpering. In dead silence, Ellic rose. He pointed and the bodyguards moved to the door leading into the big room.
The entire Shank Gang was here. The [Gang Boss] didn’t panic. The four he’d sent out had gotten jumped rather than doing the jumping, idiots. This [Senior Guard] was good—maybe he had [Preferred Foe: Criminal] or something. But everyone would have heard that, so the converted warehouse’s entire rooms full of gang members would—
The scream was so loud it tapered into a shriek at the end. Ellic heard screaming, shouts of panic—then running footsteps. Then the voice again, thundering from within the warehouse.
“In the course of my duties I am authorized to use force! You don’t want to die? Back up! Your friend will live. Anyone else want to run straight into my spear?”
The shriek died down—either whoever had been screaming passed out or…
Dead silence. Ellic listened.
“What’s happening?”
Every few seconds, there was a shout, or the briefest cries of fury and attack. They turned into gurgling, or the thump of a body hitting a wall. Or—and this was the hardest to hear—a scream of pain.
“He’s…coming through the warehouse, boss.”
