Sort of like Klbkch, in a way. Relc thought about it as he refilled his bowl. Then he started laughing.
“That’s so stupid.”
Tesy flushed with anger.
“What do you mean?”
Relc took a huge gulp of fishy soup. He smacked his lips and looked at Tesy, not without sympathy, but with much amusement. The Senior Guardsman shook his head.
“I mean, that’s never going to work, Tesy. You want a [Guard] who can always be calm, always be responsible? Who’s good at fighting, treats this job like a higher calling? We have…two of those [Guards] in all of Liscor. And that’s not me. You’ll get three [Guards] in the entire Watch.”
“Well, it should be better than it is! Or are you saying the Watch is fine?”
Tesy stood up, claws clenched. Relc waved him down.
“I agree! Listen, Tesy, I agree. The Watch is bad in Cellidel. I’m just saying…you can’t expect them all to be perfect. It’s like…you want someone who can both lead and fight. Who can keep their head? Who can know what to do at any moment, and treats this job with all the respect it deserves? That’s what you guys think is a perfect [Guard], right? By the way—I agree that’s a great guard.”
Tesy and Vok nodded. Relc gave them a thumb-claw up.
“Great. We can all agree they’re good. The problem is…that’s a [General]. And you only have one of those in most armies. You can’t expect every [Soldier] to be like that. I think there’s a better way to make the Watch better.”
“Oh, and what’s that? Give them more weapons?”
Tesy sneered. Relc rolled his eyes. He leaned back on his one pillow, and murmured.
“Nah. Just make it easier to be a [Guard].”
Tesy stared at him, incredulously.
“Easier?”
Relc gave him a fish-eyed side-eye.
“Yep. It’s not easy, Tesy.”
The [Painter] opened his mouth and Relc sat up.
“Vok, you know what I’m talking about.”
“Yeah?”
The Gnoll glanced at Tesy. Ducked his head. The [Junior Watchman] mumbled.
“No, sorry, Relc.”
The [Spearmaster] sat up. He scratched at his neck-spines. He’d just thought of it, but now it came to him, the words flowed out.
“Well let me see if I can explain it. Y’see…guarding is hard. I’m only a [Guardsman] because it pays well. A lot of guys are. Don’t shout, Tesy! That’s just how it is. It’s a job. We didn’t sign up to be perfect. No one can be perfect except Klbkch and like…Jeiss. Or my Watch Captain. The job should be easier.”
“You mean, less laws?”
“I mean, less strain on us. When a [Guardsman] is in a fight and he sees some kid with a knife, or he has to debate arresting a [Street Thief], he’s got people’s lives in his claws. That’s a lot to ask of us. It would be easier if we could just punch bad guys and not have to be the law. If that were the case, Pos wouldn’t be a problem because he wouldn’t be in charge. And it means you don’t have to have the best. Make the job easier.”
Vok sat up, intrigued by that idea. Even Tesy was frowning, opening and closing his mouth as his tail lashed.
“How would you do that, Relc?”
The Drake scratched at his head.
“I have no idea. Maybe…maybe you can arrest everyone but you don’t charge people? You have some kind of system in the Watch House? It might cost more, but just take the hard work out of a [Guard]’s claws. Then all he or she has to do is make sure no one gets hurt. Some kind of big argument over hedges? Go settle it with the uh…someone else. The point is, I’m a grunt. Give me grunt-work. Not moral questions.”
There was a thoughtful silence for a moment. Then at last, Tesy sighed. He stood up, and began pacing around the pot.
“That—might work. But Cellidel will never go for it. Don’t you see how bad it is, Relc?”
“I see.”
Calmly, Senior Guardsman Relc filled his cup. With water. Tesy was a bit drunk. He was agitated, angry. He was angry all the time. Vok knew how that felt, but Tesy was far angrier than even he was.
“Nothing’s right. Nothing’s fair. Cellidel’s run by crooks and Drakes who don’t care. Maybe your Watch is better, Relc, but nothing’s changing now. You can’t fix this city!”
“Yeah, well, your buddies burning it down doesn’t help either, Tesy. They’re getting people killed. That’s not right.”
The [Magical Painter] slowly turned. Relc sat up. The two locked gazes. Relc’s eyes were very calm.
“I see what’s happening. The [Anarchists] are gaining ground. They’re arming people. They want to tear down the Watch, take out the Council.”
“…Maybe. I don’t know.”
Tesy’s eyes flickered to the window, then door. Vok saw Relc wave Tesy down, but the younger Drake didn’t sit. Relc slowly drained his cup.
“Are they planning on killing the Council? The Watch Captain? Don’t answer that. Let’s say they did, or somehow got rid of them. What would that do? Would that help? If they got every single [Guard] to quit tomorrow, what happens next?”
“The city will be free—”
“And then what? Then there’s crime, burnt buildings, and there’s no plan! Tesy! I’ve heard Sellme’s crashed nearly a dozen cities! They don’t get better, they just collapse until someone rebuilds the government!”
“It’s a better one afterwards. The people can choose who they want to—”
“Cellidel’s army will march in and reinstate a Council of their choosing. Don’t be stupid.”
Relc snapped. Tesy’s eyes flashed.
“Then Cellidel’s people will take on the army! You think we’re scared of a bunch of [Thugs]?”
Relc was on his feet.
“You’ll get people killed. ‘Sellme’ isn’t helping anything! All he does is point out the problems. Your friends are going to make it worse. Tell them to get out of the city.”
“Or what?”
“Or I’ll arrest them. I wanted to talk to you, Tesy. But if it’s them or Cellidel…”
“You think you can intimidate me?”
Tesy went to shove Relc and just pushed himself back. The Drake [Spearmaster] looked at Tesy. The [Painter] went for the door, pointing an angry claw at him, crimson with anger.
“Every time I think you’re on our side, you do this, Relc. It’s not about compromising! It’s about bringing down evil people! That’s why Sellme does what he does! You can stop me, but you can’t stop Sellme or everyone who sees what he does.”
Vok was transfixed, staring at Relc and Tesy. The Gecko of Liscor folded his arms. He looked at Tesy. Straight at Tesy.
“I think I can stop Sellme if I stop you, Tesy.”
The angry young Drake didn’t realize what Relc was saying at first. A sneering response was on his lips. Then his brain caught up.
He…looked at Relc. Vok looked at Relc, then Tesy. His eyes tried to pop out of their sockets and run around screaming. Vok stared at Tesy.
Tesy turned pale under his already-white scales. Relc looked at him.
“Sellme. I want you to stop causing riots, or get out of this city. What’s it gonna be?”
Sellme, the [Magical Painter], stood frozen. Found out, identified for the first time by a member of the Watch. Relc glanced at Vok out of the corner of his eye.
“I totally called it. Told you I was the best.”
 
—-
 
The screaming Drake running out of the apartment was followed a second later by a huge Drake. He roared.
“Sellme!”
It wasn’t Tesy and Relc any longer. The Drake whirled. His scales flashed, and dropped the Skill. Vok, scrambling out, saw a fleeing Drake with paint flecks on his white scales, made colorful by the very colors he worked with. A brush flashed out of his bags, and a painter’s palette.
Relc just charged at him. The Gecko leapt—but Tesy jumped over the railing. Relc cursed, vaulted after him, and then did a double-take in midair.
Sellme stood on the air. He’d just drawn a little ledge and Relc—
“Gaaaaaaaah!”
Caught himself on the railing one floor down. He caught himself on the second floor, and raced up to the third floor.
“Relc, he’s in here! Relc—”
Vok pointed. Tesy was back in their room. Relc charged through. He saw Tesy jumping out of a…
Hole in the wall? Relc saw Tesy turn, flip up a finger, and leap. Relc shouted.
“Tesy, st—”
Wham. He ran straight into the painted hole in the wall. It was so perfect it had turned, via Tesy’s Skill, into actual space.
Not for Relc. He staggered back, paint all over his scales.
“That little—”
 
—-
 
“G8! G8, come in! Someone’s found me out! I have to run! It’s Relc!”
Tesy shouted the code-name of one of his highest-level friends. He heard a scrambled voice coming from the mana stone.
“—to us—hurry—”
Tesy was running. Tesy was terrified. Relc knew who he was! His picture would be all over the cities! He’d be hunted! He ran out of the apartment complex, his Ring of Feather Falling glowing. At least he’d escaped.
“Tesy!”
“Ancestors!”
The [Painter] squeaked. He looked back. It was impossible! Relc had been on the third floor! It had been less than fifteen seconds since Tesy had jumped out of the room.
The Gecko was racing out of the courtyard, a blur. A gigantic blur. Tesy instantly whirled.
There was a stone wall, some building right there. Tesy’s brush blurred, so fast even the Gecko was impressed.
[Speed Painting]! [Recreate Image]! [Art Becomes Reality]—
Tesy leapt through the hole in the wall. He raced through someone’s kitchen; a restaurant’s empty working area at this hour. He’d lose Relc. That idiot couldn’t predict which wall he’d come out of—
Relc came through the wall.
“SELLME. GET BACK HERE SO I CAN PUNCH YOU!”
“Get away from me!”
The [Magical Painter] had evaded countless members of law enforcement. He had never seen someone go through a wall like that. Relc didn’t even slow down. The world’s greatest [Guardsman] (self-proclaimed) charged after Tesy.
Both had movement Skills. Tesy whirled. [Evasive Dodge].
“Relc kiii—oh shit! You bast—”
Relc’s kick carried him into the hole in the ground. Tesy’s painted hole dropped him into the sewers and then the Drake tossed some white paint on it and the hole closed. Relc landed in the muck and darkness.
 
—-
 
“Oh no, oh no, oh—”
G8 and a group of [Anarchists] met Tesy. The [Magical Painter] was wide-eyed, terrified.
“Tesy! You lost the boot? Come on, why are you so worried?”
“He’s still after me! G8, he’s—”
Tesy grabbed his friend’s arms. G8, the female Gnoll, glanced over his shoulder. Her eyes went round.
“Oh, f—”
A Drake covered in tar, sewer crap, masonry, and eight more substances Tesy had drawn to slow him down, charged down the street.
“Sellme!”
Nothing had stopped Relc. Not the tarpit. Not the sewer trick. Not a brick wall that Tesy had drawn in the street. The [Magical Painter] ran on, screaming.
“Let’s stop this bastard! No one attacks Sellme! Come on! Down with the walls! D—”
Relc saw the [Anarchists], a group of eight, turn towards him, weapons in hand. He crashed into them and scattered them like pins, without slowing. One tried to stab him. He punched a face.
“Sellme!”
People turned. They saw a blurred face—some saw a leaping Gnoll, with a mustache and mask of bright colors. Others saw a female Drake with a hood and the words ‘Sellme’ stylized across the back. One saw a Human, someone else a Centaur.
Relc saw Tesy. He shouted the name as people turned, seeing the Gecko of Liscor running down the famous [Painter] who had caused so much trouble. The riots, the fighting came to a standstill.
 
—-
 
Why were they throwing things at him? It was all…all going wrong.
Tesy raced across the ladder on two buildings’ rooftops. Relc halted. He knew better than to try and cross the painted ladder. People were pointing up as the Gecko of Liscor eyed the thirty-foot gap, and Tesy.
“You’ve ruined everything, Relc! You’re not saving this city! I liked you! Why couldn’t you help?”
Tesy screamed at Relc. It was the truth. He felt betrayed. How long had Relc known?
Why hadn’t he arrested Tesy before? The Gecko snapped back as the [Magical Painter] wavered.
“You don’t even see what you’re doing! You’re making the situation worse!”
Sellme raised his paintbrush as if to throw it down.
“You think you’re helping? You can’t fix the Watch! You can’t solve everything with your stupid fists!”
“And you can’t solve everything by burning it down.”
Relc was calm. Well—he was still pissed, but he was used to being covered in filth. He eyed the gap. Sellme pointed at him.
“You can kill me, but you’ll never stop us! You—aaaah!”
He saw Relc race to the edge of the building and leap, using the spear as a vaulting pole. People below pointed up, scattering. Look! The Gecko leapt through the air in a graceful arc. He was flying! He was—
“Oh shiiii—”
Wham. Tesy heard the impact. He winced, gazed down at the prone figure who’d gotten only about two thirds of the way across and hit the street. He turned, drew a slide, and went for the walls. Magical or not, he could draw a door out.
He was just finishing the door when he saw a blur coming his way. Tesy whirled. He raised his brush—
“Got you.”
Relc grabbed his wrist. The [Magical Painter] looked up into Relc’s face. Relc was panting, tired, and he’d smashed his face repeatedly into rocks.
But he’d won.
“I…you did it.”
Tesy tried to pull at his captor’s arm, but he knew he was caught. He would have used the brush, but Relc had it in his hand. Tesy stared at Relc in defiance.
“You got Sellme. Congratulations, Relc. You win.”
“You idiot. I never wanted Sellme. If I thought arresting you would have helped, I would have done it a long time ago. Maybe it would have, but it didn’t fix anything.”
“Well—well, you’ll never fix the city! You can hide your guilt, the guilt of the Watch, but everyone will see your true colors! Arrest Sellme and—”
“Gah. Shut up! [Relc Headbutt]!”
Relc had had enough of Tesy’s rhetoric. The thwok of two heads meeting echoed loudly in the alleyway. Tesy went cross-eyed. He shouted through the pain.
“You can silence me, but you can’t silence—”
Twock! Tesy bit his tongue. He opened his mouth. Relc bent his head back. Tesy cowered, trying to shield his head.
“Are you done?”
Sellme stared up at Relc. The Senior Guardsman panted. He looked at Tesy. Just…just an angry kid. He wasn’t like Erin at all. But he sort of was. Relc raised the Fist of Relc, debating one punch for the wall of brambles, the sewer trick, the brick wall.
Then he lowered it. Relc let go of Tesy’s arm.
“Get out of the city. If you come back, I’ll tell everyone who you are.”
Sellme staggered back. His brush went up, and he traced a brick so fast Relc was amazed. His brush didn’t need to be dipped to change the colors of paint. That was the trick. Then Tesy stopped.
“You’re…letting me go?”
