“A [Guardsman] took her to the Watch House. Because of her spear. I think she was training in the courtyard. We thought…”
Relc glanced back the way he’d come.
“I can check. I’ll be right back.”
 
—-
 
The parents’ names were Orell and Maxireffa. They were a [Carpenter] and [Wagon Wright], respectively. Hence the grease on Orell’s fur. They had been new to Cellidel; their jobs could take them anywhere, but Hickery was young so they had wanted the safety of the walls; they were City Gnolls.
Relc knew all this because forty minutes later, a sobbing Hickery was in her mother’s arms. He’d led her out of the Watch House. There was shouting inside and Relc had to leave to return.
As it happened…a [Guard] had seen Hickery practicing with the spear. She had been hauled in four hours ago for possessing a weapon, and endangering others. Of course, children were hauled into the Watch House now and then for throwing stones through glass windows, and so on.
Relc wasn’t good with them, but Beilmark and some of the parents were a deft hand, and could get out whether there was trouble at home, or whatever was the cause. Sometimes there were repeat offenders.
He had never heard of a [Guardsman] shouting at a frightened little girl for nearly an hour, threatening to put her in the overnight cells, and cuffing her until Relc arrived. Hickery had been sobbing—silently because she’d been told to be silent—but burst into tears anew when he walked in.
“I…I’m sorry.”
When Relc finally emerged, the parents greeted him. Hickery was still crying, but clinging to both. Relc’s head hung low. His tail dragged on the ground.
“It’s not your fault, [Guardsman] Relc. We heard what you did today.”
“What? Oh yeah. The gang. I didn’t—this [Guard] hauled Hickery in because he saw her practicing. I…know him.”
Pos. Relc tried to explain. He found he didn’t need to.
“It’s not the first time it’s happened. It won’t be the last. I’m just glad Hickery wasn’t arrested and you were here, Senior Guardsman.”
Orell tried to smile, but he was angry. Who wouldn’t be? He glanced into the Watch House, still loud with internal commotion. He stood up.
“Let’s go home.”
“I’ll walk with you. I—I’m sorry, Hickery.”
“I didn’t do anything wrong!”
She cried. Her parents carried her in silence. Relc stared back at the Watch House.
“No. You didn’t.”
How could you be up so high and then low in a moment, like that? He felt as if he’d been standing on clouds and someone had yanked the flying carpet out from under him.
Pos. But not just Pos. Orell and Maxireffa were silent until they were two blocks outside the Watch House. Then they began speaking.
“It really isn’t your fault, Senior Guardsman. A child with a weapon…”
“It’s a training spear.”
“Nevertheless. It’s happened. Hickery will just have to not practice. Or do it out of sight.”
“But it’s the courtyard! I have to…”
The little girl was sniffing and crying. Relc couldn’t look at her. He glanced at Orell. The Gnoll was shaking his head.
“It will be fine. She’s a [Spear Trainee], isn’t she?”
He glanced at Relc. The Drake ducked his head again.
“Yeah. Talented as I’ve seen.”
“Then that’s wonderful. Hickery might have a future as…well. A lot of things. I don’t like to imagine her fighting, but a good class is a good class. Skills are Skills. This? It’ll work out. Maybe it’s time to move again, Maxy.”
She nodded. Hickery clung to her mother.
“I don’t want to go! I like it here!”
She shouted it, despite everything. Heads turned, and some people called out to Relc. He tried to smile and couldn’t.
“I don’t know what to say.”
He tried to apologize again, but Maxireffa shook her head.
“It wasn’t your fault, Guardsman Relc. We are used to it. It will all shake out in the levels in the end.”
Relc blinked. Orell nodded.
“What comes down brings you up in time. Hickery, why don’t we buy you a little treat? We have to celebrate your class anyways.”
“Really?”
She sniffed. Relc instantly fished in his money pouch.
“I can give…”
He realized he didn’t have much; taking down the Shank Gang hadn’t come with a monetary reward. The two Gnoll parents waved it away.
“We can’t thank you enough. Hickery’s level…don’t worry about it, please.”
The Drake reluctantly tucked away the light pouch. He glanced at Maxireffa.
“That was the Book of Levels you were quoting, wasn’t it?”
“It was. Hardship lets us level. It’s a source of comfort, sometimes. And it will turn out for the best. We’ll outlevel anyone who steps on us.”
Relc nodded. And yet…he glanced over his shoulder. Shook his head.
“That wasn’t right. A Senior Guardsman…”
His fist clenched. Orell tried to smile, but his look was one of resignation. He glanced at Relc.
“There are good [Guards] and bad ones. As long as we have someone like you on the streets, Senior Guardsman Relc, I feel better.”
It was the right thing to say, but the wrong time. Relc stopped. He stared at Orell, so long that the entire family turned. Relc’s look was distant, pained, and all of his triumph, from risking his life, the terror of it?
It turned to ashes. It changed nothing.
“Senior Guardsman? What’s wrong?”
Relc stared at the sky.
“…I’m not on the streets. I’ve been put on suspended leave for a week.”
The trio stared at him. It was a lighter punishment than Relc might have gotten. Even so—the Watch Captain had given it to him for breaking Pos’ jaw.
 
—-
 
Relc did not serve his entire week of probation. He was needed too badly by the fourth day.
Tesy had been right, damn him. Relc had cleared out a major gang. Restored the Watch’s image.
…But it just begged the question, why had the Watch let that gang appear in the area in the first place? Why hadn’t they done anything about it?
And—it might be a bit self-centered, but if you were the victim of the same kind of guardswork that Hickery had suffered from, it didn’t matter if Cellidel stopped ten gangs. Because they were lumping you with the very same [Thugs] and [Murderers] they arrested.
Relc realized he was a fool. That his big answer had been pointless.
“It wasn’t pointless. Stop beating yourself up. Here. I brought some more Prelon chips.”
Ironically, Tesy was the nicest the Drake got in the four days Relc was cooped up. Hickery showed up to practice red-eyed, but talking about a cupcake she’d been bought the next morning. Relc practiced, and hung out with Tesy, who brought snacks and…well. Looked at Relc and didn’t bring up the Watch problems.
Sellme did, though. Tesy didn’t bring it up, nor did Relc mention it, but rumors were everywhere of the image of the Watch menacing a crying Gnoll girl with a club. Of course, there the picture lied because Pos had only shouted and Hickery wasn’t holding a spear. But it was true enough.
“The Watch only protects Drakes! Who let the Shank Gang exist in the first place? Do we need foreign [Guards] to come and sort out Cellidel’s problems?”
Relc heard that one from a [Shouter], bellowing in a heaving tavern until the Watch broke up the gathering. The fact that he was there didn’t endear the others to the Watch, only him. Now a lot of people knew his name…and that he was suspended. It only made them angrier about it all, if the ‘one good [Guard]’ was in trouble for doing good things.
Unrest was growing. The [Rebel] class was easy enough to pick up. Of course, you had some experts who knew exactly how to deal with the Watch. Tripwire? No problem. Egg to the back of the head as they sauntered around? Easy. A foot to trip up chasers, a bucket from the rooftop…
But all the amateurs needed was encouragement, and something to be angry about. It started with being unhappy.
“What’s the answer here?”
Relc didn’t know. He thought he’d done something right. Tesy just shrugged. He poured a drink. Vok reached for it; Relc slapped his paw down.
“That’s for adults.”
“I am an adult!”
Relc eyed the sixteen year-old Gnoll.
“Have a half cup. Tesy and I will drink.”
“Tesy’s only two years older than me!”
“Yeah. And Tesy bought the wine.”
Tesy also knew how to drink. Relc and Tesy tapped wooden cups, and then Tesy sighed. He shook his head.
“You’re a good [Guard], Relc. But a few good [Guards] don’t cure the rot. It’s in the Watch; you’re the one who doesn’t fit in.”
Relc didn’t like that.
“There are lots of good [Guards]. I think. I bet. Some are cool.”
“Yeah? Who else was with you at the Shank Gang’s warehouse?”
The big Drake frowned, trying to think of a response. He nudged the Gizeal Puzzle with one foot.
“That’s not fair. Most [Guards] aren’t me and they have orders. A lot do their jobs.”
“Oh, fine. Sure. They do their jobs. But I don’t see anyone but you objecting when a little kid, a child gets hauled in with the criminals!”
Tesy was getting angry again. Relc was getting angry. He nearly cracked his cup, and released his grip.
“…Right. But there’re rules.”
“See? Corrupt. You’re fine, Relc. But it’s reasons like that, that that piece of shit…Pos…hey. I just thought of something. His name…get it?”
Tesy laughed. Relc sighed. The problem was? He couldn’t argue with Tesy. How did you solve this? He thought, with all the Relc-power in his Relc-brain. Then he came up with a Relc-solution.
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Zevara stared at the letter she’d gotten via the Mage’s Guild. Which she’d paid for. Well, that wasn’t really a concern. She was more concerned by the contents.
Why did Relc give her headaches even when he wasn’t in her city? Then again…she had to admit. This was her fault.
“What an Ancestors-damned mess.”
It was such a Relc-move to ask her for help. Then again, it also meant he was taking his job seriously. As for the issue?
Zevara wished she had an answer. She had thought she was sending him to a city with a small crime problem, not a bigoted city plagued by this ‘Sellme’. Him taking out a gang by himself, like the late Mister Soot’s?
“Madness.”
She wouldn’t have authorized it in a million years. It spoke to how bad the problem must have been, for Relc to do something that crazy. That no one had backed him up?
“Disgraceful.”
The buzz of background conversation stopped once more. It had been going on in the back of Zevara’s consciousness, but had lulled every time she gave voice to her opinion on the Cellidel situation. Now someone tapped on the table.
A click of claw meeting wood. Zevara glanced up and saw the rich table, carved from a single piece of huge wood, sitting in the comfy meeting room of Liscor’s Council.
Unlike every time in history, though, this one was different. Gone, gone was the snack buffet table, and instead they had functional catering. There were books, records on one wall, and someone had dragged in a bookshelf so they could collate things.
A map of Liscor hung on the wall, Hexel’s blueprints next to it, and there was a huge war map of the entire area next to both. The Drakes and one Gnoll sitting around the table were all staring at her. Zevara stared, and saw the claw-tapper was Lism. The [Shopkeeper]-[Councilmember] fixed her with a stern eye.
“Watch Captain, I agree the situation isn’t ideal, but ‘disgraceful’ is going a bit too far, don’t you think?”
“Er…I’m sorry, Councilmember Lism. I was referring to something else.”
The purple-scale Drake paused and his usual look of annoyance replaced itself.
“Oh. Well then. Is it salient to this discussion?”
“No, Councilmember. Go ahead.”
Zevara blushed a bit, and folded her claws behind her back. She was here as the head military advisor, along with Wing Commander Embria. She gave Zevara a side-long glance; Embria could recognize her father’s handwriting. Lism went on, oblivious, as Elirr, Jeiss, Alonna, and the other two Council Members that Zevara had no respect for, so didn’t memorize their names, listened in.
“As I was saying, since the New Liscorian Army is now going to war with Hectval, we have to support them. Food, supplies, finances, healing…well, we’ve agreed to it. The problem is…Drakepower. Manpower? What word is pan-species, Alonna?”
“Personnel.”
The [Mage] supplied. Lism clicked his claws.
“Exactly. We’ve lost good people against damned Hectval. More are joining the army. Well…that’s fine. [Soldiers] are needed. But that means other classes lose out. And we already sent a lot of our [Soldiers] to our other army…the one that’s not here.”
He glanced at Embria and she squirmed. The only Gnoll in the room raised his paw. And that was notable in Liscor—Zevara wondered if Cellidel could even imagine a Gnoll on their Council.
“I see that we have an issue, Lism, yes. But we are growing. New Humans come in every day, yes?”
“Not enough. I’ve done the numbers, Elirr. Hexel is building the new city…and that’s wonderful. We have so much gold being invested from Salazsar and Pallass of all places. It’s, well, it’s that damned [Innkeeper]’s fault.”
The room went still. Lism had invoked the name few brought up. The [Shopkeeper] went on, grading his papers against the table.
“Yes, it’s her fault. She made Liscor too popular as an investment place. So we have countless buildings going up—it might double the size of the city again! Not enough bodies to fill it. A problem of too much expansion! All her fault for giving us such an opportunity.”
His heart wasn’t in the insult. But Zevara saw the problem. Jeiss tapped the table.
“We’ll look into solutions. Right now, I’d like to go over Olesm’s plans again. I know we’ve done it, but let’s just take another look and see if there’s anything we can do as the Council.”
The others agreed. Embria was all too willing to pull up Olesm’s plans—he had left as [Strategist] leading the army. However, it was Zevara who coughed and raised a claw.
“Councilmembers, I’m afraid I must leave. I have some pressing work I must get to, and if we are just retreading strategy…”
The rest instantly nodded. Alonna smiled at Zevara.
“Of course, Watch Captain. Anything that need concern us? That we can help with?”
Zevara hesitated, and waved a claw. She lifted the missive from Relc.
“No. Just one of my Senior Guards. Guardsman Relc, on deployment to Cellidel. He has a small issue, so I just need to draft a reply.”
If I have anything good to tell him. Zevara was proud of Relc, but how was she supposed to help him? Tell him to drag all of Liscor over to Cellidel so she could slap some sense into that idiotic Watch Captain and their Watch? Find an Erin? The truth was…
“Relc? What’s happened to that oaf now? Don’t tell me he’s gotten hurt?”
