Craning her head back, Lin’s bunny ears brush my cheek, her beautiful brown eyes wide and questioning at my random thought. “How come?”

“Because animals are better than people.” Running my fingers through Mafu's fur, the fat quin smacks his lips in contentment. “I drop a basket of apples in the middle of a pack of quins and every single one of them gets something to eat. Try the same with people and money? I’d be surprised if there wasn’t any bloodshed. Look at Sanshu, the wealthiest city in the northern province. They fought and killed to amass wealth, comfort, and luxury, exploiting commoners in the name of profit and caring nothing for their lives or well-being.” Sighing, I point at the happy animals, and settling in for a nap. “These guys are happy so long as they’re safe and well-fed. If they became human, it’d only make them worse. People are terrible.”

“Hubby, you’re not being fair. Everything these animals do is about survival.” Cuddling the bear cub sleeping in her arms, Lin sighs. “The quins share because they’re well-fed and lack ambition, but what if they were starving? In the wild, animals will eat their young if there isn’t enough food. If you locked yourself in a room with Aurie or Mafu, it wouldn’t take long before they try to eat you. It’d be no different if they were human.” Poking me on the cheek, she continues. “You’re so sweet and caring, and I love you for it, but you can’t be so naive Rainy. I’m worried you’ll be taken advantage of.”

Lin believes I’m too sweet and naive, how cute. Puffing her cheeks as I laugh, Lin shoots me an adorable glare. “No laughing, I’m serious. Like how you’re being all mopey about Dastan and his retinue, acting like it's some grave injustice. They committed a crime, Rainy. They betrayed the Empire, killed soldiers, and almost killed Fung too!”

Uh oh. I’ve never seen her so opinionated about something. I forgot she saw it all happen, it must have been traumatic for her. This is why I didn’t want her to come along, to keep her innocent for a little while longer, but I suppose she’s never been as innocent as I imagined. Saddened by the sudden revelation, I nod in agreement. “Yea, they committed a crime, but two wrongs don’t make a right. I wouldn’t wish slavery on my worst enemy. I’m not even sure Dastan really knew what he was doing. I don’t think he’s a bad person, just someone caught in the wrong place at the wrong time.”

“Maybe you’re right, but the rice is cooked.” Lin nods decisively, the morality of the subject completely ignored, a non-issue for her. “They’re slaves now, but at least they’re your slaves. You’ll treat them well hubby, I know you will.” Putting an end to the discussion, Lin nuzzles against my chest with a yawn and smile. “Besides, if you’re really so against them being slaves, then you can just kill them, ya?”

Oh Mother have mercy, protect me from this bloodthirsty little bunny. Making yet another note to never anger my sweet Lin, I kiss her on the forehead as she joins the others in an afternoon nap. I don’t think I’ll ever get used to the stark difference in mindset, living in a world where even a pure, sweet girl like Lin considers slavery an acceptable punishment. To her, it’s merely the natural order of things, where stepping over others is the way things are done. Maybe I am being naive, thinking things could be different, that everyone could live in peaceful harmony.

Thinking back on it, my retirement plan wouldn’t have worked regardless of what happens at the Bridge. Without strength, I’m nothing more than a living corpse waiting to be stepped on. If I want to protect Lin, Mila, and all my loved ones, then I need to become stronger. Despite my accomplishments and newfound skills, this is no time to be complacent. I’ve only just stepped onto the Martial Path, with a long journey still ahead. Yo Ling was the most powerful foe I've seen to date, but there are people even stronger than him. I'm a talented 'youngster', but talent will only get me so far.

The question is: Can I become strong while still staying true to my nature? No, a better question would be: do I even want to? There’s a fitting idiom which says ‘Mercy to one’s enemies is cruelty to one’s self’. Maybe it’s time I adapted to the world instead of expecting the world to adapt to me.

Holding Lin and Mila close, I close my eyes and grieve for the loss of innocence, both Lin’s and my own.

Chapter Meme
