The teleportation alcove Alden had arrived through was speaking in Artonan. He managed to get the words “welcome” and “thank you” but not much else.

“Hey, local System?” he asked, his voice echoing off the metal walls. “Do you not translate?”

It hadn’t even given him an arrival notification. He scrolled through his interface and saw to his surprise that some of the features were missing.

Pivotal ones.  The option to choose his post-affixation spell was completely absent. Maybe the primitive System here couldn’t grant skills and spells?

Come to think of it, maybe it didn’t recognize the name “System.”

“Contract, can you translate whatever the teleportation alcove is saying?”

This request prompted words to scroll across his vision.

<<Welcome to Elepta Agricultural Community, honored traveler! Thank you for your patronage. One of our friendly guides will be with you shortly.>>

There was something spooky about being promised a friendly guide when he knew one wouldn’t be appearing.

“Contract, you do maps right?” Joe had said it could. “Can you give me the fastest route to the laboratory owned by Yipalck Corporation? It should be near here.”

There was a brief pause.

[That facility is in a high chaos area. Your rank is too low to approach it safely. You are currently in a high chaos area. You should travel to the Thegund Protected Zone. I have analyzed your susceptibility. You have achieved the lowest score. Yipalck Corporation’s research facility is that way.]

An arrow appeared, pointing toward one of the warehouse’s doors.

“System, are you okay?” Alden muttered. That was a lot of word spaghetti to sort through. Don’t go there, you suck too much, do go there, follow the arrow?

“Susceptibility to what, Contract?” he asked, following the arrow. “What did I get the lowest score on?”

[Susceptibility to incursion and loss of assignment is low. Congratulations, and thank you for your service!]

Does this thing actually speak English? Or is it just doing its best?

Outside, the temperature was comfortable. The sky was yellow and covered with a dense layer of cloud. The ground was dry, hard-packed brown dirt. Alden smelled sulfur and something like mint.

The arrow led him to a field of tall shrubs covered in dark green fruit. The bushes had begun to overgrow the neat rows they’d been planted in, so he had to fight his way through.

Then he remembered Joe said the things had esoteric magical uses and he wondered if it was safe for him to be touching them so much. He didn’t want to break out in hives or poison himself. Or start hallucinating.

“Are these plants safe for humans?” he asked. “Contract? Do you know?”

[The fruit and leaves of the marleck plant should be eaten sparingly by humans with unmodified digestive systems. Do not consume roots. Do not use any part of the plant as an inhalant.]

Well, at least that was clear enough. Something uncomfortable but non-lethal would probably happen to him if he ate them, and he should never smoke them.

He made his way through the field with a little more caution, trying to push away his growing sense of unease. In the first couple of minutes after his arrival, he’d been too busy taking in the obviously alien environment of Moon Thegund to notice some of the finer details about it. But now he was picking up on one that bothered him.

It was dead silent.

The animal noises from the jungles of Artona III were strange, but not in a disturbing way. This total quiet felt unnatural. Alden could hear his own breathing and the rustle of every leaf he brushed past.

He almost jumped out of his skin when one of the tall, plain white stakes stuck into the ground between the bushes suddenly came to life with a hiss and started misting the area with water.

It’s just the irrigation, you dork. Heart pounding, he laughed at himself a little. But the sound broke the quiet in a way that made him even more uncomfortable, so he cut it out quickly.

As he traveled through the huge field, he ran across a few other stakes that seemed at least partially functional. Some of them dribbled constantly.

Alden assumed they’d been left running on purpose to keep the plants alive, but it must have been a long time since anyone had come by to check on them. There were other signs that the farm had been abandoned quickly by people who planned to return.

He passed by a shed, and he peeked inside to find a dozen pairs of rubber work boots arranged in a neat line on a shelf. Tools hung from clips on the back wall, and there was a glowing, high-tech cabinet full of cylinders that he thought might be drones.

There was something that looked like a petrified, half-eaten protein bar on the ground beside a trash can.

Yep, he thought as he closed the door quietly and moved on. The fact that someone left all this stuff behind and never came back for it is a Very Bad Sign.

He was glad he had the triangle of absolute secrecy. It gave him an excuse to never tell Boe and Jeremy he’d willingly signed up to come to a place like this.

He kept following his arrow, which never deviated from its direction, and eventually he arrived at the farm’s perimeter. There were a few buildings he didn’t bother to look inside, and beyond them, nothing but an endless sea of waist-high grass.

It was a sickly yellow color, and the total lack of a breeze left it standing so still it looked unreal. Like a three-dimensional painting Alden was about to step into.

A few whispered questions persuaded the System to give him an ETA to the lab. It would be around three hours at his current average speed. Straight through the grass.

Joe had said he should use his trait and run. He still had the small message orb in hand, and to his relief, his skill was easily preserving it when he walked, even though the target indicator for Joe was gone and he couldn’t make it reappear.

So he could carry something entrusted to him to other planets and keep up the skill as long as he didn’t lose contact. That was a pretty neat trick.

And his trait would work as long as he didn’t drop the ball.

Through the grass, he couldn’t see the ground in front of him well, so he started out slowly. After about twenty minutes he concluded that it really was just a lot of flat packed dirt. There were a few loose pebbles here and there, but he hadn’t spotted a single dip or hump in the ground. And the grass was only a minor impediment. He could probably run without tripping over obstacles.

“Activate trait, Contract,” he said. And when the local System didn’t respond, he sighed and did it by hand using the interface.

Activating Azure Rabbit felt like flipping a switch in his head. It was a very distinct sensation, and he thought that he could probably flip the switch without using the System at all after a little practice.

He tightened his grip on the message orb and took his first steps. Oh, right. It feels unusual.

He hadn’t gotten nearly enough practice time with the trait before he was summoned by Bti-qwol. But he could make up for that now. Focusing on every step and increasing his speed gradually, he started to jog.

If he closed his eyes, he thought it would feel like a completely normal jog through tall grass, but this relatively small exertion was eating ground at a unnatural pace. It was faster than his fastest pre-affixation sprint.

Alden hadn’t had enough room to really let loose in the consulate. And he hadn’t been able to practice with his coat on. The increased Agility from it seemed to be helping.

He soon found himself completely absorbed in the movement trait, intensely focused on the process of it in a way he hadn’t been able to achieve with his skill.

He still didn’t get what was happening when he used Let Me Take Your Luggage. It felt like he was trying to use a body part that had gone numb. Or one that was both numb and entirely foreign. It worked when he told it to, and he was glad that it did. But it didn’t really feel like it belonged to him yet.

Azure Rabbit was different. His feet hit the ground, and he sprang up and forward. He adjusted his posture slightly, trying to focus on getting less of a silly leap and more straight-line speed, and he felt a shift in the right direction. He adjusted it again and again, until he was running in a weird new way that felt totally amazing.

It was so comprehensibly physical. There was a ton of feedback from the senses he’d spent his whole life using, instead of brand new ones, and that made it wonderfully easy to intuit how to get better at it.

Oh my god, this is the best, thought Alden, trying to readjust the way his feet hit the ground. It feels like a real super power. I should have picked a Brute class. Being a speedster would have been way more fun to practice.

Every little tweak he made had a clear effect. This was going to be great for maneuverability once he’d gotten complete control over it.

He was having so much fun experimenting with the trait that it took him a while to notice how much faster he was going. He’d begun actually running instead of jogging at some point, and he was rapidly wearing himself out. His legs burned, the backs of his hands stung from being whipped by the grass, and he was gasping.

He was a lot faster and a little stronger. But he didn’t have a limitless supply of stamina. And it wasn’t like running had ever been a serious pursuit for him.

Disappointed in himself, he slowed to a maintainable pace and tried to catch his breath. I’m so starting an exercise program the second I get home.

He wiped sweat from the message orb with the hem of his t-shirt and checked his ETA again. He’d shave off plenty of travel time, even at his current reduced speed.

He kept heading in the direction of the arrow. After a while, the grass began to change. In some places, there were large patches of barren soil, and in others the grass grew in strange vining loops.

Maybe there was nothing dangerous about the different patches, but Alden did his best to avoid them. He’d stick with the nice grass he was used to.

As he edged around one of the loopy-grass spots, he caught the unmistakeable whiff of rot. It smelled like the rat that had once gotten trapped under the fridge at home and died.

Somewhat to his own surprise, he made it to the lab without incident.

He’d been expecting a building, possibly a large one, but nothing much more than that since Joe was, after all, just one magical mad scientist. How much space could he have possibly needed?

A heck of a lot of it, as it turned out.

The lab lay in a depression in the landscape. It was a massive dimple in the grassland that looked like a natural geological feature to Alden, though for all he knew Joe had somehow made it himself. Looking down on it from  above, the entire complex was visible. An enormous structure with reflective sides and roof tiles encircled the place.

Though it seemed to be functioning as a barrier, Alden was hesitant to call it a wall. It was obviously large enough to contain rooms in its interior. Within its confines, there were ten to twenty other buildings, depending on if the things that looked like interconnected greenhouse domes were counted as one single place or several individual ones.

Alden had thought that Joe was probably a big deal. He didn’t know much about the Artonan justice system, but being given a professorship on an elite college campus seemed like a pretty mild punishment. The guy would have to be powerful, rich, or a genius for it to qualify as one at all.

Staring down at the lab, he felt this opinion had been confirmed and then some.

He headed down the slope toward the facility. From above, he hadn’t seen any sign of life, but as he approached, people emerged from the perimeter building. They appeared through a narrow door that looked more like an afterthought than a proper entrance to the facility.

Alden’s heartrate ratcheted up when he spotted the first couple of Artonans. He was coming here expecting to find people, but that didn’t stop him from worrying that he would find the wrong people. What if the lab’s new owners were here? Or what if some of Joe’s assistants hated trespassers?

But people kept appearing, until there were fifteen of them, including one very elderly looking man and a couple of small children. To his surprise they all formed a line, and faced in his direction, like they were patiently waiting. A little off-footed, he slowed his pace to a normal walk.

When he was fifty yards or so away, they all bowed deeply except for the kids.

Alden wondered what it said about his own culture that he would have been less surprised to be met with angry guards carrying guns. As it was, he felt obligated to speed up so that they would stop doing the bow as soon as possible.

I’m not supposed to bow back, am I? Is it more rude if I do or if I don’t? This was never covered in culture class.

Culture class assumed humans would mostly be interacting with wizards, not other Artonans. He knew they considered Avowed to be…important-ish? Since he could only be here because he was working for one of their wizards, he had a higher social status than they did. But Alden had a very poor grasp of the etiquette involved in that kind of relationship.

Bowing was probably the wrong thing. So he settled for smiling nervously as he approached instead.

He was relieved when they stood up straight.

All right, they definitely don’t speak English. And they aren’t carrying tablets so they probably don’t have System access for translation?

“Hello,” he said in Artonan. “My name is Alden. I have a…this thing from Worli Ro-den.”

He knew the word for message was stored somewhere in his brain, but he couldn’t call it to mind. He held the message orb out toward them hopefully.

The kids and a few of the adults were staring at him wide-eyed.

