Ren woke up early, much earlier than he thought he would. He looked at the woman that was sharing the couch with him, and sighed mentally.

“What is it?” Teepo asked from his perch on the ceiling.

I think there's only two things I can do about this. Ren thought. Well, three.

“What's the first thing?”

I'll go to the Main Keep and see what the restrictions are on dating someone from the same house.

“They're pretty strict.” Teepo said. “Members from the same House are usually family.”

That's what I was worried about.

“It doesn't hurt to check, though.” Teepo said. “What's the second?”

Tell the people that made all these stupid laws to go screw themselves.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “That I'd like to see.”

Ren smiled. It might come to that yet.

“What's the third?”

I don't want to think about the third one. Ren thought. It involves giving up all of this; including Nathalia.

“I don't want to think about that option either.” Teepo said. “It's bad enough we have to leave in a few months, but giving it all up right now, then have to stay around to serve your sentence?” Teepo chittered sadly. “That would be depressing.”

Yeah. Ren moved his hand from where it held Nathalia around the waist, and caressed her cheek. She murmured and held the hand to her face.

“I have to go.” Ren whispered in her ear.

“Don't... don't leave me.” Nathalia whispered back. “I forgive you for breaking your word.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, lifted the blanket off of himself, and slid over Nathalia to kneel on the floor. She hadn't let his hand go, so he still had a hand on the side of her face. “I'm going to the Main Keep to check on a few things, then I have to stop in at the mine for a minute, and I'll come back to work for a few hours in my workshop. After that, I have to go to Aurora.”

“No, Ren.” Nathalia said as she opened her eyes and looked at him. “She's going to be so mad at you.”

Ren smiled. “I don't doubt that in the least.” He said as he leaned in close, pressed his lips against hers for a moment, then tucked the blanket back over her. “Go back to sleep.”

Nathalia nodded slightly, and closed her eyes. Ren used sneak, and went to the kitchen. He didn't have a lot of time, so he only made a small batch of french fries for Princess, and went out to the stable.

“Good morning, Princess.” Ren said, and presented her with the french fries.

Supposed to be last night...

“I know.” Ren said. “I was too tired to do anything but sleep.”

You didn't eat...

“No.” He said. “If you didn't eat, neither should I.” He smiled. “I still haven't.”

You are nice... for a human...

“Thanks. I think.” Ren said. He left the stable, with Teepo flying out front, and went to the gate. Wohrum was there in full armor, and greeted him.

“Good morning, sir.”

“Morning.” Ren responded. “How's Golir?”

“Still in the medical building, sir.”

Ren frowned. “I hope he's okay.”

“He's just not feeling well.” Wohrum said. “Hasn't been for a few days.”

“And he wouldn't go to the medical building until I told him to.” Ren shook his head. “He should have gone as soon as he felt that way.”

“I'm glad you cared enough about us that you made a medical building and hired healers.” Wohrum smiled. “His wife would have had to travel all the way to the Main Keep and the Medical Wing, otherwise.”

Ren nodded slightly. “That's one of the reasons why.” He said. “I mainly didn't want people to have to go far for treatment.”

Wohrum nodded slightly, and shut the gate. Ren took off running down the road and stopped at the medical building to check on Golir and to talk to one of the healers.

“Hi, Ren!” Malenka said, came around the reception desk, and jumped on him to give him a hug.

Ren caught her and held on, so she wouldn't fall. “What's this for?”

“Artrude surprised me the other night with...” Malenka held on with one hand and slid the shoulder of her tunic slightly to the side with the other. It revealed a lace covered strap of a bra. “...a great surprise.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm glad you liked it.”

“Liked it?” Malenka grinned at him. “I loved it!” She gave him a big kiss on the lips, then hugged him tightly. “Thank you for making them!”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, with his face flushed a little red.

Malenka let him out of the hug, and he put her down. “I guess you're here about Golir?”

Ren nodded slightly. “How is he?”

“He's sweating a lot, and his skin is hotter than usual.”

“And you don't know what's wrong?”

“Artrude's gone to the Medical Wing at the Main Keep to see if they've seen anything like this before.”

“I hope they have, and know how to treat it.” Ren said. “Do you mind if I try something?”

“You?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I have to make a very strong Fear Aura, though.”

“F-f-fear?” Malenka hugged herself.

“I can wait for Artrude to be here, if you want.”

“Um...” Malenka looked around. “I...”

Ren took her hand. “I don't want you to feel this, so I am ordering you to walk 200 feet out that door and down the road. Wait 2 minutes, then come back.”

“It'll be over that quick?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It's just a test.”

“O-okay.” Malenka said, and walked to the door. “See you in a few minutes.” She left the medical building and Ren walked to the recovery room to stand beside Golir.

Okay, Teepo.

Teepo flew out of the room, then the building, and followed Malenka. Ren equipped his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and it added 40 feet to his Personal Aura's 50 feet, for a total of 90 feet. His shield was next, and he made a Connection between it and his Screaming Terror ring, then between the ring and the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak.

“We're in position, Ren.” Teepo said. “She's 200 feet away.”

Ren activated the enchantments and funneled them through his Fear Aura. He watched as Golir started to shake in his sleep from fear, but after a full minute of basking in Screaming Terror, nothing came out of his head.

That's a relief. Ren thought, deactivated the enchantments and stored the shield and cloak, then went back out to the reception desk.

“We're coming back.” Teepo said. A minute later, Malenka came through the door, and Teepo flew in behind her to land on Ren's shoulder.

“Thank you for letting me try that.” Ren said. “I had a few encounters with giants, and they had brain worms in their heads.”

“By the gods!” Malenka said. “Wait, did you say giants?”

“Yeah.”

“Giants are real!” Malenka exclaimed and started hopping around.

“Why are you so excited by that?”

“Brunhilda was one of my favorite heroes as a little girl!” She said, and sat down behind the reception desk. “To think that all of it was real!”

“Um... there's no proof that all of it was real.”

Malenka laughed. “Ren, you found giants. Real life giants.” She grinned and spun around in her chair. “I wonder who you're going to find next?” She stopped her spin and had a serious look on her face as she stared at him. “You will tell me if you find fairies and pixies, right?”

“I promise nothing.” Ren said and smiled.

“You better!” Malenka said and pointed an ominous finger at him, then she laughed. “The next thing I want you to find is a monocerus.” She said and leaned back in the chair with a smile on her face. “I've always wanted to see one of them!”

New Quest!

You have been given a quest to find the elusive Monocerus (Unicorn). Since it hasn't been seen in decades, you have a lot of searching ahead of you. No time limit has been set for this quest.

Rewards: ????

Penalty for Failure: Malenka's Disappointment, ????

Ren nearly laughed at the popup, and decided to try and get rid of one of the penalties for failure right away.

“Do you have a piece of parchment?” Ren asked her, and she opened a drawer and handed him one. He put it on the table, and took out a piece of charcoal. He recalled staying in the Snoozing Bear Inn in Aurora, and the poster that hung on the wall in the room he'd stayed in. After only a few minutes, he had made a reasonable copy of it.

He thought about adding color, then took out his Portable Dye Station. He dyed the charcoal to each of the colors that he needed, and filled in the drawing like he would with a coloring book. Malenka had watched him the entire time, and was amazed as the picture took shape, then stared open-mouthed as he colored it in. When he was done, he handed it to her.

“There you go.” Ren said. “This is as much as I can remember from what I saw.”

“I... I don't believe it...” Malenka said as she put the picture on the desk. “By... by the gods...”

“I know it's a little rough, but at least now you can say you've seen one that you haven't seen before.” Ren said and stored the Portable Dye Station. Malenka stood up, calmly walked around her desk, and looked him in the eyes with intensity.

“Malenka?”

*

He's Artrude. He's Artrude. He's Artrude. Malenka thought repeatedly, to try and trick herself into believing it, if for only a moment; then she kissed him passionately.

“Ahem.” A woman's voice said a moment later.

I can even hear her. Malenka thought and broke the kiss. I can't believe that work-

Her thought was cut off when she saw Artrude standing behind Ren.

“Hi!” Malenka said, hopped to the side and ignored Ren completely, then took Artrude into a hug. “Look what Ren did for me!” She said, and pointed to the desk. Artrude looked at the very detailed color drawing on the desk, looked at Ren, then at Malenka.

“So that's why you were kissing him like that.” Artrude said and smiled.

“I couldn't give him a kiss like the play kisses he got before.” Malenka rolled her eyes, then grinned. “I thought he deserved to be kissed for real.”

Artrude shook her head, but her smile got wider. “What am I going to do with you?”

“Keep me, of course!” Malenka said, and kissed her even more passionately than she'd kissed Ren. A minute later, Artrude broke the kiss.

“Malenka, we're at work.” Artrude said bashfully, and her face was flushed even more red than Ren's was.

“Werk shmerk.” Malenka said and picked up the picture. “Now that you're here, I can go hang this up!” She said, and took off out the door.

*

Ren and Artrude watched her for about 10 seconds, then looked at each other.

“Sorry about that.” They said at the same time, and then they laughed.

“I didn't think giving her something like that...” Ren said, then smiled.

“Now you know.” Artrude said, then squinted her eyes at him. “You don't have anything else like that, do you?”

Ren raised his hands in surrender. “Honestly, I didn't know she'd kiss me like that over a drawing.” He said. “If anything, I figured it would be another 'play kiss' like she said.”

Artrude nodded slightly. “I thought so, too.”

“Look, I'll make it up to you.” Ren said. “I'll be back in a little while with something for you to give to her.”

“I thought I just asked you if you had anything.” Artrude said, a little angrily.

“I'm going to get her something, but it's for you to give to her. Okay?”

“All right.” She said. “As long as you don't keep trying to steal her away from me.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I've been accused of that a few times, and all I'm doing is trying to be nice.”

Artrude put a hand on his arm. “I'm sorry.” She said. “I'm very protective of her.”

“It's okay.” Ren smiled. “I'd be protective of her, too.”

Artrude nodded slightly, and Ren walked to the door.

“Any luck with what's wrong with Golir?” He asked as he opened the door.

“A bit.” She said, and took out two jars from her pockets. “I've been given a spell and some special ingredients, and also a salve.”

“Let me know if it works.” Ren said, waved, and left the building. He ran as fast as he could and made it to the Main Keep well before anyone else. The guards were just coming on duty, and opened the gate for him. They didn't check him for weapons or anything, and he went into the main hall.

He waved to the receptionist as he passed by the desk. She had a surprised look on her face for a second, then she waved back. He smiled and walked down to the entrance of the hallway on the right and went into the first door. Teepo took off to scout ahead, and Ren approached the other door. He opened it at Teepo's okay signal, and went inside.

“Hello again.” Beryl, the female dwarf that took care of the General Information desk at the Hall of Records, said.

“Good morning.” Ren said, and stood in front of the desk.

“What can I do for you today?”

“Two things, actually.” Ren said. “I want to pay the taxes and fees for the Garrison.”

“You WHAT?!?”

“I got the deed for the Garrison from Lord Lodur.”

Beryl shook her head. “By the gods, Fritz and the Queen are idiots.”

Ren chuckled. “It's not really their fault.” He said. “I really have stayed a lot longer than Fritz intended, and I did mess the place up a lot.”

“For the better!” Beryl said. “The Queen's order stating you can't get another invitation for a year is even more stupid.”

“I'm not going to argue about it.” Ren said. “It's done, and we all have to live with it.”

“But, if you own the Garrison, then you're also charged with the defense of the entire realm! They can't kick you out!” Beryl said with a serious face.

Ren shrugged. “I'm not sure what I can do about it.”

“Use the military to take over the Council and the throne.” She suggested. “It's been done before.”

Ren frowned at her. “I will not be another Lord Lodur.”

Beryl's serious face turned into a huge smile. “Good!” She said. “I assume you got the budget for the Garrison when you assumed control of the deed?”

“I did.” Ren said. “1850 platinum coins is a little outrageous, especially the amount that goes into the crafting section.”

“That's all internal.” She said. “You own the place. You can shift it around and give them what they want.”

“I can't increase it, can I?”

“No.” She said. “The budget is set for the amount of people it contains.”

“So, if I fired everyone, I'd have no budget?”

Beryl's face lost all of it's color.

“I'm not going to do that!” Ren said quickly, to offset her shock.

She sighed in relief and smiled.

“I can't hire more people, either... can I?”

“No. By law, it's a set number.” She said.

“Damn, I'm really starting to hate dwarf laws.”

Beryl chuckled. “Welcome to the Dwarven Kingdom, My Lord.”

Ren shook his head. “All right, how much are the taxes.”

“5% of the budget.”

“It's what?!?”

