Beryl sighed. “I know. Even though 5% is almost nothing, once you get to 1850 platinum...”

Ren thought about it, then looked at her. “You know what? Screw it. Here's 5 years of taxes.” He said and put 462 platinum and 50 gold coins on the desk. She stared at the stacks of money.

“What... what...”

“Sorry.” Ren said. “But I don't want to worry about defaulting or anything.”

“F-f-f-five years!”

“I paid 5 years for Nathalia's land.” Ren said. “Although, I paid 10 years for mine.”

“Hold on.” She said and looked at him. “Did you say Nathalia's land?”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “When the marriage contract was canceled... don't ask why... it reverted to her.”

Beryl nodded slightly. “I'm sorry that happened.”

Ren shrugged. “It was going to happen in just under 3 months anyways.” He said. “Which brings me to the second thing I wanted to ask about.”

“What is it?” She asked, and took out a large sack to hold the money, and started shoveling it in.

“I know there's restrictions on having a relationship with someone of the same House.”

Beryl snorted a laugh. “Restrictions!” She said. “It's restricted, period.”

“Even if you aren't normally a member of the house, or blood related, or anything like that?”

She finished putting the money in the sack, filled out the form, and took them over to the filing cabinet.

“What people do in their bedrooms is their own business.” Beryl said and dropped the money and the form into the cabinet. “Blood relatives... including cousins... is strictly forbidden.” She said. “It's hard enough to keep track of all the bloodlines throughout the different Houses, without having to worry about inter-breeding in the same House.”

Ren smiled. “So, if say, someone just had the same name...”

“As long as you don't try to make it official... which is a big no-no, by the way... officially, we can't intervene.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “I was going to see if I had to submit a proposal to allow that... or something similar.”

“That's not necessary.” Beryl said. “What's that old saying? Don't talk, don't tell?”

Ren chuckled. “Close enough.”

“Anything else?”

“It depends.” Ren said. “I had an idea for something, but I don't know if there's some kind of procedure that has to be followed, or if it can be done at all.”

“What is it?”

Ren looked around.

“Don't worry, this place is completely soundproof.”

“Is anyone else in here?”

“No.”

“Okay.” Ren said. “This is my idea...” He explained what he wanted to do with the Garrison, and her eyes widened.

“You... you can't be serious.”

“It's not like I can maintain it if I'm not allowed in the dwarf lands.”

Beryl shook her head. “Okay, I'll check.” She said, got up from her desk and disappeared down an aisle. Ren waited for several minutes, and then she came back with a book, nearly a foot thick.

“You need to have the Librarian cut those things up into different volumes for you or something.” Ren commented when she put the huge book on her desk, and she laughed.

“I'll keep it in mind.” Beryl opened the book, and read through about 200 pages, then stopped. “Okay, if you do that, with witnesses, then everything is okay.” She smiled. “Privately, it won't work.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Publicly, and with witnesses.” He said. “Got it.”

“Anything else?”

Ren took out a platinum coin and spun it on her desk.

“I don't need another toy, thanks.”

“Then don't play with it.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm sure there's lots of places that would be happy to accept this toy.”

Beryl snorted a laugh. “You're incorrigible.”

“That's definitely a lot better than being called 'crazy'.” Ren said and bowed to her.

“Awww.” Beryl said and waggled her hand as she held it out to him. “Don't you want to practice your registered ritual?”

Ren chucked, took her hand, and gave her cheek a quick kiss. She laughed because his beard tickled, and he let her hand go.

“Until the next time.” Beryl said, and Ren left the Hall of Records. Once he was out in the main hall, the receptionist looked over at him, even as she was speaking to one of the dwarves in line. Ren smiled at her and gave her a little nod, and she stopped speaking at the Honor she'd gained from his gesture. Her mouth kept moving, like a fish out of water, and he chuckled and left the Main Hall. He took off running when he passed out through the main gate, and went to the Library.

“Your Highness!” Dorhaline, the Librarian, said when he came in through the front door. She had been sitting at her desk, and saw him right away.

“I miss your gold armor.” She said.

Ren smiled. “You miss bouncing off of it that much?”

She chuckled. “I'm surprised it doesn't have a dent in the shape of my face.”

“Oh, that reminds me.” He said. “I have to repair it.”

Dorhaline smiled. “Giant feet makes a mess of things.”

“They sure do.” Ren said. “But, that's not why I'm here.”

“Ooo, do you want to read something?”

“I'd love to.” Ren said. “I've got a little bit of time to spare.”

“Great!” She said, and stood up. “What would you like?”

“Anything from the box of books you put aside for me.” Ren said.

“Just a moment.” She said, and went into her little sleeping area, and brought out the box. “Here it is.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and moved some of the books around. He picked a small one, and looked at her. “Ma'am, is it possible to get a couple of copies of that children's book, Brunhilda and the Water Sprite?”

“Of course.” Dorhaline said. “I'll be right back.”

Ren looked at the book he'd chosen and read the cover.

How to Pick Up Hotties

He laughed, and opened it to read the introduction page.

Tales of interactions with Fire-related species.

Oh, that makes a lot more sense. Ren thought, and the Librarian came back out to the desk.

“Here you go.” She said and handed him 2 copies of the book.

“Thank you very much.” Ren said, gave her 2 gold, and stored the books. “Shall we go up to the second level and read?”

“I thought you'd never ask!” Dorhaline said, grabbed the book she had been reading, and led the way up to the second level and the tables there for reading. Ren spent about half an hour there, and had to go back down to get several more books. His Speed Reading was 5 levels higher while in a Library, so he burned through 5 of the books pretty fast.

“I have to go.” Ren said, and the Librarian sighed.

“Oh, all right.” She said. “I know you have things that you need to do.”

“Boy, do I.” Ren said. “Thanks for letting me spend time here.”

“Oh, go on!” She said, and grinned at him. “You're supposed to spend time in a Library.”

Ren smiled, and handed her the book. Her eyes brightened as he stepped close, and she almost shook in anticipation.

“I'm not spoiling you, am I?” Ren asked as he took her hand.

“By the gods, no!” Dorhaline said, and he kissed her cheek. She giggled, because she couldn't help herself, and he laughed.

“I'll try and stop by next week when I get another day off.” Ren said.

“I'll look forward to it.” She said, and sighed when he let her hand go.

“Ma'am.” He said, and walked down the stairs. Once at the bottom, he walked fast to the door, then took off running when he was outside.

“Ren, there's something you should know.” Teepo said.

What's that?

“I think the Librarian likes you a little bit.” Teepo said, then chittered in laughter.

Ren snorted a laugh and ran to his workshop at the mines. No one questioned him at all, and he went inside to gather the drawn plans for the Fire stained glass window he'd drawn, and picked up the piece of red-colored glass he'd left there. He left the workshop and ran out through the gate, then all the way back to the workshop behind House Neram Keep. The place really did seem empty without the huge silt oven taking up most of the space.

Ren built another workbench for himself, but this one he made really large, so it could hold multiple pieces of the colored glass that he'd made well over a month and a week ago in the game. He took out the design he'd made, and took his time to score all of the lines that he had in the pattern on the red-colored glass. It took a while, nearly half an hour; but when he was done, he had traced the entire picture out onto the glass.

Ren smiled as he lifted the pane of glass slightly, and used the technique he'd learned to firmly hold the outside piece, then gave it a snap. The piece popped off along the score line, and Ren kept going; he broke off each piece as he came to it.

Stat Change!

Glassworking Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Glass Cutting Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Ren put each piece back to reassemble the pane of glass, then repeated this process for each of the other 4 colors (orange, yellow, white, and blue) that he'd dyed previously, since he wasn't sure which colors he wanted where in the pattern he'd made. When he had all 5 colors cut apart, he had leveled up both Glassworking and Glass Cutting to Level 4.

Ren picked the red and started replacing some of the pieces with the orange. When he had it to an almost even mixture, he started to add the yellow and white pieces to replace some of the red and orange. There were a few spots where he figured it should be really hot, so he used some of the blue pieces. Once it was all done, he stepped back and smiled at his creation.

Ren had recreated the scene of when he'd first met Fire Dancer, when the large figure of fire had stood up from the mountain it had been sitting on. Blue flames shot out from it's feet as it stomped on the ground, and white billowing smoke rose from it's red eyes. It, and everything around it, had red, yellow and orange flame covering it.

“If you stay much longer, you're going to miss your meeting with Elerlyth.” Teepo said.

Thanks for reminding me. Ren thought to his friend, then covered over all of the glass with cloth. I'll be able to finish this tomorrow.

He went into the forge room and Tee-one wasn't there. The forges were all going, and there were iron bars cooling in the molds on the floor.

He must be down working on the Keep. Ren thought and grabbed a handful of molten metal from one of the forges. He held it in his hand, and remembered the drawing of a unicorn he'd made for Malenka. He put the blob of metal on the paving stone floor, and using his fingers, made it into the shape of the unicorn. Ren took out one of the bags of small diamonds he had, grabbed a handful of them, and pressed them into the still molten metal.

Using one of his blacksmith tools, he used his Gem Setting ability to burnish the gems, to make them flush with the surface of the metal. He covered the entire surface with them, except for the eyes. He dyed two of the diamonds blue, and set them into the right positions.

Stat Change!

Gem Setting Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Once that was done, Ren grabbed a bit more molten metal, and let the system make it into a pendant chain. He attached it to the back of the unicorn, and used his ability to absorb the remaining heat from it and the chain. He held it up and smiled at it, stored it, then ran down to the road and over to the medical building. Artrude was sitting behind the reception desk, and he walked over to her.

“Is Malenka around?”

“Yes.” Artrude said as she stood up, then came around the desk. “She's tending to Golir in the recovery room.”

Ren crept over to the door, saw Malenka was busy applying the salve to Golir's forehead, then went back to the reception desk.

“You have to be quiet when I give this to you.” Ren said, and gave her a copy of the children's book.

“Where did you get this?” Artrude asked.

“A friend at the Library gave me a copy; but, that's not the whole present.” Ren said. “This is why I said you should be quiet.” He took out the glittering diamond-encrusted unicorn pendant. Artrude started to gasp, then covered her mouth.

“By the gods.” Artrude whispered, and he handed it to her. “I can't take this.” She said, and tried to hand it back.

“You have to, because you're giving it to Malenka.” Ren said, and Artrude stared at him. “Like I said, I want to make it up to you. I thought the book by itself wouldn't be enough, so... I want you to give that to her.”

“Oh, Ren.” Artrude said, and looked at him intensely. “No wonder Malenka wanted to kiss you.”

Ren grinned at her. “Should I run, or close my eyes?”

Artrude laughed and gave him a kiss on the cheek.
