“Everyone thought Maresar was a lord, because they never saw her! That’s how she got the class, isn’t that right?”
Maresar looked disapprovingly over at Mars and shook her head.
“No. There is no [Bandit Lady] class. That is all. All leaders are known as [Bandit Lords], regardless of gender.”
“Oh.”
Mars scratched her head and blushed a bit. Flos cleared his throat and all eyes turned back towards him. He didn’t seem to mind the interruption, although Teres and Trey’s ears were red.
“What of the other cities and larger towns, Orthenon? If any would join me now, I would rest easier with their stores of grain and food added to ours.”
“Not to mention additional soldiers.”
Gazi nodded in agreement. Orthenon sighed, looking visibly annoyed.
“I have sent messengers to the cities of Rast, Belevadim, and Chalm bearing word of your return. I have yet to hear a response from any city.”
“No doubt they are considering their response. Which means their rulers deny me, or the citizens do as well.”
Flos shook his head.
“No matter. For now, continue training and drilling those who have chosen to fight. We have the makings of a decent army here, but I take it you still lack the numbers you desire, Orthenon?”
The steward nodded.
“I have a good number of veterans, some quite old. I have given them the arms that Lady Mars obtained and they will act as a strong elite force. However, the plain truth is that we lack the proper numbers for a true army, and our newest recruits are of very low level.”
“The latter problem will be solved by the first battle. As for the first…well, I shall rely on the efforts of you four to overcome any difference in numbers.”
His vassals straightened and nodded. Flos pondered for a moment and then turned to Maresar.
“Maresar, would you take those you deem fit and train with them exclusively? I would like you to lead the archers in my army. I realize that was not your role before, but in the absence of any other warriors of note, I ask it of you.”
“I would be honored, my King.”
“Very well. Mars, if you will train with the newest soldiers and if both Gazi and Maresar will assist Orthenon in drilling the army to fight as one…”
They nodded at him. Flos turned his attention to Trey and Teres.
“Orthenon does not have the time to exclusively attend to the army. Lady Maresar and Gazi have both commanded units of soldiers and small armies of their own and know what is needed. Do you understand why we must train this army, despite having veterans of countless wars?”
It was far worse than being called on by the teacher in class. Far worse. Tongue-tied, both twins shook their heads. Flos nodded, not disappointed by their honesty.
“An army must fight as one. They must learn to follow commands given out by [Strategists] or [Tacticians] as a whole, which each smaller unit of soldiers must obey. A simple command like advance or retreat requires drilling, and the most elite armies are capable of maneuvers that can change the entire battlefield.”
“I understand.”
Trey nodded. He glanced at Mars.
“Um—why wouldn’t Lady Mars train the soldiers?”
She was a [Vanguard], which was an advanced type of the [Soldier] class, Trey knew. Flos hesitated while Mars herself flushed red.
“Mars is…not suited towards leadership, Trey. She is a [Soldier], yes, but one who fights, rather than takes up the mantle of a leader.”
The other vassals shifted and didn’t quite look at Mars. Trey felt incredibly guilty, but Flos simply nodded as if he’d asked an important question.
“Each one of my vassals stands out in their own way. Mars will teach the newest soldiers, those who have never held a sword before in their life, how to fight. That is what is needed. Now, I believe there is nothing left to discuss. If Orthenon receives a reply from any of the cities, we shall meet again. Until then, I shall attend to my daily lessons with Teres and Trey.”
The audience was over. Orthenon left at speed after bowing to Flos. Gazi vanished quickly as well, and Maresar and Mars both headed towards the training grounds. And Flos stood up from his throne and smiled. Teres and Trey exchanged a glance, and they came to the oddest part of their daily routine.
Teaching Flos. Story time with the King of Destruction. Flos’ school hour. No matter how Trey said it in his head, it didn’t feel any less surreal.
But it happened. Every day. Flos would walk to his room with the twins in tow, and they would sit in his personal quarters, on the padded seats that had been placed in the room, in front of a gilded table adorned with snacks and cool drinks, and tell him about their world.
Flos settled into his chair with a sigh. He took the snack of the day from a silver platter in front of him and eyed it curiously.
“What is this I have to sample today, Teres, Trey?”
“Yorkshire pudding, I think.”
It wasn’t quite like the good stuff back home, but Trey had to admit the [Cooks] had done a pretty good job of imitating the food from a description alone. Flos listened with appreciation as Teres explained what Yorkshire pudding was, and how you ate it. With beef drippings and gravy.
“Ah, I see we have some provided for us.”
Flos reached for a gold-and-porcelain gravy boat. Trey and Teres exchanged another look. It was surreal to eat the food of their home on plates meant for royalty. But that was Flos. He wanted to try every food from their home, and so every day the kitchen staff would try to create something from Earth with mixed results.
“Mm. Far better than that black pudding that was served yesterday.”
Flos chewed down three Yorkshire puddings with delight while Trey and Teres shared one. They’d just had breakfast after all. Then Flos leaned back, a cup of mulled wine in his hands, and a Yorkshire pudding in the other.
“Now, on to the most delightful moment of my day. We had talked yesterday of your world. I understand the geography, although I can scarcely comprehend that every part of your world—a round world, no less!—is mapped. I thought long about what you had told me about the nature of planets last night. Is it perhaps that the edge of the world is linked by magic to the other edge of your world?”
Teres groaned and Trey shook his head as Flos stared at them expectantly.
“No, we told you, there’s no magic in our world!”
“That you know of.”
“Yes! And we know a lot!”
“Hmm. But then, your world truly is round, and there is no edge? No…place where the ocean ends?”
“No!”
Flos shook his head in amazement as the twins shook their heads in exasperation. He had the worst hangup about some things. Flos readily and ecstatically accepted the idea that the moon and the stars were other planets, far, far away. He was completely happy to listen to the twins tell him that lightning could be harnessed, steam could be turned into an engine, and oil could be made into a fuel that allowed men to fly in metal birds through the sky.
It was almost incredible how easily he accepted such things, actually. But there was one thing Flos couldn’t understand.
“Yet you say your laws apply to every planet. Each one is…round.”
“Yes, Flos. But it doesn’t feel round. You can walk across the entire world, or sail, and you’d never feel it getting curved. It would feel flat, but you’d be able to go the whole way around because it’s round, you see?”
Teres took over for Trey while he sipped some water, preparing his throat for a lot of speaking. Flos scratched his head.
“I believe I understand. And yet, that is not true of this world.”
“It is!”
Exasperated, Teres’ sister glared at Flos.
“I know this world is big, but if you took a ship—look, you could calculate the earth is round by looking at the sun and shadows! People in Greece did it thousands of years ago!”
“I have no doubt you are telling me the truth. But this world is not round.”
“How do you—”
“There is an edge of the world. A place where the sea ends.”
Flos held up a hand to forestall Teres. She broke off, staring. Flos frowned.
“I have never seen it. But there have been mighty [Captains] and fearless [Sailors] and [Travellers] who have attempted to find the edge of the known world, Teres. If the world was round they would have come around the other side and said so, yes? But they do not. Out of every thousand ships that has dared to travel to the edge of the world, past Baleros, past Rhir, only one or two ever comes back.”
“Really?”
Flos nodded, meeting Trey’s gaze somberly.
“Yes. They come back screaming of a blackness which the water pours into, a place where light does not exist. The end of the world. So you tell me the world is round in your world, and I believe you. But what is true in your world is not true here.”
The twins stared at the King and felt the ground beneath them shift. A world with an end to it. Trey sat up in his chair, heart racing at the thought.
“How—how many people have seen the edge of the world? I mean, really?”
“In this lifetime? I doubt you would find more than one or two alive, if any. But those who have come back have been written of, and I have read many books which say the same. And the [Sailors] have their own tales. They believe it. As do the islanders.”
“Islanders?”
“I told you of them, did I not? They live on an archipelago, closest to that end of the world. The next time Orthenon shows you his maps, ask him to point it out to you. They know not to sail too far in one direction, lest they vanish forever. And—there are stories that sometimes something comes up from that place. Things that kill all they encounter and die slowly, if at all.”
There was suddenly a bit less warmth in the room. Trey shivered. He unconsciously reached out and Teres gripped his hand and squeezed it tightly.
“I have never been to the islands, so I do not know if those rumors are true. If I ever meet an islander that is not trying to kill me, I will ask. For now, let us speak of more pleasant things.”
Flos shook his head, and the dark atmosphere dissipated. He looked at the twins, and now there was excitement in his eyes.
“I asked you about the history of your nations yesterday. But do you recall what I wished to speak of today? Heroes. Tell me of your heroes and leaders, those who shook your world.”
“Okay? Um—anyone in particular?”
“The most famous ones. The bravest, the strongest—and the ones which exist only in legend.”
“What, you mean like stories? Like Hercules and—Superman?”
“Super…man?”
Flos leaned forwards, scooting his chair forwards, suddenly filled with excitement.
“There is a hero known as a Superman? Tell me about him first.”
“No—he’s a superhero. Not a real person!”
Teres held up her hands. Flos stared at her, eyes shining.
“A superhero? What is that?”
That was how Trey and Teres found themselves eating Yorkshire pudding in a palace, sitting with a [King] and telling him about Superman. Flos sat forwards, forgetting to eat or drink as he listened, enraptured, to stories about their world. He was like a child in that he demanded to hear stories of Earth, everything from the food Trey and Teres had eaten, to things like the shows they watched on telly, and what a telly actually was.
Flos was in love with the idea of comic books, of TV shows and video games when he got his head around the idea of them. He was a boy listening to tales of another world when he sat with Teres and Trey. But he was not like a child in how he reacted.
As it turned out, Flos was not interested in Superman at all, but found the idea of Batman intriguing, and Spiderman fascinating. He kept asking questions about him, and Teres, who’d read a few comics while browsing bookshops, struggled to answer properly.
“And you say these heroes exist in another world, made up in the minds of the people?”
“No. Yes! It’s a story. But there’s movies about them, books, comic books, video games, songs…”
“Songs? Sing one for me.”
“No!”
“Why not?”
“It’s embarrassing. Trey, you do it.”
“Why me? You do it, Teres!”
Embarrassment over singing the Spiderman song aside, Teres found that Flos was soon bored of superheroes. When he heard that most, if not all of them had died at one point and come back to life, Flos just shook his head and asked to hear about real heroes. So they told him about the people that had conquered entire nations when they lived.
To his surprise, Trey found that Flos was not interested at all in Alexander the Great. Privately, the boy thought Flos and Alexander sounded very similar, but Flos did not enjoy the comparison.
“A [King] who failed to fulfill his dream? He wished to see the sea, did he not? And he failed? What good is his dream then? No—what sort of [King] would fail his subjects so? They shared his dream, won him victories and carried him across countless lands. But he failed them. No, I do not wish to hear of a failure such as that.”
Flos paused, and laughed shortly.
“He is too much like myself, I fear.”
The same went for King Arthur, strangely. Even though he probably hadn’t existed, he was a point of pride for Teres and Trey, that their country had claim to one of the real heroes of legend. Yet the King of Britannia pulled little weight in Flos’ books. He just muttered to himself about arrogant [Mages] when he heard about Merlin, and had to be convinced that King Arthur wasn’t just a pawn of fate. He wasn’t impressed with the act of drawing a sword out of a stone, either.
“I can do that too. What measure of a King is this?”
Trey exchanged a glance with Teres. He had no doubt Flos could actually pull a sword out of a stone, but he was at a loss as to how to explain the difference. Flos just shook his head dismissively. He looked at Trey.
“A real leader this time. Please.”
“Okay. What about…Genghis Khan?”
“Ah. That is a worthy name. Tell me of him. Or her?”
Trey had to do almost all the explaining this time. Teres didn’t remember much, so Trey had to wrack his brain for any details. Of the twins, Trey knew more about history than Teres and it was he who spoke up more when it came to people who had actually existed, rather than mythical people.
“I have fought mounted raiders like these Mongols as you describe them. It is not a pleasant experience. I could well imagine them conquering a vast portion of the world if not checked.”
Flos nodded. He looked at Trey and Teres, impressed for some reason.
“You two are well versed in the stories and history of your world. Tell me, were you scholars? How did you come to know so many tales?”
Teres shrugged.
“Our da told us a lot of stories when he’d get home from work. When he did, he’d talk with us until he fell asleep in his chair.”
