“This world will not bow so easily if yours seeks to challenge us. I promise you that. But enough. If it comes to it, I shall see the terrible weapons of your world with my own two eyes. In the meantime, I have indulged my interests too long. Thank you for talking with me, Teres, Trey. Now, it is time to talk to Orthenon. Alas.”
They jumped in surprise, because a moment after Flos said that, someone rapped urgently on the door.
“Enter.”
A servant appeared, with a request to meet Orthenon in the throne room at once. A reply had come from one of the cities. Flos was out the door and striding down the corridor before Trey and Teres could hurry after him. Trey grabbed a handful of Yorkshire puddings as he left.
When they got to the throne room, Flos was already seated on his throne. Nervously, the twins edged into the room, but the others greeted them warmly. Orthenon blinked at the Yorkshire pudding Teres offered him, but he took it readily enough.
“What news, my steward?”
Flos regally dipped a Yorkshire pudding into the gravy that a servant had brought. Mars was already chewing down her third pudding as Orthenon straightened and spoke.
“They have denied your return, my King.”
“As expected.”
Flos sighed. But Orthenon wasn’t done.
“That is the official response. The messenger I sent was not allowed anywhere in the city, no doubt to prevent rumors spreading. And she was escorted a good distance away from the city before being released. However, she encountered a [Trader] on the road. No doubt he and other travellers are silenced under threat from speaking when entering the city, but he was able to give her a clearer image of the situation Rast faces.”
The way he spoke made it plain that there was a problem. Flos sat up on his throne, food forgotten.
“Tell me.”
“The city is destitute, my King. The [Trader] received offers from the ruling [Mayor] to exchange his wares for promises made against future payment, but refused. As he was part of the larger network of [Merchants] his goods were not taken, but he had to fend off [Thieves] along his entire trip. He was fearful of being ambushed despite the presence of his guards. What was more, not all of the thieves were [Thieves].”
It took Trey a moment to figure that out. But Flos had understood at once.
“The people are hungry?”
Orthenon nodded. He looked grim.
“They are not starving yet. But there is little trade, and the crop harvests have been bad again this year. Few cities or villages are doing well. You could say Lord Venith’s lands are an exception to that rule, but it is only through his hard work his people have prospered.”
“And mine.”
Maresar looked pointedly at Orthenon. He bowed his head.
“My deepest apologies, Lady Maresar. You and your husband have been successful where few else have. In this case, the city of Rast is not dying of famine, but they are desperate and fearful of the future.”
“And the homeless and poor do starve. Is that not so, Orthenon?”
The steward didn’t reply. Flos’ head bowed.
“Where the average man goes without, the poor man dies. That is how it has always been. You do not need to tell me it is so.”
He stared down at the Yorkshire pudding in his hand and made as if to crush it. Then Flos stared at it and ate it in one bite. Orthenon turned his head, and the servants carrying the food instantly retreated out of the room.
“Hold. Distribute that among the others with my blessings. I know you would have already, but I ask you yourselves to try some. They are quite good.”
Flos’ words made the servants turn. He smiled at them, and they bowed or curtsied before leaving. Then he lost his smile and looked back at the others.
“It is my fault.”
Mars opened her mouth as if to protest, but she stopped. No one else had spoken. Flos nodded as he looked at the twins.
“My fault. You see, Trey, Teres, I once ruled these lands.”
Trey didn’t see the connection, and Flos noticed. He looked tired as he explained.
“I took these lands by force and claimed their people as my own. After my kingdom fell to pieces, some lands were absorbed by other kingdoms, or became independent. Those who swore themselves to other [Queens] or [Kings] survived. But other lands failed. Because I, their [King], had abandoned them, abandoned my throne. And as the [King] fades, so too does the land.”
That was like a legend too. Trey tried to imagine it. If the [King] was healthy, the land was bountiful? Was that like King Arthur? He couldn’t exactly remember any tale like that. But then Trey had a thought. What if the [King] died? Did the land die? Or…
“If the issue is that, my King, why not declare war? We could feed them with our supplies, surely.”
Mars offered the idea to Flos hopefully, a hand on her sword’s hilt. But Flos only shook his head.
“I will not declare war. Not now.”
Mars opened her mouth. Flos looked up.
“No war, Mars. I have no cause for it, no reason.”
“But your people are hungry. Surely that—”
“They have been hungry for a long time. Why should I care now? No. I care with every part of my heart, but it is not enough of a reason.”
Flos stood from his throne. He stepped down from the dais and paced back and forth in front of his vassals.
“I have not heard them cry out for my aid. I have not received supplication, nor seen the failure of their rulers for my own two eyes. I will not march my armies on a thought, any more than I would declare war against a nation without just cause.”
“Then you won’t fight?”
Maresar asked the question quietly. Flos looked at her.
“I would declare war for a child. I would burn a country to ash to avenge a fallen comrade. But I would never declare war for petty things like land or coin or treasure. A [King] should wage war for his desires, yes, but never for greed. And despite my feelings, that is how I view a war to take back my lands. They have other rulers. To take it is greed at this moment. It is a fine line. But I will not cross it.”
His vassals looked at him, some resigned, others nodding. Flos sighed. He clenched his fist, so hard Trey thought—
“Yet they are dying.”
Something red ran from his hands. It dripped onto the ground and Gazi made a small noise. It sounded like pain. Orthenon started towards Flos. The King blinked, looked down. He saw the blood from where his fingernails had pierced his skin. He waved Orthenon away.
“I am fine.”
For a second Flos stared at the blood that had dripped onto the floor. Then he looked at his hand. He gritted his teeth, and then something changed. His head slowly turned. He looked at Trey and Teres. And then he grinned in sudden delight.
The change had caught everyone by surprise. Mars blinked and Orthenon stared curiously at his King. Maresar was watching him, but Gazi suddenly smiled again. She stared at Trey and Teres, and as the boy met one of her eyes, he saw her smiling at him. As if she’d realized something at the same time as Flos. And her smile looked genuine. It was actually not a half bad smile.
Flos tapped a finger to his lips thoughtfully, ignoring the blood. He stared at Trey and Teres, who began to have a very bad feeling, but it wasn’t they who he spoke to. He turned.
“Orthenon?”
The man stood straight, clearly ready for anything. His eyes were fixed on Flos, expectant. There was a hush in the room, a waiting. A wanting.
“Yes, my King?”
“I am going for a walk. It will settle my mind, and perhaps the issue of this city. Orthenon, would you see to provisions for lunch and perhaps dinner?”
Orthenon stared at him. The twins stared at him. But Flos was suddenly smiling. Orthenon chose his words carefully.
“A walk…my King? Now?”
“Yes, I desire it. It will do me some good. Teres and Trey will come with me of course, but you are free to join me, my [Steward]. You too, Mars. Gazi. And Lady Maresar, your company would be welcome. A walk will do me good.”
“For the entire day?”
“Mm.”
Flos nodded. Then he beckoned to Trey, who found himself already walking with Teres towards him. Flos began strolling out of the throne room. It took his vassals a moment to react.
“My King, are you going now?”
“Your majesty—”
“Don’t fuss, Orthenon. Come if you are coming. Teres, Trey, let us walk and talk. This is a fine opportunity to talk some more, is it not? This way, out of the palace.”
He led them at a brisk walk out of the palace. Trey and Teres hurried after him, and they heard Orthenon shouting behind them.
The [Steward] didn’t follow them, but Mars, Gazi, and Maresar walked right next to Flos as he strolled out of the palace. People’s heads turned the instant they saw their King. They cheered him, but then paused when they saw who was following him.
Three of his vassals? They called out questions, but Flos just bellowed the same reply.
“I am walking! Would you care to join us?”
And what were they to say to that? Everyone in earshot immediately dropped what they were doing and began to follow their King. Trey and Teres stared. Within a hundred paces of his palace, Flos was already being followed by hundreds of people. And word was spreading like wildfire.
“Um. Where are we going?”
“Out of the city. But don’t mind the crowd. I am simply walking. Now, what were we talking about? Ah yes, heroes. Go on, tell me more stories.”
Trey stared at Gazi, Mars, and Maresar, and about a thousand people now, most following at a distance, but a good lot of them staring at him. At him. He felt lightheaded, and Teres was walking so stiffly she looked like a robot.
“Um. About who?”
“Anyone. You mentioned figures of legend. Religious figures? Yes, you mentioned that when speaking to me about Gandhi.”
“Who?”
Flos shushed Mars as he looked at Trey. Trey gulped.
“Religion. Yeah. Right. Well, there’s important—important people there all right.”
“Such as?”
“Uh…Jesus?”
“Hmm. Not a name I have heard before. Explain him to me.”
“Well…he’s Jesus. Jesus Christ. Jesus of Nazareth. Son of God. The Messiah. Emmanuel. Our savior. Uh—”
Salvation came in a figurative sense when Trey spotted someone racing after them. As Flos walked out of the gates he saw figures on horseback riding after them. Orthenon leapt from his saddle as Flos glanced at him. The King never broke stride, as a group of horsemen slowed to keep pace with him.
“You’re rather in a hurry, Orthenon. You could have caught up later. I am not walking that quickly.”
“Apologies, my King. But I had to organize wagons to bring provisions for you and so many people.”
Orthenon stared hard at Flos, but the King let the gaze slide right off him. He nodded genially, glancing at the riders with a frown.
“My thanks. And a few wagons to carry some small snacks and perhaps a meal would not go amiss. But I must insist on no horses.”
“No—”
Orthenon nearly bit his tongue. Flos stared at him, pretending to look annoyed. But only pretending, Trey thought.
“I am going for a walk, Orthenon. Horses rather spoil the idea. Send them away. I do not mind others coming, but it must be on foot.”
For a second Trey thought Orthenon would explode. His face flushed, but the steward strode off. After a minute the horsemen rode back towards the city. Flos grinned and turned to Trey.
“My apologies, Trey. I did not mean to interrupt you. I am sure Orthenon did not mean to either.”
Trey glanced at the steward as he hurried back over out of the corner of his eye.
“No…problem.”
“Indeed. Now, that is a curious set of titles you mentioned. Jesus of Nazareth. That is a good name for a leader. But Son of God? The gods are dead. Ah, but in your world…no. It still sounds arrogant beyond belief to my ears.”
“Well, he was. I mean, it’s a religion…”
Orthenon joined the group of people staring at Trey. Tongue tied into knots and heart pounding out of his chest, Trey tried to explain gods to a group of people who kept saying the same thing.
“The gods are dead.”
“That is a fact. But not in Trey’s world. This is fascinating. So this god of yours…what did he do?”
“All kinds of stuff. God stuff. You know, creating the world and so on…”
Trey was treated to a blank look magnified a hundredfold. He realized no one besides Teres knew what he was talking about.
So for the next three hours Trey essentially narrated a good portion of the Old Testament of the bible as he remembered it. He hadn’t exactly read it end to end, but Teres whispered in his ears—she was far too shy to speak up in front of everyone—and he told the story.
In front of a crowd of thousands. Trey didn’t know how much of the city had followed Flos out, but when he looked over his shoulders—
He did so now and saw a procession of people filling the road, stretching back as far as the eye could see. Every face was turned in his direction, and people were repeating what Flos had said, what he had said to the people behind them—
Trey swiveled his head forwards so he wouldn’t pass out. But Flos just kept walking with him, asking questions.
“So this god made your world.”
“Allegedly. Some people think he didn’t. Others say it was a different god—but in this religion he created the world, and his chosen people—”
“Who?”
“Hebrews.”
Teres volunteered that. Which led to a very confused explanation of the chosen people, and how they had become slaves in Egypt, then been freed by the prophet Moses. Somehow, he found himself telling Flos about how they had marched around the walls of Jericho for seven days and seven nights, much to the King’s urbane amusement.
“And then they fell down, just like that? Would that Drevish could hear that!”
He laughed and the people behind him stirred. Trey chanced another glimpse and saw people laughing as well, or just smiling to see their King laugh once more.
“But that is a fascinating story! And rather similar to the tale of Gandhi, is it not?”
“No?”
“It was nonviolent. And it gives me an ever better idea…”
Flos caught everyone staring at him and coughed. He smiled at Trey.
“There are similarities.”
“Well…afterwards the army invaded Jericho and killed everyone. Men, women, and children.”
“Ah, a practical god. And a cruel one. Or is it his prophet that ordered it? No—I am confused. I apologize, Trey, but perhaps you had better explain the aspect of god to me at a later date. I confess, I do not fully understand that issue.”
Flos sighed. He stared around, acknowledging for the first time that this was not exactly a peaceful setting. There was a hum in the air, people talking, walking, laughing—and there were thousands of them.
