Oh, another medicinal plant! And what is this? A two-hundred-year-old leaf from a poisonous vine? Very nice, I could use this for a pill of sorts!

There were many medicinal plants in this jungle, some hidden, some not that hidden. Either way, my instincts to search for treasure and the Analysis skill helped me greatly. Unfortunately, it didn’t get experience from being used like the other skills, or I would have already gotten it to the Master rank.

Since I didn’t have any more space in my bag of holding, I’d just put the plants inside my dantian. The Little Emperor didn’t seem all that interested in them, which was good for me. I didn’t want to give him any more resources.

Precious, precious resources.

I was still going toward the north, of course, just taking small detours every so often to top up my supply of medicinal plants.

Many beasts attacked me on the way, but they were all weak, and made out of… spirit, or something that wasn’t material.

As a result, I’d discovered that my Myriad Qi Needles did a fantastic job at taking care of them for cheap.

That resulted in my forehead having a lot of dots, all clustered into bigger dots, which formed a sort of scenery, I supposed.

The plants and kills allotted me a lot of points, though I didn’t know if it was normal or not. I’d had some trouble with the lizards before because I didn’t know they weren’t real, so I thought the needles wouldn’t do much.

But they turned out to be great! It only took one or two of my needles to get rid of one fake Spirit Beast, so I was farming points while collecting magical plants.

At some point I’d just stopped bending down for them, since they were so numerous, and used Qi to unpluck them and then send them straight into my dantian.

Using that method, I could run through the forest and grab everything I wanted, increasing my points and treasures.

At some point during my journey to the north, I’d gotten a feeling in my forehead, and a large stream of information appeared in my mind.

It seemed that the goal of this part of the secret realm was to get as many points as possible and then head over to the central realm within twenty-four hours of entering the realm.

Which meant that the one-hour headstart I had was pretty significant.

And I used it to collect plants! I didn’t know how much time had passed, but it was pretty obvious that I had to hurry up a little. Especially because I didn’t know what awaited me all the way north, where Elder Su said the treasure would be.

With that in mind, I hurried the pace while collecting many magical plants and killing whatever Spirit Beast came after me.

Most of them were weak, but the deeper in I went, the stronger they seemed to get, which was a little contradictory since they mentioned that the central realm was the goal. If so, then why were the Spirit Beasts nearest to the center weaker?

Wait… were we supposed to move from one extremity toward the center…

But then why were they weaker in the center? This secret realm was very confusing…

◈◈◈

Hwei Badai stepped forward as his name was called. The second hour had passed, and it was his turn.

It wasn’t obvious at first, but in such a situation, two hours was a lot of time. Depending on what the secret realm entailed, even ten minutes of progress was detrimental to whether one won or lost.

He hadn’t realised it before, and he thought that maybe he should have fought harder. However, fighting that crazy woman and winning was out of his scope of possibilities. Based on what the grandpa told him, she wasn’t even fighting him seriously.

If she were to go all out…

He shuddered at what would have happened, and he would rather keep his life than go inside one hour early.

Taking a deep breath, he walked inside the opening portal, a little afraid that it would detect his master. Fortunately for him, it didn’t, and soon, he got sucked into the secret realm.

The first sensation that hit his senses was an extreme coldness that made his blood freeze. If it weren’t for his quick reaction and sending huge amounts of Qi through his body, he might have.

Wrapping himself in a warm blanket of energy, he looked around, only to see white snowy plains as far as the eye could see. It wasn’t just that, but it was also dark.

He didn’t know where he was, and had no way of knowing what to do. The elders didn’t explain much, and now not even the realm did.

“Hmm… it seems to be a realm that requires exploration and combat.” The master’s voice echoed inside Hwei Badai’s head. “Start moving before something gets you.”

Yes, master.

Hwei Badai let out a chilly breath, mist forming in front of his smoky veil, and forced himself to walk through the thick snow.

The damned thing reached up to his knees, meaning that he was dragging his body forward more than walking.

Nothing had ever prepared him for such extreme conditions. It wasn’t like he could just find a snow-covered peak any time he wanted to, since the continent scarcely had any snow.

He bit his lower lip and blamed his dog-shit luck.

A desert would have been better…

Of course, there was no point in complaining. His Divine Sense covered a tiny area around him, but it was much better than what his eyes could see.

That was to say, nothing. The snowfall was so thick and the night so dark that his eyes were about as useful as a charcoal delivery in a mining city.

Nevertheless, he had confidence in his training and techniques, but something told him that he had gotten the very short end of the stick.

As he was dragging his body through the snowy tundra, he’d failed to notice a dog-sized fox staring at him from atop a hill. Its feet pressed just enough on the snow that it only dug a few inches in, and its light weight made it so it didn’t sink to the bottom.

The aura of a Qi Condensation Spirit Beast emanated out of it, and its tiny, bright red eyes shone in the darkness of the night.

Behind it, many more tiny eyes appeared, stalking the unsuspecting young man.

“Be careful!”

The old master shouted from the ring just as the foxes surrounded him. He was knee-deep in the snow while they were standing atop it. Their size, which would have been a disadvantage, now made it so they had free rein to bite and scratch his face, something which would have been difficult before.

Gritting his teeth, he pulled out a sword and waited, pushing his Divine Sense to its meager limits. It wasn’t much, but it was just enough for him to detect each fox before it attacked.

Clicking his tongue, he attacked pre-emptively, forcing a shadow to take the shape of his weapon and to strike at the foxes.

However, given that there was so much darkness and only a feeble amount of light, it made it difficult for him to use his attacks.

More than that, the snow was also making it very hard for him to move, and his agility was basically zero.

“This is bad.” He struggled to whisper under his breath, the freezing cold making his teeth shiver.

“Focus, Hwei’er. You can do it.”

Yes, master.

That affirmation gave him more strength, or rather, enough strength to grip his sword. However, even if he could attack, he still couldn’t move. He would need to protect himself somehow.

“Ke ke, I bet you’re regretting not learning some more defensive techniques now.”

He ignored his master’s words that time around. Of course he regretted it. In his idiocy, he insisted on learning a lot of attacking techniques, and was now thinking twice about his decision.

After all, what good were they when he couldn’t use his feet?

At the very least, he did have a few talismans, so he slapped some protective ones on his chest and prepared to defend himself.

The first fox charged, and he’d detected it in time to block its leap with his sword. A second one attacked at the same time, and a third from the opposite angle along with it.

Left without much choice, he commanded his weak shadow sword to stop one of them, and pierced the other one’s skull.

Instead of dying into a pool of blood as he’d expected, Hwei Badai was flabbergasted to see that the beast broke into fragments of light, with some red ones making their way on his forehead.

“It was as I expected.” The master said. “It seems that these are not actual Spirit Beasts, but mere constructions made by the realm. If I guessed right, then those red dots are your points.”

Points? Hwei Badai thought and realised what his master had meant. So that means that the more I kill, the better? Is there any danger then?

“Ke ke, of course there’s danger.” An old chuckle sounded in his mind. “They are as real as they can be. Be careful and fight properly. They are very tough opponents.”

But it died so easily just now.

“Heh, that’s just because they are the weakest Spirit Beasts around, sent to probe you. Even these would be hard to kill for the average Qi Condensation Cultivator, especially since they’re in a large pack. However, they have one weakness.”

What weakness?

“It doesn’t matter even if I told you, since it’s too early to learn techniques related to the spirit. However, know that whoever made this secret realm was extremely powerful, and these constructs cannot be easily killed.”

En…

Hwei Badai didn’t question those words; he knew better than to do so. It had been a while since he had become this strange soul’s disciple, and it had never led him astray.

This is my stepping stone. The grip on the hilt tightened, and he took a deep, chilly breath.

Bring it on…

◈◈◈

The huntress stalks its prey, watching from a distance, then… pounces!

I jumped on top of a giant lizard thing and bit down with my beak. I wanted to see if it tasted like anything, but much to my dismay, it broke off into a million tiny pieces and a few red dots that floated into my forehead.

It did not taste like anything; in fact, I had the impression of biting into air.

How lame…

There were so many dots on my forehead now that the big clusters came together to form a giant cluster, and those giant clusters also shrunk and condensed to make space for more giant clusters.

It was… strange, but it was good. The more points I had, the better off I was.

My Myriad Qi Needles were very good at killing those low-level, weak fake Spirit Beasts.

Before I knew it, it was also starting to get cold in the jungle, which was weird. It wasn’t all that much colder, but for a secret realm to have such qualities was indeed strange. Its creator must have been more powerful than I’d originally imagined.

Elder Su said to walk north anyway, so I figured I was going in the right direction.

What mattered the most was figuring out what it was that she wanted me to find, since she was being pretty vague about it.

Thinking about it, I stopped scavenging on the ground. I’d picked up a lot of medicinal plants, all that could be used for alchemy, and some that could even be used for Yo Na’s recipe.

At this pace, I could probably concoct it right after breaking through into the Foundation Establishment realm, which was good. I was starting to live in fear of the Little Emperor eating all my resources…

But no matter what, I really wanted that quest reward. Maybe if I had more affinity with water, my elemental mixture would have been stronger.

Not that it wasn’t strong, and with the System saving it in my element list, I could just summon it whenever I wanted.

That was a great boon, and the Qi cost had also been greatly reduced.

But there was nothing to use it on anymore… Since it could damage even a level fifty-nine Spirit Beast, then it had to have been strong.

Maybe in my next hunt I could try to kill a level sixty Spirit Beast. Though if that level was an evolution threshold…

Wait, did the sea serpent want to evolve, and by eating me and everything else inside my dantian, it would have gained some rarer evolutions?

The bastard! The gall! I should have known.

Then again, since I didn’t evolve at level thirty, it was safe to assume that the threshold for evolution would only increase as time went on, so level sixty could have been, but also may not have been his cutoff point.

Either way, it was too late for regrets, since he was dead. I could have asked System that question too, but-

[Information Locked]

Yeah, that was pretty much what I expected. You go, System!

Anyway, I took to the skies, since I didn’t need that many plants anymore. I still kept an eye out, but unless it was a brand new plant, I wasn’t going to bother plucking it.

Even though I was flying, that didn’t mean the Spirit Beasts stopped trying to kill me. In fact, they seemed to be even more aggressive than before.

Needle after needle flew out, sniping and killing them in one fell swoop, and many points shot toward my forehead.

The feeling was making me a little giddy. It had been so long since I’d explored a secret realm; it was a little exciting.

I kept flying north, and as the temperature dropped, I was beginning to feel my Ghost Qi react to something in the area.

It was a faint feeling, but it was probably what Elder Su was talking about.

Getting a proper feel of the direction, I shot right toward it, eager to see what sort of secrets were hiding within this secret realm.