Black holes crackling with electricity open up in the wyvern's Celestial body, and more of the smaller wyverns from below continue attacks, leaving demonic flames, earth bullets, wind slashes, and water jets deep into Seraphel's body.

A pulse of green sparkling light pours out from Abby's immortal Healer's greater form, rippling through Seraphel as he's pushed backward, with a broken wing, falling backward out of the sky while the massive Black Wyvern follows down, charging up another attack.

This wave of green light makes all of the Blue Wyvern's wounds shimmer with an extra layer of a Celestial glow, and the synchronized pulsing of Seraphel's and Abby's core becomes even more in tune.

"You came... it's really here. The Wyvern's Inheritance." Seraphel's telepathic message still echoes out as he makes eye contact with this human healer, less than 1/100th his size.

Abby is getting stronger with every passing second, as links of loyalty are streaming into her.

When the generals first arrived, she may not have physically been injured by the Noble Vibrations coming off this army, but it was quite intimidating.

Each of the wyverns has the equivalent talent to extremely strong Noble Demons. Many times stronger than Andras Vermillion, the prior Ellipsia Citadel Lord. With dense green true cores burning in their chests, and thick Demonic Energy controlling their minds, they are like one lord armies of their own flying through the skies.

With help from their leader, tearing open Seraphel's outer defenses, their attacks are powerful enough to injure this Blue Wyvern.

This fact makes Abby's next moves even more eye-opening to the blue glowing majestic monster in the sky.

A zig-zag pattern of dense green light streaks through the air, circling around both the blue and black wyverns, surging right through the cores of every single stray attacker in the upward spiral.

Rippling waves of green light pulse through each one of the dark demonic wyvern bodies. It looks like a dense droplet on a lake, making green waves through their dark purple and black bodies.

Screeches and roars fill the air as Abby leaves each of their bodies, with her glowing staff held high above and in front of her head.

They seize up, many falling out of the sky as their bodies grow greener and greener.

She does not hit every wyvern, only the dozen or so close to Seraphel, and in her direct path between the two clashing High Noble Celestial beasts.

There are wounds still healing on the Blue Wyvern's body from the last two lightning flurries, and it looks like this next one might actually break completely through his wing, and damage his core.

Every Glyph she's been charging up on the way upward finally activates in full while the enormous black wyvern appears in her vision, with two purple eyes looking straight forward, both larger than her entire greater form.

With the blue wyvern to her back, healing its wounds with its own water healing properties, and a restoration array stimulating the process; dense black lightning fills the air once again, coming out from the Demonic Creature's body from all sides.

Abby braces for this attack, as even in her Immortal Form, her arms and legs tingle in the presence of such an absurd beast.

A circular green array bursts outward from her staff, over a thousand kilometers wide, covered in ancient symbols and spinning runes and glyphs mimicking the green and white pulses from her core, and Seraphel's behind her.

The brutal attack of black lightning enforced by a Artificial Demon's Celestial Prism buff, and High Noble Vibrations of a Demon and one of the strongest Wyverns of the past all come crashing down on the tiny human floating between these titans.

Instead of phasing through, turning herself and the wyvern into hologram-like immortal forms, making the massive attack useless; a far different result occurs.

The sparkling dense white ether, imbued with energy from her Celestial Body, reacts with the lightning bolts, and the overwhelming power of this blast forces Abby to confront it with a true manifestation of herself.

Sharp pain vibrates through her. A feeling she assumed to be gone from her mind, body, and soul forever.

The last time this occurred was in the desert of the Dark Continent back on the human world, when Ember used soul fire, and borrowed stats to create attacks so high above her capabilities after hours of fighting, that she was forced to break and train harder.

Now, in a single attack, she's been fast-tracked to her limit, and this monstrous force actually is touching her real being beneath.

The size of the shockwaves that erupt off this clash are mind-bending. They crack through the entire bottom of the Green Zone of the Upper Realm. Almost acting as a reply back to the insane shockwaves felt from Ember's clash moments prior.

The lightning bolts create massive cracks in the spinning circular array.

Yet, none make it past.

The bolts of demonic and celestial energy explode outward, flooding off the sides of this array, like jets of water hitting a wall.

The Black Wyvern, however, does not stop its forward momentum.

The murderous roar of this beast still rings out as it slams headfirst into the cracked array, with rows of sharp teeth all covered in dense white-hot celestial light. It even twists its body, and slams one of its wings, covered in dense High Noble imbued Demonic Energy into the array right next to its head.

The cracks build up more and more, and Abby's staff glows hotter and hotter in her grasp.

This beast making contact with her energy sends waves of suppression deep into her body and mind. With the monster's open mouth right in front of her face, dozens of times wider than her entire energy form, it is the most intense sight she's ever seen in her life.

The High Noble Vibrations seeping through the cracks test her mental fortitude, twisting illusions and hallucinations of reality while constantly digging deeper and attempting to sever her connection to the system.

The Immortal Healer holds her ground.

She feels a warmth behind her growing stronger every millisecond she can hold off this relentless attack longer, and hears Seraphel's voice echo into her mind again.

"There is only one way we both survive this... I never thought I'd ever end up Soul Bound with a human..."

Before Abby can respond, the cracks in the array meet their limit, and the entire 1000-kilometer wide circular spinning formation shatters into green, white, and yellow Celestial dust.

–

Bright purple, black, blue, and green light bursts upward through the clouds, painting this side of the Green Zone with shades of light that blend together into quite the beautiful sight 10 million kilometers away.

The backdrop of Sisco and Maria's clash looks like a colorful bomb has exploded far off in the Realm.

Though, it does not distract the High Noble Demons from laughing out loud and mocking the ice mage further.

"You really think you can win, don't you?" Its laughs echo through the skies as Maria's shimmering crystal blade collides with his axe, both of their greater forms now over 50 kilometers tall.

"Pathetic! A human! I bet you don't even know your race's history, you've just attacked after receiving a lucky draw of a talent. There's always an outlier or two every few millennia that stirs things up, but this is the first human I've had to dispose of. Considering you're last in the line of succession to become Emperor, most of your outliers aren't even as strong as the chosen's weakest."

It laughs again, but a strange rise in power keeps pouring into this blue angelic form, as more stats are added to the borrowed pool.

The Demon's axe is pushed backward as it speaks, and Maria's sharp icy gaze stays locked onto the Demon's chest, aiming to kill without hesitation.

Another laugh echoes out from the purple monster as he throws his axe upward, away from the fight entirely, and allows Maria to stab it through the core with a smile on his face.

Crystallized ice spreads outward from the center of its body, and it spreads to every corner of this massive greater form in milliseconds, shattering to sparkling dust in the air.

Yet, the ice mage twists her body and sword upward, to block an incoming attack.

The Demon kicks downward off the air, from the direction where it threw its axe.

Yet... its body was just obliterated before her eyes.

The [Body Double] skill was visible on this demon's status, but Maria has seen the Rising Emperors' divine-grade body doubles before...

They are only mana-based, and lack soul energy, or divine cores.

There is a perk that allows the user to swap positions with any of the caster's doubles, so that is her first instinct when another appears.

Yet, the sensation of breaking this demon's core, and even feeling its High Noble Vibrations slow down and be destroyed was so vivid. Something doesn't add up...

She blocks the new incoming strike perfectly, and tests around the Demon again to counter, but he just throws his axe away again, allowing Maria to stab right through his chest and turn him to an ice sculpture that fractures into dust.

Maria has to turn around even faster this time, as a new copy of the Demon appears right behind her back.

They clash again, and the Demon leans in close to her face, staring her angelic form in the eyes with a wide sharp-toothed smile.

"You will be an incredible vessel... My masterpiece of a Demonic Wyvern Army was my greatest creation... but what if I could have a human at its front? The weakest lower race, keeping all of the other races in line when given just a drop of a Noble Demon's blood. Now that is art. That will finally crush the wills of any foolish dreamers left."

He laughs louder, and a white-grey hot glint appears deep within the Demon's eyes.

Maria allows herself to lose this exchange, letting the Demon push her backward instead of going in for the kill...

That is because she senses the final ranked-up buff activating, and sees [Celestial Prism] lighting up on its status, with a strange power rippling through its being that she has never witnessed before.
