… There was something different about these glasses. Something cooler. They were easier to see through than other desert glasses she had worn before. Were they enchanted to remove the natural Blind effect of the light from the sun? They certainly seemed that way, but she wouldn’t be able to tell until the hunt was over, and she was back home, possibly nursing a Blinding headache.

Justine paid the glasses no more mind, and walked forward, up another dune, to spot another mimic on the ridge of another dune, just ahead. She blasted it from a few different parts of her body, getting a feel for her aura.

Yes; she would definitely make an aura flight spell, this time.

- - - -

Erick returned to himself, and looked down at his stomach. With a bit of concentration, a bolt of white light emanated from his stomach and slammed against the ceiling, chipping the orange rock.

Poi looked up from his book. “… What?”

“I had never tried that before— on my own, I mean; cast from parts that aren’t my fingers. I do that with Ophiel all the time but never tried on my own... I suppose I did with the eyebeams, once.” Erick reached up with a tendril of light and touched the tiny crater. [Mend] erased the damage, as he explained, “Justine is always firing from every part of her.”

Poi returned to his book, saying, “Casting in odd ways is one of the first steps to aura control.”

Erick thought back to Al’s lesson. He frowned. He said, “Al started me on materializing my aura.”

Poi shrugged, as if to say, ‘There are several ways to start.’

Poi glanced back up from his book and stared at Erick, saying, “Your empathy is practically Mind Magic.”

Erick laughed. He asked, “Does this mean I can know more about your secret Mind Mage Cabal?”

“If empathy was all it took to make one a Mind Mage, then this whole world would either be a paradise, or a graveyard.” Poi said, “The greatest minds of Veird are still split on the most likely outcome.”

Erick took a moment to think about that, while he oversaw Justine kill another two mimics. He said, “Because then people would understand each other, and then people would understand each other.”

“Thank all the Gods that only the few are cursed with Mind Magic.”

“… You’re actually talking about this, now?” Erick said, “Do you mean to say that it takes something besides spending a few points and study to become a Mind Mage?”

Poi struggled with something for a moment, before deciding to say, “Yes. A lot more.”

Erick almost continued the conversation, but Poi resolutely turned to his book. That must have been enough Mind Mage talk for this month. Next month, Erick would ask about genetic predisposition; if the factor for becoming a Mind Mage was some inborn trait, either cropping up on family lines, or if certain conditions needed to be met, like unlocking hidden options in the Script. Maybe you need to be born with a ‘Mind’ Element, or something similar.

Poi grumbled.

Erick turned his focus back to Justine.

- - - -

Two hours later, along with one break in the middle of that, Erick blipped Justine home. She appeared in the foyer, sweaty, but happy. She took off her hat and her glasses, revealing bright red eyes that were brighter than the days before, when she was recovering, somewhat, from her panic attack.

Justine handed Erick back the glasses and the hat, saying, “The glasses work great. Thank you. The whole experience was a world apart from how I’ve done it before.” She bowed. “Thank you, archmage.”

Erick smiled. “You did all the work, so raise your head.” With a dot of unraveling intent, Erick ended the conjured hat and glasses, turning them briefly to white light before that, too, vanished back into the manasphere. “There’s no need for this formality.”

Justine stood up, saying, “There is, though. Almost no one in power is as calm and dismissive of formality as you. I would get in to bad habits if I followed your lead.”

“… Probably true.”

Justine said, “I might be headed back to Candlepoint today, or I might be headed off somewhere else entirely.”

“You can stay as long as you need, you know. They’re all level 55 over there, but you’re not.” Erick glanced through Ophiel, to see Candlepoint. He came back, saying. “The city seems fine.” He added, “Though if you don’t get back soon, then… Mephistopheles seems to be in a power struggle with Zaraanka, while everyone else just lets Slip do his own thing...”

Candlepoint could use a third and fourth person on site, though. And soon. Erick didn’t really count Slip among the powers of the city, but Ava might become a power. What little he had seen of the woman left him impressed at her drive.

Justine bowed again, then looked to Erick one more time, before saying, “Thank you for your hospitality. I will take your words under advisement.”

Erick nodded, then turned his attention back to Candlepoint.

- - - -

Ophiel floated across Candlepoint, as Erick wondered at renewing [Control Weather]. The sky was still full of clouds that served to block out some of the sun, but the clouds were getting thinner. Erick decided: he cast, and the sky turned darker. It would not rain today, but it would be nicely overcast.

There was no immediate change down below. The sun had risen hours ago, yet most of the shadelings down there were half an hour from finding their way to a bed; they were largely active at twilight. Erick watched as some shadelings finished up the last touches on a road they had been carving out of dark stone, while others ensured that the trees and bushes they had raised from the nearby soil were good, and healthy. The demolition teams in the other parts of the city were almost done for the morning, too; in another few days, most of the rubble would be transformed into black blocks, for use in construction in other parts of Candlepoint.

With that overview done, Erick flew Ophiel to the center of the lake, and cast a [Cascade Imaging], near the surface, far away from sight of any shore, searching for eels. When the spell finally condensed enough to spit out results, the map was only half full of blue dots. The area near the city was almost completely clear, while other coastal areas were also similarly empty. Erick smiled. The mud flits in the lake had monsterized and multiplied, exactly as they should have, and they were winning their war against the eels.

He still sent an Ophiel down to the heaviest concentrations of blue dots, to fry those violet parasites with [Fulmination Aura]. And when that was over, and the map was fractionally clearer of dots, the Imaging had finally resolved enough to show that there were still only three springs.

The eel problem was on its way out. In another few days the flits would clear out most of the violet eels, and at that point in time he could seed the lake with grasses, lilies, and other assorted plants. The monsterized mud flits would continue to eat eels, while both sides ignored the growing greenery in the water. As eels became less and less of a problem, and then finally vanished altogether, the monster mud flits would begin eating each other, and then enter the final stages of their life cycle, becoming red and engorged, preparing to birth thousands and thousands of eggs. The next generation would be born normally, and since there wouldn’t be any parasites to eat, they would be omnivores. A single mud flit would then live several years, growing slowly, naturally, until they too swelled red and began the last legs of their lives, repeating the process over again. If more parasites came in at some point in the future, then the other fish Erick planned to add would take care of those, as long as the next infections weren’t too large. Mud flits were just the emergency parasite and monster treatment. Rainbow flits, goldscale slippers, and silvertail, would keep the water clean, from then on out.

Slip had mentioned something about bobber worms and glowfish, though. He’d have to look into those fish, too; see what all that was about.

… Erick wondered if the lake would be okay, if Candlepoint would be okay, or if some other ecological disaster would fall upon this lake and the city on the shore.

But that was the future. Right now, a person made herself noticed, near the black Crystal in the former center of Candlepoint.

Erick transferred his senses to the Ophiel overseeing the gazebo under the Crystal. For a moment, he regarded the presumptive Sewermaster of Candlepoint, Ava Jadescale. He almost greeted her normally, she was wearing a dress. A really nice dress. It was green and it fit the thin woman rather well, matching the green of her eyes and the blacks of her hair. For a brief second, Erick wondered where she got it, since, at the moment, she was literally the nicest dressed person in Candlepoint. Even Zaraanka’s pink dresses did not compare to the couture gown hugging Ava’s body. Zaraanka had needed to make her own dresses, by hand, and Erick had even seen her doing such with a bit of [Telekinesis] in order to speed the process along. But the clothes upon Ava were not crafted that crudely.

“Good morning, Ava,” Erick said. “That dress suits you well.”

She smirked, as she brushed a hand down the green fabric, saying, “I spent a few points here and there outside of the necessities, as one does when times demand. [Fabricate] is a wonderful little spell.” She added, “I look forward to what I can craft when my skill is where it used to be.”

Erick wondered how she had prepared for the mimic killing that was to come. Justine had prepared well; Erick had seen her hard at work leveling her key magics. But Ava simply did not have the time. She might have done some magic work in the middle of the night, but she couldn’t have done any before she appeared before Ophiel, for that would have drained her mana. Whatever the case, she couldn’t be more than level 5, right now. She certainly didn’t have any skills at level 10.

It was a mystery that he would solve before the day was done. But besides that, there was something he had prepared for her.

“I look forward to what you can do, too, and I might have something here that can help you with that, or at least grant you a few more resources than you had before.” Erick had Ophiel pull out a small stone box from behind the counter of the gazebo. He actually had several of these stone boxes back there, each filled with the same pairs of objects, but they were all behind the density of his [Prismatic Ward]. He didn’t really care if anyone discovered some way to steal them. He could always make more. He floated the box to Ava, saying, “Some Stat rings, for today, and as congratulations for coming back to yourself. They should also provide you with some decent defenses while we’re out there.”

Ava happily took the stone box and opened it, to see two rings sitting inside. She looked up at Erick, and said, “Thank you, archmage.” Hers was a put-upon expression, with words crafted to be pleasant, instead of any real emotion or expression. Perhaps she thought the rings were trash? That must have been it, for then she put the first ring on, and blanked. She blinked at the air. She almost said something, but she didn’t. She steadied herself, and said, “There have been some advancements in Stat rings since I last prowled a tunnel.”

Erick said, “Ah. No. That’s just me. They’re artifacts, too, so you don’t need to worry about stressing them. My own rings have lasted me months.”

“Oh,” she said, as though someone had revealed to her a wonderful secret. She put the second ring on, then held the box for a moment, unsure of where to place it. She settled on setting the box on the ground next to the gazebo. She stood back up, saying, “I had thought I was prepared for this conversation and jaunt into the desert, but I find myself already at a loss.”

At that, Erick couldn’t help but ask, “How did you prepare? Weren’t you level 0, like, 20 hours ago?”

“I was,” Ava said, with a smirk. “And I’m only level 5, right now. But you don’t have to worry about truly boosting me. You can just watch, if you want.” She shrugged. “But I’d take a [Teleport] out into a good spot.”

Back in Spur, Erick smiled. “Then prepare yourself.”

“I am in your care.”

- - - -

Ophiel floated alongside Ava, feeling the northern wind in his feathers as the steady breeze flowed across the desert. Erick watched from afar, gazing upon the world through dozens of eyes, each pointed in a different direction. Another two Ophiel flew much higher, but each of them were lightforms, with much better sight, including infrared, and ultraviolet. There were no invisible people anywhere near here, but it never hurt to be too safe.

Ava, for her part, was having a grand stroll. Up the dunes and down the dunes, nary a toe sinking into the sand. Her being barefoot was only part of the conundrum of the hour. Most people wore shoes when they walked around, but apparently not Ava. The most confusing part was that as she walked, the very ground seemed to move with her, if only a fraction. For every step she took, she moved more than that.

The two of them were a good seven hundred kilometers from Candlepoint, in another high-density mimic area, similar to the one where Erick had taken Justine. They had yet to reach the first mimic.

Erick started the conversation, “How are you moving upon the sand, without any spell at level 10?”

Ava glinted a smile at the sky. She kept walking, as she said, “Easily understood, but difficult to master. I attempted to teach every student who came across my sewer, but only five managed to learn the technique. Three surpassed me.” She hiked up her dress, showing off her legs as she exaggerated her footsteps, saying, “The narrow of it, is [Stoneshape].” She stepped forward. The sand deformed into a solid surface as she touched down. “The deep of it, is aura control.” She lifted her foot, and the stone turned to sand. “See?” She tapped the dune with her foot, turning sand to solid then back again three times, before moving on. She waved a hand, saying, “[Stoneshape] and Aurify is a cheater’s start. Real control lets you move the stone under your feet like it was an old friend, helping you in every task you do.” She pointed at the air around Ophiel, asking, “You’re already doing this, though, so why the question?”

Ophiel trilled to be complimented, as Erick spoke from the air around him, saying, “That’s Ophiel; not me.” He didn’t mention that he had never really played around with Ophiel’s own [Airshape] capabilities, but he had already shown his deficiency of expertise, as he admitted, “I will have to try this method with [Stoneshape], though.”

