HALLOWED HALLS UPON HIS REST

Mikayl One-One sat as the first among firsts should, like a holy statue. From atop the pyramidal dais where the Seat rested, he observed as one of the circle of threes opened the doors to the sanctum.

By his calculation, it had been a hundred and fifty-one years since that door was last breached.

He briefly wondered why there was so much activity all of a sudden.

Unmoving, he waited as the Threes approached, formed the blessed octuple, and bowed.

After an appropriate amount of time had passed, the first among the three spoke.

“Sanctified, we have returned with vessels. They have been brought to the well.”

Mikayl remained frozen. He cast his words directly to the lesser beings before him. “I sensed a trickle of mana. This feels inadequate to disturb my contemplation. What happened?”

The threes' legs shook under the weight of his thoughts. The first of the threes spoke once more. “Sanctified, we were spurned. An anomalous deep vessel resisted our blessings. We gathered what vessels we could and fled in our carnagh, though it was starved for sustenance. We had to subsume five vessels to provide it with the necessary mana.”

The threes felt an eyebrow rise as the sanctified's thoughts invaded their minds. “You failed at capturing the deep vessel, but succeeded in bringing it to us.”

White blood dripped from the nose of the weaker threes, pattering on the polished white stone floor. The first of them spoke. “Yes, Sanctified. They followed us here. The deep vessel, the witch, and a blood golem of the deluded.”

Intense curiosity threatened to unravel the threes' ego. “The witch?”

Two of the octuple fell to their knees. The first answered, his voice trembling. “Yes, Sanctified. It is the only word we have for her. Her poison was so potent, it affected both the Carnagh and us. She wove mana into a blasphemous being, which they rode in pursuit.”

The erasing pressure of the Sanctified's presence blissfully lifted from the threes' minds as it turned its attention to the grounds outside of the Hallowed Halls. His words were cast as an afterthought. “I sense their presence, prowling on the perimeter of this edifice.”

Barely getting his breathing back under control, the first of the three bowed slightly lower. “Shall we rouse a maniple and subdue them?”

The answer did not come right away. For a blessed few moments, their minds were free of his weight.

Until he turned his attention back to them. His words slammed into them, each one a hammer blow. “No. Let them come to me. I wish to sate my curiosity.”

Three of the octuple fell unconscious. Most were bleeding from their nose, ears and eyes. Those still standing scraped low until their head touched the floor before retrieving their fallen numbers and departing the sanctum, walking backward.

As the massive door closed on the lesser beings, Mikayl's excitement got the better of him, and the corner of his lip twitched by a few microns.

Really, these were exciting times.

OUTSIDE THE HUMMERS TEMPLE

Hand held in Niala's, feeding her mana, a sudden gust of wind rustled the leaves and his clothes, up through the canopy and into the darkening sky.

Niala opened her eyes in a flutter and looked at him with a smile. “It's done, I think. I'm sure! It's done- Anaakendi will get the message. Now it's our turn. Are you ready?”

He nodded once. “I just need to start blasting.” He stepped up to her, putting his hands over her shoulders and looking her in the eyes. “I'm more concerned for you.”

Her smile tugged upward as she leaned into him, closing her eyes and slowly rubbing her face against his chest. “I'll be fine. Jordo will stick to me, as we discussed, and I filled my potion belts with all the best ones.”

She looked up with a grin. “The great thing about Jordo is that I don't have to care about putting him to sleep or poisoning him.”

He smiled back, gently tussled her hair and landed a kiss on her forehead before putting his arms around her and pulling her in. After a short moment, he lifted his head and peered through the trees at the looming white temple.

Niala turned her head to look up at him. “Your brother will be fine.”

David snorted. “He better be, or your sister is going to get me executed.”

She sighed. “She wouldn't do that, but she'd be really sad to lose such a good friend...”

He blinked. “Kitten? I'm pretty sure Angeline is in love with Isaac.”

She froze, body, ears and tail. “What?! Are you sure? What about your brother? Does he... does he like her back?”

He tilted his head. “I think so, though it probably doesn't matter. Your sister is a bit scary, kitten.”

She frowned. “What do you mean, scary? Angie is the best little sister anyone could ask for! Kind, caring, devoted!”

After a few seconds, he turned his flat lips into a smile. “Yeah, you're right. Best sister ever.”

She stared at him through slitted eyes. “...you're lying, and I don't even need the link to tell me.”

“...Fine, I admit, second-best sister. Annabelle is the best.”

She kept squinting at him until a smile returned to her face. “Ok, that's true! Annabelle is a little angel! But my Angie is still the best!”

He stroked her head. “Yes, Angie is her own unique kind of angel, for sure.”

She rubbed her face on him.

He looked at Jordo, who returned a thumbs-up.

Could a golem look complicit?

A quarter bell later, David exited the treeline and made his way toward the obelisk-ringed plaza where the Hummers' whale had landed. He kept his mana up and Iron Body powered while throwing glances at the stone towers which had attacked them on their way in.

With each step, he expected them to open and start trying to scorch him down with their yellowed beams, but they remained dormant.

He even ventured close to one, putting his hand on it. The stone felt cold, and nothing else; no buzzing of energy, or spark, or vibration.

He frowned, but elected to keep going, stepping toward the main entrance about a hundred metres away. He kept to the edge of the plaza and reached his destination after a few minutes.

There he stood, alert for any movement or sound.

Nothing but the wind and the distant noises of the evening forest.

He motioned with his hand, and from the forest emerged Niala, followed by Jordo. They tracked along the same path and were soon alongside David, standing in front of the slab-like door.

She looked at it. “It melted into place when we saw the Hummers go in. Do you want to punch it, or should I try a poison? If it's flesh passing for stone, like the whale was, it should work.”

He pondered the question. “What do you think the chances are they don't know we're here?”

She shook her head. “Zero. I'm surprised they haven't come out to try and nab us yet.”

He cracked his knuckles. “Probably scared of your potions. My punching will do the most damage, so we'll go with that. No need to be well-behaved guests...”

David motioned to the side, and Niala, followed by Jordo, went and took refuge behind one of the large columns lining the outside of the temple.

She leaned out just enough to watch him unleash his aetheric fury. The blue flames engulfing his body reached nearly to the temple's height. Even from where she was, she could feel her own mana prickle.

His eyes nothing but inflamed blue orbs, he poured an obscene amount of power into his right fist and marched up to the door. Each of his steps left behind molten mana, which sizzled on the white stones.

He reached the door, planted his feet, rotated his torso, and let his punch start from his foot, up through his leg, basin, torso, shoulder, down his arm, and to his fist, delivering a Battering Ram which came to within an inch of splitting the atom.

THE SANCTIFIED SANCTUM

He felt it.

Mana.

So much mana.

Too much mana.

His mind, attuned to the living stone of the Hallowed Halls, his senses reaching through the material, recoiled from the source.

Him. The conduit. Recoiled from mana.

He was too confused by his own reaction to properly pay attention to the man.

The Hallowed Halls shook. Fine dust, in place for millennia, dislodged from the ceiling and rained down.

The sheer absurdity of it all broke Mikayl's control over his own body. His head twitched toward the sound.

He hadn't moved his head for the past two thousand seven hundred and ninety-two years.

He felt his heart beat once. Twice.

A long-absent feeling, almost vestigial, stirred deep within him.

Excitement.

And another, stronger, more pervasive one.

Hunger.

OUTSIDE THE TEMPLE, IN FRONT OF WHAT USED TO BE A DOOR.

Niala cajoled the winds to clear away the cloud of icky dust which had enveloped David.

She suppressed a laugh when she spotted him, caked in a white layer of plaster-like substance, the only non-white part of him his two eyes and nostrils.

He sighed and pulsed his mana, saturating the air with it. The layer of white slowly disintegrated, burning off, leaving him with slightly dusty hair and clothes.

With his head, he motioned toward the door, or what used to be a door.

Niala stepped out of cover and gasped as she peered through the house-sized hole and into the temple's interior.

The immediate area within the three-story-high hall was scorched on all sides. At the far end of the hall, perhaps three hundred metres away, a huge slab of white stone lay embedded in another partially destroyed set of doors.

Her ears twitched as she kept her eyes on the devastation. “I don't think I'll ever get used to how good you are at destroying things.”

He walked past her, toward the newly created entrance. “Me neither. To be honest, I kind of scare myself. I keep thinking there has to be a limit, but whenever I push a bit farther, it just keeps going.”

Stopping right at the threshold, his Iron Body imbuements on full display, he looked inside for any movement.

Nothing.

Glancing at Niala, who nodded once, he stepped over the rubble, with Niala and Jordo following after him.

As she set both feet down on the temple's floor, a voice rang out from the walls, ceilings, floor, from the air.

From inside their mind.

“You have come for the vessels.” The voice boomed in their mind, like a violent storm battering at the closed shutters of a house.

They both froze mid-step, lowering their stances, their head swivelling to try and track down the source of the voice. Jordo, behind them, stopped and looked at his masters with a tilted head.

The voice returned, the storm doing its best to tear away whatever kept it out. “You will not find me here. I am further in. Speak, and I will hear.”

David glanced back at Niala, who nodded once, ears bent low.

He let his eyes scour the walls and ceiling. “Give our people back, and we'll leave.”

“That is not my desire. Proceed further.”

David frowned. The pressure around his mind felt like the onset of a migraine that didn't want to fully materialize. “We could also just keep wrecking the place. I'm good at that.”

He got the distinct impression of a chuckle. “For each wall you scratch, I will subsume five vessels. For each door you break, I will subsume ten. The way will open, follow it, come to me.”

He looked back at Niala, who had evidently heard the same thing, and nodded.

She walked up to him and held out a hand, which he grasped, and began moving forward, Jordo following.

Just as the voice had said, doors opened in front of them, leading them through a path that made no sense and often seemed to backtrack, and yet they never encountered the same room twice.

They both knew it was meant to disorient them. For now, however, with the hostages' lives on the line, they played along.

The serpentine route eventually led them to turn a corner and come face to face with the eight Hummers they had fought two days ago.

David immediately let go of Niala, flared his mana and widened his stance, readying for a charge, while his wife retrieved several phials, ready to propel them with wind. Jordo stepped up in front of Niala, ready to interpose his body against attacks.

Again, they felt, but didn't hear, a chuckle. The pressure of the voice returned. “The threes will not bar your route. Walk, this is the final door.”

They kept their stance, eyeing the eight Hummers, who stood motionless, looking back at them.

David shuffled forward, one half step at a time, followed by Niala and Jordo. As they approached, the Hummers split evenly and walked sideways, lining up against the walls on each side.

The door behind them opened on a dark, unlit room, with the light of the corridor they were in illuminating a few dozen metres within.

They stopped once more.

“Advance. I have ordered you to do so. I will subsume a vessel for each further step you hesitate.”

Letting out a breath, David resumed his advance. Once all three were inside the room, the door behind them melded closed, cutting off the light, with only David's inflamed mana bathing their immediate area with a soft blue glow.

In here, the voice felt more immediate, stronger, like holding back a door against a flood. “Marvellous. You have so much MANA. The vessels the threes have retrieved are nothing compared to you. I will take you, and release them.”

David's face hardened. “That's not a trade we're willing to make.”

Irritation mingled with hunger in his mind. “It was not a proposition. It was a declaration.”

The ceiling began emitting dim yellow light, bathing the room in a feverish haze.

They were at the start of a wide, long, cavernous hall made of white stone, with a ceiling twice the height of a house. It was completely empty, except for a metres-high pyramid-like dais at the other end, topped with an angular throne, upon which sat an imposing naked man, looking more like a statue than a living being.

David and Niala's breath caught in their throat.

The only thing that told them it was a living thing was its two pallid-yellow eyes, with black pin-prick pupils, looking straight at them.

The eyes of a fel.