“I ran out of mana, too. I needed those few seconds to finish my Deconstruction, otherwise I would have been helpless.” She reflected on the battle and how close it had been. If Malika had not been willing to put herself in the wolf’s path, Ali would have been unable to help. Suddenly, she realized just how much Malika must have trusted her in that moment.

“Thank you for having my back out there,” Malika said, smiling at her. “I know you’re new at this combat stuff, but you really stuck to the plan. In the heat of battle, that can be very hard.”

Ali looked down, her mistake gnawing at her while Malika offered praise that she felt she didn’t deserve. “I forgot about my rooted wolf. It nearly got me.” The mistake was so obvious now, in hindsight when she was safe, but it could have so easily gotten them both killed.

Malika smiled. “It’s ok to make mistakes; you pulled through, and that’s what counts. I made mistakes too. I could have managed my stamina better, and we wouldn’t have had such a close call at the end.”

Ali glanced over, surprised by her calm and level assessment of even her own mistakes. “It’s hard to keep track of more than one spell at the same time,” Ali admitted. “There were a few times I felt I wouldn’t be able to keep my barrier and shoot accurately at the same time.”

“Perhaps invest a few more points in intelligence soon? It’s not just for making your spells hit harder, many battle mages say it helps with splitting your focus among several things simultaneously. I’m not that familiar with mages, but it could be worth a try. Also, practice should help a lot,” suggested Malika.

Ali felt a little better about her performance in the battle after Malika shared her opinion and advice. Turning her attention inward, she decided to assign four attribute points to each of vitality and wisdom, leaving two points to try out Malika’s intelligence recommendation.

As soon as she had assigned her points, she felt something shifting within her. She definitely felt the increase in her mana, but there was something else. Her mind felt just a little sharper and a thrilling vigor coursed through her body. Curious, she flipped open the status book in her mind, focusing on the bottom.

Health: 45/45Stamina: 50/50Mana: 285/345

Stamina remained unchanged, but her health was no longer a meager twenty-five. The four points of vitality had bought her almost double her health. It just seemed a little frustrating that a human, like Malika, would have gained twice that much for the same investment.

On the other hand, she had the advantage when it came to mana – four points of wisdom had increased her mana capacity by sixty points! She grinned inwardly, watching for a bit as her mana began to slowly tick up. Maybe my Fae heritage isn’t so bad after all.

She and Malika sat together in silence for a while, Ali focused on what she had learned from the fight, trying to turn the battle over in her mind for how she could do better. After Malika’s kind words, her attention shifted from worrying about what she had done wrong, to more productive thoughts on how she could improve next time.

Beside her, Malika’s hand reached out to rest on the shrine for a few moments before she spoke, but to Ali’s surprise, it was not about fighting.

“Aliandra Amariel,” Malika said, softly. “You have an unusual name.”

Ali looked up in surprise but immediately relaxed seeing Malika’s thoughtful expression. “It’s Dal’mohran,” Ali answered, “from my home city.” She fell silent for a few moments, dwelling on her thoughts of home, before adding, “Ancient Dal’mohran now, I guess. My family pronounced it a-MA-ri-el. But it’s more than three thousand years ago now, and even the language has changed. I’m not surprised it sounds strange.”

“It’s pretty,” Malika said, falling silent again.

Ali could tell there was something on her mind, so she simply sat quietly and waited, giving her friend some space with her thoughts.

“The Ahn Khen – my people – do not use family names,” Malika finally broke the silence. “I’m just Malika until I awaken my bloodline.” She stopped again; brow furrowed as she stared off into the darkness.

Ali simply waited for her.

“Usually, people awaken their bloodline shortly after earning their class, and then their parents pick an awakened name. There’s a small set of awakened names that represent the most powerful ancestors, and your awakened name is chosen to be a guide or an anchor to help connect you with the Ancestor most suited to your personality. It’s considered a very personal thing, shared only with close friends and family, or sometimes with a foe you recognize as honorable.”

“Are you worried that you’ll have nobody to give you a suitable name when your bloodline awakens?” Ali asked, realizing that while this issue seemed important to Malika, it felt more like the other girl simply needed to connect, and share, and she hadn’t done it for so long that she felt awkward.

Malika paused, again seeming to be preoccupied, before answering somewhat obliquely. “I haven’t paid my respects to the ancestors since they took my life away from me. I’m not sure they would be happy to share one of their names with me.”

She seems sad, Ali thought, watching Malika for a while as she struggled with her inner thoughts.

“You can call me Ali,” she said, breaking the silence, “if you like. It’s the name my friends and family used most often.”

Malika looked over toward her, a little more present, perhaps a little surprised. “Ali…” She said, trying it out. “I… thank you.”

Ali smiled at her. That last fight had been scary, but even when they had come close to dying, Malika hadn’t abandoned her for even a second.

“Ali, do you think the ancestors really are looking out for us?”

Ali considered the question, wondering what she was getting at. “I’ve never followed the ancestors or the gods of the other races myself, there don’t seem to be any Fae-specific deities that I remember. The human and elf gods always seemed to care most for their own races, or at least their temples and churches were not that welcoming. And most of the dwarves seemed to worship a sentient rock. The only people I knew who followed their ancestors as patrons were the troll races. And they’re even more unwelcoming of other races, considering everyone else to be inferior. Why do you ask?”

“My class feels like it was made for me. It specifically requires the Ahn Khen bloodline. I unlocked a soul magic affinity – just like my mother’s – and my class requires that too. It provides defense and attack skills based on martial arts knowledge… I just can’t see how anyone other than me could satisfy the requirements. How can that be unless the ancestors created it?”

So that’s what her magic is, Ali thought as Malika began sharing some of the details of her class. Her question, though, had been the subject of many lectures at the Dal’mohran University of Magic, and Ali had personally spent many long hours researching it in the library.

“My class seems just as specific,” Ali said eventually. “I got a unique hybrid class – half my skills are combat skills, and the other half are research or knowledge skills suitable for a scholar class.” Malika inhaled sharply. “Yes. My class is domain-bound just like my father’s, it mentions the shrine and even requires that I have remained here for more than three thousand years. It’s how I even know roughly how long it’s been.”

“Three thousand? No wonder…”

Ali opted to shrug. “The Title says Ancient. I’m an antique.”

They shared a chuckle.

“So, the university had a lot of research on this subject. My favorite theory is that any time we are faced with a turning point; a risk that needs to be taken, a crucial decision, a battle, a discovery, or something created, we gain experience. Even when we don’t have a class. And experience comes with traits similar to the traits listed in your class and skills. Traits like melee, magic, creation, helpful, physical, harmful, defensive, aggressive, arcane, et cetera. When the system assigns classes, it matches your experience and the most prominent traits to whatever classes are present. But sometimes it creates a new class based on your balance of experience and traits. That’s most likely what happened to both of us.”

“You seem to know a lot about this,” Malika answered.

“Researcher,” Ali replied. The class decision was one of the most important decisions in anyone’s life, and she had had access to the best library in the world. Of course, she had researched the heck out of it.

“I’m just glad I don’t need to go and apologize to the ancestors.”

“I don’t know much about belief, and the ancestors,” Ali said, “but I’m happy to be a friend and listen if you need someone to talk it over with.”

Malika gave a small snicker, shifting her mood. “I’m not sure I even remember how to be a friend. I’m sure you could do a lot better than a Street Rat.”

“You’re my only friend,” Ali whispered awkwardly. After a moment, she added, “I was kinda hoping that the boys wanted to be friends, too. What happened to them?”

“Calen wanted to check in with his mother and let her know he survived. They said they wanted to come back and level up with us, so you could probably try when they get back.”

“You could try too, they seem nice enough,” Ali answered.

“Ugh, that Beastkin is frustrating and annoying,” Malika said, wrinkling her nose as if smelling something nasty.

“He has a good heart,” Ali countered.

“You’re just saying that because he saved your life.”

“True, so I like my life. What about the Half-elf then?”

“Calen? I’m not sure I trust a boy who is prettier than me,” Malika answered with a quirky smile.

“You’re pretty,” Ali noted.

“Are you kidding, have you seen us?” Malika said, with mock incredulity, indicating her own ruined, bloodstained clothing.

“Not quite ready for the ballroom party and fine dining?” Ali asked, setting both of them to gales of laughter.

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: Ancient

Class: Grove Warden – level 2- Grasping Roots – level 3- Arcane Bolt – level 3- Barrier – level 3- Deconstruction – level 2- Runic Script – level 1- Sage of Learning – level 4- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]

General Skills- Reading – level 7- Identify – level 5- Sculpting – level 2

Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal’mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common- Mana (Affinities): Arcane, Nature- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Mana Sense (Racial): You are sensitive to nearby mana

Attributes- Vitality: 9- Strength: 4- Endurance: 5- Dexterity: 10- Perception: 11- Intelligence: 28- Wisdom: 23

Health: 45/45Stamina: 50/50Mana: 345/345
