I expected Mom to lead the discussion, but surprisingly, it's Dad who starts with a severe expression demanding he is listened to. "Richard, I need you to focus on what your mother and I are going to tell you and take this very seriously. How you distribute your stats will determine your future in life. Depending on which stats you focus on will determine what future careers you have access to."

Mother speaks up next. "Honey, you need to think carefully about how you distribute your stat points. For example, if you want a physical job like your father, you must focus on Vitality, Endurance, and Strength. However, if you want to be more of a craftsman, you should instead focus on Dexterity, Senses, and Mind."

"But don't forget always to place a few points in other areas as well, especially Vitality," dad cuts in quickly.

"I was about to explain that next, Darrius!" Mother snaps at dad for being interrupted, causing dad to give her an apologetic look in return.

But Mom ignores Dad, to his dismay, and continues explaining to Richard. "You see, Sweety, you're still growing, and now is the best time to distribute your stats. Depending on how you distribute your points, you will likely grow taller, more muscular, and even age slower. This is because every person puts a part of their points into Vitality, not only to survive when something goes wrong but to slow their aging without sacrificing too much in other areas."

I know they are focusing on Brother right now, but I have a question. "What about the other two?" I ask.

My question reminds the parents I'm still here. They both look at me and then back at Brother and explain Manna and Clarity.

"Those two stats are not for everyone; you need to have a talent for magic before you waste points on them." Richard looks at Mom with a confused face, obviously wanting her to explain further.

"Mana-related skills, even the lowest ones, are much harder to get. People have tried to unlock these skills by pouring the majority of their points into Mana and Clarity, but all of them quickly find out it's a waste if they don't have any natural talent for it," Mother tells us.

"How do you know if you can use magic?" I couldn't help but ask another question.

Mom and Dad smile sadly at me and tell us it takes years of practice and a mentor before focusing on Richard, as he's gaining access to his status page tomorrow, not me.

"If you're interested in seeing if you have any magical talent, your father and I can talk to Anastasia tomorrow as she's the only person who can, and try to get her to test your aptitude," Mom offers Brother.

Anastasia was our village's only healer; as such, she had a high position in the village and had an attitude that matched. If she was the only person in the village who could use magic, chances were, Brother was out of luck, as she'd charge Mom and Dad a fortune to teach him if he had the aptitude.

He must realize this, too, because Brother looks crestfallen and nods in understanding. Mother moves to give him a light hug and continues with the lecture.

"You also need to remember your states page is very personal. It represents who you are as a person and should only be shared with those you love and trust. Your father and I will tell you ours to show you how we distributed our points. So, never tell anyone outside our house about any of this. I'll go first."

LV: 40 Experience: 50,834/62,504

Health: 1,890/1,890 Stamina: 697/796 Mana: 200/200

Vitality: 189

Endurance: 25

Strength: 25

Dexterity: 120

Senses: 30

Mind: 48

Magic: 20

Clarity: 20

Status Points: 0

Skills: Running (LV17), Mathematics (LV34), Writing (LV47), Trading (LV31), Lower Price (LV9), Cooking (LV50), Sewing (LV62), Cleaning (LV51), Dagger skills (LV11), Fast Hands (LV26), Detect Rip (LV4)

"You see, I spent my younger years learning how to operate my family's store before I met your father, so most of my skills are business related. Thanks to that, when I turned ten, my parents had me put most of my skills into the crafting categories. The rest I picked up after I met your father."

"She burnt all our meals when we moved out to the village," Dad laughs with a reminiscent look on his face.

Mother blushes but otherwise ignores Father's comment. She then explains to Brother how you can get experience points from crafting and how some people choose to go that route rather than hunting. The only catch was you only got experience for what you personally did, so you couldn't just buy a bunch of unfinished work, finish it, and get easy experience that way. Whatever you put into your craft, the more you receive back.

Mom's example was if a farmer throws some seeds on the ground and comes back a few months later to harvest, he'll get some experience for whatever grows, but it will be nothing compared to the farmer who cares for his field all season-long.

"Alright, now it's my turn!" Dad excitingly starts telling us how his status page looked.

LV: 41 Experience: 54,816/69,380

Health: 1,810/1,810 Stamina: 812/983 Mana: 70/70

Vitality: 181

Endurance: 42

Strength: 122

Dexterity: 78

Senses: 35

Mind: 15

Magic: 7

Clarity: 3

Status Points: 0

Skills: Running (LV50), Cleaning (LV29), Axe Skills (LV74), Woodcarving (LV26), Hunting (LV22), Axe Arts (LV48), Perfect-Chop (LV33), Mathematics (LV24), Writing (LV18),

I can't help but be impressed with Dad's physical stats. He loves the attention and starts flexing for us. “Aren’t I awesome? I’m 6 levels higher than the average villager,” he states proudly. My eyes nearly pop out of my skull, not because of Dad but because of me. The average villager was level 35? I was getting close to that myself!

Mom rolls her eyes, but as I'm sitting right next to her, I can see her steal more than a causal glance at Dad's muscles. Mom lets Dad show off for a minute before she coughs into her hand, signaling him to stop. She then points out a significant difference between her and his status pages.

"As you heard, your father never invested any points in Mana or Clarity as I did. My parents had me take classes from a local mage in hopes I could unlock magic, but I only ended up wasting my status points. Another thing I hope you noticed, Richard, is that even though I have more skills than your father, his are higher level, work better with each other, and are much stronger for it. Unlike me, your dad didn’t switch professions halfway through his life, and is better off because of it."

Mom stops talking to give Dad a chance to say his piece. " That’s right, you should place some of your points tonight, as you were technically born in a few hours, but I wouldn't distribute all your points at once," he cautions.

"The sooner you distribute your points, the better, but you shouldn't rush your decision. I recommend going around the village tomorrow and asking people about their various jobs. You don't need to decide on your carer right away, but you can narrow it down so you know where you should best distribute your points. If you offer to help for free, I'm sure more than one person will let you help them, so you can get an idea of what it's like doing their job. Just don't give them exact numbers."

"On the same note," Dad adds. "You can come work with me for a day to see what I do, just like my old man did with me," he grins proudly at Richard.

"Don't let your father bully you into taking his path," Mom's stern words are like a bucket of cold water dumped on Dad. “You’ll regret it if you find something you love later and have already distributed most of your stats.”

"Why Silvia?" Dad asks Mom with a look of betrayal.

"Stop exaggerating," Mom waves off Dad's defeated expression. "You know what you were doing, don't tell me otherwise. You can take Richard to work with you after he's helped around the village and has experienced more by himself."

Mom and Dad go back and forth a bit after that, but they never raise their voices or belittle the other's opinions.

While all that's going on, I can tell Richard is looking at his status page because it looks like he's staring at something in front of him that only he can see. He had a rare look of concentration that I wasn't used to seeing on his childish face.

That was good; it meant he was taking Mom and Dad's warnings seriously, as he should.

While everyone is distracted, I pull up my own status page.

LV: 25 Experience: 8,736/9,157

Health: 130/130 Stamina: 89/110 Mana: 107/170

Vitality: 13

Endurance: 11

Strength: 9

Dexterity: 12

Senses: 14

Mind: 28

Magic: 17

Clarity: 21

Status Points: 240

Skills: Sense Mana (LV19), Acting (LV20), Meditation (LV22), Expel Mana (LV8), Charm (LV12), Running (LV14), Cleaning (LV4)

Ok, after hearing about the parent's status pages, it was abundantly clear mine was exceptional for my age. And I had another eighty months to grow even stronger before distributing my status points.

Part of me didn't want to wait any longer, but another part thought of my parents. When I turned ten, did I tell them about my abnormal level or keep it a secret?

I can say one thing for certain, Richard wouldn't be the only one staying up late thinking about his status page.
