There was nothing like being chased.

As you try to outpace your pursuer, the adrenalin you get, the swerving in and out of buildings, all of it made me feel alive. I glance over my shoulder, hoping to get a glance at the person trying to chase me down, only to see poor Richard doubled over, panting up a storm. Skidding to a stop, I turn around and blow a raspberry at my defeated brother.

"You'll never catch me!"

"You'll never catch me!"

"You'll never catch me!"

Like any good sister, I have to taunt my older brother any chance I get.

While hopping around and taunting my brother, I think about how it's been seventy months since I was reborn, making me a little over four and a half years old at this point. I sounded young when I put it that way, but that made me almost the equivalent of a six-year-old back on Earth. So yeah, I was still the equivalent of a child, just not that young.

Sometimes I still get confused by the longer years, but it's getting easier on me as time passes. The trick was throwing out my preconceived notions of age related to Earth.

Take Brother, for example; tomorrow, he turned ten and was gaining access to his status points. You would think ten was too young to gain access to a supernatural system that made a person stronger and faster overnight. And you still might think that, but it made more sense when you thought of Richard as a preteen, almost a teenager.

"Tomorrow, you'll never beat me again, Little Rabbit!" Richard wheezes, causing my face to scrunch up. I hated that nickname, and Brother knew that. I stare daggers at him, as Mom does to Dad when she wants him to apologize, but that only makes Richard's smile grow.

I could only stand there and pout, missing the days when Richard was a kind, attentive big brother.

Off to the side, three passing female villages giggle at the display, and to my frustration, they all are on Richard's side.

"Don't worry; you'll catch the Little Rabbit tomorrow," one says. "That's right, " another agrees with the first. "Keep trying, and you'll get her," the third smiles at Richard, causing him to blush.

I was red, too, partially because of the annoying nickname but equally because of how much it's spread among Spotted Creek Village. It wasn't even that good of a nickname.

I mean, sure, I ran around the village every chance I got ever since I learned to walk, but who wouldn't after how long I suffered crawling around on my hands and knees?

My obvious annoyance only made the three ladies giggle more. However, they did have a point about Brother catching me. Once he gained full access to his status page, chances were, I wouldn't be able to outrun him any longer, even if I kept my Running skill higher than his.

Looking up at the red moons slowly becoming more visible as the sun starts dipping in the sky, I resign myself to the fact I'll soon no longer be faster than my brother. And while a clear sky didn't solve all my problems, it always relaxed me to stare upwards.

Unlike on Earth, there was little pollution in this world, meaning as long as there weren't any clouds in the sky, you could see the seven moons orbiting the planet quite early before the sun even went down. It was the first month of the year, and they'd recently turned a beautiful red color, so they stood out amongst the pale blue sky.

To everybody else, it was normal to see the moons slowly shift colors throughout the year, but to me, it was still magical and wonderful to see. They started red at the beginning of the year, and after five months, they slowly shifted over a few days to a bright blue. And then, after five more months, they change to green and then back to red when the new year rolls over.

I've asked my parents and a few villagers why they did that, but no one seemed to have a solid answer. One of the older people in the village told me it was because of the gods shifting emotions throughout the year, but I suspected that wasn't the case. As someone who died and was reborn without ever meeting a so-called 'god,' I didn't put much stock in their existence.

The change in the moons likely had to do with mana, but that was my best guess.

"Got you!" I feel two hands grab my shoulders while looking up at the sky.

"That doesn't count," I angrily snap at Richard, who took advantage of my distracted state.

"Does, too," he sticks his tongue out at me, making a goofy face, and I struggle not to laugh.

I didn't think he would actually catch me, especially today, as he's spent most of our playtime looking back at our house. He obviously wanted to go home, but it was my job to keep him distracted while Mom and Dad prepared for tonight.

Usually, we celebrated our birthdays the day of, but because Richard was turning ten tomorrow, the Parents needed to sit him down and explain the nuances of his status page before he got access to it.

They didn't tell me all that, but that was clearly what they were prepping for. Mom just asked me to have fun with Richard, hinting that I should try to keep him away from the house by saying I was in charge, even though she said it jokingly.

So this year, Richard was getting two special meals, one tonight celebrating the unlocking of his status page and another tomorrow for his birthday.

I couldn't wait for dinner tonight. Dad left early this morning with a group of the village's hunters to track down some big game for dinner tonight. He arrived back a few hours ago with the hunting party, helping carry a wolf the size of a bear. It was so cool to see.

My mouth was practically watering, thinking about the type of steaks a person could get from a beast that big. And as long as Mother didn't turn the meat into another stew, I'll be happy with whatever she cooks.

Don't get me wrong, I'm happy always to have a hot meal with my family, but as soup and stew were easy and filling to make, it made up most of our dinners. It was only on special occasions like today and tomorrow that Mom branched out and made something different.

"What do you think Mom will make tonight?" I ask Brother as he lets go of my shoulders.

"I don't know," Brother rubs at the non-existent stubble on his chin. "Maybe, we'll have a roast? You saw all the meat Dad brought back from his hunting trip."

"I hope we get some fresh salad," I wish fondly.

"You're weird," Brother lightly shoves me playfully. I didn't even care about the light insult; I was tired of mushed vegetables. So even if it weren't childlike, I'd devour a green salad with a smile on my face.

I was soon to start getting my grown-up teeth in, and what good were big girl teeth if I wasn't chowing down on a delicious steak or other foods that didn't just fall apart in the mouth?

While thinking about food, I again see Richard look back at our front door, which was still closed. Smoke was billowing up from the chimney, meaning dinner was going, but we had yet to be called back.

"Starring won't help," I lightly tease in a childlike manner. Of course, the older I got, the less I needed to pretend to be a silly child, but I still needed to act my age. I've cultivated the image of being an intelligent child, but that didn't mean I could do whatever I wanted without raising suspicion.

At least I've become primarily independent over the years. Of course, I was still always under somebody's supervision, but at least I could eat, change, and go to the outhouse by myself.

I've grown a lot since those first few days I'd spent as a crying baby, both physically and mentally. I was 4' tall now and in relatively great shape. My red hair was tied up in a ponytail, and I was slowly developing a tan like the rest of my family.

Mentally though, I was almost a completely different person. Over the last four years, I've come a long way in coming to terms with my new life as a girl. Of course, I still had moments when I wished I was still a boy, like during potty training, but those were becoming few and far between.

I've grown comfortable in this body. The daily running and stretching helped with that, but it no longer felt like I was in the wrong body. I was Aaliyah, and I was ok with that. I've made peace with my situation.

I still missed my previous parents and Stanley, but I didn't let the grief of their loss ruin my chance at a happy life as Aaliyah. Speaking of which, I see our front door swing open out of the corner of my eye.

Before Richard can react to the sound our door makes, I lightly shove him to throw off his balance, but not hard enough to knock him over. Then, while he stumbles, I book it toward our house and our smiling mother in the doorway.

Without looking back, I shout, "To slow again, Brother!" Knowing this was probably the last time I could outrun him for the foreseeable future.

"Hey!" I heard him shout behind me, but I was already in full sprint mode, and there was no way he could catch up to me.

When I reach our open front door, I jump into Mother's arms. "Must you antagonize your brother?" She chuckles as she easily lifts me up.

"Yep," I cheekily grin.

While still in Mother's arms, I carefully kick off my outdoor shoes to not track unwanted dirt into our abode. Mother smiles in approval before carrying me deeper into our house. Richard was hot on our heels and would be here any second, but before he arrived, I finally noticed Dad standing next to the kitchen table, which was covered in food.

He holds up three fingers and slowly starts to lower them. Mom laughed at the gesture, and luckily I realized what he was doing before he lowered his last finger.

When Dad reaches zero, Richard appears in the doorway, and all three of us shout at once, "Happy awakening!"

Richard is frozen in the doorway, and before he can do anything, Mom moves forward, still holding me, and hugs Richard affectionately. I also lean in to show my support, and soon the three of us are joined by Dad, who wraps all of us in his powerful embrace.

Everything is a whirlwind of activity after that. We all sit at the table, and Dad recites the dinner prayer. That was another thing I asked my parents about, but I was told to wait until I was older. So, I didn't know who these gods we were praying to are or why we did so in the first place. I just went with everything because it made the parents happy.

After the prayer, I looked at all the food on the table while Richard got the first pick of what he wanted.

The first thing I noticed were steaks from the beast Dad helped hunt. They were cooked beautifully, and I couldn't wait until Mom helped me fill my plate. The next thing I noticed was the fluffy bread rolls, which I recognized as Granny Gellar's handiwork. She lived a few houses down from us and was the village's best baker.

She made everything from a sizeable wheat-like plant called weizen, which was grown in the village's fields and could grow up to ten feet tall.

Also on the table was this world's version of corn on the cob. The husks were green like regular corn, but the cob was slightly red and leaked a red juice when cooked, which made it look like it was bleeding, hence the name blood maze. It was weird that it was the opposite of the weizen in that blood maze was a relatively short plant, only topping out at five feet instead of growing as tall as Earth's variant.

Then there was the stemmed pomme. They were potato-like fruit that grew on trees and resembled apples in appearance but was, in fact, a starch. Inside they had a seed like a weird avocado, but I'd long since grown used to their unique taste.

Lastly, I was happy to see a bowl of salad. It was a bunch of different leafy greens mixed together, with fresh berries on top, without any dressing, but that was fine with me.

Soon, everyone has a plate of food before them, and the light banter begins.

"Did you finally catch the rabbit, Sweety?" Mom starts by asking Richard if he was able to catch me, but halfway through, she changes targets and looks at me, knowing I don't like my nickname.

"I actually did near the end," Richard happily proclaims before joining Mom in smirking at me.

I know I'm playing into their hands by answering, but my pride is on the line. "Just because I wasn't paying attention," I retort furiously. I look to dad for some backup, but he gangs up on me too.

"Let your brother have his moment today, Aaliyah. Starting tomorrow, he'll probably catch you easily, depending on how he distributes his points." Dad then starts telling us about his morning hunting trip.

"So, there I was, crouched in the bushes following the beast's trail, when suddenly the farkas leaps from the brush behind me. In a single moment, I turn and swing my axe using all my skills at once, slicing its head clean off." Father mimics swinging his axe for added effect.

Defiantly a good story, but I can tell by Mom's smile that maybe 15% of that is true. Sure, Dad is incredibly strong, and I'm sure he could kill a farkas with a single swing of his axe, but he had little hunting experience. That's why he had to ask the hunters for help. He might have killed the beast, but he certainly didn't find it.

Though, if Richard's open mouth was any indication, he was hanging on every word and didn't even think to ask about the other men he knew were with Dad during the hunt.

The rest of dinner was spent much the same way, Dad talking about hunting and working in the forest, Mom asking if we needed anything sewn, and Richard was excited about tomorrow. It was nice.

But dinner didn't last forever, and there were more important things to discuss. So everyone helped clean the kitchen, including me. Of course, I was only allowed to help clear the table, but at least I helped with something. And once everything was washed and put away, we all gathered back at the table.

The parents told me I didn't need to sit here and hear all this yet, but there was no way I would miss an explanation regarding status pages.

