Erick hung his head for a moment. Of course the Worldly Path wasn’t just a simple trip around the world, hitting the highlights and seeing the big sights the world over. Of course it was a ritual. Now that Syllea had said it, that made perfect sense.

Erick asked, “How much of the ritual is under Melemizargo’s control?”

“I’ve heard it’s just the bit at the end. The part after you succeed. A closing statement, if you will.”

Erick took a moment to digest all of that, then, knowing he was part of a ritual, no matter how weak that ritual was right now, he said, “My plan is to see where the wind takes me. To see the Core, and a few other places. To see what Veird is like, the world and Underworld over. I’m also looking into trade routes for Candlepoint; to search out products for them to make without making targets of themselves. I’m also raising Yggdrasil. To do all this and not get bogged down by everyone who knows me, or knows what I can do, I’m brainstorming magic that makes me more anonymous, or that lets me fight without giving away my identity to onlookers. I’m also looking for a way to subjugate a target without actually killing them. There’s also this Quest Board Class Ability that I just got. I’m going to use that to clip out some of the larger dangers the world over and get rewards for them, while I can.” Erick said, “But as for actual plans? Nothing too concrete— OH. And then there’s the previous [Gate] network, out there in the Forest. I was gonna go after that somewhere in my various travels. Sooner, rather than later… And of course… I have to kill the Converter Angel.”

Syllea smiled softly as Erick spoke. When he was done, she said, “You should stay in Treehome for a little while. I can help you with much of the magic you’re looking for, and the Arbors are eager to speak to Yggdrasil, and you.” She chided, “I’ve been waiting all night for you to tell me that you made a fricken WORLD TREE!” She laughed.

“Ah.” Erick frowned a little.

Syllea asked, “Ah?”

“I hope I live to see him become a real being.”

Syllea rolled her eyes, not believing Erick’s sudden confession. “You’ll be fine! Probably. About as much as any of us, I’m sure.”

“It won’t be four months till he’s real.” Erick said, “It’ll be a hundred years. He has a seal on him.”

Syllea sat a bit straighter. “Oh.”

The fire crackled, sending a spray of sparks up the chimney.

“That’s probably fine, then?” Syllea said, “I have no idea.”

Erick shrugged.

She said, “Anyway: The Arbors have told me that they want to make sure you raise him right. They expected several months of intense work, but now… Now they have time? Sure. They have time. You have time. And in your immediate time, I’m going to help you make some magic that subdues, rather than harms. What you’re looking for is Elemental Mercy.” She added, “We can go out into the Forest and search out some of those [Gate]s, too. I may not be able to cast the spell myself, but I’d like to be involved in remaking the [Gate] network.”

Erick grinned. “Of course! That sounds like a great plan, to me.” He stood up, saying, “But I should get going. See you tomorrow?”

“Wait wait wait. Before you go… I would like to talk about your Quest Board.”

Erick glanced to the hallway where Poi had gone, and saw Poi standing there, waiting. He turned back to Syllea, asking, “What about it?”

“Head Priests of the Interfaith Church usually get an Interfaith Quest Board, full of needs populated by the Relevant Entities of the Script, but those who have personal Quest Boards always have the truly dangerous Quests, the ones that the Entities reserve for those specific people with that Class Ability.” Syllea said, “You might want to think twice about accepting any Quests while you’re on your Worldly Path, or while that Angel still roams the world. Fate, Space, and Ritual will contort reality around you. Some things that should not happen, will happen. Impossibilities become sure-things.”

“Ah. Yeah. I sorta figured it would be like that… But thanks for the warning.”

With a bit of magic, Syllea picked up the cigarettes they had bought and floated them toward Erick. “Don’t forget these. Take a break while you can.”

Erick smirked as he took the drugs. “Thanks, Syllea. I had a great time tonight. Thanks for the invite.”

“Thanks for coming, both to dinner, and to Treehome. We’ll do it again sometime, and also talk more tomorrow. Okay?”

“Okay.” Erick reached a tendril of light toward Poi, who accepted the touch on his shoulder. He said to Syllea, “See you later,” and vanished in a puff of light.

- - - -

“A hundred years?” Syllea looked up, through the skylight, at Wyrmrest. “Did you know that?”

‘We will not let Sininindi raise a World Tree.’ Wyrmrest said, ‘We will just have to break Yggdrasil’s seal.’

Syllea refilled her cup of tea, and thought.

- - - -

Erick and Poi reappeared in the living room of their hotel room, under the boughs of the Holy O’kabil.

Poi stepped away, headed toward his room, before suddenly turning around, and asking, “Good night, sir?”

Erick smirked. “Yeah. I guess I should just go back to bed.”

“Oh thank the gods. I was worried for a moment. Please don’t leave the suite without me, sir.” With a slight sarcasm in his voice, Poi said, “Let’s change our fate tomorrow, please.”

Jane stepped out of her room, rubbing her eyes. “You’re back. How’d it go?”

“It was great! You should have been there! Lots of strange foods.”

Jane winced. “You’re too awake for this late at night.” She said, “Glad you made it back. I’m back to bed.”

Erick watched her go, then he watched the door shut. Then he was alone.

But… Not really.

The manasphere was dense with his own [Prismatic Ward], but it was also thick with mist. And that was worrying. He had never considered that someone might lay down a Domain that allowed them to freely enter his [Prismatic Ward]. But then again, there was that artifact in Quilatalap’s presentation, the Amulet of Non-Presence, that allowed a person to walk through all magical defenses as though they weren’t even there. Had the Holy O’kabil done something like that? Despite her apparently physical form when she entered his [Prismatic Ward] without permission, she was just a soul and the shape of a body, wasn’t she? There was no blood in that form. There was no actual physicality. Erick had checked with a few different sights through his few nearby Ophiel.

But he could have been wrong.

… Even if she wasn’t totally real, she should have been blocked, right?

Ah. Her Domain was here first.

Ophiel twittered on Erick’s shoulder, and also on the top of a nearby chair. Only two of him were following Erick around right now. The rest were on never-ending patrol over Candlepoint, or at his home, prepared for a sudden explosion of monsters from Ar’Kendrithyst’s dying corpse.

And that was fine. If needed, they could all be here in under ten seconds.

Erick patted the little guy on his shoulder, eliciting a violin coo.

Then he looked to the blunts he had set down on the table. He grabbed two, then looked around for a moment, trying to find— Ah! There it was. Right where it had been the last time Erick had seen it. A balcony, just beyond some doors near the kitchen. He forgave himself for losing track of it; he had cast Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward] out there, after all. Whatever. He was still slightly drunk, and looking to get a bit more wasted.

Erick lightstepped onto the porch. Ophiel followed.

A slight wind blew from the northeast; chilly, but easily withstood since the rain seemed to be over. Erick lit a cigarette, took an easy drag, and relished the feeling of warmth spreading across his shoulders and through his body, as he gazed out upon the early morning lights of Treehome. The land near the Holy O’kabil truly did resemble silver spikes of crystal. It reminded Erick a little bit of the Brightwater, but much more metallic, so maybe not like the Brightwater at all. Here, there were normal people, going about their lives, doing what they need to do to survive. But in that dark, bright place, there was only death, and the evil of a terrible, pitiable society, doing what they could do to tear everything down, because their parents, grandparents, uncles, and aunts, all did the same.

And then there were the Shades that Erick had let go!

Argh!

He pulled up a few Quests, just to stare at them again.

Find or Kill Queen, Shade of Opulence.

Find: 0/1

Kill: 0/1

Reward: 10 points

Note: Half reward for a location that leads to a kill.

Posters: Rozeta, Goddess of the Script; Headmaster Kirginatharp; Demon King Dinnamoth; 15 lesser posters.

Find or Kill Treant, Shade of the Forest.

Find: 0/1

Kill: 0/1

Reward: 10 points

Note: Half reward for a location that leads to a kill.

Posters: Rozeta, Goddess of the Script; Aloethag, Goddess of Beauty and Brutality; Fangorl, God of the Wild; 27 lesser posters.

Find or Kill Lapis, Shade of Enchantment.

Find: 0/1

Kill: 0/1

Reward: 10 points

Note: Half reward for a location that leads to a kill.

Posters: Rozeta, Goddess of the Script; Headmaster Kirginatharp; Kiral, God of Commerce; Crown of the Host Adavido; 7 lesser posters.

Erick flipped through the rest of them; all of the Shades he had spared were on the list, each of them hunted by dozens of individual Entities of the Script. He stopped flipping when he came to Fallopolis.

Find or Kill Fallopolis, Shade of Melemizargo.

Find: 0/1

Kill: 0/1

Reward: 10 points

Note: Half reward for a location that leads to a kill.

Posters: Rozeta, Goddess of the Script; Crown of the Host Adavido; Demon King Dinnamoth, 107 lesser posters.

“Haaaa,” Erick groaned. “The only one that both the Angels and the Demons both agree needs to die.” He took another drag of the cigarette, then mumbled, “One hundred and ten Entities of the Script want to kill the only one I didn’t personally Bless into being a better person.”

Shit. I think I fucked up.

Erick finished off the first cigarette, trying to think about nothing in particular, while blue screens hovered around him and he felt both warm, and utterly cold at the same time. He lit up the next blueweed blunt, and continued to poke through other screens of the Quest Board, trying to get a feel for it.

The Quest Board was a rather intuitive system. There were search functions, but they were not as good as other search functions Erick had used in his previous life on Earth. The Quest Board seemed to share the Script’s overall poorly implemented ‘Help’ function, that Erick barely ever used, anyway.

In the Open Script, if you didn’t know the Basic Spell or Skill that you were searching for, then you couldn’t search for it, and thus you couldn’t purchase it for a point. In the Quest Board, you could search by region, poster, reward, or target, but all you got were lists and vague descriptions and no maps. He also had to think at the Script to get it to work, and that was a bit wonky. It might have been better than a keyboard, but maybe not? Erick tried to think/demand for a keyboard, but that functionality was missing. The lack of maps was a pain in the ass, too. No matter how much he reorganized his searches, he gained no map. It was only halfway through his second blunt that he wondered why he wanted a map, anyway. He had a map. [Cascade Imaging] worked fine for his mapping needs.

All the Quests he saw were for some target, somewhere in the world…

Ah. No. That wasn’t true.

Erick glanced up at the artery-like boughs of the Holy O’kabil and her expansive, dark canopy, more than half a kilometer above him. He returned to the Quest in front of him. It wasn’t a kill quest, and that was nice to see.

Expand Treehome.

Establish a new and welcomed Arbor into the land of Treehome. 0/1

Reward: 5 points, along with unknowable amounts of prestige and political power in Treehome.

Note: This is a Special Quest, with many failing factors, most of which arise organically in the pursuit of this goal. The Posters of this Quest reserve the right to destroy a bad Arbor without warning.

Lesser Posters: The Arbors of Treehome; Wyrmrest, O’kabil, Firebrand, Icebrand, Rottundra, Heral-ken, Home, Nosier, Leaf-cutter, Redarrow, Steel Branch, Ikabobbi. The collective tribes of Treehome.

That all read rather well; even that warning. Did this mean that they were willing to help him raise an Arbor? Could they help raise Yggdrasil?

Erick thought to all he had seen on his first day in Treehome.

Treehome was a nice place. The people were happy. They worked hard, and they played hard. There was good food, and good opportunity either in pushing back the Forest, or getting a merchant job in the city itself, or some other job. Waiters made good money. Butchers made good money. There were no homeless on the streets, which was either fantastic, or horrific, but right now, Erick was leaning toward the first scenario.

With his Ophiels sometimes flying above while he walked below, Erick had seen farms and such all over the place, beyond the larger buildings that surrounded and demarcated each Arbor’s territory. Erick could have been a farmer here, easily. If he had been born an orcol on Veird, he would have been lucky to have been born into one of the collective Wyrmrest tribes. He would have been lucky to live in Treehome.

… But he wasn’t ready to commit to this ‘Expand Treehome’ Quest.

And yet…

Erick spoke to the mist in the mana all around him, “Is it actually ‘Holy’ O’kabil? Or is that an affectation?”

