From one blink to the next, O’kabil appeared on the balcony just two meters from Erick, wearing the same fur coat as before. She eyed Erick, then turned toward the north, saying, “It’s not often someone is willing to risk my ire by asking such a cheeky question.”

“Apologies for the terrible question.” He held out the remaining half of the blunt he had been smoking. “Care for a drag?”

“No.”

Erick nodded, then took another drag of the blueweed. O’Kabil stood at the edge of the balcony, not moving, and not speaking. Erick didn’t interrupt her thoughts with any more words.

She said, “I’ve reviewed your trip into Ar’Kendrithyst. You failed to put down the monsters. You let Treant live. You enabled his survival. He’s at our borders right now, pleading for understanding.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. He coughed a little, but regained himself quick enough. He waited for her to say more.

Eventually, O’kabil continued, “He’s been there for two days, now. It sickens me. And yet… And yet, I cannot put too much effort into killing that ooze, myself. Much like how you used the Shades to kill the Shades, we are using him to clear out the larger dangers out there. He thinks he will attain forgiveness for this.” She went silent.

Erick breathed out blue smoke that carried away on the air.

O’kabil held out her hand toward Erick; her thumb and forefinger waited for him to place something there. He handed her the remains of his blunt. It was almost gone. He’d need to get another one. So he did; grabbing one off of the table inside with a quick tendril of light. O’kabil, meanwhile, put Erick’s blunt to her lips and breathed in for twenty seconds, fully burning and inhaling all that was left of his second blunt. Erick lit a third, puffed on it a bit to get it started, then handed it to O’kabil, for she had her hand held out again, waiting for a refill.

She inhaled again, fully burning the third to nothing but ash over the course of forty seconds. She opened her mouth, and breathed out a small cloudbank. Blue fog swirled up and around the outside of the penthouse suite. Erick briefly considered getting a fourth blunt, but the three-meter tall orcol representation of the kilometer-tall tree above did not seem to want another, and Erick was done, anyway.

O’kabil said, “Treant will never attain forgiveness for his crimes.”

“What were they? His crimes, I mean.”

“He tried to raze us to the ground five times in the last two hundred years. Over those campaigns, he has killed at least one hundred thousand people.” She looked to Erick, then looked away, saying, “It is frustrating that you forgave him—”

With a hard voice, Erick said, “I have done no such thing.”

O’kabil went still.

Erick said, “I can never forgive him for his crimes. Only you or anyone else he has wronged will ever be able to forgive him. All I did was force him to feel the pain he has inflicted upon others.”

For a moment, no one spoke.

O’kabil stared out toward the north. “A better wording than my own.” She said, “It is for this reason that I cannot kill him. He suffers more as a living Shade than he would as a dead one. Every time he goes out and kills another wyrm nest, or a Twisted Vision of the Forest, or any of the other greater threats to our people… Every time he comes back, he shows us what he has done. He pleads for forgiveness.” For the first time since Erick met her, O’kabil smiled. It was not a nice look. “I like it when he pleads, and even more when I deny him and he turns into a puddle of a man, weeping like a broken child. He deserves this, and so much more.” She banished the smile from her face. “But I would like it more if he were not here. I do not like this part of me that revels in his pain.” She turned and stared at Erick. “I would have liked to know that he was dead. I would have preferred him in the ground, or turned to ash, or any other number of deaths.” She asked, “Are you more vicious than I am? Or are you weak, and unable to kill who needs to be killed? Or perhaps, do you truly think that no Evil is beyond redemption? That this pain you have inflicted upon a terrible enemy is somehow going to end in something other than tragedy? That perhaps, this will end in something good for us all?”

“He will suffer in his own way for what he has done, and if one day, his charitable deeds outweigh his horrors, then that will be good. But it's not up to me if it will be enough.” Erick asked, "Would you prefer to have no recompense?"

O’kabil looked away.

Then she vanished, from one blink to the next, and Erick was left out in the chilly wind. He glanced up, beyond the boughs of the Arbor above. Clouds gathered, in the normal ways that clouds did sometimes, but no doubt spurred on by Erick’s control of the weather, earlier.

Erick went inside before it started to rain again.
