This ring continually provides its wearer with life-sustaining nourishment. It refreshes the body and mind as well, and the wearer only needs to sleep for 1 hour per day to gain the benefit of 8 hours of sleep. The ring must be worn for a full day before it attunes to the wearer's needs. If it is ever removed, it must be worn for another day to attune it again.

Bonus: +10 to all stats, +500 Defense to armor, Reinforced (cannot be damaged by normal means)

One step too far. Ren thought and put the ring on, then did the next ring without adding in the Double Infusion.

Ring of Sustained Boost (Rare Wondrous Item - Binds on Equip)

This ring continually provides its wearer with life-sustaining nourishment. It refreshes the body and mind as well, and the wearer only needs to sleep for 1 hour per day to gain the benefit of 8 hours of sleep. The ring must be worn for a full day before it attunes to the wearer's needs. If it is ever removed, it must be worn for another day to attune it again.

Bonus: +10 to all stats, Reinforced (cannot be damaged by normal means)

There we go. Ren thought and did 2 more rings to finish the 4 on one hand. He had 2 raised platform rings, his Sending Ring, and the Beetle Crown ring on the other. He left the two raised platform rings enchanted with Ultimate Terror, then used Double Infusion to add Lightning to one and added Water and Wind to the other. With his prep work and repairs done, he examined the wand he had enchanted with Rope Trick.

Wand Of Rope Ladder (Level 5)

The Rope Trick spell can be cast on a regular 50 foot rope to make it extend straight up into the air. It will remain stiff enough to be climbed to the top, and will stay that way until dismissed.

The Master level of this spell can be used on any rope, no matter the thickness or length, and will expand into a ladder for easy climbing.

Cast Distance: Within 25 feet (Short)

Area of Effect: One rope (any length)

Time Limit: Lasts until dismissed

Oh, nice. Ren thought, then stopped to think about how he was going to survive climbing through the middle of the cavern. He looked at the carcass of the large dead creature and smiled.

********

“Oh, my god.” Stella said, and put an arm around Lisa's shoulders. The younger and smaller woman was crying, and Stella handed her a tissue.

“I don't know why I'm crying.” Lisa said and wiped off her face. “I know he can handle himself.”

“You love him.” Stella said, and Lisa looked at her with wide eyes. “We always cry when someone we love is hurt.”

“How do you know...”

“You agreed to move into a strange man's house, and you haven't even gone on a real date with him.” Stella said. “Plus, you've been hugging and kissing him like he means the world to you.”

“I... okay, yes.” Lisa said. “I do love him.”

“Then trust him.” Stella said. “You saw how he handled that creature.” She smiled and hugged Lisa. “If anyone is going to get out of there, it's going to be him.”

“Can you bring up the other footage?” Lisa asked. “When the game loaded?”

“Sure.” Stella said and used the laptop to run the footage back.

“He went into the white loading area?” Lisa asked and watched the footage at 4x speed. When the game appeared around him, she slowed it to 1x and read the popups. “Oh, my.”

“What is it?” Stella asked.

“He... he's in the Arcane Training Area called Shargon Caverns.” Lisa said. “It...” She shook her head. “He's not supposed to be there.”

“Why not?”

“It's the 'How To Be A Proper Villain' path.” Lisa said, surprised. “Tristan took it when he lost his Fame and became Infamous.” She chuckled. “He should have taken that right away, instead of playing that Heroic Prince crap.”

“What?” Stella looked at the paused video and the popups. “But... Ren is still famous! He just got a maxed Fame bonus during that last quest with the ghouls.”

“Wait, what?” Lisa grabbed Stella's arm. “Tell me he didn't get bitten!”

“He didn't.” Stella said. “Do you want to see what happened?”

“Yes.” Lisa said. “It might tell me why he started where he did instead of back where everyone else is.”

Stella brought up the footage and Lisa watched at an accelerated rate of 8x as Ren defeated the ghouls, and then they went to the town hall.

“Stop there!” Lisa said when she saw Ren talking to the marked people. She watched the scene in 1x speed and then she gasped when the tarantula bit him and gave him the Ghoul Kissed (Skull) mark. “Oh... oh, no.”

“What?”

“He actually is supposed to be there.” Lisa said and sighed. “After the update, the game recognized him as a Ghoul Lord.”

“A what?”

“He can...” Lisa shook her head. “I can't say. It's against the game rules.”

“What can you tell me?” Stella asked.

“I can tell you to cross your fingers and hope.” Lisa said. “That's all that any of us can do now.”
