“There's two things I'd like to say before my friends and I leave.” Ren said, and he felt the Night Hag's emotions flip like a switch. She stood up and turned to him, and he saw that her pitch black eyes smouldered with Hatred.

“First... aren't you glad that the Kraken didn't kill you before it left?” Ren asked.

The Night Hag ignored his words and took a step towards him. Her body trembled with power as she started to gather her magic to her. The ground itself started to tremble as well when she took another step.

“Second... and most importantly... how long are Kraken mating rituals, and how many offspring can spawn from a single pairing?”

The Night Hag stopped moving at these words and her power disappeared. Her black eyes stopped showing him Hatred, and instead he felt something akin to intrigue and wonder. Ren took this opportunity to make a hasty retreat, without saying another word, and didn't bother trying to go back through the other cavern to the Night Hag's home. He took out the Staff of Earth and used it's Pass Wall ability to make a tunnel to the next cavern several hundred feet away, and he and his friends all went through it quickly.

“That was the weirdest thing I've ever seen.” Tiatha said as Ren checked the All-Seeing Mirror for the doorway he wanted, now that he was in the Underground.

“Do you need to get back to...” Ren started to ask.

“No, she knows where I am.” Tiatha said and held onto his hand. “I'll stay with you until you leave.”

Ren nodded and changed directions at the next cavern, and dismissed the old Pass Wall spell and made a new one.

“I'm really sorry about your friend.” Tiatha said. “His sacrifice will be remembered.”

“It sure will.” Ren said and cast the series of spells that he and Lara had come up with to restore Teepo's body. “Right, Teepo?”

“I brought a Kraken to life!” Teepo chittered in delight. “An actual Colossal Kraken!”

“You Adventurers.” Tiatha said and shook her head for a second, then smiled. “I'm not sure why; but, I had the feeling that you wanted to say something else back there.”

“I did, but I didn't want to push my luck.” Ren said. “She was pretty pissed.”

“What was it?”

“Don't give up on your dreams, just because things don't quite work out like you thought they would.” Ren said and entered the next tunnel he had made. His friends followed him, and when they had left the Night Hag's domain, they all felt it.

It's almost like an Aura. Ren thought to himself, and cast Permanent Enlarge and Reduce Anything on Princess.

“Finally.” Princess huffed in her normal husky female voice.

“You're not angry that you had to stay small that whole time?” Ren asked.

“No.” Princess said. “Once we came through, you kept your word and made me large again.”

The Dark Elf healer asked if she could ride Princess again so they could move faster, and she agreed. Tiatha climbed up onto the saddle, and Princess, Ren, and Artemis ran through the tunnel to the next cavern. At their new speed, it wouldn't take them long to find the door that Ren wanted.
