Flashes of white light, in the form of luminite-powered teleportation crystals glow all over the Lower Realm.

At first, it is just parties of elites and high-class monsters from the Galactic Trade Commission deploying teams to scan and scout out all the areas where Demons are spotted. No one goes in to attack, as the true power of these strange Demons is still unknown.

However, as members of the Crimson Army begin to gain insights from the Generals in the Green Zone, they begin looking for the same weaknesses.

Celestial Grade All-Seeing Eye and Foresight are used to scan their enemies and teleport from solar system to solar system before small weaknesses are spotted.

These troops may only be orange cores on average, but the unfathomable amount of mana-based stats flowing through their bodies is enough to disrupt the natural order of the Lower Realm.

When Knights unleash all of the borrowed stats they have, many of them are strong enough to destabilize star systems with their own gravity alone. There are millions of white-armored demons, and a handful with the largest chinks in their armor are targeted first.

Explosions tear through space as they exploit the exact same strategy, cooking these High Noble Demons alive within their own armor.

Alveron and Bri begin receiving massive amounts of data from these fights, and the small parties of millions of elites that scan each danger zone now know exactly what to look for. They borrow Celestial Grade All-Seeing Eye skills and share all of their senses through a linked Spectate feed with the Administrators for them to scan more carefully.

Weak points are spotted halfway across the galaxy. Large openings are pinged to the Knights, while the smaller fractures and less obvious faded glyph weaknesses are sent to the Commanders.

Fisher and Lydia do not head toward the obvious targets. They are sent out to fight the opponents that the Knights are unable to kill.

While anyone with borrowed stats has an overwhelming speed advantage, there is still a level of pure raw combat power that only these two True Yellow-Cored Commanders can reach. Out of everyone in the Lower Realm, this blue-eyed water mage and white-haired ice wielder have the most domineering wills of any mana based fighters.

Some elites have unique auras of Vibrations as they become the strongest of their race, but none are capable of reaching the level of Noble Demons. Fisher and Lydia have far surpassed this point, as they are stronger than any Noble Demon in the Morvale or Vermillion's armies that challenged them over the last few years.

When they approach their first battlefield and feel the High Noble Aura of these mindless Imperial Husks forced to be soldiers, both wear smirks on their faces, realizing it is not too far off from the strength of their own.

Space-bending blue serpents and white tigers dominate star systems as the two ruthlessly begin attacking the weak spots pinged into their minds.

Ancient High Noble Demons explode and die by their hands, causing tens of thousands of level-up notifications to ring in their ears.

Instantly, everyone in active battle surpasses level 100,000 and receives simultaneous notifications to Rank Up when they are ready.

The heat waves from the blasts after their deaths are quite strange.

While they kill the Demons that have been soul-bound to this armor, a large amount of the glyphs being thrust through the Commanders and Knights actually don't harm them at all. They phase through them without affecting their greater forms or energy cores at all...

The only harmful material they have to shield themselves from is extremely refined Low-Quality ether that is blended within their Demon's Cores. Some of them have pockets of Celestial energy, as back in the era when these demons were born, large amounts of the Upper Realms' energy were still spread throughout this plane of existence.

It has degraded slightly but is still far more refined than what the Soul Energy Purity is in any of the Commanders or Knights' cores.

There are two Commanders that are not actively battling but instead studying the data that is taken in by Bri and Alveron, and used in a much different way.

Monk and Luna are studying the physical makeup of the Demons themselves, and this strange armor that covers them and bonds to their souls.

"These symbols... They're very strange..." Monk mutters to himself, watching slow-motion reruns of the shockwaves that disperse this High-Quality ether into the air after every Demon's death.

Luna blinks, and all of her Demonic Beast eyes blink in unison with her. When looking through data, and even going to battlefields for a few seconds at a time at random herself, this commander gets higher-quality visuals that peer deep into the intricacies of the Demonic Creatures than anyone else.

When she returns to the update with Monk, she sees him deep in thought, continuing to mutter to himself, and asks, "What have you found? I can't understand a thing about these Demons... they're nothing like the old armies we fought off during the Realm Wave."

Monk's eyes are wide; he doesn't even look her way while rambling back.

"The Demons themselves, they're no different. They may have a slightly stronger talent base, but even still, it's that armor that makes them so powerful. It's unlike anything I've seen. It must be the Demon's Language. They never left any written text in the Lower Realm for me to study... but this... it is not entirely original. I can tell many of the core meanings of these words are taken from the Originators' text. I cannot fathom the true intricacies of what all these commands do, but I can comprehend what the larger, more simple glyphs mean on their surface. Whatever this is, it is a cheap copy... but a copy of what...?"

While their research continues, thousands of High Noble Demons are slaughtered one by one, and the charge forward from these mindless monsters doesn't seem to slow at all. It's like they don't even notice they're being counterattacked.

However, in the Demonic Realm, three Elite Demons that float above all of their other mindless troops do, in fact, see what is happening.

They are seemingly the only ones conscious enough to speak to each other, and have independent movements.

"This is an interesting development. Our scans were faulty... The data coming back now reads that the 90% drop in perceived power across the galaxy has been reverted back to a natural state..."

Another Demon responds, "I don't believe it was our equipment. There is a force in the Lower Realm that has somehow gained enough influence in this era to manipulate the masses on a large scale."

The first Demon nods slowly, while the third still sits in silence for a few seconds.

His eyes are flashing white, and his armor ripples with High-Quality Glyphs while he peers through the eyes of every Demonic Soldier moving out on their orders.

"You're right. There is a strong force still at play. They've somehow managed to find the weaknesses in some of our oldest troops. The ones that received our first versions of armor from the King..."

He pauses again, viewing the few thousand battles that have transpired so far, then nods with confidence.

"They are only proficient in high-potency mana attacks. Over 97 percent of soldiers have armor strong enough for none of their strongest attacks to make it through. None would even manage to stand in the presence of our Auras if we let them attack us with everything they have. I'll have the Elites stationed out in deep space take care of the pests; their attack strategy is very predictable."

"Good." Both of the Demons reply, then stare down again.

In a full stealth cloak, using 1% of borrowed stats, Pluto hovers even higher above them, not daring to make a move out of line yet.

He's been collecting as much data as he can, sending the movements and visuals of the Demonic Soldiers here back to the other Admins. He even sends this recorded conversation back to alarm them that certain higher-ranked forces in this army know exactly what is happening. Not only are they more intelligent, but Pluto can tell that these three Demons are far different from the rest in more ways than one.

Not only are they not in any symmetric formation, but their vibrations are extremely strange.

It is like invisible pockets of aura are covering the outer layer of their Greater Forms and Weapons. It feels like it is dampening the small amounts of readings he can already see, yet simultaneously, it feels extremely dangerous.

The invisible substance does not produce any gravity waves, nor heat or even noise. It cannot even be recorded. All of the messages Pluto sends to Bri asking about this aura come back with questions and follow-ups asking for close-ups on what area he's talking about.

Primordial Aura cannot be scanned with the technology available; it can only be perceived by the soul.

Despite no physical proof, this information is shared with every scanning team and fighter that teleports across the galaxy. Soon enough, notifications ring back in the Admins' ears, as more reports of this strange invisible aura are located on a small number of Irregular Demons. None of them have bothered to step in and attack any solar systems yet, they only watch from afar.
