Ling Qi’s eyes snapped open, and she sat up with a gasp, her expression wild. It was dark. How long had she been-?!

“Easy.” A familiar voice reached her ears, soothing and calm. “You are in a medical wagon. You are safe. The attacks are over, for now,” Liao Zhu said quietly.

Though her heart still thundered in her ears, Ling Qi saw that he was right. She was seated on a soft bed, and she could feel the faint tremor of the wagon moving under her. The cramped space was packed with medical talismans and pill cupboards, the scent of medicine stung her nose, but it was a safe scent. Tension left her shoulders as she looked down at herself. She was dressed in a silver patient’s gown, and she glimpsed a thick layer of poultice packed into her wounded shoulder and neck. “Senior Brother, what happened after I…?”

She trailed off as she turned to look at him. He, too, was seated on a bed in a patient’s gown. His mask remained in place, but the right sleeve of his gown was empty.

He chuckled. “My apologies, Junior Sister. It looks as if this Senior was not wholly invincible after all. He is sorry for disappointing.”

“Will the Medicine Hall be able to fix it?” she asked with faint horror.

“Perhaps if it were merely severed,” he said, shaking his head. “But no, it is gone, devoured flesh and spirit. Even the channels are gone. I will simply have to adjust.”

“I’m sorry,” Ling Qi said, ducking her head. She didn’t know what to say. “What happened?” she asked plaintively. That had been no normal attack, and Xiulan had said that a messenger told her that there were attacks all over the Sect. “That earthquake at the end and the sky…”

“You were awake for that then,” Liao Zhu said, leaning back against the wall of the wagon. “I will not say that our whole theatre was a distraction, but it was a side objective. Our theatre was one of many struck across the Sect lands. The Sect will be shifting its footing after this.”

“If this was just a -” Ling Qi swallowed down bitter words at the idea of everything she had seen being a mere sideshow. “What was the main objective then?” she asked, taking a steadying breath.

Liao Zhu was silent, staring up at the ceiling of the medical wagon.

“Elder Zhou has been slain.”
