“That’s what they call it? It’s the hot air under clouds. According to Garuda, birds and all kinds of fliers use it under their wings. It…pushes them up. And the Archmage of Izril. I saw her using flame. I was standing in my apartment last night, all last night, working on another plan. Have you heard of hot air balloons?”
Kevin hunted around for his biggest hammer.
“Yep. Where’s Troy now? I’ve got a present for him.”
He only half-meant it. Felkhr wasn’t paying attention as he went on.
“I just saw a glimpse of the plan, but the name, hah, made a lot of sense when I heard it. Hot air rises. Thermals. It’s another way to fly.”
He paused.
“It’s a way to fly.”
His voice was so longing Kevin felt for the Gnoll, but Felkhr shook his head.
“The problem—the problem is that the Wind Runner has her own wind. And without it, you’d never get off the ground, right?”
“Or you’d need a running start, a high place, or a lot of natural wind or all three.”
Kevin thought about hang-gliders, and Felkhr nodded.
“That’s not flying. You need something else. That’s why I’ve tried artificial wings. I knew I needed something to flap with. I’ve tried [Antigravity], [Featherfall] wings, [Forceful] enchantments on the feathers…”
“Whoa. Whoa. Dude. How has none of that made you fly?”
Kevin thought the first one would work! But Felkhr just smiled sadly. He showed Kevin an object, a stone with a bit of quartz in it that Kevin used as a paperweight.
“The same reason why I’m not begging the Archmage of Izril for lessons. It’s magic. I want a way for anyone, even a magic-less Gnoll like me, to fly. You see? I’ve known a [Mage] could cast [Levitate] for ages. If I’d known magic was stolen from us and Gnolls could become [Mages]…but that’s not the point. [Antigravity] just orients an object’s weight in the opposite direction. So if you had a stone that weighed two hundred pounds, it’d yank me up.”
He was certainly thinner from a stingy diet than most Gnolls. Felkhr gestured at the stone.
“…But the cost in mana is so high literally only an Archmage can afford to sustain it. I paid a fortune to have feathers enchanted with the stuff, and the mana it burnt through wasted the enchantment in a week, and it was a good [Enchanter].”
“Damn. Hedault does say there’s a limit to the amount of power ‘ambient mana’ can provide. So no-go? [Featherfall]?”
“You just fall slow. It makes it hard to flap the wings…I was onto something with [Forceful], but each feather didn’t generate enough…lifting power. But—gaah, I wish I hadn’t seen those designs!”
Felkhr covered his eyes, annoyed. He couldn’t get it out of his head. Why did wings look like that? Kevin hesitated, and all the answers lay behind his eyes, probably better than Troydel could articulate.
But he didn’t say them. Felkhr sensed that gaze and turned to Kevin. In that moment, his nerve almost broke.
“I…Kevin, right? I don’t know if I can ask you this, but I’ve been trying half my life to fly. Can I ask you something?”
“Sure, man. Shoot.”
The young man sat there and saw the Gnoll rub at his oil-stained fur, his face tired. He believed in his dream. He had pride—but also that longing in his eyes. Kevin had rarely seen that desire, and it scared him slightly.
“Th—wh—where you come from, your lot flies, don’t they? They fly in those balloons, in those planes, and glide and sail.”
“Fall in style. Yeah.”
Kevin was honest. Felkhr squeezed his eyes shut.
“—I could do that. But tell me one thing. Do people really fly, or is it just a—dream? Do you get what I’m asking?”
Kevin did. He thought for a long time, and he did like following the latest trends in outdoor adventure, even if he personally didn’t skydive or do any of the most extreme things. He knew what Felkhr meant, and he answered slowly.
“Felkhr, my dude. Honestly? Most of ‘flying’ is like someone sitting in a wagon while the wagon does all the work. It’s wild, but you only get to see out the window, if that makes sense. Now, there’s skydiving and parasailing and…ways to fall in style. But if you’re talking about legit flying, wind in your face?”
The Gnoll nodded, eyes wide and attentive. Kevin counted.
“…Windsurfing. Which is insane and gets you killed. It’s all down, no up with one exception. Hang gliding’s the same. You need a high place, good conditions…parasailing. All are down. Except that we’re working on something. There are jet…well, a way for someone to fly with a backpack, essentially. And we’ve strapped on a literal turbine to wingsuit divers and onto hang gliders.”
“A what?”
“It’s…nevermind. They can fly with that stuff. Fly straight up, fly into the clouds.”
“But?”
There was a but. And Kevin looked at Felkhr and smiled ruefully.
“…But they’ve got these turbines, these engines strapped to their backs and onto their devices, and they’re loud. They’re noisy as hell and heavy. And they run out of power. So if you’re asking me if someone can just fly around forever—no. You can buy a flying bike—well, a flying wagon. But not fly. Not even where I come from.”
He had seen someone strap a turbine, a literal fan, to their back and attach it to a parasail. That was the most open, immediate thing you could get—and he imagined it was still closer to a car. Humans could jet-fly. Humans could engine-fly.
But Ryoka was closer to Felkhr’s dream than Earth, or so Kevin felt.
Was there some kind of flying that Earth could not dream of? He didn’t know, but the Gnoll’s gaze brightened, and he sat back and exhaled.
“…Then I’m still in competition.”
“Do you want a hint, dude? I’m telling you, there are things you don’t know that, uh—you might need hints on.”
Kevin now wanted to help Felkhr, and the Gnoll was incredibly stubborn.
“No. No help. If I don’t figure it out myself, I won’t level. Thank you, Kevin. This has been very helpful.”
He moved to stand. But Kevin stopped him. The young man gave Felkhr a serious look.
“Dude. I just want you to know something. I respect the effort and the hustle. I really do. And I won’t give you hints if you don’t want—but there’s a world of effort that went into the stuff Troy and I are throwing around and where you are. Hundreds of years.”
He looked the Gnoll in the eye.
“People died who were like you. Worked their entire lives to move us forwards an inch, fly us for just a minute. I can’t tell you how many thousands of geniuses worked so we could fly around and take it for granted. You could work for the rest of your life without getting anywhere if you don’t understand the basics.”
The greatest achievement of humanity was arguably flying. More than the internet. More than any weapon—they had defied gravity, and Felkhr was going it alone. The Gnoll’s face was unhappy.
“I know that. Believe me, I’ve heard it from every person I’ve ever talked to, including my parents. I know how hard it is.”
“I’m not trying to talk you out of it. I just—want to help.”
Felkhr’s defensive look altered. Now, he seemed as wary of accepting help as of being told what he was doing was impossible.
“I’m good at figuring things out, Kevin. With respect, even the glimpses I got are huge hints. Thank you. I’ll come back for more, alright?”
He turned to go, and Kevin raised a hand…then slowly lowered it. He was about to agree when he saw something he had never quite been able to forget.
So, uncharacteristically, he blocked the way out of his office.
“Dude. Dude. I—listen—that’s not—let me tell you a story.”
Felkhr halted as Kevin ushered him back to his seat. The young man took a deep breath and tried to tell Felkhr in a way he’d get it. So he told him the story he always thought of.
“—There were the bravest guys—and girls—that the world’s ever seen. The smartest, and they didn’t just get into the air. They wanted to fly higher. In my world, there was a country. Russia. And they wanted to fly…to the moon.”
To the moon? Felkhr’s eyes opened wide at Kevin in disbelief. Even his dreams didn’t go that far. But he just wanted to get off the ground. He looked out the window, as if he could see the moons shining overhead.
What ambition. But Kevin’s face was somber.
“They were racing my nation. This was way before I was born. Well…a few decades ago. And they had the best minds in their part of the world working on their dream. But they were being rushed. Pushed by the generals and…they wanted to be first, so they sent a man into space. But their ship wasn’t ready. He knew they would send him up, but they’d never be able to get him down in one piece.”
Felkhr’s fidgeting went still. He looked at Kevin, and the young man kept talking. Then—Felkhr thought he could almost see it.
“His name was…Vladimir Komarov. And he knew his ship was filled with mistakes. Rushed designs. He could have refused, but if he did, they would have sent the backup pilot instead. So he went right up there. And when he did—he told the state to bury him without a casket. So they could see what happened to someone who burst into flames on the way down.”
Kevin shuddered. He had seen an image of that very story and had to find the reason why that picture existed. Felkhr looked at Kevin bleakly.
“It sounds like a problem with their High Command, not the people who tried to get him up there.”
“Yes. It was. But we’ve done the same thing. The first people in my world to fly—also saw a lot of their friends die. If I could have gone back and given them a hint—I would. Dude. Let me at least help.”
Kevin could have probably told Felkhr another dozen stories in the same vein. Each one about people rushing towards their dream and putting their lives on the line.
But what changed Felkhr’s mind as he sat there wasn’t just the cautionary tale. He was the cautionary tale, and every scar he had from breaking his legs or an arm was proof. It was…the way Kevin pleaded with him. The quiet horror of knowing those names that history had not forgotten.
They had not been forgotten. So, the Gnoll’s look of defiance slowly changed to one of humility. He took a huge breath and—in that moment—wished so dearly he could have met them.
He thought they would have understood him, and he them, despite their difference in species, like no other beings in the entire world.
Even so. His pride warred against his mind for a moment. Then, Felkhr closed his eyes for a second, then looked around.
“…Can I borrow a piece of parchment?”
Kevin handed him some paper. Felkhr sketched with a paw and spoke.
“[From Mind, Accurate Sketch]. Is…this a good blueprint of a working plane? Your hang-glider, parasail, hot air balloon?”
He showed four different sketches rendered in simple pencil work, and Kevin swore. It was a monoplane, not a jet, one of the old designs reminiscent of a WW1 fighter, but it had the same aerofoil design that had been the start for everything.
“Fuck. It is.”
What a curious wing. Felkhr couldn’t take his eyes off the cross-section of the plane’s wing that had made him so confused. He looked at Kevin.
“Is this accurate to the best flying machines?”
“…Yes. One exception, but those ones work.”
Felkhr nodded. He rolled up the piece of paper.
“In that case—I’ll start from that. It’s a hint. But let me figure out why, first. If I have questions, can I come back to you?”
“Sure.”
Kevin smiled, and the Gnoll left the room. Head raised, on a hunt. A spark reinvigorated.
…He came back after four minutes and pointed at something on Kevin’s desk just as the first Dwarf [Emissary] strolled into the waiting room and booked an appointment with Kevin. The Dwarf’s ears perked up at the conversation.
“Can I ask—what’re the little steel orbs for?”
And Kevin laughed.
“Those? Ball bearings. If you think Troy’s changed Pallass…you haven’t seen anything yet.”
The only problem was…Pelt hated making them, and Kevin needed thousands. Felkhr stared at the object as Kevin picked it up and gave it a spin for demonstration. And he got it. His eyes lit up.
“Now that’s amazing.”
 
——
 
The concept of ball bearings was not immediately impressive until you realized how useful it was.
In that—it allowed for a far more frictionless way to rotate something around. Instead of two pieces of metal grinding on each other, you had only a few perfectly round spheres. Mind you—you needed a lot of them, and they were an efficiency measure. You didn’t employ them until you had something to rotate. Until you had the industry to manufacture them.
However—it was a sign. And there was a vision that was coming from Pallass, from Liscor, from places around the world.
The times, they were changing. And as proof of that—the Dwarves were coming.
The first of them knocked on Kevin’s door after having been chased out by Master Pelt. Negotiations were hard work. In fact, another one was not contacting Erin Solstice this very moment as Felkhr returned to the inn.
They had seen how well that worked. Rather, a Dwarf was sitting and enjoying lunch. Which she would do for at least another day before figuring out the smart way to get the [Innkeeper]’s attention without the wrath.
But that was another another tale. Felkhr was already muttering to himself.
“I don’t understand it. I don’t understand those damn wings. But I don’t have to. If I don’t understand it—I just need a mold. Or I can cut it out of wood and build a prototype.”
There was something about that plane which made him incredulous that it could fly. The Wind Runner’s glider made sense. It was like a giant wing. But the plane had far less surface. Why did it work? Perhaps that thing on the front…but the wings were still like that for a reason.
By the time he was back in The Wandering Inn, though, Felkhr was already doubting his commitment to going it solo.
What Kevin had said about a thousand geniuses had rattled the Flying Gnoll. He sat at the table where Erin’s promise of free food was apparently still ongoing, sipping greedily from a cup of ‘eggnog’.
It tasted like sweet soup, but he bet he could save a bundle on his meals if he ate now. Yet the Gnoll was bouncing to morose.
“Maybe I should go back and beg for knowledge. I…just want to fly.”
Felkhr muttered. The desire to do things his way and the desire to leap into the air like the Wind Runner were warring in his heart.
Much like the war going on between Nanette and Mrsha. It was drawing in all the foreign powers, and right now, the cold war was becoming a battle for the most powerful allies.
In fact, it had even drawn down one of the inn’s most formidable neutral parties.
Not Shriekblade.
Bird.
