He sat across from the muttering Felkhr with Nanette on one side, Mrsha on the other. Bird rocked back and forth in his chair as he eyed the boiled eggs one was tempting him with, ready to become egg salad with a dollop of mayo, and the spicy chicken wings from the other, breaded.
“I cannot commit to one side or the other without a firm stance on your position on birds. Nanette, do you support the acquisitions of ballistae for the inn?”
“Absolutely, Bird.”
The witch replied instantly, and Numbtongue nodded with a huge grin. Mrsha scowled, and Bird turned to the Gnoll and her mother.
“I see. You have echoed Mrsha in this regard. We are at an impasse. However, would you, Nanette, also commit to backing any bird-related movies during movie night over any snuggle fests of Numbtongue’s disgusting romantic movies?”
He wanted to watch Birds. Numbtongue did not, and because they practiced a democratic system for Erin’s theatre…
The [Bard]’s smile turned into a scowl of alarm. He looked at Nanette, and the witch, also partial to romance, unlike Mrsha, hesitated.
A second was too long. Bird looked at her and nodded slowly. He glanced at Felkhr, then walked over and sat with Mrsha.
“We were meant to be enemies, Nanette. You fight me at your peril.”
“You might regret your choice, Bird.”
Nanette folded her arms, smiling too-innocently. It looked sinister to Mrsha and Lyonette. The little witch was showing her fangs. But Bird was the first member of the inn not to lose to Nanette.
He spread his mandibles and raised them.
“I am Bird, Nanette. You don’t know who you face. I’m unpredictable. Even I don’t know what I might do. I have the power of Queens on my side. And lying. At any moment, I might do something genius or stupid. Or both.”
He put all four hands to his head, pressing his fingers against his brain.
“Hm. Hmmmmmm. Aha!”
The first salvo of the war was a dirty blow. Bird turned to Lyonette and whispered loudly.
“Miss Lyonette, you should send a [Knight] to Riverfarm.”
“I don’t know if Laken wants to be part of this altercation, Bird…”
That was going too far. But Bird shook his head happily.
“No. Not to him. Ask…the [Witches] of Riverfarm what should be done if a little witch is getting a big head and ego. Heh. Heheheheheh.”
Nanette’s confident smile turned pale. Lyonette clapped her hands together in delight.
Escalation. Why were Mrsha and Nanette fighting again? Possibly at least one of them had forgotten.
 
——
 
While a [Knight] was heading to the door and being sabotaged by other members of the inn, including Liska, Felkhr’s muttering to himself and figuring out the odd wings was largely overlooked.
He sat at his table as more guests drifted in and out. The Flying Gnoll noticed them, of course. Some like Klbkch made his fur crawl, but the Antinium was only here to unfold a map on the table and read it with a bowl of acid flies on the side.
In fact, even Saliss of Lights wandered into the inn, and Erin Solstice broke off from trying to de-escalate and disarm the conflict in her inn.
“Saliss! My favorite naked Drake! Why are you sooty? You look tired—pull up a chair! What can I get you?”
The Drake had his privacy box on, and he flopped into the chair.
“Sugar. And I’ll take it from Ishkr, thanks. Watching you roll around for fifteen minutes to get me a drink is funny—but I’m hungry and thirsty. Also, you clearly haven’t met many Drakes if I’m your favorite naked one.”
“Ooh. That one stung. Are you okay?”
The Drake was not. He was not his usually annoying self. He was tired, sooty, and, most unusually of all, injured. He had a burn on his arm. Just a faint discoloration of scales, but Erin blinked at it.
“I’ve never seen you get hurt before. Wait, you blew a hole through the roof of your lab.”
“Yeah. There’s two holes, now.”
“Whoa. You making some kind of super-vial of explosions?”
Saliss grimaced.
“I know you’re being cute, but that’s the opposite of what I’m trying to do. I’m looking through the Albez stuff, and I just hit gold. Unfortunately, it’s so potent that Xif took one look at it and decided he didn’t want to try figuring out what it did. Xif said that.”
“Whoaaaaa. Wait, what’s making it go boom?”
Saliss flopped upright and seized the first milkshake that came his way.
“It’s not ‘what’, it’s ‘how much’. I’ve never seen anything like it. It makes Sage’s Grass look mundane. I used half of a pebble yay big the first time in a non-reactive solution.” 
He indicated a pebble half the size of one of Erin’s nails.
“The second time? Powder. And yes, those are [Alchemist] terms. ‘A chunk of this shit’, ‘a sprinkling of powder’. Some recipes are incredibly stupid. I used 3 milligrams the first time, which might have been stupid, but again—non-reactive formula. Then I used 64 fraerling-grams.”
“What’re they?”
“A thousand less than a milligram. Fraerlings are the only ones who use that measurement, generally. Anyways, look at my arm!”
“Does it hurt?”
“No, it’s embarrassing. I—hey, is that an ordinary cake? I heard someone was making new stuff called viennetta. I thought we were friends. Bring it out! Bring it out!”
Saliss began banging on the table. He glanced over, saw Felkhr, and blinked.
“Well, well. Look who it is. Hey. This is my inn. Back off!”
He shook his fist at Felkhr, and the Flying Gnoll broke off from his ruminations long enough to grin. Erin twisted her head to look and realized that for all her guest was isolated—he still got people calling out to him.
A feathered woman walking in with the two members of her team and six rookies halted. Bevussa, Captain of the Wings of Pallass and rising star among her city, called out.
“Is that Felkhr? I haven’t seen you at the inn. Hello.”
“Oh. Captain Bevussa. Hello.”
The Garuda was busy, but she waved before marching over to Erin to introduce her team. Erin distinctly heard one of the Drakes, Issa, whispering. The Oldbloods looked askance at Felkhr. But the two Garuda out of the new recruits waved.
“Captain, you know that guy? He’s the crazy Flying Gnoll.”
“I like him. His father was a Garuda too, you know. Straighten up, you lot. Erin, these are my new teammates. We’re expanding and eying the New Lands…could I borrow that special garden that Jewel was talking about? I want to see how well they do without me in a fight.”
Bevussa was politely ignoring Felkhr staring at her wings and the Oldbloods’. He was comparing them to his plane sketch.
“It makes no sense. It doesn’t work like that, does it?”
The wings versus the plane? He frowned…then slowly rotated the drawing and began to sketch out a bird’s wing.
“They’re not the same. Are they?”
He stared at the wing of a bird—then the cross-section of the plane wing and tried to make the two make sense. It was only when someone oohed loudly in his ear that he jumped and nearly knocked over the cinnamon roll he’d been given.
“Ooh. A hawk wing. And a boring plane wing.”
“Gaaah!”
The Gnoll’s scream made Erin look up from leading the Wings of Pallass to the Pomle garden.
“Bird! Are you harassing Felkhr? Felkhr, you remember Bird, right?”
The same Antinium who’d killed dozens of Wyverns? Felkhr leaned back in his seat, and Bird protested.
“I was merely staring at beautiful bird wings while plotting how to harm Nanette in a non-lethal manner, Erin.”
“—Don’t do the second thing! And don’t do the first thing unless Felkhr lets you, alright?”
Bird sulked as he perched in a chair. Felkhr slowly reached for his drawing, and Bird handed it to him.
“Hello. I am Bird. What are you doing? These wings are alike, by the way.”
He pointed at the sketch, and Felkhr’s brows crossed with both the instinctive alarm of a Pallassian meeting the feared Antinium and confusion.
“What? No, they’re not. They’re completely different.”
“They are very much the same. May I show you why?”
Felkhr handed the parchment to Bird. Bird instantly tore it in half.
“Hey!”
Before the Gnoll could get mad, Bird rotated the hawk wing that Felkhr had sketched in quite good detail until it was positioned sideways—like a hawk in motion. Gently, he traced the curve of the wing where it would meet the body—and it was raised.
Similar to the design of the plane’s wing. Then Felkhr saw it and felt like a fool. Bird happily pointed to the plane’s wing.
“They have the same bumpy top bit and flat underside. So do Wyverns. Dragonflies and bees and insects do not have that exact type of wing, but they fly silly. Like her.”
A bee flew overhead, lazily shooting green fire behind her. The jet-powered bee nearly flew into Felkhr’s open mouth before she winged into the garden after Erin. The Gnoll’s eyes followed it.
What a sight! Wait, how is she—
He was sketching the bee without saying a word, trying to capture the method the Ashfire Bee was using to fly. Bird oohed silently as Mrsha tugged on his arm. They had to plot dire vengeance against Nanette!
“Who are you, please? I think we have met, but I do not remember it.”
Bird tilted his head left and right, and Felkhr jumped again.
“I’m—Felkhr. The, uh, Flying Gnoll of Pallass.”
“Oh! Can you fly?”
“No. But I want to.”
Bird’s visible excitement turned to disappointment instantly. Mrsha, distracted, wrote on a card and slipped it onto the table.
Excuse me, sir. Why do you want to fly so badly? I have heard that you break more bones than I break plates each month. It seems foolhardy in my opinion.
At this point, Felkhr didn’t even bother to act surprised that a young girl wrote like a [Scholar]. As for the answer? It poured out of him without a second’s thought. He was staring at the plane’s wing, understanding now it was modeled after a bird’s wing. He still did not understand why it worked…
And now he thought he could see how he might have missed the simple issue of design for years. If this wing worked—it was not about feathers, but structure. 
“Maybe I should take the easy way out. Why do I want to fly? Because…I think it would be the most fun thing in the world.”
Mrsha had been expecting a stupid answer about aspirations or perhaps the natural ambitions of the grounded beings to conquer the stratosphere. But she sat up as Bird clapped his hands together and smiled hugely. Felkhr stared out a window. It was snowing. But up there…he craned his neck, as if to stare into those clouds.
“Have you ever wanted to touch a cloud? I think of it all the time. I think flying would be the most amazing thing in the world. I dream of it. Soaring into the sky—I don’t think there would be an experience more magical and amazing than that. I want to fly, because if I could fly, there is nowhere and nothing I couldn’t reach. Fly above the clouds. Whenever I wanted. Just spread a pair of wings and take off.”
He blinked and looked at the two children, one big, one small. Then he felt embarrassed and annoyed that he felt embarrassed. But his mouth kept working.
“Pallass is a huge city. A Walled City, one of the biggest cities in the entire world. Home to millions. Climbing from foot to the top of the walls is tiring, even for an adult. But you know who flies over our city as if it’s as tiny as a foothill? Birds. I see eagles and hawks up in the air, and I wonder how the world looks. I think—it would be so fun I could die for it. That’s why. Ahem. Nice to meet you. You’re…Mrsha, right?”
Then he was embarrassed all over again and looked at the white Gnoll cub. But she gave him a look of rare respect, and her eyes shone from the blaze his dream had produced. Mrsha had never had the dream of flying, not really. She saw people fly and thought it was cool—Ryoka had taken her soaring across the ground.
But now she wanted to know what the sky looked like way up high. And she got what Felkhr meant. It was one thing to be a passenger.
Another to be able to fly.
Someone else understood far more than she did, though. The instant Felkhr finished speaking, Bird raised all four hands. The Gnoll recoiled slightly, but Bird was smiling. He grabbed one of Felkhr’s paws with two hands.
“You are right! Planes are noisy and make loud sounds and smell, according to Kevin. Flying is natural and beautiful. Everyone should dream of flying. I like you, Felkhr. We must now become best friends. I have deep respect for your dream.”
“Huh?”
Bird logic moved faster than even Felkhr’s mind could catch up with. But he had a supporter in Bird, and the Antinium instantly began slapping the table.
“Ishkr, Ishkr! We must have food for Felkhr! I will give him my five meals a week to fund his projects.”
Ishkr reappeared, looking slightly annoyed.
“You don’t have five meals to comp, Bird. And Felkhr can order what he wants.”
“Oh. Then may we all have some of that fried chicken wing, please? You should eat. Why are you staring at wings?”
“I’m trying to figure out why it works. Do you know if I can buy some wood or twine around here?”
Felkhr could go to his workshop, but the idea of working in this warm inn rather than his unheated workshop—the forge’s ambient heat was less pleasant than a fireplace—appealed to him greatly. Plus, free food. Bird instantly ran upstairs.
“I have tons of wood from when I was going to try and murder an entire city! You may have it—and glue and string.”
Something about how he spoke was greatly concerning to Felkhr, but the Gnoll was suddenly drawn to the hot wings. He realized it had been a long time since he’d had anything fancy to eat.
An entire basket arrived for him—then another for Bird as the Antinium ran down and dumped an armful of scrap on the table. Ishkr let him do it, and he delivered Mrsha’s lunch too and pulled the covering lid off with a flourish.
The lunch was…a piece of burnt breading on a plate. A big plate. Mrsha stared down at it, then up at Ishkr.
The Gnoll was just as surprised. He frowned towards the kitchen, and Calescent gave them an evil smile.
A chef was a bad foe to have.
 
——
 
Felkhr and Bird didn’t even see Mrsha and Ishkr go off or pay attention to the hijinks and shenanigans and perhaps even silliness going on around the inn.
It was strange. One second they were strangers—and Bird was a stranger, even if he was friendly. But then Bird mentioned his dream of flying and it was like an electric bond was running between them.
Like a [Lightning Bolt] of understanding. You get it. Only, Bird’s dreams had never been more than the desire to fly and pestering Valeterisa and other people to make it happen.
Felkhr was the embodiment of trying to make it happen, and Bird’s mind was blown away by the reality of Felkhr’s dream.
