And it seemed to him as if the world itself were waiting for him to finish his work. As if Pallass had suddenly caught a new scent on the breeze.
Less people mocked him than before. Zemize didn’t show up at his workplace, and Saliss reported not having to trounce half as many spies as he thought.
“Sometimes the Eyes of Pallass are smart. Smart enough not to interfere with things.”
That was his only comment, but Felkhr thought he could see Drakes and Gnolls, Garuda and Dullahans, watching him. He’d quit his job and was working full-time on his first prototype. Obviously, they’d thrown things off the walls already and gone to Liscor to test things out.
But the flight day…that would be the first day Felkhr got into his Rascale Safety Harness Mk. 5 and marched out of his worksite. He couldn’t believe that day came when it did.
Or the fact that the Mk. 5 was a creation of Troy, who had seen the disastrous events surrounding Felkhr’s and Yoiss’ falls and invented a way to disengage out of the harness. It wasn’t fast because that was not something you wanted to do by accident, but if you removed three clips, you could yank the harness into two pieces by disengaging a central lynchpin strap.
But that was all a different story and going on as the Flying Gnoll pursued one dream. When his day came, it was, perhaps, a small story.
At first. But Pallass had been waiting a long time, laughing, mocking, and now, silently expecting. Felkhr could have waited more years, but it felt like it was all coming together fast.
But then—if this day had been a long time coming—
His true class had come first. It did not carry him to his goal. It just helped him get there sooner.
 
——
 
On the day of Saelsmorn, the second day of the week, in the the month of Mouring, the fourteenth month of the year, twenty-three years after the King of Destruction’s first slumber, Felkhr of Pallass checked his safety harness and accepted the helmet that Yelroan handed him.
The [Mathematician] was the only person in his workshop. He let Felkhr inspect the padded helmet.
“Not enchanted. Grimalkin doesn’t want any magical interference.”
“Thanks.”
Safety goggles went under the helmet, and Felkhr felt a bit warm in the jacket and pants—but it was cold up there even for a Gnoll. It was getting into the middle of winter.
10/14/23. Not a fancy day by any means. Saliss had almost begged Felkhr to lie on the records and claim he’d done it on 13/13/23 or lie entirely and say it was 2/2/22 just to annoy the [Historians]. But they’d agreed that this was a good day, weather conditions notwithstanding. Yelroan was updating Felkhr on the conditions as the Gnoll checked his gear.
“There’s a slight breeze up there. You can call it off. Grimalkin wants to kill the weather magic.”
“No altering the weather. We’re proving it works. Can you help me strap in?”
Yelroan did, and he was nervous and excited. He’d switched his sunglasses for non-shiny ones so he didn’t blind Felkhr by accident.
“There’s a crowd up there. And speaking of weather—Grimalkin says you’ve got a few important guests. He said not to tell you if you’re nervous.”
“I’m not nervous.”
Felkhr was about to pee. He’d done it eighteen times so far, and now he was in his harness, he regretted not trying one more time to squeeze something out. He was terrified—and exhilarated.
This was it. The object moving with his arms was bulky—but they’d folded it up, and he could walk around with it.
It looked like a bunch of moth wings secured by wood to his back. Silk indeed, and it fanned out somewhat like the Wind Runner’s suit if Felkhr spread his arms—but it was detachable instead.
And it had a few other tricks that the Wind Runner didn’t need. Felkhr barely noticed the weight; it was light as could be.
Of course, as he knew, ‘light’ still meant his entire body’s weight needed to get off the ground, and that was going to be a challenge.
“Where’s the canister? Careful, careful—”
Saliss had told them there was no chance of it going ‘boom’. But he said that with five holes in his laboratory, and Felkhr knew how much power that had to go into anything to damage Saliss’ lab. Yelroan very carefully attached it, and Felkhr felt his back heating up.
“Alright. Runes working.”
“The connection to the mana stones good?”
He had one in each glove of his suit. Felkhr nodded and tested both. Yelroan confirmed both spells were working.
Aside from the passive enchantments, there were only two active spells that required the power source Saliss had provided. Steering was not one of them.
After much consultation with flying experts like Apista, Bevussa, and so on, it was clear to Felkhr that fliers were very sensitive to the slightest movement in the air. A wheel or rudder was too powerful; he’d shift his body weight left or right to yaw.
There were a lot of dangers, though, and he was armed with a Scroll of Featherfall but determined not to use it unless he had to. Besides…as he had learned, the acceleration of other objects could still mean his end.
But he had his class. It burned in him, and Yelroan stepped back.
“Alright. This is it. They’re waiting for you on the 10th floor. Want to take an elevator?”
“I’m not walking.”
The two Gnolls grinned at each other, and then they began to walk outside. And this time—
 
——
 
They were lining up as they had always done. Idle passers by, citizens. People hoping for an accident or, sometimes, those who thought this time he’d do it.
Only this time, they knew what was coming. So Felkhr was surprised to see people lining the street by his workshop on the 8th Floor. He looked around—and saw familiar faces.
The Engineering Guild. Garuda. And Drakes, Gnolls, slowing as they saw the commotion. Felkhr heard whispers as he and Yelroan marched forward. He looked different this time, with his helmet and goggles and an actual suit.
“What’s happening now?”
“That’s the Flying Gnoll of Pallass. Is he doing something again? I thought they banned him?”
“Why’s there a crowd this time? His contraption doesn’t look better than last time.”
“I saw the Wind Runner on the walls. And the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. Maybe…”
Felkhr stumbled a bit—and Yelroan grinned.
“Told you.”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was fidgeting on the cold battlements as a young woman in a wheelchair sat, warm under a blanket. The Barefoot Runner was paying for her arrogance, but she was also nervous.
“I feel like he hates my guts. Am I paranoid, Erin?”
“Ryoka, you think everyone hates you. In this case, he might. Grimalkin, does Felkhr hate Ryoka?”
The Sinew Magus turned from checking the air currents. He frowned at Ryoka.
“No. Felkhr quite admires you, Miss Griffin. That would be paranoia.”
“But he’s never asked to talk to me. I only heard about this project yesterday!”
Ryoka protested. She was eying the sky, checking the wind. There was more powerful wind above. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“Felkhr wanted to do this without relying too much on outsiders. This is a Pallassian project. He felt that too much copying would undermine his conclusions.”
“Maybe I should talk to him. Or—do you want me to help with the wind?”
“No. Any attempts and I will dispel your wind magic.”
Grimalkin snapped. Ryoka lifted her hands.
“Oh, come on, Grimalkin! This isn’t a game!”
“We know. But Felkhr will prove he can do this without help. No magic except for his gear. No Skills save his own. And none of that will help him fly.”
“Pardon me for trying to help.”
Ryoka went off to sulk with someone else not always beloved. She walked over and cleared her throat.
“Hey. We haven’t talked. I’m Ryoka.”
“You’re blocking my view.”
Chaldion of Pallass had a huge fur coat on and his own seat. Ryoka threw up her hands, and he grinned.
The Grand Strategist of Pallass just happened to be here. Despite Grimalkin and Saliss doing their best to keep the day secret—here he was. And there were a number of Pallassian officials in the crowd.
“Old man, I will throw you off the walls first. This isn’t your moment.”
Saliss beamed as he kicked one of the soldiers trying to block him from Chaldion in the shins. The old Drake raised one brow innocently.
“It’s a custom to watch the Flying Gnoll make his attempts. There’s no law against me being up here.”
The [Alchemist] had an annoyed look on his face.
“Right. And the crowds just turned up. General Duln, [Senators] on your good list—all because they’re interested.”
Chaldion sipped from a cup of steaming tea without a word.
“I’m sure Noass and his camera crew are just here because they can sense a good moment. Miss Drassi as well.”
Channel 1 and Channel 2 were fighting in the background for the best spot. Saliss’ teeth ground together, but even he was too excited to stand still. But he had to point to the forty assorted Drakes and Gnolls and Dullahans and Garuda standing on a set of bleachers to the side.
“And the damn choir?”
Chaldion made a show of looking sideways, and his good eye widened.
“My, is that our city choir? I had no idea they were there. One good eye, you see. Bad peripheral vision.”
 
——
 
By the time Felkhr got up to the 10th Floor, there were thousands of Pallassians waiting and thousands more coming up. Saliss trying to heave his grandfather over the edge of the walls wasn’t even noticeable to the Gnoll.
He walked forwards and looked around.
“This is it.”
Unlike last time, there was no certainty in his bones. He was terrified, nervous, and he had been as thorough as could be. Prepped for this. Even done underwater tests to prove the ideas worked. He’d thrown more sandbags with his face attached to them onto the ground than he could count.
But there was something in his chest. It was burning—and he didn’t pay attention to Noass and Drassi wanting a word. The choir was warming up around him—and he just looked at Yelroan, Saliss, Grimalkin.
“Is Bird here?”
He couldn’t make it, Felkhr supposed. But then he heard an excited voice.
“I am here, Felkhr! Hello! I can see everything through the theatre! Zimrah and many of us are here, watching! The Flying Queen is shouting through Pivr. Pivr, shut up.”
An excited Bird was peering out of a scrying orb. He meant the Antinium. Felkhr smiled at them and Rufelt and Lasica. Behind him, Noass was throwing elbows.
“Felkhr, a word before you set out on your latest attempt? Do you have a word for the crowds?”
The couple holding the scrying orb waved to Felkhr. Rufelt grinned as he looked at Felkhr, shaking with nerves himself.
“Is this it, Felkhr? You’re not dreaming.”
The Gnoll pinched himself. He knew there were probably countless people watching. Not just Antinium or Pallass.
Goblins were watching from Goblinhome. Gnolls in the Great Plains had stopped and gathered around scrying orbs, murmuring a name and asking who he was. Garuda flitted down in Chandrar, alerted by their cousins from Pallass that something was going on.
The Titan and leaders of war were tuning in—and all Felkhr saw were the people who had supported him. And the sky.
It was blue as could be with great clouds threatening more snow in the distance. But the spots he saw were so vividly, painfully clear—he stared up and up, and he knew how high the sky was.
Higher than the depths of the sea. Many times the size of the High Passes. A cloud was inconceivably high…he felt the two mana stones in his gloves tingle as he pressed his paws down on them. Then he turned to Rufelt and Lasica.
“No. I’m not. Dreaming, that is. But then again, I am. Because this is the day I find out.”
It was a statement only Rufelt and Lasica and his friends would understand. A Human woman with raven hair was elbowing Noass, and the [Innkeeper] was waving at him as Mrsha and Nanette peered at him expectantly.
And it was all too much. Felkhr’s heart was pounding out of his chest. He had never had a ceremony. He had always done this alone, with mockery and no great expectations on him.
All except for the Garuda. He looked at them now—and raised a paw. But Felkhr’s last words in this moment were just…
“I’m not dreaming.”
Then he was running across the 10th floor.
No one was ready for that. The [Senators] were getting ready for a speech. Erin blinked as Felkhr dashed past her. She saw him slip on some melted snow, and his arms windmilled. But then he was at the edge of the battlements, and his stride lengthened. She saw him arc his back, spread his arms, and those wings snapped into place. Wider than his wingspan, a wingsuit perhaps. But what was that strange thing suddenly rising over his helmeted head?
Then he leapt, ahead of the gasps and cries, and the Choir of Pallass began to sing.
 
——
 
The Choir of Pallass, the recognized entity with the best singers—amateur and professional—was a hotly contested spot that had the honor of singing at formal events. In this case, it was an ‘honor’ because they were cold and Chaldion had summoned them and made them stand here an hour and a half.
They had one job, which was also nerve-wracking: sing the anthem of Pallass. Something they knew by heart—but they didn’t know when to sing. He’d just said that at some point the Flying Gnoll of Pallass would fly, and crash or succeed, they had better be singing on time for the cameras.
His sudden run meant they began singing in a panic as he cleared the ledge. They were quite drowned out by all the screaming and cries. And in all honesty, the singers were all watching Felkhr go over the edge.
It was not the best launch. The wing on the right side took two tries to click into place, and he was angled badly after that slip. All the while, he was going down, and they wondered if they would be singing his funeral dirge.
But then they saw the wings of his suit inflate—the wings lengthened, the cloth stretching to follow the sliding wood extending outwards and snapping into place.
Not a wingsuit! More like a flying suit with the wingspan of a smaller glider. Felkhr had insisted on it. Ryoka Griffin could fly with her Windsuit and her glider, but both were reliant on the wind, and the Windsuit was not meant for gliding. It was a fast way to travel, across great distance and down—but not up or even to maintain your altitude.
His flying wings had nine feet of clearance from either side. And they extended behind him like the wings of a great butterfly. 
Yet they were rigid, enforced by magic, and the silk fabric was a bright sunshine yellow, the color of Pallass. As the choir’s voices faltered and they stared—the wings caught the wind, and their aerofoil design arrested Felkhr’s fall.
He was gliding now! He had achieved the ability to glide downwards. But the Garuda were murmuring. Bevussa peered down.
