So the [Dreamer] looked at Saliss and Grimalkin and saw them. People with high levels who knew the impossible could be done. Sons of Pallass, prideful, both experts in their fields. Slowly, Felkhr nodded.
“I…I can try again. But I need to ask for theories this time. I need to know more, and more about magic too.”
“I have both, and I can explain them.”
Grimalkin, the note taker of legend, had all the facts. Saliss grinned.
“And you’ll make it practical, won’t you? No nonsense about Ryoka’s unique magic. Anyone can drink a potion of [Featherweight] and ‘fly’. This has to be—workable.”
“Yes. Yes. Maybe it is the glider, but it has to fly under its own power.”
Grimalkin flipped a page open in his notepad to show everyone a sketch. Or rather, a magical picture that might have been taken from one of the movie-nights.
“There are ways to do it. Propulsion based on turning propellers—”
Saliss nudged Grimalkin.
“Let him propose and we fulfill. First, we need this guy on his feet. Maybe I can pull out a potion. I’ll deliver some gold, you deliver the notes.”
Felkhr looked between his first two serious backers, and his heart was filled with more hope than he had in ages. But then—his face fell.
“I’ll never be able to practice in Pallass, though. Is there a room in Liscor or Invrisil? They’ll ban me from trying in the Assembly of Welfare.”
Grimalkin and Saliss had been discussing first steps, which mainly seemed to be getting Felkhr a room, burning this one to the ground, and hazing the Eyes of Pallass. But both looked over at this statement, and to Felkhr’s astonishment—they laughed.
Both were amused. Even Grimalkin chuckled, and Saliss rolled his eyes at Felkhr’s blank expression.
“Oh, that’s sweet. You think the Assembly will kick a poor Gnoll puppy boy like you when he’s down? Well, they would in a heartbeat. But you think I care? Not that we have to defy them anyways. I think the resolution isn’t going to pass. Your supporters showed up, and they’re having it out with the ones who want you to quit. Not that it matters. The old man decides, and he’s watching you.”
“What? I have supporters? Rufelt and Lasica?”
Felkhr was bewildered. Grimalkin looked surprised at his blank expression, but Saliss just shook his head.
“Come on. You’ve always known they were there, Felkhr. They’ve given you the most help. Maybe you should have asked for more help, but they turned up before Grimalkin or I. Actually—that’s what got me moving. And I really didn’t want Erin to suggest I help you. Some things I can do on my own.”
Once again, those eyes flashed—and Felkhr tried to think. Supporters? He had people who thought he was doing a good thing, like…
Like the Wind Runner?
“Do you mean children?”
Saliss slapped a palm to his forehead. And only when he helped drag Felkhr out of his apartments did the Gnoll remember. It was them.
It was always them.
 
——
 
Two kinds of people were in Pallass. Those that supported Felkhr, the few, the high level, and those who did not.
But one entire group had never derided him nor made fun of his attempts.
Oh, well, that wasn’t entirely true. There were always exceptions who poked fun at him or laughed along. But one entire body of people in Pallass had never sneered. And that group was—
Garuda.
They never did. When they saw him pacing along the walls testing his flying devices, they’d ask him how it was going. They’d humor him and give him feathers or talk to him about what flying was like.
They never mocked him, only watched and sometimes gave him a few words of encouragement, bought him an ale. Most clearly thought he was mad, but there was also something behind their gazes.
Expectation, perhaps. As if they were wondering and hoping he’d do it. Spread his wings and fly and join them.
Perhaps they remembered the tale of the Gnoll who had gone to their people’s greatest kingdom and learned to fly. Perhaps they simply respected anyone who wanted to do what they did.
Perhaps they were lonely, the last species able to fly in the skies of the world without prejudice or war at their wings.
Over a hundred Garuda showed up when the Assembly of Welfare decided to hear Felkhr’s case. The issue of the Flying Gnoll of Pallass and public safety had been opened to the public—which was a move to let the detractors have their say.
It backfired splendidly on the [Senators] who heard person after person demand Felkhr be given his chance to fly. When they did rule—they allowed him his right to continue experimentation providing he did not injure himself that badly again. If he did, they would immediately halt his self-endangering activities.
They did not have to worry in that regard. For the rest of the month, Felkhr didn’t so much as jump high. And not because he was grounded in his apartment, either.
He was actually only laid up for eight days.
He had broken almost every rib and shattered several bones in his legs. Even if he could hobble back to his apartment, he should have been practically immobile.
But as Saliss had observed, these things often came in threes. Only in this case, the ‘third’ member of the Felkhr alliance was banned from Pallass by name. So Bird waited until Felkhr had hobbled into the inn to talk with Kevin before he sprang on the Gnoll.
“Felkhr! How badly are you hurt?”
“I’ve…broken a lot of bones, Bird. Please don’t hug me.”
“Are you terribly, mundanely wounded by your encounter with the ground?”
“Yes.”
“Excellent!”
Bird rubbed all four hands together, and Felkhr almost got mad—until Bird pointed to an Antinium he had brought over.
“This is Zimrah. She is going to heal you, Felkhr.”
“I don’t need a potion, Bird. And there’s a limit unless you know [Restoration].”
Bird just laughed at Felkhr.
“Ha. Hahaha. You are so funny, Felkhr. I do not need that silly spell. Healing is a funny rule. I like breaking rules. Like truth, it is easy to fool, and Zimrah cheats.”
Then she put her hands on him—and Felkhr thought the Antinium were scarier and more powerful than the Walled Cities could ever dream of.
 
——
 
Then again, Saliss and Grimalkin knew quite a lot. For one thing, both were actually quite knowledgeable about flying…if not in the way Felkhr wanted. Saliss was trying to show them how other people ‘flew’.
“Ever heard of the combo attack the Haven’s crew does? I’ve seen it. They can toss Eldertuin like a twig, literally catapult him into foes. Skills cheat. What we’re doing here is limited, because any big spell or Skill can’t be replicated. So let’s call it a cap at Tier 4 magic at most.”
Grimalkin raised a quill.
“No Dwarfsteel. I took a look at whatever that metal Rufelt has is—and it’s one of their secret alloys. Plain wood will do if I enchant it lighter.”
Felkhr was nodding as he wrote down a plan.
“Then—the first thing I want you two to do is for Saliss to pay for a bunch of wooden rods I’ll fabricate. We’ll use those as the structure, and Grimalkin will put his best protective spell on them. Then I break them.”
“Ah. I knew he was crazy. Go on.”
Saliss laughed, but he understood instantly what Felkhr was describing. He showed Grimalkin a little contraption he’d worked out, and the Drake looked outraged.
“Those are my weights! I gifted you that weights-set to work out with!”
“Yes…but they’re perfectly calibrated for this. See? I can test the strength of each object.”
Felkhr innocently pulled on a string and added fifty pounds to a device he could test the tensile strength of an object with. Of course, ‘tensile’ was not the word he used, but he had heard how easy it was to break a flying vehicle in the air.
Having a baseline for the force put upon the entire flying machine would be important. But even Felkhr confessed that it was guesswork.
“Unless I know how powerful the wind will be, I don’t know how strong this entire device should be…or how each rod interacts with one another. I assume it adds to how much force it can support, but it’s more complicated than that.”
“Hmm. Hmmmmm. You know, it’s more than I want to deal with too. But I know a Gnoll who could render that kind of issue into numbers. If anyone can do it. Hey, Grimalkin, introduce Felkhr to the Math Gnoll himself. And ask those annoying know-it-alls if there’s an equation to measure force from the wind on a surface.”
“The Math Gnoll?”
Felkhr raised his brows in disbelief. But he learned to soon respect the flashing of sunglasses. Someone else believed in his vision—and Yelroan believed you could calculate the force a mace hit armor with. And if you could do that—the strength of any vehicle was just an equation. All they had to do was know the formula.
 
——
 
During Ryoka Griffin’s month of dinner dates and Erin’s month of dancing, a bitter cold war between Nanette and Mrsha blew across the inn.
At the same time, Felkhr studied flying. He watched Ryoka Griffin skimming across the snow and saw it was good, but impractical.
He re-watched Valeterisa lifting Fissival and noted the antigravity spells on the rocks as impractical—but also noted the air spell and flames with great interest. But he didn’t miss the fact that she’d had Djinni support.
Apista, ironically, was the best case example of how to fly on multiple levels. The bee flew far differently than the birds that Bird caught, living and dead, as examples. She also had her jetflame spell.
The act of paring down the materials into the lightest, sturdiest compromise between strength and weight was simple for Grimalkin and Saliss. One knew every material there was to work with in alchemy, the other could do the enchanting and actually break most of the pieces with his bare biceps and compare which was stronger on a personal, if merely qualitative, level.
And Yelroan would read Felkhr’s blueprints and try to calculate lift and drag and the structural integrity as Felkhr made tiny prototypes and launched them.
Then the four of them, two Gnolls, two Drakes, and sometimes one Bird, would gather in The Wandering Inn to talk, or Tails and Scales, although Bird couldn’t go to Pallass.
For the first time he could remember, Felkhr was sitting with more than work colleagues at a table in the pub instead of at the bar, eating while arguing fiercely and drawing on the table until Lasica shouted at them. Felkhr was gnashing his teeth over the issue.
“It’s impossible to fly without some form of propulsion. The most we can do is glide. Wingsuits, hang gliders, parasailing—are all dependent on incredible velocity and height. Or at the very least, a strong backwind and a hot day.”
Saliss grinned, stuffing half of the fries into his bag of holding for later.
“So what’s our propulsion? We’ve got jet fuel, propellers, hot air…”
“No propellers.”
Everyone but Saliss chorused instantly. Saliss spread his claws.
“But—”
Felkhr shook his head.
“It’s loud, dangerous, we don’t have an ‘engine’, and those helicopters and gyrocopters sound like death-machines.”
Kevin had described in detail the dangers of literal beheading when you so much as walked around a helicopter’s spinning blades. Besides, as Felkhr indicated—
“The problem is size. A plane is so big because of the need to power everything. The magical solution has to be superior to the stuff Earth has. Look at my design. It’s only possible with a rune enchantment. Well, maybe Earth could do the same, but I think they’d have another technique.”
Everyone leaned over, and Yelroan agreed.
“…That’s definitely not safe if they had to produce that from a live flame and combustion. But—hmm. I like that a lot.”
He grinned, and Grimalkin raised his brows.
“Interesting conception. Up and down.”
Felkhr was onto something. He kept scratching his head and hoped he didn’t have any dandruff as he spoke, slowly, working the entire thought out.
“Propulsion only goes one way. The other should be ambient heat. Can you do it?”
The Sinew Magus grimaced as he made some notes on his notepad then pulled out his spellbook.
“—I can do the spells. But there is no way I can power them off ambient mana, Felkhr. I’m sorry. You’ll get a gentle breeze at most, and that’s not practical.”
The Gnoll heaved a huge sigh.
“Then we’re using a magical fuel. We can still beat Earth. More compact, lighter—and it has to be within budget.”
Saliss was tapping his claws on the table, frowning hard. He stared at the runes as he listened to the discussion of magicore versus gemstones versus mana supply. Then he coughed into one fist.
“We might be able to make this thing slim and compact after all. It won’t be accessible to everyone. Not right away. But if you want that proof-of-concept, Felkhr…I’ve got a power source.”
Everyone stopped and stared at him. Grimalkin flipped the pages of his spellbook.
“Enough to power two Tier 1 spells at a Tier 4 consumption rate?”
The [Alchemist] gave him a surprisingly somber look.
“All day and all night, Grimalkin. Or at least for a few hours. But it’s on me to figure out how to make a controlled output, not an actual explosion. But I have to do it anyways, and if I do—keep away from the 9th Floor for a bit.”
Everyone looked at him incredulously, but Felkhr was willing to take a lot of what Saliss said on credit. He lifted a mug as Rufelt sent over a pitcher for the table.
“Here’s to new ideas.”
“Here’s to working together!”
Yelroan smiled. Saliss raised a cup.
“Here’s to being alone and having no one who loves us because we’re all insanely married to our jobs!”
The other three stopped as he took a huge gulp of his drink. And then Saliss looked sideways.
“Whoops, sorry. I forgot Grimalkin was here.”
The Sinew Magus looked hurt as Saliss bounced an onion ring off his chest. He seemed to be having as much fun with peers as…well, Felkhr and Yelroan.
“What are you talking about, Saliss? I am married to my work. I haven’t cultivated a personal relationship like that.”
Saliss paused with his toothy mouth open, and his eyes slid sideways to Felkhr and Yelroan. The [Mathematician] slowly sipped from his mug.
“I see.”
Saliss shook his head with a grimace.
“Wow. That’s just painful to hear. I feel so bad for someone I’m not going to name right now. Alright, here’s to that!”
Felkhr would never quite forget the completely blank look on Grimalkin’s face.
He thought he had never had a finer month. He had never laughed more, enjoyed dinners more.
Gotten angrier more. Angry enough to have a shouting match over designs with Yelroan, or so sad he shed tears over a prototype smashed to bits carrying all his plans. Or more excited.
