But the end result was a mold of a wing—and he had one of a seagull, a chicken—chickens could fly—and an Oldblood Drake, all made out of a plaster. It was probably the most valuable thing in the studio as they looked like pieces of art.
Certainly—the person who knocked on the door and came in seemed impressed. Felkhr spun, but the Drake raised her claws.
“Peace. Mister Felkhr, you’re not answering our notes.”
“Who are you? Get out. You’re—wait a second. Aren’t you Chaldion’s people?”
The Drake paused as she adjusted some plain, nondescript clothing. She looked like a common citizen bundled up in a jacket, but he recognized her from his meetings with them. And she came to the Engineer’s Guild.
“I’m a representative of the city, Mister Felkhr. And the city—and High Command and the Engineer’s Guild—would like very much to work with you.”
The Gnoll folded his arms.
“Are you the people who’ve been moving my notes around? Help yourself. Like everyone’s saying—the Wind Runner has her flying glider. I’m being left behind.”
The Drake made a show of looking innocent.
“It wasn’t me. Mister Felkhr—have you seen our notes?”
“Maybe. Was it the one you stuck in my sandwich? I ate half of it before I wondered why it tasted funny.”
The Eye of Pallass rubbed at her forehead.
“Some of my colleagues have a taste for the dramatic. I apologize. They should have left it on your drawing board. If you were not aware, let me repeat: we want you to head up a project in the Engineering Guild. We—that is, the Guild—are prepared to reinstate you as a Senior Journeyman and have you head our Flying Initiatives. We have a handsome salary and budget. You’ll be working with Pallass’ best. Here’s what you could make as an income. Not the budget.”
She scribbled a number down, and Felkhr blinked at it.
I could pay for a lot of Garuda feathers with that. But then he looked up and shook his head.
“Not interested.”
The Drake seemed to be expecting this. She found a seat on a table as she carefully put one of his first attempts at a flying vehicle aside. He’d seen the spinner-toys you could whirl up into the air, based on actual seeds that fell from trees, and tried to make one that carried him up—but it had seemed stupid and dangerous, so he quit.
“May I ask why? If it’s a matter of not wanting to take orders, I could…find you a project where you are in full control.”
“Nope.”
The Gnoll kept his arms folded. The Drake felt her way out tentatively.
“If you need more coins—”
“I don’t want to be told what to work on. Do you have any blueprints for what the Engineer’s Guild is making? You have to have them. That kid, Troydel, probably submitted them.”
“Mister Felkhr, I have no idea what you’re talking about. We’re just beginning the projects.”
This time, the Eye of Pallass gave him a completely blank look, and he almost fell for it.
What am I saying? That’s stupid. I—
Felkhr jabbed himself in the paw with a quill, and the Skill failed. She blinked, and the Flying Gnoll laughed at her.
“What Skill was that?”
“…[Misdirect Thoughts]. Why did it fail? You don’t have any notes on your file about being able to beat mental Skills.”
Felkhr waved a paw nervously. They were scarier than he’d thought, Pallass’ agents. But she seemed curious, and in the interest of everything staying friendly, he explained.
“That only works if I don’t know the facts. Which is that the Engineer’s Guild never approves a project without a plan.”
“Oh. Damn. Well, I—”
“Show me the blueprints or I’m not interested at all. I bet you I know what they look like, anyways. Hot air balloon. Hang glider. Aeroplane. Wingsuit. Uh…zippy lines?”
The Eye of Pallass stiffened.
“How do you know that? How do you—are those blueprints of them? Let me see that!”
She snatched some experimental sketches and yanked out a binder from her jacket. Then she shuffled over and compared the two. Felkhr called out.
“No one told me. I just—overheard things. Engineers talk.”
“Damn them. We’ll have to work on that. As for this—this is why we want you. I am sharing this with you to get you to come aboard. Understand that we’re improving and figuring out how to implement each. You won’t be able to do this yourself, Felkhr, and it’s already been done. Got it?”
She handed him her binder, and Felkhr’s eyes widened. What he saw were mostly sketches.
Ideas. Based on Troydel’s descriptions of what should be. [Engineers] had gotten into the job of figuring out how each worked. But he…
“Incredible. Wait. Is this a ‘plane’? Why does the wing look so odd?”
He had never seen this before. Then—Felkhr remembered where they had come from and jerked his eyes away as if burned. The agent folded her arms.
“Search me. Something about wind direction or…lift. That boy has no clue. He knows what it should be, but not all of why, and the explanations make my head hurt…”
She coughed, and Felkhr glanced up. Did she speak with Troy? He, on the other hand, was caught. He was staring at the oddest wing design ever—and something was going ping in his brain, while at the same time he was telling himself he didn’t want to know.
He forced himself to slap the binder shut and thrust it back at the agent.
“I—am not going to work on that for Pallass.”
“Why not? You can tell we’re ahead of you.”
The Flying Gnoll gave the agent a weary look.
“What’s your name, Miss?”
She was slightly offended by the question.
“I don’t know if that’s helpful.”
“Can’t you give me a fake one? I don’t like speaking to people I don’t know.”
“Fine. Call me Zemize. Pallass is offering you all the support you never had, Felkhr of Pallass. Your city wants you.”
He folded his arms again.
“It’s got a funny way of showing it after a decade.”
The Drake winced as she glanced around his workshop.
“The times change. Your ideas were never practical, but—we can see that it’s a viable path forwards, Felkhr. Consider your salary an apology. How large would you like it to be?”
Felkhr bared his teeth.
“Still not interested. I don’t want to be told to…copy someone else’s idea. Which is what that kid has. I don’t know where it comes from. Some ancient nation? Chieftain Seru’nial’s tribe? Another world?”
He was just throwing things out there, and the agent’s tail twitched back and forth as she laughed at the ideas. But Felkhr shook his head.
“Regardless. I believe it’d work—but it’s not my way. And my way will be the only way I do it. I’m not interested in making a hundred of those flying machines for the army, either. I want…to fly.”
He had never wanted anything more in his life. If he looked out the window, he could see the snow falling, and he imagined soaring up into those grey skies.
He was at his least motivated ever. He was at his most motivated ever. Because he knew it could be done. Because he wasn’t sure if he was barking up the wrong tree—
But he still believed in his plans. And he would not be a copycat to Ryoka Griffin or Troydel. He would rather just line up and buy one of the Wind Runner’s gliders when Pallass manufactured them and admit defeat rather than stop experimenting.
“You could do all this so much better with money. We’ll be spying on your designs, you know. You can’t defeat Troydel when it comes to ideas. Believe me. I’ll tell you this—I’m one of his assigned handlers, and he has plenty of people keeping him happy because he knows enough to turn Izril on its head. But all the things we need to make—we need you, Felkhr.”
He smiled politely at Zemize.
“But I don’t need the city. Not yet. And between you and me, Zemize, there’s another reason I don’t want to work with the Engineering Guild.”
“Which is?”
She leaned over, and he whispered to her.
“They’re slow. They have safety protocols and review boards, and they won’t test anything without trialing it a hundred times first. Which is great for the city and their people. I’m faster.”
Then he got up and showed her to the door. Felkhr kept smiling for nearly an hour until she was gone. Then he curled up and howled under his pillow for a while.
 
——
 
They’d figured it out! They had the whole of it! It made him so—so—angry. He wanted to punch a hole in a wall.
Lacking that, the first thing Felkhr did when he got to Liscor after paying for a day’s travel was punch the snowman outside.
“Stupid designs! Why do wings look like that? Stupid—know-it-all—Wind Runner!”
He hadn’t slept all last night. He’d been translating as many things he’d seen from his scan of the blueprints Troydel had made as he could onto parchment, then figuring them out. But he had stopped himself from begging to see the rest and was glad he hadn’t seen more than hints.
He didn’t. Want. To. Know.
There was more than pride at stake. More than the joy of accomplishing it himself. Felkhr had not gotten to where he was by taking the easy path.
He was more than the Flying Gnoll of Pallass. True, he might look like a crazy Gnoll punching a snowman to death as people edged around him outside the inn—but he had a secret.
Felkhr was a [Dreamer].
He was also an [Inventor].
And guess what? Neither class wanted Troydel’s certain knowledge. The Gnoll felt in his bones that he’d ruin himself if he saw the blueprints, and he had every reason to be proud.
Because he was a Level 33 [Dreamer of Flight].
And a Level 31 [Crazed Inventor].
Some people got to the famous ‘thirty before thirty’ hallmark of talent. Which was reaching Level 30 before reaching the age of 30.
Well, Felkhr had done it twice. And if you thought you didn’t get good Skills—there was some irony in what Felkhr got, actually.
He had gained, in his approximation, about the same amount of Skills as a regular Level 30 person between two classes. Mostly because the [Dreamer] class was, by and large, a famous dud.
Felkhr wasn’t even someone who daydreamed, so some of the Skills some sleep-enthusiasts got he had straight-out refused. The Skills he did get were odd.
The thing about wanting to fly is that when he was younger, he had assumed it would be given to him by levels.
You see—levels provided. Everyone knew that a class could shape you, but you also tended to get Skills that affected your life’s path by levelling.
So why would a Level 33 [Dreamer of Flight] not get the ability to fly?
[Realization of Your Deepest Dream] or something pithy like that? He’d fly for five minutes each day, and that’d probably satisfy him.
…But he didn’t get that Skill.
His [Inventor] class was simple. He had a lot of abilities like [Phantom Tool], which allowed him to adjust something from the inside rather than having to take it apart. [Incredible Adhesive] was one of his capstones that allowed him to make a glue twice as strong as regular.
He had [Detect Fault], which was invaluable for dealing with wood or metal, [Accident Prevention]—which had saved his life a few times and gave him a dodge from the first accident in a workplace each day. A literal dodge—or he’d catch himself from pouring solvent next to a candle or the like.
[A Scroll A Day: Parchment] meant he drowned in writing material. Even used it as toilet paper. He could adjust something he made, measure it down to exacting specifications, and make his simple tools work like magic.
His [Dreamer] class? That…gave him so few Skills he suspected something was laughing at him.
Here was an example of what the [Dreamer] class gave him. At first, he’d gotten [Lucid Dreaming], [Perfect Memory: Imagination], and so on, but then the class had seemed to…change.
Level 30 [Dreamer of Flight]. Capstone Skill?
[My Dream of Flight: 30% Discount]! Which meant he could walk into any shop, go to any [Merchant] in the world—and if he needed something for his dream, he only had to pay 70% of the price. The remaining bit would magically appear—or he’d find the coins in his pocket after paying.
Why. That? Why not ‘let me fly, you stupid class?’ Why not…[Super Jump]?
Another ‘[Dreamer]’ Skill he’d gotten?
[Mending Recovery]! For breaking your bones! [Increased Income: Job]! For more pay when you got your income from working as a Lift Operator! [Powerful Persuasion: Enchanters], for when you needed them to enchant your latest creation!
[Locate Item: Scroll of Featherfall] so he could go bargain-hunting for the scrolls.
Literally. He could detect [Featherfall] scrolls anywhere in Pallass. You want to find a [Featherfall] scroll? You talk to Felkhr. He could tell you that Grimalkin of Pallass had eighteen in his mansion.
Classes were stupid. And that was why Felkhr was in a crisis. He had not come this far on his own just to cheat his way to the end.
…Assuming he could find the end and it wasn’t by following Ryoka Griffin, Troydel, or the Archmage of Izril.
The Gnoll was understandably vexed by recent events. Stressed. Sleep-deprived, which was a terrible thing to be, and great sympathy should have been given to anyone lacking even an hour of sleep. Especially [Writers]. And [Engineers] and [Inventors] and [Dreamers].
So it was understandable that he beat the poor snowman to death. But, uh…when Felkhr finally caught himself and stopped mashing in the Yellat-nose and the remains of two eyes, he looked up and saw he had an audience.
Besides the visitors coming in and out to The Wandering Inn via the door, he also had two little Gnolls and two Drakes who were staring at him in horror.
They had a wheelbarrow of snow, and their beloved snowman was dead. Mrsha, Kenva, Visma, and Ekirra gave Felkhr a long look as he straightened up and looked at their snowman.
“Oh. I, uh…he was just standing there and…”
“He killed Mister Snowy! He was an Antinium! He’s racist!”
Visma began shouting. Felkhr raised his paws.
“No, no, I was just mad—”
It occurred to him it was the wrong thing to say. Mrsha was whistling, and a man in armor was striding towards him.
“Excuse me, sir. Back away from the children—”
“No, no, I was just—”
Felkhr was worried. He tried to back up—then felt the hairs on his neck rise. He looked up—and a glinting arrow was trained on him.
“Should I shoot him in the legs, Mrsha?”
Bird the Hunter called out from the tower. The Gnoll froze and held his paws straight up. His bad morning was getting worse.
 
——
 
Someone else having a bad day was Kevin.
Also Watch Captain Zevara.
They sat across from each other as he put his head on the table. Erin was mediating. The Watch Captain’s arms were crossed, and she had a bandage on her tail.
Two, actually. One was fresher than the other.
“I don’t understand it. Am I cursed? Or do you have a grudge against me? Are you trying to get bicycles banned from the city?”
