“Yeah, Kevin. What’s wrong with you?”
“I was swerving. This time it wasn’t my fault! Some idiot wasn’t looking and stepped into me, and it was either run him over or go left.”
“And the Watch Captain’s tail got run over.”
Erin turned to Zevara, and the Watch Captain nodded.
“How do you not see it?”
Kevin threw up his hands.
“I’m sorry. Tails are hard to see! I’m not used to having to navigate around Drakes, and yours is sort of long!”
“Don’t be lewd, Kevin.”
Erin slapped him on the shoulder as Zevara twitched her tail under the table defensively. The [Innkeeper] was not helping, but she was highly amused.
“If you do it again, I’ll arrest you. Your fine you can pay off now.”
He nodded, red-faced.
“I am so sorry, Watch Captain. Seriously. It’s like—I don’t know how it’s happened three times this month.”
To be fair, the first time in Esthelm and the second time had been close together, but she’d dodged him all month until now. Zevara shook her head. But Erin was offering something.
“What’s that? Did someone say…peppermint, magical candy cane for the Watch Captain and Kevin the tail-killer?”
Kevin perked up a bit. Zevara’s face didn’t move. She refused to look as the [Innkeeper] danced over—then got tired and sat in her wheelchair.
“I’m tired. Standing is too much work. Ishkr, let’s get some candy canes out! Do I hear applause?”
“You do not.”
Erin eyed Zevara.
“…Just a little bit of applause?”
“No. What is ‘peppermint’? What is this candy cane?”
Before Erin could answer, there was a commotion outside. Zevara’s panic finally set in.
This is it. I knew a month of nothing more than an inedible scone would be too much for her. 
She turned, claw on her sword, ready to face whatever came in—
“Another criminal for you, Watch Captain. Although perhaps this falls under Miss Solstice’s purview. This fellow just killed Mister Snowy.”
Zevara and Erin both sat up in alarm.
“What?”
“He killed who?”
Ser Lormel pushed a rather wet and nervous Gnoll forwards. He shuffled into the inn as Mrsha trained her wand on his back and the other three furious children walked forwards. Nanette looked smug as they marched him over to the others.
“A snowman.”
“Oh. Lead with that, please.”
Zevara sat back, claw on her chest. Nanette gave Mrsha an arch look.
“I told you making snow-birds and mini snow-people was cuter.”
Eat poo.
Mrsha wrote back. The two had had their first fight this morning—over making cute little snow creations on the outside of windowsills and lining Bird’s tower, versus Mister Snowy, an exercise in creating the largest snowman possible.
Nanette instantly and pettily side-stepped Mrsha, so the Gnoll girl’s written comment was in sight of her mother.
“Mrsha du Marquin, mind your manners! Did you write that at Nanette?”
Lyonette scolded, and Mrsha stared at Nanette in horror.
“Nn.”
The witch stuck her tongue out, and the first war of The Wandering Inn began. Lyonette was duped into striking a blow against Mrsha—but she would inevitably turncoat for her daughter’s side.
Erin Solstice, the independent nation, looked on in a mild dawning realization as Numbtongue laughed at Mrsha, once again placing himself on the wrong side of history as he opposed cute, white-furred Doombearers.
But that was another tale. The one in front of Zevara looked miserable, and frankly, the Watch Captain didn’t care if he killed a snowman. Snow Golems were a hazard, but destroying a children’s playtime?
She was about to dress him down and suggest a fine without going through on it when Erin peered at the Gnoll’s face and blinked at the striped fur along his ears, a lighter brown, and some colorful white splashes of color across his paws and arms.
“Felkhr? Is that you? Hey, long time no see! What are you doing beating up snow people? Guys, this is Felkhr! He saved my life in Pallass!”
“Hello, Erin. I, uh—I’m sorry about the trouble.”
The Gnoll smiled weakly, and Kevin blinked. He looked at Erin, and Felkhr looked at him.
The two knew each other. And instantly—both wanted to talk.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was very forgiving of snow-people murder. Which went to show she had flaws, despite her championing of Antinium and Goblin rights. In fact, when she saw Felkhr was shivering, she had him pull up a chair in front of the fire.
“Someone get this Gnoll a coffee! Felkhr, anything you want to eat? On the house. He saved my life so no buts, Lyonette!”
“You get to comp five meals each week, Erin. That’s one.”
The [Princess] called back, and Erin’s face fell.
“Darn organization.”
Ishkr brought over a cup instantly, and Felkhr blinked, hesitating. But he wasn’t one to turn down free food.
“Could I get…the Continental Allstar breakfast please?”
“Ooh, good choice. See, someone likes the classics. Ishkr, can you run the order to Calescent?”
The Gnoll flicked his paw as he wrote down the order on a piece of paper. He tore the note off, and it vanished.
“Already there.”
“Look at that guy. He can [Memo], now. This is Ishkr, Felkhr. My super-waiter. And this is…”
“The Flying Gnoll of Pallass.”
Felkhr actually played into his reputation a bit, because he felt like it was a way of repaying Erin. Ishkr smiled.
“I have heard of you. Haven’t you come in a few times?”
“I think during a party or two. But the inn looks…nice. I’m sorry about the snowman. I was just—mad, and it was staring at me.”
“Huh. I guess it happens.”
“No, punish him!”
Visma stuck her head up from the table, and Felkhr began apologizing. But, unexpectedly for once, Erin played peacekeeper.
“Visma, it was an accident. Felkhr looks pretty rough. What if…I give you all a snack on the house and you let it slide? Please?”
Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva whispered together and came back with a counter.
“We want one of Miss Imani’s newest things!”
“Wh—Imani?”
Erin recoiled in her seat. Ekirra bounced up and down, smiling as the [Innkeeper] stared ahead, face waxy.
“Yeah, she’s made super good food.”
“But I have…cake…”
Felkhr eyed Erin as Ekirra delivered the finishing blow.
“But her cake is better! She made viennetta cake. We’ll forgive this guy for that! Just say we can, and she’ll let us have a slice!”
Erin’s nod was that of a corpse. She sat there as Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen in a kind of outraged horror too. Ishkr frowned.
“We should compete with them. Calescent isn’t a dessert expert.”
“Nope. Goblins don’t use sugar much. We beat them? Like Nanette beat Mrsha at making cute snow things?”
Lyonette’s head snapped around, and Mrsha’s jaw dropped as Calescent pointed proudly to his mini snow-Goblin on the windowsill outside. It was shaped like Pebblesnatch, and it had a poofy hat.
“I don’t know. I think she might be getting overambitious.”
Ishkr replied calmly. Lyonette and Mrsha’s first ally walked over as Nanette’s smug smile faded, and she gulped. Ishkr was not someone you wanted as an enemy.
“H-hold on, guys. Felkhr, I, uh, think I’ve gotta go. You stay and enjoy the food! Guys? This is silly. I mean, even for me, what are we mad about? Come on…”
Erin rolled after Nanette and Mrsha, who were running to secure allies already committed by treaty to either side.
Felkhr had no idea what was going on. He was just blearily glad for food and coffee. The children had rushed out to redeem their dessert, and only after he’d chowed down on the big plate a Goblin brought him did he realize someone was watching him.
“Hey. I’m Kevin. Mind if I sit?”
“Go right ahead. Table’s empty. You’re…the owner of Solar Cycles, right? Half the Engineer’s Guild in Pallass would love to shake your hand and steal your designs.”
Kevin blushed faintly and waved it off.
“Nah. Dude. That’s way too much. I just—knew how to make bicycles, and I had Master Pelt and Hedault helping me. I didn’t invent them.”
Instantly, he put himself ahead of Troy in Felkhr’s eyes. The young man was modest in how he led-in with the conversation, and within moments, Felkhr and he were talking.
“I hear Pallass makes all the steel stuff, all the time. I know Master Pelt leaving was a blow…”
Felkhr coughed into one paw.
“With respect to him, and even Master Maughin, they’re artisans. They churn out the finest works—mastercrafted armor, enchantable items, and so on. Gears for new projects in the Engineering Guild…but we have massive foundries for bulk steel. One Master Pelt work comes out at the rate it takes to make a thousand spears.”
“Right. Industry. Dude, I didn’t think of that. I guess they have nothing to worry about in Esthelm.”
“In Esthelm, perhaps. But Dwarfhalls Rest has got my city worried. They have Dwarfsteel, which Pallass can’t match. If it depresses prices…well, the New Lands rush has the foundries working overtime. Competition can be good.”
Kevin’s eyes lit up as he nodded.
“It would be! Master Pelt’s the guy doing my bicycles—but he’s been complaining he’s bored of doing anything but the best bikes. Er, the ones that need his touch. And his apprentices have more orders than just my stuff. Do you think Pallass could do my bikes?”
“Why not? Although you might as well ask Dwarfhalls Rest if you’re doing that. Between you and me, I’m exceptionally curious how they’re made.”
Kevin stood up.
“I’ve gotta go to Esthelm anyways to get money for a fine. Want to see them?”
This time, Felkhr hesitated. He looked at Kevin, but it wasn’t gliders the young man made. He got up.
 
——
 
“Magnificent. I can see how it all works together. But it’s so…elegant compared to Pallass’ clunky gears. And these brakes!”
A bicycle was a wondrous thing to Felkhr. Kevin stood back proudly as the Gnoll inspected it—but with some degree of wonder himself.
Because of all the people that Kevin had ever met, including Pelt, Felkhr was one of the few people to look at a bicycle and wonder how it worked.
Mechanically, that was. Pelt understood metal. But Felkhr understood function. As proof of that, he had already deduced how the bicycle could be taken apart for repairs, but he stopped when he noticed Kevin looking.
“I’m sorry, I was just—”
“No, go ahead! Pull it apart; anything can go back together.”
Nothing would do but for the Gnoll [Inventor] to pull apart the gear system, inspecting the chains and murmuring in awe.
“It’s so smooth how it rotates. I see it now…the gears are layered up on one another. Incredibly economical, and it can change from one to another. Why? Because the smaller ones in diameter require more torque. So you can change how much energy it takes to move this!”
He spun the pedals, and Kevin nearly spat out his coffee. He’d known grown-ass adults who didn’t understand how the gears on their bikes worked. 
“I hear you’re sort of an engineer yourself. You, uh, try to fly, right?”
Kevin was reminded of the earliest pioneers of flight when he looked at Felkhr. The combination between mad and genius, and the more the Gnoll talked, the more Kevin suspected where he lay. Felkhr paused.
“That’s right. I’m behind the famous Wind Runner. She’s not here, is she?”
He looked around Solar Cycles, and Kevin clarified.
“No, but she comes to The Wandering Inn a lot. The Haven’s heading south…it’ll actually be close to Pallass within a few days, and then they’ll be out-of-range of Erin’s door, which’ll be something. Uh—do you want to meet her?”
“No.”
The answer surprised Kevin. The [Engineer] scratched his head as Felkhr avoided his gaze. He was inspecting the gears.
“The turning mechanism on this is so useful. Not that I have that much call for it myself. But the frame…pure steel and enchanted. Damn. That’s probably as tough as anything I need. If only I could afford it.”
He sighed. Kevin was moved at this point to ask a pointed question.
“So you’re making flying devices yourself, huh? I’ve…studied a bit into that. Are you having troubles?”
Another pause. Felkhr glanced up, but he was open enough.
“I’ve never gotten them working. I’ve tried wings, different things like spinning blades, even parasols. I can slow my fall, but the Wind Runner’s got more than I can do. Even Pallass is chasing her way of flying. For as good as it’ll do them.”
He went back to inspecting Kevin’s tools, some of which were custom-made for the purpose of working on the bicycles. Kevin hesitated.
Ryoka and Erin had opinions on how much to share with people. He?
He had told Rags about B2 bombers and speculated on how to make everything he could with her. But by the same token, Kevin was also more careful with Felkhr.
“Would you—want a hint? Doing things Ryoka’s way, I mean. Or with ideas on how to fly other ways?”
The Gnoll’s head snapped up. He looked at Kevin—and then shook his head.
“No. Thank you. You must be like Troydel.”
Kevin jumped, then scowled.
“That motherf—he’s in Pallass, isn’t he? I forgot!”
Felkhr grinned.
“He’s giving the Engineering Guild a runaround. But I don’t want help, thank you. Like I said, Ryoka Griffin’s way of flying isn’t what I want.”
Now, that made Kevin curious. He squatted down and passed Felkhr a wrench so he could remove a bolt. The Gnoll eyed the washer and grunted.
“What’s this for?”
“Friction, my dude. Without damaging the thing it’s holding.”
“Oh. That’s so…foundationally changing.”
This alone was something the Engineer’s Guild would adopt. A washer—a protective layer to avoid repeated damage from something being tightened against it. Felkhr looked at Kevin somberly.
He knew what Kevin and Troydel were. Faster than Grimalkin and more sincerely. How could you not? They came in with such groundshaking ideas in the most minute of things.
After a moment, Felkhr went back to work. After a longer moment, Kevin spoke up.
“Why don’t you like Ryoka’s flying, Felkhr?”
“I do like it. I just…don’t want to copy her. Plus, once I figured out what she was doing, I realized that’s not flying. That’s another form of magical flight. Maybe I have to steal her designs—but even if I copied everything she’s got on her, I can’t fly like her.”
Felkhr sat, playing with one of the gears, then asked if he could make a sketch. Kevin offered to lend him some spare parts, but the Gnoll insisted he only needed the sketches.
“Ah, you mean because of the wind.”
“Yes. I’ve thought about flying. And what I noticed is that she’s got a lot of wind behind her. I’ve spoken to Garuda. I know how it works…I think. You know they use hot air to fly? Birds?”
“Thermals.”
There it was again. Felkhr’s face fell, and Kevin felt guilty, but the Gnoll rallied at once.
