Whereas the number of people laughing at Felkhr increased. He didn’t go to Tails and Scales that night, though, or the night thereafter.
He didn’t have time. Felkhr was designing a new flying machine—and this time, he was keenly aware he was on a time crunch. But he had a plan.
He took the wing-design from the blueprints and married it to the most basic frame he could come up with. A bar he could cling to—and because he realized he’d be dangling, a foot-loop so he could lie prone.
It was a hang-glider. More aerodynamically shaped than the Wind Runner’s, and he had attached feathers to the tail with the idea that it would add something like stabilization or whatever birds had feathers for, but—
It was just a hang-glider. The entire project screamed at him that it was wrong. Felkhr knew it. But he had also seen apprentices from the guild going to the exact same stores he went to for his materials and buying them up. In fact…he sorely suspected they were just following him around and using his suppliers.
The Eye of Pallass, Zemize, had warned him they’d do it. But it was so blatant that Felkhr saw red.
Two days and two nights, stopping only to grab as much food as he could carry from Erin Solstice’s inn and eating it while working. He was dragging cloth over the wicker frame he’d built and cursing.
“Silk. I’d buy silk if I could or something lighter-weight. And the wood could be lighter. Can I use hollow wood? No—wait. There’s that Drathian stuff that’s hollow on the inside. If only I had a damn budget—”
He was hurling tools around in a rage, not because he was frustrated.
He was done.
A Level 30 [Inventor] with his Level 30 [Dreamer]’s Skills could afford and produce a copy of Ryoka Griffin’s glider in two days if he didn’t sleep. But Felkhr stared at his final work, and he had never been less proud of an attempt.
It’ll probably work. But I didn’t come up with any of it. I don’t understand the wings fully. It’s just the Wind Runner’s glider with alterations.
His glider had a longer wingspan and thicker frame. He’d attached feathers, but there was no innovation to it.
He hadn’t levelled up either. Felkhr rubbed his paws across his face, and someone spoke behind him. He didn’t jump. He’d almost expected Zemize to be there.
“When I told the Engineer’s Guild you’d be done first, they didn’t believe me. Mind you, they’ve got steel in theirs. Something about the inner struts.”
“Steel’s too heavy.”
“Mm. Well, they’re getting theirs enchanted. And they are using silk. You sure you don’t want to join the project?”
Felkhr turned slowly, and his glare didn’t make the ordinary-looking Drake woman flinch, but she raised her claws.
“I’m not trying to offend you. But it seems like you’ve come around.”
Felkhr glanced at his creation. He took a deep breath and felt the urge to heave a hammer at the Drake and knew exactly how stupid that would be.
“I don’t want your help. Leave me alone, and if you try following me—well, don’t. I can’t do a thing, but I bet some of the people I’m going to meet will be unpleasant.”
He stalked out of his workshop, head bowed, and went to finalize his creation. Felkhr had to run back eight minutes later, swearing in annoyance. He was so mad that he had forgotten to yank the cloth canvas he’d fitted and hand-stitched together off his glider.
He had an appointment to keep.
 
——
 
“You are late, Mister Felkhr, by eight minutes. And I have a highly important client I am due to meet. Please state your proposal.”
The [Enchanter] that Felkhr had booked an appointment with was a notoriously touchy man. And he’d been busy all month it seemed, so getting a spot with him was a stroke of luck.
Then again, Felkhr had heard his business had fallen through, so he had less work to do. But Felkhr didn’t have that much coin, and the balding man with orange, frizzy hair was already noticeably upset.
However—Felkhr had a Skill.
[Powerful Persuasion: Enchanters]. One of the nonsensical [Dreamer] Skills that enabled him to get what he wanted. He already had a Scroll of Feather Falling…but getting this man to help him out was going to be hard with little coin, a delayed appointment, and a rush job.
And yet…Felkhr’s knot in his stomach didn’t alleviate, but it didn’t get worse for dealing with Hedault’s displeasure.
Mainly because his Skill was reassuring. It had nothing to do with his personal charisma. In fact, sleep-deprived, smelling of glue, and furious as hell, even a powerful charisma Skill would have done little to sway Hedault, who dealt with Magnolia Reinhart.
Rather—[Powerful Persuasion] did something else entirely. Felkhr stared at something just above Hedault’s head and slowly read from the glowing lines above the [Enchanter]’s pate.
“…I’m terribly sorry to delay you, Enchanter. Let me be precise. I have a rush order for an enchantment on this cloth canvas here I would like fulfilled overnight. I can’t offer you appropriate compensation, but it is for an engineering project. A flying machine. I could offer you some of my [Incredible Adhesive] in partial exchange. Oh, and I think Kevin would vouch for my good intentions.”
It was not what he’d have said if he took a wild swing at how to impress Hedault. But the direct language and the mention of his project and Kevin and the [Incredible Solvent] were all written above Hedault’s head.
The [Enchanter] blinked—then glanced up suspiciously as if looking around for a fly. He tapped one finger against the other rapidly.
“Intriguing. Another project? This is not Kevin’s skateboarding attempt, is it?”
Felkhr didn’t get more than the initial statement, so he focused on Hedault and tried to smile.
“No. Er—I saw him working on ball bearings, if it helps, but this is flight. I have this canvas here, and I was hoping to get it enchanted. You’re the only [Enchanter] I could find who can work on something as flexible and mundane as cloth. The ones in Pallass have all banned me or they’re working for the Engineering Guild.”
“Hm. What is the enchantment? Lay the cloth down—it’s in pieces.”
Hedault was instantly offended by the material, but Felkhr assured him it wasn’t a problem.
“I only need a day’s enchantment on it. If it works—I’d have each piece enchanted and then sew them all together.”
“Ah. Go on. This is not a cheap endeavor, but name me your funds. I may…be interested in the result.”
Hedault was a man who appreciated vehicles in their forms, and when he heard of the glider attempt, his eyes gleamed.
“It would be useful to compare against my own project for the Wind Runner. What enchantment do you want, exactly?”
Felkhr sagged in relief. He had thought hard about what spell to use for this flying attempt, and despite his misgivings—he leaned over.
“[Wind Resistance], please.”
 
——
 
It was dawn when Hedault woke Felkhr up in his waiting room and presented the canvas to him.
“I have not done any runecrafting upon it. The enchantment is highly unstable and will dissolve in two days.”
“Plenty of time, thank you. I’ll test it right away.”
“Are you quite sure you have the optimal conditions?”
Hedault gave Felkhr a dubious look. Even after napping, the Gnoll looked—distraught. Guilty. Harried.
But the Flying Gnoll was racing, racing—and he had seen the glider for Ryoka Grifin sitting in one of Hedault’s rooms, ready for enchantment. He felt like he was dreaming still, only it wasn’t his quasi-nightmare about falling.
He had a glider. He had the knowledge. Perhaps the great adventure, the struggle had been taken from him.
—But he could still fly. Felkhr grinned at Hedault as he took the still-warm cloth.
“There’s never an optimal moment. If I fly—I should be able to fly in a storm or in broad daylight. Thank you, Enchanter Hedault.”
He bowed several times and began to head to the door. The [Enchanter] frowned mildly, and he made an observation that struck Felkhr through the back.
“Birds do not fly when it rains.”
The Gnoll slowed, looked back—and then strode out the door without a word. It didn’t matter. The sky was clear, cold, and he was ready.
Today was going to be a red-letter day.
 
——
 
Three great changes by innovation struck the world, all very close geographically to each other, on the day that Felkhr hauled his glider up to the 10th floor.
He was greeted by laughter, shouts, and even a few cheers by some of the people who saw him.
“It’s the Flying Gnoll!”
“Break another leg!”
“Copying the Wind Runner at last? Took you long enough!”
“Good luck!”
His head turned at that last one, and he saw a little Garuda child, practically a chick, waving at him as her parents nodded. Felkhr paused and tried to smile.
Then he was on the 10th floor.
“Civilian Felkhr. Are you making another flying attempt?”
The tired Watch Captain on duty was Venim today, and it made Felkhr glad because they weren’t going to hassle him about ‘positioning’.
“I won’t be long, Watch Captain.”
There was even a decent breeze flowing across the battlements. Drakes shivered in their fur-lined armor, and Gnolls glanced over but were too disciplined to howl a greeting. A Dullahan manning one of the catapults gave him the side-eye as Venim eyed the glider.
“That’s a big contraption.”
The entire thing was seven feet across in wingspan. Honestly, Felkhr felt it might be too small? It looked like the wings of a plane attached together in a ‘v’ over the simple handlebar and strap for his legs.
“No safety harness?”
“I’ve got a scroll in case I fall. I could…clip into one. No. It doesn’t matter. This is going to work.”
He had said the same thing to Venim before, but never so cynically. The Watch Captain frowned at him and stepped back.
“If you want to try, I can’t stop you. But have your scroll ready.”
Felkhr growled at the Drake—but he reluctantly pulled the scroll out of his bag of holding and put it in a loop in his belt, secure and ready to activate. He could use a scroll in a second from experience.
He wondered if the Engineering Guild or Eyes of Pallass were watching him. Below, as Felkhr turned his head to see, he could see Journeyman Yoiss zipping down his zipline, shouting in the fun of it.
Another way to travel. Felkhr’s red-rimmed eyes glared down—then he put the glider down.
Damn. He’d have to do a running jump with it, and it was sort of heavy. But Hedault’s enchantment was keeping the wind from picking up the glider and carrying him off the walls. He hadn’t even considered that danger. Okay, do a jump, then loop your legs into the straps.
It occurred to Felkhr that he might well not be strong enough to hold onto the glider, and he groaned. He needed that harness and to clip into the frame, or one slip and he’d go tumbling.
“Can—can someone watch this for me? I need to grab—”
More laughter from people watching as Felkhr ran down to get his Rascale Mk. 2 Safety Harness. It was mostly as good as the Mk. 4, and he wasn’t worried about dangling. He couldn’t remember the crowd ever being that large or it annoying him this much.
He couldn’t remember caring, many times. Sometimes it bothered him, but now?
He clipped into the frame and felt the reassuring lock from the metal carabiner before he gripped the handlebars. The glider still wasn’t being buffeted as the winds blew at him, and he took a few breaths.
“Any speech before you fly, Felkhr? You could wait—maybe Wistram News Network will send a camera!”
One of the civilians watching by the ranks was hoping to get on camera. Felkhr didn’t turn his head.
“If I have anything to say, it’ll be after I succeed. What’re you all gathered around here for? You know it’ll work.”
He felt angry, now. Angry and tired, and yet his heart still leapt as he saw that drop—and the blue, cold skies beyond. Felkhr stared ahead until someone brought him down to earth.
“We might. But I have never seen anyone but Ryoka Griffin fly. What enchantment is that?”
He turned—and the biggest Drake in the world was there. Grimalkin of Pallass had his arms folded as he watched Felkhr. The Sinew Magus gave the Flying Gnoll a nod.
“…[Wind Resistance].”
“Hm. Intriguing. That’s a novel take on it.”
Grimalkin wrote that down, and Felkhr almost snarled at him—but he knew Grimalkin wrote everything down. And the Drake was here and not laughing. He just watched as the Gnoll took a few breaths.
Don’t do it. Throw this thing away and make something else. Or ask Kevin for everything. But this? 
The [Dreamer] felt his class wavering. The [Inventor] was not proud. Yet the Gnoll…
Just like a boy, he stared up at that sky and thought of the stories of Chieftain Seru’nial. How did it go?
 
Chieftain Seru’nial took her tribe beyond the sky…
 
He had imagined a Gnoll with wings, flying amongst birds. If she could do it, why not anyone else?
He had his pride. But he also wanted to know the dream was real. He wanted to fly. So Felkhr took a running start. He pounded towards the battlement’s edge. There was normally a wall between you and falling to your death, but there were also ramps where Pegasi could land, and so he dashed towards the edge—and then leapt. He swung his legs up, and one was caught in the strap at once.
Damn. Felkhr kicked as he went over the edge to laughter, applause, cheers, and gasps. The glider dipped, and he was more focused on his right foot, trying to fit it in the loop so he could remain prone. Hanging from the glider by his harness was going to be stupid if they did put a camera on him.
How do I turn? It only occurred to him now as the glider soared downwards that he had never wondered how to turn. With wings, he assume you flapped, but—
The glider was shooting downwards fast, the wind blowing across the wings. Excellent acceleration. Felkhr waited for the wind to do what he knew it should and seize the wings, pull them up or something. His paws were clinging to the wood, but he wasn’t straining to keep himself level—he was heading down.
Down fast. Felkhr blinked. Where was his lift? Where was—
A force pressed him against the canvas of his glider as he headed down, faster than he could ever remember going. The Gnoll stared down at the ground coming at him fast, and time slowed.
[Quicktime Reactions]. A [Dreamer] Skill that had saved his life. His eyes found the canvas, and Felkhr felt the magic in it. Still warm…he remembered how the wind hadn’t buffeted his glider, despite the breeze and large wingspan. It would have blown most objects off the walls when he left it there.
[Wind Resistance], he’d said to Hedault. Because that would increase the effect of the wing’s ability to cut through the air. 
