It only took a moment of thought to figure out how Shuai Jiao knew about young Rain, and Min Gyu silently cursed those monks for meddling in mortal affairs. Whether one of the Brotherhood contacted Shuai Jiao or the other way around, either way, Rain’s secret was out. “I offer you the same courtesy and will not ask you to betray your plans.” Placing his teacup down, Min Gyu rested one hand on his sabre and the other on his battle-fan. “But this, I must say. If you intend to seize power through bloodshed, then I, Du Min Gyu, will stand against you.”

Though Dae Jung similarly reached for his sword, Min Gyu’s statement brought an amused smile to Shuai Jiao’s unremarkable face. “And so you have revealed your nature, the same way comrade Dae Jung did just earlier. In answer, I can only say that if any blood is shed in my rise to power, it will not be by my choice. Unity is our greatest weapon against the Enemy, a concept they now use against us, and I will not have it said that we are less united than the Defiled.” Taking another sip of tea, he held onto the teacup to show his trust and added, “I have already sent word to Marshal Quyen, Comrade Nian Zu, and Imperial Consort Zheng Luo signifying my willingness to take an Oath to relinquish not only authority, but also my military rank once the Enemy threat is contained, or when the Legate returns in full health. We cannot afford to wage war by council for any longer. The Imperial Consort has done well in the Legate’s absence, but she is no Warrior and seeks counsel with none, but instead tries to turn us against one another so that she might hold onto what power she still has. With good intentions of course, but lacking tactical acumen. At least the Legate made his plans with military tactics in mind, but she has allowed his plans for a multi-tiered defence to go unfinished in favour of building a harbour, one we all knew would be easily besieged after Huanhuzi burned down the old one and sailed off into the depths of the Azure Sea with impunity. To make matters worse, the Southern generals vie for rank while their Marshal sends them to their deaths, weakening the Empire in order to strengthen his position without a care in the world for how it might well be the straw that breaks the camel’s back, and Consort Zheng Luo even has the gall to quietly fan the flames. I can no longer stand idly by while her incompetence brings us closer to ruin, and if blood must be shed to bring order to the ranks, then I see it as the lesser of two evils.”

As expected of the man Min Gyu trusted most with the fate of the Empire, but it was still surprising to hear how far he was willing to go. No wonder Dae Jung was willing to lower his head and follow Shuai Jiao’s lead, because once all this was over, he would be the sole serving Colonel General in Central since Mitsue Juichi was almost as old as Min Gyu and hardly in any position to command.

“I see.” Relaxing his grip on his weapons, Min Gyu steadied his hands before reaching for his teacup. How many years had it been since he felt this nervous to face an opponent? Even if Bai Qi had come after him on the battlefield, Min Gyu had been reasonably sure of his survival so long as he didn’t stand and fight, but he had no chance when faced with Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao and Sword King Ryo Dae Jung working in tandem. “Then I hope everything works out for the best.”

Refilling Min Gyu’s teacup with his own hands, Shuai Jiao nodded in silent thanks. “With this out of the way, perhaps we can still salvage this delicious tea and have a cordial discussion. Earlier, Hero Du brought up an interesting point regarding the Wraiths I would like to explore. You said the Enemy might well have discovered a means to mass producing Awakened Warriors, yet you spoke as if you’d considered this possibility before.”

Grateful for the reprieve, Min Gyu smiled and said, “Well, we all know Wraiths are an aberration, even more so than your standard Defiled. Who ever heard of an entire class of Martial Warrior whose skills were so strongly skewed in one area? The Empire has squads of Experts who focus on Concealment, but they are still Martial Warriors like any other, and until recently, even the strongest of Wraiths were no match for a standard Peak Expert without the element of surprise on their side.” Shrugging, Min Gyu continued, “It is a wide-spread belief that Wraiths are created through some shortcut along the Martial Path, so it stands to reason that these newer, more adept Wraiths are merely an evolution of that same process. Thus, rather than assume the Enemy somehow melded their Wraith creation technique with the process of Awakening, it makes more sense to assume an Awakening was part and parcel of the process from the beginning, as it would be the simpler conclusion. I’ve no proof, but as little Rain would say, it just makes sense.”

Needing no time to consider the subject since he lacked perspective on Awakenings, Dae Jung asked, “If so, then how is it no one has ever noticed this correlation before?”

“Because previously, there was no need to seek out alternative methods to detecting Wraiths since conventional Concealment detection methods worked perfectly well. That said, I do have some experience using Wind Chi to uncover hidden foes.” Stroking his beard, Min Gyu thought back to his various experiences with Concealment and the ease with which he found intruders using Wind Chi, thoughts he shared with the two Colonel General as they came to him, and when he was done musing, he added, “All hearsay and circumstantial evidence at best, with nothing to really prove what I say, but I do believe my experiences show that the Wraiths of yesteryear were easily uncovered through the use of Elemental Chi, even if we were never consciously aware of it. Then again, I always thought I had a gift of uncovering Concealment regardless of whether the target was Imperial or Defiled, so it is impossible to come up with a definitive conclusion without knowing more about the subject.”

Eyes closed in silent reflection, Shuai Jiao spoke as soon as Min Gyu was finished. “I too believed I possessed a keen instinct for seeing through Concealment, but now that Hero Du mentions this, I find myself wondering if perhaps credit belongs to my Elemental Blessing instead. Is it possible...” Pausing to consider his words, the humbly dressed Colonel General opened his eyes and stared at nothing for long seconds before continuing. “...Is it possible Concealment in and of itself is actually a form of Awakening?”

Chuckling to himself, Min Gyu regarded the Grasping Vine with a smile. “You would enjoy conversing with little Rain, though your conclusion is in strict opposition to his, as he posits that any Martial Warrior can master any skill with Chi, so long as they are provided with proper guidance.”

After a moment of surprise, Shuai Jiao smiled in turn. “And in doing so, insults every Awakened Martial Warrior by implying they lack the understanding necessary to offer such proper guidance.”

“Yes, he does that quite often, but I find it a refreshing viewpoint. It’s not that he believes our truth is wrong, but rather that our truth only fits our perspective, and the difficulty lies in adapting the truth to fit everyone’s perspective.” Happy to be speaking about anything besides possible bloody revolution, Min Gyu explained, “As a teacher, there were days when I learned more from my students than they learned from me, not because I lacked understanding, but rather I lacked their perspective. Which of us was the teacher then? No, it is a title I do not deserve, for I am still but a mere student.”

They discussed the Dao for a little longer and Min Gyu gleaned much from the experience, not in terms of knowledge, but even hearing about the two Colonel General’s differing perspectives was eye opening indeed. It was truly a shame Rain wasn’t present to partake in the conversation, and lamentable that the Brotherhood could not be trusted to keep his condition a secret, but alas, this was a risk Akanai accounted for when she agreed to let Monk Happy bring the boy away, should he ever see fit to go.

Though he only had time to change into a new set of robes, he felt refreshed and invigorated when he greeted Yan at the Northern gates. “I missed you, Grandpa,” she said, running into his arms for a hug. “Has Eun been taking good care of you, or have you been eating oily junk foods for every meal again?”

“I’ll have you know I survived for many decades before Eun was even born, and that your grandfather here is perfectly capable of taking care of himself.” Kissing Yan on the temple, he waved Kyung over for a hug as well and squeezed his grandson tight. There was no need to pretend he missed them, because despite watching over them for the last two weeks, he genuinely missed their company.

Once they were back in the Ryo family manor, Min Gyu told them both everything that just took place without hiding a thing. Sighing as she accepted the inevitable, Yan shook her head and said, “I suspect the Chief Provost will accept without too much argument, unless Colonel General Shuai Jiao tries to send her back North or something. There’s nothing I can do now except pray for Rain’s safe return and hope that the Colonel General is true to his word and up to the task.”

“As we all will pray,” Min Gyu replied, squeezing Yan’s hand for support. “Your husband is recovering, we know this much, and it is only a matter of time until he is returned whole.”

Min Gyu only hoped that when it did finally happen, the outer provinces would still be standing and ready for him to reclaim.

Chapter Meme
