Secure his services? Since when was he in so high demand, and as a bodyguard rather than teacher no less? While his skills on the battlefield were exemplary, his performance and decision making told everyone that his title was well deserved, the Sanguine Tempest which sweeps through the chaff and leaves naught but death and blood in his wake. For a bodyguard, the most important skill of note was awareness, and second to this the ability to delay and survive against a superior foe, and while Min Gyu’s skills of observation and detection were superior to most, any force capable of killing the Sword King would make short work of the Sanguine Tempest.

“I appear to be behind on the news,” Min Gyu joked, scratching his chin in mild discomfort. There was pertinent information floating about, information that in some way made him valuable to the powers that be, and in spite of his high status and lofty rank, he’d never been all that comfortable in matters of politics. From his reluctant start as a lowly third-grade Warrant Officer right up until he fell from the lofty heights as an Exarch, Min Gyu’s career had always been focused on service and nothing else. That was the only way one could become an Exarch in the first place, by rendering meritorious service above and beyond the mere call of duty in addition to possessing superlative skill in combat. Though ostensibly only equivalent to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, Exarches were as rare as phoenix feathers and qilin horns, because most promising Warrant Officers were willing to accept military service in order to move further up the ranks. Even Dae Jung himself began his career as a Warrant Officer, as did his wife, and had they not accepted military office, there was a good chance neither one would’ve been promoted to Exarch. In this, politics mattered more than raw strength, and the people of Central were well-versed in using politics as sword and shield.

This was neither here nor there however, as Min Gyu watched Dae Jung consider his next move, wondering just how much he should reveal before pressing for an answer. Ultimately, he appeared to have settled on revealing the whole truth, or at least what Min Gyu hoped was the whole truth. “Word has come down from the North, by way of Lieutenant General Akanai. This new breed of Wraith plaguing the Empire can be easily countered through the use of widespread Elemental Chi, thereby negating their ability to create shadowy apparitions which confound the senses.”

Meaning those shadowy apparitions were constructs of Elemental Chi themselves. “Fascinating,” Min Gyu mused as he pondered the implications. “So the Enemy has discovered the means to mass produce Awakened Warriors.” Brows furrowing in concern, he added, “Or perhaps they’ve long since known this secret, which is how Wraiths are produced in the first place.”

“...An angle we have yet to consider.” The open admission cost Dae Jung greatly as it showcased his lacking experience, the most common argument against him when it came to the distribution of power. Ambition was fine, but Central would be better served if the Sword King could swallow his pride and learn from the Grasping Vine, a man who would no doubt graciously step back once he felt his successor was up to the task. Instead, Shuai Jiao had finally been pressured into taking a Disciple, the young and uninspired Yong-Jin who was quite frankly the most unremarkable rising dragon Min Gyu had ever seen. That being said, the boy was strong enough to threaten Ryo Geom-Chi, who would always be seen as Dae Jung’s successor by more traditional minded folk, though the Sword King rightly favoured Da’in over him. Young Geom-Chi was a talented Martial Warrior who stood out from his peers, but Da’in was a talent who stood out regardless of where she appeared. It was the difference between a provincial genius and one who stood above all others, though young Rain’s skills might well have surpassed even Da’in’s meteoric rise.

All this being said, Min Gyu considered the information before him with a critical eye, trying to understand the situation without rushing judgment. The crux of the issue revealed itself soon enough, and he asked, “How many times have you been attacked?”

“Since the hostilities renewed two weeks ago, I have come under attack twelve times, and my people have thwarted at least five more attempts before they could get underway.”

“And Colonel General Shuai Jiao?”

Seeing Dae Jung’s grimace, Min Gyu realized his mistake. Never once did he offer his host the deference he just gave to the man’s rival, an unconscious slip he only just became aware of. It was just that Dae Jung was so young, not even sixty years old, but that wasn’t all there was to it. Shuai Jiao was not much older at just shy of eighty, but the man also had earned Min Gyu’s respect. Not through his military achievements, which Ryo Dae Jung could easily match if not surpass, nor through personal strength, but rather through the strength of his character and his adherence to his cause, one which was synonymous with the Empire’s well-being. Shuai Jiao’s unshakable morals and his drive to combat corruption was a much needed salve in these trying times, and Min Gyu shuddered to think how Central might have fared without such an honourable Colonel General to keep everyone mostly honest.

It wasn’t to say Ryo Dae Jung was corrupt or had a heinous reputation, but the man lived and breathed politics in order to further his own cause, and while there was nothing wrong with ambition, Min Gyu had seen just how easily power could corrupt a person, especially if left unchecked.

Perhaps it was time to call in a few markers and see about getting his own place in the Central Citadel, or maybe he should’ve swallowed his pride and asked to make use of Yo Shi Woo’s manor, the one he lent young Rain every time he visited. The merchant was still amenable to the Bekhai and firmly fixed in Rain’s corner, but his brother Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun was much less enthusiastic about their continued partnership. Such was the way of things when it came to matters of politics, but Min Gyu couldn’t help but turn his nose up at what he saw as a short-sighted decision from Central’s Marshal. Rain was not one to forget favours and violate justice, but he could also be exceedingly petty at times and would never forget a slight, which the Marshal would learn this firsthand when the boy returned from his convalescence.

It appeared Dae Jung was the same way as he filed away this bit of knowledge for later use, and Min Gyu could only hope the man’s ire would not extend beyond the culprit and spill onto Yan or Kyung. The silly girl insisted on making her career in Central out of some misguided notion of proving the value of his guidance and teachings, but she would have had a much easier path in the North with all her connections there. Then again, she’d done quite well for herself in recent times, largely thanks to Brigadier Hongji and his confidence in her skills. She would need his support if she hoped to one day earn the lofty rank of Exarch, but Dae Jung’s support would carry far more weight, though of course, Falling Rain’s support mattered most.

So really, why was Min Gyu so worried about his mistakes reflecting poorly on Yan? The girl had things figured out much better than he did at twice her age, which just showed how little effect his guidance and support really had.

“There have been... attempts to breach Shuai Jiao’s defences,” Dae Jung said, stressing the lack of rank to signify they were peers, “But thus far, no actual attempts on his life, or the lives of any other Warrior living in close proximity to a powerful Awakened Warrior.”

“And so you wish to hire me as your bodyguard and nothing else?”

Dae Jung’s minute pause was enough to tell Min Gyu there was more to it than this, but to give credit where it was due, the Sword King admitted as much right away. “I would publicize the knowledge, not just to dissuade further attempts on my life, but also because your name holds significant political sway, substantially more than you appear to realize.”

Min Gyu was ready to refute the fact until he stopped to really think about it. If he was merely the Sanguine Tempest, then he would be right, but he was so much more now. As Grandfather to the Legate’s wife and in-laws with the leader of the Bekhai, others would see him as an advisor to these two powerful individuals, though few knew how little sway Min Gyu had with either one. Akanai was a stubborn, hard-headed woman with more courage than sense, but she was also an able leader and brilliant tactician who Min Gyu rated second to none, not even Shuai Jiao himself. For good reason too, as the woman likely had more years of experience than all other living Colonel Generals combined, a fact few people kept in mind due to her youthful appearance, half-beast nature, and female genitals, as if the last two had anything to do with ability to command. While he would never advocate for more half-beasts in power as a general declaration, he would argue that one should be judged by their actions and achievements rather than breed or gender.

For example, despite their close friendship, Min Gyu would vehemently object to giving Eccentric Gam the rank of Lieutenant, as doing so would be the same as dooming the five unfortunate souls under his command, but Akanai as the commander in chief of the Imperial Army? Now that was something he could agree with.

“And I suppose we cannot agree to this arrangement without dipping into political theatre?” Min Gyu knew the answer was no, but he had to ask regardless. Seeing Dae Jung’s regretful shake of his head, he responded in kind. “Then I thank you for your hospitality, Colonel General, but I believe I have overstayed my welcome. Send your Guard Captain to speak with Kyung when he returns later today, so that they might put together a schedule for me to guard you, but I have no desire to be put on parade and used as a piece in your games.”

“You look down on my ambition,” Dae Jung said, lacking any heat or derision in his tone as he made the matter-of-fact statement. “You think I am too young and should be content to bow before my elders, but where would the human race be without ambition?”

“It is not your ambition which worries me,” Min Gyu replied, hoping his answer would not incite rage in the Sword King’s heart. “It is your pride. You are talented beyond belief, a true Dragon among men, so I do not fault you for this flaw, but a flaw it remains. You believe yourself suited to command all of Central’s forces, perhaps even the entire war effort as the General of the Outer Provinces, but what you fail to admit is that others, even lesser talents such as myself can be of value.” Holding up a hand to forestall Dae Jung’s argument, Min Gyu continued, “Earlier, you said you would like to retain my services, and on the surface, there is nothing wrong with this statement, for it is what you intend to do. You spoke candidly, and your words revealed how you truly saw our relationship, as a series of give and take interactions like two merchants lending one another coin. Any service I provide you will be repaid in kind, and you expect the same from myself.”

“And you offered to guard my life,” Dae Jung said, shoulders slumping in a gesture which was so at odds with the man’s character, “Without mention of reward or remuneration.”

“I am not without gratitude.” Clasping his fist in a seated salute, Min Gyu bowed at the waist and added, “I would have done so regardless of how you asked, for your life and expertise are far too valuable to leave unguarded. What’s more, this is merely my personal inclination, as I suspect most would see nothing wrong with the way you do business, because one must always look out for one’s self-interests. Alas, my issue with this is that I do not see the safety of the Empire as mere ‘business’.”

“And now you see why I argued against stripping him of his rank for so many years.” Stepping out of Concealment, Shuai Jiao’s arrival caught Min Gyu by surprise, even though he already knew there was someone listening in on their conversation. He merely assumed it was one of Dae Jung’s personal guards, a prudent precaution considering the man had been attacked so many times in the last twenty days. “Du Min Gyu has always been a Warrior of honour and integrity, and there are precious few of those remaining as is.”

Though Min Gyu wanted to stand and salute the Colonel General, he knew Dae Jung would see it as a slight, and rightly so as he was also a Colonel General and deserving of Min Gyu’s respect. “Shuai Jiao. What a pleasant surprise.”

Helping himself to a seat, the bald Warrior nodded before moving onto the crux of the matter. “This was not a trap, but rather a matter of closure.”

Picking up on his meaning, Min Gyu swallowed his ire and nodded in unspoken pardon. “You’ve come to an agreement then.”

“That we have.” Sipping his tea and showing no sign of having tasted it, Shuai Jiao gestured towards Dae Jung and said, “My colleague has agreed to throw all his support behind me, and Marshal Yo has agreed to do the same. For the first time in living memory, Central stands united, and now I mean to bring North and South together with us.” The sinking sensation in Min Gyu’s stomach disappeared as Shuai Jiao shook his head in response to the unspoken thought. “Rest easy, Hero Du, for I have no intentions of making things difficult for you. You need not betray any secrets, for I already know the Legate is in no condition to lead. Though he has my utmost respect for the miracles he’s already accomplished, in these trying times, the Empire cannot afford to wait on his recovery.”

