After two long weeks out in the field spent Concealed from friend and foe alike, Min Gyu’s greatest desire was a hot bath followed by a long nap, but alas, decorum and circumstances demanded more of him.

As a guest in the Ryo family manor, it would be impolite to return without greeting his hosts, which meant suffering through a formal audience with tea, snacks, and small talk. An argument could be made that no one outside the household knew he’d left to watch over Yan and Kyung while they were out in the field, but Dae Jung was a young, talented, successful Martial Warrior whose achievements stood out even across generations, and in Min Gyu’s experience, individuals like Dae Jung had more than their fair share of pride. Not without reason, but as a guest and subordinate, the last thing Min Gyu wanted was to offend Ryo Dae Jung, so while he didn’t go so far as to grovel and beg, he made sure to be on his best behaviour in the manor and instructed Yan and Kyung to do the same.

For his grandchildren, Min Gyu would move Heaven and Earth if they so desired it, so remembering his manners was hardly worth noting.

Neither Yan nor Kyung knew he’d followed them out on assignment and likely believed Min Gyu stayed in the manor for the last week, though a few of his students saw through his ploy and cleared out a small area for him in their barracks. Min Gyu would have been perfectly fine even without their assistance, but only a fool turns down a cot and decent food when the alternative was hard stone and an empty stomach, so he accepted his students’ efforts and gave them private lessons during their free time, of which they had plenty. While Yan and Kyung both accounted themselves well over the last week, the only action they saw was a half-hearted attempt to probe their strength before the three-hundred plus Defiled attackers withdrew to seek out easier targets further north.

And find such targets they did, but thankfully, District Twenty-Three held firm. Alas not all districts were so fortunate as to be defended by brave and stalwart Warriors like Bulat of the Bekhai...

Yan and Kyung were scheduled to return within a matter of hours, so Min Gyu had precious little time to rest and make himself look presentable, but since he had no home to call his own, he had no choice but to smile, sip tea, and make flattering small talk with his senior commanding officer, a man who was half his age and possessed twice his potential. Ryo Dae Jung was a stern, no nonsense sort whose two greatest loves were family and the Martial Path, but since none of the Ryo children were on active duty and Dae Jung already knew how Yan had fared, they had precious little to cover with regards to the first topic. As to the second, Min Gyu shied away from discussing the Martial Dao with those further along the Path than he, mostly out of shame and self-deprecation. Some fool of a bootlick once stuck him with the appellation ‘Great Teacher Du’, and Min Gyu himself had not been present to shut that nonsense down, so the name stuck despite his later efforts to divest himself of it. What Great Teacher? His students were able to push past mediocrity and stand out from the chaff, but despite more than four decades of taking students and giving lectures, he had yet to produce a single Peak Expert.

Min Gyu was a passable teacher, one whose talent lay in helping struggling Warriors push past their early bottlenecks, but he never found much success helping students achieving the various milestones along the Martial Path. Hard work and dedication, that was the best solution he had to offer, but alas, the Mother Above was miserly with Her gifts when it came to most. Kyung and Kai were blessed with talent and found success on their own, but Yan’s Path appeared to be rockier than most rising dragons and Min Gyu was at a loss on how to help her. Once she found success with Natal Palace Formation, her strength would improve by leaps and bounds, even faster than her already astonishing progress. Min Gyu could only imagine how strong she would be once she was able to practice with Wind Chi for as long as she pleased rather than the mere hour or three she could eke out on the rare days she had three more hours to spare in order to restore her reserves.

His ineptitude was the reason he refused to take the promising Ryo Da’in as his Disciple, despite knowing all the benefits a closer relationship with the Ryo family would bring him. There was no altruistic element to his decision, for at the time, he didn’t need the fame or fortune such an association would bring him. In fact, he was much happier living in relative obscurity, as closer examination would’ve revealed him for the drug-addled fool that he was back before the Medical Saint helped him overcome his pain and addiction.

An affliction he suspected had not escaped Dae Jung’s notice, though the man never brought it up and Min Gyu was grateful for it. Having exhausted all common grounds of interest, he took a long sip of his fragrant tea and studied the taciturn Sword King, who sat straight backed and hands folded in distinct patience. Things were not as they seemed, for this was more than just a simple greeting, else Dae Jung would not have brought out such expensive tea or kept an old fool company for so long. Other small hints gave the Sword King’s inner turmoil away, such as the creases in his brow as he sat in stifling silence and the moments when he seemed ready to unravel into a bundle of anxious restlessness. He hid it well, but Min Gyu saw through it, or rather Dae Jung allowed him to see through the facade, as the man was a far more able politician than Min Gyu would ever be. The Sword King wanted something from Min Gyu, but he hoped to save face in the asking, and as such, was waiting for his guest to bring the matter up first and give Min Gyu the opportunity to offer assistance without prompting. A dance he’d done a thousand times before, but this was his first time following someone else’s lead, as his unsociable tendencies meant he was rarely beholden to anyone, while his high rank allowed him to ignore any debts he might have previously incurred.

Not so with Colonel General Ryo Dae Jung. The Sword King held a chit and was intent on making Min Gyu pay up, a heavy debt which might well cost him more than he cared to pay.

Such was life, so Min Gyu mentally calculated how many students he would have to take on and how much to charge before he could afford a place for himself and gave up when he remembered how volatile the real estate market had become in recent times. “Is something troubling you?” He asked, only to immediately regret his choice of words, as it implied weakness or vulnerability. “Or is there anything I can help you with? Playing guardian to my grandchildren and sitting on the sidelines has this old Warrior itching for action again, though I’ll settle for any sort of work really.” Not the most graceful recovery, but social skills were never his strong suit and time spent with the Bekhai had worn away what little proficiency he had left.

Amused by Min Gyu’s lacking finesse, Dae Jung visibly relaxed in his seat, and only then did he reveal how weary and haggard he really was, a young man in the prime of his life yet still struggling under the heavy burdens of duty and obligation. “Perhaps it would be best if we did away with pretense and spoke candidly,” he said, his tone taking on the barest shade of deference and catching Min Gyu by complete surprise. The Sword King never once treated Min Gyu like a senior, usually defaulting to subordinate as he should, and only on rare occasions peer and comrade, which spoke volumes to his dilemma. Whatever favour he was about to ask was a large one, and Min Gyu would be hard pressed to refuse while staying in the Ryo manor and remaining godfather to young Da’in. The girl’s absence was another hint, indicating Dae Jung either didn’t want her to know about this conversation or was implying that she should not factor into Min Gyu’s decision, as their relationship would remain unchanged regardless of the outcome. Neither one was ideal, as it meant the Sword King finally saw fit to make use of Min Gyu, whereas previously their affiliation was strictly social with no ties to business or military whatsoever, an arrangement he was more than happy with.

Min Gyu only hoped Dae Jung didn’t intend to draw him into the clash of Colonel Generals. Ever since the withdrawal from the second line, Dae Jung and Shuai Jiao had been in constant conflict with one another as they sought to divvy up the unfortunate Mitsue Juichi’s military and political holdings, but thus far, Min Gyu had managed to keep his head above the murky waters. If the Sword King now sought to change this and bind the Sanguine Tempest to his side, then it might well be enough to tip the precarious balance of power in his favour. However, Min Gyu owed Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao a great debt for helping him not only keep his rank of Lieutenant General for so many years, but also for quietly barring him from serving in any official capacity while addicted to Dream Smoke and ruining what little reputation he still had. Shuai Jiao never even mentioned it and only said as much when Min Gyu brought the matter up himself, and he respected the man’s adherence to ethics while holding a position of almost absolute power. What’s more, if Min Gyu were forced to honestly support any Colonel General, his first choice would be to have Akanai raised to the rank as her skills and service deserved, but his second choice would be Shuai Jiao because he was clearly the best man for the job.

Ryo Dae Jung was an exemplary Warrior and skilled politician, but he was far too ambitious for Min Gyu’s liking. As the youngest Colonel General by almost thirty years, he was poised to take control of Central as soon as Shuai Jiao stepped down in two, or maybe three decades at most, but Dae Jung chose to butt heads with his older colleague when he would have been better served learning from his example instead. There were precious few men like Shuai Jiao and none as competent, virtuous, or selfless as he, for the Mother must have broken the mould when shaping the Grasping Vine.

The same could be said for young Rain, but the boy was sixty years too young to take on the full responsibilities of his office without crumbling under the pressure, though Min Gyu was impressed by young Zheng Luo’s capabilities thus far. The girl was an able politician and selfless public servant, but the Empire needed a Warrior and General to lead the way, and in this, Zheng Luo was sorely lacking.

All this and more flashed through Min Gyu’s mind when Dae Jung suggested they speak candidly, and though he was of a mind to warn the younger Colonel General of where his loyalties lay, he decided not to assume the worst and hear what Dae Jung had to say. “Please do,” he said, hoping the Sword King truly desired candour and wasn’t just using this as an excuse to make unreasonable demands. “This old man has been too long removed from politics to catch all the obvious nuances others take for granted, so if you could be so kind as to speak plainly and take no offence when I respond in kind, then I feel we will both be better off for it.”

“Very well.” Heaving a soft sigh before taking another sip of tea, Dae Jung’s actions appeared genuine to Min Gyu’s admittedly unpractised eye, but the Sword King’s next words caught him completely off guard. “I would like to retain your services as my bodyguard.”

“...But why?”

So shocked by the unexpected request, the question slipped out before Min Gyu thought better of it and caught Dae Jung off-guard. Smiling in amusement, the Sword King shook his head and answered, “I will not waste breath extolling your virtues, many though they are. I have need of your assistance for one reason and one reason only; you are the second most notable Martial Warrior in Central who possesses an Elemental Blessing.”

With the first being Shuai Jiao himself, but Min Gyu would argue that Eccentric Gam was in close contention for second place. The half-fox wielded power beyond what Min Gyu himself could command, and while Eccentric Gam lacked subtlety and finesse, he more than made up for it with raw power and stamina. That being said, the half-fox would make for a terrible bodyguard given his love for danger and death, almost as if he thought he’d lived long enough and sought to die on the battlefield before age and infirmity robbed him of glory and dignity. Eccentric Gam would not be the first Warrior to harbour such thoughts, nor would he be the last, and were it not for Min Gyu’s renewed health and newfangled family, he might well have behaved the same way. After Kai’s death, he thought he had nothing left to live for, but fate saw him cross paths with little Yan, and the rest was history.

This sort of answer accentuated the sort of political animal Dae Jung truly was, a man who in the same breath swore off empty flattery only moments before offering just that. Seeing Min Gyu’s naked confusion, Dae Jung started ever so slightly, his eyes widening in authentic surprise. “You haven’t heard? I would have thought the Bekhai would have contacted you first in order to secure your services.”

