Chapter Sixty - Intimi Dating"Dating in the 21st century has never been easier. Just sign on to our app, and in minutes, your very own custom GirlfrAInd will be there, waiting for you to go on romantic dates together!"-GirlfrAInd Dating Services ad, 2029***"So, uh, your sister was saying that you've been staying pretty quiet?" I asked. It was the first conversational thread I could think of. Knight gave me an unreadable look, and I hoped that she didn't think I was throwing her under the bus."Yeah," Princess said, sounding a bit sad. "It's been a while since we really got out. We barely leave the house for groceries. I keep telling her that I can handle myself. There's a heap of small hives all around the city, you know? They're not well-guarded or anything, so it's like... free points?""Yeah, I've seen my share of small hives like that," I said. Share meaning like, one or two. "I think Shy here basically specializes in taking those out. Right?"Shy gave me the side-eye 'if you drag me into this I'm killing you' sort of look, but then she looked to Princess and nodded once. "I... do," she said.Wow, two words, and to people she didn't know as well. I was somewhat impressed."Maybe we can set up a playdate?" I asked. I knew I was playing with a live grenade there, but the opening was too much not to take.Instead of giving me a withering glare, Shy actually looked outright panicked for a moment, which made me feel a tiny bit bad."With me, of course," I said. "Uh. Yeah. I wouldn't mind helping out with some small hives. We could make a big thing out of it. See if we can't clear out as many hives as possible in one day.""That sounds awesome!" Princess said.It... did sound pretty decent, actually. "I could use a few more points. Each hive isn't too much, not when you need thousands for anything good, but I'm sure if there's a few of us working together we can wipe out a dozen smaller ones in an afternoon. What do you say, Knight?""Me? Certainly? I think that might be a good way to spend some time out of the house."Shy nodded, and I took that to mean she was in too. I'd invite her more formally when the time came. "We'll have to find a time for it.""Saturday!" Princess said. "You don't have school then, right?""Right," I said. How did she know about the school thing? Wait, no, that had to be online by now. It wasn't even impossible that she'd learned it through entirely innocent means. Not that I didn't expect otherwise. "Yeah, maybe Saturday. We can take the Bastion around. Do you remember any of the higher-ranking soldiers in the army?""Mhm!" she said."Then ping one of them, ask for any intel, and then we can draw up a logical path to follow. Or maybe not so logical? In case someone tries something, you know?""Oh, smart," Princess said. "Yeah, I can do that! I bet you have so much stuff on your plate.""A bit," I said."And yet you're here," Princess continued. "I'm sorry. I'm taking up all of your time, aren't I?"I waved that off. "No, no, it's fine," I said. "Oh, and speaking of plans. Have you heard of the conclave?"Princess clapped her hands together. "I have!" she said. "I read the post you made, and the one by Miss Samurai Gomorrah! I even saw videos of the big explosions. Were you there for that?""Huh? Oh, yeah. It was me, Shy here, and Nya. Gomorrah too, but she was sitting back and watching, mostly.""So cool!" Princess cheered. "You know, most Samurai work solo, or in teams of two or three. New Montreal is turning out to be super different.""That's neat," I said. "Uh, I guess we're just working together because it makes sense. Anyway, the conclave.""Oh sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt," she interrupted."It's fine. Anyway..." I waited, but she kept still. Well, as still a jar full of angry hornets, but she was keeping a lid on it. "I was wondering if you'd like to help?""Yes!""Ah, okay, but I haven't said how yet?"Princess smacked a hand over her mouth. "Sorry," she said."It's all good. We have a lot of stuff we're still figuring out, but mostly we need to make a strong showing. It doesn't matter if the event's a little janky if we have enough firepower there to level the city, you know? We'd love to have you there too."Stolen content alert: this content belongs on Royal Road. Report any occurrences.I wouldn't. I'd much rather she stay home.But like, she wasn't a bad kid. And I did kill her dad, which made me feel a certain way, being an orphan myself. So like, it felt wrong not to extend a hand. Or a bone? Yeah, something like that."What do you need me to do?" Princess asked once my pause went on long enough that it was clear she wasn't interrupting."Hmm, we could use some help with planning if you're good with that?" I glanced at Knight who hesitated, then shook her head."I don't think my dear sister here has much experience with large scale project planning," Knight said."That's true," Princess said. "I'm really bad with projects, even at school. Sorry.""Nah, that's fine. We could still use some help. I'll let Lucy know, maybe you can help with small things. In the meantime, we're definitely going to need guards. Someone to stand at the entrance and intimidate anyone coming in.""You think I'm intimidating?" Princess asked."Yes."I cleared my throat."Anyway. Yeah. Just need someone to stand by the front, maybe with Knight here, and check off names from a list. It's nothing too complicated. Your AI can help with it, I guess? Or get some software with facial recognition on it. Lucy mentioned having something like that the other day and said it was pretty decent.""I can do that," Princess said."Cool. It's nothing too complicated. We can get you a stool," I said."Stools aren't very intimidating," she said.I shrugged. "Then bring your own seating."Princess' eyes lit up, and I think she had ideas that I didn't want to know about. "I can do that," she said. "I can easily do that! You can trust me.""Yeah, of course," I said. "So... yeah, I guess I'll see you on Saturday? Knight, you'll be there, right?"Knight nodded, which did relax me a little bit. If she was there, at least, it wouldn't be that bad. Probably. She was a good limiter on her sister. "I'll be there to help, don't worry. My calendar is pretty clear at the moment.""Perfect! And the next weekend's the conclave. After that... well, we'll have to see. I'm not the sort of woman that usually plans even two weeks ahead." I patted my thighs, then bounced to my feet. "Right, glad to see you're doing well, Princess. You too, Knight. But I'm busy as always. You know how it is! I'll see you on Saturday?""Oh," Princess said. She looked a little disappointed.Not disappointed enough that I'd stick around any longer than I needed to."Yeah! We'll see each other then. When can I expect you? Nine-ish?""In... the morning? Sweetheart, no, I've barely dreamt of getting up by then. More like noonish. At best. We'll make a full day of it. Right, Shy?""Hm?""That's her way of saying 'yes,'" I said. "We'll see you on Saturday.""Let me show you out, at least," Knight said.I didn't disagree, because... what was I gonna say to that? No? Knight stood up and followed me and Shy to the door, then glanced over her shoulder to confirm that Princess wasn't there. "Thanks. For watching out for my sis. You don't need to, and I know she can be excitable, but... yeah, she looks up to you, but I was always afraid that she'd end up hurting herself.""Hey, no problem," I said. "I can't promise I'll be around all the time. Or often, but she's a New Montreal samurai, and I guess that makes her my... uh, responsibility?" I only barely avoided saying 'problem' there."Well, thanks in any case," Knight said. "Drive safe?""We will," I replied.The moment the door was closed I felt a weight coming off my shoulders. Thank fuck that was over."Oh my god, I agreed to do this again in a couple of days," I muttered.Shy's only response was to awkwardly pat my shoulder. "There... there?" she tried.It wasn't all that comforting, but it was something, at least. Now... could I drag some others into this to deflect the awkwardness? Maybe Princess would cling onto someone else? That'd be nice.***By Jegsuu!
