He tried to remember when the first news from Felrak had arrived, about their King having died or been assassinated, and tensions with Sor increasing. He supposed that would truly confirm that time magic was involved. But maybe he was still just in denial. Working on the roof at least felt nice. It wasn't a massive problem to fix in the grand scheme of things but it was something he could do, and at least for a while, the Downwater Inn wouldn't have to deal with leaks and drafts related to its roof.

Veron finished the job faster than he had expected. The sky was mostly clear and the sunlight felt comfortable, and while he did like his stone armor, it felt nice to walk around in linen clothes. Maybe it was just the fact that here, at least right now, he didn't need to worry about armor.

“I'm done with the roof!” he called down to a surprised Tenya.

She joined him up there and checked for a while, then nodded to herself. “Good work.” It was all she said before she descended the ladder again, but she did give him a longer look this time around.

Warren showed him a few more spots around the inn that needed repairs and then invited him for dinner.

“Good work today, Veron. Adventurers usually don't care much for this kind of work, and there are hardly any craftspeople coming through this village. You can keep the clothes, if you like, and I can pay you six silver for the work you did today. Though I do have an alternative suggestion as well, if you'd like to hear it.”

Veron drank from the ale, and he ate from what seemed to be deer stew. He was glad they hadn't grilled the meat beforehand. He gestured for Warren to continue talking.

“Well, we could talk about doing more small jobs like today, but I'm more interested in some of the things you could get for me in the wilderness. Nothing too dangerous, nothing too far away. Would you be willing to go out there?”

“That depends on what you're looking for,” Veron said.

“Great. Do you have any experience with herbalism?”

Veron smiled ever so slightly. “Just some basics, but it's always good to learn more. What did you have in mind?”

Warren almost grinned. “Instead of your pay for today, you get a room for a few days, breakfast and dinner Included. I'll take an hour or two in the mornings to show you some of the plants and flowers that I'm looking for, and I'll give you a fair price for anything you find and bring back to me. It's not a stable income, but if you do as well a job as you did on the roof today, I'm sure you'll have a good sum of money together in no time. How does that sound?”

Veron found it funny. Collecting herbs again. Yeah. That’s a start.

“It sounds like we have a deal, Warren.”

Veron finished his dinner and retired to the small room that Warren offered him. It was simple and clean. The bed had two comfortable pillows and an actual mattress. He almost cried when he lay down in it.

The sun had set by now and Veron opened the small window to let in some fresh air. It felt strange to be back here, and it hurt to talk to Warren and to Tenya, without them knowing who he was, but all in all, he felt surprisingly okay. Besides the whole time magic business and knowing all the shit that would happen, things were going well. He had a way to make some money, to learn more about herbalism, and a safe place to sleep in. It felt good enough for now. And everything else, he could worry about tomorrow.
