Erick wondered about a lot of things as he strolled up the road, to where the white line crossed the street. That white line entered a garage-like space with three walls and a roof, and a few scattered tables with glass boxes upon them. People were there, mainly students in front of the tables, looking down in the boxes, but there was also a woman sitting in the back, atop a stool, watching the students like they were thieves. Her eyes only looked away from the fruits under glass and the students gazing upon them when she saw Erick. And then she gasped. The students rapidly recognized Erick behind them, and parted, shoving themselves out of the way, to let him see the uninterrupted sights of the presentation.

It was then that a side of the room turned to a shadowed puddle, and a woman stepped out; a Shade. She was dark-skinned and muscular. She was Lapis, the Shade of Enchantment. She smiled, and then smiled wider, as Erick blinked on his mana sense. Her Shroud was about as solid as his own liquid-concrete Shroud.

Lapis spoke, “Greetings, Erick! I must say: you have taken remarkably well to those new Stats. A mana sense in a single day, the smarts to use it, and the stability of body and mind to blink it on and off like that, with no ill effects? Remarkable.” She added, “Your own experience is in line with some of my other tests, though. Tell me: do you have a sudden craving for blood or flesh or anything of the sort?”

Erick watched the world with multiple senses and saw when probing bits of shadow tested the edge of his Shroud. He touched the nearest shadowy tendril with his own and gave it a gentle push away, as he said, “Five of the last people to do that got executed, Lapis.”

Students exited the room a quickly as they could.

Lapis smiled, and said, “I was one of those that tested you when you fell, and who was determined to have due cause to test. We had to be sure that you weren’t having a mental and physical breakdown. That’s happened to some people.”

Erick kept his emotions level, and his anger at sapient-testing down to a minimum. “Why do you think I survived?”

“I have many theories regarding these new Stats and the people who get them. But first:” Lapis gestured to the glass boxes on the tables. “Care for an Introduction to New Stats? My assistant was giving this lesson, but I would prefer to do this myself since you’re here.”

“… Sure. Why not.”

Lapis turned halfway to her assistant. “Set up for a full display.”

The woman, a short human with darker skin than Lapis and with dark, human eyes, bowed quickly, then said, “Yes, mistress,” as she bustled to the second of the three glass cases. With careful, quick hands, she began pulling out fruits and metals and objects from the case, and setting them up on the table, as she conjured sculptures of light into the air.

Erick had seen the glass cases and their contents well before now, but this was Lapis’s show, so he let her guide him through whatever it was she had done.

The Shade moved to the first case, in which text sat under glass, next to small drawings. She said, “Here I have detailed the problems of Stats, and the normal ways to increase or decrease them through tainting the aura with a boosting color. Stats and their colors are an artificial construction of mana, you know?”

“Of course they are.”

Lapis gave a small, happy expression. “A rather open-minded perspective. It usually takes a lot of evidence to prove to most people that the Script is wholly artificial.”

“Many things are artificial. The idea of a family. The idea of a community. Just because they are artificial does not mean they are somehow wrong.”

Lapis shrugged, then continued, “Because Stats are artificially constructed from the mana, we can hitch our attempts at enchantment to this artificiality in a few different ways. The first, is to use a like-to-like mana light, boosting the power of the soul by flooding the Aura, and thus the Shroud, with that mana light. This is the normal way to enchant for Stats, and much like you can equip a person with a weapon in order to increase the work a person is capable of doing, this is how you equip the soul with a weapon to thus increase the power of the soul.”

Erick had nothing against her words, except that she was purposefully holding back and that she failed to use words like ‘harmonic’ and ‘lightwaves’, which Erick was sure that she knew. They had been spying on Erick this whole time, after all.

He also said nothing because he blinked on his own mana sense, and checked his rings and his belt, and yes, there was something there that he hadn’t paid attention to before now. He knew how Stat Enchantments worked, after all. But seeing it was different than reading and poking around with various experiments.

Lapis moved onto the next glass case, which had been opened, with the drawings and words therein strung out into hanging lightwards that more easily displayed the information. Lapis went through those light sculptures, and took her place in the center of the display, as she spoke, “Our goal was not to equip the soul with a new weapon, but instead to fuse those weapons to the soul, directly; to change a man’s arms into sword-arms, so to speak. We did this by taking certain souls of the correct natural color out of the manasphere with summoning magics, as well as using starter souls from various sources, and turning those people into Stat Fruit bearing trees. When one of those resulting Meatdrops, Blooddrops, Dewdrops, or Oceandrops, was used by a person, what was happening was that the very soul, the very connection to the Script, was being stressed along its foundation. This stress was then filled in by the Script, fundamentally expanding the power of those Stats by one. Some people, with very low starter Stats, sometimes gained two, or even three points in those Stats.” She added, “The Points gifted to users of the Script, those gained by levels or other means, are also capable of doing this, but we are not able to access this functionality of the Script.

“There is a similar event that happens when someone is at a low Strength but then they eat enough monster meat to gain a point of Strength. That is a much slower method of gaining Strength, but that method was useful to understand in order to exploit the rest of the Script.”

Erick kept his anger in check, but it was getting difficult. This woman… This monster, experimented on people like they didn’t matter. Erick knew this, already. But to hear it again… Erick kept himself from sighing.

Lapis stepped to the third box, saying, “And here is how we created the new Stat Fruits.” She stood before a few different illusions of trees and people. “The hardest part was finding people of the right color magic to start with. We began with a global scouring for those with the dispositions and natural manalights that we wished to pursue. The original thirty resources we discovered ranged from Sanity to Luck to Endurance, to the four we decided upon, and a few others that never came to fruition. From there, we broke those resources with Melemizargo’s help and used those breakings to flow mana in a way it hadn’t moved before, creating Constitution, Dexterity, Charisma, and Intelligence. Recently, though, Charisma was broken again, and shifted into Perception. We tried for Intuition, but that mutated into what it became, and the outcome was acceptable. Perception seems like a great Stat.”

Erick asked, “And what happened to the original people?”

“They’re trees now. They’re happy. Treant has a whole little court of like-minded tree-people, happily soaking up the sun while their roots dip into the dirt.” Lapis frowned a little, as she put on a false front, saying, “I’m not one of those people who enjoys causing pain and suffering, Erick. Besides! Those people were all horrible people who deserved what they got. Not a single one was worth anything to civilization or their own societies, and now they are.”

“Ah. Well.” Sarcastically, Erick said, “That makes everything better.” A bit more serious, he asked, “How do you know that they were useless people to their own societies?”

Lapis was prepared for this. She said, “Rodel was the primary gatherer for both intel and the people themselves. I don’t know about the majority of the failures of this project, but I know for a fact that our Intelligence guy came from a bandit camp in Nelboor. He had delusions of world conquest, and he killed hundreds of people to rise to the top of his own particular heap of shit. He had a harem of women he abused on the daily.” She gently flapped a hand to the right, saying, “The Shade of Whispers is up the mountain somewhere. He’ll know more about the individuals chosen for the honor of becoming the Stat Trees.”

“Maybe I will speak to him, but right now I’m speaking to you.” Erick asked, “Why was it necessary to harm people to create new magic? To create something new in the Script?”

“Because the Script is strong, Erick. It was made by ten million minor and major powers all weaving their chains together, all focused on controlling our reality, on controlling our lives.” Without malice or subterfuge, Lapis said, “We work with what we have, and what we have is soul magic, blood magic, paths already laid down in the Script, and Melemizargo’s power to turn those paths to new directions in the hopes of escaping this prison.”

Erick listened to that answer, and for the briefest of moments, he put himself in Lapis’s shoes.

In her eyes, the world was a trap, and the people therein were also trapped with her. There was no escape from this fate, and the strongest tools that existed to break out of this fate were the lives of her fellow prisoners. For a moment, Erick accepted that this was a valid trade off. For a moment, the sacrifice of other people to break out of an endless prison was okay. But just for a moment.

And then Erick came back to himself. He said, “I hope you have plans to forgo this type of experimentation and harm when new worlds open up to you.”

Lapis lied straight to his face, “Of course.”

He asked one more question, “So what was the purpose of these new Stats?”

“To get the gods to come to the table and debate how to move forward into a new expansionist era, in this New Cosmology.” Lapis said, “It takes a lot to get gods talking. If you want to blame anyone for the horrors unleashed by the Clergy, blame the incompetence of the Interfaith gods and their desire to control us all.” She added, “Personally, I believe that the Sundering was caused by all those falsely vaunted gods, or maybe the Wrought themselves. Melemizargo certainly would never have broken the universe. Even if you take the worst possible view of Our God, it makes no sense that he would seek to Sunder his own power.”

“… Thanks for the presentation.”

“Any time, Erick.” Lapis said, “If you wish to talk about other forms of enchanting, let me know. My assistant will be here all day. Or you could come around to Truedark; I have office hours most afternoons over there.”

Erick left the presentation booth.

- - - -

The next presentation was for how the Shade of Monsters, who never showed, had created a new breed of slime that mimicked normal sewer slimes and yet was four times stronger than usual. Those new slimes had been seeded in thirty different smaller towns and larger cities throughout continental Nelboor. They had gone on to kill somewhere between 100 to 700 Rookies. The only problem with the new breed of slimes was that they did not transform into very good oozes. They were only about half as strong as any normal ooze of the same variety. But that didn’t really matter. They had been wiped out three months after introduction, in an unusual act of cooperation between the warring city-states of that war torn continent.

The man who presented this information to Erick really drummed up the acts of cooperation that came about from the Shade’s slimes.

- - - -

One presentation was empty.

The person in the middle of that space told anyone who came that, “The Shade of Enlightenment has grand plans for the coming years, and cannot divulge any secrets at this time.”

- - - -

In one well-attended room, Erick found a dozen people all reading from huge chalkboards that had been set into the walls. Notes adorned those chalkboards. Notes on atoms, and the molecular makeup of water, and a large number of other things Erick had spoken to others in confidence…

Just…

All out there.

Hanging in the open.

Erick left.

He hadn’t noticed anything on those chalkboards about light, though. For a moment, he was hopeful that they didn’t know any of that. But then that moment passed. They knew about light. Why not display those private talks with Kiri? Why not expose all of what Erick chose not to expose to the world? Were they scared of light?

Possible.

- - - -

A room of scattered blood and viscera was contained behind solid shadows. Guts slithered on the floor. Bones undulated on the walls. A young man stood in the back of the room, untouched by the gore all around him. Where he stepped, blood flowed away. When he stood up from his chair, lumps of cancerous flesh moved to retake the space, but when he went to sit, those lumps of flesh moved away from the chair, leaving the seat pristine, and his for the taking.

Some students stood outside the space, but none dared to move inside, though the man inside was quite amicable to such things. He smiled, and spoke in a friendly manner using words that seemed anything but friendly, “Come on in, if you dare, if you’ve skill with Blood Magic. My master won’t take anyone that isn’t capable of keeping away small monsters like these.”

Erick watched the man talk to the students, and then he walked forward.

The four students who were watching, backed away, fully.

Erick stopped at the edge of the gore.

The man on the other side, in the sea of blood and body parts, and yet not touched by any of it, brightened. He bowed, “Welcome, Fire of the Age. I am the humble servant of Crimsonair, the Shade of Blood. How may my master help you?”

“I have no idea how he could help me.” Erick looked to the moving walls and floor and ceiling, asking, “But what’s with the horror show? And why are you calling them small monsters?” Erick looked around the room with multiple sights, saying, “I can see the soul in that thing, and though it’s spread out, it’s a single monster.” Erick pointed behind the kid, to a particularly bloody patch of gore, saying, “The core is right there.”

