“Why would I answer? You shall find out soon enough if any of this was worthy of the choices you have already made. Even if I told you that the contents are worthless, it is not as if you could undo what has been written.” Avyna turned her nose up in disdain.

In retribution, the child flicked his chain. An instant later, the sickle tore free of her shoulder with far more force than the minor movement should have allowed. Stubborn or not, there was little that she could do to stifle the pained cry that slipped between her gritted teeth.

“And your guilt?” He mocked her suffering.

“I… stole nothing. I was attacked.” Avyna hissed her answer through her teeth.

The lie had to become the truth. The child had chosen to flirt with Black Crow, but Avyna denied him all the same.

“Bad luck then. Well, I suppose we’ll see if you change your tune while I cut supple meat off your bones.” The beaming child approached her. His expression and gait suggested an easy confidence, yet he never lowered his guard.

Again and again, Avyna tried to retrieve items that might be of assistance. She sought Skill gems that might protect her. She sought her bow. Nothing was where it should have been within her storage space. She could have manifested her entire storage in a mess, though she was more likely to arm her adversary than herself—and drain much of her mana in the process.

“Just to give you a little incentive to behave.” The child produced a bottle from his own Spatial storage and poured its contents over the sickle. “I’m told this blend of toxins is exquisitely agonizing—and it’s quite fatal too. The last time I used it, my quarry screamed for just a dozen seconds before she died. So maybe let me take my time.”

He produced a serrated knife to replace the bottle.

Avyna had her own knife hidden in her cinch, but it would do her no good. As much as she hated it, her best choice was to take his abuse. At least until he relaxed his guard.

Besides, she fully believed that Ranthia would save her before she suffered too much in his hands.

The child menaced her with his sickle as he got within reach of her.

She had faith.

He raised his knife with sadistic glee.

She was unafraid.

The knife descended, aimed to split the layers of her garment down her front.

And Avyna’s trust was rewarded. Another knife flew in, faster than the child could react. It struck the blade of his knife with enough force to wrench it out of his grasp. And both weapons tumbled through the air, beyond reach.

“Get away from her.” Ranthia’s face was twisted into a furious snarl as she advanced. Her blindfold was back in place and blood covered the front and side of her armor, but she seemed no worse for wear.

“Impossible! That stupid elf got intercepted—Rogue Wind should have split you in half!” The child shrieked with his paltry fury as he slipped beside Avyna and pressed his sickle against her throat.

He was still wary of her, so Avyna continued to play the part of a meek victim. Unfortunately, the situation left her no space to ask if the woman truly used such an immature title in lieu of her name.

“She’s dead.” Ranthia ground the words out, gesturing to the blood on her armor with her half-formed spare knife.

“No way! She’s killed dozens of people! She wouldn’t have lost!” His composure fractured like cheap crystal.

“Do you have any idea just how few that is?!” Ranthia snapped in retaliation. “I probably passed that number when I was still a kid.”

The child holding Avyna hostage trembled at the words, until he blustered his way through their effect.

“Liar!” The word was spat with juvenile petulance. “But don’t come any closer! See the poison dripping off my sickle?! I can kill her with the barest touch of her neck!”

The child hurriedly adjusted how he held his weapon, to keep the sloppily applied poison from running into her open wounds. In the process, he interposed Avyna between Ranthia and himself, then held his free hand up.

A large gemstone appeared—a strange one. Avyna activated [Spatial Peek] to adjust her point of view so she could study it more closely. At a glance, it appeared to be high-quality cinnabar with an odd occlusion at its core. But between [Spatial Peek] and [Emerald Eyes of the Trader], she was convinced of a far less likely truth. The composite gemstone was comprised of cinnabar wrapped around olivine—and there were Skills stored in each. The combined stone was almost the size of the child’s head, which promised substantial amounts of mana had been invested into the gemstone.

Not that Avyna could even begin to explain how it existed. As far as she knew, there was no way to store Skills inside anything except the purest of gems. Whoever was responsible either had a level sufficient to deny the laws of reality or was a true visionary, one that was wasted on providing deadly baubles to children.

“See this?! A bit of mana and we’re all dead. You, me, your pretty elf here—we’ll be nothing but ashes!” Alas, he had enough sense to not rely entirely on his solitary hostage.

“Just let her go. I’ll let you walk away.” Ranthia made her offer after grinding her teeth for a moment.

“Drop your weapons!” The child countered.

Ranthia slowly raised her hands, then released her knives so they fell at her sides. She still had one bracer left—and the ability to call her weapons back to her hands at will. Though the child had no way to know it, and he seemed to have not noticed where her third knife came from.

“The offer stands. You can just walk away.” Ranthia repeated herself after a moment of silence.

He began to mutter under his breath. Of course, that meant he was practically whispering into Avyna’s ear, given their position. She truly wished that she could be surprised that he planned to refuse Ranthia’s too-generous offer, but when he muttered about just needing to kill them, Avyna made her choice.

She was his only true shield. Without her, he had to hope that he could activate a gem faster than Ranthia could kill him. Not that Avyna intended to leave him with either option.

Avyna jerked her head to the side. An insignificant movement, sufficient only because of how tightly he had kept his sharp weapon pressed against her skin. A bit of pain informed her that her skin had parted beneath the Skill-sharpened weapon.

The poison he used acted just as swiftly as he had bragged it would. From her neck, a growing swath of her flesh burned in agony.

But the child froze up. A hostage was only useful while she lived. For a precious moment, his entire focus went into trying to find some way to undo what had already been done.

Avyna’s fingers found the handle of her knife and pulled it free. A practical thing made with dwarven steel—with a piece of faceted jet set into its grip. [Void Edge] ignited as Avyna desperately slashed at her captor’s wrist. The angle was awkward, even for an elf. But her beloved’s Void had a way of balancing things out.

The moment the hybridized gem was loosed—along with the child’s hand—Avyna threw herself at it, cutting a deeper furrow through her neck in the process. The poison was already affecting her ability to move; not that she required much finesse to tackle the gemstone away from the elf.

Ranthia was shouting something. Her knives were already in her hands again as she desperately lunged forward.

Avyna kept her fraying focus on her would-be killer. To his credit, he recovered swiftly. He was screaming—probably, it was oddly hard to hear much—but he hurled his sickle at her before she could move too far away.

Avyna activated [Catch] with the dregs of her consciousness. His weapon vanished into the Spatial portal she formed and the chain snapped in twain when the portal closed. Unfortunately, Avyna missed her shot with [Return]—the blade missed his head by a finger’s width.

He was less fortunate when Ranthia’s knives tore into him.

[*ting-a-ling* An ally in your party has finished off a [Steel for Slaughter] (Mantle, level 836), [Counter-Mage] (Spatial, level 799), [Blood Chain, the Slayer] (Gale, level 642).]

“<Gemheart!>” Ranthia’s voice pierced through the foggy haze that Avyna had briefly lost herself within. She somehow doubted it was the first utterance of the endearing word.

“<It is okay, my love…>” Avyna managed to get the words out on her second attempt, as she tried to sit up.

“<No. You can’t…!>” Ranthia’s blindfold had disappeared at some point. She tried to hold Avyna down with pressure applied to her good shoulder.

“<That is not what I meant, my love.>” Avyna pushed a laugh through her lingering malaise. With that, she felt strong enough to move her arm. Her first attempt fumbled, though her second caught the chain of lusterite. She tugged it to free the pendant from her clothing—the purium that Ranthia had given her, back before their relationship became genuine. “<You have already saved me, my love. For… at least the third time, I believe?>”

The metal, carefully formed into the… interesting shape of their sigil, had turned black and corrupt with the toxins it had absorbed. She was still a bit lightheaded from whatever damage the poison had wrought before it leeched into the metal, but she was alive. That had been something of a gamble, admittedly.

Ranthia was momentarily stricken—caught between her relief and outrage. Avyna used the moment to free herself from her beloved’s well-intentioned pinning and carefully fought her way back onto her feet. She was still a touch unsteady, but her dignity demanded restoration.

“<You’re… okay?>” Ranthia whispered the words as she found her feet. A moment later, her arms wrapped wonderfully around Avyna’s waist. They both leaned forward in unison.

…Only for Ranthia to stop, a mere moment before their lips found one another.

“<You lied to me.>” Instead of affection, words of condemnation spilled from her beloved’s lips.

Right, that. Prisms, Avyna had almost forgotten just how little she deserved. The barest moment of relief and the promise of affection had made her lose sight of the truth. A lifetime of misery—misery that she spread unto others along the way—had brought about horrific bloodshed.

“<…You are correct. I do not deserve you. I nearly brought about your death. I am sorry, but ‘sorry’ changes nothing about what I have done.>” Avyna tried to turn away. Ranthia’s embrace had loosened.

“<No.>” Ranthia’s voice became shaky, though the word was clear enough.

Avyna truly was monstrous.

Then Ranthia seized Avyna by the hips and forced them face-to-face once again.

“<Let me finish, damnit! No. You do not get to decide who I love! But for Xaoc’s sake, I can’t believe any of this…!>” Tears began to spill once again as Ranthia trembled, her gaze fixed against Avyna’s own eyes.

“<…My love…>” Prisms, how could she have ever been such a fool?!

“<We need to talk. I… I don’t know if we’re okay. Right now, I’m just so damned relieved that you’re alive, I don’t even know what to think! I want us to be okay, but I don’t know. That’ll depend a lot on what you have to say. …But this is not the time, or the place, is it? We can discuss this at home.>” Ranthia was practically pleading by the last line.

She truly was magnificently insightful.

Avyna carefully removed Ranthia’s hands from her hips and stepped back, shaking her head. “<I cannot, my love. …With the ordeal that this has become, there is no chance of it being swept away and ignored. If I return, they will investigate. I was careful and my foundation is firm, but the Unchanging Council will look for any reason to order my execution. …If I stay, the same may befall you, or my daughter. I cannot allow that.>”

Her beloved struggled, she was desperately attempting to craft a rebuttal.

“<The only thing I can do is let the world believe that I died here. That… should be the end of it. By the names of each of the eight spires, I truly hope that shall be the end of it. I believe that the unfortunate youth has left us the means to make the lie quite compelling.>” Avyna stepped back, gesturing at the fused Skill gem as she did.

They were on borrowed time. As much as she desperately wished to linger and answer Ranthia’s every question—to gain confidence about what future they might have—with every moment that passed, the risk of someone else arriving increased. And there had been enough death.

If Avyna found herself in a situation where she had to take yet another precious, young life to hide her final lie, she would rather make the lie into the truth. Her dwarven steel had suffered during the prior activation, but there was still some mana within the piece of jet.

“<After all of this, you’re just leaving… again?!>” Ranthia bit her tongue partway through her initial response. Hysteria had increased her volume more than she had intended.

“<Not forever, I promise. By the memory of Evi, I swear, I shall return to you. Just give me two hundred and fifty-six, no, one hundred and twenty-eight years. Enough time that no one would think of looking for me. I will tell you everything.>” Avyna made her pledge from the heart.

“<…I trust you. Gods damn it all, I still trust you.>” Ranthia lowered her head after she spoke.

“<Activate the gem from afar, once I am clear. Until then, my love.>” Avyna turned away before her own tears could escape. She began to run.

