She was screaming, but it had less to do with her injury than one might expect. Of course, having a sickle buried in the flesh of her shoulder and the quite unwelcome sensation of being pulled through the air from that point hurt. Prisms, Avyna had lived a very long time without encountering an agony that could directly compare! Her scream may have been born from pain, but it was her terror that kept it going.

Ripping someone forcefully out of a Spatial Skill was dangerous. The attack had destabilized her Skill, and it was nothing more than a fluke of luck that she was pulled through the breach before her Skill wholly collapsed. Such reckless actions frequently resulted in the death of Spatial users and/or those that pursued them—a closing Spatial rift could sunder even the most vital of elves.

It wasn’t even necessary! Had whatever facetless fool just made it clear that they knew she was there and could reach her, she would have emerged on her own. Instead, she went through one of the most needlessly terrifying experiences she could imagine. Even once she landed hard on her rear, she still struggled to refocus on the moment.

At least the impact dislodged the sickle. Thank the spires for small mercies.

Deprived of dignity, Avyna clutched her wound to staunch the flow of her blood as best she could, while she absorbed the situation. Though there was little need to take more than a single glance at the vicinity. She was surrounded by combat-tagged elves and the corpses of her former protective escort. Given the lack of Mist in the air and the levels on the few she had time to check, they were presumably Hunters or Elf Hunters.

For a precious moment, Avyna allowed herself to indulge in her frustration. Not only had one of the too-young killers nearly brought her to a grisly end through an act of grandstanding incompetence, but the mere fact that she had been caught was quite beyond merely infuriating! For centuries she had planned contingencies, established and obfuscated routes, and made arrangements to render her movements as difficult to predict as possible. Even if the Tympestshard Council’s limited forces that could be activated in the region happened to go after her wagon, they should have followed the main road leading to the east. The game trail she was on led to a seldom used crossing point with precious little in the area.

The useless route was the entire reason why she had a second wagon—a smaller one, disassembled and buried alongside a Skill gem that would make it self-propel for a time—waiting in the woods, a short distance from where she ended up ambushed. She had been so close to escaping. She had worked so hard to make what had undeniably happened as unlikely as possible. She had been so confident—so proud of her own cleverness.

And it was all for nothing. A bit of luck (or, perhaps, a tracking Skill that exceeded anything she knew to exist) was all that it took to unmake a lifetime of diligence and risk-taking. Unfortunately, the reality of the situation was that Avyna had been caught; there was nothing she could do to undo that truth. She had a few Skill gems and other surprises, true, but none of them were likely to allow her to escape such a large crowd.

She still considered it, just for a moment. Yet the idea of ending young lives, just to struggle against what was likely inevitable, felt utterly repugnant. She had done many terrible things throughout her life, but at the end, she found her line in the proverbial sand: she refused to cut so many young lives short. Death was so much more final than most elves seemed to realize. Her sister would never forgive her for selfishly removing the boundless potential of youth from the world. Besides, she had a better use for her undesired audience.

If her efforts must come to naught, she might as well do what she could to plant seeds of doubt within their hearts. The absence of Wardens was both a boon and a bane, though she knew better than most just how impressionable young minds could be. Her final words could become a long-term poison that led others to rebel against the Unchanging Council in the future. Such a thing was hardly comparable to the blow that she had hoped to inflict, yet she was left with no other productive option.

“<I…>” Grimy Gemstones! Reason and logic were all well and good, but her emotions had a firm grasp on her tongue. The piteous sound she made was barely even coherent!

Not that it mattered. One of the elves before her had been shoving his way forward and, just as she made her attempt to speak, he began his charge. He raised his blade of crimson crystal over his head, though Avyna’s gaze was drawn down to the brazen greed blazing in his eyes. He saw her as little more than a bounty, or, perhaps, he saw her level and desired to claim his pittance of the wealth of experience that she carried. The reasons were somewhat irrelevant. She had seen enough to know that his intent was genuine.

She was moments from death, unable to speak, and unwilling to defend herself. Given his speed, his class qualities were likely atrocious. Had she possessed the inclination, she likely could have evaded the coming blow. But she had failed in every conceivable way. Well over a thousand and twenty-four years of effort and misery were moments away from being undone. She had promised herself that, were she caught, she would hold her head up high and face her death with a smile on her face and poison on her lips. But none of that had worked out.

She was terrified. And from the way he held his blade, it was clear that he had no intention of even granting her a clean decapitation—he intended to split her skull like a melon.

It is what I deserve. The bitter thought echoed through her mind as Avyna closed her eyes. She had failed to say the words that she needed to. But if there was any kindness left in the world, her death would be the end of it and Caeli would be left alone to live the life she wished. Through the terror, Avyna reached for a memory of Caelillia. One last time.

But the face that she imagined was not that of her daughter. Instead, [Chest of Experience] provided her with a final source of guilt. Ranthia… Prisms, she would never be able to apologize for her deception. I am sorry, my love. You deserved so much more than my cruelty.

She could almost imagine Ranthia’s voice, refusing to accept the apology.

“No!”

…Her imagination had never been quite that vivid!

Avyna opened her eyes to a surreal world, a nightmare so terrible that it could only be reality. Shards of rubies flew as Ranthia—impossibly real—parried his sword with her Void-touched knife. Her stance was atrociously precarious, yet she still managed to catch herself with a single sandal-covered toe and pirouetted to deliver a surprisingly forceful kick to the flat of the elf’s blade that drove him back.

She had improved, even if her level had changed far less than Avyna would have expected.

“Wait! I know her! She’s not involved!” Ranthia shouted as she interposed herself between Avyna and the bulk of the elves. After a moment of hesitation, she used the back of her knife to lift the blindfold off of her eyes. Her gaze carried anger, yes, but desperation was just as obvious.

But what was she even doing there? Even if she had made it to the City of the Arts, as Avyna had hoped, any forces from it should have gone south to counter one of the decoys that moved through that region! The odds of them reuniting at that moment—of all times—had to be ludicrous.

For the first time, Avyna found herself convinced that there may be some degree of truth in her beloved’s belief that her Chaos deity had a hand in every coincidence.

“She’s a [Merchant] with a Skill that allows her to enter a Spatial hideaway—one that’s tethered to her cargo so she might be able to recover it! It’s obvious that these orcs attacked and stole her cargo, forcing her to hide and hope for an opportunity to recover it and escape! So why the fuck are you attacking her?!” Ranthia directed her fury at the elf she had stopped.

He was staring at his damaged blade. There was some sort of heavily enchanted wooden core at the heart of it, which had been gouged by Ranthia’s Void. From the angle, Avyna was unable to tell how bad the damage was, though his mounting anger was likely more important.

Ranthia’s excuse sounded plausible, but there were obvious holes. Avyna’s [Hidden Hideaway] was a fixed location Skill, same as most Spatial abilities. She had been forced to stop the wagon before she could escape—lest she endured the mana costs and physical discomfort of being shunted because the wagon itself blocked her egress—and even then, it had likely moved forward further since she had. The exit point would not have matched Ranthia’s description. And she should have known better! It had been a number of years since they shared Skillsets, true, but Avyna found herself disappointed by her former partner’s flawed recollection.

Still, she needed to shut Ranthia up before the wonderful woman managed to draw suspicion on herself. Had the Wardens been the ones to catch her, Avyna would have been given an opportunity to boast about her accomplishments and plot—which would have removed the need for any follow-up investigation once she was executed. Avyna appreciated what Ranthia was trying to do, she truly did, but her fate had been sealed from the moment she had been caught.

And there was no way that she was going to allow the woman she loved to perish for her crimes. She just needed to compose the words in her head—in Creation, by unfortunate necessity—that would make it clear that Ranthia had been ignorant despite their prior connection. Actually, the presence of her beloved was a boon in some ways.

If anyone deserved to harvest whatever merit the System decreed Avyna’s life was worth, it was the woman that she loved. It was a pale form of atonement that would undoubtedly hurt Ranthia for a time, but she was so wonderfully strong—Avyna knew that her beloved would recover with time. It would also grant her an opportunity to wound the pride of the callous youths by proclaiming that a human was the only person that could be trusted to grant her a clean death.

The words were imperfect, but Avyna was on something of a time limit. Just before Ranthia could begin to speak again, Avyna hurriedly sought her former partner’s gaze. It was a struggle to keep from trembling as she tried her best to silently beg Ranthia to stop with nothing except her eyes. To communicate to the woman that she had cherished the depth of her guilt. She was unable to say the words, yet she needed Ranthia to understand the truth.

I am unworthy of your protection, my love.

Condemnation should have followed—assuming Avyna was successful in conveying what she needed to. They had established great rapport in the past, but Ranthia was likely still of the mortal mindset that the four years they had spent apart was somehow a significant stretch of time.

And yet, Ranthia’s Void-touched eyes carried no condemnation. What they conveyed was significantly worse than that. There was no surprise. She knew—or, at the very least, she had pieced it together for herself in the moments since Avyna appeared before her. Prisms, she had always been surprisingly insightful in a crisis.

Had they not fought side-by-side, Avyna might have missed the true weight that lurked within her beloved’s gaze. There was no surprise, no fear, and no joy in Ranthia’s expression. There was only a resigned acceptance, offered for the merest of instants, before her gaze moved back to the elves that partially surrounded them.

Avyna had accepted that she would never walk away from the situation she found herself in. She had failed, and she was prepared to pay the price for that failure. She had, of course, hoped to succeed, but her role within the great machination had always demanded that she walked beneath Black Crow’s gaze. One did not steal goods guaranteed by the Unchanging Council itself without being prepared to lose her life in the attempt.

That was why Avyna had done everything in her power to keep Ranthia from getting involved. Very early into their too-brief relationship, she had abandoned the idea of bringing the dazzling woman along. For a woman of not yet one hundred and twenty-eight years, Ranthia was a superb combatant, but she was also just one woman. Ranthia excelled at matching a single greater foe and, by necessity, she had developed experience with engaging against a large force of weaker adversaries.

The situation they found themselves in was the worst possible scenario. In truth, Ranthia would be hard-pressed to match against any single elf that surrounded them. Yet there she was, preparing herself to face most, if not all of them.

No!

Avyna refused to allow such a travesty to happen. Ranthia should have never even been there, and there was no way she was going to let the amazing woman that won her heart to perish!

The problem was, what could she do? Had she chosen to argue with Ranthia, she would have proven their connection and invited an attack. And even if she professed her guilt, she knew in her heart that Ranthia would fight to protect her until they both succumbed to the fury of the Hunters and Elf Hunters. And while Avyna was a fast thinker, she was out of time.

There was only one possible path forward. It was narrow. It was horrendously unlikely to work.

Avyna just had to set aside her pride.

“<I am no orc!> I…” Avyna’s voice remained feeble as she struggled to speak.

