Before she made it more than a few steps, Ranthia slammed into her and roughly spun her around. Her beloved’s lips pressed against her own in a desperate, needful kiss. By the standards they had established, it was not terribly long, though it was no less powerful for its necessary brevity. No matter how long Avyna lived, she still underestimated just how many emotions could be exchanged in a moment of physicality.

“<I still don’t know if we’ll ever be okay again, but… Eighty years. That’s all I’ll wait. And tell me where you’re going. This time, I’m coming after you if you fail to come back to me.>” Ranthia whispered the words into Avyna’s ear.

Avyna had every reason to refuse. Eighty years was insufficient—even one hundred and twenty-eight had been reckless. And telling Ranthia where she was going would only endanger the wonderful woman. It would give her a clue about at least one aspect of the great machination.

“<Very well. The nation of devils, to the north. Magnate Ryx. Even if I am no longer a guest of his, he will know exactly where to find me. Keep to the central-eastern portion of the border and it should be trivial to send word to him.>” Avyna still gave Ranthia an honest answer.

“<Okay.>” Ranthia kissed her one last time. “<Go—I’ll blow the gem in a minute. Sooner, if I hear anyone.>”

With that, they separated.

“<One last thing.>” Avyna seized her hair roughly in her hand. She had long cherished her hair. In a world where she was nothing more than a cog in the great machination, her hair was often the only facet of her existence that remained entirely under her own control. No Skills had shaped it, she had lovingly grown it out, tended to it, and tamed it through personal diligence.

She was surprised with how little she hesitated to pass the failing knife through it.

“<Take it. It is traditional to weave it into the sigil of your formal partner when they perish. Wear it prominently and wear a hood where it is polite to do so. Any elf will understand that you are in mourning.>” Avyna explained. It would cover her death and serve as the first means to mask herself as she fled the Tympestshard Council’s territory.

Ranthia’s hand was unsteady as she accepted the loose hairs. In exchange, she roughly shoved a bottled potion into Avyna’s hands. Prisms, she had almost forgotten that her neck and shoulder were still bleeding. The power the heart had to distract the mind truly was frightful.

“<Be careful. You have to stay safe, so we can talk. I’ll be yelling at you—a lot—so don’t be late.>” Ranthia’s voice wavered.

As much as Avyna’s heart craved to linger—to study Ranthia’s face just a bit longer—to beg for another kiss… She only offered a silent nod before she turned away and ran as swiftly as her legs could carry her. Eighty years… It was nowhere near long enough and it was only the barest fraction of the life that she had lived.

And yet, it was also an eternity.

The distant explosion was significantly greater than she had expected it to be. Still, she had faith that Ranthia had remained safe—her beloved’s grace was greater than that of most elves, at least those at her level.

Heh, faith. Maybe she should try praying to Ranthia’s Chaos deity.

Avyna had run for just over three days straight—bolstered, in part, by the wondrously rejuvenating properties of the Alchemist’s healing potion. But she was spent in both body and mind. Her jubilation and terror could only carry her so far without rest, food, or drink. She just had to hope she had enough distance to safely rest.

Given the fires and smoke that had reigned in the wake of the Skill gem, her escape route—and her hidden wagon—was likely little more than ash and slag. Pursuit was unlikely. And perhaps, someday, she would truly believe it, once she was beyond the reach of even the Wardens.

She found a small, muddy space amongst the bushes and vegetation of the area. By the scent, it was likely a large animal’s resting place, though the stench of its fur and sweat were old. It was just large enough. With a wave of her arm, she manifested the entire contents of her [Spatial Safe Box]. Gems, books, trinkets, and her personal effects clattered and spilled around her. She would have to store the items one at a time, but she needed to rest first.

She found some food and a waterskin and forced herself to take slow sips and bites. Her stomach roiled more than a little over exposure to Ilan bread and water after she had exhausted its contents, but she managed to keep the trifling amount she dared down. After that, she slept for a time.

In the gloom of the waning moons, Avyna changed clothes and carefully retrieved her belongings, leaving only a sword, her bow, and her quiver out. Those she equipped, before she settled down one last time.

No matter how thoroughly she had covered her escape, everything would be ruined if she was spotted. But everyone knew her as a [Merchant] with long blonde hair and eyes of faceted emerald. Her head coverings had likely burned in the conflagration of that Skill gem, but she could remove her concerns about everything else.

After all, she had made a promise to the woman she loved. And for once in her miserable existence, she fully intended to keep her word—in both letter and spirit. If Ranthia would truly have her again, she would become the partner that Ranthia truly deserved. She had chosen to cast away every last plan and goal that she had ever possessed. Which meant that she needed to reassess her build.

She would never be an idle [Merchant], living large from a seat of power within the nation of devils.

With an act of will, she slipped inside of her own System.

The manifestation of Avyna’s System had remained untouched by her recent epiphanies. Despite her nebulous hopes, the space was still the shop she had once dreamed of owning. A massive, sprawling center of commerce under the watchful eye of her stern doppelganger. Through the windows, Ithil could be seen—unchanged from the last time she had laid eyes on the city, centuries ago. And as always in the inner world, Avyna was reduced to a child as she trundled up to the counter.

“<Do you require assistance?>” The shop’s owner asked, her voice effortlessly bridging warmth and formality to an extent that Avyna had never quite matched.

“<I have a return, actually. I will be resetting my [Merchant] class.>” Avyna had made her choice before she even entered. True, the class would have aided her when she negotiated with Ryx—she no longer had the goods that she had promised him.

But it would also be the greatest source of experience and class quality that she would receive for a very, very long time. And if she was going to become worthy of accompanying Ranthia, she needed to become a wandering [Merchant] that could take care of herself.

The first step to reinventing oneself was never easy.
