[You have devoured (1) Cave Fish Lvl 2][Experience earned!]

[You have gained (1) [Scales] subtrait shard]

Damn, that was worse than she’d thought. It didn’t even taste very good.

Pyre would’ve lamented the tragedy of only getting one subtrait shard from the creature for longer if her attention wasn’t drawn to the quick flash of memories she’d gotten from that bite. Namely, green leaves. A forest canopy. Stuff that looked decidedly not like any place a fish should be. Her memory might be mostly missing, but she was 99% sure fish didn’t climb trees.

The first time she maybe could’ve brushed it off—Callan’s “it was falling not flying” theory could work if she really stretched it—but twice? Either [Memories of the Flesh] was glitching out or there was something else at play here.

She swiveled her eyes around, ready to ask Callan if he knew what the fuck was going on in these mountains, when she realized the ghost wasn’t there.

Pyre raised an eyebrow. Had the kid booked it? A second scan, however, revealed a flash of something silvery a bit further ahead. She moved closer, and yep, that was definitely Callan, translucent body hovering over something by the tunnel walls. It was a little more spacious here, the demon noted, which she appreciated. It definitely made it easier to move around.

“Hey, what’s up?”

Callan didn’t say anything in response. He simply pointed, and Pyre followed the line of his finger to the sides of the tunnel.

There, a pale human corpse lay collapsed against the stone walls, its body almost completely encased in a cocoon of thin, stringy white threads.

The demon’s eyes followed those strings, tracing them up to the ceiling where more hung down in dangling loops. She turned to the rest of the tunnel. The threads continued winding deeper inside, and more limp shapes lay scattered along the ground like morbid stepping stones framing the path. None of them moved. All of them were wrapped in that same string-like substance.

Well then. Call it a hunch, but Pyre had a feeling she’d be getting answers to her questions about this place very soon.
