“That’s still a child in half-Elven years! Why are you here? Your family can’t have thought it wise for someone so young.”
She stared up at him earnestly, brimming with the makings of true faith. Even more than some new Painted Antinium had.
“My da objected. But my ma didn’t. She would be dead if your people hadn’t healed her. That’s why I came. You saved her life.”
Pawn turned to Little Birds, who whispered.
“Disease. Very bad.”
“Oh. Well, um. That’s a pretty good reason. However, I’m sure I’ll think of a good counterargument in time! Until then, I am going to back away from this conversation. Someone welcome these half-Elves and find them a place to sleep.”
Pawn ended up watching the fourteen half-Elves mingling with the Painted Antinium, asking what to do, and being told it was mostly praying, following Pawn, listening to sermons, and trying not to die when the next disaster happened.
He resolved to tell his people there was more to their faith than that, but then Pawn was informed another group was coming his way. This time from Reim! Salted Pork and thirty recruits. The King of Destruction had told Salted Pork to bring Pawn and let him leave, and the Soldier had ended up with a bunch of followers.
“Oh dead gods.”
 
——
 
For one shining moment, it felt like the Painted Antinium had found their place in the world. They strode across Khelt’s dry lands, and the people cheered them. They ate glorious food in the most beautiful cities in the world, and they were beloved and their faith pushed the People of God back.
Seventy-two versus six thousand. If not all at once, the People of God did halt.
Even Marrieh. The People of God came in waves, testing the Antinium’s faith, but they were not found wanting.
Pawn himself spoke to the Stitch-woman, who halted across from him with nearly four hundred followers.
“Marrieh, this is not your land to despoil.”
“That is not our intent, Priest Pawn. But neither will we leave it when so much harm has been done to us.”
“You were first to invade, Marrieh. Tell Harvey that I am willing to meet him, but we will not allow you any further. Please, turn back. I would not wish to hurt you.”
Pawn had barely a dozen people with him, but Marrieh was the one who hesitated and stepped back. When her followers protested, she snapped at them.
“We will not make war against the Antinium without reason! They have offered us no violence.”
“What about Silked, who was beaten by the Soldier?”
She rolled her eyes and glanced back at Pawn. He calmly waved his censer over the ground as some of the Faithful studied him, as if gauging whether they could take his group.
“We will not throw the first blow, People of God. You must come as the aggressors. And unless I mistake my faith, that is not excusable by any words of God. Let they who are without sin step forwards and be punched in the face. Amen.”
Whether it was his own faith, which exceeded all but the Disciples, the foreign nature of the Antinium, their calm defense—or the fact that they could and would hit you until you fell down—the People of God halted for a time.
And Khelt celebrated them. Therein lay a problem, you see. Yellow Splatters found Pawn two days after they had come to Khelt.
 
——
 
“Pawn, I think I hate it here.”
Pawn was staring at a mirror in one of the luxurious homes they’d been granted. It had a mirror, amenities, and full plumbing. It was so rich, in fact, that he didn’t know what to do with anything and kept poking around inside.
He’d found some hair-growth tonic and had been wondering if he should grow a beard. That seemed very distinguished. Pawn looked away from the mirror.
“Hate it here, Yellow Splatters? Why?”
Khelt was beautiful. Just the other day, they’d made special bread like Garry’s for Pawn and had him eating prosciutto while lounging on some chairs and talking about Izril. Music, art, everything was so beautiful in Khelt, but Yellow Splatters?
He stood there, patently miserable.
“It’s too rich, Pawn. Why are we here, defending Khelt, when we could be in Liscor? They don’t deserve all of this wealth. They’re…spoiled.”
Pawn lowered the hair-growth tonic, and his antennae waved at Yellow Splatters. Not in disagreement, but sudden, gentle understanding.
“Oh. Yes. They are.”
He didn’t hold it against the Kheltians in the same way, probably because he was used to Lyonette, who had opinions and was a [Princess]. But when Yellow Splatters told him that a lot of the Painted Antinium felt the same way, Pawn realized there was a growing crisis developing in his ranks.
A crisis of, well, faith. Faith in Khelt.
Too rich. It wasn’t like Antinium had much class consciousness; everyone was richer than they were. But Yellow Splatters and Pawn came from the Hive, where a normal Worker or Soldier could go on 16+ hour shifts and, if they weren’t dead, get 7 hours of sleep and be expected to do it again the next day. When Pawn checked out the Kheltians’ schedules…yeah.
Most of them got ten hours of sleep.
Ten. Not ‘they got ten hours on weekends to catch up’, no. They slept ten on average and became grumpy if they didn’t get more. That sensation you had when you woke up and wanted to curl up in bed and not have to get up for anything?
Kheltians loved that feeling. They indulged in it. In fact, a vocal group of protesters were angry because skeletons didn’t carry food to them in their beds, forcing them to wake from hunger.
What Yellow Splatters hated was the food. He showed Pawn what he meant; it was a waste bin in Khelt, which was normally emptied out by just incinerating the contents or skeletons would bury it in farms.
With their lack, lids had been fashioned, and an official had to empty it out, much to their horror, but it contained, well, food. Kheltians tossed anything they didn’t want to eat inside.
Like an entire cake. With orange frosting. It was a carrot cake, and Pawn stared at it for a long time as it sat on top of a bunch of slightly overripe Prelons.
“…What’s wrong with the cake?”
“I don’t know. It appeared this morning.”
They peered at the cake. It was an entire cake. Two feet wide with a middle layer of some kind of sponge cake, which was blue, and it wasn’t even touched.
“Perhaps it’s been made wrong. Or underbaked.”
“Who could tell without taking a bite?”
“Ah, there are Skills for this kind of thing, Yellow Splatters. That’s surely what it is.”
They were saved from having to guess by a [Baker] opening the back doors to ask if they wanted something to eat. He owned the shop nearest this disposal bin, and when they asked, the [Baker] glanced at the cake, very surprised, and waved a hand.
“Oh, that? I made it. I had to toss it, you see.”
“Aha! Because you substituted sugar for salt or something else hilariously simple?”
Pawn was relieved, but the [Airy Baker], who specialized in, well, voluminous projects that didn’t fill your stomach as much as dense foods, waved a languid hand.
“No, no. I just hated the color. You see that blue middle with the orange top? Ugh. I don’t know what I was thinking. Horrendous; I’m making a new one for sale. Would you like to try it? Then I can say I served the Antinium!”
He was excited, but Pawn and Yellow Splatters stared at the perfectly good cake in the bin. Both thought to themselves…
We know how much a cake half that size would cost in the inn. Even Lyonette can’t serve it normally.
What a waste. Yellow Splatters would have secured the cake, despite the [Baker]’s horror at eating soiled food, but as it so happened, someone else beat him to it.
“[Oh, look! A cake! We’re eating good tonight, lads.]”
Rabbitears and six Antinium hurried over and emptied the food bin. The Soldier took the cake as most of the other food, from the Prelons to even half-eaten dishes, was emptied into a bag of holding. The horrified [Baker] watched along with the two Antinium leaders until Pawn spoke.
“Rabbitears, what are you doing?”
“[Getting food.]”
The Antinium Soldier innocently took a handful of cake. Pawn pointed at the [Baker].
“But we have Kheltians who can cook for us.”
Rabbitears visibly hesitated.
“[Yes…but they have so much good food, very tasty, in their trash bins! It is a waste if no one eats it. Plus, it is free.]”
It transpired that over half the Painted Antinium were just eating out of the trash bins. It beat the nutritional paste, and like Yellow Splatters, they objected to the food waste. But that wasn’t all.
For their…reputations, Pawn didn’t like the idea of the Antinium eating out of the trash bins. The Kheltians were welcoming, and the Painted Antinium were risking their lives. They deserved to be spoiled a bit. But then they got onto the topic of the trash bins themselves, and it turned out Rabbitears and company were emptying all the ones in the city.
And sweeping. And clearing out insect nests. And—when Pawn went storming into the city streets, he found Starfold and Pie emerging from the sewers, covered in filth.
“Hello, Pawn. We are cleaning.”
“Why? We’ve been halting the People of God all day!”
The two Antinium glanced at each other and shuffled their feet. Pawn saw a number of Kheltians ducking out of sight and realized the Antinium had been clearing a clogged drain that had been bothering the neighborhood for the last two weeks. Pie answered for Pawn.
“Well…it is not very hard, Pawn. Someone should do it, and we know how since we work. We were thinking, Starfold and I. Maybe we’ll live in Khelt instead of going back home. It is not very difficult if we work.”
Pawn stared at them, and Starfold nodded repeatedly.
“The [Mayor] offered us permanent homes if we act as cleaners and bug-disposal experts. It is a very good job, Pawn. We could send more Antinium here. Thousands.”
“Thousands. To clean and sweep for the Kheltians.”
Pawn’s antennae were shaking a bit, and the two Painted Antinium nodded.
“It is a very good deal, Pawn.”
“It is…if we are lesser than the Kheltians. Just like Liscor. This is—”
Pawn turned, and he saw Yellow Splatters was triumphant and vindicated and unhappy. Pawn whispered.
“This is just like Liscor, isn’t it?”
Only worse because they liked the Antinium. Even if they treated them the same way. And when he saw that, Pawn hated Khelt. And there was the crisis.
 
——
 
It was not that the Antinium resented work. It was not that Pawn thought that some moving to Khelt as workers was the worst. It was just that simple feeling of jealousy.
Kheltians were born with everything. They had spoons of literal silver and gold from birth; they wanted for nothing. Then here came the Painted Antinium who had fought and suffered and struggled for everything they had. They came to paradise on Earth, a practical Heaven in mortal lands, and they were jealous.
Who could not be? It did not help that the Kheltians were all too eager to ask the Antinium to do all the jobs that they didn’t want to do. Pawn flatly spat a refusal at the [Mayor] and several officials sent from the capital.
“We are not hired help. We came at King Fetohep’s request to aid Khelt, not clean for it. The Painted Antinium will not be performing any more labor. You will have defenders of your kingdom or menial servants. Choose.”
Faced with that stark option, the Kheltians backed down fast enough, but Pawn had to instill discipline in the ranks. He ended up arguing with no less than Purple Smile, who disagreed with his decisions.
“It is not our job to clean up for the Kheltians, Purple Smile!”
“[They do not know how to do these things. They offer us everything, so what does it hurt?]”
The Painted Soldier signed back. Pawn snapped as the Painted Antinium watched the two arguing, nervous.
“It is demeaning to us! They treat us like we are lesser than them!”
“[That is what you feel. I do not feel demeaned. Maybe some Kheltians are arrogant, and if so, we do not have to work for them. But most are innocent, not evil.]”
Pawn jabbed a finger into the table he was standing across from Purple Smile at, where a slightly-dingy carrot cake had been in the middle of being divided until he told them they should eat a new one or not at all.
“The Painted Antinium did not create Heaven and leave their Hive to go back to working like common laborers, Purple Smile.”
The Painted Soldier was, uncharacteristically, not smiling. He signed back emphatically.
“[Are we above that, then? Is there no one in Heaven who can empty a trash can, Pawn? Because that is a very ineffective Heaven.]”
—The Antinium didn’t know what to respond with. So he just growled as he grabbed the cake and hurled it out the window.
“As far as I’m concerned, Khelt is rapidly becoming less of a heaven than a nursery for a bunch of spoiled children! If you want to play nanny to a bunch of immature, lazy, empty-headed Mrshas, be my guest!”
He was striding towards the doors when Purple Smile shot back.
“[If Mrsha never did a thing in her life, she would have deserved all the spoiling. It is not their fault they were born happier than we were, Pawn.]”
Of course, Pawn didn’t see that since his back was turned. He stormed out of the mansion-house, fuming.
 
——
 
The resentment of Painted Antinium wasn’t universal. Plenty regarded all of this as a fun holiday or held Purple Smile’s beliefs. But Pawn’s motivation was lowering when it had to be high.
He was almost glad he wasn’t the only Antinium who saw things that way, either. Not every Painted Soldier had Purple Smile’s attitude.
Seventh Voice was predictably vocal as well about his discontent.
“I do not like Khelt’s ways. They are very greedy, and the People of God? Not that violent. Not all of us are having to fight like Yellow Splatters. If you talk to them, they embody a lot of the beliefs we do. They gave me free bread.”
He was arguing hotly with Pie and Rabbitears, who were far less charitable to the Prophet’s people after their experiences. Rabbitears signed hotly.
“[They shot us off the ship!]”
“Yes, but no one died, Rabbitears. They thought they were under attack. They were the ones bombarded by Fetohep, you know.”
Pie poked Seventh Voice in the chest hard.
“After invading his lands! You’re getting on my nerves, Seventh Voice. Don’t make me shove this pie somewhere you’ll regret.”
Seventh Voice bristled, and some of his friends poked Pie and Rabbitears back.
“Don’t get mad at me for saying what’s true. What do the Kheltians give us? More work. The People of God have free, edible bread. And unlimited wine! The Kheltians can’t even sweep a broom, whereas the Stitch-folk are all Hemp. Narratively, who’re the good guys here? The rich Kheltians or the Hemp who had to fight for their freedom?”
Pie threw up all four of his hands.
