Fear and uncertainty. For all that some Kheltians were rising…Vizir Hecrelunn muttered as a Gnoll girl peered at Codafrey’s works.
“It shouldn’t have been like this. But it was always like this.”
“How so, sir?”
Chivi addressed Hecrelunn as a few eyes turned his way, and Mistreq wondered if the strange man was older than he seemed. The [Vizir] rasped as he glanced around and saw a huge, barrel-chested man eight feet tall and bursting with muscles standing with arms folded.
Such a colorful people. He whispered.
“But it was always this, wasn’t it? Khelt was never one people. She collected them like her damn pets. Put them into half-finished cities, and at the beginning, it was dangerous. Wild undead, foreigners. That was how Khelt was. It was not safe for children to run about unattended. A Wight might fly down and snatch one. But compared to other lands…they came here, beseeching her for succor, because of the dream.”
“When was this? Queen Xierca’s reign? Are you a half-Elf, sir? I heard there was trouble in other rulers’ dynasties, but—”
The confused half-Giant Garuda turned to the other Kheltians, and Hecrelunn’s eyes flashed red a moment.
“Khelta herself, you worthless peons!”
He shouted, and she flinched, his feet—
Didn’t leave the ground. He almost flew upwards and shed his illusions, but instead, caught himself and ended up standing on his tip-toes to glare up at her. Chivi hid behind Codafrey, and the old man waved a finger at Hecrelunn.
“Now, listen here, youngster. We may have lost our safety, but we Kheltians shan’t act like that. Behave or I’ll call for an official…I’ll lecture you myself! Who taught you to call people peons?”
Hecrelunn flushed, about to roar an insult back, when someone held up a card.
I’d pay for these wares too, Mister Codafrey. I’m sure if you showed them to other nations, people would pay for Couriers for some stuff. Or visit. I hope Khelt does okay. I’m sorry. I wish I could have done more, but I was afraid we’d mess things up. I’m glad Pawn was here.
“Huh? What’s that—”
They turned, and Mrsha was standing in front of the stall, faintly glowing, looking shy and worried. And ashamed. Anleth gasped.
“Mrsha!”
The semi-famous Gnoll girl stood there, head bowed, and a passing Antinium munching on a new Skill-pie halted.
“Oh, Mrsha. You’re here too? Hello. Why didn’t you make the Prophet’s head explode? The Wandering Inn has let me down.”
Pie and Rabbitears inadvertently dogpiled Mrsha, and her head drooped. She wrote on a notecard.
We wanted to do more, but Khelt is so far…and we sometimes make things worse. I’m sorry.
If The Wandering Inn had only done something more—maybe they could have sent Ishkr, Normen, or Valeterisa and a thousand acid jars…no one quite knew what to say to the guilty Gnoll girl, who was a friend of King Fetohep.
However, it was Vizir Hecrelunn who stiffly nodded to her. And then, after a moment, got onto his knees. To get on her level? He still spoke archly to her.
“Listen to me, oh child born of inferior nations and doomed to eternal mediocrity.”
One of her ears perked up, and Mrsha gave him a dubious look as Geraeri took a step back and glanced at Qirrel, who waved his arms over his head and made an ‘argh!’ face—covertly. She focused on Hecrelunn and recognized the voice as the [Vizir] went on.
“Eternal Khelt does not need aid. It had the Vizir Hecrelunn, who is superior to any other being in this modern world, and the King of Khelt, who, despite his flaws, is beyond all other rulers in compassion, if nothing else. By these qualities Khelt has endured. If it needed an overfed albino hamster, then it was doomed. Know this, and know that it was Khelta whose magic held back the anarchy of lawlessness and the pursuit of time until now!”
He stood and whirled around. Hecrelunn began striding away.
“Nor is Khelt doomed. It is merely the first Khelt of all. Remember that and know, enemies, those who would betray Khelt, that in its dark hour, there shall be a light, the pale glow of undeath’s shield.”
His feet floated off the ground, and they gasped. Then the [Vizir]’s head turned, and crimson lights burned in his skull’s face.
“The shadows cast by Khelt’s munificent goodness are long. In those shadows, the Vizir shall be waiting for Khelt’s foes.”
Mistreq’s jaw dropped, and he recoiled. There was a cry—but the [Vizir] was flying away. He gazed down once at his city, then flew higher until he vanished into the horizon.
And Khelt…
Continued.
 
——
 
It had, after all, known war. Its borders had been breached before. That was something that Fetohep himself forgot. He had lived through safe times. But Khelt had known greater empires than the King of Destruction’s and been forced to use its weapons.
True, it had never been so weak, but…Mrsha stood in the street, introducing herself to the awesome half-Giantess, and asking what the Kheltians would do.
Learn. Prepare. Change.
Khelt was not without allies, after all. A pink-eyed man watched from further down the street. Doubte of Zethe wondered if his children would like it here. It was fascinating enough for them. Then he couldn’t help it.
He looked away from the place in the horizon the Vizir Hecrelunn had been flying away. Or rather, appeared to be flying.
He really was a cunning man. But Doubte could tell when someone was under [Greater Invisibility], especially if they thought as loudly as Hecrelunn did.
The Revenant was still around. In fact, he seemed to be following someone. The eight-foot tall man with a huge chest and muscles—like a Grimalkin, only Human—had gone strolling away from the discussion in the street. He stepped down an alleyway as the invisible [Vizir] followed, as did Doubte.
Khelt really was a sight to behold. It had alleyways, in the sense that it had places between buildings to walk, but most were not alleyways and more like reasons to put a beautiful work of art there or install a public foot-bath with little fish that ate your dead skin off your feet.
Finding an actual alleyway was really damn hard—except if you went to the one off of Archmage’s Bauble row and past the House of Lights. In the shadows cast by the building filled with light magic which was a public eyesore, there was the Alleyway of Alleyways.
Someone had made it, oh, millenia ago when they realized Koirezune didn’t have an actual part of the city that low-down [Rogues] and such could congregate. Thus, an [Architect] had taken it upon themselves to build one.
Dirty brick cladding, permanent shadow spells that stretched long, and a sense of something skittering out of the corner of your eye. A permanently knocked-over bin of trash…it was actually one of the cleaner parts of the city even now because the [Architect] had installed permanent [Cleanse] spells here.
Most Kheltians hated it here, because it was gross and unsettling, but the huge…Human?—Half-Giant?—was beaming around the alleyway.
“It’s still here. I wondered if it might be. The Alleyway’s endured longer than that damn eyesore of a beacon.”
Vizir Hecrelunn appeared behind the strange Kheltian, eyes glowing crimson. Doubte stood well back, not visible but listening. Hecrelunn’s voice was a bit raspy and quite, quite annoyed.
“What eyesore? Don’t think to stroll off, traitor. I marked you the moment I saw you, Skill or not. Before you tell me where the others of your cowardly get are, you may indulge some nostalgia. Then: pain.”
The Human man turned, and his browned face burst into a smile. An unafraid one, despite Hecrelunn staring up at him. The ten-foot man rolled his shoulders. Then, fourteen feet high, he fondly rubbed at a wall.
Eighteen feet—and then the tip of his head poked over the top of the alley’s roofs before he squatted down. And then the half-Giant of Serept dropped his illusions and let the withered flesh of his body appear, and his eyes glowed.
“[Walk Among the Small]. Was it so obvious?”
“High-levels are. Did you come to see if you had failed Khelt entirely, traitor? You are not the champion. Where are Thuermenon and the others?”
The half-Giant rumbled, amused if slightly wary.
“I am Shamt-grazredon, Vizir, and we have met before. To your question: I do not know. I know where we intend to meet and where many of us go. I was not in Khelt when this Prophet of God struck; I only came here after our task was done, to see what had occurred. If Khelt were under siege, one more of us might have come to do what we could, but there were only three.”
“Three? There are twenty of you unless you incompetent half-Giants got yourselves killed since the Meeting of Tribes. You could have saved me the trouble of flying out here!”
Shamt was cool as he sat against one wall, resting a hand on a knee.
“Against that strange power? Doubtful, if Sand at Sea struggled. Serept gave us his own orders, Vizir.”
“Orders that trump protecting Khelt?”
“Yes.”
The simple answer enraged Hecrelunn, but Shamt interrupted. He had no fear of the [Vizir], it seemed.
“I did not think to see you kneel in this or any other age to anyone, Vizir. Was the child so important? I do not understand.”
The Vizir stiffened.
“I merely sank to her level.”
“Of course. Now, truly, should I honor her the same?”
Hecrelunn was silent a long while before speaking.
“It was rendered unto this Vizir by the King of Khelt that some…hope for Khelt remains. And that the soul of great Khelta was restored in part thanks to the actions of that child.”
“What?”
The half-Giant’s smile winked out, and he leaned forwards, eyes suddenly intent. But the Vizir sneered.
“If you wish to know, go begging to Fetohep. Suffice it to say that this Vizir rendered unto the Brat of Fates, or whatever her title is, sufficient recompense.”
“…Could Serept be there?”
Hecrelunn paused, then answered softly.
“He was not.”
The simple answer made Shamt’s head bow, but then he clenched his fist.
“The knowledge still means there might be salvation despite this disaster. I shall take it to the others, with answers.”
“Where are they?”
Hecrelunn barked, and the half-Giant smiled.
“Why, finding our kin. Protecting them. That was Serept’s last order to us.”
“The…half-Giants?”
A shake from the huge Revenant’s head, and Shamt corrected Hecrelunn.
“The tall. They are all but gone. The girl, the Garuda—I approached her, but she was not interested. And so be it! But the offer shall be made to every single one who walks this world. A final gathering of those who hold the sky on their shoulders. Do not reproach us this, Vizir. Serept was King of Khelt, but he was also a half-Giant. We knew you were here, and Sand at Sea.”
The Vizir’s crimson eyes were flickering, like he was deep in thought, as Doubte held his breath. Both had the same thought.
“The Nomads of the Sky are one of the largest groups of such beings in existence, which you hailed from. You…did the three of you approach them?”
Shamt smiled, ivory teeth in his withered flesh.
“We may have made the offer to them. Children, the young, all those who do not wish to fight this King of Destruction’s wars. They had nowhere else to go.”
“You took his people?”
“He was busy fighting in Nerrhavia’s Fallen and marching on Khelt. Besides, he trusts the Nomads of the Sky to defend themselves. Some objected to our offer and the others leaving. A shame Zamea was not there or it would have been a proper fight.”
Was he implying that three of Serept’s half-Giants had taken a bunch of half-Giants from Reim and fought the living? Where were they going? And who else was ‘tall’ enough for this mission?
“Perhaps we shall return. But first, we embark on a long journey for this age that may be the last.”
Hecrelunn snorted at Shamt’s words.
“It’s always the last age. Khelt shall endure. I will see to it. I have enough pieces and a kingdom to work with. It shall be protected, even if you traitors turn your backs. Do you hear that, new servant of Khelt? You shall exert yourself or we shall take you to task.”
His head turned, and Shamt’s head leaned out of the alleyway. Doubte froze, and Shamt grinned at him.
“A [Hero] is always good to have. Though they need be reminded they are not the only ones who fight like myths.”
“Indeed. I tire of shredding them whenever calamities occur and they pop up like weeds. So then.”
Hecrelunn stood there as Shamt rose to his feet. He was shrinking again, and the two disguised themselves and walked past Doubte, into Khelt. As the citizens stood, trying to plot a course for the future, Hecrelunn found a bewildered official standing there, trying to figure out what to do.
“You. You are now in charge of cleaning this district. You shall see it done or suffer. You. A broom. You—you will learn [Mana Familiar] in the month or suffer.”
He pointed to another woman, a [Mage], and Shamt chuckled as he walked past Hecrelunn. He calmly picked up a huge sack of seeds that Colovt and two men were trying to wrestle into a wagon with a skeleton’s help.
“I have a day, fellow citizens. Show me where to plough and I shall lay seeds deep. Do they still plant crops that sit thirty feet under the sand? Ah, but let us work.”
He offered their awestruck faces a guilty, nostalgic smile. They got to work, Centaurs, Gnolls, citizens, a little Gnoll girl who’d run off to bring a blind [Emperor] with opinions on how to organize a city efficiently
And Khelt…continued.
 
——
 
Sand at Sea, Kheltians tentatively cleaning the streets and learning lessons on the basics of living without skeletons, listening to Pawn as he preached. And a nation crumbling. Changing.
Was the throne broken or had it already broken? Could they endure? Fetohep took calls that morning, acceding, requesting. Moderating his language and accepting an interview slot.
He could not be a bending king, but nor could he claim strength where everyone knew it was nonexistent. He sat, breathing in and out, when he took one final call, not checking who it was, busy as he needed to be.
“Ah. Lyonette. I wished to thank you…yes. No. No, your aid was…yes. Pawn is healthy. Healing, as I understand it. Yes, I am sure he is able to speak—in the company of Pewerthe, my H—my [Potter]. Thank you. No…and yes, I am well. Mrsha? Hello. Khelt endures, as you can see, you miserable sandrat. I trust…yes, you were watching. Thank you.”
He sat on his throne as day-servants swept the throne room, speaking to someone on speaking stone rather than a projection. Perhaps they were too shy, or he was. Or perhaps…after a few more minutes of talking, Fetohep paused.
“Another call? I have to speak with Jaganismet and the Speaker of Trees in…a few minutes, of course.”
