“What vessel did you sacrifice to hold this?”
“Our favorite football. It was pretty holy; we’ve been using it since the sport was invented.”
Pewerthe’s face went slack, but as Painted Antinium reckoned such things, that was a pretty holy object. They’d have to get a new one. Yellow Splatters inspected the bundle of faith.
“Hmm. This is useful. I can almost sense the power in it. We could fuel a miracle with it, or something bigger. Holytext’s creations have more of a use if they can be converted to raw…faith? More use than attracting Fissivolian secret agents to steal it from us and having Antinium sell it on the streets.”
“Hey. That is very hurtful.”
“May I see it, Yellow Splatters?”
The [Potter] was very curious and shivered when she touched the orb, but then frowned.
“It’s…pleasant. Like a vision of the sky. The [Light of Faith] is harsh and blinding.”
“We believe in different things, then. Their beliefs seem better for fighting with. But this might hurt if you threw it at someone. We’ll try that.”
By which Yellow Splatters meant literally just hitting someone with the soccer-ball sized orb of faith and seeing what it did. Again, he was not Pawn. The Painted Antinium had their miracles, and they’d use them as needed.
Pewerthe peered at the orb, then hesitantly turned to Yellow Splatters.
“If you intend to just…use it, Captain? May I try something with it? It might use it up, but I am curious. This has never existed in Khelt before, not in all our records.”
“Of course.”
He handed it to her; they could always make more since they’d brought at least four soccer balls, though they’d lost one at sea. Pewerthe eyed the orb and then…put it in her pot.
There was a flash, and the pot vibrated dangerously. Everyone backed up rapidly, and Pewerthe herself held the pot like an explosive.
“I don’t know if it’s going to hold. Frieke—”
She handed the pot to Frieke and backed up fast, ducking behind a low wall. Frieke apprehensively held the pot as it kept trembling, then slowly, slowly settled down. Then it began to glow, each color of the pot lighting up, and Pewerthe eyed it.
“I think it’s full.”
“What does the pot, um, do?”
Yellow Splatters reflected that even in Khelt, he could be surprised by some of the people. Pewerthe pointed at the pot.
“The pot? It holds things. That’s all. It holds a lot of things. It’s a [Pot of Combination]. The question is…what happens when the combined thing comes out? That happens when the pot breaks. Normally, it’s mostly just an explosion. Now? I have no idea what will happen. You should take it with you.”
The Painted Antinium glanced at each other. Yellow Splatters nodded to Seventh Voice, and the Soldier quite audibly grumbled as he went to take it.
“I wish we’d gotten Fetohep. This sucks.”
They took an hour to rest. Then they were marching north for war. Religious war. But Pawn…Pawn had already met the Prophet’s people. What he saw was illuminating.
 
——
 
“It’s too goddamn bright.”
It slipped out of Pie’s mouth after forty minutes of being in the ‘holy’ city that the People of God had taken from the Kheltians. Pie was in a bad mood; he’d been seasick on Sand at Sea, despite being on dry land, then been knocked off, then been dehydrated, and now his eyes hurt.
Every member of the faithful gasped and turned to him. Starfold slapped the back of Pie’s head, and Pawn lifted a hand. He was seated cross-legged with one of the [Priests] who’d captured them. They didn’t call it that, but a lot of warriors were surrounding the six Antinium.
They knew Antinium, but vaguely, and were highly alarmed by their presence. Pawn’s voice, though, was soothing.
“Forgive my companion, Pie, Priest Silad Hemp. He only means that the city taxes our eyes; we live in the darkness of the underground, and your city is blinding.”
They sat in the [Light of Faith], which hovered right over the city. A glorious symbol of faith, but consider what that meant.
Every place the light touched was almost blinding; white or glass became near-impossible to see, and what shadows weren’t banished stretched out, elongated by the light.
Sort of ironic; the more light, the more shadow. Priest Silad probably understood Pawn’s comment about the light, but he had dropped the piece of manna he was offering them. His face clouded with anger.
“Thou shalt not take the Lord’s name in vain! So it is written in the Ten Commandments set down by the Prophet. If you are a people who understand the word of God and the Bible, you would know this, ‘Priest Pawn’.”
He was suspicious of Pawn more than when they’d met. Hearing Pawn was a [Priest] had put the man’s guard up. Pawn was trying to explain, and he kept his voice pleasant. Level.
“As I have said, I am not a member of your faith, though I respect it, Priest Silad.”
“There is only one true faith and one true God. All others are pretenders. Thou shalt not worship false idols!”
Silad’s head bowed, as if coming to an unfortunate conclusion. Pawn lifted a finger.
“Firstly, I do not wish to come to violence within moments of meeting, Silad. This appears to be a quick judgement.”
“There is nothing in the New Bible or Bible about the quickness of thought or judgement, Priest Pawn.”
“No, there is not. I would hope that falls under common sense. Allow me to continue.”
The other [Priest] recoiled slightly, and the crowd of people, Stitch-folk mainly, and mostly Hemp, though Pawn saw a very attractive Silk Stitch-woman watching him, laughing. Then they covered their mouths, but this was a good sign. It meant they were people. Pawn went on, smiling.
“Second to my points, my people do not worship false idols. We do not worship other Gods.”
“But you are not people of Christ.”
“Yes, and our faith revolves around belief in Heaven, not a God. Thirdly, I wish to emphasize that discourteous as Pie’s comment was, it does not violate your commandment.”
“He swore in our holy city!”
“Yes, but he did not take the Lord’s name in vain. He said ‘goddamnit’, not the name of God. One may argue that he disrespected the authority of God, but as Pie would assure you, he only meant to reflexively curse the light itself. Not the light that derives from faith, but just the fact that it is…very bright. I am sure a man of God such as yourself can understand the nuance, especially in light of our foreign backgrounds.”
The Painted Antinium listened as Silad blinked, and the Faithful murmured. They had forgotten, but Pawn truly was eloquent at times. He had the most practice of all the Antinium, and for however much someone like Seventh Voice could try to copy him, Pawn had actual meaning behind his words, not just a fancy lexicon.
The [Priest] nodded cautiously as he hesitated, glancing over his shoulder into the crowd.
“You—you speak with authority, Priest…Pawn. And you are foreign believers. Tell me, how do you know the Truth and the Way? It was prophesied that one day, other Humans would come who knew the Good Word, an entire planet of them, but not Antinium.”
Pawn’s antennae waved.
“Fascinating. It would appear to me that this Prophet is from the same location as some other people I have met. I suspect we both have met people of Christianity. I was taught by two women I know and cherish dearly. I have never met this planet of Humans, but is it so surprising an Antinium or any species might know of Christianity? If it is the Truth and the Way, then all peoples are surely entitled to it. Or so I hope.”
Silad was nodding, a beatific smile on his face. He leapt up.
“This is so! More proof for the Prophet! We have sent word to the other Disciples who are coming—then have you come to cast down Khelt as well? Does the surety of his mission call other faithful across the world here?”
Pawn hesitated.
“If it does, God has a mighty odd sense of humor. But I am told that is to be expected. Say rather, Priest Silad, I hope to bring an end to the hostilities.”
The murmur became quiet, and an expression of such anger crossed Silad’s face that Rabbitears tensed.
“There can be no peace with the King of Khelt, who is an abomination under God. Nor for what he has done to us. He has murdered us by the thousands, and now we only hold back from spilling blood in Christ’s name by the Prophet’s will and the need to finish the sacrament.”
Pawn paused as all the Painted Antinium glanced at him. He took a piece of manna, nibbled at it, and then spoke.
“Interesting. What happened to ‘Thou shalt not kill’?”
“—That only applies to those who do not bear arms against us!”
“Hm. I see. That is odd because I had thought it a universal rule.”
Now, Silad was angry again, and he jabbed a finger at Pawn.
“Who are you to argue against the Prophet’s words? He is the one who has spoken and hears God’s voice!”
“Do we not all hear God’s voice, Silad? Can a [Priest] not argue with a [Prophet]?”
“Wh—of course not! The Prophet stands above us in rank!”
Pawn spread his hands as the Stitch-folk reached for weapons at their side. He was so calm, and he seemed to speak to the people behind Silad, not the warriors tensing.
“I see, but that is curious. Forgive me if I err, but as I believe the Bible states, are all not equal in the eyes of God? We are mortals, not the divine, Silad. Is the [Prophet] infallible? Would he claim he could never make a mistake?”
Silad hesitated, and Pawn went on.
“No, of course not. Foolish of me to even ask, because even a Pope of Earth is not infallible. No mortal man or woman is. Indeed, faith is often challenged from within as without. Just as Martin Luther once challenged the Catholic faith by nailing his famous ninety-five theses on the door of the church, so are we allowed to challenge ideas. I do not do so as greatly as Martin Luther, of course, but I merely ask this as a fellow believer who has come in peace to your camps. I have no fear that my questions should lead to harm, for they are questions, and we are all people of faith. I shalt not be killed nor, I think, harmed here. For that is in the Ten Commandments, is it not?”
The [Priest] had gone from hot, zealous anger to uncertainty to a great shivering of his shoulders. The warriors, ashamed, backed up as Pawn spoke and Silad sat there, trying to formulate a response. He could not, so a woman sat with a basket of dates in front of them. She placed them in a bowl for the Painted Antinium and smiled.
“If I may, Priest Silad, I would like to speak to Priest Pawn. I am Yirene, a Disciple of this city. It is indeed a bright one, which is why the Prophet himself and the other Disciples occupy other cities. May I?”
Silad leapt to his feet, bowing, and the other Painted Antinium understood. Ah. She was the one in charge all along. Ecclisi nudged Pie and hand-signed at them.
“[She is the true leader and danger.]”
Rabbitears signed back.
“[Duh. We could all tell she was the most faithful one here. Pass the dates.]”
Yirene was apologizing to Pawn, and he nodded his head to her.
“Your forbearance is most welcome, and I take no offense, Disciple Yirene, if that is how I may address you. Thank you for the fine fare. This manna truly is bread from the heavens; I am not allergic to it.”
She smiled.
“It is a wondrous food, but other meals do tempt the stomach. These are from vineyards we took from the Kheltians. No more grow upon the vine, but we have wine aplenty—too much of it. Would you drink it with me? It is not the sacrament, though we might offer wine and bread in Christ’s name. I have many questions, however.”
“I would be delighted to answer them and pray with you, Yirene. I hope we will come to a mutual understanding.”
So they knelt, and she spoke as bread and wine was passed out, and only after that did they return to sitting. Yirene glanced at Pawn.
“Something you said earlier intrigues me, Priest Pawn. You know much of our faith?”
“As I said, I met two who were faithful at one point in their lives. Perhaps neither one was active, but both knew much and taught me.”
“They strayed away from—”
Yirene held up a hand, and Silad fell silent. She nodded, eyes alight.
“The Prophet would very much like to meet more of his people, Priest Pawn. He has long yearned to meet others of his world.”
“I am sure they would be…intrigued to meet him. Sadly, both are on other continents.”
“Would you tell me their names? Scrying spells might be arranged.”
Pawn hesitated.
“Sadly, Disciple Yirene, both are in danger from considerable powers. I would not wish to endanger them more, even if the Prophet is doubtless able to extend his protections to them. If we reach a satisfactory understanding here, I would be delighted to tell you the names.”
“I see. Of course, this would be the preferable outcome.”
Unlike Silad, who was straightforwards, this put Pawn on edge; if he could have, he’d have been sweating harder, now. Whomever Yirene was, she was capable of pushing and pulling and having nuance. However…he sipped more wine.
“Candidly, I hope to negotiate a ceasefire where the People of God withdraw from Khelt. Do you think that this can be effected with the Prophet when I meet with him?”
She hesitated and glanced at the people listening, some of whom had drawn back to speak with Pie and the other Painted Antinium. Rabbitears was waggling his ears at some children, who stared open-mouthed at them. Her eyes darkened, and she bowed her head.
“Most of the People of God wish for vengeance, the Prophet most of all, Priest Pawn. I, myself, am in horror at the King of Khelt. He has attacked and slaughtered us, and as the Prophet points out, his existence is against God. How would you argue against that?”
Another group had come to the little corner canopy where they sat in a building that might have been a Kheltian café until they were driven from it. Everything was so beautiful here despite the light…no one had fought or broken any windows that Pawn could see. The Kheltians had just fled.
And the Prophet’s people had stolen this. Pawn was glad his face could not reveal his feelings as openly as other species, for he turned his ire on the newcomers who had come at the head of a flock of followers. Leading them were two Hemp Women, a Cotton Stitch-man, and—supported by the trio—a Human man who limped forwards, covered in sweat.
He was gaunt, had a half-shadow of a beard on his face, and looked as if he’d been recently sick. But his eyes burned with the same fervor as the other People of God, and he sat gratefully in a chair as food and drink was rushed to everyone. Not just bread and wine, but many, many delicacies cooked from the Kheltian stores.
