Yellow Splatters held his ground until he saw a daring young man with an angry face make a darting movement. He ran left, ignoring the shouts of the lead [Cleric] to stay back, and the [Cleric] let the young [Faithful] run. Probably to test the Antinium.
What was his plan, run into the town and scatter the Kheltians all by himself?
…Actually, wait, that might work. Only here in Khelt would one man armed with a rusty dagger be able to scatter a town of thousands to the wind. The town had [Smiths] with arms bigger than Yellow Splatters’. But they were all so gentle.
Children. Yellow Splatters had never met people who looked adult but who were children, outside of other Antinium. So he let the man run forwards until he was dashing past the Antinium.
Then he pointed. And an Antinium Soldier standing behind him, Brightglow, burst into motion. He charged from his standing position straight at the [Faithful] young man, who shouted in horror and turned to flee. Too late.
The Antinium Soldier didn’t have the same sprinting power as the Stitch-boy. But he was still fast, and he came at a sprint which did not slacken. Unlike the young man, he had been made to fight and keep fighting. The [Faithful] was breathless after two hundred paces. He still ran fast, but if he was not sprinting…
The Soldier caught him like a linebacker from Earth.
“Help! Hubwag—”
That last part was more the sound someone made as an Antinium Soldier tackled you from behind and all the air left your lungs and you hit the ground with the Antinium on top of you. Perhaps the young man thought to fight back, because he had twisted before he fell, raising the dagger.
Brightglow ignored the dagger as it glanced off his armored cheek. He punched the young man in the face. Tore the dagger free with one hand. Punched the throat with his other hand, the young man’s nose. Then his four arms all kept punching as he sat on the young Stitch-man’s chest.
“God have mercy! Stop! Stop!”
The People of God were stunned, then they rushed forwards to halt the attack. They backed up as Brightglow stood barely a second later. The young man was crying out, groaning, but he wasn’t dead or even badly hurt.
The Soldier had gone for eight punches, then stood. Yellow Splatters spoke as the People of God hesitated.
“Your comrade isn’t hurt badly. If Brightglow wanted to hurt him, he would have holes in his face. I say again: halt.”
“You attack the People of God without provocation?”
The [Cleric] was roused to fury, and Yellow Splatters snapped back.
“I told you to halt. You ignored me. You have been robbing and attacking Kheltians on the road. We have been called to protect Khelt. Do not advance and there will be no conflict. You have taken their cities. Turn back. Or do you need to steal more?”
“We are not stealing, we are liberating this damned nation!”
“It sounds like stealing. Even Drakes don’t lie this blatantly. Step back and get your Prophet or your leaders.”
The [Cleric] stepped forwards, and Yellow Splatters felt the man’s faith grinding against his own. It was a hot, angry thing filled with wrath and condemnation. It felt like spikes driven into flesh, and Yellow Splatters could see a cross burned into his mind.
An image of what they were. What did they see when they beheld him? The People of God moved restlessly, and their leader advanced a step, glancing at their numbers.
“We outnumber you by far, Antinium. If you call the People of God to battle, you will be found wanting.”
The threat was echoed by his people’s voices, but the brown Antinium never moved. They stood, foreign insects on Chandrar’s soil, faces unreadable. Yet they, too, were a people of faith, and they unnerved the People of God because of that. The [Cleric] stared at the Antinium, who were like…like…
Darkness, then a burst of color splitting the despairing night, emerging, rising upwards. A miasma of colors. A promised land waiting high above. A beautiful sky. And standing under it, Yellow Splatters, hand raised up. Warning.
“You do outnumber us, man of someone else’s God. And I do not wish to be hurt or die so far from home. I ask you one last time. Turn back. I would hate to kill you.”
There was no fear in his voice, like the Kheltians had. No hesitation. The [First Heretic] and the [Cleric] locked eyes, and the Prophet’s man whispered.
“[Blind Foe].”
A Miracle. He threw it at Yellow Splatters, and the Antinium recoiled. For a second, he was blind. Then he spoke.
“[False Marvel].”
The Miracle—broke. The [Cleric] recoiled, eyes wide with horror.
“What? What work of the Devil is—”
Yellow Splatters shook his head. It turned out that the power of the Painted Antinium’s first sinner was worth something after all. He strode forwards.
“A pity. You were warned.”
“Retreat! Retreat, they have heathen powers—we are leaving! Stand back! [Smite Enemy]! Do not come forwards, do not—”
The [Cleric] shouted, and his cudgel began to glow with a pale white light. Which looked like it might hurt. Yellow Splatters pointed.
“[Unleash Sins: Gluttony].”
A tiny little grub flew from his hand and landed on the cleric’s face. The man screamed and flailed at it. He had just torn it off and was stomping on it when Yellow Splatters hit him in the face. The Soldier punched the [Cleric] three times, lined up a fourth punch, and the Stitch-man was already on the ground. Yellow Splatters kicked him slightly, then turned.
“Take him and—oh, they’re already running.”
The other Antinium halted their advance. Yellow Splatters watched as his tiny sin of gluttony crawled over and began nibbling at the man’s leg. He stomped on his sin and then shrugged.
“Okay, let’s roll him over there, and they’ll probably run back when they wake up.”
The Antinium nodded and continued their patrol. Yellow Splatters waved at the Kheltians, who regarded him in horror. And he knew Pawn was going to be upset, but sometimes…
“Sometimes, one must punch idiots in the face. Book of Erin, Chapter 7.”
Brightglow turned and hand-signed to Yellow Splatters.
“[Is that in the Book of Erin? I’ve never read it.]”
Yellow Splatters replied.
“Not yet. Pawn’s only up to Chapter 6. But he’d better write it in.”
He wasn’t nearly as charitable to these People of God as Pawn was. Yellow Splatters stomped across the desert, continuing his patrol. They’d put in twelve hours on the first day, with breaks, then trade off with other Antinium stationed across cities closest to the Prophet. Here they stopped. Yellow Splatters was worried about open conflict, but someone had to draw a line somewhere. And fortunately…they seemed to be gaining reinforcements.
 
——
 
Pawn didn’t hit anyone, but neither did he censure Yellow Splatters’ approach to halting the People of God. When he met the first groups sent by the Prophet, he did not draw his club, but he did draw that line in the sand.
“People of the Prophet, please go back to Harvey and tell him I wish to speak again. Until we are able to settle this with words, you are not welcome past this point.”
“We have been sent to preach the will of God to these heathen Kheltians! Your lies will not shake us, false witness! A New Bible has been written, as revealed to the Prophet! We are in it!”
A Stitch-woman shouted at Pawn, and he nodded at her.
“I am glad for you, truly. But as I said, stand back. We are the Painted Antinium of Liscor, and we are protecting Khelt.”
“You would pit your faith against ours?”
“Yes. Yes, I think I would.”
His tone was very mild, and some of this group hesitated, but the [Priestess]…they wanted to test their powers against his. He couldn’t blame Yellow Splatters for having to fight. She thrust a hand out as she clutched a New Bible to her chest.
“Sinner, I rebuke you! [Lance of Light]!”
So saying, a glowing lance appeared over her head and shot at Pawn. He tilted his head.
Looks a lot more painful than a [Light Arrow]. Mildly, and quite annoyed, Pawn lifted a finger. Only the one, because it looked better and to spite her.
“[Holy Barrier].”
The lance of light shattered on the prismatic wall that appeared in front of him. The [Priestess] hesitated, and Pawn lowered the finger. Raised the middle one.
“My turn. [Holy Hammer].”
The mallet that appeared and fell from the sky was a lot larger than the lance. And it fell with enough force to dent the very earth and send the nearest People of God stumbling backwards, crying out. It would have turned the woman to pulp…if it had hit her.
She stood there, staring at the crater in the earth as she picked herself up, and Pawn made shooing motions.
“That’s right. I’m more religious than you. Get lost. Bring Marrieh or someone with the ability to think next time.”
She fled, and in his way, Pawn supposed he was meaner than Yellow Splatters. But you had to admit, some of the People of God were annoying.
Not all. Marrieh, Yirene, some had seemed good and thoughtful. But others had been given power and wanted to use it.
Sixty Antinium, a line in the sand. Unlike the Gnolls or Centaurs, the Antinium met the People of God, and the other side turned back or found out what escalation meant. Pawn was telling each group he wanted to meet with Harvey, but the Prophet was nowhere to be seen. He feared that when fighting really began, his sixty Antinium would be forced to withdraw due to wounds fast. However—
The reinforcements were arriving.
“Pawn. Pawn, we have visitors.”
Starfold found Pawn, and the Antinium turned.
“Kheltians? I have not met this Heir of Khelt or gotten to see Koirezune.”
Somewhat to his disappointment, he got a shake of the head, then Starfold pointed, and…Pawn’s mandibles opened.
“Little Birds, is that you? What are you doing here? Did something happen in the Claiven Earth?”
The Antinium Soldier, who was one of Bird’s arch-enemies due to Bird’s entire ‘killing birds’ thing, waved a hand. And Pawn realized all six of the Antinium he’d left at the Claiven Earth were here…and fourteen half-Elves?
What on earth? Little Birds replied.
“The half-Elves rode us all the way here. Well, we rode magical Wistram carriages, but the Herald of the Forests escorted us. These are our new Painted, um, half-Elves, Pawn.”
“Say what now?”
Pawn stared at the fourteen half-Elves, who ranged from a kid that looked like she was barely twelve or something to a man with white hair. And to his horror, he realized all of them had some familiar paint on their features. He grabbed Little Birds’ arm.
“Ha. Haha. Hahaha. Let me just drag you aside, and what the hell are you doing, Little Birds?”
The Painted Soldier replied cheerfully.
“We showed the half-Elves our powers and healed some, Pawn. They liked our scrolls and ordered more, but we knew we had to catch up. A few of them wanted to join us, so I gave them our paint and—”
“Wait. Waitwaitwait, you let them join us?”
“Yes? What is the matter, Pawn?”
“What’s the matter? Where are they going to sleep? Where are they going to go? Do you think they’re going to follow us back home? To the Hive? Liscor? If the Free Queen sees them in the Hive, what do you think she’ll say? How do you think they’ll react to living there and eating Antinium paste?”
Little Birds closed his mandibles and gave Pawn a severe gaze.
“I would not give my worst enemy our food, Pawn. We could give them apartments in Liscor.”
“True, but—we’re Antinium.”
“And? We believe in Heaven, which you told us is open for everyone, including little birds, puppies, cats, and our friends who are kind to us. If it is for all these people, how is it not for half-Elves? Are you being racist, Pawn?”
Much like Harvey, Pawn was confronted with deep theological questions he wasn’t prepared for. He hesitated.
“No, I’m not. And it’s speciesist, Little Birds. Get it right. Let me try this another way. Excuse me! Hello, I am so pleased to meet you. I’m Pawn. Er, do you know what you’re doing?”
The half-Elves were staring around Khelt, looking a bit saddle-sore, confused, and worried like they didn’t know what to do. Entirely understandable for people who’d left their nation to journey in the company of probably-insane Antinium. Pawn thought he was insane right now, but the oldest half-Elf bowed.
“It is an honor to meet you, Priest Pawn. Forgive us, but we asked to be inducted into your order. If there is some test or oath, we would all swear it. But let us learn your ways. We have the permission of the Speaker of Trees and all the Tree Guides of our cities.”
“…But why join us? We’re Antinium. The Black Tide. Horrors of Rhir. Insect-people. Bugs!”
The other Antinium shifted, and Rabbitears hand-signed to Pie and Starfold.
“[That’s pretty rude.]”
The half-Elf just nodded at Pawn.
“We’re aware of the risks, but I, personally, deem it worth any stigma, and I believe everyone who asked to join understands the danger, Priest Pawn. I would like to learn your powers, your beliefs. I am Bliesfri. This is Sheena, Culstroi, Alamadri, and…”
He introduced the half-Elves, starting with the youngest of them, and Pawn studied them. Only a few had the faint glow of faith. Sheena, the youngest, with the most strength. Bliesfri had actually none at all, but he seemed passionate on another level.
“I do not understand. You do not seem drawn to our faith, Bliesfri. Can you clarify your desires?”
The half-Elf shifted and brushed at his hair.
“Ah. I didn’t realize faith was such an integral part of it. I hope to study your faith, and yes, if I am able, practice your…beliefs? Forgive me, I don’t know the nature of it, but my interest is both scholarly and practical. If I may be candid?”
“Why stop?”
The half-Elf grinned, and Pawn wished that didn’t make him seem so much younger and more friendly.
“I was amazed by your power to heal, Priest Pawn. In this age where Eir Gel is gone and healing is now a scarcity…when I saw your people had so much of it, I thought that someone had to learn your ways. If I manage to gain enough levels to heal reliably, I would return back to my people and share this knowledge. Respectfully.”
Oh, it was the most honest and pragmatic reason Pawn could think of. He doubted it’d work without at least some faith, but someone wanted to study the Painted Antinium? Someone thought they were worth emulating? That was more than any Drake or Human in Izril.
“Well…drat. I cannot argue with that. You are welcome to join us, Bliesfri, though I warn you, true belief is a requirement to faith classes, I believe. Yet you may find it in your way. But I object to children! We are in a potential warzone!”
He pointed at the twelve-year old girl, Sheena, and she cried out.
“Hey! I’m sixteen!”
Pawn jumped, then remembered. Half-Elves. Damn it. He glared at her.
