He closed the door to the carriage and stepped back—Frieke whistled, then saw a blast of something blow the carriage door off. It missed Yellow Splatters, who jogged off as Pawn shouted insults from within. He was going to tell all the Painted Antinium about this. Frieke began driving, grinning.
 
——
 
It couldn’t last. Regardless of what some Antinium got up to in their private time, for all the marvels of paradise, it was a short break.
Faced with the Antinium presence, the People of God grew restless. They called upon the one person who could lead them, and so he left his city and went south, and his presence called the Antinium’s leader northwards. Like magnetic ore drawn to each other, they were to meet. Two sources of energy meeting. The resulting conflagration would pave the way forwards. If they survived.
Each side growing. Only a handful of Kheltians had joined the People of God, but some had begun to join this group that seemed more powerful than the King of Khelt. And the same for the Painted Antinium.
Faith begat faith, you see. Harvey did not flinch at the news that the Painted Antinium had grown to a hundred strong.
“I shall meet again with this Priest of Heaven and Sky, and we shall see whose faith is truer. Our conversation is not finished. He has Kheltians on his side, including Fellbow and this Frieke the Falcon?”
Two Named-Ranks might even the odds, and the skeletons were still a marginal threat, but they had vast numbers. Harvey was confident that with either a hundred or two hundred, Pawn’s group would be literal ants before the flood until Jilthread whispered.
“His numbers have grown more than merely a hundred from other nations, Prophet. At least two dozen may be…be from our camps.”
Harvey turned, and his astonishment became wrath in a heartbeat.
“Traitors to the faith?”
“They were shaken by the revelations Pawn spoke, Prophet. They seek the faith the Antinium spoke of. A heaven for everyone.”
“God’s heaven is for everyone! Have I not written it in the New Bible?”
Harvey grabbed the copy and shook it at them, but Jilthread just drew a veil to her face.
“I believe, Prophet, and so do all those here. But—Heaven is a place for those who love God and who follow his commandments, is it not?”
“Of course.”
She nodded, hesitant.
“Then, there are those who felt they had already violated some precept or—the Antinium Heaven does not seem to have the same requirements. They doubt, so they waver.”
Harvey gaped at her, then cursed and declared he would give a sermon now and that the [Priests] of each camp should preach to their people lest they be led astray.
Perhaps this Antinium was the tempter. Harvey would meet him in the open, without fear, and they would see whose faith prevailed. This was holy and righteous.
A true holy war as had occurred when the Crusades happened. If only they had armor and weapons to match. Soon. The Prophet glanced out the window at the beacon of light.
“How close is the sacrament to finishing?”
“The last level is underway, Prophet. And the faith is collected…what need be done after that?”
He didn’t know, not entirely. His Miracle had not come with explanations, but Harvey was resolute.
“Then we shall pray, Marrieh. Those who gather around it shall pray day and night until it opens.”
He had built a kind of pyramid-type structure in the desert, a tiered base encrusted with the riches of Khelt, but not a full pyramid. It opened in the center, forming an arch which rose twelve stories tall. In stone, it towered high, and the [Light of Faith] hung in the opening. It was…
A gateway. And the Prophet felt that it was almost ‘full’. Soon, it would be openable. He bared his teeth.
“We meet the Priest. Be ready for battle!”
He strode for his tent to find his best robes, but when they did meet, the Priest and Prophet, for a second time, Harvey did waver and recoil when he saw the other reinforcements come to Khelt. For they scared him far more than the ant-man and his foreign faith.
It was said of Jesus of Nazareth that he performed miracles where he walked. In the desert, he strove with the Devil’s temptations, and he preached to all those who would hear him and worked God’s wonders. Yet when he came back to his hometown, he performed little acts of wonders and spoke softly.
It was hard to be judged by home. And there, standing with the Antinium, seeing it all, were—
The Earthers.
 
——
 
There were four of them. Four out of a larger group that they claimed were watching, but were scattered.
“Some are in Reim, Hellios, or all over. The King of Destruction lets us roam. I think he’s hoping some of us join up, but we’re split. Truth is, none of us really want to turn into Teres or Trey.”
“Hey.”
“No offense, bud. But you’re kind of a crazy dude. And the rest of us saw what happened to George.”
Trey turned to Lloyd, who stood with Maximillian and Alanna. Four Earthers, each one unknown to Pawn. Each one from a different country and so—different from the Earthers he knew. Lloyd was Canadian. Maximillian was Dutch, and Alanna was from Hawaii, which was technically American but not, for reasons he deemed too complicated to ask on first meeting.
And Trey…was Flos Reimarch’s servant, the [Chaos Schemer] and [Sand Mage]. He was accompanied by bright red sand-Golems armed with iron swords and shields.
He had come for battle. The other Earthers had come to observe. Maximillian nodded at Trey.
“We wanted to meet you because you’re Antinium, and we heard Erin Solstice’s words. This all seems to be tied to Gods. But we’re not going to fight like Trey. We’re not with him.”
Trey wore a pained expression as the three Earthers stood apart from him, but he nodded to Pawn.
“I’ve come to support Fetohep and Khelt. Flos hasn’t sent me. He knows I’m here, but I’m acting of my own free will. I’m willing to fight to defend Khelt. They just want to meet the Prophet.”
He jerked a thumb at the Earthers and grimaced. Pawn opened and closed his mandibles.
“So you’re all from Earth.”
“Yep.”
They chorused, and Pawn hesitated.
“And you share this information freely?”
Alanna smiled sweetly at him.
“Hard to hide it, at least for us. Everyone can tell, and His Majesty informs everyone. What, do they hide it on Izril? Everyone in Wistram knows; we assumed it was common knowledge by now. The [Mages] gossip a lot.”
None of the Earthers around Liscor talked about Earth openly. It was a known secret among anyone connected strongly to The Wandering Inn, and probably a lot of regulars had some inkling, but this lot was so brazen about it it felt wrong. Pawn surveyed them.
“How many of you are there?”
“Only a dozen or so. Fewer since George got killed. Poor guy. And Elena hopped ship in Hraace to join the Horns, but everyone knew she was going to leave sooner or later. She was just so worried about us that she hung around. But she’s crazy. A different kind of crazy than Trey, a’course…”
They really didn’t like Trey Atwood. Pawn didn’t understand why until someone referenced the Wistram breakout, and he realized Trey was the one who had let Archmage Amerys loose. It actually endeared him a bit to Pawn; the Antinium knew what it was like to be the ostracized one of late.
“Well, I am glad for any support you can render. What are your classes?”
The three Earthers glanced at each other as Trey smirked. Lloyd shrugged, embarrassed.
“I’m a [Mage]—we all got lessons in Wistram—and a [Foodie]. What can I say? They have good eats.”
“The name’s Max, not Maximillian. I was a barista back home, and I’m a [Coffee Maker] here. Too low-level for [Barista], and it’s mostly making coffee.”
“I’m a [Surfer]. But there’s no coastal nation who likes Reim except Hraace, and we had to leave.”
They were all exceptionally low-level compared to Trey, who was a dual-class expert with powerful Skills. Powerful enough to have Lifesand Golem bodyguards carrying that blood-red armor made out of something called ‘Lifeglass’. He twirled his staff idly.
“I use sand magic, and I can disrupt plans. I can conjure four Lifesand Golems, not including Minizi, of this size. They’re not fast, but they can fight. Use them as expendable fodder. I wish I had a Lifeglass Golem, but it takes too much blood, and Flos got the last one smashed. You can count on me for support, not the others. I’m the most familiar with this world, Pawn. I know Khelt and how to act. I’ve got training and some artifacts.”
“Just no friends. Even your sister left the continent to get away from you.”
Max shouted at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] glared back. Max cupped his hands for increased volume.
“You were a nice guy. I even felt bad for ‘Worm Guy Trey’ until it turned out you were just the King of Destruction’s little hench-toad. Now you’re acting like you’re the hero. ‘Look at me, I’m Trey, I’m the better twin because I shout at the King of Destruction. I’m the good British imperialist’.”
“Ooh, nice burn. Hit him with another, Max.”
Rather deliberately, Trey paced away from the other Earthers, and Pawn resolved not to get on Max’s bad side. The [Coffee Maker] seemed to have an insult Skill, or that was just natural talent.
“Would there be any chance of the King of Destruction and actual armies coming?”
Trey shook his head, seeming pained as a shorter Sand Golem that looked like a miniature Gazi strolled over, hefting a claymore on one shoulder.
“It’s a Kheltian matter. You don’t want Flos coming here. I…look, putting aside my differences with the other Earthers, we all think the Prophet’s strange. I want to see what he’s like.”
On that, they could all agree. Alanna raised her hand as they came back over.
“I’m really curious about him, honestly. I was raised Protestant, evangelical, and he sounds like some kind of dogmatic nutjob. I didn’t want to get near him, but now he’s invading Khelt, and it’s a nice place.”
“Rich.”
Lloyd commented neutrally, and Max kicked some sand.
“Weird too. The King of Khelt—I met him, but he’s as creepy as the Quarass. They’re all old-fashioned rulers. We have a warlord, a billionaire-monarch, and a creepy child with a thousand-year soul. And all of the Kheltians like Trey, so they’re compromised.”
“Max, I could hit you.”
Trey suggested with a smile, and Lloyd not-smiled back at him.
“I bet you’d do that too. You do that to anyone who doesn’t agree with you, pal? Hit me as well. Sounds like the King of Destruction to me, for all you claim you’re different.”
Okay, Pawn felt like it was time to play the peacemaker here, as entertaining as this was. He held out a hand.
“I would be delighted if some of you joined me, and perhaps Trey could join Yellow Splatters? We have much ground to cover, and the Prophet is coming. He’s up to some kind of sacrament-ritual. Summoning a being of great power. Alanna, would you happen to know about that?”
She hesitated as Trey nodded, face tight.
“Um. Summoning actual beings of Christianity?”
“Yes. They don’t do that on Earth, do they?”
“…No. What kind of beings? Like, the four horsemen of the apocalypse?”
Lloyd whistled.
“Wait, are those from Christianity? I thought they were from something else.”
“Revelations, Lloyd. It’s why it’s such a famous image.”
They began walking with Pawn, and the bemused Painted Antinium made the acquaintance of the Earthers as Trey strode off. Pawn tilted his head, noticing how they eyed him. They were playing it cool, but he clearly unsettled them more than other species.
“Excuse me, what are these four horsemen?”
Were they just four people on horseback? That wasn’t dangerous. Alanna smiled ruefully, brushing at some dyed blue hair.
“Er, the harbingers of the end-times. Death, Pestilence, War, and Famine. The literal aspects of each. No, wait, I think one of them was changed? Conquest instead of Pestilence…hold on. I have it in the app somewhere.”
She flicked out a smartphone, and it lit up as she hit a few buttons. Lloyd glanced at her as he continued the explanation.
“They’re supposed to ride when the end of Earth happens. Biblical armageddon. I didn’t know you had an app with, what, the Bible on it? There’s a Bible app, Alanna?”
“Of course there is, Lloyd. My father made me install it when I got my first phone…”
Pawn really didn’t like the sound of that. He started walking faster and pulled a speaking stone up.
“Pawn to Yellow Splatters. I am sending Trey Atwood to you. He has sand-Golems and can fight. He’s an Earther and will help us defend Khelt. I have three Earthers with us.”
“Excellent, Pawn. I have the new Painted…People in teams. Not to fight, but with each squad. Shall we push forwards?”
“Yes, about that. There’s a tiny possibility that the Prophet might be able to summon the four horsemen of the end of the world. So…let’s push.”
“Ah. This sounds like a plan.”
They marched forwards, and the Prophet met them in the sand. Faith vs. faith with only God as their witness.
And all the people tuning in on television.
 
——
 
Pewerthe watched the Priest of the Painted Antinium and the Prophet meet on live television. She couldn’t stop it.
She tried. At first, when the scrying spells started appearing, she told the [Mages] to block them, and they did. Kheltian magic was strong. But Wistram was casting with advanced scrying spells, and there were just so…many.
Grand Magus Recime told Pewerthe it wasn’t a question of even ability, they literally could not block that many scrying spells. So she’d asked how Khelt kept such spells away.
“If this were a city, or the palace, we’d have permanent ward spells that can block any number of spells, but those require us to set up the enchantments, Heir. If we had to stop them without? Ordinarily? His Majesty would just—inform each nation to stop. Lest they suffer Khelt’s wrath. But now…”
Stop scrying or I’ll send an army of skeletons at you. Pewerthe had called for other methods. Artifacts.
There was a lead bell you could ring that shattered magic in Khelt. They had Scrolls of Magical Dispersal, Scrolls of Anti-Scrying, amulets, a Black Jade Orb of Nullification, the treasures of Khelt.
Sixteen artifacts had activated. She’d burnt twenty scrolls, one of the artifacts had shattered due to the magical backlash, and still, the [Scrying] spells kept coming. Pewerthe had ordered Recime to stop.
“We need the magic more. Halt. Enough.”
Khelt let the world watch, and that was a blow in and of itself, but Pewerthe had no magic to waste. Not today. So she watched as she called Sand at Sea to come to Koirezune, just in case.
