“I am Silad Hemp. We are the People of God, following the Prophet, delivering the Truth to these godless people of Khelt. We thought you were part of the cursed ship that sails across this land. If you were Kheltians, we were to keep you from dying. If you were the hateful undead, return you to rest. You—you were on the ship, yes?”
Pawn smiled at him.
“Yes, we were. We are guests of Khelt.”
The People of God glanced at each other again, this time with clear chagrin.
“We only attacked because we feared it as an assault! We meant to only strike back at the Kheltians, who have slaughtered us and rained terror from above. Please, come with us in peace to our cities. Do you swear that, we will give you escort.”
Pawn tilted his head. This was not the group he had imagined when Fetohep contacted him.
Into the lion’s den. He saw Purple Smile watching him, but then again, they had just been in a literal lion’s den. Pawn spoke slowly.
“In the name of Jesus Christ, God, and the Holy Spirit, I do come in peace so long as peace is offered to me and those around me, People of God. Will that serve?”
He used his own rudimentary knowledge of their religion and saw the man’s eyes go round. He bowed over his saddlehorn and stuttered.
“You know the words? Yes, of course! This is a miracle! Come, friends!”
He beamed, and laughed, and Pawn nodded to himself. He accepted the offer of a horseback ride since he was sick of walking, and swung himself up onto the saddle with the help of the other Antinium.
“I’m glad. I hope to meet your leader.”
“He is injured. Poisoned by an assassin.”
“Hm, if not him, then one of your higher-ups. And I am glad you come in peace and that I had your measure. You are people of the Christian faith, yes?”
Silad nodded, smiling at another person he thought to be a true believer.
“Yes, and you knew the words! The Prophet said more would be found who were true believers of the faith. An entire world of them.”
Pawn nodded slowly.
“Yes…I know the words. I am glad, as well, that I said the right ones. I wondered if you were perhaps Muslim. Or Jewish. Or Mormon.”
The man shot him a puzzled look.
“What are these names? I do not know them, Pawn of the Antinium.”
The [Priest] paused again, and glanced at Malam’s house, which had vanished. He was sure the old [Hermit] was watching them from there. Then he looked at the People of God.
“Hmm. I’m sure I shall try to explain. That’s strike one for both sides.”
“Strike? What is this strike for?”
“Oh, that’s just baseball. Nothing to do with religion. Lead on, Silad.”
That was how Pawn first met the People of God.
 
——
 
Yellow Splatters was exceptionally unhappy when they reached Koirezune. Pawn was missing, and everything the [First Heretic] believed in said that they should be going back to save him.
But here he was, abandoning Pawn, the center of their faith. That was so…underhanded.
“Do you think it’s my class? Do you think I’m levelling as a [Heretic]? Does this count?”
He was pestering some of the other Antinium, including Stellar Word. He was a [Priest] like Holytext and one of the more religiously…religious Painted Antinium. His severe voice and lectures about faith sometimes grated on the nerves, but they were actually welcome now.
“I would hope that not even a heretic blasphemer of our faith would be that evil, Yellow Splatters. We must have faith in Priest Pawn. It may be he is captured, but he is not dead. We would know. And therefore your logic and that of Captain Cikroleth is correct.”
Yellow Splatters relaxed slightly. Yes, it wasn’t just him. The Painted Antinium were not happy, but good tactics meant that Sand at Sea had to continue fleeing. They had two holes in their hull that had gone straight through the enchantments.
They could have stopped and disembarked the Painted Antinium when they were out of range, but that would have risked the entire remainder of their tiny force. They’d be squashed like, well, Shield Spiders if they went up against even a few hundred of the People of God.
Outnumbered, possibly outmatched, going to the capital was the only correct move. Pawn might be captured, but the People of God were not actually that murderous. And he was powerful on his own.
Therefore, the capital. Yellow Splatters’ first impression of Khelt was unsettling. Foreign powers in the borders was not the paradise he knew. And then…
There was the panic.
“Behold. Our glorious capital, jewel of Chandrar. Too many folk on the street to even get through, and they won’t hear us. Too panicked. Irg, get to the palace! The rest of you, patch that hull and get ready to sail.”
Captain Cikroleth didn’t even have time to walk the Painted Antinium to the palace. He just lowered the boarding plank, and they moved.
Oh, now this was familiar. Yellow Splatters inhaled something sweet and beautiful in the air, he heard the chiming of bells, and his eyes registered a profusion of colors that made him halt, but the fear made his legs move again.
There was a precarious sense to the air. Panic, a grave silence between raised voices. People on the streets, some standing still, statues of uncertainty, and he looked at the other Antinium and gave voice to the feeling.
“Their sky is falling. Advance.”
That was the sound running through Khelt, he realized. Empty restaurants, people hiding in their homes or standing in the streets, talking. A breakdown of the social order. He had seen it in Liscor before, and this was their first time. Tears, panic attacks. And—he saw a man shovelling pieces of bread into a sack of holding.
People preparing to flee. Yellow Splatters wasn’t even noticed at first—until someone saw him and cried out.
“Insect! They’re getting bigg—”
He braced, but like other nations in Chandrar, the Kheltians weren’t hostile to him, aside from the bug thing. They gazed upon him, then flocked forwards.
“Antinium? Are you here to help His Majesty? This way—this way!”
“Yes, we are. Do not be alarmed.”
They had no fear of the Antinium? The Painted Antinium were confused until one of the Kheltians spoke.
“You come from Liscor, and Khelt has helped Liscor! Of course! No one but Dovive has sent reinforcements. How many of you are there? Armies?”
The woman’s face reflected hope, and she stood on her tip-toes as if wishing to see the Black Tide marching. When Yellow Splatters told her they were only sixty in number, her face fell.
“Oh. It is so far. But surely…are you high-level? Is your class powerful?”
The Level 38 [First Heretic-Captain of the Faith] considered the question. Yellow Splatters rumbled.
“To some, perhaps. I am one of the highest-level Antinium in my Hive. Only my leader is higher-level among my…group. We have levelled via war and strife.”
He felt like they should outlevel another faith-based group, even if the other one had seen battles of their own. But after seeing that ball of light…
Stored faith. Yellow Splatters smiled at the woman, who smiled back.
“Excuse me, do not be afraid. I am smiling. Could you direct us to the palace? I assume it is that huge structure, but I do not wish to assume. Um, I am Yellow Splatters. What is your name?”
“Koirda. And I know you’re smiling. I watched Baker Garry’s broadcast. This way—clear the way!”
She wanted to tug him to the palace, but the Kheltians had seen the Antinium and were flooding forwards with questions. They were, as Yellow Splatters noted, panicking.
“Is it help? Those are Antinium right, not super-roaches? I never noticed they looked like bugs until now!”
“So few! T-they won’t be able to do anything in the north. There’s a hundred thousand of the People of God, and we’re going to be butchered! Without the skeletons—”
“—all doomed, we have to flee! Who’s with me? We’ll join Reim, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, or…”
That last man was the one with the rucksack of bread. He was hefting it and trying to convince other Kheltians on the street, but as terrified as they were, few people were even engaging him. One man, a horrified chef selling Rock Crabs of all things, was stuttering.
“L-leave Khelt? Are you mad?”
“There’s no safety here anymore. With Roshal and the Prophet, you see that, don’t you?”
“Yes, but other nations? What will we do? They require coins there, don’t they?”
The bread-carrying man hesitated.
“Yes, but…we’ll throw ourselves on the grace of the King of Destruction! He lets everyone join his people. We need protection. And surely the King of Destruction can provide that! Who’s with me? We could leave tonight! You should all pack your things!”
He turned, seeking consensus, and a few voices announced they’d packed, but they weren’t ready to go yet. At this point, a rather fascinated Antinium tapped the man on the shoulder.
“Excuse me, sir. Do not be alarmed.”
“I’m not. Are you Antinium of Liscor or the Hivelands? I’d love to sculpt your faces, but I’m fleeing for my life right now, excuse me.”
The bread-man turned, and the Worker clacked his mandibles.
“Er, yes. About that. Are you planning on going to Reim on foot?”
“On foot? Don’t be ridiculous, I’ll take a carriage with horses. I can drive it.”
“Oh, good. This is much more reasonable than I had thought. And I assume you have ample provisions.”
The man held up the bread sack and pulled out three loaves with a flourish.
“This should last well into Reim, shouldn’t it?”
All the Antinium peered at the loaves of bread, and even a few Kheltians like Koirda seemed to understand that it was not exactly a pack of provisions. The Worker scratched at his antennae.
“I think that would last you a day and a half of full bread meals. Which does not include the meals for horses. Reim…I do not think you would enter Reim and reach a city before experiencing significant hunger.”
The bread-man hesitated, affronted.
“What? Don’t be ridiculous. It’s only a day’s ride away, surely. Or less!”
“From here to the capital of Reim? If you were on a magical flying warship, you could make that journey in less time. On horseback? Do you know how far it is from here to Reim?”
The bread-man blustered.
“It can’t be that far. I’ve been to Kheltian cities in hours! Reim is our neighbor! Here, let me get a map and show you.”
Someone actually had a map, perhaps considering the very same issue, and the man pointed at the tiny distance between Khelt’s capital and Reim’s.
“It’s only 186 miles.”
“…Yes. Um, do you know how far that is? Have you ever travelled that far, sir?”
“Well, I don’t travel. I’ve never had to leave Khelt, but His Majesty reached the north coast in no time at all!”
It dawned on the Painted Antinium that Kheltians might understand how to read a map, but they had no sense of how far a mile actually was. Nor how to survive given that breadman, whose name was Alfense, had no coins nor experience with working.
Though he was a Level 22 [Sculptor]. He pointed a vague hand at his workshop.
“I make art, but between the bugs and the Slavers of Roshal, I fear for my life. It only makes sense. Everyone else is crazy. When the People of God are eating us, there won’t be time to run. Don’t you see?”
Yellow Splatters did see. There was a kind of pragmatism this man had that other Kheltians might lack. How many Liscorian citizens with these instincts had avoided catastrophes? And yet, the Painted Soldier peered around Koirezune, and he spoke to all and sundry as officials from the palace ran down to meet him, including a young woman holding a pot under one arm.
“It is true that sometimes, death comes for cities, even nations. This Prophet of God is dangerous, and we may not be able to stop them. However, home is home, however it looks. For your people, for an inn, I have seen people fight and die despite terrible odds. For this city?”
He had stood in it bare minutes. Yet—Yellow Splatters passed a hand over his eyes.
“I would fight for this city. I will fight for this city. If only because it is the first and only place in the entire world that has made art for my kind of people.”
His head rose, and the walls of the city glittered with beautiful colors, he would not deny. Any [Painter] in Izril would admire the murals of Queen Khelta lifting a finger and undead rising embellished across three streets such that if you stood in the right place, the art appeared across the façades of each building, creating the completed piece.
Or the street with little fishies swimming in glass-covered rivers. This was art. But…the Painted Antinium turned, and Yellow Splatters stared at a wall. Koirda, Alfense, and the other Kheltians turned, and the Human woman frowned.
“What art do you mean? Oh—the umbral wall? But that’s just black paint, no offence…”
It was a beautiful black, and if you stared closely enough, you could see the different shades which created an effect that could unsettle the stomach. There were contests to see who could stare at it longest without puking.
Yellow Splatters shook his head wordlessly, and it was Alfense who disagreed.
“It’s not just black. It’s just that we can’t see the colors. You’re supposed to wear certain enchanted glasses that let you see colors beyond the naked eye. Some artist drew the painting to impress his pet lizard.”
“You mean Lizardfolk? Did he own [Slaves]?”
“No, pet lizard. It wasn’t impressed by his art. He talked to it. The piece of art won little acclaim in his lifetime, but it was known for making different species stop and admire it. A few Nagas of Baleros, [Mages], a deer one time—so it was declared a Century Work. It’s slated for destruction in six years if it doesn’t win an extension. Oh, so they must see—”
The words washed over Yellow Splatters. He heard them, digested them, and understood by this that a non-Antinium had once made art they could not even see to impress a lizard. And that the beauty and scope of the art was worthy, recognized. But it might only last a century, then be torn down because this was the majesty of Khelt.
“Beautiful.”
He spun on one heel, and he picked up the pretty scents again. They hung in the air, blown from charms, not a hint of the sewers or even the earthy, common flavors of the Hive. The streets were so perfectly flat, and everyone dressed like the Players of Celum.
It was a beautiful city. Alfense and Koirda agreed, but both sighed.
“If only you had come at any other time, honored guests. Koirezune is not fit to be shown today! It’s so—filthy and run-down. You can barely smell the scent of the city, our own specialty. And there’s no music for everyone’s in a fever.”
“You have music? A concert?”
“No. Just music. There’s always music; surely that’s common everywhere?”
