Fetohep cast around, and now there was a terrible sensation in his bones. Anleth pointed at the scrying orb, and he saw a broadcast with Sir Relz’s grave face on it. And beyond…an Antinium and Human man striking at each other. Fetohep recognized Pawn and the Prophet and stopped. Anleth whispered.
“They left. So did Heir Pewerthe and…and everyone. They’ve all gone to see the Prophet of God. T-to fight. Citizens of Koirezune, the servants, the soldiers, everyone. They told me to stay with the other children.”
“Them? Fight? That…that’s on the scrying orb. It’s on live television. How long have they been watching us?”
“An hour?”
Fetohep of Khelt stood over the scrying orb, and his head rose.
“They know. The Prophet…they’re all there. The Centaurs, the Gnolls. I must go. My halberd.”
He was searching around. His halberd, his chariot—no, the undead horses might not even function with the precision he needed. He was walking slowly, towards his personal chambers, seldom used for he had no need of sleep, when Anleth cried out.
“Your Majesty! It’s dangerous. Th-the People of God are erasing the undead. And there’s a terrible light from the north. The Prophet is calling down lightning, and Priest Pawn is fighting him.”
Fetohep turned, and his purple robes swished across the ground.
“I know, Anleth. This is all my fault. My weakness. My arrogance and conceit. Pewerthe has held this nation together better than I. I must go. It is me the Prophet wants. Stay here and watch, son of Khelt. I charge you with this duty which the hopes of Khelt rest upon. When Pewerthe returns, tell her that in three generations, Khelt’s dead shall remember their duties. She must survive three generations. Do you understand?”
“Your Majesty—”
He heard a sob as he turned, and then he was running. Running, light as a feather, each step shaking like his kingdom, with a mountain’s weight. Long had he relied on others, trusted to Khelt’s dead, the loyal who gave more than they were expected, even the Antinium.
Enough, enough.
A [King] should not let others fight his battles for him. Fetohep grinned once at the foolishness of that statement.
“I was always a poor [King]. Great Khelta, Queen Xierca, Khelt—”
His hand closed over a halberd as he turned.
“Judge me.”
Then he ran as the Prophet of God raged.
 
——
 
Pawn and the Painted Antinium fought, a single group of Antinium surrounded by a sea of the People of God. That they were not swarmed from every angle was just because the Prophet had told his followers to stay back. He led the faithful who could fight at Pawn, so it was a fairer fight.
Just sixty versus a thousand or something. But neither side had to meet. It was just—
Skills.
“[Massed Prayer: Pillar of Light]!”
“[Hymn of God: Benediction of Strength]!”
“[Javelin of Sunfire]!”
So many damn Skills. The Painted Antinium charged over the broken ground as spells landed around them, and Pawn saw it.
Massed prayers. Even a hundred Level 10 [Faithful] could call down the equivalent of a Tier 5 spell with enough faith. He needed more prayers. He needed—
The pillar of light shone down as a javelin thrown from a high-level [Battle Priest] exploded—harmlessly caught by his Skill.
[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. The Antinium were still being shielded by the blessing. It was the only reason they weren’t dead. The People of God rained down literal hellfire on them, but it all vanished, caught by the light of Heaven.
—Unfortunately, for every second the Painted Antinium were adapting, learning, the same was true of the People of God. Harvey saw yet another Skill vanish and instead of trying to break Pawn’s Skill, his eyes narrowed.
“[Hammer of God]!”
He swung his staff around horizontally, and Pawn swore.
“Shit. [Holy Hammer]!”
The two Skills collided in midair, and both recoiled from the thunderous impact. Harvey snapped.
“Aim below that Skill! Bring them down!”
His faithful charged, and Yellow Splatters shouted.
“Painted Antinium! [Stoneshield Line]!”
The faithful slammed into the Antinium, who grabbed their foes, then began to punch them into the ground. Yellow Splatters knelt on one of the faithful until he’d hit the woman into tomorrow and stood.
Martial might still mattered. The Painted Antinium had the edge there—he saw Rabbitears using a shield to block a glowing spear. A [Weapon of Faith]—which met his [Holy Shield]. He stabbed back at Jilthread, and she gasped as the blow struck her robes, but they were blessed.
Arrows were flying between both sides, but neither group had strong archers. One struck Yellow Splatters’ new helmet, and he grunted as it rang. He saw Salted Pork firing a custom-made crossbow back and kneecapped Lazimeh. The man cried out—then he was up in moments, healed.
Someone had hit Pie so hard his shoulder had cracked open and was oozing green blood. Stellar Word unrolled a scroll, and the Painted Antinium’s wounds closed.
They were healing. It was like no battle that the other watchers had seen. Even with potions, the faithful had endurance, the ability to call down powerful weapons—
Little adaptability. 
That was what Pawn realized as he searched for a Skill or Miracle in his arsenal to use to turn the tides. Unlike magic, he couldn’t vary how his miracles worked. Just change where he hit or aimed. Valeterisa, Pisces, any experienced [Mage] could alter their spells on the fly, but miracles?
Either we pray or we use a miracle. Nor was there a way for him to counter Harvey’s overwhelming edge in faith. The Prophet spoke.
“God, hear me! Blow away these Antinium that we might destroy the King of Khelt! [Miracle: Breath of Giants]!”
“Aw, h—”
The Antinium were tossed by a vast windstorm, and Pawn shouted.
“[Prayer: A Leaf in the Storm]!”
They didn’t slam into the ground hard enough to turn into paste. Instead, they lightened and were blown in a confusing, tumbling frenzy until they landed—relatively softly—on the ground. Pawn got up, feeling one arm click.
“Ow. [Mass Heal Minor Wounds]. We have to take him out. [Bane of Luck]. [Summon Aberration]. Yellow Splatters, thoughts? Ecclisi, anyone?”
His two ‘evil’ Skills activated, but only one worked. The [Bane of Luck] curse hit the Prophet and…failed to work. Was his faith that overwhelming? However, the furious Aberrations that came tearing upwards—four of them—threw themselves at the People of God and slowed their advance.
Yellow Splatters spat sand from his mouth.
“We’re losing badly. We need more faith.”
“Well, believe in Heaven harder, because we’re about to go there!”
Pawn snapped back. He lifted his censer. He had his new capstone Skill, but there just wasn’t enough faith to power either up to match Harvey! It was Ecclisi who spoke.
“T-they have so much faith. But we are the People of Erin!”
“Oh dead gods, shut up or tell me how to use a super-miracle from the future!”
Pawn shouted at him. Ecclisi turned to him.
“I don’t understand. We should be able to match them. There are the [Crusaders], the 7th Hive, the Painted Antinium of Liscor. Even if there are not as many, we should be able to hold our own.”
“Ecclisi, they’re a continent away!”
Pawn roared as the Painted Antinium reformed—the Prophet was coming at them. Fortunately, the idiot wasn’t that fit, so he wasn’t sprinting. But Ecclisi just stared at Pawn.
“Distance doesn’t matter to faith, Pawn.”
The Worker’s mandibles opened. And then something clicked in his head.
Much like the Prophet of God—Pawn turned. Then he saw it.
“Yellow Splatters? Hit me hard enough to knock me out. Then wake me up. Don’t argue, just—”
Yellow Splatters punched Pawn in the head.
“[Knockout Punch].”
He shook out a fist as Ecclisi stared at him in horror.
“What? He knew I had that Skill.”
—Like the Prophet, Pawn heard that voice waiting for him. As they both understood more of what faith was.
 
[Faith (Heaven and Sky) – The Painted Folk Created!]
[Priest of Heaven’s Way rank Created!]
 
Faith. Ranks? Organization. Pawn was reaching for the faith of the other Antinium, in Izril.
We need your help. The [Crusaders], of course. There were so many, and the [Templars], the 7th Hive…but he couldn’t draw on them.
Because they weren’t really Painted Antinium, were they? They had different ways, even if they had a similar class. Many didn’t believe.
I have to give them a place. The voice, the system of levels was waiting for him. So Pawn spoke to it and said—
 
——
 
The 7th Hive was camping to watch the battle in Khelt. Xrn and most of the Antinium were watching, but some were napping and hadn’t been woken up. One such was [Templar] 1-33, nicknamed ‘the Voice’. Because when he had gained his class, he had been given a voice.
His only wish in this world. He hadn’t thought of the Painted Antinium in a while. He believed in Heaven, but the 7th Hive was his home now. Squad 3 and Company 1 were his home. If he was dreaming, it was uneasily, as if some battle were happening elsewhere, but he had been too far to join in. Until a voice spoke to him in his sleep and said:
 
[The Painted Folk religion Inducted!]
 
[Class Change: Templar of Speech → Templar of the Sky Class!]
[Templar of the Sky rank Assigned!]
[Miracle – Amass the Faithful’s Will Obtained!]
[Miracle – Explosion of Faith (Orb) Obtained!]
 
The Voice shot up, tangled in his hammock he’d strung between two rocks, and crashed to the ground. He rose, shouting.
“Company! Company, assemble!”
They jerked to attention, leaping up, and he shouted as other Antinium woke, bawling orders.
“Get every single [Crusader] up and form a circle. Link hands or something!”
“What? What’s going on?”
Some of the other Antinium were confused, but the Voice shouted at them.
“Shut up! Pawn needs our help! Pray like you have an Adult Creler on your ass! And tell Crusader 57 to get lost!”
He probably had negative faith. The [Templar] grabbed hands with a Worker and concentrated. He was not Painted Antinium, but so what?
If there is a Heaven, let it be for us all. You need my faith, Pawn?
Take it.
 
——
 
Pawn woke up with a stiff neck and the light of faith burning in his chest. He saw the Prophet of God point at him.
“[Summon: Sword of Light].”
A giant damn sword swung across the ground at the Painted Antinium, who braced. Pawn sat up.
“You can use your followers’ Skills? That sucks. Hiyah.”
He lurched up and swung his club at the gigantic sword as Yellow Splatters ran, trying to shield Pawn. The glowing blade of ornate light hit Pawn’s club and shattered.
The Prophet recoiled, and Pawn shook out his club hand.
“Now let’s do this properly, Harvey.”
He felt it pouring into him from Izril’s shores. Faith. It came from his Hive, where Painted Antinium were kneeling in prayer, from the Hivelands in small pockets, from [Crusaders] in Liscor’s army or the 7th Hive.
Even a little trickle from a little Gnoll girl and a [Princess] in an inn. Pawn smiled as he drew it together, then paused.
“…Why is there faith coming from out at sea? Must be Seborn. But why an entire ship? Oh well. My turn.”
His censer rose, and now, it was glowing with the accumulated faith. Pawn shook it, and brown smoke drifted over the Painted Antinium. It smelled like cinnamon. He grinned at Harvey’s expression.
“What is that?”
“A Relic of faith. Want to see what it does?”
The brown smoke drifted over the Antinium, who had smelled it and walked with Pawn’s Painted Antinium from the day they had begun to defend the Hive. They marched forwards, and then it was unconscious: their mandibles snapped together.
Click.
Pawn’s Skill had finally run out of power. He thought he might be able to reactivate [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky] with all the faith running through him, but he didn’t need to. Lazimeh had thrown a spear of light at them, but the Painted Antinium clicked—
—and the Miracle fizzled out of existence. They marched forwards.
Click.
The [Benediction of Strength] glowing over the People of God faded away, leaving their limbs leaden and weak. Unnerved, they cried out, and Pawn heard the Antinium click again.
Skill cancelling. Niers is going to kill us for stealing his trick at half his level.
He lifted his club. The Walled Cities were going to have him assassinated, probably.
“Well, if you’re going to fear me—c’mon, Harvey. Let’s dance. [Miracle: Flood of Life’s Colors]. For Erin, the inn, and Khelt—get them.”
The Skill born of the Winter Solstice came to his mandibles, power he wished he had obtained just one battle prior. The strength to do—anything. The Antinium ran with him, and the wave of red ‘water’ broke over their heads. Red like her blood. Blue like her grieving flames. Green and white and—
 
——
 
It covered the Antinium. Harvey stared. Pawn’s Skill had hit his own people! It washed over them, and the Prophet expected to see flailing Antinium churning in the surreal waters. Then he realized the wave was coming at them and shouted.
“[Holy Barrier]! Defend yourselves! Defend—”
The waters smashed into his barrier, but it held as the People of God amassed their strength. They held, and Harvey laughed wildly. Even the faith of all the Painted Antinium couldn’t—
The Antinium burst out of the raging torrent of waters and attacked. A wave of brown water coalesced, and they were amidst the People of God. They weren’t being borne by the waters, they were the—
Pawn’s club struck Lazimeh across the kneecaps as the Disciple raised a sword, then he struck the man over the head. Marrieh turned, crying out. She leapt at him—and the Antinium vanished.
Water. Colors streaming past her as she swung at nothing at all. The flood flowed past the Prophet, a moving river, and he spun.
“They’re coming out of the water! Brace! Br—”
This time, the waters swept over the People of God, knocking them down, and the Antinium reappeared. Yellow Splatters punched down two bodyguards around the Prophet, reached for him—Harvey kicked him backwards, and the Antinium vanished into the golden droplets swirling.
So many beautiful colors—the Antinium were pouring out of the raging river, attacking like some kind of snake that could dissolve, reform—mobility.
A Skill for the insect-folk who were too stiff, too vulnerable. Harvey was shouting.
“Do not falter! We are the chosen of God! With me!”
But then—he heard screams from the side and turned. He saw a huge Sand Golem—rust-red, holding a glittering blade made out of glass—attacking his people! And he heard voices.
“The undead! The undead are—”
