The King of Khelt’s voice shook with exhaustion. Guilt and fear. Pawn shook his head.
“The thing about being in Erin’s inn is that I have learned not to count debts so highly. One can never repay them, and they grow. Fetohep…I have protected Khelt as best I can with my little strength. I fear I shall not be able to best the next foe. Nor do I think I wish to try.”
“I understand. Thank you, Pawn of the Antinium. What comes next—is Khelt’s responsibility. I shall face it.”
The King of Khelt sat there, despite his words, as Pawn nodded and laid on his back shell like a downed beetle, staring up at the sky. After a while, Pewerthe spoke.
An undead [King] sat in tattered robes, knees hunched up to his chest, as he watched the sand blowing across his kingdom. Sand and dust, as if to erase the cities and people. The sun was setting. A girl sat with him, and they had an audience of a nation. Her voice was timid, small, and he wished he had great words for her. But there was only this.
“Your Majesty?”
“Yes, Pewerthe?”
“An army is nearly upon Khelt’s borders.”
“Hmm. Whom?”
He asked ‘whom’, not ‘who’, for even now, there was such a thing as good diction. She paused.
“The Empire of Sands. The Vizir has gone to forestall them.”
“I see. I shall speak to the Empress of Sands directly.”
“It’s the Emperor, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep paused.
“I see. Regardless.”
Then she took a breath, and her voice trembled.
“And…there’s another army coming from the north, Your Majesty. Medain’s.”
“Mm. Any others?”
“[Mercenaries], Your Majesty. Coming in different groups. At least twenty-six famous units. And…”
He nodded and rose. Then he turned to her and embraced her, one-armed. The King of Khelt walked forwards.
“I shall handle it, Pewerthe.”
The lie of all parents and rulers upon his tongue, he adjusted his robes and began to walk. The wind blew across his lands, and the King of Khelt watched the long myth of Eternal Khelt ending.
Gently, quietly, he dictated how it should be, and this was right.
He could not leave that to anyone else.
 
——
 
The first army to reach Khelt was the one that had been waiting here all along for the opportunity to advance.
They bore flags unfamiliar to the people of this part of Chandrar. Strings over waving lines to indicate sands, like a knotted ball of yarn unsettlingly woven together. Like the stripes of a vast desert in confusion. Meaningless and random. No heraldry of a nation like the Walled Cities, or the triumphant crown rising from decay that was the Blighted Kingdom.
The Empire of Sands had sent three armies against the King of Destruction, and each one had barely penetrated Reim’s borders. They had been forced to raid from the Great Desert, enduring thirst and privation—a fool’s move.
If Reim was their goal. But the Empress of Sands had another goal in mind, and when the army reached Reim, it was headed by General Khal, one of her most loyal subordinates, if not the highest-level or most strategically genius.
He did not have to be. General Khal had prepared his army in a completely insane pattern to any conventional foe. He had drawn his vanguard up in a single mass, then organized every other unit, from archers to riders, into squads of a hundred. At his orders, they would scatter to the winds and raid.
Any conventional force would wrap them up, but as he had been told and now believed…they just had to reach a city. They might be under attack from overwhelming, low-level undead, but the instant one group reached civilians, they would have hostages. However, he had also been told it would likely not come to that.
The King of Khelt spoke to the Emperor of Sands as the army reached his borders and halted, facing a legion of skeletons. And it was the [Emperor] who spoke. Not the cunning, pun-loving Empress he had expected.
“King of Khelt. My army stands upon your doorstep. It has bled to reach you.”
The Emperor of Sands was completely transformed from the reclining woman with charm and wit. He stood, shorter but far more compact, muscled and armored from head to toe, pacing, blunt of speech.
How could even a Stitch-person transform so? Fetohep was weary, but he almost appreciated the lack of honeyed words. This would be hard.
“It does, Emperor of Sands. Did you not swear Khelt would be left untouched?”
“One head did. I did not. By Skills, I am unaffected.”
“What of the weight of crowns and the word of one sovereign to another?”
“Hah!”
A bark of a laugh, then the Emperor of Sands put a hand on the hilt of his sword and spun as he tensed up. Fury. His eyes flashed.
“My men have bled to reach you. Your flying Revenant has assailed them with spells. But now they are poised to strike back at Khelt. I will have a blood-price for every fallen soldier. And their withdrawal. In return, my armies won’t ravage Khelt. I have contracts. They’ve been sent.”
He waved a hand offscreen at hooded and veiled servants, and the King of Khelt read from a flashing [Message] scroll. He lowered it.
“This sum is beyond extravagant.”
He would have raged and threatened annihilation last year. Today? The Emperor of Sands’ eyes flashed.
“I have a war to win. Khelt can afford it. Do you force me, I will take it, and you can ill-afford that. Pay my price, King of Khelt. The same [King] who has ignored my people and every people begging for an ounce of Khelt’s generosity is in no place to haggle now. You stand between empires. Reim’s and mine. Your word or my man storms Khelt.”
Fetohep sat on his throne, and he had just beaten the Prophet of God. Torn an Angel’s head from its body. Demonstrated the weight of the King of Khelt’s fists to the world.
In private, he bowed his head.
“Allow me a day to review the terms of your contract and ensure there is no…tricky language contained within, Emperor of Sands.”
The youth barked a laugh.
“A day? I will not have my army wait for the King of Destruction to pounce for a day.”
Fetohep’s eyes flashed.
“Then pull them back, and I shall sign the contract without a sword bared at my throat. I know that even should I cross you, the counterblow will be twice as heavy and without mercy. Take my word, Emperor of Sands. I assure you, it is good as our coin you covet.”
The Emperor of Sands seemed ready to push the issue as he half-unsheathed his sword, but then he paused. There was a whisper—from above? The sides? Fetohep did not know, but his skin wanted to crawl, dead as it was. Slowly, the Emperor of Sands glanced up, then nodded.
“A day. Transfer of the payment…the damn Merchant’s Guild only deals in coin, and I won’t have it raided. I’ll contact you with solutions.”
He paused, lifted a finger, and frowned as if recalling something.
“One more thing. This is the kinder option. It would be easy to crack Khelt open like a box and loot it, but you’re too far. Driving your people out to die in the sands is pointless; there are Stitch-folk within your lands as well as any other. My empire doesn’t need Kheltian blood, just our share of the spoils. The rest come for your throat. My nation may well treat with yours if it pays well enough. Remember that, King of Khelt, however indecorous this head is. It is the only one that leads in war.”
He grinned, then, a boy-king with the untrained, wild charisma of a born [General]. Rueful and endearing if you could but love him. Fetohep saw a frightening face, one born for war, and he knew another head was born for diplomacy.
The faces of the Emperor of Sands, whose diverse abilities could match any Ruler of Khelt that had lived. Then the Emperor of Sands grimaced and sat back on his throne.
“So, then, are we foes?”
“I do not exactly wish for more foes at this moment, Emperor of Sands. Your terms are agreed to.”
Fetohep replied quietly, unsure of why the Emperor asked. The young man fidgeted, then stood.
“Good. Communicate that to the obnoxious [Princess] harassing my diplomats. She’s threatening to call in debts and making a nuisance. She is not that important.”
His eyes flashed with a hint of admiration, annoyance, and then he spun, walking offscreen.
“I’m sure you’re busy. Until next we speak.”
He cut the connection, and the King of Khelt sat there. In a way, the Emperor of Sands was refreshing, for all he lacked any graces and his nature changed. There was little personal in Khelt beyond what it had.
He had no stake in Khelt’s fate.
 
——
 
Medain, on the other hand—was slower by hours, but the High King drove them through the night to be first to attack Khelt now that its defences were down. To him, it was entirely personal. He felt betrayed, insulted. He had been stepped upon, and now it was time for vengeance.
That was half of why Perric drove his army at such speed towards Khelt. The other reason was that he knew every other nation would be lining up to loot Khelt. Being first to take the capital was risky, but the lion’s share of the wealth would be carried away in the initial sackings, and Khelt was rich enough to make it worth any single army’s cost. Too, he wanted to be there before Raelt had a chance to strike him.
It was a risky maneuver, but he’d already been preparing a punitive strike on Khelt before seeing how weak they were. After that? Perric had thrown caution to the winds to organize this gambit. All the risk, all the reward.
True, it took some doing to put together an army that fast. Medain was a mighty nation of three kingdoms, but it had suffered in the last war…with Khelt. Jecrass’ damn raids had done more damage of late than they should. However, where there was a will, there was a way.
Perric had drawn his heavy cavalry and his Golden Ranks from his capital, then pulled a core of his heavy infantry and marched them south. For the bulk of his army?
He’d just…emptied a few border forts. True, it left only skeleton crews manning the essential fortifications guarding against Jecrass, but King Raelt wouldn’t know that. Perric had ordered illusions and dummies set up to trick the idiot. He’d be back before the King of Duels even realized the troops were missing, a fortune to end the war in hand.
“When we get into the capital, I want discipline. No looting of the palace. Any man or woman stealing from the King’s share will be put to death, even the Golden Ranks! The rest of the city is yours.”
He was giving orders from horseback as his [Generals] sweated and prepared battle plans. They were less happy about attacking Khelt. The trauma of the Jaws and knowledge that there were still a lot of skeletons, mindless or not, made them nervous. But Perric had not risen to his rank by being cautious.
“I want the King of Khelt’s head mounted on a plaque or something. Mind you, take this ‘Heir of Khelt’ alive. Do you hear that, you loot rats? March, and I’ll hand out Relic-class items to those who distinguish themselves in battle!”
She wasn’t that attractive, but there was a prestige in including her in his harem. The last Ruler of Khelt, and it might help if he took the entire kingdom. The Golden Ranks marching ahead of Perric shouted acknowledgement. They understood how much they stood to gain, the former Gold-rank adventurers.
They loved nothing more than fighting low-level enemies, and what was a horde of skeletons but fodder to a Level 30+ adventurer? Perric only wished he had his damn High Crown! He could have wasted any number of skeletons with its magic.
I’ll be wearing Khelt’s crown if I can get it restyled, and I like the effects, soon enough. And I’ll have the Diamond Swords of Serept and whatever else is in there. Dead gods, I might actually gift my current crown to Ceria. She’ll come crawling back when she sees Medain’s wealth.
With it, he could take the Claiven Earth, and then he’d be a nation that every other power in Chandrar would be forced to confront. They just had to get into Khelt and—
They were nearing the borders, and one of the [Generals] shouted.
“Your Majesty! Skeletons ahead!”
“Prepare to sweep them clean! Heavy cavalry, forwards! Golden Ranks—ready! Today, we destroy an ancient kingdom!”
Perric roared, and there was a cheer from his soldiers. They were thirsting for vengeance, but the cheer faltered when they saw the sea of undead. He gritted his teeth, remembering the half-Giants of Serept.
They’re not here. Remember that. Khelt has one super-spellcaster and that damn ship, and both are damaged.
He had an army. Even if it bled—he glanced at the heavy cavalry, then his vanguard. Throw them in first, then commit his Golden Ranks. He didn’t like to bleed his best troops, but he’d throw it all away to take the capital. Perric was about to call the charge when a single figure stepped out from the motionless sea of skeletons. He choked, the Battle Horn of Medain raised to his lips, and King Fetohep of Khelt walked forwards.
The Army of Medain backed up a step. Men, women, horses—King Perric’s bodyguards shuffled back as he felt his butthole clench in instinctive fear.
He’s weak. 
“What are you doing? Formation!”
He hissed at the [Generals], who restored order, but they had all seen the King of Khelt ripping the Angel’s head off hours ago. Perric saw the silent [King] raise his head, and golden eye-flames lit up the darkness.
“King Perric of Medain. I do not think you have come for pleasantries. It is well; I am in little mood for such talk. It seems to me that we should speak frankly, having never done so before. I must say, in honesty, I do not care for you. You are an unseemly king, and I have resented our close contact via [Message] spells and the like. I shall not have your army upon Khelt’s sands. Name your price and turn back.”
High King Perric bared his teeth as the [King] stood there. Pathetic. Half a year ago, he had been dancing on the Jaws of Zeikhal, sending the world to trembling, and now here he was. Perric called back.
“Now you call for candor, Fetohep? It seems to me I have my boot on your neck. When I place it there in actuality, you may grovel and beg. Long have you taken advantage of our weakness! Turnabout is fair play, wouldn’t you say?”
He would repay that embarrassment and humiliation tenfold. Actually, he definitely needed to keep Fetohep alive. A talking head mounted on the wall. Genius! No one had ever conceived of such horrific punishment. Perric was grinning as Fetohep exhaled purely for the sound of it.
“High King, you misunderstand me. And you continue to do so. Never once did I ask Medain to tribute so much wealth, nor the statues, parades, the endless abasement to Khelt. I would have respected backbone. I did not even seek to push, but found you flipping over backwards of your own accord. Let me state that I regret how Medain treated itself, but I did not press for it.”
