Perric reddened in fury. He glared around as no one dared meet his eyes; if they did, they would have been next to be publicly hanged in the capital. But then he calmed himself. His bearded face smoothed, and he ran a hand through his beard and shook his head.
Pityingly at this undead king who knew so little of ruling. Perric called back.
“It’s you who doesn’t understand what it means to rule, Fetohep. You know what? I pity you. Did Medain grovel beneath Khelt when we were disadvantaged? Of course. Is there any shame in it? No. We did what we had to in order to survive.”
He thumped his chest, eyes glaring at that undead ruler. Perric jabbed a finger as he leaned over his restless warhorse’s saddle.
“That’s how the real world works. That’s how real politics works, not this illusion Khelt’s enjoyed because of all its treasures and undead. Some men have to work their way up from the bottom, even if it means showing one’s belly. Anything to live. I was born a mere [Prince], not the heir to paradise.”
He clenched his fist, shaking it at the King of Khelt, as his subjects gazed upon the self-made man who faced down the King of Khelt. Fetohep watched him, and Perric spat onto the sands.
“Every man acts the same when the boot is on his neck and the same when he is the one holding the sword. The fact that you pretend otherwise just shows how far from humanity you’ve come.”
At last, the silent Revenant bowed his head, breaking his gaze away from Perric’s face.
“I fear you may be right, Perric of Medain. So, then, by your logic, you will not be bought.”
“Why would I compromise for pittances when I could take it all?”
Perric spread his arms, laughing as his Golden Ranks chuckled. Fetohep tilted his head.
“A fair question. Perhaps you might settle for less if only because I will kill you before you take one step inside my palace, High King Perric. I swear that to you, ruler to ruler. My hand be at your throat, and it shall rip your spine from your flesh. No force in this world shall stop me. What say you to that?”
The oath made Perric ride back a pace instinctively, and his [Bodyguards] shivered. The Golden Ranks stopped chuckling, and every person between Perric and Fetohep suddenly began to question how much their life was worth.
A Level 50+ [Warrior] could not take on an army and live. He would die. But he was already dead, and that was not the question, anyways. The question was: when would he stop?
Perric lowered his voice as he triggered a [Silence] spell embedded into his glove.
“[Captain of Bows], do you have a shot? [High Magi]?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. We’re ready—”
“Fire.”
“Your Majesty—?”
“Destroy him with everything!”
Perric shouted, and there was a breath of uncertainty before the first arrow streaked across the ground and struck King Fetohep in the chest. He didn’t even dodge, but his golden eye-flames flared bright a second before a volley of homing arrows followed the first. Then [Fireballs] struck him and the undead behind him, comets and lightning and—
“Golden Ranks, loose!”
They were dropping to one knee, loosing enchanted arrows, and Perric was tensed, ready to ride behind his [Generals] and activate contingency spells. He waited for the Revenant to come tearing out of the firestorm, but even a Level 50+ [Warrior], even he—
When the smoke cleared, Perric felt his shoulders ease. Because there was nothing left where the King of Khelt stood. The skeletons behind him had been cleared for a thousand paces. There was a breath—then a wild cheering from his army. Perric raised his hand.
“The King of Khelt is dead! Now, adv—”
He choked on his tongue as a figure rose from the sands. King Fetohep of Khelt possessed another body whose eyes flickered and took on that golden glow. A corpse he could remotely use to fight with and fool his enemies. Just like how he had tricked Medain and the Knights of Terandria once before.
King Perric had forgotten he could do that. The King of Khelt brushed at the copy of his robes, then spoke.
“Weaker as this vessel is, it will fight you all the way to my capital. Thence, I shall step off my throne, and you shall see if your army’s might can stop me, Perric. Turn back or die. Khelt may perish if your army invades: this I understand. But so shall you. Or shall we do it in the oldest way of [Kings]?”
He pointed at Perric, and the man felt a shock run down his spine.
“I challenge you to single combat, High King of Medain. They say you are a great warrior yourself. Let us see who triumphs.”
He had to think Perric was mad. Fight a Revenant in single combat? Perric laughed. He threw back his head and guffawed, expecting others to join in, but no one did. His Golden Ranks, his [Generals], were all eying him as if they hoped…Perric snarled.
“I won’t fall for any tricks, Fetohep. Men, prepare to charge!”
He lifted a hand, and his army hesitated, but Perric was ready.
If he comes at me, I’ll just ensure I have an escape route planned. He can’t catch me if I teleport out. Perric had two more armies moving along Khelt’s borders. If he had two attack in multiple waves—
King Fetohep’s eyes were flickering.
“You would damn this entire army to death instead of taking wealth? Truly, Perric?”
“It seems you don’t know me at all, Fetohep. Perspective. It is the final lesson of kings you taught me.”
“I didn’t teach you—”
Fetohep stopped, then shook his head.
“Alas.”
A fitting note to end it all on. Perric was pointing, lifting his horn, when someone blew a horn in the distance. He lowered the Battle Horn of Medain, irritated.
If this is not my backup army, I’ll kill everything and everyone. He turned his head, then tightened his grip on the hilt of his sword.
“General Miltif? Take half the cavalry and make ready to sweep our flanks. Archers, turn. I want a line of pikes there—”
He saw the furry figures loping across the ground, moving behind the skeletons, then heard the drumming of damn hooves. Incredulously, the High King watched as Gnolls and Centaurs joined the army behind Fetohep.
It was hard to say who was more upset, Perric or Fetohep. The King of Khelt spun.
“Herdmistress, this is not your war!”
She probably didn’t even hear him. The People of Zair were galloping across the earth, raising a dust storm behind them and whooping, Gnolls forming packs of bows and spears in clusters. Perric ground his teeth together.
He’d heard the Centaurs were hard to fight. As for the Gnolls, he was sure they’d crumble before a cavalry charge—it just looked bad to be seen slaughtering them.
Amnesty for the survivors. Give them some land in Khelt, and that’d solve it. He saw a spiral of Centaurs galloping around the Herdmistress and grunted.
“You have your work cut out for you if they’re half as decent at mounted combat as I’ve heard, Miltif.”
“Aye, Your Majesty. Perhaps we should wait for the second and third armies?”
Miltif was licking his lips as he forced a smile, but Perric could count. He flicked his fingers dismissively.
“We’ll bleed more to rout them, but we have the battle. Now…”
He saw there were Kheltians in the army facing him as well as the undead. A few hundred skeletons had popped up on his left flank. He produced an enchanted spyglass with two lenses instead of one—called ‘binoculars’ by Wistram—and frowned.
“Commander or something over there. Mark for sniping.”
The King of Khelt turned, and his eye-flames dimmed with sorrow, but then burned with pride. Perric shook his head pityingly. Such a pathetic king after all.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest stood behind his personal skeletons. He was pale-faced, knowing how outmatched their army was, but like the Gnolls and Centaurs, he had come to the front. He had dissuaded Farmer Colovt and other Kheltians from joining what would be a slaughter.
With the Gnolls and Centaurs, we might hold them. If there are any Arrows of Razzimir and the skeletons can hold them back and keep them from overrunning the border…
…They’d still be overwhelmed and crushed by the Golden Ranks and Perric’s heavy infantry. But they had to fight.
The King of Khelt was gazing at Lanodest, and the Death Commander remembered how he had let Fetohep down. But all the Revenant did was raise his hand and clasp it to his chest in a warrior’s salute.
The High King of Medain was advancing. He didn’t fear the Gnolls howling or the thrumming of Centaurs stomping on the ground. When he saw the Painted Antinium, he just rolled his eyes.
“I’m going to poop myself in terror.”
Pie announced, and Pawn counted.
“We won’t fight to the death. Just…try to hit King Perric with a [Poison Pie] or something, would you?”
They were tired, and their faith was almost exhausted, but if they could use [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky] once…Pie stared at his hands.
“I don’t have that Skill yet. I might get it when I level. Yellow Splatters, knock me out.”
The Painted Soldier didn’t turn around. He was glancing about. Alked Fellbow and Frieke were standing with the Painted Antinium. Alked had a replacement eye and foot on, and Frieke had a bandage on her stomach as Konska screamed. It was the Stitch-man Named-rank adventurer who stopped Perric again.
“Your Majesty of Medain! I will not fight you here.”
“Smart man! I have room in my kingdom for you, Fellbow!”
Perric roared back. Alked offered him a wolf’s grin.
“With respect, I will come calling, High King! Not today or any day you look for me. But if you take Khelt, then when you are napping, speaking at a banquet, dining in a closed room, my arrow will find you. Take Khelt and die. An archer’s word on it.”
That was a threat to chill the High King of Medain, but he only hesitated for a step, then called out.
“For that, Fellbow, you’ll be hunted like a dog. A shame. Frieke, my falcon! Turn your sword back to your homeland and I’ll forgive all slights, eh?”
She shouted back after a pause.
“It’s Frieke of Khelt, King Perric! If Alked doesn’t snipe you first, Konska will have your balls for lunch and any Golden Rank who thinks they’re a match for a Named-rank adventurer!”
Konska eyed Frieke and cawed to say, ‘don’t make me eat that’. The growl from Perric was enraged, now. So many damn pests!
“If anyone else would like to line up to be slaughtered in Khelt’s defense, make yourselves known! I don’t have all day!”
He roared, and that felt like as good a time as any. So, Trey Atwood spoke.
“Your Majesty. A word?”
 
——
 
A young man’s voice echoed from behind Perric, and he whirled, visions of assassins in his mind. His [Generals] leapt back. Where—?
His war table? Perric strode over to it and saw the neat lines of his battle plans laid out. Figurines marking his plans for attack and defense, maps, and his favorite new tool—
The little Sand Golems that Courier Seve-Alrelious had traded him. They were normally lined up until he wanted them to simulate a battle. But one had stepped out of place, and it was looking at him—
“Your battle might not go how you envision it. A word of advice?”
Trey Atwood in miniature smiled up at King Perric’s horrified face a moment before the High King punched the Sand Golem into paste. Then another Sand Golem spoke.
“You won’t take Khelt. The King of Jecrass is already aware of your army’s locations and numbers and where they’re not. You left your eastern borders undefended for this push. If you turn, you might head off the worst of the damage n—”
Perric loosed a [Fireball] point blank into the war table, and one of the [Generals] shouted as the splinters struck his face. The High King roared.
“Tell Admiral Nalteic to counter the King of Jecrass’ raid! I want the war plans remade!”
“Your Majesty, if Jecrass knows where we are, they could attack us as we advance into Khelt! I strongly suggest we fall back and—”
General Miltif’s head snapped back as Perric backhanded him. Internally, Perric’s blood was running cold. My forts. They’re all but empty. If that damn boy had told Raelt that—
Stay the course. They were committed now, and it was too late. The High King roared around at his officers.
“This battle will put Medain on the map as a world power! Retreat? I’ll sacrifice every army of Medain if I have to! Begin the charge!”
No matter how many little tricks Khelt had, it did not an army make! Perric knew war, and he knew he was right. It just so happened that someone else agreed with him. His [Generals] were begging the High King to reconsider when one of his [Bodyguards] tapped Perric on the shoulder.
“Your Majesty. The Quarass has a message for you.”
“Not now! You will charge or I will have you all put to d—”
Then the soft, too-calm tones from one of his dedicated [Bodyguards] sent an utter chill down Perric’s spine. He spun, and his sword left its sheath, but the [Bodyguard] was already leaping over the heads of the alarmed soldiers.
“Assassin! Assassins! Protect His Majesty!”
Perric saw the remaining bodyguards try to close ranks, but he swung his sword at them, forcing them away.
“Back! Back—where’s the damn message? Did he touch anything?”
Was it contact poison? In the air? Perric spun, and his eyes followed the leaping [Assassin]. The traitor was running away from Khelt’s borders. Towards a cresting dune that led towards one of the neighboring kingdoms. Reim and, northeast, Germina…
The sands at the top of the dune rippled as the fake [Bodyguard] sprinted across the ground, and Perric saw the ground stand up. A figure shed the sand and cloth hiding them in a small plume of dust, and then a hundred more stood with the tiny Quarass of Germina. Then a thousand. Then—
The Quarass of Germina and four thousand of her clothed warriors armed with poisoned blades, blowing darts, throwing daggers, and the like appeared in flanking position to Medain’s army. A fraction of King Perric’s fielded forces, but poised to hit him from an oblique angle.
The Quarass spoke as King Perric’s personal speaking stone keyed to his palace vibrated, and when he lifted the stone, her childish, cold voice was in his ear.
“High King, it would be wise of you to withdraw.”
He forced a smile as his spine prickled.
“Quarass! You seem to think you have the drop on me. Four thousand of your light infantry wouldn’t even leave a dent in my vanguard.”
He swept a hand, indicating his heavily armed infantry—who did not seem particularly brave or motivated to go up against the most poisonous nation in the entire world. The Quarass’ voice was light.
“Twice you have been marked for death should you invade. Thrice may suffice if it comes from my own mouth. Turn back.”
