Fetohep struck the Angel in the chest, and it didn’t so much as rock as he put all his strength behind the blow. The sand billowed up in a vast cloud behind the Angel, but it stood, singing a praise to its God.
Then it ran him through the chest, and for a second, Paxere saw a man.
 
——
 
“Fetohep?”
Trey turned when he heard the cry. It came from the Kheltians. He saw the King of Khelt impaled on the blade the Angel held, and for a moment, he saw not the familiar, undead features of Fetohep, but—
A man? The blade and power of the Angels that revealed the mortal soul made Fetohep flicker a moment. He stood on the sands, and Trey’s eyes strained to see the distant figure—until he turned and realized the Kheltians were all staring away.
At the ground, the sky. Wiping tears from their eyes.
Not a single one looked upon the man who stood there for a second, gazing down at the blade in his chest. His face was a grimace of pain, but as the Angel tried to twist the blade, chiming triumph, it peeked up and froze.
Fetohep of Khelt had no features. Or rather, they had blown away. The image of the man was flaking, dissolving into bits of sand. As if the hundreds of years had turned even the memory of his features into that of a worn statue, the details lost to time.
It was the corpse’s face, yellowed teeth and gaunt flesh that revealed themselves as the Angel’s blade tried to move, then the golden flames in his eye sockets. Pain. Yes, true pain, a sword through the chest, made Fetohep’s voice ragged.
But his hand was on the greatsword, and he refused to let it twist. He spoke.
“Newborn warrior. A word of advice.”
The Angel tried to yank its sword free, but the King of Khelt’s hands were…aglow. And his voice rang with the same imperious tones. A [King]’s authority. His aura. Fetohep tightened his grip on the blade.
“A warrior does not gloat until the battle is done.”
The Angel let go of the greatsword and threw a punch. Fetohep caught the punch and swung. He struck the Angel as hard as he could and it didn’t—
Budge. The King of Khelt felt the blow run through it, but how?
[Greater Resistance: Physical]. The Prophet of God was laughing, praying as he saw the Skill hovering over the Angel’s head. A blessing from the ritual. A warrior made to slay the King of Khelt. The King of Khelt’s eye-flames dimmed a moment.
Unfair. The counterblow struck him before he could dodge. Everything—flickered. His connection to the world, his body. Fetohep seized the Angel’s hand as it tried to rip the greatsword up. He put a hand on the Angel’s chest and heaved—
The glowing figure flew sixty feet, hit the ground, and bounced before backflipping onto its feet. The People of God, who had been screaming praises, faltered. The Prophet’s eyes went wide.
“Ah. How…gratifying.”
So he could do that, at least. With a grimace, Fetohep pulled the blade from his chest and felt at the hole in his flesh. The memory of the pain was redoubled as he held the sword aloft, marvelling at its balance and sharpness.
It hurt just to hold. A weapon not meant for him. And the Angel was back on its feet. It seemed wrathful. Annoyed Fetohep had managed to knock it back. But Fetohep had its sword.
He lifted the sword up, and the Angel tensed, for it was now weaponless, but Fetohep hurled the sword back at its feet. It stared at the blade as the people of Khelt groaned, even Trey Atwood. The King of Khelt was stumbling. He felt like his lungs were burning for air, but he could not breathe.
As if he were dying again. He pointed at the blade as the Angel tilted its head, confused, and his voice filled the air.
“Child of God. Know this, if you remember anything of this day. A true warrior behaves in dignity to all worthy opponents. He does not waver. He does not fall back when the lives of the innocent are at stake. He is honorable.”
He gave the Angel back its blade. Did the King of Khelt’s arrogance know no end? The Angel hesitantly snatched the blade up, inspecting it as if searching for a trap. Then it lunged at Fetohep, shouting like a song.
Again, it ran him through, and this time, a cry arose from the people of Khelt who stood in a narrowing circle, hands reaching for the King of Khelt, and they heard a muffled voice. He tried to knock the Angel back, and it dodged his palm-strike. Headbutted him.
Flashes of light. It dodged three blows, four, then stepped back. The King of Khelt stumbled and gazed down at the sword in his guts. Then at the Angel, who waited.
Slowly, pulling the sword out inch by inch, Fetohep removed it from his stomach. He gasped, then lifted the blade.
“Fetohep, don’t—”
He threw the blade back, tossing the greatsword like a spear until it landed at the Angel’s feet. Every instinct in the King of Khelt told him to hold onto the blade, to break it, or to hurl it aside.
When the Angel drew the blade again, he flinched. But he stood before it and rasped.
“Warrior. One does not mock his lessers. We must die well. Those who stride the battlefield must be more than beasts.”
A third time that sword pierced towards him, and this time he twisted out of the way and it scored a line across his chest. The King of Khelt fell backwards, his purple robes tattered.
“I alone did this. Have mercy on my people. I beg you.”
He turned his head, and a familiar young woman’s face was gazing up at him. Hands over her mouth. A [Waitress] who liked to dress up in Koirezune’s restaurants.
“Your Majesty! Victory!”
Fetohep went to catch the greatsword with his hands along the flat of the blade. The Angel twisted it and slashed across his neck. He reeled, and someone cried out.
A man who had been a Day Servant sixty-eight times. The record-holder in Koirezune, who wore the little badges he was awarded like medals of honor. Standing next to his wife, who made little paper planes and flew them in the morning.
He knew all their names. 
“Back. Stand back.”
Fetohep warned them. The Angel’s sword whirled towards his neck again, and he ducked the blade.
Such a perfect foe. His fist touched its stomach, and it shifted backwards a step from the force of his blow, which cracked the earth under Fetohep’s feet. Then it was chopping down, and he rolled across the ground, besmirching his robes.
When his head rose, the Angel’s blade was set to strike him down, but it waited. When Fetohep rose to his feet, it swung, and he stepped back as the earth broke. He tried to advance into that gap, and again, it flicked the greatsword like it weighed nothing at all.
His arm was laid open, exposing long-rotten tendons, and Fetohep wished his limbs were as strong as he remembered. But he was smiling even as a moan arose from his people.
This is what I deserve. Let it be a fine end, warrior to warrior. He threw himself forwards, heedless of the blade. Pewerthe. Where was Pewerthe?
“Khelt, I pass my will to you. I have failed you, my people.”
Hands reaching for the Angel. If he could but grasp it, then maybe—
It circled him, slashing, refusing to let him get close. And now his hands were a blur. He had to block the sword—
The King of Khelt raised his fist and parried the greatsword. His fist touched the sharp edge and knocked it aside. Just once. One blow out of four. The Angel recoiled and saw a flicker of gold on the King of Khelt’s hands.
Aura.
Fetohep felt the contact and no pain. So that trick worked on even blades of faith. He smiled.
Forwards again.
It lunged at him, a perfect thrust, and he stepped forwards. Both of them had read the other perfectly, and the Angel’s slash cut along Fetohep’s back, scoring a line of—
He backhanded it, and it went sprawling. Now, Fetohep’s golden eye-flames were bright. He raised a hand and hesitated.
Waited for the Angel to get up. Voices were screaming at him again, calling him a fool, telling him to strike. But he could not.
His pride that had led him here would not allow him to. Not against this beautiful creature. So the Angel flew off the ground and hovered there. Inspecting him, then darting left, right.
He tilted his head, observing the Angel as it circled. It was moving even faster, and when it thrust again, they met and he dealt it a blow across its shoulder as it cut into one leg.
Both staggered. Fetohep saw the Angel fall to one knee and realized his fists were striking it.
Aura. But it rose and slashed across his face, the tip of the blade cutting through where his nose would have been.
Too fast for him. 
He saw the places he had struck on the glowing warrior were faded, like bruises, but they grew brighter, healing as the People of God prayed. His leg’s rotted flesh did not regrow where it had been severed.
This shall end only one way. But if he could just injure it, then maybe—once more, Fetohep threw himself forwards onto the blade that cut through his right shoulder.
[Hammer Blow].
The Angel hit the ground so hard it left an imprint in the sand. Fetohep’s eye-flames went out.
Static.
A world vanishing. For a moment, he stood on blue sands, and Khelta gazed down at him. The King of Khelt reached out to her.
—Felt the world return. Stumbled back as the Angel rose to one knee, shaking its head. The King of Khelt waited, limbs visibly shaking now. He saw the golden hair shifting as the Angel rose—
And then it juddered as a blow caught the Angel from behind. The divine warrior twisted, and another rock bounced off its shoulder as it cut six more from the sky.
“Your Majesty! Run! Run!”
Fetohep’s subjects were throwing stones, shouting. Trying to block him from the—
Fetohep saw the sword rise and moved.
“No! Get back! This is my battle—”
The Angel’s sword cleaved down, and a Kheltian man who’d hurled a piece of stone gazed down at the bloody stump of an arm. He opened his mouth and screamed, and the sword swung for his throat—
Fetohep caught the blade in glowing hands, and the Angel recoiled, then flitted back. It slashed, and Kheltians who had been surrounding the duel fled backwards.
“Warrior, halt. Your battle is with me—”
It wasn’t listening. The Angel was under attack as Kheltians threw rocks, fired spells. They barely touched it, but it whirled, and that terrible sword rose.
Fetohep saw the Kheltians fleeing, and a boy stumbled. He was holding a rock to throw, and Anleth, the little gambler, gazed up with eyes filled with fear as the Angel brought the sword down—
The King of Khelt caught the blade and locked eyes with the bright gaze.
“Warrior—”
The Angel kicked him across the ground, and he struck several of his people, but he was so light…he stumbled, and the sword was thrusting to run him through. And the woman who flew kites behind—
“Stop.”
The blade halted as he grabbed it again. The Angel slammed against its own weapon. It strained, but the King of Khelt refused to move.
“Warrior. Thou do not harm the innocent. Even if they raise a hand against—”
The spinning backhand from the Angel made his head snap back. Fetohep stumbled, and the Angel wrenched its weapon back and whirled it.
“Sinners all. Die.”
It brought its blade up, and the Kheltians behind Fetohep were frozen. No instincts to even flee. Fetohep saw a girl, the [Secret Broker] Mrar, shaking, a little stick in hand.
“There is a child here. Angel, desis—”
It swung that sword horizontally, to chop him, Mrar, and everyone else into pieces. Fetohep’s arm blocked the greatsword, and gold met gold. The blade jarred out of the Angel’s grip.
“Stop. Don’t you understand? Honor—”
It charged him, and he pivoted, letting it strike his chest as he whirled away from the Kheltians, who scattered. And Anleth was shouting.
“Your Majesty! Your—”
They were all yelling his name as the King of Khelt let the Angel batter his ribs, his very soul burning. He hurled it aside, and it snatched up the blade.
“Be thou returned to dust, King of Khelt.”
“Yes. But not my people. I beseech you. They have done nothing wrong.”
The Angel turned its head to the scattered stones, to the Prophet of God, and it raised the blade higher as it seemed to listen.
“No mercy.”
It swung that sword again, as if trying to cleave the nation in two, and Fetohep’s hand rose. His head turned, away from the Angel, and met Anleth’s eyes. The boy flinched, and the greatsword struck Fetohep’s palms and snapped.
The blade broke as Fetohep’s golden hands halted it in the air, and the Angel recoiled. Fetohep stumbled, but the other half of the greatsword landed at his feet. He was panting, chest rising and falling, but those golden eye-flames had grown again.
“That…I cannot allow. You may have me, but not one of my people, warrior of God.”
The outraged Angel gazed at the broken greatsword it held, then hurled the weapon down. It leapt at Fetohep and threw a punch. Fetohep blocked, went to counter, and received a blow across his jaw, a kick to his chest as the Angel backflipped and then came down in an axe-kick.
A martial artist as well as a swordsmaster. It lashed his body with blows, but the King of Khelt shielded his face and withstood the onslaught. The Revenant’s teeth were clenched, and his eyes…
His eyes were burning with outrage. He took one step forwards, then another, forcing the Angel backwards until they were clear of the Kheltians, and his hand lashed out once.
The Angel’s head spun, and it recoiled. It backed up, all but unharmed thanks to its Skill, but the blow had still disconcerted it. Fetohep was panting, but he was studying it now.
“I was wrong. I thought you were a warrior worth respecting. Newborn as thou art. But if you do not understand—then listen to me, beast. You are a peerless warrior, but you do not understand honor. Though you are faster than I, stronger, more skillful—you did not earn your might. You fight like my servant, Lanodest.”
The Angel didn’t understand that except, perhaps, that it was being insulted. But in the crowd, a single [Death Commander] started, and he saw the King of Khelt lower his fists. Take up a brawler’s stance. Fetohep turned his head. His eyes met Anleth’s. The boy remembered something. A question Fetohep had answered.
What level was I? Level 50. [Warrior].
I never used my capstone Skills—not once in six hundred years. Because they were not one mighty Skill. Because they were humble. But they were still his.
The King of Khelt drew back a fist as the Angel attacked, screaming like the hymnals of Heaven, and he spoke the first of his Level 50 Skills. He punched, and the Angel ducked the fist, a boxer with divine grace. Fetohep said—
“[He Struck].”
His left hand crossed the Angel’s jaw in a hook that sent the glowing being’s head snapping up. It fluttered back a step, recoiling, and Anleth waited. But Fetohep just set himself, fists raised, and the Angel tilted its head—then leapt at him in a flying kick.
That was it? That was—
