“You must be mad. Khelt has guarded its riches from Germina as well as every other nation! Listen to me, Quarass. Join with me and I’ll split the treasures of Khelt with you!”
Perric blustered, growing incensed now. Why was she defending Khelt? The Quarass paused, and her reply was pained.
“Khelt’s hour has come when its debts shall be paid, King Perric. Even the wisdom of Ger’s long years cannot halt that. But you mistake me. I am the Quarass of Germina. Even if Khelt is not so old as the Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar, I will not see it end tonight. Turn back. Or you will die, your children will die, and your loved ones will die in their safe houses.”
For a few seconds, High King Perric actually considered doing what she suggested. Then he shook himself.
“When Medain has its treasures, I will offer you a trade, Quarass. Amicable peace or war that will ruin Germina. Everyone bluffs at this game of cards, and I am tired of the bluffs. Withdraw or I’ll trample your forces.”
A longer pause, then her voice replied slowly.
“I am beginning to see how King Fetohep of Khelt had such troubles with you. And how rock may beat every other combination thrown at it through sheer obstinacy. General Miltif? You have a wife. I would stab myself were I you. I will take you off this field either way.”
Perric spun.
“Miltif, don’t you dare. Miltif? She’s bluffing. Put down the dagger, man. Put it down—”
The Quarass might have been bluffing, but she took one of his [Generals] off the field since the man might be compromised. High King Perric took over Miltif’s command himself, telling his [Commander of the Charge] to change targets. Hit the Quarass, loop around to engage the Gnolls, and he’d support the engagement against the Centaurs with archers.
The battle plan was far more complicated as Perric weighed every angle, but his army still had the numbers, still had the levels, and he saw the King of Khelt watching him.
My hand ripping out your—
Perric shivered. His head rose, and his entire army was half-turned, waiting for his words. He rasped as he licked his lips.
“Alright. Upon my signal, begin the attack. Would anyone else like to interrupt? Sand at Sea? The Vizir? I’m prepared for them.”
He made a show of casting about, and his Golden Ranks shuffled their feet, but then one of them raised their enchanted blades and began to drum on the golden shields he’d armed them with.
Rattattat. Rattatattattat! The others drummed on their shields too, and the High King’s spine straightened. He took a breath and drew the Battle of Horn of Medain. He waited a beat and then blew it.
A clarion call to arms. A note of war. The High King drew his sword.
“Now the wolf takes Khelt’s throat! Golden Ranks, forwards!”
He thought he heard the King of Khelt, Quarass of Germina, and Priest Pawn sigh as one. But then the cavalry was beginning to thunder forwards, and the terrified shouts of his soldiers became a roar as their feet thrummed over the ground. Perric’s heart was in his throat, but he rode forwards.
Nothing to stop him from his dreams. Not Germina, not Fetohep, not Antinium! He heard a desperate scream from the side.
“Your Majesty! The Arbiter Queen is riding down on us with three thousand horse from the rear!”
High King Perric didn’t even turn his head. His eyes were locked on Fetohep’s as the Revenant lifted a replacement halberd. The King of Medain was shouting now, as the broken green moon and blue moons shone down overhead. A glittering night sky filled with distant stars and the falling sword.
A figure plummeted to earth before the running Golden Ranks, and his sword touched the ground. High King Perric saw, just for a second, grey hair, pink, electric eyes, and a familiar face that had once etched itself on his memory.
The Hero of Zethe swung his sword down and cleaved the ground in half. A rift tore past the Golden Ranks, and they stumbled. The first rank of [Soldiers] cried out and tried to slow, and the second rank slammed into their backs. They pitched into the chasm he had cut, scrabbling at the edges as their friends halted.
Doubte of Zethe swung his sword, and the winds blew. He turned, straightening, and held his sword out. The army of Medain stopped.
One [Hero] stood between them and the astonished King of Khelt. In the sudden, complete silence, he spoke with a weary voice that cut through all sounds. As he had done a thousand times before.
“Medain. I am Doubte, the man you knew as the Hero of Zethe. This land is under my protection. Advance and die.”
They waited as he lowered his sword and rested, favoring his right foot. Doubte stood there, eyes fixed on High King Perric’s face. He said nothing more, and the High King rubbed at his eyes.
Lifted a hand and spoke, at last, plaintively.
“Oh…come now. Couldn’t you have had a private word before I moved my armies?”
 
——
 
The Hero of Zethe stood in front of the armies of Medain, and it was Medain who fell back. Not for Germina, the Antinium, or any other—only the hero who had held the King of Destruction himself at bay time and again.
Fetohep didn’t know what to think. He had prepared himself to die charging at the King of Medain if need be, but…
The Quarass, Jecrass, the Antinium, the Gnolls. Each people were ones whom Khelt had helped, however small. And Doubte?
Fetohep remembered the [Hero] riding silently aboard Sand at Sea as they travelled to the Meeting of Tribes. It was he who owed the [Hero] a favor, and yet because they had shared that moment, Doubte had come in Khelt’s hour of need.
He should have been overjoyed, but instead, Fetohep was just ashamed.
If only I had given out Khelt’s generosity before. How many allies might now stand with us than this handful if I had been charitable but a tenth of my long reign?
He bowed before Doubte as the [Hero] finished wiping his sword with a cloth.
“Your Majesty. I apologize for my delay.”
“You arrived exactly when needed, Doubte. To you, the Quarass, and so many others, I express my gratitude.”
Doubte shifted, and rather than acknowledge the thanks, he just grunted and jerked his head at the departing army.
“The King of Medain will be back. He’s not the sort to keep long. You need someone he respects. Not that I can or will fight. I prefer to be dead. But I have…children. Restless children, and if Hraace cannot teach them—my wife deserves more than our little home, you see. There’s a village.”
He stumbled over his words, grimacing, and Fetohep realized the man was leaping to a conclusion, making the offer as if he could not stand to dance around the topic even a second. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I will grant you and any you desire citizenship if it lends you to lift a blade even once in Khelt’s name, Doubte. My word on it. But Khelt is not safe.”
Doubte shrugged.
“Is anywhere? I won’t swing my sword in Khelt’s name. Only defend the part of it that matters to me. If that suits…”
He trailed off, and Fetohep nodded.
“It does. You have earned that without even this, Doubte.”
The [Hero] half-glanced at Fetohep, frowning, before he relaxed. Then he shook his head, almost wonderingly.
“…You’re genuine. You should be more demanding. They’ll all take from Khelt. Including her.”
He backed up fast as someone came running over the ground as fast as her little legs would carry her. The Quarass puffed.
“Doubte of Zethe! A word!”
“Goodbye.”
He sketched a bow, then leapt away. She cursed as she halted, and Fetohep of Khelt stood there.
“Quarass, you have my—”
“Fetohep of Khelt, be silent. I am wroth with the High King, with you, and with Chandrar.”
Her eyes flashed, and Fetohep continued.
“—gratitude. I fear, however, that Medain is only the first of the jackals at my door. I have [Mercenaries] coming.”
“And another army.”
She murmured, and he glanced at her. The Quarass sighed. She brushed at her hair and turned to him.
“Germina has fallen before and been knelt in ages past. Nor is this the first time I have seen sworn companions crumble, Fetohep. It shall not be the last. I shall tell you how it is done, but you must accept it is breaking. I did not know if you could, until now. I feared it would be the [Potter] who stood here, not you.”
He bowed his head again, deeper.
“It took pure despair to bring me so low. Now, I am merely grateful.”
Jecaina rode into their conversation as the Quarass nodded tightly. She threw herself off her horse.
“Fetohep! I came as soon as I could! Father is attacking Medain, the idiot! What happened to the Prophet? Sand at Sea was coming this way, but they left to confront another force. And—why am I next in line to rule Khelt?”
The Quarass’ mouth fell open. Her eyes bugged at Fetohep as she spun.
“You made her the next Heir?”
“That was Pewerthe.”
“What about me?”
The outraged girl demanded, and Jecaina cast around.
“Was that the Hero of Zethe I saw? He split the earth! Should we guard against Medain coming? Or is another group attacking?”
Fetohep almost smiled at the chaos. He saw Death Commander Lanodest, the Painted Antinium, Gnolls, and Centaurs were cheering and almost thought it was a party worthy of Erin Solstice. Almost…but he felt Doubte’s weariness in his bones. He saw the Quarass’ reserve, and a thought occurred to him.
“Hecrelunn isn’t here. I thought he might be attacking the [Mercenaries], but he would never let an ego larger than his go unchecked. And Sand at Sea should have easily beaten even Jecrass to arrive. Where are they?”
He turned, and the Quarass avoided his eyes as someone pushed through the milling people. Trey Atwood came to a halt as Fetohep glanced around, and the young [Sand Mage] spoke.
“King Fetohep of Khelt? May we retire to the capital for this? You have a guest awaiting you.”
Then Fetohep focused on his young friend, and he heard a horn call in the distance again. A distant sound, and he glanced at the Quarass, who would not meet his eyes. He exhaled, just once.
“Of course.”
 
——
 
The King of Destruction had brought a small army with him. Just Orthenon, Mars, and six thousand of Reim’s soldiers. Vizir Hecrelunn was floating across from them, aiming a finger down at Reim’s forces, and Sand at Sea had parked itself in front of Koirezune’s gates, but neither group wanted to fight. Orthenon was facing the undead ship, and Mars was blowing kisses at Hecrelunn. As for the soldiers, they were waiting in silence behind the King of Destruction. Calm. Far too calm.
A calculated amount of troops. Probably exactly what Flos needed to stomp High King Perric’s army into dust with Khelt’s forces if he had to. He was swearing as he leaned on the pommel of his saddle.
“The Hero of Zethe upstaged me? Damn the man! This was a perfect chance to take out Medain as well!”
He turned a rueful smile on Fetohep, and he didn’t make any pretense as to why he was here. The King of Destruction, the warlord of their era, just dismounted, and his face was sorrowful as he spread his arms.
“King Fetohep of Eternal Khelt, I greet thee, undying brother. I grieve, truly. Once, I dreamed of a war between Reim and Khelt. I did not desire the bloodshed, but in truth, I wondered even at the height of my kingdom how thunderous Khelt’s war might be. That dream will never become reality. But perhaps…I may offer some solace.”
“King of Reim, you come civilly for once. I take it you too desire Khelt’s donations?”
Flos recoiled and seemed actually hurt. He shook his mane of red-gold hair out as he turned.
“I would see this land protected, Fetohep. Trey told me what was going on. I offer you the same pact as before. Join my nation. If not as sovereign citizens, then true allies. Let there be enduring peace between us, and no nation shall strike yours.”
King Fetohep of Khelt eyed Orthenon and Mars, who stood civilly, even the Illusionist, somber and grieving for Khelt’s downfall. He believed they were genuine.
He could also envision Mars striding into his palace, cleaving apart all undead in her way. Flos’ face was open, genuine, and his soldiers were the finest in Chandrar.
A true conqueror had come to Khelt. Its [King] did not kneel or bow, because that would have upset the King of Destruction the most. As Fetohep had told Perric—dignity should be held by the defeated most of all.
So as not to upset the victor. Fetohep inclined his head a fraction of an inch.
“We shall drink to this, Flos Reimarch, and swear oaths upon our kingdoms as well as in deed. Khelt shall pay Reim its ransom that its people may live in peace. And perhaps—for [Cleaners].”
“Ah, the damn bugs. You live with them.”
Flos snapped his fingers, but he was finding it hard to jest. He stood there, almost awkwardly, until Fetohep gestured.
“Your forces shall, of course, leave my lands at once.”
Then he saw the King of Destruction’s shoulders relax. Flos whirled.
“Naturally. Of course. Mars, we have more damned Stitch-folk to defeat! Orthenon, stay here and effect whatever needs to be done. Politely. Your Majesty, I’ll pick up Trey later. I trust he was useful for once?”
He glanced at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] rolled his eyes.
“We could have used Orthenon when the Prophet was attacking us. You cut it close, Flos.”
The King of Destruction smirked just once.
“I wanted to see Fetohep fight. That man hadn’t a chance of taking Khelt if Fetohep stood alone against his entire mewling cult. King Fetohep. Er, Quarass. Arbiter Queen.”
He rode past them, streaming back the way he’d come. A legend leaving a kingdom of old myths. Fetohep watched him go as the Quarass rolled her eyes and stuck out her tongue at his back. It was Trey who remarked softly.
“You know what? I think that was the guiltiest he’s ever felt.”
The Quarass spat onto the ground at Flos’ back.
“If he took Khelt by blood and battle, he’d feel less upset. He feels like a thief, defeating one who put up no fight. So…then.”
Fetohep nodded.
“I shall prepare adequate tributes to the Empire of Sand, Reim, Germina, and other nations who might be able to press their…grievances. Suitably rich ones at regular dates.”
Not too much, but not too little. It would have to be a delicate dance. He saw the Quarass avert her eyes and realized, then, that the people of Koirezune had come out to see the King of Destruction. They’d heard him speaking, and they stood there.
Khelt was no longer the invincible paradise. Fetohep could meet no one’s eyes, so he gazed down and, in the doing so, found Anleth and the other children. He bent as the boy stood there.
“Your Majesty? Is Khelt going to be attacked?”
“I don’t know, Anleth. I hope not.”
