He’d forgotten. This was Khelt, and it seemed like the King of Khelt had brought his wrath at last. Death Commander Lanodest was leading a charge as thousands of undead poured at the People of God surrounding the Painted Antinium. Trey Atwood fired a fast [Light Lance] spell and cursed; the Prophet blocked it with his staff, panting.
Khelt was joining the Painted Antinium! He snarled.
“Wretched rats. People of God, defend yourselves! To arms! Activate the Sacrament!”
He whirled and blocked a swing from Pawn again. The ground shook as they met, and Pawn was shouting.
“Take the Prophet out! We have the undead and Centaurs on our side!”
The—Harvey turned, and then he heard the thunk of arrows falling. The Centaurs were charging. Now, his people were beset on all sides, and his lips moved.
Centaurs, undead, Antinium. Even regular citizens of Khelt, emboldened, were coming forwards to hurl trash. He whispered.
“You think this is enough? You think we survived Nerrhavia’s Fallen, assassins of Roshal, Germina, Medain’s Golden Ranks to fall here? We are the People of God. Lazimeh, take the undead. Jilthread, Yirene, stop the Centaurs. Marrieh, with me!”
They broke apart, the disciples. And the Prophet saw Lazimeh raise his sword overhead and lead a hundred of his [Warrior Priests] at the thousands of undead rising. His blade burst into white flames, and the Prophet saw him smiling. Lazimeh’s sword descended, and the first skeleton charging at him with the armor of ancient gold, rustless, looked up.
The blade cleaved through the skeleton’s armor and body, and Lazimeh swung through the next and next. The faithful behind him swung through the undead as if they were made of nothing but air, and then there was light.
 
——
 
Herdmistress Geraeri was racing left, counterclockwise around the People of God, intending to strike their backs, when she went blind. She stumbled and heard Centaurs screaming as a brilliant light covered them.
“Back! Back!”
She was shouting at them, trying to shield her eyes and restore some sight. She had just managed to see through the blinding spots in her vision when she saw more pilgrims of God or whatever they were advancing on them. Geraeri saw Frivek stumbling forwards. He was wearing Fetohep’s gift to them: the Adamantium armor made for Centaurs.
He was blinded, but swung at Jilthread as she advanced, singing—singing praises to her strange master. Frivek had height, if not reach on her—he was a [Warrior] and rained down cuts from his axes on her cloth body, but she was Hemp, and her robes seemed to shrug off blows. Nevertheless, she was bleeding, stumbling, as she swung her spear at him, more like a club than anything, trying to strike him.
More Centaurs were advancing as the People of God attacked, moving behind mobile walls of light. Geraeri spotted Yirene, then drew an arrow back and loosed it. An enchanted Arrow of Acid—
It halted, quivering in the air, and Yirene stared back at Geraeri as the herdmistress recoiled, then saw Frivek’s assault open him up. Jilthread managed to strike his midsection at last, a blow he ignored as it landed on the banded Adamantium—
“[Rebuke the Foe: Mightiest Blow].”
She heard Jilthread speaking her Level 40 capstone Skill, but Geraeri wasn’t looking at the [Battle Cleric] any longer. Her head was craning up, up—she turned. Fumbling for an arrow. The right one, the right…
“[Select Arrow]. [Unit: Pinpoint Shot].”
She loosed, using one of her Skills, and the falling Centaur—falling despite the heavy Adamantium on him—was eight feet from the ground when her Arrow of Stasis hit him. Frivek froze, and Geraeri was galloping. They had to stop his fall before the spell wore off—
“Get me a [Featherfall] scroll! Retreat! Don’t engage them in melee! Retreat—”
She glanced over her shoulder and saw Jilthread coming at them. Level 40. She had to be. Then Geraeri was falling back as Yirene raised a hand.
“[Miracle: Return Vengeance to Thee].”
The arrows hovering in the air reversed—and then Geraeri realized they had made a terrible mistake. The People of God had survived multiple nations, but she’d thought they had gone like beggars and thieves, fleeing every attack.
But Roshal? Nerrhavia’s Fallen towards rebellious Hemp? Medain? These were not nations known for kindness and clemency. The People of God had fought their way out of every trap and battle. And the undead—
The [Light of Faith] swung towards Khelt’s charging undead, and Geraeri sighed.
“So much for paradise.”
It was nice while it lasted. On live television, the audiences watched as a thousand undead fell to pieces, burning under that terrible light. Then another thousand. And another—
 
——
 
The People of God were cutting a swathe through the undead. The Centaurs were regrouping, unwilling to stand and fight against what they didn’t know, and what few Kheltians could fight—
Alked Fellbow firing arrows at the summoned spirit that had been called back by Priest Manoset. Frieke and Konska knocking down the People of God trying to swarm Trey and his Sand Golems, Kheltians fleeing.
He was tired. Pawn and the Painted Antinium were tiring. The People of God fought back for everyone that fell, and they were outnumbered. But so what?
They appeared as the wash of colors finally ended, and Pawn panted.
“I’m going for the Prophet. Yellow Splatters, keep Marrieh off me. We have to end this.”
The two leaders locked gazes, and Pawn no longer thought Harvey would fall so easily. But they would finish this. For Khelt.
The Painted Antinium began to charge as the People of God followed the Prophet with a roar. From above, the scrying spells, it all seemed like a confusion of ants. So cute. So small.
The foremost [Battle Priest] running at Pie was Manoset, teeth bared as he raised a sword. His feet left the ground. He swung his sword, shouting wildly, and his head rose.
He met the Vizir Hecrelunn’s crimson eyes, and the skeletal face smiled at him. Then Hecrelunn ripped his body apart.
“[Claws of the Vampire Queen].”
Blood and limbs scattered over the People of God. They flinched and glanced up. The Painted Antinium slowed, and the Vizir’s eyes flashed.
“Hello, worms despoiling Khelt. I am the Vizir Hecrelunn. [Disintegration Ray].”
He pointed, and a thin line of pale brown stretched out towards the Prophet’s face. Harvey flinched; one of his bodyguards pushed him aside, gasped—
Vanished. Hecrelunn shrugged. Then he dove and seized up another struggling faithful. He bore the woman higher and spoke.
“[Flesh to Iron].”
“What is—”
Harvey saw the flailing slow, and then the Vizir was holding a statue, mouth open in horror, which he lifted overhead. And—the metal was glowing where his hands touched it. The statue began to turn red hot, then white, and it melted. He pointed down as he hurled the liquid metal.
“[Lava Rain].”
Molten metal struck upraised faces, burning through eye sockets and setting Stitch-folk aflame. Droplets hit a barrier as Harvey raised his hand. What was—who was—
The Vizir snapped his fingers and vanished. He reappeared behind Lazimeh’s charging faithful and spoke as undead were turned into ash and dust.
“Do you think this is all the undead are capable of? I have been busy destroying armies. But it seems I must devote a fraction of my talents to this pathetic rabble. Observe, Heir. This is how you put down roaches. [Flesh Magnesis].”
He held out a hand, and a [Warrior Priest] was pulled off his feet into the Vizir’s grip. The [Vizir] grabbed the arm before it could swing a mace at him. Then his other hand seized the neck of the [Warrior Priest].
Snap. He twisted the neck around, then twisted it back and tossed the body down. Hecrelunn pointed at it.
“[Animate Draugr].”
The body began to bulge as the still-warm flesh of the Stitch-man expanded, and corded muscle filled the limbs. A bright, pale red light came from the empty eyes, and Lazimeh turned, readying his sword, as the Draugr rose. Seven feet tall and still rising—Lazimeh swung the sword into the Draugr’s side, and it bit deep. But the Draugr just ripped the sword free and dealt Lazimeh a blow that skipped him over the ground like a stone. Then it was roaring, charging.
“Hmm. [Mass Animate Invisible Ghouls]. Where are those useless Centaurs? Ah, good. Hello, Stitch-folk. [Meteor Storm].”
Jilthread had barely turned when the Vizir loosed the first burning chunks of stone down on her people. She raised a hand, crying out, and he was laughing. Hecrelunn floated higher as everyone halted and just tried to keep up with the devastation he was causing.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn does not grant you the right to despoil Khelt. Did you think that this land was yours to claim? Die screaming.”
He swooped down again and landed amongst the densest pocket of the People of God. Spun as they recoiled.
“[Blood Scythes].”
Crimson blades spat from his fingers, cutting through everything at waist height. They only halted when one of the [Clerics] raised a cross and stopped one of the scythes coming at him—another just travelled a hundred feet before dissipating.
The sands were red. The Prophet croaked.
“Bring that thing down. Bring it—”
He raised a barrier just in time. The [Inferno Ray] turned everything around it into fire and caught Harvey’s robes aflame. Hecrelunn swept towards him again, and Marrieh shouted.
“Defend the Prophet! Defend the—”
Hecrelunn dodged a glowing javelin with contemptuous ease. He pointed down at the thrower and spoke.
“[Implode Head]. Now, ‘People of God’. I am Khelta’s greatest follower. Bring forth your God. Or I shall rouse him with your cries of agony.”
He swept down on them and began the slaughter.
 
——
 
Most of the television networks managed to censor the horrific bloodshed…after a few minutes. The smart ones had a delay, but the Vizir just killed and kept killing. It was not just death, it was slaughter, each spell more horrific than the last.
Which, you had to admit, took talent. Of course, there was the humanity of it, the screams of the dying as he laid waste to the People of God, but if you were in the mood for some actually useful commentary, it was a fascinating engagement.
“Hmm. I’d put him at Level…67, probably. Not quite Level 70. If he were, he’d have wasted the entire area already. He could be Level 50+, but I doubt it. [Vizir]’s a hybrid-caster, so he has to be higher-level to keep casting so many spells. See how he stopped using showy, mana-wasting spells like [Disintegration Ray] and [Meteor Storm] after the first volley? He’s trying to rout them. And probably figuring out their capabilities.”
If you wanted accurate insight into magic or just battle, there was only one person who could commentate and eat potato chips at the same time. Well, there were probably plenty of people who could do that, but Silvenia was probably Top 5 at least, even if you counted Dragonlords and old mysterious hermits.
The Death of Wings, Serinpotva, and Death of Chains, Czautha, were watching with a number of Demons, and they were not enjoying the slaughter. But they were watching because this class was new. The crunch crunch of Silvenia eating was at odds with the screams, and Serinpotva glared with one eye.
“Silvenia. Stop eating chips. What do you see?”
The Death of Magic ostentatiously vanished the chips and sat upright as she hung in the air. She enlarged the scrying spell and added multiple angles, phasing out the panicked television broadcasts. For all her tone was light, her eyes were fixed on Hecrelunn.
“In life, Khelta was guessed to be Level 70+. Not Level 80. She’s a fascinating character. She is not the greatest [Necromancer] of her age, did you know? Preceding her was Archmage Nekhret, who presided over a Breathless Age when undead ruled mortals and had actual nations. Very strange. I did research it—yes, yes, don’t peck me. This has a point.”
Czautha had to turn away from the Stitch-folk being slaughtered as Silvenia spoke.
“Khelta descended from great necromancers, but she never hit Nekhret’s sheer power or undead. She went against it; I think she saw too many high-grade undead and wanted her low-level skeletons, hence her nation’s current predicament. She was a good ruler. I think she had two high-classes, hence why Khelt is such a miracle. This Vizir? He fights like a battlemage from that era. Never touch the ground, always be flying, hit and run tactics. But he doesn’t know these faith-classes, and I think he’s very wary of being hit. See how he keeps at range?”
It was true. The Vizir was dive-bombing the People of God, flying down to throw spells before pulling up to hundreds of feet and moving at such speed only a talented [Archer] could keep up. You could read that as contempt, but Czautha murmured.
“Can they kill him, Silvenia?”
“Unclear. Fascinating how powerful their anti-undead abilities are, aren’t they! Faith. Here’s my analysis of these ‘Miracles’ so far. Watch him hit that group of higher-level Stitch-folk. I wish I could [Appraise] them…”
Silvenia pointed at a group of [Clerics] desperately holding together, and Hecrelunn fired a [Siege Fireball] before following it up with an [Acid Cloud] and then [Diamond Spray] spells. Silvenia nodded.
“They block the first spell. So their barriers are…damage-nullifiers. Modern mage-barriers don’t work like that. With [Arcane Barrier], it takes a certain amount of damage, and then it goes down. But the [Siege Fireball] takes down that barrier, and—it’s not airtight.”
Acid burning the [Clerics] who formed up another shield only for shards of diamond to strike them. Silvenia nodded to herself.
“Multiple attacks to break it down if it’s a damage-nullifier. They normally last only for one shot. Although—hold on—”
The Vizir went for another pass and fired the [Diamond Spray] spell at Yirene, who was covering fleeing People of God, and they lodged in the air. Silvenia amended her comment.
“Okay, some Miracles are damage-nullifiers, some seem like they’re overload-types. But either way, you can blast through them with enough magic. See, he’s doing it to establish how much magic he’d have to use.”
Hecrelunn was blasting Yirene with spells as her arms shook, until the air imploded, and she fell to her knees. He lazily pointed a finger at her as one of the faithful tried to shield Yirene. A child. Czautha looked away.
[Flaming Meteor]. The spell hit the two, and Hecrelunn laughed—then recoiled, and Silvenia sat up slowly.
A glowing dome was encompassing Yirene and the girl. Produced by the shaking hand of the girl—Hecrelunn rose higher, dodging miracles hurled at him, visibly snarling, and Silvenia ripped up the notes she’d been taking.
