“Narratively. Listen to this idiot. Khelt’s on our side.”
“Well, they’ve got a funny way of showing it.”
“That’s it, Rabbitears, hold him down, I’m gonna put this rhubarb pie—”
Seventh Voice was raising his fists as the two groups bristled when Pawn pushed between them.
“Enough! No fighting!”
They desisted, but Seventh Voice grumbled.
“I’m just saying—”
“Seventh Voice, I hear your complaints and agree, but Fetohep of Khelt has done more for The Wandering Inn and the world than we can count. I am displeased about our being asked to work as well. Pie, Rabbitears, do not quarrel.”
All the Antinium backed up, but Seventh Voice had to have the last word.
“Fetohep does a lot for the inn, but what about us? We came here for other people’s debts, Pawn.”
“Seventh Voice, take a walk.”
The Antinium hesitated as Pawn glowered at him, but then he stomped off with his buddies. Rabbitears apologized, but Pawn just shooed them away.
“Go eat a pie or something.”
They’d all calm down, but it underscored the Antinium’s tensions. Pawn felt even more annoyed than before because Seventh Voice wasn’t wrong—just annoying about it.
As if she was aware of this fact, perhaps from experience, it was then that Pewerthe, the Heir of Khelt, came to call with Alked Fellbow in tow.
She was not what Pawn expected. In his mood, he would have probably given Fetohep of Khelt the rough side of his mandibles, but the undead ruler was still slumbering. By contrast, the [Potter] was a working woman, or as much as you got in Khelt.
“Priest Pawn, I understand your people have been working for Kheltians as well as defending us. I have instructed all Kheltians to halt this embarrassing display at once, and I offer you my sincerest apologies. Khelt is…a difficult land to love for those not born to it. We are rich to excess, and it sickens. May I offer you some sincere tokens of our appreciation? This is Named-rank adventurer Alked Fellbow.”
The Stitch-man looked like a harsh, imposing figure, but when he bowed and offered Pawn a hand to shake, Pawn realized he seemed scarier than he was. And Pewerthe had brought actually thoughtful gifts. Namely…he blinked.
“Wait, are these censers?”
They were! Replicas of his own censer, armor for the Antinium, and even, to his great astonishment, clothing.
It wasn’t full-body. Some were loincloths just in better cuts of cloth, but others were suits, experimental pieces adapted to the Antinium form. Pewerthe explained.
“We know that full, heavy clothing makes Antinium feel unwell, so the [Tailors] of sixteen settlements have worked on these as gifts to you. As for the tools—we thought to copy what you carried. The Painted Antinium of Izril might have use for them, even if there are too many for you.”
It was an actually thoughtful gift. Pawn touched a beautiful jacket made for an Antinium body, then turned to Pewerthe. His anger over the way the Kheltians had been interacting with them subsided, and Alked Fellbow nodded to him.
“Khelt is my kingdom as well, Priest Pawn. It is hard to love at times. But it can be rich. I have asked for the Gnoll tribes to join us, and Herdmistress Geraeri’s herds likewise. Khelt has much music and art to share.”
“I regret that the Painted Antinium have very little of either, Adventurer Fellbow, but we would be delighted to view all Khelt has.”
Pawn ducked his head and was surprised by the man’s smile.
“I believed this was the case. So, then. The Gnolls, Centaurs, and Kheltians are among the best [Poets], [Musicians], and [Composers] in the entire continent. Anything you lack can be made.”
“And surely, the Antinium deserve the finest.”
The [Potter] smiled, and Pawn’s mandibles opened. Then—he heard the first songs composed for Antinium about Antinium. Songs meant to speak of Heaven, of things only Antinium knew. Invented by shy Painted Antinium and multiple species sitting together and riffing, and he thought…
Oh. I must bear these songs back home. I should have taken Singy. He’d love it here.
 
——
 
All his anger became grudging wonder when he heard Kheltians sing. It was Pewerthe’s doing. She strode into the cities and reminded the Kheltians that the Antinium were not just guests who could do them favors.
“These are His Majesty’s guests! Khelt’s honored guests! The first group of Antinium to ever set foot in Chandrar—they have come to see Khelt’s wonders. As belabored as our kingdom is, shall we send them back home without masterpieces of our art?”
She chivvied sulking [Writers] out of their homes where they were terrorized by ants, had [Chefs] throwing open their restaurants to cook food in Antinium styles, not just what they knew, and then…Pawn smiled.
He smiled for the first time he heard an Antinium’s clicking being turned into the centerpiece of a new song that Zamecthe Kheltian from the Gnollish cities was working on. Something new the Painted Antinium were incorporating into their faith, their culture.
Not just the music; the half-Elves, and other new Painted Folk were all part of this change. Coming to Khelt had done so much for his people. Pawn began to relax, and what did sell him was Gladys.
The Earther who had left the Prophet’s camps was a nervous, reclusive figure even when she’d reached the Kheltian cities. She’d creep out of her house at late hours, hiding her scars, and steal food. Lots of it. Then she’d vanish. Pawn had met with her several times to heal her scars, but he could not heal her heart so easily. He thought she trusted him a bit, but Pewerthe…
She called upon Gladys at the same time as Pawn with a simple request.
“I would like to remove your [Slave] class, if I am able, Gladys. I thought to file paperwork and pay off your debts, but I think it is better to keep you hidden.”
The [Slave] stared at Pewerthe, stunned.
“Y-you can do that?”
Pawn recalled Lyonette telling him about the power of royal classes to remove classes, and he felt stupid for not thinking of it! For answer, Pewerthe stepped into Gladys’ house, and a figure floated down and into the building.
“She cannot, as she is merely the Heir of Khelt, without class. But this Vizir Hecrelunn is the likes of royalty capable of all things. As is his superiority in magic, though he is wasted in such menial tasks. I see a tracking spell. I erase a tracking spell. Now the class.”
Hecrelunn’s crimson gaze swept over Pawn as Gladys squeaked. Pawn warily nodded to the Revenant.
“Hello. You must be the terrifying and rude Revenant, Vizir Hecrelunn.”
“You must be Antinium. Is it your species’ condition to state the obvious?”
“Only when speaking to simpletons, yes.”
The Vizir paused in reaching for Gladys’ head, and his eye sockets flared. Pawn saw Pewerthe smile, then thrust a hand out.
“You are to behave yourself, Vizir!”
“Do not order me around, you pathetic chit of a girl.”
He snapped at her, and she folded her arms.
“I am Heir of Khelt. The mortal embodiment of Khelta’s will! You will be polite to our allies.”
“I should rip out a fingernail for each offense and remind you what power means. You waste my time defending Khelt for a mere [Slave]? You think a ‘Named-rank adventurer’ can stop me, even two?”
His eyes flashed wrath at her, and Pewerthe stared up at him.
“I do not even have time to guess at whether Frieke and Alked could, Hecrelunn. Torture me if you must. I am Khelta’s will. Her living, mortal will just as she once strode Khelt’s sands. If you wish to trample on this last memory of her, be my guest.”
His mouth opened in outrage. He lifted a finger—stared at Pewerthe—then turned and grabbed Gladys by the head.
“Stop squirming, mortal. I shall remove this class. Roshal’s power is simple to undo if you have the spirit for it.”
Pawn made sure Gladys wasn’t uncomfortable before giving Pewerthe an admiring look. She winked at him sidelong. Hecrelunn just flew out the window minutes later, and Gladys sank to her knees, tears in her eyes.
“I think we should give Gladys a moment, if she is well, and send someone empathetic and caring to stay with her.”
Pawn agreed. He called for Purple Smile, and Pewerthe summoned a [Thought Healer]. Then they walked through the city celebrating the Antinium and spoke.
“I hope you do not hold how we act against us, Pawn. I lived outside of Khelt growing up, so I know how it feels. We are rich and spoiled. But most of us are not…wrong. Does that make sense?”
“I think so. Much of what I objected to came from a place of my own anger, but your people were not malicious. I know maliciousness.”
Liscorians had stoned or attacked Workers on the streets. Even now, they could be unpleasant. The Kheltians were not like that, and Pewerthe smiled, faintly proud.
“It is the act of our last three Kheltian rulers, including Fetohep. Most think it is how Khelt has always been, but sometimes we were truly a horrible lot. Fetohep’s people are not overly arrogant, lazy, or even that wasteful. It is a difficult thing for a Kheltian ruler to accomplish and, I think, his greatest act. Even Xierca was not so talented, according to my books.”
“Really? I thought of him as fairly infallible. A king of limitless culture and power and…”
She shook her head as they listened to Antinium click-songs being broadcast from a central square.
“In truth, Fetohep has the wrong class. Xierca was a true queen of the arts. She was a [Minister of Culture]; many great structures and creations were raised in her time. Fetohep…he has many flaws. Every ruler of Khelt does. I think I would have hated most of them. But he cares for his people. Not all of them did.”
“Really? Again, I find this hard to believe.”
Her lips quirked. She was such a plain person, with her potter’s apron and a once-broken nose, compared to some of the Kheltians. Her hair was black and tied back, whereas many Kheltians dyed their hair and wore insane alchimagical creations of hair. Floating tresses of hair that trailed behind one and clothing of every fashion…
He realized that Pewerthe was deliberately dressing simply. Because that set one apart in Khelt. The quality she had that other Kheltians did not was that smile. It was mysterious, suggesting she knew more than she was letting on.
“Look at King Dolenm’s time, Pawn. Sand at Sea is his legacy, and to hear the crew tell it, Dolenm loved being a [Pirate] more than ruling. Some of Khelt’s rulers were selfish. I…don’t know what ruler I shall be. I don’t wish to think on it. Fetohep will wake, and I am merely filling in for him. If he were awake, I think he might offend you, but you would be far better served.”
Impulsively, Pawn shook his head and took one of her hands.
“Fetohep commanded my attention even half a world away, but that was because of his deeds. I did not know him, and I thought him fairly arrogant, Pewerthe. But you have shown me Khelt should be liked for Khelt. Not just its riches.”
She smiled, eyes lighting up at him.
“Well, I’m a mere [Potter] with a few secrets. I have no power like yours. This faith…can anyone learn it? I never had talent in magic, combat, nor even etiquette or speech. Fetohep has tried to have me tutored in all these things, but I cannot do any of them well. He claims he was only good at fighting, but he had centuries to learn the rest. But faith…I think I can believe.”
There was frank envy in her eyes, and Pawn found himself pulling his censer out so she could marvel at the metal that seemed beyond even Khelt’s artifice.
“It all looks beautiful now, but this used to be two simple colanders stuck together. Faith is a small thing, Pewerthe, but it grows. I, um, I would love to tell you about it. Over dinner, perhaps?”
She paused, tilting her head as Yellow Splatters stumped down the street to find Pawn. The Soldier halted as Pewerthe glanced around.
“I must be back to the capital soon. But what if…we could go there, and I could send you back later? I know all the restaurants there, and they can’t turn me away right now.”
Pawn hesitated, but then nodded. Pewerthe grinned as she led the way back towards an enchanted carriage and horses that Frieke was leaning against. The two were chatting animatedly as Frieke yawned and hopped in the driver’s seat. She paused as Yellow Splatters approached.
“Oh, hello. Are you coming with us, Captain Splatters?”
The [Captain] glanced at Pawn and Pewerthe and noticed Pawn giving him a few hand-signs to go away. But he lingered and murmured up to Frieke. Something had occurred to him just now.
“I am not going with them. I just have a question, if I may?”
“Sure. I mean, I don’t know much about Khelt, but go ahead.”
Frieke blinked at him, and Yellow Splatters glanced at Pawn and Pewerthe again. Then he coughed.
“Pewerthe is the Heir Apparent of Khelt, correct? Then, is this position analogous to that of a…[Princess]?”
The Dullahan woman thought about it.
“It’s not quite the same, but I suppose, yes, you could say it like that to Terandrians. Why?”
Yellow Splatters nodded a few times, then eyed Pawn inside the carriage. He saw the Antinium raising his mandibles and sighed loudly.
“Just asking. I suppose every great leader has a few terrible, embarrassing foibles.”
The Named-rank adventuress grinned at Yellow Splatters.
“Oh, sure. You should meet King Perric of Medain. Compared to him, Fetohep of Khelt and Pewerthe are wonderful. Actually, most people are wonderful compared to him. He once tried to induct me into his harem.”
“If I knew what that was, I’m sure I would be very upset.”
Frieke explained, and Yellow Splatters frowned.
“Oh. As most Antinium aside from that one in there are not sexual, I still lack context, but it sounds unpleasant. How did you avoid that?”
“I told him Konska comes with me. Even in the bedroom. And what he doesn’t see, he pecks.”
The Seahawk opened his curved, big, sharp beak and winked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium smiled, and Frieke heard a pointed knock from the inside.
“Anytime you’re ready, Frieke?”
“Yes, ma’am. Anything else?”
She turned to Yellow Splatters, and he sighed again.
“Only that I now understand why every good religion should have a good antagonist. It is for the benefit of all.”
So saying, he yanked the door to the carriage open, and Pawn and Pewerthe jumped. Pawn glowered, but Yellow Splatters just pointed the finger of hellfire and damnation.
“Pawn is a sexable [Rogue], Heir Pewerthe. Do not listen to his honeyed words. He is very clingy in relationships. And he sulks when he is rejected.”
