Loving this snapshot of the world. For that was what the Painted Antinium craved. More than strength at arms. More than magic.
Just wonders. They had never forgotten that. Their steps trailed slower as they caught leaves, and Bookleaf caught one and pressed it in his book—Pawn sighed. He turned to the staring half-Elves, glumly, and muttered to Yellow Splatters.
“Great. Not only have we alarmed them, but we’ve conjured leaves from their trees. That’s probably a capital crime. I suggest we pray for salvation and run like heck as soon as they attack. For salvation is in Heaven and also a fast pair of legs. Amen.”
“Amen.”
Some of the Antinium chorused while others used their personal aphorisms.
“So mote it be.”
“Yes.”
“I’m hungry.”
Resigned, Pawn saw the half-Elves listening to him, ears still twitching, and then one of the children laughed. And he realized—the smiles on some of the children’s faces had spread to a few of the adults. They were not, in fact, reaching for weapons. Even the [Warriors] appeared bemused rather than angry. One took a hand off a shortsword’s hilt as she stared at Bookleaf.
The Painted Antinium slowed, and Pawn nearly ran into the Tree Guide, who turned to him.
“This is shocking, Captain. Antinium in Chandrar? Passing through our lands to Khelt? And who is this? I am Tree Guide Raliavordures of Port Linven.”
Pawn bowed.
“I am Pawn of the Free Antinium, Lady Guide. I apologize for our trespass, and we shall be out of the Claiven Earth as soon as we are able.”
“Yes, but…without even visiting the capital? The Speaker of Trees wishes to at least meet with the Antinium!”
“Huh?”
The woman was standing on her tip-toes and glancing around at the half-Elves, who, Pawn finally realized, were excited, not afraid. He didn’t get why until she whispered to him.
“Antinium in Chandrar is, of course, politically fraught, I would imagine. But someone else can sort that out. Is Santa Garry here? Or Ksmvr of Chandrar? I have an autograph card…”
Oh. Garry. Pawn’s mandibles opened, and he looked at Yellow Splatters, who stopped tensing for an arrow, and turned to Purple Smile.
The Soldier was already smiling, and he hand-signed back.
“It appears the half-Elves of the Claiven Earth are much like Captain Ceria Springwalker after all.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened. He turned back to the Tree Guide and bowed.
“Oh. That…makes sense. I apologize, Guide Raliavo—Raliadurvo—Guide Ralia. I had anticipated strife or fear. But your welcome is most gracious, and we will of course meet with the Speaker of Trees if he requests it. Thank you. Your hospitality and good nature reminds me much of a half-Elf I know, Ceria Springwalker. The Ice Squirrel of the Horns of Hammerad, I believe?”
Raliavordures’ mouth opened. She gasped, then slapped Pawn and instantly apologized, but in hindsight, he felt like he had deserved that one.
Thus, they came to Chandrar.
 
——
 
People actually liked them. Or if not liked, they found the Antinium exotic where Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans of Izril saw them as threats.
It was surreal and stunning to the Painted Antinium, but part of their attraction was their unique Skills and faith-based Miracles.
It wasn’t like they were exactly, uh, shy about it. Pawn wondered if he should be, but when he handed the Speaker of Trees twenty Scrolls of Healing, the half-Elf nearly jumped off the railing of the tree-city.
Actually, it was making Pawn slightly queasy to be so high up. The Speaker of Trees’ mouth opened and closed as the Herald of Forests peered at the objects he held.
“These scrolls heal, Priest Pawn? Truly?”
“Yes. They are being sold from Liscor, but I do not know how widely. I believed knowledge of them was spreading, but perhaps not? I was told some of the ‘clients’ who bought from Free Antinium were among the Five Families of the north, and the Walled Cities, of course, tried to steal them.”
…But perhaps no one had actually focused on the scrolls, or at least, regular citizens didn’t know what the wealthy and powerful did. Pawn wasn’t advertising them.
“Oh, wasn’t that the entertaining chase on the scrying orb? With that Watch Captain! And the Drake, Moass?”
One of the half-Elves had seen the broadcast, and the Speaker of Trees had seen it too.
“This is what was stolen? I believed it was toys and other objects. The Watch Captain was screaming at the Drake for a doll. Quite entertaining. Do you…know her? You come from the same city as she does, don’t you? Liscor, so far away.”
They really were far from home. Everyone was staring at a map which didn’t even have Liscor on it, and Pawn was nodding.
“Yes, these scrolls were among what were stolen. They heal most wounds, but serious ones require multiple scrolls or I could heal them. In fact, if you had any injuries, I would be happy to use my Skill. We must be moving, but I have [Cure Mundane Wounds].”
This time, he thought the Herald of the Forest developed a crick in her neck from how fast it snapped around.
“Cure…how all-encompassing is that Skill?”
“It is not perfect, of course, but most wounds not magically created are healable.”
The Herald nodded, relaxing after a second; she’d been checking out Yellow Splatters like a warrior, sizing up his lack of weapons, and eying Pawn’s club. The [Priest] went on.
“I was most distressed about its inability to heal longstanding wounds and, of course, more advanced damage. I prayed on the issue, and though I did not gain the ability to heal more serious injuries, I did obtain [Miracle: Purify Wounds] after the Winter Solstice. It could not have saved some of my friends and companions. However, it did assist in the recovery of many. Even Perorn Fleethoof benefited from it, though she still appears to limp. I think she is feigning that, though.”
This time, all the half-Elves gathered around the Painted Antinium had to take a moment to process this. Only the Mage of Rivers, Joreldyn, wore an expression of utmost concentration as he noted this down. He didn’t do the ‘is this a joke’ bit. He just seized a scroll from the Speaker of Trees, tucked it into his bag of holding, and spoke.
“We shall reach out to Liscor as soon as we verify the effects of these scrolls, Priest. May we offer some of your people our hospitality indefinitely? You claim quite a number of powers, and I, personally, would be honored to witness them. Here, a token of our own appreciation for this meeting.”
He handed Pawn a scroll, which turned out to be a Scroll of Tidal Waves, and then added a Scroll of Water Wall, a Scroll of Cleansing, and a Scroll of Rainfall, which Pawn had the distinct impression was all that Joreldyn had on him.
But the [Priest] was smiling. When he agreed and asked for a volunteer, Ierwyn herself thrust out an arm. He noted deep scars on her arm and sensed more when he whispered a prayer.
“[Purify Wounds]. Ah. I’m sorry.”
The Speaker of Trees had been reaching out to halt this, but Pawn and Ierwyn were too fast. The half-Elf appeared vaguely disappointed.
“Oh, it failed? Perhaps it only works on Antinium or there’s not enough magic around…?”
Pawn shook his head as Ierwyn flexed her arm, the most curious expression on her face.
“No, it worked, but her injuries were too deep. Your arm, stomach, and left leg? I think it might take as many as three more uses of the Skill to remove the damage. It cannot regrow amputated digits either.”
He addressed Ierwyn, and she nodded slowly.
“I fought a Tundra Draugr that cut my arm open. It never healed perfectly, even with healing potions. My right arm was always weaker after that. But this…”
She flexed her right hand, then cast around. Ierwyn wandered over to a safety railing, put her hands on it, and seemed to test her strength. The woman, who wore her sword on her left side, Pawn noted, ripped a piece of the enchanted guardrails out with her right hand. She stared at the wood as the half-Elves cried out.
“Herald, the railings!”
“What strength—”
“The woodwork! How many trees do you want to kill to repair that, Herald? For shame!”
Pawn beamed in pleasure as Ierwyn dropped the piece, then turned to the Speaker wordlessly. He indicated the stairs.
“I would be delighted to use the Skill again if our return trip takes us this way, but we must be going. We are bound for Khelt, and I believe a ship is waiting to pick us up. Thank you!”
He was hurrying down the stairs when they almost jumped on him. So, Pawn realized, his problem wasn’t in being attacked…
It was all these people trying to stop him or get him to stick around! What a quandary! He’d almost have preferred the arrows. He had no idea why the Painted Antinium were that compelling. Sure, they had nice paint and a few good Skills, but these other people lived in such magnificent kingdoms.
 
——
 
Pawn’s group took losses on the way to Khelt. It was inevitable, and he stressed the wastage of time too; it had taken far, far too long to cross Izril and get to a harbor, and then the voyage at sea to get to Khelt. He sacrificed Painted Antinium to get to Khelt faster. Even with the curious undead ship Sand at Sea, it had to be done.
The undead were actually quite cordial and colorful, but clearly wary of the Painted Antinium. Apparently, it was because they resembled this ‘Prophet’ and his people so much.
“No offense to your crew, Priest, but we’d rather not be ashed by your lot on accident.”
“Ashed? Ah, our powers of faith. It is a universal gift, then, if the People of God have similar abilities to ours.”
The undead Revenant grunted.
“I’m not keen to find out if there’s nuance between your powers, but aye, the intruders have weapons that cut like they’re all enchanted by [Bane] against undead. Stay wary of them. They’re less-effective against the living, but they fought off two regular forces. Not the finest sellswords I’ve seen, but they can fight, and there’s thousands of ‘em. How’re you gonna handle them?”
“I shall pray on it, Captain. But what else is going on in Khelt we might help with?”
Captain Cikroleth had caught Pawn up to current events. He claimed Fetohep wasn’t responding to speaking stones, which sounded bad…but a ‘Vizir’ had come to Khelt’s aid, and that the Heir, Pewerthe, was taking command. Pawn didn’t know what to do about Khelt’s issues, but he listened.
“Lots of nations are making unfriendly moves at Khelt. Sending out groups to test the borders, like. Most’re too far away, and the skeletons will rise, and they’ll do for your average fools. The rest? The Vizir’s scorched three groups, and we’ve run off more, but it’s like sharks circling a carcass. The main threat is the panic in the cities. Kheltians are in uproar over the skeletons—and the lack of manpower. If you could deal with the Prophet, that’d be one less issue.”
“Why is manpower an issue? Panic I can understand.”
The [Captain] snorted.
“Those skeletons did everything for Khelt, Priest. You’ve never seen the paradise in person, have you?”
“A few television broadcasts showed Khelt…but I didn’t watch them, no.”
The man nodded as he rubbed at some sand which had gotten into an eye socket.
“Then could you take out some trash from a bin and toss it?”
“…Yes? That is a common job for Antinium.”
“Clean sewers? Pah, that’s too much. Can you sweep a floor? Build a chair? Cook a meal for someone?”
“All but the last. Ah, I think I understand…”
Captain Cikroleth made a spitting sound over the edge of his ship as the sands billowed away from them.
“Some Kheltians can do a bit of that, fancy cooking, or building art in furniture, but most? Trash is piling up in the cities. Which leads to more bugs. Pewerthe kept a lid on it, literally. Hah, there’s a Heir of Khelt who did her job. But now…”
They can’t even throw out the trash? Yellow Splatters shrugged, but all the Painted Workers looked astounded. The Painted Soldiers…didn’t do that kind of work. Which led to some verbal and non-verbal arguments between Workers and Soldiers. Then poking.
The undead were watching the mild confrontation amongst the Painted Antinium when there was a shout.
“Hoi! Someone’s coming at us from the side! Fast too! It’s that Drathian!”
“Damnit. Hard to port. No one catches us!”
Cikroleth roared, but Pawn saw the streak of movement coming at them insanely fast given their speed and sighed.
“Another casualty of our travel. I need a volunteer.”
Heads turned, then a brave Soldier stepped forwards and clasped a fist to his chest. Pawn nodded to him, and they lost another of their number.
 
——
 
“Ship, halt!”
Orthenon, the King of Destruction’s Steward, was riding at the ship at full-gallop, and when it did not halt, he accelerated. He spoke, standing in the saddle to roar at the deck.
“His Majesty, King Flos of Reim, requests the company of one of the Antinium of Izril! He wishes to meet with—”
The [Steward] was prepared for trouble, especially since Flos had told him to get the Antinium no matter what. He was surprised that the notoriously prideful Kheltian warship actually slowed and a gangplank lowered. Orthenon was riding towards it when someone, an Antinium, shouted from the side.
“Excuse us, we are very busy and heading towards Khelt! Please accept our apologies! Go, Salted Pork!”
A single Antinium Soldier came skidding down the ramp on his back-shell. He nearly took out one of the [Riders] behind Orthenon as they swerved around the Antinium. Salted Pork spun around on his back before getting up as Sand at Sea accelerated, and Orthenon stared down at the Antinium Soldier.
“Hello. I am Salted Pork. Have you heard the good word?”
The Steward actually leaned over his saddle, genuinely flummoxed for a moment. And Pawn’s company moved on.
 
——
 
Another Antinium down. Pawn prayed for them, because it was a hard thing to be alone in a foreign land. Possibly not dangerous given how friendly everyone was…but the undead had promised to pick them up.
The Claiven Earth hadn’t let go of Pawn’s company until he’d tasked six Antinium, including one of his [Priests], to stay and explain what they were. The same for other nations; a rather terrifying giant of a man, big as Moore, had come running after them and only stopped when they’d given him two Antinium. That had been Mighty Jaganismet, apparently.
An Antinium in Hellios for the Gnolls, because they’d been begging to know of home, another five to the Quarass…at least the [Steward] had only taken a single Soldier.
What was surreal to the Painted Antinium was that this was not how they got treated in Izril. They were ignored in Izril! No one cared about their powers!
