“Is that the might of your one true God? If so, he’s only as powerful as a [Grand Magus]! Is that how you argue, smiting anyone who speaks back to you? Weak.”
They shoved back, a wedge driving into the People of God, capitalizing on their moment of weakness. Yellow Splatters strode shoulder-to-shoulder with the other Soldiers, using their coordination to move, slam into the Stitch-folk and Humans as a single unit, rushing through their sheer numbers. But their momentum would run out soon. Yellow Splatters’ head was turning. Pawn. We can’t do this without you. Pawn—!
Yellow Splatters ran into the Prophet, and Harvey halted him, though he was half the Antinium’s size. The Painted Soldier strained to grab him, and he put all four arms on Harvey, but he was like a rock. So strong—
And his hand was burning like a red-hot brand. The Prophet hissed.
“Do you want to see the true wrath of the divine, Soldier? Then witness it: our miracles born of Khelt’s wrath. [Plagues of Egypt: Swarms of Pestilence].”
He knocked Yellow Splatters back, and then there was a buzzing sound. Yellow Splatters felt Pie and Purple Smile catch him and peered up. He heard screams behind him, then. Shouts, and his head rose.
“Uh oh.”
They came across the ground in such profusion they darkened the skies. A buzzing like nothing Yellow Splatters had heard since the Face-Eater Moths, and there were so many. Locusts.
…Just locusts, in a sense. Starfold caught one as it passed by him, and it was an oversized, yellow grasshopper with wings. He crunched it in his mandibles and spoke as hundreds bounced off his armor.
“Hey, these taste pretty good. They’re almost as good as Acid Flies.”
Wait, they did? The Painted Antinium began grabbing locusts and eating them, and they found the bugs were tasty. Crunchy, fresh—Harvey’s eyes bugged as he saw them completely unfazed by the biblical curse.
If he wanted to unsettle Antinium, he should have sent water. However, Yellow Splatters realized something as he crushed a locust in his hands and saw it turn to a mush of insect blood and parts.
“…This isn’t a fake summoned being.”
Anything summoned vanished when you damaged it enough. But Starfold had eaten the insect, and magical food was fake and didn’t nourish you in most cases. Yellow Splatters’ head rose. Then turned.
The Kheltians were screaming as the locusts swept towards them and their cities. They cowed, shrieking as the locusts clung to their hair and clothing, even landed in open mouths—
Khelt was struck by a living nightmare, and it reeled. Gnolls yelling, Centaurs stomping in a panic, too afraid to run and break something as it became nigh-impossible to see. Bugs sweeping over the cities in such numbers that they would never be quelled, not until they had devoured everything, reproducing…
The Prophet had a Skill that could ruin entire nations. He was no longer a mere troublemaker. He could despoil harvests, starve a people. Biblical wrath.
“How cruel. You truly are a man of faith, Harvey. Old faith. The old testament and new are in conflict. Are you a man who loves, or a man who kills and spites? I see both in you, and one is so very, very small. Enough.”
Pawn raised his censer high and swung it as the swarms of locust buzzed past him. He spoke, and the Painted Antinium felt their hearts lift.
“[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky].”
—And the air split. The furious locusts tried to swerve, but they flew into that vision that had led the Painted Antinium this far. A sky of their own, which shielded them, a raging river of colors that the swarm passed through.
The locusts died. As they entered the colors, they fell. Not vanishing, but falling, bodies curling, their numbers thinning as Pawn stood there, his Skill rippling overhead. Harvey’s mouth opened as he saw the plague failing.
“You—[Hammer of God]!”
He croaked, and a Giant’s hammer fell from the skies. It swung down at Pawn and vanished. Turning into motes of light. Pawn caught one, and the other People called out Skills.
Arrows of divine flame, orbs of light, even another bolt of lightning—vanished. The Painted Antinium stood in their vision of Heaven, and they were immune from harm from above.
They had won this Skill long ago. They had fought on the Floodplains of Liscor against the Goblin Lord, and for all the People of God’s strength…Pawn gazed at Harvey.
“You are not the only one who can work miracles, Harvey. Yellow Splatters is right. That’s not a convincing argument. If annihilation meant truth and righteousness, then we would not need words. Painted Antinium, with me. That is my Level 30 capstone Skill, Prophet. Don’t make me use my Level 40 one.”
They advanced, crunching locusts underfoot, and the People of God flooded backwards until the Prophet was in front. He did not flee, but Pawn slowed and inspected him.
“You say you met the six that Erin Solstice spoke of? The true foes?”
“Yes. They came to me in a vision on the Solstices. Just as she proclaimed. Tempters, rotten, wretched things.”
“And that is why you swore to kill the King of Khelt?”
The Prophet’s head rose.
“Yes. One of them, the clever man, claimed him as a servant. That is why I do battle. If you support that [Innkeeper], then in this, we are aligned!”
His eyes flashed with triumph, fear, and determination. Pawn nodded and regarded Harvey.
“I see. It’s all so clear now. I wish you had told me this from the start. Harvey. You’re an idiot.”
The Prophet of God blinked. The People of God gasped in outrage. Pawn glanced back at the Kheltians.
“Fetohep is the last being who would ever ally with those six.”
Harvey’s eyes narrowed.
“You are a false witness, and you are the fool! I have seen them with my own eyes! I heard that one claim the King of Khelt as he fled!”
“Uh huh. And I have fought the Goddess of Death on the Winter Solstice in Liscor, you idiot! I have seen her in the flesh and battled the hundred thousand Draugr she sent to kill Erin! Do you know who helped us? Not you, Harvey. Fetohep of Khelt. He has fought them, and it was Khelt who held the six off in the lands of the dead. You—are—a—fool!”
Pawn jabbed with his finger, and Harvey recoiled with each jab, losing a bit of confidence.
“That is purely trickery of the enemy. You—”
“You heard one of them say Khelt was their servant and you believed them? Do you believe the tooth fairy is real? Look at me, idiot, I’m the King of Medain. Don’t pay attention to that High King, believe me because I said so. You didn’t even use a truth spell, did you? And they can fake truth spells. You fucking idiot!”
The light of Harvey’s faith winked out, and Marrieh’s head turned like a zombie’s, slow, eyes wide with mounting horror. Pawn was blazing, and Harvey was whispering.
“No, I saw his corruption. A rotting corpse like the rest of them. I—”
He tried to hold fast, but the seed of doubt was planted, and it was growing. Upon it, all things rested.
It was not God’s voice in that rotting corpse that claimed Fetohep. I thought it was God who led me here, but was I listening to a lie? Pawn was in a fury as he raised his club.
“The dead, Harvey! All this suffering! Khelt is crumbling because of you, and it is the one nation that I called an ally! You fool.”
He readied his club to strike Harvey, to deliver unto him a fraction of the pain he’d brought. The Prophet flinched and tried to dodge. Too slow. Pawn swung down, and Marrieh shoved Harvey aside. Their clubs met, and the world cracked.
Both staggered, and Pawn recoiled as the Prophet’s first and greatest follower panted. She gazed down at her hand, and blood ran onto the ground.
Hers. The blow had split the flesh of her right arm. Cracked it like the very air, and a spiderweb of flesh was letting her ichor flow to the ground like rain.
“Marrieh!”
Harvey reached for her, and she raised her right arm, shaking. The wounds—didn’t heal. Jilthread tore at her robes, removing strips, and Marrieh panted.
“Just remove my arm—”
They ripped it off her, undoing the threads, but even when it was removed…the arm continued to bleed. It should have turned to cloth, but the blow had struck Marrieh’s soul. Trembling, Jilthread bound it and the flow of blood slowed. Marrieh reattached her arm as Pawn stood there. He raised the club again, and she flinched, but Harvey’s staff rose.
“Don’t touch her.”
His doubts were gone. There was a deep, haunting guilt in his eyes, but not as he blocked Marrieh from the Antinium. Pawn whispered to him.
“Now we come to it, Harvey. You were wrong. You believed in lies.”
“I do not know if it was the tongue of the Devil or not. But you shall not harm her. This has gone too far, Pawn. I will not let my people die again. Withdraw or this time we shall crush you.”
The two advanced, and Pawn tilted his head.
“I have just told you that your entire reason for entering Khelt was wrong, Prophet. What more do you need? Prophet, say we are on the same side. We are both against Roshal. Both wish to protect Earthers. Could it be we are aligned?”
“It may be. You do not believe in a false God, and even if you did—there is room for many religions in the world, surely. So long as they do not worship evil.”
The Prophet was breathing hard, turning to Alanna. Pawn nodded.
“Then listen to me. Walk away. On this one matter, trust that you were wrong. Then we can make what amends are possible. I have been here before, Harvey. Listen to me. There is always a chance before there is war and death. Do what lesser people like Tyrion Veltras, the Goddess of Death, and so many others could not. Leave.”
He waited, the faith of the two humming around them, as the People of God gazed upon their leader and beheld his sin. If he was wrong…the Prophet of God closed his eyes. Then he opened them and turned to Pawn, and the Priest read his answer before Harvey spoke.
“Do you know, Pawn? I have feared being wrong so many times. I am an imperfect vessel for God. I am selfish, greedy. I lust, I envy. I do not think of my people when I should. I have feared failure. If you had come to me a month ago, I think I would have forsworn my oaths. Thrown myself on the King of Khelt’s mercy and abdicated my role as Prophet. Perhaps I must. But when we came to Khelt, we made war, yes. We fought, and in this, the King of Khelt’s wrath was justified. But…”
He pointed upwards, at the sky. And his eyes rose and glistened.
“—Whatever wrath we incurred, I still see the Arrows of Razzimir falling in my nightmares. And I think to myself: no just God nor [King] should allow that. We killed a single subject of his, Pawn. And for that he killed thousands. He bombarded us without end. Innocents and children. He turned it all to glass and dust. For that, and that alone, I will kill him. What could you say in that monster’s defense?”
There it was. There it always was. Pawn had no eyes to close, so he just fixed it on the tears running from Harvey’s eyes. He spoke with a painful calm.
“You must stop, Harvey. Or there will be worse bloodshed yet. I will not deny that Fetohep did these things. He is not a perfect king. Or, I think, even a good king. To his people, perhaps. But to everyone else, he can be that monster. Like everyone who wears a crown.”
“Yet you defend him.”
The Prophet wept as he leaned on his staff, and the People of God were silent. They drew closer, now, a building wave, and the dead…Pawn rasped.
“When my beloved [Innkeeper] was dead, armies of Drakes came to the Meeting of Tribes, intent on slaughtering the Gnolls for no other reason than that the Gnolls had found the truth of what had been done to them. No one came to their defense. Not even I. Only one person rode across Chandrar and moved heaven and earth to defend them. Because it was right. Every time a disaster has threatened those I loved, Fetohep of Khelt has been there. He is no perfect king. I daresay he is monstrous, foolish, arrogant beyond belief. But you trespassed first, Prophet. Further conflict will not heal anything.”
The Prophet of God nodded and nodded again. Then he lifted his staff.
“No. But he has slaughtered my people, and for that, he will die. One being in all of Khelt. Stand aside, Pawn, and let me take that one life. One, and we shall depart. This, I swear.”
Then it was Pawn’s turn to hesitate. He bowed his head and lifted the club.
“He is Khelt. No.”
“Then we fight, Pawn. Spare them if you can, my people. The Kheltians, but do not let yourselves be harmed. Kill the King of Khelt. Priest Pawn, you stand before the coming flood. I would hate to see you die in this wretched king’s name. Please, flee.”
The Prophet of God planted his staff in the ground. Pawn stepped back, and the Painted Antinium clicked as his censer drifted smoke over their ranks. He spoke, voice laced with bitterness.
“You’re not wrong, Harvey, but not even God can make you entirely right.”
He swung his club as Harvey’s staff fell.
This time, the earth split.
 
——
 
The earthquake woke him up. Like a dreamer who had been having a nightmare…Fetohep of Khelt stepped out of that dream where the desperate Goddess had been pleading with him and back into reality.
The throne room of the palace was empty. The lights were off. A faint golden glow from his eyes illuminated the dark room, but there was nothing else.
No lights. No scrying orbs. And no servants.
“Hello? Servants?”
He rose from his throne, feeling oddly—stiff. How long had he been asleep? Where was Pewerthe? Fetohep took a few steps forward, mind racing as undeath returned to him, not the dream of the deadlands.
I know what must be done. Hope. I have come back with hope. And Razzimir’s teachings about panic attacks.
Three generations. All they had to do was hold out for…hope warred with desperation. If he’d been asleep for a day again, then…
A tremble in the ground. What was that? An earthquake? It was too quick, like drumbeats, but irregular. Something was very wrong.
He strode towards the palace doors, calling out now.
“Day-servants! Night-servants, to me! Where is everyone?”
He felt at his sides, but his speaking stone was gone, and so were the scrying orbs. Someone had taken them. Where…
He was running now, through the palace, and no one was present. No one. No servants, only a few undead standing to attention. Fetohep felt something to the north. Something ominous.
A few hundred undead. What is…
Then he came across a soul at last, and the little boy flinched and cried out. Fetohep nearly ran over—
“Anleth?”
The boy had been dicing by himself in the banquet room. A single scrying orb was on the table. He stuttered.
“Your Majesty? You woke up!”
“You know? Where is…where is everyone? Your parents? Pewerthe? The servants?”
