Fetohep knelt down as the boy approached, and his people listened as he sat there on the sands. Wearily, the King of Khelt patted the sand, and the boy sat next to him.
“Will there be bugs, Your Majesty?”
“Yes, in all likelihood, Anleth.”
“And…and we’ll give away our riches.”
“Many of them, yes.”
“Will we have to have jobs?”
Fetohep’s head bowed further.
“I fear so, Anleth. This is not what I wished for Khelt. For all of you. It is my failings that have led us here. I am sorry.”
He peered around at the shocked faces of the Kheltians. Betrayal, sorrow, numbness. Trying to take in their breaking paradise. Fetohep rose to his feet gently. He placed one hand on Anleth’s shoulders.
“Khelt, Eternal Khelt, is not dead. Perhaps it is not even dying. I do not know. I do know we will be poorer, less safe. The world I know has shaken, and all is chaos, my people. I have let you down. But tomorrow…I shall sit on my throne and answer each grievance you have as best I am able, day and night. I swear to you this. I shall no longer pretend Khelt has no woes. Tomorrow will be hard. The days after perhaps harder. We must only greet them as they come. If you would flee Khelt for better lands, I ask you to wait. Or if you must go, let me send you with all I have left.”
He stood there and heard no one break into tears. No cries of remorse or terror. Just a soft sigh, then nothing at all. In the silence, the King of Khelt bowed deeply once and caught his crown before it slipped from his head. Then he walked up the long steps to his palace.
For he had work to do.
 
——
 
[Priest of Wrath and Sky Level 44!]
[Skill – Blessing of the Painted Antinium’s Colors Obtained!]
[Miracle Ascended: Summon Workers (Holy) → Summon Heaven’s Guardians!]
[Title – Defender of the Helpless Granted!]
[Title Reward – Shield of the Lamb Assigned!]
 
[Class Change: Potter of Secrets → Potmaker of Buried Truths!]
[Potmaker of Buried Truths Level 47!]
[Skill – Create Pothead Skeletons Obtained!]
[Skill – Pots: Contain Faith Obtained!]
[Skill – Beloved by Insects Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Pot of Secrets → Pot of Conspiracies Obtained!]
 
[Class Change: First Disciple of the Prophet → Warrior-Priestess of God’s Cloth!]
[Warrior-Priestess of God’s Cloth Level 43!]
[Skill – Weave Blessed Fabrics Obtained!]
[Miracle – Mass Prayer of Magic’s Denial Obtained!]
[Skill – Like a Lion, She Leapt Obtained!]
 
Levels in the night. There were many who levelled, but three of those who woke, Pawn, Pewerthe, and Marrieh, did so with newfound Skills ringing in their ears. New powers, rediscovered abilities.
Things this world had never yet seen, but longed for. Each one had a different reaction to their powers.
 
——
 
Pawn sat up, heart leaping for the powers to give the new Painted Folk a piece of what made the Painted Antinium themselves. Soul sinking because Heaven was a place of rest.
“Must we call them back from Heaven itself for our selfish wars?”
He sat there until he heard his heart reply.
They’d want to help.
So he abided.
 
——
 
Pewerthe just sighed in faint contentment. It had been an age since she had last levelled. And now…each one was needed.
“I will hit Level 50 before I die after all.”
She rolled over in her bed. Already envisioning new pots and plans. Pothead Skeletons? They’d have to look beautiful, naturally. Sturdy pots. Doubtless the better the pot, the better the skeleton.
This was necromancy she could get behind.
 
——
 
And Marrieh woke to tears in the camps where the lamentations of the People of God still filled the air. Schism. Some had fled, and others followed the Prophet, if not for him, then for the single Angel.
But she wept. For the world had given her what she had longed for.
Cloth to call her own. She did not care about the Miracle to terrify all of Wistram into soiling their robes or the Skill that had once been called a mark of true bravery, that only the bravest were given—
Only sat and dreamed of a new people made in cloth to honor a being that loved them equally.
 
——
 
Levels. For Yellow Splatters, Pie, Harvey, and so many more. But not for one being.
He was dead, and as of yet, no one had given Fetohep of Khelt the ability to continue his long journey after death.
It mattered not. He alone stayed awake after the battles were won.
Working.
The night was a blur of things. The Quarass and her people, Pewerthe, and as many officials, day-servants, and people of talent as he could summon.
Farmer Colovt was one of the most important people in Khelt, suddenly. As was an [Accountant] who began to tally costs in sums she had never dreamed of, face dead white.
But they moved. In time, the mortals had to rest, even the Quarass. Trey Atwood retired to his quarters; Pewerthe fell asleep at her desk she’d installed in the throne room and was covered by a blanket. Fetohep listened to her snoring as he got up and went for a walk.
One final meeting at dawn. He took it a few miles north of the border to Khelt, and a man nearly tumbled out of his saddle. He’d ridden hell-for-leather and insisted on tending to his horse before he spoke.
For that, Fetohep respected Captain Galbram. The [Mercenary] walked, embarrassed, glancing around, passing by a ramshackle inn that the Quarass of Germina had once put up to gain a class.
“Every major [Mercenary] company not on the other side of the continent’s going to be here in a few days, Your Majesty. Many that’re too small to be counted, anywhere from a few thousand to a few dozen. And lots that aren’t [Mercenaries] at all, but just wear the name. [Bandits] and groups of sellswords, you understand.”
“I see. Naturally, yours was one of the first to arrive, Captain.”
The man flushed again, but he didn’t glance away from Fetohep.
“No. Once I put the pieces together, and Captain Nava told me how she’d been fighting the People of God, I put the call out. I know almost every other commander who’s a big name. I know which ones can be trusted and which ones have filth in their ranks.”
“I see. So what would you propose, Captain?”
The man chewed on his lip, but he had been thinking, and he came out with it.
“Well, you’d start by paying each major company the same sum as mine.”
“Even though I am hiring your company, Captain?”
“Yes. Because even if you hire us, the other companies will know Khelt’s right there, and they’ll fight us like Demons of Rhir. There’s no way to stop them unless the King of Destruction wants to come back and smash through them. That’ll lower the price, but there’s plenty who’d be willing to risk becoming raiders and banned for life. Just for a taste of Kheltian gold. Pay them and most companies will dissolve. Plenty of [Mercenaries] will ask to be paid out and retire or go drinking and carousing until the gold runs out. You’ll throw them into chaos.”
“Ah, the man who has everything he wants. And yourself?”
Galbram shrugged self-consciously.
“I figure I’ll lose a lot of my people, but I’ll pick from the other companies in the chaos. Strike a deal with the other good [Captains]. Then my people will be motivated to catch the other groups coming in. Some might need incentives to leave, but you’ll have security. Not perfect, but they can even do some sweeping and elimination of bugs…so long as they have the run of the cities. They’ll obey the laws, but you’ll need peacekeepers.”
“Death Commander Lanodest may be ideally suited for that role. You have brought before me an offer I am ill-able to refuse, Captain Galbram.”
Fetohep could prevail on the Quarass, Flos, or even repulse Galbram and the mercenaries himself. Perhaps. But he had no soldiers. And Galbram was honest. He faced Fetohep, embarrassed, but nodded.
“You’ll have our swords as long as the coin’s good, Your Majesty. Being able to visit a paradise, even one that’s in—straits—is worth as much as the coin to buy it all. Do we have a deal?”
He was nervous, as if thinking Fetohep might pull off his head there and then, but the Ruler of Khelt smiled wearily. Like a man winnowed out from the inside yet who still found himself standing.
He lifted a finger and shook his head.
“Almost, Captain Galbram. But before I review these sums of which I must pay, in advance, I tell you this: I must have you lower your prices.”
Galbram’s head snapped up. He opened his mouth, defensive, and Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I am not accusing you of greed beyond any other man or woman, Galbram. I am simply telling you: lower your prices. Take less. Do not slaughter the magical calf so long as it gives milk.”
The [Captain]’s anger faded. He regarded Fetohep, then ducked his head.
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
He peered up and saw Fetohep offer him that same, pained smile.
“Thank you, Captain Galbram. You are indeed the man I should have hired. Now, if you will excuse me, I must rest a moment. Panic attacks. Visit me in the palace when you have settled matters among the mercenaries. The servants shall admit you.”
 
——
 
The day thereafter in Khelt was the kind of tremulous silence after a disaster. Frieke had known them, when tidal waves had rolled into Medain or a monster had attacked. Days when everything fell apart and nothing seemed normal.
She, of course, was better able to deal with it than most, and Konska rode on her shoulder as she wrote to Satar.
“…paying off most nations, and a [Mercenary Captain] has been hired by His Majesty to guard Khelt. For now, no raids, but I will keep you informed, Satar. Signed…Frieke.”
She was writing to Satar Silverfang openly now that Khelt’s woes had been made public. The [Historian] wanted to know everything and had expressed her condolences and whatever support the Meeting of Tribes could muster. And she’d begged Frieke to search up anything Khelt had on the Antinium. Probably a fan of Pawn.
Lots of Kheltians were listening to his Painted Folk today, and he was giving a sermon in the square. About how to clean up and why leftovers were a virtue.
Frieke, though, just paused as someone familiar caught her eye in the streets of Koirezune. She’d been watching how Kheltians acted. Many were in shock or trying to live normally, but some…the smart ones, the bastards, were cleverer than the rest.
For instance, she’d seen one woman gathering up utensils, pieces of art, everything she could grab and stuff into her bag of holding all morning. Anything that wasn’t claimed, things that normal Kheltians had no value for. She took it and squirreled it away, because now, suddenly, everything had a price tag.
Getting ahead when things got bad. In a way, Frieke approved. That was smart. It kept you alive. It was a very King Perric thing to do. When the boot was on your neck, everyone did what they had to.
On the other hand…she waved at Mistreq and saw him walking around, as if someone had clubbed him with one of the giant [Hammers of Faith]. She’d been impaled, but she was healing. She wondered where the Prophet of God had gone. She hoped he’d tripped and broken his neck, but life was never that fair.
“Hey, Mistreq. Are you doing okay?”
He came over hesitantly.
“Frieke. Didn’t you get stabbed through the stomach?”
She showed him her bandaged wound.
“I did, but the Antinium healed me part way. What are you doing?”
Mistreq had a bundle of sticks in one hand, some cloth, and a net in the other hand. He gestured at his tools.
“Well…burning bugs out of their nests.”
“No.”
She smiled despite herself. Mistreq nodded; he even had a hat with a net for his face. He’d made it himself and showed it to her.
“Someone has to do it now that the skeletons are…broken. I’ve been showing people how to do it, but most can’t handle the bugs. I don’t like it at all, but I hate them more. I gained the [Bug Remover] class the other day. I nearly got rid of it, but—I think someone needs to do it. Don’t they? That’s a valuable class, isn’t it?”
She thought about it as he stood there, forlorn, staring at the palace and around at his city.
“There’s plenty of bug-killers and exterminators in Medain. There’s a need for them everywhere. It’s not glamorous work, but yes. It’s an important job.”
“Good. Then…I suppose I’d better get to it.”
He nodded awkwardly at someone waiting for him to help eliminate some horrible bug-infestation. Frieke halted Mistreq.
“Hey, Mistreq, let’s get a drink later. After work.”
“After work.”
He said the words like they were foreign, and she smiled at him. He nodded and began trudging away. She called after him.
“You know, even with bugs, this is still the most beautiful city I’ve ever been in. The most fabulous kingdom. That might not change.”
He turned back once and half-smiled at her, but his eyes lingered on the palace. Mistreq pointed back at her.
“Yes. Yes, it is true. But once, you and I knew paradise. After that—anything is harder. But Khelt remains.”
He brushed at his eyes and glanced around, mystified.
“It remains.”
Frieke stood there as Konska cawed, and she nodded.
“Yeah.”
Then she went to find Pewerthe.
 
——-
 
Pewerthe the Potter, Heir of Khelt, was suddenly one of the most important women in Khelt. Everyone wanted to speak to her, and she feared she wouldn’t have time to pot anymore.
“It’s important, Fetohep. For my class.”
“Yes. Of course. You levelled, I trust?”
“Mhm. And those new undead I made seem to obey me. Especially the Pot Skeleton. We can supplement our forces with them if I can replicate the stunt. Shame the Painted Antinium can’t stay, but they will want to return home, they said. A few have asked to stay, but we could have used a thousand more. Maybe we can recruit specific groups. Mm, we’ll look at the upsides and downsides.”
They were having a conference in one of the sitting rooms, the first of many. Fetohep had taken a break that morning. Not to rest so much as breathe. In and out. Pewerthe was drinking coffee as she spoke.
Like Named-rank adventurers, she kept moving when the sky fell. She had a list of things to do and ran through them.
“We need to go through Captain Galbram’s background, but I suspect the Quarass has already. She might just give me a list of problems if I ask nicely, but she’s meeting with you shortly after this. I think that’s what I’ll handle today with Frieke as my bodyguard.”
“Is she well?”
“Mhm. She’s mostly healed. Alked’s the one who’s really upset. He says one of his magical eyes got damaged.”
“I shall find him a new one—”
Fetohep began, then sat back.
“—Assuming we can spare it.”
Pewerthe pursed her lips.
