He murmured, and the People of God saw his face turn to guilt. But he had admitted this to them before. Alanna, though. Her eyes fixed on the distant [Light of Faith], his raiments, and she nodded.
“It’s not supposed to be a contest. I just mean…no matter how much my family and I prayed, nothing ever came true for us. Nothing like this. I believe in miracles. I believe in Jesus Christ who died for our sins. But no pastor of mine ever called down lightning. Do you think…it feels to me like either this isn’t the faith we know or there is a God. But he’s only in this world. Do you see?”
Her hands clasped together, and they were trembling. When Harvey heard her, he recoiled. For she cut with a knife far more dangerous than the one Lloyd had come with.
“I…understand your fears, Alanna. Truly, I do. These are not the miracles accessible to men and women of Earth. Perhaps we are blessed in this world, or perhaps…there is a different force that gives faith power here. For these are the powers of the Old Testament. I know. But believe me when I say that I do not think they are fake. I believe, and that belief fuels everything I do. Perhaps the rules are different on Earth, and if so, I do not know why. Perhaps God had different standards for our world, and this is where they are needed. Or perhaps it is some other power, acting as God.”
Another stir in the listeners, and this time, Pawn was as uneasy as the rest. But Harvey’s voice was surprisingly gentle.
“All I know is that I act in God’s will. I hear his voice in my heart, and I pray to make righteousness manifest. Does that answer your questions?”
She gazed at him, and Alanna clasped her hands together over her heart.
“Yeah. Thank you, father. That was a better sermon than many I’ve heard. I think…I can believe in that. I want to believe in that. I think you helped me find my faith.”
She smiled, and he reddened faintly as she bowed to him.
“It’s nothing. If there is anything you need, my people or I will help you. We come from the same world. All of us. Truly, despite our differences…I will help you. And if we find a way home, I…I want to tell my family I’m alive. I should like to bring us all there.”
In that moment, he became another man again. From the devout cult leader to a wrathful being of strange powers to someone…Human. The Earthers regarded him, and all of them nodded. Alanna took a breath.
“I’d like that too, Prophet. There’s just one thing before that. Lloyd’s right. Thank you for speaking to me about faith. But I do not believe ending Khelt is God’s will. That is the one thing I disagree with, Prophet of God. I have studied the Bible, again and again, and there is no passage in it about the undead. Nor do I think Khelt deserves ending.”
She lifted the glowing smartphone in her hands, and the Prophet stared at it, and his lips moved. Then his eyes came alight, and he stumbled back.
“You have it. The Bible?”
“Well, the app.”
“Hallelujah. God be praised. I must study it. I had only my memory. Please…”
He was reaching for it when he hesitated.
“—What do you mean there is no word against the undead? There are demons. Legion, the devils that haunt the world, six hundred and sixty-six of them, the sins he embodies. Greed!”
Alanna calmly held up the phone.
“There are no devils named in the bible, Prophet. No undead. The Bible does speak about greed, but it does not tell us to make war on kingdoms. Does it not say ‘love thy neighbor as thyself’? Matthew 22:36-40? That is the second greatest commandment, Prophet. You have come into this nation with the holy word and the sword, and I do not think that is righteous.”
“It is righteous like the Crusaders, who went into the desert to liberate the holy land!”
He snapped at her, and she frowned. Maximillian spoke up.
“Um, you mean the Crusades? That’s your comparison? They slaughtered a lot of innocent people, Prophet. That was about wealth and power as much as a holy war, I’m pretty sure. And weren’t the people the Crusaders fought Muslim?”
“Yes. And?”
Maximillian scratched at his chin.
“Both groups believed Jerusalem was the holy land, didn’t they? I’m no expert, but it seems to me that’s a really bad example. People have been killing each other in the name of religion for thousands of years, and you want to do it again? The Kheltians were nice to us all. They have no crime here. They never harm anyone except to hurt your feelings about how you dress. And you came in here, beat them up, stole their possessions, and you want to tell us you’re the good guy?”
“Amen to that.”
The Prophet glowered at Pawn as he shot back at Maximillian.
“They’re being led by a murderous king! Khelt is the richest nation of Chandrar! They embody the sin of greed! Alanna, this, at least, is obvious.”
She was flicking through her smartphone and spoke.
“It says in Timothy 6:9: ‘the love of money is the root of all evil’. Desire to be rich is a temptation that leads to lusts, destruction, perdition.”
“Exactly! Thus—”
She glanced up from her smartphone.
“Kheltians don’t love money, Prophet. They barely use it. True, they’re rich, but I have met Fetohep of Khelt. He doesn’t care about money. Wistram cares about money. Most people do, but I think the King of Khelt would get rid of his riches in a heartbeat to better his people. If there were any man who cares nothing for wealth, it’s him.”
“But his land is rich…”
“Richness is not something we should covet, Prophet. I’ve been visiting Kheltian cities. They live in fear of your people. None of them want violence. I was told it was your people who initially came to Khelt, led by an exile. It does not sound like they struck your people first, whatever King Fetohep has done.”
Marrieh flinched at that, and then someone, Yirene, came forwards to whisper in her ears. She was shielding her face from above, in a terror.
“Marrieh, Marrieh! They’re scrying us! An ally to my house in the Court of Silks contacted me—”
“You’re still in communication with Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Tell them to cancel the spells. No, wait—how many nations?”
This would surely put a target on the People of God and Prophet, but it was not that dire for them. Marrieh was trying to think when Yirene held up a tiny scrying orb.
“Everyone, Marrieh.”
And the Prophet was under siege. From three sides, now, as Lloyd and Maximilian returned to the argument. He was remonstrating with Alanna.
“God paved the way for our entry into Khelt, Alanna, child.”
He and she both seemed to think that calling her ‘child’ was wrong, and he grimaced and stopped doing that.
“—The light of our faith destroyed the undead. As I said, it is not mere greed that has led us here. We have kept almost none of the treasures, sacrificing them to God and using them to buy what is needful. The King of Khelt worships the archenemy!”
“Which enemy, Prophet? As I said, there are none listed in the good book. Everything after that, Lucifer, Satan, Legion—these names are extrapolated from the texts or written by other figures. They are not part of the original bible. Perhaps they’re all just…delusions.”
“They worship that king like a God, Alanna. There is only one, and him we glorify in the highest and tear down other false idols!”
She lifted the smartphone in her hand, and now she did appear annoyed.
“But the Old Testament makes references to other Gods! Other faiths! It never told us to make war or that there weren’t even other religions or deities! Only that ours was above all. This…this sounds like an excuse, Prophet. That is what my faith tells me. I don’t have your class, but this is wrong. That’s why I came here. I’ll pray with you, but I cannot in good conscience let you keep doing this. That is what God tells me.”
There was a hiss of voices from the side, and Alanna flinched as she turned and saw how many of the People of God were watching her with outrage. Some with uncertainty. Harvey’s eyes were flickering, and he was drawing breath to speak when Lloyd jumped in.
“Listen, Harvey. I’m going to be a bit aggressive here—”
“Why stop now?”
Harvey glowered at him, and the Canadian raised an admonitory finger.
“You think I’m being unpleasant, man? Let me tell you—this? This isn’t cool. No one’s saying it because you’re speaking like some evangelical nutjob, but that’s the thing. Tons of us Earthers heard about you, and none of us came by to say hi and shoot the shit. You know why? You have to know why. Unless you’re living under a rock in America, this sounds like every mega-pastor, scam-artist, cult nutjob operation back home. People of God? Coming in and attacking innocent people and trying to start, what, a holy war? Do you have any idea of the history of Christianity doing this? You’re not actually as crazy as I thought, so you have to get how this looks.”
“Lloyd, shut up a moment.”
Max interrupted Lloyd as Harvey turned redder and redder, and the young man from the Netherlands took a breath. He flashed Harvey the smile of an overworked barista behind the counter.
“Listen, Lloyd’s mad. But he’s not entirely wrong. He’s just saying it wrong. Prophet, you’re making religions look bad. I’m not Christian myself, but I know people who are. They’re not waving flaming swords around, they donate, do fundraisers, volunteer. This?”
He turned to the People of God and shook his head.
“…How did you even get to this place?”
Alanna was hesitating. She wanted to keep this to an argument about theology. But the other two Earthers were arguing on different levels. Harvey glanced between the faces and stepped back. But not to run.
“Lloyd, Maximillian, Alanna. I see now you have come with good intentions, at least two of you. But I say to you again: you do not understand. You come here, judging me with your pre-conceived notions. You assign ill intent to me, and perhaps I am to be judged, but not here. Not now. How did the People of God come to be? They heard me preaching the way of God, and they followed. There was nothing nefarious about it. I healed the hurt and gave aid where I could. It was not perfect. But in every way, it is how we are meant to glorify God. Look.”
He swept an arm back, and the People of God were thousands strong now. The Painted Antinium, sixty in number, stood like a line in the sand as the Kheltians watched. More of the People were coming, flooding from their cities. An army. Harvey’s voice rose.
“These are the people of Chandrar who embraced faith! Humans, Garuda, other species, but Stitch-folk most of all. They come from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Hemp who are mistreated and cast down by the other cloths. Treated like slaves, second-class citizens. I have walked that land and seen them beaten or whipped for getting in the way of a Silk noble. I called that unjust. Some are [Slaves] who escaped to join us. I did not turn them over to the [Slavers] of Roshal even when they sent their thugs and assassins in the night. They are people who have starved in cities as no one lent them a hand. You may judge me and my character. But do not judge them.”
His brown eyes flashed, and then there was something the three Earthers could not so easily argue against. Max’s mouth closed, and he stared at the Stitch-folk as Alanna half-nodded, clasping her hands before her chest. Lloyd just glanced at the People of God.
“So you took desperate people, sold them a line about salvation, and sent them against Khelt? That doesn’t excuse a thing, man.”
Harvey swung around, and Lloyd backed up. The Prophet pointed his staff at the Earther, and it glowed. The mere wood illuminated from within, unlike an enchantment, as if it were glass, and something filled it.
“Prophet, don’t—”
Alanna was blocking the way, and Max was fumbling for a buckler. They fell back before his wrath, but another figure decided now was the moment and stepped forwards.
They had all but forgotten him for a moment. The Antinium Worker was short, unimposing compared to the Painted Soldiers in their armor, and his robes were plain white cotton. He carried only a club in one hand, and it did not glow.
Gently, Pawn knocked the staff down, and the air cracked.
—as if the very air were glass and reality were snapping—
The Prophet recoiled as those around the two covered their ears. Pawn held out a hand.
“I think that is enough. You three, get back. Prophet of God, I think it is time the two of us met properly. I am Pawn of the Free Antinium of Liscor. Priest of the Painted Antinium. Believers in Heaven and Sky. I have come from distant Izril to speak with you. Will you treat with me?”
Harvey drew himself up slowly and planted the glowing staff in the ground. He squared his shoulders, breathing in and out.
“Yes. I see it now. You are the true test set before me, Priest Pawn. I am the Prophet, and now I come to meet you as one man of faith to another. Was it your doing, sending my own people to confront me?”
Pawn lowered the club and shook his head.
“No, they just showed up. In my experience, Earthers do that. They strut onto any stage as if they have seen it all before, all-knowing, and they love to lecture.”
“Hey, what the hell—”
The three Earthers protested, but Harvey’s lips twitched. He was trying to hide a smile. They both felt their faiths pressing at each other, like they were locked in a shoving match with their entire beings, but still…
“I have met only these three, but I believe you after speaking for but ten minutes. So we are…across this world? I saw the [Innkeeper]’s broadcast and so many faces. I have been alone for over a year. In the company of good and varied people, but I have dreamed of home. You…do you know anything of what has happened? Are they all in one place, Wistram, or spread out?”
Pawn’s head turned, and no one had told him about the scrying spells. Possibly, he didn’t care. He nodded once.
“Scattered. They appear in random places, I think. Some of them draw together. Earthers find Earthers. Nations are hunting for them. The Walled Cities, Wistram. Roshal, the Blighted Kingdom. I do not know how they came here, nor do they. But my people are on their side. Wherever the Painted Antinium go, if an Earther calls out, we will help them.”
The Prophet of God regarded Pawn, and his faith was a harsh one. Uncompromising. He blazed like that [Light of Faith] in the distance, a burning passion, sometimes doubting, sometimes wavering, but standing tall.
Like a cross standing in the desert, a marker that refused to vanish. A pledge upon the earth of faith.
Closer to Erin Solstice than Pawn’s own light. Yet the Antinium was soft and wondrous colors. A vision of the unknowable. Uncertainty was part of his nature. He did not fear it.
