Sand at Sea took off, flashing a broadside at the first Angel, which dove and spun—and ate another shot as Rad Rema used a Skill to curve a ballista bolt.
“Hah! Eat that you damned apparitions! We—Kraken’s tits.”
One of the two Angels pursuing Hecrelunn heard the alarmed tolling of bells from the first Angel and turned. The spear-wielding Angel shot towards Sand at Sea and focused on Pewerthe, who hefted the pot desperately. The first Angel dove back down to Pawn, and he grimly raised his club.
“Alright. You want a fight? Come and get it. I didn’t get just one miracle from the Winter Solstice. I got two. [Miracle: Avatar of Faith].”
He began to glow, and this time, the flaming sword met his club as he intercepted it and knocked it down. Pawn slashed back as the Angel recoiled, and he pointed at Harvey.
“First this damn Angel, then you, Harvey.”
But he was glancing towards the Vizir and Pewerthe. He could fight the Angel with his faith, but she was on an undead ship. Then he heard Hecrelunn scream and cry out as the [Light of Faith] bathed him in a ray of light. He fled higher, mana shields burning, and Pawn was shouting for his Painted Antinium to help the others. He couldn’t do anything more. He was in a fight for his life.
 
——
 
Pewerthe saw the second Angel coming at them, and she had no idea what it was. Only that it was beautiful, terrible, and seemed to her to be made to slay undead. It was slicing through each spell from Sand at Sea with incredible grace. And…it was no mindless undead.
It was after her. It dove at the ship and slashed across the deck, and she flinched; it was Irg who parried the spear with a sword. He watched it crack as the spear of light bounced back, then grinned and tossed her free with his spare arm.
“Take care of Khelt for us, would you, Heir?”
He swung, barehanded, at the second Angel, who let him punch it in the chest. It had no visible genitalia that Pewerthe could see, and it floated there, naked, as it speared Irg through the chest.
He cried out, and for a moment, a Gnoll was stumbling across the deck, not a skeleton with bits of ancient fur stuck to it. His fur was grey and white, like a wolf’s, and his brown eyes locked with her as he clutched the spear in his chest—
Turned to dust. Fell as the crew of Sand at Sea cried out and stormed towards the Angel. It flew higher, avoiding Captain Cikroleth leaping towards it, and hurled the spear down. It missed Pewerthe as Rad Rema shoved her back.
The spear passed through the recently-repaired deck and through the hull without slowing. The Angel dove, snatching it up from the ground, and Captain Cikroleth shouted.
“More speed! Kick up a sandstorm and stand together! Keep the Heir safe!”
Irg vanished in a second. The crew saw the being that seemed to counter their very existence coming upwards, screaming like breaking glass. A prayer? A message from Heaven? Pewerthe thought it did have eyes and a mouth, if nothing else. The first Angel had only eyes.
Was it greater than the first? If so, the third…she locked eyes with it and threw her pot.
The object filled with dangerous items, the faith of the Antinium, and explosives flew true and straight. The second Angel twisted—it clipped a wing—and nearly dropped. Then the pot exploded behind it on the ground, and Pewerthe cursed.
“Damnit.”
One shot and wasted. She walked back across the deck as Captain Cikroleth strode forwards to meet the second Angel. Pewerthe moved past the Revenants on deck and towards the rolled-up boarding ramp, which became wooden slats until you released the magical cord. Then it turned into a sturdy ramp—
“Heir? What are you doing?”
Rad Rema saw Pewerthe undo the knot, and the ramp engaged. The ground was flashing past them as Sand at Sea circled the battlefield, but the ship listed slightly as the new drag on the ship made it tilt. Captain Cikroleth spun, but Pewerthe was speaking.
“I am Pewerthe, the Heir of Khelt and acting ruler. Sand at Sea will disengage. Do not fight that thing. Khelt needs you more than I. You will go and secure the next Heir of Khelt and defend our kingdom, evacuate it if need be.”
“Heir!”
Captain Cikroleth was striding at her, but she put one foot on the gangplank and turned back to him. Her smile flashed over her face as she saw the second Angel slow. So it could think. It could tell what she was doing; perhaps it was even listening. So she lowered her voice.
“As Heir of Khelt, I appoint Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass, the Arbiter Queen, as the next Heir of Khelt. Don’t argue with me, Captain Cikroleth. You of all people should know when to avoid a losing battle.”
He could have grabbed her, she knew, but he didn’t. So she put one foot over the railing, heaved herself up, and slid down the ramp. She tried to land on her feet, but then—
She hit the ground and rolled for at least a hundred paces and wondered if she’d broken every bone in her body. When she sat up, Sand at Sea was heading away from her. Pewerthe blew a kiss at it, then laid on her back as the sky brightened.
“Why me, I wonder? Because I’m judged? Because you can tell Khelt cannot endure without us?”
She stared up at the divine messenger with its glowing spear and heard it speaking, but shrugged.
“I can’t understand you. Is that how it’s supposed to work? You’re very inefficient for a being of whatever God is supposed to be. But I don’t particularly care for your God either, from how he’s acted in my lands.”
To her great amusement, she thought that pissed the Angel off. It raised its spear up, twirling the haft to throw, and Pewerthe put her head back down and stared up at the sky. She didn’t feel like facing death head on. It could meet her on the ground.
She gazed up at the beautiful sky, torn by miracles, and the coastal grey-blue bird flying high overhead, far too far inland.
Konska?
“[Falcon Diiiiiiiive]!”
Frieke the Falcon slashed through the Angel as it recoiled, and the Sword of Serept left a blue line through the being, who screamed and slashed—but she was already rolling away. She came up, sword swinging, deflected two spear-thrusts, and the third cut across her chest.
“Konska!”
The Seahawk had already been diving. The Angel was on top of Frieke, spearing down, when the bird flew into it and delivered a [Falcon Kick]. The blow spun the Angel around, and Frieke slashed again—the Angel didn’t seem harmed by Konska’s blow.
However, being shot through the forehead did upset it. Especially when the arrow blew apart. It emerged from the cloud of debris as Alked Fellbow yanked Pewerthe up.
“It won’t die from a single slash or shot. Watch that spear. It’s anti-magic.”
“The sword’s still working. Get Pewerthe out of here, Fellbow!”
Frieke checked the blade. Alked let go of Pewerthe, nocked an arrow, and fired point-blank as the Angel came at him.
“[Eightfold Volley]. Busy.”
The Angel backed up, deflecting each arrow he loosed as they detonated around it, but didn’t see Frieke sneaking up on it before she shoved the blade through where its liver would have been. She darted away, and Pewerthe stumbled back.
“Frieke? Alked? What do I…?”
“Run!”
They shouted at her, and she turned and ran. Both Named-rank adventurers saw the Angel glancing after Pewerthe, and Frieke grinned.
“This sucks. Let’s clip its wings first.”
Konska screamed agreement as Alked took aim. He was sweating. One Angel was battling Pawn and the Painted Antinium. The second was here, but the third and mightiest…
He saw the Vizir raining down spells on the People of God, screaming as the [Light of Faith] tracked him, a ray of purifying light. He was trying to kill the Prophet, but where was the third Angel?
Then, as Alked leapt back from the spear-thrust and pivoted, tracking the nimble Angel trying to get around him, he saw a man standing in the open sand in front of his people. Halberd planted by his side.
The King of Khelt watched the final Angel descending, and he thought it was a beautiful foe to bring ruin to his kingdom.
 
——
 
He was late. One glance at this battlefield told him how many people had bled and died for him. It was like no battlefield he had ever seen, save for perhaps the worst of magical duels that left residue in the air and ground. But this…?
He saw the Antinium’s vision of Heaven mixed with colored earth from their flood, white flames from the Prophet’s people, and dust.
So much dust. He had felt the undead of Khelt die, their bodies turned to nothing. Even beheld the scraps of memory that were all that was left.
Each scrap was all but useless now, but it might be the foundation of Khelt again. They just had to rebuild the memories. Soul by soul.
Three generations.
Khelt might not last three hours. Not with that divine Angel. Its light.
It hurt. The undead felt no pain, but the screaming Hecrelunn was burning in faith’s aegis, and Fetohep felt the aura of the final Angel of God. It reminded him of pain.
Like…the feeling of taking a too-deep breath and holding it. The straining towards oblivion as it tried to leave your chest. That was the pain. Not as intense as you might think, but with every second, he felt his very soul trying to escape.
It was true annihilation. But he did not run. As every eye turned towards him, the King of Khelt lifted his halberd that had once served him in life and spoke.
“I am Fetohep, nineteenth King of Khelt. In Khelta’s name, I order you gone, trespassers against her lands.”
The final Angel cried out with the sounds of a pipe organ, like notes of music. Unlike the first two, its features were more realized. He saw a nose, lips, and of course, staring eyes. On its face, shoulders, navel—what being was this?
It spoke in the voice of music, and the language struck his soul. The meaning filtered into his withered memory of a heart, which hurt and quailed before it.
The Angel said:
“Repent.”
Then the King of Khelt smiled, a weary smile as his people beheld him and cried out. For him to flee, for the dead to protect him. As if it were not his fault that they had come to this disaster. He lifted his hand and spoke.
“To all those who watch, my people, nations of this world, know that it was I, Fetohep, who failed Eternal Khelt in its hour of need. I and I alone. Let the sins of Khelt end with me.”
A fool’s hope, perhaps. A fool’s words to beg for it all to be wrapped up so neatly. But he could do no more. Fetohep saw the final Angel carried a greatsword made of some shining crystal. He swung his halberd as it closed like an arrow.
Let us dance one final time. He was a king, not a warrior, but warrior was all he had talent for. So.
[Spear Dance: The Sands of Zeikhal Twist Upwards]—
His halberd flicked and jabbed, arcing into longer slashes as he stepped counter-clockwise, drawing together in a spiral. He leapt forwards, engaging the Angel and—
Oh. It was divine. It met his spear-dance and copied it. Reversed the pattern and threw it back at him. Their weapons rang against each other, magic meeting faith in crackles of fading spellcraft. Fetohep swung down his halberd as the Angel swept its blade up.
“[Split the Earth].”
He slashed down, and his halberd’s worn metal blade, enchanted six hundred years hence, met the crystal greatsword. Fetohep felt a light impact and stumbled. He swept the halberd around into a guard-position, then glanced at the tip.
It was sundered, the other edge broken and lying in the sand. The Angel’s blade, which could end magic, lanced out. Fetohep spun the halberd, and it caught the blow, the ancient wood cleaved. The tip of the blade slashed across his chest, and he stumbled back.
His people saw the purple robes fall back and reveal a naked ribcage of mummified, brown flesh, empty ribs. The cut across Fetohep’s chest showed his empty abdomen, and he put a hand to his ribs as the Angel danced back, singing like a chorus of praises to the People of God.
“Oh.”
He inspected his hand, then lifted it.
For a second…he’d imagined he was bleeding. Weaponless, now, he faced the Angel and knew it.
“[Weapon Master].”
It had no Skills, but it was as good as any [Spearmaster] of his era. Such flawless attack and defense. He had never been a [Halberdmaster] himself. The King of Khelt exhaled.
“Alas. I was no great warrior to make the world sing of me.”
He set himself as it came at him, blade flicking out as it stayed just out of reach, cutting, whittling down his body of undead flesh until it came time for the final blow.
 
——
 
“It fights like us.”
That was all the Agelum said in the shocked silence of House Shoel. The beings who had been created to be divine guardians of a land that had never existed felt the Angel, even two continents away. Like burning flames that drew their weary bodies and eyes to it.
So close to what we are, but purer. The faith. The faith…they were hungry, they realized. Starved and dying, and they had not known for what until they saw the Antinium and Prophet. Now they knew, but Paxere turned.
“Better than you? Uziel? Uziel?”
Lord Uziel, who was one of the best of the Agelum in experience and mastery with weapons, watched carefully. He shook his head after a moment.
“Not…not in technique. But in speed, strength? We are old, tired. It can fly. It is like a Warform, but not in technique. It knows how to fight with that greatsword, but is not, I think, a master of it.”
The nuance of what that meant utterly escaped Paxere. She sat back.
“We must capture or obtain one. These People of God…I’ll arrange it. This King of Khelt is doomed, then.”
Uziel never glanced away, and he shrugged.
“He was not that much better with a halberd than it, from what I saw. He has lost his weapon, but he has skill and Skill enough. He is not dead yet.”
Fetohep was a barehanded undead fighting an anti-undead specialist with a magical blade. Paxere snorted, but politely, when one of the older Lucifen glanced at her.
“Unless he’s a bare-handed expert, one good slash and he’s dead.”
“True. But I remember the King of Khelt. I was just a boy, of course, and he already a Revenant, but my forebear told me stories of him. The Badger of Khelt. A name for a stubborn warrior.”
Uziel’s eyes locked on Fetohep. As far as Paxere was concerned, this new class and power was beyond even magic of the same level. What could this king of a crumbling nation do against it?
She watched as the Angel darted around Fetohep, slashing his arm, taking a nick out of his legs, shredding his purple robe as he lashed out with his fists, leaping and trying to catch it. Then it seemed to tire of the chase and lifted its sword overhead.
