Two ideas pressed so close together now that those standing there could see it. Alanna was wiping at her eyes.
“It’s beautiful.”
“What is?”
Max and Lloyd saw her staring at something beyond the two. Alanna didn’t respond. The half-Elves, the new Painted Folk, the People of God—this was for their eyes alone. Marrieh had a hand on her own club. She did not want this, but she felt an impending battle.
For a moment, though, the Prophet regarded Pawn with admiration and felt it in his chest. An approval he had not granted anyone or anything since he had come to this world. He lifted the staff out of the ground and spoke.
“Let it be known to all the People of God that in this, our faiths agree. Wherever one from Earth comes, they shall know sanctuary and respite among us. Until thy Kingdom Come, we shall watch over God’s lost children in any world. But his people are manifold, Pawn. Thousands live in Khelt’s lands, and countless more await our coming. Who are you to stand between the King of Khelt and judgement?”
Pawn nodded at him and lifted a hand. In his own grip was his book. His mandibles lifted.
“Just an Antinium who had no name, once. I am no Queen. I was never made to do great things. I was not even chosen, not truly. I was only granted a chance. I have no right to Khelt. Yet I see what you and your people are doing, and I refuse to let you continue, Harvey. My Painted Folk are few, but we will not allow yours to continue assailing Khelt.”
“You are outnumbered thousands to a mere hundred.”
The Prophet of God drew himself up, and the wind blew at his back, sand whipping up across the ground. That was no spell. Nor was it an accident.
If Pawn had flesh, he would have had goosebumps. He felt like he stood before a raging sea of faith. He shook his head and planted his feet more firmly.
“That does not matter. If I were alone, I would do the same thing. That is faith and knowing what matters, Harvey. If you step forwards, I will hit you. That is my pledge. I believe your faith is strong. I believe in your God, even if I do not believe he is mine, but you are doing the wrong thing. Listen to your heart, Prophet of God, and may it be louder than the delusions of grandeur you hold.”
The Prophet’s eyes flashed.
“Perhaps it is you who are the wrong one, Pawn of the Painted Antinium. You, all of you who come before me, naysayers, doubters. Do you ever think that you are shielding a monster?”
“Of course I doubt. I have walked your camp and Khelt’s cities and found fault with both. But Khelt did not begin this conflict. Your people did, Harvey.”
“I will not be lectured by a foreigner to Chandrar who has been here less than a month. Move aside.”
Harvey went to sweep Pawn aside with one hand, and the air drew down, glowing and coalescing into a physical thing. A hand like that of a half-Giant rose, as tall as Pawn, and moved to knock him aside. He pivoted.
“[Holy Barrier]—”
The hand struck him, and sand billowed forth in an explosion. Those behind the Prophet flung up their arms, shielding their faces, and when Harvey took a step forwards, a club barred his way. Pawn hadn’t moved. Harvey recoiled slightly.
Pawn had less than a hundred followers! Yet…the Prophet stared at him.
“You would risk your life for this uncaring paradise? For an undead king?”
The Antinium’s multi-faceted eyes had no irises nor pupils, yet the light seemed to collect strangely across his eyes. The light flashed, and Ecclisi, watching from the side, praying, remembered a different Pawn whose eyes glowed purely with a faith internal. Pawn stepped forwards.
“I would risk it for a bee, a kitten on the road, or a stranger. Don’t test me, Harvey. I am a humble Antinium from Liscor. A common laborer. I was a [Carpenter] before I became a [Priest]. If you would like to settle this between us, I will take that challenge any moment. I have been told I am very good at fighting.”
The People of God susurrated. It was just a class. Just a class…but they believed in signs. So did Harvey, and he stepped back for a second. Then they began to argue in earnest.
 
——
 
The rest of the Painted Antinium marched into position behind Pawn, a wall of Soldiers and Workers united in purpose and faith. Yellow Splatters, who motioned Trey and his Golems back, standing with Pawn.
He wished that they were not so outnumbered. Because if the Painted Folk had come to support their [Priest]…the People of God had come for their Prophet. They were a wave of flesh and cloth that moved forwards. Nevertheless, the Painted Antinium had a unity greater than theirs.
Yellow Splatters stood next to Pawn, advancing, retreating, a single unit who became part of a whole, a gestalt of minds.
It was like being in the Hives, being Antinium in a Unitasis Network, but different. They were linked not by the Antinium’s telepathy, but by faith.
It was a combined strength, and they became one Antinium, even if they were comprised of non-Antinium, a united faith. A rock of stubbornness against, well, an ocean.
“[They keep coming.]”
Rabbitears murmured, and they all saw it. More People of God. They were streaming forwards, forming a huge semi-circle, kneeling and praying in massed chants, but the Prophet and his core group of followers, including his disciples, were all armed. They spoke, shouting as Pawn and Harvey strode at each other.
Where they met, the winds clashed as if two gusts were meeting, forming whirlwinds of sand. When they engaged even more fiercely, the air cracked, and almost-invisible lines appeared in reality.
They were arguing, screaming at each other, on multiple levels. Pawn and the Prophet were the loudest voices, of course, drawing the eye of so many watching from afar and above.
“You are protecting a selfish, murdering [King]! This Revenant has slaughtered innocents far more than you or I could dream of! Did he not strike a harbor of innocents, the Blighted Kingdom? He has killed my people with his arrows from above!”
The Prophet shoved Pawn, and the Worker went stumbling backwards with all sixty Painted Antinium. They caught themselves as a sandstorm rose up and came at the Kheltians, who panicked and wailed.
“Out of the way!”
Herdmistress Geraeri and her Centaurs were stampeding left, snatching up people and tossing them onto their backs—a sandstorm could choke you to death, and this was a simple byproduct of the Prophet’s wrath! But a single figure raised a glowing staff and spoke.
“[Karaz Duststorm].”
Trey Atwood hurled a magical sandstorm at the one coming towards them, and the two slammed into each other. Sand whirled around, forming a huge whirlpool as it settled, and Trey panted. The Herdmistress slowed and glanced at him. Her eyes were alight with tension, and she pointed.
“Frivek, spread out.”
The Centaurs of the People of Zair trotted wide in smaller groups as Frivek yelled orders. For all Geraeri’s eyes were unclouded, her vigor returned, she was tense.
This is no low-level [Cult Leader]. His power was far, far greater than anyone had led them to believe. His very wrath could create sandstorms, but the Painted Antinium held, and Pawn strode at the Prophet.
“You were the people who invaded Khelt! The Blighted Kingdom and Roshal were warned. Neither is innocent. If Fetohep has killed, been selfish, I have always known him as an ally who gave and gave! He is no monster. Why do you call him such? Do you fear necromancy that much, Prophet of God? It is not against your religion! I have known only one [Necromancer], and his worst sin is sniffing too much. You do not understand undead. You have come to loot Khelt, and the riches your people have taken are proof of that. If this was a holy, just war, why does it profit you so?”
They were going for each other’s weak points. Pawn’s returning ‘blow’ was not as simple as the Prophet’s, but Harvey still stumbled. Yet there was no billowing sandstorm. The Painted Antinium’s faith was just not as strong.
They were all learning, moment by moment, how their faiths worked. Yellow Splatters realized that they should have taken every Painted Antinium they could find. It was like Mrsha trying to wrestle Zamea. The combined faith of each of the Painted Antinium was strong, perhaps stronger than the People of God on average, but the sheer numbers…
Yet he added his voice to the chorus of rebukes, condemnations. Starfold shouted at Jilthread.
“You were told not to kill, and you have! How is that righteous?”
The [Battle Cleric] flinched, and her feet skidded on the sand as a puff of dust rose. But Lazimeh caught her along with the people around Jilthread, and she steadied. She went to shove back as the two sides met, physically now, and their voices were raised in condemnation.
“Thou shalt not worship false idols! Your faith is false!”
A pathetic blow; it bounced off Yellow Splatters’ chest, and he didn’t even slow as an idiot [Warrior of Faith] went to shove him. The Soldier, who outweighed the man, checked him flat onto the ground. The arguments had to matter. Unfortunately—Yellow Splatters ran into a press of bodies and was forced back. They struggled, and Pie spoke.
“Your Bible does not have you in it. Your God does not know your people.”
Marrieh flinched, and a gash opened up on her cheek. As if struck by such a sharp blow—Yirene healed her and fired back.
“We are written into the New Bible. You are the ones who have left your continent to interfere in this foreign nation’s matters. You are not Kheltian. When this is done, they will expel you. Khelt loves no one but their own.”
A blow in return; Pie’s head jerked. He drew back a hand and threw something. A pie hit Yirene in the face, and she blinked.
Normal Skills did work. But the shoving and outrage of the People of God physically pushed the Painted Antinium back. Yellow Splatters panted.
“Don’t give them any justification, Pie. Use your words, not your fists. Close ranks!”
They had to win an edge here. Yes, that was how it worked. The Painted Antinium drew closer together, and they were a rock before a raging torrent. A single stubborn anthill amidst a literal sea of the Prophet’s people, who formed an ever-shifting ring around the Antinium.
However—the Antinium broke that sea every time lower-level [Faithful] came at them. Workers and Soldiers knocking down the People of God like a hammer smashing through all but the Prophet’s best warriors. Those were the groups that fought in the open ground, pockets of [Holy Warriors] who slammed into the Antinium, broke away, reformed, trying to pierce the stubborn knot of insects.
The Painted Antinium kept moving, forcing the People of God away, using the mass of bodies against the Prophet’s warriors who had to give chase. And unless they came together, the Antinium enveloped groups equal to their size or smaller. Left beaten-down, wounded, and ran onwards.
Clashing—faltering as Antinium fell, one by one, to be dragged away by the People of God. Enduring. Two faiths meeting like sparks on the ground.
The Prophet’s strength was vast, but undirected. He snarled at Pawn as he led another attack at them personally.
“I have witnessed the enemy that Erin Solstice spoke of! They are Fetohep of Khelt’s allies. That is why I have come here, to deliver those six rotting corpses to their graves as well as this foul king!”
“You—what—?”
For a moment, Pawn slackened, and the Prophet swung his staff, and Pawn blocked. The blow tossed the Worker across the ground.
“Pawn!”
The Painted Antinium cried out, and the Worker hit the ground, tumbling—he rose as they ran to him, and the People of God advanced, a wave. They had the momentum. Even a single opening—they were shoving the Painted Antinium back, now, and Yellow Splatters was yelling.
“Hold! Hold! H—what are you doing? Seventh Voice?”
He was shoving the People of God back, one by one, until a figure as tall and strong as he was met him. Four arms grabbed Yellow Splatters, and the Painted Soldier stumbled. Was thrown down and gazed up.
Seventh Voice, wearing his paint, stood with the People of God, and he peered down. The Painted Antinium faltered as one. They had not realized they were missing one of their own. The Soldier spoke with only a trace of guilt.
“I’m just…seeing what there is to see. Don’t look at me like that. Are we allowed to believe in what we want, or is Pawn’s way the only way? Is his way the right way to get to Heaven? You don’t even know. You lied.”
Waver. Painted Antinium were hurled back by the People of God. Smaller though they were—Jilthread, that Hemp woman shoved Rabbitears with a push that sent him flying like Pawn. Losing. Yellow Splatters rose, shaky.
I am the flaw. He flinched as Seventh Voice came at him, poised to grapple like the Antinium did best, when a hand reached out.
Purple Smile blocked Seventh Voice. He was smiling, but Seventh Voice wavered. He came at the other Painted Soldier, but Purple Smile just grabbed him with two hands, and the other two hand-signed.
“[Are you going to kill the Kheltians, Seventh Voice? Is that faith better than ours?]”
“No, I—”
This time, it was Seventh Voice who wavered, and Purple Smile drew his head back and headbutted the Painted Soldier. The blow dropped Seventh Voice to the ground, and Marrieh had to help him up. She spoke.
“This is a pointless battle! We are both people of faith!”
“Yeah. But yours sucks. You have a lot of nice-sounding things, but somehow, it just turns into reasons why you can hurt people. We believe in Heaven, nothing more. If your God is so great, why does he keep having you attack everything?”
Pie spat back at her. Marrieh fell back, and it was Lazimeh who flew into a rage. He pointed.
“Blasphemer! Enough! [Miracle: True Lightning]!”
There was only a second to react. Yellow Splatters was throwing up a hand as he saw Lazimeh’s finger rise, and he spoke.
“[Unleash Sins: Envy]!”
It was not a crawling, bloated caterpillar, but a substantially larger bird with huge green wings that burst upwards. His envy of Khelt’s riches, his dissatisfaction—it flew upwards and screamed with a Human’s voice.
Then exploded as the bolt of lightning hit it. The air rocked, and everyone flinched.
“Lazimeh! Stop!”
Marrieh shouted, but the sacrificial sin had taken the blow. Lazimeh stared at Yellow Splatters, who lowered his finger.
“Heresy. He has the Skills of sin!”
The Stitch-man recoiled, but the sight of one of his miracles failing had shaken the faith of the People of God around him. The Antinium closed ranks again, and Yellow Splatters felt his own surge of confidence.
They don’t know how to fight. Tossing a sacrificial object or Skill in the way of an attack was basic. And—Yellow Splatters shouted.
