“Okay. Forget everything I said. Miracles can be variable, and they seem to scale not based on mana, but on ‘faith’. Desperation. They’re a reactive shield. The worst kind of thing to try to account for with your spellcasting.”
She scowled, floating closer.
“It’s too damn powerful.”
So said the Death of Magic, who could eradicate islands with a single spell. Serinpotva held a wing out, and Czautha squeezed it.
“This Revenant intends to wipe out all the People of God. Can he do it?”
“Hmm. Unless they’ve got more I haven’t seen, they just don’t have the ability to hit him while he’s up there. And his barriers—aha, he took that shot on purpose.”
The Vizir had been hit by a single flying arrow shot from below. The arrow, glowing with the Prophet’s fire, collapsed an orange shield, but he had multiple layers of defenses, and Silvenia watched his crimson eye-lights narrow slightly.
“Oh, he didn’t like that. It probably took down an entire shield spell. But he can layer them, and unless the Prophet hits him straight on, I think they’re dead. I imagine every other [Mage] with sense is appreciating this lesson. We should send him a gift basket.”
As if he could hear her, the Vizir glanced up at the scrying spells, pure annoyance on his face. Silvenia waved at him cheerily.
“Hello! Can you see me? I’d love to hire you—oh, no, he can’t.”
She watched him dive down and come up with a huge ball of sand, which began to melt. Silvenia winced.
“Oh, he’s decided magic isn’t as effective as physical matter. Good call. I’d bet he’s going to either shower them with molten glass or make a construct out of it and have it burn them all to death while he snipes the Prophet. Which is just so—”
She sighed.
“[Remote Teleportation]. Hello? That guy clearly doesn’t have anti-teleportation wards. Teleport him up and [Magnify Gravity] by a hundred times. What are we doing here?”
She began heckling the Prophet as Czautha shook her head. The Vizir was laughing, and she knew he was doing it to instill terror on Khelt’s enemies. He kept varying how he killed them. Flee, run in terror, and be a lesson to others. The Djinni knew the axioms of war, for she had practiced them on enemies she found worthy, like the Blighted Kingdom and Roshal.
But it was abhorrent. If Khelt lived but for him, small wonder they had so many enemies. He was the monster the Prophet had feared after all.
 
——
 
The Prophet was wide open. A man raising his staff, shouting as he tried to defend his people. And they were praying, but the laughing Vizir rose higher as blood rained down. He had ripped it straight out of a Garuda’s chest and created a blood rain. Now, the burning orb of glass was churning white-hot as he mocked them.
This was the moment to take Harvey out. He wasn’t even looking at Pawn. The Worker knew it, but his head was craned back. He was watching Hecrelunn.
The champion of Eternal Khelt was laughing as his magic and aura turned the sky above into a rain of blood. But it seemed performative to Pawn. The swooping [Vizir] was a bit too fast, moving in a zig-zag pattern, not flying carefree and superior like the birds that Bird like to point out to him.
He was also—cruel. Another of the faithful died as Hecrelunn snatched them up, and this time, his voice was frustrated.
“[Flay the Living]. Scream for me, mortals.”
Pawn looked away once—he saw a bundle of flesh falling, and then a writhing, red figure of veins and flesh was shrieking. Hecrelunn was amplifying the shrieks over the People of God.
Trying to break their faith. He understood something about the war that was being fought, and he was trying to rout them. Pawn’s ally had created the opening the Painted Antinium needed. The Worker prayed for a moment as Hecrelunn released his victim and pointed his fingers down.
“Now, People of ‘God’. Try to survive until I may vent a millionth of my fury upon you.”
Thunder was booming, and the skies had turned blood-red. Byproducts of his spells or just illusion magic? It fit him.
“Pawn.”
Yellow Splatters was tensing for a charge. The [First Heretic-Captain] drew a sword forged for Antinium Soldier hands, and Harvey never noticed, but Marrieh did.
She turned from where she was guarding the Prophet, and her face was grim as she waited. Setting herself against both Antinium. Pawn nodded once as he drew his club.
“Yellow Splatters, do you have my back? Painted Antinium?”
“Always.”
“Good.”
Above them, the Vizir raised his arms higher to throw down the molten hill of glass and stopped. He peered down at the Prophet and spoke, annoyed.
“Antinium-thing. Move. You’re in the way.”
Harvey spun. Pawn was two dozen paces away from him. He lifted his staff, snarling, but the [Priest] wasn’t gazing at him. He was holding his club to one side as he held his Book of Heaven and Sky, and he was reading from it.
“No. I think I’m in the right place, Vizir. Strange, I forgot to add this section in.”
“What? Move, fool.”
The Vizir swooped down, but Pawn delicately raised a quill and scribbled in the book. Then he peered up.
“No. I need to write a new section about right and wrong. Somehow, I never added it because I thought it was obvious. But you are the very definition of an ally I would rather never have. Enough, Vizir Hecrelunn. Fall back.”
“…What?”
The Revenant was so surprised he floated back in the air, but Pawn just glanced at the bloody ground and bodies. Lazimeh was standing over the dead Draugr, panting, as rippling air revealed invisible Ghouls. Slaughter. The [Priest] pointed up.
“We are both people of faith. I did not come here to annihilate the People of God. Let alone children. You are everything that the Prophet rightly hates Khelt for. Fly away, Vizir.”
“You—do not give orders—to me.”
The strain of keeping the molten orb of glass or the incredulity of being lectured by Pawn made Hecrelunn’s voice break. He roared down at Pawn.
“I am ending this damned affair and keeping your people from being destroyed! Move or I will annihilate you.”
He shrieked down, and the [Priest of Wrath and Sky]’s eyes flashed. Were those…pupils made of light staring up at Hecrelunn? Pawn spoke back, voice flat.
“That’s my line. I am only sparing you because I know you are loyal to Khelt. No more slaughter. Fly off, little skeleton, or I’ll unmake you.”
Hecrelunn’s eye-lights turned into pinpoints of rage. He hesitated, then threw the orb of glass down.
“Then die.”
Liquid glass splashed down around Pawn, and the watching Painted Folk cried out—then gasped. The light of Heaven bloomed and reflected around the glass running around Pawn’s capstone Skill.
[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. He swept his club around and spoke.
“He can’t hit us from above. Painted Antinium, to me. Harvey?”
He turned, and the Prophet hesitated only a moment before they both lifted staff and club. Hecrelunn dove and attacked from the side, under Pawn’s shield.
“[Wave of Blood]! [Ichor Burst]!”
He conjured a wave which he exploded into needle-shards of blood. Harvey split the wave, and Pawn’s shield caught the magic. Hecrelunn flashed overhead as both leaders tried to strike him. He had an orb of something noxious in his hands. A bomb of pestilence he was aiming at point blank r—
A hand of bone slapped Hecrelunn out of the sky. The Vizir saw it coming at the last moment and threw his [Orb of Pestilence], but it just splashed over the Bone Giant’s face. A dead Drake grinning at him.
“What?”
The blow tossed Hecrelunn across the ground, and he rose, firing spells from both hands at—
Where had it gone? The undead that had struck him had vanished. The Vizir performed an aileron roll as more spears of light ate at his barrier spells. Who—how—?
The culprit was standing on the ground just under Hecrelunn. The Vizir saw a single Antinium without paint on his carapace raise a fist. Yellow Splatters, his shell permanently colored by his identity, spoke.
“We might be sinners, but you’re a monster, Vizir. [Vision of Despair: Bone Giant’s Swing].”
A Bone Giant appeared, and that hand rose. This time, Hecrelunn dodged it as the [First Heretic] of the Antinium conjured the nightmare of the Winter Solstice. He pointed down.
“Die, traitors!”
Yellow Splatters threw up a hand, and Marrieh’s club met the [Disintegration Ray]. The air screamed, and her club—vanished. She reached for another as the Vizir flew higher, shrieking insults, bombarding Pawn’s Skill. He whirled and threw out one arm, shouting.
“Undead of Khelt, by your eternal service, arise! Arise, legions of Khelt, and unmake them all!”
The skeletons broke the earth, and they were rising now. By the tens of thousands, and Pawn sighed. Then his head turned.
“—What is that?”
The Prophet of God turned as well, and his despairing eyes lit up with a mania, a fervor. He began to laugh.
“Judgement. Judgement on all us sinners—”
Hecrelunn dove at them, and Pawn kept staring northwards, towards the [Light of Faith]. He felt like something had reached a crescendo there. A critical mass of faith, like a building music or weight in the air. Until it was heavy, dense enough to…
Open something. A door.
A gate.
Something reached out from the other side and pulled the door open wider. Pawn spoke.
“Ah, hells.”
The first Angel set foot on Chandrar, and there was a stillness to the air as it drew a flaming sword. The worshipping People of God gazed up and beheld it.
Look, come and see. It had six wings and eight eyes. Flesh glowing like sunlight.
A blade of white flame that scorched the soul.
It came into this world naked, faceless, and the light it brought invigorated the soul and burnt filth away.
It spoke, without a mouth, like the tolling of bells. Every Agelum in the world cried out when they felt it descend, like a bright-hot brand touching their hearts, ecstatic and painful. Cousins kith and kin to them but purer. Different.
The Angel of God flew southwards as the Vizir turned, and the Prophet fell to his knees, weeping in joy and prostrating himself, and then his eyes caught the being as it flew at Pawn, blade raised. He saw it had stitching along its neck and joints.
An Angel of Stitch-folk. The first was lightest and swiftest, calling a toll for the changing of the world’s order and the ending to all the People of God’s foes.
The second sounded like breaking glass and carried a spear of glowing light. The third set off [Dangersenses] across the Kingdom of Khelt, and its light was visible in Germina and Reim, a glowing star falling to earth.
Then the King of Khelt paused and beheld the doom of Khelt.
 
——
 
They attacked so fast that Yellow Splatters barely saw them move. The first one dove at Pawn. Pawn, not Hecrelunn. The [First Heretic] threw himself forwards, and the sword slashed across his chest and hurt.
It hurt his soul. He screamed as he struck at it, but it danced around him like a swallow, sword slashing.
Like a [Blademaster]. He had seen Numbtongue fighting, but even the Hobgoblin looked slow and sloppy compared to—
Pawn swung his club, and the Angel darted back, skimming across the ground at the other Painted Antinium. Harvey whispered.
“Judgement upon us all. Repent. Rep—”
Pawn kicked him in the face as the [Priest] tried to heal Yellow Splatters, but these were no normal wounds. The [Heretic] whispered.
“Pawn, it’s coming—”
The first Angel was slashing at Pawn’s head when Hecrelunn’s [Deathbolts] made it twist. Instead of dodging, it cut through eight of the spells, and the Vizir halted, finger raised.
“Anti-magic blade. Hm.”
He flew upwards, then spotted the second Angel bearing down on him. Pawn dropped Yellow Splatters.
“Stellar Word, heal him!”
He backed up as the first Angel dove at him again, and Hecrelunn scrambled away from the second Angel. He was no longer confident.
“That light. What is—argh!”
His scream as he fell to earth was pained. Pain? For a second, Pawn peered up and didn’t see the skeleton dressed in rich, regal robes with bright crimson lights.
He saw a man, hooked nosed, sneeringly handsome, black hair, and crimson eyes wide with p—
The [Vizir] caught himself an inch off the ground and glanced up. The light flashed over him again as the third Angel flew, and it burned his very soul. He took one look at it and fled.
Two pursued him as thousands of skeletons advanced on the People of God, who had fallen to their knees in prayer. Hecrelunn was skimming over the undead’s heads, firing spells back at the two Angels who cut the spells out of the sky. They did not attack the skeletons below them.
They didn’t need to.
The light from the third one, who had four pairs of wings and was visibly larger than the other two, bathed the skeletons, and they peered up and…vanished.
A skeleton wearing Khelt’s armor gazed into the light of the Angel as it hefted a spear, and it turned to dust in a moment. There was a flicker. A vision.
—a [Craftsman] running a blade across soft leather, working it as he stood at a stall outside a city of blue sand—
The skeleton collapsed. Another was aiming an arrow as the light touched it.
—girl aiming a bow at a fair. Grinning at the bobbing targets painted to look like a Dragon—
Memories. All that remained in Khelt’s undead were brought to light, made, for a second, mortal, then erased.
The undead crumbled in seconds. Ten thousand vanished into bone dust and empty armor as the Kheltians cried out, and the Angels swept down from above. Pawn was backing up, trying to defend himself, but they fought like—
Slash. The smallest Angel came down, a two-handed cut which he moved to block. So it saw him and repositioned, swinging its wings out so it curved around into a sideways slash that raked his side. Then as he turned, swinging wildly, it spun around his back, slashing twice. Flying up—
The blows burned the Antinium’s carapace, but Pawn only felt the searing pain of heat. Faith. He was a being of faith. But it was so damn fast—
He threw himself forwards as the blade speared down. It would have burned a hole straight through his head from above and boiled him from the inside. He knew as he tumbled forwards, rising, that it would have him before he could r—
The Angel was angling for a deathblow when it swivelled in midair. The spear made out of lightning still blew it out of the air, and the People of God cried out. A voice from above yelled down to Pawn, the most beautiful thing he’d heard since his [Princess]…
“Pawn! Get up the ramp! Hurry—”
Pewerthe was shouting at him, hefting her masterpiece pot, but Captain Cikroleth spun the wheel as he snapped.
“No time! It’s coming around—to arms! Don’t let it touch the Heir or my ship!”
