“We won’t be beggared overnight, Fetohep. Even with tributes, we have plenty of time. We just have to…spend what we have before it runs out. We might have as much as a decade before we need to, um, have other incomes. Less if we use it, and I suggest we use what we have.”
“I shall consult with…economic experts. I do not know whom. The Quarass, Lyonette. Yes, she wished to speak. I should thank her.”
Pewerthe nodded.
“Good. You need time to yourself in case you slumber. And, um, about what Anleth told me. We can do it! We just need to focus. Keep it quiet. He’s the only one who knows, and Fellbow and Frieke. We should tell a few, but not count on it.”
Hope amidst ruins. Fetohep was nodding as Pewerthe ran a finger down the page.
“What else? Oh, yes. I don’t think I want to be the Heir of Khelt anymore.”
She glanced up, and Fetohep paused.
“Ah. Of course. I have asked too much of you, Pewerthe. I shall find another once…”
“Not that.”
She casually put the paper down and clasped her hands together. Pewerthe met Fetohep’s gaze, and he paused.
“What, then?”
The [Potter] shrugged uncomfortably.
“I just don’t like it. Waiting to be needed. I did a bad job of waiting, and I clashed with you.”
“This time, I shall heed—”
“I don’t like ruling, Fetohep. I’m good at leading, but not taking full charge of it all. I’d rather not be the Heir, but someone needed now. And I think your government, which you need, could use me. As [Spymistress]. Or Magistrate of Spies or something.”
She flashed a smile at Fetohep, and his eye-flames flickered.
“Spymistress. You? But nations know you were the one who tricked them.”
“They might. But secrets can always be re-potted. And it’s what I do well. I’ll help you find a new Heir of Khelt, but I’d like the job either way.”
So saying, Pewerthe twirled a tiny pot on her finger. Fetohep stared at her, and then he did smile ruefully.
“I would be a fool to quibble. I suppose you need a budget. And Frieke among others?”
Pewerthe grinned as she flicked the pot’s tiny lid up and spoke into it.
“I am the Spymistress of Khelt.”
She snapped the lid shut, tucked it into her bag of holding, and nodded.
“Yep. But I’ll present my requirements later. For the moment, I think we should keep Queen Jecaina as the next Heir of Khelt. For a few reasons. Firstly, it strengthens her claim in Jecrass against her father if it becomes known. Second, she has an army and the motivation to help Khelt—more security. We don’t have to keep her as Heir. Another candidate might be the Quarass. It’d motivate her to help even more, but I think it’d give her a permanent claim on Khelt, so probably not.”
He listened as her eyes danced and she spoke, and Fetohep nodded along. In her, he saw hope. Just like the Vizir who flew off towards his kingdom without a word to Fetohep. Nor a request for thanks.
 
——
 
But he didn’t fly back right away. Instead, the [Vizir] cast an illusion spell and landed in the city he had helped found. Koirezune.
Unrecognized by all, he walked the streets, and the dream he had helped build with Khelta…Hecrelunn stumbled, and for a moment, he was no undead Revenant, but a sharp-chinned man with imperious, cunning purple eyes, a bit shorter than you might think, wearing high-heeled boots, always, eternally wearing a dissatisfied quirk to his lips.
—Stumbling and leaning against a stall of goods for ‘sale’. The sign said that the owner appreciated trades or compliments and, if you took one, to please write a note of thanks.
Closed forever. The precious gemstones, magical papers, glues and scraps of wood from around the world that the [Crafter of Delights] used to make his wares would no longer flow into the city without thought for the cost. Hecrelunn’s sun-dusked face was pale as he gazed about.
At trash littering the streets. Kheltians weeping or learning to steal and hoard. His chest rose and fell, and someone spoke.
“Sir? Sir? Are you well?”
“Leave me.”
Unlike Fetohep of Khelt, Hecrelunn had not forgotten his mortal features, and there was no one in this world to remember what he had looked like. He did not consider his current body his true self.
He had always been Khelta’s honorguard in whatever shape. And now—he raised trembling fingers, and someone called out.
“Is there a [Healer] about? I think this man is unwell. Panic attack.”
More Kheltians turned, and Mistreq saw Hecrelunn swipe at him with a snarl. The newly-made [Bug Remover] flinched. Some of the Kheltians who’d been approaching backed away when they saw the swipe.
“Another one? The [Healers] are beyond busy—I’ll try to find someone.”
“Is he violent? The officials…oh.”
A pause. As all recalled that the officials were likewise occupied with grave matters. Chasing down some of the People of God who’d remained in the borders. Restoring order. Needing to intercept thieves, foreigners, bandits.
The [Crafter of Delights] who owned the stall had returned, but he flinched back as Hecrelunn snarled around at them. He was a man with white hair, who had tear-tracks on his dust-covered face.
“Is this the way of things now? Will we be in fear of others beating us and stealing our things? Will we have to lock our doors, and will strangers come into our city whenever they please? This is the end of Khelt. We’ll be devoured by insects, murdered in our sleep, our daughters carried off…”
It was not entirely incorrect. Mistreq flinched, and Hecrelunn gazed ahead, wordless. But before the lamentations of the old man could grow louder, there was a brisk clip-clop of hooves, and someone spoke.
“Who’s having a panic attack? I will deal with it. And I will have no fearmongering! Not from you, elder. In these moments, you and I should be the ones who speak reassurance, not woe!”
Who—the old [Crafter of Delights] turned, and Herdmistress Geraeri trotted down the street. She limped a bit, grimacing.
“Ach, my bones. You there. Are you unwell, sir? I can take you to my camps.”
“Leave me be.”
Hecrelunn snarled at her, and she halted and eyed him. But she didn’t force the issue, instead addressing the other Kheltians.
“I am Herdmistress Geraeri. I have been to Koirezune seldom, but my People of Zair, we do live on the borders of Khelt and in New Jecrass. You may see more of us of late.”
“Herdmistress, greetings! I’m, uh, [Bug Remover] Mistreq. Formerly [Wine Enthusiast] and [Tour Guide]. Are you hurt? You fought bravely for Khelt.”
Mistreq introduced himself, and Geraeri rubbed at one foreleg.
“No, just old. But it seems I am going to work until the day I lie down for good. It is not entirely displeasing compared to the alternative. Having tasted not being needed—well, it is a small comfort in this moment. I wish to reassure you of the future as well as give frank, honest advice.”
More Kheltians drifted over. A pair of Gnolls, Anleth, Farmer Colovt, who was walking towards the palace with some of the New Jecrassians. Even the old [Hermit] Malam and six of his lions. Each one was shaken in their own way, and they represented Khelt, funnily enough.
The [Crafter of Delights] wore a bitter expression, as if the People of God’s deeds had poisoned his belief in the goodness of humanity. He swiped a hand at the Gnolls.
“This all came of helping foreigners. We were safe! We were happy. And now we’re all in danger. Don’t lie and say we will not be! I have heard of Roshal’s raid. How many nations will we pay, and how many people will come through the borders, harming us, stealing our wealth now the skeletons are weak? We should have never let them in!”
He turned to Mistreq and the other Kheltians. The [Bug Remover] hesitated, and the Gnolls, all three of them, halted. The two adults, Lessha and Qirrel, glanced at the other Kheltians’ faces. A little Gnoll girl ducked behind a stall, hiding.
“Some of our newcomers fought for His Majesty. Did Named-adventurer Frieke not save Heir Pewerthe?”
Mistreq remonstrated with the man, and the [Crafter] glared.
“Those who help Khelt, but what of those who owe us so much? We did not need to go to Izril. If we hadn’t—”
If His Majesty had not let us down. He might have gone on, but a hand fell on his shoulder, and the [Crafter of Delights] flinched.
“See? They’re already using force to—”
He thought it was the Centaurs or Gnolls who took umbrage with him, but instead, he turned, and the largest beak in the world pecked him on the shoulder. Ever-so-gently, such that not even the Kheltian man could really cry out in pain.
“For shame, Codafrey! Was it not you I heard exclaim in sorrow over the Gnolls that Belchan attacked? Did you not cheer His Majesty along with the rest of us? We are all afraid of danger and the future. But you should not say it as if it were other species who didn’t deserve Khelt’s kindness.”
“Oh, Chivi, I only meant—”
He gazed up, and the biggest Garuda that anyone had ever seen flapped her wings unhappily. She was nine feet tall with black-and-white plumage like a seagull, and even Geraeri seemed startled to meet one of Koirezune’s more notable residents.
“Half-Giantess. I didn’t think but to realize there were half-Giants in Khelt.”
She lowered her left forehoof and swept it across the ground. Chivi smiled, but unhappily. She’d lost feathers out of stress, and she nibbled at a stray one on her arm.
“I’m the only Garuda. One of three…but I’m just another daughter of Khelt. Will we really be hurt, Herdmistress? Don’t mind Codafrey.”
“I’m…I didn’t mean you shouldn’t be citizens. Just that our undead—”
The old man was ashamed, but Geraeri just nodded.
“It is true that trouble will come to Khelt. There will always be those who manage to get past His Majesty’s undead and the new guards. The undead are not gone, remember. Just weakened. The greatest threat would be visitors more than some bandit stealing across the borders. They may be duplicitous or violent, yes. Locking your doors and windows is something you must learn.”
Mistreq’s stomach hurt as the Kheltians sighed. After seeing Fetohep nearly slain, it was a blow, but not one that left them weeping. They were numb, but Geraeri raised her voice as she glanced at Lessha and Qirrel.
“However! Safety will not come from a locked door! It will come from knowing your neighbors’ faces—and that is something I think Kheltians know! If you see someone acting odd, telling others, intercepting trouble together is how you truly stay safe.”
“But what if they have a knife or hurt someone?”
Mistreq’s voice trembled, and Geraeri smiled at him.
“Then you must be brave, but I think most men and women might threaten a Kheltian alone. Not so against thirty. This is how it works, is it not?”
Lessha came forwards, nodding and baring her teeth.
“It is so. We Gnolls also hope to show our faces in the bigger cities more. To spread out, in fact, and not live so much by ourselves. We had thought to, but if we are to be a people of Khelt, we must not be so afraid to claim it. If we are welcome?”
She turned to Mistreq, and he nodded.
“Of course.”
Now Codafrey was embarrassed, but the disguised Hecrelunn rasped.
“Khelt has always welcomed every species. Do not dare presume Khelta intended anything less. From the last Halflings to the first Selphids and Stitch-folk—this was a haven for all those who she chose to love.”
He glowered at Lessha, who sniffed, then gave him a deep bow.
“As you say, sir.”
“But how will we…pay for things? I am told that is how it is done, and we do not have any coins. Will we be beggared? We do not have jobs, most of us. How will His Majesty collect…taxes?”
Codafrey was worried about the other practicalities of life, and Geraeri stepped closer to his stall as Anleth clutched his parents’ hands in worry. The Herdmistress studied Codafrey’s works.
“This is your craft, sir? I can name only three Centaurs with finer talents in my camps, though perhaps it’s the quality of materials. This, for instance.”
She held up a little necklace made out of a cut triangle of glass and two more that were spaced together with cunning bits of wire such that when the light caught one, the prismatic reflection of sunlight struck the other two and created a hypnotizing illusion in the air.
“That? Oh, it’s just a bit of glass and wire. Do you want it? Take it. I shan’t make more…I’ll be working at the farms, if I can handle hoeing dirt, or whatever is needed.”
The old [Crafter of Delights] barely glanced at it, but Geraeri dug in her pockets. She placed three gold coins on the table, then added eight more.
“I’d pay you this for such a trinket, glass or not, sir. I might ask to make it less fragile since I fear the wire might bend…but here is where you would charge me double and we’d haggle.”
Everyone eyed the gold coins as Lessha grinned, and Codafrey nudged the coins.
“Is that…a lot? It’s just plain gold, not a colorful coin.”
Geraeri laughed, but she did have to hide a bit of her dismay.
“To non-Kheltians, a gold coin is worth quite more. Crafter Codafrey, I am telling you that your work is worth more than swinging a hoe around untrained. Or is this not Koirezune?”
She went trotting down the street, and the other stalls were all filled with baubles to the Kheltians, but the Herdmistress scooped up a handful.
“These would fascinate any visitor—if they could afford the price of them! Khelt surely lacks for those willing to do common tasks, and such people may find themselves the most valuable in a sense.”
She gave Mistreq an approving glance, then turned. And her eyes found Anleth.
“But you have such interesting classes. Young boy, what level are you?”
He jumped.
“M-me? Only Level 13.”
Level 13 at his age? Even the other Kheltians were impressed, but Geraeri nodded.
“You are on par with any good apprentice around the world, child. Though [Gambler]…well, this is how Khelt must change. Do not forget, either, that New Jecrass exists.”
“Too right! And even if we lack for the, eh, bounties of Khelt, it’s been cursed fine so far! Everyone we’ve come across tells us we’ve been living in privation, but not having to worry about food nor safety was good enough for us! Enchanted wells, sewers, dead gods!”
A swarthy [Rancher] from New Jecrass pumped a fist, then jumped as the lions and Malam came forwards. The old [Hermit] appeared very disturbed.
“Will everyone have to work and help? I came because I feared my cats wouldn’t be able to live as they used to.”
Or me. No more purified water shipments nor steaks. The lions were glancing at each other with equal worry.
We’re going to actually have to hunt for our food? They didn’t know if they could handle it.
