Rabbitears checked his ordinary shortsword and glared at Pawn accusingly. The Priest muttered.
“Now I could really use some damn salvation!”
Ecclisi unclasped his hands.
“In Erin’s name we pray. Amen.”
Pawn whirled and then heard a pop—
 
——
 
They landed on the ground, and the city blazing with light and sound was six feet from them, the opening gates filled with pilgrims trying to see what was going on. They whirled as the Antinium stood, and Pawn turned.
“Alright, run.”
They didn’t ask questions, just ran for it. The People of God gave chase, but half-heartedly. Antinium might not be the fastest, but they had endurance, and soon, they were running through the desert roughly towards where Sand at Sea had gone.
“Well…that…sucked.”
Pie panted as they finally slowed twenty minutes later. Pawn glanced over his shoulders, but he saw no riders. The Prophet had either let them go or was too busy with that bit of internal schism.
“Perhaps I’ve ruined their faith for them and they’ll devolve into a hundred warring subsects and we’ll be done.”
He was hopeful, but he didn’t really think that would happen. The others gazed at him, and Ecclisi spoke, voice rapt.
“You were incredible, Pawn. Your ability to denounce and counter other faiths is inspiring to see with my own eyes!”
Pawn turned to him. Then he nodded at Purple Smile.
“Right, thank you, Ecclisi. I was going to save it until we were safe, but Purple Smile?”
Purple Smile smacked the back of Ecclisi’s head. Pawn smiled.
“Thank you.”
Then he seized Ecclisi’s antennae like it was an ear.
“You’re one of the future-Antinium, aren’t you?”
“N-no.”
“Don’t lie! What was that craziness about Erin? Your levels, your Skills, everything is different. Answer me!”
Ecclisi was trembling, not with fear so much as fervor of his own. Pawn groaned when he saw it.
Oh no, I thought the Prophet was the only one with crazy people, now look at this. We’re too similar after all. Ecclisi whispered.
“I was there when Apostle Pawn, the true Prophet, held the door to reality open to save countless worlds. He bade us go and make our own path, and so I journeyed here, that I might bring salvation to this world. I only wished to help bring you onto the true path you will find, Pawn!”
Rabbitears, Starfold, and Pie were giving each other very weirded-out looks. Pie tapped the side of his head as Pawn tilted his head.
“The true path being…?”
“Worshipping Erin Solstice, of course. Our Goddess. You are so close, Pawn! Heaven exists, and it shall be built. The sky is beautiful, but it is through Erin, not their foolish God, that all will be saved. Perhaps their God exists, but is he a loving God? Does he make pancakes? Will he be there with flag in hand when the sky falls?”
Pawn stared at Ecclisi, mandibles open. He let go of the antennae, backed away, and began striding off. Ecclisi followed.
“Pawn! Pawn, do not doubt yourself! You know it is the truth! Prophet Pawn saw it when she died and did not wake. You have been deceived by Erin Solstice.”
“[Deceived by Erin Solstice? What are you, stupid? Stop bothering Pawn—]”
Rabbitears tried to put Ecclisi in a headlock, but the Worker began running and started dragging Rabbitears behind him. He was so damn strong—Ecclisi shouted.
“It is a sign of her miracles! In our world, she did not wake, but in this one, she is fleeing her apotheosis! Is there anything she cannot do, Pawn?”
“Remember to put butter in spaghetti.”
Pawn muttered. Ecclisi ran up beside him.
“You may mock, but in your heart, you believe. I know it, Pawn. Let me tell you what I witnessed and what your faith could be!”
“No. I won’t get rid of you, but I’m not doing this. Not right now. We have a crazy Prophet to deal with—two Prophets, and I already got in trouble with Lyonette without even doing anything! Your Prophet is my enemy, got it?”
Pawn shook his fist in Ecclisi’s face, and the Worker halted.
“But Pawn. In my time, Prophet Pawn and Councilwoman Lyonette were in a loving relationship. They were commonwealth married. Whose is the true way if not his?”
Oh, like the Serpent of Eden, the words crept in under Pawn’s guard. Purple Smile grabbed Ecclisi, but Pawn hesitated. Just for a moment. He opened his mandibles, then coughed.
“Er…assassin.”
The Antinium peered at him, then whirled. Rabbitears drew his sword, and someone shouted.
“No, nonono, please!”
Gladys the freed [Slave] appeared, holding her hands up, and Pawn relaxed. He’d noticed someone sneaking up on them but hadn’t been able to see them. Just a tiny bit of faith.
“You’re Gladys, the [Slave]. The one from Earth. Are you running from the Prophet?”
Everyone turned to stare at him, and Gladys jumped.
“How’d you—”
“Earthers always act the same when someone talks about home. You get so good at noticing it becomes second nature. I take it you don’t want to be a part of the People of God?”
Gladys hesitated.
“You know other people from…? I didn’t know there were more. I’ve been a [Slave] since—since I—I came here because they said it was safe.”
Pawn held out a hand. He remembered Erin being captive and wondered…for a second, he felt those dark Skills calling for him, but his voice was gentle.
“It is safe in our company as well. Come with us and we will bring you anywhere you wish, Gladys. This Prophet of God is not the only one with faith.”
She hesitated, then took his hand.
“He’s…I don’t think he knows it all properly. But his people worship him. They’re building something; he calls it a sacrament. To summon an angel. They’re almost done.”
“Uh oh. That’s not good.”
Pawn tried to recall what he knew about angels, but all he had from Ryoka was a hazy explanation about Heaven and the one who guarded Eden. With a flaming sword. He eyed Gladys.
“I don’t know all about Christianity, just what I was told. What is an angel to you?”
They were moving, and Gladys shrugged.
“I don’t know. Do you mean an angel like in the books? Or in pop culture?”
“…The second one. It seems to me faith is based on belief. So what does the Prophet believe? What is an angel?”
She bit her lip.
“I’d call it a winged, Human-looking person. Male or female. A holy being, good, kind, and divine, from heaven. That’s one kind of angel. The other would be…the avenging kind. The one who has a flaming sword.”
“Good at fighting?”
“Yes.”
“Scale of one to ten?”
“…Ten? It’s an angel.”
Pawn glanced at the other Antinium. Without a word, he began to run faster and motioned.
“Gladys, we can carry you if you can’t run, and I’ll heal your scars. But we need to get to Khelt now. Ecclisi! You wouldn’t happen to have any knowledge of how to beat angels, would you? Or any super-Miracles from the future?”
Ecclisi hesitated.
“I was not the first of the Faithful to join Pawn’s call, um, Present-Pawn. Merely one of the many who served, and humble. The greatest amongst us could summon the aspects of the Centenium, call burning flames from the sky, and walk as tall as half-Giants. I was not there when you burnt nations to ash.”
Everyone turned to peer at Pawn, and he raised his hands.
“It’s not me! I mean, it’s one version of—so no super-miracles.”
Ecclisi shook his head.
“I’m only Level 37. A few of us went to the other group that needed us most. The 7th Hive. But as for angels, I know you can triumph! For ours is the superior faith! Your [Summoned Workers] surely already have the power to fly, don’t they?”
He held his thumbs up, and Pawn stared at him. Damn alternate-reality Prophets raising the bar! He ran faster and, by chance, came across Yellow Splatters coming back this way. Then began, well, an altercation between the two faiths and a lot of surprises.
For you see, faith begat faith. Just in ways neither Pawn nor the Prophet expected.
 
——
 
Harvey saw the schism begin as Pawn, who might well be a Devil in disguise, fled. His people were in chaos, denying, screaming, begging him to tell them it was a lie. Here was the problem: it was not.
That was why it burned them. It burned him like the fading poison in his veins, too, in guilt. It was the conclusion Jilthread had already come to as she wept. It was the omission Harvey himself had planted in their minds, a seed of weakness.
There were not Stitch-folk in the Bible. Nor…Heaven. He knew it too.
Perhaps Christianity, his Protestant faith of Earth, was only for Humans. What would his pastor say if he saw a Stitch-woman? Would he turn away from Marrieh? Perhaps—but then the outrage rose in the Prophet, and he spoke.
“ᴇɴᴏᴜɢʜ! ʜᴇᴇᴅ ᴍᴇ, ᴘᴇᴏᴘʟᴇ ᴏꜰ ɢᴏᴅ! ʜᴇᴇᴅ ᴍᴇ, ᴄʜɪʟᴅʀᴇɴ ᴏꜰ ʜᴇᴍᴘ, ᴄᴏᴛᴛᴏɴ, ᴀɴᴅ ꜱɪʟᴋ! ᴀɴᴅ ᴀʟʟ ʏᴏᴜ ᴏꜰ ᴏᴛʜᴇʀ ꜱᴘᴇᴄɪᴇꜱ! ɪ ᴡᴀꜱ ɴᴏᴛ ꜱᴇɴᴛ ᴛᴏ ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴏʀʟᴅ ᴛᴏ ꜱᴀᴠᴇ ᴏɴʟʏ ʜᴜᴍᴀɴꜱ! ɪ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴛᴏ ꜱᴀᴠᴇ ᴀɴᴅ ɪɴ ᴛᴜʀɴ ꜱᴀᴠᴇᴅ ʙʏ ꜱᴛɪᴛᴄʜꜰᴏʟᴋ. ɪꜰ ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ ɪꜱ ɴᴏ ᴡᴏʀᴅ ᴡɪᴛʜ ʏᴏᴜʀ ɴᴀᴍᴇꜱ ɪɴ ɪᴛ ɪɴ ᴛʜᴇ ʙɪʙʟᴇ ᴏꜰ ᴇᴀʀᴛʜ, ᴛʜᴇɴ ꜱᴏ ʙᴇ ɪᴛ. ɪ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ᴡʀɪᴛᴛᴇɴ ᴀ ɴᴇᴡ ʜᴏʟʏ ᴛᴇxᴛ. ɢᴏᴅ ᴋɴᴏᴡꜱ ʏᴏᴜʀ ɴᴀᴍᴇꜱ, ᴇᴀᴄʜ ᴀɴᴅ ᴇᴠᴇʀʏ ᴏɴᴇ.”
He ripped something from his new bag of holding and held it aloft, and they beheld it. It was unfinished, bound loosely with twine, written with smudged ink, but he held it with that sense of trepidation, triumph, and regret.
Ah, Martin Luther. He hadn’t actually remembered the name of that man until Pawn had spoken it. But here, once again, was the moment.
They beheld his New Bible, and the People of God did indeed break before Pawn’s admonition, but not into a hundred shards of faithless glass, but into a new people. Just like others before him, real or imposters they might be, Harvey had found his own revelation from God.
“We will be his people. And the Antinium is wrong, for all he spoke with conviction and wisdom. Khelt is ruled by debauchery and sin, and if we must defeat the Antinium as well as the King of Khelt, we shall.”
The Prophet spoke to his Disciples in the aftermath. Lazimeh was glowing with relief, literally, and Yirene was smiling. Jilthread hugged the first copy of the New Bible to her chest, but Marrieh was troubled.
“He came without violence. He seemed like a good man, Harvey. More than any others we have met on our long journey.”
“Marrieh, you are speaking to the Prophet! He is no longer in disguise! Remember that!”
Lazimeh scolded her, but she held her ground.
“I know. Perhaps it is a reminder we can be wrong and we are equals before God.”
The Prophet was thinking on Pawn. He hadn’t hated the [Priest] entirely either, but the Antinium had irked him as well. He was sanctimonious as well as cunning. But…
Only Catholic [Priests] can’t have relationships? Harvey glanced at Yirene, then Marrieh, then realized they were a new faith anyways. Rules to be written. He cleared his throat, avoiding their gazes, and stared at the light.
“We shall meet them with faith, as equals, but hold true to our convictions if we come to conflict. For now, let the word be spread and the sacrament finished. We have poured wealth into it; now let us build it the remaining height at all speed.”
Khelt had clearly sent for the Antinium. They needed to summon the angels. If Manoset’s summoned spirit had been powerful enough to threaten a Named-rank adventurer, this would grant them salvation. Someone had seen a flying undead watching them from afar. And there were rumors entire armies were marching on Khelt, sensing the King of Khelt’s weakness.
He seemed pretty damn strong to the Prophet, but it would be done. The man sighed and closed his eyes.
“Prepare yourselves for Khelt to threaten us, my people. But so far they have broken their mercenaries and hired soldiers upon us. There were barely more than a few dozen Antinium spotted, and their ship was nearly destroyed by our faith. If the Antinium come against us, they shall be found wanting.”
Who could stop them now? Of course, Harvey didn’t say that because it sounded presumptuous, but who in this world actually cared for this selfish, reclusive nation?
 
——
 
They came riding into Khelt unopposed. Mostly because Fetohep was slumbering, but also because they, of all people, had a right to be here.
The Vizir Hecrelunn and Sand at Sea didn’t stop them. The Vizir was busy firing spells at armies who looked up in horror at him, or they saw a ship racing across the desert and turning to unleash a broadside.
One shot warnings. The other aimed for the center of mass.
However, even the patrolling Centaurs and Gnolls didn’t stop the newcomers. They asked questions, then let them pass.
The strangers to Khelt had never been here before, most of them. They stopped to gawk at the Kheltians, admire the wondrous cities that were ‘ruined’, and then set off for the northern border.
Accompanying them were [Scrying] spells, which were aimed at the People of God. Nations tuning into the fall of Khelt’s greatness, but the newcomers rode.
They found the Painted Antinium forming a thin line of less than fifty bodies against the People of God. But like the Gnolls, they held.
“Halt.”
Yellow Splatters put out a hand, and the People of God halted. There was something about a huge Antinium Soldier speaking that made you think twice, even those with the power of God on their side.
“We do not want conflict with you…Antinium. By the will of the Prophet and God almighty, stand aside!”
“You will halt. Khelt is not yours to plunder. Do not advance.”
“Or what?”
There were thirty of the People of God moving in a group towards a smaller Kheltian town named Serept’s Smithy—they loved blacksmithing. They had made some new armor custom-fit for Yellow Splatters. Even a helmet for his head.
For such things, he planted his feet in the ground, and five Antinium faced the People of God. Yellow Splatters called out as Kheltians watched from their town, faces pale with fear, poised to run or just surrender.
“You will halt. Or I will punch you. Repeatedly. By the will of Pawn, the Priest of Heaven and Sky, you will go no further. If you disagree with this, bring your Prophet.”
Pawn wasn’t here. He was leading another group of Antinium on interception duty. The People of God hesitated.
They didn’t halt. They never did. Instead, a few of them edged left and right, as if to break past Yellow Splatters’ group. If they rushed, the six Antinium wouldn’t be able to catch them all, right?
