Here? You had half-Elves lining up to be healed when plenty of Liscorians, young and old, hadn’t even wanted to hear about Pawn’s Skills, so he’d given up asking. It was rather gratifying, really. Pawn went back to the other Painted Antinium, who were sitting around as Rad Rema cooked for the first time since her death.
“Right, I reckon this is a half-decent fruit gumbo. Damn half-Elves. If it’s not, can’t be worse than the slop you lot eat!”
The Antinium were eating greedily; they’d been given tons of gifts from each nation. Pawn was about to try some gumbo, but he kept glancing to the side.
“It truly is a giant desert. Huh. I sort of like it.”
The heat sucked, of course. The Antinium would bake in the sun or freeze at night, but if you had a sand-cloak like the ones Jaganismet had gifted them, you were shaded and warm enough. And there was no damn rain, no water everywhere.
And no Drakes. It really was something not to have someone stare at you as if you were going to attack them, or as if they were plotting your imminent demise. Pawn touched his heart.
“Perhaps this is where we should have gone, not Izril. I suppose the Antinium who were sailing across the world didn’t know where to go. If not Izril…Terandria’s nice, or so I hear. Baleros? Lots of tasty bugs. Maybe we went to the worst continent.”
Then again, he’d heard Chandrar had tons of problems of their own, and Fetohep’s woes were certainly big ones. It was Captain Cikroleth who called out.
“We’re soon passing into Kheltian lands! I don’t know where His Majesty wants you, so we’ll take you to the capital, got it?”
Pawn’s head turned. All he saw was desert. Just a terribly flat vista, not even broken up by cacti or anything. Germina, Khelt, many nations bordered the Great Desert of Zeikhal in the center of the continent.
“How could anyone live here?”
“I’d dig. Plenty of shade and water, and if you can grow fungi…”
Yellow Splatters opined, and Pawn shook his head.
“No water underground, Yellow Splatters.”
The Soldier paused.
“What? None? But home…”
“No water. No dungeons either. Just sand and dirt, I suspect.”
“…This is better than Liscor.”
Pawn nudged him. They were the oldest of friends. As much as he was with Belgrade, Garry, or Bird. More, in a sense; Yellow Splatters was always around, whereas Pawn had grown further away from the other Antinium.
They’d gone through trials together, and yes, they’d had their ups and downs, like when Yellow Splatters had first disagreed with Pawn’s ways. Then when it had come out he’d lied about Heaven, or at least, having been there.
Friendship was friendship. If Heaven existed and there was a life eternal after death, then time was still too short to hate someone you loved. Pawn was glad Yellow Splatters had come, even if he was worried he’d left too few senior Painted Antinium back home.
“We’ll be back soon enough, I hope, Yellow Splatters. I truly don’t know what to do about this Prophet. King Fetohep suggested we might combat him, but if there really are thousands…we are not without combat Skills, but they might outlevel us. The power of his faith is vast. Do you sense that?”
They were very close to whatever the People of God were building. It was like a magnet pulling at Pawn’s own heart. Yellow Splatters agreed.
“They are powerful, but they have been…storing it. I did not know you could do that.”
“Neither did I. We are learning a lot. Starfold!”
Pawn turned and shouted over his shoulder, and Starfold glanced up.
“Yes?”
“Go and store some faith.”
“…How?”
“I don’t know. Find a box or something. Or copy these People of God. Yellow Splatters, I do not want to let Fetohep down. But if it is not open warfare, we should be careful not to throw the first punch. Only the last one. Still, I would like you to see how good they are at fighting.”
Yellow Splatters nodded again.
“I wish The Crimson Soldier were here.”
“Me too. Or the [Templars]. They are better at pure combat than we, but we must have faith.”
“Or some magical Relics.”
“That too. I hope my club works.”
Pawn touched the club, which was, like his censer, reforged by Pelt. It still looked club-like, but the [Smith] had claimed he’d dented his anvil trying to work it. It felt…heavy when Pawn lifted it, but he could swing it fast. He hadn’t hit anything but Yellow Splatters in some practice sessions with it, but they’d stopped when Yellow Splatters had nearly exploded.
Come to think of it…Pawn glanced at Yellow Splatters, then swatted at something red and black crawling up his arm.
“Yellow Splatters, your sins are crawling on me again.”
“Oops. Sorry.”
The Painted Soldier stepped back. Captain Cikroleth glanced at them from the ship’s deck. He hadn’t commented on Yellow Splatters’ unique appearance, but that might have been politeness or assuming Antinium were like that. Pawn peered at Yellow Splatters as the Soldier sucked the sin back, and his carapace reinforced itself again.
“Do you think you’ll be able to get rid of the class, Yellow Splatters? I’ve been praying for it, but…”
“I think it’s stuck. It’s not bad, mostly.”
Pawn tsked unhappily.
“I simply feel it’s unfair. And Lyonette’s fault; possibly Mrsha’s as well.”
“We should not blame her. She died.”
“Ye-es, but not for our sins. I can’t help but feel like it was her rumors about future-me and you that did all this. Have you levelled?”
“Mhm. I am still the [First Heretic-Captain of the Faith].”
“Damn.”
It really wasn’t Yellow Splatters’ fault. It was all that damn [Palace of Fates] thing. True, he’d lied about Heaven, but they’d settled that! It was just that the Painted Antinium grew in number, and some had gotten this crazy rumor in their heads about a future Yellow Splatters being condemned to hell. And future-Pawn.
Pawn rather resented having to answer for his future crimes. Everyone in the inn walked warily around him, and he hadn’t done anything! That wretched bastard, holding down a stable relationship with Lyonette for ten years…and yes, he’d caused some trouble, but he had also attacked Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom, and Pawn really thought he should get credit for that if he also got the consequences.
Anyways, Yellow Splatters was mostly okay with his class. Occasionally, he did produce weird crawling bug-sins, but his carapace was even tougher. Shame about some of his Skills being so horrifying, but he was a warrior and had said anything that helped him save other Antinium was welcome.
“Hmm. Maybe I could bring Lyonette something very alluring back from Khelt. Do they sell love potions, do you think?”
Yellow Splatters stopped trying to squish a little sin that looked like a fat roly-polly. His sin of gluttony, one supposed. It wasn’t very big, and it made a low squeaking sound every time he poked it.
“I think you should stop going after Lyonette, Pawn. She clearly isn’t interested in you.”
Okay, now he sounded like a real Judas. Pawn glowered at his friend.
“She hasn’t even tried to give us another chance! She’s just seeing future-me, and that’s not my fault. I’m…I’m not fixating on it.”
He’d gone back and forth over Lyonette for months now, and he knew Yellow Splatters was going to argue with him about it, but the Painted Soldier was just as disinclined to rehash the issue. He rumbled.
“There are plenty of fish in the sea.”
“Where am I going to find someone as perfect as her?”
“…I think you’re not seeing her flaws.”
“What flaws? I am getting a bit upset, Yellow Splatters. Name one.”
“I would say dumping you, but I am beginning to think that was not a flaw.”
Pawn was going over to poke Yellow Splatters in the side, and the Soldier had four poking-fingers ready to fight back. Then Pawn stopped.
“Look, I’m trying to get over it. But she was the only person I ever—you know—loved. The only non-Antinium who’s ever been that close with me.”
“I don’t need details, Pawn.”
The Priest punched Yellow Splatters’ shoulder.
“Not just intimately! I just mean…how am I supposed to go back? After knowing someone cares about me that much, how do I live a life without?”
He leaned on the railings of the ship. Like seeing the inn or the sky, once he knew it…Yellow Splatters sighed.
“This ‘love’ business seems like as much a problem as a blessing. I’m glad I haven’t fallen in love like Chesacre and Thaina.”
Pawn shook his head miserably.
“You don’t know what you’re missing, Yellow Splatters. That’s why I came here. I can’t keep just doing the same thing in the Hive. Everyone else is changing, but in a way, I stopped. Bird literally changed genders. Anand…he went after Erin, and Belgrade’s an officer now. But I’ve been tending to my flock.”
“Nothing wrong with caring for the Painted Antinium.”
Pawn sighed.
“No. But it meant I wasn’t levelling or trying new things. This? These are new experiences. See how we were welcomed in the Claiven Earth? We have to keep moving, Yellow Splatters. Heaven grows with each place we see, with each idea we find. We can have it if we never leave Liscor, but it will be more beautiful the more we do. And we must keep those who matter to us, no matter how far they are.”
That was why they were here, and Yellow Splatters rested a hand on Pawn’s shoulders.
“Now you sound like the Antinium I chose to follow. Enough about Lyonette and love. You should be rooting for both of you to move forwards.”
Pawn stared down at the ground passing by them, miserably nodding.
“Yeah, I guess.”
“That’s the spirit. You’ll find some lovely young Antinium lady. Or a rock. And Lyonette can, uh, date Yelroan.”
“…No.”
“How about Peggy? Everyone likes Peggy.”
“She’s an employee, Yellow Splatters. Stop talking about Lyonette’s love life!”
Yellow Splatters grinned.
“Why not? It’d stop you from agonizing over her once and for all. How about…Sir Relz?”
“Sir Relz?”
“They’re both sort of haughty.”
“Yellow Splatters, hold still. I’m going to throw you off the ship real quick.”
Pawn and Yellow Splatters began to shove at each other and poke. The Painted Antinium were ignoring the two arguing; this was their faithful leader’s one known flaw. Then they heard a shout.
“Krakens wake! Those bastards moved their camp! We’re right on top of the damn light! Hard to starboard, hard t—”
Then there was light. The ship jolted as a ray of light struck the hull, and Pawn’s arms were flailing. He reached for Yellow Splatters, and the Soldier shouted.
“Pawn!”
He leapt for Pawn, but the Worker skidded across the deck on his back-shell, hit the railing, flipped…he tried to grab it, but the ship was tilting, and then he was flying.
“Ah. [Holy Barrier]—”
He hit the ground as the air flashed again. Like a buggy meteor, raising a huge plume of dirt and sand. Pawn lay on his back and then got up.
“Praise be to faith. Amen. Now, where’s my ride—”
He turned, and the ship was already racing off into the distance, two huge holes in its hull. Pawn raised his hands.
“Um. Wait. You forgot me. Wait—”
Then he looked around and saw, in the distance, a glowing orb of light like a second sun rising ominously from the edge of some unwalled city. Pawn stopped.
“Ah.”
He’d found the Prophet’s people sooner than he’d thought.
 
——
 
As it so happened, no less than five other Antinium had also gone overboard when Sand at Sea had performed its evasive maneuvers. The first of them was Starfold, who’d broken an arm in the fall. Pawn reached down.
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]. Oof. Up you come, Starfold.”
“Thank you, Pawn. Do not tire yourself too much, please.”
The Soldier wiped at green blood that had been oozing from an arm as other Antinium dusted themselves off. One had broken an antenna, and Pawn recognized several.
“Rabbitears, Pie, and even you, Purple Smile? I lost my balance, but how did you fall off?”
The Soldier was far sturdier and better on his feet. He hand-signed.
“[I saw you go over and jumped.]”
“Oh. Well…thank you. Pie, let me fix your antennae.”
Pie, or rather, π, if you wanted to know his real name, was the last person to be healed. Then the Antinium stood around.
“We appear to have lost our ship. And we appear to be near the Prophet’s base. It must have moved; Captain C…Captain Cik…our [Captain] was not aware it had moved. Chandrarian names suck.”
They all nodded at this. Pawn cast around, scratching his head.
“Well, the ship went that way. And the Prophet’s clearly in that city.”
Both city and ship were vaguely south of them as Pawn pointed.
“Let’s go see these People of God.”
He started stumping out across the desert, and Purple Smile lost his smile.
“[What if they attack us, Pawn?]”
“Well, we run. But they already hit us with a light-beam, so I’d say we have every right to go over there and begin our objections to their presence in Khelt. Speaking of which…did anyone get hit by the beam itself? It didn’t hurt us. Only the undead.”
He hoped the crew was okay. The Antinium hadn’t been hurt by the light, nor had they seen any other Painted Antinium injured, so they began to march after Pawn.
Fun fact about the desert: everything was a lot further away than it appeared. And there were mirages.
 
——
 
Two hours into their march towards the city and Pawn was already in crisis. Namely—he adjusted the sand-cloak over his head and rasped.
“I would really appreciate the ability to conjure water.”
The Painted Antinium were rapidly suffering from the same problem Ksmvr had first endured in Chandrar: overheating. It wasn’t bad on the ship with the wind blowing and shade, but here? Pawn stumbled forwards, feeling leaden and slow.
Were they going to die in Khelt, paradise itself? Only, along the borders, the land was so barren. He could see vague patches of green further inland, and he was told the cities flowed with water, but they were oases between inhospitable land. Only where Kheltians lived was there any moisture.
“Pawn, it’s hot.”
“I know, Starfold. Shut up.”
“Use the scrolls that the Mage of Rivers gave you.”
“I can’t.”
“Why not?”
All the Painted Antinium turned to Pawn as he trudged onwards, wondering if tossing his censer would lighten his load. No, no, it was a sacred artifact. But it was so damn heavy.
“I, uh, didn’t want to hold that much contained water magic. Just in case they went off. I gave them to Yellow Splatters.”
They all stared at him so accusingly Pawn shouted.
“I didn’t think I’d be stranded in a desert. Are we going to die? I could use my Skill. [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]?”
That was his most useful capstone at the moment. The other Painted Antinium groaned.
