The kick knocked Fetohep back a step, bones rattling, but he spoke.
“[He Attacked Back].”
His momentum reversed. He was propelling himself forwards and punched downwards, snapping the Angel’s body down for a second, but like Fetohep, it was resilient and just hopped backwards. Anleth stared at Fetohep as the King of Khelt adjusted his tattered robes.
Those were his great Skills? The boy didn’t know what to think until the Angel danced around it, and this time, Fetohep blocked one punch, ate a spinning elbow—
Headbutted the Angel so hard it stopped. Then followed it up with an uppercut that lifted the Angel’s feet off the ground, and it was flying back. Confused now.
“[He Attacked Back]. [He Struck]. Does thou see?”
He spoke to Anleth and the Angel, and neither one did for a moment. The Angel circled Fetohep. He had struck it four times, each time too fast for a counter. It dropped in an axe-kick, halted in midair, swept around into a roundhouse kick. Fetohep blocked it, letting the blow carry him sideways.
Reappeared in a flurry of dust, and the Angel barely blocked the punch that sent it stumbling backwards.
[He Attacked Back].
Then the Kheltians began to understand. The King of Khelt beckoned as the Angel hesitated. It hit him, and he hit it back so fast it didn’t have time to react. He threw a punch, a regular punch, and it dodged that. His second blow hit it in the liver. Fetohep threw a headbutt—and [He Struck], a kick to the kneecaps. He blocked a punch and countered, a dropping elbow.
The Angel became a flurry of punches and kicks, but as it sped up, so did the King of Khelt. He replied to each blow, even if he missed or it was blocked. Like a spinning top, refusing to let a single blow go unanswered.
Unkingly. Skills not fit for a monarch who could not be seen to brawl. Much less a Revenant whose fragile body could not recover from the damage it took. A warrior’s Skills.
The [Relentless, Unyielding, Stubborn Son of Khelt]. The Angel stopped its assault and came to a stumbling halt.
What was going on? It had been winning! Fetohep’s blows were being halved by the Angel’s Skill, but…he kept attacking. Without the greatsword, each punch and blow struck the King of Khelt’s very soul—but it refused to yield, like his stubborn body. He was coming at the Angel, now, as it backed up.
“So long as a single citizen of Khelt is in danger, I shall not falter. Khelta, give me the strength to continue, take my body when I fall, and lead me gently into the sands—”
His voice. He was chanting as he came at it, a warrior’s oath that had not been spoken for centuries. The Angel hesitated as the Badger of Khelt rushed forwards, ignoring the blows striking his body.
For…his words almost sounded like a prayer.
He advanced, and now the Angel was backing up. But the King of Khelt was on it, and he spoke.
“[He Struck]. [Hammer Blow]. [He Attacked, He Attacked, He Attacked, He Attacked]—”
His third Skill. Nothing but an onslaught of punches and elbows and blows that pounded the Angel’s body. Sixteen blows knocking the glowing figure around without giving it time to react. When it managed a single, glancing hit to his chin, Fetohep grabbed its head and slammed it into the ground. He reached down, and now it was calling out in alarm.
The glow to eradicate undead shone on Fetohep’s body, but the wrath of the King of Khelt’s aura shielded him. He ignored the Prophet of God shouting out condemnation, the People of God’s prayers.
They were locked together like lovers, striking each other and wrestling, the Angel trying to back up, and Fetohep’s hands finally found what he had been reaching for. The King of Khelt seized the Angel’s left wing with both hands.
Four Skills. He spoke the last one almost with regret.
“[He Ripped It Asunder].”
The King of Khelt ripped the wings off the Angel, and it screamed. Blue blood ran into the ground as he stood, gazing down at the Angel, and the Prophet cried out in horror. The King of Khelt’s flaming eyes regarded the wounded being that rose. Now, his voice was quiet. Even gentle.
“Warrior summoned for vengeance. I am many things. King. Tyrant of my little realm. Fool. And slaughterer of other nations’ children. I beg you, do not add to my sins. Yield. I came here to die, not to kill a child.”
Now he saw it fully. A warrior without equal. A messenger from God.
A—
Child. The Angel hesitated and glanced over its shoulder, once. Then it shrieked like a chorus of the damned and leapt at him, hands going for his throat, trying to twist his head off his body. The King of Khelt seized the Angel’s neck, and they wrestled, both trying to find purchase. He spoke, a breathless sigh.
“So be it.”
He ripped the Angel’s head off its body and watched the divine being swing as he stepped aside. Then fall, and he saw the glowing body fade and vanish, motes of light disappearing in the fading light.
He knelt there, head bowed, too weak and weary to rise. Ashamed to be the victor. But he did raise his head, for he was needed.
“I’m sorry. I shall make amends.”
When King Fetohep stood, he heard the Prophet of God weeping.
 
——
 
The second Angel was bleeding from five dozen wounds as the Named-rank adventurers circled it. Frieke’s right arm was hanging limp, and Alked had lost half a foot, but they closed in like sharks circling carrion. The Angel was stumbling when it heard the first die. Frieke leapt forwards, going for another blow, and it stabbed her through the belly.
Impaled her on the ground as Konska screamed and attacked it. Ignoring the bird, it leapt at Alked, and they were fighting as he tried to use his bow, the only other weapon present that could harm it.
Pewerthe was running for Frieke as the Dullahan woman shouted for her to get away. But Alked—the Named-rank Adventurer was gritting his teeth as the Angel yanked his bow down. It reached up and put a finger through one of his eyes, but he kept hold of the Arc of Heavens. The Angel reached for his other eye with bloody fingers as he gritted his teeth—
And a skeleton stabbed it in the side. Alked and the Angel jerked, and the Angel flapped one wing open, sending the skeleton stumbling backwards. It glowed, a brilliant light to reduce the undead to ash, like the greatest Angel had…and the skeleton stumbled, then stabbed the Angel in the back again.
Huh? The blade actually kissed Alked’s stomach, and the Angel let go of him, swung around with the breaking glass sound it made, and struck the skeleton in the face, barehanded.
The skeleton’s head snapped back—failed to go flying—and it headbutted the Angel. The Angel staggered, stared at the skeleton, and backed up slowly.
Possibly, it had never met a skeleton made out of metal before. Pewerthe, trying to yank the spear out of Frieke’s stomach, turned. She had never seen a skeleton made out of metal before. Oh, she had seen the guardians in the palace with metal-plated bones. But never a skeleton with…nails sticking out of its metal-coated body.
It was covered in nails. Blue blood was running from a hole in the Angel’s head as it felt at a hole gashed open by the skeleton’s headbutt. It began to fly back, warily, when a second skeleton leapt on its back. It turned, smashed the skeleton into pieces, and then stared.
The glass skeleton was reassembling itself in the air so fast it was already reaching for the Angel as it flitted back. And the third one—
Well, the third one just had a pot on its head. Pewerthe stared at the familiar, oversized pot.
Her pot. The same one she’d hurled at the Angel. It had missed, and it must have landed and exploded amongst…
The skeleton dust. Now, more were striding forwards. Skeletons unfazed by the Angel’s light. Eyes glowing with a strange flame that seemed to have an inner and outer ring.
Skeletons made out of Kheltian death magic, bones, the contents of her pot, and…faith.
The Angel backed away from the skeletons in horror. Injuries it could handle. The death of its kin was shocking. But this? A fourth skeleton with a smoldering flame contained inside its ribcage had snuck around the Angel’s back. One of the staring eyes on the Angel’s back saw it, and the Angel spun. Pewerthe ducked—
The Blast Skeleton exploded. Alked, blood running from one eye socket, saw the Angel flying upwards as more empowered skeletons surrounded Pewerthe and Frieke. He fired an arrow into the Angel’s back.
One last shot as it tried to get to the People of God, now screaming at it to return. The Angel flinched, but it had endured ten of his arrows. This last one detonated, and the Angel—
Froze?
The Arrow of Stasis slowed the Angel for just three seconds until it burst out of the magical effects. It recovered, glanced down at Alked and its spear, then shook its head. Took wing and ran straight into the waiting skeletal hand.
“Hello, intruder. The Vizir Hecrelunn would like to share Khelt’s spell of the day with you.”
A smoking, cracked skull lifted the Angel’s suddenly panicked head up as crimson eye-lights narrowed. Hecrelunn spoke.
“[Disintegration Ray].”
His fingers fired the spell into the Angel’s face, repeatedly, until something gave, and he dropped the remains of the head, glowing flesh dissolving as the body fell to earth. Then, Hecrelunn nodded down to Alked Fellbow. He turned, and the Prophet of God saw his final Angel kneeling.
 
——
 
Pawn had lost part of his mandibles and an antenna. He sure hoped they could regrow. He spoke as he saw the cracked Angel’s body raising a shaking sword.
“Ow.”
The Painted Antinium surrounded the downed Angel, many scarred by its flaming sword. It was trying to rise, but Rabbitears, Pie, Purple Smile were forming a ring around it. The Angel darted forwards at Pawn, sword raised—
Pie intercepted it. Took the charge head-on as the blade that could cut undead asunder with ease struck his chest. He grunted.
“Ow. [Divine Cross].”
An uppercut and hook, so fast the Angel couldn’t dodge either blow. It faltered as Pie punched, and it tried to swing through him—
Failed as the Painted Worker threw it back. Not with overwhelming faith nor Skills. Just—strength. Pawn rubbed at one shoulder.
“It’s not that strong.”
Fast, masterful, able to fly and use the powers of faith. But not as tough as Painted Antinium. Though this was the weakest of them. Pawn was advancing when he heard the third Angel die, and a scream of horror arose from the People of God. Then the second—and a silence fell. Pawn’s neck cracked as he turned his head.
“Did Fetohep just solo that super-Angel by himself?”
“[I think so.]”
Purple Smile signed back, and Pawn scratched at his head. A piece of his carapace came off. He flicked it to the ground, muzzily, and raised his voice.
“Then why the hell did he need us?”
The people of Khelt were cheering. Cheering nonstop for their [King], who, as it turned out, might have numerous failings as a ruler. But in arrogance, style, and the ability to throw hands?
The peerless King of Khelt. Pawn stared down at the Angel and heard a voice.
“Don’t. Please. Don’t—”
It sounded like a man’s faith breaking. Harvey gazed upon the last of the Angels he had summoned to bring divine retribution on Khelt, and Pawn wondered if he could summon them again. Surely…but would they be the same ones?
“This is no summoned being. They think. Even if this is the smallest one, you have created something new, Harvey. Or perhaps brought it from Heaven, if yours exists. You have brought Angels to this world, do you see? And you have gotten them killed.”
The Prophet of God was standing there, hands outstretched for the Angel, which looked to him. Pawn lifted the club, and Marrieh spoke.
“Please, have mercy. We will take it away with us. It is made in our image.”
Her eyes were wide, and Pie spat; he was dribbling blood from his mouth.
“Hey, Seventh Voice, are you over there, you traitor? Some religion! When they’re strong, there’s no mercy, and now they ask for it! Pawn, let’s kill this thing, then hit them all until their brains come out of their toes.”
Pawn regarded Harvey as an Antinium Soldier standing with the People of God raised his hands. He saw Fetohep of Khelt striding his way followed by a wave of people, and the Vizir was descending. Pawn exhaled.
“Harvey, you are the dumbest man of faith I have ever met. And I look in a mirror every day, so this is quite amazing to me. You could have done so much good. Instead, your people are dead, your Angels are dead, and you will be hunted across Chandrar.”
The man said nothing as he stood there. Pawn lifted his club.
“Run, Prophet. Run, and just—think upon what is right and wrong. Because I really don’t think God wanted this. Or if he did, he works in mysterious ways. Or his Angels just suck at fighting.”
He stepped backwards, and the Angel leapt back. The Painted Antinium turned to him, incredulous. Pie raised a throwing pie, but Purple Smile held out an arm.
“Let them go.”
“Pawn! They just tried to murder us—”
“Someone has to stop attacking back. We’ll never kill them all, and even if that was an option I liked…I want to believe we’re on the same side. Run, People of God!”
Pawn barked, and the Angel looked at the Prophet. The man stood there. His eyes gazed past Pawn. And then to the Worker.
“Thank you.”
The Worker made no reply. He just stood there as the Prophet called out, and Marrieh shouted and ran towards some of the People of God. She flickered out of existence, and then Harvey was running with the wailing People of God. Pawn just watched. What a damn waste.
He only spoke once as a shadow flitted past him, and a hand rose, the wrath of Khelt in Hecrelunn’s eyes.
“Vizir, do you think you have the mana to waste?”
Vizir Hecrelunn paused and then turned his head down.
“Do you think you will survive my unadulterated wrath, Antinium?”
The [Priest] just hooked his club to his belt and rasped.
“Me? No. The armies? I’m not keen on finding out.”
Hecrelunn hesitated, then swept his gaze right, left, and up. He muttered a curse.
“The rats sweep in in moments of weakness.”
“Yeah. This one was just the first. And misguided.”
Pawn sat down on the ground as Fetohep of Khelt approached him, and then all the people of Khelt stood with him. The Worker did not get up, so the King of Khelt sat beside him. Fetohep appeared worse for wear, body torn, robes ashambles.
He had triumphed over the divine, but the King of Khelt just sat there a moment as Pewerthe approached with Trey, and Pawn stared out across the horizon.
“King Fetohep of Khelt, I wished to say this to your face.”
He turned his head. Met the golden gaze.
“Thank you for all you did for Erin and the inn. We are in your debt.”
“I consider those debts paid to the Painted Antinium. Khelt is in yours.”
