“Unless Heaven’s sky is wet, it won’t help. What about summoning Workers? Is Heaven wet, Pawn?”
“I doubt they could carry more than one of us. As for Heaven…”
Pawn considered the theology and shook his head.
“No. Hell is wet. I distinctly recall my sermon on that when I was cursing Hectval. Though I am beginning to think that Hell could also be sandy.”
His legs wobbled, and he nearly fell over, but Purple Smile grabbed him and offered a shoulder. The combat-ready Painted Antinium were doing better than the others, and Pawn rasped as they hobbled into a natural channel of some kind, a long-dried riverbed.
“Okay, we might actually die before Sand at Sea or anyone finds us. Quick stop. Strategize. Does anyone have useful Skills?”
He regarded the others, who were, including Pawn:
Starfold, Rabbitears, Pie, Purple Smile, and an unknown Painted Antinium with a priest’s robes. Pawn pointed.
“Who are you? I apologize, you must be new.”
“I am Priest Ecclisi, P-Pawn!”
The Painted Worker bowed. He seemed nervous, so Pawn waved a weary hand.
“Don’t be so worried. We’re all Antinium here. Okay, Skills. Anyone?”
He looked around, and the Antinium thought.
“I could shoot a glowing star for help.”
“[I can hop like a rabbit, but I’d leave you behind.]”
“I can conjure a pie. Anyone want some?”
“[I would like a pie. I can kill monsters, but no water.]”
“T-this unworthy [Priest] could bring down the ruination of Heaven upon our enemies!”
Everyone turned to eye Ecclisi, and the Worker faltered.
“—But not upon the enemy of dehydration.”
Pawn rasped as he felt sick and warm all over.
“Verily is it said, he who forgets his water flask shall suffer damnation of being super thirsty. Amen. Drat. Are we actually in trouble? No, no, we can get out of this.”
He was strategizing, and he turned to the others.
“Okay. What would you all say if…just for our survival, I made some quick theological changes to Heaven? Heaven is a raincloud. Heaven is a lot of rain. Then I activate my Skill and hopefully we’re cooled off.”
The other Antinium glanced at each other, and Purple Smile shrugged.
“[Worth a shot.]”
Ecclisi seemed horrified.
“Change Heaven? But surely if we pray, we shall be saved. We would not meddle with Heaven, surely, Great Pawn?”
Pawn waved a hand.
“Just for a moment so we can cool off, Ecclisi. I’m sure everyone will understand. What do the rest of you think?”
Starfold raised a hand.
“What if…you didn’t make it rain, but made it snow? That’s even cooler.”
Pawn pointed at him.
“Ah! Ah, that’s the kind of thinking we need.”
Pie offered a pie around, and Pawn nibbled on some of the berry juices; Rabbitears was just pasting it on his body in an attempt to cool off. Pie waved his antennae. He was one of the Soldiers who’d decided to be given a voice by the Free Queen. Not everyone had wanted it, but his voice was a pleasing tenor, higher than you thought when he spoke.
“What if you made it so that Heaven had snow that was lemon-flavored?”
All the Antinium considered this, and Pawn scratched at his chin.
“You know what? That’s actually a pretty appealing version of Heaven. I can get behind that. Part of Heaven might have snow in it. Flavored snow.”
Ecclisi dropped his piece of pie.
“Proph—Priest Pawn! How can this be? I have never heard of lemon snow in Heaven! H-how can you change your vision so easily?”
Pawn frowned at Ecclisi, annoyed by this attempt to stop them from getting lemon-snow, if it even worked. The kid was new, so he sighed and tried to explain.
“Listen, Ecclisi. Heaven is an idea I had, a belief of something we are striving to make. It is not…set in stone. I was not granted a great vision from God, you understand?”
“Yes, but…”
“Heaven can change. It can have new things added to it, especially if they are good ideas, like lemon snow. Though, now I consider it, we might mistake lemon snow for the other yellow snow, which would be Hell indeed. But we must strive and improve. You understand? If we believe we have the truth, we are fools. Ryoka told me that, once, and I agree. Uncertainty and being able to adapt is part of faith to me.”
The young [Priest] was staring up at Pawn. His mandibles opened and closed, and he had a lot of scars for an Antinium. He must have served on the front lines of the Free Hive, poor fellow.
“I…I see. I didn’t know you had such beliefs early on, Pawn. Then perhaps—yes, I see it now. This is righteous! It can be made even better!”
He spread all four arms as he raised them, hands palm up to the sky. Pawn glanced at Purple Smile, who was studying Ecclisi. But then the Worker turned and clasped his hands together.
“I shall pray for our salvation, Pawn. I have [Greater Prayer], which may be of some use.”
“That’s nice, Ecclisi. But just in case—everyone up! Let’s make the most of that pie. If we don’t get snow from my Skill, we have to get to the city or we’ll die. Either that or we dig a hole…okay, not lemon snow! Raspberry? But then it could get mixed up with blood…blueberry. Heaven has blueberry, no, Amentus Fruit snow.”
He had it. Genius! Pawn staggered up over one side of the channel and nearly slammed into the old man peering over the edge of the pit. The man with a straw hat on his head shouted and recoiled. He nearly fell onto the back of the huge, gigantic cat who yowled in alarm and tried to hide behind him!
Pawn stared at the fallen Stitch-man and the ‘cat’, who yowled again and then roared with a far deeper voice, and then at the six other gigantic cats who slunk around the Antinium. Then at the farm not a hundred paces ahead of them.
Ecclisi threw up his hands.
“Our faith has been answered!”
Pawn held a hand out to the pale-faced man, who hesitated, then took it.
“You’re Antinium? In Eternal Khelt? How? Are you guests of His Majesty? What are you doing so close to the borders? There’s violent intruders and no water for miles!”
He croaked, and Pawn rasped.
“We fell off a ship. You…you wouldn’t happen to have any water, would you?”
Silently, the man pointed towards his home, and Pawn nodded. Then the Antinium had to ask about the cat.
“Um. Excuse me. What kind of cat is that?”
The angry cat with a huge brown mane was growling at him, and so were all the others. The Kheltian man patted its head.
“Lions.”
“Huh.”
 
——
 
His name was Malam, and he was a [Hermit]. A Kheltian hermit of all things. He was rather overwhelmed by the Antinium’s presence, but after he fetched a bucket from the well, which automatically raised one for him, the Antinium were grateful and able to think again.
“I live here. Have done for…thirty years? Can’t stand cities. Can’t stand villages either. His Majesty built this spot for me, far from anyone. Asked if I was lonely, so he had lions sent to me. Used to have a skeleton there, right there. Always watching in case they tried to bite. Took ten years before he let it go back to work.”
The man explained his entire life story and then stood there, looking like he was unused to so much socializing. Pawn cleared his throat.
“I see. I am Pawn. I’ve come here at His Majesty’s request. Thank you for the water. We were heading towards that city with the glowing light. It struck Sand At Sea.”
“Don’t go there. It’s filled with foreigners. Violent ones. They took things from a family on the roads. Just took them.”
Malam was horrified by the People of God, but they hadn’t found his lonely farmstead. He was a rather self-sufficient Kheltian in that he could do dishes and even had a small farm. And a fishing pond in the shade of his house; he pulled up a fish from the covered pool and tossed it to the lions. The single male began to chomp on it as the female lions yowled for their own share.
“[This is incredible.]”
Pawn didn’t know if Rabbitears meant the lions, who were the biggest cats the Antinium had ever seen, or the house. Yes, it was a lonely house, but it was beautiful. And—Pawn had to just mention this—probably as big around as The Wandering Inn’s main floor by itself.
Alone he might be, but Malam did not want for luxury. He had cooling spells that extended to his entire property; you could walk around in the farm and be cool as a cucumber.
The well auto-filled and lifted buckets. The man had a fridge full of preserved food, where he put the pie that Pie gave to him, and he had lions as pets.
He seemed rather pleased by the Antinium’s awe. Purple Smile was trying to pet a lioness, who bared her teeth and bit his arm. He kept petting as she realized he was not as biteable as she thought.
Rather cowed, the other lions let Pawn and the Painted Antinium scratch them behind the ears. Pawn turned to Malam.
“I fear we must at least pass by the city, but we are very grateful for your help, and we will be careful. We do not have much of value on us, anyways. Is all…well in Khelt?”
The man gave him a look as if he were crazy.
“All well? No. Not at all. First the foreigners are fighting here for—must be over a month—and that was after I saw arrows shooting down from the sky. Next, the skeleton that brings me food doesn’t come for two weeks in a row. An official had to do it. Is something wrong in Khelt?”
“…Possibly. But you appear well.”
“I’m not. Without food or other supplies, I can’t live out here.”
“Oh dear. What are you lacking? I could bring word to a city.”
Malam began to count off on his fingers.
“I need chocolate éclairs, the latest editions of Adventure and Woe, about…thirty-nine books, divided by genres, prime rib steaks for the lions, Waisrabbits—”
“Excuse me, I have questions.”
Pawn had to interrupt. He raised a hand, and Malam seemed affronted.
“I wasn’t done. Are Antinium all that rude? The Baker was polite.”
“Sadly, I am very rude. What was this about chocolate…éclairs? I know a woman who makes chocolate. It is very expensive.”
Malam shrugged blankly.
“I don’t know if it costs things. Someone makes them in the city nearest us, so I asked for them. They always send me new foods to try. I’d like sixteen. Twelve will do if the deliveries are slow.”
“And the books? You get book deliveries?”
“Yes. I read one a day.”
“And…steaks for your lions? Waisrabbits? You eat Waisrabbits?”
Another blank look, and Malam began to get annoyed. Pawn saw why he was a hermit.
“No, living Waisrabbits. For the lions to hunt. Sometimes they miss them, but they enjoy them. And I need a canister of purified water.”
“To drink.”
“What else would I do with it?”
Pawn glanced around, and Starfold’s mandibles were hanging open. The [Priest] remarked lightly.
“Oh, I did not wish to assume. I wondered if you watered your crops with it or something.”
Malam grunted.
“That’s not a bad idea. Two canisters, then. And…”
Pawn was spared from having to write a list of Malam’s needs out by the arrival of more visitors. There was a jangle from a magical bell on Malam’s doorway, and his head swung around.
“More guests? I—oh no. It’s them.”
He took one look at the hooded and veiled group coming from the direction of the city and dove behind a couch. Pawn rose instantly.
“They must have been tracking us. Malam—”
“They shouldn’t be able to find me! I have [Perfect Concealment: Home]! Don’t let them hurt me!”
“We won’t. Painted Antinium, to me. There are only…twelve of them. So, one for each of us, and seven for Purple Smile.”
The Antinium filed out of Malam’s house as his lions, rather than snarl and defend their home, joined Malam behind the couch. It seemed Khelt made mice out of even lions. Pawn reached for his club, but held up a hand.
“Hold on. They can’t see us.”
The Prophet’s people passed right by Pawn and Malam’s home without a second glance! Not close enough to jump, but they were heading for the dried-up riverbed where Pawn and the others had been. Pawn motioned to the Antinium, and they stealthed after the Prophet’s people.
One might wonder how six giant bugs approached anyone over the flat ground. The answer was simple: they crouched down and pulled the sand-cloaks over their bodies. Like that, they were actually fairly similar to the ground at a distance.
Pawn shuffled closer as he heard a voice calling in the distance.
“—In the name of the Lord our God, answer!”
They were calling out, searching for the Antinium. Pawn peeked his head up. Twelve, all on horseback. The horses were not happy. Looted from Kheltian cities? The People of God didn’t seem that rich; they wore somewhat worn white robes for the most part. Some were armed, but they had veils—for the sand that came whipping up. It couldn’t sting Pawn’s eyes, but they coughed, then another shouted.
“If you are lost, come unto the Lord, who is our Shepherd, and he shall guide you to Salvation!”
Huh. Even Pawn didn’t speak like that. He recognized the wording, of course. This must be Christianity, the kind that Erin and Ryoka had mentioned.
Ryoka with fewer salutary qualities. Pawn wondered which version it was. He was about to motion to the other Antinium to sneak closer when a third voice added.
“We have water! If you cannot speak, make a sound or we cannot find you! You’ll die of thirst otherwise!”
They shook a waterflask overhead, and Pawn’s head popped up. He saw the others spreading out, sliding into the riverbed, and each had a canteen.
“Hmm.”
After a second, Pawn signalled to the others to hold ground. Ecclisi would have risen, but Pawn threw off his sand-cloak and called out.
“Here I am. I am lost and thirsty. Can you help me?”
The People of God turned and recoiled the moment they saw him. One reached for a blade.
“What is that? A monster?”
“No, idiot. It’s one of the bug-people of Izril! An…an…”
“Antinium, hello. I am Pawn. I got lost. Did you see me or my friends?”
The People of God rode over, staring, and then one fumbled for a water flask. He tossed it, warily, at Pawn, and the Antinium caught it. He uncorked the flask and drank more water, splashing some over his face.
“Thank you.”
One of the men on horseback replied, making a cross with his hands on his chest.
“It is God’s will. We could not leave someone to die in the desert, even a Kheltian. But you…how did you come here? And, uh, what are those?”
He pointed at the five lumps on the ground and jumped as five more Antinium rose. Pawn sighed.
“We are Antinium. We came to Khelt on…a mission of mercy, I suppose. Who are you?”
He already knew the answer, but he was curious. The People of God eyed each other. Their leader spoke after a moment.
