Alfense turned, and the Antinium peered at a fountain jetting purified water into the air. One of the Workers stared at a burger.
He knew burgers. He’d been served burgers before and thought it the bee’s knees at The Wandering Inn. He’d even had a double-decker pork buddy deluxe burger with goat’s cheese, straight from Erin’s menu—one ham ‘burger’, one beef, goat’s cheese, dried Yellats, spinach, all in fresh-baked bread.
The Worker saw an eleven-stack burger being boxed to-go for a stressed man. Avocado, pickled spicy Yellats, a thin fish-substitute tofu burger, tomato-bread, Noelictan Midnight Cheddar, handmade mayonnaise made with Fortuna Chicken eggs…
At this point, the Worker lost count of how many pieces of the 11-stack burger that was and had to begin again. Food, sights, and—the Painted Antinium kept turning as Pewerthe skidded to a stop. Then they knew what the word meant, for the first time in their lives. Just like they could know the word ‘sky’ or ‘happiness’ but never truly encompass the meaning until they found it.
Paradise.
 
——
 
In some ways, the Antinium were a foolish wish of Fetohep; a gesture that looked good on paper but would solve nothing. Pewerthe knew that, but she still ran to greet them as Fetohep lay slumbering, because she needed hope.
They all did. She was Khelt’s ruler in this moment. Vizir Hecrelunn was giving out orders as he saw fit, but it was a mark of the urgency of the situation that he let her govern from Koirezune. Their mission was simple.
“Deal with the citizens and the Prophet. I will curtail these invaders from reaching our lands, girl.”
He had armies to deal with. She a religious group and the panic that had set in when her pots broke. She judged the Prophet to be the greater threat, and she was grimly readying herself for the worst.
He had to be bested by non-undead means. Not Hecrelunn, not Sand at Sea. So that meant Alked Fellbow, Frieke the Falcon, Konska, Death Commander Lanodest and the few soldiers they had available to Khelt’s army, the Gnolls and Centaurs if they could be convinced to fight, and…Pewerthe.
The fact that she was including herself as a war-asset was a really bad sign. It also meant that the Painted Antinium were a considerable fighting force, but she could not count on them alone.
Hence the pot. Frieke was easily keeping pace with Pewerthe as she ran from the palace. She didn’t seem unsettled—Named-ranks seldom did, even when people began dying. Rather, she was pessimistically cheerful and actually taking notes in a journal as she ran. Pewerthe was gasping for air as Konska lazily flapped after the two.
“So let me get this straight: you were lying to me and His Majesty about your powers. You hid all of Khelt’s woes in pots.”
“Yes.”
“I caught the lie about your family. Did the [Bandits] kill them? The ones you escaped?”
“Yes.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. Did you, uh, lie about anything else?”
Pewerthe was shoving something inside the big pot she was carrying in one arm. She’d been filling it up since she’d heard Sand at Sea had been attacked. She’d put some stones she’d picked up inside along with broken pieces of glass or stone from the riots. Then added some olive oil from the palace kitchens. Two whole amphoras, which Frieke couldn’t help but notice were a lot more than the head-sized pot should have held.
It was a lovely pot; it had a banded side with etchings of Gnolls getting off ships, not like the crude pots Pewerthe had been making to hide secrets. Real artistry even other Kheltians would appreciate. Pewerthe panted.
“I’m not Level 32 or whatever I claimed.”
“Oh. Anything else?”
“Frieke, is now the time for this?”
“I’m just curious. What’s that?”
Pewerthe slowed to gasp for air, and she shoved what seemed like a bag of smelly dirt into the pot. She glared at Frieke.
“Compost. Fertilizer. Let’s see. Coal. Or charcoal.”
Konska flew off and found a bag—Pewerthe kept jogging down the crowded streets after a moment.
“I lied about how the [Bandits] died.”
“Really?”
“Yes. Some killed each other, but you don’t think all of them murdered each other down to the last one, do you? That truly would have been a story. Even with all the deception Skills in the world, they caught onto the fact they were killing each other. Then again, they butchered one another well enough.”
That implied at least a few had been alive before Khelt had gotten there, though. Frieke’s eyes slid to the jar. She saw Pewerthe grab a sack of nails and toss them in.
“I see. Any other lies?”
Pewerthe hefted the pot that Frieke now calculated held a number of very sharp or very flammable things. It was no fancy alchemical Potion of Blast, but Frieke wondered who had more power, a Level 30 [Alchemist] or Pewerthe. That wasn’t necessarily impressive to Frieke, though. She was Named-rank. Just a good use of class and Skill which anyone could do.
No, the impressive thing was when Pewerthe grabbed a lit torch from the side of a restaurant who liked the ‘authenticity’ of fire and tossed it in the pot. The flaming tip of the torch vanished, and Konska instantly flew away. Frieke stopped and put herself next to a thick wall.
“Er, Pewerthe.”
“Come on, I know what I’m doing!”
The pot…did not explode. Nor did Frieke see smoke coming from it. It could be the flames had extinguished, but she didn’t feel like that was the case. Frieke jogged forwards, then jumped back as Pewerthe bit the cork off of an actual Potion of Blast, then tossed it in the pot.
“Oh, come on.”
Pewerthe shut the lid on the pot, shook it around, then opened it and began to put more objects in, grabbing whatever she saw as she ran.
“It’s a special pot. Also, fertilizer explodes. Colovt told me that. Other lies…well, His Majesty knows a number of them, but what I tell most people is different, of course. For instance, do you think I’m actually Kheltian? What are the odds I survived all that if I were born or even raised by Kheltians?”
Frieke’s mouth actually fell open at this point, and Konska exchanged a look with her.
“Are you serious?”
“Maybe I’m not, maybe I am. That’s the point. Secrets level me. Okay, excuse me, coming through!”
Then they met the Antinium, and the ultra-dangerous pot managed to swallow half a burger, two plates, a kitchen knife, and two lanterns while Pewerthe spoke with Yellow Splatters and his company.
The burger was probably an accident.
 
——
 
“I give you the run of any city you need and anything you require—armor, weapons, supplies, just name it and we’ll give it to you. But I warn you: the Prophet’s people best magic. Everything except for Relic-class items are ineffective. We have avoided doing battle with them because of the cost to Kheltian lives, but…the moment is coming. They are building something, and that light that struck Sand at Sea is hovering over the monument they’ve constructed. They call it a ‘sacrament’, and when it activates, I fear it will be battle. I’d prefer to engage them before that.”
Pewerthe the Potter was a strange ruler compared to Fetohep, but he was apparently unconscious or something. A fact that the citizens had not been aware of. They began screaming as Pewerthe held a conference with Yellow Splatters.
“What? What did she say?”
“His Majesty is—! Why didn’t anyone tell us? The Day Servants?”
“Pewerthe? That’s Pewerthe the Potter! Why is she talking like she’s an official?”
The young woman reminded Yellow Splatters of Watch Captain Zevara. Or maybe Saliss, but that could have been all the things she kept putting into that pot she was holding. Not Erin; she was too focused, and she seemed like she knew what was going on. Erin was chaos. She could be a mastermind, but she often surprised herself.
He nodded after a moment.
“In that case, Potter, I would like to allow my people a chance to rest; we have been travelling nonstop. We shall move towards the Prophet of God’s people to locate Pawn and attempt to engage them in civil discourse and identify their powers. They have considerable strengths, and we must learn how they fight and how well they fight.”
Scout, analyze, recover. Pewerthe nodded and took a breath.
“And if you find yourself outmatched or they are hostile?”
“Then we shall engage them with fists to the face.”
Yellow Splatters punched a fist into the palm of his hand with all four arms. Pewerthe blinked, and the Kheltians recoiled. But the woman standing next to Pewerthe, Frieke the Falcon, grinned.
The Antinium were what Khelt needed in some senses. Yellow Splatters wanted to be intelligent, diplomatic, and so on, but he did have a specialty, and it was hitting problems. He turned to Frieke.
“Your help in this regard would be useful if it comes to fighting, Adventurer Frieke.”
She nodded casually, touching the shortsword at her side, and a giant grey hawk landed on one bracered arm.
“I can join in fighting whenever it starts. But Alked’s the real fighter between us. I’m more of a hybrid scout-fighter. I’m decent at swordplay, and I have lots of combination-abilities with Konska.”
“May I ask what that entails, Adventurer Frieke?”
Normally, these were secrets, but sixty versus what Pewerthe guessed to be anywhere from four to eight thousand who had survived the Arrows of Razzimir…they’d have to work well. Frieke hesitated, but then nodded.
“Surely. My best Skill is my Level 40 Skill, [Falconer’s Bond: Share Skill]. It doesn’t do anything on its own, but it means that Konska or I can use a Skill and share its effects.”
Oh. That sounded good. However, Frieke seemed a bit embarrassed by it. She scratched Konska’s neck.
“It’s pretty average for most [Beast Masters], honestly. I know three with the same kind of Skill. My specialty with Konska is how he helps me reposition. Where he goes, I can follow with [Partner’s Bond: Limited Teleport]. Then I’m set up for a [Falcon Drop]—that’s a dive attack—and so on and so forth. I need to be mobile, and he needs to be able to coordinate with me.”
A wide-ranging attacker with amazing mobility. She’d be useless in the Hives, but Chandrar, with its open terrain, suited her. Frieke sighed.
“…But Alked’s the one who hunts giant monsters. As Named-ranks go, he’s more established than I am in experience and levels. I’m low-rank, he’s mid or high-rank. And he’s got Heavens’ Arc, a Relic-class item. Konska’s got a mini bag of holding and a charm made by some high-level [Witch] as well as two rings, but we don’t have that kind of gear. You want someone who can drop even the faithful? Check with him. Even my armor’s just okay.”
She was a Dullahan, but she seemed so much like a Human that he hadn’t noticed her armor was just metal and cloth to resemble a woman wearing armor and clothing. Fascinating—Yellow Splatters had never seen a Dullahan look like that. Normally, Dullahans liked the all-armor aesthetic, but Frieke seemed to want to blend in with other Chandrarians.
Pewerthe had listened to Frieke’s entire spiel and eyed her, as if seeing the Named-ranker’s self-effacing words and becoming guiltier with each second. An extraordinary woman taken for granted in Khelt, which, Yellow Splatters realized, was going to be a motif. Wordlessly, Pewerthe fumbled at her belt.
“You are not second to Alked, Frieke. You are one of Khelt’s few champions and my friend. As acting Ruler of Khelt—”
“What did she say? I must have heard that wrong.”
“—I am giving this to you. Wield it in Khelt’s defense. I bequeath to you, the…the…Serept’s Blue Sword.”
Pewerthe pulled the blue diamond longsword she’d taken from Serept’s treasures from her waist and handed it to Frieke. The Named-ranker’s eyes went round, and she nearly dropped the Relic. Even the Kheltians gasped.
“Pewerthe!? You can’t!”
“I can, and it is overdue. Fetohep guards the Relics like they matter. Right now, Khelt matters. Take it, Frieke.”
“I can’t!”
“You will or I will put it in this pot, and even I don’t know if the pot can hold that!”
Faced with the threat of potting a Relic-class item, Frieke took the sword and examined it. Yellow Splatters wondered, since Relic-class items were being handed out, if he could get in on that.
No, first things first. First, he intended to go to Pawn; they were taking enough time here. He motioned.
“Stellar Word, you will remain in the city with Pewerthe and defend her and explain our capabilities. The scrolls, our powers. The rest of you, with me. We will go back to the border and investigate in squads. Do not engage. Try to figure out what powers the People of God have and if we can copy them.”
Frieke and Pewerthe glanced at him.
“So their powers are beyond even you, Captain Yellow Splatters?”
Pewerthe’s smile was desperate, and the Painted Soldier saw her exhaustion and worry. He held up his hands hurriedly.
“What? No. They are unique, but not incomprehensible. Their faith resembles one that Pawn knows, which is why we must find him, and they use their powers differently. We could sense this sacrament, but none of us have ever used the like. We are learning. Actually…did Starfold ever figure out how to store faith?”
He turned and realized that Starfold was one of the missing Painted Antinium, but another Soldier raised a hand.
“I have it. Excuse me. Excuse me, I am Seventh Voice.”
He strode over, and the Kheltians admired the images of speech, stylized lips and mouths, on his armor. Pewerthe frowned.
“Why the name, may I ask?”
“Because he was the seventh Soldier to be granted the ability to speak by the Free Queen. And now he won’t shut up about it.”
One of the Painted Workers muttered. Seventh Voice elbowed Radiant Turquoise and bowed. He held something in his arms. It was…a glowing orb of light?
Pewerthe and Frieke recoiled instinctively, but it was not the same as the holy golden light that the People of God had. This was more like a shimmering ball of contained mist, a vortex of light, like stellar nebulae contained within.
It looks like Pawn’s capstone Skill, [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. Yellow Splatters glanced at Seventh Voice, and the Soldier nodded.
“It took a bit of effort to contain. We can gather the faith, but it requires a vessel to anchor it. Perhaps you could make it float, but that is an experiment for later. Then it was small; we sacrificed six scrolls, but I deemed it prudent not to waste more in the mere prototyping phase, Captain, Your Majesty, Adventurer Frieke. Also, do note the dimensions of the orb. Perhaps they are naturally spherical or it is the object we sacrificed that established the dimensionality.”
Seventh Voice spoke like Pisces and Mrsha combined. Yellow Splatters cut him off before he could waste more time.
