The Prophet of God was not as imposing a man as she’d thought. He strode forwards in his regal white robes, gold and white silk fluttering around him as thousands of People of God advanced over the sand.
Pawn was a lone figure holding a simple wooden club in one hand and that curious censer in the other. He was Antinium, an insect, but he had a quiet confidence the Prophet lacked.
They met on the sand, and the three Earthers drew closer. Walking across Eternal Khelt, which looked oh so much like the unforgiving desert, all flatness and barren earth. Yet even here, it was only dead land to those who had never seen deserts.
Distant cities dotted this flat ground, and there were gentle channels dug in the earth such that there was shade, and thus vegetation, however sparse. And roads; just out of view were Khelt’s main roads, which were flat, smooth stone that a child could follow to each city. In the distance, within walking distance for any Kheltian, were the settlements where life thrived.
Even if you came here lost, naked and afraid, you could not walk within Khelt without finding a welcoming city blooming with water, life, and art. Oases without end in paradise. Yet where the People of God walked, by the same token, they could strike at any point within Khelt. An open fruit of a land, which had never known true attack or war.
This was where they stood, then. Amidst the illusion of barren land between respites. They greeted each other warily, but with that longing across every face to know they were not alone. The children of Earth for each other, and the [Prophet] and [Priest] for the divine.
Pewerthe realized, for the first time, Earthers were speaking, not caring or even aware they were on camera. The world watched.
 
——
 
Lyonette spat her lunch onto the table and coughed.
“Wh—how is—Pawn!? How is he—”
She leapt up, still choking on her food, and Mrsha ran for the [World’s Eye Theatre] as the inn exploded into chaos. Bird threw up her hands.
“He went to Chandrar and he didn’t bring me?”
The Wandering Inn, totally off-guard.
 
——
 
“Khelt is weak. Look, that’s the Prophet of God in Khelt. They can’t even stop him. Full march! Get me to Khelt on the double!”
King Perric roared as the final doubts lifted from his mind. Yet he stared at the Humans, frowning.
“Those three. I’ve seen them. Our [Spies] had them in the company of the King of Destruction and Hraace. What the hell is going on with them? And who is this Prophet?”
He searched for answers, a monarch slow on the uptake.
 
——
 
Everyone in Manus’ High Command war council had gone still. Dragonspeaker Luciva drummed her claws on the table. The war room had been abuzz about the Antinium being allowed in Chandrar, speculations as to the Painted Antinium’s capabilities. Half the war council regarded this as a disaster—the other half saw it as an opportunity to assess the military value of the Painted Antinium, who were still an unknown despite the Hectval war.
But the Earthers—Luciva didn’t like this at all, nor their proximity to the Antinium. She barked at her people.
“Could those be Earthers? All of them?”
“Impossible, we’ve only found a handful—”
“Do you think the King of Destruction knows? Surely of anyone, he has to.”
Manus was a Walled City, and it had gotten the intelligence about Earthers via Fissival and Pallass. They were aware a few other nations knew, and Wistram had been handing out the information to select clients and allies, but this…Luciva muttered.
“They’re too far for a retrieval team, surely. Do we have any assets in the region…?”
Getting them across the sea was ludicrously hard, but she had to imagine every other big player aware of the Earther connection was gearing up for a grab. Not everyone knew. Who’d know in Chandrar? The Empire of Sands—maybe. Nerrhavia’s Fallen? It didn’t seem so, for all their size. Reim, yes, Khelt, yes, apparently, Roshal, yes. But so few nations. Terandria and Izril had the most players.
 
——
 
From Kaaz to King Nuvityn’s company of Erribathe to the Walled Cities and Meeting of Tribes, they recognized the Earthers and were on high alert. The rest of the audience had no notion of who the Earthers were, but some might have recognized a pattern. A lot of oddly-dressed and mannered Humans of late. What did this connection have to do with Khelt’s woes? The Prophet?
Then—Lloyd spoke.
“Hey there, er, hi, friend. You’re that Prophet of God, right? The name’s Lloyd. I’m from Canada. This is Max and Alanna. You’re from home, right? Earth?”
He held out a hand, and the Prophet, eyes locked on Pawn and burning with a fervor—stumbled. The People of God slowed, and some gasped at this divine meeting of providence.
Dozens of powerful people swallowed their tongues as Lloyd smiled warily live, on television. Archmage Eldavin calculated whether or not he could tank Wistram News Network and every other news broadcast worldwide and if it was worth the costs.
Many, many people reached for a map, or dictionary, and tried to look up a nation they’d never heard of, a secondary definition for…
Earth? Do they mean the Claiven Earth? But they’re Human. What do they…
The Prophet of God’s face was colorful. And the commentators trying to introduce who he was and why this mattered to Khelt…they didn’t know his class. They didn’t know what faith was, much less his.
He looked like a cult leader, you had to admit. Fancy robes, people who dressed alike speaking gibberish, and mostly…it was the fact that he was a man.
A Human man. Not overly tall or handsome or intense, someone who could lead an army or crush a boulder with their bare hands. Many gazed upon him and thought, ‘is this it?’
The dialogue between him and the Earthers and Pawn didn’t help; it was a fascinating puzzle for so many. Harvey blustered, reddening.
“Who art thou, and—I am the Prophet of God. I once was a mortal man, like you. From home, yes. But I have found my calling, and I lead the People of God. Have you come to join us? We are laying waste to this wretched kingdom of undead and hedonism.”
Lloyd blinked. Harvey spoke like a man who considered his words important, as if each word was capitalized and underlined. Lloyd? He shoved his hands into his pockets as Maximilian and Alanna stepped forwards.
“Nah. I don’t think we’re doing all that. But hey, I’m glad you survived, Prophet. What’s your name?”
There it came, the reddening of the face. The eyes flashing with self-importance until the Prophet caught himself. Then he nodded, which surprised Lloyd.
“I am…Harvey. I was Harvey. So many call me the Prophet. It’s who I am now.”
“Like your class?”
Harvey hesitated as Marrieh watched the Painted Antinium. Pawn’s head was tilted as he let the Earthers go first, but the People of God were restless. Hanging on these words as they came from their cities. Hundreds.
Lots of them. And—Pawn glanced over his shoulder. There were Kheltians observing in the distance. Barely more than a few hundred undead led by Death Commander Lanodest. Gnolls, Centaurs, and somewhere, he was sure, Frieke and Pewerthe.
This was it, but…he touched the club as Harvey bowed his head.
“Levels, class. Each time I level, I think I draw closer to God. It is no false claim, that. I was never a spiritual man on Earth. Here? I feel my faith. I speak and the earth shakes. I lay my hands on the wounded and they are healed. That is faith. But I do not just embody the acts of God. I see it. I see you, Lloyd. A man without much faith.”
He passed a hand over his eyes, then glanced at Maximillian.
“And you—just as weak. If not a hatred of it. But you—”
Alanna. He pointed at her, and she withdrew slightly, but Harvey was staring at something inside of her.
“You have the faith. Even if it is not nurtured. I see it. The waning hearts of men and women and…”
He glanced at Pawn, and the two locked gazes. Harvey whispered.
“Here comes one with faith beyond measure. This is my crucible and test, as Jesus returned home to Nazareth. You have come to stop me from my holy work.”
“About that. Your class sounds like a real bummer, Harvey. I knew there was something weird about them I didn’t like. Maybe I should have not taken them at all, but…look, we’re not with Khelt. We heard it was doing bad from Trey, and we came to stop this from getting out of hand. We get you made this organization alone. Huge work, really. Most of us were just captives of Wistram until now.”
Lloyd’s voice was soothing, calming, but he was doing that thing where he was a bit too reasonable. He sounded like he was talking down to Harvey, rather like someone talked to a child. The Prophet eyed him.
“Captive at Wistram? I recall some [Mages] interfering with my people—truly?”
“Oh yeah, nearly a hundred of us. They were collecting us like Pokemon. You, uh, know Pokemon?”
“…Yes. Who wouldn’t?”
“Just checking. Some of us are from as early as 2017, others years later. You sound like you come from, like, 1917.”
Lloyd’s bright smile produced a flash of anger in Harvey, so Max hurried to take over.
“Listen, Prophet. Can we talk in private or something? Just tell that lot to step back. Otherwise, it’ll be a fight. You can’t just…topple a nation.”
“This nation is led by a murdering undead king!”
“Yeah…but it’s a fantasy world. Actually, I don’t know about the murdering part, but King Fetohep was pretty nice to us. Whereas your people seem to be robbing everyone on the roads and acting like religious zealots. C’mon, we’ll get a coffee and talk this out.”
Lloyd and Maximillian advanced, trying to take Harvey’s shoulders, but his eyes snapped to Pawn, then he snarled and knocked their hands away.
“Begone! I am not—negotiating. The King of Khelt has killed my people by the thousands. He is working with the great enemy, and I will see him destroyed. The people of Khelt will not be harmed, I swear it. But I will not fall for this blatant trickery.”
Lloyd frowned.
“Okay, come on, dude. We’re trying to be reasonable.”
He was reaching for the Prophet again when Marrieh stepped forwards, but Harvey motioned her back. He knocked down Lloyd’s arm again. This time, Lloyd went for a grab.
They were not the most athletic duo, so it was a struggle as Harvey snarled, curled, and the two wrestled. Lloyd tried to put an arm around Harvey’s neck and put him into a headlock.
Two young Humans wrestling in the sandy ground. Right up until the Prophet’s head was being levered down, and he spat, red-faced.
“Enough! [Rebuke the Ignorant]!”
There was a flash—Max recoiled as he went to help Lloyd, and the light tossed Lloyd through the air. He flipped around, slammed down onto his back so hard the wind went out of him, and stared at the sky.
“Heb.”
He didn’t have the air for anything more concrete. Max seemed ready to try the Prophet, but the man had had enough. He lifted the staff he carried and drew it across the ground, and a line of flames arose. White, hot, and sending everyone but Pawn recoiling. Harvey spoke as they illuminated his face.
“You may be from our shared home, but we are not the same. I am the Prophet of God, not Harvey. I lead my people to vengeance. To the end of Khelt. Stand in my way and I will treat you like another sinner against God. Look upon the powers He has granted me!”
He lifted his staff high and spoke.
“[Miracle of God: True Light—]”
The audience actually didn’t hear the rest. Because a bolt of lightning, a real bolt of lightning, hit the ground and blew everyone off their feet.
Lightning. Not [Lightning Bolt], which you could dodge, or even [Grand Lightning], which was close to the real thing.
A lightning bolt coming down at 270,000 miles per hour. Every [Mage], adventurer, and warrior who’d seen real magic in battle knew the difference in a second. It made the watchers on Khelt’s side shrink back, and the People of God began to chant.
“God is Almighty! God, glory to god, Hosanna in the highest!”
The Prophet stood, staff raised overhead, glowing with power and a kind of ecstasy at witnessing his own miracles. Pawn began to step forwards, but then the last Earther approached him. She held a smartphone in her hand, and unlike the two skeptics, non-believers, she bowed to him.
“Father. Prophet? I’m Alanna, from Hawaii. I’m a believer of the Lutheran church. May I speak with you?”
He hesitated, and her faith was illuminated by no divine light. Just the electronic light of a smartphone.
“Alanna. I…yes. Hawaii? I’m from America. Kentucky. How did you come here?”
An expression of such immense pain crossed Alanna’s face for a second before she smiled.
“Then we’re both from the same country. I was in Chandrar before Wistram found me. Far, far west of here along the coast. Funny, I came back to the same place after all was said and done. I’m…I believe in God. I’m not a strong believer. It was through my family, but I’ve been to church every Sunday, and I’m curious. May I speak with you?”
“Of course. I can see your faith. Not strong? It is stronger than many of my flock.”
He lowered his staff, hesitating, abashed. And Alanna brushed at her dyed hair.
“Yeah, well. I guess it got stronger after I came to this world. When you’re alone and you don’t know what’s going on, you pray. Even if no one ever answers you.”
Harvey planted his staff in the ground. Pawn helped Lloyd to his feet as Maximillian rubbed at his ears, and they listened.
“I know that feeling well. I was the same. I was lost in the Great Desert. Zeikhal. I didn’t know where I was nor what to do. I prayed, and water came to me as I was dying of thirst. God spoke to me. He…didn’t to you?”
“Maybe I didn’t pray loud enough. I wasn’t in danger, mostly. Just homeless for a bit. I was in a city first, Zwaic, then a village. The village was safer. And I stopped praying once Wistram found me. I guess…I never heard him. But you called down lightning. I guess I’m curious whether or not it’s God that’s doing all this.”
Affront, confusion, anger—and worry crossed Harvey’s face. But he did not smite Alanna like Lloyd. He just held one arm out.
“What else could it be? Alanna, I welcome you to join the People of God. If not at this moment—then seek us out and learn. We have the power to heal, to call down fire on our enemies. Even to summon…”
He hesitated and glanced over his shoulder.
“What could it be if not the work of God?”
She tilted her head.
“I don’t know. It looks amazing. And it doesn’t seem like magic. I’ve hung out at Wistram long enough. But Prophet…you went to church back in our world, didn’t you?”
“…I was not as devout as you.”
