When the Human man had first seen the Antinium, his eyes had bugged out, and he had recoiled, but he said nothing. The newcomers listened as Pawn spoke, voice soft. And now he was thinking hard. Very hard.
“…I would argue to the Prophet, were I to meet him, that perhaps his anger at King Fetohep of Khelt is justified, especially if he has been attacked. I cannot gainsay that as I was not here and have not seen nor been told the truth of this conflict. However, I can argue from a position of faith that this war does not follow God’s will. God’s will is difficult for any to know, and it is my belief that there is no justification for this war in the Bible.”
Yirene’s eyes flicked to the others who sat, silently, and more faithful appeared, waves of them sitting and listening, and the Painted Antinium turned. Ecclisi pointed, and Pawn nearly threw a date at his head. He hand-signed back.
“[Yes, do you think I’m blind? Shut up and search for a way out in case we have to run.]”
Then Yirene was speaking after whispering with one of the women who introduced herself as Marrieh. Yirene hesitated and glanced at the Human man.
“You said something odd earlier, Pawn, when Silad claimed you had blasphemed. You said he could not have taken the Lord’s name in vain, for that was not the name of the Lord our God. Yet he has no name.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened. And clicked closed. And opened again. His cunning theological argument fell apart for a second.
“Er…what? Yes, he does.”
Yirene blinked. Marrieh’s head turned, and then she caught herself, leaned forwards.
“He does not, surely. Unless you refer to some other God?”
“No—the same one, I think. You’re referring to the God of Christianity, the God of the Quran, the God worshiped by Hebrews, and the one who spoke to Joseph Smith Jr., among many other subsects of the faith?”
Pawn cast around, and the Human man spoke, voice strained and harsh.
“There is only one God. And it is Christianity that is the way. The other faiths are…correct but misguided.”
Pawn nodded to him, respectful, and saw every eye focus on the man who had to be the Prophet. He certainly glowed with faith. But many of his company had as much strength. He was the center of it though, the locus.
They are of my level or maybe higher. Great. Pawn spoke, carefully.
“I would not argue with that, sir. But if it is this God who is present in so many faiths, then he has a name.”
“It is not written in the Bible.”
The man instinctively shot back, and Pawn’s head tilted.
“No…perhaps not.”
“Aha! Then—”
“It would be written in the Torah, and the Jewish faith would know it. I am not an expert on that text, but I do know it. It came to me from a woman who was familiar with many faiths, having read numerous holy texts in search of the truth.”
Thank goodness for Ryoka Griffin. The Prophet of God stared at Pawn, uncertain, then sat back as Pawn waited.
“If it is his holy name, then it would deafen the ear and blind all those who heard it, as it was in the Arc of the Covenant. You could not know or encompass it.”
“Perhaps, then, it is a lesser name, incorrect, or merely a name fit to write on paper. Perhaps, if I spoke it to you—forgive me, I do not know your name, sir—you might tell me if you recognized it?”
Pawn spoke, and another Disciple interjected.
“I am Lazimeh, and this is the P—”
“Harvey. I am merely…Harvey, as all are men before God. This is my name, Pawn of the Antinium.”
Murmurs and gasps, but the man sat forwards, and Pawn whispered to him as Yirene and Marrieh moved back, but he had the distinct impression a few heard his whisper, silent as it was.
“Yahweh. Or perhaps Jehova?”
Those were the names he knew, and the Prophet’s eyes flickered. With recognition for both. He sat back.
“That first name…yes. Yes, I recall…but it is their word, the Jewish one. The second. Jehova’s Witnesses. His witnesses?”
His brows crossed, as if figuring out why that particular faith called itself that. Pawn nodded.
“That would make sense, yes.”
The man exhaled, momentarily startled, then he schooled his features to impartiality.
“Neither is the word that is the true name of God, but I grant that you know much of the faith, it seems, Priest Pawn. Though I did not recognize your faith. Who is this woman who knows so much? Did she have a copy of the Good Word on her person? On a device, perhaps? Or even a physical one?”
His eyes were suddenly hungry, and everyone held their breaths but sighed as Pawn shook his head.
“Sadly, not. She was merely well-read, having read many holy texts back-to-front.”
Mostly so she could ‘annoy the shit out of her priests’, in Ryoka’s own words, but they didn’t have to know that.
A young woman started serving tea around, and Pawn noticed she was a former slave. She was glancing at him, and he bowed to her.
“Hello, Miss. What is your name? If time permits, I would like to use my Miracle to remove your scars. It is one of the things given to me by my faith. And I do not like slaves. Did you free her, Disciple Yirene?”
The Prophet blinked. Yirene answered.
“She came to us as many freed [Slaves] do. We do not give them back to Roshal, Priest Pawn, but we do not actively court war with them.”
“Yet you stand in opposition to them.”
Yirene glanced around, uneasy, as a murmur of approval rose from many of the faithful who also bore the same mark. They were watching.
“We do not fight with the Slavers of Roshal, Priest Pawn.”
He met the Prophet’s gaze.
“It does not matter. So long as you harbor a single [Slave], they consider you an enemy, and in time, they will make you theirs. A people of faith who are like those that rose against the Egyptians for freedom would never consort with [Slavers], surely.”
He baited a hook, and the bark from the Prophet was a reward in of itself.
“Of course not! Neither for the word of God or just morality! Slavery is wrong. No free nation would have them!”
Yirene closed her eyes, and there was a cheer from many voices. Pawn smiled genuinely. Of such moments did he think great things were done, and the woman, Marrieh, seemed to sense it too, because she spoke next.
“Explain your reasoning that the King of Khelt is not an enemy by God’s will, Priest Pawn. Please. He has killed us by the thousand.”
“He has, and that is his sin. But that is not a religious reason to kill him, surely?”
“He is undead. His people worship him like a God! Only one being can revive the dead, as he did in my namesake’s case! Lazarus returned from death, and Christ rose three days after passing. The undead are unholy. How else would our faith unmake them?”
Lazimeh put in hotly, eyes flashing. And while he was as vehement as Silad, he was harder to counter. Pawn had no religious citation to disprove undead were unholy, so he thought.
“Let me ask a question, Disciple Lazimeh. Is the light of your faith a weapon that applies to many things?”
“It has defeated numerous foes, from Nerrhavia’s Fallen to Medain, yes. Why?”
“I ask only to confirm that the anti-undead effect it has is proof that undead are truly unholy. Has it destroyed other beings or creatures the same way? Because if that is so, perhaps it is merely a weapon given to you by your faith, not clear proof the undead are the one and only true enemy of Christianity.”
Lazimeh frowned and turned to Harvey, and the Prophet spoke hotly.
“How could you gaze upon the undead and see them as anything but a menace to the living? Their will to destroy is known!”
“True…but faith is many things, Disciple Harvey. Surely, it might just be that faith counters undeath like it does magic. Allow me to state that we may be incorrect, even you Disciples, about the nature of faith. I have been wrong many times, as my Painted Antinium can attest.”
Pawn turned to them for help, and they spoke.
“Absolutely.”
“Pawn often errs. Salt in the tea instead of sugar.”
“He’s always wrong.”
“Priest Pawn is the closest being to the divine! He may struggle to find the path, but his words will bring us all to salvation!”
This time, the date hit Ecclisi in the head, and he shut up. Purple Smile hand-signed.
“[He was wrong about Lyonette.]”
“What did the last one say?”
Pawn’s antennae waved desperately, but he had to translate that, and Harvey gave him a blank look.
“She is an, uh, a woman I was in a relationship with. We broke up. Amicably.”
Harvey’s look of instantaneous jealousy and triumph made him spring to his feet. Then he clutched at his side, but he pointed a shaking finger at Pawn.
“Aha! A man of the cloth does not engage in carnal relationships!”
Pawn was mad now, and he waved a hand.
“Oh, shut up. Yes, they can. You’re thinking of Catholic priests! And I’m pretty sure you’re of a Protestant faith, or you’ve been doing your entire communion wrong this entire time!”
He shouted back. The faithful gasped, and Harvey hesitated.
“Explain yourself.”
Pawn rose to his feet and cast a finger down at the manna and wine cups before him. He stood in the center of the listening People of God as he faced off against the Prophet, and his own robes swished around him.
“When Yirene introduced me, she led me through communion.”
“As was her right. Women may serve as priests.”
Harvey interjected, and Pawn nodded. He noticed the Disciples watching with less overwhelming confidence than the rest of the People of God, but that freed [Slave] was regarding him with what felt like a knowing look. Pawn cleared his throat with a crackling sound and nodded.
“Indeed, something it has on the Catholic faith, I believe. However, she offered me manna and wine.”
“And?”
“Antinium are allergic to bread. It is not a known thing, but we cannot ingest wheat or other such products without an immediate allergic reaction. I would have noticed, but manna is not the same substance. Of course, it is literal manna from the heavens. But I posit this question to you: is manna bread? No, perhaps. It is a divine gift, yet under communion, we break bread in symbol of the body of Jesus Christ, as we drink wine as his blood. It is not transubstantiation as the Catholics believe, literally the true blood and body of Christ, but even under Protestant faith, manna might not qualify.”
Pawn was sort of enjoying this. No one cared about faith back home. He heard gasps, and Yirene covered her mouth with her hands, perhaps wondering if she had failed to properly offer true bread and wine. And Harvey?
He paled for a second, and his eyes flickered. He began to pace, but then he swung around and spoke haltingly. Perhaps with less certainty based on text than Pawn, but like a man feeling forwards. Searching.
“What you say…may be true. It may. Manna is not used in the act of communion, but as you say, we are not the Catholic faith. The bread is a symbol of belief, as is wine. Would a church lacking even wine or bread be a failure in the eyes of God for celebrating and worshipping him, even if they had but water and prayers? No. In the same way, Yirene embodies the spirit of our faith. Second—the churches of Earth do not use manna because they have none. This is divine, proof of our faith. If we are not perfect, we strive to be, and that is faith. Also—it is not communion, Priest Pawn. That is for children. This is the eucharist.”
There was a murmur, and people clasped their hands together. Pawn rocked back slightly as Harvey smiled, triumphant. Pawn hadn’t realized there was another word for the sharing of bread and wine.
I’m blaming that one on you, Ryoka. But he had to admit…well, darn.
He’s the real thing after all. Pawn had been wondering if the Prophet were an act. Certainly, he had appeared to have elements Ryoka had described as being like that of a ‘mega-pastor’, whatever that was. A charlatan using the word of God for his enrichment, but he had come back at Pawn with faith.
Now, they traded glances, and the Prophet sat again. He pushed the bowl of dates forwards after a moment.
“Your faith. Tell me about it, before we speak on undead and our righteous cause. I heard you did not claim to worship another God?”
“No. We are not Christians, but Painted Antinium. Our faith…has no one title. How should I describe—”
“Some might call it the Way of Heaven and Sky or the Faithful of Solstice.”
Ecclisi spoke loudly from the side. Pawn glanced at him and coughed.
“—Or that. It does have a ring to it.”
The Prophet frowned.
“So you believe in Heaven?”
“We do. But perhaps not the one you refer to, Disciple Harvey. We believe in Antinium heaven. That is to say, we wish for a Heaven for Antinium. We work towards a Heaven that all Antinium and those we love might enter when we die. But not in the Christian God. We believe your God exists, and we are open to any other faith.”
Harvey blinked in astonishment.
“Why? God loves all beings. He has a Heaven!”
Pawn hesitated and took a breath. Oh boy, here we go. He glanced at Marrieh, at Lazimeh, then spoke.
“Yes…he does…but is that Heaven, and is the Christian God for everyone? Or just Humans?”
The silence that fell over all present was sudden and absolute. Pawn went on as Harvey blinked at him.
“I studied the Christian faith, among others, and it seemed to me that all of them from Earth are for peoples of Earth. Humans. There was no Antinium written in the Bible. Adam and Eve were given custodianship of Earth. Earth, not this world. I did not see myself in Heaven, so I chose my own faith. And so without rancor—”
He got no further, because at that moment, Lazimeh threw himself at Pawn.
“Lies! Lies and blasphemy!”
He howled and tackled Pawn before Rabbitears tore him away. He tried to grab Pawn again, but the Worker leapt up. Pawn tried to shout, but a piercing wail filled the air, and he saw someone, Jilthread, falling to her knees. Wailing with sudden horror.
Faith shaken. Others were trying to get to him with a violent fervor, and the Prophet was shouting.
“Order! Listen to me! I have prayed on this and—order! In the name of God—”
This might be where they ran. The Painted Antinium closed ranks, and Ecclisi pressed his hands together as Purple Smile clotheslined several people.
“Pawn? What do we do?”
“Use your Skills if you have to! And pray for a miracle!”
Harvey was pressing forward, and his voice was growing in volume. Pawn saw him turn his eyes on the Antinium, and they were filled with wrath and a moment of doubt. Pawn held his gaze.
Am I wrong, Prophet? What are you doing?
Pawn’s hand stole to his club, and someone put herself between them. Marrieh. And her weapon was a club until she raised it, and then he saw white flames running down the length and forming a flaming sword.
“[Damn, that looks better than our Miracles.]”
