The Prophet was raving, possibly mad. Marrieh and the closest of his acolytes kept all away from him after the assassination attempts, but the poison still coursed through his body despite their laying of hands. From six attempts on his life. Poison in his drink, daggers, arrow—he was mutilated by the damned assassins, lying and screaming for God’s mercy. Martyred just as his people. Praying.
Pain, fury for the dead, all drained him of grace and forgiveness. There was only the altar. The sacrament.
“Higher! It must be twenty-four feet high and filled with the faith of…of…”
So they toiled. Thousands of hands heaping the riches of Khelt upon this altar. Not for themselves, but as an offering to God. That he might hear and smite the King of Khelt for his transgressions against the faithful.
And lo, now, the people of Khelt who had slept ignorant did lament and tear their clothing and wail as they knew the true fury of the Prophet of God. It had been a month delayed, almost like some curse of ignorance, but now they screamed and fled and prayed to their [King], who had no power to stop this divine vengeance.
The eyes of foreign nations fell upon Khelt as it faltered, struck by this holy tumor from within, and paradise trembled.
All this was so. And yet, as Harvey lay writhing from the contact poison the Quarass of Germina had inflicted upon him, which refused to stop burning him no matter how much he scraped at his skin, still remembering the daggers which had pierced his flesh, his very heart, until the Lord had saved him to complete his great work, his eyes opened.
Blind, sweat pouring into them, he turned, and the praying people adding their faith to the [Light of Faith] which hovered like a golden sun above their sacrament, nearly finished. Marrieh rose from her prayer, and Jilthread ceased in making a brick for the sacrament, bedazzled in jewels torn from Kheltian ornaments.
They followed his eyes, the most faithful, and the Prophet stared north.
“Who…what…what is that? Is that you, G—?”
He hesitated. For it was like no thing he had ever felt. Something foreign to the faith within him, which waned and waxed like any mortal man who doubted.
Something he would have called truly divine, proof beyond doubt, even more than Miracles, and yet…it was not of him. It was not the Word, the Bible, the Truth, or the Way.
It was strange.
Like…a vision. A building upon a grassy hill, windows glowing. A merry fire. A plate of spaghetti and a blue smoothie?
“What?”
Harvey’s fingers stopped scratching his reddened skin as he stared, and then the vision showed him a sky glowing with more beauty than he remembered. As if a child had seen it for the first time. It drew closer, step by step, hour by hour, and then he realized it was coming here. A procession, another faith.
Rumors and the People of God soon confirmed this truth. Enemies summoned by the King of Khelt. Dread Antinium of Izril, no less, bug-people. One last trial before the foe was defeated, yes, this Harvey knew.
And yet…he looked at it again and again, and a treacherous part of him could not help but think, ‘oh. But oh. It is such a gentle, kindly thing’.
Surely, the Snake of Eden had seemed thus.
 
——
 
The Painted Antinium of the Free Hive were ready for hostility. Violence. Even being spat upon, which Ksmvr had assured them was a regrettably common experience, especially around camels.
They knew what they were: Antinium. The scourge of Izril, the Black Tide. They struck fear into all people, even their own city. That they came was for two reasons.
Firstly, they owed Khelt and Fetohep a debt beyond words. He had spent and spent again in service of the inn, of their allies and friends and loved ones. If eighty of them had to spend blood and lives and comfort in honor of that debt, they would. They had so few friends. They would not easily lose another.
Second, they really, really wanted to see what Khelt looked like.
That was enough for Antinium to take a voyage at sea all the way from their continent. Oh, and if you wanted a third reason, it was because it wasn’t really that fun back at the inn anymore. They were a subsect of the Free Antinium and not as welcome in the inn as before thanks to Lyonette the Breakup Princess, and that business with the [Palace of Fates], which none of them had been part of, yet made it awkward.
They had free time. So they came to Chandrar’s shores, prepared to be hurt or even killed in the name of doing what was right.
This was holy. What the Painted Antinium had not realized was how they came to the nations of the north, then Khelt.
They did not land in Medain; the Four Winds of Teral, the Courier ship, had been alerted that Medain had just closed its borders to any Kheltian-aligned travellers or caravans, and their forces at New Jecrass’ border had tripled overnight.
They were forced to divert slightly westwards towards the Claiven Earth.
“Riskier than I want. My charter is to bring you safely to Chandrar’s soils, sirs.”
The [Captain] was a Garuda-Human hybrid, resembling a woman with feathers that covered parts of her face, framing her features, and clinging to her arms. She would never fly, and nor was she some swashbuckling warrior-captain despite her beautiful coat and plumage. What she was, most of all, was solid, trusted.
The Four Winds was owned by the crew, you see, and they voted on the [Captains]. The woman took her job seriously, and Pawn smiled at her. The port beyond was filled with graceful half-Elven ships docked at the stone pier.
Stone—because of course, half-Elves valued wood too much to make wooden docks. There was a crowd gathered, and Yellow Splatters was advising the others to not react when spit upon. Pawn nodded to the woman.
“You have brought us to Chandrar indeed, Captain. We have another ship coming for us; we shall make our way to that or go on foot. What more can we ask of you? You have brought us through the storms and across this terrible…water…without incident.”
Captain Bressa eyed Pawn.
“You mean the rain shower?”
“Yes, the horrible storm.”
There were chuckles from listening members of the crew, though they were quiet and mostly kept their distance from the Antinium.
It wasn’t actually that much fear, so much as politics. The Four Winds was well aware of what it might be doing, and so the crew had been told to keep back from the Antinium as they disembarked. They were doing their job as a Courier ship; they took almost all cargo, and so long as people remembered that, all would be well.
With that said, their guests had been amusing. Terrifying at first, but…despite the short voyage, the crew had warmed to the Antinium far more than the Black Tide’s reputation might lead one to believe.
Part of that was the sight of Antinium on television and figures like Ksmvr of Chandrar or Garry the Baker. But the larger part was, um…water.
The Painted Antinium were brave, knowing that Heaven awaited if they drowned at sea, but the terror of the oceans still applied to them. Many had freaked out even getting on the ship, and their solution to their fear was to never get near a railing and pretend the water was just differently-colored land.
They stayed below-decks, but the squall had caused…issues. So half the crew had found themselves with a new duty: holding one of the Painted Antinium’s hands when the ship rocked or escorting them to the bathrooms or around the deck if they wanted to walk around. Holding a shaking Antinium’s hand and patting them on the shoulders took a lot of fear out of the equation, and Pawn was only sad he could not reward the Four Wind’s crew more. But he had cured quite a number of minor ailments and scars, so he felt good about that.
Captain Bressa certainly seemed to have some goodwill towards Pawn as well, because she laughed as she swept a feathered arm out, indicating the swiftly-approaching shoreline.
“Hah. If that was a storm to you, then I’m lucky we didn’t hit a real squall. But I’ll see you onto the docks and speak with the [Harbormaster] and maybe even one of the Tree Guides—their version of a magistrate. Passage through the Claiven Earth might be tricky.”
“Especially for Antinium, we understand. We are prepared to run.”
“Oh, no. We can find carriages for your company. It’s just—let me go first, sir.”
They seemed to be speaking crossways at each other, but this was something Pawn was quite used to. He stepped to the boarding ramp as the woman strode down.
“Quite a large crowd, Yellow Splatters.”
“If they attack, run ahead of us, Pawn.”
“If they attack, they will shoot us dead with their bows. Or is that racism? The Elves in the movies are very good with bows. They could all be mages like Ceria. I will use my capstone, and we will flee towards…well, Medain is dangerous. So we go west. That way, I think.”
All the Antinium glanced at Pawn’s finger pointing vaguely opposite of the rising sun. They nodded. A few of them were praying, and the [Captain] was speaking urgently with an important-looking half-Elf with a staff. There were even children on the docks, but mostly, adults staring at the Antinium. Pawn squared his shoulders.
“Remember, we are going to render what aid we can to King Fetohep. If ten of us make it…be wary of camels. There are children in the crowd, so do not fight back.”
He stepped onto the gangplank and began to walk down, despite Yellow Splatters trying to go first. Pawn was waiting for the first thrown cabbage, stone, or spell. He hoped it wasn’t arrows. He hated being shot.
The half-Elves of the Claiven Earth didn’t attack him. They did draw back in a wave and point as he came striding down, and Pawn walked to the [Captain], who might have been waving him back. But they had to go; time was running out for Khelt.
Pawn saw wide eyes, some glowing with magic. Pointed ears waggling. A child with tanned skin blinking at him, mouth open. Teeth with a bit of lettuce stuck in them in lips curving upwards, and he smiled.
They had made it twenty paces onto the docks when one of their number, Purple Smile, glanced around and hand-signed.
“[I don’t think we’re being attacked. What’s wrong with them?]”
Pawn glanced around and scratched at his chest. Then he waved an urgent hand.
“Argh. Rabbitears, Starfold, you fools! You didn’t deactivate your miracles! We’re going to be killed—stop it!”
The two Painted Antinium jumped, and Pawn realized they’d completely forgotten to de-activate their personal Miracles. Sure enough, the two members who were among the oldest of the Painted Antinium had their personal sigils hovering around them, or trailing after Starfold.
In Rabbitears’ case, it was just two bright white ‘ears’ that hovered just above his head, twitching and moving in-sync with his antenna. They were very cute, though he thought they were distinguished.
As for Starfold, he had far more paint on his carapace than Rabbitears’ simple, painted white antennae. He had favored himself with stars of bright silver and more recently other colors, most in that classic five-pointed star pattern. Where he walked, the beautiful painted stars seemed to flake off his armored carapace.
They hovered behind him, a constellation of glowing lights wherever he walked. Very pretty, sort of annoying if you were right behind him and kept having them bounce off your head, but obviously utterly inappropriate now.
And, Pawn realized, some of the other Painted Antinium had other objects of their faith he’d forgotten to get them to stow. He didn’t know them all, these days; he’d gathered up everyone who was available and run with Salamani to get to a coast. But the ones who were with him?
There was Cappy, who had a beanie made by Honored Deskie herself, the most comfortable Antinium-hat in the entire world. He carried their flag, adorned with the painted sigils of all eighty Antinium resolved to come to Khelt’s defense. It blew in a wind that another of them was conjuring.
Windchild, a Painted Worker, was responsible for that and a stream of bubbles they were blowing from a little wooden hoop with their Skill, [Create Bubble Liquid]. They should not be playing with that, but it was free, and ahead of them, Yellow Splatters was walking, his scarred carapace and the splashes of yellow on his very carapace, looking tough and even slightly sinister with the weight of his sins. Pawn still felt that was unfair, but Purple Smile was next to him, his painted body provoking smiles from the crowd.
[Paint Sigil: Smile of Friendship]. The paint on his body seemed to shift, until you saw smiles on his very form, unseen faces welcoming you. Another worthless Skill for pure military anything. Plus, Drakes hated it, especially ones from Pallass. Pawn was hissing at them to knock it off when Yellow Splatters hand-signed back.
“[Your censer, Pawn!]”
Pawn looked down and groaned.
“Ah, poos.”
His censer was the same one he had made when the Painted Antinium had first been formed. Only, then it had been two colanders stuck together. Now, it was reforged by Pelt, and the master-smith had claimed the metals had transmuted.
The result was a vivid, brassy metal and a delicate bell-like censer hanging from a chain of the same stuff, which shone as it caught the light. An item of faith; it was lit and drifting pale brown smoke out of the openings.
Pawn barely paid attention to that. The censer was almost always lit; he just had to insert a coal and it would burn all day. The smoke waved over his company, and it smelled, of course, like cinnamon.
That was how the Claiven Earth met their first Antinium. A group of eighty-some Workers and Soldiers striding off the gangplank of their ship, wreathed in colors, the scent of cinnamon, and the smoke blowing off their bodies.
They might have seemed naked, but for the loincloths they wore, Pawn’s robes, or the cloak that Superguy had on, which was blowing in the faint breeze that swept after them. And then one of them, an Antinium that Pawn didn’t know, clasped their hands in prayer.
“[Beautiful Stroll: The Parade of Seasons].”
“No, no, stop alarming them! Argh!”
Too late. Pawn saw the half-Elves recoil, and then the first leaves began falling down. He sighed.
He’d seen this Skill before. It was a Painted Antinium special; even if this one was more advanced, he glanced up, and autumnal leaves showered down, as if blown from the trees on high, which were the tallest he had ever seen, way higher than Liscor’s biggest buildings.
Massive trees that were as large as redwoods of Earth, but not always in that style. Some with golden leaves which now showered down; not the actual leaves, but copies. Even blossoms of cherry trees and flower petals, pollen floating around the Antinium who halted, for a moment.
