Al blurted out a laugh, finally moving, then laughed louder, fuller. He picked out the yellow diamond from the bag Erick had given him, pulling it out into the light. In a flash, a spell ripped across the octahedron, sending shards and dust into the air, revealing a black sphere.

Al froze, again.

Al quickly thawed, saying, “You dyed it! Blasphemy!” Al unceremoniously tossed the offensive black gem to the ground; it rolled across the room to some forgotten corner as he picked up a different diamond from the bag. One of the clear ones, this time. Another spell ripped across the diamond, revealing a clear, perfect sphere. Al yelled, “Good!” as he ripped another spell across the gem.

Al sighed, satisfied and smiling, as he held a 5 inch, diamond sphere, with what had to be about a thousand individual perfect cuts across the whole newly-prismatic surface. The gem glimmered in the light, catching and revealing an inner fire.

Erick smiled, saying, “You can have that whole bag, by the way.”

“Can you do rubies and sapphires?” Al asked, obviously hopeful. "Or emeralds?"

“Nope!”

Al cursed, then laughed, holding his cut gem, saying, “Just as well. This is magnificent. I don’t know what you’d do with them but to look at them, but they are very good for looking at.”

Erick pointed at the gem in Al’s hands. “That’s sort of what I came to talk to you about. How’d you rip that into a sphere?”

Al smiled. He picked up a messy, raw silver diamond. In another flash of light, the gem became a perfect, silver sphere. Al had looked like he was going to say something else, but then he asked, “It didn’t blacken?”

“Made with platinum rainwater.” Erick said, “I’m not sure how it worked, though.”

Al nodded, holding the spherical platinum diamond. He held it up, saying, “I was never good at enchanting, but I can cut a sphere quite well.” He looked down at the bag. “I can keep these?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Spend ‘em now, because the spell to make them is coming to the Script in a year.”

“Spend them!” Al said, “Preposterous! I’m keeping them, and they’re going to be beautiful. My skill with gem shaping is much better than this! This was just a test,” he said, hefting the cut clear diamond. “You should learn the cut yourself. Get a wheel and the tools; learn through a thousand hours of grinding and polishing. Feel the stone, capture light inside your heart and inside the stone.” He stared at the platinum gem in one hand, then the clear gem in the other. “Though I have no idea if you can even enchant something this big.”

“I haven’t tried the silver ones yet.” Erick asked, “You want to give it a go?”

Al shook his head, saying, “They always explode.”

Erick smiled. “Then let’s go to lunch.”

Al nodded. In moments, Erick had left all of the diamonds with Bacci, who was all too happy to play with them; she also had some skill cutting gems. Erick bade her good fortune, and to have at it.

- - - -

“There’s really no way to do what you did without the practice? Physical practice?” Erick asked, over a plate of fried chicken and fries.

Al spoke over his own fried meat and vegetable platter. “Nope. Repetition is the key! You must build that mental callus with your physical hands, grinding and grinding, so that you know what you want from the spell.” He added, “You could buy the tier 2 [Gemshape] spell if you want, but it will never be as good as properly executed [Stoneshape].”

Poi ate his own lunch at another table, watching over Erick.

And Al spoke of gemcutting like it was an old lover he had spent many nights wooing, but never quite catching.

- - - -

When they got back to the Sewerhouse, Bacci showed off one diamond she had cut into dozens of smaller, beautifully radiant, clear jewels. They weren’t good for enchanting, but they looked magnificent.

Erick happily left her with her own bag of gems, then he remembered how her solid [Ward] activated the trap in the Sewerhouse, saving them all from the attackers over a month ago.

“Oh yeah.” Erick asked, “What’s that solid [Ward] you used, called? To ramp the water?”

Bacci said, “[Water Ward], but it’s only useful against water. [Solid Ward]s are tough to make and you can only have one; one in your Status and one active at a time. Al’s is better than mine.”

Al said, “[Stoneshape], [Ward], and [Airshape], all at the same time. Took me a decade to make.”

Erick frowned. “Something else to work on in my spare time, I guess.”

On the way home, Erick stopped at a wrought marketplace to pick up some quality iron.

- - - -

Back in his mage tower, Erick stored away his unworked gems and placed dozens of spherical diamonds onto the counter. Al had been kind enough to cut Erick various perfect-spheres of both the silver and clear variety.

Al had recommended that Erick [Stoneshape] some walls across everything that he didn’t want shrapnel to destroy, which was a good suggestions, so Erick went and did just that. There wasn’t enough raw material in his house to be moving the floors around all willy-nilly, though. So Erick went outside and fed logs of stone through the side of the house, into cleared spaces in his tower.

Back inside, he Aurify’d [Stoneshape] to roll the logs of stone up across his bookshelves and cabinets, fitting everything that could collect shattered gems with a layer of stone, like raising shutters. He didn’t have anything valuable that could break, but putting up these shutters was a good step to take for the future.

When everything was fitted and cleanup looked like it would be a breeze, Erick threw an 850 mana[Absorption Ward] across the whole space and down the hallway, so that anyone standing outside of the open archway to his tower wouldn’t get clipped by stray exploding diamonds.

A 3400 mana [Ward] would have to do, for now.

Erick took his ring off and put it to the side.

[Special Ward].

Willpower-Ultramarine filled the room, turning everything brilliant blue. Erick placed a one centimeter, spherical, platinum diamond gem on a stone pedestal holder he had made earlier. The books had said that channeling onto your palm was easier, but also more dangerous; using a pedestal was an acceptable degree of separation.

Extending a finger, Erick channeled mana through his Willpower, feeling the resonance within, watching it erupt into Reality as a bright, Ultramarine glow; all other hues denied. He held the flow open, refining the flare of mana into a radiant, steady fire, like that of a propane torch.

He steadied his nerves, then touched the platinum diamond.

Ultramarine flared off of the gem like a light from a mirror.

Erick kept the infusion up for two minutes, yet nothing seemed to penetrate the surface of the gem. He pulled his mana back, the flare from his finger fading. A quick check with [Metalshape] and a bracer to hold the platinum gem, proved that nothing had gotten through the mirror surface—

Erick had an idea.

He rushed to the kitchen to fill a bowl with clear water drawn from the fountain. As it filled, Erick dropped a sliver of clear diamond into the bowl, casting [Crystallize Diamond] as it fell. The water bubbled away under the surface, Erick [Cleanse]ing it every few seconds. When the bowl was full of clean water, Erick rushed outside, Teressa slowly but certainly following.

Outside, Erick threw an Ultramarine [Ward] into the air, then placed the bowl down into the [Ward]. He started channeling Willpower into the water, while it was bubbling; while the gem was growing.

The gem soaked up Erick’s resonance through the water, but imperfectly, slipping outside of the jagged triangles all over the gem’s surface as tiny flashes of light that blinked through the water and were gone. He went slowly, trying not to overwhelm the bubbling gem.

When the gem stopped bubbling, Erick stopped channeling. He pulled out a blank metal bracer and placed the octahedral gem into the setting. For a brief moment, it was enchanted for 7 extra Willpower, but then it was 5, then 2, then 1, then gone.

After removing the gem from its holder, Erick threw out a 400 point [Absorption Ward] at his feet, then began [Stoneshape]ing the imperfect gem into a sphere. Erick had proven that he could enchant through water, into the gem. This was good. Now, he needed to test if he could trap the enchantment into the interior using platinum rain.

When Erick had regenerated enough mana and carved the gem into enough of a sphere, Erick tossed the gem into the water. Inside an Ultramarine part of the world, Erick gently channeled Willpower into the water, and into the gem. Resonance flowed inside, bouncing around inside the sphere; little of that light escaping now that the gem was spherical. Erick opened his [Exalted Storm Aura]; a pillar of silver clouds stretched directly upward. Platinum rain fell like a sudden summer downpour, straight down, instantly soaking through all of Erick’s clothes, and soaking into the water.

[Crystallize Diamond].

Erick’s blue flare started to flash through the reflective platinum water as bubbles appeared; Erick pumped up the flow of mana through his Willpower, increasing what might be getting through to the diamond. The gem crusted over, a thin layer of platinum covering the sphere, growing into triangular plates, fully covering the clear center.

Or at least that’s what Erick thought was happening. He couldn’t see through the water as soon as platinum mixed with the clear. Erick continued to channel Willpower into the experiment, though. He even cast [Cleanse] near the end, having forgotten about that detail this whole time. Thick air spilled into the storm.

Erick let the storm rain until the diamond stopped bubbling.

When he pulled out the gem, under a clearing sky, Erick realized he did not need to go so far with the rain, or the mirror shell. No color had soaked into the 3 inch diameter silver octahedron.

Erick put the unwieldy gem into the metal bracelet, then put that bracelet on.

Yup. No enchant.

Or...

Wait.

Erick began carving away the outside of the gem, practicing his spherical carving, scattering platinum diamond dust onto the ground. He stepped out of the Ultramarine [Ward] to better see what he was doing, though that didn't really help. After a minute, Erick might have carved deep enough, down to the original clear sphere inside. He locked the gem back into its bracer, and got a surprise.

It was a plus eleven Willpower bracer.

And then Erick remembered that, except for rings, Willpower and Focus items needed to be placed around the head for them to work best; Strength and Vitality could be placed anywhere. Erick [Metalshape]d the gem back out, then turned the bracer into a diadem. He placed the gem into the diadem, then put it on his head.

It was a plus thirty-one Willpower diadem.

Erick felt a little heady as his Willpower jumped to 61; this was nothing like the power he felt having a higher Strength, but there was still some kinda expansive feeling to the experience. And then he laughed; this was perfect! He held the diadem to his head, hopping up and down while the white clouds of his [Exalted Storm Aura] flowed away with the winds above Spur.

The diadem crumbled around his head like so much fragmented force, ash to dust.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Enchant an item, or items, that give you twice as much Mana, then wear those items, consuming them in the process. 1/1

Reward: Double your Base Mana

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Double Base Mana

<empty>

<empty>

Erick scrunched his face in a small display of anger, laughing at his goal completing but mad that his item was gone. He sighed. He felt calmly expansive. As his mana slowly started ticking up, Erick realized he had a lot of extra points to spend. He dumped 10 of them into Willpower.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 4,257,054,608/10,233,415,500

Class: 4/6

Points: 6

HP

600/600

600 per day

MP

1031/2400

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

40

+0

[40]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

“Now that’s some healthy mana!” Erick said, a renewed feeling of stretching taking hold in his body. “Hmm.” He frowned. He was feeling quite stretched, actually. “Hmmm.”

Teressa asked, “Are you okay, sir?”

Erick looked to her, as his feelings of expansion turning to queasiness. “Ah?”

“You’re tilting, sir.”

Erick blinked, trying to understand. Oh. Yes. Everything was slightly leaning left, wasn’t it; or rather, Erick was leaning right. He stood up straighter. He blinked again. Queasiness dialed down to expansion, then began to settle into the background. Erick felt his space, steadying himself, looking all around. Equilibrium slowly returned. Breathe in; breathe out. He hopped on one foot; he stretched his hands up to the sky, then he touched his toes. He still felt a little stretched, but the feeling was almost gone, now.

“Okay. It’s fading.” Erick asked, “Is that normal? For a big Willpower and Mana boost?”

“Yes, sir.” Teressa said, looking out across the Human District. “Would you like to do the rest inside? Perhaps with a downspout leading into your tower? After a change into dry clothes?”

“Oh!” Erick was soaking wet, wasn’t he. He laughed. “Yes. I think I will, Teressa. All excellent ideas.”

- - - -

