“Maybe.” Silverite said, “Strength rings for the mages, Willpower rings for the warriors. If they fall into the hands of the Shades, I don’t think it would matter much, considering the Shades would have to give up all their other...” Silverite stood up and went to the shelves at the side of her room. She plucked a tiny red-jeweled ring from from an open box. She slipped the red ring on one hand, then went back to the desk and picked up the Strength Ring, to slip on her other hand. The second she was wearing both rings at the same time, the red ring cracked; smoke escaping from a blackened jewel. Silverite hummed. Then she took off both rings, and said, “This is a wonderful trap.” She smiled wide. “I love it.”

“Good! That’s what I was thinking, too.” Erick added, “Like anti-cursed items.”

Mog laughed. “Do you think they’d break cursed items, too?”

“I’m not even sure what a cursed item is. The books didn’t say much about them.”

“They’re items that drain Stats, or Health, or Mana, which cannot be removed except with the help of a priest or a doctor.” Silverite said, “They can be very deadly because when you drop below Stat multiplying ability thresholds, those abilities turn off.”

"Yup." Erick said, “That's all the books said about cursed items, too.”

“I have some cursed items I can test,” Mog said, picking up the Strength ring. “I’ll let you know.”

Silverite picked up the Willpower ring, saying, “I will give this ring to Darenka for testing, as well.”

Erick smiled wide, saying, “And I’ll go home and start making some more rings.”

Mog asked, “How are you making these, anyway? I’ve never seen silver gems.”

“They’re diamonds.” Erick said, “I invented a diamond making spell and the rest is technique.”

Mog laughed loud, like Erick had said the funniest thing she’d ever heard.

Silverite just smirked, saying, “You should not answer that question ever again, Erick. That’s why I did not ask.”

Erick grinned, calling her on her bullshit, “Don’t pretend you didn’t already know.”

Silverite laughed.

- - - -

In the middle of grinding diamonds with [Stoneshape], as the evening sun painted the sky outside of Erick’s mage tower in shades of pink and gold, Poi appeared in the archway leading to the rest of the house. He cleared his throat. Erick turned toward the sapphire dragonkin.

Poi said, “Your rings destroy cursed items, but they are lessened and eventually consumed in the process, turning to naught but dust.”

Erick smiled. “Awesome.”

Erick went back to grinding diamonds.

He had already ground out [Stillness] to level 10 by throwing the spell into the sky and dismissing it, over and over, hours ago. [Watershape] was also level 10, just because he could; it made working with water much more fun. [Crystallize Diamond] got powerleveled to 10, too. The only thing left to grind was diamonds and higher tier magic.

So Erick ground diamonds into spheres, preparing to outfit an army.

He paused.

He threw a hundred mana into the air, along with a question about attaching [Scan] magic to neutrinos.

His own voice returned to him, ‘Nope. Electrical charges are easy to manipulate because everything interacts with electricity and electricity interacts with everything, but these ‘neutrinos’ are barely there. This is a hard-no, Erick.’

Erick nodded; he figured as much.

Over the next hour, while grinding diamonds into spheres, Erick rephrased his question multiple ways, attaching different ideas to possible neutrino-based [Scan]ing spells. Every time, the answer came back the same: 'No'.
