Cale sighed, staring at the nearest pseudo-vinewalker attacking them. It was pretty much exactly what he'd feared. Half a vinewalker was a poor description, perhaps; the vinewalker torso was very clearly growing out of a core of flesh and magic, and whatever that core had been originally, it was still alive. Panicked and afraid, most likely, which still didn't explain why it was attacking them—only why it was manifesting so differently from the sick atverians.

"They're in pain," he said.

They were. Past the aggression and strange determination to approach them in particular, there was a core of something frightened and hurt. Cale couldn't even tell what creature their attackers had been originally—birds of some sort, perhaps, judging by the clumps of feathers he could find between the thorns and blooms—but whatever it had been was outright unrecognizable. Vines had erupted through its beak to form the rough outline of a head and neck, and through its wings those vines had formed into the vague shape of a torso.

There was enough magic in there to fly and for them to be aware of its surroundings, but that was more of a curse than a blessing, considering the state they were in. And the more they struggled, the clearer it became that they weren't even much of a threat. Past the shock of their appearance, these things struggled to even stand, squawking miserably.

Damien took a hesitant step forward. "We can't leave them like this," he said quietly. "We don't need to assault them with attack spells or anything, but I think I can..."

He trailed off, hesitating, and shot Cale a pleading look.

"If you can make it painless," Cale said softly.

Damien nodded, swallowing, and approached carefully. Everyone else stepped back while the creatures flailed about at him, more out of fear and panic than any understanding of what Damien was doing.

"I'm sorry," he said quietly, gathering one of them into his arms. Decay-aspect mana flared from him, and after a moment, the body he held fell still.

And then it bloomed, taking on the aspect of the vinewalkers, spreading outward as if it were a flower in and of itself. It avoided Cale and the others, but every infected it touched decayed to dust in an instant. Damien kept his eyes closed and head bowed even after the spell was done, though Leo stared at him, awestruck.

"That was a third tier spell?" he whispered to Cale.

Cale snorted. "Ask him later," he said. Some things weren't his secret to tell.

It became something of a pattern as they moved deeper still toward the vinewalker colony—the deeper they went, the more these half-transformed creatures would appear. There was no sign still of any of the vinewalkers that had once supposedly lived here, but there were plenty of these monsters that appeared out of nowhere to strike at them; eventually, they were forced to move on and avoid the monsters as much as they could.

Better to end the plague at its source, Cale said, than to try to bring every individual creature peace. They could do that after they had quelled the source of the infection. For now, they had to keep moving.

Yet though he didn't say anything just yet, he was starting to get a bad feeling about this.

It was one thing for them to be attacked because the creatures here were fearful and in pain, but that wasn't why they had been attacked. The creatures had been determined and purposeful, if ineffective. That, combined with the increased frequency of those attacks as they got toward the vinewalker village...

It could suggest that the village was the source, he supposed, but it could also mean that the half-transformed were operating under the orders of something intelligent. The second seemed far more likely, and if that was the case, then what they were dealing with might not have been a plague at all.

Cale remembered the story Damien had managed to pry from A'ruk, the one about T'vela's vinewalker lover. At the time, he'd had nothing more than an inkling that this was more than it appeared, but the pieces were now starting to come together, and those pieces no longer matched the idea that this was a magical plague.

He hoped he was wrong now. It would be far too cruel if he was right. A plague would have been easier to deal with, in comparison.

Soon enough, they reached the wooden huts and buildings that the vinewalkers must have been living in. It was a small, cozy village, and there was no indication here that some great magic had been performed that would produce a deadly plague.

They had found the vinewalkers, though. Each one of them was bound in place, wooden tendrils winding painfully through their vines as they tried to force their way toward the center of the village. Cale heard a sharp inhalation from Thorn as he went to help them—their eyes flickered toward him, fearful and hopeful all at once, but also in warning.

"Watch out," one tried to rasp, the words barely emerging through the wood that bound them. "Please, be careful—do not—"

"I know," Thorn said roughly. This kind of magic had to be undone with care. Simply tearing down the roots would cause a great deal of internal damage to the vinewalkers.

But that wasn't what the vinewalker had been trying to warn them about. Cale's attention was focused on that.

On the center of the village, and on the quiet sobbing of a little girl whose cries still echoed through her home.

"Shit," he muttered quietly. He'd been right.

This was no plague. It was the birth of the realm's dark lady. And the one chosen for the role... he could see only a silhouette from where he stood, but in the middle of the village was a small, crying atverian girl.

Curled protectively above her was the very vinewalker corpse they'd been seeing all the while. This one, however, had a shining goldsong spear sticking out of his back—the same kind he'd seen T'vela carrying. The kind atverian commanders used.

It wasn't the first time he had seen such tragedy result in the birth of a new dark one, but he felt an old exhaustion weighing down on him. How many times had it been now?

He had wanted to study the Dark to understand the secrets it kept from him, but he hadn't wanted to do it like this.

He was so very, very tired, sometimes, of all the ways the Realms could hurt its people.

Still... perhaps this was early enough in the cycle that there was something they could do about it.
