Without waiting for an answer, the boss staggered away towards the forest. Directing a Sentinel to ready the horse and pack the boss’s bears, Ravil hurried to the boss’s side. Supporting him as he walked, Ravil whispered quietly, “Are you sure about this? There’s no guarantee the old bastard won’t speak, and this is our best chance.”

“I’m never sure of anything, but there’s been enough death today. He saved my life, so I should try to save his, it’s only right. Besides, he’s not going anywhere, not until he’s treated at least. I need to find some--” Stopping in his tracks, the boss stared down at the body of a village girl.

A damn shame, she was a pretty young thing in life, but at least she was spared torture, her body whole and intact. Sensing the boss’s anguish, Ravil spoke without thinking. “You were close?”

“Sort of.” The boss knelt down and clasped her hand. “Her name is Ai Qing. She saved my life. Dragged me out of the lake, fed me, washed me, and cared for me for weeks while I recovered. A kind soul, her hard work earned her nothing but misery, scorned by her fellow villagers, and an early death alone in the woods.”

The silence sat heavily on Ravil as he watched, uncomfortable seeing this side of the boss. A soft-hearted fool willing to fight for the dignity of cripples, a man who risked everything to help a group of strangers, and though Ravil was grateful, he worried for the boss. Good men often died young, for causes not their own.

After an awkward pause, Ravil cleared his throat and mumbled his condolences. “She did the Empire a great service.”

“Ha. You think that’s what went through her mind while she lay dying? I doubt it. Her last thoughts were probably filled with regret, cursing having ever met me.”

“...Boss, it’s not your fault she died, and she’s just... err...”

Smiling sadly, the boss looked at Ravil and shook his head. “And she’s just a village girl, right? A good trade, her life for mine, a nobody for a ‘Hero of the Empire’... Bullshit. I’ve probably had more near death experiences than she has years of life, she had better odds of making it to eighty years old than I do. All she wanted was to see the world. She dreamt of becoming an herbalist or physician, so who knows, what if she was only a few years from discovering a new, life changing treatment? Maybe that old man was supposed to be the next great philosopher, or that skull belonged to a brilliant musician, or someone here was supposed to give birth to a hero of destiny... So much potential lost, you should understand this best. A year ago, you couldn’t even hold a bow properly, half a year ago you were ready to give up and die in obscurity, and look at you now. How is my life more valuable than any person here? Why was I brought...” Sighing as he stood, the boss grimaced and stalked over to his waiting horse and cubs. “Sorry, I’m just having an existential crisis. Don’t worry about it.”

Grabbing the horse’s reins, Ravil struggled to order his thoughts. Clearing his throat, he looked up and spoke his mind. “Boss, I’m just a street rat and don’t know much. I’m not gonna say everything is as the Mother wills it, because I think that's a load of crap, always have. I make my own decisions, and though Fate may shit all over me in the end, they were my choices. It’s the same for her, she made the choice to save you, and I’m thankful for her sacrifice. Given the chance, I’d make the same trade she did, my life for yours. You’re the best man I know, and I owe you more than I can repay in ten lifetimes.” Shrugging sheepishly, he added, “Course, it don’t mean much coming from me, I don’t know many good men, but the others all feel the same.”

After a long pause, the boss leaned over to pat him on the shoulder, smiling sadly. “Thank you. It actually means a lot coming from you, I thought you still hated me. I don't need any martyrs though, what I need is living soldiers. It takes too much time and money to train new ones.” Clapping himself on both cheeks, the boss turned the horse east. “Alright, enough sappy bullshit, let’s go save the Lord of Thunder.”

Chuckling beneath his breath, Ravil followed behind at an easy run. Just saving the Lord of Thunder, nothing too impressive here.

It was great having the boss back.

“So Ravil, what’d I miss while I was gone? And what was Lei Gong talking about when he mentioned a purge? Am I misunderstanding, or was he worried I was gonna throw up on him?”

Almost missing a step, Ravil goggled at the boss. No matter how many times it was brought up, he kept forgetting the boss’s greatest weakness: an utter lack of common sense.

The boss wasn't going to like this. If a few dead villagers was enough for an existential crisis, how was he going to react to a full-blown Purge?

Chapter Meme
