As the harsh sun beat down through scattered clouds, a warm breeze flowed in from the west; a product of the controlled weather causing the deviation from the natural northern flow. That deviation wasn’t exactly welcome, but besides that, the day looked to be a great one for experimenting with some plants, so that was exactly what Erick was going to do, until such time as either Killzone appeared, or something else happened.

With a sudden realization, Erick knew he could have made any day a good day for working outside.

With that thought in mind, Erick stepped out of his house and into the western shadows of the house, as the sun rose in the east. As the western breeze was getting a bit strong, and he had some guidelines handed to him by Silverite for how she wanted the weather, Erick looked up at the clouds, and changed the unacceptable western wind.

A barely-visible pulse of white light, weightless and yet full of power, crashed out from his body, racing upward and outward, dissipating as it traveled, but causing more and more changes as it traversed the sky. Wispy clouds turned solid. The western winds shifted to northerlies. It would not rain today and the clouds would mostly vanish in the afternoon, but order had been restored. Erick was sure that a lot of someones out there appreciated the return to northern winds; after all, the city’s architecture was built with that sort of weather in mind.

Erick breathed deep the rushing breeze, as Ophiel took off from his shoulder to fly above the trees of the garden. With a gentle laugh and a step into the green space, Erick got out his Handy Aura and began pruning, picking, and prospecting in the soft, dark-brown dirt. Carrots, corn, tomatoes, turnips, peppers, potatoes, peas, and more, all of that came out, alongside the few Veird-born vegetables he kept in his garden, like the purple tomatoes, and the ripe pods of the tarip trees kept near the lemon trees. The tarip pods would come in use later, but soon, stone baskets beside the garden were absolutely full of raw food.

Kiri watched, and helped, but mostly she tried to use [Greater Lightwalk] with proficiency, attempting to prune and pluck right alongside Erick. She wasn’t very good with her lightform yet, but she’d get there.

Teressa helped move full vegetable crates inside the house, for Justine to place into cold storage. Poi was there, too, but he mostly talked to whoever he usually talked to, never having less than five tendrils of intent coming off of his head at any one moment.

After half an hour, Erick had finished most of the upkeep of the garden, while Kiri had done less than fifteen percent of the work. It was easy to see why she had failed to do that much; her [Greater Lightwalk] control was worse than Erick had initially seen. She took three tries to pick a lemon without turning it to pulp or letting the fruit slip out of her lightform grasp. Erick said nothing, though. She was trying.

Near the end, Kiri said, “I need to make that Handy Aura. My [Lightwalk] is simply not dexterous enough for this fine, forceful work.”

Erick said, “I have Shape Spell, Class Ability. Really glad I went with that one.” He added, “But yeah; a Handy Aura is better for this than [Lightwalk].”

“… I need to get Shape Spell, too, I guess.” Kiri quietly lamented, “There are just so many good choices.”

“You’ve got a month till Particle Mage.”

Kiri smiled, as she sighed. “Thank the gods. Only a month left.”

“Do you have some points saved up for more Ability Slots?”

“I do.” Kiri said, “I’ve made a few adjustments to my necessary list, too. After watching you make that [Plasma Bolt] yesterday, I think I’m gonna get 20% off Particle Spell costs instead of 10% off all costs, and then try for a VCVD Particle Plasma spell.”

Erick looked to his apprentice. “You sure about that? I have found the 10% All Costs to be remarkably useful, though it doesn’t work with having your [Familiar] cast the spell.”

“I’m sure.” Kiri said, “I’m going to remake all of my wanted spells as Particle spells. Plasma. Infrared. The physicality of it all is just too much to pass up.” She looked up to the sky, saying, “The ability to control the weather. All of these things are too important to not be done.” She turned to Erick, and turning serious, asked, “I would like to ask for your cooperation in gaining some of the Basic Spells you have made, when they finally make it to the Script.”

Erick smiled at Kiri’s courteous tone, and her demeanor. “Of course, Kiri.” He added, “I’m not sure how that’s going to work, since I’ve already been informed that [Condense Particle] is going to be the Basic Tier Particle Spell, but we’ll figure something out when the time comes. Maybe you will be able to learn [Call Lightning]? We won’t know until we try.”

Kiri smiled softly as she repeated, “We won’t know until we try.”

Erick turned back to the tarip trees, asking, “Now… Do you know how to make a [Fermentation Ward]?”

“… Academically? Yes. Actually? No.”

Erick rubbed his hands together, deciding, “Then we’ll both give it a shot.” With a Handy snatch, he plucked three tarip pods he had set aside from the rest. “Let’s make some chocolate.”

- - - -

The sun beat down through clouds on the eastern side of the house, as Erick stood beside a loamy field of brown dirt. He held in his hand a football-shaped fruit, covered in red and white stripes, with a fleshy interior and a thin line of walnut-sized seeds down the center. The seeds took up barely any space at all. Most people used the fruit itself to make jellies or fruity toppings. The fruit tasted pretty good. Almost like a strawberry and a cherry had a baby. It was easy to eat, too. The rind was tough enough for shipping, but if you peeled from the top, it came off like a banana peel. The seeds themselves were great for planting; almost every single one would sprout a tree, in almost all situations, including situations found in nature. From planting to fruit, it took three years, or an hour of [Grow], for the tree to produce fruit of its own. Tarip was a great fruit.

But Erick hated tarip. It tasted like strawberries and cherries, yes, but it smelled like dying. Erick hated the smell of unprocessed tarip. Most people called it an acquired taste, and it sure was. Another problem was that that sickly sweet smell rapidly attracted flies and all manner of insects, and if these plants weren’t growing in Spur, where there were hardly any bugs, or under [Bug Ward]s anywhere else, then the tree would never get to harvest size. It would be dead to bugs ten times over. More people than him had tried to get rid of the smell and bug problem by cultivating the tarip into something other than what it was. And that was another part of the problem.

The tarip tree was actually one of the most meddled-with plants known to the people of Veird.

Erick figured that fact was one of the myriad of reasons he had failed to make chocolate through the tarip tree. Too many cooks, cooking in a kitchen that had been in use for a thousand years. That was the problem with tarip. If you tried to do anything new with the stinking fruit, you usually ended up fucking some important thing up, and it turned nasty. Instead of just smelling like death, it tasted like death, too.

So the first thing he was going to do today, was return the tarip to its original form, if it even had one.

In his casual pursuit of chocolate, ever since he was turned on to the idea by Jane, all he found regarding the tarip was that it was heavily changed from the original. No one knew what the original looked like. Maybe he would have more luck making chocolate by starting from the original? Maybe not.

But maybe so!

There was a reason that Erick hadn’t gotten very far in the creation of chocolate. He had tried, here and there, and could never get past the ever-present smell. But maybe he could, today!

Erick peeled the fruit, uncovering the fleshy, red interior, and multiplying the smell three-fold. He was standing to the side, though, so most of the smell flowed away on the breeze. From this angle, the scent of sweet death was quaint, and tiny.

Then he pulled it open with tendrils of light.

His entire face felt like he had stuck his head into the swill of a decaying garbage dump, and the remains of a wood-chippered fruit filled grove, all in one. He almost retched. Kiri, standing just downwind, breathed in deep through her nose. Erick almost gagged a second time as he saw her do that.

Kiri laughed. “It smells good!”

“It does not.”

Kiri shrugged.

Erick discarded the flesh as he pulled out the line of seeds from the interior. Like a bunch of lima beans separated, held together, and covered by white, spongy flesh, the seeds were hard little things. With his face scrunched up like a crumpled napkin, he popped the first seed from its loose container, and then dissected it. Without the white flesh covering, the seed was still white and lima-bean shaped, but now Erick saw the two halves to the seed, and a nib on one side at the joining of those halves. The shape was okay, but was nowhere near what a cocoa bean needed to be.

At a mental command, the Ophiel in the sky lifted his power, conjuring clouds from the surroundings like fog rolling in. As his aura spread and stabilized, it raised to the sky, where clouds formed, and silver flashes broke through, illuminating the growing darkness above. Platinum rain fell, soaking the ground, flowing into the experimental garden, but nowhere else. Erick held his seeds apart from the growing rain, for now. When the ground was good and soaked, Ophiel cut the rain. The sky returned to comfortably cloudy.

He planted the seed in the still-glowing soil, casting [Grow] as he did, directing his spell to uncover what had been, when the tarip was first created, discarding all that had come in the centuries since its creation. To become its own ancestor. To become the original.

A sapling sprouted.

Over ten minutes the sapling became a tree, then over more time and more applications of [Grow], the three meter tall tree sprouted flowers that appeared and then fell to the ground. Fruit appeared where flowers had been. They were small green buds, at first, the fruit gradually became something rounder, then redder. There were no white lines, and no football shape. It was here, that Erick removed his directed growth, and imbued the tree with [Tree of Light], letting it become its perfect self on its own.

That appeared to be the right decision.

The air filled with the scent of tart cherry, the tree rapidly shifted itself into something more primal, with a trunk lined in spikes and fruits that began dangling from almost-vines. The fruits swelled, as the tree stabilized. Brown bark glowed orange in the cracks of itself, while deep green leaves were edged in green light.

Erick smiled. “This one smells good.”

Kiri eyed the tree. “Too many spikes… I think the ones near the bottom are dripping. Uh.” She took a step back. She asked, “[Cleanse]?”

With another look, Erick saw what she saw. He rapidly cast the appropriate spell.

A storm of thick air erupted from the plant. The tree deflated. Fruits burst. Thorns turned to nothing. Branches broke, like balsa wood with too much weight on them. Leaves turned brittle. The scent of cherry completely vanished. Kiri ‘eek’d, and then threw a [Cleanse] over her and Erick.

For a moment, Erick’s skin reddened. He coughed. Kiri coughed, too, muttering about poisons as Sunny, wrapped up around a rod of [Treat Wounds], tapped her with the rod, and then Erick. Erick had to laugh at that, so he did.

“I was not expecting poison,” Kiri said, keeping her couatl [Familiar] hovering closer to her than Sunny had been hovering before.

“Me neither.” Erick said, “Fast thinking with Sunny. You were a hair faster than I was.”

Kiri just smiled.

Erick turned his attention back to the ‘tarip’ tree. The not-tarip was thoroughly dead.

Erick frowned. “… Oh well.”

Kiri said, “One more try!”

“Eh.” Erick said, “I’m just going to try from tarip to cocoa, again. I’ll try smaller shifts in change, this time.”

His second try for cocoa, of the day, but to adjust the current tree away from strawberry flavors, wholly to cherry.

This time the tree came out much better. [Cleanse] did not deflate the tree, and the scent of decaying sweetness was less. So that was good.

Using this second tree, Erick continued his iterations, making small adjustments to approach his goal of a heavily-seeded fruit, without the smell of the original. When the tree was down to something unoffensive, he began throwing in as much feeling and memories of chocolate as he could. The taste of chocolate cake, the bitterness of baker’s chocolate, the creaminess of milk chocolate, the pick-me-up it gave on a bad day, the capstone on a good day. How it tempered into something shiny.

Erick was never one to seek out chocolate, but he never passed it up, either. That was probably the most major reason that he never went as far as he had with cocoa. He could have probably done this all before, but now, with Jane’s desire for chocolate chip cookies clear in his mind and with her actually back home, for now, Erick wanted to make her happy.

Ah. Don’t get off track. Back to [Grow]ing.

