Fermentation Ward, instant, close range, 500 mana

Support the rampant spread and life of fermenting yeast, in a small area. Lasts 5 minutes.

It would be a useful spell.

It was also slightly terrifying. Could he make a spell like this for animal tissues?

… Ew.

And also, oh no.

Erick left that thought far behind for now and went back into the backyard, to check on the beans. They had sat under the sun and a [Drying Ward] for a full hour, and they had both done their job. Where once was red muck, now was brown bean, almost all of the red having turned to dust and blown away on the northern winds.

There were more than a few reasons why he had not done much with chocolate before now. One of them was that this middle process was a mystery to him. Oh, sure, he knew the broad steps. The raw beans tasted like bitter fruit. Fermentation and drying helped develop the proper flavors. And now, he needed some sort of grinding to bits, thing…? Roasting, for sure. Then a lot more grinding, under heavy stones, to produce a fine, fine texture. That part he was sure about. Heavy stones, grinding brown muck to something closer to liquid chocolate.

… And then there was more.

And then you had bars of chocolate!

Simple! Right?

Eh. He’d go as far as he could. Getting to the stone-ground process would likely be good enough. And then you’d add powdered milk and sugar and stuff—

Oh! And then you’d grind some more? Right? That had to be right. There was probably a word for both the first grind and the second grind, but Erick had absolutely no idea what those words could possibly be, or if they even existed, or if there was only one grind necessary.

… Two grinds seemed necessary.

He turned to Poi, standing behind him, asking, “Is there some Mind Mage way to help me remember something I’ve forgotten?”

“No.”

“… I feel like your ‘no’ is a lie.”

“Your feelings sure do exist.”

Erick turned back to his beans, brushing Poi off with a, “Fine fine fine.” With a single part of his Handy Aura, he grabbed a bean and twisted, crushing the bean into… Parts. Hmm. Erick took a closer look at another bean, and used his hands this time. The bean came apart as he touched it, a paper-thin coating flaking away on the breeze, revealing a solid, black interior that smelled faintly of vinegar. Erick pressed his fingers together, his 82 Strength going to work at his physical demand, shattering the bean into broken shards. Erick smiled, as he opened his fingers apart. Brown stuff coated them. “It’s certainly fatty enough.” But the vinegar smell threw him for a small loop. Was this correct? Erick shut down his hopeful thoughts. He had come further today with chocolate than he ever had before, but the day was not done, and the road to chocolate was undeniably long.

He almost thought to get Kip involved again, to ask for the use of his hopper. But he didn’t have that much to do, and the process of separating shells from the bean inside seemed easy enough. Maybe he’d get some professional equipment later, but for now, hand-made was fine.

With the help of two Ophiel and more than enough open space around his house, Erick gathered up the beans in a thousand Handy hands and a large bowl of his [Greater Lightwalk] self. Under his own guidance, air spun though the beans, ripping off shells, spilling red dust into the air. Ophiel guided heavy winds through the spell work, their instinctual [Airshape]s whipping away the dregs, while the heavier beans fell back into Erick’s lightform bowl. The first cleaning was okay. The second cleaning got rid of even more shell. The third cleaning came up empty, all the red dust and thin shells having been blown away on the breeze.

And now came some cooking.

Browning the beans was simple enough. But here too, Erick was unsure where to go with it all.

He split the beans into six piles. Three piles were [Cleanse]d, pulling a thin amount of thick air from them that was not much more than a heat mirage. Justine had told Erick that some of that was the fermentation yeast, for sure. The other three remained uncleaned. After throwing a [Cleanse] on the drying table, he [Stoneshape]d the table into six parts, separated by raised stone. He threw down six [Heat Ward]s, one each of low and slow, medium, and fast and hot, with the two types of beans separated accordingly.

He set to making his ‘grinders’—

But how?

He went and got Kiri’s help with the general idea of a stone grinder, but Kiri was quick to point out Justine’s wealth of knowledge. Erick went and got Justine, to ask for her help.

“Of course I can help with that!” Justine said, happily.

Justine’s grinders were simple things; an inverted cone of stone, with a mostly flat, yet rounded tip, set inside of another conical stone, almost perfectly flush with the central grinding stone. It was a variation of a mortar and pestle, and was almost what Erick was going to make, but not quite. Erick was going to make a mortar and pestle, and have the central stone pound up and down, but this seemed much better. The end result ended up being half a meter tall, and capable of grinding a good portion of beans at any one time. Since Erick was planning on just grinding and grinding, this version did not have the hole in the bottom that the normal version possessed.

One of the many things to keep in mind when making this ‘emergency grinder’, as Justine called it, was the creation process. For turning any old dirt that was just sitting around into a functional grinder, you first had to turn the stone to sand, then came a [Cleanse] to get rid of any exposed impurities, with this part repeated a few times, depending on location. After getting good, clean dirt, then came the shaping. This type of grinder needed to be as solid as possible, on the level of marble, or stronger, so that while the stone ground on and on, it did not grind itself to sand when it was working.

By the time Justine, Erick, and Kiri finished the first set of knee-height grinders, the first batch of ‘hot and fast’ beans seemed ready. Looking at them, Erick saw that they were certainly browned. Hopefully they weren’t burned.

The [Cleanse]d batch went into one grinder; the non-[Cleanse]d batch went into the other grinder. With a simple application of [Control Item], for the contraptions that Justine had created counted as ‘items’, the grinders began to grind all on their own. Beans broke under the onslaught of their own weight and inexorable stone, turning from whole to bits, then becoming little more than lubrication for the grinding, grinding grinders.

While Erick waited on that, he cleared up every tarip tree except his success, turning them all to kindling, and setting them downwind to burn in a [Cleansing Flame].

An hour passed. By then, all six grinders churned away at all six experiments, turning bits to muck, and muck to silk, theoretically. The noise was horrendous after only five minutes, though, so Erick threw down a shaped [Stillness], turning the cacophony of six simultaneous avalanches into six ‘cars-on-gravel-driveways’, and a lot of flashing light.

While the grinders ground, and as the second hour of grinding approached, Erick sat on the porch. With a beer in his hands, he watched the lights flash around the moving stones; sound turned to luminescence. He smiled, as he realized that he had created a spell that turned sound into light, way before he ever considered shifting elements around, or before he had ever experienced Syllea’s [Shadow Conversion].

“But what is shadow?” Erick asked himself. He turned to Kiri, sitting beside him, also on the porch, but mostly just reading her ‘Dawning Sun Style’ book. “What is Shadow?”

Kiri looked up, and out, thinking. Her voice came slowly. “… You’re asking me… It’s like you’re asking me ‘what is the space between Particles’. Shadow is a force, like any other. A Fundamental Force of Magic, more like magnetism than anything else… But no. That’s wrong. And also partially right?” She thought. She said, “If you want me to just throw out some ideas, though, it could be that the ‘Particle’ of Shadow is Shadow Essence. You can’t directly manipulate Shadow Essence, much like how you can’t manipulate individual atoms, and maybe even for the same reason: the Infinitesimal Ban.” She scrunched her face. “But I don’t know about all that. I always heard that the essences of the primary six elements were more like pieces of souls, than anything else. You can interact with them with soul magic, but the only people who would know for sure would be some necromancer, or maybe people like the demon or angel summoners of the incani or the humans.”

“Hmm… But elementals are like primitive souls?”

“You could probably ask an Elementalist, too.”

Erick gave her a questioning look.

Kiri answered, “A specialized Class that sometimes draws in the Summoner-types, or those who wish to take the Elements to their highest peaks. You’d have to talk to some highly, highly skilled Elementalists, though, if you want to know what Shadow is, at its soul-based level.” She looked to Erick, asking, “What’s the problem? You seem flustered in an odd way.”

Erick said, “Can you make a [Shadow Bolt]?” At her questioning nod, Erick pointed to the dirt of the experimental garden, and with a [Stoneshape], raised a tiny pillar. “Hit that.”

Kiri pointed. A bolt of inky shadows sailed from her fingertip to strike the pillar with a resounding smack, louder than the grinders nearby. The pillar remained fully intact, as Kiri startled, looking to the air. “Oh. I got a spell for that. I wasn’t really trying.” She pushed the spell box to Erick.

Shadow Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of shadow unerringly strikes a target for 2x WIL damage.

Erick gazed at the pillar. “Looks like a simple damage effect, both in box and in reality?”

“Yeah. That’s about my thoughts, too. I have heard that Shadow spells are highly Willpower-dependent, and the spell I made seems to validate some of that.” Kiri said, “If you had wanted an answer to ‘What is Shadow’, but angled more towards ‘What damage does Shadow do?’ that was what I would have said. Shadow is heavily Willpower-dependent spellwork.”

Erick listened, then he pointed at the stone. He cast.

A bolt of dark shadows flicked from his finger to slap near-soundlessly against the stone, like he had flung a spoonful of jelly at the pillar. The shadow ball stuck there for the briefest moment, before dissipating, leaving a hole carved out of the pillar. No blue box appeared. Erick said, “No blue box, either.”

Kiri inhaled deeply, then exhaled, thinking, studying the pillar in the short distance. She said, “I do not know what that means.” She inhaled again, purposefully sniffing the air this time, adding, “That grinding certainly smells good, now.”

Erick chuckled, as he stood up, and wandered closer to the grinders. Each of the conical grinders were full of silky brown liquid, and set with a low-grade [Heat Ward], just high enough to kill any unwanted growths and speed up any possible chemical reactions. Justine had recommended the heating, when Erick had decided to forgo [Cleanse] for half of his experiments, but he had decided to heat up every grinder because it sounded like a good thing to do, anyway.

He breathed deep, and noticed what Kiri had noticed. The chocolate smelled great. There had been a slight vinegary scent in the beginning, but that was gone, now. All he smelled, was…

… Was it chocolate? It was something close to chocolate, for sure. There was certainly enough fat in these samples to make it all look like chocolate; none of the brown sludge had turned to cake, at all.

With six tendrils of light, he poked into each grinder’s brown messes and brought up six samples. He hesitated, for whatever reason he could not say. And then he started sampling.

Bitter, and burned, was the [Cleanse]d sample, that had been heated on high heat. The un[Cleanse]d sample was similarly bitter and burned, but softer, and closer to the taste that he hadn’t had in a year. Still not quite there, though. He should have been able to tell from the color that it had been burned, since they were both slightly darker than the other batches, but there was no way to know that high, fast heat wasn’t the way to go, until he tried.

Medium heat, [Cleanse]d, was missing something that the un[Cleanse]d one was not missing. The second was richer, for sure. [Cleanse] might be the wrong move, here. There was nothing toxic about chocolate, unless he had truly fucked up somewhere along the line, so maybe it was the caffeine and other mood lifters turning to thick air, when he had cast the [Cleanse]? It was probably bits of the fermentation process, actually. Maybe there had been some alcohol in there? No way to really know, right now.

A [Cleanse] upon the tree and the beans themselves revealed no thick airs, so this process had created these thick airs, for sure.

The low and slow batch was grainy, and not at all what he wanted. The un[Cleanse]d] one was also grainy, but it had something that all the others lacked; a good taste. The only reason that it was grainy was because all the other ones had been in there for an extra hour, or an extra half hour.

Erick smiled. He kept all six ‘machines’ grinding away, renewing [Control Item] for the spell only lasted 100 minutes, but he looked to the last one, and knew that that one was the winner, if any of them were. Maybe all it needed now was sugar, powdered milk, and possibly more cocoa fat.

He’d check back in an hour, and see how they were doing, then.

“Hey, Kiri. Want to try some?”

Kiri set down her book, saying, “Sure.”

Three minutes later, Kiri stood beside the grinders, her face in a scrunch.

