Metal twisted. Broke. Reformed. Shaped itself. Cubes became rods, became triangles, became crystals, that flickered back a perfect sphere. The circular table cracked. Ophiels fluttered away, their song ended prematurely as their sitting spots fell to the floor in pieces.

And still, the metal orb hovered there, in the center of the room, atop a crumbling pile of stone.

Time slowed. Ophiels hovered in the air; unmoving feathers and unshifting eyes. Stone fell, but paused on its descent. The night sky outside turned a shade darker, as a deep shadow flowed around the room, inspecting. Curious for a moment, but then judgmental.

“You have crafted the castle without founding the foundation. You tried this much too soon, and you should have used higher grade materials and a larger ritual. Try again another day, or with other components.”

The shadow left. Time resumed.

The metal orb flared out into a frozen splash of spiked metal that crashed to the stone pile with an annoying clang. A blue box appeared.

Enchant, special cast time, close range, 10x cost of target spell + Special Material Costs

Using appropriate materials and appropriate ritual, imbue a clean metal item with a known spell. Impossibly low success rate. <Success rate cannot be improved.>

Erick frowned at the spell. “Shit.”

And then he frowned at the room, but said nothing.

It was time for bed, anyway. Erick left everything like it was, and tore apart [Enchant]. The spell wasn’t even named correctly. Bah! He’d try again in ten days, if he lived that long.

… Or he could try with different components, tomorrow?

But the ones he chose seemed so perfect?

Eh.

Time for bed!

- - - -

In the morning, after breakfast, Erick first went out and grew some more beans to make more chocolate from the beginning. He left the growing and preparation to Kiri, though, because while that was going on, he began more experiments with the chocolate he had made from yesterday. It was all cooled by now, and though it was still good, each batch he had made was as stable as caked mud. It was all very untempered.

Jane suggested a marble cooling table and agitation with big spatulas, but had no help beyond that. She wasn’t quite sure what was needed to temper chocolate, either.

Erick decided to use the main floor dining room for his chocolate experiments. It was a sparse room, with bare furniture and a long table that also never got used, but now all that furniture was shoved to the side, and a large stone table placed into position. Erick leveled the table off with [Stoneshape] while ensuring the top was as smooth as glass. Somewhere in the rearranging of furniture, the conching machine came inside. The grinders stayed outside.

And then came the [Heat Ward]s and the variable temperatures and the [Cooling Ward]s on the table itself and lots and lots of trial and error. Heat the chocolate to liquid, stir it a lot, cool it down fast while mixing, and then…

More brown slop. It was good tasting brown slop, but it was not tempered.

Maybe Erick had made the cocoa wrong, or maybe he had screwed up somewhere in the tempering process. Either were valid points of failure. Justine, Kiri, Teressa, Poi, none of them were any help figuring out how to accomplish what Erick wanted to accomplish.

“It’s supposed to get hard and shiny?” Kiri said, “I don’t know of any candy like that, that isn’t mostly made of sugar.”

“It’s supposed to snap, too, when you break it,” Erick said.

“There’s a spell to make sugar crystallize out of solutions...” Justine added, “But I take it you don’t want that one?”

“No. I’m pretty sure its the fats in chocolate that crystallize,” Erick said.

“Fats turn to crystal? How does the white part of beef become crystal?” Teressa said, “That doesn’t make much sense to me.”

Erick grumbled.

After a long moment, Poi said, “I can truly say that what you are attempting to create is completely new.”

“… hmm.”

Right as Erick was getting ready to tear his own hair out, Killzone showed.

FINALLY.

- - - -

Killzone towered over Erick, radiating restrained power, but that was nothing new. He was only slightly taller than Al, and a bit taller than Teressa, and while Killzone was shaped like an orcol, he had none of that natural charm common to all orcols. His face was nice to look at, but it wasn’t as utterly enamoring as every other orcol Erick knew.

For a brief moment, Erick wondered how wrought chose their forms. Why did Silverite become a female dragonkin, while Killzone became a male orcol, and Anhelia became a female incani? But that was a question for another day. Somehow it seemed a rude question to ask any wrought.

Erick welcomed Killzone into his house, saying, “I was beginning to worry if you were okay, but Poi and Teressa kept saying you were.”

Killzone stepped into the foyer, saying, “Shucks. I’m fine. Sorry if I worried ya. I know I’m a bit late, but there were some complications that bear no more mentioning.”

Erick blinked a bit, having forgotten that Killzone liked to affect an easy speech when things were going well. Come back to the moment, Erick said, “So I’m supposed to bring some desserts and some magic. I made chocolate. Would you care to try some?”

“I suppose I should, but fleshy food isn’t my thing like it is Silverite’s.” He asked, “Is that what I’m smelling, in the air? It almost smells like candy, but it’s not.”

“Yup. That’s chocolate.”

Erick swung Killzone by the main dining room, where Justine was hard at work, taking up where Erick had left off. She stopped as Killzone appeared, looking a little scared as she stepped back from the stone table. Kiri had been standing to the side, dumping freshly ground cocoa sludge into the metal concher, but she too, stopped, as Killzone appeared. Her eyes went a little wide.

Erick turned, sensing something amiss—

Killzone stood in the doorway to the room, stock still, his eyes wandering over the scene, taking it all in. Erick turned back to the room, wondering what he was looking—

Justine’s hands covered in brown. Brown slop slipping back and forth under metal rollers. Aprons covered in brown. Ah. So that’s what it is.

Killzone’s face broke into a smile, as he chuckled, then laughed. “Oh Rozeta, you’re going to make them eat shit.” He laughed again.

“It’s not shit!” Erick said, probably more defensive than he meant to say. “It’s chocolate!”

Killzone laughed louder.

Erick went over and grabbed a small block of chocolate. They hadn’t managed to temper it to smooth and glossy, but it was still mostly hard when cooled. He handed it to Killzone—

He tried to hand it to Killzone.

Killzone backed away. He had dropped to a chuckle, but now, he was back to a laugh.

“Just try it!” Erick said, breaking the piece in half. It did not snap, but at least it broke cleanly. “It’s good.” He ate the other half, and it was good, no matter that it didn’t look perfect and glossy.

Killzone’s laughter turned to something smaller. He breathed in, then out, then accepted the piece of chocolate. He put it in his mouth like he hadn’t just called it excrement.

Erick waited.

Killzone didn’t really chew. But after a few moments, he spoke in a normal manner, “It’s fine, I guess. It’s not shit, but I don’t like fleshy foods, either, so my expertise is not useful in judging the quality or taste of this product, but it should be a fine showcase of magical skill. Most people cannot make new foods, and you’ve made more than your fair share.” He looked around the room, saying, “You’re going to have to find some other way to present this ‘chocolate’.”

Erick was less than happy with that proclamation, but not everyone liked chocolate. He said, “You can use it as flavoring in almost anything. Cakes, candy, cookies, brownies— Brownies are really good. They’re like a thick cake. You can make hot drinks out of the powdered stuff… But I can see how I shouldn’t be bringing in brown bars to the Feast.” He changed his mind, “Actually. No. I can’t see that. They’re going to eat chocolate bars and if all they can think are horrible thoughts, then that makes me feel a whole lot better about all of this.”

Killzone smiled. “That’s a good attitude.” He said, “Let’s talk somewhere.”

Erick lifted his hand toward the door, saying, “Let’s go to the sunroom.”

Once inside the cozier room, Killzone situated himself on his couch, while Erick sat across from him.

Killzone began, “Where would you like to start?”

“What is Shadow’s Feast? I mean— What does it mean to the Shades?” Erick said, “I heard that it was a holiday only celebrated by the Cult of Melemizargo, but anything beyond that was only spoken of as an afterthought, as the time that comes before the Triumph of Light, which is the actual name of Festival Week, after the last month of the year.”

Killzone nodded. “The original Feast happened way back in the beginning of the Script, when people were still racing away from the collapsing Old Cosmology, when Rozeta and the Relevant Entities were working to create the life raft that is Veird. When Melemizargo fell here along with all the rest, he twisted Divine Creation itself into making monsters out of the living, to fight the Script from all sides. This moment, this creation of monsters, was the first Shadow’s Feast.

“Since then, Shadow’s Feast has become the day when Melemizargo’s cult celebrates everything that the Dark Dragon and they have managed to do in their pursuit to tear down the world and the Script.” Killzone said, “Usually, the Feast is done in private, in the small cult hideouts scattered across the world. But in Ar’Kendrithyst, this celebration is turned into a week long affair.”

Erick felt his blood drain away. “Oh fuck. An entire week?”

“It lasts a week.” Killzone said, “But the party takes place in a single night.”

“… Right. Melemizargo does have those time magics.” Erick decided he needed to have a private chat with Phagar, the God of Death and Time, before he went to this Feast.

Erick and Killzone sat in the sunroom, and spoke of Shades. Of power dynamics. Of too many things to consider, and of grand overviews. The conversation took many turns, with Erick diving down many tangents, but Killzone brought the talk back to the bigger issues, and the bigger topics.

The talk ended faster than Erick would have liked. Killzone was a busy man, called off to duty well before Erick was comfortable with any of what was to come.

He’d probably never be comfortable with walking, alone, into Ar’Kendrithyst.

But that’s what was going to happen.
