Erick said, “The graininess will buff out from the last batch. Give it another half hour.”

“The first four are not winners. Aside from the grit… I like the un[Cleanse]d one better. The taste is interesting...” Kiri said, “But they’re all bitter.”

“It needs sugar, yes, at the very least.” Erick said, “Powdered milk, too. Maybe I need to add cocoa butter… I would get cocoa powder from that process, so maybe I should do that anyway.” He said, “You can make both of those by pressing out the oils in this sludge; the dry parts become powder while the wet is the butter. There’s no water in any of these, and adding water of any sort is bad.” He glanced over to the almost-cocoa tree. “I’ll hold off on making another iteration of the base plant, but I will probably need to do that, anyway.” He waved a hand at the light-sparking grinders, saying, “But this part? This part is almost there, and from here, it’s just more and more grinding. I’m gonna have to make a metal grinder, though. Stone is okay for now, but not for as fine as the chocolate needs to be.”

Kiri asked, “How would you make the metal grinder? I’ve never heard of a metal grinder.”

“… I’m not sure.” Erick said, “Maybe a metal cylinder that rolls up and down the bottom of a curved basin? That idea seems familiar, but I’m not too sure.”

“There has to be a spell that could speed this up.” Kiri said, “A Particle Spell to purposefully break it down to molecule-sized.”

“Maybe, but not right now. Besides, this process is necessary to develop the flavors and get rid of the byproducts, like that vinegar smell that’s now gone.” Erick renewed some spells over the grinders, finishing up with the whole batch fast enough. “So this is good enough for now.”

Erick had an Ophiel cast a small [Prismatic Ward] over the knee-high grinders, then left them to their work, as he and Kiri went back inside. A quick check on Candlepoint revealed that he had not accidentally unbarred the springs in the bottom of the lake.

… He really needed Ava and all of them to get on that project. But, eh, the city also needed plumbing and sewers. She’d get to it when she could, Erick was sure.

… He’d still bother her about it tomorrow. Just to see where they were on that necessity.

Killzone had yet to show up, or send word.

- - - -

Erick had enchanted knives to be sharp months ago, along with all the other uses of [Prestidigitation] trinkets, and wands of [Force Bolt], along with all the other little enchants that everyone learned in their first months of Enchanting 101. There was nothing that impressive about basic enchanting. To enchant something like [Force Bolt] into a wand, all you had to do was take your basic rad stylus, and using this metal-erasing magic tool, carve out the Ancient Script words for [Force Bolt] into an appropriately sized length of wrought-quality metal. When that was done, you dusted the carving with rad dust, then said your rhyme, hoping the separate pieces of the puzzle came together in a correct manner. Done correctly, you thus created a magical item. This was the basic methodology for all spell enchanting.

So basic, that his wands of [Force Bolt] were only capable of 10 casts before they broke, and to attempt charging them higher than that usually caused the wand to melt, or explode, or, in one interesting instance, to twist in on itself, almost cutting off a finger.

To call this ‘enchanting’ would be as placing a painting done by a 3 year-old into the same category of ‘it’s a painting’, as you could a painting created by a 400 year-old wrought who had devoted all of their time to color and composition and the study of anatomy and everything else that would, by all that practice and understanding, give every one of their paintings a real chance at being labeled a masterpiece. There was a surface comparison between the two, sure, but not much more than that.

This was the gulf of difference between Erick’s current enchanting capabilities, and even those who plied their trade in Spur, like Ulrick Ulrick.

And that wasn’t even taking into account the ‘Enchanting Spell’ that every capable enchanter possessed, and that Erick had been warned many times, through all of his books, that he shouldn’t even think of attempting to create. Not yet, anyway.

Rings were easy to make. Everything else was beyond him, for now.

But at least Erick knew at least one way his current enchants were failing.

His ‘calligraphy’ was atrocious. Each time he succeeded, it was by the barest margins. A success looked like this: When he etched the final bit of the writing for [Force Bolt] into the appropriate length of metal, and after dusting the writing with powdered rads, he said the rhyme straight out of the book. Powdered rads then crystallized into a whole, in the grooves of Ancient Script, like sugar precipitating out of a solution. The wand of [Force Bolt] was thus complete. If left to soak in the light of grand rads, those disjointed mana crystal would then fill up, granting more charges to the item.

Mostly, though, Erick endured failure after failure. Failure only happened at the end, though. It wasn’t till after the rhyme, till after his attempt at solidifying the spell into the metal, that the metal would warp, or burn, or break. Sometimes, the warping and the breaking wasn’t so bad, and Erick could troubleshoot his mistakes. This was where he discovered stray scratches that ruined the whole work, or too-shallow etchings that also ruined the work, or parts of the metal just melted for no apparent reason.

His first theory into how to fix all his enchanting problems was to pour all his effort into a stamp, and then stamp the iron with a perfect-calligraphy ‘[Force Bolt]’. Then, he would just powder the rads and pour them into the groves. So how about inventing a stylus that etched it all, all at once?

Kiri nixed that idea. Machines could never overcome handwritten Ancient Script. People had invented stylus stamps before, and they always failed.

Yet another enforcement of the Script, no doubt. Maybe this foible came directly from Rozeta. She liked handwritten books, but mass-produced machine copies were not her thing. Thinking about it a bit more, this restriction was probably an enforcement of the Script so that the Script couldn’t be abused by automation. Some variation of the Propagation Ban, perhaps?

For that’s what enchanting was, at its core. It was turning the usefulness of the Script into items separate from oneself. Self-propagating machine magic was therefore nixed before it ever got off the ground.

But anyway!

Tangents.

Anyway, that was just the first form of enchanting. There was another form of enchanting that was slightly different. Erick hadn’t begun to make inroads in this second form of Script weaving, either.

This second form of enchanting was creating items that could be refueled through the use of sticking rads into receptacles. This was how the enchanting stylus was created, and how the Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove was made to work. Almost all household items and magic tools were of this nature, and ranged in price from 10 gold, to 50 gold, on average, or a lot, lot more, for the higher end enchantments.

The major difference between the first and second types of enchanting, was that the first type used set-down mana to create a spell, and the second type used the ‘offgassing’ of rads to fuel their working. The first type broke from too much use. The second type was pure mechanical trapping and rounding of ambient mana, fueled by the rad that had been placed inside.

In this way, it was not totally incorrect to say that this second type of enchanting was similar to dungeon creation and maintenance, where instead of priming the area for slimes to spawn, you created magical effects based on how mana flowed through hollowed out areas of Ancient Script and their adjoining circuits.

But all enchanting required perfect calligraphy, and in this way…

Erick wasn’t doing so well.

Erick hunched over his desk, in his tower, painstakingly inscribing [Force Bolt] into a length of iron. His hand slipped. The stylus carved through two letters, easy as marring the frosting on a cake, but this furrow left ethereal rads in its travels and ruined the entire piece. The metal even flickered at him, like a light bulb breaking. Anger flowed into Erick. He sat straight. He waited for the anger to pass, like a warm breeze. When it did, he sighed. He cast a [Mend] onto the metal bar, and the whole thing flexed back into its starting shape, ready to accept more calligraphy.

… It would have to accept that calligraphy some other day.

He still had yet to make the ‘enchanting spell’ that people like Ulrick Ulrick used to ‘automate’ this process, but much like how most people couldn’t make a good spell without knowing the basics, his own ‘enchanting spell’ was outside of his reach, for now.

Killzone had yet to show up, or send word.

- - - -

Kiri sat a huge bag of sugar on the kitchen counter, saying, “They just gave it to me.” She put her hands on her hips, adding, “This thing is worth 15 gold. That’s a full day’s pay at a really good job.”

Erick smiled, as he stirred the almost-boiling pot in front of him. A good dozen long black bean pods, each split in half, soaked in the water, filling the house with the smell of vanilla as the water turned darker. He said, “I hope you paid them anyway.”

“Of course I did!” Kiri said, as she smelled the air. “Left it on the counter; wouldn’t take ‘No’ for an answer.”

“Thank you, Kiri.”

“How’s the chocolate looking, outside?”

“Doing fine.” Erick said, “I made a ‘conching’ machine out back. Go take a look and tell me what you think.”

“… What’s ‘conching’?”

“No idea where the word came from, but I messaged Jane about what was going on, and she gave me a few more tips. A conching machine is all about the second grind. All we’ve done so far is the first grind.” Erick pulled the pot off the stove, and then poured the whole steaming contents through a sieve, into another pot. “One of those tips was about vanilla, which, thankfully, I already made.”

Kiri walked closer, to see what he was making.

Erick set the first pot aside, then discarded the spent beans. He said, “I think I’m supposed to do this with high-quality clear alcohol, but that’ll take three weeks, and ain’t nobody got time for that.” With a concentration given to the brown-liquid pot, Erick cast [Distill]. The brown liquid flashed white. Brown settled to the bottom. With another cast, Erick [Watershape]d the liquid out of the pot, and dumped the water down the drain, leaving a dark brown sludge at the bottom of the pot; all the vanilla flavor. Erick picked up this sludge with his [Watershape] and pulled out as much actual water as he could, leaving behind an almost-dry paste.

Kiri asked, “Have you made this before? Or was this just another experiment?”

“I did.” Erick said, “When I made vanilla ice cream. You weren’t there for that, but I probably made it wrong, then, too, but whatever. Ah! I need to make more ice cream. It’s so much better than icies.” He scooped out what may or may not have been an appropriate amount of vanilla, into six normal-sized spoons; one each, for each grinding outside. “But that’s for another day.”

Kiri eyed a pile of white powder, sitting to the side, in a bowl. “What’s that for? Some other distilled item?”

“Yup! That’s powdered milk.” Erick grabbed the bowl of powdered milk, and held his spoons of vanilla paste in his hand, saying, “Come, it’s time to add these. You can tell me if the conching machine looks wrong.” With his Handy Aura, Erick also picked up the bag of sugar, and walked out to the back porch.

In the backyard, Justine stood beside a metal rolling device, set inside a curved basin.

Erick said, “Does it look good?”

Justine turned, looking like a deer in headlight, then seeing Erick, she calmed. She breathed out.

“Sorry for scaring you,” Erick said.

Justine shook her head. “Not your— Never…” She gestured to the metal contraption. “This looks interesting. I can see the intent in the design. It’s a finer grind, I am guessing?”

“You guess correctly.”

A thick and heavy cylinder of steel, half a meter wide, sat in a curved steel basin. Raised slopes ran along both sides of the basin, ensuring that the chocolate would always flow to a grinding point, via gravity. The cylinder itself was ribbed to stay on tracks, and attached on both ends to a metal arm, reaching down from a position above, that would also ensure the cylinder stayed on track. The weight of the cylinder would do more to ensure proper conching, than any pressure from that arm.

Erick said, “It’s probably going to break down pretty fast with chocolate getting in that gear, but it might not!”

Justine said, “You can solve that with a creative use of [Control Item], but a better way to solve that problem is with [Alter Friction] and [Control Item]. With these two, you might get [Control Machine]. That spell tends to make all machines work like they’re properly oiled and cooled or heated, even when you have none of that on hand. Sand stays outside of gears. Belts don’t slip that often. That sort of thing.”

Erick had a moment. Could using Jane’s car, if he ever found it, be as easy as one spell away? One simple [Control Machine]? Erick laughed, as he set that project aside for another day. He’d need to find her car, first, and where the heck could it be? Inside Ar’Kendrithyst?

Eh. Probably.

“I was wondering if I’d ever find a use for [Alter Friction].” Erick said, smiling. “It was a part of Oceanside’s enrollment, but I never used it before.”

