Justine relaxed a fraction, then smiled. She reached over and plucked a shroom, saying, “They taste great.” She ate the fingernail-sized shroom, then said, “They’re from Underworld Nelboor, near the Tribulation Mountains. Where I was… before.” She sighed, only a little, then put those heavy thoughts aside, saying, “My original home is gone, but pieces remain. Memories. These puff mushrooms are still too tiny to make a real treat out of them, but they’ll get there, soon enough. Want to try one?”

Erick shrugged. “Sure.”

Justine took a second to pick out a shroom, seeming to pick the best one. She plucked one, and handed it to Erick.

He ate it.

With the consistency of marshmallows and the taste of browned sugar, it was easy to see how these shrooms could remind a person of their home; they were a unique treat, apart from anything else Erick had ever had on Veird...

Oh. There’s a memory.

Now he wanted rice krispies.

But how in the heck do you make a marshmallow?

Is ‘puffed rice’ even a thing? People have to know about puffed rice, right? Rice was abundant in Spur, and a lot of the rest of the world. People ate that more than they ate wheat-based products. Erick’s introduction of corn was catching on in a few places as a third grain, but it still wasn’t easy to find corn in any of the markets around—

And he was getting off on a tangent.

… How do you make puffed rice?

You fry it?

“Thoughts?” Justine asked, rescuing Erick from his rabbit hole. “You blanked…”

“It’s good!” Erick said, “It just reminded me of other desserts. Do you know of puffed rice?”

And now it was Justine’s turn to blank, but she came back faster than Erick had, saying, “Yes. First you prepare it like usual, then you dry it, then you fry it, preferably making sure that at no point in the process the rice sticks to itself.”

Erick smiled wide. “Excellent.” He looked to Justine’s mushrooms, saying, “How about these, but as sugar. Like, a white, fluffy thing, that if you were to melt it, it would become a white gloop.”

“Those are called puffs; they’re named after these puffshrooms. I don’t think there’s a name for the fluff they make when you cook them, though.” Justine said, “I prefer the actual mushrooms. The confection just doesn’t do the taste and texture justice.”

Joy all around!

Erick tentatively asked, “And now for the big question. Do they make confections out of puffed rice and puffs?”

Justine readily answered, “Puff-puffs.”

Erick did a little dance, saying, “Aww yeah! I don’t have to invent that!” He looked to the night sky, and his mood shifted to something more subdued. “Ah, shit. Any confectionery around here is probably closed for the night, isn’t it.” He decided, “Tomorrow!” He added, “Or… I could just take a trip to Oceanside. Or… Nelboor? I don’t know any places on Nelboor. Is Nelboor in the sun right now? It has to be, doesn’t it? Ah, geography.” He said, “Thank you, Justine.”

Justine gave a short bow. “You are most welcome, Erick.”

- - - -

Erick ran into Poi in the second floor hallway.

Erick almost asked Poi a question, but...

Poi was wearing his nightclothes. At Erick’s appearance, Poi’s eyes went a little wide, and became a little more tired.

Thinking of the time, Erick realized that it was only an hour till bed. Maybe four hours till midnight. Sirocco was probably awake, but it would be rude to come to the guild at this hour, expecting a nice talk. Even with all the other people possible to ask about enchanting… it was getting late.

Erick said, “Good night, Poi.”

Poi sighed, as relief washed over him. “Good night, sir.”

- - - -

The basics of enchanting were easy enough to understand, but it was turning theory into practice that brought all the difficulty.

But after Justine’s words…

The Shades enchanted in a myriad of ways. Did this mean, that the depths of enchanting were deep enough for each of them to have a different method? If that were true, then that would mean that maybe the only thing that mattered was intent. If ritual and idea were more important than style and delineation, well, Erick could certainly do ritual and idea, couldn’t he?

Maybe he needed to try creating his ‘enchanting spell’, anyway.

But first, Erick went back to his book, ‘Enchanting for Beginners’, and read the preface in a different light.

- -

Enchanting, in a few words, is about imbuing Script effects into items outside of yourself.

Stats are nothing more than mana given function; manalight trapped in gems that will resonate with your aura, and push your own Stats that much higher.

Spells are nothing more than intent given form; mana laid down and organized so that another might flick their aura through the item, causing the imbued spell to manifest.

Abilities, Alters, Shapings, and such, are nothing more than additions to the natural spellcasting process that are familiar to any mage. These items taint your aura in specific ways, changing how you cast your magic.

Ranked from easiest to hardest enchantments, we have Stats, Spells, and then all the rest. Why is it this way? Go and ask Rozeta, and good luck. But for those of you who wish for the best answers that this author has discovered in his lifetime, read on.

- -

Erick sat back, and thought.

Everything a proper mage did came down to aura work, didn’t it? They didn’t talk about auras at Erick’s two months at Oceanside, or even in his Esoteric Magic classes. The first time he had really heard about aura was after he had stumbled into his use of [Greater Lightwalk] to recreate some spells—

He had more spells to recreate.

… He’d do that later. That task sort of fell to the side, along with a dozen others.

—but apparently every good mage worked with their aura in order to cast magic in useful ways. It was easy, then, to understand why ‘Aurify’ was a part of Mana Shaping. The process of utilizing your aura, was the process of mana shaping, and vibrating, and ‘using’ your mana, but without actually spending mana. Al had been very clear on that last part, in all of his ill-guided attempts to help Erick with his aura. Proper aura utilization came with no mana cost.

Proper aura utilization also didn’t do anything, unless you used mana.

Erick was still unsure how those two ideas worked with each other.

But still! Proper aura control let you cast spells from your hands, or other parts of your body. Proper aura control was also the only way to activate a great many magical items, for putting buttons on your wands of [Force Bolt] was okay, but that had a tendency to use up extra charges with each cast.

Looking back on it, Erick had cast [Force Beam] from his eyes instead of his fingers, back when he and Jane were looking to buy property in the Human District, all the way back in the beginning of his time on Veird. At that time, he thought nothing of it. Casting from his eyes made it easier to aim at the shadowolves that attacked them. Erick smiled at that thought, then got back to thinking.

Another major use of proper aura control, was that it let one recreate spells and add them to their Status for free. Erick had bypassed the requirement of precise aura control because [Greater Lightwalk] let him skip that step. But good aura control was still useful in other ways.

Specifically, in using magical items.

Erick held out his hand, and with Meditation active, mostly just saw the dense air of the [Prismatic Ward] that surrounded and pervaded the entire house.

… There would be no aura monitoring in this environment.

He got up from his chair and went to the third floor classroom, the only space in the house that he had left without the [Prismatic Ward].

Stepping through the door to this room was like stepping outside. Here, using [Meditation] showed the normal chaotic whorls and streams of mana that normally inhabited the world. Here, when he held out his hand, he could see, ever so faintly, a difference between the air just above his skin, and the air a centimeter out.

Like a heat mirage, the air around his skin bent the whorls of mana that flowed unimpeded everywhere else.

He tried pushing that heat mirage out further from himself. Failure. He tried for twenty minutes, and got twenty more minutes of failure. He was obviously missing something important, and it was either time and effort, or some physical or ethereal need. He was banking on the first.

But this was boring, and much like how he had too many things to do to learn mana sensing, to learn [Witness] like Teressa had learned, Erick had too many things to do to devote the proper time necessary to learn proper aura control. Besides—

Erick transformed to light. The whorls of mana in the room remained exactly as they were before, but now, his lightform self and the heat mirage of his aura, ended at the same place. Erick reached out with his own light, easy as blinking, and his lightform hand deformed at his command, deforming his aura at the same time. With [Greater Lightwalk], he was his aura, and his aura was him.

A thought occurred to him.

What if there was a way to mix harmonies and spells and rads and wrought-iron all together? Without the need for inscribing and all of that? Not a single book Erick had ever read, spoke of harmonious magic. What would such a magical item look like?

A tuning fork?

Erick smiled, imagining a large creation of spiked steel, reaching up to the sky. At the touch of natural wind, it vibrates, gifting the world a song that brings the rain, thus ending its own contribution to the sky, to only vibrate out again when the controlled weather was no more.

… For not the first time, Erick considered a journey to the Songli Highlands of Nelboor, where songstresses sang their magic into existence. They probably had a more natural way to enchant than everything he had read, so far.

Like, come on! Erick had created [Call Lightning] by singing out his desires to the world!

He really should have planned a trip to the Highlands long before now, and enchanting really should be much easier for him than it was. Besides, how did people enchant their higher tier spells, where the Ancient Script of those items was an unknown jumble of words; a secret held in confidence by Rozeta and the Script?

Oh. Wait. Erick knew this answer.

Kiri had once said that the only way people knew of Ancient Script was through well-made spells that displayed that script, like Erick’s own [Teleporting Platform] displayed the Ancient Script words for [Teleport]. It was only in these higher tier spells that the runes appeared at all.

But that meant, that Erick’s ‘Esoteric Elements’, with all of its Ancient Script writings, were all parts of spells?

No. That didn’t make sense.

Maybe some wrought leaked all the Ancient Script. Or, more likely, Melemizargo did.

That makes more sense.

… Erick was getting so off track. Sometimes he wondered if he had ADD.

It was time to make some magic.

With a quick shifting from where he was, to his mage tower, using [Greater Lightwalk]’s pseudo-[Teleport] ability, Erick grabbed some supplies, then went back to the third floor room. Here, in this barren room, where lights lit the corners of the orange stone and anyone could appear at any moment, Erick felt shadows watching as he prepared a small experiment.

He was going to try and make an ‘enchanting spell’, like all good enchanters used to enchant.

All the books said that he would fail at this spell creation unless he knew exactly what he was doing. This was true for all magic. But there was another truth. Since [Metalshape] was tier 2, the resulting spell would only be tier 3, and a failure only meant 10 days to try again. Big deal! 10 days was nothing he couldn’t handle.

Erick smiled as he grabbed some stone from outside. With a minor thought, he crafted a circular table in the middle of the room. It stood upon three legs, with a thick stone top that came up to Erick’s waist. With expert control, he turned the top of the table to liquid stone, leaving solid a rim around the edge. The liquid leveled itself, perfectly.

Another thought came to him.

With a quick check on Candlepoint and the dismissing of three idling Ophiel, Erick came back to himself, and reconjured those Ophiel. They joined the fourth Ophiel already here, floating around the room. Erick had them turn small as could be, and take their positions on the circular table. North, South, East, and West. It seemed appropriate, and right. Then he placed a cube of metal in the center of the table, along with eight 10-mana rads, placed evenly around the circular space.

Then, he gave a piece of the puzzle to each of Ophiel.

[Metalshape], [Prestidigitation], [Conjure Item], and [Airshape].

Everyone made their own enchanting spell differently, but these four options seemed best, to Erick.

One spell to shape the metal, another to call upon the varied depths of magic, another to create shapes that would disintegrate and leave a working item behind, or give form to what would become, and finally, a spell to flow it all together, and harmonize with the world. Each Ophiel sang their part, then handed off their part to another, flowing their song together in a wonderful harmony of metal and creation.

Erick joined them,

“Here is a spell, of mine to share, a shape and form; entrusted care

“Vibrations now, a primal touch, a call to mana, in the clutch,

“Here is a spell, of mine to share, a shape and form; entrusted care

“A sympathy, runes in here find, a symphony, now here [Spellbind].”

Erick finished. Ophiels continued to sing, but harmony became something… not.

The metal cube, once shiny and dark grey, turned matte, and globular. The eight rads broke into fracturing glitters that spun into the center of the table, into the grey metal.

