“I don’t have much knowledge of that spell, but...” Kiri said, “But the point is to have friction. To grind the chocolate? You can’t grind without friction.”

“Eh!” Erick said, “I can make it work. Probably just requires a shaped spell.”

Justine said, “It shouldn’t require a shaping. Just an intent. This will inflate the spell cost depending on how complicated you are with the working. More complicated machines have a very high [Control Machine] cost, or else your cast will just tear the machine apart.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Well then. Good to know.”

Maybe his idea of a single spell to control an entire car was too fanciful.

Erick set down his spoons of vanilla paste, his powdered milk, and his sugar onto a nearby short table, and then rubbed his hands together, smiling. He held his hands apart, and listened; Ophiel leaning forward on his shoulder to hear, too.

In one hand, he channeled mana through [Control Item], producing the sound of endless, controlled movement. Of puppets on strings, and gears grinding away at some labyrinthine process.

In the other, he channeled mana through [Alter Friction], producing a slickness and a stiffness at the same time. Silky smooth movement, and halting refrain.

… Despite the two vastly different sounds, there was a harmony there. A melding that was close to being perfect, already. With some mental gymnastics and the help of the Ophiel on his shoulder, echoing his spells and blending them together, Erick cast upon the conching machine. A blue box appeared.

Control Machine, instant, close range, 15 mana + Variable

Imbue a non-living machine of complicated processes with your intent. Very Fine control. Lasts 100 minutes.

The metal cylinder in the conching machine began to roll back and forth in the basin, slowly, but surely. Up one curved slope, then back down, then up the other. There were no halting movements here, just the silent rolling of a great weight, and the minuscule strain of the metal arms moving that weight back and forth. Erick instantly saw a way he could make his machine work better; he needed to make the strain on those arms less, by adding some weights to a disk, or something.

But! This was fine! This was great. Once the chocolate was in there, the straining noises might vanish.

Erick distributed the box, saying, “How’s this look?”

Kiri didn’t know what to make of the box, since that was all outside of her usual wheelhouse, but Justine’s ruby eyes went a bit wide.

“That ‘Very Fine’ is usually the sign of a great spell,” Kiri said.

Justine said, “That’s a good version. You should have no trouble keeping the parts of the machine you wish to keep clean, clean, with that version.” She stumbled over her words, saying, “And you just… You just made it. Like that. I had heard... Seeing is different than listening.”

Kiri smirked. “I know what you mean.”

“And now that you know the method, you can try too,” Erick said, using his Handy Aura to pick up the spoons of vanilla paste and sugar— He paused. He smiled. He looked to the grinders, still grinding away, still sparking with light instead of sounding like minor avalanches. “Instead of scraping the insides, I can use [Alter Friction] to dump out the contents.”

Justine said, “Yes. This is one of the more useful ways to use this spell. You merely have to have a good, several-point hold in the grinder. Without friction, it could crash out of your control. I’ve had that happen to me more times than I would have liked.”

With inspiration all around, Erick went to work. He dismissed the [Control Item] spell grinding away on the last grinder; the one containing the long-and-slow roasted beans, that had not been [Cleanse]d. Using a good twenty hands, and surrounding it from all sides, he first picked up the conical grind stone. Silky brown sludge clung to the piece, but not for long. He held it over the metal grinder, and cast.

Brown slop fell into the concher, as the stone cone tried to wiggle out of Erick’s Handy grasp. He canceled [Alter Friction], and the grinding cone became easy to hold again.

He did the same thing with the base of the grinder.

Brown sludge filled the metal concher, and the roller rolled right through it, not even halting at all. The grey-metal roller was rapidly covered in chocolate that flew this way and that, splashing here and there. Erick made some adjustments. [Control Machine] got canceled, [Metalshape] turned the basin into something that held the chocolate fully inside, and then Erick recast [Control Machine].

After a minute of motion, Erick decided that this would work. The cylinder slipped back and forth, causing waves of thin chocolate to flow over the metal roller. There wasn’t much chocolate inside the machine Erick had built; it could easily hold all six batches of chocolate, from all six grinders. But it was good enough for this experiment. It certainly made a lot less noise, too, and that was great.

Erick tossed a spoonful of vanilla paste into the five running grinders and the single concher, along with a cup full of granulated sugar. Powdered milk went into each grinder, and though it was likely not enough, and though every item he had put in was likely not enough, or in the right ratio, this was good enough.

After renewing all the heating and movement spells on all the various machines, it wasn’t long before the extra ingredients had all incorporated. The smell was fantastic. It reminded Erick of strolling down the high-class artisan street back on Earth, near where he went to college, where the chocolatiers made an entire profession out of this one item, that may or may not have been grinding away in front of him.

Erick went back in the house.

He tried enchanting a bit more, but his mind was firmly elsewhere and all his attempts ended in failure. Twenty minutes passed.

He rushed outside, to taste.

And ohhh, did this brown slop taste good.

Memories flooded his mind. Of snapping chocolate bars and handing a piece to Jane. Of chocolate birthday cake. Of chocolate bunnies in baskets; the centerpiece to a plethora of other candies.

And Halloween! And Jane dressing up like a dragon! A cute little dragon!

Erick laughed, as he tasted. He looked to Justine and Kiri, and Poi, who had come out with him, saying, “You have got to try these. Where’s Teressa?” He waved at the first two grinders, saying, “I don’t think I burned those, but they’re not the best flavors.” He pointed to the concher, and the [Cleanse]d version, grinding away in stone. “Those are the best. I like the concher one better though. It’s slightly smoother.” He smiled wide, “Oh! Where’s Jane?”

“Here I am.” Jane came out of the doorway, with Teressa following. “I heard you rushing out here from upstairs.” She looked to the grinders, and smelled the air. “It smells… It smells right?” She decided. “It smells right. I wonder if it will temper.”

Erick waved off that concern, saying, “That’s just a crystallization process, right? I can make a spell for that.” He looked to everyone. “Well! Get to tasting! Tell me what you think.”

Teressa said, “I’ll get some spoons.”

With an easy lightform stretch, Erick reached all the way into the kitchen with his [Greater Lightwalk], easily over 15 meters away, winding through the house. He grabbed a bunch of spoons, and pulled them through the light. They appeared in his hands—

Other spoons appeared in Jane’s shadowy hands, as she said, “I got it.”

Teressa had yet to step back inside the door. She looked to Erick and Jane, and said, “That’s a nice trick.”

Erick and Jane looked to each other, both smiling, as they handed out spoons.

Different looks of questioning wonder appeared on everyone’s faces as they tasted the chocolate. Poi’s blue-scaled eyebrows went up in surprise. Kiri kept going back to the [Cleanse]d grinder chocolate. Teressa took a great big spoonful of the medium-roast un[Cleanse]d chocolate. Justine went for the conched stuff. Erick and Jane both went for the conched stuff, too.

Jane had the first proclamation, as she dipped her spoon back into the conched chocolate. “Okay. So. Dad. You’re a miracle worker.”

“Ha ha!” Erick said, happy and lovingly, “Magic did all the work; I just asked for a memory.”

Jane shrugged, and ate another spoonful.

Teressa said, “This is going to be a big hit.”

Poi asked, “Do you want me to keep guarding the tree? You’ve had no less than ten attempts to steal a fruit, so far. Everyone’s seen how your process works, too.”

Poi knew Erick all too well.

Erick smirked, saying, “Let them steal some of it; I don’t mind. I’ve already saved the seeds from this one inside the house. And besides, if no one steals it, then the only way I’m going to be able to visit a chocolatier and get some high quality chocolate is if I sell it, and that seems like too much work.” He said, “Everything I’ve done here is the barest idea of what is possible with chocolate, and I can’t do everything on my own—” A sudden memory came to him, of a conversation held months and months ago. “Oh. And besides...” He said nothing.

Erick had a goddess to speak to regarding chocolate.

Jane eyed him. “What?”

Erick turned the conversation back to the chocolate, asking, “So what do you think it needs?”

Kiri said, “Nothing. It’s great. I’ve… I’ve never had a taste like this before.”

Erick smiled. “That was my thought when I first had bluebell.”

“Maybe a bit more sugar.” Teressa said, “Not much more. But more.”

“There are about a hundred ways to make this better, but they’re fractional changes, at best.” Jane asked, “Did you add the powdered milk?”

“To every one.” Erick said, “It wasn’t enough, was it?”

Jane smirked, “Not really. It’s almost dark chocolate.”

Justine’s eyes went wide as she stared at the working conching machine. She quietly said, “That’s what it’s missing.”

“Oh yeah.” Erick said, “Milk chocolate is much better than dark chocolate.” He began to walk back into the house, saying. “I’ll go make some more powdered milk, right now, and add it to the metal batch.”

He did so.

The conched batch was much better with more powdered milk, and more sugar. Teressa still liked the darker stuff.

By the time dinner rolled around, Erick had been experimenting with chocolate for almost the entire day. With some of Jane’s insights, he even tried tempering the chocolate, which was all about getting the cocoa fats to crystallize at the right temperature. Four hours later, and after Teressa had made dinner, Erick had not managed to luck into the tempering process.

All of Erick’s chocolate, once cooled, became a mess of lighter brown stripes and darker spots upon a mostly-solid mass of thick brown almost-clay. It still tasted great, but this chocolate was not so easily tempered. It might not temper at all, either. This was ‘chocolate’ Erick had created on a planet unknowably distant from Earth, from a seed plant far from the cocoa tree, with magic bridging all of the gap between memory and reality.

He’d still try to temper it the mechanical way, before he tried using magic. Magic was the item of last resort, in this particular case.

Killzone had yet to show up, or send word.

But Poi and Teressa weren’t worried, so neither was Erick.

Mostly.

- - - -

Reading in the sunroom in the hours before bedtime, for a change of pace, Erick held out his ‘Enchanting for Beginners’ book, asking Kiri, “Are there just these two types of enchanting?”

“Umm.” Kiri looked up from ‘Esoteric Elements’, cautiously saying, “No.” She thought. She said, “Yeah, no. There’s more. The older students always spoke of how inadequate the beginner books were, but I have no idea what the other types are.” She gestured at the book in Erick’s hands, saying, “That book doesn’t even tell you how to create an Enchanting Spell. You don’t learn that spell till fourth year Enchanting.”

Erick hummed, then considered the other people he knew.

He went to go find Justine.

The pale incani woman was tending to her plants on the small third-floor balcony, exposed to the night. She stood under a pale white lightward that cast her features in soft shadows. She heard Erick approaching well before he reached the open door. With a turn, she looked to him, and gave a demure, “Hello, Erick.”

“I’m not interrupting, am I?”

She shook her head, and said, “Not at all. Is there something I can help you with?”

“Do you know much about enchanting?”

She eyed the book in his hands, as her lips scrunched. “I know that book is wholly inadequate.” She added, “But all I ever saw were the ways that Shades enchanted. Only the barest impressions of standard enchanting were ever present in their work.”

Expecting nothing and yet gaining everything, Erick stood stunned for a moment. He rapidly asked, “How did they do it?”

Justine was silent for a long moment, seeming to have some trouble of either where to begin, or if she should even open her mouth and let that much more horror into the world.

Erick saw her discomfort, saying, “It’s okay. Don’t worry. Sorry for asking. After thinking about it for more than just a second… They probably had some rather horrible methods. I’ll go talk to Sirocco.” He looked past her, to her plants. The splash-of-neon Alchemist’s Friend was growing well, at good twenty centimeters tall and bushy. To the sides were assortments of blue flowers, red grasses, and white button mushrooms. “The plants look good. I can guess the red and the blue, but why the mushrooms?”

