Yggdrasil, Erick’s largest son, had done most of the directed gardening of this place. He had complete control over the land of this space, but he was not physically connected to this land. Looking off to the south today, for he was not always directly south, there was Yggdrasil, floating in the Benevolent Sky, dwarfing this entire 100 kilometer wide land with his own largeness. He was looking big these days, at well over double the width of this land, and maybe half the height. He was wide.

He was also one of the best trees Erick had ever seen.

Beautiful glowing white bark, a thick trunk, a green canopy that was made of leaves so bright green they looked like they were on green fire, while a rainbow held around his entire crown, and all his serpentine roots held spread out in the air. Only a few of Yggdrasil’s roots reached all the way to this land, floating inside Benevolence. But he didn’t need to actually touch this land at all to control it. The land was already connected to him via the wide river that wandered from the fountain in the center, through a beach-and-hexagonal path, to fall off of the side of the gate space and then flow much more freely right to Yggdrasil himself. A small ocean of water floated all around Yggdrasil’s roots, and that was where he kept his prized fish, or the ones that needed special attention.

Or at least that had been his purpose in bringing fish into this land years ago. Nowadays, scarlet kings and golden slippers and rainbow flits and a whole bunch of others were all over Benevolence.

Whenever Kiri had established a gate space, or whenever Erick had expanded the Gate Network on his own, a new columnar land had been created out there, in the fog of Benevolence, with another water source making another river that flowed off the sides of those spaces, to eventually find their ways to Yggdrasil. Or to each other. Yggdrasil was connected to every Gate Node ever made in this land, and his fish had used that connection to spread far and wide.

There were also stony pathways made of columnar, solid Benevolence, that connected every node together. There was an entire world inside Benevolence. A world that it was easy to fall off of. One could end up anywhere on Veird if you were to fall off the edge of the stone, or dive deep enough into the dark wells in the center to come out the other side, or if you simply fell out of the rivers that wound through the Benevolent Sky, where soft white lightning tangled into black knots here and there.

The Prophesied Storm was still out there, about 4-ish months away, hovering beyond the edge of the gateplate like a black rip in the sky. It was also filled with Red Sparks that only Erick could see.

Erick gestured to the Benevolent Sky right now, saying to Rozeta, “Humor me, please. There is a reason I asked you to meet me here to have this conversation.”

Rozeta frowned at Erick, her pantsuit-wearing business-woman look doing a good job of conveying exactly how angry, disappointed, and inwardly furious she was that Erick was asking this of her. And then she glared at the sky, and said, “Maybe I’ll release Yggdrasil and simply trust him to not make seeds for 87 more years, with no resealing required at all.”

Nothing happened.

Erick gave Rozeta a Look.

Rozeta frowned right back at him, then breathed deep, and looked at the Sky—

Ah.

That did it.

Now she was actually considering Erick’s idea, instead of dismissing it outright.

The Sky of twisting lightning began to twist in a different way.

The 100-year Wall of Problems, which was only 87-ish years away, began to fragment. Lightning twisted this way and that, and like a great wind blowing through a dense forest, a lot of overgrowth and loose issues and minor things were stripped away, passing far into the distance. The few Red Sparks that existed inside Benevolence, inside of a few of the larger tangles, moved with those tangles, or else were pulled apart by Lightning as the future was once again cast into uncertainty.

Erick watched the reorganization, but he also watched Rozeta.

The Goddess of the Script was concerned, and yet… intrigued.

Rozeta spoke to the very fabric of reality, “Maybe Yggdrasil can be trusted with power, both on his own and on the power he will be able to grant others, just like his father.”

The sky sparked and a hundred tangles vanished, leaving behind one very visible black tangle like a world-swallowing hole, deep in the Benevolent Sky.

Aside from that major black tangle there were a good 24 smaller tangles scattered here and there. Erick recognized most of those smaller tangles. That one, located several years out —and also 40 years out— was the advent of the Computer Mage, as some people in House Benevolence had taken to calling them. That one over there at around 30 years out was the breaking of the Greensoil Republic; a rather new prognostication but one that was already on the way out, as King Darundi Raivo was already taking steps to ensure the peaceful transfer of power to whoever would come next.

With the voiding of tens of threats and the advent of one large one, Erick was actually quite happy with what he was looking at. That big problem was 250 years out. The ‘hundred year wall’ was practically gone.

But there was another hole in the sky, lined with Red, that only Erick could see. That Yawning Void —for that is all it could have been— was a year out, just beyond the edge of the platform.

It was a rising sun of Red, like a giant Red Eye attempting to pierce through a veil of Benevolence, trying and failing to stare into Erick’s soul. But it flickered left and right. It saw nothing. It was blind.

Erick ignored it, putting it out of his mind for a moment, both because it was not a problem for various reasons he would pull apart later, and because Rozeta did not see it.

Rozeta just stared at the Yawning Void in the far Sky. Softly, she said, “On the balance, it’s better. Stronger. But that hole in the world 250-ish years from now looks like a Yawning Void. It is concerning that such a shift would ever exist at all, and since we’re pretty sure this universe is… more basic than the Old Cosmology, then that could only mean the Death of Benevolence Itself.” Rozeta looked to Erick, and said, “Which is concerning for other reasons.”

Erick jolted a little. He looked to the Sky again. “… Ah. Well. I don’t like that. That seems like a future that could slip around, too… Oh. Well look at that.” Erick frowned as the black void 250 years in the future slipped forward in time by 249 years, briefly overlapping the Red for the barest moment. The Death of Benevolence was Right Here for a vague moment—

That’s not what was happening at all, though.

Erick held most of his surprise in, not letting it show, when the Black Benevolence zapped the Red Void Eye, annihilating it, and then flickered back into its position in the sky, and then rapidly slipped further away. This time it was 450 years out…

Benevolence had just killed that [Scry] eye, hadn’t it? Because that’s what that Red Sun had to be. A [Scry] eye.

… Thank gods Erick made Benevolence able to act on its own all those years ago!

Erick played it off, saying, “I guess it decided to go away and come back 500 years from now?”

“I must confess, Erick, I strongly thought of killing you right now, to test what I was seeing.”

“... I know. I was going to brush past that, though.”

Rozeta still had that ‘kill switch’ implanted in him, through his connection to the Script. Erick ignored it practically all the time, but apparently he shouldn’t be ignoring it so much.

Rozeta apologized, “Apologies, Erick.”

Erick ignored it, turning back to the Sky. “That Prophesied Storm in a few months has vanished. Which is strange.”

Rozeta eyed Erick. And then she looked at the Lightning Shield on his wrist. “You’re wearing that thing everywhere, then.”

“It’s not as much of a challenge to wear as one might think.” Erick gestured with his left arm and the Shield floated a meter away, becoming slightly insubstantial. “It’s a high-grade divine artifact, so it can be unobtrusive if it doesn’t sense any nearby threat; floating in the air or at my back, or whatever. I might even give it back to Sininindi in several months.”

“She talked to me about that meeting that you had with her. She said you looked like you had seen the end of the world.”

“I have; a few times now. Benevolence is capable of saving more than I imagined it could be capable of, but also seeing more than I ever considered, and I’m still trying to digest all of that.”

“Is that why you’ve chosen to step back from pulling items from the Dark? From continuing on the initial path you set for yourself?”

“Among other reasons. I need a break. Ophiel needs to be born in a time of peace, and so does Yggdrasil. Solomon and you and all the rest of the world need time to figure out how to handle the Heart; to keep it here. I won’t be ascending to True Wizard anytime soon, Rozeta; it’s just not happening. I do, however, know what I need to do to get there.”

For a long moment Rozeta said nothing.

Erick waited.

Rozeta said, “Give me a week on this new plan to simply trust that an unsealed Yggdrasil won’t be a problem. I’ll get back to you with an answer then.” Then she softened, and said, “Good luck, Erick, with Ophiel, and Yggdrasil. What method are you going with?”

“The Mortal Umbilicus.”

“A fine choice if there ever was one. Good day, Erick.”

Erick grinned. “See you around.”

Rozeta flickered away, dispersing in a faint cloud of white-gold light—

Yggdrasil’s eye appeared and the big guy happily said to Erick, “I can wait a week!”

“Good! Then you have time to show me your girlfriend. Either before or after Ophiel’s birth; your choice. I’ve given you enough warning. I need to see her and vet her.”

Yggdrasil froze. “… Uh. I’ll. Uh. I’ll get back to you on that.”

And then Yggdrasil’s eye vanished.

Erick smiled to himself a little as he held his head high and walked across the hexagonal land. It was time to make a temporary house, and since the Sky was looking rather clear, perhaps it would be nice to have some big windows facing the Sky? A nice little sunroom, perhaps.

The Red Sparks had already returned to the edge of the platform, a good 40 kilometers away, but they were no longer a red sun lurking on the horizon. They were just normal Red Sparks, trying to influence the Sky and succeeding here and there. But mostly failing.

That was because they weren’t Red Sparks at all.

The Benevolent Sky was the basic prognostication functionality of Benevolence. This meant many things. First of all, it meant that the things a person saw in Sky were not really in the Sky at all; those Red Sparks were not Red Sparks, they were ‘images captured on film’, or ‘watching a nuclear blast from behind ten mirrors and deep, deep in a bunker, protected from the blast’. Erick suspected that the Red Leviathan was using some sort of similar methodology to do his own prognostication efforts since having a divorced view of possibility was an essential part of safe prognostication.

Of course, prognostication was not nearly that simple, and simply seeing a thing in the deep mana might alert that thing to [Scry] like effects, if one was attuned to that sort of sensitivity. ‘A thing’ might even be ‘a specific future’, and viewing that particular thing might cause that particular thing to happen in rare cases. It was the titular ‘self-fulfilling prophecy’.

Benevolence certainly did some of that as Erick could attest with his latest ‘lightning path’ realization of Benevolence.

But very, very few things could influence the Benevolent Sky outside of the Benevolent Sky’s own control.

One of those things was obviously the Red Sparks, though. The Sky had also gone wonky when the Anarchy Wizard and the Blue Wizard were around, but those Wizards weren’t able to fully escape the Sight of the Benevolent Sky, and they weren’t able to break the Benevolent Sky, either. The Red Sparks were a world of difference from two Wizards, and it was obviously capable of understanding that something was undermining its power—

Hence the giant Red Eye that had tried to peer into this place.

—But it wasn’t able to break this space. If it were capable of that, it would have already done it.

Perhaps this inability of the Red was because Benevolence was fully accepted by Rozeta and the God Pact, and already heavily integrated into the world, what with the Gate Network and Yggdrasil and such? Or perhaps the Red liked the instability and newness that Benevolence brought forth, and it was going to use everything Erick had built in order to make the ensuing crash all the worse.

Whatever the Red Leviathan was, it was clearly Malevolence Itself, but Erick kept that word out of his mind and especially out of his mouth as much as he could. You don’t go naming great evils and not expect them to show up right away.

Erick was already mentally making adjustments to his plan to hide out for a while and not confront the Red until he absolutely needed to. The world was good right now. No need to go upsetting the applecart. The Red had already displayed its willingness and capability to kill, so now it was time to go into hiding. Besides! Solomon needed to become immune to the Red Sparks and make a good plan to get the Heart, and that would take some time.

Time enough to raise some sons.

He would get back to war soon enough.

- - - -

Erick stood outside of a little cottage he had made with the resources of the land.

He was quite proud of his ‘little’ house. It was only one floor, which was a big change from his normal sorts of living spaces. There was a big kitchen, a big family room, some rooms for him and Quilatalap, another for Solomon, another for Yggdrasil, and a few for some guests. Great big bathrooms, one with a heated hot tub. A nice kitchen. A few learning rooms…

Okay. Well. It wasn’t a ‘small house’ at all. It had turned into a compound.

Erick had even made an outdoor play area for Ophiel that included a bunch of jungle gyms and flying courses because Erick wasn’t sure what Ophiel’s final form would take until it actually happened. Ophiel had one bedroom right now, but Erick had extra space down on one side of the house to add more rooms if needed, if he ended up with 10 Ophiel, but if that happened he’d probably just build a second story for all his extra kids.

The only reason he went for one story right now was that Erick was absolutely sure that Ophiel would end up on the roof at least once and try jumping down and then failing to fly, for some reason. So he didn’t want to build the house too tall.

Erick asked Ophiel, “How do you like it, Ophiel?”

