“I want taller! Give me roost!”

Erick tensed a little, and then he went to the playground and made a ‘big tower’ that looked much larger than it actually was, at only two stories tall. It was a children’s play tower.

“Now add color!” Ophiel demanded.

Erick smiled. “You and I can add color together when you’re born. That’s one of the plans I have planned, okay?”

“… But I want it now?”

Erick chuckled. “You gotta wait for good things sometimes, Ophiel.”

“But I waited so loooooooong!”

Erick would have chuckled, but he was worried. He hugged Ophiel to his chest, saying, “And soon you’re going to have to relearn everything, Ophiel. Are you ready for that?”

“Yes! Make me purple pie!”

Erick smiled softly. “I’m sure Quilatalap has one saved up for afterward. What do you say we go get him now?”

Ophiel flapped and squirmed right out of Erick’s arms, fluttering to the air and summoning a [Gate] right away. Quilatalap was on the other side, messing with some ritual equipment one final time, but now he looked surprised.

Ophiel announced, “Where is my pie!”

Quilatalap nodded solemnly, saying, “I have it in a secure location, ready for afterward.” He looked to Erick. Erick nodded. With a wave of power, Quilatalap lifted a whole bunch of crystals and metal and one intricately runed pair of scissors into the air, to follow the large orcol man as he stepped through into Benevolence. Ophiel shut the [Gate] behind him.

Quilatalap breathed deeply, then smiled as he looked around. “This place always makes me feel great. It’s the soul healing. Like a bubbly bath.” Then he looked to Erick, adding, “But I can’t stay more than 5 days in here before it starts to push me out.”

“I know. I’m not asking you to, and this place was never meant to be a permanent residence for anyone except Yggdrasil, and even he’s only 1/9th present in this place.” Erick said, “I’ll be stepping out when Ophiel wants to leave, and I’m not sure how long that will be.”

Quilatalap nodded then began walking toward the house, his ritual gear floating with him, as he said, “We can set up out here, yes? Any place in particular you want?” He set down the crystals and the strange-looking scissors on a bench beside the front door, before he went inside. “It looks nice.”

Erick followed, and Ophiel went and inspected the ritual gear. “If I need to put more rooms in for more Ophiel, then I will.”

Quilatalap turned and raised an eyebrow at him. “You sure about that?”

“Yes. However he wants to be, I will let him, and if there are ten of him, then there are ten of him.”

“Erick,” Quilatalap said, “I know you could theoretically handle ten new sons, but you should solidify something lesser than that. You have that choice.”

“Ah. Well. I mean, that if he wants to have multiple bodies, he can. That’s the version I think I want to pursue. Single person, many bodies. If we can do that?”

“I am me!” Ophiel said.

Quilatalap grinned. “Glad that’s settled, then. Then how about spellwork? I see you have the secondary core gestating in your belly. I highly suggest you give Ophiel no spells at all, and you let him form his own magic.”

Erick smiled. “Nope.”

“Okay. Then I’m definitely going to be spending a maximum of 3 days here, to mitigate any possible stray magic coming my way. As soon as he’s more solid in his immense magical power then I might rejoin you. Other than that, I have received an invitation to be at Ascendant Mountain to deal with the new old Shades and an invitation to get back to Storm’s Edge, to finish the dungeon. I’m going to be taking both options, but the Mountain first; Storm’s Edge can last a while without me.”

“Are Soltic and Vanya doing okay on their own?”

“I believe so, but I would feel better about being there in person.” Quilatalap looked at Erick's Lightning Shield. “Are you going to keep that on? This sort of magic does work best when the creator is unadorned.”

“I am absolutely sure that me wearing the Lightning Shield will not interfere with Ophiel’s instantiation.” Erick had already foreseen the option of taking off the Shield or leaving it on for this, and the Benevolence was telling him to keep the Shield on, and that was his own instinct anyway, so it was an easy enough Lightning Path to follow. “If Ophiel inherits any peculiar Lightning capabilities because of the Shield then that is fine. If he inherits any Sight magics because of my All-Seeing Eye, then that is fine, too.”

Quilatalap nodded slowly, then he said, “I thought so. And that’s why I wanted to sit down and have a talk with you about giving your children too much stuff.”

Erick almost objected—

But Quiltatalap held up a hand, saying, “You can make your own decisions, but I would be remiss —as someone who has seen everything before, and participated in most of it— if I did not try to talk you out of this decision to give your kid so much power. When he instantiates he’ll have automagic Script access, but he’ll still be a kid. Not a weapon. He does not need a whole 1-for-1 copying of your magic. What he does need is the ability to protect himself and not harm others. [Cleanse], [Mend], [Grow], [Prismatic Ward], [Pristine Benevolence], and [Gate], but maybe not [Gate] at all. You don’t want him vanishing on you and being lost, unable to come back because he accidentally stepped through a hole in the world and he doesn’t know how to properly use [Gate].

“You especially don’t want him with [Gate] if Solomon or I are going to be watching after him at all; we literally won’t be able to provide boundaries for him at all if he has [Gate]. He certainly does not need [Luminous Beam], or [Vivid Gloom], or [Wither], or any of the massive Shaping magics you have used through him. Please trust me on this. At the very least when we do the ritual I ask that you let me cut closer to him, instead of in the middle.”

“I hear and understand your concerns… And you’re right, honestly.” Erick said, “But even though it might lead to difficulties, I know what choices I have to make, and I have made them already.”

Quilatalap nodded. “Okay. Then I have said my piece and I will interfere no more with your decisions regarding your children, and will simply support you.”

He was acting way too distant, wasn’t he.

Erick gave Quilatalap a Look, saying, “I know you put a love for Ophiel in your heart, Quilatalap. You don’t have to act like you don’t want to be a father.”

Quilatalap’s eyebrows went up a little. And then he chuckled. “Thought I hid that better.”

“You have, but I know you.”

Quilatalap said, “What I want and what is good for others are not always the same things, and this is one area where I recognize my shortcomings. For example, if Ophiel were a normal child, and someone in school bullied Ophiel, I would ask Ophiel the severity of the bullying, and instruct Ophiel to give a commensurate response. If someone poked Ophiel with a penknife, I would tell Ophiel to punch the child in the face until A Child’s Protection activated.”

Erick paled a little.

Quilatalap continued, “And if someone should actually assault Ophiel, I would tell Ophiel to cut off some limbs.”

“OKAY!” Erick said, “Those are all debatably good responses to grown-up violence! Not good responses against child-level violence.”

“And I would agree to disagree on that. Children are vicious.” Quilatalap said, “So let me be the violent uncle who makes pies, and not the second father.”

Erick almost said something more—

“I want my pie!” Ophiel said, standing to the side on the floor, between Erick and Quilatalap, looking like a very angry, very small bird. He barely came up to Erick’s shin, and he didn’t even rise above Quilatalap’s ankle. “Stop ignoring me! Where my pie!”

Erick picked Ophiel up, saying, “Let’s get you born first.”

Ophiel was almost about to squirm out of Erick’s grip, but he calmed, realized what Erick had said, and cried out, “Born!”
