Lung Bai, too, seemed surprised at what Arthur was implying. Then she shook her head. “No, I’ve seen your attempts. You are hardly the first cardsmith in our kingdom. While you are coming along at an impressive pace, all of your efforts are mere patchworks.”

Arthur’s skill as a cardsmith had a long way to go. He felt it in his bones, and he knew he could spend a happy lifetime working at it and never do more than scratch the surface of card lore. There was always something new to explore and learn.

This should have been intimidating, but at the thought, his heart picked up its pace, and he suspected he got an inkling of what drove Brixaby to further his own blacksmithing.

Arthur had always loved cards, ever since he was just a kid following the baron’s men for just a glimpse of magic. The lack of cards had dominated his life when his father had been forced to give up his, and he had learned what it was to go without.

He knew how the right card could change a life.

Now that Lung Bai had confirmed another mystery about cards—that the type of card and the time it was added to a deck made a difference in several significant ways—oh how he wished he had time to chase that rabbit trail down and research it. He had always feared and hated the scourglings for the damage they caused, but at that moment, he felt a new wave of disgust bordering on loathing because if not for them and the threat they posed, he could have had that time.

With regret, he returned to the present problem. Lung Bai had been silent. And perhaps, Arthur thought, there was a gleam of understanding in her eyes.

“Let us not dance around any longer,” she said once it became clear she had his full attention again. “What is it that you request from me, Arthur, leader of Blood Moon Hive?”

Her tone was carefully formal. It made him straighten, knowing this was the moment for seriousness.

“You may not have exactly what I need, but surely you have a set of healing cards?” he asked. “A Rare set?”

“Perhaps,” she allowed.

Brixaby barged into the conversation, sounding shocked. “If you do, you can simply make a Legendary out of that set.”

“Could I?” she asked with the equivalent of a raised eyebrow. “Why don’t you ask your rider how possible that would be?”

At first, Arthur was with Brixaby. Then he thought about what they’d just talked about—how even though the situation was dire, Lung Bai would not assist them past a certain point.

How they would have to walk the path alone. How the cards themselves tested their wielders.

It didn’t mean he had the answer. He did, however, have a starting point.

“That is a good question,” he said slowly, thinking about it even as he spoke. “I’ve seen entire sets for sale before. In fact”—he laughed—“one of my first encounters with cards as a child was finding a set that traders were smuggling.” Then he frowned. “I think they were Common. The king doesn’t allow Legendary card pairs, though.”

“Yes, and we have our reasons for that. What do you expect they would be?” Lung Bai asked.

She would have been a good teacher in another lifetime, Arthur thought with a bit of a grimace.

Brixaby offered his opinion. “Not fear. What does a Mythic have to fear of Legendaries?”

“You would be surprised,” she said cryptically, but then fluttered her narrow-set wings. “But within my personal library, no, neither myself nor my king have anything personally to fear from mere Legendaries.”

“It’s because—” Arthur started, and suddenly the answer was before him. Maybe it had been there the entire time, just waiting for him to come to the right conclusion. He put the answer to the Master of Cards and felt it thrum with truth as if it were on the same frequency. “It’s waste,” Arthur said. “Because a person would have to add the set to their heart, and the heart grows with the cards . . . but if you add, say, a utility set to someone who has only known combat cards, it won’t be right.” He looked at Lung Bai. “What happens?”

“That is a very good question. I will help you with the rest of the answer,” she said, as if conferring a massive favor. “Just as every card is an individual, so are the sets, and so are the requirements.”

“It would lay dormant,” Arthur realized, then hastily corrected himself. “Oh, the person could use the cards, but they wouldn’t know them in their soul. The soul of a fighter wouldn’t automatically know the ins and outs of a set of crafting cards.”

“It’s more than that. Legendary cards are an ocean of power to a Common-ranked puddle,” Lung Bai said with a sniff. “And a fighter can learn to craft, but would he have the patience for it? The desire in his soul?”

“Bah.” Brixaby clearly didn’t care for this metaphysical talk. “I thought you said you were done dancing around. Do you have a set of healing cards? We have a healer.”

“Right. Yes.” Arthur shook his head. He had allowed himself to become sidetracked.

Lung Bai flicked the younger dragon a dissatisfied look—she obviously enjoyed the conversation—but then shrugged her wings. “I have a set of Uncommon healing cards. It was deemed unlikely a mere Rare would be help to my Elizar, so we never went through the effort of selecting someone to combine them.”

“I would like to purchase those from you,” Arthur said. “It only has to do with me and Brix’s journey to complete our set peripherally. It won’t help too much.”

His little joke fell flat. She gave him an unimpressed look. “You intend to exchange five cards for one, and you expect me to be happy about this?”

“A set of Uncommons for a Legendary,” Arthur said.

“A boring Legendary,” she countered. “Earth Crafting does not interest Elizar or me.”

Arthur smiled. “I may have something else.”

Then he drew from his chest the time card.

Lung Bai hissed. “You—this is—” She practically snatched it from his hands.

Brixaby made a low sound like he very dearly wanted to snatch it back.

Arthur, however, enjoyed her reaction to the card. “Do you know what this is?”

She didn’t dignify that with a response at first. Instead, she took a moment to read over the card before lowering it to look at Arthur. “You could easily sell this to another one of your Legendary compatriots.”

Which was illegal enough to almost get him killed the last time Lung Bai found out he had unapproved Legendary pairs. “If he wants it, he will find a way to come and get it. Isn’t that the point of the testing?”

Give this to Lung Bai—she was no fool. “Why are you offering this to me so freely?”

“It’s not an offer. It’s a sale.”

Her eyes narrowed, and she read over the card again, more carefully this time. When she let out an indrawn hiss, slightly rattled at the end like a snake, he knew she had come to the line about time psychosis. “It is a flawed card.”

“To some,” Arthur allowed. “I offer it or the Earth Crafting card. Take your pick.”

“You would give me a card that will detach me from time when I use it?”

Arthur raised his eyebrows and made his eyes very round. “You want to use it? I assumed it would be kept in the library, like the others.”

Having been around powerful dragons for years now; he assumed no such thing. But this gambit was twofold. Lung Bai had already implied she kept an eye on the eruption and had seen Arthur and Brixaby take down the demi-scourgling. While he had no way to tell how closely she could watch, he hadn’t been quiet about using the time card back there. That could come back and bite them both later.

So now he was showing an open hand with the card—allowing her to read it over and even take it if she chose. Though he knew she wouldn’t.

Well, he hoped she wouldn’t.

She sniffed. “A flawed Legendary is not equal to the value of a full set.”

“The Earth Crafting card is unflawed and powerful to someone who has the temperament to wield it,” he shot back.

Her top lip ticked up over her teeth in a snarl. “The temperament of earth.”

Arthur stayed silent and let the pressure build. Lung Bai did as well, and they just stared at one another.

Surprisingly, Brixaby was the one who crumpled first. “I have three Legendary shards to add to the Earth Crafting card. That will make up the difference.”

Arthur nearly sighed as he caught a flash of triumph in her eyes. The shards likely did not matter to Lung Bai. She just wanted to win.

“Done.”

Skill level gained: Haggling (Merchant Class)

Level 14

Arthur felt the world around him shift oddly. Though he couldn’t see anything, it felt as if the air thinned just off to Lung Bai’s left side. She turned to that spot, thrust her hands into the hole that was not a hole, and withdrew five cards before she handed them over.

Arthur skimmed them. All five were Uncommon cards that had extremely narrow focus on different aspects of physical healing. Fixing head trauma, bone repair, parasite, bacteria and virus purging, and so on. In addition, they all had high mana costs.

One, however, dealt with trauma to the soul acquired by card combat. That was close, but not exactly what he needed.

Brixaby leaned to read over his shoulder. From his low grumble, Arthur could tell he was disappointed.

But Arthur wasn’t.

“These will be perfect,” he said. “Thank you, Lung Bai.”

Lung Bai returned his time card, and they said their quick goodbyes.

Brixaby reopened the portal, and the moment the entrance shut behind them, it was as if Arthur hit a wall. Dealing with Lung Bai had been both frightening and exhilarating. Now he was on the other side, and there were so many things to be done . . . and Arthur no longer had a sense of time to figure out how to organize and complete all of them. Not to mention his soul-deep exhaustion.

No matter. He could still figure out priorities. More importantly, he had help.

“I thought you were going to give Lung Bai the time card,” Brixaby said.

“And I thought you were better at haggling,” Arthur said with a smile. “Three Legendary shards?”

“You took much more than three from the last eruption,” Brixaby replied. “I will hardly miss them.”

Despite being bone weary, Arthur was in a good mood. “And now I have just the set I need. Let’s go home.”
