Mayor Caleb sat at his well-used desk, going through the day's forms and requests, reviewing reports and other managerial tasks, when his speakstone rang up.

“Mayor, your second bell appointments are here.” Carole, his bunnykin aide, let him know.

He grunted, depositing the stack of paper on his desk, and reviewed his day's agenda. Ah, yes, the new alchemy shop. He retrieved the dossier and perused the details.

Mr. Brenson was accusing the catkin woman again, with a note that he was seeking apologies from Mr. David for verbal aggression on his person when he confronted him at his own shop.

The Mayor rubbed his temple. Mr. Brenson was a long-standing citizen and he didn't usually file frivolous complaints. On the other hand, the formerly squatting catkin had put her life on the line to resolve the long-standing case of disappearing townspeople. Brenson's accusation and the catkin's behavior did not align at all.

“Mayor?” Carole repeated.

He extended a hand and touched the speakstone. “Let them in please, thank you.”

He realigned the orderly stacks of paper on his desk and straightened his back as the three individuals walked in: Short and rotund Mr. Brenson, the incensed catkin woman attempting to murder the man with a stare, and her guard dog, Mr. David. Ms. Carole followed them with a notebook, sitting down in one of the corner chairs and ready to take minutes of the meeting.

Caleb held a hand up as they opened their mouths, preempting anyone from speaking. He looked past the assembled concerned citizens and spoke to Carole.

“Preliminary meeting for Mr. Brenson of Riverwall's complaint regarding a potential health and safety risk posed by the as-yet unopened shop named Panacea Potions, owned and operated by one Niala of Riverwall. 26th of Summer, A.D. 723.”

He paused and waited for Carole to finish capturing the topic and dating. She nodded at him.

“Very well. Mr. Brenson, I read here that you anticipate Ms. Niala to voluntarily poison her clientele in order to drive demand for additional medicine. Do you wish to add anything?” The mayor read from the file, looking up at Brenson.

“Only that my hand was forced. The woman sent her enforcer to try and browbeat me into silence. I would no-”

“You-!” David grasped Niala's shoulder. He shook his head as she looked back at him. Eyes shooting daggers at Brenson, she clamped her mouth and crossed her arms.

Brenson returned his gaze to Caleb, clearing his throat. “As I was saying, I would not have intervened if the pair hadn't shown they were of such low moral standards. I had barely begun advising my clients to remain wary of this new shop before that man barged in and threatened me.” He remained aloof, giving the barest of glances back at Niala and David as he finished his spiel.

A pause. Carole nodded to Caleb, who turned his attention towards the catkin woman.

“Ms. Niala, you have heard the complaint logged against you in full. Please give us your side of the story.” He lowered his head, narrowed his eyes. “Calmly and with civility, if you would.”

She closed her eyes and inhaled, letting out a drawn-out breath.

“It's all crock and lies.”

Caleb waited a moment before sighing. “Please elaborate.”

She threw a hand up. “I'd never poison anyone! I love alchemy because I love helping people! I don't care about making a fortune with my trade!” she pointed her gaze at Brenson. “Unlike some people present.” She said through her teeth.

The mayor levelled his stare at her, irritated. “Be that as it may, your past actions as reported by Mr. Brenson and ruled upon last season speak to the contrary. To note, I am referring to his complaint that you purposefully instructed his son to create a laxative instead of a digestive potion, intending to discredit Mr. Benson's enterprise.”

“Viper's vomit, all of it! His son never listened to what I told him to do! He kept trying to shuffle up to me and brush up against my tits, so I just left the room! Everything he did, he did himself!” She flung back, ears and tail frazzled, red in the face. Brenson had turned much the same shade.

“My son wouldn't lie to me like that! I demand you apologize right this instant, or I will log another complaint!” He shouted back.

“Your son fed you a rat sandwich and your pig-headed face ate it all, nose to tail!” She counter-fired, Brenson turning a shade darker.

“You-”

WHAM

Everyone present flinched and looked at Caleb, his hand flat on his desk, his look severe.

“With civility.” He imposed, eyeing each of them in turn before getting up and resting his hands on his desk, leaning forward.

“Shouting will beget you no sympathy from my office.” He said, letting the warning sink in as he straightened back up and clasped his hands.

“I have heard Ms. Niala's reply. It is my judgment that this is an issue of intent and thus cannot be proven either way.”

“But Mayor! My son sai-!”

“I know what you say your son has said, Mr. Brenson.” Caleb cut Brenson off.

“The fact remains that there are only two witnesses to what truly happened within your workshop. If we give enough weight to both of them, there is no clear truth. Given Ms. Niala's recent actions, I also find myself starting to doubt the veracity of your son's recount.”

“Mr. Mayo-!”

“I am not finished, Mr. Brenson.” He held his stare at the man, subduing him into silence.

He rubbed his temple, gazing down at the complaint's file on his desk.

“Perhaps a significant gesture of goodwill towards the town's well-being would be sufficient.” He said for himself, nodding.

“Ms. Niala.” The mayor said, grabbing her attention. “I will task you in brewing and donating a universal cure potion of superior or higher grade to the town.” The eyes of all in attendance widened, Carole's included. “The opening of your shop will be delayed until then. We will run an official notice in the newspaper and bulletin boards across town and will reimburse the costs you have incurred with your own advertising campaign so far.” He took everyone's stock, pleased to see they remained quiet.

“Once you provide the potion, the current complaint will be rejected, and you will be able to operate your commerce. Should you prove unable to provide said potion, your commercial license will be withheld until such a time as you have rendered ample enough aid to the mayor's office to have proven your goodwill. Are there any questions?” The mayor clasped his hands behind his back.

Niala managed to close her mouth. “You... you want me to brew you a pitting superior panacea?!”

Brenson scoffed. “It's the name of your shop, isn't it? Shouldn't you be able to?”

“You!” She flung a finger at his face, to which he smirked, turning towards Caleb.

“Mr. Mayor, I have no objections. Thank you for your good judgment on this matter. However...” He angled his head towards David. “I would still demand an apology for the verbal assault I suffered.”

David looked at the little man. “I can't apologize for something I didn't do.”

Brenson's face flushed red once more. “You- You dare?! You came into my house and screamed at my face!”

David tilted his head. “I walked into your shop, and you might have felt threatened because I was in a very poor mood, but I never raised my voice.”

“Are you calling me a liar?!”

“No. Lying implies intent. I think you're delusional.”

“Wha-wha-!?” Brenson stammered, a vein popping on his forehead.

“AHEM” Caleb cleared his throat.

Both men look at the Mayor.

“Mr. Brenson, if you wish to deposit a formal complaint against Mr. David, please do so at the reception desk. Regarding the actual complaint we met here today to discuss, are there any further relevant comments?” Caleb said, his hard stare moving between the two of them.

David looked back at Brenson, quirking an eyebrow. The man harrumphed and stomped out of the Mayor's office. Niala leaned forward and stuck out her tongue at Brenson's retreating back, blowing a raspberry.

“Ms. Niala!” Caleb intoned.

She spun around. “Yes, Mr. Mayor?” She asked doe-eyed.

He held her gaze before shaking his head.

“You are free to go. Ms. Carole will inform the town hall staff of your duty. Return once the potion is ready.”

She frowned, started to raise her hand and speak, but stopped herself, looking up at David. He motioned with his head for her to go ahead. Puzzled, ears wiggling, she eventually stepped out of the Mayor's office as well. David remained, turning to face Caleb.

The mayor sustained David's gaze before nodding at his aide, Carole. She got up, unwrinkled her pencil skirt, and left the room, closing the door behind her.

“Out with it,” Caleb said.

“A panacea potion is not within the means of most alchemists. What makes you think Niala can brew one?”

The dogkin's ears twitched.

“You're insinuating I am setting her up to fail.”

David nodded.

Caleb sighed. “I know for a fact our little resident catkin alchemist is one of the few people in this kingdom who can brew a superior panacea with relative ease. You need not concern yourself.”

David narrowed his eyes. “... you know who her father is.” He stated.

“I see that you do as well. This makes things easier.” He sat back down in his chair, leaning back.

“How did you find out?” David asked, resting his hands on his belt.

“The man is very rich, very powerful, and has many connections. He sent out missives and postings for information on the whereabouts of his daughter.”

“If so, I'm surprised nobody has come to look for her,” David said.

“That would be because, once my guards let me know a person of interest had entered the town, I called upon my own contacts to put a secrecy claim on those missives and postings. He will have stopped receiving reports about her whereabouts since then.”

David's brow furrowed, squaring his shoulders, his gaze hardening. “And why would you do that, exactly?”

“I could do without the silent accusation, Mr. David.” The mayor said, sitting on his chair and leaning back into it.

“I have four daughters of my own. A few years back, one of them ran away, through no lack of love from me and my dear wife. I spent a good portion of my personal fortune trying to retrieve her. Do you know what my other three daughters told me?” The dogkin said, taking off his ready glasses and wiping them clean with a silken cloth.

David slowly shook his head.

“They told me I was making it worse. We had a big fight, the whole family. I thought they were trying to make me give up on Justine. It took me an entire week to finally understand.” He put his glasses into his breast pocket and clasped his hand over his belly.

“She hadn't run away because we didn't love her enough, or didn't provide for her enough, or anything of the sort. We, my wife and I, hadn't failed her. She simply needed space and time to find herself. She grew up in the shadow of three beautiful, smart, and strong sisters, all of whom had founded families or applied themselves in their careers.” Caleb got up and walked to a window, looking outside.

“She felt stifled, afraid we'd judge her against the accomplishments of her siblings. Foolish, of course, but the truth nonetheless.”

David was starting to think Caleb needed more friends.

“So what, this is some sort of projecting upon Niala's situation?” He asked.

The mayor shot David an irritated glare. “No, Mr. David. I was only explaining that I understood what Ms. Niala was going through and thought I could help both her and the town at the same time. I would give her time and peace away from her father, and the town would gain a second, and very competent, alchemist.”

“Sounds like you're trying to justify your actions,” David said, shifting his weight.

“Maybe, but I think if you were to ask Ms. Niala she would actually appreciate the gesture.”

“And ruling against her when Brenson lodged his first complaint? Were you trying to cast her into financial indenture? Nab yourself a free top-notch alchemist?” David insinuated.

“Mr. David, I take pride in my work and integrity. Please stop calling it into question. No, I had no ulterior motives. I did not know the girl beyond who her father was. Presented with the facts I had at the time, I ruled as fairly as I could. If it soothes your hardened heart, do know that I was preparing to offer her a monitored employ at the town hall as its resident alchemist.”

“But then you happened.” He motioned at David with a hand.

“Hrrrm.” David grunted. “And why even ask for that potion in the first place? How will that prove anything besides her skill?”

Caleb nodded. “Brenson is a stout resident of this town, and having a resident alchemist has been a great boon to us, but he is at best an average one. You saw his face; he believes I gave the girl an impossible task because he could not do it himself.”

“When she succeeds, he will be be scared off further complaints and I will have a powerful argument to placate him if he still attempts to. As a bonus, the town will have a superior universal cure for free for any dire emergencies.” Caleb ended with a smirk.

“You're a right bastard.” David crossed his arms again.

“If that is what you call someone who strives for both the town and its citizens to benefit, then I guess I am.” The mayor said, unperturbed.

“There's one last thing that doesn't gel.”

“And what would that be?”

“Niala's father. You said it yourself, he's rich, famous, and powerful. I'm having a hard time accepting you, the mayor of an end-of-the-road town like Riverwall would have the clout needed to block him.”

Caleb tilted his head. “Is that so?” He said, walking back to his desk and sitting straight-backed, clasping his hands on his desk.

“I suppose with your own lineage, I can afford you some slight revelation.” The dogkin said, a slight grin on his face.

David's brows shot up.

“There is much more to Riverwall than you might think, and because of that, a suitable mayor had to be assigned. One with the knowledge, experience, and connections required to properly manage this town.”

“And what... mysteries are we talking about here?” David asked.

“Well, Hodge, for one. One of the few known incarnations that isn't openly hostile or antagonistic to the living.”

“Already know about Hodge.”

“Indeed, but revealing other secrets would spoil the fun. Just know that there is an inordinate amount of happenstance in and surrounding this town. The real issue is that we don't know why.” He said, looking at his bellglass.

“As cathartic as this discussion was, I have another appointment coming up, our time together draws to a close, if you would?” Caleb pointed a hand at the door.

David looked over his shoulder and uncrossed his arms. “One last thing. I'm not part of that family anymore. I was disowned.”

Caleb tilted his head. “You were not. I had it verified. You are still listed among the peerage as that man's son, just not as his heir.”

David froze, the dogkin's words like an axe splitting in half the floor he was standing on.

“You really must go, Mr. David. Please leave.” Caleb pointed his chin at the door, egging him on with his eyes.

The free courier stood in a daze. With great effort, he reined in his emotions, forced himself back under control, and walked out.

Caleb smiled.

It might be a bit perverse of me, but nothing beats the look on people's faces when you crash a part of their world on top of their head.

He picked up another sheaf of paper.

Niala was waiting for David outside the mayor's office, her face scrunched up as she alternated between fuming at the injustice and rage-planning how to go about brewing the potion. Her mood somewhat improved when he walked out and pulled her into an embrace.

“You ok?” He asked.

She sighed. “Yes. No. This is stupid.”

“If you let Brenson know who your father was, he'd probably drop the complaint.”

She pulled back and looked up at him, tail swaying. “I don't want to. I want to succeed on my own, not with my father's wind filling my sails.”

“Hmm. And you're confident you can brew the panacea?”

She grinned. “Totally! I told you I was the best alchemist this side of the Spireridges! If anything, the brewing process is a bit easier than the Kwiller anti-venom you had me cook up.”

She lay back her head against his chest, looking sideways.

“It's the ingredients that I'm concerned about.”

“Hard to find?” He asked.

“Very hard.” She confirmed.

“Good thing you have a top-ranked Free Courier on call.”

Her eyes widened, her ears flopped, and a smile took over her face. She turned her head upward, locking gazes with him.

He smiled back.