Zaessythra had no faith in him. Disguise was perfectly adequate, and Orodan resolved to begin training it once more from the next loop.

“I will not directly help you… but Lady Luetta Treadway resides in the north tower. Your situation is both horrifying and imminent enough that she might be willing to help,” the lieutenant said. “She’s the fort’s resident fate reader. Graduated from the magical university in Storven too.”

Orodan made note of that for the coming loops as well. From what he’d heard, the fort had a reclusive steam mage who worked in the boiler chamber, an enchanter and an alchemist too. All excellent sources of knowledge in the coming loops.

“Appreciated. But I’m not sure if the fate reader will appreciate me barging in and demanding help after all I’ve done in town,” Orodan said. “For now… I think I’ll be training with my teacher here.”

“Well, shall we get to using the remaining few hours we have?” Talricto asked. “Your Dimensionalism is still quite pitiful… even the hatchlings among my kind could maneuver dimensions around you with impunity.”

“By all means, mighty Talricto. There’s work to do.”

#

[Dimensionalism 69 → Dimensionalism 70]

[New Title → Dimensional Elite]

The dimensional boundary around Orodan wobbled, and his attempt at using Dimensional Step failed. His power was limited of course, down to Talricto’s level, but it was in this contest of equalized power that gains could be made…

…and his utter inadequacy in comparison to a dimensional phase spider could be exposed.

“All that work with Dimensionalism, and I still can’t match you on even ground…” Orodan muttered with a pleased smile. It was good training, and he enjoyed the feeling of a real challenge.

“An admirable effort, but we dimensional phase spiders are the pinnacle of the art. Attempting to match me on a purely skilled basis will end poorly for you,” the spider haughtily declared. “I’m also one of the greatest of my kind.”

Orodan didn’t disagree that Talricto was better and outright made for the skill of Dimensionalism. His kind were naturals after all; from what the spider had said even the hatchlings started off with natural insights into Dimensionalism which were at the Master-level. Innate to them like breathing was for a newborn babe.

“That’s precisely why I intend to do this every loop… until I can best you.”

His teacher looked startled but not displeased by the declaration.

“A hopeless endeavor… but one I cannot disapprove of. I shall await the loop then, my headstrong student.”

For the past six hours he’d futilely floundered against Talricto’s superior skill in Dimensionalism. It was like an untrained man attempting to beat a fish at swimming, or an eagle at flying. His own Dimensional Step was hijacked and the destination altered with laughable ease. And Talricto’s Dimensionalism allowed the spider to go wherever he wanted while Orodan couldn’t do a thing to stop it.

Of course, in a real fight, raw power or chronomancy could overpower the wandering spider, but Orodan refused to rely on those.

And while he hadn’t exactly gained much besides three levels in Dimensional Step and the recent level in Dimensionalism, it did leave Orodan with a fresh perspective on how to go about tackling other skills of his. Particularly, his repeat attempts at brute forcing a certain Embodiment-level spatial spider who kept intruding upon his efforts to enter Lonvoron.

With thirty minutes left till the descent of the Living Crystal, many of the stars in the distant sky had been blotted out by its size. The fleet surrounding Port Bellgrave was now truly gigantic, the size of a true armada. And it didn’t consist of just seafaring military vessels of the Collective but flying void craft too.

It seemed Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious was coming directly for Port Bellgrave, specifically Orodan… and the Blackworth Collective sensed it too. They hadn’t approached the island yet, but the seas surrounding the Ironhaven Isles were entirely blockaded, and Orodan was thankful that Fenton and the workers had managed to begin sailing and get out in time before the encirclement completed.

With him causing such commotion and the descent of a Living Crystal imminent, the workers shouldn’t have been pursued by anyone either.

“Talricto… you should go now,” Orodan said.

“I suppose this is farewell then. I know you say you come back and all… but do take of yourself, you hard-headed fool. While you have little skill…” Talricto trailed off. “Or talent…”

“Thank you for the encouragement,” Orodan dryly remarked.

“…you’re also possessed of a work ethic most admirable. See you in the next one, my untalented student.”

That was probably the nicest the spider had ever been to him. Sentimental little bug.

Talricto phased out of the material plane soon after, his silly little hat still upon his head as he waved a front leg in a farewell gesture, leaving just Orodan.

The fort and everyone upon the island had been evacuated too. Better they leave than be caught up in the battle about to occur. Yes, everyone came back thanks to the time loops, but that was a wicked mentality to lean into and could quickly lead to him butchering millions on a whim.

Just him and the Embodiment-level Living Crystal coming his way.

With fifteen minutes left, the Crystal became rather shockingly visible, gigantic, the size of an entire star system. Massive and luminous in a way which could make any sane person have an existential crisis as it took up the entire horizon.

And it was then that the ships and fleet of the Blackworth Collective began to act. Titanic salvos of fire erupted, but not the kind Orodan expected.

Rather, it was mana, cannons firing pure and utterly concentrated amounts of mana, filling the very air with it. And with that mana… came hundreds… no, thousands of spatiomancers. Leading them all, was a figure with a shimmering illusory image surrounding them. This figure, Orodan had seen them before, and still knew nothing of their identity. They began manipulating the gigantic amounts of mana in the air alongside a robe they wore which allowed for the easy channelling of System energy.

Orodan’s Vision of Purity had grown stronger, but he still couldn’t quite see past their veil, for so pure was the magic they cast. And before he could have any thoughts of switching his perspective, to see all mana as impure, the other part of the equation entered the fray.

If the previous time looper and the forces of Lonvoron were now here… then it begged the question of how unmanned the dead zone was.

A question which was now answered as space shook, and three spatial rifts threatened to appear. Leading directly to three plague worlds.

An infection and outbreak on this part of Lonvoron, unprepared as it was, would be catastrophic. Yet, the Eldritch plague worlds weren’t what concerned him. It was the appearance of a certain book-wielding Administrator.

The Prophet had arrived, and he was looking directly at the previous time looper and the mantle they carried with covetous eyes.

But that was fine, all a part of Orodan’s plan.

For as they seemed preoccupied with one another…

…Orodan’s broom came out and pointed towards the three spatial rifts.

When he’d done this last time, he hadn’t even been a Grandmaster. And even then, he’d eventually won.

Now though?

As the previous time looper and the Prophet began clashing…

…as the spatial rifts to the plague worlds threatened to spew forth…

…as a Living Crystal threatened to devour Lonvoron…

…the broom of Orodan Wainwright targeted not just the Eldritch plague worlds past the spatial rifts, but the Eldritch, and the very System energy everywhere past the dimensional boundaries too.

Soul energy spilled forth in an act which was one of the greatest feats he’d managed without outright dying, and he felt the briefest tinge of the madness of Infinity threaten to consume him before he gripped it tight with his unrelenting will.

In the divine dimension and the material plane both.

[Dimensionalism 70 → Dimensionalism 72]

[Incipience of Infinity 125 → Incipience of Infinity 127]

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 147 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 148]

It began with the purple-grayish tinge and haze that could be seen in the air. It was a sign that something had changed when it vanished entirely.

The spatial rifts leading to the plague worlds too suddenly became quite inert. Whatever was on the other side of them had decided to stop spewing Eldritch altogether.

Moreover, in the divine dimension, even if Orodan couldn’t see it… he felt that every bit of Eldritch had been entirely purged.

And most importantly, he’d been so concerned about how easily he’d been getting discovered and causing a ruckus via the tapestry of fate. Who would’ve thought that simply destroying it outright was the solution?

The Custodian had warned him that his steps would be hounded as he neared the peak of Transcendance in his Celestial skill. The combination of such a grand feat, and Domain of Perfect Cleaning going from 147 to 148 must have been too much for the canvas to bear. The connections, the calculations, whatever the tapestry of fate was made of, it simply couldn’t tolerate what he’d done and tore entirely.

Now nobody had a fate. No connections, no calculations, no possible outcomes to be read.

Perhaps, Orodan mused, that was a better outcome.

“You… you tore apart the tapestry…”

Those were the first words out of the previous looper’s mouth, shock and disbelief audible even through the disguised voice.

Even the Living Crystal bent on landing seemed surprised, frozen in place at what had just occurred.

The Prophet though… its face was the definition of pure murder and rage.

“Billions of years of work, undone in an instant. All the grace of our savior, the lifeblood of provenance disseminated throughout the cosmos, all gone…” it whispered dangerously. “You shall never reach Embodiment, failed aspirant that you are. Here and now, you shall die.”

The beam of light coming for him was practically unavoidable in how fast it reached. Even if he did notice a beam of System energy attempting to counteract it before it ended him.

Vaguely, he also sensed the arrival of more Administrators through the dimensional cracks, but it was simply too late.

Before the beam hit and the darkness took him, Orodan realized that achieving Embodiment would involve a lot of trouble.

And that perhaps breaking fate wasn’t such a bad thing.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

“If every gain in Domain of Perfect Cleaning is going to cause such a ruckus… then you clearly need to train your ability to minimize your impacts on the tapestry.”

Orodan agreed with her…

…though the thought of destroying the tapestry and perhaps even rebuilding it, sounded like good training.

Still, that could come later. For if the tapestry was destroyed, how would he have his fair fight against the Prophet where it could read his fate to scry his abilities?

To that end, Orodan had quite some work cut out for him.

His usual ongoing goals of training spatiomancy and dimensionalism would continue, as would his battles against Alagameth and that arrogant Living Crystal. Though, Orodan intended on making it onto Lonvoron under his own power and not because something had taken pity on him.

He had three main goals for the upcoming loops.

First, to train his Fate Disconnect that he might stop destroying the tapestry of fate outright and causing mayhem to erupt across the cosmos. The diviners of Inuan and perhaps Guzuhar might help with that. But he already knew the methods used by these places on his home world. To that end the fate reader on Lonvoron’s Port Bellgrave might be worth looking into. A fresh look at fate reading, through the lens of another world’s tradition, might help make unexpected gains.

Second, he’d seen some interesting architecture in Port Bellgrave. Perhaps he could give construction another shot in one of these loops before he made for Lonvoron. And the steam technology used by those folks was quite intriguing too. He hoped to get a better idea of engineering and artificing through the understanding of that. A better understanding of Engineering and Artificing would allow him to get closer to rebuilding the ancient machine the right way.

And third…

…perhaps it was time to take up training Disguise once more.

A dirty cloth was pulled out from a nearby drawer in his hovel and two symbolic eye holes were poked in it.

Perhaps it was time to wrap his head around the problem…

…or wrap a rag around his head once more.

It had also been a while since he truly viewed his Status. And with a thought, he pulled it up.

Name: Orodan Wainwright Age: 17  Title 1: Wainwrighting Apprentice Title 2: Weaving Apprentice  Available Titles:

Bearer Of A Celestial Skill World Conqueror World Gate Delver Avatar Slayer Wielder Of A Mythical Skill One Who Has Experienced Death God Slayer Transcendent Slayer Celestial Transcendent Perfect Cleaning Transcendent Cleaning Transcendent Soul Transcendent Infinity Transcendent Combat Transcendent Unarmed Combat Master Physical Master Shield Master Sword Master Space Master Time Master Wrestling Elite Enchanting Elite Woodworking Elite Dimensionalism Elite Alchemy Adept Halberd Adept Blacksmithing Adept Pathfinding Adept Teaching Adept Fire Magic Adept Laboring Adept Gathering Apprentice Cooking Apprentice Construction Apprentice Engineering Apprentice Fate Apprentice Wainwrighting Apprentice Weaving Apprentice

Skills:

