The lanky man whose mouth Orodan had a hand upon was on the younger side, less a man and more a boy, possibly a few years younger than Orodan’s own biological age. Tall for a young boy too, made it easy to mistake him for a grown man at first glance. And he looked exceedingly wary and more than a bit intimidated, his hand gripping the small gun on his belt. He was dressed in some sort of gray coat whose original color wasn’t meant to be so worn. And the strings and twine were practically coming off, with plenty of patchwork quilts and repairs made throughout.

Orodan could sense a strange bit of power coursing through these patchwork bits of quilt in the boy’s coat, yet for now he didn’t pry. Though he couldn’t help but shake the feeling that he’d seen this young lad somewhere in an earlier loop of his.

And while he was merely covering the boy’s mouth, it didn’t help matters that Orodan’s hand was the size of his head. Couldn’t blame him for being intimidated.

“Now, I know how this must look, but I assure you we come in peace,” Orodan declared. “You’re free to go and won’t be harmed.”

“If you delivered that with less of an unsettling smile on your face, it might help the matter,” Talricto said.

Orodan took the insincere attempt at a reassuring smile off his face, and their not-captive grumbled something inaudible.

“Hmm… maybe you should try smiling again. I forget how antagonistic your regular face is.”

“My face is not antagonistic…”

And even if it was, she could blame his mother for passing it onto him.

“Alright, if I let go you won’t scream, will you?” Orodan asked, and the young man, a laborer from the looks of it, shook his head in affirmation.

His hand came off, and while it would’ve been comedic if the boy immediately yelled, that wasn’t the case. Instead, he simply stared at Orodan for a while.

“Yes, yes, he’s exactly as idiotic as he looks,” Talricto remarked. “No need to stare.”

“Who the ‘ell are you nutters?” the young laborer finally asked. “Here I was, just wrapping up the labor they put me on, and then I hear a crash loud as thunder when the storm ain’t even started! Now the roof’s all broken and the foreman will have me head…”

Right, the destruction of the roof was somewhat rude he supposed.

“Apologies, my entry was as unplanned as the destruction of your roof was,” Orodan said, casting a quick Time Reversal to restore it. “There, all better now.”

The boy stared at the chronomancy for an extra second before shaking his head.

“Bloody mages… right then, off you go. Quit bugging me and let me work in peace,” the young man said, going back to picking up the pile of rifles Orodan had landed upon.

“…that’s it?” he asked, perplexed. “You’re not going to call for help or alert the guards?”

“What guards? We’re in scrap town, no guards ‘round these parts save the constables accompanying the foreman. Just poor sods like me and good-for-nothing sorts hiding from the law,” he replied, giving Orodan the side eye as he uttered the subtle accusation. “Get going before I get caught up in yer’ business.”

“That’s just the thing… I don’t think I have any business you’d get caught up in.”

That he knew of at least. Who knew what his presence upon the tapestry of fate might bring?

“Well that’s well and good, but I don’t see why I should care. Not like this toil’s going to get done any faster,” he said. “Now leave me be. Got too many damned things to do.”

They were within a dilapidated building. The pipes on the walls were rusting, some were even broken and out of order entirely. Where Orodan gracefully landed was a pile of rifles on a rack which the lad was putting back into place. Simple-looking but well-made enough, capable of withstanding his fall without breaking. There was a singular window, revealing an outside landscape of rusting buildings, a depressing sight. It really was a scrap town, with the buildings made of recycled metal and cheap refuse. Absurd as it was to say, Ogdenborough looked better than this place!

It was dark out, with the beginnings of a thunderstorm brewing too.

Within the workshop, besides rifles were all manner of smaller handheld guns, larger hand cannons and spherical metallic balls with some sort of clockwork gear at the top. Orodan was fairly certain those were explosives. A forge in the corner, equipped with a variety of tools and devices, was hooked up to a set of pipes, and another forge lay defunct in the corner, connected to the broken pipes.

No spot for coal or any other fuel at all.

Orodan had been to Lonvoron before. He had an inkling what powered everything in this building.

“A steam-powered forge… an intriguing machine,” he remarked.

“What else you power a forge with? Wood? We’re not in the olden days,” the laborer said, stacking the rifles up on the racks. “You’re not from around these parts are you? Hail from some backwater village in the bog islands do you?”

Orodan began helping him stack the rifles onto the racks. The laborer stopped to take that in for a second, nodded, and then simply carried on with his own tasks.

“What gave you that idea?” he asked.

“I’d say them weapons you got look like they were nicked from some fancy museum; you look familiar with them though. Only bog islanders use old weapons like that. Seen those prissy military officers carry swords… but ain’t never seen a man carry a shield before,” the laborer said, and then pointed to Orodan’s clothes. “Got some odd clothes there too. Paid to see a wandering band of starving actors wear somethin’ like that once. Drunk gits weren’t worth half the coin I spent that night...”

“Your clothes are of a unique sort too,” Orodan said. “Whoever weaved them did a good job.”

“Oi! Me mum patched this coat for me!”

“I wasn’t being sarcastic, it really is good work. Whoever weaved it must be a fair hand at the trade, the coat’s almost… magical.”

“N-now what gave you that nutty idea?” the boy asked, clearly defensive. “This is a normal coat and that’s that. What’s your business anyhow? Not seen tunics of that style worn by any regular folk.”

He could keep his secrets then.

“Well, you’re not wrong, I’m from another world.”

“Subtlety and stealth… utterly lost on you.”

“Right, and I’m King of the Blackworth Collective. Now, if you’re going to help, there’s more to do. Grab those boxes of grenades and bring them to the back. They’re getting past expiry and need to be given away to the ships of the line. Let some poor penal sod blow their hand off fighting the plague, not my concern,” the laborer said and then turned to Talricto. “And if you’re going to stand around and crowd up me workspace, you can help too. Never seen a spider that can talk…”

“I believe I’ve had just about enough of this unrefined peasant. I shall see you another time, my hardworking student,” Talricto said before vanishing. Orodan knew that the spider was quite capable of finding him whenever he wanted to, so he wasn’t worried.

Orodan however was happy to work. He began moving boxes of the spherical balls known as grenades, and also assisted the young worker in cleaning the dirty corners of the shop.

As they continued, the boy frowned at him

“What do you want?” he asked.

“You’re looking at it,” Orodan replied. “Some honest labor is good for the soul.”

“I wasn’t expecting you’d actually help…” he muttered. “You smash into the smithy and now you want to help me? What an odd fellow you are…”

“I’d say you’re the odder one, just accepting my help and story without a word of complaint. Bit young to be accepting things so easily, aren’t you?”

“Grew up rough. Seen enough odd folk come around this way, plenty of ‘em fleeing from the law. No sense in raising a fuss or questioning what’s beyond my station. You didn’t kill me, I’m still breathing, and that means there’s work to be done; foreman will give me the cane if I’m not finished by the morrow,” the boy said. “…Fenton Penny’s me name. Friends call me Fen, or little Penny.”

A rough upbringing. Much like Orodan’s own.

“Orodan Wainwright,” he introduced himself. “You can just call me Orodan.”

“Orodan Wainwright? You a mainlander, Mister Orodan? Never heard that name before,” Fenton said. “Hmm, maybe you’ve got some islander blood in you. Those arms are pretty solid, never seen a westerman quite so big.”

He dropped a stack of crates in the back gently.

“Are they not eating enough in the mainland?” Orodan asked. “Why would they be small?”

“That’s just the issue; them mainlanders eat a little too much and do a whole lot of nothing. And they shun us islanders for our way of living,” Fenton said. “All too happy to hire us when they need laborers and seafarers though. Fat and soft the lot of them, never known a day of honest toil in their lives.”

“You’re an islander then, is that where we are?” Orodan asked.

“You really aren’t from around these parts, huh? Well, not my place to question what your problems are and why you’re here,” Fenton muttered. “I won’t ask where you came from, but you’re in Port Bellgrave now, part of the Ironhaven Isles. Lady luck must like you though, landing smack dab in the middle of scrap town. Not even the hired guns like coming about here, and the royals certainly don’t like sending their navy ‘round these choppy waters. Long as the islands pay their tithe to help the Collective’s war machine, they leave us alone and stay in that posh fort of theirs. Whoever’s after you might have a hard time finding you here.”

“We’ll see how long that lasts,” Orodan said, recalling that the entire tapestry of fate was in utter flux thanks to him.

“There isn’t much for someone like you in town. Bellgrave’s got little besides mercenary ships, passing merchants running deliveries, some soldiers guarding the fort and gunsmithies crewed by feckless idiots like me who signed their lives away,” Fenton explained. “As you can see, this here’s some rough work, and I’d best meet my quota or else.”

“Rough work? All we’ve done is lift crates and assort things so far. Where’s the hard labor in that?” Orodan questioned.

“You haven’t seen nothin’ yet Mister Orodan. Still got to scrub the pipes and clean the forge, and then, got to prepare the ingots so that the gunsmith can work uninterrupted,” Fenton Penny explained. “If you help scrub the pipes, I can get started on smelting the ingots.”

“Shamelessly asking me for help now, are you?”

“If you’re going to loiter about like a vagrant, you might as well make yourself useful.”

Fair enough, straight to business then. The boy had an industrious nature and a no-nonsense attitude; Orodan took a liking to him.

Orodan began scrubbing the pipes. With his physical strength though, it was a trivial task. And soon enough he wordlessly stood next to Fenton, helping dump ore into the steam-powered kiln.

“Damn… what do they feed you? The whole farm? I suppose those muscles are good for something,” Fenton said. “Might actually finish ahead of time too.”

“You said you signed your life away; what did you mean by that?” Orodan asked. “A contract of service?”

“Contract of service? You must come from someplace nice wanderer, take me and me mum back there with you,” Fenton said with a bitter laugh lacking all warmth. “Nay, I’m one of them folk who the haughty and well-dressed genteels in the fort won’t look at, an indentured servant. Signed a dotted line the moment they considered me grown, all so I could save my ailing mother’s life. Turns out the medicine they gave her only relieves the symptoms, won’t cure the disease. Now I’m stuck doing this drudgery; the medicine’s keeping her alive and I can’t leave either.”

Orodan frowned.

“You’re being forced to work?” he asked. “Let me have a word with this foreman of yours…”

“No, none of that nonsense. Next thing the soldiers from the fort will get involved, the chaos will delay me mum getting her dose, and they’ll send a whole bunch of those big ones against you,” Fenton spat. “Seen a mercenary captain and his crew take on a steam knight once. Poor buggers didn’t last more than three seconds ‘fore they were carved apart. I don’t want you getting into trouble on my behalf.”

Thing was… Orodan enjoyed getting into trouble.

Still, for now he shelved the conversation and simply worked.

[Smelting 6 → Smelting 7]

The steam-powered kiln was an interesting device. It certainly melted the ore down faster and more efficiently than any regular non-enchanted kiln he’d seen on Alastaia. Just looking at it gave Orodan some ideas about how heat could affect metal. Furthermore, it wasn’t regular steam… but magical.

“Nice kiln… used wood and coal-fired ones before, not steam though,” Orodan remarked. “I don’t sense any enchantments on the device, just the main pipeline supplying the steam.”

“Enchantments? Have you seen where we are? You think anything in this shanty town is enchanted?” Fenton asked pointedly. “The steam’s got some magical power to it though, comes straight from the main pipeline and boiler of the fort.”

Considering Orodan could sense the clear enchantments upon the gun Fenton had holstered, he would have to doubt the claim that there was nothing enchanted around here.

“I can see that… no wonder it stays hot despite the distance…”

