“Relax Fen, this will be handled soon. Nobody will shoot you today.”

Good as their word, the next step Orodan took had a bullet coming straight for his head. Of course, a simple opening of his mouth led to a polite receipt of the delivery, and a return was spat out immediately after.

“H-he caught it between his teeth!”

“My gun!”

The shooter’s rifle was shattered as Orodan’s ejected bullet impacted it.

“Fire! Fire! Alert the constabulary!”

A hail of bullets came his way and Orodan began swatting them back at their originating guns, rendering them defunct in the process. A powerful shot from a woman wielding an oversized rifle upon a distant tower was also deflected, the shockwave causing the rain to momentarily scatter in a small area.

Grenades, bullets and a gun which shot out multiple projectiles per trigger pull were brought to bear against him, yet Orodan casually deflected all shots with his hands. And as he walked closer, the hail of fire began to lessen as the guns of the guards were destroyed one by one.

The nearest guard was practically frozen in fear as Orodan walked into melee range. A simple hand on the shoulder was suggestion enough for the man to run for the hills. The remaining gunners threw down their arms and began fleeing immediately after.

“Who oversees these mines?” Orodan asked a nearby worker.

“T-that would be Elwin Clemmings right here… ser!” the older woman quickly answered.

As for the foreman who thought shouting for help and running towards the camp would save him, he was utterly petrified. Trembling in place with wide eyes, like a rabbit before a predator.

“Well then, Elwin Clemmings, let’s evaluate just who works here and why.”

#

“And you?”

“My sister’s lungs are shot from inhaling mine dust and the treatments were too expensive…”

“Is your sister here?”

“Yes ser, right next to me. She works here too.”

The younger sister entered a contract of service to help her older sister who had worked in the mines her whole life to provide for the family. Despite the disease ailing her lungs, the older one tried her best to stand tall and show no weakness before Orodan. He could respect that.

A broom was produced, and the resulting sweep purged all the wounds and impurities from the unfortunate woman’s lungs.

The formerly sickly woman’s hands immediately went to her throat, gasping with surprise at how easy her breaths suddenly became.

“I can… I can breathe!” she yelled. “By the Gods I can breathe again!”

He moved onto the next.

“You?”

“Fell into debt trying to open a gunsmithy of my own…”

And on Orodan went, hearing each of the workers’ reasons for being at the mines and healing those who required it. Those with criminal backgrounds had in fact chosen the indentured servitude over straight prison time. These, he left alone as the offer was a voluntary one and the crimes of most were legitimate. He ordered the genuine criminals to the side, kept under order by some of the workers who’d picked up the dropped guns from the guards. They would be locked up in the fort, to serve their sentences in less brutal a manner. A few though, were in for vocally insulting the crown or being unjustly targeted by crooked members of the watch, and those Orodan simply freed.

Imprisoning someone for disagreement with the ruling authorities, Orodan felt, was tyrannical. As for those with debts, he also found the predatory nature of these contracts to be quite vile. They essentially locked these indebted people into a perpetual cycle of poverty and needing to remain under contract to pay it off.

That being said, Orodan was horrible at any sort of negotiation or mercantile trade. Yes, the contracts were predatory, but they were also entered into willingly by the majority of these people. Yes, their labour was horribly undervalued and just enough to pay the interest on the debt, but the debts still existed.

“Foreman,” Orodan said, causing the man to snap to attention. “What would it cost to pay off the debts of all these people?”

“For you ser, nothing! Take them all and do whatever you wish!”

“Give me a serious answer. Clearly many of these people borrowed money in the form of services, medical treatments and whatnot,” Orodan said. “While the pricing is predatory, the debts are real.”

And Orodan wasn’t about to go around threatening people into forgiving debts, not all of them at least. He was a hard-headed simpleton at times, but his education at Bluefire had taught him the importance of a flourishing and free market which debts were a part of. Those who’d taken out loans and failed their business endeavors, or even taken money for frivolous things, had brought it upon themselves.

But that didn’t mean the predatory contracts of indentured servitude were fair either.

“Well… if I discount the three you… dealt with, then it adds up to two-thousand and forty-seven crowns.”

Nearly two-hundred workers stood assorted before Orodan, with three corpses behind him in a pile.

Those three were criminals guilty of acts that deserved naught but death. Certain crimes of a depraved and lascivious nature involving innocents were simply irredeemable. The only cure for such things was the blade. The workers themselves hadn’t disagreed either; for the longest time many of them had wanted to gut those three but had been prevented from doing so by the guards.

“Crowns? How much is that in gold?”

“E-eh? Ser, the price of gold varies from time to time, you’d have to consult an expert to determine the matter.”

“No, I meant gold as in gold pieces. You know? Standard Inuanan… er… never mind…”

“Forgotten that you’re in a different world in a different galaxy, have you?”

Damn it, of course the notion of Inuanan gold pieces wouldn’t work here. Orodan was better suited to slaying world-ending monstrosities and punching his problems than dealing with the intricacies of the economy and the morality of debts.

Yes, he had Logistics and could count, organize and assort things quite well, but managing mercantile affairs, negotiations and the law was a different matter.

Zaessythra however, with her former time as a World Ruler, was far better suited to the task and began suggesting ideas. They were in the midst of figuring out a way of paying off these debts and establishing fair standards and pay for labor when Orodan felt the dimensional boundary shift almost imperceptibly, and eight legs landed upon his shoulders.

“Good Gods! An oversized spider!”

“It’s on his shoulders! Shoot it! Protect the benevolent ser!”

“Student, tell these peasants to point their silly firesticks away from me lest I carve them and their toys into ribbons,” Talricto imperiously said, wearing a funny top hat upon its head.

“It… it talks too!”

“If you’re going to make an unplanned appearance, you could at least give me a warning first,” Orodan said with a sigh, gesturing towards the protective workers to relax. “Did you choose now of all times for mere dramatic effect? And what’s with that dumb hat?”

“Dumb hat? Why, this top hat is the pinnacle of fashion! All I need if a fitting monocle and I’ll embarrass you with my noble bearing! The great Talricto comes and goes as he pleases, and he wears what he desires,” the irritating bug remarked. “And I may or may not have been listening in on your conversation.”

Of course it had. Orodan wouldn’t put it past the spider to have been watching the entire time too.

“Well? Do you have any good news for this mess I’ve gotten myself into?”

“News both good and bad.”

“Let’s hear the good first then.”

“As you wish. The problem of the debts which need to be repaid? I have the solution right here,” Talricto said, dumping a chest full of golden coins upon the ground. “That should cover more than a mere two-thousand crowns.”

In fact, the chest contained ten-thousand coins. He’d forgotten that for a pompous dimensional phase spider, Talricto was quite the proficient procurer of things not belonging to him. The talents of Dimensionalism lent well to the trade of thievery.

“Hmm, nice work. Good to see you haven’t just been lounging about,” Orodan praised. “But let’s move onto the bad news. Did you alert the fort? If you did, I can simply give them a thrashing and we’ll move on from there.”

“What? No! Do you think the great Talricto so amateur and novice that he would be caught by the sentries within a mere fort?”

“Then what? Do we have a fleet coming for us?”

“Heavens no! Again, the great Talricto is not so easily detected by such peasants.”

“Then, what exactly have you done?”

“…I may have attracted the attention of something troublesome from beyond the galaxy, specifically, something large and crystalline.”

“How do you know it was you who drew its attention?” Orodan asked.

“Well, I was phasing through the dimensional layers when I noticed it glaring quite hungrily… though that may have been more towards this world than me. But who else would it gaze towards besides I, the mighty Talricto?”

“Well, my most wise and esteemed teacher, you need not worry… for I don’t think it was you who drew its attention…”

After all, Orodan’s very existence threw the tapestry into flux.

Ample trail for a hungry Living Crystal to follow, and probably what drew it towards him in the first place during all the attempts at entry he’d made.

#

“I… I don’t know how I feel about this Mister Orodan. The constabulary hasn’t shown up yet and the inner gates leading to port town proper have been barred, with a lot of guns manning the walls. Some workers near the gates swear they heard the fort’s war horn sound off too.”

“In other words, despite my masterful infiltration to retrieve the fort’s coffers, you’ve somehow drawn their attention,” Talricto said to Orodan. “Well done!”

“It can’t be helped… not only did I cause a ruckus with the foreman and the mine, but your theft of the money must’ve been noticed. Taken in tandem, of course they’d suddenly be on high alert,” Orodan said. “Anyhow, worry not Fenton, let’s see to your mother first and then we can deal with the matter.”

Fenton said nothing in response, instead leading them inside his shanty home. It was apparent that the boy was desperate for what was to come, having seen what Orodan had done to the sick and ailing in the mines.

Fenton quickly entered the shack made of cheap sheet metal and made for a small room with a steam-powered heater and bed. Upon that bed, was a middle-aged woman, her skin sickly and pale, almost unnaturally so. She was tall, perhaps half a foot shorter than Orodan himself.

Evidently, Fenton got his height from this woman.

She also had a small table and a sewing needle next to her. A weaver then? Quite a skilled one too by the looks of it.

“Mother… mother wake up. It’s me.”

“Oh…? Who’s that there? Who’ve you brought home Fen?” the woman asked, her voice weak. “Heavy footsteps too… but what’s that other voice?”

Not only was this woman quite bedridden, but also blind.

“Right, that would be the most companionable and pleasant spider upon my shoulders,” Orodan said.

“I’m glad you’ve come to recognize my magnanimity,” Talricto arrogantly muttered.

“Mother… this here’s a man who can heal you. He’s helped me quite a bit today, and once we’re done, we’ve got a tidy sum of crowns to help start a new life,” Fenton softly said.

“Why Fen… what sort of deal did you get into to arrange this? Another contract? You shouldn’t have… we don’t know if it’ll even work,” the woman said. “Stranger, I don’t know who you are, but I implore you not to take advantage of my boy. He’s got a spark of brilliance to him and deserves a better life than this.”

“Well, I suppose I have been shamelessly picking up tricks about gunsmithing from him. I’ll apologize for that,” Orodan replied. “I hope what I’m about to do covers that debt however.”

“What you’re about to do? I see… are you a healer then? All the ones we’ve been to have tried to cure the disease ailing me, but it’s at far too late a stage now I’m afraid…” the woman muttered weakly. “If my son has paid or promised you anything else, I humbly ask you forgive it… unreasonable as my request is.”

“There’s no need for that. I’m not asking for any payment or contract from Fenton,” Orodan clarified. “Merely setting things right.”

“A benevolent healer…? Such an oddity around here. You must not hail from the islands, right?”

“Correct. I come from someplace very far from here.”

“I see… an otherworlder then. How odd indeed.”

“…you surmised that rather quickly,” Orodan remarked. “For a blind woman you see rather clearly.”

The woman chuckled softly.

“I’ve seen your sort before… back when these eyes of mine could still do such a thing,” Fenton’s mother said. “Was quite the traveller before I had little Fen here. You also speak in a foreign manner and… smell different. Odd for your sort to be in such a soulless place though…”

“Will you let me heal you?” Orodan asked. “That you and your son might be free to start new lives at last?”

“All other healers before you have failed… but I suppose they were only Adepts.”

Indeed, Orodan could see exactly why these Adept healers had failed. It wasn’t a mere malady of the body, but also one of the soul. He would be tempted to call this a curse if he didn’t know any better.

“Have you ever been to a soul specialist?” Orodan asked. “They might have been able to diagnose the issue better…”

