A volley fire of rifles which could have wounded Masters and cannons which would cause even Grandmasters to quail. Alongside the sharpshooters who unerringly made for his head, it was a true blitz. Smart of the commanding officer to go all out from the get-go. She’d likely assessed Orodan as the threat he was.

Unfortunately, as Orodan’s sword and shield lashed out, sending every one of the bullets back to the guns and cannons they came from… she realized too late that certain disparities in power couldn’t be overcome with initiative and tactics.

“Steam knights advance! Guns and artillery keep firing!”

However, no matter how many guns and weapons unloaded, they never came close to threatening him. The ground around him was cratered, and he had to re-direct most of the force upwards lest scrap town and the innocents behind him be annihilated.

The first of the steam knights released a barrage of shots which erupted with powerful cracks. The bullets were casually caught in Orodan’s hands and sent right back through the golem’s steam core, sending it to the ground an inanimate heap.

The second and third knights rushed him in melee, glowing red blades whizzing towards his neck, far faster than any other golems he’d seen on Alastaia. Only for the blades to be shattered and the golems shorn into bits via his sword.

“H-he’s carvin’ the steam knights up!”

“How can a man shrug off cannon fire! He’s a monster in the flesh!”

“The knights are lost! Run for yer’ lives!”

With a final pitiful sputter of steam, the last steam knight hit the ground. To these people it was an unthinkable feat reserved only for the likes of mighty monsters or Eldritch invaders. The steam knights were mighty constructs, to the average man they were an insurmountable force beatable through gunfire, trickery and clever maneuvering perhaps, but not raw force. And yet, even with his strength and speed moderated, Orodan had turned the soulless steam knights into scrap metal within seconds.

“Craven curs! Dare you flee and bring dishonor upon your duty bestowed by the King?!” the lieutenant yelled in frustration. “Close the gates and prepare for a siege!”

“Gates closed lieuten-”

A booming crash echoed for miles, the gates flying inwards off their hinges as Orodan kicked them down.

“…the gates have been breached ma’am! The gates have been breached!”

“To hell with this! I ain’t dying for some upjumped officer!”

“Run! It’ll kill us all!”

A little inaccurate, as Orodan hadn’t really killed any of them. But if it got the job done who was he to complain?

The soldiers and the token gunline of infantry behind the wall broke and began fleeing. They’d seen how ineffective their bullets and cannons were. It was a mass rout.

Some ran for the other exits of port town, looking to escape into the wilderness of the islands, panicking any reinforcing troops from those walls and chaining the rout further. Others ran towards the fort and the ships at harbor.

And amidst the throng of fleeing soldiers, one terrified but determined woman stepped towards him, sword and revolver in hand. The crack of a gun rang out, and Orodan simply allowed the bullet to ineffectively ping off his forehead. The sight of that didn’t inspire much confidence in the clearly afraid lieutenant.

Yet, all the same she drew her short sword and charged right at him.

The blade stopped, gripped within the palm of his hand.

“A decent thrust, but your fear seeps into your attack. Still, I can respect someone who charges in uncaring of death,” Orodan remarked, casually prying the sword from her hands. “Stand down. You’ve shown great courage.”

“My obligation to King and Collective compels I stand here and perish if necessary. Kill me if you must!”

A quick jab across the chin put her out, she would wake eventually but for now he put the lieutenant off to the side where she wouldn’t get trampled.

With the walls now abandoned, the workers he’d gathered from scrap town came in behind him.

The town was in a state of alarm, and the residents of the port town itself were barricaded within their homes and rather fearful for their lives now that the constabulary and the fort’s forces had been routed.

“Well I’ll be… you’re stronger than any Masters I’ve seen Mister Orodan,” Fenton said, looking at the scene of devastation. “You really just ripped the steam knights apart? Didn’t know anyone could do somethin’ like that.”

“Train regularly and you can do it too. Now then, the only thing left’s the fort,” Orodan said. “I’ll go handle whoever’s in there. Take care of any wounded individuals, starting with that commander over there.”

Fenton and the other workers nodded, and Orodan himself set off for the fort.

It was past the port town, overlooking everything in the surroundings for a hundred miles. And the tallest tower jutting out from there had a red glow to it, likely some sort of alarm.

Well… so much for stealth. However, Orodan made a mental note of that tower, for the next loop.

As he walked up the hilly road, making for the fort which was situated on elevated ground, small steam-powered flying devices which resembled birds would occasionally fly about, look at him, and then flutter away. It was obvious that they were coming from the fort.

A rider on a mechanical steed which vented steam could even be seen, but he kept a fair distance and galloped back to the fort as Orodan got closer.

Upon presenting himself before the gates, a man in ornate dress uniform called out from atop the walls.

“Greetings visitor! A most unexpected pleasure to have an esteemed guest of your stature drop by this fort of mine. Pray tell, how might we assist you?” the man politely asked, though it was apparent he was rather nervous. “I’m the commander of Port Bellgrave. And on an unrelated note, this diplomatic incident has caused the alarm tower’s activation. A reinforcing fleet with accompanying Grandmasters and a Transcendent commander from Castle Ironpeak are on their way as we speak. Perchance might we settle our disagreements in a peaceable manner before their arrival?”

Orodan had a gut feeling that he was speaking to a slimy character best dealt with via the sword than words.

“Your pompous words do not disguise the veiled threat as well as you think,” Orodan said. “When they come, I’ll deal with them then. For now, let us speak about this indentured servitude I’ve seen on your island today.”

“Indentured…? You mean the chaff in that dreadful slum?” he asked, and then walked it a step back, realizing that might have been the wrong thing to say. “They are under the crown’s authority and I am but following orders as a good soldier should. Would you have me killed for that?”

“That depends on your role in the entire situation. Now then, if you have no issues with what you’ve done, you’ll open the gate, no?” Orodan asked. “I wouldn’t want to kick it down myself.”

The man trembled. And Orodan simply smiled.

#

“What a mess… I’m not cut out for this political wrangling and policy-making.”

“It’s not that difficult. You’d simply have to somehow stage a takeover through military force and then see your changes reflected across the society of the Blackworth Collective,” Zaessythra said. “Haven’t you destroyed planets like pebbles before? How is this supposed to be difficult?”

Frankly, Orodan would rather smash things than think about affecting the development of a society in such subtle ways.

“I thought stealth was key on this trip?” Orodan asked.

“Well, you could just help beat back the Eldritch, gain the favor of the King and then get all these reforms passed,” Zaessythra suggested. “But that sounds far too tame for you.”

“I’m not some ill-tempered beast who’s bent on upending every society he comes across…”

He just wanted a good fight from time to time, was that such a bad thing?

“Could’ve fooled me,” she teased. “Certainly fooled the people you’ve bullied thus far. Now then. The laws of the Collective already forbid what was occurring here, but that doesn’t stop greedy or power-hungry local commanders from violating labor standards and abusing their indentured servants.”

That was the real issue. Fairly compensated labor with civil standards as an option to resolve debts or in place of serving a criminal sentence didn’t seem like the worst idea to Orodan; provided the one subject to it had a free and fair choice in the matter. But implementing such a thing fairly was a true headache.

The fort commander, whose head now hung from a chain off the front gate, was both the warning and the symbol of what atrocities could occur under such a system. The contracted servants were originally supposed to serve as laborers unloading and loading cargo onto merchant vessels that came and went.

Such a job would’ve been honest labor and nothing back-breaking or dangerous. Of course, the residents of the port town itself objected to this; having such lowborns in the town itself. The mines with their dangerous working conditions were short of willing workers. And most importantly, the fort commander’s pockets were looking thin as the man had hoped to reach the Grandmaster-level but lacked the talent and required expensive resources to do so.

Hence, the numerous letters arrayed on the table which detailed the former commander’s interactions with certain unsavory characters beyond the isles. Debt sellers to be precise. Their debts were purchased at a low sum, and the indentured servants shipped out to Port Bellgrave in order to work the mines for a disgraceful pittance while the fort commander pocketed the difference.

The Collective’s war machine more than received their tithe from the island, hence the crown never bothered looking too closely at the affair. All at the expense of the workers who suffered and occasionally died.

A set of four sharp, chitin-covered legs threw the papers he was staring at off the table.

“I was using that…”

“For what? A blinking contest? Staring any harder at a dead man’s correspondence won’t solve your problems,” Talricto remarked. “As it is, the perpetrator’s head hangs off the gate in a rather barbaric display. And this petrified woman you’ve pressed into your service through violence doesn’t appear all too keen on helping either.”

The lieutenant who’d fought him at the gates of the port town was sitting in a chair before him. Her entire body language was tense.

“The eight-legged gentleman does not speak falsely. You barged in, assaulted multiple soldiers of the King, destroyed much crown property and executed a sworn fort commander of the Blackworth Collective. I am… appreciative of you sparing my life, but honor dictates I cannot aid you,” she said, her hand remaining on her sword. “And… you also knocked me senseless!”

“It wasn’t even a hard punch…” Orodan muttered. A quick knockout blow to the chin was considered utterly merciful by Alastaian standards! “And if you don’t wish to help me that’s entirely fine. You simply need to take over as the acting fort commander as your duty dictates. Can’t be any worse than the crooked man I executed at least…”

“That is… acceptable. As long as I’m doing my duty, I suppose I won’t be betraying King and country. But that duty still involves arresting you for your crimes!”

“You won’t have to worry about that soon,” Orodan replied and then looked to Talricto. “How long do we have left till the Living Crystal arrives?”

“L-living Crystal?! Those things are myths from the darkest corners of the void! And you say one’s coming this way?” the lieutenant asked, clearly horrified at the thought. “No wonder the responding fleet has slowed their approach just out in the waters… the astrologers must sense its approach.”

“In less than six hours it will breach the galactic veil which typically restricts Embodiers from entering and notifies Administrators,” Talricto said. “After that, arriving unto Lonvoron shan’t be too long; perhaps seven hours in total.”

“Rather daring of it to disregard the threat of the Administrators, is it not?” Orodan asked.

“It normally would be… if someone hadn’t thrown the entire tapestry into utter disarray. You might not be aware of this, being the simpleton you are, but a lot of monitoring and information gathering across the cosmos is done through the tapestry. Particularly for cosmic beings of great power. Embodiers often use the tapestry to avoid the Administrators and one another, and they in turn use the tapestry to track them as needed. With it gone… a response might be rather delayed.”

Little wonder the System and the Administrators had so much difficulty tracking him, even with his fate re-inserted into the tapestry. He was causing the equivalent of a planetary tidal storm across the entire thing, utterly ruining the ability of most beings to get a proper read on things.

Most importantly… he was causing enough mayhem that predatory beings outside the galaxy could potentially use the chance to enter one.

This loop was a bust, and the following attempts would continue to be the same until he trained Fate Disconnect to an appropriate level where he no longer caused such a ruckus. He was simply too powerful. His soul and potential too vast, capable of empowering the time loop to affect all reality. Of course, the tapestry would be in utter mayhem due to his existence upon it.

“Tch… of course. This entire debacle has only reinforced to me the need to train my stealth-related skills,” Orodan said. “And my ability to restrain the effects I have on the tapestry of fate.”

“Your one stealth-related skill you mean?”

