“Nothing, don’t worry about it. Now then, it’s plain to see that you’re a true genius. If your mother’s sick, why are you not revealing your skill? This world is different to my own, but an Elite-level enchanter must be a valued commodity, no?” Orodan asked. “The curing of your mother’s disease would be a small price to pay if it meant securing you.”

“Thing is Mister Orodan, I want to… I really do… but my mum won’t let me.”

“…why?”

“Us indentured servants are bound by contract to be assigned as the contract owner sees fit. My post at the gunsmithy? The result of me showing too much of a knack for this line of work. And if I showed them I can enchant? I’ll be sent to the fort and forced to apprentice under their Master enchanter and maybe even pressed into service. Easier work and far less rough labor,” Fenton said. “And while that doesn’t sound bad at a glance, the issue is that whatever I make will be crown property, with barely a pittance entering my own pocket. Long as my mum’s taken care of, money’s not what I’m after; I want to do it. But my mother insists my ambitions be higher than that. Demanding woman wants me to hide my love for enchanting until the contract’s paid off, and then I can start my own trade in a city.”

Orodan supposed that would be the winning long-term strategy. Of course, having met his own mother recently, he could understand how no son would want to see their mother suffer, even if she insisted upon it, for long-term gain.

“A tough quandary,” Orodan said, making a note to resolve the matter for him. “Back to the gun though… even with enchantments, does the wooden insulation not burn up? All that magically hot steam can’t be good if it leaks or gets hit in the middle of combat.”

“Heh… you’re a funny one Mister Orodan. The well-crafted gear made with good materials and safeguards ain’t meant for us little folk or the chaff soldiers of the line. Enough cases of steam scalding to keep the healers employed, and most of the soldiers comin’ back with the scars don’t got enough coin to heal them properly either,” Fenton explained. “This here’s what we got. It’s what the soldiers of the line use on the front lines and they’ll have to make do with it. Twelve-shot, lever-action, steam-powered magazine. Pinnacle of lethality; usually fatal for all but the biggest game… and if unlucky, sometimes the soldier too.”

Lever-action?

The guns he designed were single-shot, with a reload of perhaps a few seconds in-between depending on the skill of the gunner. And while he knew that the dwarves of Alastaia had repeating rifles, he’d never really perused any of their rifles after acquiring his Gunsmithing and Engineering skills.

Over the next thirty minutes, Orodan carefully studied all the guns Fenton showed him. Provided the barrel of the gun could tolerate the stress, a repeating firearm was a great improvement over any single-shot design. As he studied the weapons he discussed their designs with Fenton, and he came to learn that the assistant gunsmith was quite the talented man when it came to firearms design.

If anything, this predatory contract of service seemed a waste of the young man’s talents. Fenton was a wellspring of innovative ideas, and the boy possessed a natural knack for Engineering and creative ideas involving firearms. Orodan was certain he would do quite well at Bluefire in Alastaia if given the opportunity.

And by quite well, he meant getting kidnapped and pressed into service for his ridiculous talents.

“You know, for a lad stuck as an indentured servant you’re quite knowledgeable about guns. Where’d you learn all this?” Orodan asked.

“Eh… you pick up a trick or two when you take the things apart enough times. Always wanted to apply for one of the colleges of military engineering and artificing,” Fenton said and then sighed. “But I suppose life and me mum’s sickness got in the way.”

Orodan said nothing else after that.

Soon after, he sensed three figures approaching despite the thunderstorm. The sun was up now, yet it did little to detract from the gloomy atmosphere outside.

“Three men approaching. Two of them armed with guns, and the third who looks like he eats a bit much without any corresponding exercise.”

Being girthy but strong was one thing, it meant one at least put in the work to hone their might. But being flabby and weak was another. This foreman seemed to be of the latter sort.

“Damn… you should really get goin’ before the foreman shows up Mister Orodan,” Fenton said. “I don’t doubt you can handle that blade, but they’ll sound the alarm and soon the entire watch and the fort’s soldiers will come running. And have I told you about those dreadful steam knights? Ain’t ever seen a man stand against one of those.”

“It’s alright Fenton,” Orodan said. “I’ll be fine.”

The boy wanted to protest, but the opportunity for that was taken from him as three figures entered the workshop.

Two of them, rough-looking men in long dark coats and small hats. They looked to be the equivalent of the county militia back home. If anything, Orodan would favor any man or woman of the militia over these two in a brawl. Perhaps it was the over-reliance on firearms, or it was that a culture which focused on them would be less proficient in physicality than his own where melee combat and one’s bodily might was quite important. Whatever it was, they, like the people he’d seen on Lonvoron thus far, were smaller in stature and built less sturdy than his own people of Alastaia.

The third, a greasy-looking man with a perpetual sneer on his face and a patchy mustache on his lip.

Upon the sight of Orodan, the two men, bodyguards of a sort, became wary and their hands reached for their waists to the handheld guns therein.

“Who the bloody hell are you? Fenton! Who’s this man?” the greasy foreman demanded.

“I… I don’t know Mister Elwin! Just waltzed in and surprised me much as he did you ser!”

“You must be Elwin Clemmings,” Orodan remarked. “You the foreman here?”

“I am, what of it? I don’t know who you are though. Unauthorized persons and individuals of unknown identity aren’t allowed ‘round these premises. These dwellings are property of the crown,” the foreman said, face red and spittle flying out. The man vaguely reminded him of Sergeant Woodgard.

The senior of the two watchmen stepped forth, looking exceedingly wary of Orodan, who towered over everyone present. A singular spectacle upon the watchman’s left eye, briefly shone and Orodan felt the Observe skill shooting out from there.

“Right, don’t know where you stole that sword and shield from, but tomb robbers aren’t welcome in Port Bellgrave,” the senior watchman said, hand still on his gun. “An apprentice… wainwright?”

“…ser?” the other watchman asked. “What’s the monocle say?”

“An Apprentice Wainwright and a Weaver? I didn’t know Wainwrights even had titles…” the watchman muttered.

“Why aren’t we arresting him ser? This man’s clearly violating the law.”

“Hold your engines boy, let’s not be hasty. Man has a dangerous bearing to him…” the older watchman murmured. “I’m afraid I don’t know who you are ser, but you’re violating the laws of the Blackworth Collective and his Majesty by remaining here. Collective law, article twelve, subsection nine also makes it illegal to obscure, misrepresent or otherwise hide your Status from all lawful officers of the peace within crown domain. Please come with us that we might sort the matter out peacefully.”

The watchmen looked as though they wanted to arrest him, but the senior of the two was exceedingly wary of Orodan. He’d sized him up, head-to-toe, and must not have liked his chances from what he saw. A fair assessment, given how Orodan stood two heads taller and was more than twice as wide and made of muscle.

“It seems we’re at an impasse then, for I have no intentions of going along with you. I do have some questions for this man though,” Orodan said, looking at Elwin Clemmings, the foreman. “This ‘indentured servitude’ I hear about, why can’t Fenton here leave it?”

Poor Fenton looked caught between a rock and a hard place as Orodan’s question revealed that they’d been talking. And the boy looked ready to wither and die under the glare of this arrogant foreman.

“Unfamiliar with our practices huh? Some backwater bog islander are you?” Elwin snidely asked. “Don’t see how it’s any business of yours what we rightfully do under the rule of law. Little Penny here signed the dotted line, not like we chained him up and forced him to work, not like the criminals. His old woman gets regular doses of some expensive tonic, and he works with the gunsmith. A fair trade we’ve all agreed to.”

“And the workers in the mines? What about them?” Orodan asked. “Can’t imagine any of them willingly submitted to being sent down into tunnels rife with monsters.”

“Now listen here you oversized lug, per the crown’s decree nobody can be forced into indentured servitude save criminals and those who agree to it. They had debts, and they’re paying them off. Simple as,” the foreman angrily said. “Now you’ve caused enough of a disturbance and are in a restricted area. Constable Elridge, might the watch do its duty?”

The senior watchman was nervous. Even a slow forward step by Orodan caused the man to whip his handheld firearm out towards him. The man was quick, whatever gun skill he had must’ve been Elite-level at least.

Fast, but not faster than Orodan’s Flash Freeze which rendered the steam-powered gun entirely defunct.

“…my pistol!”

The younger watchman had his gun out and Orodan allowed him to fire a round off before simply catching the bullet mid-flight.

The shooter looked terrified as Orodan’s hand then reached out and crushed the gun into a ball with the ease one might crumple paper.

Orodan, who stood two heads above both these watchmen, looked down with a smile, handing the younger watchman his captured bullet.

“You men are of the watch, yes?” Orodan asked, and the senior man nodded. “Go get more of you. You two won’t be enough.”

The two immediately complied and practically sprinted out to get help. Leaving just the trembling foreman in the shop.

“W-who… who are you? Look, I haven’t done anything to slight you, and if I have, I heartily apologize! I’m just doing my job!”

“You’re quite the predatory shark, aren’t you?” Orodan asked, placing a hand upon Elwin’s shoulder. “I’ve killed slavers before, and I have half a mind to do the same here. Only thing keeping you alive is that this is unjust contracting more than it is slavery. Who knows how many desperate folk you’ve caught up in this scheme versus actual criminals.”

“Please! I would never enslave anyone! I swear it upon my family!”

Orodan didn’t sense the man was lying either.

“And yet, they’re forced into some horrid conditions in order to pay off what they owe… no escape either,” Orodan said. “The concept of debt isn’t a foreign one to me, but where I come from that usually involves one’s properties being sold, earnings being taken and a labor agreement within the bounds of civility that the debtor consents to and is free to leave at risk of penalties. Pressing people into mining monster-infested areas… rather cruel don’t you think?”

“A foul system, I agree! But I can only follow the orders of the crown and the supply master residing up in the fort!”

“I’m sure I’ll meet these people soon enough. For now, to the mines we go. Come Fenton, let us see who’s been caught in the web of this predatory scheme and who’s an actual criminal.”

They walked down the stormy streets of scrap town, the rain thrumming onto the rocky roads, until they finally reached a particularly mountainous section next to town. It was a mine, but the entrance looked especially well-fortified, with towers hoisting devices which cast high-beam lights into the distance. These towers had rifle armed men and women atop them.

These enforcers didn’t look like they were members of the watch either. Instead dressed far rougher, and with an assortment of gear and custom weaponry that led Orodan to surmise that they were mercenaries or hired guns.

With the bladed wire fencing surrounding the mine side of the fence, one had to wonder if they were keeping intruders out or workers in.

Closer to the gates, the foreman screamed at the top of his lungs and ran for the nearest guard. Orodan allowed it.

“Help! Help! I’m being held hostage!”

The guards were predictably taken aback by the shouting, but even more wary at the sight of Orodan with his sword and shield. A tower guard near a device capable of amplifying sound yelled, her voice booming.

“Halt! Stand still and do not approach that you might be Observed and identified!”

Then, he heard the muttered remarks and confusion.

“…Orodan Wainwright the Apprentice Wainwright?”

“Is this some sort of joke? Who is he?”

“Looks like he robbed a noble house’s antique vault for those weapons…”

Orodan ignored them and walked forward, prompting the tower guard to boom out a warning again.

“Do not approach! Orodan Wainwright, we cannot identify you! Remain where you are, and someone will approach you to determine who you are!”

The next step resulted in a crack which echoed throughout the air, a bullet from a rifle striking near where his feet were.

“That was your first and final warning! Stop advancing or you’ll be shot dead!”

“S-say… Mister Orodan! Maybe we ought not to take another step, yeah?” Fenton asked, clearly frightened. “I don’t fancy gettin’ shot today… or ever…”

