It was an entirely new device he was viewing. Yes, he’d seen the weapons and war machines of Lonvoron before but hadn’t actually considered how the technology worked; mainly because he didn’t have the Engineering and Artificing skills or the correct perspective at the time, nor did he have the leisure time to focus on crafts. Now though, looking at the steam, and the pipes, he could only respect the civilization of the Blackworth Collective.

On Alastaia, heating was done via firewood or coal and handled by the individual household. At most, a higher-end building might have magical heating which was done via enchantments, with the power perhaps drawing from a mana battery. Here, most of the shanty buildings had some sort of steam pipe connecting to them. Funnelling a substance through pipes while retaining its energy was hard work, and to then have pipes running to each building? A true engineering feat he had to respect.

Based off the temperature of natural steam, Orodan felt it could perhaps remain hot for a good mile if traveling down a pipe. And even then, off the top of his head there were so many factors to consider such as ensuring there was no pressure loss, the inevitable condensation build up, perhaps even the formation of sediment which would impede the pipes due to the natural dissolving of solids in the water.

Though, the fort in the distance which was at least fifteen miles away, had to use some sort of magical method to ensure the steam remained hot over great distances. It was impressive.

Their work continued, with Orodan gaining two more levels in Smelting by the time all the ingots were prepared.

“They build you island men different huh? Mum says I’ll grow big too… maybe not as much as you though,” Fenton muttered. “We finished ahead of time. Don’t know what to do with myself now...”

“How about we fix this place up a bit then?” Orodan suggested. “Maybe we can do something about these broken pipes and that non-functional forge?”

“Well bugger… wish I could, but I don’t know the regular way of going about repairin’ the pipes and casting the right alloy for them. Even though I’m a quick study, the gunsmith’s not too keen on teaching me welding or casting until I’ve got a year on the job,” Fenton said. “Also got to consider that steam’s some strong stuff. Pipes which aren’t treated for it will get chewed right through.”

“I think I could take a shot at it. The pipes are broken already, so what’s the worst we can do?” Orodan asked.

He was a decent enough blacksmith and had passable knowledge of working with metal by now. Creating an alloy wasn’t a hard task when example of it were laying all about the smithy.

Fenton didn’t seem to disagree either. The work they’d done together thus far had established a bit of good will with the young man.

“Hmm… I suppose the gunsmith won’t notice if a bit of ore’s skimmed off the supply. Especially if her old forge is working again.”

Orodan drew some ore from the crates and put it into the kiln. A Draconic Fireball then formed in his hand as he heated the rock down into usable metal.

“You’re a pyromancer too? Why didn’t you do that earlier then?!”

“And devalue the honest labor you were putting in?” Orodan asked with a smirk. “I think not.”

How else would the youth learn without the joy of hard work? It built character.

Fenton grumbled a bit but shut his mouth as Orodan cast the metal into the exact specifications of the pipes he needed to repair.

“Yer’ a blacksmith too? Rather multi-talented for a wanderer… your sort’s usually good for killin’ and not much else.”

“A warrior must keep their mind and body balanced. Swinging a sword is pointless if the mind of the one wielding it is weak.”

“A warrior? You with the crown’s army then?” Fenton asked. “Always wanted to join the army’s engineering college…”

“No crown in my home nation. We’re a Republic where I come from,” Orodan clarified.

“A Republic? Sounds like a load of bollocks to me… unless… you really are one of those travellers from other worlds?”

Orodan simply smiled, and Fenton remained quiet for a while after that. Perhaps the thought of a functional Republic was simply too diabolical for Fenton, and the lad finally believed Orodan’s claims of being from another world.

He finished the steel by giving it a little coat via heating the metal to high temperature and funnelling steam directly inside as well. The resultant reaction gave the pipe parts a protective coat, helpful against steam and corrosion.

“The pipes are ready to be attached, but you say this magical steam’s rather corrosive?” Orodan asked and Fenton nodded. “I don’t think the coating process will be enough then.”

It might’ve been good enough for natural steam, but this magical steam the people of Lonvoron used was a notch hotter.

“Right, some fine steel you’ve made but it won’t hold up once the valve’s turned. I think the gunsmith’s got a bit of solution for treating the metal- oi! What’re you doing over there?!”

Orodan’s hand turned the valve. It was rusty and practically stuck in place from being unused for so long, but his hand caused it to move with a horrible screech. And with that groan of metal, the hissing of magically hot steam erupted…

…right into Orodan’s waiting hand.

“Hmm, rather potent stuff. I can see how everything might be powered by this.”

Definitely hotter than regular steam.

“You’ll burn your hand! You… eh?” Fenton stopped his protests, noticing how Orodan was fine. “You one of them steam mages now too? What can’t you do?”

“No, not a steam mage. This temperature simply isn’t enough to scorch me,” Orodan said, gauging exactly how hot the steam was and then shutting the valve off. Though steam magic did seem interesting. “Any alchemical supplies around here?”

The boy had a hard time believing Orodan was unscorched, but the question snapped him out of it.

“We’re in a shanty little gunsmithy… of course we have no alchemical supplies,” Fenton answered. “All we got is some of the solution the smith uses to coat the pipes sometimes. Usually, one of them engineers with their tall hats is scheduled to come by and do it, but been a while since the one in the fort hasn’t been busy.”

Orodan took the solution from Fenton’s hand and closely examined it.

Identify was used.

[Name: Bottle of Mineral Coating Solution Description: A bottle of solution used to coat metals for proofing against rust and corrosion. Ninety-percent purity Tier: Initiate]

What in the seven hells was this garbage?

“Who sold you this? In the context of an Initiate-level solution, ninety-percent purity is pathetic,” Orodan said. “This is obviously diluted too…”

He could see the ingredients clearly enough. Mineral oils for protection, a substance to aid the solution in sticking to the pipe and another ingredient to prevent the solution drying and forming lumps too quickly. Still, it was cheap and shoddy work, likely produced en masse focusing on quantity over quality.

Little wonder there were so many empty bottles of the solution lying about the shop. A good protective solution would last a longer time. Yet, this shoddy protective substance wore out and needed to be replaced frequently. Must’ve been what caused the other forge to become defunct too. He could imagine a steam pipe exploding easily enough if the inner protective coating eroded.

“Not many options in Port Bellgrave. There’s two alchemists in town, and one of them’s holed up in the fort doing who knows what,” Fenton said. “Our alchemic products come from the foreman, Elwin Clemmings; he imports the solution cheaply from a merchant who sells in bulk. Moneygrubbing shark would sell his own kin if it got him a good deal.”

And the merchant selling the shoddy solution must’ve sold it so cheap for a reason. In any case, a problem which was easily solved as Orodan had now managed to understand how this substance worked. While he wasn’t a prodigy by any means, his Alchemy skill was on the cusp of the Elite-level.

“Got any plants around here? Or wood?” Orodan asked, stepping just outside the workshop and into the shanty town.

It was nighttime, the moon was completely obscured by the heavy clouds overhead, and those too were beginning to weep, causing the cheap metallic roof of the workshop to echo with the pitter-patter of rainfall. To the naked eye, Port Bellgrave’s scrap town was quite dark. The veil of night illuminated only by flickering lanterns hanging outside the occasional shack.

Vision of Purity let him see the entire picture, but even then, most people were asleep or cooking humble fare within their homes. A scant few like Fenton though, were toiling away through the night.

There really wasn’t much vegetation upon the rocky ground outside. This place was quite barren, and it didn’t look like Port Bellgrave would be having a strong farming economy anytime soon. Still, there were some lichens and short grasses growing even upon such tough rock, and Orodan yanked these up along with the few twigs, branches and other bits of wood he could find. There was a halfway decent tree nearby, and Orodan uprooted that too, bringing it back and throwing it upon the shop floor.

He took one of the ore chunks and used his Celestial skill to draw out the trace minerals that he would need from the rock. Following this, he made a set of vats via Earthen Construct and began the process of extracting the oils from the plants and the sticky resin from the wood.

Once all the materials were prepared, he then began the process of mixing the minerals with the extracted oils and sticky resin from the wood.

“By King Alstatyn’s shiny boot… what craft don’t you know, Mister Orodan? You really don’t strike me as one of them greasy nutcases who works with potions, you look too er… sane, for that.”

He ignored Zaessythra’s snide remarks about his sanity.

“It’s nothing special; the solution is just mineral oil with an agent to help it flow easy and not clump together. The resin is to help it stick to the inside of the pipes,” Orodan explained. “I don’t have any particular proclivity for Alchemy; any third-rate alchemist from my world should be capable of this.”

Fenton looked on, interest obvious, as Orodan finished up with the large vat of solution. Throughout it all, he made sure to keep all the ingredients utterly clean. He then prepared one of the used bottles scattered about and filled it with his own product.

[Identify 5 → Identify 6]

[Name: Bottle of Mineral Coating Solution Description: A bottle of solution used to coat metals for proofing against rust and corrosion. One-hundred percent purity Tier: Apprentice]

Sometimes hundred-percent purity caused an item to jump a tier, other times it would leap two. It all depended on the product itself. For something which didn’t have any magical amplification to it, a tier increase was the best it could hope for.

Empowering it with too much mana might cause the pipes to explode too, thus, sometimes mundane methods were the sort best suited to a task.

“Damn… this stuff looks a lot stronger than whatever greedy Clemmings buys,” Fenton said, a frown on his face. “Something tells me he won’t be happy about you undercutting him.”

“He won’t be happy about a lot of things today,” Orodan said ominously.

Before his new friend could ask what he meant by that, Orodan began attaching the pieces of pipe he’d made to the existing broken ones. A swift cast of Candleflame got the new product and the old hot enough to weld together at the right points. And then, he picked the giant vat of coating solution up.

“The maintenance hatch is at the top of…” Fenton’s words were cut off as Orodan threw the liquid up the pipe, a cast of Galewind following behind it, guiding it along to coat the insides thoroughly. “…that works too I suppose.”

[Galewind 28 → Galewind 29]

Throwing the solution up the pipes and then guiding it via Galewind was good training. It got Orodan idly wondering if there were any more broken pipes around the place.

Unfortunately, there was only one more shattered pipe, and his toss of solution upwards and the subsequent cast of Galewind didn’t net him any level gain for it.

The pipe was now done, Orodan simply hooked it up to the receiving port on the defunct steam forge. And with a twist, the valve was turned on once more.

Vision of Purity watched closely as the magical steam began flowing down the pipe. He estimated that his own coating would last perhaps six months before needing re-application. A significant improvement over the bi-weekly applications of solution needed when using this Elwin Clemmings’ shoddy product.

With a sputter of magical steam, the other forge in the shop roared to life.

“There, it should be working now. Two forges instead of one,” Orodan remarked.

“I refuse to be surprised anymore, Mister Orodan… you’re just showing off one trade after another, like them wanderin’ parlor magicians pulling rabbits out of their hats,” Fenton muttered. “You some sort of master tradesman from your world? Which one you from anyways? Can’t be any in our local star system, never heard of folk wearing clothes and weapons like yours from nearby.”

“As I said I’m a warrior. Though, picking up a trade or two helps center the mind, and who knows what you might tangentially learn that helps in the midst of battle,” Orodan said, thinking of how Weaving and Recycling helped him quite a bit recently.

“If you’re that good a hand at being an artisan, then I hope not to see what you’re like when in a brawl.”

