“It’s simply a matter of time and dedication,” Orodan encouraged. “You mentioned other worlds though? Are otherworlders a common sight?”

“In the mainland and their fancy capital maybe; certainly not for a destitute rube like me to behold,” Fenton said. “I know you said it enough times… but are you really not from Lonvoron?”

“I really am not.”

“Well, damn… who would’ve thought poor little Penny would get to see a traveller of the stars. What’s it like out there? Are those bright flashes in the night really ships of the void like the blue bloods claim?” Fenton asked.

“I haven’t been around these parts much, but I have seen the Blackworth Collective’s void craft in battle, let me tell you about them…”

And while Orodan finished repairing the other pipes, fixing the heater and a device meant for welding, they spoke. He told young and wide-eyed Fenton about the worlds outside Lonvoron, and in turn he too learned about Port Bellgrave and the Ironhaven Isles.

For starters, Port Bellgrave was both the name of this settlement, and the small island they were upon. It was part of the island chain known as the Ironhaven Isles. In the distant past, the territory of privateers and pirates. In the current day, a set of islands with a bountiful mining economy which fuelled the war machine of the Collective.

The island was tiny enough that the locals hadn’t bothered having a separate name for it, instead opting to simply call it Port Bellgrave. The port town proper was in the center, with a military fort overlooking everything from the high ground on the north end of the island. Scrap town, which was a shanty assortment of cheap buildings for housing the indentured servants, was on the south end near the mines.

If anything, Fenton was lucky, to have enough talent in gunsmithing and a good enough head on his shoulders that the foreman had handpicked him for service in the gunsmithy. Other unfortunate folks caught up in the chains of indentured servitude, the unskilled sort, were sent to the mines for hard labor.

The overseers kept those poor folk fed and healthy enough, and the System’s existence meant that the acquisition of enough levels to eventually get out by proving their usefulness was a possibility… but a lot of the miners died to subterranean monsters before they could do any of that. It was gruelling and dangerous work, and Fenton was glad to not be stuck doing that.

And above all else, as Orodan had seen the last time he was here… Lonvoron was a world under siege by the Eldritch. Three entire plague worlds to be exact. Alas, that battle was far away from Port Bellgrave. The front lines and the perimeter established by the Collective’s military was for now holding against the Eldritch. But that didn’t mean the war for existential survival wasn’t felt everywhere.

The average man like Fenton Penny knew not what the Eldritch truly was. His only experience being the rare visit by inquisitors from the crown, doing inspections with strange devices which tested ‘corruption’. To them, the Collective’s military was battling to stop ‘the plague’ far away from here, and every city, town, village and port on Lonvoron had to contribute their due.

Whether it was through mining ore in hazardous conditions or helping make guns and other weapons to send off to the front lines… all had to contribute.

“What a day… I can scarcely believe everything you’ve told me. Other galaxies? Crystals the size of star systems out to kill you? Sounds loony enough to make an honest man go mental. Are all otherworlders like you?” Fenton asked.

“Not many, I suspect.”

“I suppose I’ll take your word for it then. Most wanderers ‘round Port Bellgrave are usually fugitives fleeing the long arm of the law. Draft-dodgers, thieves and murderers; rough characters best avoided,” Fenton said. “An actual otherworlder here? First time I ever seen somethin’ like this. The stories make you lot out to be larger-than-life, more like the big-headed highborns in the fort than us little folk. You don’t look like such a bad sort though.”

“Heh! Well I’m the farthest thing from a noble,” Orodan said with a chuckle. “I grew up a street rat and an orphan in my world. We’re not too dissimilar, you and I, had a hard life much like you.”

“Well, can’t say I grew up a street rat or an orphan… but my old man promised he’d come back and take us someplace better one day… that was over a decade ago before my mother’s sickness really set in,” Fenton said.

“I’m sorry for your loss,” Orodan said. “Do you know how and where he died?”

“That’s just the thing… I don’t know if he even passed. Went out to serve on the front lines of the dead zone and never been back since,” Fenton explained and then shook his head. “But that’s enough about my woes. What’re you after on our plague-stricken world? Mind you, I’m glad we met, but you otherworlders usually congregate at the capital and meet with the King. Though, I could’ve swore I heard some ship captain say they closed the travel between worlds recently…”

“How recently?”

“A day ago, I think. Was big news when certain imports couldn’t reach the capital because of that.”

In other words, at the beginning of his loop. The previous looper had likely noticed either the tapestry’s sudden mess, or something about the start of the loops themselves. Not surprising, given how the Boundless One at the heart of the System must’ve been thrashing about, panicked at losing control over the time loop. And the shadowy power behind Lonvoron was already dealing with the Prophet and the Eldritch, seeing this additional chaos must’ve spooked them further.

“Such a shame then, that the wealthy folk of the capital aren’t getting their exotic resources from other worlds,” Orodan remarked.

“I won’t be sheddin’ no tears over them blue bloods of the mainland, but it does beg the question of how you got here if they shut down the arrays,” Fenton said. “I won’t have to look forward to a fleet from the crown showin’ up here will I? That’s a load of trouble, which means medicine doses and payments gettin’ delayed.”

“In truth, I know not whether my entry was detected, so I can’t promise a fleet or two won’t show up looking for me,” Orodan admitted. “But I’m not about to drag anyone else into my fights if they do. So you can rest easy.”

“The mess will affect us whether we want it or not,” he replied and then sighed. “Not like I can do nothin’ about it anyway.”

“While I have a penchant for causing a mess, I hope to avoid that this time,” Orodan stated. Hoped to avoid much of a mess at least. “Me landing here was quite fortuitous I must say.”

“What do you mean, Mister Orodan?”

“Not only did I land someplace with the least amount of monitoring, but I also happened to land right in a gunsmith’s workshop. Good place to pick up a trick or two. That spider must’ve known what it was doing when it threw me down here…” Orodan muttered and then looked at Fenton. “You’re a gunsmith, right?”

“Er… I’m assistant to a gunsmith. Can’t say I’m a proper gunsmith meself,” Fenton corrected. “You want to learn how to make guns? Afraid I can’t openly be seen helping you with that… foreman’s real particular about who comes into scrap town. Been that way since a few too many rough characters slippin’ the law tried sheltering here,” Fenton said. “Nothin’ personal Mister Orodan, but if somebody sees you with me I’ll have to cry shark and say I had naught to do with you.”

“No offense taken. Do what you have to do. Is this foreman coming by anytime soon?” Orodan asked.

“Aye, he’s due to visit within the hour. Listen… you seem to be a good fellow, and I’d rather not see you stir the hornet’s nest and rouse the ire of the fort,” Fenton said. “Mother and I live a block down; the sun’s due to come up soon and it’s change of shift for the watch then. My home’s got three withered shrubs in front of it, and an old woman inside. Tell my mum that Fen sent you.”

Orodan’s eyes softened.

“You just met me and you’re agreeing to harbor me? Why put yourself and your mother at risk?” Orodan asked.

“Well… been a real long time since anyone’s done Fenton Penny a good turn,” the young man said, looking away. “Can’t let a gent like you be clapped in irons by the watch and thrown into a pit in the fort.”

“The offer is appreciated, truly it is. But that won’t be necessary,” Orodan replied. “I intend to meet with the foreman anyways. Now then, you say I’ve done you a good turn? Wouldn’t mind you showing me some of these guns you work on before the man gets here.”

Fenton tried protesting that. Not the part about showing Orodan guns, but about him meeting the foreman. The gunsmith assistant swore up and down that nothing good would come of it but eventually relented and seemed to wash his hands of the matter.

Thus, the lad started showing him the weapons used on Lonvoron.

And immediately, Orodan noticed the first glaring difference. He’d seen it before, yes, but at the time he hadn’t had the skill to appreciate the technological contrast.

“These are powered by steam…” Orodan muttered, looking at a firearm which was markedly different from the designs he was familiar with upon Alastaia. “How does the gun survive magical steam of that power? The metal isn’t insulated either…”

For starters, the drum to the right of the rifle seemed to be a storage for steam. Something a black powder firearm didn’t have. And the majority of the gun was made of metal, with only a basic lining of wooden insulation on the grip. Great swathes of the metal were plain and smooth too, these spots, Orodan surmised, were meant to be enchanted.

There were clockwork gears at certain points, meant to move valves and allow entry of steam into the barrel for propelling the shot. Aesthetically, it looked quite clock-themed with all the gears and cogs.

“Of course it’s powered by steam, what else would we use? Heard stories about how the old guns and cannons of yore would use black powder, but we moved past that long ago. Way too many steam mages and enchanters around nowadays to not use the stuff,” Fenton explained. “As for this gun surviving the steam, it won’t.”

“Then… it’s incomplete. Meant to be enchanted?”

“Good eye, right you are. It’s not done yet, meant to be shipped to the fort where their enchanters will put the finishing touches on it. You didn’t think they let us little folk have the completed weapons, did you?” Fenton asked sarcastically. “No… for us, we’ll be lucky to get a little eight-shooter like the one I have. Made it myself!”

Fenton seemed quite proud of that too.

“You’re an enchanter as well?” Orodan asked. “How are you stuck here?”

“N-not so loud! Don’t let anyone in town hear you say that! They’ll send me off to the fort if they hear,” Fenton hissed. “I picked it up from lookin’ at the weapons of the hired guns they have guarding the mine.”

What ridiculous talent was that? Most people learned enchanting through a regular education; Orodan certainly had. Hells, it would be remarkable if someone learned it from watching an enchanter work. But Fenton just picked it up by closely looking at enchanted guns?

“How long have you been Enchanting for?” Orodan asked.

“Er… maybe a few months? Only cracked the Elite-level recently…” Fenton muttered

Utterly absurd… a reminder that the cosmos was big and Orodan Wainwright wasn’t the only one talented in things. Fenton Penny was a true monster of Enchanting with a learning speed which was beyond Orodan’s own. Elite-level in months? Nobody he’d seen on Alastaia could match that. Now this was true talent.

On his home world the young man would’ve been kidnapped and developed into a national asset rather quickly.

“Any other work of yours that you’ve done?” Orodan asked, prompting the boy to nod and go to the back room, bringing something out from a cubby hole.

It was an enchanted armor plate, and Fenton looked quite proud of it too.

“An inscription of explosion? Quite well-made, but better suited to a weapon or projectile, is it not?” Orodan asked. “Directional explosion too? Can’t see the purpose of this on armor unless…”

“Right you are, ser, but imagine a rough blow hitting this piece and the plate exploding outwards! Spent a whole month workin’ on this design!”

Suddenly, a memory came unbidden to him.

“Defense, achieved through offense. I concur,” Orodan said as he examined the enchantment closely with Vision of Purity. He wasn’t as good an enchanter as this young boy, but he could perhaps provide a fine eye where this boy hadn’t looked. “The incoming warhammer which is simply taken directly on the shield will break the shoulder… yet when the shield is angled and swung outwards to meet the strike… the attack is prevented. In line with this philosophy, one can also apply this to armor. In fact… the only thing wrong with your design is the purity.”

Orodan now recalled where he’d seen Fenton before. In the long loop where he’d travelled to Lonvoron for the first time. And as Orodan considered the boy’s story of an ailing mother, a frown appeared on his face. He surmised how the young boy might come to be pressed into military service in roughly a few months’ time.

“I’m sorry for your loss…” Orodan muttered.

“What’s that mister Orodan?”

“It won’t happen again if I can help it,” Orodan promised.

“What won’t?”

