“A soul specialist? The only sort who dabble in that are some eccentrics from the universities and the crown’s inquisitors… far too expensive to procure them for a poor woman like me…”

Different worlds had different specialties. His world was chock full of martial specialists and those in tune with the soul arts. Conversely, Lonvoron had far superior engineering and a civilization which put Alastaia’s to shame, yet it came at the price of lacking those familiar with soul magic. A sad affair, for Orodan suspected this woman had less than a month of life left.

Vitality wasn’t just something produced and held by the body, but also the soul. It was how his own Harmony of Vitality could be powered so smoothly by his soul energy. And it was why someone who had their soul ripped out would leave nothing but a corpse, devoid of true life and mind. Flesh golems existed, and new souls could form naturally under the right conditions… but the existence of those didn’t detract from the fact that the vitality of sentient beings came from somewhere more than just the body.

And for this woman, the pathways through which the soul channelled her vitality into her body were dangerously thin, and getting even thinner. There were two sets of pathways, one within the soul and the other within the body. Whatever diseases she had affected both, but the medicine her son procured could at least widen the pathways within the body, relieving the symptoms.

Of course, the soul pathways were narrowing and whatever medicine it was didn’t seem to affect them. In other words, no matter how much medicine she was given, her soul’s flow of vitality would cut off and lead to her eventual death. It was akin to cleaning the steam pipes in one’s house but receiving no power because the main pipe from whence it came was blocked.

“No wonder your skin has such a sickly pallor to it… your body’s barely getting any vitality,” Orodan muttered, bringing his broom out. “How common is this disease? Where did you get it from?”

Orodan could have looked through the time stream to get an answer but held off for now lest he trigger detection. Lonvoron’s time stream was undoubtedly being closely monitored.

“I do not know. Some folk are cursed to bear it from birth it seems. The symptoms began manifesting a few years ago and stripped all the life from me.”

“You know of anyone else who has it? Any records on it?” Orodan asked.

“I knew one other, a woman from the Sunstone Archipelagos; it was frightening how the disease made her previously lustrous dark skin as pale as mine is now. Like me, the life looked to have been sucked out of her,” Fenton’s mother said. “At the time, never thought it could happen to me too.”

A severe illness if the disease could strip someone of their natural hue.

Still, Orodan knew how to combat this. He’d purged curses from people on Alastaia, and he’d cleansed the Eldritch. In comparison, this was nothing.

The broom hovered over her head.

“Is that… a broom?”

“I admit, the method of healing appears odd, but give it a chance,” Orodan remarked.

And then, the broom touched her head.

And the woman screamed.

Immediately, Orodan felt some powerful resistance to altering her soul. It hadn’t looked like it at first glance, but this truly was a curse. The resistance was quite monstrous, and making even the slightest of changes to this woman’s soul was akin to moving a mountain.

The effort was akin to fighting an Administrator.

Unfortunately for whoever placed the curse, this was a battle of cleansing. And Orodan had already beaten an Administrator before in a direct test of it.

“Mother!”

Yet before Fenton could take another step, the room filled with the blazing white light of soul energy as Orodan’s broom set the woman’s soul right.

[Reality Alteration 56 → Reality Alteration 57]

Strange, that such a defect would affect many. Somebody of great power had done this, for what, Orodan didn’t know.

A great gulp of air and the panicked breaths of Fenton’s mother broke the momentary silence. The woman shot up to a sitting position in bed as her son rushed to her.

“Mum! What happened?! Are you alright?!”

“I… I…”

“Did he harm you?”

“No, it’s just that…” she trailed off, her hands caressing Fenton’s face. “Have you always looked so ragged? My poor boy… how much do they work you? You have dark circles under your eyes!”

And before their very eyes, the sickly hue began shifting towards a healthier color. Pale skin began turning slightly caramel, and her cloudy eyes began clearing up, returning to a shade of sapphire blue.

“Dark circles? This isn’t a time for jests mother… wait… your eyes… your eyes!”

“Oh, my little Fen, how you’ve grown over the years. Come, let me get a closer look at you…”

Mother and son tearfully embraced one another, and Orodan stepped outside, giving them a moment of solace out of respect.

“Hmm… for such a brutish oaf your finesse with the soul is rather sublime,” Talricto said. “If you displayed some of these talents earlier my scoldings might’ve lessened in their harshness.”

“But perhaps I keep you around because I enjoy your scoldings,” Orodan remarked. “After all, how can I learn without a strict teacher?”

The spider grumbled and hissed something unflattering, but Orodan chose to take it as a sign of fondness, and not the look of irritation that was apparent in Talricto’s many beady eyes.

The storm had cleared up and the dawn sky illuminated the sea. The Sea of Uxamar, north of the Republic back on his home world was calm and tranquil near the shore at least. The high seas surrounding Port Bellgrave were anything but. Turbulent and stormy waves. Orodan doubted any Inuanan seafaring vessel could survive these waters. They were almost supernaturally powerful, yet beautiful in their own right.

A woman walked up beside him, shaky steps, as though she was growing used to the feeling of walking once more.

“The ocean… it’s just like I remember all those years ago…”

“It’s a pretty sight, even if the waters are rather dangerous around these parts,” Orodan replied. The woman seemed transfixed with Talricto however.

“Such a big spider… quite elegant and pretty too…”

“Hmmph! Well I’m glad someone recognizes my regal mien!”

“Don’t mind him, he’s a little haughty but means well. A teacher of mine in fact,” Orodan explained.

“He taught you healing…?”

“No, he taught me Dimensionalism.”

“Dimensionalism …you truly are an otherworlder aren’t you? I never thought to see one in such a destitute place as this,” Fenton’s mother said, and then immediately fell to her knees, grasping Orodan’s legs. “I don’t know what brings you here, but I’m thankful to the Gods that you came. My son and I will be forev-”

He lifted the woman to her feet.

“Come now, with your legs working again you should want to spend more time standing than on the ground,” Orodan teased. “I appreciate the sentiment but there’s no need for that. I simply set a wrong right is all.”

Fenton too tried showing his gratitude in a most excessive manner, but Orodan held the young man up, preventing him from reaching for his legs.

“Why, Mister Orodan… why would you do all this?” the boy asked, tears in his eyes. “Blast and bugger it all… you’ve got me weepin’ in front of you now too…”

“When one’s mother is involved… crying isn’t such a bad thing,” Orodan remarked, remembering his own with a knowing smile on his face. At least little Penny here had his mother with him still. “Now then, there should be more than enough crowns in there for you and your mother to start a new life.”

“But… the gates leading to the port town proper are barred, entire place is on high alert,” Fenton said. “You spooked the constabulary real good and I have no idea how we’re going to get in now to get aboard any outbound ships.”

“You can leave getting the gates open to me. From there, I’ll head onward to the fort,” Orodan said, and then noticed the increased activity and movement upon the walls of Port Bellgrave’s town proper. “In fact, they might be coming to us first.”

Fenton’s eyes widened as a rather distinct hissing noise became audible in the air.

“Steam knights… they’re sendin’ out those dreadful things! M-mister Orodan, I can’t let you head out there, you’ve got to run, swim if you have to!” Fenton begged.

Orodan however simply placed a hand upon Fenton’s head and ruffled the boy’s hair.

“It’ll be fine, Fen. Wait for me to deal with the defenders and then slip into the town alongside the rest and use the crowns to secure passage somewhere,” Orodan directed. “Talricto, you might want to get clear while I deal with this mess.”

The spider hummed in assent and winked off to wherever it was that he went.

Port Bellgrave had a walled town proper; frequented by the likes of skilled tradesfolk, middle-class individuals and merchants. It wasn’t the largest port town in the Ironhaven Isles - far from it - but it was decent enough, and the value of the iron trade and gunsmithing brought a fair amount of traffic. The walls were consequently well-built, and the architecture reminded Orodan very much of a fort.

There were apparent differences in comparison to the architecture of Alastaian military fortifications. For starters, while they too had siege weapons, the walls were built very low and stout, with slopes of dirt ramping upwards. Far less optimal for defending against any sudden storming maneuvers by enemy infantry… but Orodan could see how these walls might be far more resistant to cannon and gunfire. The crenelations and embrasures too had plenty of slots and openings for defensive anti-infantry weapons and cannons. Furthermore, the walls were almost… star shaped? Square sections jutted out, and these walls looked more apt towards allowing the defenders to lay heavy fire upon the enemy than suited for pure defense.

Orodan wasn’t sure if this design would be entirely efficient upon his home world. Land based monsters and any infantry attackers would have a far easier time scaling the low and sloped fortifications, and any soldiers on the wall would have less time to react. And while gunfire and artillery would obliterate any force of melee infantry upon approach… he had a feeling that if a surprise attack was somehow achieved, a seasoned force of martial specialists from his world could scale the walls in moments and butcher the troops atop who looked woefully unprepared for a melee. A weakness he’d seen the Collective’s forces struggle with against the Eldritch on his first visit to Lonvoron.

Furthermore, while this society seemed quite advanced so far, one aspect Alastaia had it beat on was magical warding and enchantment. The defensive wards and crews upon the walls of Karilsgard for example, were better suited to countering enemy mages than this fort would be. Well, in terms of pure defense at least.

Although, when one had as many guns, cannons and sharpshooters as the walls of Port Bellgrave did… perhaps enemy mages weren’t as threatening as they seemed. After all, hard to cast a giant Fireball when a high-velocity bullet tore through one’s head.

At the end of the day, this design worked for the Collective. Domestically, monsters weren’t anywhere near the concern on Lonvoron that they were on Alastaia. Most had been hunted into extinction, with only pockets of subterranean creatures and deep-sea enclaves remaining. Typically encountered by miners or daring ocean diving vessels. And guns had diminished the development of high-level martial abilities upon this world. Easier to pick up a firearm and train the relevant skills for it than train the hard way to hone the strength of one’s body.

Then, a horn rang out, and the gates began opening as the hissing noise of magical steam grew louder.

“Good Gods… they’re sending in the steam knights!”

“We’re just downtrodden workers! They would send those things in to butcher us?!”

“I’d rather take my chances floating in the drink than face one of those!”

The workers he’d liberated were doubtlessly scared, and he could see why.

The twelve-foot tall, imposing suits of metal had glowing eyes, were entirely covered in thick gleaming plates, and had magical steam periodically hissing out their vents. A multi-barrelled repeating gun built into the right hand, and an enchanted, hot blade in the left which looked as though it could cleave through entire walls with ease. These metallic steam-powered golems were all at the Master-level, and now he could see how the Collective had become so widespread across multiple worlds, if these were their mass-produced heavy infantry.

Even discounting its gun, a Master-level martial specialist fighting a golem made of steel and powered by magically hot steam would face an uphill struggle.

And stepping towards them, naught but sword and shield in hand, was Orodan Wainwright.

“Orodan Wainwright! Halt where you stand!” a woman in military regalia announced. Master-level, with a revolver in her hands a sword at her waist. “You have committed crimes against the crown, surrender peacefully that you may be identified! If you are from another world, the crown will establish diplomatic channels, and you shall be afforded all rights and due privileges under Collective law!”

“And what if I have no interest in halting where I stand?” Orodan asked with a smile, drawing his sword and shield.

In response, the woman’s face stiffened, and she whipped her hand downwards, a clear gesture.

The first salvo was immediate and powerful.

