Markus channeled as much Frost Mana into what remained of his hand as he possibly could. It numbed some of the pain and slowed the creature’s chewing. Good. He needed to maintain this connection for as long as possible.

Next, he tried to initialise the drain. The prompt wasn’t forthcoming, and he had to really focus on pushing his mana into the splintered vestiges of his broken hand in order to try and get some form of a response, but with repeated effort, with many attempts made in the span of two agonising seconds, he finally managed to feel a pulse of life.

It radiated all the way through the monster he faced as he felt its spirit entwine with his dominating will. He began to drain the trimander’s essence in earnest, causing the creature to howl in pain and for its head to droop as it attempted to fight the sensation. Markus’ hand frayed further within the trimander’s mouth, barely maintaining the drain, barely remaining attached to the rest of his arm.

It didn’t matter. Markus felt himself entering Overcharge once more as the creature’s head drooped, immediately sticking his right hand into the warm, bubbling blood of the creature’s neck and intensifying the drain.

He drank greedily from the monster’s neck, and as he tried to rip further and further still into the creature’s flesh as it howled and attempted to shake him off, too pained to yet coordinate an accurate strike from one of its neighbouring heads, flailing and screeching ineffectively, Markus only continued to rip chunk after chunk from the horrific creature as he continued to feel new power flow into him, to feel his hand attempting to reforge and regrow itself even as still the monster tried to recoil from him.

It wasn’t even trying to eat him anymore, it was just desperate to end this agonising contact, this total invasion of mind, body, and soul.

And yet, in the deepest pits of Markus’ soul, beneath the fear and the anger and the pain and even the hope, there was another, more residual feeling. A subtle notion that waxed in his mind, one that told him that in spite of everything he was doing here right in this very moment, he could be doing more.

Markus empowered his right hand with stolen mana. He ripped.

He empowered his Regenerating hand with his own frozen energy. He grasped his prey tighter.

He brought both hands together, ripping and tugging with all of his might until finally, finally, a new possibility settled into his mind, a culmination of all the actions he’d taken so far and all the ones he still wished to, something he’d felt deep within him in each moment he’d had something taken from him, he’d had something stolen from his own body as each of these disgusting monsters attempted to pull and tear from his flesh as if he were some fragile toy to be used for their satisfaction.

He felt every ounce of his past pains echoing through his body alongside his current ones, he felt the agony of having a limb all but torn from him, and in his ceaseless connection to the trimander, he understood not only the sensation, but the means, the instinct necessary. His feral goblin soul entwined with his spirit to push him to a new discovery, one fuelled by rage,  instigated by the vulnerable blood leaking from a fresh, accessible wound.

Targeting the tear in the creature’s neck, drawing on each injury that flowed through his body, screaming in pain and defiance, Markus activated [Rend] for the first time.
