The forest looked mostly normal, and there was a path to follow, so it was mostly a normal walk through the woods. The evergreen trees were larger than average, though, at over a hundred meters tall and with the trunks and canopies to match, but this was certainly not the Forest of Glaquin, for every tree in the Deep Green was at least a kilometer or more in height. Ar’Cosmos was located inside the Forest of Glaquin, though. Erick still wasn’t sure how that worked, but he would likely find out soon enough.

This space had a lot of little Fae Magic touches, if you knew what you were seeing.

Two things stuck out the most to Erick. The largest event happened when they circled a large tree with decorative white-thread rope tied loosely around the trunk; they took a right, and then another right, and then another right, and they never crossed the path they had started on, even though they should have. The second major thing was that the tallest spire of Fairy Moon’s mansion always appeared through a gap in the trees, if Erick looked for it. He tested this twice to make sure he was seeing what he was seeing, but then he noticed Fairy Moon with a raised eyebrow and a knowing smirk. She was watching him figure it all out. Erick didn’t like that at all, and he almost shut down again, but he powered through that tough emotion.

All in all, his problems were not as large as they could have been. Erick had already experienced what it meant to be truly helpless once, and he was not eager for a repeat performance. He could play along…

And if Fairy Moon’s goals turned out to be true, then Erick could do what he needed to do and then get the fuck out of here. Hopefully.

The green forest gradually gave way to a land of autumn, with red and gold leaves on the trees and in golden and brown drifts nestled at the bottom of every trunk, and wrapping around every boulder. The air smelled faintly of spices and cold, but it was a far off scent.

They traveled around another roped tree, and the springtime returned, but this time the green trees were smaller. A craggy grey mountain rose in the distance, like the edge of a continental shelf rising up, dividing the land between a forest on the lower half, and a castle town on the upper cliffside. White spires and barrier walls and cathedrals rose upon that upper cliff, looking like the whole thing would both fall off the edge at any moment, and like the white stone garrison had been stable upon that land for the last millennia.

Erick and Fairy Moon had been walking for an hour and would likely walk for another hour to get all the way to that castle, which seemed to be where they were headed. All this while, Erick had been cycling his mana, and feeling a lot better for it. It was strange how much better he felt when he kept his core maintained with proper upkeep. Was this a substitute for therapy? Or was he drugging himself into complacency? Or was this Fairy Moon’s doing?

Hard to say, really.

Erick ignored that problem for now, too. He was coping. It was enough.

Eventually, they reached the mountainside below the white castle. Fairy Moon had guided them directly to a ten meter tall grey stone door that looked as though it was carved out of the rock of the mountainside. There were no guards, or obvious defenses, but then Fairy Moon went up to the door and knocked.

The grey stone transformed into white, and then simply vanished.

Beyond lay a curving hallway lined with white pillars. Bright red-flame torches in black iron sconces merrily burned away at the side of each pillar, but they still cast out white light into the deep hallway that looked as though it would have gone on forever, if not for the slight curve going left. The ground was solid white stone, and the ceiling was arched. Red flame, black iron braziers hung from the ceiling, too. Fairy Moon went in, and Erick followed—

The world transformed.

Behind them lay the hallway of white pillars and red fire. They had traveled the entire hallway in a single step.

Ahead lay a foyer of white stone with a twenty-meter tall blood-red crystal in the center, and two curving staircases leading upward on both sides. This was some central location, for sure, because everywhere Erick looked there were archways that led to ballrooms and libraries and more hallways.

And the whole place was sized for dragon sensibilities. The crystal was 20 meters tall. The arching ceiling was 50 meters high. Erick saw no dragons, or anyone else at all, but as the enormity of the castle quickly dawned on him, he saw human-sized amenities here and there. That staircase’s main steps were two meters tall, but there were side staircases set into the main one, with runners every third meter, like normal. The open doors to the library had smaller doors set into them for people to use. The books upon the massive shelves of the library looked small from this distance, but the fact that Erick could see the individual books at all meant that they were huge, but there were small, mobile ladders that were like long toothpicks leading up to those big books. Human-sized people worked here, under the dragons, or rather, above. For far above, on the ceiling, catwalks artfully crossed through open air, leading this way and that so that people didn’t have to walk where dragons stood—

The red crystal shimmered.

A red dragonkin covered in normal dragonkin scales stepped out of the crystal, onto the ground a fair distance from Erick. The man wore a sharp white dress-robe, like a mage would back at Oceanside if they were going to a party, and he had both a tail, and horns. And as the man came closer, Erick saw that he was an orcol-sized dragonkin. He reminded Erick a lot of Apogee, back at Spur, but a lot taller.

A sudden thought occurred: Had Apogee come here? He had been on the Worldly Path before. He had gotten all of the way, too, hadn’t he? But then he decided that he didn’t want to connect the people of this world with each other, or with other worlds, because none of them deserved it. Apogee had spoken of the dragon overlords of his homeworld, too, hadn’t he…

Apogee had always known how shitty these people were to others.

And now Erick understood Apogee a whole lot more. He was a grouch because he had very good reasons to be grouchy. If Erick ever made it back to Spur, he decided he would need to buy that man a drink. But that would come later.

The red dragonkin’s eyes went super wide and he almost stopped dead in his tracks as he saw Erick; there was a clear look of recognition there, though Erick thought it more of a ‘holy shit, it’s Erick Flatt’, and less a personal recognition. The man acclimated to what he was seeing quickly though, and went right up to Fairy Moon and bowed politely, asking, “May this one be of service, Fairy Moon?”

“Yes.” Fairy Moon said, “We wish for a history lesson for Erick Flatt, regarding the creation of Ar’Cosmos, along with the fall of Idyrvamikor and the creation of the Dragon Curse.”

The man looked torn for a moment. He didn’t know whether to inform Fairy Moon that his master was away, or to inform his master that Fairy Moon had come calling. Or maybe it was something to do with Erick’s presence.

The man looked up, and then back to Fairy Moon. “Master Redflame has been informed of your arrival. He asks you to wait wherever you wish to wait, and he will get to you when he can. He has been informed that Erick Flatt has come calling, too.”

Fairy Moon turned, saying, “We’ll be where we are.”

Erick watched as Fairy Moon opened a human-sized door in the wall that was not there to begin with. Beyond lay yet another massive room, with—

Fairy Moon went through and Erick followed before he was left behind.

The red servant remained behind and the door shut, and then vanished, leaving a perfectly flat expanse—

Of open air. They had walked through nothing and arrived at the center of a large room with a wooden gazebo-like structure to the side. It was the only thing in the much, much larger room and it was— Oh. It wasn’t a gazebo at all.

Erick realized he was looking up at the bottom of a massive table, at least 20 meters tall with tree-trunk thick legs and what appeared to be a small balcony on the side. A staircase wrapped around half of the table, leading up to that balcony space. Fairy Moon started walking up the curving stairs and Erick followed for fear of being left behind, again.

The rest of the room was stone with open windows from floor to ceiling, which was only 40 meters up there, maybe. Erick wasn’t quite sure. Red flame on the columns of every pillar in the room illuminated the space with white light, showing off that this was a dining room, of sorts. Erick noticed a chair by the window that was more like a massive bed than a chair any humanoid-person would use. Perhaps a large cat? As they reached the top of the table, Erick saw chairs that were sized for him and Fairy Moon, set to the side of the large table...

Yes it was a table; Erick’s initial guess had been correct. They were in a dining room and this large thing was a table with settings for 2 meter tall people on one quarter of the structure, so people could sit down and eat food on the same level as the other people, who Erick could only assume would be dragons in their full size, who would be eating on the other sides. At least they wouldn’t suffer the indignity of eating on top of the larger table; that would be like the smaller people setting themselves up as a meal, or the larger people setting themselves up to eat ‘off of the floor’.

A four meter tall red splash of crystal sat in the center of the table, no doubt for easy movement between kitchen staff, for that thing was obviously part of a quick-movement system set up inside the castle—

The pillar flames stirred to a great whirlwind of fire on the other side of the table—

Erick almost panicked.

But Fairy Moon didn’t seem to care about the whirlwind of fire. Erick decided not to feel jumpy, too, because apparently he was goddamned jumpy these days. Or maybe just recently? No… This had been going on for a while. Everything was surprising him and it was only getting worse.

He cycled his mana and felt calmer.

Anyway. The fire in the braziers on the pillars came to life and a massive wyrm-like dragon spilled out into the room and solidified on the other side of the table. Redflame, for this had to be him, stood as tall as Erick expected him to stand, and for some reason Erick’s thoughts wandered to wondering if the man was connected to Arbor Redarrow back in Treehome, if only because of the name and how Arbor Redarrow had an Old Dragonkin-shaped false-person body.

Redflame stood tall past the edge of the wooden table, but only the tallest several meters of him showed; his face and up to his arms. He had to bend his neck over to make his position comfortable enough to eat, though, and Erick wondered just how comfortable that could actually be. Whatever!

His voice was warm fire and solid strength, “Welcome to my home, Fairy Moon.” He turned to face Erick, and he smirked, “And Erick Flatt.”

A woman dragonkin stepped out of a red crystal on the table, pulling a cart behind her like she was stepping out of a kitchen door. A full roast cow came out on the cart that resembled a large plate, and the woman moved it over toward Redflame where she locked it into position on the table. A second server came out with smaller meals for both Erick and Fairy Moon.

While Erick was busy realizing that Redflame knew him, which of course he did, he was also mentally wrestling with the idea that he was somehow in a baby chair at the ‘adult table’. His server set down a beer and a water for Erick, while Fairy Moon got wine to go with her food.

Fairy Moon readily took the wine and had a sip, saying, “You always do have the best vintage, Redflame.”

Erick followed along and sipped his beer, since it seemed like the right thing to do, and everyone was watching him out of the corner of their eyes. After he had a sip of the quite good beer —it tasted like amber honey— everyone relaxed.

Redflame even gave a little chuckle. “Is it good?”

Erick honestly said, “It’s great. Love it.”

Redflame smiled wide, though he tried to keep his teeth mostly hidden while he did so. White fangs still showed a little. “I was wondering when you would show up here in Ar’Cosmos. I was all prepared to shove my weight around and prevent a war to talk to you on even terms, and to get Fairy Moon to assist you, too, since you seemed to be amenable.” He looked to the gem on Erick’s neck, saying, “I am glad to see that I didn’t have to do any of that.”

Erick felt a wave of sudden, unexpected gratitude at those words.

It passed quickly.

“I would have loved for that to have been what happened. But that is not what happened at all.”

Redflame’s eye ridges went up. And then he glanced from Erick to Fairy Moon, and then back, then he stared at Fairy Moon and frowned. He muttered, “… You didn’t.”

“I did because I had to.” Fairy Moon said, “Adjustments needed to be made due to certain discoveries, and so I made those adjustments. I would have preferred diplomacy, too.”

Erick glared, but then he just sighed.

Redflame kept his frown, but then he glanced around, speaking his thoughts, “What could have happened? As far as publicly known Erick wasn’t going to Melemizargo to get [Gate]… Ah?” His face fell. “The wrought have a Wizard— No wait. Not that. … No. I give up. What changed—” Excitedly, he looked to Erick, saying, “Oh! Of course! I know. It’s that [Renew] you were working on! Wasn’t it! Oh, with that you should be able to gather up enough mana to enact some near-Wizardry of your own in a decade or two.” Fervor faded. “… It might be enough. Don’t think Melemizargo would let you linger that long on the Path… Nor would the wrought. And if you made [Renew] even at tier 4 or 5, proving that capability exists in the mana, then that would lead to Wizardry, too.” He nodded, like he had solved a puzzle. “That is my final guess. Am I right?”

Near-Wizardry through [Renew]?

Erick did not like the sound of that.

Fairy Moon said, “A lot has happened since last we supped. Rozeta has come to me demanding details of magics to make Sunderings never happen ever again, for all always. And then, when I spoke with Erick and the heads of the wrought on the beach of the world tree, Erick’s Path twisted. It demanded he make this miracle happen. And so, that is but one of the reasons he was rescued from the wrought—”

“Rescued!” Erick said, “Are you fucking kidding—”

Fairy Moon waved him off like a child. “He doesn’t believe me at this moment, but that’s normal.”

