“To never forsake and to always help flourish, no matter the times or tribulations that may occur. To never ask for something that cannot be given. To always give what you can.”

It was actually a marriage vow, for those were some crazy times back then. Ah! Anyway. We still love each other in our own ways, but Fairy Moon is a hundred lifetimes removed from that old life, and I would not hold her to the marriage part of those vows, but the old vows still hold when we wish them to hold.

And so, Fairy Moon is reborn in Ar’Cosmos, and Ar’Cosmos is about a thousand times larger than it could be otherwise. Normally, [Gate Spaces] are much smaller than this. Normally, they’re about the size of a field of flowers with a hundred different waypoints of travel. The extra space in this land is attributed to those early years, when we spent 25 years gathering up all the [Gate Spaces] left by those who had passed on. Due to that, Ar’Cosmos was the size of Glaquin itself. It was almost a whole plane separated from Veird and the Script, and we had taken in all kinds of refugees who could not live inside the constraints of the Script. We even had a few rescued fae, other than Fairy Moon, but those people have mostly gone to their temporary rests, for now.

It was a complicated, messy time.

Fairy Moon died a few times, going on more dangerous missions. And one time she came back with Idyrvamikor at her side; her new husband. I was furious of course. But Idyrvamikor was, at the time, the strongest dragon on Veird, and so he had a certain amount of power over all the other dragons, including me. Not Rozeta, though, or Melemizargo, of course. I did not fight Idyrvamikor’s arrival, and after a while, I decided I did not want to. He was a good man who proved his goodness, and Fairy Moon and I were quits, anyway.

Idyrvamikor had come to Ar’Cosmos on a mission, though. A mission of peace to finally ascend to Rozeta’s Second, to fully stabilize the Script. To patch up old wrongs and make right the future. But more specifically, Rozeta had sent him on a mission to secure his power as the Second and to stop the small fights that he and Kirginatharp were getting into all the time. So he came here, and he tried to secure our power under his aegis.

Now that man was a true Wizard, in every sense of the word. He moved and magic moved with him. He spoke and magic made his words true. He wanted the best for everyone, and he did what he needed to do to get it done.

This was 24 years into the New Cosmology.

At this time, Ar’Cosmos was still quite close to Veird. The Script was actually active in this place, but it was a figment of what it is on Veird. You had to touch specific stones to gain access to your Status; it was a compromise...

And then, in late Year 25, the Death of All Halves occurred.

The Old Demons enacted a Demonic change upon the Script, and the mana followed the Script’s decree. All of the Old Dragonkin died. All of my children. All of my nephews and nieces and neighbors and 90% of everyone I worked with on a daily basis.

It was another Sundering, of a different sort.

All of the [Gate Space] that we had managed to gather instantly began to fray and split and fall off into the True Void, for the controllers of those Gates and the people we had appointed were either broken, or dead. An entire civilization of dragonkin died all at once.

In this crisis, Idyrvamikor helped to contain and strengthen some of our Ar’Cosmos, to prevent further disaster, but he was needed elsewhere. He went out into the world to fix the problem with the Script before the whole world broke apart.

Idyrvamikor succeeded, but halfway through his success, Kirginatharp attacked, for Idyrvamikor was weakened by his act of High Wizardry. Kirginatharp would not have won that battle, it would have been one of their normal spats, if not for Melemizargo intervening and securing Kirginatharp’s victory.

Now. I will say this:

The truth of that battle is only known to the dead, the insane, and the one that yet lives but who has his own version of events. I would not call him a liar, but I would not call him a truth-teller, either.

The outcome of this horrendous act was myriad.

The first outcome was the orcols. Some people argue that the orcols came about directly because Kirginatharp attacked when Idyrvamikor was in the middle of his High Wizardry. Some argue that Idyrvamikor was too in tune with the dead and the hateful of the world when he was dealing with all that death, so he created the orcols on purpose, and he would have combined all people into one, erasing all lines of race and species and preventing all wars based on those lines, ever again. Some say that this act was too full of Idyrvamikor’s rage, and in doing this, he created Elemental Carnage and put it inside the orcols, and that Idyrvamikor had planned this, and thus he needed to be stopped. Some say that Idyrvamikor was always full of Elemental Carnage, and he used that dangerous power to good cause, but the orcols and the Rage were an accident. Some say that Idyrvamikor called for aid against his brother Kirginatharp, and the orcs and the trolls responded first, and thus they were caught up in Idyrvamikor’s spiral of power.

That was only half of the battle, though.

The other half was when Kirginatharp responded with Wizardry of his own, and attempted to wrest all of Idyrvamikor’s power from him. The outcome of that was recorded for all time; made indelible onto Dragon Essence itself, if you know how to look. But it also might be just something that Melemizargo did, all on his own.

Kirginatharp Cursed.

Idyrvamikor laughed in the face of True Death, and his laughter was a Curse as well.

Melemizargo did something at the exact wrong time.

Hate melded with hate. Rage melded with rage.

And thus was born the Dragon Essence Curse.

I knew none of this at the time, though. I explain this here, at this juncture, simply because that was how it chronologically happened.

The next part is a complete blur, for I was also afflicted by that Curse. Every single dragon was. The Death of All Halves almost caused the extinction of us dragons, too. So I will touch upon some major points and skip over most of what came next. Mostly, it was war.

The Rage Wars.

Back then, [Teleport] had not yet been invented. All we had to move around easily were the [Gate Space]s that were now falling apart and also untended. The newly-formed orcols came for those [Gate Spaces] in order to spread their war. The war progressed, but I didn’t care. In my own personal Rage I killed everyone in my [Gate Space] and finally knew peace. I instantly went the way of Melemizargo; rejecting the Script-filled world, trying to find the way back to the Old Cosmology, even though I knew it was impossible.

But the Deep Paths were still there.

In my grief, and my pain, and with every Path rapidly filling up with Orcols, who were the only people I could stand to be around for we shared a kind of Rage, but it was not the same, and so we could not coexist.

I took my Gate Network and twisted it. I knew that the Script was ‘distant’ inside Ar’Cosmos, so I went deeper with that Truth. Deeper than anyone should ever go in the Paths. I could have fallen off into the True Void at any moment in time, but I did not care. I was running. And then a curious thing happened. As I ran, I felt better. As I ran faster, I felt better faster. The Rage slowly drained away as the Path became ever-more twisted and distant.

And so, I buried myself in the Path until I was under so many layers of distance that I found my salvation once again.

I found Fairy Moon in the mana. It wasn’t till then that I knew that I had not been running from pain, but running toward love. In that act of reconnection the Rage finally left. I revived Fairy Moon, and she brought me back to myself.

In this act, we lit the way toward the future.

This land would eventually blossom into the Ar’Cosmos of today; a respite from the Dragon Blood Curse that exists only out there in Veird.

Fairy Moon and I reconnected, but I would not leave this land. The world out there was too painful. So she left instead, and she returned with refugees. No dragons, though. All of those who had survived were in deep hiding. We began to grow Ar’Cosmos once again, though even 1400 years later it has still not reached the heights of those first 25 years, Post Sundering.

Eventually, though, after stabilization occurred, I went upward and outward for the first time in three decades.

The Rage came back in small parts and then deeper, the closer I got to Veird. I thought my core had been completely corrupted by the actions of Idyrvamikor and Kirginatharp, though I did not know that the problem was a lot deeper than that until later. I did what anyone does when their core does not suit them: I divested myself of it. It still had some use, though, so I set it down in Ar’Cosmos and gave it the assignment of stabilizing the land. It worked. This system continues to work to this day.

And so I went out into Veird without any problems at all, searching for answers to what had happened between Idyrvamikor and Kirginatharp and the orcols and the Rage and all the rest. I had heard snippets from refugees, but none of them had a complete story.

I needed to find out what had happened.

There was only one dragon living openly, though, so I went to the only place I could to find answers. I went to Oceanside, and I visited Kirginatharp. This was a mistake.

I learned, first hand, that something had happened to Dragon Essence itself. I barely survived the battle, and only because I was able to kowtow to Kirginatharp and almost die in the process, while also escaping back to Ar’Cosmos.

Kirginatharp knows I exist, though, and his Curse compels him to eat the hearts of every dragon he finds, and to rip the essence out of every person who so much as touches Dragon Essence. He is cursed with the original Curse. There is no saving him, for he likes it that way, for the Curse makes him like it that way. It is a self-deepening spell.

And that is the problem.

The problem is the Script, and the Curse. They are a self-recreating cycle. The Curse exists, and so the Script makes the Curse exist, but the Script makes the Curse, so the Curse makes the Script make it all over again. It would take an act of Wizardry on the level of the now-dead Idyrvamikor to break that cycle.

But anyway.

Ar’Cosmos is a land divided from Veird, where dragons can live and where the Script is too far distant, through winding, tricky Pathways, to allow for the Dragon Blood Curse to reach us here. But we have found ways to go back to Veird and not be affected by the Curse; mostly, this involves dragons leaving their cores behind when they come here, and then they’re okay. Every trip into Ar’Cosmos is a permanent weakening of the dragon who makes the journey, but there is no other way to keep the Curse out of this land.

Except to shift one’s Dragon Essence into something else.

And so, that is what we do. In those first years after we started reestablishing Ar’Cosmos, an orcol Wizard was brought in by Fairy Moon. This man managed to turn my Dragon Essence into Carnage Essence, which is not the same thing at all, but functionally, for me, it is. I can now travel on Veird without falling prey to the Curse. It was the only way.

But make no mistake: Dragon Essence itself is not the problem.

Kirginatharp and the Curse and the Script; These are three individual problems that reinforce each other, and which Rozeta is content to let happen.

Some people prefer to live as what they would call ‘True Dragons’ here in Ar’Cosmos. I am not one of those people, but I would not begrudge anyone their own choices in this life.

Anyway. Eventually, Fairy Moon found two more Wizards of great skill, and that is how we got the three Great Houses of Ar’Cosmos.

House Handinoi, also known as House Fae. Current Matriarch by the name of Illustrious Moon. She has held the position for the last 1100 years and done great things with it, ensuring that outside Wizards are continually found and brought into the fold, so that we might keep them safe and also prevent them from breaking the world ever again. House Fae are the builders of Ar’Cosmos, and the keepers of the Path.

House Welixor, also known as House Death. Current Patriarch by the name of Inferno Maw. He has held the position for 800 years. He ascended to his position as Master Necromancer at the young age of 125. He and his necromancers oversee the outside defense of Ar’Cosmos; they guard the Paths in, and out.

House Fizacaw, also known as House Carnage, is my own house, though I stepped down as patriarch many, many years ago. Current Matriarch by the name of Bright Smile. She has held that position for the last 150 years. We are responsible for the defenses inside Ar’Cosmos.

Then there are the unaligned dragons; those with unshifted Dragon Essence who come and go, but who are unable to settle down either due to personal choice of not wanting to shift their Essence, or unable to get a shift, due to the lack of Wizards.

And…

Hmm.

I think that’s it. Yes.

Oh, sure, there’s 1300 years of history I’m leaving out, but that’s not important right now, since all the actual [Gate Space] stuff is mostly from those early years or better explained by Fairy Moon and others in House Fae. I did not make my [Gate Space] myself; I walked the Worldly Path back in the Old Cosmology, and the Darkness helped me take that final step. The fae have always been inside any [Gate Space] they ever wished to find, though. Mostly they just leave people alone unless you go poking at them directly.

One thing I will say, though, is that unless you’re willing to support the growth of civilization, like I am, then you are simply never going to get [Gate Space], no matter what sort of tricks or knowledge you learn. Of that, I am certain.

- - - -

Erick sat back in his chair. Breaks had been had and drinks had been sorted and Erick switched to water and light mead somewhere around hour 3. But Redflame was a great speaker. Erick almost forgot his own problems with Fairy Moon in that half a day of listening; in hearing how she always worked hard to rescue so many others.

Erick hoped that was true, and not propaganda.

Erick was pretty sure it was true enough. Redflame definitely gave off the air of a true historian who knew his stuff, and wanted to impart the truth to you as much as ‘truth’ could exist in the chaotic depths of history. Redflame had even said as much a few times during his lecture, in the more controversial parts.

And now the lecture was over.

Redflame finished off another barrel of his own mead, smiled, then asked, “Questions?”

