Redflame glanced away from Erick, saying to Fairy Moon, “You shouldn’t have done that. I had diplomatic plans in place should he show. We all had plans. You would have known this if you spend more than a day here every five years, or if you talked to anyone else besides Illustrious and your Maid Maria.” He said to Erick, “You’re quite the divisive topic around here, you know. I heard that House Handinoi tried to attack you to get you to come to us when it became clear you weren’t receiving our letters, or our other attempts to reach you. Of course House Handinoi’s largest attempt didn’t work either, though, and now they have Dragon Stalkers coming their way, and what’s more: you went to that Ordoonarati fellow instead. Fate twisted hard to make this not happen until now.” Redflame said, “Ordoonarati is a vile little hermit who wants nothing more than to live in his grasslands; very regressive, that one.” He looked to Fairy Moon. “You still could have handled this better.”

Fairy Moon shrugged and dug into her meal like she hadn’t just eaten three hours ago.

Erick eyed Redflame, though. “… You sent letters?” he asked, having a hard time reading Redflame to tell if he was lying or not. He didn’t seem to be, but what the fuck did Erick know about anything? Not a whole lot, apparently.

“We tried, but after the first three attempts ended in the outing of a dragon, that plan was stopped.” Fairy Moon said, “We think Melemizargo was intercepting them, directly.”

“No one was willing to risk a personal visit, either.” Redflame said, “Too much of a chance that one of us would encounter each other out there, where who knows what could have happened. No. It is probably better that you are here now, even if your arrival was under stressful methods. Especially if you want to solve the Sundering problem!” Redflame huffed a small laugh, saying, “Good Fire! That’s a tough one. Well time enough for all that.” He turned to Fairy Moon. “Now that you’re here and look to be here for a while, Fairy Moon, I have lots of things to discuss with you but that will have to happen later.” He turned to Erick. “And now that you’re here, Erick, I desire to speak with you about [Renew]. As I implied earlier, you might be able to work a [Renew] into coalescing mana into a crystal that, once large enough, you can enact a small Wizardry, based on the starter mana crystal. My own plans for this particular magic are theoretical and— Ah! This is all out of order. I had plans and I am being unconscionably rude. We can do all of those plans later, too. For now—” He asked, “You all came here for a reason, I take it? Something about history?”

“… Well now I kinda want to ask about this idea of [Renew] leading to Wizardry.” Erick said, “I hadn’t even considered that. No one has.”

In retrospect, maybe he should have.

As far as Erick’s understanding of Wizardry went, anyone could enact ‘wizardry’ if they gathered enough personal, focused mana, but the timescales for that gathering were rather rough on most people. Everyone naturally produced mana, including non-Wizards. Normal people produced 10 mana per day, but dragons produced about 500-5000, according to Rozeta. In the Old Cosmology there were immortals who had cultivated their own mana for centuries just so they could create within their souls the perfect magic, and then use that magic. Wizards made millions of mana over a period of days, though, so it was very easy for them to make and cast Wizardry.

Erick still wasn’t clear on the exact difference between shaping mana and casting spells, and whatever the fuck Wizardry with mana crystals was, but he would likely find out soon enough.

Except...

Erick had serious doubts that [Renew] would allow for easy Wizardry. He let that doubt show, saying, “I don’t think it would work like that. For one, even if people are using the mana gifted to them by the Script, to prop up spells that they did not make themselves, the end result is a spellwork consisting of the input mana of everyone; not single-source mana. As far as I understand you need perfect, self-created mana to make wizardry.” He added, “At least that’s how I understand it.”

Redflame smiled, saying, “My final goals are likely unreachable, but I am still going to try, for there are historical records of wide scale muddled-Wizardry being enacted in ritual by a thousand mages at once, with each one of them attuned to the ritual and to each other. [Renew] should be able to shortcut this level of organization to some degree, but we shall see! I’m very glad that you are here in Ar’Cosmos now, Erick, because I have the mana necessary to make [Renew] at Basic Tier, and I want to! I have been saving up for just such a special occasion. I would dearly like to speak to you of what you think is necessary, and if I succeed, then I will gift this magic to you, and you can take it back to Veird with you when you go.” Erick surely had a surprised expression on his face, because Redflame’s own face morphed into joy. “And that is my spiel to you. Most of it, anyway. It was all in the letter, but you never got it, which is fine. You’re here now.”

“Why do you want [Renew], though?” Erick asked.

“Because I can hand it out to you and help you in your goals, but I can also hand it out to all my own people, too.” Redflame said, “Upkeep on a castle this large and on the borders of Ar’Cosmos is costly and [Renew] would solve most of those costs. And then there’s the big hope…” Redflame got a shine in his eyes, as he said, “If [Renew] is actually capable of Wizardry, then we will be able to cease our hunting of wild Wizards out in Veird and still be able to Paradox every newborn child into one of our three Houses. Maybe we could even undo the source of the Curse itself by targeting through an afflicted and hitting Kirginatharp. Ohh! Now that is the dream!”

For a long moment, Redflame’s hope for the future mirrored Erick’s, and he felt a deep kinship. This man had gone after [Gate], and according to the rules to get [Gate], he had to be the kind of person who wanted to expand civilization through the use of [Gate]. That was pretty much exactly Erick’s idea of [Gate], too.

Erick almost blurted out that he had created [Renew] already, and that Redflame’s experiment was already out there and ready to be performed. But he could not.

Not after being kidnapped into this land. Not after the shit that he had been put through. But mostly, because that would be outing himself as a Wizard, right then and there, and he didn’t trust anyone in this land. Not yet. Maybe not ever.

But something didn’t sit right.

He asked, “If you can do small Wizardry already with the mana you already have, then why not use that to free your children from the Curse?”

Redflame blinked a bit, then eyed Erick from afar. “… Ah. You truly know nothing of this land, do you?” He nodded. “Ah. I see it now. I see why Fairy Moon stole you away— To answer your question: We do use our small-wizardry to free as many children as we can. It’s an imperfect system we can only do every other year, for one person, but it is not nearly enough and those freed usually end up as dragonkin. It is rare that we can make full dragons. Sometimes the process goes well…” His voice trailed off. He came back. “Ar'Cosmos is at its population and mana and self-Wizardry cap. The only way we have found to actually expand is to use real Wizards.” He added, “And just so you know: We do treat our Wizards well, here in Ar’Cosmos. I know you likely have some wrong-headed ideas of what we do to our Wizards here, because in Veird they kill and imprison them, or strip them of their power and leave them to languish in some watched-over city. But here in Ar’Cosmos we do try to see that they are comfortable and happy and fulfilled.” He looked sad for a moment. “We’ve fallen so far from the heights of the Old Cosmology, but it is what it has to be, for the Old Wizards truly did destroy the Old Cosmology.”

Erick had a lot of thoughts about that. He picked one, and asked, “Did they truly kill the Old Cosmology?”

“… Well.” Redflame said, “That’s a course of study at the arcanaeum. If you wish to audit classes while you’re here you may do so at your leisure. We even have some former Wizards there, if you wish to speak to them? If you do find any nascent Wizards out there in Veird to help you make your [Gate]— I might be able to help with [Renew], but certainly not with [Gate]. If you find any Wizards, I would have you know that we don’t just ‘Break’ them and steal their power and then throw them away like they do out there on Veird. We do treat them well, and between Fairy Moon and I and an untouched Wizard, we could certainly help you to make [Gate] if you find a Wizard of sufficient power.”

He had already received such an offer from Stratagold.

Erick decided to tell them that. “Yours is a competing offer from the one I got in Stratagold.”

Redflame smiled wide, though he tried to keep his fangs hidden. “Tell me how to tip the scales and I will do so.”

Fairy Moon brought the conversation back around, “But before all that, we need you to explain the history of Ar’Cosmos; Erick has no basis for understanding our problems, yet. He still has many wrong-headed ideas.”

Erick did not have that many wrong-headed ideas in his head… Probably.

“Oh yesyesyes. I’m simply excited; don’t mind me,” Redflame said, waving an arm. “Where would you like to start?”

Fairy Moon said, “Begin before the Sundering, and continue on until the stabilization of Ar’Cosmos and the Three Houses. Tell all the secrets that you usually leave out. Erick is on the Path and he needs to know of [Gate], but keep most of that talk for another time.”

“Oh my.” Redflame lost a bit of his mirth. “That far back? I usually don’t go that far back in my lesson plans. Modern day history is much more relevant. Also: those secrets are graduate level work and they put ideas into people’s heads— Op! Wait. Yes. He’s on the Path. Of course. Might as well lay down the truth as early as I can.”

If Erick was reading him right, Redflame wasn’t sad or angry about the Sundering. Perhaps he had put it behind him? Most immortals Erick knew had not.

“Erick doesn’t know the true story of Idyrvamikor, either,” Fairy Moon said.

“Ah. Well. You would tell that part better than I, but I will give the usual seven-hour Sundering Lecture with the usual caveats. Feel free to eat and drink while I speak, or to ask for a break, for I know I will be taking some breaks now and then.”

Erick sipped his beer and settled in. The beef was great, but he was still full from lunch, and yet… he could eat again. It was quite good.

Redflame nibbled on his cow, which involved biting off a leg and swallowing it whole. He followed this with draining half a barrel full of ale. He licked his lips with a curling non-forked tongue, then he smiled, and began, “Back before the Sundering, I was doing the same thing as I do now; teaching history. That universe was very different from this universe, but mostly it was the same…”

- - - -

The Sundering happened on a Fourthday while I was teaching a class on the history of the Radiant Depths. By a quirk of fate I happened to look out the window and saw Primal Lightning consume my homeworld’s sister plane. I and a hundred thousand of the people I could reach within the next hour managed to bunker down in what you all would call my [Gate Space], which would one day become Ar’Cosmos, but we’re getting ahead of ourselves. I didn’t get a second hour to search for more survivors. The Sundering ripped through my home plane and severed all the Paths leading everywhere.

We were cast adrift, along with the [Gate Space]s of every other person who had ever managed to make the spell, and who managed to get inside before the Primal Lightning came. There were quite a few of us, huddling down for safety in the Deep Paths, gathered together, but as the Old Cosmology began to fully collapse, even those spaces weren’t proof enough against The End.

When the Primal Lightning crossed the mana ocean, it left the Yawning Voids in its wake, and those True Voids eventually began to link together. Our gathered Paths were like boats in an ever-shrinking ocean. This is why we had gathered; it was not by choice, but by the magical laws of the Old Cosmology. We didn’t understand that foible right away, but we did soon enough.

And as the ocean drained away, some of those Paths began to fall into the Voids, even though we could not see them, or touch them, or know them at all.

Almost all of those Paths fell into the Yawning Void. I and the people I rescued were lucky, though. We managed to stay afloat in the mana ocean. We found solidity on Veird.

The rest of our time in the Old Cosmology you surely know. The final trip into the Yawning Void. The Script holding us together. The sacrifice of gods and monsters and everything that could not survive on the other side for at least a few minutes. In those few minutes, we lost so very many [Gate Spaces], but then the Grand Translation happened. We survived.

Pure chaos followed for about four years; both on Veird and also inside all the surviving [Gate Space].

There were wars everywhere on Veird, both above and below. Melemizargo killed 95% of everyone in the Underworld. About 50 different [Gate Spaces] from just as many Travelers were set adrift as their owners were killed or lost to the Deep Paths, trying to get back to the Old Cosmology. The fae took over about 50 other [Gate Spaces] from their owners and had their own Fae Wars out of sight of everyone else, for the Script trapped them all here on Veird, even those who should never be left in the same room together. A lot of them just went insane. Most fae actually committed suicide-by-wrought as they left the Paths and sought rest. Temporary rest, but all the same; effectively dead.

For the fae normally cannot die, you see. They are reborn in the mana with the memories of who they were before, but those memories are like faded thoughts. And thus, most fae passed on from this world, one way or the other.

Fairy Moon stayed, though. She’s been killed and reborn countless times, choosing to come back each time to ensure the stability of Ar’Cosmos, because of a pact formed between myself and her soon after the Sundering.

I normally would not tell you the wording of the Pact, for it was a sacred act of cooperation made between us back then, but she has told me to tell you, and so I will.

