“A lot, but I will content myself with one:” Erick asked, “If Ar’Cosmos is under space constraints, then why is there a whole empty forest out there?”

Redflame smiled wide again, but he was still very aware that he had large fangs, so he smiled without showing his teeth. “An astute observation! That’s all a fae trick. If you could see through the Paths then you would see that it’s ten people per ten square meters, and some of us are dragons! Ah ha! But yes— There are space constraints here. We try to keep everyone comfortable by hiding that as much as we can.”

“… How does that work?”

“As good as we can make it work,” Fairy Moon said. “Actual learning on that subject would need to happen at House Fae, though, with Illustrious Moon and my people. Redflame can manage the land, but he cannot make it more.”

“Quite right!” Redflame stretched up to his full height. “And I think that’s a good place to leave it, for now. I would give you a token to let you return here whenever you wished, if you desire, Erick. I’m sure we have lots to discuss!”

“I would take that token.” Erick said, “And be back later. I have a lot to think about right now.”

Redflame nodded, then turned his eyes to the part of the table directly in front of Erick, where his plate had been. His eyes flickered. A bright red flame coalesced out of the air and shrunk down into a tiny ruby ring. “Just wear that however you wish and you can always find your way here.”

Erick picked it up, but he did not put it on. He slipped it into a pocket, saying, “This is a welcome gift.”

Redflame smiled.

Fairy Moon stood from her chair, saying, “I would take the shortcut back home.” With a smirk, she added, “It was good seeing you again, my ‘husband’.”

“And you as well, ‘wifey’.” Redflame said, “Ah! And now I must get back to my students. I gave them the day off but then there’s the night classes. I will prepare all my [Renew] materials for when you decide to show, Erick. I look forward to working with you! And I hope you get [Gate Space] working, without Melemizargo’s Wizardry. Even if he is acting better these days, I wouldn’t trust him.”

Fairy Moon stood from her seat. Erick followed, saying he appreciated the meal; he decided against ever saying ‘thank you’ while here in Ar’Cosmos. The large, red dragon nodded, then vanished back into the braziers on the sides of the room, and Erick and Fairy Moon walked through a white stone door that hung in midair.

- - - -

They landed in the dining room where Erick had met Illustrious Moon.

Fairy Moon held up Redflame’s red ring, saying, “I’ll give this back to you if you promise only to wear it in most-dire circumstances. I won’t have your presence portend the end of my dearest dragon.”

Erick touched his pocket, but he could already tell that yup, the ring was gone. He was slightly miffed about the small theft, but it was honestly small potatoes compared to everything else, and to the realization that just now entered Erick’s mind.

Erick said, “You’re worried that I am going to kill everyone here. That’s why you’re doing this.” He added, “You know. I would consider that rude of you, if you hadn’t overshadowed that small failure to trust with all the other ones already demonstrated.”

“I have many weary worries, and the outcomes of your actions are but one of them. Also, this ring will reveal your Wizardry to Redflame. You were smart not to put it on.”

Erick felt a chill. Yes; he had considered that a possibility when Redflame offered the chance to come back and then gave a ring to enable his return. But to have it spelled out so blatantly...

Erick asked, “What would he do if he found out?”

“About your Wizardry, or your [Renew]?” Fairy Moon asked, guessing at the rest of Erick’s thoughts without him needing to say them.

“Either.”

“A golden cage and every need met, including speaking to the outside world; the same for any Wizard we capture, but on the better end of the spectrum of fates— DO NOT get captured by anyone else from House Carnage. If such a thing looks to happen, then run to Redflame, if you are able.” After a tense moment, Fairy Moon continued, “The difference between Redflame and I is that I am willing to let you leave when you prove your power and capture the Silencing of all Sunderings, in addition to making [Gate]. But he would never let you go; you would have to force that future.”

“… I’m going to bed.” Erick looked around and saw a window. “Does the sun ever set around here? How long have I been here in Ar’Cosmos, anyway? How much time has passed on Veird?”

The sky shifted outside the window. Night crept in and barley-pink flames all throughout the house threw deep shadows and warm light across the stone and the wood and the sculptures in the walls.

“Night happens when I want.” Fairy Moon asked, “Would you like a normal cycle, or a chosen cycle?”

“… Normal solar cycle would be fine; 12 hours of sun, 12 of night.”

Fairy Moon nodded. “About five days have passed since I stole you from Stratagold, both in here and on Veird. We don’t tinker with time here in Ar’Cosmos; it gets too confusing.”

Erick nodded, then held out his hand. “Ring.”

Fairy Moon handed the ring over.

And then Erick walked off, saying, “Good night!”

“Your room is down the other hallway. Just follow your necklace; it will always lead you there.”

Erick turned around and went the other direction. And now that he tried to feel his necklace… Yup. It was pulling him in that direction. The ring, now in his pocket, was pulling him in a different direction. Well okay then.

Fairy Moon said, “Sleep well.”

Erick hurried to get out of the woman’s direct line of sight, but he wasn’t foolish enough to think that that was something he could ever actually do.

- - - -

Back in his room and once again alone enough to relax, but probably not alone at all if there were truly ‘10 people inside every 10 square meters of space’, Erick instantly went to the bathroom, puked up nothing because he had eaten five hours ago, and then he had a nice long bath. As steam rose all around him and Ophiel played in the water, Erick watched a very large, subtly green sliver of a moon cross the sky outside the picture window. It was an unnatural moon, and it was only half there. The parts that were in shadow actually had stars floating where the moon itself should have occluded all view. It resembled a child’s drawing, made by a kid who didn’t understand that moons were actually spherical even if parts of them were in darkness; they were not simply the slivers of light they sometimes appeared to be.

The wind blew outside. Candlelight danced all around.

Erick let himself sink into the waters. He hoped Jane was okay. How was she doing after the soul slime? What was the outcome of that? Was Spur okay? They probably were. How was Stratagold responding to Erick’s disappearance? What were Tasar and Sitnakov and Riivo doing? Had Koyabez’s church gotten the Crystal Star back, yet?

… Could he phone Phagar?

He had a hundred mana. He tried it. Nothing happened.

Ah. Well then.

Eventually, Erick surfaced, dried off, and went to bed—

He had an idea.

[Renew] as Elemental Benevolence? That could work.

… Tomorrow. He would work on that tomorrow.
