After several hours of working with the skill, I discovered why the skill wasn’t being improved yet. I wasn’t even thinking of using them against an enemy. Even when I sparred against Yawm, all my focus was on using gravity to help me move. It was like I was using half of the skill’s potential in a way. Since that was the case, I relied on an old skill form long ago - Shadow Boxing.

It’s a time-tested ability I used to ramp up my skills when the system started. As the enemies became less and less human though, it became a damn hard thing to keep using. In this case, I could get an idea of how to use the skill against a person. After mastering it against that kind of opponent, I would apply what I learned from different opponents.

Before doing that, I sat down on my bed and opened my dimensional storage. I pulled out one of Torix’s rations, a reddish, milky liquid, and poured it down my throat. It went down like chugging a dozen raw eggs.

I shook my head, shaking off the disgust before standing back up. I spent the next few hours honing in on disrupting an opponent while helping my own movements. As I suspected, this wasn’t the kind of skill I would gain over the course of a day, however. It would take time which was something I didn’t have at the moment.

Instead of panicking though, I pushed all my doubts and anxiety out. Yeah, I wanted to sit down and cry myself a river. I chose not to. Something I learned a long time ago was that crying was like throwing myself a pity party. I was the only one showing up, and I was the only one who cared about it too. In other words, it was a waste of time.

So I kept on the grind, honing in on disruption. I got a few tricks as I went. One of them was what I called a gravity press. I would use a skill called mana press that extended the effect of spells in a particular area. By using that in conjunction with a gravity well, I could snap streams of gravity onto an opponent. These would pull them in different directions, throwing them off balance.

Another useful tactic involved telekinesis. A lot of my telekinesis was like hitting transparent plates. I struck one plate and a different plate somewhere else would be shot forward. In this case, I incorporated my footsteps as disrupting tools. I transferred the kinetic force of my stomping feet into confusing pushes against my opponent.

This is how I thought about it. Imagine stomping your feet on a glass floor. If I stomped on a glass floor, it wouldn’t crack because that energy was transferred into my opponent’s face. It was a lot like what I used to bounce across the deserts of Hod’s homeworld, just adapted to fighting.

I gained dozens of other little tricks on top of those techniques too. I incorporated them into my style as I went. By the time it, my imaginary opponent would be jerked around like nobody’s business. That’s when I got my second notification from that training session.

Unique skill Upgraded! Gravitational Flux is now augmented with your legendary skill, Force of Nature. This converts Gravitational Flux into Kinetic Leviathan. Kinetic Leviathan retains the same skill value as Gravitational Flux.

Kinetic Leviathan(lvl 36) - By manipulating the latent energy in the physical world, you conquer your foes and your movement. +36% to ease of using gravity and antigravity. +36% to use of gravity and antigravity to manipulate opponents.

After the notification appeared, all the extra tricks with gravity and telekinesis became easier. If anything, I expected some enormous increase in the skill considering the name. I mean Kinetic Leviathan sounded like a mythical or legendary skill. It was strong still though. Either way, I’d have to wait until I was in combat before I could see its full effectiveness.

With that handled, I homed in on the last unique skill I intended on improving, Gorger of Mana. It was a powerful skill, allowing me to drain the mana of foes if I could dig my armor into them. Enhancing that skill may even let me strengthen Event Horizon or squeeze more mana from my enemies. Either of those effects bolstered my growth, so I brainstormed a few ways of gaining the skill.

That’s when an obvious idea popped into my head. There was plenty of eldritch right outside that I could practice my ability with. I just needed to ask Yawm if that was ok. It could be super awkward, but that wasn’t going to get in the way of my power boost.

So I walked out of my room. As I opened the pale blue handle of my room’s door, Keeja’s stood in front of me with one hand primed to knock. Keeja’s expressionless eyes met mine. He gestured down the hallway. I took a step back, giving the creepy and wiry creature some space.

Keeja gave a short bow, pointing towards the hallway. I followed. We walked through the icy corridors, the view of the underground lake no longer amazes me. It had become a part of life here. As we walked, I preemptively prepared a message towards Torix and company about getting me the fuck out of here.

I would mentally send the message at a moment’s notice. As I finished the note, we reached Yawm’s study. Keeja knocked on the door,

“Master?”

Yawm’s voice muffled through the door,

“You may come in.”

Keeja opened the doorway, showing Yawm hunched over a plate of marble. On it was many elaborate markings of the cipher. Yawm walked out from behind his desk, unlatching a wooden bridge connecting two sides of it. He lowered the wooden entrance, walking up towards me. Once there, he motioned for Keeja to leave.

With the smell of yellowed paper and powdered stone in the air, Yawm turned one his massive palms to me,

“Hello, Harbinger. It’s good to see that anxiety didn’t eat you alive.”

I shrugged, “I’m not one to worry.”

Yawm nodded, “Neither am I. I did, however, dwell on what you said yesterday. It seems as though you’ve been placed in an uneasy position. I can offer you a way out as I still believe that we can coexist.”

I frowned, “I'm just being honest here, but how in the hell do our goals align? Mine was to kill you.”

Yawm laughed, “Hah, I admire your candid manner of speaking. It’s refreshing. You've got an equally blunt manner of being, both honest and direct. Besides for the lies about your strength and origin of course. Besides for that hiccup, that directness is why I think we can come to a compromise.”

He walked towards a window, facing outside. He stood there for a moment, debating with himself. He laid a hand on a panel of pale ice,

“Do you know what I thought when Amara said you were level 3,000?”

I shrugged, “Probably something along the lines of, ‘This piece of shit thought he pulled one over on me.’”

Yawm laughed again, “Hah, hah. Your sense of humor is better when you're honest.”

Yawm gazed out into the distance, “I was thinking about your future. Your abilities are far beyond any other level 3,000 being I’ve ever met, eldritch or otherwise. I couldn’t help but imagine you as a fully leveled with knowledge of the cipher in tow. You would be a fearsome sight to anyone or anything, even Schema or perhaps the Old Ones.”

He turned towards me,

“I fear what you may become as well, yet there is an excitement in me as well. You mentioned much of your journey to me yesterday. As a warrior, you took a road less traveled. You were brutal, efficient, and violent with crushing your foes. Unfortunately, I am one of those foes.”

Yawm opened both his hands outwards, “Surely you understand why I am uneasy with letting you leave here unscathed? You will grow into someone I need to be wary of. To let you live is a risk, a dire one.”

I was so close to sending my message to Althea and the others. So damn close.

Yawm let his arms flop against his sides, “Yet we aren’t enemies by your choosing. There is no hatred in you towards me. By taking that creature from my back, I regained my old self. You saved my life. That proved to me that you are no pawn of Schemas. You even knew the cipher before we met. That results in exile.”

Yawm shook his head, “No, that isn’t what you intended. Our problem is that you cannot live as you choose too because Schema is forcing you down a path that isn’t your own. You have as much a reason as anyone to hate him.”

Yawm walked back towards me, “I empathize with your predicament as you may imagine. The issue is that I too have my own goals and aspirations. After thinking about the issue, I came to a conclusion.”

Yawm lifted the marble plate beside him, “It’s this marble plate. It will allow us to function as two independent entities and help one another until we no longer need each other. At that point, we may part ways as equals.”

I frowned, “It’s gotta be more than just a marble plate.”

Yawm clicked his fingers, forming a table of ice between us.

“It’s not a chunk of stone.”

Yawm placed the marble on the table, turning the inscriptions towards me,

“It’s a contract.”
