“Miss Marina,” Mellie called as the pot reached its boiling point. “I think it’s ready.”

“Yeah, just turn down the heat and cover with a lid now,” Standing in front of the cutting board now, Marina replied without looking back.

The bubbling sound was all she needed to hear.

Using both of her knives as spatulas, she folded the ground pork into a neat pile before moving it into a bowl, ready to be decorated with seasoning and herbs.

“Mellie, can I steal a piece of your bee bread?” Marina asked, rinsing the knives alongside the cutting board.

“Sure thing.” Mellie stepped toward the door. “Just one, Miss Marina?”

“Yes, just one is enough,” Marina said, rolling up the usual selection of herbs before chopping them roughly and adding them into the pork. “Hecate, can you…” She stared blankly for a moment. “Actually, never mind.”

Hecate leaned against the table. “My dear, did I make you angry again?”

“No, I’m not angry.” Marina rinsed the knife again. Setting it aside this time.

“But your hesitance tells me otherwise.”

“Trust me, Hecate.” Marina let out a heavy sigh. “You’re not going to want to do it.”

“Well, my dear, I am a woman of surprises.” Hecate grinned playfully. “I might just prove you wrong.”

“Okay, fine, I need you to mix the herbs with the pork… with your bare hand.”

“Ah… I see now…” Hecate paused. “Thank you for sparing the last of my dignity, my dear.”

“Miss Marina, here.” Mellie handed her the brick of bee bread.

“Oh, thanks.” She said with a smile.

Setting down the abomination of a baked product, Marina positioned her knife right around the center. But as she waved the blade into a cutting motion, everything stopped. Not only did the knife not cut into the bread, but it also failed to make a dent in the surface.

“Okay, what?” Marina stared in awe. “What did you guys put into this thing?”

“Sorry, Miss Marina, I think it’s my knife.” Mellie lowered her head.

I think it’s the bread… Marina reached for the hatchet next to the table. “Let us try this.”

With a light slam, the bee bread split in half, then into quarters.

“Hecate, I think I have a new goal in life.” She grabbed the mortar and pestle from the other side of the room.

“I am not the biggest enthusiast when it comes to surprises, but I am rather curious.” Hecate crossed her arms.

“The new goal is to get Mellie a fully functional modern kitchen and a set of new knives,” Marina said, adding the pieces of bread into the stone bowl.

A flush crept across Mellie’s cheeks. “But Miss Marina, I don’t think that’s necessary, I’m not that passionate about cooking…”

“Trust me, Mellie.” Placing a towel under the mortar, she began pounding down the bread into crumbs. “Once you have the right tools, under the right conditions, you will find yourself enjoying that thing a lot more.” She eyeballed in around half a cup of milk.

The moisture quickly drowned away the dryness and crumbliness of the bee bread, transforming it into a softer texture. Marina folded the rehydrated bread back to a large chunk before squeezing out the excess liquid and dropping it into the ground pork.

“Miss Marina, what does this do?” Mellie watched as if she were a child.

Marina giggled. “Talking about not being passionate about cooking.”

“I was just being curious…” Mellie’s ears turned red.

“So the point of this method is to give some texture to the dish. After all, if a dish has all flavors and no texture, it would stop tasting good after the third bite.” Marina explained as she mixed all the ingredients into a homogeneous state. “Oops, Mellie, can you pass me the salt, please?”

“Got it.” Mellie brought over the bowl of salt. “Here, Miss Marina.”

“Add it in, please. My hands are tied.”

“Wait… me?” Mellie froze.

With her greasy hands hovering above the ground pork, she glanced to Mellie. “Just three pinches of salt. You can do it. I believe in you.”

Mellie took a step back. “But this is like a really important step, isn’t it? Why not let Miss Hecate do it instead? I can do anything else.”

“Don’t trust Hecate with the salt. Her fingers are too long and big.” Marina shook her head.

Hecate murmured from the corner. “How interesting…”

“O-okay, just three pinches…” Mellie extracted a small nub of salt crystals with the tip of her fingers before spreading it over the ground pork. “Like this…?”

“Perfect.” Marina nodded. “Two more.”

Repeating twice more as instructed, Mellie was finally able to set down the heavy bowl of responsibility.

Marina mixed once again, except much more thoroughly this time. “Do you two want to try making some meatballs?” She asked.

“Sure, I would love to!” Mellie’s eyes sparkled with enthusiasm.

“Alright, let me demonstrate first.” Marina pulled out a small portion from the pile, around half the size of her palm.

She pressed her fingers down to firm up the meat before rolling it into a sphere with her other hand.

“Ta-da.” She rested the small meatball on the cutting board. “Pretty easy, right?”

Mellie examined the structure and size of Marina’s meatball carefully. “I-I think I got it. Can I give it a try?”

“Of course,” Marina gestured as she took a step back.

Just like Marina had done, Mellie picked up a small portion of meat before firming them with her fingers. She found the texture to be somewhat peculiar; it was both greasy and cohesive. With her other hand, she rolled the meatball in her palms and finished by setting it down next to Marina’s meatball.

“I think I messed it up…” Mellie looked down.

“It is… slightly smaller than mine.” Marina took a closer look. “But the shape is good, nice and round sphere. It will cook just fine.”

“Really?” Mellie’s antenna rose at the compliment.

“Yeah, it happens quite often, not going to ruin the dish or anything.” Marina shrugged before turning to the white figure in the corner of her eye. “Hecate, you want to try?”

“I am not particularly interested in that type of task, as you would’ve guessed from my previous resentment, but since you, my dear, were the one to request my participation, then it is only natural for me—”

“Hecate, it's a yes or no question.” Marina rolled her eyes.

“Yes, my dear, I would like to give it a try.” Hecate took a few steps forward.

Looking at Hecate’s crimson eyes, Marina softened her voice. “You want a demonstration or no?”

“No need, I was observing from afar.” Hecate smiled as she swiftly picked up a sizeable portion of pork with her hand.

After following the steps from her mind, Hecate placed her finished meatball on the cutting board alongside the others.

“Uhh… That might be a little bigger than the one I made.” Marina said.

“That is not the right way to describe what I had just created, my dear,” Hecate argued. “It’s not bigger. It's in the realm of more powerful and more prestigious.”

“Sure…” Marina stared as she struggled to find words of refutation. “You two want to help me finish the rest of minced meat?”

Both Hecate and Mellie nodded in unison as the three of them got to work. The entire process took a little less than twenty minutes, though the assortment of meatballs lying on the cutting board was now anything but consistent. Some were big, and some were small. It was impossible to spot the “standard” size. At a glance, the unevenness of the meatballs might cause visual discomfort for some. But Marina found them to be rather amusing and creative. If everything were exactly the same, it’d be dull and lack personality, just like mass-produced frozen dinners at the grocery store.

Removing the pot of stock from the heat, Marina uncovered the lid. The scent of the hot steam had an incredible depth of richness that should’ve only been possible after hours on the stove. The stock itself was nice and clear, thanks to Mellie’s efforts.

Now, placing the flat makeshift pan above the heating element, Marina tossed in some pork trimmings from earlier. The skin and fat sizzled as heat rose on the surface of the metal. And soon, a layer of liquid fat appeared.

Bringing over the board of meatballs, she carefully lowered each one onto the pan. The hot oil erupted at the presence of liquid. Tiny drops of oil jumped from the pan and nipped the skin of Marina’s hand. The burning sensation was painful, but she was used to it, knowing it was all worth it at the end.

“Mellie, can you put the rest in a bowl for tomorrow?” Marina handed over the cutting board.

“Yes, Miss Marina,” Mellie replied as she watched from a distance. “How long do these take to cook?”

“Funnily enough, it’s going to depend on the size.” Marina flipped the meatballs to their sides. “You hungry?”

Mellie wrapped her arms around her stomach. “A little bit…”

“Well, me too. I guess we can both shift the blame onto Hecate then.” Marina giggled.

“I-I think I will get these into the icebox instead…” Mellie lifted the cutting board before disappearing.

A few more minutes of searing passed as the meatballs all developed a dark, mahogany coloration on their outer crusts. Marina pulled them onto a stack on a plate before placing a small pot in place of the metal pan. She lowered a couple of scoops of butter as the heat picked up. After the butter melted completely, Marina added in a few tablespoons of pollen grinds as she stirred them together.

The mixture soon emulsified into a thick, coating-like consistency. At this point, Marina slowly poured in the stock, little by little while mixing, adding pinches of salt in between. The solids and liquids intertwined themselves, forming something that was neither a sauce nor a soup. It was instead called gravy.

Marina lowered the heat to a slow simmer before adding in the assortment of meatballs, letting all the flavors grow into one another. All the herbs alongside the richness of the gravy blended into a symphony of mundane home cooking. The ingredients were simple, and yet the result became so much more.

To plate, Marina removed the stewing meatballs from the gravy onto three small plates, topping with spoonfuls of the luscious, thick gravy as well as some finely chopped herbs for color. And the dish was done.

Marina turned around before yelling. “Alright, ladies, dinner is ready.”

“...”