“How do you deal with having a sore ass all day?” I roll onto my side and complain to Kervin.

“My cushion helps a little, but you eventually just get used to it.” He tells me while keeping his eyes on the forest path.

"Maybe I should invest a few stat points into Endurance," I grumble under my breath.

“That won’t help you in the least.” I turn over and face my new unwanted best friend. Reel chuckles at the murderous look I give him. As usual, he doesn’t look deterred by my open hostility. “I’ve heard of warriors with defense builds complaining about the same thing. Kervin’s right, you’ll just have to suck it up.” Reel laughs even harder at me.

“Like your mom,” My rebuttal causes him to choke. Who would have thought a middle school comeback would be so effective.

Reel narrows his eyes at me and goes back to watching my every movement. I roll over facing away from him but hiss in pain as Kervin hits another divot in the dirt road.

We’ve been traveling for three days now, and I quickly realized how much I loathe traveling by cart. After we left the village, it only took me three hours before I tried to bail out of the cart and walk with Lurte and Ryiba. Sadly, as soon as I hopped out of the cart, I was asked to get back in.

Kervin and his men are taking this escort seriously, despite my level of strength. I’m only allowed outside the cart during our pitstops or to water the flowers when the urge arises. Kervin said I might be allowed to walk beside the cart when we leave the forest, though. Apparently, bandit activity has shifted to remote roads like this one, since the war began.

Being confined to this shaking cart has left me irritated the whole trip. I tried working on my Meditation skill, but every pothole Kervin hits jolts me out of my concentration. The only skill I've managed to work on is Mana Skin, and the only thing I've learned is a flaw with my skill.

Mana Skin protects my body with two barriers of mana. After repeated use, I've learned that my barriers are great against blunt force trauma and temperature but weak against piercing attacks. Now I know about another weakness I have to watch out for.

The continuous vibrations from the cart can seep through my mana shields. Just like when I'm standing next to the forge, and I can still feel a portion of the heat, the vibrations are reduced but still affect my shielded body.

Mana Skin is apparently weak against continuous assault. Because of the vibrations, the cost to keep Mana Skin activated has tripled. Because of the new expenditure, I can't keep my skill activated all day like I usually do. I need to keep enough mana set aside if we encounter any danger, so I can only keep Mana Skin activated for four hours each day.

The four hours I guard myself is the only time the vibrations are reduced enough for me to meditate correctly. I tried keeping Mana Skin activated while I sleep, but once I nod off, the skill would deactivate, and the sudden exposure to the cart’s vibrations would immediately wake me back up.

Being sleep-deprived, sore, and bored are only the beginnings of my problems. Reel has taken it upon himself to be my personal travel companion.

Because of the time crunch, we haven't stopped since we left the village. The bivol only needs to rest for a few hours a day, keeping us moving continuously. Kervin does most of the driving, but one of his guards takes over when it's his turn to rest in the back with me. There's always a guard on either side of the cart, and the fourth person rotates a rest schedule in the back with me. While Kervin, Lurte, and Ryiba prefer to rest, Reel uses every chance he gets to make small talk with me.

Even when he’s walking beside the cart, he watches me closely like I’m going to escape as soon as I get the chance.

"What are you thinking so deeply about?" Reel asks beside me.

“When I should run away from your pestering,” I joke.

“You’re welcome to try. I’m sure I could use the short exercise.”

“Will you stop messing with her already. It’s time for us to switch.” Lurte says from our right.

“Too bad, I was just about to relax to,” Reel gracefully vaults over the side of the cart and switches places with Lurte. How does he still have so much energy? I haven’t seen him sleep once this whole trip.

“Excuse me, Miss Aaliyah.” Lurte carefully crawls into the cart and gets comfortable underneath the canvas. He rummages through his belongings inside the cart and withdraws his sleeping sack.

I'm amazed at how quickly he can get comfortable and easily fall asleep. I'm sure I could knock myself out by looking at my soul, but I can't take the chance that Reel would notice something. I look over at him and see him still watching me with his creepy smile.

“Ignore him, Aaliyah,” I whisper to myself. I should focus on something else, something productive.

It’s been a while since I looked at my status page.

LV: 63 Experience: 413,030/ 514,704

Health: 2,090/2,090

Stamina: 1,243.71/1,403

Mana: 522.93/1,010

Vitality: 209.00

Endurance: 80.15

Strength: 132.00

Dexterity: 125.00

Senses: 60.64

Mind: 62.83

Magic: 101.07

Clarity: 75.79

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV73), Blacksmithing (LV67), Axe Skills (LV55), Hammer Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV50), Mining (LV48), Chanting (LV47), Drawing (LV46), Cooking (LV38), Trading (LV38), Dagger Skills (LV31), Wood Carving (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sword Skills (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV60), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV46), Hammer Arts (LV40), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase price (LV17), Lower Price (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV10), Steady Hands (LV10), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV60), Mana Manipulation (LV53), Precise Strike (LV37), Double Strike (LV35), Weighted Strike (LV26), Flash Step (LV18), Contract (LV2)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV49), Mana Skin (LV49), Mental Resistance (LV47), Extract Mana (LV28), Magic Blacksmithing (LV20)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV33)

Increased Skill Levels

Blacksmithing (LV66-67) 6,650exp

Hammer Skills (LV55) 2,750exp

Drawing (LV45-46) 4,550exp

Trading (LV38) 1,900exp

Wood Carving (LV30-31) 3,050exp

Sword Skills (LV26) 1,300exp

Double Step (LV60) 6,000exp

Measurement (LV46) 4,600exp

Hammer Arts (LV39-40) 7,900exp

Increase price (LV17) 1,700exp

Lower Price (LV16-17) 3,300exp

Sword Arts (LV9-10) 1,900exp

Steady Hands (LV8-10) 2,700exp

Expel Mana (LV60) 9,00exp

Mana Manipulation (LV53) 7,950exp

Precise Strike (LV36-37) 10,950exp

Double Strike (LV35) 5,250exp

Weighted Strike (LV25-26) 7,650exp

Flash Step (LV18) 2,700exp

Contract (LV1-2) 450exp

Inject mana (LV49) 12,250exp

Mana Skin (LV48-49) 24,250exp

Mental Resistance (LV46-47) 23,250exp

Extract Mana (LV27-28) 13,750exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV20) 5,000exp

Sense Soul (LV33) 16,500exp

Skill Experience: 187,250exp

Crafting Experience: 37,661exp

Fighting Experience: 0exp

Total experience Gained: 224,911exp

Almost to level 64, I smile to myself.

“Looking at something good? Did you gain a level, or are you close?” My smile fades when I hear Reel’s question.

Damn, why does he have to be so perceptive!? I dismiss my status page and send him a foul look.

The offender just continues walking next to the cart, smiling like he doesn’t have a care in the world. I need to knock him down a peg. The next time he steals a look at me, I mouth five words to him, 'My mother will get you.'

Reel freezes mid-stride and looks away from me, hiding his expression. What did mother say to him before we left the village?

Four days ago, after I left Kervin’s campsite, I went home to inform my family I was going on a trip. I was already expecting to receive a lecture and prepared myself to defy their wishes if need be, but I wasn’t ready for the reactions I got.

"I agree with Del; this sounds like the merchant's problem. You shouldn't have to leave the village." Dad was surprisingly the one to deny my departure while mother just stood there, thinking over everything I explained to them.

I tried to convince him there was no other way, but he remained firm.

Everything changed when mother stepped in. “You’ll only be gone for eight days, right?” Mother gives me a pointed look.

I was caught off guard by her sudden question and could only nod in confirmation.

What she said next stunned both my father and me. "I think we need to support her, dear. She said she would be back relatively quickly, and I don't think she was exaggerating the danger of offending the general. She can't stay in the village forever."

“Why can’t she!?” It was one of the few times I’ve seen dad interrupt mom.

Mother just gave him an understanding look. “We both knew she would eventually outgrow our little village. That said, she isn’t leaving forever just yet. She’s just going to buy materials in Drey and come back home. This is an important milestone for her.” Dad was never good at arguing with mother.

Father agreed to support my decision, and both said they would see me off the next day.

The following morning, I gathered the last bit of my supplies and moved my materials to Del’s clearing.

Master wanted to see me off too, but after telling him my parents were enough, he reluctantly agreed to stay home. He told me three times not to trust Silver Herd before he hugged me goodbye, which caught me off guard.

By the time I made it back to Kervin's campsite, my parents were already hounding him to keep me safe. Besides my parents, Camden and his wife had also shown up along with a quarter of the village. Many were shouting well wishes and telling me to come back safe and sound. They were throwing so many flags at me; I wouldn't be surprised if a dragon attacked us on our trip.

It was during all the commotion I noticed something peculiar.

Father continued to hound Kervin about my safety while mother slipped off to the side. She walked up to Reel and had him lean in so she could whisper something in his ear. I couldn’t hear their conversation because of the crowd, and my mother was facing away from me.

All I know is whatever she said to Reel smacked the smile from his face and made him go pale. Reel tried to recover, but his smile stayed strained until we left.

I tried to ask mom what she said to him, but she only told me, “I Just wanted to make sure he was aware of how precious you are to us, and that he’s to take good care of you on your trip.”

I spent the first few days of our journey trying to think of whatever mother could’ve possibly said to him to make someone like Reel feel nervous. I know mother could be frightening to me as a parent, but I can't think of a single thing she could have said to a spy/assassin above level 70 to throw him off his game.

I wonder if it’s true mothers can rain hellfire on their enemies?

Knowing my mom, I wouldn’t put it past her.

Now, every time I mention my mother during Reel’s small talk, he changes subjects, avoiding any questions that involve her.

I lay back and try to remove the tension from my body, surrendering myself to the shaking cart. I shouldn't waste my time speculating about mother. She does her best to support our family, and I trust her completely.

I close my eyes and focus on Sense Mana the best that I can.

I can't fully use my skill without entering meditation, but I can use it to see beyond the ocean of trees surrounding us. The mana flowing around us is tranquil. Steady blues from the snow and winter winds, dark brown slowly shifting in the earth, and each tree has its own unique mana flow, making a beautiful shifting painting in my eyes.

This world is truly amazing. Untouched by an industrial revolution and filled with power, few can truly tap into.

The forest is silent as we pass through it, but my extraordinary sight shows me the forest's hidden animals. Small rodents burrowing through the snow-covered ground and multiple types of birds tucked away in their winter homes.

I'm reminded of when I was little, and I asked dad why the birds don’t migrate during winter. Dad didn’t know what the word migrate even meant. I explained the word to him, and he ended up chuckling at my question.

He taught me most non-magical animals have evolved to stay in place rather than change their habitats with the seasons. Father couldn't scientifically explain why, but I bet it’s due to the high mana zones scattered around the world. I'm sure there have to be high mana zones in the atmosphere, and any migrating birds flying through that minefield most likely died out.

Only magical beasts could survive the harsh conditions mana zones create. Though, according to master, mana zones are teeming with materials every crafter dreams about. And as luck would have it, there's a mana zone close to our village.

Mother made me promise not to go into the mana zone during the middle of winter, however, she didn't say anything about exploring it after spring arrives. Kervin can buy me all sorts of materials, but that would cost me bags of gold coins just to experiment with my crafting in the future.

I'll soon have to find a substitute for the chameleon spider carapace. The hunters haven't spotted a spider in over three weeks, and at the rate I'm turning out arrows for the army, I'll use up my supply of carapace in two more months or so.

This trip isn’t only for me to find materials for the general’s arrow. I need a better understanding of the materials Silver Herd has on hand if I can’t find a local substitute for the carapace.

Time slowly slips by as I scan our surroundings, and I grow increasingly bored.

