I shuffle closer to the front of the cart, so I can talk to Kervin without disturbing Lurte’s rest. "What do you do to pass the time? The boredom is killing me."

Kervin chuckles, "Usually, a merchant's route has more stops than this. We only stop at your village for a certain reason, well two reasons now. Other than your village, all of my previous stops were within a day or two from each other.”

"That's interesting to know, but you didn't answer my question. What do you do to pass the time while steering the cart all day?" I ask again.

“Well, I prefer to sing to pass the time. It even helps the bivol move faster.” Kervin looks over his shoulder and gives me a smile before turning back to the road.

“Is it a skill you have,” I question him.

“Not even close,” Ryiba cuts in. "It isn't a skill that makes the bivol move faster; they're trying to escape from his singing."

“You’re just jealous that I have talent.” Kervin scoffs at Ryiba.

“Talent in making a person’s ears bleed,” Ryiba quips.

I can't help but giggle at their banter; it reminds me of when I was little and argued with Richard. Maybe if I'm lucky, I'll see him in Drey.

“It appears you’ll have your excitement in a moment.” Reel’s ominous words silence Kervin and Ryiba.

Reel continues to stand next to the cart, but he's keeping his eyes trained on a section of the forest a hundred feet in front of us.

Listening to Kervin and Ryiba made me lose my concentration. I refocus Sense Mana towards the area Reel is watching. The hidden monsters’ mana signatures light up in my eyes.

“That’s what you consider entertainment?” I frown at Reel.

"Better than walking down a lonesome road, isn't it." He smiles to himself.

“What are you two talking about?” Kervin asks with a hint of fear in his voice.

“It’s just six goblins hiding up ahead.” I point out their position to Kervin.

Kervin nods in understanding. “If it’s only six of them, then Reel and Ryiba can handle it without bothering Lurte.” His two bodyguards draw their weapons and walk directly in front of the bivol, guarding them against the goblins.

"Hold up just a minute," I say to everyone. I grab my sword resting on top of my bag and quickly hop out of the moving cart.

“What are you doing?” I ignore Kervin and run up to his guards.

Ryiba looks at me with a worried expression, while Reel seems happy to see me. "Miss Aaliyah, please return to the cart," Ryiba asks me.

"Sorry to disappoint you, but that's not happening." I step in front of the two and draw my sword. "You've kept me locked in that cart the last three days, and it's driving me insane. I'll take care of the goblins; I'm sure he can step in if something should go wrong." I send a pointed look at Reel.

I ignore Kervin and Ryiba’s pleas for me to return to the cart and dash ahead of the moving bivol. I scan the surroundings for any other hidden goblins but only spot the six waiting in ambush.

I slow down when I get closer to their hiding spot and calmly walk towards them. When I'm this close, I can see the mana inside their weapons, helping me identify them, four wooden spears and two stone knives, nothing to worry about.

Being the goblins that they are, they all rush out of their hiding spots as soon as I reach a few feet away from them. I'm reminded of the hoard of goblins we faced in the forest, and the scene in front of me is almost comical in comparison. Not even one of the goblins is a hob.

I wait for the closest goblin to enter my striking range before I step forward and flick my sword in a quick slashing motion. I ignore the goblin as it falls to the ground grasping at its throat.

I don't want to get blood on my clothes, but I can't activate my swords flames with Reel watching me.

I pivot on my front leg and cut open the next goblin's stomach with a horizontal slash. The goblin collapses, screaming as it holds its spilling entrails.

I notice a goblin to my left freeze in place, watching his tribesmen die. A goblin to my right tries to stab me with his spear while I'm looking at his comrade, but I easily deflect his weak strike with my sword. Before the goblin can recover his balance, I remove his head from his shoulders.

I jump back before any of the blood can spray onto my clothing.

The goblin to my left is now paralyzed with fear along with the goblin furthest away from me.

The third remaining goblin snarls at me; he is the last goblin with the will to fight. He brandishes his stone knife and charges at me in a frenzied manner. The goblin waves his knife in his left hand, cutting the air in front of him like a madman.

As soon as the goblin is close enough, I bring my hind leg up and deliver a devastating kick to its exposed head. I feel the goblins skull crack under the strength of my kick. The goblin collapses to the ground, unmoving.

I glance at the remaining two goblins, and they flinch backward. Both drop their weapons and turn to run.

I see a flash of metal to my side, and I activate Flash Step to move out of the way. Reel is standing close to where I just was. He ignores my wary look and walks over to the two goblins that tried to run away. Each has a dagger embedded where their spines meet their skulls.

From where Reel was standing and the goblins' position, I realize his daggers would never have hit me, though they would’ve come close.

"Why'd you step in?" I ask him as he yanks his blades out of the goblins. Not a single drop of blood sticks to Reel's enchanted blades.

“Why’d you let two of them escape?” He sheathes his blades and retorts with a smile.

“They’d given up already. Why would I kill a fleeing enemy?”

Reel slowly walks closer to me. I grip my sword tighter in my hands. “You would give up on experience just because they decided to flee? They’re goblins, roaches, the trash of the world. You’d show mercy to them?” He asks, standing three feet in front of me.

I take a small breath and meet his powerful gaze. “Life is a precious thing; I don’t feel the need to snuff it out for no reason.”

“Then what would’ve happened if those two did escape and came back as hobs?” Reel continues to challenge my conviction.

“Then I would end them the same way I would to any other threat. But how would you know what they would do, are you a god?” My question surprises him.

I take a step forward. "For all you know, I put the fear of humans into them. They would've disappeared into the forest, never to be seen again. I stand by my convictions. I'll defend those I care about, I'll hunt for food and materials, but I'll never kill merely for the sake of experience. Everything deserves a chance to live." I channel a sliver of my mana into my sword as I flick it, removing the blood from my blade. I sheath my sword and turn away from Reel, walking back to the waiting cart, listening to Reel's manic laughter behind me.

I refuse to let that man shake me.

I silently climb back into the cart, ignoring Kervin and Ryiba’s looks of disbelief. I lay down and close my eyes.

I don't want to admit it, but a part of me is disappointed. I don't feel good about killing the goblins, just empty inside. They attacked me, but their deaths felt so pointless. Reel talking about experience, I bet I didn't even earn 500 experience killing those weak goblins.

But I can’t deny I was hoping for a challenge, something to make their deaths meaningful.

I feel the cart start to roll forward again, as I ponder these conflicting feelings.

A day and a half later, and I can finally see Drey's walls growing bigger as we approach them.

We left the forest a day ago, and the trip became much smoother. Endless trees opened up, and I saw a new world. My entire life, I've stayed in our village surrounded by trees.

We traveled next to the first river I’ve seen in this world and past snow-blanketed hills. I finally saw new landscapes for the first time in fifteen years.

Kervin wanted me to stay in the cart, but I convinced him to let me walk for a few hours each day. Right now, I’m in the cart, but surely I can get out once we enter the city.

"What do you think, Aaliyah, amazing, isn't it?" Kervin asks me when he notices me staring at the growing walls.

"It's quite a sight," I softly respond. As we approach, the enormity of the city's walls becomes more apparent.

I’d say the walls are at least 50 feet high, made from massive blocks of stone. The wall is a testament to what people can do without machinery. Though the wall's appearance is breathtaking, it's the wall's insides that truly captivate me.

There're no secret enchantments or anything like that, but the wall is saturated in mana. Each massive stone that makes up the wall's foundation has its own mana signature, meaning magic played a large part in their construction. Some blocks give off the same signatures while others stand out due to being one of a kind.

The patchwork of mana must be from all the mages who've helped build the wall and maintained it over the years.

“It’s beautiful,” I say to myself.

"Drey's ruler does a good job keeping its walls maintained, only Blaiton and the regional lord’s castle can boast of having a superior defense this side of Olebert.” Kervin points out to me.

We continue on our path leading towards the nearest gate. We pass by fields covered in snow but only a few farmhouses. “Does everyone live inside the city? I thought there would be more houses out here.” I point out the oddity.

“The houses you see out here are on properties leased from the city's lord. A family will lease the land for a few years and give a percentage of their profits to the lord. The family who leases the land is in charge of managing their fields. Families who own leases compete with one another for the best farmers. The houses you see are onsite housing for the workers. While a farmer's family stays inside the city, the farmers stay here for as long as their contract states." Kervin explains.

"Wouldn't it be better for the farmer's families to live closer to the farm?” I question.

"No one wants to live outside a city," Reel says off to the side.

“What does that mean?” I ask.

Kervin explains to me. "Living outside a city is dangerous; you have to deal with monsters and bandits. Cities have guards that keep the peace. Almost every person tries to move to a city if they're able to."

“I never noticed anyone in our village talking about moving away,” I retort.

Kervin laughs, "That's because your village is an oddity. Your village has its own healer and an accomplished blacksmith. With me regularly stopping by, your village has the amenities only a town or city could offer. Even with the danger you've recently faced, I doubt many consider leaving your village."

“I wasn’t aware we were that lucky. I assumed all villages were like ours.”

“People rarely notice how much they have until they see those who don’t.” Kervin offers a bit of wisdom to me. I nod in understanding; going from 21st century Earth to Yurilia made me realize everything I took for granted in my past life.

We travel around the city's wall until we finally reach a gate leading into the city proper.

There are few people trying to enter the city, mostly other merchants bringing in goods. While we’re waiting for the line to move forward, I examine the gate leading into the city. While the wall is made up of a patchwork of magical signatures, the whole gateway oozes a single strong magical signature. Many people must have helped build the wall, but a mighty mage single handily made the gate and the immediate walls around it.

While I'm admiring the work of a strong earth mage, we finally make it to the inspection area. A few guards in armor and fur coats flag us over.

The guard who flagged us over looks at Kervin's bivol before giving him a friendly smile. "Your bivol look like shit, Kervin. Didn't you leave the city nine days ago? Hey Lurte, hey Ryiba.” The guard addresses each of Kervin’s guards.

“Here’s my identification, Maz. Let us through; we've been traveling in the cold for a while now." Kervin clearly knows the guard.

“Obviously, you’ve been coming and going a lot more recently.” He looks over to me. “And what’s with the girl, got yourself another new bodyguard?” The man joyfully laughs at his own joke.

“I’m doing a favor for a friend. She has business in the city but will only be staying for a little while.” Kervin downplays our relationship.

“Is that so. Is this your first time to Drey?” The guardsman offers me a sincere smile, unlike Kervin's business smile and Reel's fake smile.

“It is, I’m looking forward to seeing the city.” I return his smile to make a good first impression.

“Then let’s get you going then.” The guard turns back to Kervin. “Five people then, minus your residence pass and Silver Herd credentials, I need 6 large bronze.” He holds his hands out to Kervin.

Kervin pulls a small coin bag and fishes out the money for the guard.

After Kervin hands over the coins, Maz, the guard, waves us through. As we start to roll away, Maz yells at Kervin, "I have a day off in two days, I'll stop by your place, and we can get a drink." Kervin just waves his hand goodbye. Judging by Maz’s face, he took that gesture as a sign of agreement.

And just like that, we entered the city of Drey.

I shiver in excitement; I can’t wait to get my hands on some new magical materials.
