Val’s eyes grew afraid.

Eppie was just about to explain herself, explain for them both if she had to—

Then Valorie Sanders took one step forward, put both hands on Eppie's face, and kissed her on the mouth.

The flash was instantaneous.As was the flash in her head, the actual flash came from Aziz, who had reflexively lifted his camera and blasted them at ISO 3200, f/1.8, 1/125 on a 50mm Prime.

Eppie pushed her assailant away with enough force to send her into the wall, rattling the portraits.

WHAT THE FUCK? Eppie’s hand came away with blood because her palms were bleeding, and now it looked like Val was bleeding as well.

With the imprint still hot on her mouth, she glared at Valorie, wiping the soil and the lipstick from her lips, then turned to her former mentor.

“I can’t explain that,” she confessed instantly, because that was the truth. “But can you delete that picture?”

Vaughan's expression was a picture in itself.The stern museum curator had her mouth half-open. She had to blink several times before her usual resting Curator face returned.

Mirabelle’s expression could only belong to the Chief Editor of Vogue. She looked to Vaughan. There was a split-second of hesitation, then Vaughan nodded.

“Aziz,” she said. “Give me the card.”

Mirabelle held her hand, and Aziz placed the card, already ejected, in her palm. After a prolonged second, she dropped it into the flute of bubbles she was holding. The champagne accepted it without complaint, as did George when Mirabelle passed it over.

“I saw nothing,” Mirabelle said pleasantly. “But Eppie… Oh… that limited edition Haute Givenchy…”

Eppie flattened the front ruffles. A diamond fell off. They all winced.

Valorie stumbled to her feet. From the looks of it, the knock to her head had done her mental state some good. Her cheek and neck were smeared with blood. Eppie’s blood.

“I need to go,” Mirabelle declared, unable to look. “Take care of the party.”

She turned to go, then stopped.

"Marta," she said to Eppie with the air of a tragic heiress, "is going to be inconsolable."

“Eppie, Miss Sanders,” the next person to speak was Juliana Vaughan. “I wish to speak with you both, later. I will inform Sir Woodhouse and take care of Mr Grein. Until then, let George take care of your wounds. He is a man with many certifications.”

“Madam,” George bowed.

“Eppie,” Vaughan’s voice was entirely serious.

“Yes?” Eppie was still trying to wash the taste of her fated-foe from her mouth.

“DO NOT throw the statues in the greenhouse. Some of those are original.”

Outside in the gallery, the party had resumed its noise, rerouted now around the evening's new centrepiece: a balcony, a shattered pot, and a concussed, bewildered Grein who, when pressed, by multiple witnesses, on what exactly had occurred could only describe the projectile as enormous, and could not satisfactorily explain how it had come to be airborne, because the only person standing near the adjacent balcony at the time of impact had been a very small girl in a cocktail dress.

The guests exchanged theories.

Maybe, someone said, it was the Spirit of Christmas Past. It was, after all, that kind of house.
