When they removed the bandage from Ryoka’s leg, the other adventurers flinched back. All except for Ceria and Calruz, that was.
Ryoka stared down into the bloody, ripped mess of skin and once again was profoundly grateful for the numbing magic they’d put on her leg. Gerial looked pale as he gathered up the bandages. They were soaked with blood and grime, but they were still valuable.
“The flesh—”
“It’s fine.”
Ceria reassured the others. She fished out a red potion and uncorked the bottle.
“That’s what happens when you move bone around. But now the leg can be healed properly since the bone is repaired. Let’s heal—”
“Hold it.”
Calruz caught her arm, and for a second, Ryoka wondered if this was revenge for getting punched. She wasn’t in too much pain compared to before.
She could actually tell her bone was intact, not, you know, shredding her flesh with every passing moment. But the distinction was crippling delirium compared to an open, shredded leg—
“Give me the potion. What’s the hold up? Come on—”
Ryoka hissed through gritted teeth, but Calruz was eying the bloody, messy wound. Surprisingly, not much pus or other nasty fluids; the [Healer] had cleaned it and put on what they claimed would stop an infection.
“We must clean the wound first. A healing potion can accelerate an infection—”
“Dead gods, he’s right.”
Ceria lowered her arm and cursed, and Gerial bit his lip.
“That would not be…a good outcome.”
Ryoka looked from face to face.
“Infection? What? Healing potions accelerate infections?”
“That’s one of the reasons why adventurers can’t heal everything. That and poison stops healing from working properly. Hey, Pisces—Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] turned from counting his gold coins a ways off.
“What?”
“Does this building have anyone in it? Can we get some hot water? Or just water? We could boil our canteen water I guess.”
“We have cooking supplies. Calruz has them in his bag of holding.”
“I could inquire within, but the owner is out.”
“Who runs an inn with just one person? Nevermind. Uh—thanks.”
The half-Elf was awkward with the [Necromancer]. He sniffed and glanced at Ryoka archly. Ceria’s past with him, whatever it was, made the two stiff and grudgingly respectful. At best.
“The Minotaur is correct, Springwalker. Clean the wound. Too bad you never took that alchemy class, eh?”
He smiled—and Ceria’s face froze up. Her eyes flashed.
“Go to Rhir, Pisces.”
His smile disappeared instantly. Ryoka thought he’d meant it as a joke or…whatever the case, the [Necromancer] reddened and stepped back. He whirled away as the Horns fell silent—then stopped.
“Vinegar. Or soap. Hot soap and water.”
“What?”
Calruz looked up, and Ryoka, biting her lip hard, glanced up. Pisces sneered at them.
“Wash the wound. I know soap is not what you put on a wound—it doesn’t matter if you’ll heal it. Wash any grit straight out. Do hurry, though. The longer the wound is exposed, the sooner it will fester.”
He was right. Ryoka’s own germ knowledge made her clench her teeth—and the Minotaur already had a kettle going over a magical flame that the [Mage] Sostrom was producing with his staff.
“We’ll have to dump it over the wound. Ryoka Griffin, do you need something to clench with your teeth?”
“Do it. I’ll be fine. This—this is payback, isn’t it?”
“I assure you, it’s merely practicality.”
They had the kettle boiling quickly with the magical fire. Gerial gave Ryoka an arm to grip, but she clenched one hand.
“I’ll be fine. Just pour it on—fast.”
“Don’t burn her leg off. Just get that slime—grab my arm, Ryoka.”
Geria was remonstrating with Calruz. The Runner refused to.
“I’m fine.”
“Sure?”
“Yes—argh! Fuck you! I’ll kill you! You motherf—”
Ryoka’s screaming made Pisces glance back, even as he walked off across the Floodplains hills. Ryoka doubled over as the adventurers held her still, and Calruz spoke.
“Ceria—now.”
Carefully, the half-Elf poured the healing potion over Ryoka’s leg. It was a stronger, more expensive potion, so the effects began instantly once the liquid hit her flesh.
The scalding agony faded, and Ryoka let go of Gerial’s shoulder. She watched with nauseous interest as the flesh and sinew began to re-knit, shifting around like a bunch of worms. At this point, most of the Horns of Hammerad had to look away, but she kept watching. It was her body after all.
After about a minute, the top layer of skin began to close. Ryoka saw her flesh flow together to become smooth and whole. It was the most satisfying sight she’d ever seen.
Ceria tapped the bottle for the last drops of healing potion to fall out and then tucked it away in her belt.
“Looks good. I’m going to dispel the magic now. Ryoka, how does it feel?”
Ryoka shrugged. She was red-faced, mostly because of her reaction. She glanced at Gerial.
“S-sorry.”
“No problem.”
He winced; she must have really grabbed his shoulder. Ryoka turned back to Ceria.
“I can’t feel anything. But it looks good. Go ahead.”
Ceria nodded and grabbed the wand at her belt. She murmured a few words, and Ryoka listened for magical tongues, some deep magic—but all she heard was a disappointing normal voice.
“[Dispel Magic]. Alright, I’m ready to put the spell back. Ryoka? How’s it feel?”
All of the adventurers crowded close, alternating between staring at Ryoka’s face and her leg.
For a few seconds, Ryoka’s face was blank. Then, slowly, she stood up. She rested her full weight on both legs and then on her bad leg. She took one step and then two. Then—
She smiled.
“How’s it feel—”
Calruz nudged Gerial and cut the other man off. He watched as Ryoka took another step and then stretched her leg out. She gingerly tested her leg by taking a few forceful steps. Then she hopped up and down.
Ryoka spun on one leg. Then she jumped and kicked out with it before landing and doing a pivot-kick that cut the air. The adventurers blinked, impressed.
Hop, spin, kick, jump. Ryoka leapt about the grass like a monkey, or a martial artist if you wanted to be flattering. She did a cartwheel and then a spinning back kick. At this point, Gerial and the other adventurers were gaping openly, and that was before Ryoka started doing back handsprings and front flips.
“I take it you’re feeling better, Ryoka?”
The young woman stopped and grinned at Ceria. She flicked some sweat off her forehead.
“I’m great. Better than great.”
This time, Calruz was the one who was lost for words. Gerial had plenty, though. He stared openly at Ryoka.
“How did—I’ve never seen anyone do that.”
The other adventurers nodded in agreement, but one of the mages shook his head.
“I have. Tumblers and performers have those kinds of Skills. Do you have the [Performer] class, Miss Ryoka?”
She looked at him, mildly insulted.
“No, I’ve just got skill. You should see me do parkour or tricking.”
“Par—what?”
“It’s a type of running. Or—I guess you could call it a type of martial arts.”
Again, Ryoka had lost her audience.
“Marital what?”
“I’ve heard of that.”
Ceria nodded and smiled at Ryoka.
“You are full of surprises, aren’t you? And your leg doesn’t hurt? You don’t feel any twinges or pain?”
Ryoka smiled.
“None.”
“Pisces did his work well, then. I thought he would. He might be an idiot, but he’s a competent one.”
Gerial cleared his throat.
“I’m glad. Well, uh, what should we do now? It’s been a long trip, and there’s the inn or Liscor…Ryoka, did you want to, uh, do anything?”
The Horns of Hammerad stared at Ryoka. She was practically vibrating with energy, unable to sit still.
“I’m going to run back.”
“What?”
“I’ve gotta run. Sorry but—”
Gerial and the other Horns of Hammerad exchanged glances. The male [Warrior] nodded and grinned at her.
“We understand. I’ve broken bones before, too.”
Ryoka nodded. She was already looking at the wide, open plains. But then she looked back and hesitated.
“I don’t want to get in your way. I can probably find my way back on my own if you want to stay—”
“Nonsense.”
This time, it was Calruz who interrupted. The Minotaur snorted.
“We’ll follow in the wagon and pick you up when you slow down. There’s over a hundred miles between here and Celum. Even I—you couldn’t run that far.”
She gave him a grin. Even now, with the best intentions in the world—his comment made something flare up in her chest. She put her hands on her hips.
“Wanna bet?”
He blinked at her, and Ryoka hesitated. Wait, wait, don’t—she tried again.
“Um, thanks anyways, though. But if you need to rest—I know you were up all night.”
“We’ll give the horses a stamina potion, don’t worry.”
“Ponies!”
The [Driver] was still waiting by the wagon. The half-Elf rolled her eyes and smiled at Ryoka.
“If you’re going to run, stick to the road. Monsters around here are fairly dangerous. Stay away from the big rocks. They’re actually giant monsters in disguise.”
All of the other Horns of Hammerad eyed Ceria askance. But Ryoka just nodded. Her entire body was coiled like a spring. But again, she paused before running.
“Thank you. I really mean it.”
Calruz snorted.
“Enough words. Run already!”
Ryoka nodded at the adventurers. She gave them a rare, full smile, and at least a few hearts in the Horns of Hammerad skipped a beat. Then she took off.
Calruz must have had the idea to run with Ryoka, at least for a while, because he took off with her. He got ten steps before she’d left him completely behind. Ceria whistled softly as she saw Ryoka blaze through the grasslands.
“Let’s see if our [Wagon Driver] wants a break and get on the road if you want to follow her, Gerial. It looks like she’ll go at least forty miles before she runs out of steam.”
Gerial nodded and began ordering the Horns around, although they already knew what to do. Calruz stomped back, looking half-pleased, half-disgruntled.
“Fast. But that’s why she is worthy.”
Ceria eyed him while Gerial deliberately began fiddling with a blue potion he’d pulled from his pack.
“It’s worth repaying our debt to her, but it’s too bad we can’t stay in Liscor, Calruz. You know those new ruins are nearby. It might be worth getting the drop on the other adventuring teams and exploring it first.”
He shook his head.
“Not without a full-fighting party. There’s a reason none of the cowards around here have dared breach the upper levels yet. If we come back, it will be after we know what monsters have been sighted there and our wounded have recovered.”
“Practical, I suppose. I’m just surprised to hear that coming from you, Calruz.”
Calruz eyed Ceria irritably.
“Why? Because I am a Minotaur?”
Her gaze didn’t waver.
“No, because you’re you.”
He snorted and grinned. The Minotaur was one of the Beriad, whatever that meant, and he sometimes showed his talents. Such as now as he eyed Liscor in the distance.
“I’m no fool, and the Horns of Hammerad aren’t Gold-ranked. Not yet. A proper strike force will take setting up. Let alone the provisioning. We will wait. Now, let us follow the quick Ryoka Griffin.”
The female [Mage] groaned as she climbed into the wagon.
“Another day and night of riding. Too bad we couldn’t stay at the inn.”
Calruz eyed the currently empty inn and shook his head.
“Bah, it doesn’t look that inviting anyways. It’s got holes in the roof, and if the [Necromancer]’s a customer, I shudder to think what the rest of the guests are like. Let’s go!”
The Horns of Hammerad set out, travelling down the central slope and for several miles until they found the main road. They kept going for an hour before Gerial raised his head and sniffed from the driver’s seat.
“…Does anyone smell smoke?”
——
Ryoka ran. She ran through the grass and kicked off the ground. With every step, she felt like she was being reborn. And she was running fast, perhaps faster than she’d ever run before. Her wings were back.
She crested a hill, stormed down it in half a second, and then hit the flat ground before another crest made her dig into the soft grass. The bumpy landscape of the area was perfect for muscle training, if she’d been so inclined. But as it was, Ryoka was just enjoying the feeling of running again.
She kept to the main road. Even with all the passion in her soul, Ryoka wasn’t about to risk running into whatever monsters Ceria had mentioned. She eyed the large, immobile rocks as she ran and wondered what was living underneath them.
At this time of day, the road was actually crowded with a few travellers. Ryoka either hadn’t seen them in her delirious ride to Liscor, or it had been too late at night/early in the morning. But now she saw merchants riding in armed caravans, farmers sitting on wagons, and even the lone traveller. Some were Human. Most were not.
Giant lizards. Hairy dog-people. Ryoka would have stopped and stared—or discreetly observed them—but the fire of running was burning her from the inside out. She ran at a good distance from the road as she flashed by the travellers. In turn, they stared at the Human running by them with undisguised curiosity and amazement.
Merchants, traders, travellers, peddlers, caravan guards, farmers, and the occasional group of adventurers all travelled the road to Liscor. Oh, and one more group.
[Guards].
Ryoka blitzed by a party of Gnolls, who sniffed and turned their heads almost too late to see her go by when she saw the group of armed Drakes. They reacted to her presence by reaching for their weapons, but when they saw it was just a lone Human, they relaxed. All except for one, that was.
Her legs and body were still fine, but Ryoka was thinking of slowing down to conserve energy when she saw the blur move out of the group of guards and chase after her. She heard the whoops and cheers of the Drakes and realized one of them was trying to race her. Ryoka looked over her shoulder.
A green blur was charging after her. It was one of the guardsmen, a big Drake with a spear on his back. Another one of the bonehead types who thought they could outrun her just to show off to their friends. She increased her pace. And…so did he.
He was fast. Ryoka sensed him behind her, and then he was right next to her. She gaped as he appeared by her side, giving her a smug grin. He was huge, and he was carrying a weapon and wearing armor, but he still was nearly as fast as she was. Nearly.
Her feet dug into the soft grass. Ryoka increased the tempo of her legs and went into overdrive. The Drake blinked as she accelerated. He tried to speed up, and for a few seconds, he managed to keep pace. But Ryoka had wings on her feet, and this was her first run in nearly a week. He might as well have tried to catch the wind.
