"The composition of your body, is it the result of the cipher? I can see no other manner of its creation."

I gave him a small grin, "I'd rather not say."

Obolis gave a curious glance to Torix as well, noting the materials involved. Obolis glanced back at me, "Your frame aside, this deal of ours would compensate you with not only elemental furnaces."

I raised a hand, "So they're called elemental furnaces?"

"Indeed, they are. Now-" Obolis turned a palm to Helios who pulled out two other multi-striped obelisks,

"These are, in a phrase, cutting edge. They use the highest levels of technology currently available to Schema. They use secure databases and operate with absolute security. Given the nature of your foes, this, too, would be invaluable to give you and your lieutenants."

Torix's eyes shifted to green orbs of flame, his envy oozing out. It was my turn to stare at the two of them in confusion,

"So...what's a big deal about these."

Obolis glanced at Torix with expectation. Torix spoke up,

"These allow for far greater allowances with not only management but with overall system functionality. Much of the work I do manually may be managed within that orb's software, from the creation of maps to even advanced simulations."

Obolis stared at the two orbs, "These are personalized models that Helios and I use as well. They carry ingrained AI systems to assist with management details. Much of the work that Torix handles could be optimized, allowing him to focus his efforts elsewhere."

Torix grumbled, "It could even act as a sparring partner to practice my mental magic with. You as well."

Ok, so I might have been a little impressed at this point. I spread out my hands, "Alright, I'll admit it, you've got me interested."

Obolis rotated the obelisks in his hands, speaking with ease, "We could give you these pieces and so much more. Antiques from epoch's past? Done. Secrets that ensure the security of your guild? Within your grasp. Detailed reports on many common threats in the galaxy? Child's play. It is my domain to revel in these intricacies and much more."

Obolis turned to us, "And I am willing to share this all with you. Why? The answer is simple - your guild is a coming calamity. I have seen the omens of the stars, and you, Harbinger, are the cataclysm you omen. Schema was wise in granting you such a title. He saw greatness in you. I see that greatness as well."

He turned to Torix, "And with the wisdom of an ancient lich, you've been given the ability to embody the primal might of force incarnate. I simply wish to have you on my side in the coming days. You are a sword I would never wish to be pointed at my throat. This is a preemptive offer of sorts."

The holographic projection around us shifted into a picture of the Milky Way. Across it, thirteen blips popped up into existence. Hundreds of smaller blips appeared, likely places Obolis visited at one point or another. Obolis gestured to all of them,

"There is so much more I wish to explore. The limits of those exploits are found in the dangers along the outskirts of Schema's system. Your talents are necessary to uncover the clandestine. They are needed to become pathfinders of the unfound."

I felt myself getting wrapped up in his words. Obolis was a damn good speaker, and it made me nervous as hell that we were getting into something over our heads. Torix turned to me,

"I see no reason to refuse his offer."

I related to Torix's giddy enthusiasm. I wanted to accept the offer without thinking it over too. That's actually what set off alarm bells in my head. It was like being conned by a conman. A conman's entire goal was getting you in this state of mind, and the Emperor did it without breaking a sweat.

In a way, that was more terrifying than a deadly battle.

Getting some severe Yawm vibes, I kept myself under my own control. I leaned towards Torix but kept staring at Obolis,

"There's plenty of reasons. We're not making this decision for us. We're making it for our entire guild. Hell, entire species are at stake. Don't forget we're still fighting the Adair Family. This is going to be hard to fit in on the side of all that."

Torix leaned back, stunned by what I said. He shook his head, clenching one of his fists, "Bah. I lost myself. There is still much I must learn."

I set a hand on the lich's shoulder plates, "Hey, that's why we're a team. We help each other out."

I turned to Obolis, " I'm sorry, but I can't give you an answer right now. I need to talk to my guild first."

Obolis gave us each a warm grin, spreading out his arms, "The Empire is a faction gifted with patience and wealth. We are in no rush to finalize negotiations. This discussion was in no way meant as a threat. It was simply an overture between our two guilds. Nothing more, nothing less."

Obolis lowered his hands, and Helios pocketed the multi-layered obelisks into his dimensional storage. Obolis reached up to his own fancy-schmancy obelisk and did the same. The materialized memory faded, returning us to the quarantined cave.

Despite the sudden shift in scenery, I found the dry, musty air refreshing. It helped ground me since this entire experience was a lot to take in. No amount of preparation would've prepared us for it either. It was like learning to swim. You couldn't know if you could swim until your feet were off the ground.

Understanding our feelings, the Emperor gestured towards Helios,

"It's good you're considering the proposal seriously. Hire a few lawyers and have them parse over the contracts. They will find the terms stated simply. We wish for a few rebellions to be put down and for your protection during several of my planned explorations."

Obolis shrugged,

"We'll offer certain artifacts and technology in exchange for the service. The rewards shall be staggered over each clash you assist us with. During artifact hunts, we will split portions of the found relics. I will have first pick considering the effort involved with finding and planning the excursions."

One of the albony Speakers walked up, his robe bejeweled with mana stones. Obolis didn't notice, and he continued speaking until the orange masked Speaker tapped his shoulder.

"Think things over. There's much to consider, and-" Obolis turned towards the Speaker. The Emperor's left eyelid twitched,

"Ah...Odius."

The orange masked albony bowed and cupped his hands, "Ahem, sire, there are a few scientists who wish for your insights regarding the Plaga Ustus."

The Emperor frowned, "Is it pressing?"

Odius guarded himself a bit like he was visibly shrinking, "It involves how the virus spreads. They believe it may be weaponized and may assist with preventing future outbreaks of viral eldritch."

Obolis sighed, "It's pressing then." The Emperor peered back up to us, "It's a shame that our meeting must be cut short like this, but another situation calls for my direct attention."

Torix opened his status, viewing dozens and dozens of messages, "Ah, it would seem the same for us as well."

I blinked, being the only one without some diligent, planned schedule ahead of me. I scratched the side of my head, "Oh yeah, definitely."

Obolis clapped his hands,

"Then we'll reserve a meeting time for your decision. Perhaps the day after Giess is glassed? That may allow for an easier time making your commitments, I assume."

I crossed my arms, "Why?"

Obolis scoffed, "That is the day this small insurrection will die. Each of you will be freed to other tasks at that time."

I pursed my lips, "So why would you think that?"

Obolis glanced at Helios before both of them laughed. It felt just like I wasn't a part of some inside joke. Obolis turned back to us,

"You've never seen a Spacial Fortress, I assume? If you accept my contact request, I'll send you a projection of one. View it when you have time. It will ease your concerns regarding this slight insurrection."

I raised my eyebrows, "It beats Lehesion?"

Obolis stared with absolute confidence, "Outside of another cosmic event on the scale of the big bang, there are only three existences that can destroy a spatial fortress: An Old One, a quasar, and a point-blank supernova. Lehesion is mighty, but Spacial Fortresses are unbeatable."

Obolis spoke while looking into the distance, "There has never been a recorded defeat of a spatial fortress. Sentinels? Of course, you've seen them fall. Overseers? At times, yes, though it is rare. A spatial fortress? They touch the might of gods in ancient religions. They are sights only seen when Schema's enemies have evoked his highest wrath."

Obolis spread out his arms, "I invite you to watch from a distant moon deeper within Giess's solar system. Perhaps seeing it in person will allow you to understand what it is to defy Schema."

Torix turned between us, "They would seem rather rare. I've never even heard the slightest murmur of one before the Overseer mentioned them."

Obolis appeared taken aback,

"I've seen only one, and it was...humbling."

I put my hands on my hips, "Well, shit, that's kind of comforting. It makes me feel better about being the spearhead against this rebellion."

Obolis leaned towards us, "Have you heard rumors of what commoners are calling it?"

Huh, commoners. Never thought I would actually hear that word spoken seriously. I shook off a bit of discomfort hearing the term, leaning towards Obolis,

"Naw."

"They're calling it the Blighted Schism. Poetic, isn't it?"

"I...I suppose."

"Those that are Hybridized are referred to as blighted. Considering the entire rebellion is due to a portion of worlds splitting off, schism is a fitting word as well."

Not knowing exactly what the word meant, I crossed my arms, "Is it? I mean, I sort of know what schism means, but not really."

Obolis raised his eyebrows for a second,

"It's simple. Whenever a group fragments into several opposing factions, it is referred to as a schism. It is a rather dramatic way of wording this rebellion, however. The wording implies tremendous importance for this little event."

Obolis wondered mused, "We shall discover if schism is fitting once the glassing has occurred. I would wager that they shall crumble, as all other rebellions have in the past."

Sensing a bit of bias, I let the issue go. Torix must have figured the same thing, so he simply listened. Before Obolis continued, Odius tapped his shoulder again,

"Ahem, sire?"

Obolis raised a palm, "Thank you for the reminder." Obolis turned to each of us, "It was good meeting the both of you. I hope to hear good news when we meet again. Regardless of the outcome, I hope we'll stay in touch."

I raised a fist, "For sure. This was fun."

Torix steepled his fingers, "It was fascinating in its own way."

Helios stepped beside us, creating a portal. Obolis turned with a deep sigh,

"These scientists better pray to Schema that this issue is half as interesting as my previous company."

Odius began settling the Emperor down, each of them falling into habits for their daily matters. We turned towards Helios, who gestured a hand to the portal,

"Are you ready to return?"

Torix and I stared at each other. I stepped up the portal,

"Yeah, let's head out."

We walked through the portal, reaching back towards Mt. Verner's second floor. Waiting for us, Hod, Amara, Althea, Kessiah, and even Krog discussed with one another. It was a splintered kind of conversation, each party discussing different aspects of the guild.

As the three of us stepped up, I found several members of our guild staring. Each of us caught the eye differently, so I didn't blame them. We needed to get work done even when visitors arrived, however. With that in mind, I clapped my hands,

"Come on, everybody. Back to work."

The workers got back to, well, work. Without needing as many prying eyes, our head guildspeople turned towards me in expectation. I glanced at Helios who raised his hand,

"You all are busy, as am I. As the Emperor mentioned, we'll stay in touch."

I gave him a wave, "See ya."

After Helios warped out, I turned to everybody, "Alright, the Emperor says our guild is good at fighting, so he wants us to fight for him. We'll be quelling rebellions on his worlds and helping him explore the galaxy. Of course, that's if we say yes. I wanted your opinions first."

I turned my head to everyone,

"So, what do you guys think?"
