“...None sir.” Sovanna’s pity was clear as she moved to his side, steadying his wobbly frame. “Careful there, let’s ease ye back into yer pillows, nice and easy.” Her hands were cool and soothing as they unbuttoned his robes, his breath coming in panicked gasps. “What sort of fools do ye have looking after ye? Ain’t right to have a man sleeping in his finery. Ye could use a better tailor too, this robe is a mite too tight.”

“All of them?” Six thousand soldiers, led to their deaths by a fat fool.

“Aye. A damned shame but ye did yer best. Rest up fer now, I’ve got things in hand. Don’t ye worry bout a thing.”

Struggling against the despair, Tongzu shook his head and fought down the nausea assailing him. “What actions have you taken since?”

“...Yer a stubborn bastard ain’t ye.” Taking a wet cloth, she wiped away the sweat on his forehead and chest, her voice pleasant and soothing despite the message. “We decided the best course of action was to seal the plaza and batten down the hatches. We'll ride out this storm, don't you doubt.”

“Stubborn I may be, I am still your Magistrate!” A thought struck him, sending shivers down his spine. “Who’s this ‘we’ you speak of? By the Mother, don’t tell me you’ve gone to the Council for aid? A bunch of short-sighted fools intent only on their coin-purse, they cannot be trusted. Who knows if they’re working with that traitor and his bandit patron?”

“No Magistrate, my mama didn’t raise no fool. Senior Captain Gerel is who I’m referring to, not sure if you remember the baldie who caught ye? He’s one of them Bekkies working with Major Yuzhen, got sent to investigate a few missing patrols and uncovered a massive Defiled army headed towards Sanshu. He sent word back then rushed here, quick as he could. A good thing too, else ye’d have died outside the gatehouses with the rest of yer pretty soldiers. No need to fret, me and me bullies’ll hold em back come hell or high water, and Major Yuzhen will sweep out the rest, easy as turning her hand. Ye rest easy now. I might save a few bastards for ye to smash, but don’t count on it.”

Tongzu’s head sank into his pillows despite all his efforts to resist, his body refusing to obey his horrified mind. With his army in tatters and the gates standing open to receive them, a Defiled horde marched upon his city and she wanted him to ‘rest easy’? There was no one to defend Sanshu aside from a Senior Captain barbarian and his Guard Captain two days into her post.

Mother have mercy, this trial is too formidable.

Chapter Meme
