Contracts weren’t supposed to stop people from doing the majority of illegal things, but Contract-to-Contract teleportation was a service that prevented many illegalities as a matter of course. Contracts might not report a wizard for brewing Vapor of Eternal Screams, but if the wizard tried to teleport with it, the Contracts would just leave it behind along with anything else that the wizard didn’t have the right to move around at the Contract’s expense.

Alden’s skill was Alden’s self. Anything he protected with it had the same travel permissions he did as an Avowed. The Contracts wouldn’t have let him carry an actual demon from Thegund to LeafSong, but Ro-den’s assistants, and whatever they’d stolen for him from his former lab, weren’t serious enough dangers for the Contracts to object.

Everyone assumed the professor had gotten more than some of his people back. Stu thought Alden probably had no idea what he’d actually delivered. How would he be able to recognize esoteric magical equipment even if it had been fully displayed instead of hidden away in boxes or bags when he moved it?

It was obvious he’d wanted to help people. Ro-den had preyed on his kindness.

He planned to keep preying on it.

Stu was fairly sure of that. The only way to keep others from noticing, over the long term, that you’d restricted an Avowed’s ability to talk about himself was to make certain that the Avowed didn’t develop a close working relationship with a different wizard.

I guess that could take years, but for a Ryeh-b’t with such a generous personality and such a versatile skill? Years…but not too many years.

The sight of Ro-den racing toward him in that cart with that exquisitely done levitation spell making his possessions dance along after him was easy to bring to mind.

He was sure everyone would get out of his way. He was sure it would work out in his favor. I bet he was sure when he put that mark on Alden that he’d be able to keep what it does a secret.

He might have planned to persuade Alden to agree to a longterm arrangement in the next year or two. The best way to make sure no other wizard had access to an Avowed was to summon them yourself so frequently that they were never obligated to work for anyone else.

Ro-den wanted a longterm smuggler?

Stu didn’t know much about that kind of thing, but he could imagine it being valuable to someone with criminal inclinations.

Still, plenty of other Avowed should be able to smuggle in their own ways. On its own, it’s not a good enough reason to hide the skill, is it? Ro-den would’ve wanted him to hide it because there was something unique about it that Ro-den hoped to keep to himself.

A special skill.

Worli Ro-den was exceptionally brilliant and involved in deep studies of multiple subjects that Stu could scarcely touch the surface of. Not only was it possible for him to think of a special use for one obscure aspect of a skill that nobody else would ever consider, it was likely. If his motivation for the contract of secrecy had been something like training Alden to use it in an extremely specific way that would support just a few forbidden experiments, Stu might as well give up on figuring it out.

But Alden was acting like there was something special about his skill, too. And Stu was more confident in his ability to comprehend Alden’s motivations. He was behaving as if the preservation skill was still going to be the main one he was working with years from now. He’d even spent time looking at spells based on parts of it Stu knew he wasn’t pleased with.

Stu had already told him he could have another skill very similar to his without the entrustment. There weren’t reasons for him to seek out spells that required a second person or ones that fueled themselves on his own suffering…unless he thought the skill he was already stuck with was going to grow and grow. And, in doing so, make spells that relied on those principles useful whether he liked them or not.

Stu climbed out of the pool and started seeing to his nails. Poorly. He accidentally ran the sharp edge of the trimmer over his thumb and left a shallow slice. It bled, and he held it out for an eager root, thinner than his pinky, that rose up from the ground and reached toward him.

If he thinks his skill is more powerful when he’s suffering for it, he’s probably not wrong.

It was the kind of thing an Avowed might be confused about, Stu thought, when they were new to their skills. But Alden could feel what was happening in a different way.

And there have been signs.

The run on Thegund, protecting a child for that long, was a little too astounding for someone with Alden’s amount of power. It was a story that made more sense if enduring agony for his entruster was a particularly good way of expressing the skill.

I’d already thought about it, but it mattered less if that was part of a skill that would one day be only a tiny part of his whole.

Alden’s research was implying the skill would be a limitless part of his future.

Stu hoped that wasn’t true. Not because there was anything wrong with what Alden could currently do. Stu admired it very much. But a skill chosen in haste by someone who didn’t understand it…better for it to be less instead of more.

It seems like an old one. Brutal. Beautiful. Not the kind of power you’d lead another person toward without explaining it very clearly.

There were old, infinite skills for Avowed. Historical artifacts kept around just because people wanted them to be kept around. Found by luck or, Stu supposed, dredged up by special request. But people in a position to make such requests didn’t have to limit themselves or the Avowed they were helping to a few antiques.

If Ro-den had anything to do with him choosing it…but…if Ro-den had anything to do with him choosing it, why would he also have that pest control spell? Ro-den wouldn’t have recommended that.

And Alden had said he picked the pest control spell himself. Regretfully. Stu didn’t think that was a lie.

It could just be coincidence that Ro-den found a smuggler in Alden. I don’t have to blame him for every part of it.

But the tattoo was there, and Alden couldn’t say what he wanted. That was plenty to blame the man for all by itself.

“You’re doing it when dawn comes, aren’t you?” A voice spoke suddenly and softly from across the pool. “Do you want me to walk with you to the tree you’ve chosen?”

Stu was so startled he fell back into the water and rose sputtering. It took him too long to realize that Ryada-bess, in a robe that belonged to Emban and with her surprising curls spilling over her shoulders, wasn’t one of his relatives. And much too long to comprehend what she’d said and what she’d incorrectly guessed. She was smiling at him, but it was a sad one.

“No!” he said. “I’m not doing that today. I’m so busy today.”

He couldn’t go to first binding immediately after discovering Alden was a wizard who wanted to be a knight and who was stuck unable to speak of his own skill because of Worli Ro-den. The two of them needed to stabilize, and Stu didn’t expect to be particularly stable after he went through with that.

“No? You’ve been taking one of the longest ritual baths I’ve ever seen, all by yourself in the middle of the night. I considered that I might be wrong, but then you started feeding your blood to a young root while wearing a look of grief.”

“How long have you been watching me?” Stu asked.

“I’ve come three times to check on you. I never stayed long. You ran past me in the kitchen, shoving food in your mouth, but you didn’t seem to notice me so I was a little worried about you.”

He hadn’t seen her.

“I realize this looks indicative of something important,” he said, “but I was only using the bathing to calm myself. Care for the body as medicine for the mind. And then I happened to cut my finger. That’s all.”

“Are you sure?”

Stu’s irritation at the question was too swift and too obvious. Ryada bowed her head in apology, which made him feel guilty.

“I’m sorry I didn’t see you in the kitchen. I didn’t know you were here tonight.”

“We’re all here. Not doing anything useful for the two who’ve been lost, of course, but being together and staying up for news feels like purpose for a while.”

He assumed she meant her whole squad had come…former squad. And he realized other people must be over, lingering around and talking about whoever had gone missing on Goldbush. Late company explained all the food being out.

“Two? Traveling together?”

She nodded. “Our age. Not from the Rapports.”

“Two is strange.”

It was odd for a knight to go missing without a trace on Goldbush in the first place. Odder still for it to be two of them. Chaos made for unpredictable accidents, even when people were well prepared, but death was more common than vanishing.

“All I’m doing with the dawn is fetching Alden first meal,” Stu said. “I was a bad host. I don’t think he had anything to eat for the last half of the day.”

Her expression lightened. “Alden Thorn is here?”

“Yes. He’s visiting.”

“I didn’t know. That’s fine then. I’m glad you’re not alone!” And she stood to leave, apparently satisfied that with Alden’s company Stu was sufficiently looked after.

“Wait.”

She stopped and watched him wade closer to her side of the pool.

“You came out here to check on me several times. You didn’t tell anyone?” If she had told anyone what she suspected, they’d be out here watching him, too.

“It’s easy to go for walks without being chased if you’ve been insisting on doing exactly that for days. Not that it was easy to make it happen the first day. Lots of arguing and crying. I know I’m lucky people care enough to argue and cry.”

“And…were you really going to walk me to the tree I’ve chosen?” Stu asked. “Without saying something about it to my family?”

He didn’t even know her that well. He didn’t think she’d ever visited the siblinghold prior to becoming Emban’s squadmate.

“It’s hard,” she said, looking up into dark branches. “You shouldn’t have to go alone if you’re going. That was what I decided while I watched you. And people…people who are scared of losing you…they can’t always hear you well. That’s a kind of loneliness too.”

“Thank you, Ryada.”

If he could have found a way to put more gratitude into the words, he’d have said them again.

“You don’t need me if Alden’s here, though. He wrote me such a good letter. I think I talked about it too much, and that somehow made Emban feel like fighting him. Did she tell you what he said to her? About you?”

“She didn’t. But I overheard the samefaces telling Rel, and I assume Emban knows why she doesn’t have a votary being helpful right now.”

Ryada nodded. “He was right to criticize. We should have made sure you were a part of Welcome End.”

“I understand why I wasn’t.”

“You should be less understanding.” She held his eyes. “Except with Alden. He’s got a yell in his throat. I think it’s for you. If it’s hard to hear…try to hear it right anyway.”

“I did,” Stu said slowly. “I think I am.”

“He told you whatever it was?” She smiled. It wasn’t sad this time. “Already? And you’re both going to be friends still? That’s good news, Stu.”

“Better friends,” said Stu. “As honest as we can be. The problems that are left are from the outside.”

“You’ll handle them.” She sounded sure. “Having an Avowed friend might be complicated, but he’ll be a great one. You will, too. And art’h is a good name to have if you’re dealing with problems.”

She waved at the little root that was still reaching for Stu.

“It’s been a while since we’ve fed anyone unwilling to the trees,” he said.

Ro-den would probably make them ill.

“Yet you immediately knew what I was suggesting,” Ryada said, shaking her head. “The possibility is awfully close to the surface with you.”

She was only teasing. But it made Stu think and keep thinking after she’d gone.

This moment in his life was so very precious. He had a new brother. And Alden had told him plainly what kind of brother he wanted to be. “In the future, when you go anywhere dangerous, take me along.…I would rather stand beside you in a place like that than enjoy the easy river while you suffer.”

It was a wonder. He wished he could run into the house and tell every single person there what he had found. He wished that doing something like that would go as well as it should.

Alden would struggle to be a part of this world in ways Stu couldn’t solve. It wasn’t fair. So Stu would just have to make sure he didn’t miss any of the problems he could help with.

It’s hard for a mere LeafSong student to solve Superior Professor Worli Ro-den. He’s too clever, too powerful, and too willing to break rules.

Maybe it’s not so hard for an art’h, though. It shouldn’t be.

If I’m willing to do the kinds of things we don’t usually do.

He lay back to float in the water, gradually realizing that he was willing to do more than he’d ever been willing to do before. Even things that would shock and appall the people he lived with. Ro-den was fortunate that there were options in between doing nothing and asking a tree for a favor.

Stu would start with an option that was very generous.

My parents might never trust me again. Father should understand, but everyone else…I don’t know.

The thought was a sad one, but he wasn’t sorry.

Have I changed so much in a day?

He had.

It didn’t feel like a bad change at all.

******

******

