281

******

The needs of a person’s body could become medicine that quieted their mind.

The healer who’d tried to teach Stu that lesson had been so incompetently premature with it that they’d never had a second meeting. A child whose whole day could be ruined by the taste of a disappointing berry or the prick of a splinter was years away from understanding what those words had meant and even farther from wanting to apply them.

Now, Stu appreciated the intent behind the advice enough to pause with the cool tip of a potion injector pressed against his skin and reconsider what he was about to do. He’d been hiding under the covers, watching the progress of Alden’s study, for a long time. Alden showed no signs of stopping soon.

He was absorbed, and Stu was exhausted.

I’m also angry. Worried.

The urge to do something was strong, but he lacked a direction. It was a frantic feeling he didn’t like.

And now I have a stimulant pressed against my arm. When exactly will my thoughts settle into decisions after I take this? When will I rest? When will I talk to Alden again, and what mood will I be in?

His mind was very unquiet.

I can’t make a mistake. Not with this.

It’s Alden’s life.

Reluctantly, he put the injector back in one of his pockets and triple checked to make sure his eye rings were recording the tablet in Alden’s hands.

He still hesitated for a while after that, not wanting to miss anything, risk anything, or rest when he knew something was wrong.

Wasn’t it me telling him about those who could have been Masters except for failing to sip water?

He closed his eyes.

When he opened them again, it was long after nightfall.

Alden had only recently gone to sleep himself. Stu could tell by the end time on the recording from his tablet. At some point, the human must have worried about the temperature because he’d put an extra blanket on top of Stu, who now slithered his way out from under it as quickly as stealth would allow.

His thoughts were clear enough for him to know that the sense of urgency that drove him from the cottage was something he should control instead of obey. There was some place where a fast answer to the problem and a flawless one found compromise. Stu needed to seek that place even if he couldn’t quite reach it.

Easier to know than do.

In the main house, he went through the kitchen like a storm, grabbing food from every convenient platter and pot, barely wondering why there was so much left out late at night. Then, he swept up to his room without speaking to anyone and collected clothes and bathing supplies that he carried back downstairs with him and outside into the dark forest.

He tried to calm his mind by caring for his body.

While he watched the recording of what Alden had spent all evening and half the night reading, he soaked himself in the hot pool. Emerging to eat a cup of sweet chopped hemaswa, counting his chews, returning, emerging again to rub oil into his skin—small circles with the brush—returning, emerging, returning…becoming ever more certain that Alden already knew something about his future that he wasn’t able to share.

Stu had never imagined spying on someone this way before. He wouldn’t have guessed that in doing so, much more than what he’d been looking for would become obvious to him.

Alden had spoken of reading the study journals he’d found in the library at the Rapport school and being upset about how little he understood. Of course he didn’t understand, and of course that was upsetting, Stu had thought. But watching him read a sentence, then search for an explanation for every word in the sentence, then search again for more explanations that would help him understand the first explanations, digging and digging until finally he found principles he was familiar with…it was unexpectedly painful.

And familiar.

Cracks in Stu’s past he’d thought were healed ached in sympathy. Missing entire categories of knowledge that everyone around you took for granted was a weakness that hurt and embarrassed with such relentless, invisible consistency.

Learning to speak modern Artonan instead of Rityan was fun and easy. But comprehending all of the words in the same way people with standard childhoods did was so hard that he still ran into doubts every now and then.

One day you learn you have siblings, like some animals do.

You learn they love you, and you think all love is your mother’s love.

You learn love is different from and toward everyone. Siblings can yell at you. Or be tired of you.

It seems like you should learn what the words “sister” and “brother” mean very quickly because babies do it in only a few years, and you are much older and smarter than a baby.

But a few years go by, and you can tell you’re still not like everyone else. The babies are faster than you. They started like soft clay, and the knowledge of your people shaped them from the beginning, but you arrived in the new world already sculpted into something different.

At least he isn’t in as extreme a situation as that.

The recording of Alden’s study showed him six layers deep into definitions, trying to figure out how building up a spell over the course of days worked, which seemed as obvious as walking fast or slow to Stu. But that was still a more acceptable thing to be confused about than the existence of sour berries and siblings who didn’t love you flawlessly despite every annoyance you caused.

I’ll help him.

Stu was sitting on a bench in the hottest lobe of the pool, carefully working two different potions into his scalp to make sure his hair didn’t grow back on the bald side or fall out on the other, while he evaluated the trouble ahead of them both.

Alden would be able to catch up with Stu’s academic knowledge eventually. If he wanted to and put in the years of work, there was no reason he couldn’t. He wasn’t unintelligent or lazy, and Stu was unwilling to consider the possibility of him dying young. Again.

So wizardry would be solved in time and could be considered a temporary trial for them to endure and enjoy overcoming together.

He’s already mostly sculpted into an adult, though. An alien adult.

His fingers slowed to a stop, resting against his head. One of the light globes drifted past his chest. It glowed like a small moon.

An alien adult who gained his authority sense after first binding. I…might have spent yesterday overlooking some difficulties.

Of course he had. Alden had delivered the kind of news that could be argued over by brilliant elders for a generation. Stu wasn’t going to worry about those kinds of questions just yet. But there were some much more basic assumptions he’d made that he now realized could be wrong.

Even the authority greetings we’ve been practicing…

Alden might learn excellent authority control but still be unable to judge if he was engaging with other people gracefully. It was cultural. A hundred thousand moments of social interaction taught you rules that weren’t written anywhere, and then you felt how to behave like a normal member of the wizard class.

If you missed your hundred thousand moments, or if they came to you differently than they did to everyone else because you were an outsider in some way, then you couldn’t practice enough to make up for it. Not without wasting half your life on it.

Quite a few members of Stu’s family were awkward with their social authority interactions. That tendency to pounce.

Stu’s own eyes bothered people. He was aware of it, and he was unhappy about it; but splitting his vision often enough to mimic the average wasn’t realistic for him.

Being different in those ways was a little hard. And they were Artonans. The Primary’s family. How much worse would it be for a human?

Alden had asked multiple times in a single day for help getting the greetings right. He really wanted to do it.

He’ll learn the basics. He’ll learn not to be rude in his interactions with strangers. But he might not ever learn to blend in like he was born here. I should’ve thought of that.

How many other things, at that same very basic level, had Stu already missed?

Four immediately came to mind. A fifth rose to the surface of his thoughts while he bent his knees and dropped below the water to rinse his head.

He hooked his toes under the bench and sat on the rough stone floor of the pool for as long as he could without discomfort, watching the recording. Alden understood about building spells now. Or at least he thought he understood it well enough to appreciate the masterpiece he was reading about.

Stu watched him go back to the beginning of the spell’s description.

He likes this one.

Stu rose up for nine slow breaths of air, then went back down.

From the beginning, Alden had been seeking spells that had things in common with the skill he already used. It was one obvious way to start, so it might not have meant much if he’d eventually branched out.

But he hadn’t branched out.

He’d looked at a couple of spells related to spatial manipulation, but since it was only a couple and he’d skimmed them, he’d probably been thinking about Maker of Narrow Ways. That gave Stu a strangely nice feeling and an even stranger urge to go push Asay-tor from a high place again, like Alden being curious about his future skill somehow made Asay’s treatment of him worse. Other than those two spells, Alden had stuck to spells that shielded, preserved, or carried in some way, only occasionally detouring to read about ones that were anchored to a second person, or—too frequently for Stu’s comfort—ones that caused the caster pain or loss.

Stu supposed that Alden was thinking the anchored spells were similar to his skill’s requirement for an entruster. He was more mistaken about that than not, but it was an understandable mistake. The book probably didn’t have anything much like that aspect of his skill in it, so he’d found what seemed closest.

And the sacrifice-heavy spells made sense…even if Stu didn’t like the sense they made.

Alden had soon narrowed in on shields, taken a side path from there to wards, and now he seemed excited about this one. If the amount of rereading and the fact that he was looking up the animal it was named for could be trusted.

There was a sacrificial component, but it was interesting and mild compared to some of the others he’d been reading about.

I wouldn’t mind him picking a spell like this. Everybody appreciates a good warder. It will be simple to break down into basics for practice, and the final version doesn’t require any difficult ingredients. Practicing on Goldbush would be frustrating for him, but it should train his sense for what he’s doing faster than a dedicated instructor could.

Setting a ward in a corrupted environment would be an achievement.

Stu finished another cycle of nine breaths while he watched Alden linger on a diagram and then magnify it to see different parts of it better.

Yes, he definitely likes it.

He trailed his hands through the water, letting his auriad drift from the tip of one finger as he went down again. He wanted to enjoy imagining a future in which he and Alden worked together, protected by this ward Alden was so obviously curious about, unimpeded by any of the difficulties Stu could see looming on the horizon.

But before he could indulge in anything so pleasant there was the increasingly ugly question of that contract tattoo.

There are hardly any reasons for Alden to suddenly become reticent about skills. It’s the tattoo causing problems because I started asking more specific questions recently. It has to be.

A night’s rest—a partial one anyway—had only made Stu surer that Ro-den was to blame.

Someone who’d told Stu the truth about being a wizard, someone who’d trusted him with so much fear and hope, with his whole future, wouldn’t suddenly balk at talking about a skill they’d already practiced together happily several times. It was too bizarre.

And a knight facing his next binding without knowing what skills he could choose from ought to be deeply distressed. To not care, Alden would have to be insane.

He’s methodically focused on spells similar to what he already has. It’s so purposeful. I know he read and understood my instructions properly. He’s not careless. He’s not a fool. He knows he’ll soon outgrow any normal Ryeh-b’t skill.

So he thinks he’ll be able to cast spells like these one day because he expects a skill just like the one he already holds to be a significant part of his future.

Just like it.

Stu couldn’t draw many conclusions from that. And even the best of them made his insides roil like the water would if he depressed a certain stone along the pool’s edge.

Once I combine what I know about Alden with what I know about Ro-den, the possibilities only narrow more.

Why would any wizard go to the trouble of preventing an Avowed from speaking freely about his own skill?

Because the skill was important, because the wizard had done something wrong with the skill, or because the wizard planned to do something wrong with the skill. Some combination of those three.

It doesn’t seem impossible that Ro-den could arrange for a specific human to choose a specific skill that he wanted them to use on his behalf.

Once morality was removed from the calculations, power allowed for some unthinkable actions.

Perhaps it was mostly to get Alden to do the smuggling back and forth from Thegund?

