Alden woke in the cottage, a little late thanks to how long he’d stayed up last night reading Stuart’s tablet. The spells in there were amazing things. Just…flashy, potent, and cool as hell. Every one of them. The idea that he could learn one in a few years was exciting even if he wished a few years could be sooner.

Like tomorrow.

Stuart was awake. He’d changed into a green tunic, and he was doing homework or spell practice, flicking his fingers over a wooden board with seemingly no effect. Alden was thrilled to see a full spread of meat petal and side dishes waiting on the table.

“I promised to teach you the spell that heats the rock,” Stuart said apologetically. “Did you go to bed hungry?”

“I could’ve gone up to the house if I really wanted something, so it’s not a big deal.” His stomach gurgled. “But I am still growing. So if the rock heating spell is very hard, let’s eat some and then you teach and then we’ll eat some more.”

Stuart nodded. “Come sit down. Were there any spells in particular you enjoyed reading about last night?”

Wards are cool. There’s this ward called Burrow of the Stormtail. I could protect a whole city with it. While sleeping in a different city. It’s like my skill in enough ways that I think it fits your not-so-subtle instructions for finding something similar to my future knight powers well.

He really, really didn’t want to lie. Or argue over breakfast.

“They were all so fascinating.”

“All of them equally?” Stuart asked, setting aside the wooden board and pulling the rock closer to himself.

“Some of them caught my eye…”

“Nothing in particular, though?”

Alden said nothing. He was waiting for Stuart to call him a bonk-noggined, self-hating idiot who didn’t care about his future. It would, under the circumstances, be understandable.

“That’s all right,” Stuart said calmly. “You can read it again whenever you want.”

That easy?

“Did you try on the rings yet?”

“No. You went to sleep so fast, and I didn’t want to risk making a mistake with them. Can I just put them on?”

“Of course. They’re yours. Now watch closely while I cast the spell. It’s not a hard one at all. I learned to cast it before I even knew what brothers were.”

******
