A burst of amusement wormed its way into her heart, and she almost gasped at the warm and tender emotions surged through her from the familiar touch of Lord Husband’s presence. Not his physical touch, but one within her heart, mind, and soul, and he was most certainly laughing ruefully at his own lacking abilities. This fool of a man thought himself incompetent because he was unable to pierce through Guard Leader Hua Lie’s Concealment, but as far as Luo-Luo could tell, the Ancestral Bunny was quite possibly even more powerful than Medical Saint Taduk, so it was only natural that she should be stronger than Lord Husband. Try as she might to convey this, Luo-Luo sensed the same lacking cognizance in this presence as she felt in Meng Sha, which meant this was merely a Natal Soul and not Lord Husband himself. Though still unclear about the distinction, Luo-Luo accepted that there were secrets of the Dao still too complex for her to understand, so she gave up on understanding and simply utilized the Energy of the Heavens Lord Husband bestowed upon her to act in accordance to her Will.

Which was to play a song to rouse the spirits of the Imperial soldiers fighting in Shi Bei.

Music is not merely an arrangement of notes. The pitter patter of raindrops falling upon stone. The flowing banners fluttering in the wind. The smack of bare soles running across hot sand. The clash of steel and bone amidst screams of rage, defiance, and death. All a part of the Dao of Music, every bit as important as the notes you play on your zither, which means your song must not only match your own Will, but also the natural Will of the Heavens as it plays the eternal hymn of the Dao itself.

There was so much more to this burst of Insight, so much more Luo-Luo had yet to wholly understand, and though she yearned to sit down and meditate upon her findings, she knew now was not the time for deliberation. Closing her eyes, she listened for several heartbeats before finding the right time to jump in, and she did so with a moderate and restrained minor chord. Not the beginnings of a melody, but the mid-point of an accompaniment, for the symphony of battle had long since started and Luo-Luo was merely playing to accompany it. Her singular chord rang out and faded away before she found the right timing for a second, followed seconds later by a third, then shortly after with a fourth, each one intermingling with the sounds of battle and coming together to form something new.

As the song of her heart and soul flowed out from her fingertips, she felt all the pets heave a sigh of relief, for they heard a song of safety and comfort, reassuring them that Luo-Luo, Lord Husband, and so many others would never allow them to come to harm. The Imperial soldiers of Meng Sha heard the very same notes, but they perceived a slightly different melody, one of courage, determination, and glory as they fought humanity’s oldest and greatest foes. As for the Defiled? Luo-Luo knew not what sort of song they heard, but she sensed their fury cooling and their confusion mounting as they heard the dissonance in her music. This was not an attack, not directly, for though they heard it in her song, the dissonance stemmed from within their own hearts for their desires did not match their actions. Not all was right with their minds and souls, and Luo-Luo’s music brought those discrepancies to light, not by forcing them to focus upon them, but by revealing the disharmony deeply rooted within.

What effect this might have? Luo-Luo could not say, for she had long since given herself over to the music, and only the music remained.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Block and thrust. Block and thrust. Backstep, block, and thrust.

For the last minute, this was all Mila had done, block, thrust, and shuffle about a bit, and not even Luo-Luo’s inspiring music could lift her dour mood. This was the most efficient and effective way to fight from a defensive position, utilizing the least amount of strength and stamina whilst standing shoulder to shoulder with her allies. To her right was Yan, and on the other side, Li-Li, both turned ever so slightly so that their backs were more or less to Mila. They trusted her to guard them, and guard them she would, because this was the formation they’d fallen into when they moved forward along the wall. It was heartwarming to see how much faith they had in her, positioning themselves on either side because they knew she would keep them safe without hindering her ability to fight, seeing as her short spear was made for encounters like this. It made perfect sense for them to arrange themselves like this, because both Yan and Li-Li required more room to swing their weapons, yet Mila chafed at the need to restrain herself when she wanted nothing more than to draw Paragon and clear the Defiled from the wall in a single pass of its chain-whip form.

Pure hubris is what it was, for as she watched Li-Li’s sabre cut down every Defiled who came close and Yan’s six-pointed star scythe through multiple necks with each pass, Mila yearned for the chance to show off as well, but instead she swallowed her pride and fought with patience, diligence, and restraint. This would be a battle of endurance, for there were far more Defiled than Imperials in Shi Bei, and while Taduk was able to revitalize the beleaguered defenders with his reinvigorating rainstorm, even a Divinity couldn’t maintain so colossal a working for long. Though most saw Divinities as the peak of mortal power, Mila knew better, for though Taduk possessed considerable power, he was sorely lacking in experience.

The Martial Path was far too complex to sum up in a sentence or even a paragraph, but so many Warriors seemed to believe that victory was decided by strength alone. Far from it, because while having more strength certainly made it easier to defeat your opponents, even the strongest Warrior in the world wasn’t all that impressive if he telegraphed every single one of his attacks. You had to know how to apply your strength in order to use it effectively, and the easiest way to learn this was through practice and repetition. That’s one reason why Mama insisted her Sentinels set time aside to Demonstrate the Forms each and every day, because only then could you ensure you were most familiar with your greatest weapon, your body itself.

In contrast, Mila had never once seen sweet, silly Taduk do anything remotely resembling hard work. This was a Divinity who grumbled whenever anyone besides Rain or Lin-Lin handed him anything heavier than a small box, so while he was clearly capable of summoning the rains to wash away a Warrior’s fatigue, there was no way he was intimately familiar with the process. This meant he had to spend more focus and effort on it than he otherwise might, which was why he wasn’t even humming anymore and just standing there with an absent look on his face, so vulnerable and defenseless he couldn’t even Conceal himself. There was also the fact that the storm was large enough to cover the entire city and then some, but Mila’s point still applied, which was why she wanted to break away from her dear sisters and use Paragon to kill as many Defiled as possible while Taduk’s rainstorm was still capable of restoring her spent stamina.

Except in doing so, she would be leaving Yan and Song to defend themselves, or rather leaving others to protect them. Not only that, Mila would also require someone to look after her, for it would only take one Champion capable of slipping past the arc of her chain to really ruin her day, and out on the sands of Shi Bei, the tribesmen, Champions, and Chieftains all blended together in one indistinguishable sea of savage expressions. All in all, it wasn’t worth the extra effort, because while Paragon was a formidable weapon, killing faster was not the key to victory here today. Better to set the pace nice and steady and keep to it for as long as possible, because this battle would test their perseverance more than any battle before.

A shame the rainstorm couldn’t restore her Chi, else she could dazzle all of Shi Bei by launching Radiant Spear after Radiant Spear, an act which would sate her desire to both show off and kill more Defiled before settling into her rhythm. Alas, not even Taduk understood how Rain had restored Mila’s Core to full not once, but multiple times during the siege of Meng Sha. Her husband didn’t understand it either, because to him, a Natal Soul was merely a vector to deliver usable Heavenly Energy into her Core, but that made about as much sense as saying a ladle could scoop sand and water both. True, but those were two different substances and had no bearing on the end result, because Heavenly Energy was not Chi, but all Rain could do was prattle on about how this was a difference without a distinction, a statement only the Divinities agreed with.

To think, her beloved fool of a husband was no longer merely the greatest Young Talent of the Empire, but the youngest one to ascend to the level of Divinity, if not Divinity itself.

And yet you will always be my beloved hero, the person I look up to and admire the most, for you are the sun in my sky, the radiance which lights up my life. Look inwards and take hold of that radiance hiding deep inside, and show the world just how dazzling Sumila of the People truly is.

That was the general sentiment of Rain’s Natal Soul, but the information hidden within meant so much more. Until recently, she’d always believed that her Blessing was functionally useless, because she’d been unable to make use of it directly, but now she understood that even the Radiant Spear was but a fraction of what she could do. She’d long since suspected her Blessing was the source of her prodigious strength and density, but now she understood how. The sun was not merely a source of light, but of life itself, a wellspring of nourishment which slowly but naturally started the process of Refining her body, mind, and soul which allowed her to stand out from her peers all this time in a manner she was wholly unaware of, much less able to describe.

And now, with Rain’s help, Mila realized that there was still so much more she could do.

The Sun was an Esoteric Blessing, one which drew deeply from all four Primal Blessings at once, so even though she was denied the ability to utilize Fire, Air, Water, or Earth directly, the Sun was still capable of so much more. To start, she touched upon the most obvious facet of her Blessing as she unleashed its power upon the Defiled before her, dazzling them all with a glimmering beam of brilliance that shone straight into their eyes. Yan, Li-Li, and the Imperial soldiers around Mila saw nothing, not even a brightening of their surroundings, for this Radiant Chi released no physical light, but the Defiled used their eyes far more than just for sight. It always confused her why the Defiled and Rain would have such spectacular night vision, able to find their way even under the cover of total darkness without so much as a hitch, but now she understood that it wasn’t that their eyes were able to see more, but that this was how they interpreted the information provided to them by their other senses, what Rain called the Spiritual Senses.

It was these ineffable senses Mila’s Radiant Chi targeted, and the results were satisfying to behold as the Defiled flinched and flailed blindly about now that they were no longer able to see. Rain would have called it the downside of lacking comprehension, because if they knew how they were ‘seeing’ with their Spiritual Senses, then they could also turn it off and keep fighting. This was but the least of what her Blessing could do, for she suspected it also had a hand in guiding her towards Insight and Inspiration, perhaps by ‘illuminating’ the Path for her to see, and she wanted to explore what the deadly desert sun could do as well, but for now, this would have to do. Pleased with the results, Mila skewered a helpless Defiled tribesman through the ribs and smirked when Yan and Li-Li turned their inquisitive gaze towards her, for it was difficult not to notice how every nearby Defiled had suddenly gone blind in her presence. Blowing the water out of her hair, Mila signaled for her sisters to keep fighting before exchanging her spear for Paragon instead. With her Radiant Chi blinding every Defiled who approached them, she could rest easy knowing her sisters were well protected, meaning she was now free to slaughter the Enemy to her heart’s content, and slaughter them she would.

Paragon sang and a chorus of Defiled screams rose up to accompany its thrumming melody as she set it to spinning overhead, and Mila’s heart soared as the soldiers cheered in hearty reply, gratified to have this brief reprieve as Taduk’s invigorating rain washed over them all, clearing away two weeks of exhaustion, fatigue, and despondence. Hopefully their morale would continue to soar or at least hold steady once the rain stopped, but if not, Mila was more than ready to help bolster their spirits with another act of heroism or two.

For she was Sumila, wife of Falling Rain, Sentinel of the People and young Hero of the Empire.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
