An aged Warrior with hair of white and a wizened, bony frame, this Bastard Liu was not the strongest of the bunch, but the most dangerous by far. The cannon-wielding madman and the beauty laden in gold and jewels were formidable indeed, but Bastard Liu knew how to hide in the shadows and pick his fights well. Three Wraiths died the moment they appeared, cut down by the aged Warrior before they even knew there was a hunter among them, foiling the attempt to kill the cannon-holder and steal the weapon for the Uniter to study. The Ancestors would do well to learn from Bastard Liu, for after seeing a towering wall of water crash into their ranks followed by this torrential rainfall which made their limbs leaden and knees weak, the best course of action would be to pull back the tribesmen so that the Chieftains could bolster their courage with feats of strength and daring, pitting their skills against their foes in glorious single combat. There was no sense in pressing the offensive like this, for though their foes were weary and ragged, this storm would soon leave Vithar’s tribesmen in the same state and render all their efforts wasted, yet still, Gongsun Qi gave the order to charge, and charge Vithar’s tribesmen did, dying every step along the way.

He cares nothing for the lives of you and your tribesmen, which is why he spends them for almost no gain. Live or die, you mean nothing to him, so why die when you could instead live?

A rare message of value from the Ancestors, though they quickly returned to their insistent wailings, proving that there was at least some dissent among them. Tearing his gaze away from the slaughter, Vithar hefted his axe and turned to his second, Gargeera, a ferocious garo of a man who bore his own ancestral weapon, a vicious spear with a hooked blade that he wielded with skill and strength aplenty. “Gather those who still hold fast to reason,” Vithar Sent, using the harsh tongue of his people, rather than the melodic tones of the southlanders. “The strongest and most resilient of our people who know better than to give into all the Ancestors' demands. Not all together, and not in any overt manner, but keep them away from the battle and ready to move. Once the battle comes to an end, we cut ties with the Uniter and seek out a new life for our tribes.”

For long seconds, Vithar’s second stood and stared with an unreadable expression, weighing his options before committing to a side. Gargeera was a Chieftain himself, one with strength even greater than Vithar’s, but Gongsun Qi underestimated the man’s cunning and intelligence simply because he refused to speak the southlander tongue. Make no mistake, Gargeera understood it well enough, and even knew how to read, but he thought it beneath him to chirp and warble like prey. Now, he was considering if he should take Vithar’s head and present it to the Uniter, for betrayers and cowards were equally reviled, but then the stone-faced man nodded and Sent, “We have marched beneath his banner and laid waste to his enemies, and he has brought us to this land of plenty. A bargain struck, a bargain fulfilled, and it is long past time we parted ways.”

Vithar didn’t dare relax before Gargeera was out of sight, and even then, he remained vigilant for a few minutes more, waiting to see if the Wraiths’ daggers would be turned upon him, but none came to claim his head. Turning back to the battle at hand, he watched his people fight and die for a cause not their own and his rage burned in his chest, a rage tempered by weary exhaustion which had long since settled into his bones. It was the brief respite which weakened him so, the quiet weeks of indulgence poisoning his will and showing him how pleasant a life without slaughter could be. These southlands were scorching and unpleasant, but they were still preferable to the frozen wastes back home, and Asmani was somewhere out there with their unborn child, so he would bring his people to find her and reclaim his place at her side so that they might raise their child together.

Right after he razed Shi Bei to the ground and killed everyone inside as tribute to his tribesmen who’d already died, for he was Vithar, Chieftain of Chieftains, and his people would not die unavenged.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Two minutes into my new job as a cold-calling self-improvement helpline, and all I have to show for it is a giant throbbing headache. All my efforts are likely a working of Mind and Soul, though more the first and less of the second with how I have things set up. I’m not sure how Zhen Shi controls all his Spectres, but I figured it would be more resource efficient to have a bunch of beefier, connected Natal Souls parsing through emotions from the Call Centre of the Void first, before sending out a smaller, severed Natal Soul once they acquire a target. No more wasted emotions on frustration when my severed Natal Souls can’t find someone who cares to listen, though I am sorta spoiled for choice when it comes to the Defiled. The trick is to find someone who might actually be able to do something if I’m able to influence them, which is why I’ve been targeting the Chieftains and Champions who’ve retained some semblance of sanity instead of charging headlong into the fray. It’s not much, but it’s worth a shot.

Problem is, once my severed Natal Souls make it in, I have no way to find out what they say and can’t really tell if they’ve succeeded. As far as I can tell, I’ve been throwing good souls after bad and have nothing to show for it, which is disheartening to say the least. As far as I can tell, once someone accepts my severed Natal Soul, there’s a moment during the melding process in which they are both connected to the Heavens, a brief glimpse at Insight to help them find their own way. That’s how the Spectres know what to say to really tear someone down, unlike Zhen Shi whose whispers appear to be carefully crafted after studying his targets and interrogating the Spectres who’ve been planted into their psyche.

You know… considering my Natal Souls are pretty much Spectres by another name, what would happen if I made a play for someone’s Natal Throne? With Spectres, you get a Demon, but I don’t think seizing the throne is what sets off the transformation. I think the amalgamated Wills of the Spectres are so driven to be whole that simply seizing a host isn’t enough. They don’t just want to live, they want to go back to being a person again, the person they were in life, only their self image is a combination of thousands upon thousands of fractured snapshots of damaged psyches. This image is then further muddied by their host’s internal struggles which is why Demons are almost always horrific and inhuman in appearance. That being said, if I’m careful about it, surely one of my severed Natal Souls could take control of someone’s Natal Throne and… meat puppet the body as is, sort of like what I accused Zhen Shi of doing with Gen, though I admit it turned out that Gen was more in control than I thought, because that sad sack of shit would rather pretend to be someone else entirely than face his own issues.

…Pot, meet kettle. I probably shouldn’t be slinging rocks of accusation around, seeing as how I’m living in a glass house. Ethical and moral issues aside however, this is a fascinating topic I would love to study, but I should probably focus more on the life and death battle unfolding around my general vicinity. I can see why Taddy gets so distracted all the time. It’s difficult to stay rooted in the real world when it’s moving at ten miles an hour and your brain likes to coast at a thousand. In more practical terms, even though I just went through thousands upon thousands of emotional profiles and dispatched hundreds of Natal Souls to make their sales pitch, only two minutes or so has passed in real time. Unfortunately, a lot can happen in under a minute, namely that the Defiled have made it onto the battlements and the fighting is fierce and ferocious, but I can’t bring myself to call upon the Energy of the Heavens to cut them all down. It's like the Abbot once said, this is the power of Creation itself, yet we mostly use it to hit each other harder. It doesn’t feel right to me, and since it doesn’t feel right, I can’t find the Will and Intent to do it.

Plus, Akanai told me to cut it out with the tidal waves, because no one wants to risk an all-out war of Divinities, even though I’m fairly confident I could keep them from turning Shi Bei into a nuclear wasteland. Or more of a nuclear wasteland, since the ruinous wastelands outside the Empire is supposedly the result of what happens when you don’t have a Treaty to restrain the Divinities. Then again, even if I wanted to, I’m not really sure if I can use Heavenly Energy to just wipe this Defiled army off the face of this world because of the unique method with which I use to control it. No struggle and no surrender, but how do I keep to this tenuous Balance while simultaneously expressing such a monumental Intent to kill, one in complete conflict with my base nature? I am no cold-blooded murderer, and far from callous or uncaring, because my problem is exactly the opposite. I care too much, sympathizing even with the people who’ve wronged me, so how can I remain unfeeling and unaffected while using the Energy of the Heavens to commit massed murder?

The short answer? I can’t.

The long answer? Probably with lots and lots of practice.

All this means is that there will be no more Divinity-level shenanigans from me until absolutely necessary, because I can’t risk losing control, but that doesn’t mean I can’t do anything. I can still fight with sword and shield in hand, because that’s not the same as slaughtering them en masse, a moral distinction that makes little sense, but I also know to be true. It also occurs to me I could probably put my Call Centre Natal Souls to better use helping my allies find Insight instead of trying to dissuade my arguably insane and certifiably murderous enemies from continuing to fight. Doubly so considering the fact that the Enemy grossly outnumbers us here in Shi Bei and we might well lose the city if we’re not careful, alongside most of the soldiers currently stationed inside it.

As I set my Natal Souls to this new directive, I reach up to massage my temples and ease the pangs of pain, but halfway through I think better of it and crack my neck instead. It’d be bad for morale if I showed pain and weakness while also undoing everything I accomplished with my domineering entrance. I’m big, strong, and powerful as fuck, which means I’m here to hold up the Heavens, or at least that’s how the story goes, one which is supposed to inspire courage and determination in the soldiers of Shi Bei, so I can hardly curl up into a ball and hide in the shade. My kingdom for an extra-strength aspirin, or a cup of Taddy’s willow-bark hangover tea, either one would be great right about now, but alas, I will just have to power through and do without.

Man… how much stronger do I have to get before I’m well and truly OP? I would really love to have the ability to trivialize all content so I can start the exploration and achievement hunting phase of my life…

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fingers poised over the strings of her zither, Luo-Luo carefully considered what song to play as the battle for Shi Bei unfolded. This was too much for her, all this discord and death, too overwhelming for her to think. It was one thing to play while standing distanced from the fighting, but Lord Husband and Guard Leader Hua Lie had brought them right up to the battlements, meaning Luo-Luo was far too close to the Defiled for her liking. Logically, she knew they were less fearsome than the disciplined soldiers of the Mataram Clan, but the tribal Defiled were far more fearsome to behold. She’d grown up around soldiers and was acclimated to their presence, with Death Corps Guards always patrolling the academy to ensure the safety of its students and teachers, but these feral foreigners were unlike anything she’d ever seen, and it was only natural to fear the unknown.

Even sweet Noodle was agitated by all the commotion, stirring from within Luo-Luo’s sleeves as she poked her little head out to keep vigil on the surroundings. Aurie, Banjo, and Baloo were also pressed to her sides, while sweet Jimjam and Sarankho stood guard around them, pacing to and fro while snarling at every Defiled who moved too close. A small pang of guilt coursed through Luo-Luo as she recalled what Lord Husband said earlier, about how she was with Lin-Lin getting settled somewhere safe when in truth they were all close enough to reach out and grab him. In fact, sweet Ping Ping was sitting at Lord Husband’s feet and readied to defend him against all comers, and for him to not notice her was a testament to Guard Leader Hua Lie’s phenomenal skills. The fact that she was able to keep them all Concealed from Lord Husband’s senses was a rather humbling prospect, for it meant that he was not all-powerful as he might seem, so Luo-Luo muttered a small prayer under her breath asking the Mother Above to keep him safe.

