Peering through the torrential downpour at the oncoming Defiled, I take no pride or satisfaction in what comes next.

The cannons roar and bodies explode in a spray of bloody mist as the passing cannonballs leave a visible gap in the Enemy lines, but still they surge ever forwards. Despite their seemingly fearless advance, spikes of dread and apprehension pierce through the haze of rage and anger permeating around all around them, but this chilling reminder of their frail mortality is not enough to bring them back to their senses. Ensconced within the very souls of their hosts, the Spectres whisper their lies and whip the Defiled into a frenzy of hatred and madness, one they give into all too readily for too many reasons to list. Some fight to live, others fight to kill, while still more fight because it is all they know, but it all results in the same deranged gratification upon which the Spectres feast, for the emotions brought about by these moments of extreme Imbalance are all they know.

Therein lies the joke, the twist which makes the Heavens seem so cruel and unjust. These Spectres were born of these extreme negative emotions, and thus are missing some crucial element of Balance. This missing element is what keeps them from simply merging with their hosts as they are, so they must change their hosts in order to become whole again. They do this by driving their hosts to ever-growing extremes and chipping away at their sanity to push them towards imbalance, which allows the Spectres to take root once more, but what they don’t understand is that they can never be whole again without Balance.

The Spectres and the Defiled play the part of cleansing flame, the Destruction which comes before Creation, but we all know what happens once the fire has run its course.

This is why I empathize with the Defiled, because I see that which was obvious all along. They are not in their right mind, not wholly in control of their actions, which makes it that much more difficult to hate them, especially now when I might finally have the power to help them. Their inner turmoil is made clear to me by my Spiritual Senses, allowing me to read their emotions as clearly as I can feel the raindrop on my skin or taste the blood in the air, and while I cannot explain it, I cannot ignore it either. The Spectres are a sickness, and the Defiled afflicted by this spiritual contagion, one I cannot Cleanse away due to the innate protections of the human soul, but there has to be a way to help, and I think I know how. The Spectres encourage the Defiled to indulge in their darker emotions, urging them forward to fight and die, but it is human instinct to want to live, and I can sense their inner struggle take place as they waver between the two.

Thus, in spite of knowing the costs, I create a squadron of Natal Souls to reach out and speak to those who will listen, though I have learned from my mistakes and do not sever them just yet. Instead, I keep these Natal Souls tethered and linked to my own soul, still part and parcel of the whole. Unlike before, what they see, hear, and think is shared in real time rather than passed on all at once, which pushes me to the limits of my focus and sanity as I multi-task in the only way I know how, by splitting my mind into a host of distinct, but wholly similar personas.

To aid them in their efforts, the Call Centre of the Void returns in full form as my Natal Souls surge into battle not with sword and shield, but keyboard and monitor, weapons far more familiar solely due to my time spent with them. Our fingers clack-clack-clack away in an exaggerated manner which anyone who’s ever used a keyboard would call bullshit on, but it amuses them to do so, and we could use all the amusement we can get. Each Natal Soul reaches out to multiple Defiled tribesmen on the field in an effort to convince them of a better way, but there is no success to be found. Most cannot even hear my Natal Souls over the bellowing Spectres they’ve known all their lives, and the few who can hear me react in all manner of unpredictable ways. Some turn tail and run, others charge even faster into the fray, whilst a select few abandon all hope and Demonify amidst the thundering clamour of cannon-fire, but not a single one cares to accept the error of their ways, for in their eyes, their actions are right, for might makes right, and the weak are only deserving of death.

A wasted effort most would say, trying to lead the Defiled to salvation, but while I would love to claim I’m only doing it to chip away at their resolve, there’s no point lying to myself. I can’t hate the Defiled anymore, not knowing what I know now, and if I can save even one from the self-destructive Path they’ve found themselves on, then it will be well worth the effort. Perhaps I’ve been afflicted by the Abbot’s mercy, a man who found it in himself to take in all the monks who betrayed him so he might set them back upon the Noble Eight-Fold Path, but the realist in me thinks he is merely inviting disaster back into his home. There has to be a better way to do away with the Spectres, some method or Chi skill to ward them off from the hearts and minds of the vulnerable, but even with hundreds of my Natal Souls working to diagnose the issue, I fear I will make no headway on this issue here.

And even if I do, I know full well that even without Spectres to encourage their darker natures, the hearts of humanity harbours more than enough darkness to spare.

But I have to try regardless, not just because I pity the Defiled, but also because I cannot stomach the thought of slaughtering them all to the last, which will be their fate if they continue to fight. Bai Qi and the Uniter care not for their lives, for they are stockpiling corpses for their Demons to feast upon for some other nefarious purpose at hand, one which I cannot for the life of me understand. Why bother making more powerful Demons with me and Taddy here to neutralize them? I can Devour and Cleanse Demons as easily as turning a hand, while Taddy’s rain drains away at their precious lifeforce which they can only restore by feasting upon the dead. What’s Zhen Shi’s end game here? Why is he still fighting? If he has everything he needs to ascend as he claims, then why doesn’t he just cut his losses here and go do just that?

Hideo warned me that Zhen Shi is retreating to preserve his own strength so that he can fight against the Imperial Clan another day, but that’s not what this looks like here. Instead, it appears as if he’s given up on the Defiled and banking only on his Chosen, Half-Demons, and Demons, but even if he thinks they’ll be ineffective in his vendetta against the Emperor, the tribal Defiled could still be of use. Scatter them to the winds and it’ll take years for the outer provinces to uproot them from the Western province, at staggering cost to boot. All without any effort required on Zhen Shi’s part mind you, but he’s content to throw their lives away for minimal gain. Even if he overruns Shi Bei and slaughters the vast majority of Imperials here today, all he will have won is an empty shell of a city which he likely intends to abandon anyways.

It makes no sense, but I respect my foe enough to know that this means I’m overlooking something crucial, only I have no idea what it could be. All I can do is endure the strain of splitting my focus so many ways and hope against all hope that my efforts bear fruit, but as the tides of Defiled reach the walls and clamber their way up the parapets, I fear I must put my talents to other use.

I will fight if I must, and in the moment, I will even indulge in the thrill of adrenaline and bloodlust, but come tomorrow, I fear I will have many lives to mourn, and I can only selfishly hope that none of my friends or loved ones are among them.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rage and resentment burned within Vithar’s chest as the cursed downpour sapped away his strength and vigour, and it took every scrap of willpower remaining to hold firm against the Ancestors’ unrelenting demands urging him to charge forth into battle.

Where they were once a seething mass of discordant whispers, their varying opinions had grown strangely united in recent weeks, a change which made it far easier to hear their voices, but far more difficult to ignore, even when their demands were unreasonable or unwise. To think he’d once valued their guidance in times past, all too happy to learn from their teachings and heed their advice, yet now he saw them for what they truly were, the disgruntled spirits of incompetent failures who had long since died and yet still refused to accept their mistakes. A fool’s gambit, besieging this worthless city, with its too-high walls and destructive weapons aplenty, yet the Ancestors insisted he take it with all haste, the same demands they made of him so many days ago when he first crested the dunes to take in the newly raised fortifications with his own two eyes.

So much had changed since he last saw the city, too much to list out in one breath, but these new smooth walls and soaring towers overlooking them meant that many of his tribesmen would die to retake the city. With so many tribes gathered under one banner, the end result was never in doubt, but he questioned if the prize was worth the effort. What gain was there to be had in spilling blood on the sands here? None so far as Vithar could see, aside from the slaughter itself, but after two years of raiding these lands of plenty, even the youngest of his tribesmen were well-blooded and battle-scarred. Those too young to fight had stayed with Asmani, alongside those who no longer had the heart to struggle, leaving only the strongest of Vithar’s tribesmen to fight with him, and he’d only gathered more to his tribe in weeks since. His tribe was stronger than ever, so he had no desire to waste their strength here in Shi Bei, for the city itself served no purpose that the other cities nearby could not match, and giving it to the southlanders meant there would soon be supply lines aplenty to raid and plunder. Better to leave them be and focus on the harbour instead, cutting off the southlanders’ ability to move soldiers and supplies by ship, but the Ancestors would hear none of it.

Not that Vithar ever tried to reason with them, not even when they were a thousand tongues speaking in a thousand voices. Back then, their incessant whispers would have drowned out anything he had to say, and now, they were too undivided to contend against in a direct match of wills. Easier to ignore them altogether outside of battle itself, for that was the only area in which their words were worth heeding, but it was a constant struggle to keep his reasoning free of their contemptible influence. Alas, not everyone was able to do the same, nor were most even inclined to try, for they believed the Ancestors could do no wrong whereas Vithar knew better. If they were so clever, then they never would have died in the first place, but too many of his tribesmen cared not for his arguments so long as they were free to spill blood, even if the blood was their own. With the collective will of the Ancestors finally in agreement, their voices were too loud and too insistent for most to ignore, which was why so many of Vithar’s tribesmen continued throwing themselves at the walls day after day without sparing a thought for the mountains of their dead and dying brethren who tried to do the same.

And still the Ancestors demanded Vithar take his axe into the fray, urging him ever forward into the spears and cannons of his enemies. Despicable weapons, those booming cannons of death and carnage, weapons he loathed with all his heart and soul, for they made a mockery of combat with their frightening destructive capabilities and rendered even the most cunning and careful of plans moot. Every opening and vulnerability he seized or struck at was easily countered by a single volley, for even the most crazed of Vithar’s tribesmen would balk upon seeing those thunderous blasts rend a bloody hole in the battlelines with naught but blood and viscera left behind. The first time he saw the cannons used, it’d been against armoured Chosen at the Citadel, and even the Uniter’s steel shells laden with sorcerous energies offered no protection against those hurtling cannonballs. Though only slightly larger than two fists put together, those orbs of iron were launched with such speed that Vithar could barely track them, and anyone caught in their path was as good as dead. Upon landing, they shook the earth and air enough to injure anyone just standing nearby, and if that wasn’t enough, the cannonballs would either explode into fragments of jagged steel or worse, bounce off the ground and continue hurtling forward to kill everything it touched.

What was a Warrior to do against such a domineering weapon? The crossbows and catapults were despicable enough, sharpened steel and hefty stone thrown by constructs of wood and sinew, but those projectiles were easily blocked or avoided so long as one paid heed to the skies. The cannons however were all but unblockable, powerful enough even to stagger Transcendents on the charge, and even targeting the wielder was a difficult task since every last cannon lay in the hands of a formidable Warrior to boot. The solitary cackling madman wielding his cannon against Vithar’s tribesman radiated with power and threat, even without the hateful weapon in his hands, and to make matters worse, he was guarded by Warriors as formidable as he, including one whom Vithar recognized as the man who’d slain Yo Ling in Sanshu, so many moons ago.

