 already felt like he was at his limit of pushing his power over the Dungeon. He looked around the garden with the nine doors and...Nu wasn’t sure if it was anticipation or worry that made him want to have their secrets laid bare. He honestly wished he could just grab a sword and do the job himself, but that option just wasn’t available to him now.That’s why he and Delta had minions. Very... strong minions.But he had no doubt the Cult had some horrid beings waiting for them. They had so many years of testing ever-reverting subjects until something stuck.That spoke of trouble and Nu was very good at tackling trouble.He was more worried about Delta.If she found some monstrous creature or something... she might try to befriend it, or worse… cry.Nu would not let that happen.Not while he had something to protect.---“You make a compelling argument,” Bossy admitted as they stood outside the very bar they had come in search of.“You know I do! Come on, with Perfect-Nina and Lazy-Nina splitting for the heck of it... we need to pull together. So, go get Hoarder-Nina and we’ll smush together, balancing out the splitting,” Drama-Nina explained.Being one of the older clones meant she kept some sense of the original Nina. Just a little.Bossy narrowed her eyes and Drama-Nina quickly did some repair work before Bossy stormed off.“It lets you get back into the driver seat. Get Hoarder under control and bring me into line,” Drama-Nina said as she nodded. That made her clone smile.Bossy went off without another word, pushing past the large wooden fort that guarded the bar. Drama-Nina could see how their towers would offer decent cover against the climbers. The various mounds and slippery mud made the climb even worse. Nina... all of them... were just going to pay the fine to the devil clam and move on.She looked up and read the name that was just visible from outside.The Swarthy Hog.It sounded like a place to find grizzled old men and potential lost princesses. No wonder Nibs was excited about it.There was a faint buzz as Bossy took Hoarder back into herself. The feeling made all the Ninas tingle.That feeling was her only way of coming back if she split too far. Mindless Ninas wandering for food and attacking everything until one got the idea to eat another Nina. That usually stuck them together, and the first rush of human pleasure that clone would feel would spread, and soon all Ninas would hunt other Ninas until a spark of intelligence returned to the Nina mind.It was hard to see, hear and remember the things the Lesser Ninas had done. If she was lucky, it was just funny stories of bumbling bitey twins in the forest. Worst case was being hunted for attempted murder.That always sucked.Bossy returned and Nina smiled as Bossy held out a hand.She took it and Bossy vanished into a shimmering green cloud of Mana that was taken back into Drama-Nina.Control... desire... those emotions and ideas were suddenly real again. They were hers.It felt like being a person again.She turned and entered the bar. More Nina than before.The place was... a little bare bones but hardly the worst place Nina had ever seen. The goblin who saved her was serving drinks to Seth and two goblins armed with bags and weapons. Lord Mushy and Missy occasionally used a spray bottle to mist themselves down with clear water.The large mounted boar’s head above the entrance was a fake as the boar looked less defeated, less strung up, and more like a watchful protector of the place. Round tables were placed between thin but sturdy pillars. On one side was a crackling hearth that bathed the room in warm dancing light.A collection of mushrooms growing out of the wall nearby was playing something rather sad... a piano melody of something soft... tender.“Never heard the bloke go anywhere below ‘excited’. Wonder what’s got him all torn up?” the goblin asked Lord Mushy. The giant monster put down his thin flower vase and sighed.“People. Such wonderful things... but they all have their own pasts. I can’t imagine having a year’s worth of memories, let alone, say... 35. I do believe my head would explode, wouldn’t you agree, my fair lady Fera?” he gruffly said. Fera poured herself a shot of something familiar and nodded, not scowling as hard as she shot Missy a crooked smile and the little mushroom kicked her legs off the high stool.“Is that Nib’s brew?” Nina called out and the goblin... Fera, looked up.“Was. It tasted like pig swill so I made it better,” she said, and as if in response to something only she could hear, Fera coughed.“No offence to the maker,” she added with little warmth to her tone. Seth raised his glass of bubbling brown drink up, face revolted, before he took another deep swig.“Evil but heavenly!” he marveled.Odd.Fera turned back to Lord Mushy.“We got Mum’s memories to a point. So it isn’t the same. I keep getting ideas for drinks I’ve never heard of... something called cocktails, but they’re too fancy for this place,” Fera dismissed and looked to the standing Nina.“Make an order or grab a mop and clean. Standing there is ruining the view,” she ordered. Nina, hearing this almost daily, snapped to attention and looked around for the mop only for none to be found.“Hah, this is a Dungeon bar. Stains and marks are intentional. Sit down and get your drink,” Fera ordered. Nina did so, pulling out the letter from Nibs as she was handed the same kind of drink that Seth was drinking... was drinking.He stared at the empty glass.“Vanished... some taker of things? No... I am... in love,” he mumbled.Fera took the note and opened the seal with one of her very long nails. Nina took a sip and froze.The drink was something akin to awful lich spit. A corrosive evil liquid that destroyed all that it touched... such evil that would consume Nina and leave her a husk of a woman.She almost broke and cried, but then in the darkness came life and light. Joy and love danced across her tongue and her body felt light, as if she would float off the stool at any moment. It hit her stomach and she got a headrush, as if she just had the best night of her life and now came the bubbly and cute pillow talk.The Drink tore her opinion in two.And thus, it tore Nina in two.---Fera scowled at the letter. She didn’t know exactly how to read. Speaking was easy, everyone in the Dungeon spoke the same language. She closed her eyes and Mum... her good mother... let her tap into her own knowledge. Fera wasn’t one for compliments, but Mum was smart - scary smart. She knew one whole language and even parts of others!Fera would beat the snot out of anyone who would call her Mum dumb, and then shoot them.She focused and the words began to blend and work together. The local language was now in Fera’s mind.Ah... words.Fera needed to make a menu and some boards to declare her wares.The letter was short and to the point.Fera’s rise in power would not go ignored. While she was highly respected for her passion, Niblet’s Lunch and Drink Pub would not stand idly by. Fera was to prepare to be utterly shown up as the amateur she was... and a small extra note invited her for a free drink if she ever managed to break the rules of Dungeon and not go abomination.Fera narrowed her eyes.Rude. How utterly rude!A free drink? How dare this Nibs! Fera had treasure for days! She even had a clam guarding it!She tore the letter up and finally turned to see what the noise coming from her bar was. She paused as the girl who had come in was splitting into copies of herself. Each of the girls snatched the Shroom Pop and buzzed... splitting again. The splitting was happening faster and faster.The bar was getting rather full and the girls were beginning to screech at each other.Fera’s nostrils flared.She reached under the bar.All the girls, even the ones baring teeth and snarling, froze as the almighty boomstick announced itself with a bang into the ceiling and a shower of wood chips.“Enough of this! I want you all back in one piece before I fill yer rears with burning pellets!” she roared and the room shook with her anger.She was the damn room guardian of this place and she would not let it get trampled!There was a beat before clones began to pop out of sight. In the end, there was only one left who looked confused and dazed.“I’m sorry... I...” she said, and Fera looked at the two broken stools and her other disturbed customers. Missy was on top of Lord Mushy, hiding in nervous fear. Seth had his new drink all down his front...Unacceptable.She reached under the bar and threw something at the girl.It was an orange apron with frills.“Tomorrow morning. Be here and work off your debt,” she growled.Inside, she was smirking.Sorry, Nibs, but Fera had just pulled ahead in the race.“But my other job...” the girl protested.“Split. You seemed to be good at it,” Fera replied waspishly. The apron was meant to be a reward that made someone better at making drinks, or something similar, but Fera had never had planned on giving it out.The girl wasn’t bound or even likely to turn up, but Fera looked to the floating form of her Mum.“You deal with the consequences. She’s a real person and you might not be aware how much you’re biting off,” came the words of wisdom. Fera jutted her chin out slightly.Fera always knew what she was biting into.That was one of the benefits of being a cook.Nina meekly approached the bar.“Can I have something to eat?” she asked. Fera narrowed her eyes and tapped her finger on the bar as she gave her recommendation.“You want the mushroom soup. It’s less conflicting,” she said, and the girl opened her mouth to argue.“You... want... the soup,” Fera insisted. A beat later, the girl nodded.Five minutes later, or it was free (not like these guests were even paying) Nina - the girl’s name - sipped the brew.She blinked and then looked up.“It’s good!” she said, and Fera was just glad she didn’t split again.“You get free meals when working here. Also a break in the Pond room or a tour of the jungle,” she added on the rewards. Her intent wasn’t to make the girl suffer but to let her see and experience the bar... and a bit more. Then she could spread the news when she returned home.Also, it wasn't about the stools, but Fera wanted it known... very early... that if trouble was to be started in her bar, there would be consequences.Money was not going to be accepted... only very valuable trinkets for Mum or honest work.This was not a pay-to-win kinda place.Fera thought about that and then went through the back to get a blackboard and chalk.She began to write.

After a bit of time reading this over. Fera added one more line.

Fera had a feeling that the list of rulz would only be getting bigger.
