“We could just decide that putting a leash on a dragon is a terrible idea. I will spend a couple of days in town and spend a lot of money, then I’ll be out of your hair and someone else’s problem,” Viv suggested.

“Or we could make it difficult.”

Arthur puffed a little smoke. The scent of overheated metal replaced that of old book then was gone just as fast.

“She’s under your responsibility and we’d better not hear about any incident,” the mage said. The kennel master approved with a nod.

“Of course,” Viv agreed amicably.

The two left and Viv made to abscond as well, but a hand placed on her shoulder brought her down. Viv frowned. It was the nondescript woman.

“Any chance that you would be willing to work here?” the woman asked. Viv felt the grip but, strangely, her danger sense was quiet. It should be screaming at her, she thought.

“No, I’m really here to relax and leave,” Viv replied.

“Excellent. I’ll send someone and make sure you’re not bothered. By anybody.”

“That would be nice,” Viv muttered.

“And one last piece of advice. Your intimidation was cute and effective, if a bit heavy-handed. You are young. You are also not familiar with large cities, so please remember that as dangerous as you are on the battlefield, there are folks in the capital who follow paths that… solve problems.”

A veil lifted. The nondescript woman was a wiry girl with a pointy nose and squarish traits, someone who felt dependable and overall pleasant but there was something off about her smile and when Viv looked down, she saw that a finger rested on her skin, at the base of her neck. That finger bore a strange jewel with a claw at the end, and a skull on its surface. The woman tapped it gently three times.

Viv noticed that Arthur’s jaw was very close to the woman’s chest as well. The two had placed themselves in a stalemate without Viv noticing.

“Sometimes, keeping the peace requires a sacrifice. The dragons know that. We have shown time and time again that we were willing to go all the way.”

“I’m really here to relax, not to attack anyone,” Viv assured.

“I believe you, I really do. And I like your shrewdness. Consider it a, ah, friendly reminder. Enjoy your stay.”

And she was gone. Literally. Viv could not feel her anywhere.

“Squeee?”

“Yeah it’s a big world and we are not the biggest yet. Let’s go, darling. I don’t know about you but I need to unwind.”

Viv finished her cup then left.

The streets of Losserec were idle, and Viv was reminded that today was rest day, obviously. The public attention was a bit annoying. She knew they’d get over her in a couple of days though. Her first stop was the bank. Finding it wasn’t difficult, she just had to follow the main road into the city. It still took her more than ten minutes of fast walking. Losserec was large, really large. Tens of thousands of inhabitants at least. It also smelled surprisingly good for a place this massive. The signs of magic were found less in the people casting in the street like in Kazar, and more in the wards, lights, and other enchantments that decorated the streets. Some of the more affluent citizens wore enchanted doublets though she was not yet good enough to discern what some of them did. She saw a lot of glass windows and shopfronts. More subtle signs also revealed it was an old, well-established place, such as the walking rule. Rich people walked in the middle of the street while wagons and poorer people walked on the sides. A particularly arrogant [merchant] tried to have his guards move her away from her path, which she had kept somewhat in the in between, but a display of black tendrils and Arthur’s hiss had dissuaded them without issues.

“Don’t even try,” Viv had warned.

Besides that, the trip ended without incident on a large square plaza at the edge of the inner walls, where  the keep stood. She made a beeline for the familiar stout building with its thick Doric columns and dim interior. The doorman let her in without asking for her chit once again and she found herself in the familiar, dim and luscious interior. She was offered access to her cash and a few recommendations by a flawlessly polite associate in a form-fitting dress.

Her questions about Marruk and Solfis were met by a wall of silence. Since Marruk was a customer, the associate claimed, she could not reveal any details about them without their express permission.

“I cannot reveal any information on the golem either, as it would be akin to the same thing,” she explained with a knowing smile.

Viv froze and realized what the woman had done. She had heavily implied that Marruk and Solfis were currently or had recently been together, so she knew about them, and so they were alive. Viv breathed a sigh of relief.

“Can I leave them a message, perhaps?” she asked.

“You may. We will convey it during their next visit to any branch of our institution.”

“That’s a relief.”

The witch wrote a quick letter and left them in the bank’s care, then she left with a full purse and a good idea how to spend it.

Viv walked to a nearby hotel and was almost stopped by bouncers before a majordomo rushed out and invited her in. She rented a suite to herself and made a list of requests. She could see the man almost salivate when he realized she was going to burn the yearly salary of a knight squad in only a couple of days.

The first order was for clothes and luggage. She was escorted to a famous tailor who took an order for traveling clothes, formal clothes, and stuff she could wear in the city since she was planning to spend quite some time in Helock. The tailor was a smooth old gentleman who sold her a mix of Viziman and Enorian influence to match her ‘exotic looks’. Viv had the distinct impression he was indulging himself as much as her but she didn’t mind and paid three gold talents plus a few silvers for the whole set. The man threw in some gloves and hats as a commercial gesture. Next, she bought a massive travel case with some good locks from a nearby leatherworker, and got a discount price because the original buyer had died at war. There was even a silvery pane to place her own enchantments later. By that time, night had fallen and she retired for the evening with some good food and a long-awaited bath.

The next morning, she dressed in her newest outfit, which had been delivered at dawn. It was a comfortable, though conservative dress with a high skirt and a small, waist-long cape. Arthur approved of the colorful green and gold dyes. They walked to the pier to find a ship, going though poorer parts of town without more than a feeble attempt to steal Viv’s purse, one that got foiled by a ‘nondescript’ man who issued a warning and a boot up the ass. The largest shipping consortium gave her some good news.

“We have a personal transport ship leaving for Helock in ten days with another passenger. We can guarantee your safety and comfort for a modest fee.”

The ‘modest’ was a lie but Viv paid another gold talent plus change anyway. She wasn’t skimping on safety, not anymore. Her only concern was the cost of tuition in Helock, although she could probably find ways to get an income, and there was no way a semester cost more than the hundred and fifty gold talents she had in her account right now.

Viv spent the day shopping for necessities, then came the part she and Arthur looked forward to the most: relaxation. They found the most expensive and slightly illegal brothel and used it as a spa resort.

“Although we do service female customers on occasion, they are usually more worried about their image than you appear to be,” the courtesan she employed commented.

Viv shrugged and signaled for another basket of ribs for Arthur, who lounged in her own bath pretending to sink a toy ship. She didn’t care much. The spa only entertained her for a day, then she had another amusing moment selling the remaining monster core she had gotten in the forest for a solid four gold talents. The price surprised her.

“Cores used to be so cheap, traveling merchants would carry them, in the olden days,” the matronly owner of the auction house told her around tea. “Of course there were bad things about the olden days,” she corrected immediately. Viv waved to dismiss her concerns.

“Lord Mildery told me about the time before the civil war when the land was united and expeditions delved into the Deadshield Woods.”

“Yes. That poor boy. I hope he finds love once more, after this is over. Green Edge deserves to bloom again.”

They exchanged a bit more on the topic, with the old lady reminiscing about a time when people didn’t object to her owning the auction house instead of her husband.

“Thankfully the complaints all stopped when he died, Enttiku rest his soul. Would you like more tea?”

Viv’s contact with Losserec’s population at large stayed polite and distant over the next few days. She was invited for tea by a few women of the good society she met in various stores, and accepted, if only to learn more about the situation. They tolerated her peculiarities on account of her nature as a visitor and an outsider. The men seemed to avoid her as well, mostly. The social events helped distract her from the thorough lack of tourist attractions. Or rather, there were landmarks to explore, but the Enorians didn’t see them that way. It reminded Viv that Romanticism had marked experience and discovery as part of self-actualization. People here preferred conforming and social climbing. Nevertheless, she enjoyed her down time immensely.

Arthur had a harder time with the city and spent many long afternoons fishing in the lake. She would only return at nightfall, sometimes carrying a fat fish Viv had the kitchen cook for her. Viv also found primers on Helock’s university and the courses she could expect. Apparently, there were general classes on a variety of topics like etiquette she would absolutely need to attend and on which she lacked even the most basic knowledge, so the outlander resolved herself to night of studies once again. At the same time, she was a special case as an instinctive caster and also as someone who was, well, old. Most people attended the university starting from the age of sixteen, so probably eighteen in earth equivalent. Viv was twenty-five. She was technically a post-grad. Admission would require some back-and-forth.

At the end of the ten days period, Viv walked to the pier with her luggage dragged by a hotel employee. No one had tried to kidnap her, no one had stolen from her. She had received a few invitations from suitors but none had reacted strongly to her refusal. No one had started any fires. She had not been involved in any crimes. Viv had spent ten days taking it easy and she felt good and that was awesome. Nodding wisely to herself, she reached the only logical conclusion.

“Next time the spark of luck fucks with me too hard, I’m burning down another village.”

“Squeeeee!”
