The woman's face was a mask of pouring blood, but rather than trying to flee or calling for help, she laughed, and she flung herself at her assailant while still on fire. She slammed down upon the automaton, and a shockwave exploded from her, followed by a blur of twisting motion. The woman dragged the bot along the ground before they slammed into the far wall. Another blast filled the room, a blast that shook the very building to its foundations—a blast that Shiv recognized to be caused by a discharge of the Momentum Core skill.

Voices hollered and whooped as bets were placed between the two contenders.

Shiv tore his sight away from the chaotic brawl and looked upward. Suspended from the ceiling thirty meters above was a wide platform upon which a band played. Most of them were humanoid automata covered in spikes and with instruments directly connected to their limbs; however, the lead singer was a goblin woman dressed in strips of leather that barely qualified as clothing, and she had long, whipping tendrils of gleaming metal implanted in her skull. The spikes at their ends were speared through the platform, and she rocked from side to side, rattling herself violently. In her hand was some kind of mana device that amplified her voice, and she screamed incomprehensible lyrics with little coherence and no hint of tune whatsoever into it. But her voice was so primal, so infused with fury, that she found a strange kind of melody regardless.

"It's like we've fallen into a den of wild animals!" Adam shouted over the music and the goblin’s screams, so loud they made even communication over thought difficult. "They're even less house-trained than you, Shiv."

"Oh, come on, what's wrong with a bunch of people living in the moment and having a bit of fun?"

"Aside from the headache I'm getting? And the fact that I can't focus my Awareness at all down here means that I won't be able to find Hawgrave if she was—Oh, never mind. I just saw her."

Shiv whipped his gaze around. "What? Where?"

"To your right, in the narrow tunnels meant for goblins.”

And true to the Gate Lord's words, the Legend herself, Jessica Hawgrave, was currently squeezing her way out from a narrow entrance clearly too small for even her, strutting into the Lusty Eunuch's bar just a dozen meters next to the surface entrance.

Her nose was healed, and her Inertium armor was missing. Instead, she was dressed in a spike-studded leather vest that left her toned arms bare, leather hotpants, ripped slacks, and ragged, steel-toed boots with more spikes on them. Under the short vest was a white crop top with artwork of an icecube being split in half by a sword. Rusty was also nowhere to be seen, but Shiv knew the sword was somewhere nearby. That, or Jessica could summon it to her hand in an instant if she had to.

"Alright, losers," Jessica said, running a hand through her very short, blonde hair. "Who's gonna buy the Giantsbane a motherfucking drink?" She seemed to have cut it recently—for what reason, Shiv wasn't sure—and she had a dark look in her eye, sizing up all the people in her vicinity. She looked like a she-wolf stalking for some prey. Some Pathbearers reciprocated that hungry gleam in her eyes, but for most, their friends tugged at them, whispering things to them aggressively. The hungry gleam faded in the crowd, and a cold look of apprehension and, in a few cases, outright terror settled on their faces.

"Nobody?" Jessica said aloud. It was a testament to her voice that she could be heard above the music. "Shit, the clientele gets softer and softer every single year."
