“And don’t forget that time you glowed,” Temperance said. “The first day I met you.”

“Oh yeah. I forget about that.”

Father Vytal sat in silence, staring past her at the darkness. Temperance fiddled with the food. The crack of the fire and the smell of dinner and the movement of animals around camp were all amplified by his silence. Sweep worried that she’d upset him.

“All that without training,” he said. “Well then, we must, indeed, start immediately. I realize you’re already familiar with the mindspace, but we should start from the beginning, and we should take it slowly.”

They sat next to each other, legs crossed, eyes closed.

“Breathe evenly, in through your nose, out through your mouth. Rest the tip of your tongue on the roof of your mouth. Relax your eyes, your jaw, your neck, your shoulders. Let go of your thoughts, your anxieties, your desires. Empty yourself.”

“Like Saint Weston,” Sweep said.

“Yes. Very good.”

They meditated until Temperance told them dinner was ready.

• • •

The days melted into weeks. Sweep let herself get caught in the excitement of life on the road with Temperance and Father Vytal. She lost herself in camping and lessons and meditation.

One morning, Sweep crawled from their tent to see thick, heavy clouds covering the sky from horizon to horizon. The clouds obscured the last of the mountains that had been easily visible yesterday. It felt to Sweep as though they’d been trapped under an immense, grey mixing bowl. As they broke camp, munching on biscuits that had baked next to the coals overnight, the first light flakes of snow began to fall.

“Isn’t it a bit late in the season for snow?” Temperance asked.

Father Vytal nodded. “Winter seems to be hanging on this year.”

As they resumed their trek, Father Vytal continued their lessons, beginning with the hierarchy of the church, the head of which was called the High Cleric who worked with the Church Council, of which there were fifty, to run the church. Father Vytal, a member of the council himself, was friends with many of the counselors and knew the rest by name. He kept referring to High Cleric Marcus Radden as Marcus. Ranked below the council were the mothers and fathers, women and men who had mastered the teachings of the church but weren’t council members, then the sisters and brothers, and finally the students who were called acolytes.

“That will include you once we get to the High Temple,” he said.

Sweep and Temperance looked at each other askance. Acolytes were girls from good families, not orphans. Neither could imagine becoming an acolyte, no matter that Father Vytal was on the Church Council.

As the day wore on and the snow came heavier, Father Vytal fell silent, and they all focused on putting one foot ahead of the other. They didn’t break for lunch but ate dry rations while they walked. Afternoon quickly grew dark as the clouds became heavier still, and well before the sun set, the clouds brought night.

“It’s not far now,” Father Vytal assured them again.

Sweep had lost track of the number of times he’d said that. In fact, she barely heard his voice over the wind and through the thick fur of her hood. Snow covered the ground in small drifts. The wind had picked up, chilling any exposed skin to the point of pain. They all had their hoods pulled low and their coats fastened tight. The snow was coming down harder now, driven by the wind to swirl about, thick, wet flakes dancing madly. Sweep focused on following Temperance.

When Sweep stumbled and fell, she barely felt it. Something had caught the toe of her boot as she shuffled across the ground. Perhaps a rock. She hit a drift of snow, sending up a small spray of the soft powder, and rolled a few times, coming up to a sitting position. Dumbly, she looked at her hands in her lap through the gloom, her breath steaming in front of her face, and saw the fat, gentle flakes of snow settle upon her to rest. She just needed a little rest.

But she wasn’t allowed rest, she was never allowed enough rest. She was hauled to her feet and was back in the sanctuary of Sacred Heart. She was being dragged down the aisle, everyone looked at her, shaking their heads in disbelief at one so unclean as her. She knew when they reached the end of that aisle, when they reached the dais where sat the light-bathed sisters, she would face punishment of harsh words and harsh hands, as had happened so many times before. They were getting close, she could see the light from the stained glass window bathing the dais.

And then she remembered that she didn’t have to do this anymore. She remembered that she could get away if she wanted to, that these people were no longer her masters, and she struggled.

She struck out with her arms, twisted her body side to side, threw her head back and screamed. Someone yelled at her.

“Piety! Piety, stop, we’re here.”

Sweep gasped and tried to open her eyes but her eyelids were frozen shut. With gloved fingers she pulled them open, stinging her eyes and bringing tears that froze on her cheeks. The sanctuary was gone. She was surrounded by swirling snow but in front of her was Temperance who had firm hold of her shoulders and shouted her name. Beyond Temperance was a large building, well lit, smelling of wood smoke and babbling with voices.

“Where are we?” Sweep rasped.

“We’re at a farm. Father Vytal is talking to the head farmer.”

From a little way off and to her right, Father Vytal asked, “Temperance, is she all right?”

Temperance looked at Sweep for an answer and Sweep nodded.

“She’s fine.”

“Let’s get you inside,” said another, much deeper voice. “This is no kind of weather to be caught in.”

Sweep stumbled as Temperance guided her with an arm around her shoulders. Soon they were entering that well-lighted area and warmth suffused her so that she gasped as her nose and fingers and toes tingled painfully. The air here smelled of recently cooked food, well spiced, and the scent made her mouth water in the kind of anticipation she would never have allowed herself at Sacred Heart.

The dining hall was large. Not as large as the refectory at Sacred Heart, but big enough for two long tables filled with people. Sweep remembered Sister Jayne teaching them about the farms in the valley. This farm wasn’t like the single-family farms and orchards near Appledel that had maybe three or four work hands. Instead, days travel from Appledel or any other town, the farm had to function as its own town. The farmer, who owned the land, acted as the mayor and had a large staff consisting of cooks, crafters, and farmers, who worked for him. It seemed to Sweep, that all those people filled the dining hall now.

Sweep let Temperance steer her through the room as she regained her bearings, desperately trying to dispel the terror she’d let take her. She wanted to be stronger, to dismiss the Mother from her thoughts entirely. But even as she berated herself mentally, she feared that strength would never come.

The people in the dining hall talked and sang and laughed, filling the large room to its rough-hewn rafters. Some set large plates and jugs onto the tables. Two large fireplaces at either end of the hall were filled with flickering orange flames. By the time Temperance helped Sweep onto a bench, Sweep was feeling more like herself. The stinging cold had gone, replaced with a damp, melting, quiet. She was suddenly very sleepy and very hungry.

“Here, drink this.” Temperance pushed a warm mug into her hands.

Without giving it much thought, Sweep raised the drink to her lips and sipped. She had expected water. Instead, it was a sweet and faintly spicy liquid with a pungent odor she recognized.

She swallowed carefully before she said “Cider,” in a stunned whisper. She’d smelled it before, but never tasted it.

“Yeah,” Temperance said, “and look at all this food.”

Sweep had been so focused on the contrast of cold outside and warmth within, the happy bustle of the farmer’s dining hall and the cold formality of the refectory of Sacred Heart, that she hadn’t fully taken stock of the food. This farm was clearly competent and well-prepared.

Just in front of her was a ham hock, bigger than any she’d seen at Sacred Heart, set on a large, white platter. In serving bowls, there were carrots and potatoes, peas and corn and beans. They were prepared in a variety of ways, cooked in water and seasoned lightly with a bit of butter, mashed into a thick paste and smothered in gravy, cooked all together with meat as a savory stew.

Before Cook had come to Sacred Heart, when Sister Dora was still in charge of the kitchen, Sweep had thought there was only one kind of bread: hard, light-brown lumps that had to be soaked in broth before being eaten. Cook had introduced Sacred Heart to breads of varying shades, seasonings, and firmness, though the orphans were rarely treated to anything but those light-brown loaves. This table was stacked with breads and biscuits and pastries of all kinds.

There were stews and gravies, roast ham and beef and rabbit. Each of the long tables had two whole roast turkeys. There was light beer and dark beer, red wine and spiced wine, milk and tea and cider.

Temperance whispered, “Who said ‘Be generous in hospitality, kindness, and good food,’?”

“Saint Claes the Generous,” said Sweep.

All around them, the farmer’s staff selected food, piling it on their plates.

Sweep looked around for Father Vytal and found him at the head of their table, talking with a large man in fine clothes who Sweep assumed was the farmer.

“Do you think we should just help ourselves?” Temperance asked.

Sweep looked around. “Everyone else is, and there’s no one to stop us.” She glanced back at Father Vytal, who was deep in conversation with the large man.

Temperance nodded slowly. “All right then, we’ll help ourselves.”

It was several moments before either of them moved, but eventually Sweep took hold of one of the biscuits next to the ham. Nobody stopped her, nobody hit her, nobody reprimanded her. She held the biscuit close to her face and inhaled deeply, savoring the thick and faintly buttery scent. She had smelled fresh biscuits several times before, but this was the first time she knew she was going to get a taste of one as well. Carefully she set it on her plate and looked at the wealth of food, trying to decide what to select next.

“Hi.”

A boy with a wide smile and large ears, sat next to Sweep.

Sweep dropped the spoon she’d been about to use to put cooked carrots on her plate. Temperance pulled her hand back from the plate of bread. Sweep looked at the boy, trying not to shake, and wondered what she’d done wrong.

The boy took no notice of the fright he’d caused and began filling his plate with food.

“I’m Amos, Amos Stonebrook. Maggie, that’s the farmer’s wife, she told me to sit with you and make sure you have everything you need. She said that you’re the Holy Father’s disciples and that you’re shy. She said that I should be friendly and respectful and not to ask too many questions.” He paused then and looked at them. “Why aren’t you getting any food?” he asked. “Is it some sort of religious reason?”

Sweep frowned, uncertain how to answer. She didn’t want to admit to the way of things at Sacred Heart. She didn’t know how to explain that they were afraid to accept the gift before them. She was ashamed of her fear.

Amos waited several moments before he continued. “Sorry. Maggie told me not to ask too many questions. Do you want me to help you get food?”

Sweep blushed. “No. I can do it.” She looked at Temperance who bit her lip and blushed furiously. She looked back at the boy. “We just… uh… are choosing carefully.”

Amos smiled. Sweep found the smile infectious.

She and Temperance began to select food from the offerings on the table. Sweep relaxed as no one told her to stop.

“Maggie puts on a good feast, huh? She had Gemma, that’s the head cook, she’s been working on this since yesterday morning. All the cooks’ helpers have been running around busy all week.”

Sweep paused in buttering a roll. “The cook’s helpers don’t get to eat?”

Amos waved a hand dismissively. “Most will join us, and only those who have to serve during the feast will have already had theirs.”

Sweep gave a small sigh of relief and felt it echoed by Temperance.

Soon, she and Temperance had filled their plates with selections of meat, bread, cheese, and vegetables, both wanting to experience as many different tastes as possible. They had also taken some milk and some cider and some beer and some wine to share.

When the plates were full and the farmer’s staff settled into their seats, a quiet of anticipation filled the room. No one was eating yet, despite the wonderful mix of smells that tempted them to their plates, and Sweep and Temperance waited with them, wondering what came next.

When the last person was fully seated, when no one reached for just one more biscuit, when all was still, the farmer stood. He was a tall man, and broad, his callused hands and dark skin proved him no stranger to hard work. When he stood, he had everyone’s attention immediately.

“My friends, good evening, and happy Spring’s Beginning.” He had a deep, slow voice, the same voice Sweep remembered from outside, before she’d been brought into this warm and comforting dining hall.

Sweep nudged Temperance. “I hadn’t realized today was Spring’s Beginning.”

Temperance nodded, though whether in agreement or to indicate that she had known, Sweep was uncertain. The farmer continued his speech and the two fell silent.

“Despite this late, snowy squall, spring is upon us, and our work ahead of us. First, I want to thank you all for another successful year. We had our share of trials, including that damn stubborn bull in the north field.” Several people up and down the tables chuckled at the shared memory. “But we made it through and now we greet this new planting season with great promise. Catherine and James, our newest married couple, expect their first child in the coming weeks.” He gestured at a young couple at the other table, a round-faced woman with nut-colored hair, and a burly young man with short stubble covering his head and chin. They both smiled happily as the people around the room applauded enthusiastically.

The farmer paused, taking time to gather his thoughts before continuing. “Tonight we have honored guests.” He gestured to his right, at Father Vytal. “This is Holy Father Tristam Vytal, who is accompanied by his two apprentices.” At this he gestured toward Temperance and Sweep. All eyes turned on the two and Sweep gave a small, reticent wave while Temperance squirmed and blushed.

