The farmer cleared his throat lightly and the attention was back on him. “Father Vytal, may I impose upon you for a prayer before we partake of this Feast of Spring’s Beginning?”

Father Vytal nodded and stood while the farmer sat. He looked different somehow, more somber, and stoic, and official. He looked more like a Holy Father than a careful, gentle teacher.

“Good evening.” Father Vytal’s voice had changed too. It was no longer the patient timbre Sweep and Temperance had become accustomed to, but instead something grand, something of bass rumblings and calm authority.

Sweep and Temperance folded their hands upon the table and bowed their heads, just as they had at Sacred Heart. It was the first time they had prayed formally since leaving the church, which struck Sweep as odd. Father Vytal hadn’t insisted they pray. Perhaps he assumed they prayed on their own.

“Love be unto God as His love be unto us. We thank You for Your love and guidance, even in the cruelest of times. We hold this feast of Spring’s Beginning in Your honor, and in honor of Saint Zyta, and we join You in blessing the coming child of Catherine and James Smith. We thank You for the opportunity to bring joy to the world and the chance to love one another.”

When Father Vytal stopped talking, Sweep thought he was only pausing for breath before launching a lengthy sermon. But then he said, “So be it truth,” and everyone echoed him, and then the prayer was over.

“That’s it?” said Sweep quietly.

“I guess so,” said Temperance.

“Wow,” Amos said, turning to Sweep, “that was the quickest prayer I’ve ever heard from a cleric. You two must be really lucky.”

The food had cooled enough to be edible but was still warm, and it lived up to all Sweep’s expectations. The vegetables were sweet and soft except for when they were crisp and crunchy, the bread was warm, the stew was rich, the beef was tender and the turkey was juicy. Sweep decided that she didn’t much like beer, but the spiced wine was nice. Temperance, on the other hand, found the wine to be too flowery and instead preferred the dark beer, which she claimed was smooth and creamy, but which was just bitter to Sweep.

Amos took up the thread of conversation where he had left off. Between mouthfuls, he told them about Cornelius, the old field worker who had begun working on the farm for the current farmer’s grandfather, and about the blocked ditch that had gone unnoticed for a week and had caused a minor drought in the back quarter of the apple orchard, and about his one trip to Appledel a year and a half before.

“Is that where you come from?” Amos asked, but he didn’t wait for an answer. “There’s a huge church there and it trains a bunch of girls to be clerics, like Father Vytal. Me and Smith went to the evening sermon after he bought the special cloth Maggie wanted. This was right after Smith, I mean James Smith of course, decided he liked Catherine. Anyway, it was the boringest sermon I ever heard. Usually Farmer does the prayer, but even though he goes on for a bit, it was nothing like this. The Mother at Appledel just went on and on and on. I feel bad for the girls who live there. They probably have to listen to that every day. If that were me, I’d run away.”

Sweep looked at Temperance who gave a small shrug at Amos’s vision of Sacred Heart. She could see her friend was torn between amusement and painful memories.

Amos changed subjects quickly and soon they were hearing all about the time he fell out of a tree and broke his arm. Sweep tried to listen to the enthusiastic babble and even tried to participate from time to time, but eventually she fell silent and focused on her meal.

The girls tried some of everything, but they ate only half as much as most and were well sated by the time the remains of the dinner were cleared and the kitchen crew brought out pies and cakes.

“It smells so wonderful,” Temperance groaned.

But the two agreed that they were too full from dinner to partake of dessert, though Amos encouraged them to try some.

They sat back, contented in the first full meal they’d been allowed. Sweep half-closed her eyes and let the gentle babble of conversation lull her, taking her thoughts upon a drifting leaf upon a breeze.

And, prompted by Amos’ story of Appledel and the boringest sermon he ever heard, her thoughts wandered to Sacred Heart and the girls she’d left behind: Patience and Midnight, Lillyfield and Joy, Charity and Faith, and all the others. Their meal tonight would be thin soup and cold water and hard bread. They had never been kind to her, and had often been cruel, but Sweep felt a pang in her chest.
