Before the toll of eight-hour, Father Vytal and his two new apprentices left Appledel. The cold of late winter nipped about their faces, but the hoods of their coats, their stout boots, thick stockings, and fur lined gloves kept them warm. They followed the hard-packed earthen road on the north side of the Middle River, which was banked with ice and flowed pacifically into the farm-rich plain of Khulanty in the east. Behind them, the Western Mountains stretched to the sky. To the north and south, the mountains of the Valley of Three Rivers embraced them.

A sparse wood of thin, white-barked trees, bared of leaves by winter’s cold, stretched away from either bank of the river. The road was cleared of trees and paved with well-fitted, smooth stones. Winter-brown grass and hardy bushes scattered among the wood. A few patches of snow dotted that wood, but most had melted away in the late winter rains. The air was cold, but the sky was clear, threatening neither rain nor snow.

With Appledel behind, Father Vytal asked them about the Scriptures and the Saints.

“Saint Lucius is my favorite,” Sweep said. “He always tried to be fair and just to everyone.”

“But people hated him for it,” Father Vytal countered. “Saint Lucius was exiled.”

Sweep nodded. “Because the governors only wanted what benefited them. They weren’t concerned with actual justice.”

“And how would you define “justice”?”

Sweep looked a question at Temperance who shrugged.

“I don’t understand, sir.”

“I’m asking you to tell me what justice is.”

"Well…”

For Sweep, the concept of justice seemed too obvious to define, making it hard to articulate. She thought about the Stories of Saint Lucius, searching for help.

“Well, it’s… fairness. It’s making sure everyone is treated equally. Like in Saint Lucius’ first story, when he was young: if a poor person breaks the law, and if a rich person breaks the same law, they’re both punished the same.”

Father Vytal nodded. “Good example. But consider two farmers who each own a plot of land of the same size. The first farmer works hard all year long and brings in a healthy crop, but the second farmer is lazy and brings in no crop at all. If we must treat them equally, as you said, then the hard working farmer should give half his crop to the lazy farmer.”

Sweep frowned. “No.”

“Why not?” asked Father Vytal.

“Because the lazy farmer didn’t do anything to earn it. It’s not fair to the one who worked hard. Treating them equally would be letting them each have the benefits of their work: crops for the hard-working farmer, none for the lazy farmer.”

“So we should punish laziness with starvation?”

Sweep didn’t know how to reply. That wasn’t at all what she’d meant.

“Or perhaps we should amend your definition of justice?” Father Vytal continued.

Sweep nodded. “All right. So, justice is treating people the same so long as they work for it?”

Father Vytal shrugged. “Maybe. But consider the child who was born with a twisted leg and can’t walk. Should we deny him food just because he can’t work in the field?”

Sweep found herself frowning again. “No,” she said, “That’s not fair either. I guess justice is… well… I don’t know.”

“It’s not easy to define,” agreed Father Vytal.

“Then how do we achieve it?”

“Achieving a proper definition requires no small amount of thought. I find myself often amending how I define my world, even at so advanced an age.” Father Vytal stroked his beard thoughtfully.

Sweep blushed. “I meant justice. How do we achieve justice?”

“Ah.” Father Vytal smiled, and Sweep wondered if he’d been teasing her. “In Khulanty we choose judges who’ve studied the law, and those judges hear individual cases and then, much like Saint Lucius, they try to be fair. The law tends to side with those who work for their share, but won’t let people starve when it’s within its power to do so.”

“What if the judge is like the Mother?” asked Temperance.

Sweep smiled at her. During lessons at Sacred Heart, Sweep had occasionally asked questions of Sister Jayne and was often spanked for it. Temperance had never asked a question.

Father Vytal frowned but nodded. “Quick to see the flaw. Well done, Temperance. Corrupt judges do exist, which is why they’re overseen by nobles, who must answer to the royal.”

“And what if the royal is corrupt?”

“Indeed. Ostensibly, the Royal must answer to the people. That’s what the First Royal intended.”

After a while, Sweep said, “Justice is more complicated than I thought.”

Father Vytal nodded.

• • •

When the sun began to set, Father Vytal led them off the road and showed them how to set up a tent, make a campfire, and cook dinner without a kitchen.

“I suppose neither of you has traveled cross country before?” he said.

Both girls shook their heads.

Father Vytal sighed. “Of course not. Well, it’s still winter, so we’ll not be camping often, but in a few weeks, when spring comes, we’ll sleep beneath the sky and I’ll show you how to tell position and direction using the stars.”

Sweep and Temperance looked at each other and shared a small smile.

“I am sorry about having to sleep outside in winter,” Father Vytal went on. “It’s going to be cold tonight.”

Sweep shrugged. “Winter nights are always cold.”

Throughout the preparation of camp, Sweep carefully avoided helping with the cooking. She paid close attention to the way Father Vytal threaded the bendy wooden poles in the cleverly crafted oilskin canvas and then staked them into the hard, cold ground to create two little tents. She helped gather firewood, of which there was plenty in the woods. She even took interest in the necessary details of digging a latrine. But when Temperance and Father Vytal began to boil water and portion out dried meat rations, she kept her hands to herself.

Her non-involvement with the cooking did not go unnoticed and did not last. Eventually, Father Vytal handed her a mortar and pestle and a cloth bag that smelled strongly of herbs.

“Sweep, grind some of this for me please.”

Warily, Sweep reached for the items.

“Actually, sir,” said Temperance, “I’ll do that.”

Father Vytal looked at them both, a single brow raised in question. “Is there something I’m missing?”

Sweep gave a small shrug. “I’m bad at cooking.”

Temperance was quick to clarify. “It’s not just that, sir. Anything she has to do with cooking, anything at all, goes terribly wrong.” She looked at Sweep apologetically, but Sweep nodded. “There was one time she was only supposed to put water on the stove to boil and the pot cracked.”

Father Vytal looked perplexed. “And you think it was Sweep’s fault?”

Temperance shrugged. “For anyone else, I’d say no, but something goes wrong every time she has anything to do with preparing a meal.”

“I can wash dishes without a problem though,” said Sweep hurriedly, not wanting Father Vytal to think she was trying get out of work.

Father Vytal chuckled and held the items out to Sweep again. “Crushing herbs should be foolproof.”

Sweep took the mortar and pestle and bag of herbs carefully. She crushed the herbs, making sure to not drop anything. She added the resulting powder to the bubbling stew at Father Vytal’s direction. When nothing broke, nothing was spilled, Sweep sighed with relief.

The stew, however, was overly herby.

It wasn’t inedible, it wasn’t even horrible. In fact, for the orphans, who had only ever had watery soup, sometimes lightly salted, and porridge, never with milk, it was wonderful. But it was definitely overly herby.

They ate silently until Father Vytal fixed them with a rueful grin. “It was my fault,” he told them, “I put too much herbs in the pestle.”

“Yes, sir.” But Sweep and Temperance looked at each other knowingly

They put out the fire and retired to their tents soon thereafter, each armed with a small canvas bag filled with uncooked beans that had warmed next to the fire. Sweep and Temperance shared a tent, a fact they assured Father Vytal they were comfortable with. Snuggled together under four blankets, they were plenty warm and much too excited to go to sleep right away. Instead, they stared at the darkness above them and whispered together.

“Just imagine,” said Temperance. “No more kitchen duty or laundry duty. All the cleaning and mending we do will be for ourselves instead of pampered rich girls.”

“Yeah,” replied Sweep. “No more sweeping.” She couldn’t help sounding wistful; she had enjoyed sweeping. Fortunately, Temperance didn’t seem to notice.

“And no more Mother Superior,” Temperance added. “It doesn’t seem real does it? We don’t have to be afraid of her anymore.”

Temperance hugged Sweep, and Sweep returned the embrace.

“I really thought one day she might start beating you and never stop. I’ve been afraid of that for… for years.”

“I didn’t realize it was that bad. I knew she hated me but…”

“If you’d ever seen the look in her eyes while she hit you, you’d have known. I’m sure the others saw it, but no one ever said so.”

Sweep released Temperance so she could see her face. “Thanks for watching out for me, Temperance.”

“Of course I’m going to watch out for you. We’re… we’re sisters.”

They hugged again.

“What do you think of Father Vytal?” Sweep asked.

“He seems nice enough,” Temperance replied. “And he’s an amazing teacher, isn’t he? It’s like he teaches without knowing it. He just talks, and it all makes so much sense. I’ve learned more about the history of Khulanty today than in the last year.”

“And the Scriptures,” added Sweep. “He thinks about them in a way I would never have considered.”

They whispered on into the night until there was nothing more to say, and then they stared, silently, into the darkness until sleep overtook them.

• • •

Sweep awoke with dreams of purple eyes fading to the back of memory.

Faint light penetrated the canvas walls of the tent, and she could see her breath on the air. For several moments she simply lay there, remembering Temperance’s words the night before; they no longer need fear the Mother Superior. They were out of reach. The Mother no longer mattered. Just thinking the thought made her afraid, like the Mother might hear, and try though she might, Sweep couldn’t dispel it.

Once up, Father Vytal stoked the banked coals into a small, merry fire, then showed them how to break camp. Breakfast was hot tea and warmed flatbread and a bit of dried fruit, and soon they were on their way again.

Sweep found her back was still stiff from the Mother’s ministrations, but Father Vytal’s healing powers had done in seconds what would have taken her body weeks to do on its own, and she looked forward to the walk.

The second day passed much as the first had; the three of them walked along the road and Father Vytal talked to them about whatever was on his mind. He knew a lot about a variety of subjects and when there was something he didn’t know, he admitted it. Sister Jayne had never admitted to not knowing something.

He started by describing the environment of a high scrubland and the importance of the rivers. He told them about the rolling plains they would enter as they made their way out of the Three Rivers Valley, and about how the rivers for which the valley was named joined into the Grand River. He regaled them with the stories and histories of the noble families who managed the lands and for whom the provinces: Ceres, Iz, Shannon, Kempenny, Mineres, and Loreamer were named. He explained that each province in the nation of Khulanty was further divided into counties, each also named for a noble family. He continued to ask them questions about the Scriptures, which stories they’d read and which they liked and why.

And that night, he again assigned Sweep a duty connected to cooking, which Sweep took without complaint, but with a meaningful look at Temperance.

Carefully, Sweep peeled small, wrinkly potatoes, depositing the skins in a small earthenware bowl. She then cut the potatoes into slices and dropped them into the warming water. She was nearly done when the small knife slipped and bit deep into the area between thumb and forefinger of her right hand. With a squeal of pain, she let go of both knife and potato. The potato fell to the ground. The knife remained stuck in her hand.

The pain was different than that of a beating. It was deep; it radiated along her arm to her shoulder, tensed her neck and made her teeth ache. Her heart raced, and her breath went shallow.

Father Vytal took hold of her wrist in one hand and the knife in the other.

“My apologies, Sweep, this will probably hurt a bit.”

He pulled the knife out of her hand in a quick, smooth motion, and the bite of pain was immediately swallowed by the caress of healing.

“Oh,” she said. “How… how do you do that? It’s magic, right?”

He smiled at her. “I think you know.”

Sweep shook her head.

“What did you do when you healed me?” he persisted.

“I…” Sweep hesitated. He’d said that she healed him back at Sacred Heart, but part of her just couldn’t believe it. “Are you sure I… that you didn’t do it yourself?”

Father Vytal nodded. “I was more ill than I’d thought. I had a fever that interfered with my concentration, and that incense they were burning made me slow-witted and sleepy. I am certain you healed me.”

Sweep blushed and looked away and shrugged. “I don’t really know what I did. Can you show me how?”

“I would be remiss if I did not. I had thought to start once we could settle in for a few days, but if you’re ready now…” He laughed at Sweep’s enthusiastic nod.

“The trick is to construct a place in your consciousness, a mindspace, a sort of mental room, where you can come and go as quick as thought. The room will be a place of calm and concentration, and from that space you can access your power as easily as breathing, with all the time in the world.”

Temperance laughed drawing their attention. “She already knows how to do that one,” she said to Father Vytal. She smiled at Sweep. “Didn’t I tell you you’re special?”

Sweep blushed again.

“I’ll finish dinner,” Temperance continued. “You two talk about powers.”

Father Vytal nodded graciously.

“If you already know about the mindspace, tell me what else you know. What was it like when you healed me?”

Sweep told him about the tingle along her skin and the chimes at the edge of hearing. She told him about the silvery purple light she’d seen in him and about adding power to the black splotches. She told him about dancing among the rainclouds.

