40 Years Later

Leo adjusted his armor for what must have been the fifteenth time. It felt wrong against his scales. The temptation to pull the unwieldy hunks of metal off and toss them to the dirt was strong… but not strong enough to act on. His scales were still young. They’d only just started to come in, and even a monster in one of the nearby Novice ranked dungeons would be too dangerous to face without proper defense.

No, he couldn’t throw anything away. This armor and the plain sword at his side had taken just about every coin he had. All his hopes and dreams of becoming an adventurer rested upon them. They only had to serve him for a year or so, before his claws and scales grew in properly.

I’ll find a good party in that time. We’ll join up and become legendary adventurers that help patrol the kingdoms and make sure Dungeon Breaks remain a thing of the past.

His tongue flicked out again as the shadow of a great city’s walls fell over him. Leo’s neck craned back. He stared up past the battlements and into the towering city beyond. His heart started to beat faster in his chest. Just at the gate beyond him were two guards — a human and an orc. Both of them were clad in beautiful golden armor that seemed to refract the light hitting it in a thousand different ways.

Leo pushed down the nerves bubbling in his chest. He marched up to the guards, putting on his most confident expression.

I’m going to be a hero.

And there was nowhere within the kingdoms that was better to begin that journey than here. The greatest border city in all of the Kingdom of Lian.

“I am here to request entry to the city!” Leo said, giving them a sharp salute.

The two guards exchanged a glance.

Then they burst into laughter.

“You don’t have to request anything,” the orc said. “We’re just here to make sure nothing nasty gets inside.”

“Just go in, kid,” the human added, shaking his head and grinning. “Welcome to Milten.”

Unfortunately, the scales growing in on Leo’s cheeks were nowhere near developed enough to hide the red that flushed his skin. He gave them a hurried nod.

“Thanks,” he said, hustling past the guards and into the city.

A wall of scents and noises met him almost immediately. Crowds of people milled about everywhere. Conversation rang as vendors called out to passersby from their stalls, beneath great buildings that loomed four or even five stories in the air.

Leo stared in disbelief. He forgot to walk for several seconds. Every one of his senses dedicated itself to drinking in the bustling scene around him. It was nearly so much as to be overwhelming. The city was a thousand times more alive than he ever could have expected.

He swallowed. Then he shook his head. There would be time for gawking later. He had a mission. His very first mission. His father had entrusted him with delivering the letter that had rested in his back pocket for the last two weeks of travel.

And until it had reached its destination, Leo would not let himself get distracted. He had a duty. This was his very first mission as an adventurer, and it would be completed to the very best of his abilities. Besides, the city would still be here when he finished up.

Leo glanced around.

Then he frowned.

The city was huge.

“How am I supposed to find anything here?” Leo muttered to himself.

A huge ogre lumbered past him and Leo hurriedly jerked out of the way, realizing he was standing in the middle of the flow of traffic. He stood by the edge of the street for several seconds, simply watching the flow of people. Everyone here was armed. Demons clad to the teeth with glistening obsidian plate. Men and women in dwarven plate. There were so many adventurers.

Excitement bubbled deep within Leo.

This was the place he was meant to be.

He turned to one of the more quiet side allies. It would probably be much easier to get around with that. He didn’t much fancy the idea of squeezing through the busy main street. He slipped down it.

Leo walked for several minutes, his head stuck in a constant sweeping motion as he tried to take in everything around him. He was so caught up with the world that he completely forgot to keep an eye on the road before him. His path brought him straight into someone’s side.

Leo let out a grunt and stumbled backward.

“Oh! Sorry!” he exclaimed, his eyes snapping back forward. Any further words that might have formed on his lips withered and fell away as he found himself staring up at a slightly haggard man — or, more accurately, at the enormous suit of armor behind him, easily as tall as two or three men stacked upright.

Leo’s blood ran cold.

He didn’t recognize the man immediately. But anyone in the kingdoms would have known who it was that loomed over his shoulder — and, in such, they also knew exactly who the man was.

“Uriel,” Leo whispered in awe, unable to help himself.

“They always recognize you,” the Beast said through a sigh. “I’m starting to feel like a butler.”

“That is because I am superior to you in just about every way,” Uriel replied, her eyes smoldering in amusement. “It is only right that my visage be recognized first.”

“I know who you are too,” Leo said hurriedly. “You’re the Beast!”

“It is fine,” Uriel said. “Not recognizing him is equally as good.”

The Beast snorted. “Let’s avoid wasting time, shall we? I have a good few things I want to get around to doing today. Rodrick just asked us to play errant boy first. I believe you have a letter for us?”

Leo’s eyes widened.

“I — uh—”

“It is in his back pocket,” Uriel said.

The Beast held his hand out.

Leo stared at it. Dread welled up in his stomach. Then he swallowed. And, very slowly, he shook his head.

“I’m very sorry, sirs. But I can’t give this to you. I have to deliver it myself. That was my task.”

The Beast tilted his head to the side. Then he shrugged.

“Sure. Doesn’t matter either way. Uriel?”

The huge suit of armor reached down. And, before Leo could move, she plucked him from the ground between two fingers. The ground faded beneath Leo as he let out a rather un-adventurer like yelp — only to find himself plopped down on top of a massive shoulder.

Uriel grabbed the Beast a moment later. She set him down next to Leo, then started off down the street, each step shaking it slightly.

Disbelief swirled in Leo’s stomach. He felt faint. This was just too fast. Maybe he should have expected it. His letter was for Rodrick the Wise, after all. Everyone knew that Rodrick saw everything that happened within the walls of Milten.

But Leo was riding on Uriel’s shoulder.

That hadn’t been part of the plan.

“So,” the Beast said. “Come here often?”

“No,” Leo said. He shook his head furiously. “This is my first time.”

“New adventurers,” the Beast said with a chuckle. “Well, hold onto that feeling. It’s not a bad one to have.”

Leo glanced over to the other man. Perhaps it was too early to say anything. But the Beast was more… friendly than he’d been expecting. None of the stories described him like this.

“What?” the Beast asked. “You’re squinting at me.”

“Sorry,” Leo said. “Just… you aren’t what I expected. I heard you were…”

“A lunatic?” the Beast asked.

“No!” Leo exclaimed. “Nothing like that! Just, you know. Different.”

“You thought I’d want to be dead?” the Beast asked, arching an eyebrow.

“Well, yes,” Leo admitted. “That’s what the stories say.”

The Beast raised his hand. A beautiful silver bangle dangled on his wrist. “Everyone that isn’t a giant evil sack of shit wants to die eventually. But it’s been a while, kid. It turns out that having the Guild gone means Arwin has time to work on improving some of the enchantments on me. Existence gets a lot easier when there aren’t a thousand tortured screams endlessly echoing through your head anymore. Living ain’t so bad so long as you know that you’ll die eventually. I’ve still got a few good hundred years in me. I plan to enjoy them as much as this angsty old hunk of metal lets me.”

“I am the greatest thing that has ever happened to you,” Uriel said.

The Beast rolled his eyes. Then he patted her on the side of the helm. “Don’t let the Armory hear you speaking like that. It’ll get jealous.”

Leo stared at them. Then he swallowed — for what must have been the tenth time — and looked out to the road before them. Uriel was fast. She’d cut through the crowds and brought them out onto a beautiful street. Massive buildings lined either side, all of them intricately decorated with some of the most incredible artisanship that he had ever seen.

All the resolution in Leo’s mind was nowhere near enough to keep him from gawking. His eyes caught on an enormous smithy surrounded by a dozen smaller versions of Uriel. Power practically radiated out from within it. Through the windows along its front, he could see weapons hanging from the wall, practically dripping with magic. Even the greatest dragon in all the worlds probably would have traded its entire horde for just one of them.

Goosebumps raced across Leo’s skin and between his scales.

The Infernal Armory.

He pulled his eyes away and back to the scene before him. It was even busier here than it had been on the main street, but people parted before Uriel to open her a path up to a looming inn. Leo felt his mouth drop open.

It was easily ten stories high. Maybe more.

Shadows wreathed the massive building. They slithered across the walls, making no attempt to hide the fact that they were alive. The energy emanating from it was like what stepping into the lair of an immense monster should have felt like — except the doors to the inn were thrown wide open in welcome.

This must be the Devil’s Den. It’s even bigger than I heard.

“Here we are,” Uriel said.

She deposited Leo on the ground.

He barely even noticed. His neck was still craned back as he stared up the enormous inn, trying to take it in.

“Best get a move on,” the Beast called down to him. “Take it from me. Life doesn’t wait for you. Might as well live it.”

Leo blinked. Then he shook his head. His heart was beating a mile a minute. But the Beast was right. He had a life to get to. And that started with completing his first mission.

“Thanks,” Leo said.

Then, steeling his heart, he stepped into the darkness.

A stillness washed over him. It almost felt like he’d changed dimensions. There was a strange warmth to the inside of the inn. Even though he could barely see, he could still make out the vague forms of adventurers at tables all around him. Imps clad in frilly dresses darted around, bearing trays piled high with all sorts of food.

Leo stared for an instant.

Then his vision locked on a figure at the side of the room, illuminated by the light of a golden orange lantern. Two huge shadowy wings extended from her back. Leaning against the wall by her side was a large man in a stained leather apron. They were locked in conversation, but the moment Leo spotted them, the woman looked toward him.

Then she beckoned him over.

No way.

He knew who she was. Everyone did. Even though Leo hadn’t seen the vision that had been sent to the world 40 years ago, he’d certainly heard of it.

There was no doubt in his mind. Standing before him was Lillia— and the man at her side could have been none other than Arwin.

Leo forced himself to move. His legs felt like lead as he dragged himself over to stand before the two legendary figures. He could feel their gazes boring into him.

They’re just… here? I thought they’d be in a castle or something!

“Welcome,” Lillia said, smiling down at him. She should have been well into her sixties, but she didn’t look a day past thirty. The same could be said for Arwin, though the faint smile wrinkles in his features made his age more pronounced.

“I’m here to deliver a letter,” Leo stammered. “To Rodrick.”

“He’ll be just along,” Lillia said. “I’ll send for him.”

Leo nodded stiffly, trying his best not to gawk. “I understand. I will wait as long as needed.”

“No need to be so stiff,” Arwin said with a chuckle. He clapped Leo on the shoulder. “We prefer informality here. You’re among adventurers. Not nobles.”

Easy for you to say!

“Yeah,” Leo said, giving them his best attempt at a smile.

It wasn’t a very good one. His heart was beating so hard in his chest that it was probably going to break a rib.

“New adventurer?” Arwin asked.

“Yeah,” Leo said again.

“Your armor isn’t great,” Arwin said. “It doesn’t fit you very well. Make sure to properly tighten it before you get into a fight. It’s going to rattle around.”

“Oh,” Leo said. His face reddened a little. “Thanks. I’ll do that.”

“Good,” Arwin said. “And don’t stress so much. Leo, right?”

Leo nearly choked.

Arwin knew his name.

Why does he know my name?

“I — yes. That’s me,” Leo said.

“How old are you?” Arwin asked.

“Seventeen,” Leo replied, still stunned.

Arwin and Lillia exchanged a glance.

“Good age to get started,” Lillia said.

Two people stepped out of the darkness at their side.

Leo blinked. The first of them was clearly around Arwin’s age. There was no doubt that it was Rodrick. But there was another — a boy at his side, no older than Leo.

“Sorry,” Rodrick said. “I got held up. Welcome to the Den, Leo.”

“Thank you,” Leo stammered. Then he blinked.

The letter!

He hurriedly reached into his back pocket and pulled it out. Thee paper was crumpled. He smoothed it out, then held it out.

“Ah,” Rodrick said, taking the letter. “Thank you.”

Then he put it away.

Leo’s eyes traced the piece of paper.

“You’re not going to tell him what it said?” Arwin asked.

“Huh?” Rodrick blinked. “Oh. Right. It was empty.”

“What?” Leo asked.

“Empty,” Rodrick said. He pulled the letter back out and tore it open, flipping the page around.

He was right. It was blank.

Leo stared in disbelief.

“Why did my dad have me bring you an empty letter?”

“Because the package wasn’t the letter,” Rodrick replied with a snort. “We sent for you.”

“Me?” Leo exclaimed. “What could I possibly do for you?”

“Not for us,” Arwin said. He nodded over Leo’s shoulder, to the boy standing at Rodrick’s side. It struck Leo that the boy wasn’t actually a human. There was a small horn sprouting from one side of his head, and his skin had a faint purple hue.

“Mesh, this is embarrassing,” the boy said with a groan. He held his hand out. “Sorry about this. I told them I’d go find you myself. I’ve been wanting to meet you for a little while.”

Leo took the other boy’s hand, still not entirely understanding what was going on.

“It’s… nice to meet you as well,” he said slowly. “But what is this?”

“I’m heading out to my first dungeon soon,” the other boy said. “And I’m looking to put together a team. Unfortunately, my uncle got it into his head to go hunting for people for me. I hope the trip wasn’t too annoying.”

“It wasn’t too bad. Pretty fun, actually. But…” Leo gazed blankly for a moment. Confusion and excitement spun through him as one.

He’s looking for a team? So  I was scouted? Just like that? This is incredible! But why would it have anything to do with…

Then his eyes flicked to Arwin and Lillia.

Wait. Is this—

“You’re forgetting your manners again,” Arwin said through an amused sigh. “Leo, this is my son, Blake.”

“Oh. Yeah. It’s nice to properly meet you.” Blake grinned. “I’m putting together the greatest adventurer team in the kingdom. Good enough to surpass the menagerie and make sure the dungeon breaks never happen again and peace remains between the kingdoms. So… you in?”

Leo stared at him for a second. Then a grin crossed his own lips.

“Yeah,” Leo said. “I’m in.”