They were both so fast Luo-Luo could only barely track their individual movements, and the afterimages of their bodies traced a trail through the air that spoke to her and reminded her of what she experienced in the District. Not her ignoble defeat at Hideo’s hands, but before, during the battle itself. At the time, it felt like the world had come together to sing her a song to dance to, a dance of battle and bloodshed both. Following the steps laid out before her, Luo-Luo had put up a stalwart defence against her formidable foe as her Sceptre came alive and danced alongside her. Everything made sense in the moment, her actions guided by instinct and intent rather than method or strategy. With more than a little help from the Heavens and her dance partner, her body moulded the Movements of the Forms to her bidding. Had the contemptible thick-browed monk not interrupted her with his dissonant chants, Luo-Luo might well have emerged victorious in their match, but that was a different matter altogether. The important thing was that during this that one singular battle, the winds of Insight carried Luo-Luo high into the skies to experience the Dao, higher than she ever thought possible as the Heavens showed her the course she should take and how far her steps could carry her if she cared to follow through, and she had not missed a single day of practice ever since.

And today, Luo-Luo saw what lay beyond her limits at the pinnacle of a similar path, as Lin-Lin danced to a melody all of her own and the world scrambled to accompany her.

When viewed in isolation, Lin-Lin’s individual movements were neither profound nor out of the ordinary, movements which for all intents and purposes seemed like Lin-Lin being Lin-Lin. From the tilt of her head as she skipped about, to the carefree manner in which she swung her arms whilst twirling about, it almost seemed as if she were out and about on a lark while living the best life she could imagine, rather than embroiled in a bitter life and death match against a foe three times her size. The lack of height and reach didn’t affect her however, for every move she made seemed tailor made to set her up for success, living up to her heritage of a Cloud Chaser Hare as she skirted about left, right, and over Hideo’s head in daring and daunting acrobatic acts.

Every exchange set Luo-Luo’s heart to racing, for the margin for Lin-Lin’s safety seemed razor thin. A powerful front kick surged past her shoulder as she pivoted out of the way, as if she were headed out the door and suddenly remembered to grab something she’d forgotten inside. A grasping palm threatened to engulf her in Hideo’s grip, but she hopped back and sailed out of reach on invisible currents of wind before landing. A dizzying flurry of strikes shot past her as she ducked, dipped, dived, and dodged out of the way, keeping just out of Hideo’s reach as if playing a game of tag with the wildcats who could never catch her unless she allowed it. All the while, Lin-Lin’s smile never wavered and instead grew even larger as time passed, the impish half-hare thoroughly enjoying this cat and mouse game.

A meteoric right hook missed by a mere eyelash as Lin-Lin somersaulted over the attack, except somehow, her wrapped hands redirected Hideo’s punch and momentum to bring him along with her whimsical movements. As Lin-Lin tumbled through the air, Hideo was dragged head over heels behind her, circling about once, then twice before being thrown back into the crowd with a look of befuddled confusion etched across his face. This slowed him down none as he rebounded back to his feet, landing lightly and pouncing at Lin-Lin before she set foot on the ground, only to run past where she was supposed to land as she stretched her arms out to each side and stepped upon empty air to leap even higher overhead. A Cloud-Step¸ so dainty and graceful Luo-Luo almost overlooked how astonishing such an accomplishment really was, for now, there was a second Cloud-Stepping young talent besides Lord Husband, the lovable and adorable little Mei Lin.

Undaunted by this phenomenal display of skill and acrobatics, Hideo turned about and aimed another front kick at where he expected Lin-Lin to appear. This time he was right on target, only a half-second too early as she landed softly atop his shin before hopping back and away with her tongue outstretched. Even in the midst of battle, Lin-Lin refused to miss an opportunity to taunt someone, and she even giggled as she ducked under his follow-up punch and slid past his legs, pulling his feet out from under him along the way. After crashing face first into the ground, Hideo recovered instantly and returned to the fight, but Lin-Lin was equally prepared, ‘catching’ his subsequent punch with one hand and redirecting it so smoothly it looked as if Hideo had simply missed his target. This happened eight more times in succession, before she caught his next attack in both hands, but instead of redirecting him away, she leaned back and spun in place while dragging him along once more. Three revolutions later, she sent him soaring off into the crowd once more, bowling over his allies along the way. Again, he hopped to his feet without injury, but this time, he held his ground. After a half second of suspense, sweet Lin-Lin had the gall to fake yawn as if bored of waiting for his next attack, a childish taunt she used to great effect. Cheeks red with fury and frustration, Hideo clenched his jaw so hard Luo-Luo could almost hear his teeth grinding before turning his attention away from his foe, for he finally noticed that she had yet to truly attack. As such, rather than continue to humiliate himself against her, he decided it would be better to attack Lord Husband as he lay comatose on the docks, making no effort to hide his intent as he sprinted over towards his helpless target.

Never before had Luo-Luo seen anyone move so fast, not unless they were a Peak Expert or Lord Husband. One moment Lin-Lin was bouncing in place, and the next she was sailing over Hideo’s head. Time seemed to stop for an instant as the two of them lined up, one with his boots on the ground, and the other just overhead with her feet pointed skyward and hands reaching down towards her foe. Ruthless was the only word to describe the look in Lin-Lin’s eyes, a woman looking down at someone she already considered dead, and Luo-Luo reflected on how mistaken she’d been to call this a game of cat and mouse. While Hideo might well be a cat, a feral and unruly beast of fang and fury, sweet and amicable Lin-Lin was surely no mouse. No, she was a Cloud-Chaser Hare, and though she was even more adorable and lovable than sweet Blackjack, one should never overlook his voracious, carnivorous appetite which spoke volumes of the prodigious hunter he would grow up to be.

And young though Lin-Lin might be, it seemed she had already come into her own fangs as the edges of her scarf-wrapped palms traced a trail along her foe’s thick neck as she sailed through the air and landed lightly in front of Lord Husband. Bloody mist sprayed out from both sides of Hideo’s head as his charge slowed to a stop and clamped his hands over his injuries in an effort to keep from bleeding out, and the look in his eyes told Luo-Luo that he was finally taking the full measure of his foe after this close brush with death. For the first time since the battle started, Lin-Lin’s smile was nowhere to be found as she puffed her cheeks and huffed, “A blockhead is what you are, in more ways than one. You think you can hurt my hubby with me here? Give up and die already, ya?”

Lust and rage intermingled in Hideo’s gaze, but Luo-Luo saw in there something she recognized from her own battle against him, something she’d missed in the moment and only suspected was there after the fact, but now, she could clearly see his mounting fear and hesitation. The fragile ego of a greenhouse genius, as Lord Husband would say, too unfamiliar with hardship and defeat to be worth a damn. In his eyes, defeat was the best teacher followed soon after by pain, and Lord Husband was a most diligent student to both. In contrast, Hideo’s defeats could be counted on two hands, meaning that as soon as uncertainty entered into the mix, his courage and conviction would falter like a delicate flower exposed to the wind and rain.

“You’re an Ancestral Beast,” he snarled, his booming voice drowning out the din of battle and Luo-Luo’s music both, though she kept playing in spite of the interference and her own personal surprise. “Fighting me is a violation of the Treaty, and we would be well within our rights to retaliate.”

That certainly put a damper on things as both sides stepped back out of personal concern for their own safety, though it would make no difference at all if the battle for Meng Sha should turn into a contest of Divinities. Everyone inside the fortress would likely die in the first exchange, alongside every living creature within five kilometres save for those the other Divinities could save, but that was all besides the fact. Even Luo-Luo had to stop playing her zither, for her mind had frozen at the startling implications of such an accusation, one which would almost be laughable if not for Lin-Lin’s superlative skills she only just displayed. If the sweet girl was truly an Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hare and not a half-beast like she claimed to be, then the Bekhai were facing a calamity of untold proportions once word of this spread.

For there was no more tempting a prize than a breeding pair of Ancestral Beasts, because any children they birthed were sure to become Divinities themselves, a prospect which would move even the Emperor Himself.

Something to be wary of in the future, but first, Lin-Lin would have to survive the battle here today. “There really is no cure for idiocy,” Lin-Lin replied in her customary sing-song manner, shaking her head side to side in childish taunt while punctuating her statement with an emphatic, “Stooopid. The Treaty is meant to keep Divinities from turning the Empire into an uninhabitable wasteland.”

“…and You’re an Ancestral Beast!”

Hideo’s emphatic repetition was so tinged with desperation Luo-Luo could not help but smile as Lin-Lin rolled her eyes, a gesture so obvious and exaggerated it could be seen even from behind. “Yea? So what? That doesn’t mean I’m a Divinity, you stinky blockhead. I’m only twenty years old, so I’m not strong enough to be bound by the Treaty just yet. Right Daddy?”

“Absolutely, sweet Lin-Lin.” Stood on the docks next to Lord Husband, the Medical Saint revealed himself to the crowd with what Luo-Luo supposed was what he thought was a confident expression, but he was clearly worried about his beloved daughter whom he doted upon so much, his fists clenched and shoulders hunched as if ready and raring to slap Hideo to death should the need arise. “You’re not Divinity just yet, so no Treaty is being broken here.”

“Such sophistry, such sin. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” The traitor Wisdom Vyakhya made his presence known, appearing behind Hideo with palms pressed together in prayer. “The girl is clearly no Warrior, yet enlightened in ways no mere mortal could ever hope to compare. Surely her actions are in violation of the spirit of the Treaty, if not the words themselves. Such a transgression cannot be left unpunished, lest it encourage others to follow suit and bring calamity down upon us all.”

“To think, you would decry sophistry whilst spouting such hypocrisy. Do you even remember the man you once were? This monk thinks not, else you would see how far you have fallen.” Stepping off the ship with an audible sigh, the Abbot appeared in front of Lin-Lin while warding off an unseen attack, one almost no one in the crowd would have noticed, for it left no visual or audible trace at all. Luo-Luo only sensed it at the periphery of her perceptions, a notion that something had taken place between the two monks, something beyond her meagre comprehension.

“So you still draw breath yet,” Vyakhya hissed, his gaze igniting in fury and fear both, yet again, Luo-Luo found it difficult to say just how she knew he was afraid, for he showed no visible signs of fear on the surface.

“In spite of all your best efforts, yes.” Removing a wooden fish drum from his sleeve, the Abbot set to knocking out a beat with his drum stick, one that set Luo-Luo’s spirits to soaring the same way she imagined her music had made others feel earlier. “You also know that Mitsue Hideo here has also stepped beyond the realm of mortal limits, though this monk senses he did not cross the threshold unaided.”

“I am Hideo!” All but howling the statement, his vehement overreaction spoke volumes to his deep denial, as if the familiar family name brought him too much pain to even consider. “Heroic Heavenly Guardian Hi-dei-oh.” Only now did Luo-Luo understand what he’d been talking about earlier, listing out the radicals that made up his name. An elegant name for so graceless a beast, but her admiration was directed towards Hideo’s father, not Hideo himself.

“If you’re making changes, might as well change your family name to ‘Idiot’ while you’re at it,” Lin-Lin retorted, and there were actually soldiers who chortled at her childish response. “Also, can you baldy monks get out of the way now? I was just about to kill him, ya? Don’t worry, I’ll make sure they put the right name on your funeral tablet, Idiot Hideo.”

