To the world at large, he was Falling Rain, the Undying Savage turned Legate of the Outer Provinces. A young talent unlike any other, he shone brighter than any star in the sky and rose higher and faster than any dragon who came before him. This was a man who others called the Mother’s Chosen Son, some out of sheer awe, and others out of thinly veiled jealousy for what they saw as luck and happenstance. As if mere luck could explain Falling Rain’s meteoric rise to fame, fortune, strength, and glory, for he was not a man destined for greatness, but one who set himself upon that path through sheer merit and perseverance alone. Had he chosen a different path to pursue, his dedication, intelligence, and cunning would have set him far above his peers and launched him to the forefront of the field. The only thing keeping him from surpassing all others in spectacular fashion was his complete and utter lack of ambition, unwilling to do more than what was necessary to survive when he could instead dominate his competition with an iron fist.

Take his mercantile interests which Luo-Luo helped manage for example. Coming up with new products was one thing that could be attributed to luck, but what of his ingenious and inventive economical tools like compound interest, purchased futures, War Bonds? Difficult to say where he learned it from, but Lord Husband possessed an understanding of large-scale economics that even Luo-Luo’s teachers would be amazed at. How many times did he enter into a long-term contract with unfavourable terms just because he knew profit was merely a secondary benefit? Or because the actual profits of the endeavour were meaningless, since he himself intended to be buyer and seller? Or because he’d thought of a different way to benefit and added terms in his favour that no one else recognized as such? Too many times to count, to say nothing of all the times when he showed mercy simply because he had no interest in obtaining a monopoly. “Competition is great,” he once said, grinning from ear to ear after she reported of lowered cast iron profit margins because of it. “So long as we keep wages high, our competition will have no choice but to find means to cut costs elsewhere, and so long as they continue selling a quality product, then this will only benefit us all in the end.” A simple truth, yet one Luo-Luo and almost every other merchant in existence had overlooked in their greed, to say nothing of his atypical outlook on property ownership. In his eyes, a thriving business was merely a commodity no different from any other, rather than the life’s blood of his success. While some might argue it was because he had more brilliant ideas than he had time to implement them, it was a novel and intriguing outlook with more than promising prospects, for it was far easier to buy a flagging business and improve upon its model than building one from the ground up. Selling was even easier, since most merchants only saw the profits and were largely unaware of the additional hidden costs, leading most prospective buyers to sorely overvalue a profitable company by no small amount.

And this was merely one aspect of his multi-faceted talents, for Falling Rain was a man who excelled in almost everything he tried his hand at. Whether it be something as simple and mundane as cooking and pharmacy, as complex and convoluted as politics and military command, or something even beyond that like mathematics and literature, Lord Husband demonstrated no small amount of talent and success in each and every one of these fields. How many others could say the same? There were countless Peak Experts in the Empire, and yet how many of them were truly masters in a secondary pursuit? Aside from Chen Hongji’s poetry, Father-in-Law Husolt’s forging, and the Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan’s Runic craftsmanship, Luo-Luo would be hard pressed to name a fourth, yet Lord Husband was well on his way to joining their ranks at the tender age of twenty-two.

In spite of all his efforts and achievements however, the Falling Rain reflected in Lord Husband’s eyes was an entirely different person. It all stemmed from how he placed no value on his many achievements. Wealth? Useful to have, but he already had more than he would ever need and yearned for a simple life back home in the mountains. Authority? The only use he had for this was to ensure others would not abuse it, else Luo-Luo imagined he would have long since given up rank and Office both. Prestige? In his own words, a fancy title and two coppers would buy him a grilled skewer from the market, which showed just how little he cared for Imperial Peerage and authority. Strength? So what if he was stronger than other Warriors his age? A Peak Expert could still kill him outright, so why would it matter if he was a little stronger than chaff?

Others saw his casual contempt for his lofty achievements as deep-seated arrogance, because it was, but not in the way everyone believed. It wasn’t vanity and conceit which caused him to behave in this manner, but rather the harsh and stringent demands he placed upon himself. If he needed money, authority, prestige, strength, or anything else to facilitate his goals, then nothing short of overwhelming success was acceptable. Minor success was a failure in his eyes, meaning he expected himself to excel at everything because he believed he needed to excel, and thus, regular success was no cause for celebration.

Luo-Luo felt the same way while excelling in her studies, because it was only natural she outshine her peers, for she was a first-generation Imperial Servant. The difference was that Luo-Luo’s pressure came from external factors, whereas Lord Husband placed all this pressure upon himself, for reasons she could not entirely understand. Nor could she imagine what it must be like for him, because even though she always set high standards for herself, she took pride in her accomplishments unlike Lord Husband. Since he truly believed he had nothing of value, that reflected in his internalized self-worth, leading him to view himself as someone who was worthless and without merit. Others saw a rising dragon with limitless prospects, but he saw himself as a failure and a disgrace, which did his self-esteem no favours.

This was the true reason why he was so wary of Luo-Luo. He liked to claim it was for other reasons, such as lack of trust, which was an outright lie because she’d won him over with her diligent efforts, or that he had a contrary personality, which was true except it had no bearing on their relationship. While he believed circumstances were unfair to Luo-Luo and he wanted their marriage to be based on love rather than mutual benefit, that wasn’t what was stopping him from indulging in his lust, nor was it the guilt from loving so many women. No, the true reason he kept his emotions in check was so sweet and sad at the same time that it brought tears to her eyes, for only now did she understand how little he thought of himself and how much he thought of her. When he saw Luo-Luo, he saw a beautiful, brilliant, talented, hard-working woman who could have any man she wanted, so he couldn’t imagine a world in which she would truly want anything to do with him.

Because in his eyes, he was not Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces, an intelligent, indomitable, indefatigable rising dragon whose achievements would stand unmatched for thousands of years. He was not a peerless young talent, brilliant merchant, devious politician, ingenious mathematician, erudite scholar, or any one of the other remarkable titles he could lay claim to. No, in his eyes, he was a short, scrawny, awkward and eccentric former slave, one so terrified of being hurt he would rather reject all her advances than risk learning her feelings were not real. That was the true reason he refused to accept her as his concubine, consort, or wife, because he knew he would fall head over heels in love and was terrified she would not return his feelings in kind, the same way he was terrified his other wives would one day discover who he ‘really’ was and leave him for good.

What an idiot Luo-Luo’s Lord Husband truly was, the greatest idiot unrivalled by anyone under the Heavens.

All this and more flashed through Luo-Luo’s heart and mind in the blink of an eye, and her understanding of Lord Husband deepened to an unimaginable degree. Before today, she truly didn’t understand him at all, but now she knew they had far more in common than she would ever have imagined. Though she yearned to connect with him on an even deeper level, his lingering presence was wholly lacking in cognizance and fading faster than she could gather her thoughts, much less share them in any meaningful way. The personal touch of his emotion had long since decayed, but even the memory of it was enough to keep her warm and safe while surging through her Core in ways she’d never before experienced. Balance had never been an issue for her, but now the Energy of the Heavens almost felt alive as it danced upon her fingertips in eager anticipation of what came next, and Luo-Luo moved in accordance to its will, which just so happened to match her own.

The lingering echoes of her third and final discordant chord still hung heavily in the air, but as satisfying as it might have been to strike at the Enemy so, she realized this was not in accordance with her Dao. Luo-Luo was no Warrior, but a musician first, and everything else was secondary to this singular ambition. Music was her passion, her ambition, her first true love, and she realized that it was not the playing of the dissonant chord that insulted her precious zither, but rather the intent behind it. Since she was a child, she’d loved the zither and the music she played upon its strings, and she went to bed most nights dreaming of using her talents to bring joy and cheer to all who heard it. Perhaps her initial passion was artificial, driven by the shared character in her name, Zheng Luo, and the zither, Gu-Zheng, and her motives impure, a drive to show her parents that they’d erred in offering so talented a daughter to the Emperor, but her love of music was as real and untainted as could be.

So how could she bear to use the music she loved to injure others, even if they were Defiled? No, music was meant to lift the spirit and stimulate emotions, so that was what she would do.

Taking a deep breath as she stilled the strings with the palms of her hands, Luo-Luo reached inwards and found the song she wished to share. Her fingers plucked out the notes as they came to mind, one rousing chime at a time, a melody instilled with her Chi and emotions as it sounded all throughout Meng Sha. It was far from a complex or engaging tune, a simple and delightful composition that even little Tali could learn, but as Luo-Luo grew more familiar with this sort of improvisational composition, she found her confidence and pushed herself to excel. Soon enough, a lively, rousing tune emerged from her fingertips, so rich and resonant it warmed her to the core, and though there were no other instruments to be heard, she soon realized she was not playing alone, for her melody was being accompanied by the raucous sounds of battle as the soldiers of the Empire resumed their conflict with the Enemy. Clashing steel and stomping boots served as the baseline of her song, while rousing cries and harrowing wails formed the harmonies and counter-melodies which she played along, a symphony which lifted spirits and refreshed minds to enable her allies to fight that much harder.

This was her Dao of Music, one played to the rhythm of war and arranged alongside the lyrical verses of life and death.

Though the effect was not as obvious as with her dissonant chord, and she knew little of how to read a battle, she sensed the spirits of the gathered Imperial soldiers lifting as she played, and they fought that much harder because of it. There was a darkness lingering in the air of Meng Sha, a heavy, ugly cloud that clung to the mind and body both, but with each note and chord of her spirited melody, she felt the darkness dissipate just a little more and knew she’d done something to alleviate the burdens on her enduring allies. This sort of music was more suited to her disposition, for she was never one to tear others down, but a woman who sought to live up to her own ideals while challenging others to keep up. For this reason alone, her generation of Imperial Servants was widely accepted as the most talented bunch in the last decade, for as Lord Husband once said, a rising tide raises all ships, which was exactly what Luo-Luo hoped to accomplish here.

Of course, this did not mean she’d forgotten all about Mitsue Hideo, for the moment she felt she could spare the attention, she glanced down to see how he fared, and what she saw there was so surprising she almost stopped playing out of shock. Though her tentative grasp of her Dao nearly slipped away, she recovered quickly enough without missing a beat, and she could not help but shake her head in disbelief. Down on the wooden docks was none other than sweet and delicate Mei Lin, her hands and arms wrapped in her inseparable white scarf as she traded blows with her gargantuan foe. Oh how it pained Luo-Luo’s heart to see the impish Lin-Lin in such danger, but the sweet girl wore a wide-eyed expression paired with a devilish, open-mouthed grin which spelled hardship and misfortune for her unlucky target, and thus far, she was living up to expectations.

