Three-three, three-seven, three-nine sharp, four-five sharp, four-nine flat, and five-four flat.

According to most established musicians, this was the most dissonant chord one could possibly play on a standard twenty-six string zither, and Luo-Luo wholeheartedly agreed. Not only was the resulting tone harsh and unpalatable to the ear, it was also unpleasant to play, requiring an awkward contortion of her left hand to hold down all the strings which stretched her fingers to their utmost limits. Then there was the matter of her personal pride as a musician, for playing such an awful arrangement was an insult to her cherished wutong wood zither, a hardy and serviceable instrument Mother-in-Law Sarnai purchased for her as a wedding gift. That being said, today, Luo-Luo was not utilizing her zither as an instrument, but rather as a weapon of war, so even though doing so make her skin prickle and stomach turn, she persevered knowing she was aiding the war effort in her own little way.

To say nothing of how it might help win over her formidable Mother-in-Law Sarnai, a Warrior who would wholeheartedly approve of Luo-Luo’s efforts, especially in light of the satisfying results.

From her perch atop the ship’s bow, her right hand plucked the jarring chime into existence, and the still silence of the battlefield shattered before its resounding might, so similar to what she experienced first-hand while guarding the District all those months ago. Soldiers and Defiled alike drew back from the dissonance as if physically repulsed by the inharmonious noise, and Luo-Luo’s spirits soared to see the effects of her actions even as she winced in emotional pain for having delivered it. That being said, this was still a welcome change and a refreshing relief from her usual day to day drudgery of spending every waking hour in a continued effort to hold the Outer Provinces together. It was so much easier to destroy than create, for this discordant chord wasn’t even a melody, just a series of notes played all at once that rankled in pained inharmony.

And so she played that dissonant chord a second time and beamed as the Defiled forces fell back a step, then a third time just because she could, so thrilled by her ability to actually do something productive for a change instead of constantly struggling just to keep herself and the outer provinces afloat.

For too long, she’d been stifled and stymied by Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun’s lackeys, dispatched to the Northern Citadel to supposedly assist her in her duties of Office. In truth, they were merely spies sent to report her every action back to Commander General Shuai Jiao, and they didn’t care to even try and hide it. Following Lord Husband’s injury, they’d even grown bold enough to abandon all soft tactics in an effort to strongarm her into doing their bidding, for though the Commander General had political power in spades, there were still strict limits to what the people were willing to accept with regards to his direct orders.

Not because Shuai Jiao was lacking in any way, but because the powers that be of Central had grown too accustomed to having their own way and balked at the thought of uniting under a single regional overlord. In the wake of the Obsidian Shadow Mitsue Juichi’s self-imposed social exile and Sword King Ryo Dae Jung’s untimely death, Shuai Jiao’s lofty ambitions were revealed to the world at large as he sought to consolidate the entire province under his rule, but matters were not going as smoothly as he’d hoped. As expected, since even Lord Husband in all his wisdom and brilliance was unable to rally the factions of Central behind his banner. Even the public blessing of Shen ZhenWu, an influential, highborn Imperial Noble who might well one day become the next Emperor of the Azure Sea, was not enough to unite the scattered factions of Central, so what hope could a mere Shuai Jiao have without an Imperial Noble’s overt endorsement? Not that this proved to be any sort of deterrent to the aspiring dictator, for Luo-Luo was certain he had an Imperial backer sheltering him from the shadows, one unwilling to step out into the light for reasons unknown. It was the only way to explain Shuai Jiao’s bold and aggressive tactics as his minions attempted to manipulate, deceive, coerce, and compel her into handing over Lord Husband’s Seal of Office, one which denoted him as the Emperor’s Legate of the Outer Provinces. Who it might be was anyone’s guess, but Luo-Luo had long since harboured her own suspicions which she kept to herself.

The nature of Imperial politics was to plot schemes within schemes, all carried out by cat’s-paws seeking to curry favour. Though she had yet to confirm her suspicions, the lack of action from the Supreme Families after Yang Jixing’s death and Grand Marshal Liang Bao Zhen’s willingness to appoint Lord Husband to the Office of Minister of Finance spoke volumes to the situation. Add in everything Lord Husband told her of his interactions with his patron, and her own interaction with Administrator Liang Yin Hang, the Grand Marshal’s lackey here to keep tabs on Lord Husband’s Office of Finance, it was clear the Liang Family had set their sights on the Outer Provinces and were claiming it under the pretence that doing so fell under the jurisdiction of their familial responsibilities.

Why else would a noble of such high-standing like Shen ZhenWu be dispatched to oversee the defence of the outer provinces? The Defiled invasion should have rightly fallen under the Xing Family’s purview, the Emperor’s military advisors, or at the very least, someone representing the Royal General, who traditionally also hailed from the Xing Family. What’s more, why would the current Liang family head and Grand Marshal travel all the way to the Outer Provinces just to personally appraise Lord Husband and test his knowledge and intelligence? Clearly War Bonds and Treasury Notes were only an excuse, because while the prospect of conjuring nigh-infinite amounts of coin out of thin air was tempting indeed, the Liang Family was hardly lacking in wealth to begin with. Just as the Xing Family traditionally served as military advisors, the Liang Family were the Emperor’s financial overseers, tasked with protecting the Empire’s economic and mercantile interests. Revolutionary though War Bonds and Treasury Notes might be, it was hardly enough to move the Grand Marshal from the Eastern Province, even if he could Cloud-Step away and back within a handful of days.

All this and more told Luo-Luo that there was more than mere greed motivating the Liang Family to go to such great lengths, though what those motivations might be were beyond her ability to even guess at. Two things were for certain however, that dominion over the Outer Provinces was now part and parcel of the eternal power struggle between the Five Supreme Families, and Lord Husband had been unlucky enough to get caught in the fray. Regardless of the reasons, it was clear the Liang Family held the upper hand when it came to expanding their base of power into the Outer Provinces, and Lord Husband’s promotion to Minister of Finance was a means to undermine how much influence the other Supreme Families could bring to bear. As such, Lord Husband was the figurehead being used to keep the outer provinces in line, so how could the Liang Family turn a blind eye to Shuai Jiao efforts to replace him?

They wouldn’t, not without reprisal, which meant the Liang Family had given Shuai Jiao permission to pursue his ambitions, if not tacitly encouraging them from the shadows. For this reason and many more, Luo-Luo suspected that Shuai Jiao’s mysterious Imperial backer was none other than Shen ZhenWu himself, playing both sides against one another in order to keep Lord Husband’s unbridled nature in check.

A bad portent of tribulations to come, because if Shen ZhenWu ultimately decided to back a different horse, then it was only a matter of time before he cut all ties with Lord Husband in what could only be a disastrous manner. As Minister of Finance and Legate of the Outer Provinces, Lord Husband’s star was shining too brightly to let a mere self-proclaimed Commander General overshadow him, but the people of the Empire would not sit idly by if such a beloved and talented young hero were to meet his end at the hands of his fellow countrymen. Not unless Lord Husband made some grievous mistake, which Luo-Luo suspected was supposed to have happened when he barged in on Shuai Jiao’s meeting with the Sword King’s widow, Jeong Hyo-Lynn. The entire meeting had likely been a trap, with Shen ZhenWu himself present no doubt, wholly recovered from the injuries he took in the Central Citadel and there to personally attest to Lord Husband’s ‘crimes’ after he ‘predictably’ threatened Shuai Jiao with death should he fail to bend the knee. Thankfully, even without Luo-Luo’s advice, Lord Husband was too clever for them by far, using soft tactics and a subtle threat instead of outright military might, leaving even the prospective heir to the Empire unable to act. An offer of alliance spoken out loud followed by the reveal of a Concealed assassin standing in their midst, Luo-Luo would have loved to have seen Shen ZhenWu’s expression at that moment, but alas, Lord Husband wasn’t even aware his patron had likely been quietly sitting in on the meeting.

Of course, there were many other reasons for Luo-Luo to suspect Shen ZhenWu, including the presence of one ‘Miss Rou’, the supposed courtesan who tried to assassinate Lord Husband shortly before he set out for the West. Even he was able to see that there was more to her than meets the eye, but again, Luo-Luo kept her suspicions to herself. For personal reasons like fear and jealousy, yes, but also because explaining her suspicions would directly violate the Imperial Mandate Shen ZhenWu issued to her during their first meeting ever, one prohibiting her from revealing his true identity. Loyal as she was to Lord Husband and her new family, she knew violating an Imperial Mandate would force the issue on both sides, as Shen ZhenWu would not forgive so blatant a transgression while Lord Husband and the Bekhai would not willingly hand her over for execution.

Luo-Luo was most fortunate indeed to have been bestowed to Lord Husband, rather than someone petty and small-minded like the barely recognizable Mitsue Hideo standing on the docks before her. Had he not announced his name in so arrogant a fashion, she would not have believed that this was the same bald, slender youth from memory, a man who was middling in all aspects including height, appearance, and talent. The one standing before bore a full head of hair, but this was the least of his changes. A towering giant of monstrous proportions clad in stately, too-tight robes, his outfit made the rippling muscles on his barrel-chest and trunk-like arms painfully apparent. His vein-studded neck was almost indistinguishable from the muscles protruding from his back and shoulders, and despite his almost complete transformation, the staggering increase in size and volume made it appear as if his head was still the same size as before. It had grown, just not in proportion to the rest of him, which resulted in his head seeming comically tiny, but Luo-Luo was unable to muster up any mirth when faced with the despicable expression of wild lust and unrestrained hatred etched across his repulsive face.

Memories of seeing him pounce upon her with a howl of pure fury flashed through Luo-Luo’s mind, and her shoulder throbbed with phantom pain where his teeth tore a chunk from her unblemished flesh. Fear’s icy grip clutched her heart from within as she relived those horrific moments again, when she lay helpless and bleeding in the grass as he ripped her clothes and pawed at her chest while responding to her attempts to stop him with violence and savagery both. The pain, the humiliation, the horror and violation, it all came flooding back to her in an instant and left her helpless and weak once more. Here on the field of battle, they would fight again, and again, Luo-Luo knew she was destined to lose, except this time, Mother-in-Law Sarnai wasn’t here to protect her.

No need to be afraid. I’m here with you. I’m sorry you suffered so terribly in my absence and neglect, but I will never allow anyone to bully you again, because you are mine to bully and mine alone.

Warm and tender emotion welled up from within to free her from fear’s obstinate grip, and Luo-Luo recognized the teasing yet affectionate sentiment behind it. Lord Husband was here, not just physically laid out on the docks below, but here with her on the ship itself, inside her heart, mind, and soul. He’d come in her time of need to help her through this trial and tribulation, somehow speaking to her without words or images yet communicating his intentions all the same. The message was regrettably short and contained a wealth of emotions and information which would take Luo-Luo hours to wholly interpret and comprehend, but on the surface, he wanted her to know that he was here to help and would sooner die than allow her to come to harm.

This was the sincere, unmitigated truth, one Lord Husband wholeheartedly intended to fulfil, for while baring his heart and soul to her, he stumbled across everything she’d been hiding within. Not just the fear and shame from her ignoble defeat, but all the loneliness and uncertainty stemming from a lifetime spent in pursuit of excellence only to be left by the wayside to be slowly forgotten. Embarrassed as she was to have all her insecurities laid bare, Lord Husband’s response was wholly unexpected, for rather than pity, commiseration, surprise, or disbelief, he radiated silent understanding and shared empathy, for he too knew how she felt.

