It was a fated encounter, if you believed in fate. If you didn’t, it was still fated because Bird was Bird and there were only so many times Erin could distract him with a plate of hot fried duck or an egg sunny side up. It so happened that the fated day in question was when Bevussa Slenderscale had stopped by Erin’s inn for another round of negotiations with the Halfseekers.
It wasn’t something the Garuda looked forwards to, so she’d ordered a dark lager of whatever Erin had on tap to take the edge off. The request had stumped Erin, and she’d gone behind the counter to stare at kegs while Bevussa waited. The Garuda tapped the table, wondering when Jelaqua would appear and they could begin haggling. Apparently, the Selphid was out and about Liscor, and Bevussa intended to drink until she came back.
Sparingly. Negotiations between Gold-rank Captains were a tricky affair, and Bevussa needed a clear head, especially since alcohol ran through Garudas a lot faster than other races. Selphids were champions at digesting alcohol unfortunately, so Jelaqua could drink all she wanted and only get drunk if she chose. But Bevussa needed some kind of relief.
“Everyone’s so damn tense about what artifacts they’re going to get. And how much gold. I’m losing feathers over this, and I’m certain our team’s actually going to get an artifact.”
Bevussa complained to Erin as she sat at the table. She heard a muffled voice.
“Uh huh. It’s tough to negotiate?”
“Yes! I don’t know how Jelaqua is so calm about it all of a sudden. Now she’s playing hard—it’s like she’s not even worried about the gold! Something’s happened with her. And Griffon Hunt. Do you know anything about it?”
“About…what?”
“The way Jelaqua’s acting—”
The Garuda raised her voice and then gave up. No one was in the inn at midday—Erin’s inn still seemed to only have a rush around dinner when the Players of Celum stopped by. Or maybe everyone was in Celum, experiencing the sunshine. She grumbled to herself instead.
“Everyone gets upset! And you can’t argue with Keldrass when he’s pissed—he just smokes you out! I know Jelaqua’s after the armor, but I was hoping she’d withdraw her claim on the light-spelled shortsword. Hey, do you have a lager? I can get another drink if you’re out!”
“Um…I think so! What color is a dark lager supposed to be? Purple?”
“Purple? No, it’ll be dark brown, blackish! Do you have a purple beer back there?”
“Well, the light’s not so good—maybe?”
“Can I try it?”
“Sure—ow! Hold on, let me get a mug!”
Bevussa sat back as she heard Erin bang about. She glanced towards both doors surreptitiously, but Jelaqua didn’t magically appear. Bevussa sighed, drummed her talons on the table, and then turned her head. She saw an Antinium Worker’s face two inches from her own.
“Hello, I am Bird.”
“Ancestors save me!”
Bevussa shouted and nearly fell out of her chair. She flapped her wings to keep her balance and heard Erin exclaim.
“What? What’s happening? Ow!”
There was a thump as Erin smacked her head on the bar’s counter. Bevussa leaned back in her chair. Bird hadn’t moved.
“Hello, I am Bird.”
Bevussa cleared her throat.
“Hello?”
Bird nodded.
“Hello. You are a bird, yes?”
The Garuda stared at him. Then she turned her head.
“Uh, Erin? Your Antinium Worker is saying hi to me. And he’s asking if I’m a bird.”
“Oh no. Bird!”
Erin shot up from behind the counter. She waved the mug in her hands frantically.
“Put down the bow! Don’t shoot—oh, good.”
Bird turned. The Worker was not holding his bow, as was customary. Instead he was holding something strange in his hand. Bevussa blinked. All four of the Worker’s hands were clutching a mess of…
“Goose feathers?”
“Yes. They are goose feathers. Would you trade them with me?”
Bird offered the feathers to Bevussa. She hesitated and reached out to take one, then stopped. The Garuda looked around, suspecting a prank. Erin, on the other hand, knew better and rushed forwards.
“Bird, no! Bevussa, I’m sorry. Let me handle this. Bird, you know what I said about bothering Bevussa.”
“But I put away my bow.”
“Yeah, but you can’t just—why are you holding feathers?”
“To trade. I am told trading is a perfectly acceptable form of barter. I wish to trade.”
“But—hold on, are those from the pillows in your room?”
“…Maybe?”
Erin stared at Bird. She scratched her head, stared at the feathers, then decided to drop the issue. She folded her arms and looked sternly at the Worker.
“Bird, I know you really like…well, birds. But Bevussa’s busy, and you can’t bother her. Especially about birds.”
“Oh. I am sorry.”
Bird physically drooped. His antennae sagged, and he turned around and began to shuffle towards the stairs. Bevussa, who was still completely confused, felt bad and called out.
“Hold on, Erin. Why can’t, uh, Bird speak with me?”
The [Innkeeper] turned. She hesitated as Bird stopped hopefully.
“It’s complicated. Bevussa, I really don’t know how to explain this, but Bird’s…well, he’s not like the other Antinium.”
“That is correct. I am Bird.”
“Right! And I don’t want to alarm you, but he really likes birds. And I thought that, y’know, since you have wings…”
Bevussa laughed lightly.
“Oh, come on. It can’t be worse than what I get from Drakes all the time. Let Bird sit with me. I’ll share a drink with him.”
Erin visibly hesitated. She looked from Bevussa to Bird, and the Garuda got the feeling that Erin was doing some rapid risk-assessment.
“Are you sure? I mean, if you’re willing that’d be great. Bird really wanted to meet you, but me and Klbkch and Pawn and Belgrade and Anand all thought—if he says or does anything weird, you can tell him not to. And I’ll be over here…”
Amused, the Garuda waved Erin back to the bar.
“Sure. Just sort out which barrel has what. Come on, Bird. Sit down.”
“Are you sure? Miss Erin told me not to bother you if you are busy. Are you busy?”
Bird hesitated as Bevussa drew up a stool. The Garuda frowned as she gave Erin a quick glance. The [Innkeeper] gave Bevussa a mixture of hand gestures and facial expressions only a Goblin could interpret. The Gold-rank adventurer gave up on interpreting it and looked at Bird.
“I’m not.”
“Oh. Good. Then I will bother you.”
Bird sat down instantly in the chair across from Bevussa. He stared at her. He was still holding the feathers. Bevussa stared at them and then at Bird. She coughed.
“So…sorry about that. Nice to meet you. We’ve never formally been introduced, have we? I’ve seen you around, I mean, but—I’m Bevussa, Gold-rank, and, uh, second-in-command of the Wings of Pallass.”
Bird nodded.
“I am Bird. I am a Worker in the Hive only now I am an Individual. I work in Miss Erin’s inn.”
“I’ve…noticed. Have you worked here long?”
The Worker shook his head.
“No. I was assigned to Miss Erin’s inn by Revalantor Klbkch as a matter of security and to protect Miss Erin and to act in a capacity which I am not allowed to inform you about. I have only been here for a little while, but I have my own room and a tower to shoot birds from.”
“Birds as in…other birds. Not you, right?”
“That is correct. I am Bird. I hunt birds. With my bow. It is in my room.”
Bevussa blinked. She looked around for Erin and heard swearing as Erin tried to wrestle with a keg under the counter. Bevussa rubbed at her forehead and began to understand what Erin had meant.
“Okay, I think I get what you’re saying. Your name is Bird. But you’re a hunter.”
“That is correct. I am a [Hunter]. I hunt birds.”
“…Why did you name yourself Bird?”
The Worker shrugged.
“I like birds. Should I not name myself Bird?”
“Well, you have to admit it’s confusing.”
“I do?”
Bird tilted his head back and forth. Bevussa stared at him and then turned and called to Erin.
“Hey, how’s that drink going?”
“I dunno! Do you put wine in kegs? Cause this looks like wine!”
The Garuda debated asking for a glass regardless, then decided that she wasn’t that desperate. Yet. She turned back to Bird and tried to make sense of it all.
“You just liked to call yourself Bird, is that it? That’s fair. I guess.”
Bird nodded.
“Yes. But I am also named Bird after Henry Edward Bird, who played chess and was important. He was a Human who invented the Bird’s Opening and Bird’s Defense in chess.”
Bevussa put her head on the table.
“I’m so confused.”
She just wanted a drink. Bevussa’s head lay on the table for all of three seconds until she felt a very tentative touch on the back of her head. She looked up immediately, and Bird snatched his hand back.
“Don’t touch the feathers.”
“I am sorry. They were very pretty.”
“Yeah, and they’re mine. You don’t see me pulling your antennae.”
“I am sorry.”
Bird looked down at his hands. He seemed to shrink. Bevussa’s fury instantly cooled off. She stared at Bird.
“Hey, sorry. I just thought you were one of those creepy Drakes who—it’s okay.”
“But it is not because you said so. I am sorry.”
The Worker stared at his hands. Bevussa looked around helplessly. She was about to shout at Erin that she really needed her at the table rather than a drink, and then a few things clicked in her head. Something Erin had mentioned. She stared back at Bird.
“How old are you, Bird?”
“Oh. I am two. I will be three sometime in the fall.”
Bird brightened up. Bevussa stared at him.
“You’re three?”
“Yes. I am old for a Worker. Most die when they are around two years old. Due to monsters eating them. We are rotated to the front lines often. I did not die, and now I am at Miss Erin’s inn, where there are monsters too sometimes. But I have not died yet, so that is good.”
Bird nodded happily. Bevussa stared at him. Then she sat back in her chair.
“Oh. Oh. And you’re—the Antinium are really—Ancestors, I had no idea! And—hey, can all Workers speak? Do they all have names?”
She looked at Bird. He shook his head.
“No. Most Workers have no names. If they did, they would be Individual. And if you ask them and they do not, they would be Aberration.”
“What’s that?”
Bird hesitated.
“That is a very bad thing. Aberrations kill other Workers. They say not-good things about the Queen, and Revalantor Klbkch comes and kills them. Or Soldiers do.”
“So they’re criminals?”
The Worker hesitated.
“I…do not think so. They are just upset.”
“I see.”
The Garuda tried to square that with what she’d heard of the Antinium. Aberrations—yes, she’d heard of the Antinium going berserk, but that was in battle. And you almost never saw Antinium outside of their Hives, and obviously no one ever went near an Antinium Hive unless you wanted to die. Except in Liscor, the strange city that had welcomed them. She’d heard stories—
But Bird seemed alright. Strange as a shaved Gnoll and half as sane, but for a two year old, she thought he was doing well. Armed with that knowledge, Bevussa smiled more comfortably at Bird.
“Okay, so you like birds. You enjoy hunting them?”
And like that, Bevussa opened the floodgates. Bird sat up, his multi-faceted eyes shining.
“Yes. Very much. I shoot birds all day. All night too. I have a new bow that my Queen gave me, and it is very strong. I have shot many birds with it, only I can only shoot them in Celum because there are not many birds in the rain. I have been hoping to see water birds, which must surely exist, but I have not seen any yet. I think they may be invisible, and Belgrade tells me they do not exist, but then Pawn came over and said they may exist, and Erin said they might as well, so I am still looking for them. Have you seen water birds?”
“Water birds? Do you mean…flying fish? Or—or swimming birds?”
Bird stared at Bevussa.
“There are fish that fly?”
“Yes?”
At this stage, Bevussa wasn’t sure of anything in life. She sat back as Bird tried to describe what the elusive, and, Bevussa realized, probably imaginary, water birds looked like. She shook her head.
“I’ve never seen a bird made out of water. It sounds like something a [Mage] would summon.”
“Oh. Do you think I could find one to summon one for me?”
“To do what, exactly?”
Bird looked blankly at Bevussa.
“Shoot it of course. And then eat it.”
“That’s all you want to do?”
“Yes. I like shooting birds. And eating them.”
“But you call yourself Bird.”
“Yes.”
“And you…like birds?”
“Yes. They are my favorite things. I like all birds.”
“Then why—no, wait, I’ve done this before. Okay. You like birds. Hey, I like birds too. Except for the aggressive types.”
“Aggressive types?”
Bird sat up. Erin screamed as a keg rolled over her foot. Both Bird and Bevussa looked over, but since it wasn’t anything serious, they turned back to the conversation. Bevussa waved a taloned hand, relieved to be on firmer ground. Or rather, in clearer skies as the Garuda would say.
“Oh yeah. There are tons of angry birds in the sky. I guess Liscor doesn’t have many aggressive birds, huh? Oh wait—you do have Razorbeaks, don’t you?”
“Yes. Erin calls them Dino Birds. They are very big and sit in the grass.”
“I bet they do. And they love to swarm wounded animals and people. Nasty things, but not too deadly if you’ve got any kind of armor. But other birds…hm, no, I guess you would be okay up here. Now, around Pallass we’ve got some nasty fliers.”
“Ooh, like what?”
Bird leaned forwards. Bevussa ticked off species on her talons.
“Aside from the regular birds—that is to say, the ones that don’t have a taste for meat or can’t shoot lightning? Well, southern Izril has Wyverns, those are the big ones everyone knows about. Are they birds? Well, they’re death in the air. One drops on you and you’re dead. But I can see a Wyvern from miles away, and they can’t maneuver at all. No, if I’m in the air, I’m watching out for Vaas Beils.”
“What are they? Are they birds?”
“I mean, if you want to be charitable, yeah. They’re these large freaks with two sets of beaks—and teeth—that hunt out of clouds. Now, you’d think they’re divers from how big they are, but they’re not. Instead they scream with both beaks. It’s awful. It messes with your sense of direction, and then they’re on top of you.”
“Ooh. What do they taste like?”
Bevussa paused.
“I’ve never checked. I tend to stab them and let them drop. But I have tasted the other bird I have to fight a lot. Starlings.”
“Starlings? What powers do they have?”
Bevussa laughed.
“Powers? They’re not monsters. They’re just little black birds. I bet you’ve seen them! Only, you’ve probably never seen a swarm of them before.”
“A swarm?”
