Matt laughed at her jab at how he wasn’t acting like a noble. Technically, the Ascender title came with no noble correlation, but there were thousands of dukes and only seven Ascenders, which had led to the title being given precedence over the ducal one. It was just slightly uncouth to mention it during their first ducal party, which Matt found funny as it was in clear retaliation to Matt breaking protocol.

“Yeah, the noble thing is new to me. I can’t say it comes easy. Far more natural to punch my issues away, than politic them.”

For the first time, Margaret smiled in a way that Matt thought was actually genuine. “I fully understand that, but it's a useful skill set for those of us who aren’t Ascenders. I had the lessons beaten into me, but I’m better for it.”

Matt nodded as he read the report that Cato sent him. It was just a few lines about how Thresh had been taken under the wing of a Countess Abigail Sural, who had done her best to ensure any shortcomings she had in her noble education were taken care of.

“Luna, my Path Manager, beat those same lessons into me, but I’m hard headed and choose to ignore them sometimes. Especially with friends. I haven’t been able to get back to Lilly since before the war, how is everything?”

Matt snatched three glasses off a wandering waiter’s tray and handed one to Margaret and Cato before taking a sip of his.

It was a deliberate action trying to throw Margaret off her guard a little so he could get more than the polite ‘everything was ok’. He wanted to really know how Lilly was.

“It's good.” At Matt’s pursed lips, Margaret continued. “Really. We finished settling the capital and it's now a proper metropolis to make any low Tier world jealous. Population has reached almost eighty million and I’m having to turn down immigrants who want to live on the same world that created an Ascender. I’m happy to report that we have had all rifts properly delved for the last hundred and fifty years, and not a single rift break death since I took over. We—”

Matt interrupted her with a grin. “That is fantastic news. I’m grateful you managed to stop anything like what happened to us from happening again.” Grasping her shoulder, he caught her eyes and added. “That's seriously good work.”

A duke publicly praising a baron was already a mark of pride, but Matt was genuinely happy she was a good steward for the planet he had grown up on.

Cato had offered to create a report, but Matt had only asked enough to make sure Lilly wasn’t being run into the ground before the party. He wanted to hear the information from the source.

“Sorry for the interruption. Go on. Seriously, I'm interested.”

Matt should have moved on to another noble, but this was his party, and he was going to catch up with his home planet.

Thresh took a large swallow from the drink before wincing slightly and looking at the drink. “I think I just wasted a very valuable drink.”

“Not really. It's only Tier 20.”

Margaret looked like she wanted to argue, but she continued with how Lilly was doing, which was good.

They had had a small period of time where they didn’t have enough local crafters, specifically smiths, but that had been handled with a few social programs and Margaret leveraging Matt’s Ascender status to bring in qualified teaching staff for all kinds of professions.

Currently, she was controlling expansion into the continents’ inner depths where rifts could spawn, creating just two cities every fifty years while letting local guilds create and delve outposts to keep the rifts from overflowing.

It was slower, but ensured safe growth that, when combined with the immigration limits, ensured the people of Lilly could take advantage of everything their planet had to offer.

He also found out that TrueMind had set up shop on Lilly shortly before the Ascension ceremony, which reminded him he owed them for breaking his contract. The contract had been paid out, but he felt he owed them at least an apology and then a thank you for them investing so heavily into Lilly even before his fame was well known. Maybe they had known in advance, but he doubted it. He sent a message to Cato to look into the company and see if there was anything minor he could help with. If there wasn’t, which he suspected would be true, he would send the owner a very nice bottle of wine and a personal thank you note.

He knew the value of having a local producer of AI implants as someone who had been not only on the Path, but had also gotten a discount on the end product allowing him to afford it at Tier 3. Not to mention that he hadn’t even needed to pay any markup from transportation or taxes. His AI had been foundational in his early years and had made everything so much easier than it would have been without it.

All the while, Matt nodded along and listened. Cato sent small messages with deeper explanations or small corrections, but Margaret never tried to lie or hide the few mistakes she made.

It was exactly what Matt wanted to hear, and part of the way through, he sent Liz a message to get her agreement for an idea they had pondered.

“This is all wonderful to hear, Margaret. I’m glad you are a good steward for Lilly.” She clearly thought he was about to dismiss her, but her bow froze as Matt made his offer. “Liz and I wanted to offer you and Lilly a move to our duchy.”

Margaret looked like Aster had hit her with an ice spell, but then again so did all of the surrounding nobles on hearing the offer.

Ascenders rarely used it, but thanks to old rules written for the hereditary nobility when establishing their duchies, they were given the option to bring their planet of birth into their duchy, so long as it wasn’t higher than Tier 10.

Matt hadn’t even considered it until Liz brought it up as an option, but the more Matt thought of it, the more he liked it. Lilly was well, so that wasn’t a concern, but if he was Margaret’s liege, he could further look out for the planet, which was a nice benefit. But the main reason why he wanted to transfer ownership of the planet was because he, or rather his guild, needed a low Tier planet to do practical aperology upon. One that wasn’t dealing with integration and cultural shifts. Lilly was only Tier 4, and therefore was the perfect Tier for the kind of aperology that he wanted to start with, namely aura rifts, growth item rifts, and skill shard rifts.

What was better than ensuring that the economic success that came from those tests was reinvested back into his home planet?

It was the place that had raised him and his parents. Even if he had outgrown the planet, it was and always would be where he grew up.

Margaret’s face went through a dozen micro expressions and Matt just watched as she took the time to process through his offer.

“I would be honored, Duke Moore.”

Matt raised an eyebrow as he sensed a very large and unspoken, ‘but’.

Reading his expression, Margaret explained. “Myself and Lilly would be more than happy to transfer to your duchy, but I have alliances and more important obligations that I feel I would be letting down by changing allegiances so suddenly. It's still worth it to move, but I will need to pay them back in other ways now.”

“I assume one of those is Countess Sural?”

“She is the main one, my lord.”

Hearing he was correct in his assumption, Matt looked over his shoulder to Cato in Tier 26 speeds, who vanished into the crowd even faster.

“I owe her a lot for her assistance. Without her help, I would have made mistakes after the revelation of your Ascension. With her help I avoided many pitfalls and she expected nothing back, except for me to learn. And while she might not expect direct repayment, I feel obligated to do my best to return her assistance, and that will be impossible if I—”

She was cut off as Cato and Countess Sural arrived through the parting crowds.

As Countess Sural bowed and introduced herself, Matt went through the packet of information Cato provided him.

Countess Sural was a diehard loyalist, which was moderately surprising for a hereditary noble family, but the brief explained it. Her great grandfather had been a fervent supporter of Empress Agatha and he had instilled a sense of both loyalty to the crown and their people into his descendants.

While the man himself had long since ascended, his family had kept to those teachings and Countess Sural was a dedicated woman who gave everything to her people.

From what Cato had been able to put together in such a short time, she was a proponent of the thought process that said nobility was a burden to bear on behalf of one's subjects and not a privilege to be lorded over them. They weren’t pushovers, but they never took from their people for selfish reasons, and made sure things like taxes were being appropriately used with minimal graft.

It was a mindset Matt could agree with.

“Countess Sural, as thanks for your assistance with Baroness Thresh, and in turn the assistance that was then transferred to Lilly, I want to personally thank you.”

“Thank you, my lord but no such thanks are necessary. I only did the minimum anyone would do.”

“Clearly it was more than nothing, as otherwise you wouldn’t have been the first. While I’m confident that Margaret would have figured things out, I’m happy Lilly didn’t have to go through such growing pains. I can only hope that I have such good counsel. To that end, I offer you one of the Marchioness titles I have available, or one of your family members a viscount title in my duchy.”

The crowd around them went silent as they processed the very generous offer, but Matt ignored them and focused on Liz and Isabella making their way through the crowd.

The countess was still mulling over the offer when Liz slipped in next to him and threaded their arms together.

Those around them murmured their greetings but did so quietly enough to not disrupt the countess. Not that they would have bothered her.

Countess Sural was clearly taken aback and seeing that, Liz offered her a lifeline that Matt should have thought of. “Take your time processing the idea. Consult with your liege and family alike. We aren’t in any rush.”

Together they turned and made their way through the crowds, arms still entwined when Liz said. “Good offer. She’s a good one.”

“I thought so. And I do appreciate what she did for Lilly, even if it was through Margaret.”

“You just want to go play with rifts. That's the real reason you wanted Lilly.”

Matt gasped a little louder than was strictly polite. “I would never! But it will speed things up if we don’t have to wait for a planet to be integrated to start research.”

Matt could see people trying to listen in, but neither of them hid their conversation. The guild would be announced as soon as the remaining guests trickled in, and this would pique interest.

Since they had joined up, he and Liz took a few minutes to grab some food and made some idle chatter with those around them while they chatted about things they had heard so far.

They were interrupted by a familiar face, Silvia Dobrescu. She was followed by her parents, both active dukes. But like Dominus, the woman, who had only been Tier 17 when they were Tier 15, had now pushed into Tier 21, which told Matt she would soon be taking over the duchy.

The Dobrescu family was unlike most noble houses, and was a former corporation that, after a drawn-out battle with the local noble family, had come out on top. Instead of just returning to their former status after selling off what they could, the board of directors had decided to form a family and become a noble house themselves. Currently, they ran one of the largest merchant fleets in the Empire, and while others might try to muscle in on their interest, they always outlasted the competition. There were rumors the family liked to use less than legal methods to take out their competitors, with the largest rumor being that they ran an actual pirate fleet, but all of those rumors were unsubstantiated.

As much as Matt wanted to believe a lot of noble families were corrupt and evil, he knew that a family with the status of the Dobrescu’s wouldn’t escape the Emperor's scrutiny into such matters, which made the rumors hard to believe.

Matt just hoped there wouldn't be too many conflicts of interest between his guild and the Dobrescus’. Even if the family didn’t do anything illegal, their reach was massive, and they had their fingers in nearly every pie, even if they only specialized in moving products around.

He was interested in why Silvia Dobrescu bothered to come to their side, but he didn’t have long to ponder. Silvia’s long heron bloodline’s pace ate up the ground quickly.

“Good to see you two again. Congratulations and all that.”

Matt was surprised Silvia was still as casual as she had been the last time they had seen her. Neither he or Liz were bothered by it, but it spoke to a level of confidence on her part that he found intriguing.

Interestingly enough, she proffered a gift. She wasn’t the first to give them a gift, but it was the first one that Matt couldn’t immediately recognize.

It looked like a small vial of fire kissed honey, but it weighed on his spiritual perception like it was much higher Tier than the Tier 22 material it was.

Silvia seemed to expect that and explained. “A little gift from the Dobrescus for your efforts in the war and taking over a noble house. This is a dose of Tier 22 Velview royal jelly. I’m sure you know of Velview honey and its effect.”

Matt had never heard of Velview honey, but Cato quickly sent a message that informed Matt about the basics. The Velview system was one of the direct holdings of the Dobrescus, and was incredibly valuable thanks to its main export, the honey that the bees that infested the local star created.

