Like on most stars, a rift eventually inverted to form a ruin, but instead of just being destroyed by the crushing pressure and immense heat of a star, the beehive ruin not only survived, but thrived and spread to infest the entire star. It had only been an interesting factoid noted by the initial settlers, as the bees couldn't leave the star and therefore weren't a threat. But eventually, one of the cultivators had gone up and gathered some of their honey.

It was there that they learned of the honey’s incredible taste profile, but more importantly, the side effect that caused anyone who had imbibed the honey’s cultivation to automatically compress to rift level essence through no effort of their own, up to the Tier of the honey.

For delvers like Matt, Liz, and Aster, the honey was nothing more than an expensive treat, as their essence was already as compact as it could possibly go. But for civilians or anyone who cultivated ambient essence, Velview honey was an incredibly valuable cultivation aid.

If not for the fact that the bees had never survived a transplantation to another star, the honey would have been one of the most used cultivation aids. Instead, it was limited to the wealthy and connected who could afford the price for their non-combatant family members.

The honey was generally turned into a mead to maximize its effects and extend its duration from a few weeks to a few years, but the much rarer royal jelly was effective forever. It was endless cultivation compression that never needed to be renewed, and was correspondingly expensive, so being given a dose was both a great honor and a show of goodwill from the Dobrescus. It could also be used to make a potion that would compress already-cultivated essence in previous Tiers, and while it couldn’t truly fix a flawed foundation as it couldn’t backfill that gap, it was a start and thus incredibly valuable.

While they didn’t need it, the royal jelly would serve to assist any of their future children who didn’t wish to delve in ensuring their foundations were perfect all the way until they reached Tier 22.

The small vial they had been given didn’t even have an open market price as it was just that rare but Matt could imagine it selling for Tier 40 value at a minimum.

Matt hadn’t ever heard of the honey before, and immediately ordered a small dose of the raw Tier 15 honey, as he wanted to try it after hearing of its exquisite taste. Even more interesting was the entire aspect of cultivation that he had never needed to interact with.

Velview honey was expensive because it removed one of the most tedious processes of cultivating ambient essence, but it was hardly the only method to do so. There were hundreds of similar products, each with their own quirks and drawbacks. In the case of the honey, its flavor was described as being so good as to be near addictive, in addition to being one of the few cultivation aids that the body didn’t build a resistance to.

From the packet of information Cato sent Matt, he learned that the honey was often paired with incredibly expensive cultivation bracelets like the ones low level delvers used to share essence between party members that automatically gathered essence and fed it to the wearer. Together, they let someone cultivate all day without any conscious effort, but it was also noted by Cato to be something only the scions of the wealthy could afford, as both items were incredibly expensive and needed to be replaced often.

It was something Matt had never really considered before as a delver who went to fight for his essence, but it seemed like a good avenue of research for his guild to look into.

Matt could do more than just create better rifts for low Tiers, as even if that did help, most people didn’t want to risk life and limb. Helping those others would be a good way to increase the quality of life for the lower Tiers, even if it didn’t appreciably increase the amount of immortals. Each Tier advanced increased the quality of life for the individual beyond extending one's lifespan. With cultivation one's body improved, which made even the later years more comfortable as one's body was more resilient. Being able to advance while still living a normal life was an almost mythical goal, and Matt felt the desire to throw his hat into the race and see if his guild might make some innovation in the field.

Smiling, he took the royal jelly and put it in his own storage ring instead of handing it to Cato, who had taken most of the other gifts this evening.

Shortly after, the three of them took a central stage.

Liz spoke first. She was radiant as she stood there with a phoenix clone perched on her shoulder.

Her bloodline change had given her skin a golden-bronze depth that hadn’t been there before, and Matt found it hard to pull his eyes away from. “We would like to thank everyone for showing up to our party. It's an honor that you all came with such short notice. We wanted to make a few announcements and felt this was the easiest way to do so. First, Matthew and I will be co-ruling a duchy while Aster takes her own duchy. Most of our holdings will be coming from the other Great Powers, and so we will need to call upon the scions of our established families to fill our ranks with those who can handle such a transition. We will be sending offers out in the coming decades, but we can say even now that we are looking at experience and steadiness as much as is possible with the unlanded.”

There was a round of polite applause, but most of the nobles' attention was focused on each other as they tried to figure out who, if any of them, had been selected for the new holdings.

Baroness Thresh and Countess Sural gathered more than their fair share of jealous looks, which thoroughly amused Matt.

Liz spoke for a few more minutes before Aster made a similar speech, but once they were both done, Matt stepped forward.

“In addition to that, I would like to announce the founding of my own charity research guild, Titan’s Torch. We intend to change the realm one invention at a time, and our first product will be ready for deployment in a decade.”

Matt let himself pause as he studied the crowd. He wished he could say they were happy for him, but he could see fear and defensiveness the moment he said the words ‘charity’ and ‘change’.

Cato was once again proven right.

After letting the moment build to the appropriate level Matt said, “We have a method of reliably creating sub Tier 5 Aura rifts.”

Matt smiled as the entire venue with all of the Empires nobles and the most influential guilds and corporations erupted into pandemonium.
