Chapter 344

Matt looked at his outfit and was pleasantly surprised.

Male noble fashion was almost incomparable from when they had their Tier 15 party and Matt wasn’t upset by that in the least.

His outfit consisted of a deceptively simple looking set of ‘rough linens’ that lacked buttons, zippers, or magical fastening methods. Instead, the upper neck was closed with a small drawstring that was meant to be laced but left loose and untied. It was also an off white color, as if the linen hadn’t been whitened before being woven into clothes.

Appearances were deceiving, though, as the outfit was created with the finest Tier 40 flax, which had gone through dozens of processes to make it as soft as a puffy cloud and as strong as a battleship's armor.

It was also loaded down with subtle enchantments, from flight to climate control.

However, It looked simple, and that was the point.

Oddly enough, female fashion had taken a similar trend and was fairly simple as well, though not quite as drab as male fashion. Liz and Aster were both in similar clothes, but, instead of simple linen, they were in outfits made entirely out of cotton.

None of them really understood the difference in material or why it mattered, but both Liz and Aster were happy to not have to wear the large and puffy dresses they had been expected to wear last time they hosted a party.

They were more interested in who had pushed this trend. It was very clearly a deliberate trend someone had orchestrated with how, out of nowhere, the designs had appeared just ten years ago. While it wasn’t unheard of, it was usually a deliberate push from someone with wealth and influence.

With all the royals still out and about until the Emperor officially returned, they couldn’t even ask Mara and Leon.

Eventually they would figure it out by dint of who never stopped wearing the fashion, but it was fun to speculate as they got to take advantage of it.

Matt didn’t love it, but he was happy for something he was able to get into without assistance, magical or otherwise. They could have just worn their Ascender robes, but they wanted to distance themselves from the war, so wearing the current fashion was a better choice.

Once they were ready, they walked out to the main ballroom and Matt took a few minutes to inspect it.

It wasn’t the same as their Tier 15 coming of age party, since that ballroom only had a capacity of a few million, but that wouldn’t be close enough for this upcoming party.

The ballroom they rented out was truly massive and could hold upwards of a hundred million guests without anyone feeling cramped or isolated.

It was more a space station pretending to be an artificial moon. Its gigantic size was made out of a shimmering alloy of silver and steel that glimmered in even the lightest of light, without any harsh reflections that might irritate the eyes. The floors were polished marble, flecked with gold, that paired well with the walls which were works of art themselves. Entire epics were told for anyone who wanted to walk the halls of the venue, and it would take weeks for even a Tier 20 to digest the stories told, as the closer one looked the more they could find.

That was impressive, but as the two week long event progressed, the venue would dip in and out of the rings that the moons were turned into, currently. The venue even had the option of traveling to the local star, where the flames would lick the outer outer hull and set the station ablaze with light.

It was similar enough to the dwarf contraption that the end of war ceremonies had been held in that Matt had to wonder who stole the idea from whom.

Not that they were going to use that feature. The travel to and from the local star would take longer than they wanted for a party that was only going to last for two weeks.

The scale was very much necessary, even if it had cost them. They had invited every noble in the Capital system, and considering everyone was preparing for the Emperor's end of the war court, they were all here. Each noble came with their own entourages and most had even brought friends and family, which further ballooned their large numbers into madness. As if that wasn’t enough, Matt invited the leadership of the largest guilds and corporations, which further expanded the number of expected guests into incredible proportions.

Taking a steadying breath, Matt let it out. “Let's do this.”

As if summoned by the words, their seneschals stepped out of the nearby room and moved to their positions behind their lieges.

At Liz’s nod to the owner of the venue, the teleporters activated and the shuttle bays opened, signaling they were ready to receive guests.

The first to arrive genuinely surprised Matt. It wasn’t that they broke protocol to directly teleport into the ballroom. Matt would be surprised if up to half of their guests actually used the provided means of transportation. No, it was who it was.

Dominus Maniake, the large draconic man he had met during their coming of age party, was standing behind a large more human looking man and woman, who were further surrounded by a group of thirty. The hint of scales shown through their human skin told the story of their real bloodline, but Matt would have recognized them even without that.

They were all dragons.

Duke Tiberius Maniake was a large man with a storied history that wasn’t marred in the slightest by his loss of the beast kingdom's throne to Mara. He also had a gravitas that had nothing to do with his cultivation or his Domain, but just his general demeanor, which radiated a not so quiet competence.

His wife and Dominus’ mother, Lutatia, wasn’t overshadowed, even if her presence was a little more subtle. She was like the stone that stood in the ocean that was phased by neither wind, wave, or weather.

Dominus had also advanced his cultivation to Tier 21 over the last few centuries, which was fast considering his previous advancement speed, but not all that unexpected. He had fought in the war as a Tier 20, and while he hadn’t been a standout combatant, he had fought on three different worlds, been captured once, escaping with his army as they retreated, and holding off one of the last and more fearsome pushes in the final days of the war.

The war had changed the young dragon prince. His aura was more settled than the last time Matt had seen him. From a storm that was ready to show its ferocity any time he was challenged, the current Dominus was more like a placid lake with unmeasurable depths.

Tiberius spent a moment inspecting the venue before nodding and turning to face the three of them.

His smile seemed genuine, and together he and Lutatia stepped forward in perfect sync that spoke of long familiarity.

“Ah, it's nice to meet you two for the first time. Elizabeth, nice to see you again.”

Both Lizzes nodded in perfect unison. As fellow dukes, they didn't have to bow, but the man was both significantly older than them and stronger.

Handshakes were firm but polite all around, and once they finished, Tiberius looked around the venue again. “I have to thank you three for hosting this ceremony. Saves us the time of doing it ourselves for such a small announcement.”

Lutatia added her agreement with a small nod, to which Aster asked the obvious question. “You have an announcement, Tiberius? One we should know about ahead of time, I presume?”

The dragon smiled as he pulled Dominus forward with a hand on his shoulder. “Now that the war is over, we will be stepping down and Dominus will be taking over. Lutatia and I are ready to finish advancing and Ascend in the coming years.”

Matt let his eyebrows raise at the unexpected news, which prompted Lutatia to elaborate. “I expect that we aren’t the only Nobles getting ready to cycle to the next generation, but it is time for us to step down. We don’t intend to rush to ascend, though. We had intended to announce it after The Emperor’s open court. However, this works better if you’d allow it.”

Matt nodded and congratulated Dominus as his mind raced. Making such an announcement at another party wasn’t unheard of or even considered uncouth or rude so long as one got permission beforehand, but the timing seemed suspicious. They were at least asking before doing which was a mark in the clans favor.

The war had been a good opportunity that most of the nobles had used to temper their heirs, but stepping down usually happened a thousand or so years after such incidents, not directly after.

Matt couldn’t prove it, but he suspected that Emmanuel had spread the word through a number of his longer reigning dukes that he wanted them to reach Tier 46 sooner rather than later in preparation for the eventual true war. Some of them would undoubtedly ascend, either because they weren’t read in, or simply wanted to leave before the war started. But passing their titles down to the next generation freed their time enough that they could delve without too many questions being asked.

Matt suspected that Dominus and Lutatia were read in as much as anyone who didn’t know his Talent was, as they were long standing and trusted dukes under Georgios. If Matt understood the political situation correctly, the fact that Tiberius had made a bid for king of the beast kingdom and lost wasn’t an indication of trust or favor. He had just been weaker than Mara when they fought.

Or he could be completely off the mark and was finding conspiracies where there weren't any. Emmanuel’s rule had been well cemented, which made the dukes who had primarily served under his father able to step down without causing cascading issues that usually stemmed from so much of the imperial court passing their titles down all at once.

Aster playfully stuck her tongue out at Dominus, “You had better be careful, or I’ll take Mara’s spot instead of you. Don’t take too long to advance.”

Instead of getting riled up, Dominus simply chuckled. “As is only right. The strong take their place and everyone falls in line under their wing and claw. I hope you can submit once I defeat you.”

Aster laughed a genuine laugh. “I look forward to it, but that's so far away, who knows what's going to happen? Maybe I’ll hate ruling and only show up to kick your tail around.”

“You might find that harder to do than expected. My breath and claws have been forged anew by the flames of war, and you will find me a more resilient foe, Ascender or no.”

Seeing others arrive, Matt made his excuses and stepped away as Aster tried her best to rile Dominus up, while Tiberius and Lutatia stepped away to claim a room for themselves before others arrived.

Matt spent what felt like weeks shaking hands and making polite small talk, but it was only a few hours time, and he hadn’t seen more than a small fraction of the total guests.

He tried not to show favoritism over title rank and made an effort to talk to marquesses, counts, viscounts, and barons as much as he did his fellow dukes.

The worst part was that he was a host, an Ascender, and a duke all at once, which gave people endless reasons to interact with him.

Funnily enough, their receiving a new duchy was one of the largest topics of conversation, as everyone wanted to put forward their family members as someone who should be given a noble title in their duchy.

They were to receive around one and a half thousand new planets, which translated to that many new titles to be created and distributed as Matt and Liz wished. Aster was surely getting pestered just as much, even if her domain was slightly smaller than Matt and Liz’s already half sized domains. With the restrictions on expansion, there just wasn't enough planets coming in from the other Great Powers to make four new, full sized duchies all at once, and they would have to slowly fill in those gaps in the coming years.

Not that Matt minded. Over a thousand planets was already enough for him, and was annoying enough with people not so subtly trying to maneuver into a position.

He, Liz, and Aster had talked about how they wanted to pick candidates, and they had cleared it with Manny long ago as a bit of an ideal testbed. Half of their duchies were going to be hereditary nobles and half non hereditary, to test how well the two types of inheritance balanced each other. To prevent the governance from becoming entrenched in old established powers, about a fifth of their total candidates were going to be those not related to established noble houses, but those who had gone through meritocratic methods to stand above their peers to split the groups in quarters.

Ideally, it would prevent blocks of power from forming too quickly or strongly, keeping everyone dancing to the Empires tune. After consulting with Manny they decided to push for an unprecedented twenty percent meritocratically filled positions instead of the normal five. They hedged their bets that no one would call them on a fourfold increase so soon after the war and while there had been some grumbling it wasn’t too much as they had prevented the border nobles from losing their fiefs altogether.

Thankfully, there was a reprieve as Matt’s AI pinged as a guest he had been waiting for arrived.

After excusing himself from his current conversation with a Marchioness, Matt made a way through the crowds until he found Baroness Margaret Thresh, Lilly’s noble.

Proffering a hand, Matt sighed as Margaret bowed.

In his best commanding tone, Matt said. “Rise, Baroness Thresh.”

Wiggling his still extended hand, Matt waited for her to shake it before smiling. “Nice to see you again.”

With no awkwardness visible, she nodded. “As is it to see you again, Ascender.”

