“You two made it here,” Miranda said, stepping forward and bowing slightly, having to show a respectful attitude in front of so many influential figures of the galaxy. “I take it all has been well in the last three months and a bit?”

“At least nothing major has happened, as most of the multiverse is focused on this event,” Jake answered, trying to ignore all the people looking at him as best as possible. “How about things here? What kind of test did you experience, and may anything useful be gleaned from it?”

“Without knowing the nature of the Chief Administrator Selection, I cannot give a definite answer, but through discussion, we do believe we have a solid grasp on the goal of the testing we went through,” Miranda answered.

Feeling that quite a speech was coming, Jake took out a chair of his own while also motioning for Miranda to sit down alongside him. Hopefully, that could also help lighten the mood a little and make the next forty or so minutes less tense than they had to be.

“Pray tell,” Jake said as he leaned forward.

“Very well. Let me start with what these tests entailed...”

Miranda gave a quick rundown of the stages of the Administrator Test, leaving Jake a little miffed about missing out on them. While it was a sentiment he doubted many shared, Jake would have loved to experience the Tutorial again, if for nothing else but the opportunity to face the King of the Forest in another fight. Also just to see how the hell the system would handle all the bullshit that went on during his Tutorial. Alas, it seemed he’d missed the opportunity.

Regarding the other tests, Jake didn’t have many thoughts, and when Miranda shared the common conclusion on the purpose of these tests, he could only nod along, as it did seem like a good answer.

As for the purpose of these tests that everyone seemed to tentatively agree on?

To teach the Administrators to differentiate between a simulated world and the real one. Something Jake very much doubted he would have any problems with, given that the last time “he” experienced being part of a “perfect” simulation, Sim-Jake was born.

If they were right, the Chief Administrator Selection was likely to also be simulation-based in some way, giving Jake hope that his plan of improving Eternal Shadow wasn’t a far-fetched goal for this system event.
