The monster harpy-women weren’t idiots. They could sense when the tables were turned against them and the Wings of Pallass had come into their lair ready for a fight. The Drakes and Bevussa might have been outnumbered, but they carried magical armor the Bagrhavens couldn’t easily claw or bite through, and their magical blades hurt. So the Bagrhavens fled, flying down the corridor, intending to lose the fliers behind them.
“Keldrass! Coming your way!”
Bevussa shouted. She heard a shout from ahead. The Bagrhavens tried to slow down, hearing and seeing the armored shapes, but too late. Keldrass and his team threw the nets up and snared the Bagrhavens in the lower-ceilinged corridor. The monsters dropped and the Drakes charged in.
“Cut them down! Bevussa, two are getting—”
“I see them! Wings, after me!”
The Garuda led her team after the last two Bagrhavens who had avoided the nets. She flew through the narrow corridors, faster than her team. The monsters, realizing that they couldn’t escape her, turned. Bevussa slashed at one, striking while flying backwards and kicking off the walls, the ceiling.
The Bagrhaven screeched, trying to bite her, claw her. It fell at last, not from any one decisive strike, but blood loss. Bevussa stared down at the dozen wounds on its body as her team pinned the other to the ground and finally ran it through.
“Captain, congratulations!”
“It was just a Bagrhaven.”
Bevussa modestly wiped her blade before sheathing it. In truth, she was a bit embarrassed. The Flamewardens had already dealt with the other eight Bagrhavens in half the time it took her team. But Keldrass was beaming as he cleaned blood from his axe.
“Good job, Bevussa. We apologize for letting the others get away. We should have aimed more carefully. Injuries?”
The Oldblood Drake was gifted with the power of fire breath unlike Bevussa’s team, who were capable of flight. However, as often happened, the power of Keldrass’ flames were hard to control, such that even the Gold-rank adventurer had to speak in shorter bursts, to avoid accidentally discharging his fiery breath. He also avoided looking straight at Bevussa, turning his mouth to one side as he spoke.
Neither feature bothered the Garuda. She knew Keldrass, and so she only smiled.
“None, Keldrass. No problem on the nets. Bagrhaven are quick. I wish my team and I had your staying power, though. We’d never have taken this nest without injuries. I can barely take one and your team got…”
She indicated the Bagrhavens on the floor, who’d been neatly killed while in nets. Keldrass laughed and a bit of blue flame exited his mouth.
“Nets aren’t very sporting. And we carry heavy armor.”
He indicated the plate armor his team wore, and their weaponry. Bevussa knew that was true.
“Still, if you wanted to, you could fry them in one blast, couldn’t you? I can’t help but feel my team’s lacking compared to yours.”
“Captain!”
One of Bevussa’s teammates, Issa, cried out, sounding hurt. The Garuda rolled her eyes.
“I’m just saying, Issa. We can fly. We’re not exactly great dungeon-divers.”
“Yeah, but we can fly.”
Zassil demonstrated, flexing his wings and grinning at the other Drakes. The Flamewardens on Keldrass’ team grunted or spat flame dismissively. Bevussa sighed. Oldblood Drakes. The ones who could fly always argued with the ones who could spit lightning or fire or acid about who was best. And the ones who could do both were insufferable.
“I just mean I wish I could carry something heavier than a shortsword.”
“Why don’t you?”
Keldrass looked up. He was squatting by a Bagrhaven, plucking the glossy black feathers loose from the creature’s wings. Bevussa squatted next to him. That was their haul today; Bagrhaven feathers were worth good money, and this nest was one she’d be glad to see the last of.
“Oh, you know. Too heavy and I can’t fly right. I’m all hollow bones anyways; armor’s no good, so I have to dodge or die. That’s what they teach you at Pallass’ flying academy. Dodge and strike. Wear your opponent down. Never go for a frontal assault.”
“Huh. I never knew that. Isn’t military doctrine…?”
Bevussa smiled.
“We have Garuda instructors. We’ve changed how Drakes view aerial combat. You know our [Generals] love frontal assaults. Well, that’s not how you fight in the air.”
“Good to know. The brass understands that?”
“They’d better, or they’ll have a lot more casualties than we need. But we’re not in the army anymore, Keldrass. And I’m not about to reenlist and shake things up.”
“No aspirations to be the first Garuda [General]? In Pallassian history? You know, Gold-rank teams can instantly receive…the [Captain] rank if we join back up. And promotions are fast. If you know the right people.”
“Yeah, but is it fun, Keldrass? Why’d you quit that fancy elite unit with your team if it was so great?”
“Well…”
The two Captains chatted as they stripped the monster corpses with their team. Bevussa slid the last blood-covered feathers into her bag of holding and sighed.
“That’s some good money right there. Not as much as we’ll get from those trap rooms. We need to hire some [Miners] or something from Pallass. That Gemhammer team is already stripping the rooms.”
“Huh. Really? How much gold’s…up there?”
Keldrass frowned, pausing to exhale some smoke. Bevussa shrugged.
“Before they noticed me eavesdropping? Few thousand gold in one room.”
“Really?”
“Let’s investigate it. I had no idea it was worth so much, but Earlia sounded serious.”
“Definitely. I’ll send a [Message]. To Pallass’ Guild. Get some insight.”
Bevussa nodded. She straightened, looked at her team, and jerked her head.
“Alright! Everyone got all the feathers? Back to the safe zones!”
Both teams moved in tandem, marching back down the dungeon corridors. Bevussa watched the markings on each wall, checking for outlined traps, navigating back towards the hole in the dungeon that the adventuring teams had climbed down. She and Keldrass kept an eye out, only relaxing when they were in areas cleared of monsters.
They knew it was clear because the first thing they saw was a wall. A palisade, rather. It was made of metal and blocking a tunnel. It was one of dozens the adventuring teams had set up in the dungeon. This one was designed to let adventurers fleeing a threat bail over the top if need be; Keldrass and his team clambered over while Bevussa’s team just flew. But Bevussa knew that before they left the dungeon, unless they were in full retreat, the teams would seal the tunnel completely.
“Classic dungeon tactics. Seal areas one by one. Create safe zones. Deplete monster reserves.”
Keldrass rolled over the top of the palisade and landed on the ground with a crash of metal. He got back up and Bevussa saw his armor flicker a dozen colors. She grunted as she helped pull him up.
“Nice armor. You got that from the Raskghar?”
Her voice was envious; she hadn’t gotten anything nearly as good in the lottery. Keldrass grinned.
“Magical. I could walk through a [Fireball] and not blink.”
“Yeah, yeah. It doesn’t make you any more agile. Come on, let’s seal this palisade and see how the other teams are going. We cleared two corridors today. There’s about eight thousand more to go, but that Minotaur’s map says there’s one of those unopened treasure rooms eight corridors further than where we went. I don’t trust his word at all, but if there’s a chance…”
Keldrass frowned at Bevussa as he helped the rest of his team over the palisade.
“You don’t trust him?”
“What, a traitor that allied with monsters?”
Bevussa folded her wing arms. Keldrass paused, sniffing the air.
“Phew, reeks in here. Those Bagrhavens stink. I usually don’t smell anything but smoke. Anyways, Bevussa. Good soldiers snap. I’ve seen it in the army. You too.”
Bevussa had to agree. About the smell. She waved a wing in front of her face, scowling.
“That’s different. This was—”
The Garuda broke off. So did Keldrass. Issa was waving at Bevussa urgently.
“Captain! I just got a [Message]!”
She unrolled a scroll. Bevussa leapt over to her.
“What is it? Facestealer?”
Instantly, both teams were on alert. Keldrass looked up, his posture tense. Issa shook her head as Bevussa snatched the scroll and read.
“No. It’s from that Silver-rank team. Vuliel Drae. It’s her.”
“The Mask Warrior?”
One of Keldrass’ teammates exclaimed excitedly. Bevussa frowned. She noted the coordinates.
“So the mysterious adventurer’s here, is she? Keldrass, you want to meet this mystery adventurer?”
“The one who helps other adventuring teams?”
The Drake raised a brow. Bevussa scowled.
“Yeah. I want to convince her to come to the guild. Or at least identify her. We still have no idea who she is. And from what I heard, she had something to do with the Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor—”
“She’s an adventurer. We don’t pry. Besides, she could be Named.”
Keldrass grunted. Bevussa shook her head.
“Hah. Named Adventurer? I’ll eat my tail if that’s the case. Er, wings. I’m going to catch her before she runs off. You in?”
The Drake swished his armored tail for a moment before nodding.
“Go. We’ll catch up. We have to seal this tunnel first.”
“Got it. Don’t be slow!”
Bevussa took wing, calling for her team. They flew after her, disappearing down the corridor in seconds. Keldrass heard a snort from another Drake.
“Don’t be slow. Lizard-faced hatchlings. What, do they not see our armor?”
“Shut it. Let’s get this wall up.”
Keldrass exhaled a plume of smoke wearily. He looked around for the other half of the palisade so they could anchor the wall and seal any monsters that might creep through. Then Keldrass frowned. He looked up.
The ceiling was fairly high overhead. And it was dark, but Keldrass didn’t remember seeing any murals on the dark stone when they’d passed through last time. Only now, there was a pale ivory and yellow…thing…
The Drake’s eyes widened. The crawling bone-thing stared down at him, its face a mask of yellowed bone hung with scraps of rotten flesh. He opened his mouth, the fire building in his lungs.
“Abov—”
The Ceiling Crawler dropped on him. Four more launched themselves down at the Flamewardens, biting and tearing with their limbs of sharpened bone.
 
——
 
“It’s really good to see you again, um, Miss Warrior?”
Toren smiled. Of course, she was already smiling, but now she traced a smiley face on her mask. Insill smiled back. The Drake [Rogue] edged closer, eying the two dead Ghouls. One had been shot neatly in the head by Larr’s arrow and struck in the chest by several arrows Anith had conjured. The second had been beheaded by Toren’s blade.
“You always seem to appear when you’re needed. I mean, the dungeon’s sort of your home, isn’t it? We’re really grateful. Again.”
“Not that we needed her! I had it all under control! Right, Pekona?”
Dasha called out loudly as she swung her axe into the skull of the last crawling zombie. Pekona made a snorting sound as she cleaned her curved blade; she and Dasha had hacked through the group of zombies following the Ghoul. Anith just sighed. And Toren smiled.
Vuliel Drae had been surprised by the undead attack. Not too surprised; they’d cut through the group with Toren’s timely arrival with no issue. But Toren had been slightly surprised to see so many undead. So had Anith. He knelt by one body, frowning at the loose armor it wore.
“Hm. A [Soldier]’s gear. And undead? The last expeditions ran into very few undead. I thought we had exterminated most of them already.”
“Maybe some fell into the dungeon. Hah! Anyways, they’re just fodder! Although—hey, Insill! Check the bodies! See if any of them are carrying anything valuable! I’ll pull the armor off this lot. We can probably sell it for some good—hey! Pekona!”
Dasha protested as Pekona pulled her back by the hair. The part-Dwarf woman spun around. Pekona’s expression was as disapproving as Anith’s.
“We don’t loot the dead.”
“Since when? We used to do it all the time! Zombie corpses have chainmail? That’s free chainmail!”
Anith coughed, looking at Toren and then at Dasha.
“I believe since we were able to earn enough to outfit ourselves, Dasha. It is about respect. It may be permissible to search their belongings, but at least leave them their clothes.”
The Dwarf’s face fell.
“What, all of them? At least take the armor and swords…”
“And why do I have to search the bodies? I’m talking with Miss Warrior here!”
Insill complained, looking back from Toren to his team. Larr sighed.
“You’re the [Rogue].”
“So? What does that have to do with anything?”
Pekona, Anith, Dasha, and Larr all looked at Insill. He wavered.
“Well? I don’t like searching bodies.”
“But you are the [Rogue]. There.”
Pekona folded her arms. Insill spluttered.
“But that’s…”
Toren patted him on the shoulder. Insill looked around and Toren squatted next to a body. She turned it over and rummaged around. She offered Insill a handkerchief. He hesitated.
“Um. Well, I guess that’s useful, but not exactly what…”
The Drake glanced over his shoulder. Dasha tapped the side of her head and mouthed ‘crazy’ until Pekona slapped her hand down. Anith shook his head.
“Miss Warrior, thank you again. But some ah, other adventurers have been asking about you. If you’d consent to stay so they can speak with you, we’d be grateful.”
Toren looked up, alarmed and intrigued. Adventurers wanted to speak with her? She adjusted the mask uneasily. Was her cover blown? Maybe she should…
She began edging away from Vuliel Drae. Flustered, Insill raised his claws.
“No, wait! They just want to talk! We’re not trying to accuse you of anything! Or blame you for…”
He bit his tongue. Toren looked at him. Blame her? Had she done something wrong?
“Insill, you idiot. You have the biggest mouth of any Drake I’ve ever met!”
Dasha cursed. Insill flushed.
“I just meant.”
“If you’ll let me explain.”
Anith stepped forwards, bowing apologetically. Toren looked around. She heard flapping wings. And in the distance, what sounded like whispering…
“Aha! Hold it right there!”
A giant bird-woman flew down the tunnel. Toren stared, lifted her sword, and prepared to slash. She halted as Insill darted forwards.
“No, wait! That’s Captain Bevussa! The Wings of Pallass!”
Toren froze. The Garuda landed in front of her, staring.
“Well, well. So this is the mysterious Masked Warrior all the teams are talking about. Hello. Bevussa Slenderscale. Wings of Pallass. Gold-rank team. Before you run off, mind if I have a word?”
