[Perfect Dodge]—she braced on the ground and lunged. Her sword slashed through the Crypt Lord’s leg. [Sharpened Edge]. It fell, and Toren stopped. The kick to the Crypt Lord’s face came from both of them.
Closer. Insill was sinking into the flesh-pit, screaming in pain as the bodies inside clawed and bit at him. Toren leapt forwards. He brought his buckler down. [Shield Bash]. Toren heard a satisfying crunch, and one of the arms snaring Insill fell away, broken. Toren sawed at the other. Insill, one of his arms free, cut at the other arms, sobbing.
“Thank you, thank you—”
“Insill! This way!”
Dasha was shouting. She and the other warriors with weapons had opened a hole for them to retreat. Insill leapt forwards.
“Come on! Miss Warrior! The Flamewardens are here! Miss Warrior?”
He turned. Toren was still hacking at the flesh pit. He turned.
“Miss Warrior—”
The masked face turned. She looked at Insill, and then shoved him. He stumbled backwards. Pekona darted forwards, hauling him away.
“No! Wait! She’s—”
Insill shouted, but Toren was surrounded by the undead. Bevussa caught her breath. The undead were being cut down on all sides, but the flesh-monstrosity was coming straight at the adventurers. And it was trying to pull them in like Insill.
“We can burn it down!”
Keldrass rasped. He was spitting smoke, his armor still littered with bones from the Ceiling Crawler ambush. He pointed.
“Flamewardens, prepare to breathe! One, two—”
“No! She’s still in the line of fire! Hold it! Keldrass, there’s an adventurer there!”
Bevussa yanked at Keldrass. The Drake stopped.
“What?”
“What’s she doing?”
Another Gold-rank team Captain, Bessr, lowered his wand and shouted incredulously. Bevussa didn’t know. The masked adventurer had gotten the Drake [Rogue] to safety, but she was still hacking at the flesh-pit. Trying to pull…Bevussa’s eyes narrowed.
“Is she trying to rescue a zombie?”
“What?”
Keldrass stared. Bevussa hesitated. The masked warrior was trying to save the zombie, heedless of the hands trying to pull her into the undead mass. Bevussa cursed.
“Archers! Protect that adventurer! Keldrass, wait! Take out the undead on the flanks! Pull back! Don’t let her get sucked in!”
Toren heard none of it. Nor did he see the arrows that flew, covering him. All he could see was Erin. He began hacking at the mass of moving bodies, heedless of the hands trying to drag him in. He could see the Erin-zombie—Toren grabbed at her, dropping his shield and pulled as he slashed wildly. She came away rotten flesh tearing, light fading from her undead eyes. Toren staggered back. Erin? Erin? He lowered her to the ground. Staring at her.
“Flamewardens! Breathe!”
Fire blasted past him. Toren didn’t see it, didn’t see the other adventurers throwing the jars of acid that seemed so familiar, or the monstrosity of corpses burning, melting. He heard a voice as he held Erin. The zombie was weakly trying to bite his arm.
Right. She was just a zombie. But she was his zombie. She represented…Toren stared at it. It was no good. She was fading. Too damaged by the flesh-pit and the battle.
Damn it. Damn it all. He was going to have to get a new one.
“A second time! Inhale—now!”
This time the fire drowned out the voices of the dead. Toren heard a crackling sound, explosions of fat catching fire. He felt the heat and then hands gently pulling him back. He stayed where he was, cradling the dead Erin in his arms. He’d worked so hard on the clothes. And the hair! It was so hard to find a zombie with the right color hair! Not to mention the same species!
The adventurers slowly regrouped, counting injuries. Not losses, thankfully. The undead assault had been quick, but not deadly. Keldrass’ team was mainly to thank for that. The furious Oldbloods had burnt half the undead themselves, and Bevussa’s holding of the line had ensured the undead hadn’t even overrun them. Even so, they were all shaken.
“Dead gods. What kind of undead was that?”
Bevussa pointed at the remains of the monstrous flesh-pit that had been made of hundreds of bodies. She could still hear the voices, calling out to her. She shuddered; some of the greener adventurers were throwing up. The other veteran Captains looked at each other.
“I think it was a Wailing Pit. You get them in mass graves. I don’t know. I didn’t think they could move.”
“Dead gods, I didn’t know undead could speak—”
“How did so many corpses get in one place?”
“Maybe they fell into the dungeon after the battle with the Goblins. Could be anything, but dead gods, I thought I recognized someone…”
“No recognizing anyone now. Almost all ash. Still—anyone got more acid jars? Let’s melt the rest.”
“What I want to know is why that crazed adventureress stuck around. She got Insill out, but why…?”
And then everyone was staring at the masked warrior. Some of the other teams pointed, recognizing her. Keldrass and Bevussa stared at the enigmatic warrior. Keldrass cleared his throat. Bevussa closed her eyes.
“Oh. Oh, that’s why…”
It was a simple picture, really. A tableau. There was the masked adventurer, nameless, a shadow in the dungeon. And she was cradling someone. A zombie. Yes. A zombie, but one she had risked her life to preserve. And sometimes you forgot that zombies had been people.
Erin. Well, sort of. Toren held the motionless zombie in her arms and bowed her head over the corpse. It was going to be such a pain to find another one. He didn’t notice the adventurers watching him.
“Well, now I feel like a complete Lizardperson.”
Bevussa whispered to her team. She shook her head, ashamed of her suspicion. Keldrass looked at the masked adventurer, a pained look on his face. Slowly, he took off his helmet. After a moment, the rest of his team followed suit.
“You hate to see it. Think she lost her friend in the dungeon or in one of the battles?”
Issa leaned on Zassil, tears in her eyes. The other Drakes looked at each other.
“Fellow adventurer, maybe? A duo?”
“Could be one of the monster attacks.”
“Argh. And no wonder she’s not leaving. But it’s not healthy to stay—”
“You can’t talk sense to her. She nearly drew a sword when Captain Slenderscale tried to get her to leave. It’s the shock.”
Bevussa reddened under her feathers as Keldrass looked at her reproachfully.
“I didn’t know. I thought—”
The Drake paused. And then he slowly walked over to the masked woman. He bent down. Slowly, his voice rasping after breathing so much fire, he coughed and addressed her.
“Miss? Miss. Let’s bury your friend. You can’t do anything more for her. You found her—you did it.”
The masked woman looked up, almost surprised. She let go of the body. Keldrass caught her, patting her awkwardly on the shoulder.
“I’m sorry. We’ve all experienced it. Was she—were you old comrades?”
He waited. Toren stared at him and then the zombie. Keldrass shook his head.
“You don’t have to say anything. But we can’t leave the body. Burial might be—once a zombie—we could cremate her. With respect. An adventurer’s burial.”
Toren had no idea what they were talking about. But she obligingly let them burn the body. All the adventurers made a big deal about it, solemnly standing around and saying a few words. For some reason they expected her to collect the ashes. They even gave her a bag for it. And the bird-woman kept patting her on the back.
“I know it’s hard. But you can’t throw away your life. You understand? Just—come with us for a bit.”
Toren kept shaking her head. She was prepared to run, but Bevussa didn’t seem intent on taking her mask anymore. Toren saw some of the other adventurers whispering and looking at her.
“We can’t force her. You know how unstable—”
“—be worse to let her as she is. Staying down here?”
“The Minotaur did it. Look, let’s get a [Healer]’s opinion on this. One used to dealing with adventurers? She’s survived this long—I knew a team that tried to force it. Turned ugly.”
“I’m really sorry. Again. But if there’s any way…”
Bevussa sighed as Toren backed up. The Garuda shook her head and looked at Keldrass. He grimaced, but tilted his head towards the ropes. Some adventurer teams were already ascending. Bevussa gave it one last try.
“At least let’s say we owe you a drink. Any…anytime you want, we’ll buy you a drink. Hell, we’ll buy you ten! You want to come above, you can find us in Liscor’s Guild, alright? Just send a [Message] and someone will get word to us. We’ll take you to the best inn we know. Alright?”
She waited. And at last, the masked woman slowly nodded. Bevussa smiled. She held out a claw.
“Then—friends? I’ll look for you again when we return. You’ll be there. Promise?”
The masked adventurer wavered. But she came forwards. And after staring at Bevussa’s claw, she took it.
Slowly, the skeleton shook the Garuda’s hand. And Toren—both Toren’s—felt a flash of…warmth. No. Not warmth; they were dead after all and there was no biology to react. But a memory of it. Bevussa smiled and Toren traced a smile on her mask.
He watched them preparing to leave. In the end, Vuliel Drae and the Wings of Pallass and the Flamewardens were last. They’d stayed to try and convince Toren, but now they were going. And in the end…the skeleton wavered.
She would miss them. And he had never understood why. But today, they’d been…fun. They’d killed the stupid Crypt Lords that kept stealing his undead, and the flesh-pit. So, maybe she was right. Maybe…Toren looked at the adventurers and decided they weren’t so bad.
“Dead gods, but I do need a drink. And I’ll buy a round for everyone. My treat.”
Bevussa was talking to the others, glancing back at Toren now and then. She wished she could join Bevussa. But outside was…Toren turned away, sighing inwardly. Bevussa sighed too, watching her leave. She shook her head. Each adventurer made their choice. She only hoped she’d see that brave soul again. By her side, Zassil looked up at his Captain.
“What is the best inn in Liscor, Keldrass? Or bar? Wishdrinks? I know you’re not thinking of the Tailless Thief, Bevussa—”
“Hey! I like that inn.”
Bevussa rolled her eyes at Keldrass as he protested mildly.
“Because you’re a Drake, Keldrass. That [Innkeeper] treats you like royalty and anyone who’s not a Drake like dirt. Please, there’s only one inn I’m thinking of—”
“Oh come on. She doesn’t even have a good selection of alcohols.”
Keldrass protested. Bevussa snorted and turned to him.
“It’s The Wandering Inn for sure. Sure, it’s not the best cooking, but Miss Solstice’s got all those new foods. Sure, the variety’s less than what you can get at some other inns, but there’s the plays and the magic door and the fact that there’s always something interesting going on…”
She turned back to the tunnel. But the masked woman was gone. She’d vanished while Bevussa had been speaking. Damn. Bevussa had been hoping to lure her with the promise of a hot meal, but the masked woman was truly…the Garuda shook her head as she turned sadly back to Keldrass.
“Gah. I hate to see it. We have to do something for her. Carefully. Let’s get that drink, Keldrass, figure something out.”
“You can’t save them all, Bevussa.”
Keldrass patted her on the wing-arm. Together they left the dungeon. The adventurers left, abandoning the horrors of below for recuperation.
And in the dungeon, Toren lay on his back. He jerked—looked around. Why was he lying down?
Oh. He’d fainted. He’d heard ‘The Wandering Inn’. And then he’d heard…the skeleton stared up at the ceiling. He’d heard that wrong. Hadn’t he?
Solstice?
…Erin?
