“Well, we’re reselling them, not melting them down or repurposing them, right? If it was magical glyphs or something, the dust or inscriptions are worth a lot less. But magical blades are magical blades. Hells, you could even put this on a polearm and have yourself, what, a Gold-rank weapon? Nah, but a good Silver-rank one. See why we’re so interested in these traps?”
Anith did. He gulped and hesitated.
“Is it wise to tell us this? And who would you sell these blades to? A [Blacksmith]?”
“Just a regular [Merchant] who deals in this kind of stuff. You’d be surprised how many people are willing to pay for dungeon-grade traps. Anyways, it’s not like we’re going to hide what we’re doing. If any other teams want to take a crack at removing the traps, feel free. But it’s dangerous and difficult. Not sure how well your team would do.”
Earlia nodded to Vuliel Drae without rancor. Anith sighed. It was true. His team was specialized for a fight, or maybe defusing traps, but not breaking through stone and enchantments to get at them. But if they could hire a [Miner]…he eyed Earlia’s team and sagged. That was why there was an entire team of former [Miners], wasn’t there?
“Don’t take it too hard. You can make your fortune by finding treasure and collecting monster parts. Each to their own.”
Earlia grinned and patted Anith on the back. He gazed somewhat dourly at her beaming face, but relented.
“As long as you’re paying us for guard duty. I’m tripling our fee next time.”
“Bastard.”
The Human woman laughed. Anith smiled and stepped back as another blade joined the first in a pile. Earlia went back to her pillar and began hammering at the stone, breaking pieces loose.
“We got the idea from the Horns of Hammerad and Miss Erin, actually. If a door they found in a dungeon can transport people a hundred miles, how much would all this be worth? Hey, you idiots, don’t fool around with those blades! You drop one on your hand and you’ll lose the hand!”
She snapped at her team and turned to Anith.
“So, Anith, how’s your team doing? Don’t tell me you’re that jealous of us; your team was the first to find treasure in the dungeon after all. You made out like [Bandits], right?”
Earlia’s comment took in the rest of Vuliel Drae standing watch. Anith paused and looked around. Insill, Larr, Pekona, and Dasha all peered back at him with expressions ranging from guilt to wariness. Earlia didn’t see; she was still working. After a moment, Insill coughed.
“We, uh, we’re doing alright. Yeah, we got really lucky. We found that mace on the first Raskghar. Gold-rank gear. Sold for a lot. And after that…”
Vuliel Drae glumly eyed each other. Oh yes. After that. Their career as adventurers working around Liscor had been meteoric at first. They’d found treasure in Liscor’s dungeon—a Gold-rank weapon worth thousands of gold coins! And they’d encountered a mysterious adventurer who’d given them her aid. Confident—overconfident—Vuliel Drae had kept exploring and inadvertently been the cause of the Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor.
It was a fact few people knew. The Gold-rank teams, the Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt, who’d uncovered the truth, had decided it was best no one but Liscor’s Guildmistress and a few others know. Not out of sympathy for Vuliel Drae, but to prevent the outcry against adventurers and to keep the Silver-rank team from being lynched.
But Vuliel Drae had paid for their mistakes. From drudge work assigned to them by Tekshia Shivertail to a permanent warning on all of their records in the Adventurer’s Guilds’ private files—Anith had no idea that was even a function of the guilds—their team was still haunted by their mistake.
Justly so, in Anith’s opinion. The Jackal Beastkin had a strong sense of justice that came from his tribe, and he considered their disgrace the least of the debt they owed society. However, the topic was still touchy, and the silence from the rest of his team lingered long enough that Earlia looked up.
“What, the mace you got wasn’t worth as much as you hoped? Or did you sell it to the wrong [Merchant]?”
“Neither.”
Larr folded his arms. The taciturn Gnoll glared at nothing in particular, his ears lowered. Pekona, the dour woman from the Drath Archipelago, just gazed down, scowling. Anith cleared his throat hurriedly.
“We sold it by way of Invrisil. The money finally got to us by way of Courier, along with some of the equipment we ordered.”
“We could have done Pallass—”
Insill grumbled under his breath. The lone Drake in the group had voted for that. Dasha rolled her eyes. Earlia frowned.
“You got your goods via Courier? Isn’t that a waste of gold?”
“Not at all. Apparently, if you’re rich, the [Merchants] will send you a…what did they call it, Anith?”
“A catalogue, Dasha. They even paid for the Courier’s fees.”
“For what we spent, of course they did!”
Earlia whistled.
“They must have heard you had money to burn! That’s fancy. Free Courier deliveries? That explains your gear.”
She nodded to Vuliel Drae. Anith smiled a bit. He was wearing new robes. Not the best money could buy, but better than the common cloth enchanted with a weak stain-resistance spell. And Dasha had upgraded her axe to a mithril-alloyed metal she swore was ten times better. Larr had a few enchanted arrows, Pekona had a scroll at her belt, and Insill had enchanted armor and weapons. It wasn’t a huge upgrade, but it had moved them up the Silver-rank hierarchy a bit. Earlia nodded.
“How much do you have left, if you don’t mind sharing?”
There it was again. Vuliel Drae paused, and Insill piped up nervously.
“We donated some of it. It, uh—the thing is—”
He hesitated, guilt written across his face, and Dasha elbowed him.
“Shut up!”
She hissed at the Drake. Anith coughed.
“We donated some of the money to the victims of the Face-Eater Moth attack.”
“Oh? That’s generous of you. I mean, yeah. I suppose we owe Liscor something. Huh. I don’t know if my team would be down for that.”
Earlia frowned absently, glancing at her teammates. Anith took that moment to give Insill a warning look. Both Pekona and Larr did the same, and the Drake [Rogue] bit his lip. His tail thrashed guiltily, but he said nothing more.
Secrets and guilt. It wasn’t what Anith wanted. This wasn’t why he’d left his home in Chandrar. But it was what fate had brought to his team, so he could only steer them with dignity and integrity from here on out. While Anith had wrestled with his shared guilt, he had concluded that telling other people what his team had done would cause nothing but harm. So he signaled to Dasha to drag Insill further down the hallway and let the conversation die out.
It was boring work watching Gemhammer slowly dismantle the trap and occasionally use their Skills to begin breaking down the next room. Anith didn’t even understand why they were interested in the next room—it was designed to cremate anyone alive, a ‘classic’ trap made more sinister by the fact that the spell didn’t shoot flames or slowly warm the room—it would explode in a fireball of air instantly. That was until he saw Gemhammer carefully removing the actual spell-trigger.
“You see, to write magic runes, people have to use some kind of dust or paint or whatnot. We can scrape it off if no one wants to buy the runes. It can be worth a bit or a lot, again, depending on if we can sell it wholesale without scrapping it for the dust. But the real treasure in a trap room like this is—aha! Magicore!”
Earlia crowed as her team cracked one of the walls and exposed a thin tube of oozing liquid. The [Miners] scrambled for jars, scraping the precious, fiery molten stone into them. Anith could feel the heat of the stuff from here. Earlia crowed in delight.
“Fire-elemental magicore. No wonder the trap room heats up so fast! Do you have any idea how much we can sell this for?”
Vuliel Drae glumly watched as the exuberant [Miners] began talking about potential buyers. Earlia waved a hand, shushing the lot.
“Stop yakking and get to work! This is great, but also bad. The instant we start selling this stuff, we’re going to have competition. More teams are going to make a beeline for this dungeon to strip the traps, so every hour we have on them is more gold we pocket! Less talking, more mining! Anith, can I convince your team to keep this all secret for a bit of gold…?”
“Sorry, Captain Earlia. But you’ll have competition soon enough. I’m not certain we can compete with a [Miner] team as efficiently, but with the door open to Pallass, you can bet we’re hiring our own specialists.”
A feathery Garuda appeared in the far hallway. Earlia jumped, and Anith whirled. Insill and Dasha waved at him as Bevussa Slenderscale, the Gold-rank Captain of the Wings of Pallass, strode into the room. Technically she was just a Gold-rank adventurer, but it was an open secret that she was the de facto leader of her team among the adventurers in Liscor. But Captain or not, it was her Gold-rank status that had both Vuliel Drae and Gemhammer turning to respectfully greet her.
“Miss Bevussa. What brings you here?”
Anith bowed respectfully towards Bevussa. The Garuda smiled at him and nodded back. She walked lightly, eying the [Miners] trying to hide the fiery magicore behind their backs and swearing as it burned their gloved hands. Earlia looked a bit nervous as she turned to the Garuda.
“Captain Bevussa, we were just—”
“Stripping the dungeon? I’m not trying to intrude. It’s no one’s territory since the original teams are gone. Don’t worry.”
The Garuda opened her beak, amusement in her voice. Earlia relaxed a bit, looking embarrassed.
“Sorry. Sometimes in other dungeons—”
“It’s no problem. And you won’t have to worry; there’s a system for claiming areas you’re working on. It’s still first to eat the worm, but Gold-rank teams can’t order you to abandon this spot. Am I intruding?”
“Not at all. We were just finishing—hey! Start packing that magicore! Bags of holding—one jar apiece! What can we do for you, Captain?”
The Garuda nodded at Anith and Earlia.
“I wanted to find you two. I’m letting all the Silver-rank teams and Gold-ranks know that we’re doing a coordinated push into the dungeon again today.”
“Again? That’s the third time this week!”
Earlia looked startled. Anith just nodded slowly. Bevussa shrugged.
“It’s just for teams who have the energy. My team does, and Keldrass’. The more teams who go in, the safer. Usually. Let us know if you’re coming; it’s in three hours, and we’re hoping to push into that Bagrhaven area. There’s a buyer for their feathers in Pallass.”
“Oh! Well, if it’s Bagrhavens—no thanks. Our team will stick right here. Anith, we can manage without you and pull back to a spot near the entrance. What do you say?”
The Jackal rubbed at his finely-furred chin. He looked at his team, taking in their opinions in a glance, then nodded.
“If Earlia won’t object, I’d be pleased to take a position in the push, Captain Bevussa. We’d like to do something active today.”
The Garuda nodded.
“We’ll put you on the list, then. Oh, and you’re paying a fee to the Lifwail Blades. They’re holding the back lines and acting as emergency backup in case of Raskghar or that Facestealer thing strikes again.”
All the adventurers present shuddered. Liscor’s dungeon had been purged of some of the main threats, including the Face-Eater Moths and Raskghar, but there was always something else. Over a dozen adventurers had already been found headless, killed by the last guardian of the dungeon.
Anith knew the team on standby was good, able to fight at range, contrary to their names, but the thought of running into Facestealer was horrifying, even if Anith only had his imagination and Calruz’s and Ceria’s words to go by.
Still, you could earn a lot of gold from a single day in the dungeon. And if you found a truly great treasure haul? You’d be set for life. That was the calculation every adventurer made.
Bevussa’s voice was brisk as she looked at Anith. If she was afraid of Facestealer, she gave no sign of it.
“Remember, three horn blasts and you run for the exit. That means Shield Spiders are coming in waves. One long blast—”
Anith interrupted crisply, trying to keep his voice level.
“Facestealer. We remember. Do you think we can trap him, Captain Bevussa?”
The Garuda frowned.
“Maybe? He’s never taken the bait so far, but that thing doesn’t strike often according to…the Minotaur. And we’ve got Gold-rank teams. If we run into him, we’ll pin him down and melt him at range. That’s the plan, but I’d rather stick to monsters I know are down there. See you in three hours.”
She nodded to Anith and Earlia. Then she beckoned towards the Jackal, and he followed her down the tunnel. Insill and Dasha stepped back, and the two had a quiet conversation.
“One more thing, Anith. Since Halrac’s gone and we assumed the Halfseekers were leaving, I was informed along with Keldrass about the Face-Eater Moth incident…”
Anith’s heart began beating faster. He opened his mouth, and Bevussa put a wing-hand on his shoulder.
“Don’t say anything. Guildmistress Tekshia informed us. It’s important to have some Gold-rank teams in the field who know about any…problems. I’m honestly not worried. You make a mistake, you pay the price. You’re not going to try destroying any nests again without contacting us, right?”
“Of course not, Captain Bevussa.”
The Garuda nodded briskly.
“I don’t have a problem with that. What I do want to know is if you have a way to contact the other adventurer. You know? The Masked Warrior?”
Anith started.
“She’s still been seen below? My team hasn’t been in the dungeon proper for a while. We assumed…”
Bevussa nodded.
“A few teams see her now and then. Human, wears a mask? Lends a hand to teams that get attacked? Never says a word? The Guildmistress wants to talk to her. So do our teams. I know the Face-Eater thing was an accident, but anyone who’s survived that long would be valuable to know. And it’s also risky having someone wandering about who might trigger an attack. We sealed the Shield Spider nest again, but…”
She trailed off meaningfully. Anith nodded.
“We do not have a way to contact her, but she has found our team most of the times we entered the dungeon. If we see her, we’ll let you know, Captain Slenderscale.”
“Just call me Bevussa. Thanks, Anith.”
