After a few minutes, the door to the ‘kitchen’ opened slowly. The Crypt Lord pushing it open stared at the drop-bar that usually kept the room sealed. It hadn’t landed in the crude metal holster. The door opened wider, and the Crypt Lord stumbled forwards. The lone zombie in the inn gazed up as whispering voices filled the inn. Voices and movement.
Suddenly, there were a lot of…things coming out of the corpse room. Not just Crypt Lords, zombies, Ghouls, and flesh-pits, either. Something crawled down, made of many bones. Toren would have been shocked to know they were in the room. Because Toren, in the way skeletons and people often lacked spatial awareness, had never once decided to look up.
 
——
 
Anith, the Jackal Beastkin of Vuliel Drae had never once in his entire life thought to question what kind of stone Liscor’s dungeon was made from. It was not on his list of things to worry about, and as team leader of his eclectic group, he had any number of concerns.
“Granite?”
He politely stared at the Human woman holding the hammer and the pointed nail of metal in one hand. It looked like a nail—only about a hundred times bigger. She was angling it towards the slab of the floor, tapping it and frowning. Earlia, the Silver-rank Captain of the Gemhammer, glanced up and nodded.
“That’s right. Got to be. You can see just by the way it looks, obviously, but who’s going to make a dungeon out of anything less? What did you think it was?”
Anith blinked at Earlia. The Jackal [Mage] closed the spellbook he’d been studying and coughed.
“I must confess, I’ve never given it any thought. If you were to ask me, I would have assumed it was a…limestone?”
“Limestone?”
Earlia burst into laughter. She sat back on her haunches, away from the trap mechanism that was only three feet in front of her. Anith’s fur tried to stand up on end; he wasn’t so sanguine about their proximity to the trap. But Earlia kept laughing.
“Limestone. Hey, Timgal, Anith here thinks this dungeon’s made of limestone!”
Anith heard a guffaw from further down the room. The Jackal sighed.
“I only assumed—”
“What, that whoever built this dungeon wants it to wash away with the first rainstorm that hits it?”
Earlia snorted. She grabbed the nail of metal and hammer and leaned forwards again. She pressed the tip into the ground and began smacking the top with the hammer, trying to drive it into the stone. Anith, embarrassed, watched in silence. Earlia was hitting the wedge hard, without fear of smacking her gloved hand, but the pick didn’t seem to be penetrating the dungeon’s floor. With a sigh, Earlia growled and tossed the hammer behind her.
“It’s no good! Boys, we have to crack the enchantment before we can break the stone! Where’s my sledgehammer?”
She stood up, and the rest of her team, five more heavily armed and armored adventurers, walked forwards. Anith backed up politely against one wall of the passage to make room for them and the weapons they carried. They were all armed with picks, sledgehammers, or mauls, weapons that required a lot of brawn to swing. And the men and women had that in supply. Earlia nodded as she grabbed a sledgehammer.
“Alright. Me first. Anith, you step back. Watch your faces!”
The rest of her team stepped back, shielding their eyes and averting their heads. Anith gave them more space, not knowing why, and Earlia raised her sledgehammer.
“[Hammer Blow]!”
The first impact made a sound like thunder as metal hit stone. Anith clapped a hand over his sensitive ears and recoiled. The other adventurers, seemingly used to the sound, just waited. Earlia studied the patch of floor and scowled.
“Next!”
“My turn.”
The huge fellow named Timgal stepped forwards. He held a miner’s pick, and he swung it up and down, aiming for the same spot Earlia had hit.
“[Piercing Blow].”
His strike was less thunderous, but the crack was still sharp enough to keep Anith’s hands over his ears. He kept watching as Timgal stepped back, grunting and eyeing the spot to let another man step forwards with a maul. Anith watched the maul go up—
“[Power Strike]—”
“Watch your eyes, idiot!”
A hand blocked Anith’s vision right before he heard the crack of impact. This time, there was more than just the collision; he heard the stones breaking and felt something ping off the wall beside him. He jerked back as Earlia lowered her hand.
“What was—”
“Shrapnel. Hey! Keep a hand over your eyes and step back! All of you! Dead gods, haven’t any of you lot ever been around a mining operation?”
Earlia snapped at Anith and the adventurers crowding around behind her team. Anith turned. The rest of his team, Vuliel Drae, stared at Earlia and sheepishly shook their heads. So did he. Earlia sighed.
“Hands over eyes. Got it? We have helmets or we cover ours. You do not want to be hit by a bit of flying rock when we break the dungeon’s floor. That’s how you lose eyes, healing potions or not. Step back! Next! Fea, break open those tiles with your pickaxe! Blaik after her!”
The rest of Gemhammer took turns using their Skills. The sound of breaking stone was accompanied by a spray of fragments that kept Vuliel Drae covering their eyes until Earlia announced a break.
“Alright! Fifteen minutes, everyone! Then Blaik’s up with his [Power Strike]. Back to the other room—let’s keep working on that trap!”
The rest of her team trooped backwards, laughing good-naturedly and picking up the hand-wedges—the oversized nails of steel—and the smaller hammers. Vuliel Drae watched, bemused and confused.
“Wait, you’re giving up?”
Insill, the Drake [Rogue], stared at the patch of broken stone, perplexed. Earlia shook her head.
“Not at all. But we’re out of usable Skills. The rest of my team only has one, like Blaik’s [Power Strike]. We need to keep using them; we’ll never break the stones just by swinging our hammers.”
“Oh. I mean, of course. Sorry.”
The Drake nodded understandingly. Earlia smiled and jerked a thumb behind her.
“And while we do that, we’ll keep breaking down these trap-pillars. We already got the warding enchantment down; all we have to do is carefully remove the actual blades.”
She was pointing to the room behind them. Anith turned and looked at the trap-pillars. There were two in the room, and they were designed such that anyone carelessly entering the room would be instantly diced by the rows of curved blades that would spring from hidden compartments on each pillar. However, the activation mechanism in this particular trap room had been disabled, and now Gemhammer was methodically breaking down the granite stone to get at the trap.
“We’ll split our time between working with hand tools and using our Skills. Once we break the warding enchantment, we can use physical force. But we’ll still be at work for a few hours. At least. It’s a day’s job, really.”
Earlia sighed as she grabbed her own hand wedge and hammer. Anith nodded, impressed. He wasn’t the only one. Another member of his team, Dasha, the half-Dwarven woman, spoke up.
“That’s proper mining technique alright. Which I know about because of my ancestry. Your team’s not bad at manipulating stone, Miss Earlia. For Humans, of course.”
She stroked her beard self-importantly, ignoring the eye-rolling of the rest of her teammates. Anith sighed, but Earlia just laughed.
“We were [Miners], you know. It’s just that adventuring pays better, and it’s about the same level of danger. Anyways, if your team wants to watch…”
She looked at Anith meaningfully, and he nodded.
“Of course. Insill, Dasha, watch our way in. Pekona, Larr…”
“On guard.”
The Gnoll [Archer] and [Sword Dancer] Human, Pekona, both nodded and moved to cover the other entrance. Insill and Dasha walked past Gemhammer. They took up a casual guard so that both entrances were watched. Earlia nodded.
“Thanks, Anith.”
“Of course. You are paying us.”
The Jackal coughed again, a bit embarrassed. It was the first time his team had ever been hired to guard another adventuring team, but Earlia had asked, and he had agreed out of curiosity and a sense of obligation. The Captain of Gemhammer gave him a grin.
“I know it’s not much, but my team and I wanted someone to guard us for the first few times, just to see what kind of attention we attract. We’re loud, and we’ll have our hands full without posting a guard. Best case is that you pocket some silver, and all you have to do is stand about for a few hours. Worst case…”
She glanced at Larr and Pekona, leaning against their walls and keeping an eye out, and Dasha and Insill, probably arguing about her dubious claim to Dwarven knowledge. Anith sighed.
“Don’t worry. Despite how they look, my team is relatively alert. Larr and Insill will spot anything coming. But can we help in any way with, ah…”
He waved a hand at the traps Gemhammer was working on. They were in the trapped rooms, the first layer of Liscor’s dungeon. But unlike every other team that had tried to pass through this area, Gemhammer hadn’t been interested in advancing or clearing more trapped rooms. Instead, they’d insisted on finding rooms already de-trapped by other teams, like this one. Anith still wasn’t entirely sure what they were doing.
Earlia shrugged.
“If your team’s got anyone with [Power Strike] and a sturdy weapon, we could use you. Dasha’s the only one by the looks of it, and her axe is a bit…fragile. Don’t worry about it. We just need time, and we’ll start breaking the walls and floor. Clearly, we’re working with a dungeon-wide enchantment here. The big stuff. No room-by-room enchantment or mundane materials here.”
Her comment made one of the other adventurers glance up. Blaik wiped a bit of grime from his brow as he hammered the spike of metal into the stone pillar.
“What d’you reckon’s holding the place together? Dungeon-wide enchantment worked into the stones? That’s high-grade stuff, which is what I’d expect. Or does it have a locus of some kind?”
“What, like a dungeon heart? Hah!”
“As bad as limestone?”
Anith politely inquired. The rest of the former [Miners] snorted. It was Earlia who replied, shaking her head.
“If it is, it’s worse than limestone. Dungeon hearts or dungeon cores are terrible dungeon design. All one adventurer has to do is charge into the center and break whatever’s powering all the enchantments. Then the entire dungeon implodes or falls apart.”
“Ah.”
Anith had no idea that was a problem. But then—he wasn’t an expert on dungeons. And he was regretting it now. Earlia’s team had clearly done their research, and they were talking as they hammered at the trap. One of the women, Fea, was nodding knowingly.
“It’s not actually that bad to use limestone in a dungeon, Mister Anith. I mean, limestone’s soft, almost as bad as marble, but so long as it’s enchanted, that’s the trick. You can’t make many dungeons out of regular stone. It breaks down too fast—and if you get Crelers, Rock Mites, or half a dozen other monsters infesting your dungeon? Inside of a decade, it’ll be more porous than a sponge!”
She tsked, shaking her head over poor dungeon quality management. The rest of the [Miners] nodded. They were wearing gloves, and several had helmets on to shield their faces. Earlia’s voice was muffled as she put on a helmet and got to work beside her team.
“Don’t mind my team, Anith. We’re good at dungeons and rock-related stuff and nothing else. A new dungeon’s a great opportunity for us, especially now all this insanity with the Raskghar and so on’s died down. Still, no one’s taking chances.”
“Which is why you reached out to my team. May I ask why you wish to dismantle this room, though? I assumed it was already safe.”
Anith glanced at the trap pillar. One of the adventurers was carefully working a concealed metal blade out of the wall. Earlia chuckled.
“What? You mean you don’t know what we’re doing? There’s gold to be made—safely—by removing these traps. That’s what our team’s here for, and that’s how we’re going to make a fortune.”
“By removing…”
And then Anith saw Blaik pull one of the metal trap blades out of the wall. The man grunted, very carefully keeping his fingers away from the edge.
“Captain. Got one!”
“Good work, Blaik!”
Earlia chortled and raised her visor for a better look. She motioned Anith over, and he examined the blade. The [Mage] could tell there was an enchantment on the metal, but Anith’s understanding of magic wasn’t specialized in that area. He was certainly not about to touch it, though. Neither was Earlia. She grinned at the blade, seeming delighted.
“Beautiful. See? Gold. Just lying here! I can’t believe the other teams aren’t trying to compete with us. Let alone the teams that actually did the de-trapping! I asked Halrac before he left, but he said we were free to have at it. Either he’s an idiot or the rumors are true and he came away with a huge score.”
Anith’s paw tightened on his spellbook. Halrac, Captain of Griffon Hunt. And one of the people who knew Vuliel Drae’s disgrace. He bowed his head, but then moved on.
“Perhaps. I had heard that he ran into some good fortune. Well-deserved, I think, if so. But why would he be interested in…?”
He indicated the metal blade. Earlia eyed him strangely.
“It’s enchanted, Anith. You’re telling me you don’t think we could sell this?”
The Jackal Beastkin paused.
“Oh. Of course. But who would buy…?”
Earlia shook her head, tapping the metal.
“Enchanted metal, nice quality, very fine edge—I’d say forty gold pieces per blade? Unless it’s enchanted with some really keen enchantment, in which case it could be worth ten times that. We’ll have to see—hey! Anyone got something to cut with this thing?”
“I have a mutton leg. Let me eat it.”
One of the other adventurers fished out a snack. After carefully stripping the meat from the bone, he handed it to Earlia. She lifted the bone and chopped at it with the blade. Both she and Anith whistled; the trap blade had gone straight through the bone and marrow. Earlia nodded, satisfied.
“Yup. That sliced through the bone like that. I’d say we can get at least six-fifty on each blade.”
“Six—”
Anith inhaled sharply. Larr turned his head, blinking. Earlia grinned at the expression on Anith’s face.
“Six hundred and fifty gold pieces. That’s right.”
“For just one of those?”
Incredulously, Anith pointed at the second trap blade Fea was working out of the pillar. Earlia nodded.
