With that in mind, I dropped my hand in a second, moving on afterward. Without missing a beat, I traveled back to Caprika. As I walked up, she nudged Helios,

"Still not impressed?"

"I've known giants. The Emperor, Baldowah, and many others. He's not of their caliber," Helios said while staring at his nails. "Not yet."

I didn't expect anything from the guy, but I walked past Caprika while laying a hand on her shoulder, "One left before you get your city. Good luck healing."

"Same to you," Caprika said with a nod.

After my goodbyes, I navigated back to our base where I found Torix pacing in the forest clearing. I walked up to him, seeing a triangulation of coordinates around the opening. Candles and several corpses were splayed out on the corners of the triangle, along with streaks of blood. I stayed well outside of it, glancing at Torix,

"So uh, what's all this for?"

"To discover the precise location of the base. With its coordinates narrowed down, I can use a basic divination ritual to gather details."

"What's with all the corpses?"

"I'm still a necromancer at heart, and a few forest animals are worth the well-being of Giess. It's a net good as far as morality is concerned."

"Oh no, I wasn't here to judge. I was actually wondering what they were for."

"Oh," Torix said while crossing his arms. "They act as catalysts to tune into the flowing life structure of Giess. I hypothesize that wherever this base under the ocean is, there will be plenty of death present there. By finding a collection of carcasses, I can pinpoint a precise position."

"Why didn't you use this before?"

"My mana has limits, and the ritual requires far less mana as you narrow down the search area. At times, it's far easier to use less direct means for solving a situation. I say that knowing full well the merits of a more blunt methodology, I assure you."

I nodded, "Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. My runic carving was like that...

Do you mind if I watch?"

"Absolutely not. Perhaps you may learn something of use."

Torix paced over towards the center of the triangle, placing his hands on the ground. With surgical precision, he guided his black mana into the blood markings. Wasting no time or energy, he lifted his hand up, sound and light siphoning into his hand. A purple flame outlined in black popped up, swirling with violence.

He walked over towards each animal carcass, setting a tiny morsel of the flame on them. They all burned, leaving nothing left, and the markings around us sunk into the earth. With my ears ringing from the quiet, Torix snapped his fingers. My hearing returned, and the shade around us dispersed.

My ears popped as Torix looked cupped his chin. I looked around before spreading out my arms, "So, uh, what did you find?"

"It's strange," Torix shook his head. "I found a collection of bodies clustered within the ocean near the epicenter of Lehesion and Emagrotha's battle."

"Then what's unusual about it?"

Torix stared at me, "There are two blips of life force I didn't anticipate finding."

"Did you honestly expect to find nothing alive down there?" I said while crossing my arms.

Torix's eyes widened, "These signatures weren't normal in any regard. They were colossal, dwarfing anything I've ever seen. They both exceeded the energy signature of Yawm."

Torix met my eye, "And one of them is devouring the other."
