Zac wanted to scream at Kaltosa Lu to do something, but his mouth no longer listened to his commands. However, Zac soon realized that a hidden battle was already taking place. The glimmering mist of the countless Array Disks had grown considerably thinner without explanation, and Descartes’ aura was growing more unsteady by the second.

Finally, Descartes fell out of the cocoon. When he tried to get up, his arm exploded with a shower of filth. Descartes howled with fury and fear, and he seemed utterly incapable of preventing the debris mist from pouring into his body at an accelerated pace. Weirder still, it didn’t look like the Array Disk remnants were harming him. It was infusing him with power, causing his bloodline to go berserk.

Descartes only managed to take one unsteady step toward them before falling down again. He blankly stared at the sky, his voice filled with anguish as he breathed his last.

“Treason—"

The devil turned into a pool of filth the next second as his bloodline devoured him. Kaltosa Lu lightly laughed as he stumbled toward the murky pool.

“My grandfather is the complete opposite of me. He’s miserly and vindictive, refusing to take even the smallest loss,” Kaltosa Lu said as he conjured a translucent arm.

The construct reached into the muck to pull out the token Descartes used to stay safe against the Lodge’s punishment. It looked a lot like the [Court Cycle Token], except it held no Flamebearer seal. Instead, it was engraved with an unfamiliar rune that held extraordinary levels of Imperial Faith.

“Outliving his enemies wasn’t enough for him,” Kaltosa Lu continued as he returned to Zac’s side. “You cannot imagine the time and resources he’s spent on devising punishments against people that no longer exist. Well, I have to hand it to the old man. That research came in handy today.”

Zac furiously looked at his captor, unwilling and unable to waste another word on him.

“You’re wondering why I don’t just kill you? Isn’t it obvious? I’m not in the mood to get burned to a crisp,” Kaltosa Lu said, pointing at the Empyrean Chalice with an exasperated expression. “Just how did you manage to create such a powerful connection with a Templar Order? There was very little fate connected to those threads in this region.

“It makes me wonder if there’s some truth to your shameless boast before. I heard rumors you might be connected to the factions of the Boundless Path. It would certainly explain the commotion you caused in the Imperial Graveyard,” Kaltosa Lu said. “Is that why you cultivate the Void, despite it being a dead end? Do you need it to hide your allegiance to the cursed empire?”

Zac answered with another baleful look.

“I guess it doesn’t matter,” Kaltosa Lu said as he pushed the unfamiliar token toward Zac’s left hand. “I can’t kill you, but I should be able to claim my reward. I do apologize, but you were right before. The competition is stiff, and I cannot look wanting before my beloved. I’ll have to borrow your Fate for a little bit. Seeing how industrious you are, I’m sure you’ll bounce right back.”

The spear of light struck without warning and with incredible speed, turning Kaltosa Lu’s own trick against him. Kaltosa Lu had clearly been better prepared, but a flash from the Empyrean Chalice dispersed all his energy. The spear impaled Kaltosa Lu where he stood, and its flames covered his body in the blink of an eye.

“Damn it! Not willing to give an inch! Just you wait!” Kaltosa Lu roared as one of the constellations within him erupted with primordial power.

Zac could only watch with confused wonder as a meter-wide pillar holding equal parts Time and Space swallowed Kaltosa Lu whole. He’d exhausted the array flags by half through ceaseless resistance, and he’d planned to strike after sacrificing some of his Imperial Fate. Zac truly didn’t expect the chalice to make a move before he could.

The pillar of false Continuum rapidly shrank the moment it appeared. As it did, it seemed to pierce through the ceiling before disappearing far into the sky. The scene made Zac think of the Centurion Lighthouse when the [Centurion Spear] was released. Kaltosa Lu’s pillar also stretched toward infinity as it thinned to the width of a hair. The next moment, it was gone, having exhausted all its energy to bring the Elemental away. Only the Empyrean Flames were left behind.

“You?” Zac exhaled when a glowing figure emerged from the chalice. With Kaltosa Lu gone, there was no one to control the spikes impaling him. “You’re the traitor?”

Zac hadn’t thought too deeply about the meaning behind Descartes’ words before. He simply assumed the devil was calling them traitors for daring to go against an Emissary of the Imperial Court. It turned out that Descartes had been cursing a fourth party who probably had appeared with the banner.

“Traitor? Maybe. Such things are better left for future generations to decide,” Xiphos said with a smile as he landed. “The important question is what comes next.”

“You know that Grand Dream wanted me here, and I’ve been working hard at stopping the invasion. The danger hasn’t passed. If you help me out, we can still turn this around,” Zac urged.

“Does it matter?” Xiphos said as a manic expression appeared on his face. “After all, isn’t this all a dream?”
