Stella's eyes widened. "My brother! You're right—and he owes me after I sent him those Yinxi Coins." Grabbing the book, she deposited it in her spatial ring. She then retrieved her VIP pendant and flipped it open. Navigating the menu, she opened her friends list, which had a single person on it.

[Janus Crestfallen]

Selecting it, she brought the pendant to her mouth and left her first-ever message. "Hey, brother," she began and gulped. It still felt awkward talking to her brother despite the heartfelt conversation they had enjoyed last time. "I was wondering when you will be returning to Red Vine Peak? Will it be within the next week or two? If so, could you grab me a Fleshfruit tree on the way?"

Sending the message, she was surprised to receive a reply almost immediately.

"Sorry, Sis, no can do. As I said last time, I still have some things to finish up here in the Frozen Star Sect," Janus's smooth voice came out of the pendant, "so I will not be returning for a year. Also, are you doing something weird? Why would you need a Fleshfruit tree?"

Stella stared at the pendant with annoyance. Opening the message feature again, she yelled at it, "I'm not doing anything weird! And what do you mean by a year?! Hey! That's hardly wrapping things up!" Huffing, she ended the message.

Janus replied a minute later. "Why don't you come and visit me, then?"

Stella went to tell him no but then paused. Why didn't she go and visit the Frozen Star Sect?

"I could go with Zephyrine. She is so fast that anywhere in this world can't be more than a month's travel away, and she will protect me," Stella mused, weighing the pendant in her hand. "Mhm, Ash, what do you think? Should I go there?"

"Didn't the Frozen Star Sect's Patriarch want to work with us to take down the Celestial Empire so the Era of Ascension could start? To meet with them would make the trip worth it, and now with the Fleshtree idea, I think you should do it."

"Okay," Stella said, feeling suddenly hyped. She was going to pay a visit to her brother. "But first, I need to speak with the Celestial Warden to figure out where the Frozen Star Sect even is and if the trip is possible. Could you make a portal to Desolark City?"

"Certainly," Ash replied, and the space before her tore open.

Rolling her shoulders and straightening out her robes, Stella stepped through the portal into Desolark City. Not even a second had passed when the sunlight warmed her face, and her presence seemed to instantly cause a scene.

This is why I hate stepping out of my cave, Stella grumbled to herself as many cultivators wearing similar robes rushed toward her in a formation.
