Damn. That didn’t work. What if I try to move the skill itself? He let his mana return to equilibrium, then focused on the turbulent layer where the skill was working. He pushed on a section of it with Mana Manipulation, directing it to move further away from the surface. Nothing happened. Huh. Am I even doing this right? I’m just feeling the mana as the skill shapes it. I’m not sure I can actually sense the skill itself, just the mana that is flowing through it. Hmm.

He focused again, this time on the concept of Purify itself. He tried to modify the skill in the same way that he had when he’d convinced it to remove alcohol from his blood. He willed the skill’s activation out farther, past his armor, but still within his soul’s domain. As he did so, he felt the familiar resistance in his mind that indicated that the system didn’t want to let him do whatever it was that he was trying to. Ah hah! I have you now.

He focused harder, fighting against the tension, urging the spell to move with all of his might. The resistance increased to match. He grit his teeth and strained. Despite his best efforts, he got nowhere, no matter how hard he pushed. Growling, he narrowed his focus, zooming in on one hand. If I can just extend a little piece of it— With no warning, the entire spell collapsed and he felt a searing spike of pain as if a nail had been driven straight into his skull.

“Agh!” A few patrons looked up at him from other tables but didn’t say anything, returning to their conversations after a few moments. Rain shook his head. Thankfully, the pain was fading.

Well, that did something. I clearly broke it. I feel like a bull in a china shop. Purify feels like some sort of…program for directing my mana. There’s inputs where it draws my mana in and outputs on the other side, but the middle? It’s intricate beyond belief, and that’s with me barely being able to see the surface of what it’s doing. It looks like it is possible to modify the skill, but…

He hesitantly activated Purify again, watching as the turbulence formed once more. There was no pain and he sighed in relief. Good, whatever I did, I didn’t break anything permanently. I’m way out of my depth here…

He sat silently for several minutes, watching as the mana was directed by the skill, trying to glean something, anything, about how all of this worked. He tried other tavern-friendly auras, changing the modifiers he was using and watching how the program changed with each alteration. It was hopeless. He’d never figure this out on his own, not in a million years. Maybe once Mana Manipulation is at a higher rank, I’ll actually be able to see things well enough to start decoding them, but right now…

“Rain.”

He turned to look for the origin of the voice. He had a minor heart attack as he saw Halgrave staring down at him, a serious expression on his face. Oh shit. He scrambled to his feet, deactivating Purify. “Halgrave,” he greeted the guild leader, trying to hide his alarm. He’s not mad about all the skills I was using, is he?

“Come with me,” Halgrave said in a tone that brooked no argument. Rain nodded, following the man from the room. To his surprise, Halgrave didn’t lead him to his office. Instead, he opened the door to one of the Guild’s meeting rooms. He ducked under the door frame, his massive body blocking Rain’s sight into the room. Rain followed him in, then had a second minor heart attack when he saw who was waiting for him.

There were three people in the room, two of which were Jamus and Carten, seated at the table. That wasn’t the issue. The issue was the woman leaning against the wall, an annoyed expression on her face.

What is Lavarro doing here? Shit, it must be about the lair. This isn’t good.

“Sit,” Halgrave said, pointing at one of the chairs surrounding the table.

Rain sat.

“Satisfied?” Halgrave said, glaring at Lavarro.

“Take off the helmet,” Lavarro said, staring at Rain. He gulped, reaching up and slowly removing the armor protecting his head. He placed it on the table, activating Force Ward as he did so. He surreptitiously pulled up the skill card, boosting it until he reached 100% mitigation.

Force Ward (10/10)

Increase physical resistance by 100.44% for all entities

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 1.86 mp/dmg mitigated

100% mitigation only required 86% of max power using Channel Mastery alone. He left off Amplify Aura as it wasn’t as efficient and he’d yet to see a skill that boasted the ability to penetrate resistance. If such things existed, he was probably screwed no matter what he did.

That will have to do. She’s a force mage, but she’s practically a goldplate. If she gets serious, there’s no way I can stop her from just… Rain shuddered, fighting against the image of what Lavarro had done to the Dark Hounds. Their necks had snapped like dry twigs. No, she won’t do that. Not right here in the guild. Jamus said the lair was unclaimed. She can’t just—

“It’s him,” Lavarro said, nodding to Halgrave. Halgrave sighed and closed the door behind himself, moving to stand in front of it.

Rain glanced at Jamus. He quickly confirmed that both he and Carten were on the whitelist for Force Ward. The expression on Jamus’s face was not comforting. Carten, on the other hand, didn’t seem worried.

“Hey Little Mouse. Long time no see,” the big man said, grinning at him.

“What’s goi—” Rain started, but Halgrave cut him off.

“Ok, Lavarro, get on with it. What do you want with these three?”

Lavarro looked at Halgrave. “Restitution,” she said, not moving from the wall.

Halgrave frowned. “For?”

“Wasting my time,” Lavarro said. Rain felt her eyes pass over him and he shivered.

Halgrave sighed. “Damn it, woman, you’re the one who’s wasting time. You need to give me more than that. What did they actually do?”

Lavarro sighed. “They failed to make a proper claim on a wild lair that we discovered while I was out training our daughter. Because of that, Mahria and I went all the way out there again for nothing. They broke the core and left me to deal with a pissed-off noble.”

Halgrave snorted. “Not my problem. They beat you to it, so deal with it. Nothing says they have to report it to the guild. That’s just common courtesy. I’m not going to punish them for being rude. Hells, I would’ve done the same if I knew the competition was you. Fucking waste of my time. You made me gather them all up for this? See, this is your gods damned problem, woman. Well, one of them. If you’d just told me what you wanted them for instead of saying ‘just gather them’, I could have told you to fuck off right then and there.”

“I will have my due,” Lavarro said, pushing herself up off the wall to a standing position. “I’ll accept that they did no wrong breaking the core, but I will be compensated for my time. It is your duty as branch leader to arbitr—”

“Fuck off,” Halgrave said. He turned, opening the door. “Whatever you think they owe you is their problem, not mine.” He slammed it behind himself, leaving Lavarro staring furiously at the rough wooden planks.

“That fucking man…” she hissed, clenching her hands.

The silence was broken by a raucous laugh. Jamus punched Carten in the shoulder. “Shut up, idiot. Do you have a death wish?” Rain noticed that he had lost a few points of mana as Force Ward absorbed the blow.

He decided to stay silent. He couldn’t get himself in trouble if he didn’t open his mouth. Lavarro turned away from the door to stare at them. She closed her eyes and sighed, controlling her expression. “You,” she said coolly, opening her eyes and looking directly at Jamus. “Explain yourself.”

Jamus swallowed and cleared his throat. “Well, uh…” He looked at Rain, then at Carten before returning his gaze to Lavarro.

“Speak,” Lavarro said.

“Yes ma’am,” Jamus said, nodding. “Since you never said anything about the possibility of there being a lair, we assumed that you didn’t care one way or the other. The three of us decided that we might as well go check it out. We weren’t sure it was actually a lair, mind, so we didn’t feel it was appropriate to record a claim with the guild.”

Nice going Jamus! That’s technically correct, even though you’re bending the facts a little. You were pretty damn sure from what I remember. We might not be as screwed as I thought…

“When we found out that it was there, we started milking it for Tel, as any adventurer would,” Jamus continued. “Then, we found out that the noble who owned the mine was coming, so we decided to break the core and get out of there before she arrived. Now we’re here.”

Carten opened his mouth like he was about to add something. Rain quickly switched to Winter and blasted him with a full-powered burst. Carten blinked in surprise, looking at him. Rain shook his head slightly. The big man closed his mouth, much to Rain’s relief. Just keep your damn trap shut and let Jamus handle it. He switched back to Force Ward as he returned his attention to Lavarro.

“Humph,” she snorted. “It was obvious that there was a lair down there. You are full of shit.”

To Jamus’s credit, he didn’t even bat an eye. He kept his face controlled as he looked back at Lavarro, maintaining the same expression of respectful deference, with just a hint of fear. Rain wasn’t sure if the fear was a part of the act, or genuine. “It is the honest truth. I am not a veteran adventurer like yourself. I’ve only been doing this for a few years. I’d never even seen a lair before this one.”

Yeah! Go Jamus! You’re in charge of all the talking from now on.

Suddenly, Rain felt a massive draw on his mana. The telltale distortion of Force Ward appeared between Jamus and Lavarro. Jamus was pushed back toward the wall, his feet sliding against the floor as Lavarro stared at him. That shouldn’t be happening. Force ward is at 100%. How’s she still pushing him? Shit, piercing skills are real. Lavarro raised an eyebrow at Jamus’s slow progress. Rain cried out as his mana zipped from 50% to zero in less than a second. Force Ward shattered and Jamus was hurled against the wall with a loud thump. He stuck there, his feet dangling above the ground.

She walked forward to look up at him. “What was that skill?”

Rain swayed, struggling to stay on his feet. He was finding it difficult to concentrate, his mind shocked by the sudden and massive mana loss. It must have pushed him negative, the undermana leaving him foggy and confused. He activated Winter. The soothing cold helped, starting to clear his mind. Jamus tried to respond to Lavarro’s question, but all he managed was a groan, the force pinning him against the wall too strong for him to move his jaw.

“Hey, put him down, bitch!” said Carten, taking an angry step forward.

Carten disappeared. There was a loud crash and the entire building shook as Lavarro blasted him straight through the stone wall of the room and out of the Guild entirely. Dust filled the air and bits of shattered masonry rained to the ground. Rain gasped. She just…Carten, you idiot!

“You killed him!” Rain stammered, choking on the dust. He shied back as Lavarro’s gaze fell on him. Shit. He felt himself start rising into the air, tugged along by some invisible force. The saturation gauge on his HUD started filling quickly, the metal’s dissipation overpowered by whatever magic she was using. The armor vibrated as the force mana worked on the metal. He felt his spine bend as he was pressed against one of the wooden rafters holding up the ceiling. The force didn’t relent, leaving him pinned uncomfortably with his back contorted and his neck at a painful angle.

“He’ll live,” Lavarro said. “Stay silent unless you want to join him outside.” She looked back at Jamus. “Now, you will tell me the truth, or else I will—”

“GODS DAMN IT, WOMAN!” Roared Halgrave, kicking down the door to the room. The strength of his voice shook the air. “WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING!?”

“Stay out of this, Halgrave,” she hissed, turning her attention to him. Rain struggled against the force pinning him, straining to draw breath. His armor was still vibrating, though the durability didn’t seem to be decreasing.

“Let them down,” Halgrave growled, clenching his fists.

“Or what?” Lavarro laughed. “You’ll fight me? We’d destroy the whole city and you know it. No, I don’t think I’ll be listening to you, husband.”

Halgrave roared in anger and smashed the wall with his fist. The stone shattered as if it had been made from Styrofoam even though he wasn’t wearing his gauntlets.

“Are you done?” Lavarro asked, glaring at him. “Go the fuck away so I can finish with these fools.”

“No, I am not fucking done!” Halgrave roared. “You will let them down and get out of my fucking sight or I will ban you from the guild!”

Lavarro narrowed her eyes. “You wouldn’t.”

“Yes I fucking would!” Halgrave screamed at her, spittle flying from his mouth. “Do you have any idea how much fucking paperwork that is going to cost me?” He pointed at the Carten-shaped hole in the wall. “You’d better pray he doesn’t land on some hapless peasant.”

“You have no right,” Lavarro said coldly. Rain’s panic rose as the force pushing him against the ceiling increased, the wood creaking alarmingly. His armor started flexing, pressing in on his ribcage.

“I have every right! By the gods, I should kick you out for this stunt. Not doing so is a greater crime. The Watch is going to be fucking livid! Let them down. Now.”

Lavarro snarled in rage. The force pinning Rain to the ceiling vanished as quickly as it had appeared. He fell to the ground, frantically switching to Force Ward just in time. The tiny amount of mana that he’d managed to regenerate was blasted out of him, leaving his body to take the brunt of the impact. He lost a significant chunk of health as his unarmored head slammed into the stone floor.

“WALLACE! GET YOUR ASS IN HERE!” Halgrave bellowed. Rain’s vision swam, spots of color whirling as the room faded to blackness.
