Rain stopped as he reached the guild square, looking up the steps to the building. After visiting the Bank, the Adventurers’ Guild looked small, almost humble. The sign hanging over the door bearing the Guild’s crossed sword-and-quiver emblem was made of wood, not gold. The stone of the building was rough, not the polished marble of the Bank.

Not very impressive. Still, I think I like this better. The Bank wasn’t exactly gaudy, but it was a bit over the top. He shrugged and walked up the stairs. Let’s have a little fun.

He activated Detection, having long-since decided that he had no compunctions about using the skill in the city. He was pretty sure that if anyone was capable of noticing him using his magical radar, they would have made an issue of it by now. He received plenty of signals for entities within his range, but the guildhall itself seemed to be mostly deserted. The lines from earlier that morning had cleared up, the adventurers off doing whatever quests they had found on the board. He temporarily blacklisted Gus. One of the signals disappeared until he removed him from the list again. Good, he’s there.

He pulled up his hood, making sure that his helmet was completely hidden. His HUD appeared in his vision as the cowl fell over his eyes. There was yet another new bar that he’d added to his interface below the one for the armor’s durability and saturation. This one showed the charge of the mana capacitor in a pale metallic-blue color. It was mostly empty and was decreasing further as the Dark Regeneration rune worked. Rain didn’t care; he’d charge it up again in a moment. This wouldn’t take long, and it would be so worth it.

He pushed open the door and walked blindly into the room. He kept Detection running so he could track his position, using the people inside as reference points. He threw in a few other pings for obstacles in his way, but mostly he was relying on his memory of the layout of the room.

He managed to make it all the way to Gus’s counter without crashing into anything. He did his best to loom as he faced the signal in his mind, though he couldn’t see a thing. “Shiiiiire…..Baaaagiiiinssss!” he hissed.

“The fuck is that supposed to mean? That you, Rain?”

He reached up and slowly lowered his hood, grinning behind the visor of his armor. His face fell as he saw Gus staring at him, unimpressed. “I knew that was you. You’re really odd, you know that? No, odd is an understatement. I work in the Guild, I’m used to odd. You…are something else.”

“Hi Gus,” Rain said with a shrug. “Come on, you’ve got to admit that was fun.”

“No, I don’t.”

Rain sighed. “You’d change your mind if you saw the movie.”

Gus harrumphed. Rain looked around the room. The other signals turned out to have been coming from a pair of cloaked women standing near the entrance. They were arguing with each other, not paying attention to him at all. “Did you want something? You didn’t come here just to mess with me, did you?”

Rain frowned, turning his attention back to Gus. Seems like he’s in a mood. Must have been a tough morning with how busy it was in here. Satisfied that he was secure in the guild, he raised his visor. “Well, I do have a quest to turn in. You’re not going on break soon or anything, are you? I can come back later if you were going to go get lunch.”

“It’s fine,” Gus said with a sigh. “Rankin should turn up in a little bit and then I’ll go. Give it here. This the slime one? Done already?”

Rain nodded, reaching into a pocket of his cloak to retrieve the quest slip. He passed it across to Gus, then dug in his bag for the crown. He held it up so Gus could see it. “Here, in case you need proof. It was a Mucus King, and it dropped this.”

“Well, I’ll be damned, you really did take care of it, didn’t you? Did you get that idiot to help you? What was his name again? Vell?”

Rain shook his head, placing the crown on the counter. “Val. And no, it was just me.”

Gus picked up the crown and turned it over, peering at the metal. He set it back down and looked at the quest slip. “Well, this doesn’t say anything about requiring verification. The guild will usually just take you at your word unless the client specifically requests proof of completion.” He swept the quest slip into a drawer, then counted out 20 Tel on the counter before recording the quest as completed in a ledger. When Rain reached for the Tel, Gus quickly covered them with his hand and gave him a significant look. “I don’t think I need to tell you that lying about completing a quest is a bad idea. Not that I’m doubting you, that crown is pretty compelling, but…I’ll be clear. Don’t do it. You understand?”

“Yeah, Gus. I get it.”

Gus took his hand away and Rain happily added the Tel to his money pouch. I’m rich again. Well, not really. I need to be more careful with my money. That coffee was damn expensive. I think the only reason the merchant let me talk him down to 3 Tel was because I intimidated him. I wasn’t trying to. I kinda feel bad about it, actually. Still, I only got a small packet of roasted beans. Barely enough for a cup or two. Wherever coffee grows here, it must be far away. What are the logistics of importing something from across the world when you don’t have container ships or cargo planes?

“You wanna sell that too?” Gus asked, nodding to the crown and bringing Rain out of his musing. “The Guild will probably buy it. Danna won’t be in until later, though. She usually does the appraisals for monster drops.”

“No, I think I’ll keep it,” Rain said, picking up the crown and slipping it back into his bag. “Who’s Danna?” He thought back. “Older woman? Salt and pepper hair? Kinda tall?”

“That’s her.”

Rain nodded. I remember her. She was the one who took care of us when Hegar and co. brought me here for the first time. I think I saw her here this morning. He looked around the guildhall. Other than Gus, there were no other staff members apparent. The three heater plates glowed on the wall, but the room was fairly sparse in terms of ornament and decoration. The door was made of heavy wooden planks, not enchanted marble. He shook his head. “I don’t get it, Gus. I stopped by the Bank earlier today, and compared to their building, the Guild is a little…rustic. It was so busy in here this morning. It seems like we could afford to spruce the place up a bit. Where’s all the money going?”

“Tell me about it,” Gus said with a sigh. “It’s not like they’re giving it all to me. I’ve no idea. Rankin takes care of the finances; he just tells me how much I’m allowed to spend on maintenance. As you can tell, it’s not much. “What does ‘spruce it up’ mean? What do trees have to do with anything?”

Rain laughed. “Sorry, it’s an idiom. It means…to decorate I guess, in this context. Make things a bit nicer, more stylish. Never mind. Oh, hey, you haven’t seen Ameliah or Jamus, have you?”

“The silverplate and the walking fashion disaster? Can’t say that I have.”

Rain smiled despite himself. Hah, fashion disaster. “Well, I’m going to go over to the Guild tavern. If they come in, can you let them know I’m in there?”

“Sure,” Gus said with a shrug. “If you see Rankin, tell him to get his ass out here. Maybe don’t say it quite like that, but damn it, I’m hungry.”

Rain nodded and bid farewell to Gus. That went well. Even if he didn’t appreciate the Nazgul impression, at least he’s being friendly. I’m not sure I buy the economics of this place. The Guild should be way better off than this. Maybe they have to pay rent to the city or something?

Eh, whatever. I need to worry about my own finances first. He glanced at the quest board, but it was completely bare. He shook his head and walked off to the tavern. I’m going to have to get here early if I want anything, looks like. I’m starting to see why Jamus would pay for a bunk even if he’s got a house nearby. Beating that line must be worth it. Everyone seems to wake up around the same time thanks to the system’s daily training notifications, so being closer is definitely better. I wonder if Tallheart can figure out how to make an alarm clock? No, scratch that. I might be able to convince the system to make me one.

Neither Jamus nor Ameliah were in the tavern, confirming what Gus had said. There was no sign of Rankin either. He got himself a table and took out a ration bar. He wasn’t willing to spend more Tel on a meal, not after blowing so much money this morning. He only had the 20 Tel from the Mucus King, plus the eight bits. Nobody had wanted to bother with those. He chewed on his ration bar, debating what to do while he waited. He settled on working on a problem that he’d been considering ever since he’d gotten his cloak.

Now that he had the cloth garment to worry about, he needed to figure out how to use his offensive auras without burning it right off of himself. He hadn’t had any issues so far with his clothing, but now that he was planning on getting Tallheart to make him a golden stat ring, he needed to consider what would happen when he used his auras at an even higher power level. Even if he boosted his resistances, he wasn’t sure that the protection would extend to his clothing.

So, what do I know?

Fact 1: When I used immolate before I got my armor, it didn’t set my clothes on fire. That means it either doesn’t count my equipment as the ‘environment’, or it starts a little distance away.

Fact 2: Now that I have my armor, my auras make it go all glowy. It doesn’t seem to affect the power as far as I can tell, but I don’t exactly have an accurate way to measure that.

Fact 3: Metal won’t actually absorb mana when it’s within the ‘domain of my soul’, whatever that means. It still messes with it, but it doesn’t get sucked up. I’m not sure I believe this one. What is making my armor glow when I use my skills? The energy for that’s got to come from somewhere.

Fact 4: My soul extends a few ‘finger-widths’ beyond my body. I need to teach these people the damn metric system already. As near as I can tell, it’s something like five centimeters.

Anything that is within that ‘soul bubble’, or whatever I want to call it, is probably safe. That can’t be all there is to it. My clothes are one thing, but my old backpack… I used Immolate while wearing it before and it jutted out way past five centimeters. Time for a few tests. I’ll use Purify so I don’t set the building on fire.

He activated the skill at a low intensity, paying close attention to how the mana was flowing within him using the sense given to him by Mana Manipulation. He got a few startled glances, but people quickly settled down. It seemed that their surprise was more from the fact that they didn’t recognize him wearing the armor. He’d used the spell in here plenty of times before without issue.

He looked down. The slate-gray metal was glowing faintly as Purify flowed through it. It was difficult to distinguish the glow from the normal visual effect of the skill, but he was sure that the mana was interacting with the metal somehow.

He increased the power and the light got brighter. He reduced it, and it dimmed again. He opened his inventory tab, keeping an eye on the saturation number. Bah. I can’t tell if it’s absorbing anything. I can’t get Purify up to anywhere near the dissipation rate of the metal. If I’m right, any mana that gets absorbed into the armor will only build up if it goes in faster than it drains out. It’s like a bucket with a hole in it. He consulted the armor’s description. 13,202 mp is the size of the bucket and 92 mp/s is the rate that it drains out. Where does it go? The void? The mirror dimension? Narnia?

He sighed. I still have no idea what mana even is…

One problem at a time. If I want to see if the armor’s absorbing anything, I’ll need to use a higher-cost aura. Immolate and Refrigerate would do it, but I obviously can’t use them in here. I could get Detection, Essence Well, or Velocity up that high I guess… That’s more variables, though. They don’t make my armor glow at all…

Damn it. I’ll just stick with Purify for now. Maybe if I can figure out how it works, I can figure out how to change it. Move it further from my body or something so the metal doesn’t mess with it as much.

He focused on Mana Manipulation. As he’d noticed before, his sense of the mana faded once it left his body, stopping completely after a short distance. I suppose that’s the ‘domain of my soul’. Mana Manipulation says ‘internal control of mana’, but I can still feel it outside a little bit. I guess ‘internal’ means ‘inside my soul’ in this context, not ‘inside my body’. Where soul meets body? Damn, now I’ve got Death Cab for Cutie stuck in my head. This tavern needs a band or something.

He shook his head and checked his mana bar. He still had plenty, despite leaving Purify on for quite a while. The entire tavern was spotless at this point. He focused again, trying to feel how the spell was shaping the mana as it flowed through him.

Most of the energy was evenly distributed throughout his body; placid, like water at the bottom of a deep pool. The surface of that pool started growing turbulent just past his skin as Purify took effect. The transformation stopped almost as soon as it started, leaving the mana…changed. It flowed outward like smoke, released by the skill into the world. His ability to see the detail of what was happening was vague. It had gotten a little clearer now that Mana Manipulation had leveled a few times, but he was not even remotely close to being able to resolve what the skill was actually doing. It’s shaping it somehow. Once it’s done, the mana has a sort-of…flavor. What happens if I try to mess with it…

He concentrated. Engineering, divert auxiliary mana to right hand. He felt the pool shift, becoming denser in his hand and more diffuse everywhere else. Purify didn’t seem to care, drawing the mana out through his skin evenly, despite his efforts to hold it back. Likewise, he couldn’t do anything to the mana once it had been modified by the skill. He could feel it until it exited his domain, but he couldn’t change it anymore. Looking with his eyes instead of Mana Manipulation, he didn’t see any noticeable change in the strength of the glow around his gauntlet.

