It was time to get back to work. Vacations were never long enough, even, apparently, if you were dead. You just got more homework from ghosts.
In Erin’s case, she equated ‘work’ with stressful activities. The not-a-party had arguably been that, but dodging a bunch of [Strategists]’ pointed questions while staring at a chess board and a life-sized miniature of the Titan of Baleros?
That was work.
However, Erin was arguably the master of the blank stare, the uncomprehending ‘huh’, and the irreverent shrug. Ignorance was a weapon to be used like a club on Pisces-type characters. Erin didn’t think it would be hard to play some chess games, thank the [Strategists] for their help in the Meeting of Tribes war, and figure out the Niers situation later.
That was why she was so surprised when Mrsha took her aside with a big scowl and handed her a note. For multiple reasons, really.
Her poofy little Gnoll girl was sometimes a rascal, other times a mascot or, arguably, a helper, and when it mattered, she could be very sensitive and kind. Right now, Mrsha was extra-furry, most likely due to the fall creeping on—or a lack of combing her own fur.
…But was she bigger than Erin remembered? Yes, it felt like it. Mrsha had been a child you could carry around, hug, and even toss up. At…one point. Now? Erin felt like she might be more prone to hurting her back.
And when had Mrsha gotten so good at walking? In fact, she had put on that patterned kilt today and had, to Erin’s disbelief, clogs. That was to say, a laceless slip-on shoe made of leather. Generously adapted for Gnoll feet.
“Mrsha, what has gotten into you? Hold on—you want a word?”
Mrsha nodded emphatically and since Erin was already sitting, Mrsha joined her in her lap so Erin could read over her shoulder. She began writing, and Erin found herself reading in real-time.
“Good morning, Erin. I hope you are doing well today. I wanted to touch thrones with you vis-à-vis the [Strategist] situation. Before I get ahead of myself, I think breakfast was very good. Although I notice Lyonette has been cutting down on my syrup rations of late. I would like this rectified.”
“Wh…okay?”
Mrsha raised an eyebrow and scribbled harder.
“Okay? Is that a yes or a no?”
“Uh—yes?”
Instantly, Mrsha’s quill accelerated.
“Then you won’t mind if you sign this affidavit that ‘I, Erin Solstice, agree to a 50% increase in syrup for Mrsha each day, this cannot be revoked ever’? Sign here, ______.”
Erin stared at Mrsha. Then she delicately crossed out the proposed agreement.
“Nope. Nice try.”
“Rats.”
It struck the [Innkeeper] then, that, aside from the somewhat crinkled bit of parchment Mrsha was using and the rapid skritch-skritch of her quill, Erin was talking to Mrsha.
“Mrsha! You write so fast!”
The Gnoll girl sniffed in a Pisces-approximation.
“I leveled up! Everyone leveled from the Meeting of Tribes! I. Am. A. [Scribbler]!”
She slapped her chest proudly and then added another note.
“I write fast now. Also, I think I deserve a special cake for my new class.”
It turned out Mrsha had gained that class from her friendship with Satar Silverfang more than the actual battle, but her statement went for all the people who had been there. Erin realized she had more catching up to do.
“I’m so glad you can write, Mrsha! C’mere, you! Now we can talk, and you can tell me everything—”
She cuddled Mrsha until the girl squirmed out of her grip.
“I have to go to my dignified house-visit with Visma. Gire is coming too. We are having tea and discussing scandals. Let me go, [Ruffian]!”
Okay, so there was a bit of adultness to her writing-voice, and she had a lot of Lyonette-ism. Yet Mrsha had a message for Erin today.
“Erin, you should be nice to the [Strategists]. You bullied them all yesterday, and that was bad. We should not be mean to other people. Like rats. Or cute Doombearers.”
“Wh—I didn’t bully them per se!”
Mrsha gave Erin a long look and didn’t even bother writing a reply—she just slapped one of the speaking stones, and a pre-programmed voice spoke.
“Yeah, right.”
That was, apparently, one of the sound bites that Mrsha thought she would be using on a day-to-day basis. Which was fair, because it was Mrsha. The girl pointed at the chess tables.
“You beat them in chess all night then fed them a Faerie Flower drink. You are a meanie. Be sad about yourself. I have to go now. Take care. Think about what I said, especially the cake.”
And then she left. Erin sat there, speechless, as Lyonette took Mrsha into the city on her play-date. Mrsha the Morally Upstanding was lecturing her on bullying and being nice to people?
What a way to start the day. However, Mrsha then decided to come back for a second; Lyonette was having the Thronebearers check for danger, and that was apparently a five-minute process.
Things changed. The girl grumped for a moment, and Erin leaned over.
“I’ll think about it, Mrsha. But you know I’m trying not to let on the you-know-what’s about Earth and stuff? The Titan’s like—the Titan. And even if most people know…”
She was keeping her voice down, because while the inn was still banning visitors in the mornings, there were people who didn’t know everything. Like Ishkr and Liska, the Gnolls—who probably heard a lot from Kevin and the others back when they’d been here. Or the Antinium, some of whom were interviewing for a job! Who probably didn’t care, and Ryoka had told Klbkch and Xrn, the most important two. Or—the Goblins like Ulvama and Gothica. Who—
The point was that the [Strategists] and Niers knowing was dangerous. As bad as Chaldion. Erin said as much to Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl nodded understandingly.
“You make a lot of saline points, Erin.”
“Um, I think you meant ‘salient’.”
Mrsha glared and crossed out that word. She looked around the inn, took a breath, and then gazed at Erin seriously.
“Niers might know about everything.”
Erin didn’t have a glass of water to choke on, so she settled for her own saliva. Mrsha wrote hurriedly.
“Even if he didn’t! You should be nice to the [Strategists] even if they don’t know.”
“Wh—why?”
Mrsha stared at Erin. Then the [Innkeeper] saw Lyonette sneaking glances at her as she waited at the door. A Goblin with a guitar poked his head out of the kitchen where he was gathering breakfast, and a Bird peered at Erin down the stairs then jerked back. The [Innkeeper] realized she might have been set up.
And guess who’d lost the game of cards and had to break the news? Mrsha the Bad Card Player wrote a note and slid it over the table. Everyone knew Erin could bluff and evade even Grimalkin, and obfuscation worked. It did. However, there was a point to telling someone the truth, and it was this:
“They might find out eventually. Niers is really scary. He also has lots of armies. It would be nice not to get shot or sieged or eaten by monsters.”
Erin’s mouth opened, and Mrsha slipped out of her seat. She pointedly plucked at her white fur and then moved her paw in a circle around the inn.
Just saying.
Then she left. Erin stared at Mrsha’s back and called out as Numbtongue ducked back into the kitchen and Bird pretended he didn’t exist.
“I see you doing this! I know! Don’t you think I know? I was dead! I…”
She caught herself as Lyonette led Mrsha out the door, telling her what a wonderful job she’d done. Calanfer’s [Princesses] did approve of a delicate touch and occasional hammer to the fingers, conversationally speaking.
Erin pushed her chair back from the table.
“I’ve been thinking about it. Really, I have. It’s just scary.”
Numbtongue decided to pull in with Bird as the second wave, just as planned. They flanked Erin at the table, and Numbtongue sat down with a huge slice of pizza.
“What’s harder? Telling people and making allies or getting shot? What is so hard?”
He looked challengingly at Erin as she blew out her cheeks. She inhaled, exhaled, sighed, and glanced at the door where she was sure the [Strategists] would soon be coming in. Time to get back to work indeed. And yes, they were right. Yes, she wanted to do it. She had promised.
Even so, she fixed the slightly grinning Hobgoblin with a stare that made his teeth click as he took a bite of pizza. And she revealed she had been thinking of the issue already.
“Time paradoxes.”
Bird scratched at his antennae. He stood back up, patted Numbtongue and Erin on the shoulders, and nodded.
“That is difficult. I withdraw my objections. Goodbye.”
Numbtongue looked at Erin with his mouth open slightly. Kevin raised his head from a table and stared at Erin over breakfast.
“Wht trr fkk. We’re going there?”
He swallowed hard. Erin nodded.
“Oh yeah. We’re already in one.”
The [Mechanic] rubbed at his hair. He pinched himself and looked around.
“Dude. You’d think we’d notice.”
 
——
 
Erin wasn’t a dummy. She might have been foolish, idiotic, and stupid at times, but she could remember.
And what she remembered was the future. Or at least—a few words from it. Which made her wonder about the consequences of her actions.
As she’d laid it out, it was simple, and she took Kevin and Numbtongue into the secret Earther rooms in her inn to show them.
The rooms had gone sort of unused during her death since the original group from Magnolia’s place didn’t need them as a repository of knowledge anymore. Numbtongue practiced music there alone, but Erin had repurposed one of the blackboards.
“I have it on good authority that it’s not a big time problem or we’d all be dead or breathing out our fingernails or something. I think.”
“Did you meet yourself?”
“Um…no. And I can’t tell you what happened because it’s probably really super-dangerous and—”
“That’s cool. I don’t really want more secrets or anyone else important breathing down my neck.”
“Me either.”
Kevin and Numbtongue fist-bumped, and Erin realized the two most laid-back members of the inn were the right call to introduce time paradoxes to. She took a breath.
“Okay. Here’s the thing. I might know about my future. Slightly! I did something, and I think I know what I did.”
Goblinfriend of Izril. Kevin nodded.
“Because it was obvious? Or the consequences came back, Terminator-style?”
“What’s that?”
Numbtongue poked Kevin. The young man grinned.
“Awesome movie. Movies. I’ll tell you about it later.”
“Ooh. Nice.”
“Guys.”
Erin waved her hands and showed them her project. She had ‘I become GF’ written on the chalkboard on one side and ‘I am Here’ on the other. Then she’d drawn a line and added a bunch of notes.
“Here’s the big event. It’s in the future, but not so far that I’m not too old.”
Or how else would he recognize her? Erin had written up to ten years, tops. She pointed to the end result.
“I didn’t learn…exactly what did it, and I think it was a lot of things that made me become this. So the question is—should I do it again? Because, uh, it sounded like not everything went well last time.”
“Oh. Man, that’s the time traveller’s paradox. So you’re saying that what you did has huge consequences. Like you killed a kingdom?”
Kevin looked worried, but Erin waved her hands.
“No, no! Actually—I don’t think I did much wrong.”
“Wait, what?”
Unlike most time-traveller stories, Erin didn’t actually think Nereshal’s warning applied to her. It applied to, well, him. And the actions of one of the most powerful kingdoms in the world.
Hence her dilemma. Erin pointed at the board.
“I didn’t hear anything that I’d done wrong. I mean—I’m sure a lot of people don’t like what I did, but he—er—the person didn’t tell me I made huge mistakes. And I was alive. So why not do what I did, right?”
Kevin pointed at Erin.
“But you don’t know what you did.”
Numbtongue was rubbing his forehead. His brain already hurt, but Pyrite and Reiss were arguing about the implications. Erin double-pointed at Kevin with finger guns.
“Aha! But I can guess. Because what other-Erin did was something I’d probably do, right? And I actually know what might have gotten me that nickname. Er…”
The Goblinfriend of Izril. Logically, it was something Erin would think of. So she should be able to think of it. Yet Kevin pointed out another problem.
“But you don’t want to do the same thing. You want to…what, warn something? Avert something?”
“Yeah, I can do that. In fact, I’m told I’ll get my chance. However, Kevin. Here’s the thing—since I have that warning, the future will change anyways.”
“So there’s no point and this is stupid!”
Numbtongue threw up his hands. He went to erase everything, yet Erin stopped him.
“Not quite. If I know the future is uncertain after I change time, I know one thing for sure: what I did worked. And if what I did worked…and if the future is changed, I don’t need to worry about this ever again.”
That’s where she’d been headed after her third straight night of migraines worrying about this. Kevin and Numbtongue exchanged a look.
“…So what’s your point?”
Erin took a breath. She tapped the chalkboard and then drew a second line from her future as the Goblinfriend of Izril to now. Only—this time, she made a little line-break in the center.
“My point is that if I know what I did worked—I’ll do it twice as fast. I’ll do it now. And I’ll think about what I would have done and be where I was faster than the alternate me. Because I was told my future, I’ll figure out what I did faster.”
That was how you used a time paradox, right? Erin looked from Kevin to Numbtongue. The young man gave her the gesture of his mind exploding with accompanying sound effects. Numbtongue just stared at the chalkboard.
“You could have just done that without making my head hurt.”
Erin sighed.
“Yeah, try living with that, Numbtongue. I guess…you were right. Mrsha was right.”
He looked up and blinked at her. How did this relate to Mrsha…? Erin wheeled over to the chalkboard and dusted off the formula of confusion. She turned to Kevin and Numbtongue before biting her lip.
“There are…things I don’t want to think about. Or, y’know, do. I made a lot of promises, but some things—aren’t just hard, but listen, guys. Maybe I’m wrong. I mean—I’m just an [Innkeeper]. I don’t want to do something, um, like what Ryoka says she does. Rock the boat. But time travel and allies. So—what do you think?”
Surely if Ryoka Griffin were here, she’d understand Erin’s reluctance to make mistakes. In fact, Erin felt a lot more sympathy for Ryoka’s point of view.
Kevin and Numbtongue exchanged a long glance that Erin didn’t miss. The [Bard] frowned at Erin.
“You just said all that about time travel. Now you don’t want to do…what?”
