“What am I, a teacher? I’m not your mom, either. I’m not playing either Altestiel or Niers against each other. Why would I do that?”
“Because you’d be certain of drawing or winning against at least one? It’s a clever move that some [Strategists] have even used in war.”
The Minotaur had an instant response ready. Erin just blinked at him.
“Yeah. But why would I do that? It doesn’t sound like fun. It’s just to make people look silly or teach them a lesson. Come over here if you want to watch, and you can see. I’m playing no one against each other. I’m beating both of them.”
She cracked her fingers as Venaz strode over. Both Altestiel and Niers were silent for a moment. Erin twisted her neck and winced as it popped.
“Whoo. Nothing like a good game of chess to get your mind moving. Check, Altestiel. Your move, Niers.”
The thing was that if she were writing and speaking at the same time—her opponents were arguably more distracted than she. And they had forgotten that when it came to chess, Erin was better than both of them.
The silence followed by the clacking of pieces was broken presently by Erin herself. She sighed.
“Yeah. I do owe you a big favor.”
Who was she addressing? All eyes swung to the stone and [Message] scroll as Erin covered her writing. She wrote something to Niers and spoke something completely different to Altestiel out loud.
“Altestiel, does Desonis need anything right now?”
He paused.
“Aside from more arable land, protection from monsters large and small, a talented generation, and three dozen enchanted, self-repairing fortresses? We have done fairly well as nations go, Erin. I’m not up-to-date on the minutiae, but we have no glaring issues at this time.”
Erin heard some chuckles from around the room at his response. She smiled and stared down at what she’d written:
 
Erin: I’ll definitely find a way to repay you.
Niers: There’s no need. As I said, I’m only sorry we couldn’t meet and that I didn’t do more. I hope we will be able to speak in person.
Erin: Sure thing. I’d like that too, but I have just one question I was hoping you could answer.
Niers: Go ahead. If you have any questions, incidentally, or would like to test any <Quest> theories, let me know. I have some resources in Baleros, and the answers are worth most effort in and of themselves.
Erin: Thanks. How do you feel about Goblins? I was told you teleported a Goblin tribe to Baleros. What’s going to happen to them?
Niers: Give me a second to think about my answer.
 
Back to Nereshal’s warning and clues from the future. It was conceivable that Erin could have been known just as that [Innkeeper] who kept Goblins safe and treated them well. However…would some important [Mage]—no, arguably the most important [Mage] in all of the Blighted Kingdom know her at first sight from just that?
Erin thought she knew what she’d do. So she spoke out loud to Altestiel.
“Hey, Earl Altestiel. How cool is your [Queen]?”
Now there was a loaded question. The Earl hesitated.
“She can be completely asinine, which is not an expression of disloyalty, just personal preference. And she keeps entirely too many pets ar—hydras!”
It sounded like someone had just tossed a pet at him from the clatter and swearing. Then—Lyonette began sweating because it occurred to her that two major powers were probably listening into the casual chess games. She’d told Erin to make allies, make friends.
But even so—the [Innkeeper]’s eyes glinted as she stared out the window at the High Passes. It was a busy day today. Liscor was changing. And somewhere up in those mountains was Goblinhome. A place that at least Chaldion knew about, and which had kidnapped the Healer of Tenbault.
“So she’s sorta cool. Do you think she’d ever consider signing a petition or agreement around…well, I’m getting ahead of myself. I owe you a big debt for Kiish helping me. She’s great.”
Erin smiled at Kiish, and the [Strategist] looked gratified and surprised as she dipped her head. Erin turned back to the speaking stone.
“You said Desonis doesn’t lack for anything except for, like, a dozen magical fortresses. And stuff. I dunno about a dozen. But what about one? Might be sorta wet, though.”
“…What?”
“A magical fortress.”
“You mean the palace of—er—no, a magical fortress?”
“Yup. Not belonging to any [Tyrants]. Completely unrelated. I think. Would you like to have one?”
The [Innkeeper] was watching a very long paragraph being written on the scroll when Lyonette seized her arm. Venaz was waving a clear blue truth stone in the others’ faces and shouting in whispers.
“Erin!”
“Aw, come on, Lyonette. I’m doing what you wanted!”
Erin gave Lyonette a rare, genuine scowl. But the [Princess] drew her back, whispering urgently.
“Erin! You don’t give fortresses to [Earls]! It’s—historically—very dangerous!”
The young woman gave Lyonette a blank look.
“Okay, then I’ll tell Kiish. She can report to her [Queen] first, and Desonis can use it. But it’d be a load off my mind. And who else do I know in Terandria who needs, like, an entire fortress?”
The [Princess] hesitated and retorted.
“C-Calanfer?”
“Psh, you’re not going back to Calanfer.”
Erin waved that off. The Thronebearers in the room looked at Lyonette, and before she could respond, Visma broke in. The little Drake ran up.
“Miss Erin, do you know where a fortress is?”
Everyone waited on the response. Erin Solstice picked up Niers’ scroll and read what he’d written.
 
Niers: Chieftain Shaik of the Ghostly Hand tribe and most of her people are well. That was a strategic move, and as I think Numbtongue could tell you, I have a different perspective on Goblins. I’m aware they are intelligent, loyal, resourceful, and more. 
My company used to employ them in numbers, and I knew Velan the Kind. So if you’re asking if I’ll trust or harbor them—I cannot. Not again, and not without proof what happened then won’t repeat itself.
Of the many mistakes I’ve ever made, the level of death and carnage he caused is perhaps the greatest. With that said, I’m willing to listen to what you might have to say. Do you know why Goblin Kings rampage against the world?
 
To that, she wrote a simple reply as he held his breath.
 
Erin: Not yet.
 
She looked up when Venaz burst out.
“Miss Solstice, are you actually implying you are intending to give away a fortress? Or that you know the location of one?”
The [Innkeeper] frowned at him.
“I’m just doing my thing, Venaz. I sorta get why Niers has this exasperated vibe with you. You know what your problem is? You’re not adaptable. You need to take lessons from him. Go with the flow more.”
She pointed at Kevin, and Venaz’s head cricked around. Erin clarified.
“I can’t just…give stuff away. But I wonder what kind of <Quest> it is. I don’t think it’s <Mythical>. So yes, I know things. Some of the stuff I know is out there sounds really cool, but we’re fine here, right guys?”
Erin looked around for agreement. Mrsha the Explorer of Fortresses looked up at Erin Solstice with the pain of someone too young to be responsibly allowed to explore for hidden treasure. As for Erin, she nodded to Lyonette.
“There’s not that many hidden fortresses in the ocean or whatever. And I agree, we need to be careful. But a thank-you?”
Her eyes twinkled as she turned back to the speaking stone.
“I’ll send you a letter via Courier, Altestiel. If you want one.”
“I—er—yes? That would be fairly—where?”
“Lemme write it down. Actually, I need a Courier, damn—”
“I know there’s Hawk in the city! I’ll get him.”
“No, me!”
Every guest in the inn was suddenly a Street Runner. Erin turned from the hesitating Altestiel to Kiish. She pointed to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and winked.
I’ll tell you later. Erin mouthed, and the [Strategist] blinked at the sly wink. Erin hoped Hawk might refuse this one. She didn’t think he wanted to be the one carrying a blank letter and dodging everyone across the continent.
Erin Solstice had two edges on the competition right now that no one else knew she had. The first? Her new class, which she had not explored but she knew.
[Witch]. Erin’s eyes flickered as she glanced at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll’s eyes went round. She realized what Erin was going to do.
Cooldown or not—you could make a <Quest> personal. You didn’t have to nail it to an inn at all. You only did that if you wanted attention. Erin winked at the Gnoll girl. Then she spoke to the inn.
“Alright, good chess games. I need some privacy to write that letter. Kiish, maybe you can tell me how I address it? In the garden. As for after that, no more chess, I’m afraid. I’ve got to do some cooking.”
“Cooking, you?”
Lyonette had to sit down as Erin rolled on past with a suddenly very helpful Mrsha pushing the chair. Erin nodded.
“I might, um, be out of gifts in a <Quest> sense. So I’ll send Niers some baked goods. I feel like that’s a nice gesture. Although…darn, I guess I can’t send it unless it’s by Courier, and that’ll take—”
“I’m fairly certain he’ll pay to have it teleported from Invrisil.”
Wil interrupted, and Erin blinked at him.
“That’s a lot of money. You sure?”
“I think—he’ll take it.”
Kiish stared at Erin, and between Altestiel and Niers, she couldn’t tell who’d won. Then she amended that thought.
Almost definitely—Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
It was rare to see a line of people in a place like this. A shadow slipped out of the crowd and stood, almost identical to the next passing man or woman.
You couldn’t have said, upon reflection, how tall this person was, if they were male, female, or what they were wearing aside from a trench-coat and pants.
They moved through the world as an observer, neither combatant nor defender, sympathizer nor antagonist.
They were here to watch and report. And they were…
“Excuse me. Is this the right spot?”
The next person to walk out of the crowd was a Drake—right up until she pulled the mask off and revealed a slightly sweaty Human woman’s face beneath. The first observer nearly leapt out of his skin.
“What? I’m not anyone you know. I must have taken the wrong—”
“Yep, you’re in line. [Informant]? [Spy]? [Observer]?”
The formerly-masked woman got into line as the generic watcher hesitated.
“[Infiltrator], actually. Not my specialty.”
“Oh, nice. Do you make your own masks?”
“Yep. Want to try this one on? It adjusts to your face.”
“Lovely.”
The door opened. The group of waiting people heard a voice as a figure flitted out, as quiet as a shadow under moonlight.
“Next?”
For a moment, the [Clandestine Observer] saw the enchanted steel door reveal a big shape. A Golem—steel.
“That’s big security for a new-timer.”
The [Infiltrator] muttered. The person ahead of the two who’d just arrived replied absently.
“She’s already nearly been killed once, apparently. And if she’s got the premium on information—she’ll have a target on her back.”
The [Clandestine Observer] felt at this point like the mystique and subterfuge of his class was being spoiled by standing in line and waiting for the door to open. He cleared his throat.
“I…was told this was the most reliable source. Do you know how long we must wait? I have clients demanding answers—now.”
“Don’t worry, the door’s opening every five to ten minutes at most. What’s your class?”
“I prefer not to say.”
The [Spy] or whomever it was ahead of the [Observer] rolled his eyes exasperatedly.
“Suit yourself. But you know, the blank-man routine gets you killed where I’m from. It stands out.”
Chuckles up and down the line as the [Observer] turned red. The others looked at him with transplanted magical eyes, artifacts, and in one case, a sniff that revealed everything a glance wouldn’t. A Dullahan woman with scars around a glowing bright, blue eye eyed the [Observer]. Her gaze saw everything.
“Red silk underpants? Classy.”
 
——
 
Fierre wondered what the laughter was about. But she didn’t have time to waste.
The [Chameleon Agent] who’d entered her shop didn’t like the Golem or being in line, and he was already blending in a bit with her floorboards as he stared at the desk.
It was covered with paper, and Fierre was sorting through it—a mountain of notes, missives slipped under her door, and correspondences. Even if she’d only been away a few months, she’d been sorting for nearly a week.
“Excuse me. Are you—”
“Opener, information broker—I don’t do fence work. I assume you’re here for the same thing as the rest?”
One eyebrow rose—Fierre tried not to roll her eyes.
Spooks like the people waiting for her help were all the same. Runners were pretentious sometimes, often in a hurry and impatient with it, but the covert groups who wanted information loved the cloak-and-dagger mystique.
“And what are the others here to learn about, if that’s free information?”
Fierre grabbed for a toppling stack of papers and glared at the person standing before her.
“The [Innkeeper]. And if you want information on her, you can get a copy in an hour when someone shares what I’ve got. But I bet you’re in a hurry, and so am I, so if you’ll drop the word-games, we can both get back to work.”
“Oh. Sorry. I—what do you have?”
An embarrassed cough sounded, and Fierre mollified her tone.
“Sorry—it’s been a long day. Here are the facts—yes, that was the Titan of Baleros and Altestiel, the Earl of Rains. Yes, she just talked with someone in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“You have confirmation? Are you certain—”
The [Agent] was excited but cautious, and understandably so, because a false report would be his reputation on the line. Fierre grabbed something on her desk. A big folder of paper, even illustrations.
“Third page, all reports from people who saw the Earl of Rains here. Watch Captain’s report from Liscor and other cities of his presence. The [Strategists] are the Titan’s students, as you know. I have Mage’s Guild testimonies on the Nerrhavia’s Fallen one from both sides—only Erin Solstice calling in, then a redirect to Tyrant’s Rest. If you’re not comfortable putting that on your authority, I recommend just reporting those facts.”
The [Agent] spent a few seconds paging through the files and reading quickly. Fierre went on, filing more reports away.
“No, she can’t spit blood. Yes, someone stole her body. Note the table of contents and each rumor around her. There’s a ‘true’, ‘false’, or ‘complicated’ and page numbers. Oh—and I’ve included the recent reports on <Quests>. Legendary exists. There’s a cooldown and a hierarchy.”
“This is—exceptionally well done. I can practically send it on as it is.”
