The [Agent] was muttering in relief. Fierre smiled and wiped at her arm. It had been worth the bad sunburn and the gold to rush the packet to a [Scribe] for copying. The [Agent] glanced up.
“How much for the entire thing?”
“Six gold. If you don’t like that—”
Six gold pieces appeared on the table, and Fierre swept them into a drawer that jangled happily. Oh yes, she was making a killing.
Information brokering was the Vampire girl’s specialty, even if she’d taken a road-trip across southern Izril and fought in a war. It felt like a bit of a dream to Fierre, but this was reality.
Profitable reality. The trick with hot information that everyone would know was this: unlike a super-secret, which you might sell once and at cost, speed was key to flipping something like Erin’s secrets.
The contents of her information was probably already being disseminated and reprinted right now. However, the other information brokers in Liscor, Pallass, Invrisil, or anywhere else were wasting minutes if not an hour having to re-check and re-print the folders Fierre had.
That meant that in the precious time they had nothing—she had everything. And there were so many high-level agents that needed to answer to their employers now that handing them a folder like this was making her literal gold on coppers.
It did something else for Fierre too, and that was the appreciative look the [Agent] gave her. He hadn’t looked twice around the room, only to check for weapons and eye the Golem. Now, he took a moment.
“What’s the name of this…place?”
He didn’t ask hers, so Fierre gave it anyways.
“I’m Fierre. No name but the ‘steel door’, but I’m going to use the alias of Bloody Secrets. You can find me via the right channels.”
The man nodded and tucked the folder under one arm.
“I’ll remember it and reference you if I need anything. Much appreciated, Miss.”
He left, and Fierre called the next client in. She was running down the same spiel when a letter addressed to her caught her eye.
She hadn’t been in contact aside from [Message] spells, and those were costly, so all this information that she’d had in her office was probably out-of-date and/or only good for someone who wanted all the past information.
But this—this was just addressed to her, so Fierre cracked it open with one finger and cursed. The nervous [Spy] jumped, but Fierre waved a hand.
“I’m sorry—personal information. Oh no. I’m going to be in trouble.”
“Bad news? Something that I should be concerned about?”
The worried Gnoll sniffed, but Fierre shook her head.
“Worse. Family.”
She checked the sun outside, but if it wasn’t too late—there was no way in heck she was turning down this much gold! She groaned and decided she’d make it up to them with something good to eat. Or fresh blood or something.
After all. It wouldn’t be hard to visit anymore.
 
——
 
Bird sat in his tower, humming. He was back to the basics. Shoot birds, eat birds, and probably poo birds at a later date, but even he didn’t see the resemblance anymore.
“I am Bird. And my life is back to normal now. There is nothing to be worried about. Cow.”
He sang, and the [Liar] realized he had truly advanced his class.
Because now he was lying to himself. Bird the Hunter aimed his bow at some dino-birds out of range and looked around the Floodplains.
“There are a lot of wagons. Much more than before. And less spiders. And I am so happy.”
“Bird.”
“The wind, it is so nice on my shell.”
“Bird, come down here.”
“I cannot hear anything but the sunshine on grass.”
Someone threw a rock at him. Bird ducked and peered out of his tower. He stared down at Klbkch, and the Slayer pointed.
“You are summoned to the Free Hive. The Queen is waiting. Xrn is waiting. I am waiting.”
Bird, who could form a Unitasis Network, the foundation of True Antinium, stared down at Klbkch. The Centenium could have leapt up there and grabbed Bird. Or hustled him down through the secret tunnels.
However, Bird had screamed the last time he’d done it, and Klbkch was wary of the wrath of Erin Solstice.
And all the spies watching him. Bird looked down at Klbkch.
“The Free Queen said if I ever returned I would be killed.”
“She has rescinded that order. Come down, Bird.”
“I have quit the Free Antinium. I am a free bird. You do not rule me.”
Klbkch twitched an antennae irritably.
“You cannot quit the Antinium, Bird.”
“Ksmvr did.”
“Ksmvr was exiled. There is a distinction.”
“Then I exile myself. La, la, I am Bird. I am going to play in the grass. And if you don’t like it, Miss Erin will be mean. Therefore, Klbkch, as Kevin says—”
Bird turned around and awkwardly bent forwards.
“Kiss my ass.”
He waited, then looked over his shoulder and dove down the stairs just before Klbkch threw a rock and cracked part of his tower. Bird popped back up and shot an arrow, but Klbkch could now catch them.
“This is why I need a ballista!”
 
——
 
The two Antinium fighting was a sight to see, even by the standards of Liscor. For outsiders? It was like a nightmare turning into a sock-puppet performance. Simultaneously hilarious, confusing, and terrifying.
“Mother. Am I sick or are those two Antinium throwing rocks at each other?”
Perhaps it was a touch of the vapors. It was entirely conceivable, especially because the entire family was garbed from head-to-toe in thick black wool, despite the daylight, and multiple layers at that.
However, the pale-skinned woman who stared at the distant inn felt at her son’s forehead, and the icy chill made her sure he had no fever.
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle looked around for Fierre for the umpteenth time, but even after seventeen letters, she had not deigned to respond once, nor meet them at the end of their long journey.
Longer still, because there was no way to use the portal door to teleport the six loaded wagons, each pulled by a pair of horses or donkeys, and the herd of sheep and all the other animals heading over another of the Floodplains.
A curse behind her made Colfa look back.
“Colfa, the wagon’s stuck again. We need a hand.”
Bamer was glaring at the wheels dug into the grass from all the weight in the wagon. They were off the road, which would have prevented this kind of thing, but almost at their destination. Colfa sighed, but walked downhill.
“You’re getting old, Bamer.”
“It’s heavy. One, two—”
The woman reached down with one hand and Bamer with both of his. The horses, who’d decided to take a break, stared as the wagon, thousands of pounds, lifted slightly and cleared the rut. The two Vampires looked at each other and lowered the wagon to the ground.
“We’ll have to be more careful near a city.”
“No one was watching.”
Rivel, the youngest of the four, assured the rest. He slid down the hill, and the other five wagons caught up. The driver of one of them raised his head and adjusted the thick scarf around his neck.
“Colfa, what did you see?”
“Antinium. Fighting. We could keep going, Himilt.”
“And head to fully Drake lands, past the Bloodfields? No, I don’t think vagrant Humans would be any more welcome than Gnolls were. Here, at least, the land is guaranteed. Or it will be. Bamer, the contracts?”
The old man rubbed at his back, but it was more pretense than anything. He produced a sheaf of magically-stamped documents with a resigned air.
“As good as the last hundred times you checked, Himilt. And this…is it.”
They stared around, and the other riders on the wagons slipped off and gathered on the hilltop. One produced an umbrella; another stooped under the shade of the wagons.
They all had red eyes, pale skin, and elongated canines. Well, pale for whatever skin they’d had originally; one did have dark brown skin, but she appeared to be permanently paler, as if the blood had rushed from her body.
“This is the spot?”
“Look, there’s even a marker.”
All of them gathered around a little sign posted into the ground. It was written in the Drake script, but there was a Human version beneath.
 
Village Founding Site #14, Property of Liscor.
Now claimed by ‘val Lischelle-Drakle’. Welcome to Liscor! Please visit our city at your earliest convenience for help settling in.
—Councilmember Lism, Liscor’s Council.
 
And that was all. If Himilt looked around and stood on the top of his wagon, he could just about see other sites that had been recently colonized—or had a sign indicating a lot.
All of them were the highest hills above the flooding mark, and he’d done his research on the spring rains. Apparently, there had been more structures in the past, but the Antinium Wars had destroyed them.
Now…[Farmers] were coming back. Especially because the Shield Spiders were dead—they saw the grasslands, and for all their slopes and valleys, they saw fertile land. Still, it was a commitment to try and set up new roots here.
But for a Vampire, all Himilt cared about was that Liscor was no Human city. He nodded to the others.
Not just the four members of his family minus Fierre. There were others of his kind who’d joined this long journey. And what a journey it had been.
They had set out from their ancestral estates, and it had sold a month into their trip. Four months of heading south across Izril was a fast pace if you weren’t a Courier. Of course, they hadn’t worried about [Bandits] and monsters as much.
They had sold their home. Sold the home Himilt’s great grand-parents had lived in, and they had been Vampires, so the place was old.
But it was poisoned, and for all every [Farmer], [Herder], and [Shepherd] within a hundred miles had said it was a tragedy and tried to talk them out of it—they had no idea the real reason the Lischelle-Drakle family had left.
The wells were bad. The water was bad. If they stayed—they died.
Here, in Liscor, was the first place Vampires were even considering moving to. And it might be they’d have to go further than that, maybe even leave the continent.
“…But here, there’s a chance. Let’s set up. Someone might notice us and come to greet everyone, so be normal. Bamer, you and I will go to Liscor and check on things.”
The others looked up as Himilt gave orders. He glanced at Colfa and felt a tightness in his stomach.
“…Don’t unpack too much.”
Bamer came with Himilt as they left the hilltop and headed back down to the road and to Liscor. They walked fast, but ‘normally’, and kept their conversation light.
Even so, both were worried. Not just because heading to Liscor would be an answer to whether they stayed.
“I’m told Fierre’s been seen in Invrisil. I think she just forgot to write you, Himilt. It turns out she hadn’t even been there, but in the south.”
“South? We’ll ask after her as soon as night falls. I’m not worried.”
Himilt lied. Bamer shook his head and coughed into his sleeve. It was a bad cough, too deep and loud by far, and he wiped at his mouth. His eyes glinted, and he looked up at Himilt.
“Don’t be. She’s true and free. More than anyone will ever be.”
That was all that could be safely said in the open. But it made them quicken their steps and head to Liscor’s gates. They avoided the inn, for now. The Antinium made Himilt’s skin prickle.
They were as foreign to Izril as Vampires had once been. Yet—he knew some of his people had marched south under Reinhart’s banner despite the risks. If they had come north, the Black Tide would have run into fang and claw and shadows in the night.
He wondered what they tasted like. But there was little desire to act on it there. That was just a habit.
His people had fought the Goblin King, too. When Terandrians made war on Izril, during the battle at the Bloodfields, sometimes, they fought.
They were part of Izril too, even if Izril had long since forgotten they remained. But the north was poisoned to them.
All because of one family. One house. Centuries, thousands of years of work turning Izril into a final trap, an execution by generations.
House Byres.
Himilt forced the emotions down as he walked and waited at the gates. A younger man…a younger Vampire would have had a different reaction to that news. A younger Himilt had far less to lose. Right now, he only craved getting his people out of a place where they’d continue to add poison into their veins.
Liscor…might be that place.
Himilt and Bamer were surprised by the efficiency of the [Guards] at the gates. He was worried for a second they’d ask him to remove his clothes, but they only asked for him and Bamer to remove their caps and scarfs, and unlike Fierre, they wouldn’t burn in the few seconds the Drake took to scan their faces against wanted lists.
“Are you already feeling the chill? Sick? I’d hope you go to a [Healer]’s rather than pass it around.”
“We just dress like this, sir. We’re [Farmers] from far north. About Reizmelt—we’ve come to Liscor to settle.”
That did get the Drake’s attention. He signaled to a Gnoll, who trotted off, and Himilt felt a warning prickle on his spine. But he kept his face smooth as the Drake nodded.
“More [Farmers]? That’s excellent. Well, you are free to enter. We do have rules about goods coming in and out, but the Merchant’s Guild has a list. Do you need directions anywhere?”
“Is there no Farmer’s Guild?”
Bamer frowned, and the Drake almost laughed, then caught himself.
“There hasn’t been enough [Farmers] in Liscor for a guild in ages. There are [Farmers], but they go through the Merchant’s Guild. They’ll have a list. It’s right past Shivertail’s Plaza. Head down this street, and you won’t miss the signs.”
“Thank you, sir. One more question—is the Adventurer’s Guild that way too?”
“Absolutely. Have you seen monsters…? Our Watch can take care of Rock Crabs and mark Shield Spider nests for destruction.”
“Not yet, sir. We find it’s best to know where the adventurers are.”
Bamer reassured the Drake, and the two headed into the city. All things considered, Himilt thought the Watch looked sharper than average. Gnolls and Drakes…
“I feel like I stick out even more here, Himilt.”
“Think of it like this, Bamer. Humans look more alike to non-Humans.”
“True. Ah…”
The slight exclamation was of surprise, because one of the first things the Vampires saw were a trio of huge Gnolls.
Gnolls were already tall, and Himilt was tall for a Human, so he was roughly equal to their height at six-foot-something. But these Gnolls were glossy-furred and giants among their own kind.
Even the other Gnolls turned to stare at the female Gnoll talking to the other two.
“…prices are that high in Zeres? Why?”
“We don’t know, Chieftain.”
“Don’t call me—then buy, um, two hundred.”
“Two hundred?”
“As much as you can afford with our people. Per city, and don’t go above three gold pieces per bottle.”
