The other ladies backed against the walls as the other girls in Visma’s friend-circle watched. Visma put on the best sessions, and she had promised them the event of the year.
Herna stalked into the room as Visma brought her forwards. Gire watched, glancing at Mrsha’s enraptured expression as she nibbled nervously on a snack.
Gire…didn’t get it. She had expected gossip like talking about cute boys or something city-Drakes and Gnolls would do. She did not expect the dagger in Herna’s hand as she pointed at Seele.
“That’s right, Seele. You had me shot with crossbows and buried in the snow. But guess what?”
“You lived?”
Seele’s voice was trembling. The girls turned to Herna, and the Gnoll noblewoman laughed.
“I didn’t. I died…and I became undead. Now you will join me!”
Then she rushed forwards and began stabbing Seele in the heart. Visma was careful not to damage her dolls too badly, but she inserted the dagger in Seele’s heart and put Herna on the seat, facing the other dolls.
“Now, I believe it’s my turn to bring order to Liscor. What’s this about a war? And step carefully, ladies. Or you might be next.”
“You’ll never get away with this, Herna! You monster! Die!”
Another Drake girl, Yesne, broke in excitedly at this point. Visma scowled and whispered.
“Yesne! That’s not supposed to happen!”
“Lady Meera would never let undead live. Her father fought the Necromancer! Die!”
She grabbed the sharp little sewing needle, and Visma pulled her doll away.
“No, you can’t hurt her! She’s too strong!”
“Yes, I can!”
Instantly, the owners of the dolls began arguing over what should happen next as Visma protected her doll from Yesne, who jabbed angrily. Mrsha, who had borrowed one of Visma’s dolls and was debating getting one of her own, took Visma’s side.
Gire, quite overwhelmed, tried to stop the aggressive poking with two paws.
“Hey, maybe someone should call the Watch instead?”
All of the other girls gave her such a look that Gire wavered. However, then, caught up in the moment, Yesne lunged. Visma protected the head of Herna—and the sewing needle jabbed her hard in the center of her clawed hand.
“Mother!”
Visma wailed and ran as Yesne hid behind the others. She was bleeding from her claw! The needle was in fairly deep, and Mrsha and Gire tried to calm Visma down.
“It’s okay, Visma! It’s not in deep—just let me pull it out—”
Gire had the bloody needle as Visma’s mother rushed in and saw it.
“Visma! Did you take one of my sewing needles? What is this?”
The Drake girl sniffed as the appalled mother stared at the needle and took it away.
“It’s my dagger! No, give it back!”
Visma was in tears as Yesne apologized. Visma’s mother Selena, who was normally painting, scolded Visma as the girl held her claw up, showing her the wound.
“Why were you even playing with this? Your doll is murdering Seele? With a knife? Because she’s undead?”
Selena gave Gire a look that said that this was normal…and disturbed her as much as the [Paragon]. Which went to show that adults had poor memories of when they were children.
“Visma, I’m sorry.”
Yesne was in tears, and Mrsha patted her on the back with the others as she went to apologize. Visma sniffed.
“I forgive you, Yesne—but not Meera! She’s got to be put to death!”
The other children agreed. They looked to Gire, and the [Paragon] thought she had a handle on this situation now. She put herself into character and nodded, lifting her doll up. She cast one claw down.
“I, Lady Eisna, also move for summary execution. Meera will be, uh, strangled with silken cord at dawn.”
She felt like that was fairly reasonable; none of the children wanted to cut off their dolls’ heads even for the best roleplay. But Visma, Yesne, and Mrsha all looked up at Gire and then whispered amongst each other before shaking their heads.
“That’s so evil. Maybe Herna would forgive Meera after all, Visma.”
“I think so. Lady Eisna is too cruel.”
Too…? But she was trying to…Herna had just stabbed Seele to death! Gire looked at Mrsha, and the little girl sighed. Gire was way too into this. She made things too real.
Before they continued the tea party, though, Visma felt at her claw.
“Mother! I need a healing potion! I’m hurt!”
There were no bandages nor anything else needed in a regular household. Just a healing potion. However, Visma’s mother hesitated.
“Oh—Visma. It’s just a little poke in your scales.”
“Mommy!”
Visma looked outraged, but Selena just sighed.
“Healing potions are twice as expensive as they were a month ago, Visma, and the [Alchemist] told me they might get more costly. No is no. Maybe you’ll learn not to play with needles.”
“Mrsha, lend me your healing potion!”
The Gnoll girl obliged Visma with a drop in secret, but Gire’s ears prickled a bit. Potions were getting more expensive in Liscor? She wondered if the fall of the Plain’s Eye tribe and damage to the other tribes had contributed to that. They didn’t have many [Alchemists], but their people were both [Traders] and supplied herbs.
Then again, to Gire’s knowledge, healing potions were easy to manufacture. But perhaps it was also the demand of adventurers or the new businesses like Liscor Hunted. Or the army gobbling up supplies. And yes, the tea party went back to discussing Liscorian politics and voting in their new member. For Liscor was changing even in the world of dollhouses.
“You want to admit an Antinium and a Goblin into our circle? Are you mad?”
One of the girls parroted one of her dolls. Mrsha wrote furiously, and Visma read out loud.
“They’re both noblewomen! They’ll be—ooh! A female Prognugator who’s Xrn’s distantly-related half-cousin’s sister? And a Goblin Lady?”
“I’m not playing with Goblins!”
A Gnoll girl broke character and folded her arms. Mrsha glared. She was going to buy a Goblin doll—well, she’d have to get it custom-made—and an Antinium one too!
“Bina…”
Visma looked at the Gnoll girl, but the black-furred girl pointed at Mrsha.
“You can’t have a Goblin! Even if you have one in your inn—they’re bad!”
Mrsha bridled, but Visma had an idea.
“Bina, Bina! What if you got a Human doll? And then Mrsha could get her dolls? We’ll let more people in.”
The girls thought about this. One of them, who was fiddling with her worn Drake doll, raised a timid claw.
“C-could I get a new doll too? My birthday is coming up. But I don’t want a Human or Goblin or Antinium. I want…a Garuda.”
“Do they even sell Garuda dolls in Liscor?”
Visma was agog with the notion. Surely not! But the girl whispered confidentially to the others.
“They sell them in Pallass. I’ve got a reservation for tomorrow, and I’m going to get one made with real feathers! There’s one of Bevussa.”
“Oh, get one, get one! And I’ll get a Dullahan!”
“No fair! I want one!”
Visma stamped her foot and clapped her claws together loudly. She rallied the group as they turned to her.
“We’ll share! But we need to figure out what their names will be, and what their stories are—and who’s marrying whom! We need more dolls! Who has more?”
“Einne, the daughter of the Carpenter’s Guildmaster, has two dozen.”
“I hate Einne.”
“Let’s invite her. Come on, Yesne. We should get a Garuda, a Dullahan—and they can be the nobles from Pallass. Then they’ll come here, and the Goblin, um…falls in love with a Pallassian [General]!”
Everyone oohed at this stroke of brilliance. Another Visma classic. Gire rubbed at her head. She felt—instinctively—that maybe it was time to find Ekhtouch again. Mrsha was a great and wonderful friend. But…Gire decided first she’d finally talk to them and tell them to get a price count in other cities and tribes for healing potions. Then they needed to gather, but they should be establishing ties with other tribes, so she’d send a [Message] to Feshi first…
It wasn’t fun, but it beat playing with damn dolls.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had a hammer, a nail, and a sheet of parchment.
Tekshia Shivertail had a spear.
“Stay away from my guild.”
It was being rebuilt, and Antinium were already working on the foundation—more advanced [Builders] under Hexel himself would finish once a framework was up. That was one of the newer systems in Liscor that allowed work for both groups.
“Aw, come on, Tekshia. I’ll just—I’m not gonna break it twice, and if I do, what’s left to break? Okay—okay! Don’t stab me. How about…the Watch House?”
“How about your inn?”
Erin ignored that. But she never made it to the Watch House, Liscor’s City Hall, or even the Mage’s Guild. A wall of [Guardsmen] blocked her, and a desperate [Mage] threw up a [Forcewall].
“You guys! Aw, man. Do I have to do my inn? I really don’t want to knock down my own walls.”
Even she was apprehensive as she wheeled back to her inn. Lyonette hesitated.
“Erin—if you think it’ll do any damage—don’t post that quest.”
“Fine, fine. I think I can stop it. Geeze, you make one guild fall down and everyone thinks you’ll do it again.”
A crowd followed Erin up the hill. She hadn’t said she was posting another <Quest>, but everyone could tell.
However, did they know what she’d said to Nerrhavia’s Fallen? No. Only the people in the inn knew, and while most were reporting to their friends or allies, you could argue people were still in denial.
As in, they said things like ‘yes, she posted a <Mythical Quest>, but so what? Other [Innkeepers] can do that. She’s an important [Innkeeper], but that’s all.’
The irrefutable proof was when Erin Solstice got a gift from the Titan of Baleros. When you began to add up the events she was involved in, or the rumors about her. Indeed—in the courts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and to Yisame herself, the question was rapidly becoming not ‘who is Erin Solstice and why do I care?’, but ‘how can I talk to Erin Solstice?’
For she had something they wanted.
Erin Solstice took a breath, put the piece of parchment up, and watched as Ishkr bailed out a window. He landed in the grass, and Apista crawled out after him.
“Oh, come on, guys—”
“Aah! Wait! I must run! I do not want to fall to my death!”
Bird panicked in the tower, and Erin blew out her cheeks. She raised the hammer and concentrated. Everyone flinched as the hammer came up, and Erin struck the nail.
Tep.
The sound was so small only the Gnolls heard it, and Erin bent the nail sideways. She tried to recorrect, blinking, and hit her thumb.
“Argh! My thumb! Hey! What’s going on?”
Erin took a few more swings at the piece of paper and hammered the parchment into the wall a bit. Then she stared at the parchment. She tugged at it and it tore right off the nail. Erin poked at the ink and then looked up at her guests.
“…Uh oh.”
 
——
 
She didn’t post the quest. In fact, Erin was pretty sure she couldn’t post the quest. Which raised an interesting conundrum.
“What do you mean, you can’t post it?”
“I just can’t, Lyonette. It doesn’t feel like it’ll work. And you saw it. I can’t make it…click. Like, you know, I know all the requirements are there and it’ll work? Just like the <Basic Quests>. But this time, I feel like I could post it. It’s just not time yet.”
Lyonette looked helplessly at Kevin, and the young man scratched at his head.
“…The <Mythical Quest> is on cooldown. She probably can’t post one the day after the last one. That’s how things work in games.”
“Oh. But Erin could post a <Basic Quest> every hour!”
Erin was nodding. She sat at the table as the other guests tried not to listen in too obviously.
“Yeah, but that’s <Basic Quest>. I never tried <Rare Quest>, but I bet it’s at least a day. And then there’s <Heroic Quest> and then <Mythical Quest>. So…if that’s the case, how long do I have to wait?”
She felt a sudden sinking sensation in her chest. Because she’d just had a thought.
I have a lot of quests I want to post. She didn’t know if it was wise to post them all at once, and she’d been worried about that. Now, it occurred to Erin that the problem might not be if it was wise to hand out too many secrets or goals—maybe she wouldn’t be able to post them at all.
“How long do you think it would take for the <Mythical Quest> to…recharge?”
Lyonette looked at Kevin, and he had no answers. At this point, Venaz lifted his head up from his notebook.
“Let’s confirm a few details, Miss Solstice. There’s a ranking order, and I have it as Basic-Rare-Heroic-Mythical; is that the highest? Are there deviations within these ranks? How do you know about this palace of the Immortal Tyrant to post a quest for it or did Nerrhavia grant you that ability?”
Erin Solstice’s shoulders hunched, and she turned her head slowly. She’d almost forgotten about them.
Wil Kallinad, Peki of Pomle, Merrik Stoneshield, and Venaz of Hammerad.
“Oh, hey, guys. I didn’t see you come in.”
“Miss Solstice. I hope we’re not disturbing you?”
Wil gave her his most polite smile and bow from his seat. Venaz just stared until Merrik elbowed him.
“Ah—good morning, Miss Solstice. I was hoping to have a rematch of chess and then get your take on historical events of the last year. From your perspective. About these quests? I would be happy to explore any nuances of the phenomenon. I am—that is, we are the Titan’s finest students.”
The Minotaur gave Erin his winning smile, and Erin stared at it.
“…Nah. I’m good. Why don’t we continue this discussion in, um, the garden, guys?”
She looked at Lyonette, and Venaz stood up instantly, distressed.
“Miss Solstice! We are accredited [Strategists] and students of the Titan! He instructed us to help you in any way possible.”
“Great. It’s just—you guys give me real Chaldion vibes. So, um. Thanks, but I’ll let you know.”
“Is that a compliment?”
Peki whispered to Merrik. He rolled his eyes.
“What do you think?”
“No…?”
Erin wanted to roll away, but Lyonette hissed in her ear.
“Erin, that’s Wil Kallinad of House Kallinad of Pheislant! Remember what we said this morning?”
The [Innkeeper] groaned. Before she could make a determination on whether or not she cut the [Strategists] into her learning about <Quests>, the door opened.
The bouncers at the door were still the Thronebearers, but they had been at least augmented by the two former Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, Normen and Alcaz. They were letting in guests and the general public, because Lyonette had decided it was time to start earning money.
There wasn’t the same…rush that Normen vaguely remembered. Oh, there were a lot of lookie-loos who wanted to see what Erin was doing, but they bought snacks and drinks. Which saved Ishkr since the staff wasn’t there, true.
