“I could turn it into something else. Something nasty, even. But that’d be a waste.”
“Why?”
Ulvama had come back, and the [Shaman] stared challengingly at Erin. The [Innkeeper] frowned at the Hob she didn’t really know and replied slowly.
“Because it’s contentment. Happiness. Relief…well, it’s not all nice. Some of it’s bitter or—it’s like a soup stock. It wants to be one thing. And I could turn it into something completely opposite like wrath because it is power, but I’d lose like…two-thirds since I don’t know what I’m doing.”
Oh. The [Mages] got it. Bezale murmured to Palt.
“Sounds like elemental magicore.”
The Centaur shuddered.
“Dead gods, I hope not. She’d kill all of us if it’s anywhere near that toxic.”
Ulvama, on the other hand, just gave Erin a nod, as if she’d passed some basic test. Erin was trying to put it into simpler terms for Mrsha.
“Okay, let’s say you have vegetable soup stock. You could make something super meaty out of it like you would with beef broth, but why would you when it clearly goes well as vegetable soup stock? It takes more effort, and in this case, you’ll get less soup.”
Numbtongue raised a hand.
“Is soup like magic?”
“It is for [Witches]. Doesn’t it make sense?”
It seemed a bit too simple, so Imani pushed Erin slightly.
“Okay, Erin. What are we making?”
“Um…something that can be made in a pan. Like this. I could transfer it, but I don’t really want to try. What’s nice to eat? Any ideas?”
The [Bard] lifted one eyebrow.
“Soup?”
He was kicked out of the kitchen. A thank-you gift was not soup, and soup was very hard to magically transport. Mrsha leapt around excitedly and held up a card.
“Sugar! Sweet things!”
“Ooh, good idea, Mrsha! Imani, now it’s your turn. What sugary things do you make in a pot?”
The [Chef] was having some novel cogitation here, because Erin was demanding something that was adjacent to cooking—but not quite. It was like playing a game of Scrabble rather than writing an essay; Imani had to run down a list of pot-based sweets.
“Er…melted sugar? As in, sugar glass? I was going to do some of that. Or a sauce or jam, but—”
Erin waved excitedly at Imani.
“Oh! Oh! That’s a great idea! Candy, or a lollipop! But I hate those, so maybe just a candy. Like…gemstones, yeah. Only edible. And I could fill them up with something tasty. You know what I’m talking about?”
All the Earthers had an image of the quintessential candy treat. Numbtongue just imagined eating sweet gemstones and hoped his teeth could handle it.
“Well, I can help you with that. Let’s get the ingredients out.”
Relieved at some direction, Imani began the basics for sugar glass. She didn’t know how to make the exact candies Erin wanted, but she’d done sugar glass for fun before. It was actually very simple, although they had no corn syrup or cream of tartar. Happily, Imani had a few Skills to make up for that.
“[Ingredients Stabilization]. Once we get it into liquid form, that will stop the sugar from becoming crystals. But it won’t have much beyond sugar, water, and whatever flavoring you want—Erin!”
They were making a bowl of sugar, water, and what Imani thought could substitute for cream of tartar—lemon juice. Erin had the pot heating on the stove under a mild flame, but she refused to open it to let ‘the good stuff’ out until they were ready to dump the ingredients in.
However, she had already begun to deviate from normal as she chopped up a piece of Sage’s Grass. Innocently, Erin sprinkled it in along with some sweet blue juice.
“What? Come on, Imani. This won’t hurt it.”
“Just—warn me before you throw something in! Once we make the sugar glass, what’s the plan?”
“A…muffin.”
Imani raised the spoon she was using to stir the mixture with dangerously. Erin waved her hands.
“No, listen! A sugar glass muffin! And then we fill it with batter or something nice. Doesn’t that sound cool?”
“It sounds like you’ll cut your mouth to pieces eating a hard shell and then a weird, underbaked interior.”
“Okay. Maybe lollipops or just regular candies. This is why you’re here, Imani.”
“I don’t want credit for this. Literally, don’t reference me in any part of the finished product.”
Erin sighed, but she opened the lid of the pot and quickly dumped in the sugary water. She closed the lid as the pot began to warm the sugar glass mixture, and Imani objected again.
“Erin! It’ll boil way too fast with the lid on! You’ll burn it—you need to be stirring and watching the sugar glass constantly!”
The [Innkeeper] cursed.
“Darn, you sure? The good stuff needs to be in there! It’ll get out! Stay, stay—”
She spoke to the pot like it was a dog or something was inside and opened it to stir rapidly, then closed the lid. Imani closed her eyes.
“I—guess you could keep the lid closed, but keep checking! It needs to not heat up fast or it will caramelize. But it does need to get to—I don’t know the temperature. [Burn Protection]!”
She pointed at the pot, and Erin raised a hand.
“Alright! [Chef] and [Innkeeper] powers combined!”
She never got an answering high-five. Imani grabbed the spoon.
“Keep stirring. Are you going to taste-test it?”
“You have all these great ideas, Imani. Although…it’s a [Witch]’s brew.”
“So they don’t taste-test what they make?”
“Eh…it’s sorta risky. But hey, that’s what we have volunteers for, right, Numbtongue? Numbtongue?”
 
——
 
It was still fun to watch. Lyonette kept dashing into the kitchen to pull out plates because the guests had flipped on having a dinner.
“I’m so sorry we’re delayed, sir—”
Even with pre-made food, she was having trouble, but the [Trader] waved it off. He looked at Ishkr, balancing eight plates and scolding Liska as he took half the room. Lyonette was the one falling behind. She, like Erin, had no Skills in the field.
“Not at all. Is that a [Preservation] that makes the food so fresh?”
“Yes, exactly! A Wandering Inn specialty! We—I’m sorry, I have to go!”
The man watched as Lyonette sped off. There was no one at the bar, which meant people were waiting for drinks. A Drake leaned on the counter.
“I’ll have a Frost Dragon shot, no bones.”
“A…I’m sorry, one second. A what?”
Drassi was supposed to be the [Bartender], but she’d moved on to bigger and better things. Lyonette, flustered, began to call Ser Sest over, but the Thronebearers and Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were occupied.
 
——
 
“Excuse me, Miss Erin.”
Ser Sest appeared at the kitchen window and nearly scared Imani and Erin to death. They were watching the sugar, which had come to a boil, cool. It was a very simple thing, making sugar glass.
Erin just made it so darn complicated. Imani leapt and grabbed for Erin—but the apologetic [Knight] simply grabbed a piece of air and began towing it away.
“You may wish to close the shutters.”
The air was yelping and turned into a shadowy figure with a mask on. Erin stared at Ser Sest.
“Wow, those Thronebearers are good.”
Wil Kallinad nodded appreciatively. There was a thump and a brief scream as Normen kicked someone trying to come through the second-story window. The rest of the clandestines decided infiltration was a bad idea.
And they couldn’t come through the front door, either, because Dame Ushar had some kind of ability that meant that the people waiting to get in she mostly admitted—except for every covert operative whom she would politely direct away.
The [Lord] of Pheislant murmured to the others.
“Never challenge a Thronebearer in court. Find him on the battlefield and beat him to death. I think that’s a saying I heard growing up from the Order of Seasons.”
Erin chortled and went back to checking her glass. It looked like it was cooling, but Imani was right.
“Let’s get a taste-test. We can cool down a little spoonful—it should just taste like sugar. Any volunteers?”
She inserted a spoon quickly and removed some syrupy liquid that was deep, clear blue. Apprehensively, everyone drew back, and a little girl writhed in pain.
Even Visma was afraid, but Mrsha looked at the spoon and saw free sugar. Free magic sugar. She weighed this against a burnt tongue or eating something bad and raised a paw. She closed her eyes as Erin let Palt blow cold air over the spoon, then Erin popped it into her mouth.
“Mrsha?”
 
——
 
In a moment like this, everyone stared at the little Gnoll, or the [Innkeeper], or the pot. Which was why, in Shriekblade’s experience, that was when you should drop from the ceiling and behead everyone.
Since that wasn’t what she wanted to do, she looked for anyone about to do that. The Named-rank Adventurer heard a commotion below her, but she was looking out for…well.
The people not even the Thronebearers or the Brothers could find. They were good bodyguards, and Tessa was no specialist. She was a [Rogue], but even the specialized Thronebearers could run into someone much higher-level than them.
If there was someone like that in the inn, that was whom Tessa hunted and killed.
She didn’t think there was, at least, not anyone she’d not already marked. Anyone around her level knew she was in the inn since she wasn’t trying to hide her presence that much. If they tried coming through the second floor window like an idiot, they knew they were risking their lives.
Still, she was trying to prove how valuable she was to the [Princess], so when Lyonette, panting, drew Ser Dalimont aside for a checkup on security, Tessa joined them.
“Only spies, Dalimont? No one high-level?”
“Not that we could find.”
“Me either.”
The Thronebearer nearly drew his sword, and Lyonette muffled a scream as Tessa appeared. As if they’d forgotten her. Well, she hadn’t moved for two days from her hiding spot. Just enjoyed being free of that nagging cloud in her head.
“Tessa! Adventurer Tessa—you’ve been watching? No one’s…come in?”
Lyonette had an eye on Ishkr and the bar. People were waiting for drinks, and Liska was messing them all up. She groaned, and Tessa shook her head.
“High-levels are easy for me to spot.”
“But if they have concealment—”
“I’m high-level. It’s easy for me. Saliss is obvious. He moves too well.”
Dalimont politely nodded, still watching Tessa. She shook her head.
“There’s a lot of Level 30’s in this inn. But I’m certain only three people are above Level 40, including me.”
“That’s a relief.”
Lyonette sighed and then frowned as she had a thought.
“Over Level 40? Is Saliss here?”
“No.”
“Chaldion? Grimalkin, Pelt?”
“Nope.”
“Then who…”
Erin Solstice was one. So was Tessa herself. Lyonette’s first thought was that one of the Horns or another adventurer had reached that lofty goal, or Kiish or the [Strategists], but Tessa thought that they were hovering below that capstone. There were other members of the inn’s family that were pushing Level 30.
She eyed Ser Dalimont.
“He’s sitting in the common room. He’s not hostile. You let him in.”
Dalimont paled.
“That’s impossible. Ushar would notice a [Spy], even Level 50, if they walked up to her—”
“Well. He’s not a spy.”
Lyonette spun towards the common room just in time to see someone stand up and move across the room. Tessa’s claw pointed out the [Trader] as he stepped over to the bar where the angry queue was haranguing Liska.
“No, a Frost Dragon shot. No bones! That means—”
Liska was about to snap back and tell the Human with his worn vest he couldn’t be behind the bar when he removed his vest in one go. It vanished into a bag of holding, and she blinked at the long, white sleeves, deep maroon overcoat, and oddly trim look to his attire. He took the bottle she was trying to measure into a shot, and his hands blurred.
Tessa could stab a man eighteen times before he blinked. She saw the newcomer’s hands move about as fast—only his result wasn’t a dead body but a shot glass, which slid into the angry Drake’s claw.
“Frost Dragon shot. Firebreath Whiskey, one half, Cenidau Frostsip. No bones; no ice. Apologies for the wait. Here is your drink, your drink, your drink—and there appears to be no bourbon in stock.”
Three orders appeared, and the man moved past the bar as the startled customers paid up or sipped at the drinks. Lyonette started across the room.
“Who is that—”
She heard an exclamation and then saw him reappear with two dozen orders. This time, the rest of the guests had noticed him, and Numbtongue put a hand on his sword. He stared at the stranger as a floating plate zoomed across the room onto a table.
The ‘[Trader]’ winked at Lyonette and then stepped back as Ser Dalimont charged at him. He side-stepped the [Knight], and as Ser Dalimont turned, a table moved of its own volition and blocked the [Knight]. Ser Dalimont slammed into it, and the newcomer raised his hands.
“Forgive me if I’m disturbing things. I just saw the inn was understaffed and decided to lend a hand. I’ll remove myself if I’m unwanted, but at least let me see what she’s going to make.”
His eyes twinkled, and he stood taller as Lyonette pointed at him. Tessa was still relaxed. Lyonette grabbed her arm, and Shriekblade nearly stabbed her.
“Who is that?”
Tessa removed Lyonette’s arm fast and shrugged.
“I thought you knew? He’s not dangerous. The Gold-ranks are more threatening. He’d be annoying to fight since this is an inn, but he’s just an [Innkeeper]. Definitely over Level 40.”
Lyonette looked up and saw eyes like twinkling stars. As if the pupils had a shine. That innocuous man turned, and he had the air like one of the Players of Celum. A pause about him, and then she saw his uniform and that wink. He strode forwards with another wink as the table and chairs moved out of Ser Dalimont’s path.
“Do you need a hand, Miss? The innkeeper’s floor is a battleground, but a [Princess] is outmatched in our territory.”
“Are you…?”
There was one stop along her journey south that the [Princess] Lyonette had wanted to make, but she had been wary of being spotted. Yet it was a famous inn, the most famous in the continent. She looked at the [Innkeeper] and realized—
The competition had come to scope out Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
Erin didn’t notice the commotion at first. She was staring at the pot as it cooled. She was a bit disappointed.
It wasn’t as magical as she was hoping. Oh, it was made well, but she glanced sideways at Imani and felt a bit…annoyed.
Imani was making the cooking good. But good was not magic. It was like a tug-of-war, and Erin felt like she’d lost something.
It’d still do something. And judging from Mrsha’s reaction, it was the best darn sugar glass she’d ever had. She was rolling around, waving her paws at the others.
