“I’ve bathed in the blood of my enemies. I’ll eat raw meat if I have to. Give me one.”
Foliana ignored him. She tasted the blood sauce and found it was savory. Then she nibbled at the piece of sugar glass. Then—took a big bite.
For all his bluster, even Niers winced at the first bite Three-Color Stalker took. Because even if she was a Named Adventurer and had been a [Gourmand]—she sliced up her mouth on the glass.
It hurt. But it was only faint cuts, not a sharp pain. Foliana chewed with a faint grimace, then felt something else tingling on her tongue.
The potion inside. It soothed the cuts, and the pain she’d braced herself for faded. It didn’t make the experience of chewing glass any less painful, but the entire treat was symbolic.
The pain was no fun, but it was what came after that made Foliana’s eyes widen and stop. Niers had a moment of panic, because he’d never seen that expression on Foliana’s face.
The gift had been watched from the moment it left Erin’s inn to now. There was no way it was poison or dangerous—unless Erin wanted them dead. But she wouldn’t…
Complacency. He had fallen for a trap, because he’d been blind once before. Niers croaked.
“[Healer]. [H—”
A paw gently shot out and stopped him from calling for help. The Titan breathed again as Foliana blinked. Then she swallowed.
“What was that? Foliana? What did it taste like?”
For answer, she showed him the card. At the bottom, Erin Solstice had written the name of her new treat. Her invention.
It wasn’t something she’d make much of. It was a very special, accidental bit of magical cooking. Frankly, not even sugar-loving Mrsha would enjoy hurting herself to complete the experience.
But what was the sensation you had when the potion kicked in? What…could Erin distill from that long picnic?
The emotions around her death, the quiet contemplation of all that had been done and sacrificed? She could have drawn many emotions from there. Contentment. Happiness. Grief, even uncertainty or satisfaction.
But what she’d pulled out of the explosion, what she’d decided to make for the wounded commander of the Forgotten Wing Company was something simple. It was written right there in the name:
 
Shards of Relief, from The Wandering Inn.
PS. Get well soon, Foliana! I’ve never met you, but you seem nice.
 
The Squirrel Beastkin reached for another piece of the snack and dipped it in the sauce before taking a bite. Niers stared up at her and, despite himself, couldn’t feel petty about that. He watched Foliana grimace as she ate the sharp treat.
“I know you like weird food, Foliana, but maybe save it for later? There’s no healing potion while you’re cursed.”
He saw her eyes flicker down to him. Foliana stuck out her tongue at Niers.
“Bleh. You can’t have one.”
“I wasn’t saying—just one would—hm?”
Foliana’s tongue was red. Probably from the sauce. But Niers frowned as he saw a distinct lack of the microcuts he was sure were in her mouth. And then his eyes narrowed as she tore open a second crystal and sipped from the nectar inside. Foliana sighed—and then her eyes sharpened. She stuck her tongue out another time, and he saw no cuts.
“Wait a second. Foliana…you’re cursed.”
She’d left a lot of blood, and the [Assassin] she’d failed to kill had kept her from healing from her wounds with curse magic. There was no way a healing potion, especially a low-grade one, would bypass those Skills or the hexes.
Yet Foliana stretched slightly and this time failed to tear open her stomach wound. In fact…she smacked her lips and turned her head to the door.
“Get me a big healing potion. Now.”
A servant ran as Niers gazed at Foliana. Three-Color Stalker took another bite of the Shards of Relief.
“…How?”
That was all he could think to say. He was stunned. The Commander of the Forgotten Wing company, one of the greatest [Rogues] in the world, savored each bite of the sharp thank-you present. And she decided that it was one of the best she’d ever gotten. Amused, she gazed down at Niers.
“Nothing like a [Witch] for breaking curses. There must have been a lot of magic in these things.”
All the magic of a Level 46 [Innkeeper] and her closest guests. Niers Astoragon whistled softly. And the apprehension—exasperation, fine—and a bit of pique he’d been feeling faded into…something else.
He reached for the smallest Shard of Relief, and Foliana flicked him off the table.
“Mine.”
“Foliana!”
 
——
 
Imani knew that nothing would ever be the same. Not because Erin had worked wonders there.
Or rather, not just because she’d done something crazy, dangerous, and magical.
The Wandering Inn would change, because, after Erin sent off the Shards of Relief, after she changed the world in her way, she wheeled herself back into the kitchen and went back to cooking.
“Okay, this time, let’s make them a lot softer. Less sharpness, more…candy. Can we do jello stuff? I think it should be blue. Blue fruits are our specialty! We need, like…what’s jello made of?”
“Gelatin? We actually have some, Erin. You would not believe how we got a source, actually.”
Imani watched as Erin poured a new base into a pot. She’d lost all her witchy-magic, so she was back to [Wondrous Fare].
That was enough. Erin poured a mana potion into the pot in lieu of water. Far less sugar, a bit of gelatin…she hummed as the guests calmed down outside.
“~♪~ Sugar glass, sugar glass. Put a bit of mana in it and it’ll be done in a flash! And taste like—”
Mrsha and Bird waited for her to finish her song, but Erin hesitated. Numbtongue tried to say what rhymed with flash, but Lyonette covered his mouth.
Unfortunately, Mrsha figured it out. She was still rolling about and giggling silently as Erin tried to work the quickly cooling sugary ‘glass’ into what she needed. This time, it was a lot less sharp. But she was trying to pour the cooling mixture into something other than a pan.
“I need—perfect circles! Spheres! But hollow! Is there a mold I could use or something? Tiny spheres! I’m making candy!”
Kevin raised one hand.
“Take two half-circles and put them together. There’s gotta be something circular in the inn. Maybe just use shot glasses if you have to and, like, cut then glue them together. Any [Carpenter] can make a tray.”
Erin pointed at him.
“Kevin, you’re a genius.”
“Um. No, it’s sorta basic shapes. But thanks.”
It took Erin nearly an hour in the kitchen. In truth, she took that long because the first batch wasn’t enough, and she made copious mistakes. But small ones, like overheating her mix, then figuring out how to extract the hardened, resinous candy without breaking them or the shot glasses into pieces.
Erin decided she needed to order custom molds like Kevin said, but got the second batch to work with a bit of oil coating the glass so she could pop it out when the mix was done.
Then she had two semi-transparent light cyan semi-spheres which she could glue together, carefully, carefully. Erin muttered as she put the last of barely ten candies on the table.
“Okay, I need to put them together, seal them—with a bit of heat—and then bore a hole and fill them up. Each. Wow, this is too much work. I quit! I’m out!”
Exasperated, she tried to wheel away, but Mrsha tugged her back. Erin grumbled.
“…Fine. How about some blueberries? Also, I need Sage’s Grass and, um…what else is magical? You know what, blue juice and Sage’s Grass might do. It’s not going to be the biggest thing ever, right? Get me more mana potion and…you know, it needs something else.”
“Dreamleaf extract? I’ve got—”
“Palt, I will stab you! How about some honey?”
Even then, the filled circular candies were missing something. A bit of the razzle-dazzle. Erin thought they were fairly magical, but even if they were far less involved than the Shards of Relief…she pursed her lips.
“It’s not magic-y enough. Octavia? How do you make something super-magical? Pisces? Ceria?”
Three of her friends looked up, and each replied with a different answer.
“Kill something even more magical and use its parts. Or soak it in magical bases for months.”
“Uh—put it in the center of a magical leyline of some kind? Or a small focusing ritual?”
“Bury it in a graveyard for a century?”
Erin looked at the three and pointed a finger.
“…Ceria. Ceria’s our person. Pisces too, sort of. Even Octavia.”
“Yay, me.”
The [Innkeeper] pointed at her [Garden of Sanctuary].
“What we’ll do is—we’ll bury these in a little jar. They’ll stay good, especially if it’s airtight. We just bury it around the Sage’s Grass and pull it out after a few days or a week or more. And tada, more magic! But these will probably do as prototypes. Wanna taste?”
She offered them around, and since they looked decent and nothing had gone boom this time, her guests all took one and thoughtfully chewed or bit it in half.
They were sweet pieces of sugar glass that had a bit more give than pure glass thanks to the gelatin. And if you decided you didn’t want to wait for them to dissolve, you’d get a burst of honey and blue juice in the center.
Delightfully sweet. Ceria put three in her mouth and got the ire of everyone else because that meant only seven were left. Mrsha sucked on hers happily. Yep, this was pretty good! Then she frowned and produced her wand. She made a big ball of [Light] appear.
“Mrsha! That’s wonderful! Did Gire teach you that?”
Mrsha nodded absently. She felt her hair lifting on end and then glanced at Erin. The [Innkeeper] waited.
“Well? Do you feel mana-full?”
“It’s like…a weak, weak, weak mana potion.”
Octavia chewed on hers thoughtfully. Erin beamed and clapped her hands together.
“Yes, exactly! I call it—mana balls! No, mana orbs! Orbs of mana! Mana…magic…”
“Mana Candies?”
Palt removed one from his mouth and decided this was the best mana potion he’d ever eaten. The regular mana potions? Sometimes he did think if he kicked up a ball of dirt and added it to the mana potion it would taste better.
Erin agreed. She explained to her test group the theory behind her Mana Candies.
“So what you do is you eat it. And it’ll slowly release mana, hence the shell. And inside is, like, more mana concentrated. I think kids’ll love it and [Mages] too. Best of all, it’s not the hardest thing to make, and I don’t need to gather stuff like for the Shards of Relief. What do you think, Bezale?”
Erin tried to include the Minotauress into the discussion since Montressa was gone and Bezale looked left out. That turned out to be a mistake. The [Spellscribe] folded her arms.
“…So it works exactly like a mana potion? Except it’s less potent, you have to wait a bit for them to fill you, and they’ll go bad unlike mana potions, which last a long time if the bottles are sealed.”
The reproachful look Erin gave Bezale made the Minotauress relent a bit.
“…But they taste sweet.”
“Yep. Not like that’s cool or anything. Not like I just made some lovely candies that anyone can eat. I don’t see anyone else selling candy. See if I make you a candy cane come Christmas. I could even do cool shapes, but too bad it’s only slightly magical.”
Erin sulked as Mrsha patted her on the hand and glared at Bezale. The Minotauress closed her eyes.
“I’m sorry I don’t enjoy sweet things that much. Will they have more effects if you bury them in the ground for a while?”
The [Innkeeper] sighed.
“Nah, probably not. They’ll just restore more mana. They’re really just treats and stuff. I think it’ll sell? It’s a Wandering Inn-exclusive, though! Imani can’t make these without [Wondrous Fare].”
“Oh no, whatever will we do, dear? She’s running us out of business.”
Palt hugged Imani dramatically and planted a kiss on her head. Erin rolled her eyes, but everyone was chuckling in relief. Erin nodded as she noted the recipe down.
“Just ordinary mana candy restoratives. But you probably don’t get mana burn from these.”
Ceria slowly stopped chewing on her huge mouthful of candy. She narrowed her eyes. What, as in the conundrum of all [Mages] when you drank so many mana potions you were incapable of replenishing your magic without poisoning yourself? Bezale froze and turned back to Erin.
“…go on.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was filled with cheers when Erin Solstice came out with the mana candies. Lyonette went around the tables, telling everyone that they’d be a regular on the menu in a week—and they’d keep for another week!
Maybe they wouldn’t be an adventurer’s new standby, especially since they would grow stale, but they were useful and the first of new magical foods. The Wandering Inn was back!
Erin Solstice was back, and people were marking her name down. Not in the same category as the Titan of Baleros, but if there was a map for people, not places, hers was on it. And The Wandering Inn got its own spot on regular maps.
Individuals in Izril and elsewhere that had never bothered to look into a few coincidences sat up and marked her name. They looked into her background and began factoring her into their plans. As an obstacle or ally. She could be either, and if she were an enemy—well, at least it was proven that she had a weakness to being shot.
Which, to be fair, was most people’s. However, the proof of this was in none other than the man who greeted Erin Solstice in front of all the tables he’d helped serve with Ishkr. He looked like a performer, an [Actor], and a [Waiter] all crossed together.
“Erin…this is…”
The [Innkeeper] had been cooking all day, so she’d barely left the kitchen. She blinked as the man offered her a bow.
“No way. Are you an [Innkeeper]? Like Timbor? You’re…high-level.”
“Miss Erin Solstice, my name is Barnethei, and I must apologize for the subterfuge earlier. I came to Liscor last week and did a tour of the city. My inn is The Adventurer’s Haven in the north. I wonder if Liscor has heard of it?”
Erin’s brows shot together. The Adventurer’s Haven? It sounded so…
“Erin, that’s the most famous inn in Izril! It’s up north, close to First Landing! This is—”
The highest-level [Innkeeper] in Izril. Or was he? Erin felt a similar level of—intensity from him. She felt he could do amazing things, and certainly, he could make dishes levitate, and she suspected that was only a drop in the bucket of his talents.
Yet he wasn’t more than her. In fact, Barnethei gave Erin a deep bow.
“I’m afraid your [Princess] is mistaken, Innkeeper Solstice.”
Lyonette started and looked around hurriedly.
“I’m not a—”
Mrsha, Numbtongue, and half the guests rolled their eyes. Yes, yes. Skip that part, would you?
The other [Innkeeper] nodded to Erin.
