It was actually amazing that the [Head Server] was covering all the tables with Liska and Lyonette’s occasional help plus a few Antinium trainees. Still, that was because the guests were simpler in their desires.
Lyonette was wavering between helping Ishkr and persuading Erin not to flee. The [Strategists] weren’t making it any better—Venaz had pulled over Niers’ chess board and the [Message] scroll.
“The Titan of Baleros is available to talk, Miss Solstice.”
“Mm…okay. But am I?”
The Players of Celum might not be performing, but that was a good floor show, watching Venaz’s reactions. Lyonette found herself serving a Human whom she had never met before.
“Hello! I’m sorry about the slight delay—we’ve just reopened. But I can get your order to you right away. Are you new to Liscor?”
“I just came through that magical door from Invrisil. On holiday. I—oh, interesting. I think I’ll have a ‘blue fruit’ to start with, please. Everyone said that was the unique drink to get. Because it’s poisonous.”
“We make sure it’s not here, sir. And to eat?”
The man looked blankly at the menu.
“Pizza, hamburgers, ice cream, oh, even cake and…”
Lyonette smiled as he ran down the list of new foods—and those weren’t even the complex ones! Yet the finger went down the list of fine foods as well, and he frowned.
“—I think I’ll pass, thanks.”
“Huh?”
Lyonette did a double-take and wondered if she was looking at…an Earther? Another one? But this man was in his forties, and he looked very comfortable in his [Trader]’s vest and attire. He leaned back and patted his stomach and decided, no, he wasn’t hungry.
“Maybe some of your ‘Fireflake Fries’, then. I’ve eaten most of the new foods at other restaurants.”
“Y-you have?”
The [Princess] gave the Human man an uncomprehending stare, and he offered her a cheery smile.
“There’s pizza on option in almost every restaurant. Some of the dishes aren’t on your menu—wonderful spread. But I was just at The Drunken Gnoll, which is one of the eateries.”
Lyonette realized the problem instantly. Imani cooked for Timbor. And she, since The Wandering Inn was closed, had developed a name for herself as the food provider in the much more accessible, safe inn.
Worse? All of Erin’s foods had long since been stolen. The man saw Lyonette’s expression and hastened to reassure her—or try to.
“I had to come to The Wandering Inn and see where all the foods started. The Players of Celum, the foods—it’s a fine establishment. Entertaining. Vintage. Classic.”
That last word sounded like the doom of establishments to Lyonette. She bit her lip, but then put on a big smile and got the food. And then the significant guest walked into the inn.
Venaz was trying to get Erin to play a game of chess in vain—she was giving him a smile about as genuine as his when someone interrupted them.
“Erin Solstice. Might I trouble you for some time?”
Erin glanced up and then blinked.
“Oh! Kiish!”
And there she was. [Strategist] Kiish of Desonis, the right-hand of Earl Altestiel, glanced at the students of the Titan of Baleros as they turned and sized her up. Venaz blinked.
“Strategist Kiish?”
He met her gaze, and the woman fiddled with her glasses.
“What a surprise to meet the famous students of the Titan of Baleros. It’s lovely to see new faces in our class. Erin, do you have time?”
She ignored the students as Erin turned.
“Of course, Kiish! I thought you were leaving…?”
“Presently. My work is done, but the Earl wondered if you might spare some time to talk? I have a speaking stone, and I believe he’s free this afternoon.”
Erin blinked. Time for the [Earl] who’d helped bring her back to life? She didn’t see Wil groan and Venaz writing a note to the Titan.
“Of course. Hey, would you like a game of chess?”
Kiish smiled.
“I believe the Earl would like one first if possible.”
“Hey, let’s pull up a board!”
Kiish nodded and then glanced around. She met Merrik’s eye for a moment and then seemed to spot the chess board coincidentally placed on a nearby table. She pulled a speaking stone from her pouch and cued it up as she began setting the board. She picked up the Titan of Baleros and put his chess piece in the ‘king’ spot.
“Earl Altestiel, Miss Solstice is here. Would you like to play a game?”
Her eyes glittered. Erin missed it as she greeted Altestiel, but Venaz had stopped writing abruptly. The Minotaur suddenly wondered if The Wandering Inn was scrying-proof. Probably not. And if it were—he was fairly sure informants and other methods could give you a clear view into the inn.
Peki was the one who summed it up best. She looked from Niers’ gift to Erin having its inaugural game with the Earl of Rains, to Kiish, to Erin, and whispered to Merrik.
“Ooh. Nice cross-counter.”
 
——
 
“So…how’re things, Altestiel?”
“Desonis is technically at war, Erin. Although our forces have not advanced on Ailendamus. We’re watching the borders.”
“Oh, right. The Ailendamus stuff. It looked pretty tough the…last time I heard about it. You know, I really have to thank you.”
“There’s no need, Erin. I only hope that you can visit Desonis sometime. I would offer to travel, but I doubt that will happen so long as the possibility of war remains.”
“I—don’t know if that’s likely.”
Erin Solstice fiddled with a pawn, then moved it forwards two spaces. Oh, it felt like last time they’d met. Dancing on uncertainty.
However, the Earl was entirely understanding. Lyonette was less so. She pinched Erin’s arm and leaned over.
“Earl Altestiel, I pray that you will allow me to visit your estates someday soon. Once I return to Terandria, I will surely call on you if that is acceptable.”
“I would gladly accept, Miss Lyonette.”
Erin looked up, and Lyonette’s face was sad. But she glanced at the Thronebearers and then at Erin. They didn’t have forever.
The young woman sighed. She put her head on the table and stared at the board where her game with Altestiel had begun. Then she saw Kiish, playing a ‘casual’ game with Wil as Venaz watched.
“—Lord of the Dance is also exceptionally glad you made a recovery, Erin. And as I said, if you need any help, Kiish is present to effect it until she leaves.”
“Hm? Oh—I don’t need—Lyonette, pinch me one more time and I will do something.”
Erin snapped and heard a laugh from Altestiel. She blushed, then looked down at the pieces they were playing with. She stared at the Earl’s speaking stone.
“Alright, alright. I get it. Lyonette? Grab something for me. One second, Altestiel?”
“Of course. Let me just ponder my move…”
He didn’t know what was going on, so the clacking sounds didn’t make sense to him, nor the scritch or muttering as Erin made Lyonette set the table up. Altestiel had to confer with Kiish, who looked over her shoulder and wrote a very fast reply.
A second chess board had appeared, and the magical pieces looked very familiar. Also—Erin was writing in a [Message] scroll.
 
Hey, is this thing working?
 
Oh snap. The dolls-playdate with Visma and her friends had ended at The Wandering Inn—so Mrsha could contribute some snacks and money to the new doll fund. Visma looked up from sipping from her cup of blue juice and stared at something far more fascinating than the life and times of the Wall Ladies of Liscor.
“Ah, Erin?”
“Oh, don’t mind me, Altestiel. Still your move.”
Erin pushed forwards a knight and wondered if she wouldn’t get a response. But then a piece moved against it, and she grinned. A line appeared on the [Message] scroll.
 
Hello, Erin. 
 
She froze only for a moment as Kiish glanced at the speaking stone and then at Erin’s quill.
 
Is this my mysterious chess opponent?
None other.
Erin: It’s me, I guess you knew that. Are you Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros? Your students said you were, but I’m just checking.
Niers: That would be me, yes.
 
Erin’s only reaction was a slight outtake of breath. Then she moved a piece against Altestiel.
“Sorry, Altestiel. I’m just playing a second game here. What were you saying about the Lord of the Dance?”
“Who? I—oh, well—he’s an old friend. Famous, in his way. As I said, Desonis is doing quite well. I heard about your <Mythical Quests>. Is that new?”
“Yep. I’m trying to figure it out myself. I’ve got a lot of people who want to know everything, but guess what?”
“Er, what?”
“Turns out <Mythical Quests> have cooldowns, can you believe that? I’m worried it might be weeks or months before I can post another one. But hey—”
Erin reached for a cup of water, took a sip, and then looked around the inn. She stared at Venaz as he went to take a long drink and waited until the mug was halfway up.
“—I’ve got <Heroic Quests> for some stuff. And <Legendary Quests>.”
He began drowning on land. Erin winked at Lyonette. Is this what you wanted? Then she went back to writing.
 
Niers: I hope you didn’t find my gift too troublesome. I was at your inn, actually. I wanted to drop by unannounced, but I ran into some troubles of my own making.
Erin: I heard. Wars and, uh, a coup? No, wait, just a war because it was another Great Company, right?
Niers: A former one. It’s not resolved, but the crisis is over. I believe I have your people to thank, actually. I levelled up in the nick of time to gain an advantage. As for the rest—I’m sorry I wasn’t there when it mattered.
Erin: You did a lot. Really, I can’t believe it. Thank you. Is everything resolved?
Niers: There are a lot of dead bodies, and my commander, Foliana, is wounded. Perorn’s in Izril, but she’s resourceful, and I hope you’ll call on her if you need any help. But I’m pulling on threads, and I’ll have it under control soon.
Erin: Foliana…is she Three-Color Stalker? The giant Squirrel-woman?
Niers: Haha, yes. She’s hurt.
Erin: Badly?
Niers: No, she’ll live. Just completely laid up. Hazards of work; she’s been cursed. But she’ll heal naturally, and it’s just a few cuts.
 
At this point, a huge finger poked the Fraerling in the back as a magical eye glared out of a body with a ‘few cuts’ that included a chunk that was missing from her side. But Erin couldn’t know that.
 
Niers: I’m just sorry we couldn’t meet. I hope Mrsha and Numbtongue and Bird are well, along with Gna and the Fellowship of the Inn?
Erin: Did they really call themselves that?
Niers: I heard it once or twice. Say, are we playing chess? You really are the most difficult opponent I’ve found.
Erin: Thanks.
 
She was, in fact, moving chess pieces across Altestiel’s board as well as Niers’, and so she had almost constant time to be moving one piece or another on her side of the board. Altestiel was trying to keep up with the conversation on his end.
“—tribes that left with the King of Destruction might face a hard time on Chandrar.”
“I don’t know about Chandrar, Altestiel, but I hope that they’ll be safe. Didn’t Fetohep take some in? They’ll be safe in Khelt if anywhere’s safe.”
“Ah, yes. Khelt. I heard a few strange rumors from there when you were—incapacitated, Erin. Do you know Fetohep of Khelt, by any chance?”
Erin stared up at the ceiling for a moment, and her lips moved.
“We’ve talked. But never met face-to-face. I mean, maybe my dead body, but that doesn’t count, right?”
“I see. About these <Quests>. I suppose I should tell you my [Queen] and the leading [Strategist] of Desonis would also want to know about them, so I’d need to report—we can do <Heroic Quests>, you know.”
“Really? Get out! What’s the quest?”
“Er—it is to slay a nest of Hydras that we know has cropped up in some aquatic ruins. Highly dangerous; Gold-ranks would need to go in at least. The crown put gold into the [Innkeeper]’s hands to effect the quest, and multiple teams are going to try and complete it. I’ll say one thing about <Quests>—for now, the incentive is there. If only we could keep that enthusiasm going for quests to kill sewer rats.”
“Ew. I guess you’ll get a few takers, but I’m interested to know what the extra rewards are for the <Heroic Quest>. Will you let me know?”
“Absolutely. And you’re sure there will be extra rewards? As in—ones not promised? I noted in your <Heroic Quest> you offered a Skill. Our [Innkeeper] couldn’t, but he did add ‘experience in <Combat> classes or <Beast Management> professions’. As if those were categories. Do you know anything about that?”
“Mm. Only guesses. It’s sort of like instinct, Altestiel. I didn’t know I could do that until I was posting it—it’s sort of like the extra rewards. I wish I could say for certain.”
“I really should have stayed in Liscor a few more months. There’s no chance that magic door has been upgraded anywhere near First Landing, is there? The seas are still completely upset, but perhaps Kiish could help you with any issues? Desonis does have the resources as well, and aside from this war nonsense, it’s quite free for time. The ‘Bedtime Queen’ proves that.”
Erin moved a piece across Niers’ board and took a bishop. She was writing and speaking, albeit slower on both ends.
“She’s playing them against each other.”
Venaz whispered loudly in Wil’s ear as he took a game off Kiish. She might be a higher-level and more senior [Strategist], but there was no fiercer competition than in the academy. Wil grimaced.
“You think she’s pulling the same trick the Professor did?”
“Why not? It’s a cunning move.”
It would be, wouldn’t it? Erin turned her head and stuck out her tongue at Venaz.
“Rude! Hey, you, Minotaur guy.”
Altestiel and Niers replied at once.
“Minotaur? You mean Calruz?”
The Earl of Rains was a bit too innocent. As for Niers…
 
Niers: What is that idiot doing this time? 
Erin: I don’t recall writing anything about Venaz.
Niers: I may have an ear or two around.
Erin: You and everyone else.
Niers: I don’t make a habit of spying on my chess opponents. This is a rare case. The Earl of Rains is someone I’m acquainted with, actually. I hope I haven’t offended you.
Erin: Nah.
 
Venaz looked at Erin as she pointed a finger at him.
“Listen, Venaz. I don’t know you, and you don’t know me. You’re some big student from the Titan’s academy, right?”
“I am a [Strategist] of Minos studying in Elvallian, so you’re broadly correct. I trust I’m not offending you, Miss Solstice. I can be—abrasive, or so I’m told. I’m simply stating my mind. Feel free to correct me; mistakes are the foundation of learning.”
Venaz folded his arms cautiously. Erin gave him a blank look as she twisted in her seat.
