“Is it good or did she burn her tongue?”
Mrsha was smiling hugely, but she leapt about, doing jump-kicks. She was feeling amazing! It was like a happy rush had filled her from toes to her ears. No, not happy—she felt like she had at the barbecue, but concentrated.
“It’s not one thing yet. See, it’s all kinds of emotions, so I think Mrsha’s getting it unfiltered. I’ll need to change it up.”
Erin sighed as she stared at the pot. It was still trying to remove the lid, and the steam was making it rattle slightly. Imani frowned at the pot and then at Mrsha.
“Is it—are we just making magical drugs, Erin?”
“I’ll try the next—”
Palt backed off as Imani glared at him. Erin shook her head.
“No, that’s not how it works. Think back to the picnic, Imani. How did you feel? It was a relief, wasn’t it? A bit healing? That’s what I’m trying to put into the glass.”
“Oh. Well…I suppose that’s better. So Mrsha’s just getting that?”
The little Gnoll’s antics were beginning to concern the audience. She had gone from grinning excitedly and a sugar-high to suddenly running about and rolling on the inn’s floor. She squirmed, and Erin frowned.
“Hm. Maybe there’s not enough sugar?”
“Not enough—”
“I mean…that’s a small pot. I needed a cauldron, and it’s not much sugar glass. Maybe it’s too concentrated.”
That was a lot of emotion packed into a little amount of liquid. Mrsha was rolling about, panting. Erin glanced at the pot and hesitated.
Was it vibrating? The heat was off, and the sugar glass should have mostly been solid. But the lid was rattling. Erin put one hand on it to keep it shut…and then she developed a worried look on her face.
“Wait a second. Can you be too full of contentment and happiness?”
The others looked blankly at Erin. She elaborated, feeling something building in the pot. Erin gazed at Mrsha, hugging Ulvama’s leg and kicking at the ground, as if trying to subdue the feeling bursting in her, out of control. Pinch me! I’m too happy!
“Like you want to roll around and cry because you’re so happy and everything is so nice? Like you could burst with…?”
One spoonful had done that to Mrsha. And an entire pot of it was sitting on the stove. Erin felt the pressure rising, and Imani’s eyes slowly drifted down to the very small pot, now trying to contain…she looked at the [Innkeeper] and realized her mistake.
She shouldn’t have been here. She and Palt shouldn’t have come to the inn. Imani had been trying to avert another culinary disaster. Instead?
She was standing right next to ground-zero. Erin lifted the pot, and her eyes went wide. She grabbed it to her chest with both hands and squeezed the lid shut.
There was no steam to release, or gases like from baking soda or carbonation, but the lid was shaking, and the pot was making ominous sounds. Erin looked around and then shouted.
“Oh no! Run for it! It’s gonna explode!”
The observers around the doorway broke apart, leaping for safety as Erin Solstice charged out of the inn. The strange [Innkeeper], Lyonette, the guests, saw Erin rolling forwards, holding the lid shut.
“Out of the way! It’s gonna go boom! Push me outside, someone! Hurry!”
One brave soul—Venaz—grabbed Erin’s wheelchair and ran her past the guests as everyone leapt from their tables. Erin was halfway out the door when she saw the people waiting to come in, the Thronebearers, and saw her mistake.
 
——
 
Consider the psychology of some [Spies] or operatives ordered to watch the inn. You were already jumpy because Shriekblade was on the prowl, and there were a lot of people in your line of work, and you’d been blocked from entering the inn, which already made you feel outclassed.
Then the [Innkeeper] you were supposed to watch came rolling out the door, holding a pot. She held it up and screamed.
“No, take me back in! It’ll kill everyone out here! The [Garden]! Get me to—”
A stampede began outside as the door slammed shut. The [Guards] on the wall watched, called in the alarm, and took bets on whether this would escalate. Most veterans didn’t even flinch, to the rookies’ amazement.
This wasn’t even noteworthy unless the top of the inn blew off. Then they’d pay attention.
 
——
 
There was only one place devoid of people that Erin could get to. She made Venaz turn, and the door to the [Garden] opened. Erin prayed that Bird wasn’t in there and threw the pot. It had begun to jerk, and she swore she felt the metal deforming as the pressure reached a critical point.
Too late she realized something. Her concoction of not-quite-finished magical cooking?
She’d just hurled it into the most magically charged room in the inn. Straight at the hill filled with Sage’s Grass. The door slammed shut, and Erin turned her head and screamed.
“Take c—”
 
——
 
Numbtongue hadn’t really expected much from the pot. It might blow its lid in, what, a cloud of deadly happiness? But he thought Erin was overexaggerating as she tossed the pot.
Then the inn shook. A rumble went through the walls and his feet. He almost staggered, and the guests cried out in alarm. The Hobgoblin decided to draw his sword again.
“What was that? What was—Himilt, a Goblin—”
A man was ducked under the table next to another one. Both had faintly red eyes, and Numbtongue thought they were fairly handsome. Nice teeth. They stared at him with a bunch of red jars on the table as the Hobgoblin rushed forwards with everyone else. Erin Solstice had her hand on the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She opened it with a trembling hand as the mysterious [Innkeeper] and the other guests crowded around.
Erin looked into the garden and gasped. Mrsha, recovered from her contentment-overload via the application of mortal terror, peeked around Erin’s wheelchair and gasped as well.
The garden was not a shredded wasteland from the pot exploding. The top of the pot had blown off as the contents were released, free from Erin’s grip at last.
The pot’s lid was still in the air. Bird had seen it shoot out of the roof of the inn and was staring up at it as it soared into the distance.
“Pot birds? Why did no one tell me—”
But the contents of the pot hadn’t gotten that far. They’d showered up, and now—
They were drifting down. Erin looked up at the failed sugar glass, which had always been too sensible by half. The nearly-cooled mixture hadn’t been able to take that much emotion after all. It had exploded upwards like shrapnel. And that—that was what was drifting down, defying the laws of gravity.
It looked like splinters of glass, some light blue, others flecked with brilliant flakes of currant or rose-red. Shards of semi-transparent sugar, warped like a fragment of wood from the incredible stresses only an explosion could create.
“Sugar daggers.”
Shriekblade gazed up as the magical pieces of glass spun as they fell to earth. Venaz reached out and almost took one, but hesitated. Erin caught one in her hand, and the edges were sharp and nearly cut her skin.
“Wow. Now that’s something.”
“Erin…”
Lyonette was lost for words. Even the foreign [Innkeeper] looked startled as Erin held up her odd creation to the light. What were you supposed to do with this? There was no making regular confections out of this.
Erin had a feeling that the explosion had changed the sugar glass in other ways, too. But she held the piece of deadly, beautiful sugar up to the light, and that was when her instincts twinged.
[Wondrous Fare]. She hadn’t had a plan other than ‘thank-you’ going into this. And as Imani said, that was always a bad idea. Now? Something she’d been told mixed with an idea in her head.
“I know how to salvage this. Hey—grab the pieces of glass! And don’t nibble it! It’s not done!”
Her guests looked at her and then scrambled into the garden to grab the rest before they fell. Pisces pointed and whisked the pieces out of the air around him.
Erin rolled past Imani, back to the kitchen.
“Sorry, Imani. I’m gonna ask you to sit this one out, okay? I’ll ask if I need help with how to make something. Is that okay?”
“Perfectly.”
The [Chef] answered faintly. Erin was looking around, frowning.
“We’ve got strawberries and raspberries, and I guess that’s what jam is. Tomatoes…nah. But what about those glowing red things?”
“Sweetberries? I have some in our kitchen.”
Palt started. Erin pointed at him.
“Get them! I need red! But not just red. It’s—darn. You can’t squeeze a steak. That’s gross, and it’s not good enough. Unless there’s, like, a super-rare on—what’s that?”
She stopped on her way across the inn and peered at something. A pair of men stared back.
“Hello. Do I know you?”
“No, Miss [Innkeeper]. That is—we’re new to Liscor, and we just stopped by—”
Fierre had the worst recommendations. Himilt tensed as Erin pointed to the jars they’d bought.
“What’s that?”
“Er—just—”
Bamer was sweating, but Erin peered at the jars.
“They’re blood. Hey, this is from the blood bank!”
“We’re using it as pest deterrents. To bait monsters and—”
“Can I have a jar? I’ll pay you back.”
The two Vampires, tensed and wary, looked at each other. Imani covered her mouth.
“Erin! You can’t be—”
Erin plucked a jar of blood up and gazed at it. Her eyes flickered, and she lifted a finger to her mouth.
“Imani, I appreciate it, but we’re not cooking in your world anymore. We’re doing witchcraft.”
Her eyes began to sparkle. She dipped the shard of glass in the jar of blood, and then it really did look like a dagger made of crystal, stained crimson. Say what you will—half the inn was horrified.
The other half? Gothica, Numbtongue, the Vampires, Shriekblade, and certain people with a predilection for the macabre?
They loved the aesthetic.
You should definitely make sure your blood wasn’t nasty. Bring it to a light boil, and yes, it probably ruined the blood-qualities for transfusion, especially if you mixed it with glowing sweetberries and a raspberry paste.
But that wasn’t the point. Erin added some purified water next and let the mixture boil down. Then she had to think.
A pile of super-sharp pieces of magical sugar glass was resting in a bowl. Her sweet blood sauce was closer to savory, but even if she packaged both, something was missing.
You’d bleed for a bite of this. If the sharp sugar didn’t get you, dipping it in the sauce meant blood would be spilled either way. But that wasn’t the theme of this dish. Pain was not. Erin had called upon all the power of that night outside, and it was still there.
What was it? Past the sharp bite of pain, unleashed in the explosion of magic…Erin smiled as she found it.
Some of the pieces of blown glass were hollow. They’d expanded in the explosion and had trapped air inside.
“I need a needle. Or something very fine.”
Apista offered her stinger. Numbtongue offered his sword. Erin decided not to use Pelt’s kitchen knife.
In the end, Erin put on a glove and used an ordinary, super-hot needle to poke a hole in the glass. Then she filled it up with a funnel and dropper from Stitchworks and sealed the hole by melting the glass together.
“Erin—it’s not even my best work—it’s probably stale!”
Octavia wrung her hands anxiously, but Erin insisted. The amount of healing potion was minute, anyways.
“That doesn’t matter, Octavia. The point is that the healing potion was used. And it saved your life, didn’t it, Numbtongue?”
“Got stabbed right here. Good stuff.”
He had given her the half-opened bottle he’d kept from the Meeting of Tribes. Erin barely used more than half of the remaining liquid, and then she looked at what she’d made.
The final thing was a two-fold package. Delicately wrapped splinters of exploded glass, light blue, sometimes so faint it was only visible as you held it up to the mirror, flecked with bits of ruby Sage’s Grass. Some were filled with glowing liquid, light orange or yellow speckled with bits of violet. Healing potion.
But you dipped and drizzled it with a crimson sauce that added to the glow, because it was slightly luminescent. A blood-sauce.
And all of it was sugary, it tasted good, but it was a confusing gift. Nevertheless, Erin sent it off with Wil, and the impatient Titan of Baleros had set it up so that he got it within twenty minutes from Erin finishing the product.
All the [Lord] had to do was get to the Mage’s Guild and let them teleport it. The [Mages] had been ready for the last half-hour; as he’d said, money was no object.
 
——
 
Numbtongue would have paid a lot to see Niers’ face when he received this thank-you present, as would all of his students.
Foliana didn’t have to pay as she saw the basket and jar of sauce, neatly tied together with a ribbon and a card, delivered into the Titan’s room. Niers blinked at the basket and then grabbed for the note.
“What’s…I, ah, it’s very interesting.”
Niers tried not to act like he knew what it was. He had tried not to peek, but he already knew what Erin had sent him. Even so—up close, he stared at a shard of glass as long as he was, and his lips moved when he read the instructions.
“…blood sauce? Does she think we eat people in Baleros?”
“Mm. Maybe it’s because you’re a warlord.”
“Shut it, Foliana. It’s—well, it’s unique. And I can’t say I’ve ever had anything like it before. Yes—extraordinary. And made with magic. I’ll need to cut pieces off. I don’t think I can actually eat it unless I want a mouthful of this sugar glass each time. But I’ll, um…”
The Fraerling paced around the basket, still reading from the card. He was trying to talk it up, Foliana could tell.
She was enjoying this, despite the hole in her stomach. The bandages were bloody again, and she was just glad she wasn’t stuck in the casket. She thought it was a stupid gift if it was intended to be romantic or even much of a thank-you gift.
That was, until she saw the Titan freeze, mid-step, and glance her way. Foliana’s nose twitched.
“What?”
“Nothing.”
“Give me the card.”
Niers tried to shield it, but Foliana reached over, felt some of her healing wounds tear, grimaced—and snatched the card. It was worth the pain. She stared at the writing, and then the most evil, diabolical smile appeared as she lowered it.
“It’s for me.”
Suddenly, it made sense. Niers blustered as Foliana reached for the gift.
“I’m sure Erin got it confused. She probably thought that since you’re technically my superior—Foliana, don’t you dare. It was addressed to—Foliana!”
She picked up the first bit of sugar and felt a prickle on her fingers. It cut into her fur even holding it gently. She dipped it into the blood.
“Mm. I eat blood sometimes. Favorite foods. You don’t.”
