Silent Antinium loved the Silent Queen, but they were made well. Flying Antinium had a fanaticism towards their Queen too, and Armored Antinium respected theirs—but once they were in 7th Hive long enough, most Antinium would acknowledge that they still had crummy lives. The Grand Queen’s Antinium especially. Once they stopped being terrified of anyone saying her name, most had no desire to ever return.
But if an Antinium stuck to their crossbows and insisted their Queen was perfect, that led to fights between Hives. And Crusader 57 was famous for picking fights without needing pretext.
Once again, Crusader 53 realized Xrn was listening to his meandering explanations without interrupting or getting mad. He’d heard Klbkch was far worse, but she just nodded.
“Your opinions match that of other Antinium I have questioned, Crusader 53. Yet I have two counterpoints. The first is that you must demonstrate Flying Antinium can work with other Antinium or else there will be discord. This is not the first time I have seen strife between Antinium. Queens do fight each other, very occasionally, when disagreements are beyond reconciliation, but normally the Unitasis Network resolves disputes. Still, that is the role of Centenium to adjudicate. However, once, in Rhir, variant Antinium made by Shaper Queens came into mass conflict.”
Wh—really? Crusader 53 was astounded, and he saw Xrn smile. She answered naturally.
“Of course. It was after the death of the First Queen, when the Hives were in disarray. So vast and sprawling was the True Antinium’s Hives that a Shaper Queen on the far edge of our borders might create one kind of Antinium and the War Queens and other Queens form different attitudes to those in other sections. Disunity, for all we could think together.”
Oh. Like how the 7th Hive was different from Painted Antinium and [Crusaders] and so on. Xrn nodded.
“It was far easier then, for we could share minds, but I have adjudicated disputes between Queens before. You will take a Flying Antinium as a member of your squad. As for your other complaint…their loyalty to the Flying Hive is not an issue in this case.”
She smiled for reasons he did not understand. Xrn gestured upwards towards the mountains and higher still.
“Do you recall when the ground shook and I informed 7th Hive to be ready for battle?”
How could he not? No one had known what was happening. They’d thought it was a super-monster, and Xrn herself had held her ground, saying there was something going on up in the skies. The rumbling had lasted for an hour, and then…
Well, between that and the pink comet they’d seen days before, and the flashes of light from above, they’d known something was going on before the moon cracked. But they hadn’t been part of it, whatever ‘it’ was.
Xrn’s voice was quiet, contemplative.
“We were not prepared for that battle. Nor was I close enough to be resurrected, should I have fallen. The magnitude was beyond what we could involve ourselves with. What I could affect—unless I had my old body and were among the Centenium of old.”
The longing in her tones made him feel for her. The Small Queen gazed down with frustration at her form, then turned to him. Her eyes glowed a subdued, rosy pink, and he felt like her true self was trapped in this mundane, brown shell.
“…There was an event. Flying Antinium joined some great stream of flying creatures, disobeying the Flying Queen’s will, to fight on behalf of a great, winged being known as a ‘Harpy’. The Flying Queen was furious. However, the survivors developed—unique traits. The Flying Queen has disavowed or disassembled many, leading to the other Queens to take them into their Hives. This Flying Soldier is one such.”
An Antinium who disobeyed their Queen? That was beyond what Crusader 53 expected. He realized he was out of objections. Xrn stood.
“Your conversation is not unwelcome, nor your objections, Crusaders 53. I wish to understand the Antinium who have joined my Hive. Do you have any more questions?”
He hesitated, but since he had already risked so much coming here—he knew all of Company 3 was staring at the tent. Thousands of Antinium, who whirled away when Xrn glanced at them through the opening.
“[Just two questions?]”
“Ask.”
Her smile was wide, but the magic in her was ceasing to pulse colors. Was she tired? Or bored? He saw her reaching for something, drinking it.
A healing potion. Then, Crusader 53 wondered how long their new Queen might last. But it just made his question more pressing, so he asked.
“[What is the purpose of the 7th Hive, Queen? Secondly—is there a possibility of Antinium earning leave?]”
“Leave?”
She didn’t know the term, so he clarified.
“[Time off. Vacations. Retirement?]”
The Small Queen’s head tilted, and then she understood. She turned, and Crusader 53 saw her float back to the map.
“The 7th Hive is moving south. Lady Magnolia Reinhart has concluded our contract and believes her people can keep the High Passes secure.”
Wait. They were done with the High Passes? Just like that? Some of the tension in Crusader 53 left him—which was replaced by confusion and more tension.
“[We’re still getting paid, though, right? And how are we done?]”
The monsters here were never-ending, and their Hive, combat-ready as it was with Xrn and Magnolia’s servants, had only fought for months. Xrn replied, amused.
“There is a finite amount of life even in this ‘death zone’, Crusader 53. Our efforts have created a gap in the ecological niche, here. Not the upper areas; the increasing battles against Passmaws and the like indicated our efforts were succeeding as we eliminated food sources. However, between the Eater Goat and Gargoyle rampage, our own efforts, and the battle between that Harpy and Goblin King, we have depopulated this region sufficiently.”
Sufficiently enough for Magnolia Reinhart to think her servants could handle the monsters. Xrn nodded as Crusader 53 took this in.
“Thus, we continue. You will be paid. Why would you not be? Though it shall not be ‘combat pay’. For now, we march south. Into Drake-held lands. I have declared our independence and offered cities the chance to bid for our services. We head to the New Lands in any case.”
We’re passing by Drake cities? Drake cities, who do not like Antinium? That sounded—very bad. Crusader 53 hoped that Companies 44 and Companies 13—the [Mage]-Antinium that Xrn personally trained—knew barrier spells. He shifted as Xrn continued, taking another sip of the potion. She inspected the glowing lines on her arms and hands.
“I have run out of time to wait. We three have been waiting too long. In denial of the situation. This opportunity Klbkchhezeim and the inn brought about is my chance. The goal of the 7th Hive is to level. At any cost. Level, until…I would ideally see the average level of every [Soldier] be above 40.”
…Good luck with that. Crusader 53 had a good idea of how possible that was, and he saw the battles she intended to throw them into. He felt that bad feeling in his stomach grow worse, but then Xrn turned.
“As for leave or time off, if it may be arranged, I will do so. But Drake lands will not allow such matters. Perhaps a reprieve from combat. And if we pass by a place that does not loathe Antinium, yes. As for retirement? An end to your duties is what you all would like, is that so?”
Yes. Just to dream of. Crusader 53 waited, knowing there was no such role for Antinium in all of Izril. Only Heaven. But that was such a bleak thought…the Small Queen surprised him again.
She nodded.
“It is not easy. But I will offer all of 7th Army this promise, Crusader 53. Fight. Level. Survive. Until this Hive, this force is ready, I will take you all across Izril. When you are of sufficient strength and experience, if the other Hives deliver what they should remember to do, if Klbkchhezeim is prepared and Wrymvr remembers what matters—or even if not—I will lead you to one last place. We shall all go home. Then you may rest.”
Her voice was so longing and her eyes flashed with such brilliance then that Crusader 53 had to shade his eyes. He believed, then, that she was telling the truth. Not all of it, but he understood what drove the Small Queen. He bowed and retreated to tell Squad 5 the news.
It only occurred to him afterwards, as the new member of the squad lay dozing under a blanket, that the ‘home’ the Small Queen thought of and the home he knew were not the same.
 
——
 
All this to say that when 7th Hive left the High Passes, they were, if not a cohesive army, then the beginnings of something different. Something new.
Not [Crusaders] on a mission to avenge or build Heaven. Nor [Soldiers] fighting with different species for Liscor. Nor just Antinium—a hodgepodge of the faithful, common [Soldiers], Antinium of their own Hives.
Mercenaries.
“They’re actually flying.”
Crusader 57 gazed at some of the ‘rebel’ Flying Antinium assigned to them. Who could actually, legitimately fly. They weren’t the best at it, but even Xrn was flying with them, scouting the way as they emerged from the High Passes and saw a green plateau below. A forest so vivid that Crusader 53 hoped there were good things to eat there.
Crusader 57 just kept staring at the Flying Antinium blessed by the Harpy Queen. Then he turned and kicked the huge shell of their new member.
“They can fly, and we just happen to be stuck with the one idiot who can’t fly. Ain’t that right, Wingsy?”
Wingsy didn’t answer, but Crusader 53 slapped the back of 57’s head in a rebuke. They had decided not to call her Crusader 59-12; she was instead ‘Wingsy’.
…Wingsy didn’t say much. They’d tried talking to her—most Flying Antinium were apparently female—in Mrsha-speak, but she just fanned her wings and ate food. Crusader 53 was worried she wouldn’t last long, without armor and being so big a target, but 53 was trying to set a good example.
So, that was how the 7th Hive finished their job for Magnolia Reinhart. The High Passes were not safe, but a foundation was being laid, and the majority of monsters had been cleared from the ground.
Certainly, the men and women with pointy teeth had used the route often enough, and the Knights of Solstice also had traversed south with more caravans and less fighting than anyone should expect.
They’d done something. What, exactly, Crusader 53 wasn’t sure about, but he’d gotten paid, and they were going south. He followed the Small Queen as she pointed, and after a moment, Crusader 57 sat on Wingsy’s back. When the Flying Antinium didn’t kick him off, he laughed.
“Hey, maybe the newbie isn’t so bad!”
“[Get off of her.]”
Crusader 53 kicked 57 off, and the swearing Worker leapt up, and Squad 5 was laughing, even the new member. Southwards they went as one of the first Antinium to head downstream pointed at some berry bushes and deer.
Food! There was a [Soldier]’s dream. Good enough for now.
The 7th Hive marched into the south of Izril, and no one at all panicked.
Certainly not every single Drake city who saw the army of Antinium coming their way.
