In fact, one of them was approaching for her own report with a Worker who could write for her. Captain Gormless straightened and put his helmet on his head. He tried to lean against Crusader 53, crossing all four arms.
“Oh, Prognugator Maev. Evening.”
“Gormless.”
“That’s what they call me, ha-ha! Crusader 53 and I were just saying it’d be nice to have more of your Hive over. How was the fighting?”
“Four dead.”
The Silent Antinium Prognugator didn’t go for speaking much. She scuttled forwards as the Worker wrote. Gormless hesitated.
“O-oh. Was it a bad run-in?”
“Crelers.”
Crusader 53 winced. Gormless’ mandibles worked.
“I’m sorry to hear that. But you’re looking sharp as ever! Would you care to get a drink later?”
“No. Bye.”
Gormless sagged as Maev scuttled off, camouflaging her chitin so she appeared almost invisible unless you knew where to look. She joined a section of oddly-shimmering ground where Silent Antinium were relaxing.
“She was having a rough day. But you saw she remembered my name, right, 53? You don’t think she’s seeing any other company commanders, do you?”
Crusader 53 patted Gormless on the shoulder and made his escape before the [Captain] could start speculating more ways to impress Prognugator Maev. Crusader 53 didn’t go in for the relationships thing some Antinium were trying. As far as he was concerned, he’d read the Book of Carnal Intercourse, a How-To and Explainative Manual, an Updated Revision passed around by the soldiers, and it hadn’t done much for him.
That wasn’t the point, anyways.
 
——
 
The point was that the 7th Hive did not want for resources, be it personnel or equipment. As the Small Queen, Xrn, had formed her Hive without requesting permission from anyone. Even the Grand Queen listened to her, if grudgingly at times. When she gave orders, someone did it or she got intense.
Thus, her system was simple. The 7th Hive would always be 7,777 Antinium strong. If one died, they were replaced. Every Hive contributed to her Hive. Mostly, it meant regular Soldiers and Workers with specialists from the Flying and Silent Hives being exceptions. They even had a birther sac hidden in an undisclosed location that could generate Antinium, but Xrn said she had plans for that. So new members of the 7th Hive were from all the others.
Oh, and the Twisted Queen occasionally sent…well, after the first time one of them had exploded in battle, Xrn had told her to stick to regular Antinium. Apparently Wyrmvr had taken over and they were getting bog-standard Antinium now, which was good.
You learned a lot about the other Hives from the newbies. Crusader 53 wagered he knew more about the state of Antinium in Izril than almost anyone else in the world. Possibly more than the Queens themselves, because you got a ground-eye view from the other Antinium.
Mostly, what unified all but Free Antinium was that being a regular in the Hives sucked. Workers worked constantly, securing food, reinforcing tunnels, and Soldiers waited around to fight and die. Every time a newbie came to camp, they’d stare at the real food on offer and gobble it down or keep gazing at the sky. Crusader 53 envied them that.
The sky…could get old. He didn’t enjoy the bursts of rain anymore. Instead, he just thought he was sick of getting wet and having to clean his gear.
 
——
 
“Do you think the magic’s gone? It used to be I’d have given up all the dirt I had just to have a single flower.”
Crusader 57 was sitting up, staring at a little flower he’d picked out of the dry High Passes. Crusader 53 signed back.
“[No. Go to sleep.]”
“I think the magic’s gone. Now we’re old and jaded. Especially you, Crusader 53.”
“[Go kiss a mother.]”
 
——
 
The main thing that made Squad 5 one of the important groups was their ability to adapt. To understand that this was not a state of affairs that would continue forever.
For instance, when the 7th Hive finally completed their contract with Magnolia Reinhart, a lot of the companies panicked. They’d fought in the High Passes their entire careers. What came next?
Crusader 53 knew the feeling well. So he poked Crusader 57 until the Worker reluctantly stomped over to other companies and gave them a pep talk.
“Listen, you pack up your gear, make sure you don’t leave anything behind, and get ready to march. It’s going to be boring-as-dirt marching for a while. Then we’ll probably do some fighting. If we’re lucky, we’ll get something to actually spend our coins on! Just keep your helmets on and watch out for ambushes, got it?”
That was that. The companies stopped panicking and formed up. By the time Xrn floated towards them, she was pleased to see they had formed a huge column and were ready to go.
They didn’t march by numerical value, of course. Company 3 actually brought up the rear while Company 77 was smack dab in the middle of the column. That was just basic soldiering on Captain Gormless’ part.
You see, not all of 7th Hive was combat-focused. They were all combat-ready, since they were Antinium, but Xrn didn’t send Company 77 into the fight. They were all supporting elements; mostly Workers.
A camp needed people to set up tents, to cook or process food, repair armor, deliver messages, and so on. Even Antinium needed that, and given their reliance on gear, a good amount of 7th Hive were these supporting roles. Especially cooks. The Antinium wanted to not rely on their stocks of food paste. They’d do anything not to use those stocks.
Thus, because they were less likely to die and because you got to know your [Cook] well, Crusader 53 knew a lot of names in the support groups.
For instance—Chysl was their dedicated [Acolyte of Healing]. She had replaced Zimrah, who Olesm had fought to keep. A shame, because Zimrah was really good at healing—and cursing enemies to hell.
Chysl was mostly just mean. She was an Antinium Soldier, and her method of healing was to slap a gauze patch on anything that bled green.
“[Enhanced Bandage]. Stop getting cut up, would you, 53?”
She snapped as he winced; a Razorbeak attack as they were marching out of the High Passes had ripped his right vambrace off and let the damn bird savage his arm. He signed back, one-handed.
“[Can’t you heal anything faster?]”
“I’m out of [Prayers of Healing]. I’ll say a few words for your wounds tonight. Heaven bless your stupid injuries, etcetera, etcetera. Next!”
He had the distinct feeling her heart might not be in the entire faith-thing either. But then again, he’d caught her praying at night. She’d thrown things at him when she saw him watching.
Everyone had quirks. The longer you were an Antinium, the weirder you got, it felt. It was how you distinguished yourself from every other Antinium. Be it a feather in the cap or your own paint…
You wanted to be remembered. You didn’t want to be that Antinium even your own kind couldn’t tell apart. So the feather in the cap became two feathers because other Antinium were doing that. Then it became five.
Then you got Captain Peacock, who had so many feathers in his cap some said he was the second coming of Bird. Or you just developed a personality like Crusader 57—though truth be told, he was pretty hard to copy even if you tried.
Or you became a Kevin, one of the many ‘Kevins’, who had a jokester personality and got up to tricks. They were a plague if they got it in their heads to participate in some scam with a Shelly…but Crusader 53 didn’t want to say bad things about them.
He knew the original ‘Kevins’ had all died except for one. They were continuing a tradition. Keeping Kevin’s name alive, even if the newbies had never met him or didn’t even know about the inn.
“You don’t know about the inn? Hoo boy, grab onto your shells, because let me tell you—it ain’t that great. I saw the big woman herself. She’s smaller than they say, and her cooking’s okay, but I know the Goblin did all the work. It’s not that great.”
Crusader 57 was mouthing off to some newbies getting told about the important stuff, and all of Company 14 pelted him with dirt clods until he retreated. It was culture, Crusader 53 realized.
You had to know some things in the 7th Hive. If you didn’t, someone in your company would tell you. How to behave, why you needed to take care of your armor—what rust was, and why it sucked—what coins were.
Basic stuff no Antinium knew. Then, if you were alive for a few days, they’d tell you the bigger stuff. About what exactly Heaven was, not just that you got to go there. About the inn. About the original Chess Club members. What Xrn had used to look like. Then it was stories, like Squad 5’s adventures or the story of how it had all started with an [Innkeeper], an Antinium, a chessboard, and a dungeon.
The good and the bad.
 
——
 
Crusader 59-11 died.
It was a chance battle during one of their patrols to make sure the High Passes were cleared. Just bad luck; a Gargoyle Bossel threw a spear, and they had been maneuvering over treacherous ground, unable to take cover. When Crusader 53 had finished fighting, he’d turned.
He had a healing potion he’d been told was only for him, but if he used some of it—
The Worker was dead. Crusader 59-11 was one of the newest members of Squad 5. He was a 59-er. An ill-omened number. They’d lost more Crusader 59s than anyone else.
“Aw, damn it. You idiot. You idiot—I told you to dodge!”
Crusader 57 was kneeling there over the curled-up Worker. He didn’t weep; none of them could. Instead, he punched Crusader 59’s armor, then hammered a fist down until they pulled him back.
The first loss of Squad 5 the entire campaign. Crusader 53 felt it was his fault. If he’d noticed the Gargoyles standing there or told them to take cover…
Captain Gormless told him it wasn’t his fault, of course. But everyone knew that was Gargoyle droppings. It was the kind of thing you said. If someone was dying, you lied and told them they’d make it, that a [Healer] was on the way.
If someone died on your watch, you lied to the leader and said that it wasn’t their fault, that anyone could have made that mistake.
The lie was that you’d go back on break to Liscor and get to spend all that gold they saved up. That you’d…retire. Crusader 53 had been here from the start. He didn’t think any of them were going to make it, what, ten years? Twenty?
He was sitting there when Crusader 57 stomped over.
“Un-fucking-believable. This is Creler eggs. Crusader 53!”
If this wasn’t good, he was going to thump 57 once. Crusader 53 gazed up and saw the outraged Antinium pointing.
“We’ve already got a replacement for Crusader 59-11. Guess who—guess who—?”
Already? They must have had ‘excess’ Antinium waiting to be assigned. It wasn’t right. They hadn’t even buried Crusader 59-11, and they would. No turning him into paste. If they could have left him his armor…
He was in Heaven. He should be. Crusader 53 turned.
“[What’s the problem? They’re replacing 59. Leave them be.]”
“I know that. It’s—but it’s a fucking Flying Antinium.”
Crusader 57’s finger trembled as he pointed, and Crusader 53 rose as he saw a Flying Antinium, a huge Solder-type with gigantic wings, like a locust, standing there unmoving as the rest of Squad 5 watched it.
He hesitated…but Captain Gormless was not in charge of this. There was no help for it.
Crusader 53 lodged a complaint with the Small Queen.
 
——
 
She let him into her tent immediately. He stood there, very nervous, as she put the book she’d been reading aside.
“Speak, Crusader 53. What displeases you?”
Xrn listened, unmoving save for the pulsing colors coming out of her body, as he explained the problem as best he could.
“Ah. You are referring to the Flying Queen’s treachery at the Winter Solstice.”
He was glad she agreed what it was. He’d been there when the Flying Antinium betrayed their own, and it was still hard to believe she had done that. It was one of the reasons why the Flying Antinium companies were the fewest in number in the 7th Hive and why no one wanted one in their squad.
Xrn heard him out and nodded a few times.
“Your assessment of the Flying Queen is correct. She considered the gain to her Hive worth the betrayal of all those at the Winter Solstice. Her action was self-serving, though she has framed it as furthering our goals on Izril.”
Which were what? Killing all the Drakes and Gnolls? Crusader 53 had no idea what the Queens wanted, but Xrn continued.
“I have not accepted her pleas, but the Grand Queen has censured her Hive in various ways and let the matter lie. She believes we cannot lose another Queen. The Silent Queen has forgiven the Flying Queen in exchange for inspection of the new Antinium…and the apparent revival of Devrkr. I am in doubts it is him, as is Wrymvr, but it is his body—the Armored Queen and Free Queen do not forgive. But the clashes between Antinium have ceased. We cannot waste lives.”
There had been fighting? Crusader 53 didn’t know that or think it was good…but he was confused.
“[What about the Twisted Queen?]”
Xrn’s mandibles lowered into a scowl.
“Her mind is unknown to me. She is even more reclusive than before. Nor will Wyrmvr tell me what she is up to; he speaks for her, which is still disagreeable at times, but better than she often is. The fact remains: I require the support of all the Hives, and the Flying Queen’s forces are an asset I will not turn away.”
It was true, the leaping, bounding Flying Antinium were great scouts, even if they couldn’t last as long in a fight. But Crusader 53 just didn’t think…it was Squad 5. How were they supposed to incorporate a huge Flying Soldier into their formations?
Xrn tilted her head.
“Crusader 53. I have said it before. If a minority of Antinium level and survive, it is what I require. This answer disturbs you, but it is the only course I possess. Few Flying Antinium level given the distrust of other squads. Those under the command of a ‘veteran’ Antinium survive longer.”
This made sense, but even so—53 tried to protest.
“[Some Flying Antinium insist the Flying Queen can do nothing wrong. Those ones get into fights. If this Antinium does the same, Crusader 57 will attack them.]”
Most Free Antinium didn’t have much love for their Queen, frankly. The Free Queen was thought of as ‘good for giving Soldiers voices’ and a few more things, but a distant imperial force that sent them to their deaths for the good of the Hive.
