Far away from the continent of Ercryst, a certain dark lord was puzzling over the changes that had manifested overnight within a particular school of magic.

In most cases, Kelegas would simply have chalked up any change in the effects of his spellwork to the fact that he was now in a region saturated with divine intent—there was, after all, a pretty good reason that he and his army of aberrations spent all their time as far away from it as possible—but the dark magic he practiced was the one form of magic that should not have been affected by any divinity.

The good news was that his magic hadn't been rendered entirely ineffective. The bad news was that many of his spells now acted unpredictably, and he had nearly failed one of his classes because of it. It was a good thing Steve had been able to cover for him. Kelegas had never been quite so thankful for the man.

Still, this was a problem. If he intended to infiltrate the Fettered Divinity tournament, Kelegas needed to prove himself to this academy and join their team of wyldfire mages. He couldn't do that if his magic was acting unpredictably and he failed to pass the most basic of tests. That meant he needed to identify what had changed about his magic and how that had happened.

"It should not be possible," Kelegas muttered, scowling to himself. "True dark magic is aberrant in nature. Nothing that affects the fabric of divine-tainted magic should affect my spellwork. Perhaps it is sabotage? But none should be aware of my presence here..."

"Sir?" Steve asked, looking over at him. They were sharing a dorm, of course, and the poor man had been listening to him mutter to himself for the last thirty minutes.

"I have told you to call me Kel while we are 'students' in this academy," Kelegas corrected absently.

"Kel, then." Steve seemed strangely abashed by the command. "What's going on?"

"You have noticed it already," Kelegas said. "My spells have been more unpredictable lately. If I knew the cause, I might be able to account for it and correct it, but I am at a loss as to what could have changed."

Steve frowned. "Your magic isn't the only magic that's been acting up, from what I've heard," he said. "I overheard some of the professors here talking about it. Apparently the oceans are storming again and some people are getting new spells granted to them by the Gift or something, with magic they've never seen before."

"That is... odd, but it should not have an impact on my magic." Kelegas drummed his fingers on his desk restlessly. "I draw from the Abyss and the Nothing. Only a larger change in the structure of the Great Realms should have any impact."

"Oh!" Steve straightened, his eyes gleaming with sudden excitement, as they always did when he realized he could be helpful. "In that case, I know what it is! It has to be the time tunnel."

"...The what?"

"Remember when I had a fever and was all sick and stuff? I figured out why. It's because someone was building a time tunnel in the Abyss. And now there's... well, now there's a time tunnel in the Abyss. That kind of structural change could affect your magic, right?"

Kelegas stared at Steve. "And you did not think to mention this before?"

"I didn't think it would affect your magic!" Steve looked abruptly worried. "Is it bad, si—I mean, Kel?"

Kelegas sighed. "It could be worse, but I will have to rebuild many of my spells to account for this change," he muttered. "Luckily, we should have plenty of time to do so. It is fortunate that this academy is in need of more wyldfires, and are thus reluctant to scrutinize me too closely... come along, now. We have much magic to do, and I will need your assistance to measure the exact length and size of this tunnel, as you call it."

Steve, for some reason, went red, though Kelegas had not the faintest idea why.
