The Educator rolled her eyes. "Oh, don't be daft, boy. If I was going to hurt you, I would have already painted the rest of them away. No, right now, my duty is to see us all freed from this prison. And now that the annoying part is done, we begin our grand escape. And no, I do not require your cooking for myself. There is a more effective option.”

"And what's that?" Shiv asked, weary.

Suddenly, she swung her tome around. Adam drew his arm back and readied a Veilpiercer. Shiv dashed forward and prepared for a fight, holding his pan high and prepared to bring it down on the Educator's face. But just then, the chains binding her tome snapped open, and ringing shrapnel filled the air. They began to orbit around the Educator rather than striking anyone nearby, and from the flipping pages, Shiv caught sight of a familiar figure: a Hydra, with many crowns adorning its many heads. It was struggling, writhing on the paper, and with a flourish of her brush, Solzimort was set free, crashing into reality with a spray of vibrant inks, taking up most of the hallway they were in.

"Oh, oh man!" Solzimort gasped. The Hydra's many heads gagged and writhed on the ground, pointing in different directions, spasming as if someone blessed with dry land after nearly drowning in the deep. "Too cramped! Too cramped! Couldn't absorb the material, too cramped…"

Shiv shot the Educator a glare. She gave him an indifferent look. "What? If you feed this to him, he will turn to darkness, and the rest of us can be fused with his body. That is far more efficient than feeding everyone."

Shiv pressed his lips together. She was right. But also, simply painting Solzimort into one of her pages was an ugly sign. Whatever he could say about the Educator, he could never trust her, not as long as she was so casual in her acts of imprisonment, and if even a Legendary Hydra that the Auroral Council itself wasn't capable of containing without sedation was helpless once captured in her book, he didn't give himself or any of his friends high chances.

"Hey," Shiv said, patting one of Solzimort's heads. “You’re fine. You’re fine now. Not letting her put you back in.”

The Hydra slowly calmed, looking around and taking in the orcs. "We should be off soon," the Educator noted. "Gather the magma and other ingredients you need. Feed the Hydra after it absorbs you. After that, there is a place in the capital we must go to. It will lead us out of the city—and toward our shared destination.”

“Our shared destination?” Adam said. “What makes you think we’re going anywhere with you?”

“Because I can spare you the attention of the Ascendants.” The Educator scoffed. She turned to look at Shiv, and he saw a pulsing glow, a divine incandescence radiating from her tome. "They do not recall who I am. They cannot find you so long as I am in your vicinity. Their all-seeing gazes will not be so all-seeing. But I suspect they will also be distracted by other matters."
