Continue? For a moment, Ali didn’t parse the idea correctly. The very concept of going up against a monster with that much power was unthinkable.

“Continue,” Calen answered, choosing the unthinkable option. “Incredibly, we only lost two of Ali’s rogues.”

Ali’s mind caught up, dragged back to sanity by Malika and Calen’s calm rationality. She took a deep breath and got up, levitating above the still partially molten ground. The Inferno stood tall in the epicenter of the devastation it had unleashed. As she watched, it slowly swiveled toward them, but before it could act, Mato charged. Whether it was sheer force of habit by now, or actually her presence of mind, she didn’t know, but she checked with her acolyte’s sight.

“Three-quarters to go,” Ali announced, finally finding her voice. She felt like she had just endured an eternity of flame and fear, but they still had three-quarters of its health to burn through. Only her friends’ determination staved off her despair.

Maybe we really are crazy…

“Explosion!” she called out a few moments later.

This is no fun, Mato thought. At that precise moment, he happened to be flying through the air, exactly like a bear shouldn’t. The fight itself wasn’t particularly bad – he quite enjoyed hitting the giant fireball. The blast wave attack was stronger, but it was more annoying to have to run back from wherever he landed. He preferred actually fighting. Running was for scouts and rogues. But it was the flying he hated. He grimaced at the sight of the distant ground whipping by beneath his dangling feet.

Initially, he might have been a bit skeptical about wearing armor in Bear Form, but he had to admit that this latest piece Thuli had crafted for him was phenomenal. He already had a lot of natural armor, and Thuli’s creation simply added more on top of that – but it was magical resistances that had proved to be the lifesaver in this fight. His armor didn’t look particularly fancy – nothing like the armor he imagined the adventurers in the stories wore – but what it lacked in decoration, it sure made up in robustness. It had taken everything the Inferno could throw at him and for the most part, it was still in great shape. Good thing Thuli used fireproof leather for the bindings.

The holy magic of one of the Kobolds settled gently into his body, pulsing against the damage he had taken before being launched into the air, augmenting his own Brutal Restoration. Ali’s minions were quite efficient. As his thoughts turned to his small friend, he found himself confronting the reality of what had just happened moments before the explosion.

I almost died. The thought focused his mind in a way that the rest of his meandering thoughts could not. Without Ali’s quick thinking, and rapidly disintegrating barrier magic, he would have been completely incinerated. He was far more robust than the two unfortunate rogues, but nothing could survive that conflagration. He could still feel the intensity of the flames tearing through his flesh and whipping past his body as he desperately charged for the dubious safety of an impossibly distant boulder. The image of Ali’s Kobolds being progressively vaporized hung over him like a specter of what could so easily have been his fate. He just hoped Ali understood the attack well enough from that one experience that she could give him more time to get to safety if it happened again. He had burned his Last Stand just to make it, and that skill had a fifteen-minute recharge.

When it happens again, he thought, unwilling to rely on fortune and desperate hope.

He sighed, landing on the ground with a crash and a huff, shaking off his mental funk. What is with these crazy abilities messing with my enjoyment of the fight? He charged forward, using his ability as soon as possible so that he would be able to close the distance quickly and regain control of the fight. He used it once more before he was out in front of all Ali’s minions and then slammed into the giant tower of pissed-off flame. He Swiped at the elemental, triggering his Brutal Restoration, something that was becoming an automatic reflex in here. He most certainly needed his own healing to be maximized at all times during this fight, and he was saving most of his mana entirely for that.

Survival Instinct warned him a scant half second before the powerful overhead slam attack, giving him barely enough time to brace before the elemental’s arms crashed down on his body, slamming him into the ground and tossing rocks flying. He got back up and Swiped again with his paws, feeling the surge of healing repairing the damage. Those slam attacks did vastly more damage to his robust body than the blast wave. He carefully sidestepped around the elemental, turning it so that Ali’s remaining melee minions and Malika would be able to fight from behind it, but not get tossed entirely in the opposite direction from the next blast wave.

“Summons!”

He mostly ignored this call, having nothing much to do with the additional elementals himself. Normally he was running back when this happened, so this time he just held back a bit to make sure he did not Swipe any of them by accident when they appeared. That way they would ignore him and run into whatever trap Ali and Calen had prepared. He and Malika focused on the boss while a roar of detonations and lightning crashed somewhere off to the side behind a large wall of already smoking bone.

He braced for another smash, feeling the Kobold’s Restoration pre-empting the attack, and a bigger heal following immediately after. There was no further explosion for a long while until suddenly the fire shield appeared. He growled angrily, hitting the impervious transparent sphere with his paws. It was a frustratingly tough barrier and he much preferred hitting the elemental itself, even if he was essentially hitting an animated fire. After slamming his paws against the solid bubble of magic seemingly forever, it suddenly splintered, exploding into a million flaming shards.

“Hide!” Ali’s voice screamed.

Go! This time, he didn’t hesitate for an instant, immediately charging to the side, towards a boulder he had been keeping an eye on for a while. Please be enough time! His charge got him about halfway, and he lumbered on, wishing he was as fast as the graceful Malika who had sprinted by in a flash. A whining whistle rose through the arena as he pushed his heavy body to the maximum. Fuck. Should have spent more points on dexterity. The ground shook as the monster roared something unintelligible, and he suddenly felt a huge surge of heat from behind him, slamming into his body right as he crashed to the ground in the lee of his boulder, sharing the spot with Malika. She slapped his charred leg mercilessly, pulsing her healing magic through his body and patching up any of the remaining burns.

The elemental let loose with his inferno, flame tearing past their hiding spot, melting rock on the ground to either side of them, and sending streamers of liquid stone flying in the unceasing gale of intense flame.

Ali, you’re a lifesaver! He had made it to safety just in time. I guess we do stand a chance after all.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
