Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that flies around at your command and Strikes with your personal strength, draining your Health with each Strike. Lasts until dismissed.

In the moment of those thoughts, Jane had a minor breakdown. Her father had always tried to get her to do more magic, but she had never been good enough at it until recently. She hadn’t even shown him half of her spellwork, for she was embarrassed by inadequacy, but now… She might never get to show him any of it.

Gridwork, and even a bit of runework, and Charm Magic lessons from Riri Star Song, and [Polymorph] work… She was getting decent. She was achieving success.

She was much better than before.

But right as she was ready to go off on her own, to prove herself as competent and adequate...

Her father goes and runs off first.

“Gods dammit, dad,” Jane whispered to no one in particular, as she stopped blipping and the world resolved into full focus, instead of just flashes of light and momentary landscapes.

The three of them landed on a stormy beach that was half frozen and too cold to support much life. Icebergs rolled in the ocean as ice floes threatened to roll up the beach and swallow Jane’s feet with every passing wave. A cold wind bit at her face, tossing frozen salt into her eyes. She teared up, and in that moment, something about everything was too heavy to hold. Jane could only feel the weight of it all pushing her down to the ground. She wanted to fall. She wanted to give in.

But she didn’t.

“I… I need a moment,” Jane said, walking back up the beach, out of the threatening waves and their swallowing ice. She eyed a block of ice up the beach that she needed to sit on. “A little while. A few minutes.”

Poi followed to get out of the waves, but Teressa just stood there, not making a sound. The massive woman faced the sea as the frozen ocean rolled over her boots, but her [Conjured Armor] was pretty great, so she didn’t seem to care. She simply watched the world for a bit, allowed herself to be covered up to her knees in ice, and remained. Jane went and had her meltdown a dozen meters away, up the shore, upon a cold, blue hunk of ice. Poi stood nearby, remaining as silent as his silent armor.

Jane’s meltdown rapidly flowed through the normal stages of pain, and then moved on, taking her to odd places filled with odd thoughts.

She also found she didn’t really care about the weather, like Teressa, but for different reasons. Jane had gotten the Class Ability Extreme Survivor which greatly reduced the damage she took from natural environmental effects and even mitigated magical environmental effects. From a bit of testing, if an aura was large enough, it counted as an environmental effect; bit of a nice bonus from that Class Ability, in Jane’s opinion.

So being out here on this stormy, icy beach was probably as horrible as being at a real beach down in Florida in the winter, which was to say it probably wasn’t that bad at all. But she had never been to Florida, like her father had when he went to help after the hurricanes. Maybe a more appropriate analogy would be... This felt about as bad as being at the edge of Lake Michigan in the summer.

Whatever the case, this physical experience wasn’t that bad at all. She could go for a swim and feel fine, for sure. The emotional experience was something Jane tried to distance herself from, and she mostly succeeded.

Teressa seemed fine.

As for Poi? The Mind Mage’s black adamantium armor gleamed silver in the grey light of the cold world. Poi’s metallic armor seemed like it would have been a weak point in cold environments like this one, but he was used to protecting himself from the heat, anyway, so it was probably a small adjustment to protect from both the heat and the cold. Apparently he had figured out a cosmetic spell to make the adamantium appear to be silver, too, so that he could maintain regulations while not always being reflective—

And Jane was trying to distract herself from her pain. It was easier to think about anything else at all, than it was to think about her father, and what he had done.

Poi’s voice was a small thing, “It’s okay to grieve.”

Like a dam had burst, Jane roared, “But how can I grieve when I don’t even know if he’s dead?” She barely had the cognizance to yell at the air, instead of at Poi, but she turned herself away from the man, and screamed, “AND THOSE IDIOTS WHO DISPELLED THE—” She guttered, her voice becoming a whisper, “Those idiots who broke the [Prismatic Ward]s… Why? Why did they do that?”

Teressa sighed; it was a small sound from all the way over there by the waves, but Jane still heard it.

Jane accused Poi, “And you can’t sense him, can you.”

Poi instantly said, “No. I cannot sense him, and I would tell you if I could, so don’t get like that with me, young lady.”

Jane felt bad all over, for different, compounding reasons. She muttered, “Sorry.”

“Apology accepted.” Poi said, “Anyway: I have some small news on that front. Necromancers and even a few Arch Necromancers are trying their luck at summoning his soul. I’ll let you know if any of the ones we know succeed.”

Teressa whipped around, scattering ice as she moved. “Shit!”

Jane stared at the ground. “Shit.”

Poi stared at the horizon, his voice going hard as he said, “We won’t let anything bad happen to his soul, but we have to know.”

A cold wind blew.

Jane stood. She said, “We could check on the other places that he wanted to go. The Orrery. Oceanside. We could even go to the Core.” Jane knew that they would say no, and honestly, she had no idea why she suggested those places. In a bit of brightness, she suggested one place that they might agree to, “Yggdrasil at Candlepoint?”

Teressa instantly said, “Yes. Let’s go see Ygg—”

“No.” Poi said, “We’re being recalled to Spur, and both of Yggdrasil’s bodies are rebuffing all attempts at communication. He started off calmly telling people to go away, but now he’s responding to every petitioner with full-lightning [Fulmination Aura]s. Someone tried to attack him with a [Dispel Familiar].”

Anger blossomed like a volcano unleashed.

Jane roared, “Who the FUCK at Candle—”

“The attempt to [Dispel] was at the Yggdrasil at Holorulo, where he has no defenders,” Poi said. “The shadelings and others at Candlepoint are heavily protecting Yggdrasil.”

Jane suddenly had no idea what to do about anything.

Teressa calmly, strongly, said, “I want to kill something. Let’s find a few monsters to end.”

“And this brings me to the next topic.” Poi said, “There are enough monsters to kill at Spur. I didn’t want to say this while Erick was with us, but there are certain truths that must be shared now that Erick has moved on.

“Kiri and the archmages and a few of the true powerhouses, like Killzone and Merit and Mog, are all that stands between the life and death of everyone in Spur, since you can’t count on random adventurers to do what needs to be done.” Poi said, “Dark, dead souls flood out of Ar’Kendrithyst every single night like an endless, black ooze. We think that Melemizargo and the Shades no longer have a leash on the souls of the trillions of people from the Old Cosmology who once openly worshiped the old God of Magic, but whatever the case, the black ooze is deadly to all life. Brightwater has been abandoned. The Blessed Shade Farix —that’s what he’s calling himself— has taken his people and occupied the destroyed city of Frontier. He has rebuilt that land into an impenetrable fortress in order for his people and himself to survive the dark floods each night. Anhelia and her Land of Light inside the Dead City either exacerbates or is the long term solution to the problem —we’re not sure which— for she has created a beachhead inside the Dead City, which is her attempt to take back Ar’Kendrithyst for the wrought.” Poi looked to Jane and Teressa, saying, “Our place is at Spur, and they have more than enough problems to keep us busy while we’re waiting for Erick to come back.”

The depth of Poi’s words sunk in…

And Jane asked, “Why not tell us—” She answered her own question, “Because then dad would have quit the Path.” She looked to Teressa, saying, “That explains the shadows in the [Future Sight].”

Terssa frowned.

Poi said, “According to Silverite, operating as though Erick had the option to quit the path was never an option for us, or for Spur. According to the answers Erick got on the Sliding System, this answer tracks.” Poi explained, “So, if Erick had heard about this problem, then it is Silverite’s opinion that the Path would have eaten Spur alive. The Path certainly fucked up Songli. It was only after that disaster that Erick operated to avoid another such problem at the grass lands. Perhaps if he went to Spur now, after Enduring Forge which seemed a complete success, he could have solved this black ooze problem in the space of an afternoon. He was getting good at that.”

Jane gave a small, strangled smile; her father was getting better at that, wasn’t he.

Poi continued, “But there is no way to know that, and Silverite was not willing to take that chance. It was a calculated risk to deal with the problem this way, and she took the risk. I believe she was right to take this risk.” He stated, “So these are the problems we must solve for ourselves. With any luck, we people of Spur will be able to solve this problem on our own, without Fate fucking us over… But it is very possible that Erick will show up at the absolute last moment and fix everything, though we should not count on this.” He added, “It would be preferable if we solved this problem before he gets back.”

Jane steeled herself. “We can solve problems without dad. Thank you, Poi...” for the reminder.

Teressa breathed deep, then exhaled; the seams of her armor around her neck briefly billowing out thick air. She hadn’t spoken much since Erick vanished, but she did so now, saying, “I don’t know about you, but I’m shit against oozes. What the fuck do you expect us to do at Spur? Sit on our asses? Get swamped protecting the mages?— Not that I’m necessarily against getting swamped, but— I’ve felt useless for too long, Poi.”

Poi said, “Magic is the primary force that harms the dark souls, but [Cleanse] makes them physical enough to actually injure, so Kiri and the Archmages have been the primary forces to deal with them. For a while they were doing fine, but the problem has mutated. A few weeks ago, they experienced the first living dead amalgam, and it’s only gotten worse from there.” He said, “Sometimes, the dead souls congregate around a host body they’ve found inside the city, or, at night, when they spill over the walls, the ooze finds a host among the defenders of Spur, or in the crystal mimics or other monsters or animals out there. These dead souls change those hosts. The soul amalgams that spill out from the Dead City are the worst, for they’ve had time to acclimate to their power; they’ve had time to discover what they are in their new life. All of them show sentience, but some actually show sapience. But the ones that happen outside of the city, the ones that are born each night the ooze spills out, those get crazy. Both types of dead-soul monsters are twisted into near-Ancient levels of power.” Poi told them, “That’s what you’ll be killing.”

Jane nodded. “Then that’s what I’ll be killing.”

Teressa breathed a sigh of relief, agreeing, “Then that’s what we’ll be killing.”

Jane amended, “—what we’ll be killing; yes.”

Teressa breathed out something that was near a laugh, but also too tired to be anything joyous. “Then if you’re done having your pity party, let’s get going, Team Leader Jane.”

At that, Jane laughed. “Ma’am yes, ma’am!”

Poi said, “Before we continue, I need to say a few more personal things.”

Jane and Teressa looked to Poi.

Poi said, “Jane. You need to send a letter to Nirzir to smooth over the shit you said back there. You really hurt her. She thought you were friends.”

Jane frowned and felt a sudden pain in her chest as Poi’s words hit unexpectedly hard.

Poi continued, “Also, I apologize for stopping you from killing those priests.”

“Ah. No.” Jane said, “I’m sorry that you had to do that. I should have kept my cool… And my words to Nirzir might have been too harsh. You’re right to say what you said about that, too. I barely even remember what I said… it all happened too fast.”

Teressa said, “You were right about us being in different circles, though. Erick could barrel through that shit because he belonged wherever he felt like belonging, but we three are uncivilized adventurers, and we do as the barbarians do. We cannot move to Nirzir’s circle, but she can move to ours.”

It seemed the large woman’s mood had improved.

“Teressa is also right.” Poi breathed, then said, “As an addendum: I hope that Erick returns, soon, and I will also act like I expect him to return, sooner or later. We shall all pretend like we know that he will be back. But there is a certain subset of people who will pounce now that he is gone. Expect what happened back there at Enduring Forge, with the [Prismatic Ward]s, and how they tried to [Dispel] Yggdrasil at Holorulo, to happen again. Again and again, we will all be tested.” He said to Jane, “Which is why it is important to ensure that you antagonize none of the enemies that your father might have made. You should send that apology letter to Singer Nirzir so that we don’t have Songli as an accidental enemy; this is what you should hope for as an outcome to that.”

“… Right, right,” Jane said.

The cold wind blew.

Jane looked up at the cloudy sky and at the dim sunlight past the clouds to the south, asking, “When did it turn into fucking day? Wasn’t it night? I blipped us west, didn’t I? That means it should be darker...” She looked around, saying, “Yeah. This is the right beach. I’ve been here before.” She pointed south. “The Forest of Glaquin is past that ocean. Isn’t it?”

“It is.” Poi said, “We’re on the right path. You simply didn’t realize how deep the grief is hitting you, and how much time has gotten away from us. If you want to talk to a therapist there are some at Spur I can put you into contact with.”

Jane groaned.

Poi added, “I had hoped that your father would take the offer before we left, but it is what it is. We already have some therapists down at Candlepoint talking to the shadelings, too, and that seems to be going well.”

“Are the shadelings real people?” Jane asked.

“Real enough as anyone.” Poi said, “So take that as you will.”

