Teressa said it best, “These aren’t simple monsters… They’re dead people. People.” She enunciated, “As in multiples of people. Thousands, in some cases.”

Poi was reading something else as he commented, “The more dangerous ones act as fully-linked mage covens, which means they can either cast multiple spells at once and cooperative cast for massive effects.”

Teressa shook a small folder, saying, “The most dangerous one so far was a three-person meld. From our own side! Gone to sleep in the same room and woken up changed, and crazed.”

“So don’t get the shit on you and [Cleanse] for at least 30 seconds after every battle.” Jane held up her own folder, saying, “This one was five shadow giants and a hundred shadowolves, melded together into one massive monster of limbs and jaws and claws and with the regenerative properties of a wyrm.”

Teressa frowned, but Jane could tell she was interested.

Jane teased, “You complained about not fighting enough monsters! See what complaining gets you!”

Teressa huffed a small laugh. “I see what complaining gets me.”

“And now we’re all here in the deep shit with you,” Jane said, smiling. “Oceans of deep black shit.”

Poi put his papers back into their folder, then began putting the folder away, saying, “I’m going to get some sleep while I can. I suggest you all do the same.”

A round of agreements had everything put back where it was supposed to go, and then they all left to their rooms.

Jane collapsed onto her bed —her own bed!— and it smelled like home… Probably a bit too much. She got back up, [Cleanse]d, put away shit, took off crap, hung her sword on the wall—

Gods, that was a beautiful sword.

Jane smiled at the straight-back weapon that would be killing many, many monsters in the coming hours and days, and then she crawled back into bed, feeling a lot more weary than she expected. She set an [Alarm Ward] to go off in 6 hours, with a personal-only sound, giving her some time before nightly siege. Jane closed her eyes.

She was out in minutes.

She dreamed of her father.

All too quickly, the alarm woke her up. Bleary-eyed, Jane got out of bed and brushed the tears from her eyes, and then she went to go see about dinner. Teressa was already up and cooking up a storm with copious amounts of meat and a lot of bluebell seasoning.

Jane teased her, “You really like that shitty little flower spice, don’t you?”

“I do!” Teressa laughed. “It’s been too long since I had it, too.”

“Wanna try that 12 star spice?”

“Fuck you. No.” Teressa said, “Don’t you go ruining my food with that shit, either.”

“Oh! Come’on! You might like it!”

Poi came into the room—

Teressa latched onto Poi’s leadership, saying, “Poi! This Team Leader is about to commit 12-star culinary crimes! What’s her punishment?”

“Send her out to fight for her life against monsters that will eat her alive.”

Jane laughed. Poi smiled.

Teressa seriously said, “I don’t want to be put on background duty, Poi. Don’t let that happen.”

“I’ll see what I can do,” Poi said, “But we’re all getting the assignments we need, and you made yourself an indispensable prognosticator with a natural mana sense range of 120 meters and an eye on the big picture. Blame yourself.”

“Yeah yeah.” Teressa said, “Point taken.”

Jane went to the pantry, asking, “How can I help make dinner?”

“I want mashed potatoes,” Kiri said, coming into the room. “Like how Erick made them.”

“Then that is what we shall have.” Jane moved toward the cold room, asking, “Who wants to start explaining?”

Kiri said, “I want to know where Erick is, and why you think he isn’t dead, even though Yggdrasil has been shown to survive when horrible things have been done to Erick. And then I want a highlight of everything else you think is important.” She added, “And I want to know about the runic armaments you all got, but I can wait on that. We probably don’t have enough time to get through everything before the nightly siege.”

Jane glanced to Teressa, who glanced to Poi. Who was going to start?

Poi began, “So there was this Teleporting Pad in this place called Enduring Forge, located under the Northern Tribulations; the mountain range that runs all throughout Nelboor. It was there that…”

Poi explained a lot of things.

Kiri listened. She calmly raised objections. Poi elaborated. Jane joined in sometimes. Teressa took over once she was done with the major cooking, weaving a story of the Worldly Path fit for a bard. As they ate nice steaks and copious mashed potatoes with lots of butter, they got back to barracks teasing, and assorted stories, and gallows humor. Kiri broke down a few times for reasons she didn’t go into, but Jane, Poi, and Teressa were there to lift her back up. By the time dinner was actually over and cleaned up, Kiri remained concerned about what happened to Erick.

Jane said, “He’s alive, Kiri, because if he’s dead then I’m… I’m not sure what. It’ll be bad.”

Poi said, “We have Minds on various necromancers the world over, who are already trying to call forth Erick’s soul from the manasphere. There’s a small chance that he could slip through those nets, but it’s a low chance. Very low.”

Jane looked to Poi, and asked a question that had been burning a hole in the back of her thoughts. “Quilatalap?”

“Yes,” Poi answered.

Teressa breathed deep, mumbling, “Fuck.”

“If that’s how it is, then that’s how it is. Okay. Fine.” Kiri breathed deep, then she seemed to appear lighter, as though she had set aside her worries, and moved on to other ones. She declared, “Dammit all to fucking shit. I missed out by coming back to Spur, didn’t I!” She looked to Teressa, saying, “Fucking world-class prognosticator.” She looked to Poi. “Adamantium armor!” And then Jane. “And enough Points to make everything easier!”

“Yup!” Jane said, “And don’t forget the runework! And the gridwork! And the reflections. That’s probably the biggest deal to come out of all this. All three of us can reflect most directed spellwork.”

Kiri scowled. “Why don’t they teach us that in Arcanaeum!”

Teressa smirked. “And I got aura control and Remade every single Shaping spell and a lot of the basic ones, too.”

Poi said, “You made out very well, Teressa.”

“I did, didn’t I?” Teressa smiled.

Kiri said, “This is infuriating! I thought I had a good education, but I didn’t get a sponsor until I came here… Granted, my sponsor is Erick, but... Dammit.” She asked Teressa, “Which do you think is more important? Aura control, or all the senses?”

Teressa said, “Aura control, for sure.”

Jane said, “Yeah. Aura control. I’m working on it, but I haven’t had much luck.”

“There’s gonna be a lot of downtime in the coming siege,” Poi said, “So you got time to practice.”

“But besides all that, reflection spellwork is super important.” Teressa said, “The reflection-thing is mostly used against people, though, which isn’t something that happens a lot in Spur.”

Jane said, “Dad knew about the importance of reflections before we went to Nelboor.”

“He did.” Teressa said, “And I think I was rather dismissive at the time; shows what I know.”

Kiri looked a bit lost—

Poi said to Kiri, “Spur would have lost a lot more people without your presence. And besides that, Erick will eventually be back. I’m sure he’ll pick up some equally world-changing magic aside from [Gate], too, and he’ll want to share.”

“Oh yeah.” Teressa said, “100% gonna happen.”

Jane smiled.

Kiri gave a small grin. “I can only hope.” And then she frowned, and said, “I’m glad to be here, but… It’s been… Sometimes I’ve felt as though I’ve saved someone from themselves only to find their corpse among the dead the next day. And these idiots— These traveling adventurers from Greensoil are the worst. They’re all FUCKING IDIOTS.”

“Ah. So nothing has changed.” Teressa nodded.

Poi said, “Yup. You were saving idiots back on your tour of duty in Ar’Kendrithyst, too, so this shouldn’t be that much different.”

Kiri frowned. “… I suppose the scale is different. I actually see every individual body these days. I see every failure to communicate, and every failure of orders. Every single night at least 10 to 15 people die trying to kill a big amalgam because the big ones can be anywhere from level 75 to 95.” She stressed, “Everyone wants the easy levels and none of the idiots are prepared to actually fight at that level.”

Jane smiled softly, feeling suddenly giddy as she said, “Then it’s a good thing we’re back. I’m going to kill-steal all of those amalgams.”

“Good fucking luck!” Kiri exclaimed.

It was good to be home.

Poi said, “You will follow orders, Jane, and not deviate from them.”

Jane waved him off, “Yeah, yeah, yeah.”

Poi gave her a pretty impressive glare.

Jane held her hands in the air, saying, “I’ll be good! I swear!”

Teressa grinned. Kiri smirked.

Poi mm-hmm’d.
