“I’m not opposed to a Forest jaunt...” Teressa stared south. “But why’d we come this way? Don’t want to go through the Republic?”

“Absolutely not,” Jane said, glad for the change of topic. “Done that before. Never again. Border patrol got a [Leash] on me and I almost had to kill them to get away. If I had a Domain like dad I probably could have clipped their [Leash] easily, but… I haven’t made one of those yet, either.”

Teressa nodded. “Me either.”

After another moment of silence, Poi said, “It’s fucking freezing. Let’s get to blipping, please.”

Jane smiled. “Yeah, yeah.” The party regathered and Jane held out her hands, saying, “That was the halfway point. The ocean is a few blips away, and then we’ll be in the air, moving as fast as I can. I’ll support us with [Greater Lightwalk], but it’s not that strong. Don’t test the flooring.”

Teressa took her hand, saying, “Don’t fall; got it.”

Poi took her other hand.

And then they were off.

- - - -

The northern coast of Glaquin was yet another frozen wasteland, but then they passed the coast, and headed into the skies above the Forest. The flashing landscape below grew taller, and greener. And then, after a few more blips, the Wyrmrest Mountains appeared. Another two blips put them firmly beyond the reach of those craggy peaks, which seemed much smaller and carefully organized when compared to the Tribulations. They were now in the Crystal Forest.

Jane, Poi, and Teressa, stood upon cold, orange sands as the sun rose in the east, shedding light upon orange dunes. They had managed to beat the sun here, but barely. There had been some minor falterings in the skies over the Forest, but they were here, and safe, for a relative definition of ‘safe’, anyway.

A typical example of a normal crystal mimic grew upon the rocky sands, not forty meters away. It reminded Jane of home.

She asked if anyone was against walking for a bit, for she was down to a third of her resources. Teressa gave a small joke about facing a wyrm attack while she rested, for this was the start of wyrm season. Poi said that any wyrm unfortunate enough to meet any of them would end up very dead, and he wasn’t sure which one, Teressa or Jane, would kill it faster.

Teressa laughed. “It would be a contest, of course! To see who could land the killing blow!”

Jane got into the spirit, saying, “You think you could actually kill one these days? Last I saw, all you could do was stand in the way.”

“Hey now! I could take on an eyebeam wyrm these days.” Teressa moved her left arm and her massive shield moved with her, to attach to her left arm. The magically enhanced shield was bright silver, but it reflected the dawn, becoming gold in the light. “We got trained up like proper warriors over in Songli.”

Poi grumbled, “Reflections make everything so much tougher for teammates.”

Jane laughed, then tapped his shoulder, saying, “So that’s why you got reflections in your adamantium, too, eh!”

“My armor has multiple modes of use.” Poi said, “And thankfully, I’m getting the hang of its reflective nature. It’s a sight better than full-body reflection.”

Jane asked, “You can still get through telepathically with the full body reflection, though, can’t you?”

“I can, but it’s not that easy.”

Jane smirked. “As long as you can get through it at all, then that’s good enough for me.”

“Me too.” Teressa said, “I still prefer the directional reflection, though. It’s stronger.”

“Reflective armor is the best of both styles,” Poi said. “Directional, but without compromising telepathic communication, and you can still touch the exposed parts for healing spells.”

They walked for a while, talking about nothing in particular, for no reason in particular. Jane would later reflect on this moment and see that this was the calm before the storm, but the storm was still a ways off. So for now, they shot the shit, and everything was as good as it could be, considering the circumstances. It felt like a return to normalcy, which was important. They were soldiers against the monstrous world, and that’s what they needed to be; not an archmage’s attache.

… They were also putting off their meeting with Silverite, but no one actually spoke of that. They were each afraid in their own way of what the Mayor of Spur was going to say or do when they finally returned. But they were all responsible people, and they needed to talk about responsible things. Poi got to that point before the other two, though.

“Silverite hasn’t explained,” Poi said, “But I’m assuming that Kiri is going to be our new assignment.”

Jane felt like her feet were suddenly twice as heavy as complicated emotions swirled in her mind. She rapidly picked one of her multiple, sudden problems out of the maelstrom, asking, “How does inheritance work in Spur?”

Poi said, “At Silverite’s decree.”

“… Ah.”

“You’d get the house, Jane,” Teressa said, “But let’s leave things like they are for a while longer.”

“I wasn’t going to do that— I mean. I would never— But we’re going back and my father isn’t with us, and I want to be prepared for… I suppose I’m thinking more like Earth-inheritance rules and that shit...” Jane winced. “Ah. Fucking shit. Do I have to pay taxes on dad’s money?”

“Yup.” Teressa smiled. “And if you don’t want to pay them, then you’re probably not getting anything.”

“… Silverite wouldn’t do that.” Jane asked, “Would she?”

“She’s done it before.” Poi said, “I doubt she would change for Erick… But Erick was a different kind of— He is a different kind of person.”

Jane felt her heart seize all over again.

The conversation moved on.

Jane was perfectly fine being ‘on Kiri duty’, whatever that meant. It was nice to get a heads-up before the fact, though. Eventually, Jane’s Mana and Health ticked up high enough that more blipping was in order, but Jane sent a [Scry] orb ahead to check out the place, first; to get an overview of what sort of city she was coming back to.

… And Spur looked perfectly fine. Despite news that the place was under difficult siege every single night, and that there were three more sets of concentric walls around the place, all of the walls were intact and many of the buildings were occupied. The Mage Guild District and the Adventurer Guild District were absolutely packed with people, going to and fro. Guards were out and keeping the peace, but there were no fights happening at that particular moment. There were never that many discipline problems inside the city.

Jane smiled to herself. Adventurer lands weren’t that much more uncivilized than all the rest of the world. Like, sure, the people here were much higher powered, and they fought, for sure, but they took their fights out of the city, because anyone caught fighting inside the city was promptly fucked up by the city guard. Her father’s interest in massive population oppression didn’t make sense to Jane, because when left to their own devices and allowed to level off of monster killing as much as they wanted, people either lived peaceably with their neighbors, or they were kicked out to fend for themselves. And this was fine.

Spur was doing well, despite the shadows looming all around!

Jane recast her [Scry] into the designated spot inside City Hall, the one where Poi told her to check, to see if the location was good to blip—

“Ah.” Jane froze. “They’re ready for us. We’re headed right into a debrief.”

Teressa breathed deep, then said, “Sounds like fun.”

Poi held out his hand, saying, “Let’s get this over with.”

Jane took their hands, and then they were off.

- - - -

Jane stood in the center of the room flanked by Poi on one side and Teressa on the other. The three of them stood at parade attention, while their bags had been laid to the side, for now.

Silverite sat at the judge’s seat, as she usually did, and she looked exactly as Jane remembered; a completely silver dragonkin who wore clothes, unlike the vast majority of wrought. Today she wore a blue pantsuit. The Mage Guild’s Sirocco Zago sat in the audience, beside her daughter, Sizzi; the two of them resembled one another, as both of them were violet-purple incani with upturned horns and white hair. Guildmaster Mogarithag Moggargal or just 'Mog', of the Adventurer’s Guild, was the same massively muscular orcol woman who Jane remembered. She sat alongside one of the receptionists from the guild. Aside from those major faces, Jane knew most of the other people in the room, from some farmers who farmed the lands surrounding the Human District, to people in the Army. Liquid and Killzone were present; the Quartermaster and the General. Both were wrought, with Liquid resembling a female dragonkin of iron, and Killzone resembling a male orcol made of adamantium. Both of those wrought were technically nude, but their skin had been shaped to appear like clothes; they were more normal wrought, for sure.

Killzone didn’t seem to appreciate the new adamantium armaments in his midst, though. He glanced at Teressa’s shield, and Poi’s currently-silver armor, and Jane’s sword, strapped to her waist.

Well nuts to him.

Liquid and Silverite took a moment to look at the adamantium, too. Perhaps they were more ambivalent? It was hard to tell.

The other people in the audience —and there were quite a lot!— Jane had no idea who they were. Some of them sat near to the positions of the actual powerful people in the room and were themselves dressed quite nicely. Jane guessed, at a glance, that they were all nobles of some sort, or perhaps they were the merchant powers that existed in Spur, instead of standard nobility. But some of the nicely dressed people present were human, and that set Jane to remembering that there were some changes of the ‘human nobility’ kind going on back before they left for the Worldly Path. She had never paid attention to them, but perhaps she should have; she could have matched her new neighbors to the faces out there.

The various [Familiar]s of the archmages were also present. They hung to the side of the room, floating near the wall. Wave’s floating blob of water, Opal’s pearlescent white sphere, Obsidian’s spiky black ball. They were all watching.

Kiri was not there, and neither was her [Familiar]; Sunny the shapeshifting couatl.

There would have been a lot more people in that room if the clamoring public outside had been allowed into the courtroom, but they were not. The air would have been chock full of [Scry] orbs, though, if Obsidian hadn’t cast some sort of autonomous-[Scry]-orb-popper into the air in the room. As it was, that construct had been popping a thousand [Scry] orbs every second, just to keep the air clear of those damnable prying eyes.

A full minute they stood there, Jane and Poi and Teressa, while the crowd was calmed down by soldiers appointed to City Hall and everyone finished taking their seats. It had been a hastily assembled debrief, but it had assembled nonetheless.

Silverite brought the gathering to order, her voice filling the air and rapidly drowning out all others, “We are here, today, to find out what happened to Archmage Flatt. Jane Flatt. Teressa Rednail. Poi Fulisade. You were there when he vanished. One of you, speak. Explain what happened, without divulging secrets best left covered. Tell us: are we at war? Did someone take Erick from us?”

Jane suddenly reevaluated everything about the moment. She wasn’t on trial. The rest of the world was at trial. She blurted out, “No one took him from me. He left willingly.”

The crowd gasped.

“Explain,” Silverite demanded.

Jane didn’t even know where to start—

Poi, thankfully, started speaking. He gave a concise account of what happened, talking about how Erick was getting into runework and he wanted to increase the range of [Teleport], for it might help him with the creation of [Gate]. Erick had learned a lot from Enduring Forge, who had been nothing but extremely helpful and informative, but then Erick saw an opportunity.

Erick stepped on the testing pad of his own volition.

Other people started talking, accusing individuals of Enduring Forge, or elsewhere, of bad intentions, of traps and intrigue. Of assassination. Someone got the idea that a dragon of Ooloraptoor had something to do with Erick’s disappearance, while others spoke badly of the nobility of the Highlands. After everyone had a chance to vent, Silverite shut down the outbursts and guided further questioning.

The debrief took three hours.

Poi spoke for most of it, but Silverite asked questions of Jane and Teressa, and so they had to speak, too. Words about The Worldly Path came out, because they had to, but most of those words came out in a nebulous manner that hid what the Path really did to a person, and to the world, when someone walked it.

Poi, Teressa, and Jane, were not on trial, and never were.

In the last half-hour of the debrief, Poi spoke the words that would become Spur’s reaction to Erick’s disappearance, “I don’t believe he is dead, for Yggdrasil is still alive, and that is the biggest indication that Erick survives. If anything: Erick is merely further along on the Worldly Path than anyone else before him. And so, I will wait, and I will ensure that his house does not fall down while he is gone, and when he does return, then I’m going to at least punch him for doing this to me, and to us.”

The debrief eventually ended.

The courtroom dispersed. No one was happy, but everyone was at least less mad.

Jane, Poi, and Teressa, picked their bags back up and followed Silverite into the room behind the courtroom. Killzone and Liquid joined them. Soon, it was the three of them inside a small room, made smaller by the two orcol-sized people.

And then Silverite screamed out her anger, roaring at the floor and at the walls and at the table, filling the room with a hateful sound that washed over Jane like a raging ocean. And then Silverite stopped. She stood, silent and threatening, her solid silver eyes boring into Jane’s.

Silverite said, “Not your fuckup. You’re fine. I’m angry, though. He could actually be dead.”

“He’s not dead,” Jane found herself saying, with extreme vehemence.

“Well I hope you’re right, Jane.” Silverite half-yelled. She forced herself to calm again, briefly closing her eyes and focusing on something that wasn’t the people in front of her. She opened her eyes, and asked, “Have you heard about the dead souls thing we got going on, now? Ar'Kendrithyst’s little death knell?”

“Poi told us on the way over here,” Teressa said.

