“Then he has followed at least those directions correctly.” Silverite said, “You’re going to be involved in that defense. All three of you, and primarily through Kiri. Kiri now has most of the spellwork that Erick had— Has.” She paused. She said, “Kiri has most of the spellwork that Erick has. She’s done it differently in a lot of places, though, and she doesn’t have a Domain yet. Probably gonna take her decades to get that good, like most normal mages of her caliber. Problem is we don’t have decades— Wait. Teressa. You’re good with mana sense now, yes?”

“And basic prognostication.” Teressa said, “It’s a lot easier to do without Erick being around, too.”

“Yay for glimmering sights,” Silverite said, sarcastically. Then she spoke seriously, “I want you to take the tests for certification. We can use another proven prognosticator of any ability at all, and you’re supposed to be good, to hear Poi tell it. You still need to prove you’re good, and then I have a good place for you.”

“I understand.” Teressa said, “I will get this certification.”

“Then you’re on that. Report to Liquid when you can to take the tests.” Silverite looked at Jane, saying, “You’re likely gonna end up on major monster detail. Poi will be on coordination efforts, through Kiri and you. Teressa might be involved elsewhere, or settled down next to Kiri inside the [Prismatic Ward] around your house—” She roared, “At least that spellwork is still there—” She calmed, “Unlike the [Prismatic Ward]s around the rooms in Enduring Forge…” She breathed. She said, “He never shifted the spellwork around his home so I doubt it would shift now, but to ensure that it won’t be taken down by anything less than Erick himself, I had Archmage Opal enact some extra layers of defense around that particular spellwork; long lasting [Force Wall]s and other such spellwork. The three of you will remain stationed in that safe space, of course, but you’re gonna have to [Blink] to get through Opal’s spells.”

A swell of emotions rolled up and out of Jane, as she felt hot tears roll down her face. She wasn’t sure why, but she was really touched that Silverite cared— Of course she cared, but… Actions mattered, and this was good. Jane said, “Thank you, Mayor Silverite.”

With a momentarily softer voice, Silverite said, “You three survived being accomplices on the Worldly Path; you have no idea how rare that is. At least one of you should have died. Possibly all of you. But Erick is Erick, so I suppose I shouldn’t be too surprised. Hopefully, he’s simply on his next step and he’ll return when he can. With any luck, it won’t take him more than a month to get back to us. Maybe two. Two months is my timetable before I start worrying.” She spoke stronger, “So I want this black soul ooze sorted well before then, because if Erick comes back here and he doesn’t have [Gate]... Then that means we’re on the Path with him, and I do not like what that means for us, or for Spur.”

Jane felt a need to speak, so she did, “Earlier, in the debrief… We spoke of the Sliding System and what the machine had said. I get the impression that my father would not be allowed to leave the Worldly Path? Is that why you didn’t want him coming here?”

“Exactly right, Jane, and I’m glad to hear you actually ask this question because that means that my information embargo worked. That you’re even able to ask it at all gives me good hope that we’re far enough away from his Worldly Path that we’re not currently under Fate’s fist. Which is fantastic.” Silverite explained, “Many people on the Worldly Path have come to Spur before, for Melemizargo is at the end of all iterations of the Path. This information comes to everyone who walks the Path. In turn, those people come here, hoping to get into Ar’Kendrithyst to find more answers. Sometimes those people are total failures, though, so Melemizargo lets them quit, for he has grown tired of their presence. But for your father? The man who brought him out of his insanity?” Silverite stressed, “Dragons don’t let shiny things go, Jane.”

Jane’s chest felt tight. “… Is it possible for him to ever complete it, then?”

Silverite said, “I don’t know.”

Killzone spoke up, “He can complete it, but he’d need to find a different Wizard to do the final step. I doubt Melemizargo would let him complete the Path in the normal manner, either.”

Jane stared at the big man. “Wizardry? Really? That’s the final step?”

Silverite frowned at the big man. Teressa scowled at nothing in particular, her eyes flickering with grey light as she looked elsewhere. Poi sighed, and Liquid shrugged.

Liquid said, “It’s a theory. We’ve seen a lot of various Walkers come and go over the centuries, with some coming a lot closer to [Gate] than others, and with at least two that I personally knew that had it in their heads to go chase down a Wizard for assistance.”

Killzone said, “I’ve personally seen three Walkers try to find Wizards.”

“And I’ve seen twenty four.” Silverite said, “One and all, every Walker that tried that route ended up dead.”

Jane said, “Then I’m glad my father didn’t know of this, or we would have tried— Oh. He taunted a dragon with the threat of finding a wizard that would transform the dragon from Elemental Shadow and Ooze into Elemental Truth, with the goal to get the dragon to speak truths.”

Liquid, Killzone, and Silverite each listened, but she could tell they had heard this fact already. Probably from Poi.

But Jane hadn’t been a part of that conversation, so Jane continued, “And Goldie appeared to us before that, directly telling us that dragons only truly cared about one thing; finding Wizards. Which is why dad taunted the dragon in that way.”

Silverite spoke first, “Sounds like I’ve now reached 25 of my Worldly Path Wizardly count.”

Liquid said, “That’s a lot of purely circumstantial evidence since there’s never been anyone who actually solved [Gate] magic the hard way... But I’m officially up to three-Wizard-mentions.”

“Four.” Killzone said, “And that’s more than enough circumstantial evidence to put that at the true final step of the Worldly Path.”

“Possibly only near the end; maybe not a true final step,” Liquid said.

Silverite waved a hand, saying, “Okay. That’s great.” She said, “Teressa, Jane, Poi; We’re glad to have you back. Welcome home. For now you’re assisting Kiri and on nightly monster-killing duty with everyone else. Liquid will sort you out before sunset.” She looked directly at Jane, saying, “We’re going to end this black ooze threat, and then you can go search for Erick. Am I understood?”

Jane latched onto the goal, sounding off in time with Poi and Teressa, “Yes, ma’am!”

“Dismissed.”

- - - -

Home was exactly as Jane had left it.

The mansion was three stories of near-Victorian architecture, but done in solid orange stone, with a mage tower at the north for Jane, and a mage tower at the south for her father. To the west, in the front of the house, grew a garden of earthly vegetables and fruits alongside veirdly varieties, while on the east side was an… An orchard of cocoa trees, apparently. About twenty cocoa trees. That was new. There had only been a few cocoa trees in that secondary garden patch when they had all left for the Worldly Path, but apparently the ladies of ‘And Dessert!’ were doing well with their chocolate.

The house also had a proper fence now, which was different. It was a thick stone fence, lit up with politely-worded lightwards telling people not to cross onto the property. The warnings seemed to need to be enforced, though, since there were guards from Spur stationed inside the property. Some of those guards were actually gardening, or at least they were keeping the place looking nice. Jane even knew them. One of the guards was Biggie, a dragonkin with dark grey scales who Jane and Kiri had worked with when Jane was stationed under Sargent Nanark, back at her time in Ar’Kendrithyst, before she became a Team Leader and was mostly independent.

The Human District had changed, though.

Where once it was mostly empty, flat orange stone, surrounded by distant farm beds, there were seven new mansions dotting the land here and there. One of them was mostly built when Jane had left with her father on the Worldly Path, and now it looked fully built and occupied. That house belonged to a noble with a name that escaped Jane at the moment, but which would probably come to her later. Most of the other houses looked similarly fancy, except for one. The mage trio’s house, to the north, retained its normal look, almost mirroring Erick’s house; it looked a bit neglected, actually. Even Erick’s house looked run down when compared to all the others, though. The noble vacation/adventuring houses had paint on the walls, or colored stone layered atop the orange. Some even had fancy fountains in their lawns and gardens.

At least no one had built directly next to the house. Silverite probably had something to do with that. Security concerns and common decency and prestige; take your pick, they were all valid reasons.

Jane, Poi, and Teressa, had bypassed almost all of the security measures, though, and taken the shortcut directly into the house’s foyer. But there was one security measure that Jane did not think would be a problem, and here that problem was, hovering in front of them and hissing at them. Jane had even checked the target location with a [Scry] before she blipped, but it seemed that Sunny barely remembered any of them.

Jane let Poi deal with Sunny.

The little green couatl screeched loud, again. Though it hadn’t attacked with any spellwork, it certainly made a racket. How could Kiri sleep through this? Jane almost sent up some light to poke at the woman, but she didn’t want to make any large movements; not when the one Sunny in front of them contented itself with screeching, but the other Sunnys, hiding here and there around the house, looked ready to pounce.

Or more accurately, spew lightning, or something.

Poi spoke calmly, though he was beyond agitated. “Sunny. You remember us—”

Kiri stepped into view at the top of the stairs. She was in night clothes and half wrapped in a quilted blanket that trailed behind her, while her emerald eyes were puffy. Her tears were held back by the barest of threads. All at once, every Sunny suddenly relaxed and flitted away from the foyer. Kiri whispered, “Erick isn’t with you.”

Jane said, “He’s alive, but he went on without us.”

Kiri sniffled, then asked, “He left you behind, too?”

“It’s complicated.” Poi said, “We can speak more of all of it, but it comes down to this: We’re here now, and we’re your backup.”

Kiri huffed a nervous laugh. From one moment to the next, she seemed better. Her tears dried as she dropped the blanket, revealing nightclothes and chuckling once, before sobbing deeply and turning to light to appear right in front of Jane. Jane’s eyes went wide as Kiri crashed into her, hugging tight, before moving on to Teressa and then Poi, saying, “I’m so glad you’re back. It’s been difficult and I’ve tried to keep it together but we’re losing people every night and it’s—” She hugged Jane again, and this time Jane was able to hug her back. “It’s been—” She broke down, sobbing briefly, before saying, “It’s been tough.”

Jane held her for a while, and she found that she had missed Kiri. She had missed the house. She had missed Spur. She said, “We’re back now, and I’ll help with the near-Ancients, or whatever they are.”

Kiri whispered, “Thank the gods.” She sighed, as she pulled away and looked at them all, saying, “Sorry about that. It’s been rough, but I guess you guys went through a war, too.”

Teressa said, “Aye, we did. But it looks like you went through this war all on your own.”

“No one else can enter the house, and this is where I’m safest— We already had—” Kiri glanced at the bags, saying, “Uh. I’ll help you with those.” The bags vanished in flickers of rapidly-moving Sunnys. “So I’m awake, now. Let’s talk about everything.”

Poi frowned a little, saying, “I think you should go back to bed. We’re here, you’re safe, and you need the rest. We should all probably go to our own beds and sleep, too. Tonight will be difficult and there’s no need for more stress at the moment.”

Kiri lashed out, “Erick could do this just fine! I—” She pulled back, closing her eyes as she waved a hand. “Sorry. Sorry. I thought I could do this, too.” Kiri breathed out, saying, “Yeah. I’m going back to bed. Wake me up an hour till sunset, please?”

“Sure thing, Kiri,” Jane said.

“I want to know all about it.” Kiri said, “Everything. Okay?”

Jane smiled. “Yeah. We’ll tell you.”

“Even the shit you wouldn’t tell anyone else,” Kiri stared a bit, then she softened, and whispered, “Okay?”

Jane nodded. Teressa hummed assent.

Poi just flicked his eyes upward, to the second story.

Kiri sighed and flashed into green light. When she resolved, she was upstairs, and walking to her room, muttering, “Sleep, sleep, sleep.”

Everyone parted to their own parts of the house. Teressa went straight to bed. Poi went to the third floor, for whatever reason. Jane went to the kitchen, to see if the place was stocked, or not.

The kitchen had more food than any one person could ever eat; the kitchen was fine. And yet, Kiri had felt thin when Jane had her arms around her. She had looked thin, too, but… She had always been thin, right? No. She hadn’t always been that thin.

Hmm.

Jane explored the rest of the house, quick as a shadow—

She reappeared on the third floor hallway, because she had seen what Poi had gone after. In the third floor of the house, in one of the larger rooms, her father’s [Prismatic Ward] did not exist. Erick had left it that way on purpose so that he could experiment with smaller scale magics without the interference of that dense air.

The Army had turned this part of the house into a miniature command center.

The space was empty of people at the moment, but there were chairs and tables and a chalkboard and a lightward 3D map of the battlefield between Spur’s walls and the entire surrounding battlefield to ten kilometers out, including a bit of the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst to the south. Poi was already inside going over papers and checking out recorded monsters and their abilities. Jane joined him. Soon, Teressa showed, and she got in on the action as well.

As Jane read over the recorded monsters —officially called amalgams— she got more and more concerned, but also more than a little bit excited.

