It doesn’t disintegrate in her hands, but that's because rocks and metal have a higher threshold for the amount of extra mana they can hold. If Sandra’s mana pool wasn’t limited from protecting her baby, and she hadn’t been practicing for hours, I’m sure she would’ve been able to pulverize the stone with ease, but right now, she just couldn't do it.

“I swear I can do it,” Sandra’s face scrunches up in frustration when the stone in her hand doesn’t disintegrate.

“It’s ok, don’t strain yourself,” I tell her before she pushes too hard. "Remember, I can see the mana you just poured into the stone. I can tell you unlocked the skill," I reassure her. “Congratulations.”

"Thanks," Sandra beams at with the strength of a thousand suns. Her smile is so bright I might just have to shield my eyes, and I've spent the last couple of days staring into a forge. “With this, I’ll be able to get some practice in drawing runes with an engraving pen before Kervin shows up.”

“You mean once your mana levels recharge,” I point out to her. Of course, someone has to remind her she shouldn't overtax herself while she's pregnant.

“I know that,” Sandra gives me a look that says that was obvious, but I'm sure if I didn't say anything, she'd have rushed back to Master's clearing in her excitement already and started practicing with my engraving pen.

Kervin wasn’t due to arrive at the village for a few more days, and even when he arrived, there was no guarantee that Giovanni could get me the magic gem I asked for in time. We have to assume that the two of us would need to share an engraving pen for the foreseeable future. Which I’m completely fine with.

I thought my schedule would open up after completing the arrows, but Master and I are busier than ever, thanks to Richard's wall. So I have to limit my enchanting practice to once a week, so Sandra can use my pen all she wants the rest of the time. The only problem with that is that we do our best when practicing together, which will be more difficult with one pen.

Even with the problems and work we might face shortly, seeing Sandra succeed at something she’s put her all into stokes my competitive spirit. I need to try my hardest as well.

And that means-

“Again, congratulations,” I tell Sandra one last time. “But I need to get back to my sparring.”

"But you sounded relieved to stop a moment ago,” Sandra shoots me a cheeky grin.

“Oh, quiet,” I turn away from my friend with a smile on my face and walk back to Tabitha. She's been close by staring at us during our entire conversation.

“Are you ready to continue?” She asks me when I stop twenty paces from her.

“I am,” I say with all my resolve.

“Good. Begin!”

And like that, my training begins again.

**********

One’s Point of View:

The dark room I'm standing in reeks heavily of blood, but for once, the smell doesn't bother me.

With my hood down, I stare down at the mutilated corpse at my feet. Any normal person would think it was a skinned animal with how it looks, but if you looked hard enough, you could see what used to be his face.

My gloves are stained red, and likely the rest of my clothes weren’t any better.

“Wow, I haven’t seen you without your hood down in a long time. What if I were someone else and saw you like that?” I turn towards the dark doorway behind me and watch as Four materializes out of thin air with a smirk on his face.

“I knew you were there,” I glare at him. I’m in no mood to deal with his shenanigans. “And I wanted him to see the face of my sister as he died," I motion to the sack of flesh beside me.

“I’m as much a fan of overkill as the next assassin, but don’t you think you might have gone just a little bit overboard with this one? It's not your style," he points out.

“He was the one who helped Grey smuggle the alchemical bomb into the city,” I flatly tell my fellow number.

“Oh,” a rare look of understanding flashes across Four’s face. “In that case, I hope he died screaming.” He moves next to me and kicks the body with enough force to send it crashing into the wall across the room. More blood splatters everywhere, but neither Four nor I care. I’m going to torch the building after I leave anyways.

“Did you get any information out of him?”

“Nothing I didn’t already know. He was the last of Grey's contacts still in the city. I've been looking for him since I first heard about him, but he's been hiding in shitholes like this since the bombing."

“Feeling better then, now that they’re all dead, I mean?" He asks me, to which I scowl.

“Right, stupid question. How’s your sister doing?”

“Is there a reason why you are here?” I snap.

Four shrugs off my attitude and answers in a matter-of-fact tone. “I’m leaving the city with Kervin in an hour. With Elizabeth-.”

My eyes harden at the mention of my sister’s name.

“Recuperating,” Four chooses his words carefully. “I figured I should check in with you.”

It was Lizzy who always dealt with the other numbers when they passed through the city. Unlike me, she had the patience to deal with Four.

“Fine. Go,” I wave him off.

Four drops his perpetual smile for a second and asks me a question that cuts deeper than any dagger ever could. “Seriously, how is she doing?”

Gritting my teeth, I have to bite down my anger, threatening to rise up. By the tone of his voice alone, I can tell he’s being serious for a change, but that doesn’t make it any easier to talk about my sister. Every time I think about her in that bed, I get the urge to kill someone.

“She still hasn’t woken up,” I whisper.

“I see.” Four genuinely looks saddened hearing the news about my sister. “She’s tough,” he says with conviction. “If anyone could pull through, it’s your sister.”

I try to keep a neutral face in front of Four, but I can’t keep my eyes from widening in shock. I had no idea he felt that way. He's always been antagonistic and hard to read; you could never tell what he was thinking or how he felt about people.

"I'll be off now." Four turns around and steps back into the darkness. As quickly as he came, he was gone from my senses.

Once I'm sure he's gone, I wrap my arms around myself and try to hold back my tears. Damn you, Four, for showing me kindness; you're always supposed to be annoying. If I don’t have my anger, how else am I supposed to deal with everything that's going on?!

As I told Four, my sister hasn't woken up since the bombing. The whiny healer succeeded in keeping her alive long enough for other healers to be called in. Thanks to Giovanni, a couple of military healers showed up on orders of Lord Bullok, but I have a feeling they actually came from Pacore. They’ve been regularly stopping by and healing my sister in segments.

Burnt flesh is tricky to heal, so they're forced to cut it off of her down to her bones and then reheel the section with magic. The human body can’t handle that kind of strain, so they have to heal small sections at a time. Most of Lizzy’s body is still burnt, the only exception being her chest, where her organs are; that’s where the healers have been focusing their attention.

I wanted her to open her eyes, but I could only imagine what kind of hell that would be for her.

It’s so frustrating! I wish Grey were still alive so I could make him suffer for all that he's done. The honor of killing him should've been mine. But, instead, a goblin stole it from me.

I've hunted down every person who was loyal to him, and yet, I can't fill the void in my chest. And I know I won’t be able to fill that void until my sister wakes up, and I apologize for failing her. It should've been me who made the first move on Grey, not her.

But what angers me the most is that the world is still turning despite what happened to her. To me, the world should be at a standstill without Lizzy; everyone should feel as bad as I do. But they don't.

Things were looking up for Drey and our little corner of the world. Scholl is already proving to be a better ruler than Olebert ever was. The fighting has come to a standstill, meaning Scholl could focus more on its newly acquired territories. Despite there being a material shortage, industry was booming. None more so than Silver Herd.

The Boss and Pacore have become well acquainted with each other thanks to their shared interests in Aaliyah. Giovanni has already signed a contract with Scholl to transport their foodstuffs as soon as they are available. Everyone is happy.

Everyone except my sister and me that is.

The only solace I take is knowing there’s one person who understands how I’m feeling. Boss Giovanni has everything going for him at the moment, yet every time I report to him, I can hear the same pain I'm feeling in his voice. He’s the one who’s never ordered me to leave the city, preferring to keep me close to my injured sister. He’s thrown hundreds of gold coins into trying to heal her without asking anything in return.

I didn't even know what he agreed to when he asked Scholl's mages to help. It all plagues my mind.

I should finish up here and get back to the clinic.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

A small flame ignites on my hand. Then, with a flick of my wrist, I send the small ball of fire into a pile of tinder. A few weeks ago, this temporary shelter hosed the many farmers sheltering from Scholl’s invasion before being left to rot.

Pulling my hood up, I watch as the magically small flame quickly peters out, but not before sparking and catching the rubble on fire.

I stand there and wait a few minutes for the fire to grow before exiting the building. Then, silently, I sneak out of the building without any of the local vagrants seeing me. People know not to ask questions around here, but you never know. Scholl is doing a much better job patrolling the streets, and it isn’t impossible that someone might rat me out.

I don’t feel bad for burning down the building because Silver Herd owns it, and the Boss has already permitted me to act as I see fit. This area was meant to be torn down anyways to make room for a new food warehouse.

It was clever of my target to hide here, but it was only a matter of time before I found him. None of my contacts in the guards reported him leaving the city so, I knew he was here somewhere.

But now that I’ve killed him, I’m out of targets to vent my rage.

Again, what do I do with these emotions?

Sighing, I dash for a nearby ally and start making my way towards my sister. If I don't have anyone to kill, I'll spend my time with her. If Giovanni or any of the other numbers need me, they’ll know where I’ll be. Not like they'd need to, though, considering the way the war is turning out or the lack thereof. With General Pitz in Pacore’s hands, Scholl has essentially sued for peace. Regardless of whether it lasts, the longer things are quiet, the stronger Scholl's grip on the region becomes.

"How very boring."
