A seven-foot figure loomed over their tables. When he took a step, the liquid in a cheap cup moved. With his horns, he was even taller, and he was already larger than every other man in the room—before his plate armor. And if that was not already enough, the Minotaur had a huge steel battleaxe strapped onto his back.
He was followed by seven other figures, each one armed far beyond regular citizens. They carried swords, a longbow, a staff with a glittering crystal top—the only thing that didn’t make the [Innkeeper] scream for the Watch was the fact that they were clearly adventurers. Instead, he brought out a huge keg of ale with a big smile and told the [Cook] to put on a roast.
Adventurers meant money.
The Horns of Hammerad looked around and spotted Ryoka and Garia on the other side of the inn. Their leader immediately made a beeline for the two, walking in an open space of his own. No one wanted to get in the way of the Minotaur’s path.
His face was like a bull’s, furred but humanoid enough to show his surprise, gratification—then mounting displeasure. His horns, similarly, rose high above his head and had twin caps of gold, stylized with a hammer and two gates open over waves. If you could see the miniature engravings, they read ‘Hammerad, Beriad, House of Minos.’
He was focused on Ryoka Griffin. Persua was still mocking Ryoka and Garia, oblivious to the newcomers in the inn. The Street Runners behind her were nervously eying the approaching adventurers, but they didn’t move from their spot.
“Going to take a swing, Ryoka? Go ahead. Toriska—Toriska.”
Persua hissed at her frozen friend, then she realized she was standing in shadow. She turned—and screamed.
“Monster!”
Calruz stared down at her as Claudeil and Toriska backed away from the giant. Minotaurs were a rare sight, and most of them had never seen one before. Calruz glanced at Persua, then jerked a thumb.
“You. Runners. Your presence is clearly not wanted or needed. Leave.”
The Street Runners exchanged one glance and then shifted out of the way. Calruz snorted in contempt and brushed by them.
Persua made a disgusted face and pinched at her nose as he passed by. But when one of the female mages glared at her, she shrank back as well. Garia saw a woman with strange, exotic features—pointed ears—and realized she was staring at a half-Elf! 
There was an unspoken difference in power between the Runners and the Adventurers. The Street Runners stared at Persua, but she took one look at the Horns of Hammerad and backed away.
“Strange friends you have, Ryoka.”
She called out as she backed away. Persua stepped back—and tripped as the half-Elf accidentally locked feet with hers. Claudeil caught her, and Persua turned white.
“You—”
“Leave it, Persua. They’re Silver-ranks. Come on.”
Without a word, Persua hurried away. One of the men right behind Calruz, with a mustache, gave the sniggering half-Elf an exasperated glare, but the others looked either approving or didn’t care. And then?
They sat down. Suddenly, half a dozen adventurers were at Ryoka’s table, carefully avoiding her feet, gathering around. They were all wearing armor or robes of high-quality cloth. The warriors standing behind Calruz wore shining chainmail, and the mages carried glowing staves and a wand that gave off ethereal fiery sparks.
That last bit was especially concerning to the innkeeper, who nervously eyed the wand, but he didn’t make any vocal objections. The tall, mustached Human warrior standing next to Calruz nodded at Ryoka and gave her a friendly smile.
“Ryoka Griffin? We’re part of the adventuring party the Horns of Hammerad. You bailed us out of a tough situation last week. Do you mind if we sit?”
Ryoka stared up at the adventuring party. She didn’t appear overly impressed. But then, her face was still sweating with pain.
“Looks like you already are. Glad you made it. What—what do you want? Sit down already; you’re blocking my light.”
The vice-captain blinked. He looked uncertain, but the Minotaur laughed.
“Hah! Spirited! It is good to see that in a Human at last!”
He stuck out a massive, gauntleted hand.
“I am Calruz of the Beriad. We have met before. I lead the Horns of Hammerad, an adventuring party in these parts. I am in your debt, Ryoka Griffin.”
Ryoka blinked in the face of this direct approach. She paused and then reluctantly nodded, shaking Calruz’s hand. She tried to smile—but her leg shifted, and her lips turned into a scowl of pain and suppressed agony.
“Fine. Go ahead.”
Immediately, the Horns of Hammerad pulled up chairs and another table to sit next to Ryoka and Garia. Calruz had to sit perched in his chair, which creaked ominously beneath him, but seemed happy enough.
Once all the adventurers were seated, a barmaid approached, and they ordered drinks and food. Ryoka wasn’t hungry and she had leftovers of her last meal, and Garia, awestruck by the company, was too shy to eat.
In between the barmaids bustling around and delivering drinks and food, the vice-captain leaned forwards and addressed Ryoka.
“We owe you a debt of gratitude for that delivery you did for us a week ago. Without it, we’d all have been killed by that damned Lich. Thanks to you, though, we managed to kill it and recover a lot of magical artifacts. Ceria’s got a new set of mage robes she owes all to you.”
One of the female mages nodded and gestured at her clothing. She was wearing a dark blue set of robes embroidered with glowing golden sigils around the hem and edges of the rich cloth.
“I bought this with a bunch of the gold we got. The Lich was mostly carrying magical reagents in a bag of holding, by the by. If it was artifacts, we’d have fought over a staff. Unfortunately, it was just rare alchemical ingredients. Some [Alchemist] in Pallass snapped it up, so I got some fancy robes I’d been eying. And they’re pristine, so watch the drink, Calruz.”
It seemed foolish to bring such expensive clothing into an inn, but Ryoka noticed that when Calruz accidentally splattered the dress while reaching for a tankard, the liquid simply ran down the cloth and onto the ground. She was immediately impressed and wondered how much the magical cloth cost.
Garia looked around the table, wide-eyed.
“I just heard that Ryoka was doing a delivery to the Ruins. Was it that helpful?”
One of the warriors snorted.
“Delivery? Hah! She charged right past the Lich that had us pinned down and dropped the potions off right in the center of the battlefield! He was casting fireballs and lightning around her, but she even drew his fire as she left—gave us a chance to regroup!”
Ryoka shifted uncomfortably as Garia gaped at her. The problem with being in an inn was that other people were listening. Already, she could tell patrons at the other tables were listening in on their conversation. She shrugged.
“Just doing my job.”
“Your job? No other Runner would have pulled off a feat like that. You saved our lives. I thought we were responsible for you getting hurt at first—but it took us a while to track you down.”
She was having a hard time meeting the earnest vice-captain’s eyes. Ryoka shrugged and picked at her ham as he continued.
“Without the potions, the best we could have hoped for would be a retreat where we didn’t lose too many of our party. In the worst-case scenario, we’d have lost over half of our group, and that’s if the Lich didn’t follow us.”
Calruz nodded.
“Instead, we managed to break that damn skeleton’s head in. The treasure we recovered more than made up for the expedition. And while the rest of our group is still healing from the battle, we’re here to repay the debt we owe.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows. Minotaurs. Honor? They didn’t seem to go together, but either Calruz was an exception or Minotaurs had quite a strong sense of right and wrong.
The vice-captain cleared his throat awkwardly.
“We expected to meet you again since we heard you were a popular Runner around here. But when we heard about your injury, we decided to drop by.”
Garia looked surprised. It was a long way from the Ruins of Albez to Celum for someone who wasn’t a Runner.
“You came all the way here just to do that?”
Calruz nodded impatiently.
“Of course. What does distance matter? But let us introduce ourselves properly. Ceria, introduce yourself.”
He poked the female mage at his side, and she jumped and glared at the Minotaur. The mage nodded to Ryoka and Garia. She was wearing a hood indoors, which was presumably bad manners, but as she removed it, they realized why and Ryoka got her first clear look at her.
Her ears were slightly pointed, and although she appeared Human, this mage seemed subtly different from her companions. Ryoka noticed her skin was—rather than being paler, appeared subtly more vibrant. It was as if her body were simply realer and more vivid than the rest of the world. It was a slight thing but grew more noticeable the longer Ryoka stared.
Her eyes tracked down to the young woman’s face. Again, her features were beautiful, but not simply aesthetically. They possessed another dimension she couldn’t explain that added to the exotic nature of the mage’s face. Ryoka saw that her eyes were pale yellow but made no comment.
The mage stuck out one hand, and Ryoka took it. She wasn’t an Elf. But she wasn’t Human either.
Half-Elf. Her eyes lit up, and she smiled after elbowing Calruz hard.
“Ceria Springwalker. Village of the Spring, from Terandria. A long way from home, and technically, a student of Wistram. Ice-magic specialist and the only common sense in this crazy group.”
“…Ryoka Griffin. City Runner, I guess.”
“I’m Garia Strongheart. From around Celum. Pleased to meet you.”
“Likewise.”
The rest of the company introduced themselves, but Ryoka was still thinking about Ceria. She shook hands mechanically, impassively nodding as the vice-captain expressed his admiration of how she’d saved them. She’d already forgotten his name.
“Enough of this.”
Calruz snapped impatiently as soon as the introductions were done. He pointed down towards Ryoka’s leg as it stuck out awkwardly.
“We didn’t come here to chat. We’re honor-bound to repay our debt, which is why we’re here. And you’re injured. How’d that happen?”
“Got run over by a cart.”
“What?”
The adventurers looked at Ryoka in frank disbelief.
“Getting run over by a cart I’d believe of normal people, but a Runner? I thought you lot were fast on your feet.”
Ryoka shrugged unhelpfully and stared at her plate. Uncertainly, Garia cleared her throat.
“It wasn’t—exactly an accident.”
She turned red as the Horns of Hammerad focused their attention on her. Calruz tapped a finger on the table.
“Explain, please.”
“Well, I don’t know how to say it, but Ryoka sort of broke an unspoken rule in the Runner’s Guild. She did this delivery and made a lot of folks mad—”
“—And they decided to run her over with a cart?”
The vice-captain stared incredulously at Garia.
“Are you serious?”
She felt their stares, like she was mad, and Garia desperately took a longer drink of water.
“It was a wagon, not a cart. Lot heavier. And I didn’t know anything about it! Fals would have stopped it—most of us didn’t know anything until it happened. I found Ryoka at the [Healer]’s…the rest of the Runner’s Guild was horrified. This was the work of Persua’s friends. Not that anyone can prove it. They say it was just an accident and Ryoka tripped.”
Garia jumped as the mug in Calruz’s hand cracked and shattered in his grip. He angrily shoved the glass pieces aside and gritted his teeth.
“What a pathetic, cowardly lot. I’d challenge them all to an honor duel in a moment if I had cause. Didn’t you call for the Watch, at least? That’s how you do it in Izril—what about truth spells?”
Garia just shook her head.
“Persua says it was an accident. She says the Guildmaster investigated it and that’s that.”
That had been part of why Fals and everyone else weren’t doing anything. Ryoka was white with fury.
“She lied.”
“But they were truth spells, Ryoka. We…”
The half-Elf, Ceria, interrupted calmly. She leaned forwards and tapped on the table for Garia’s attention.
“Did you see them administer the truth spells?”
Garia shook her head.
“No—could you fake them?”
“I could. With enough help. Sounds like this is politics. Bad politics and a shady Guildmaster.”
“That’s a scurrilous accusation, Ceria. Don’t go throwing that around.”
The vice-captain looked nervous, and Calruz’s face darkened, but Ceria just raised her hands.
“It’s just a theory. But who’re you going to believe? The City Runner who saved our life with a mysterious broken leg or…well, don’t pull out your axe, Calruz. We don’t do honor duels here, and that lot would run to First Landing if you looked at them sideways. It sounds like there’s quite a lot of politics in the Runner’s Guild—and dangerous politics at that if this is what happens to people who disobey.”
The other adventurers murmured and grunted in disgust. 
“Runners.”
“Money grubbing backstabbers.”
“Barely worth the coin we spend to hire them. And for the rates they charge, I could buy a new sword!”
The vice-captain just sighed.
“The Adventurer’s Guild has bad ones too, like former [Bandits]. Hunt, stop spitting on the floor. This Runner’s Guild must be riddled with bad Runners, though. We’ll remember that if we need help.”
Garia looked like she wanted to object to the insults, but she didn’t dare. Ryoka was interested.
“You don’t like Runners?”
One of the warriors shook his head. That one, Hunt, had a scar on his forehead and pursed his lips to spit again—but Calruz glowered at him, and he swallowed before speaking.
“You, we like. And your friend here doesn’t seem bad. But the rest of your lot are worthless pieces of waste as far as we’re concerned.”
“We’re not all bad.”
Garia protested weakly. The vice-captain and the mages shook their heads.
“You don’t understand, uh, Miss Garia was it? I’m sure you City Runners do a good job for civilians. But adventurers? Most Runners don’t do deliveries to battlefields, and some of the ones that do only deliver after the battle ends. We could be in serious trouble, but your people won’t approach until all the monsters are gone. And even then, we have to pay triple—sometimes five times as much just for deliveries to areas we’ve already cleared.”
Another woman nodded.
“Besides, Runners are only concerned about their pay, not anything else. They won’t stop to help even in emergencies unless we pay them. Even adventurers have more integrity than that.”
