Ow.
Fuck.
Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow. Ouch. Ow.
It hurts worse than that. It hurts…more than anything I’ve ever felt. Like someone’s tearing off my leg, like I want to remove it myself or scream. The cute words—they’re there so I don’t scream. I didn’t know it could hurt so much.
I’ve broken bones—this—this is worse.
This is why painkillers were invented. 
Damn it. Stop moving. Every time I shift, every time I breathe, it gets worse. I—I try to raise the shaking book with my hands.
Flip the page. I fumble with it, but I’m sweating, sweating and I can ask for a refill to my tankard.
I don’t want to refill it. I don’t want to contemplate using the bathroom. I can’t—can’t bear to move. If I was in my room, I’d pee in a container. Normally, I’d rather die than—
The pain. Nothing else in this world matters, not dignity. It’s gone. My leg is—
It’s hot. Why can’t people invent air conditioning in this stupid world already? The common room of an inn is not the best place to read in peace. But it beats sitting in my room and listening to drunk people banging down the hall or having sex.
This is why I hate people. That one thought lingers in my mind. Hate and hate—and Persua—and—I’ll kill her. 
I’ll never walk again.
Okay. Focus. That’s just—you don’t know that. 
Ignore them. What does it say? The letters are swimming, so I have to read each word out through the agony. Focus on that instead of anything else.
‘…The incursion of the Antinium hives into the southern region of the continent led to the bloody year-long war known as the Antinium Wars, or more specifically, the First Antinium War, in which hundreds of thousands of Antinium soldiers established huge colonies across the western coast where it bordered the High Passes, razing cities and forcing Gnoll tribes to retreat into the lower plains regions.
Initially, the southern Drake cities and allied confederacies were slow to react to the Antinium sweeping through the plateaus and rugged mountainous regions of the continent, underestimating the dangers of an entrenched Antinium hive and the true numbers of the Antinium concealed beneath the earth. It was only after five cities were lost that—’
GYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH! My foot! Someone yanks a chair into my foot, notices me, and walks off with a muttered apology. I nearly scream at them. If I had the ability, I would stab them to death.
Why, why, why did the stupid chair have to be right there? The pain!
Crap. Did I bust open the injury? Let me see.
It’s hard to scoot back from my table to peer underneath it, but I can see the heavy white gauze. It’s bloody, but no more than it was last time I checked. Wonderful.
And it still hurts. I’ve broken bones before, but it never felt anything like this. But considering this injury—
Yeah.
Fuck.
One of the barmaids is looking at me. I stare right back at her, and she turns away. I’m really not in the mood for attention. And thinking about the pain only makes me want to scream out loud. Half from the pain, half from searing rage. So. Back to the book.
Okay. Ignore the pain. What was that about Antinium? Are they still around? I flip through the pages.
Confederacy of states…hasty alliance…skip all that. Ah.
‘The tide of the war only changed after the discovery of the Antinium’s fatal weakness. Using their newfound tactics, the Southern Alliance used long-range mage spells to assault Antinium hives and deter attacking forces.
One of the Hives was destroyed entirely before a temporary truce was formed between the Antinium Queens and the leaders of the city states. This peace was tenuous however and lasted for only ten years when the Antinium attacked again, leading to the Second Antinium War…’
Weakness. They had a weakness? Must have missed that bit.
Let’s see. Where would that be? And why haven’t I seen these ant-people around? Well, they’re pariahs or outcasts to most societies, so I guess that’s why. But do they have any useful features or are they just bug-people?
Oh, here’s the weakness.
I pause with my finger on the passage as I hear a cheerful voice calling my name above the hubbub of the inn. Oh. Oh no. Not her again.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was sitting in the middle of an inn. It was not an extraordinary inn—just one of the many inns located in the Human city of Celum.
She was reading and scowling. Because she was talented, she could do both at the same time. She was also sitting by herself, occasionally eating from a cold plate left in front of her.
“Hey there, Ryoka!”
A cheerful voice drowned out the ambient noise of conversation and drew every gaze. Ryoka looked up from her book and spotted the girl making her way towards her. Her expression didn’t change, but her eye twitched once.
“Hey, Ryoka, how are you doing?”
“I’m fine, Garia.”
Garia Strongheart slid into an empty chair at the table and smiled cheerfully at Ryoka. Her cheerfulness was not reciprocated. Ryoka just glanced up at Garia and went back to reading.
Undeterred, Garia flagged down a barmaid and requested one of the local drinks, a strong, semi-alcoholic beverage that was cool and flavorful at the same time. In Ryoka’s opinion, it was a shame that the flavor in question was beer.
“So, how are you doing? Is your leg feeling any better?”
Ryoka glanced up and glared.
“Guess.”
Garia’s smile faltered.
“Did you—did you go to see the [Healer] I told you about? She’s a good one. Works with us Runners all the time.”
“Couldn’t help. The bone’s too badly broken.”
“Oh. I’m sorry.”
“Not your fault.”
Ryoka had a talent for shutting down conversations. Garia stared at her and tried to surreptitiously glance at her bandaged leg. She winced and covered her wince by changing the subject.
“Is that a book?”
Ryoka glanced up from her book. She eyed Garia. Her tone was beyond brusque and was past unfriendly. More into the point where a single word was akin to someone slamming a door into your face.
“…Yes.”
Yet Garia persisted. She smiled hugely, and Ryoka Griffin didn’t seem to notice how Garia peeked at the red bandages and the…
…leg…
Under the table. Garia’s smile blanched and grew wider. Determinedly. She tried to keep her voice upbeat, but Ryoka was close to snarling.
“What’s it about?”
“History.”
“You mean, world history like you were asking me about the other day? Sorry I didn’t know more.”
Ryoka shook her head. She was sweating and clenching her teeth.
“The history of the cities.”
“Oh. Is it, um, interesting?”
“Not really.”
It was fascinating. Ryoka was no history buff, but it was amazing what being transported to another world did for her interest in mundane things like economics and politics.
“I’m not a big reader. My dad and mother are, but I can only read when I go home. Books’re too expensive otherwise.”
“You can read?”
Garia blushed, but she nodded, a bit proudly.
“I was taught, and I know more than basic words. Fals can read too, and he owns a few books.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows.
“Good for him.”
Again, Garia was forced to continue a mostly one-sided conversation.
“Where’d you get the book?”
“I bought it in the market. Didn’t cost much.”
“Really? I thought most books were several gold coins—at least.”
“Some sell for silver. Either way, it’s fine.”
Ryoka scowled as she chomped on another slice of ham. The lack of any library in this city meant she had to buy any books she wanted to read, and some were annoyingly expensive. But she wasn’t about to get into a discussion of economics with Garia and fuel the conversation.
The problem was, Garia was more than capable of finding topics of interest by herself. The other girl stared at the pile of books on the table.
“Are you going to read all of these, then?”
“I already read ‘em.”
“What, all of them?”
“Not like I have anything else to do.”
Ryoka deliberately turned a page.
 
——
 
I really wish she’d go away. Or do I? At least she’s keeping drunk guys from hitting on me.
I hate this. I hate her, I hate this inn, and I hate this entire world. If I could burn it down to the ground, I’d—
Probably not. At least, she’s not the one I hate. So maybe destroy all the world except for a few people.
But the pain. And boredom, let’s not forget. It’s a sad day when Garia’s daily visit is the most interesting thing that happens to me.
It’s been three days since my ‘accident’. Another few days and I might seriously snap. Like my leg—
Damn it all. If I could kill every damned Street Runner in the world, I would in an instant. Even if I had to stare into their eyes as I choked them to death. I will have vengeance, I swear it.
But until then, how the hell do I heal my leg? How, how, how? If it’s really beyond most normal magics—
Ask Garia? She might know of a better way, even if her first idea failed. Worth a shot, and I hope I have enough money for whatever I need. Crap, she’s been talking, and I have no idea what she said. Better wing it.
Huh. That’s a crowd coming in right now. Hope they don’t want to share the table. They look familiar, though.
Who’s that? Another Runn—
Her.
Kill her. Stab her. Break her bones. Don’t do it. Do it. Hurt her. Smash her stupid face in. Kill. Killkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkill—
 
——
 
Garia realized Ryoka hadn’t heard her question the third time she repeated it. The other young woman had frozen in place, staring at something over Garia’s shoulder. Garia turned, looked, and knew there was about to be trouble.
“You.”
Ryoka shoved her chair back and swung up onto her good leg. Good being—operative. Her face blanched, and Garia saw her skin go dead white, but Ryoka pressed past the pain. 
Persua smirked at her. She was, as always, flanked by her friends. Toriska and Claudeil. Claudeil glanced at Ryoka’s legs and then away, but Toriska just glared at Garia. Persua? She laughed at Ryoka in delight and then pretended to be surprised.
“Oh, Ryoka? I didn’t see you there. Fancy meeting you in this inn. How are you doing?”
It was hard getting her other leg out from under the table. But when she did, Ryoka stood up on her good leg and lunged for Persua faster than anyone would have guessed. She never made it, though.
Garia grabbed Ryoka by the shoulder and gently pulled her back. Despite Ryoka’s attempts to shake her off, she refused to let go and dragged Ryoka back from the smirking Persua and her gaggle of Street Runners. Toriska produced her knife, and Persua danced behind Claudeil.
“Ah! You’re rabid, Ryoka! Did you see that? She attacked me for no reason!”
“Ryoka, stop.”
Garia was pulling Ryoka back, and she was strong, but Ryoka was straining with all her might to get at Persua, fists raised. The other Runners wanted it; Claudeil had his own fists raised, and he was eying Ryoka’s immobilized leg. Persua whispered in his ear, and Garia pulled Ryoka back. The young woman snarled at her.
“Let go, Garia.”
“No, calm down, Ryoka. If you start a fight, you’ll be the one in trouble.”
The expression on Ryoka’s face suggested she was fine with that, but Garia could count. There were at least eight Street Runners behind Persua plus her two friends, and they looked ready to cause trouble. One-handed, she pulled Ryoka back and made her sit back down.
That should have been hard to do, even to an injured Ryoka, but Garia was stronger than she looked. And she looked like a farm girl capable of lifting bales of hay with one hand.
As she pinned Ryoka to her chair, Garia moved so she was between her friend and Persua. She sat down—and gripped the underside of the table so hard her hands went white.
“Why don’t we all settle down? Persua, you and your friends can go have a drink somewhere else, okay?”
It was a surprise for Garia to say anything to Persua. Toriska’s eyebrows rose.
“I don’t recall telling you to say anything, Garia. Look at her, Persua.”
Persua gave Garia a mocking glance. Then she spread her hands innocently and ratcheted up her pitch another octave in innocent protest.
“I don’t understand what you mean, Garia. I’m just saying hi to Ryoka, who’s had a little accident. Can’t you understand that? Or are things going too fast for you to keep up with?”
Now it was Garia’s turn to flush, but she didn’t rise to the bait.
“You’ve had your fun, but I think you should leave, Persua.”
Persua gave Garia and Ryoka a sickly sweet fake smile.
“But as a fellow City Runner, I want to let Ryoka know how terribly sorry I am that she got in the way of that runaway cart. If only she’d listened to her fellow runners. We were all trying to warn her, you know. But that’s Ryoka for you. She just doesn’t listen now, does she?”
Garia could feel Ryoka’s shoulder trembling under her hand. It was getting harder to hold her down, and that was before Persua ‘accidentally’ mentioned how horrible it had been that no one was able to help Ryoka until she dragged herself to the nearest guardhouse for help. Her other hand gripped the table as the [Innkeeper] glanced up—Claudeil was eying Ryoka’s legs.
Ryoka was staring at a knife on her plate. It was quite sharp—but Toriska was glancing at the other Street Runners sidling around the table, and her foot was dancing. Ready to give a little kick—
She started forwards, and a sound made her freeze and jump back.
Crack.
Everyone looked down. Garia blinked—and a part of the stout wooden table she was holding came away in one hand. Even Ryoka blinked down. The wood was half a foot thick…Claudeil hesitated, and Toriska skipped back a step.
Garia’s fist was clenched, and she was breathing hard. She was, in fact—angry. 
As angry as Fals had been. But Fals wasn’t here, and it was just slowpoke Garia, the [Farmer]’s girl. The one who…lifted huge packs of ore and ran for miles.
The other Street Runners hesitated, but there were eleven, counting Persua, Toriska, and Claudeil. Ryoka’s leg was broken. 
Persua stared at the table, then her features twisted into a snarl, and she nudged Toriska. The other City Runner skipped forwards as Garia tensed, and Ryoka’s hand closed around the knife—
But then the door opened again, and a hush fell over the room. Where the Street Runners had entered into the noise and chaos of the inn, the next group that entered brought silence with them.
Casual inn-goers of the variety of merchants, farmers, shopkeepers, and so on scrambled out of the way as a huge figure strode into the room. [Tavern Toughs] looked up—and sat back. 
