That caught her attention. “You have not yet grown accustomed to using the ring?” It had been months, he should have mastered it by now, considering his level of control.

Looking bashful, he shook his head. “Nope. It's always the same, like being in a violent whirlpool, struggling to stay afloat until I just surrender and fall beneath the waves. Then someone wakes me up and tells me I almost died.” Hearing his description, she felt everyone in the room tense up, herself included. After making sure that they would remain silent, she studied Rain closely, probing him with her chi. Surprisingly, he reacted at her examination, almost leaping out of his skin before laughing nervously. “Whoever did that, you should warn me first, it's cold.”

More and more interesting. “Tell no one of your discovery, rest for tonight boy, and go without the ring for tomorrow. I will set aside some time for us to work together in the evening and perhaps help you with your difficulties. You are still taking the Rising Dragon Elixir each morning?” Foolish child, others would kill for the chance to consume such a treasure, for him to balk because of a few unsavory ingredients was the height of idiocy. Seeing his confirmation, she had Tokta bring him back to his own tent, leaving her alone with Alsantset, Mila and Song.

Sitting in front of the three women, Akanai enjoyed watching them shift uncomfortably beneath her gaze, using the silence to her advantage. Song was the exception, standing at attention without a single movement, staring straight ahead and unaffected by the mood. An exemplary young warrior, the former slave was also taking the elixir and cultivating with a Runic ring. Perhaps it was the combination of the two. “Song, did Rain's description sound similar to your own experience in any way?”

“Not at all, Lieutenant General. This lowly slave apologizes for her failure and lack of knowledge.”

Song's self esteem needed some work, but time would heal her wounds. Nodding in answer, Akanai pondered the subject some more. Perhaps it was just their innate talent, or some sort of resonance, or possibly even mere coincidence that both Adujan and Rain came so close to Awakening at the same time, but she had difficulty believing in coincidence. She made a note to check on Huushal's progress, who was also taking the elixir but had given his ring away. The elixir's effectiveness had always been in dispute, but the consensus was that while it could not be confirmed to help, it at the very least did not hinder progress, and if it was somehow being made more effective by the runic rings, then she would spare no cost in acquiring more of both.

Perhaps Rain was not so poor a prospective husband after all, but she still disliked the idea of Mila becoming a third wife, with Mei Lin having already staked her claim and Rain having made the choice to pursue Adujan. What was left for poor Mila? She would be fated to beg for what scraps of affection remained, and Rain might even continue to add to his harem, his lusty appetite unable to be satiated by only three wives.

Unfortunately, it was not her choice as Mila was almost a woman grown now. Standing up, she walked up and cupped her daughters face, letting out a small sigh as she kissed her on the forehead. It seemed only yesterday that Mila had still been in diapers, swaddled in her cotton blankets, a joyous, laughing child that had brought so much joy into Akanai's life. “I suppose now is as good a time as any to speak of betrothal.”

Children grow up so fast.

“Mama... Nooooo...”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lieutenant General Situ Jia Yang sat quietly at his balcony table, watching the long stream of his soldiers march past, resplendent in their lustrous, steel armor, their banners snapping in the wind. Their synchronous steps thundered through the Society Headquarters, the city of his birth, filling him with pride and he eagerly waited to ride forth and drive the Defiled from the Northern Province, earning fame and glory for himself and stealing it away from Nian Zu. While that old man was a Colonel General, he hid as far north as he could, shirking duty to Clan and Society for decades, unwilling to play politics and hiding his head within his walls. Were he less obstinate, Rang Min would be a little toady, instead of Patriarch, and Nian Zu would hold that lofty title, but soon, it would belong to Jia Yang.

“Cousin, it is good to see you.” Hearing Bolin's loud greeting, he stood and happily embraced his balding childhood friend, a grand smile upon his face, the two giants of the Situ Clan once again reunited. “Look at you, a Lieutenant General, while I am still a mere elder, barely more than a wet-nurse for these Society brats.”

“Bolin, now that I, Jia Yang, have sufficient renown, you think that I would let you languish here? If you are only willing to join the army, then I would have a lofty ranking waiting for you and a commission in my personal retinue.” While Bolin was not the most proficient of warriors, old friends were hard to come by, and a retainer at his side was a safe a place as any when it came to warfare.

“If it will cause you no difficulty, then I will humbly accept.”

Taken aback, Jia Yang peered at Bolin for some time, seeing for the first time the weary expression and ragged clothes. “It is yours, but I must ask; I have offered many times before, but you have always said that you wish to stay here. What has changed, old friend?”

Looking ashamed, Bolin rubbed his head, speaking quietly. “While your star has risen in the central province, mine has fallen, having incurred the ire of Rang Min. I allowed the little patriarch to come to harm, not once, but twice, and it is only through my connection to you that I live to stand here before you, cousin.”

Gesturing for Bolin to take a seat, Jia Yang fumed inwardly as he sipped his tea, the cup dwarfed by his large fingers, struggling to remain calm. “The rumors? About the... Bekhai? Clansmen... those are true?” At Bolin's affirmation, the teacup shattered in his fingers and his anger surged forward. The little patriarch was less than dog farts to him, he could not care less about that spoiled brat, but the insult to the Situ Clan, to the Society, that could not be unanswered.

“It is... a difficult situation.” Bolin swept away the shards while gesturing for bowls to be brought, the two of them more comfortable drinking from the larger receptacles. “Shing Du Yi declared Martial Law at an inopportune time, or else the matter would have been dealt with easily. Worse, Nian Zu refuses to take direct action despite all entreaties otherwise, he may as well be harboring the Bekhai clansmen under his command. It is a disgrace, hearing the whispering of the peasantry, mocking the Society day after day. I have been relegated to the most humiliating of tasks and punished over the barest of infractions. There is no future for me here.”

“Worry not. I will deal with it. You come work for me, and we will see this injustice righted. Tell me everything.” Raising a bowl of wine to their friendship, he drank deeply while he listened to the details of the situation, ready to crush any who chose to stand in the way of his vengeance.

Chapter Meme
