It was a quick collapse, all together, taking about 20-ish seconds to complete. A large cloud of dust billowed outward at the destruction, partially occluding sight. Erick [Airshape]d the dust away before it reached his party, while the wrought caught in the cloud, near the collapse, didn’t seem to care at all about the dust at all. There wasn’t much to care about, anyway; this wasn’t a modern high rise like in New York City, or anything like that. It was a trio of small buildings, each between three and four stories tall, made just yesterday, and wholly made of stone.

Before O’Lark’s assistants had even set him back on the ground, outside of the collapse, the old man was already happily shouting, “And now we can build it right!” And then he was back on the ground, and he looked at the ground. “OH! Where’s that apprentice promised to me! She does good work and I want her here!”

Sitnakov stopped Erick from speaking up, saying to Erick, “Your apprentice doesn’t need to get involved if you don’t want to, for we have a Stone Mage. They can build it back to O’Lark’s specifications.”

Erick raised his head a little, then glanced toward Kiri. “You want to go?”

Kiri was torn. Loyalty to her teacher, or the chance to meet some important people? She’d probably be meeting important people either way, but if she stuck by Erick, then she might learn some magic, too. And yet, if she went with O’Lark, then she might learn building techniques from a master.

Erick added, “I’m probably going to be in meetings the rest of the day. No magic.”

Kiri decided, “I shall assist Architect O’Lark.”

And then she went.

Sitnakov snorted.

“Let him know I need an Interfaith Church, too,” Erick said.

Kiri briefly turned and waved in acknowledgment as she continued on toward O’Lark, while Sunny fluttered in the air here and there, flicking different colors. One rainbow Sunny descended onto Kiri’s shoulders, and wrapped around her neck, briefly flickering dark, blood red—

Paranoia.

Or true fears.

Erick’s chest felt tight as his heart beat hard. For one still moment, he couldn’t breathe.

Erick saw that red [Familiar] and imagined Kiri’s head being snapped off by some invisible assassin. He kept it together, though, rapidly reviewing his memories and checking the recent manasphere, and yes, Kiri’s Sunny had turned red, but nothing untoward had happened. This wasn’t some sort of attack, nor was this a marker of something yet to come.

With his emotions crushed down so far only Poi could pick up on them, Erick casually asked Jane, “Could you stay with her? Make sure you both stay safe? I really am going to be in meetings all the rest of the day, if I can help it.”

Jane glanced up at Sitnakov briefly, before nodding, saying, “Sounds like a good deal to me.”

Erick calmed himself, still trying to get the idea of Kiri’s head snapping away out of his mind, as he went to work on preventing a different sort of problem, “If you two decide to spar later, use a spotter. No injuries, please. But stay with Kiri while she’s working.”

Jane said, “Yeah sure, dad. I get it.”

And she did, actually.

Sitnakov was a bit slower on the uptake.

Sitnakov smiled wide. “I’m sure we can find some time to have a friendly match—” And then he paused and deflated. “Ah. But fun should come later.” He said to Erick, “I do desire to be an actual guard for you while we’re in this period of turmoil. I said that before but I had nearly forgotten. May I join you in your meetings?”

Jane waved to her father as she walked toward Kiri, saying, “See you later, dad.”

“See you later.” Erick looked to Sitnakov, adding, “Let’s go talk to Candlepoint, then.”

Sitnakov stood tall, and nodded.

Without further ado, Erick opened a lightning portal to the main street of Candlepoint, and led the way. Sitnakov, Teressa, and Poi followed.

During the transition, Teressa whispered to Sitnakov, “It’s an honor to meet you, sir. I look forward to the chance to also punch your face, whenever I can.”

Sitnakov chuckled as he stepped through the portal. “Now that’s a much more normal way to make friends!” He said to Teressa, “I heard you were a good Prognosticator, so maybe your tiny arms might actually be able to reach me!”

Teressa’s arms were anything but tiny.

“Oh! They can reach alright!”

Erick did not understand that at all—

Well. No. He could understand that. Jane and Teressa were battle junkies, but they both wanted to punch Sitnakov in the face, at least, for what he had done to him. Erick was touched by that. But they held no illusions about actually being able to win in a fight against the prince.

Mostly, though, they were battle junkies. All of them.

But they were at Candlepoint now and Poi leveled a Look at the two of them. The orcol-shaped man and the actual-orcol woman both grinned at the small sapphire man, showing off their large lower fangs, and then said no more.

Within a minute Erick found himself in another meeting.
