The woman winced as though something bad had happened.

O’Lark instantly came out of his fugue and shouted at the prince, “It’s FUCKING BARRACKS! No art at all!” And then he started stomping toward the temporary barracks, shouting, “You want me to make barracks? I can make you barracks! I can make barracks in my sleep!”

The two assistants each took deep breaths.

The woman ran after O’Lark first.

The male assistant briefly bowed to Erick, then rose, saying, “We shall have your plans ready as soon as possible. Perhaps two or three days. I imagine the Architect desires to showcase his talents and general ideas through the reconstruction of Stratagold’s properties. If you have any concerns over what you should see, please inform us at your leisure, but sooner is better than later.”

“Sure thing.” Erick said, “My first concern is that I don’t want you fortifying for war. Safety is appreciated and desired, but I want this land to be inviting and friendly.”

The man deeply bowed, then rose again. “Understood. I will convey your desires to the Architect. He enjoyed meeting you, Archmage Flatt, though he is rather more enamored with the work and with the idea of people living inside his work, than with the people themselves. Please excuse his brusqueness.”

Erick smiled. “I imagine you end up saying things like that all the time. Tell him I enjoyed the meeting too. I look forward to the plans for this land...” Erick gazed past the man, to watch as soldiers and otherwise began evacuating the building. Stone crashed inside, like the falling of a brick wall. Didn’t sound like a load-bearing crash, though. “Don’t do any construction outside of Stratagold’s lands without my approval.”

The man said, “Your will be done, Archmage Flatt. Please excuse me.”

Then the man retreated from Erick, and then turned and ran into the barracks.

Crashing noises blasted from inside the barracks, washing across the land like minor booms, almost drowning out O’Lark as the old man ranted over how everything was wrong and it needed to be redone. Erick wasn’t wholly sure, but based on O’Lark moving a few walls at a time (or whatever he was doing in there) instead of just tearing down the whole building with a single spell, then he probably wasn’t an archmage, or even a very accomplished Stone Mage. He had to have some sort of strong magical power, so maybe he was truly skilled at [Mend] and this ‘modeling magic’ he spoke of, as opposed to skill in stonework. Or perhaps he was just architecturally skilled, and without much power of his own? It was possible.

Sitnakov stood by watching the architect work, not saying anything either.

Erick asked him, “Do you need to be in there?”

Sitnakov spoke without turning, “No, and it’s better if I’m not.”

“What do you know of him?”

“O’Lark the Architect has built many forward bases and houses and everything else you can imagine, for thousands upon thousands of clients. Most of it ends up broken due to battle with the Darkness, but through some creative magic, most of it is easily repairable. Sometimes some unforeseen monster appears and truly breaks a location, but that’s rare. As for the man himself, he is practically impossible to work with, because he’s rather famous for being one of the few artisans to last as long as he has without being a Heavy, or an archmage. Usually people like him get targeted and murdered as soon as they start to get famous.”

“… Ah.” Erick held a question that he likely didn’t want to know the answer to, but he had to know anyway. “The Shade of Assassination? The current one, I mean.”

Sitnakov frowned, then glanced to Erick, saying, “A few of the previous ones. If your Goldie has done any recent murders under our aegis then I don’t know of it. That fae has, though.”

The brief pleasure of meeting O’Lark vanished as Erick felt a familiar weight descend upon him; the weight of responsibility.

He said, “That’s why I want to make this place open and friendly. Perhaps some differences can be solved so that stuff like that never happens again. Though, since we’re airing grievances, I feel the need to stick up for my allies, and say that there’s been a lot of death on all sides, so dragging up the past is only going to degrade everything I’m trying to build here. I’m not saying to forget or forgive those grievances, for that only leads to getting hurt in the same ways again, but I am saying to work around that pain as much as you can.”

Sitnakov looked like he had expected all of that, which he probably had. “This is all happening too fast, Erick. Can I ask you to not invite other lands here until at least a month has passed?”

“… A reasonable request in normal times, but these are not normal times. If I don’t prove myself a stabilizing force, then someone will try something deadly.”

“That’s going to happen anyway.” Sitnakov said, “Nothing you can do will be able to stop that, but if you want to prove your stability to the level-headed people out there, then you’ve got to prove yourself stable. Your city emptied of practically everyone who could leave. You have no staff. No building for that staff. No paper shapers working on mundane shit. Nothing normal at all. Right now you look like a crazy Wizard trying to enact some sort of large scale magic as fast as you possibly can, and it’s— It’s making Stratagold look bad.” Sitnakov had maintained much of his composure as he listed deep, deep problems, but then his composure cracked. “And like, FUCK THEM, but your actions are actually making Ar’Cosmos look more bad, which I didn’t even think was possible.” He finally turned to Erick, and plainly said, “This looks like a Shade plot— And everyone is telling me it’s not! But I know what it looks like, and I suspect you do too.”

Erick felt a chill at those words.

Not just because of their content, but because Sitnakov had deeply meant every word, and he had had no idea how Erick was going to receive his warning. Would Erick believe him? Would he discount him? Was he wrong? Would Erick ever believe any of the warnings he would ever give, or had he forever ruined a deeply important political relationship before he ever had a chance to know how important that relationship would become? Yet again, Sitnakov had fucked up something that someone else would have been better equipped to handle.

For a long moment, nothing was said, because there was too much to be said and not enough patience or time to hold all that meaning.

For his own part, Erick wanted to drag the conversation all the way back to the beginning, and ask Sitnakov why he approached Erick as he had in the Core. Maybe if he actually aired that grievance, maybe move past it. But it was probably a bad idea—

Before Erick could overthink it, he decided to barrel on ahead, and ask that question.

“Why did you attack me like that in the Core, Sitnakov?”

Sitnakov froze. Were they actually doing this, right now? Yeah, he guessed they were. Sitnakov spoke a truth like it should have been the most obvious thing in the world, “Because I wanted to know who you were.”

“And fighting was the best way?”

Sitnakov scowled. “You’re the one who blasted his way through everything to get to the Core instead of talking through any normal channels at all. My response— Stratagold’s response was perfectly normal.” Sitnakov frowned. “Besides! I thought you might be fun to fight, and then we’d fight, and then I’d drag you back to Stratagold and buy you a beer. Obviously, that did not happen.”

“Maybe if I knew that being an ally and also a Wizard was possible before now, then this could have gone some other way. Of course I thought you were coming to murder me.”

Sitnakov scoffed. “Yeah. Well. Allying with Wizards hasn’t historically worked out for us, so we don’t advertise that sort of thing.”

“You’re speaking like open alliances were ever an option at all. We never would have gotten to this point if I showed up as an untempered Wizard on your door. You would have wanted me to be under your thumb the second you found out. So yeah. I had to hide. And yes, I thought you were coming in for the kill back there.”

“… Yeah. Well… You’re probably right.” Sitnakov sighed, then said, “Look. I’m sorry. Didn’t mean for that thing in the Core to happen like it did. Won’t happen again.”

“I accept the apology,” Erick said, rather fast.

Sitnakov stood a bit surprised.

Erick added, “I already accepted your apology the last time, too, and now we’re here, and I’m moving past the ‘could have happeneds’.” Erick moved right along, saying, “Your warning about appearing as a Shade plot is heard loud and clear. The only things I actually need to do right now is get some staff for a House I have yet to build, and then to get all the usual Guilds to come to this Gate District, or to Candlepoint itself. I won’t go opening [Gate]s all across the world for a year, or however long it takes for people to accept that this is happening. Slowing down is fine.”

“Thank the gods,” Sitnakov said softly, fully relieved and without a hint of sarcasm. For all his faults, the man had never been anything less than honest with Erick, and that counted for a lot. For a moment, Sitnakov just stood there, every part of him relaxing, as though he was coming down from an unexpected battle. And perhaps he was. “Thank you for believing me.”

“Of course I believe you, and your warning.” Erick said, “But just one Gate isn’t enough. You heard my proposal to O’Lark, yes. So does Stratagold want four Gates? One each for people coming and going, and product coming and going? I feel like having a full example of a proper Gate Network node is important, and one Gate per one land was never going to be enough.”

Sitnakov frowned a little, as though he were back swimming in the uncomfortable depths of politics and talking, then lost that emotion and shrugged. “I know my father wishes to have more Gates, and we’ve talked about getting at least four of them… Yeah. We’ll take four.”

Erick grinned. “Glad to hear it. Do you have any idea when the first people will come through?”

“No. No idea. We’ve already got trading partners here on the Surface, and a lot of people had prepared to shift their usual routes if you actually managed to pull off this [Gate] thing, but they’re holding onto their [Force Platform]s now that you've announced yourself as a Wizard. Maybe in a month or two some normal trade might actually come through.” Sitnakov shrugged again. “But this makes a connection to Ar’Kendrithyst much easier, and plans there are proceeding as expected. Even if there isn’t much trade you’ll probably get a lot of diplomats and such coming through here, from every single Geode out there and more besides. Everyone wants to turn Ar’Kendrithyst back into a true land of light so that the Darkness can’t vacillate toward insanity and take it back in a storm of pique.”

In that moment, Erick made a mental check to hold off on offering to plant Yggdrasil at the former Brightwater. Such a thought had been on the back burner, but now, Erick wanted people to come through here and see that this land was good, and so if the diplomats of the wrought were going to come through here, then Erick would welcome them with open arms, and send them on their way, back out of his influence.

But while they were here, those wrought diplomats and such will briefly be living alongside dragons and the people of Ar’Cosmos, and shadelings, and even Shades, for Goldie was probably around here somewhere. Hopefully, Erick could maintain peace, and with that peace, there would come actual healing. Not this year, no. But eventually.

Eventually.

… And Sitnakov’s ideas of proper meeting protocol gave him an idea to speed that process up.

Erick asked, “You want an arena space, for sparring? Some place to have some rules and some fights that don’t end in too much bloodshed?”

Sitnakov brightened—

And then he instantly tempered himself. “Not yet. Thanks for the offer, though.”

“It’d be hard to trust all the various people coming here to have a good, clean fight; I agree. But I can put up various defenses. You’d be able to break those defenses, of course, but I’m sure that if everyone abides by a good, clean fight, then that is what we will have.”

Sitnakov leveled a look at Erick. “You know that’s fucking weird, right? Reading me like that, without any Mind Magic at all?”

“So I’ve been told.” Erick moved along, saying, “My daughter is a great fighter, and I’m pretty sure she would like to fight you.” Erick glanced backward to Jane, showing that he was visibly paying attention to her, though he had already been doing so all this while. Jane’s eyes were wide at her father’s look, and then she nodded experimentally; that was good, for she wanted a fight, too. And then Erick saw Teressa see Jane, and Erick, and realize what was being offered. She wanted in, too. Erick happily turned back to Sitnakov, who was currently a bit flustered and excited, and yet wary. Erick said, “Jane and Teressa would like to fight. Could be fun! I, however, am not up for that sort of thing.”

Brightly, yet with decorum, Sitnakov tried to play it cool as he said, “Yeah. That could be fun. Maybe I will take an arena space… A small one—”

All this while, there had been construction going on with the wrought lands. Stone crashed inside the barracks, and inside the offices. O’Lark went from building to building, ranting about the placement of doors and the flow of rooms, and the lack of windows. He did have some magical ability, and he used that to tear out the most egregious of offenses, such as single-load bearing walls, which, if torn down, would collapse the entire floor above.

This had happened several times already.

But now there was a problem with the roof of the barracks, which had been angled improperly for rain, and which had no gutters or any water removal systems at all.

Erick watched as several things rapidly happened. O’Lark tore out a support structure on the top floor. The roof began to collapse. O’Lark shouted about how he was right, and see? It was collapsing exactly as he predicted. And then his assistants grabbed the old green copper man and pulled him out of the collapsing debris, and right out a window.

The assistants gradually floated back down to the ground, holding a ranting and vindicated O’Lark, while the barracks and the office building began to fully collapse in a chain reaction of upper floors crashing downward.

