And then the morning got a whole lot better as Jane, Kiri, and Teressa showed up on the porch, bringing with them a full breakfast of pancakes, eggs, and sausage. Erick had a second, much better meal, along with more nice coffee, as he continued to conjure lightsculptures of a theoretical House Benevolence.

Everyone had some suggestions.

It was a lovely conversation, and Erick was glad to have it—

And then Erick saw some wiry, green-metal old-human man wrought rush through the [Gate] from Stratagold, followed by some exasperated possible-assistants. None of them were soldiers. The old guy was the first person to come through the Gate not ‘dressed’ in uniform armor made of their own metal selves; he was dressed in a loose green metal toga that hung off of him like a bedsheet two sizes too large. His apprentices (they had to be apprentices?) were a male incani and a female incani who wore themselves like they were wearing normal clothes; tunics and pants of nice quality.

The old man got twenty meters out of the Gate, stared at everything around him, and then collapsed to his knees. His apprentices rapidly caught up and started fussing over the old guy, while the old man smiled brightly and shoved his hands forward and up, raising his voice to the sky, “Thank Rozeta for this gifted opportunity! I will make this land unforgettable!”

Ah.

Architect O’Lark? Probably.

Poi’s voice brought Erick back to the moment, saying, “Prince Sitnakov wishes to inform you that Architect O’Lark has appeared. He suggests that you appear and do something before the old man starts building castles.”

Erick smiled, then stood up. “Breakfast is over, anyway. Tell him we’ll be there in a minute. Kiri, you’re probably going to help O’Lark build some stuff, if you want.”

Everyone began to move fast, but Kiri was the only one who flickered away in a flash of light to reappear in her room, to frantically get dressed for the day. Erick was only marginally slower at taking a [Gate] to his own room.

- - - -

The Gate District, which is what Erick tentatively decided to call the land upon which the Gate Network was to be built, was bustling with activity. It had only been three minutes since O’Lark landed here on the Surface, but he was already drawing a crowd from all the wrought soldiers at the nearby barracks.

The ancient copper man shook his wiry arms at the Gate he had just left, bringing to mind a sweeping gesture of pain and pleasure, calling out, “Oh! It will be magnificent!” He collapsed to his knees for the second time, overcome with emotions again as he exclaimed, “I will make a monument to the ages! A testament to civil engineering and proper workflow!”

… Which was kinda odd to hear, but it made Erick feel like he had clearly made the right choice in accepting Alfonin’s suggestion of architect.

The wrought soldiers completely ignored the old copper man as they saw Erick, turning all of their attentions to the Wizard in the area. O’Lark’s assistants saw the shift in Sight and then they saw Erick. They both briefly froze. And then they unfroze and tried to get O’Lark to also realize that the client was here, but O’Lark wasn’t having it.

“Let me be, boy!” O’Lark slapped his hands on the strong grip of a bright copper incani man. He didn’t want to be hauled to his feet, but he was, and probably as gently as the assistant could manage. “Let me have my moment! I never get enough of these!”

Sitnakov came out of the bunker—

O’Lark instantly locked eyes on Sitnakov and deflated. “Aw, fucks. He’s here? Of course he is. Alfonin said something like that.” O’Lark’s assistant said some more small words, repeating his message about the presence of the client, and then O’Lark whipped around and eyed Erick. “Ah! You! Wizard!”

Erick had not stopped walking forward this whole time, but at about ten meters away, being loudly called a ‘Wizard’ caused him to pause. And then he resumed walking forward, saying, “Yes. Me Wizard. I assume you’re O’Lark?”

O’Lark stepped forward to get closer to Erick, but his assistant (or keeper?) had a firm grip on O’Lark’s upper arm. O’Lark took offense at this, and slapped the guy’s hand several times rather quickly, causing the assistant to let him go. The assistant was scared, but O’Lark was either fearless, or uncaring. Probably both. O’Lark closed the distance with Erick, pointed an arm at Sitnakov who was still walking this way, and announced, “I will not be held responsible for that mad man destroying these lands, but I can ensure that they have deep mana signatures, which, while it will not mitigate that man’s penchant for destruction, it will allow for an easier repair when all the battles are over.” He stepped back, waving his arms wide, saying, “There’s no real way to prevent crazy warriors from going through walls if they really want to go through walls, but I can ensure that the walls can be put back easily enough!”

Erick already liked the guy, but he approved of O’Lark even more at that statement. Sitnakov aside, Erick expected this place to take a beating at least once or twice, and so having it be easily repairable was a big plus.

“Reasonable all around.” Erick asked, “How do you do that, though? Ensure that the building can come back even though Extreme Light bombardments and other such manasphere destructive magics?”

O’Lark smiled wide, utterly relieved. “Ahhh! This is going to be good. No stupid introductions. No stupid talking. Just real questions! But to answer the question! The answer is quite simple! You make a runic model of the building and you protect that model! The physical building can break and shatter, but as long as you got that model you can [Mend] the real thing back to full with little actual work!”

“… I get the feeling that this sort of magic is a massive security issue.”

“It very much is!” O’Lark said, “You gotta keep the model super safe or else someone can find it and do awful things to the model, which will propagate to the physical building if [Mend]ing magic should be applied. It’s modeling magic! My own invention! It’s derivative of Doll Magic, which itself isn’t a real magic, but Book Magic is useful for many things, and a lot of things can be considered a ‘book’ since the underlying nature of that Element is to instruct. So from that viewpoint you take the Book and you make it into a model and then you got a model which can remake the real thing!”

Erick took a moment to think about all of that new information.

He said, “Nope. Let’s do a normal place, and I can repair it as needed. I can’t have a liability like that around.”

“Sure! That's fine too.” O’Lark instantly leaned in a little, eyeing Erick as a starving man would look upon a feast. “Where are we going to start? Where shall I [Strike] to lay the first brushstroke upon this masterpiece of the ages?”

“… I will talk with your assistant over pricing and such—” O’Lark almost objected, and had in fact got out a few words into that objection, but Erick barreled on, saying, “—because I am going to pay you. My assistant Kiri, here, will be helping with as much of the actual construction as you deem fit. She’s the one that built this foundation under our feet, and her [Familiar], Sunny, lets her do the work of at least 10 people.”

Kiri came forward a step and bowed, while her little couatl did the same and flickered through several colors as she did.

“You didn’t make the foundation, Wizard?” O’Lark narrowed his eyes at Erick, then looked to Kiri. His appraisal was quick and marginally positive, then he turned back to Erick. “I had heard that you were good with building creation. That clan mountain you made in Songli was nothing special architecturally, but the Shaping was well done. It appears your apprentice is also accomplished, but I had expected to work directly with you.”

“Do you think I want to make this whole place out of eternal stonewood, or something?”

“I had assumed that you had some sort of specialized material that you were going to use that no one else could Shape. Something very robust! Like the Songli clan mountains! Is this not true?”

“Let me ask you a question in turn: Will people feel safer in this land if they know the resident Wizard could Shape it around them, and they could do nothing, or would they feel safer if they could Shape the buildings themselves, as an emergency measure.” When O’Lark had to stop and think, narrowing his eyes at the ground and then turning his eyes left and right, Erick continued, “I was going to put everything made here under Stone Denial spellwork. It’ll be weak to attackers with a Stone-based Domain, but it’ll allow people to Shape their own housing while the Denials are turned off, which can be done without much hassle.”

O’Lark frowned a little, then complained, “I won’t be able to use good materials, then.”

Erick said, “The work I wish from you is for overall planning and future-problem-proofing through the structures laid down today, or soon enough. I do not expect you to Shape all the land here, or much of it at all. I need plans for Gate organization. To that end, I’m probably going to give all the major Gate locations a 500 meter square plot of land, and four Gates. The four Gates will be split between people and product, and coming or going.” Erick said, “As a basic start, I’m envisioning a north-south-east-west gridwork city, with normal, wide roads separating every 500 meter square plot. Smaller roads as needed. The main thing, though, is that there will be several special Gate Roads, much, much wider than the normal roads and mostly going east to west. Those Gate Roads will have the four portals, and those lands where the portals are from will be situated directly next to their Gates, in order to control their own lands to collect taxes and such, of which half will go to me. I will be responsible for the integrity of the Network, and the security of this land, on this side. Partnered lands will be responsible for the land on their side, except for the parts which are homes for Yggdrasil.”

O’Lark studied Erick while his assistants recorded Erick’s wants, and then O’Lark turned his attentions sideways to look at the land all around them.

Erick waited.

Stitnakov and everyone else also waited.

“Utilitarian, eh? I suppose there’s beauty in that.” O’Lark turned back to Erick. “What’s your heraldry? Got any yet?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “We’re going rather fast right now. I’m trying to set up and prove this as a good thing before all the world decides I’m an evil which must be crushed.”

“This world is full of fools.” O’Lark waved a skinny arm, saying, “Eh! You’ll be fine. Maybe an assassin or two but you can handle that, I’m sure. I’ll be back with plans for approval. Tomorrow or whenever—” With sudden intensity, he asked, “Do you have a sewermaster? Which school of dungeoneering are they from?” He twirled around and glanced east. “Shadeling sewermaster over there, right? Or former shadeling?” He turned back, awaiting an answer— And then he demanded to know, “You’re making a Clan Mountain for yourself, too, are you not! Do you have that planned?!”

The man was intense. Erick almost chuckled.

But instead, Erick calmly said, “I plan on making a House Benevolence, yes. That building will be made of eternal stonewood. You and I will likely need to have a much larger conversation about needs when it comes to making that particular building, but I could use your expertise—”

“Do you have a theme?!”

“Worldwide unity through peace and prosperity.”

The words had tumbled out of Erick’s mouth without much thought, but they were true, and so Erick left them out there, without clarification.

O’Lark reeled back in deep thought, breathing deeply and with his sight drifting upward, as though he were seeing something that wasn’t there. And then he looked away, silently watching the land.

A moment passed in more silence.

One of the man’s assistants, an incani woman wrought, carefully spoke, “Pardon. The questions. Sewermaster? Dungeoneering school?”

Erick glanced at O’Lark, who seemed to be having a moment, and then he answered the assistant, “No sewermaster yet, or any lead on one. I could ask Ava back at Candlepoint, but this land is too big for one sewermaster, and so I will need to get more. If you have the suggestions then I have the ears to listen.”

The woman bowed a fraction, quick and done, then said, “I will be sure to inform Architect O’Lark when he is able to listen once again.”

The male incani wrought assistant asked, “We have other clarification questions, if you are willing to answer.”

O’Lark was very much out of it, staring off into space, moving his hands left and right, making angles with his thumbs and forefingers as he squinted off into the distance, slowly turning around the whole time as though he stood atop a turntable.

Erick answered the other assistant, “Ask.”

The man bowed, then asked, “Can Gates move without breaking the spellwork inside?”

“Nope. That breaks the magic.”

The man got out a small notepad and wrote down Erick’s answer, as he asked, “What happens when someone is in the middle of the [Gate] during a break?”

“They appear on the side in which they started walking through.”

“No worries about bisecting problems?” The man said, “The Architect was worried he would have to account for that.”

“There shouldn’t be any problems there.” Erick could read many of the questions on the pad through his mana sense, so he began, “I’ll just answer the rest, okay? 50 meters max diameter. Average 5. No passenger limit. No weight limit. Focus on throughput and security. Standardization is desired between all structures. I plan on inviting the Wayfarer’s Guild to this land for some ‘last mile’ deliveries, so they’ll likely get land somewhere adjacent to Gate Road but I haven’t actually spoken to them yet. The Adventurer’s Guild can be far away from the Gates. Banks will need to be accounted for like the Wayfarer’s— I’ll just leave some property clear for them, too...”

Erick answered the man’s written questions, and more besides, while O’Lark studied the land, making shapes with his hands… Possibly in the shapes of buildings here and there? Erick felt that guess was correct, but he didn’t actually know.

The female assistant was also watching O’Lark, but she was waiting for him to need her. Erick got the impression that it was hard for people to keep up with the skinny copper man.

Quietly, Sitnakov asked the woman assistant, “Do you have questions for the outpost and the barracks?”

