“Wh-what?” Ren asked, surprised. “He... he never held you in his arms like this? Ever?”

Dilseffa shook her head. “We couldn't afford to have our relationship become known.” She chuckled. “We had no clue that everyone already knew.”

“You were trying so hard to keep it a secret and covering your tracks, that it gave you away.” Yuwen said. “We didn't say anything because all it would do is embarrass you.”

Dilseffa nodded to her and gave her Respect. “It would have.” She said and looked back at Ren. “Needless to say, all the attention you've been giving me has been...”

“You don't have to keep explaining.” Ren said.

“Yes, I do.” Dilseffa said. “You've shaken up my whole life.” She said and gave him a brief kiss on the lips, and it felt more natural than it did only moments before. “With you being so nice and caring about me and my feelings, even though I'm only your concubine, I...” She closed her eyes and rested her forehead on his. “I'm very grateful to have you in my life.”

“Me, too.” Yuwen said. “Being around you and not feeling judged has been such a relief.”

“Even if the rumors that had been spread about you had been true, I still wouldn't have judged you.” Ren said honestly.

Yuwen closed her eyes and basked in the truth of his words. “I'm so glad.”

“Unlike them, I've had a pretty unremarkable life.” Tiyaphi said. “Except for being the way I am, that is.”

“You know I don't see that as a deficiency.” Ren said, and she nodded slightly. “You might sometimes be a little hairier than I'm used to...” He teased and Tiyaphi chuckled. “...but, having a tail I can play with, more than makes up for that.”

“I'm glad you think so.” Tiyaphi said and purred a little as she felt how much he liked her tail.

They fell into companionable silence again for a while as they looked out the windows at the countryside, then Dilseffa decided that she couldn't sit on Ren's lap like she was, with her arms around his neck and him holding her so tenderly, and not do anything. Ren felt the change in her emotions and he was about to ask her what she was thinking when she kissed him.

It wasn't chaste or brief like the others had been, and since he always enjoyed a good kiss, he kissed her back enthusiastically and caressed her back at the same time. Neither Tiyaphi nor Yuwen were envious or felt jealousy that Ren and Dilseffa were making out, since they could feel how much Dilseffa needed and wanted it.

Plus, unlike her, the both of them had experienced enjoying a public relationship before and couldn't begrudge her finally having one of her own, even if it couldn't be a normal one. Tiyaphi and Yuwen exchanged looks because they had similar thoughts.

The relationships we had before now weren't really normal, either. They both thought and smiled.
