r look professional. He turned the corner and saw a huge room filled with mushrooms!This dungeon was so cool! These mushrooms grew big and Deo wondered if he could duel any of them.Amanster managed to do some kind of obscure Cleric detect spell and touched a random mushroom which in turn was revealed to actually be a boar! The mushroom covered boar turned and began to chase Amanster.“I...HELP...DO...GOT THIS!” his healer shouted with confidence, his face half turned. Deo almost couldn’t see what he was saying but guessed Amanster had the boar handled with his great white magic. Poppy walked after him with her hood down low.Deo felt a bit lost as he had nothing to do. Panicking, he turned and saw movement. A walking mushroom man!Deo danced on the spot and walked up the jolly thing that was softly walking after Amanster and the Boar with interest.“HELLO! I WOULD LIKE TO DUEL YOU!” Deo called and the mushroom man paused and then slowly looked at Deo.It waved and Deo waved back.It waved and Deo waved back.It waved and DEO WAVED BACK!The mushroom seemed to hear something it and it pulled its arm back, not to the fullest extend Deo noticed, and aimed a punch at him.Deo almost squealed and dropped his sword then hesitated.A fist fight... it wasn’t heroic and his fist skills were…Deo swallowed his complained and ducked another punch. His foe demanded his best and DEO THE ALMIGHTY HERO! would not back down. He shot forward and aimed a fist...----Delta could only stare as the perfect hole through her mushroom Grove where a good chunk of her Grove had been simply erased by the sound of the young man’s attack.Delta was shocked, she gently directed Mr Mushy to bow and sit down. Deo the Ohmgodheisamonster adventurer bowed back and picked up his sword which he swung with novice effort. Even her Goblins could swing their clubs better. Delta felt scared of these children, wondering what kind of village they came from to have that level of power!Her dungeon vibrated and Delta could only watched as three large spiders rushed in.“No! Run! These kids are the real monsters!” Delta warned in vain.The spiders came and Delta prayed for them.
