Ali stared at the ominous piles of bones and corpses that towered above them. They reminded her a little of the piles of bone up in the forest cavern, surrounding her shrine, but these were vastly larger. Around every pile, new zombies crawled, or skeletal mages and warriors crept.

Ali had unsummoned her Death’s Acolyte Kobold minion to replace it with two of the new Luminous Slimes but now she was beginning to regret it. While they could fight the undead – unlike the Acolyte – she found that she had to monitor them continuously because they couldn’t follow complex instructions like her Kobolds. She had to regularly remind them not to use their blinding spray, making Mato curse grumpily every time she forgot.

“Something big up ahead,” Calen cautioned, and as she rounded the corner, Ali saw what he had found.

Nestled in a natural clearing between the enormous piles of bone was a scene of unholy reverence. In the center, a large prism of midnight-black stone hovered, slowly rotating in place. It bathed a surrounding group of kneeling undead in waves of dark and powerful mana. Beside the artifact, and within a surrounding circle of kneeling skeletons, two gaunt figures made obeisance on one knee, heads bowed, radiating an aura of ominous purpose and power.

Is that a shrine? Although she was not close enough to study it, similarities compared to her shrine were remarkable. It was constructed with the same stone and was interacting with the domain. But it hovered more than two meters above the ground as if lording its presence over the reverent undead, and the mana and runic magic inscribed upon its surface was death and bone.

“This must be the dungeon core,” Calen said, his tone quietly warning of imminent danger. “Those Wights are raid bosses, and a high level at that.”

Ali snapped her attention to the two larger kneeling figures, feeling the chill of apprehension as she studied their emaciated forms.

Warrior – Undead Wight – level ?? (Bone)Mage – Undead Wight – level ?? (Death)

“By ‘dungeon core’ do you mean the Wights? Or the artifact?” Ali asked. “Do we even know how to destroy a dungeon?”

“I’m not sure,” Calen admitted. “But there’s no more dungeon beyond here, and if we want to kill it for good, we have to defeat the last boss regardless.”

“What’s the plan?” Mato asked. “We just run in and hit them?”

“These are greater undead,” Malika said. “We need to be extremely careful.”

Greater undead. Wights, unlike the zombies and skeletons, were a form of undead that retained their ego. Despite her mounting anxiety and trepidation, Ali studied the two undead monsters carefully. The Bone Wight’s slate gray flesh was covered by bone armor that writhed and rippled slowly with the infusion of its bone affinity mana, forming ridges and spines that slowly faded and reformed with an unsettling unlife. It had two bone swords slung across his back, and two more fastened to its armor at the waist.

The Death Wight’s long wispy white hair flowed and shifted in the currents of mana, along with the tattered remains of its black robes. The energy of undeath glowed from its spectral eyes while death mana rolled out from its body in continuous waves.

“What… should we do?” Ali whispered.

“What can you see with your mana sight?” Calen asked. The two Wights would almost certainly come together, and so would all the skeletons. Other than telling him the Wights were raid-level threats, and undead, his Explorer skill wasn’t giving him much more to go on. If the Wights were substantially higher level than they were, there was a good chance they would need to run.

Warrior – Undead Wight – level ??

[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: RaidMonster Type: Greater Undead, WightDamage: Physical, Bone

Mage – Undead Wight – level ??

[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: RaidMonster Type: Greater Undead, WightDamage: Death

“The Bone Wight’s mana is animating its armor and weapons,” Ali answered. Her observation clearly explained the disconcertingly ‘alive’ armor the monster was wearing.

“The Death Wight is emitting an aura of death mana to a range of ten meters… uh, thirty feet.” Ali continued. Calen frowned. Likely, the aura would cause continuous damage and that might become a problem for Mato and Malika.

“I think we can assume the bone one is melee and the death one is a caster,” Calen concluded. “Mato can tank the Bone Wight, and I think we should target the death one first.”

“We’re going to do both at the same time?” Mato asked.

“I don’t think I can separate them.”

“Ok, everyone ready?”

“Make sure you have a Recall Potion handy,” Malika whispered.

“Ok, Mato, go, I’ll shoot the Death Wight after you engage,” Calen said. He might not be able to separate them to fight one at a time, but he could pull the Death Wight away from the skeletons and the Bone Wight so they could kill it faster. As Mato transformed, he summoned his bow and nocked an arrow, sighting down the shaft at the kneeling Death Wight.

As Mato’s huge bulk slammed through the skeletons, knocking several of them sprawling, chaos erupted around the floating stone obelisk as the undead reacted to the roaring bear. The Bone Wight leapt to its feet, shouting something in a chillingly ethereal voice, and drew two swords to strike. The Death Wight turned sharply, but before it could take any action, Calen’s brilliantly shining arrow struck it in the emaciated ribs visible through the tears in its robe.

A sepulchral hiss echoed all around as the Wight Mage turned to fix its dark glowing eyes on him. With withered undead lips pulled back in a grimace that revealed blackened, needle-like teeth, it levitated into the air, waving gaunt skeletal hands in the patterns of a ritual.

Calen fired again, striking the hovering Wight in the leg. Several black bolts of energy burst out from the Wight as it finished its ritual, lofting up into the air and rapidly descending into the piles of bones.

“It summoned more skeletons!” Ali yelled from behind.

“I’ll get them,” Malika answered. Their plan was already being warped beyond recognition. Clearly, Malika couldn’t help them with a flying monster, unless he used Grappling Shot, but rounding up skeletons was an effective role given that they now knew it could summon them.

Calen fired another shot. This time, the Death Wight fixed him with a malevolent stare and made a swirling gesture with its hand, seeming to pull something black and ethereal from the aether – something that let out an unending, bone-chilling scream. He identified it at once.

Volatile Wraith – Undead Spirit – level ??

[Explorer]Category: MinionThreat Level: NormalMonster Type: Undead SpiritDamage: DeathKnown Abilities: Incorporeal (Immune to Physical damage), Unstable

Without warning, the spirit tore across the battlefield toward him as Calen fired another arrow, but his arrow passed clean through the spirit without any apparent effect, leaving him to face the very angry undead spirit bearing down on him without an effective attack. Crap, what do I –

Barely had the thought begun to form when a golden glowing barrier snapped into place and the spirit slammed into it, bouncing off. With an extraordinary burst of speed, the translucent death spirit dodged around the barrier, lashing at him viciously. Some part of it hit his arm, but instead of a tactile contact, it passed right through his flesh with a sharp biting pain, leaving the area partially numb. It wheeled about for another pass, bouncing off a new barrier as Ali strove to block the spirit. As it zipped around the barrier, Calen dodged. Then, he found himself dodging again twice more in quick succession as the nimble spirit darted back and forth keeping up with his evasive maneuvers.

It bit him again, this time passing through his calf and making him stumble from the sudden brief numbness. He dodged back and tried to shoot again, trying to shake off the uncanny chill, but once again his arrow passed harmlessly through the wraith. With his next arrow, the wraith froze, shivering in place while its howling scream intensified. Did I hit it? The shivering intensified to a pulse and then it exploded, darkness blasting outward in a surge of pain as the energy passed right through him.

You have been afflicted with Life Drain.Maximum health is reduced by 1%Affliction. Count: 1

Argh, that wasn’t pretty. Calen shuddered in horror at the sensation of having his life force ripped from him in an explosion of undeath. There’s a reason for that Raid-level threat, right? Deliberately, he clenched his fists as he stared upwards, deep in thought.

Flying high above him in the darkness, the Death Wight’s sinister laughter echoed through the whole battlefield as its hands began once again to move in the pattern of its summoning ritual.

---------

This story is available at https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge
