Ali stood on the final bridge, rubbing her arms to ward off the chill of the stale air as she gazed out over the outer ring of the ruined city. Reaching the bridge had been easier than she had expected – the dungeon had only respawned a few of the undead and bone elementals in the inner and central rings, and those had been easy for them to kill, isolated as they were.

From her vantage point on the basalt-lined bridge arching down to join with the lower-set outer ring, it was clear, even in the darkness, that the final city ring had suffered the most in that ancient battle. It was not a place anyone but the engineers and miners had frequented when it was functional, but fully half of what had once been the power backbone of the city was now gone, snapped off in the conflict, leaving jagged edges of the heavy stone foundations jutting out into the darkness. Only three of the giant mana condensers – massive gray stone pyramids the size of several city blocks, with featureless sloped edges and a snub top – remained among the ruins of what had once been an unbroken ring of busy industry: the pinnacle of magical engineering. Remarkably, two of the condensers still glowed intensely in her mana sight, even after all this time, but the mana fluctuated and pulsed erratically, clearly no longer operating properly.

“I see a few bone elementals and a lot of undead,” Calen said, carefully scanning the expanse of the ring below. “Lots of heaps and piles to hide behind, and something strange over by that pyramid thing.”

“The pyramids are the mana condensers,” Ali explained. It was still too far for her to see what Calen had observed near them, and the light from her mana sight was intense. “They used to stack up ore here to be smelted. Being right next to the power generators provided some advantage, I think.”

“I don’t think those piles are ore,” Calen answered slowly. “Looks more like skeletons or bodies. I wonder if this is where the dungeon monsters have been dragging the corpses of the bats and wyverns they kill?”

“Why would they do that?” Ali asked.

“Do you think there’s a necromancer in here?” Malika asked. “There’s an awful lot of undead.”

“I’m not sure how we find out without exploring further,” Calen said. “So far, my skill is telling me that all the undead have been dungeon spawns, but we don’t know what might be waiting up ahead.”

“Is everyone ready?” Mato asked, impatient for action as always.

“Give me a few minutes to change my minions,” Ali answered. If it was mostly undead and elementals, she wanted to replace most of her archers with Fire Mages and shamans. And I have a new Acolyte to test, she recalled. The fact that it had death mana affinity sat uneasily with her, but the smart choice was knowing and understanding all the resources she had at her disposal. There was nothing for it, she needed to see the Kobold ‘Death’s Acolyte’ in action. The open space of the third ring, and their ability to have Calen split out small groups of monsters, would make it the perfect grounds to test a new minion.

“How many wyverns do you see?” Ali asked. She had been making cure poison circles for the entire time they had been fighting in the central ring, but recently they were mostly being used to clear a few poisons from Mato whenever they got the chance to pause.

“Not many, actually,” Calen said.

“Ok, let me know if you see a group somewhere,” Ali answered, deciding to dispense with the circles and use the mana reservation she freed up for the new Kobold instead.

As soon as she was done, Calen lured the first Piercer Scorpion to Mato’s position with a highly accurate shot, and the battle commenced. It was a single monster, so Ali’s concentration and focus were not even remotely challenged. She organized her minions following her well-practiced plan and then turned her attention to her newest Kobold. It stood beside her leaking an ominous black mana, awaiting her orders.

“What can you do?” Ali asked in Draconic.

“Death Rupture, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold answered.

“Show me,” she instructed, suddenly wondering what Kavé had meant that her Draconic sounded like the Kobolds. It was different to how the Dragonkin girl spoke, but Ali had initially assumed that was simply the function of different biology, but the Dragonkin wasn’t all that different from her, other than her scales, larger size, and a few extra canines. Yet, Kavé’s speech lacked the chirping quality of the Kobolds, and she used clumsy and archaic forms of self-reference in her speech patterns.

Ali’s rambling thoughts were suddenly interrupted as the Death’s Acolyte summoned its magic, drawing darkly glowing black mana from within itself to form a dense black ball of swirling magic that hovered above its clawed hand. The energy sucked at the surroundings, drawing in light, and spinning as it grew. Ali’s skin prickled from the chilling proximity to the intense spell as her nostrils filled with the faint scent of dry dustiness and crypt-like death.

It’s just like his. Ali shivered, filled with a remembered terror as her mind instantly provided an image that had been burned into her heart – the image of the Blind Lich summoning a spell just like this to shoot at her mother.

Settle down, that’s not the Lich, Ali told herself firmly. While the magic her Kobold summoned was similar, it was substantially smaller and less powerful than what she remembered from the Lich, but she couldn’t shake the feeling that the spell was sucking at her life force as it pulsed ominously in her Kobold’s hand, in the same way that the Lich’s magic had withered the surrounding grass and trees.

The bolt shot out across the battlefield and slammed into the side of the huge bone elemental, black mana tearing at the bone, decaying it to dust in an instant. A pulse of death magic rippled out from the impact, coursing through the monster and everything nearby – almost imperceptible but for her mana sight. Instantly, she witnessed the reaction of magic; Malika’s healing shone as an intense blue-white beacon within her body, followed almost instantly by the yellow-gold of her Kobold’s holy magic settling into Mato’s huge frame.

“Your Death Rupture spell has the Area trait?” Ali asked. The question was somewhat redundant given the evidence she had just witnessed, but she was a little surprised by the resulting pulse of death following the magic.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold answered, bowing to her.

So, something like a Fireball. Deathball? It didn’t look quite as strong as her Fireballs. Maybe I won’t get much use out of this, she thought.

Your group has defeated Piercer Scorpion – Elemental – level 28 (Bone)

Calen was already firing at the next pack of undead skeletons as they shifted a little further onto their small beachhead on the outer ring.

“Why do you not attack?” Ali asked, noticing that her Death’s Acolyte was simply standing beside her again.

“I cannot, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold replied.

“Why? Are you out of mana?”

“No, they are undead.”

“You cannot attack undead?”

“My magic only damages the living. It heals the undead,” the Kobold explained, looking like it was about to cower in shame.

“I see,” Ali answered. So that was it, she thought. In the chaotic charge, tearing through the buildings on the second ring, they had encountered several of these Death’s Acolytes, and the skeletons and zombies had refused to die until the Acolytes were taken care of. In the rush, she hadn’t spent a lot of time considering it, but it made sense. This Death Rupture spell was an area-damage death magic attack, that simultaneously damaged the living and healed the undead. Perfect for a dungeon like this which summoned undead.

In the hands of a necromancer, this would likely be a ridiculous spell. While necromancy had been frowned upon in the scholarly circles of Dal’mohra, it seemed that it wasn’t quite as anathema then as it was in this era. It was going to prove to be quite difficult to put her newest minion to use, especially down here.

On the other hand, Ali had more than enough personal reasons to fear and despise death magic, even though she could now wield it through one of her minions. And she most certainly would not be waltzing through town with one of these in tow – at least, if she valued her life.

Not wanting to take the time to summon a replacement, she instructed the Acolyte to stand by whenever they had a pack of undead to fight, and even when they were fighting elementals, she was still not certain the damage was worth hitting her friends. Unless there’s a lot of them and the Area trait becomes an advantage. But then I have Fireballs and Lightning Nova Totems for that.

Calen kept their pace slow and steady, favoring caution when pulling monsters as they made their way toward the first major landmark – one of the mana condensers. They even killed several Spitter Drones without the benefit of a building to hide inside – discovering that Ali’s barrier was now strong enough to block the blast of the dying bone elemental’s Corpse Explosion. Here, at least, the Death’s Acolyte proved useful, boring holes in the bone armor with its death magic and contributing to the final explosive destruction.

“We’re clear to the pyramid,” Calen announced. “The mana condenser?”

The hulking construct of stone loomed above them, a massive squat snub-topped pyramid that would tower over all the multi-story buildings on the second ring. It pulsed chaotically, leaking an intensely glowing viscous yellow liquid that pooled up against the base of the condenser and slowly flowed out over the edge of the ring, falling into the darkness below.

“What is that stuff?” Malika asked.

“I think it’s liquid mana,” Ali answered. It had taken a few moments to figure it out, but it had connected in her mind when she recalled what it was the condensers were for. This one seemed to be light affinity mana and probably had been used to literally keep the lights on in the city, and the crops growing.

“Incoming!” Calen’s urgent shout snapped her attention from the condenser itself to the pools of light mana at the base. The intensity of the light made it difficult to see what exactly was moving, but her Identify had no such trouble.

Luminous Slime – Ooze – level 20 (Light)Luminous Slime – Ooze – level 18 (Light)…Luminous Slime – Ooze – level 33 (Light)

Ali backed up away from the brightly glowing yellow shapes that rippled and wobbled their way across the stone, clearly attracted to something about them. She summoned her barrier, having no idea what they were capable of and absolutely no desire to make herself a test subject.

Mato, of course, had no such qualms, immediately charging the entire pack of slimes – each about a one-meter diameter amorphous blob that seemed to grow and extrude itself in multiple simultaneous directions just to move.

“I count twenty,” Calen called out. “No, twenty-two.”

Mato roared, and the entire pack of slimes shivered, pausing briefly in unison before extruding their way directly toward him. He Swiped as soon as they closed, but they instantly retaliated by blasting a conical spray of the most intensely incandescent particles Ali had ever seen. Particles that floated in the air and caught on Mato’s fur. She blinked at the afterimages that left her almost blinded even from a distance.

Relying almost entirely on her mana sight, and the intensely glowing outlines of the slimes, Ali saw them attacking Malika and Mato with blobby pseudopods that extended and disappeared from their bodies, seemingly at random. Some of them were even trying to ingest parts of their bodies while simultaneously lashing out chaotically. They reacted with frenzied fervor every time Malika healed, or Mato roared.

They’re blind, Ali realized, seeing Mato and Malika flailing about, barely connecting with their foes. Another incandescent spray took out her vision again – before it even had a chance to fully clear.

“Fireball strategy,” Ali yelled, knowing they would all understand. With so many monsters in play, she needed to leverage her area damage magic, and for that, Mato and Malika hardly needed to see.

“One, two, three, … four,” Ali counted off her Fire Mages, and at the last moment, she added her Death’s Acolyte in as the fourth slot in the rotation. Then she quickly assigned her healer Acolytes their order before she began.

“Begin,” she called out in Draconic. “Drop your totems, fire at will,” she added in Goblin for her shamans.

She had no idea how the Kobolds were able to still see, but the glowing mana of the first Fireball shot true, detonating in an intense concussion of red flame, followed by the deafening thump, and vibration through the stone. A wave of heat blasted out, felt even at her substantial distance. While her barrier did nothing to defend against the light attacks of the slimes, at least it could protect her from the blast.

In the midst of the ball of fire magic, Malika’s blue-white glow of healing magic flashed twice. Immediately, totems landed in the center and began pulsing intense white lightning magic, vying with the conical spray of the slimes for the title of most annoyingly bright magic. Ali just gave up and closed her eyes, relying entirely on her mana sight to track the battle. Two more Fireballs detonated, punctuated with Lightning Bolts, and then the ominous pulse of death magic sealed the deal, triggering a noisy cascade of chimes in Ali’s mind.

As her vision slowly cleared, Ali could make out Malika and Mato stumbling around in the midst of a quiet battlefield covered with yellow, glowing slime and gobs of still-burning flame.

“You guys ok?”

“Still can’t see.”

“Fucking glow-slimes.”

“No adds, we’re clear,” Calen called out.

“Why are you not blind?” Mato groused.

“It didn’t seem to affect me much,” he answered. “But my affinity is light also, so maybe that helped.”

“I hate you. And you too, Ali, I barely had to lift a paw. Yawn!”

Ali chuckled at Mato’s frustration while she carefully picked her way across the battlefield deconstructing everything she could find.

Imprint: Toxic Slime updated to Imprint: Ooze.Variant: Luminous Slime added to Imprint: Ooze.

“You just learned them, didn’t you?” Mato asked as her Grimoire sprung open to inscribe the variant update.

“Yup.”

“I hate you with extra sauce on top. I hate these slimes; I still can’t see anything. It’s like having the world’s worst case of sunspots.”

“Here, let me heal you again, I think it might help.”

***

