Two days later, David, Niala and Angeline were called to appear before the king, in private, alongside Willard, to answer a few questions. No words if those questions were about the proposal itself, or if they were of a more personal kind.

David feared the former and Niala, the latter, while Angeline happily hummed a soft song as they waited in a small but well-decorated private chamber. The chancellor, standing by the door on the other side of the room, stared at the humming woman through slitted, wary eyes.

Niala stopped fidgeting and snapped her eyes to the door a heartbeat before a man-servant opened it and stepped through, revealing King Isadore behind him. As the liege stepped in, the man-servant stepped back out, closing the door with the faintest of clicks.

The only sounds in the room were the King's footsteps and rustling clothes as he walked up to the large table, sitting himself on a padded chair, and motioning for everyone else to sit.

Feet hustled, spines straightened, and derrieres met chairs. David and Niala maintained neutral expressions, while Angeline reduced her smile to a polite upward curve.

The chancellor stepped up next to his liege, depositing a folder on the table, and paced back, remaining standing. As he did so, the king let his gaze linger on each of the guests, observing them one by one.

Before the silence could become awkward, he spoke. “David Wardenfel, Niala All Brew, Angeline All Brew. I, King Isadore Amberfall, thank you for attending today. You might notice there is no recording orb, and that is because I did not call you to discuss official matters.”

He laid a hand over the folder. “This is your proposition. We judged it to be an... interesting idea, and one which we are amenable to. We believe it is the right plan. What we seek to know is if you are the right people.” He said, with emphasis on the last two words.

A short silence followed before the king spoke once more. “And so, I would like to hear your stories, from your mouths.” He turned his head toward the catkin. “You, Niala, please begin.”

Niala remained frozen, unable to form a string of thoughts, until David gently brushed her leg with one of his. Her ears twitched a few times. “Yo-your majesty. I am hon-honoured! I just, I'm sorry, I don't understand what you want to know exactly. Not my whole life story, certainly?”

The king quirked an eyebrow. “While I suspect it might be quite entertaining, you are correct; I do not have the time to listen to your entire life's story. What I want to know is why you think you're the person I should allow to proceed with this proposition.”

He caught the furtive glance the girl sent to the blonde woman. “Ah, I am aware that your sister has provided a very convincing numerical reason why you two are the best choice. But, as you most certainly know, people are not made of numbers. So, please, who are you, Niala All Brew? Your king is listening.”

Niala blinked, swallowed, and couldn't help but smile as she felt the outpouring of love and faith coming through her link with David. She looked at the king, nodded, and began explaining who Niala was.

Something strange happened when a king, or anyone in a position of power, really, asked someone else to present themselves.

They forgot who they really were, and began describing one of two versions of themselves: either who they wanted to be, or who they thought you wanted them to be.

The vast majority did the second. He much preferred finding the few who kept to the first.

As he listened and, more importantly, observed the catkin, Isadore quickly realized that she was neither. Much to his, perfectly suppressed surprise, she was one of the exceedingly rare individuals who didn't forget themselves.

She spoke of her qualities, of her flaws- maybe a bit heavy on the flaws, of her aspirations, desires, what she liked and disliked, and so on, her words picking up assurance as she spoke, as if she was forgetting who she was speaking to.

Which was entirely fine with Isadore; he might be King, and he followed protocol, but protocol was a tool, not a lifestyle.

He let his mind pick apart the girl's demeanour, her speech patterns, her choice of words, the way her body betrayed minor things. An image began taking shape in his mind.

A young woman, filled with empathy, who fought for the well-being of others because it gave her joy. Genuine, kind, yet protective. A true paladin's soul; not the zealously murder-happy kind, but the real paladins of old. Those who protected, who healed, and sought to redeem the lost, but fought with resolute righteousness when goodness and life were threatened.

So, she wasn't part of this proposition for her own gain. He mentally reviewed the file and immediately figured it out; the people living in the Living Vault, and any other potential “natives” still inhabiting the Ruinlands.

She felt responsible for them, for exposing them to the outside world, and wished to protect them from the potential collapse of their society, as terrible as it might be, to the coming invaders seeking the richness beneath their feet.

She was a person of high morals and deep heart. A good, industrious citizen, but not an overly pragmatic one. Still, she could be reasoned with, especially given that his policies as King tended to lean toward the good of the people, not exclusively of the state.

A fine individual.

He thanked her and moved on to the man. David Wardenfel, the previous heir of the Wardenfel patriarch.

He knew of the boy from before his exile, of course. The Wardenfels were the generals and officers of his kingdom. One of the top three most influential noble families of this kingdom, and among his staunchest allies, being loyalists to the core.

But the man before him gave him double vision when compared to what he could recall of the boy before. He, surprisingly, was also staying true to himself as he spoke, even though Wardenfels always spoke of who they wished to be. It was part of their being to always strive to be the best, to face adversity, tall and strong. They did not bend; they stood, or they broke.

And the man before him had clearly been broken.

Yet he was not broken. He had healed, pieced himself back together. The boy he knew had been dedicated, self-sacrificing, loyal and hard-working.

The man before him was all those things, but... differently so.

It took him longer than he liked to figure out how, exactly. But he did, in the end, and it took everything he had not to betray a smile.

The boy had put those qualities to work toward a goal, an ideal, given to him. The man before him was working toward a goal he had chosen.

The difference was as subtle as it was fundamental.

People were all born with an animal in their hearts. In the beginning, it was a faithful companion. A friend who helped them discover the world in their own ways. Over time, they learned how to tame this animal, so they could live among others. They learned what to feed this animal, how to train it, how to integrate it into society.

But nobody could ever make that animal change its mind. It knew what it wanted. Many, when faced with a choice between their heart's desire and the judgment of their peers, chose to spurn the beast. They imposed their will and built a cage around it. Each year, as the beast grew stronger, wiser and hungrier, they strengthened the cage, cracked the whip harder, and forced it to eat what they decided. The kind animal they had been born with turned into a foe to be chained and controlled.

For most, the cage held until the day they died.

For some, in times of duress, when they were too preoccupied to keep a watchful eye over the cage, the beast would escape without their knowing, hide in the recesses of their mind and let its denied hunger infect their thoughts.

So many nobles fell to their beast. The popular image of the self-serving, corrupt noble who thought themselves better than anyone was sadly not without its core of truth.

But then, there were those who learned to live alongside the beast, who understood that it was not a competition.

David had been born and raised as the first kind, but his cage had broken, and the beast had been let out. However, instead of succumbing to it, he had learned to live with it. At first, maybe as an ally of circumstances, to help him survive.

But now, the man before him might as well be the beast. He sounded every bit as genuine as the catkin, his wife, but where she was a warm sun, he was a massive wolf-dog. Loyal, devoted, caring to his friends and family, and an absolute threat to everything that dared approach its pack with ill intent.

Even now, as amiable as the young man was acting, Isadore couldn't help but feel the eyes of a dedicated guardian watching him, alert, ready to pounce if he stepped a single millimetre too close. Whatever that limit was, he had no idea; he only had the vague impression that there was a secret present. One that everyone ought to stay away from unless they wish to feel fangs around their throat.

Still, despite the very abstract threat, he was, in a way, the easiest to control. Isadore didn't even need to care about him. He only had to deal with the catkin fairly and respectfully, and her guard dog would follow along.

He thanked the man and moved on to the last guest, Angeline All Brew, the beautiful blonde who still displayed the same faint smile she had ever since he had stepped into the room.

As he addressed her, he couldn't help but notice that smile gain a bit more ground over her face.

He asked, as he had the others, to present herself, to tell him about who she was. Even if she had only been the spokesperson, negotiating on behalf of the two petitioners, and not herself part of the plan, he was still curious as to the kind of person who could cow Willard, one of his best agents, so thoroughly.

As she began speaking, a sense of wrongness assaulted him, and a pit of dread formed in his stomach.

His vision narrowed down, focusing entirely on the woman before him. What he saw, what he heard, was perfectly normal: a young woman with a bright mind, deeply caring for her family, wishing to do well by them. She enjoyed mingling in high society and found the game, the unending social manoeuvring the nobles engaged in, an appreciable challenge she liked to dabble in.

But his instincts told him he was looking at a one-way mirror, from the reflective side. It was an image, as lifelike as a reflection, but a lie.

There was someone, something, behind the mirror that he could not see.

And if he couldn't see them, then he couldn't know what the truth was. He could only know the truth he was shown.

And then, as his mind reeled, trying to reconcile his senses to his instincts, the control over his features lapsed, and his eyebrows twitched higher, his eyes widening momentarily.

The woman noticed, and for the barest of instant, the veil disappeared, and she let him see her true visage.

Through the eyes, when you both stared into each other's souls, you could get a sense of the density of someone's self-confidence. Some were weak and soft, others strong and resistant.

He prided himself on being made of rock.

His gaze met a wall of unblemished steel.

He was the king. He was also a puppet dancing in her palm.

And then the mirror flashed, and the friendly woman was speaking to him once more.

Any doubts he had developed toward Willard evaporated in an instant.

What, just, what kind of environment, what kind of experiences, did someone have to go through to refine their sense of self to this degree?

Eleven years ago, All Brew mansion

Niala and Angeline, gussied up in pretty dresses, were sitting next to their father in the mansion's living room.

Facing them was a visiting alchemist-scholar from Tikitoa, invited here by Cornelius after the man had released a new book, which Cornelius had found very interesting. The book, titled “The spontaneous effects of axially similar reagents,” delved into a rare but recurring issue where two or more ingredients would combine to create an unexpected effect. The problem had long remained unnoticed, as it was inconsistent; the same ingredients could, on one brew, exhibit unwanted side-effects, and not do so on the next ten brews.

For a long time, this strange behaviour had been attributed to an incorrect brewing process, but the man's research indicated that it might not be so, and that there was a root cause.

Very riveting stuff.

Cornelius waited for the man to settle on his chair before speaking. “Professor Dartun, once again, thank you very much for accepting my invitation. Ever since I managed to get my hands and eyes on a copy of your book, I have been intrigued by the ramifications of your findings!”

The tall, long-limbed, dark-skinned man smiled. “Please, Mr. Cornelius, Kotangaa will suffice. You may not hold a tenure yourself, but you are just as much a scholar of alchemy as I am. Your insights into compound alchemy are known far and wide; how could I refuse a meeting like this?” He said in heavily-accented Amberfallian.

Cornelius's ears wiggled as his smile turned smug. “Yes, well, one must always strive to improve one's craft, or fall behind the march of progress.”

“Wise words, Suja.”

As both men smiled at each other, Niala's little ears lopsided as she tilted her head.

Kotangaa noticed and directed his smile at the young girl. “Something has you puzzled, little one?”

She blinked in surprise at being addressed. “Ah! I'm sorry, Mr. Kotagga! I just don't know what Su-ja means...”

The man's smile grew wider at the mispronunciation of his name. It had been done in such a cute manner. “Questions are a mind's food, little one. Never deny it a good meal. Suja is an honorific from my language; it means, how would you say it in your tongue... Drinker of Knowledge. It is used for people who seek to understand the world, for the benefit of all.”

Niala's eyes grew wider. “Oooh! That's nifty!”

“Indeed, it is nif-ty.” He agreed with a chuckling smile, turning his sight back to Cornelius. “Suja, it seems that your daughter has the same thirst as you do.”

Cornelius could barely look prouder. “Right you are, my dear Kotangaa! I have been teaching my Niala everything I know about alchemy, and she has been drinking it all up like a dry sponge in the middle of a desert!” He turned his head toward his eldest daughter. “Isn't that right, my little miss assistant?”

Niala's little ears wiggled. “That's right, Dad! Alchemy is so much fun! I can make all the hurts go away with it!”

Cornelius smiled as he ruffled his daughter's hair, looking back at his guest. “Before long, she will be my equal.”

Kotangaa laughed softly. “Children truly are the light of our lives, are they not?”

The catkin nodded, “They are, they are! Now, Kotangaa, I am dying to ask you about the principle behind your experiments, as you described them in chapter two of your book.”

The tall man put a hand to his chin. “Chapter two... Ah, how I proved that it was interactions between ingredients, and not manipulation mistakes, that led to the hidden effects?”

Cornelius nodded. “Exactly so! You described how you set out to create an automated brewing process for a basic hydration potion, to remove the possibility of humanoid error.”

“Aaah, yes! You must be wondering how exactly I did so?”

“I am!” Cornelius confirmed.

Kotangaa smirked. “Suja, might your interest be not entirely academic? Perhaps you are thinking of using my process to create potions to sell, yes?”

The catkin's ears bent downward as he rubbed the back of his head. “Ah, you have me there, the thought has crossed my mind.” His smile flattened. “But it is not the only reason, Kotangaa. The ghost effects, as they are called on the continent, are a real problem. Since your book was published, I have had my team collect and compile all records of such events at my company. The results are somewhat concerning.”

“Concerning how, suja? These ghost effects have never been found to be directly life-threatening. They are an annoyance, that is true, but that is all they are, are they not?” The scholar asked.

Cornelius shook his head. “Not quite. As you know, one of my claims to fame and success has been the bulk-brewing of potions and the quality control of said bulk-brewed potions. We have been able to identify batches affected by ghost effects, thanks in large part to my mastery of compound alchemy.”

He leaned forward, the lines of his face deepening. “You see, Kotangaa, the larger the size of the brew, the more severe the ghost effects are.”

The scholar's eyes narrowed. “How severe?”

“In one case, actually life-threatening. Thankfully, we identified it ahead of time, and we have since limited the size of the vat that we brew this particular potion in. We are confident we will always be able to identify a ghost effect, but we would rather not take the risk.”

Kotangaa grabbed his chin. “Hmm, if this is true, then it is concerning. I believe I better understand what it is you seek, Suja.” He looked up. “I will reveal to you one thing that I did not include in my book. It is knowledge that could be used by bad men.” He revealed, and waited.

It took Cornelius a second. “...oh! Oh, don't worry, Kotangaa! Every single room in my house is enchanted with noise-cancelling properties. There are no eavesdroppers here.”

The scholar dipped his head in thanks. “It is good, then. Mr. Cornelius, know this: ghost effects occur because there is a residue. After every brew, it is left within the vessel used. No amount of cleaning will remove it. It does not react to neutralizing agents, solvents, heat, cold, or any such things. The only way for it to be removed is to have a ghost effect occur.”

Kotangaa let his words settle before continuing. “The ghost effect is both the cause and the solution. I do not know what the residue is, exactly. I only know that it exists, and that it occurs when the same ingredient is used repeatedly. Once it does occur, it seems to leech the residue out of the vessel, leaving it pure once more.”

Cornelius's focused ears were underlined by his wide eyes. As he ran the man's revelation in his mind, a thought occurred to him. “Then, that means, when we bulk-brew potions, a lot of this residue accumulates. If the ghost effect was dependent on the total quantity of this residue, my bulk process would suffer from it at all times, which means...” He lifted his eyes to meet Kotangaa's.

The scholar scrunched his lips. “I see. Then the effect is due to concentration, not quantity. Your vessels are larger; a greater amount of it must be present to attain the necessary concentration. But, once it occurs, because there is more, the effect itself is stronger.”

Cornelius clapped his hands. “Exactly! But you also proved, with your experiment, that axially-opposed ingredients fought the ghost effect! Do you mean to say they cleanse the residue?”

Kotangaa shook his head. “I do not know the exact process. My guess is that it is water to a fire; different residues, which cancel one another.”

Cornelius' eyes went wide. “Wait... you are saying that there is a second alchemical reaction happening within the vessel used to brew?! But, then, that means... that means we could be making use of this! If we can figure out the residue's compounds-” His head snapped toward his daughter. “Niala!”

The little girl startled. “Ah- Yes, dad?!”

Cornelius jumped to his feet, grabbing his daughter's hand as he did. “With me! To the laboratory! We must investigate this at once! It could revolutionize my brewing. Again!” He exclaimed, speed-walking toward the door, dragging Niala along.

“Wh- Dad! Wait!” She tried to argue, but her father had already pulled her out of the room, the door closing behind them.

Kotangaa and Angeline were left, looking at the door, and then at each other.

She replaced her surprise with a neutral smile, keeping silent.

Kotangaa eventually spoke. “Littlest one, is your father often gripped by his thirst for knowledge?”

Angeline's smile grew a little wider. “That is a nice way to say he goes crazy, Mr. Kotangaa.”

He blinked. “Ah, my apologies, I meant no disrespect.”

“I wasn't implying it, Mr. Kotangaa.” She said, sighing. “My father just really likes alchemy. Like, really, really.”

“I... see that. Do you feel left out, Kijji?”

She tilted her head. “What does that mean? Another Tikitoan word?”

He nodded. “It is. It means sweet daughter, but it is often used for any polite young girl. I use it when my own daughters are being little demons.” He chuckled. “They hate it, especially Nidjari, the youngest. It makes me laugh every time.”

The little blonde girl kept staring for a second before speaking. “Mr. Kotangaa, how many children do you have?”

“Oh? Well, I have seven boys and four girls.”

Her eyes widened. “That's so many!”

He laughed. “Ha ha ha! It is! My house is quite lively! It is a wonder how I manage any work! Thankfully, my wives arrange for me to have some time in my study.”

“Wives? More than one?”

“Indeed! I was apparently desirable enough to attract three beauties to my side!”

She observed the man, putting a finger next to her eye. “Hmm, I can see it. Smart, kind, and loving. Then you must love enough for all three of them, and all your children. That is a lot of love.”

“Ha! It is, but know this, Kijji: love is not a finite resource. The more you give of it, the more you get in return!”

Angeline tapped her finger against her temple. “What about trust?”

“Trust?”

She nodded. “Yes, trust. Is that also infinite?”

“It... why do you ask?” Kotangaa asked, his brow furrowing.

She smiled and laid her hands on her lap. “Oh, I'm just curious, Mr. Kotangaa! It's always interesting to know other people's points of view and opinions!”

“..This happens often, does it not, kijji? Your father leaving you to entertain his guests?”

Angeline's smile turned resigned. “Oh, all the time, Mr. Kotangaa...”