“This is actually happening, right?” Teepo asked. “We're actually seeing succubi fighting harpies?”

Yeah. Ren thought. What the hell is going on?

“I have no clue.” Teepo said. “Look at them go!”

Ren and Teepo didn't speak any more and just watched wordlessly. They could only see what was in front of the opening; but that was enough. After several minutes, a harpy started to fly towards the opening when it noticed it, and just as it was about to pass through, a succubus smashed her feet into the harpy's back and squished her in a splash of blood at the entrance. She reached down and dug her hands into the harpy's neck, then ripped and tore the flesh apart.

“AAAAHHHH!” The succubus screamed as it finally managed to snap the neck and tore off the head of the harpy. “AHAHA!” She laughed as the severed head splashed blood over her. She tossed the head back out of the hole and took flight with her feet still dug into the dead harpy's back, and carried the body away.

“Whoa.” Teepo said. “Maybe you should cover the hole.”

“I don't think that's going to be necessary.” Ren said as the sounds of battle became fainter. When Ren couldn't hear anything else, he thought the succubi would be done and come back inside. They didn't. He thought about going out after them; but, he had told Denise that he would sleep for the night. So, he waited for almost half an hour, and then he heard sounds of laughter. The succubi flew in through the opening and landed just inside, and Ren felt how happy they were.

“What the hell was that?” Ren asked, and he felt a ripple of surprise go through them, then apprehension. “Where did you go?” He asked. “You're all covered from head to toe in blood, and I've been standing here, worried sick that some of you, or even all of you, were dead or dying somewhere!”

“We're sor-”

“You can save the halfhearted apology.” Ren said and cut her off. “I know you're not sorry, so don't bother trying to lie.”

The succubi that spoke ducked her head.

“I want to know what just happened.” Ren said, and no one spoke. “Zunala! Front and center.”

The other succubi stepped out of the way and Zunala came forward. She walked over to stand in front of Ren, and she was full of confidence as she put her hands on her hips and stood with her feet 2 feet apart. Her wings were partially unfurled, and now that he could see her up close, he saw that she was completely naked and that blood dripped off of her from everywhere.

“What happened?” Ren asked.

“The harpies have hunted and killed our kind for centuries.” Zunala said. “This was the first time that we had the upper hand on them, so I used it.” She said, and Ren felt a Command Aura pop into existence around her. “We took control and we wiped them out.”

“Was there that many outside?” Ren asked.

“Only a few dozen.” Zunala said. “That didn't take us long.”

“Then what took you so long to come back?” Ren asked.

“I told you.” Zunala smiled. “We wiped them out.”

“But...”

“We killed all of them.” Zunala said. “We followed the stragglers back to their Aerie on this level and destroyed them.”

“All of them.” Ren said, and she nodded.

“Eggs, hatchlings, chicks, younglings, molters, and every single nester.” Zunala said. “We used acid arrows to scour the cliffs of their remains, then set fire to the nests.” She bared all her teeth in a huge grin. “Harpies will no longer be a plague on the succubi... or anyone else.”
