“Lacking ambition?” Lost in her thoughts, Luo-Luo almost jumped out of her skin at the sound of Lord Husband’s voice, scrambling to cover up her damning list of faults. Ignoring her efforts, Lord Husband gently swept her arms aside and took the paper in hand, reading it aloud with naked displeasure. “Slovenly appearance? Poor posture, shifty eyes, undisguised impatience? Inability to hide inner thoughts? Sighs too much? Tch. Just my luck. Came here looking for quin pups to cuddle and instead I find a long list of personal flaws. What fun. Come on, we should talk.” With a dark scowl, he folded the paper up and shoved it into his sleeves before pulling her by the arm to bring her away.

Dying of shame and regret, tears streamed down Luo-Luo’s cheeks as Lord Husband gently led her away for punishment. She never meant for anyone to see the list, much less Lord Husband himself, but this was no excuse. Were she not too tired to think, she would have known better than to write her thoughts out, especially in such a blunt and unforgiving manner. Just reading it alone was enough to bring disgrace upon the Bekhai, and if anyone were to learn Falling Rain’s new concubine saw him in such poor light, Lord Husband would have no face left to him.

Would he have her locked in stocks and publicly shamed? Or would he be more direct and drag her back to his yurt for a beating? He could even have her quietly executed and no one would care, for her purpose had been served. The whole Empire would know Falling Rain was an Imperial Consort, with or without Luo-Luo at his side.

Pulling her into his yurt, he left the door half open and directed her to sit at the table. Flopping down across from her, he sighed, but stopped halfway and sucked his teeth. Another bad habit of his, one shared by many members of the Bekhai, though thankfully one she had yet to mark down. “Please, stop crying,” he said, his voice soft and warm. “I’m not angry. Well... a little upset, but it’s nothing to cry about, okay?” Patting her head, he continued, “Look... since you’re so unhappy, I’ll talk to the Legate and see what we can do. He said he intended to raise other people to Imperial Peerage, so maybe there’s a way I can keep my ‘lofty’ title and you can go home. If not... well, regardless, I’ll find a way to send you back. Okay?”

Luo-Luo shook her head and wiped her tears, though several seconds passed before she found her voice. “Luo-Luo does not want to go back. Luo-Luo’s place is with Lord Husband. Please do not send her away.”

“You don’t have to lie.” With a self depreciating chuckle, he added, “You were mad enough to write a list of all my faults, but you forgot to add ‘short’ and ‘oblivious’ to the list. Sorry. I didn’t know you were so unhappy, but I promise I’ll make things right.”

“Luo-Luo apologizes for shaming Lord Husband, but it was not because she is unhappy.” Correcting herself, she said, “Luo-Luo is unhappy, but only because Lord Husband does not trust her. She only wrote the list in desperation, believing her only recourse was to offer suggestions to help Lord Husband improve his public image.”

“...Why?”

Taken aback by the question, Luo-Luo looked up for the first time since Lord Husband caught her. “...because... Lord Husband’s public image... is...”

Leaning back on both hands, Lord Husband laughed and said, “I know, I know, it’s atrocious, but what I meant was why are you so eager to help? Why aren’t you more upset about being given away to a stranger as a prize? Wouldn’t you rather go home?”

Confused by his line of questioning, Luo-Luo took her time in answering. “Such is Luo-Luo’s purpose, ordained on the day of her birth. She is an Imperial Servant, her fate to serve wherever the Emperor deems appropriate. Home... Home is a small room in the Imperial Academy, a gloomy, joyless place no different from a gilded cage. For six long years, Luo-Luo sat and waited for her opportunity to Serve, stagnating while her peers and juniors moved on with their lives.” Wiping away the last of her tears, Luo-Luo sat up straight and held her head high. “Having met Lord Husband, Luo-Luo believes it was time well spent. Between his incredible accomplishments and brilliant mind, Lord Husband is undoubtedly a dragon among men who stands at the forefront of his generation.” Offering him a seated bow, Luo-Luo added, “However, talent and hard work are not enough to soar through the Heavens, and as such, this one hopes Lord Husband will accept her humble aid.”

Unimpressed by her flattery, Luo-Luo’s words still had an effect as Lord Husband sat up and leaned forward. “Why were you kept back for six years? Bad student?”

“On the contrary, Luo-Luo was a most excellent student.” Pleased to finally have his attention, she told her story, stopping often to answer his queries and explain some nuance of Imperial life he didn’t understand. When her throat ran dry, he stopped to make tea and snacks and Luo-Luo belatedly realized this was their first, real conversation together, with only the two of them sitting alone in his yurt. With his back turned, she quickly fixed her hair and loosened her collar, desperately wishing she had a pocket mirror to check her makeup as she prepared to seduce him out of his pants.

Sadly, despite all her best efforts, Lord Husband seemed utterly immune to her charms. Laughing at his witty rejoinders, leaving her hands in easy reach for him to hold, fanning her collar to bare her skin, all her best tricks only amused him, his infuriating, knowing smile showing he was wise to her ways. So aggravating, if he knew her intentions, then how could he sit there and ignore them? Did he have no pride as a man? Did he not find her attractive? Or did it amuse him to watch her repeatedly throw herself at him? Was that what he wanted? A shameless, brazen harlot begging to fulfill his every desire?

Too ashamed to act so boldly, Luo-Luo finished telling her story and answering his questions, at which point Lord Husband stood and stretched with a mighty yawn. “I see. I still don’t entirely understand this whole Servant thing, but then again, there’s a lot I don’t understand about this world we live in.” Shrugging easily, he flashed her a genuine smile, so warm and bright it made her heart swell with joy. “Perhaps you can help explain it during lunch, and we can talk about improving my public image too. I’d also love to hear you play the zither sometime, but first we have to go wake Mila. She signed up for a contest which is starting soon, and she’ll never forgive herself if she’s disqualified for being late.”

Beaming as she followed him out, Luo-Luo thanked the Mother for bestowing fortune amidst disaster. Lord Husband was truly a magnanimous soul, so easily forgiving Luo-Luo for her dire misstep, though he seemed intent on teasing her for a little while longer. No matter. She had confidence in her skills, and once he had a taste, then they would see who teased whom.

Now, if only she had some way to send Zabu away...
