One of the hardest things to face after victory is dealing with the remnants left behind by your enemies. Now, these remnants can take a lot of different forms. Sometimes it's their surviving personnel. Ideally, they surrender to you; it's pretty straightforward. High-Tier Pathbearers can get ransomed back. Low-Tiers also can get ransomed back, but sometimes it's better just to let them go—it's usually not personal if they're enemy mercenaries, and they can be someone else's logistical burden instead of yours.

But if they killed a lot of your people, if there is an ideological part to the whole conflict and you hate them to the bone, then you're going to need to decide what kind of person you want to be. You're not going to be rewarded for being ethical. A lot of enemies aren't going to remember your moment of mercy for what it is. They'll just make up an excuse down the line if you let them go. They'll say you're weak. They'll come back again. Maybe next time more of your friends will die because you didn't do the hard and ugly thing. Or maybe the right thing to do was sparing your enemy, because a bit of mercy goes a long way and gives them a reason to repent.

There's no singular answer here. It's hard to tell what's the right thing. It really depends on who you're fighting, who you are, and what your comrades want. Don't forget your own guys. If you ignore them, then guess what? You're going to have an ugly conversation later. If you don't have trust in the camp, you don't have trust on the battlefield.

But here's a little bit of advice from an experienced campaigner: Get whatever emotional issue you have resolved beforehand. If you're angry, if you're vengeful, if you're whatever—deal with that early. Deal with that and see it solved. You don't want it affecting your actual decision-making. You need to be pragmatic. You need to be effective on the battlefield. If you get caught up in feelings, you're going to end up getting all your guys killed anyway, and that is not worth it.

Remember this: If you can't make a decision, then do something right. If you can't do something good, then figure out a way to get ahead no matter what you do. This is more than mercy or morality. If you're trying to win, then sometimes the best thing to do is consider what you can get out of your enemies—whether it's better to have them dead or alive, to strip all of their equipment and use it for your own or just sell it, or to actually even recruit them as new allies in dire circumstances.

Believe it or not, that's how we got most of our best guys. We weren't all part of the same company before. A lot of us were fighting each other, and we gave each other life. After the actual killing was done, we decided that we wanted to make a go of it—because it makes sense too. If someone beats you, that means they're pretty good. At least they're better than you in a specific situation. If their skills are vetted and you can reliably vouch for their capabilities on the battlefield, why not give it a try? Why not come together to see if you can be stronger as allies?

Anyway, you have to decide. You gotta make a choice you can live with, but on top of that, I'm gonna say this: Make a choice you can live with for the long run. Not the short one—the long one. What you decide to do shapes your legend, your character, and your reputation. That will open certain doors down the road while also closing others.

So, once more, listen to me and listen to me good. If you don't know, if you're not certain, then choose strength. Choose power. Deal with discomfort and make your life easier, because no one else will.

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

411

A Shadow Over Piety [II]

Voyeur of Darkest Dreams 331 > 343

I, Genius Loci 33 > 55

Matryoshka Dilation 405 > 414

Moment of the Shattered Stasis 401 > 409

The Shrieking Sting 101 > 122

Hivelord of the Unshattered Correspondence 256 > 277

This Web of Nightmare and Wonder 27 > 32

Uva looked down at her own face. A clean hole was left in the Hatchling’s head, from the left cheek up through the top right of its skull. Black blood oozed across the translucent floor, painting a trail of darkness upon the pale surface, and the merging of the two hues created an uncanny reflection, casting Uva's visage back upon her twice over.

Her form had been restored. All aspects of eldritch mutation had been stripped clean to allow this Delve to be the purest contest of skill against skill. She saw her eyes glowing a familiar deep blue, with a translucent shimmer of mana along the rim. Legendary mana. Her body was similarly purified. No more branching fingers or golden eyes grew from her flesh. No spider-like appendages extended from her shoulder blades, nor did broken fractals of time-stilling frost reshape entire sections of her chest or limbs.

She was an Umbral, completely and utterly, if only in this moment. She was herself. And there was a strange sensation in her chest. The swelling inflammation of triumph clashing against an ache of loneliness and absence.

The Hatchling lay dead at her feet, its body an amalgamation of her own and that of a Weaveress, its flesh slowly falling apart from the many wounds it had sustained.

A contemplative breath sounded beside her see. “So, did you enjoy that? It seemed quite cathartic from where I was looking. Personally, I wouldn't have driven the blade in myself. Still too much risk, though I understand the hatred. I don't quite share it toward the Eldest, but if I was dealing with an Avatar of Stranger, who's to say what foolishness I might be compelled toward?”

Uva ignored him as she gazed upon her hand. Her armor peeled away in fragments and pieces, revealing the paleness of her skin—and only her skin. Nothing aberrant emerged, nothing unnatural took shape. She was herself, and yet she felt alien, back as herself once more.

Above, her Dreaming Storm thundered, raging in absolute victory. The Hatchling's storm dissolved, and so too did the remnants of the Starhawk's power. A final, fleeting flicker of incandescence remained, but it was extinguished as Uva's psionic tree fused together and rooted itself deep in the Delve. However, the encounter didn't end. It couldn't, not until she made a decision. Within the Hatchling's body was the collective eldritch essence extracted from Uva’s soul and concentrated before her.

She knew what this meant. The System's signal couldn't be clearer. It was time for her to make a decision. She had bested the Hatchling within her own Delve. She had been stripped away of all eldritch influence. She was a Legend in her own right, more than anything else. Uva wasn't here because the Outside had transformed her and was part of her Legend. She'd reached this pinnacle not because of powers bestowed upon her by questionable patrons or corruptive gods, but her own intellect, focus, skill, and will.

Her eldritch mutations didn't define her; she defined them. That was why they were shaped by her nature. Her mutations had altered her flesh to be closer to what she imagined of herself using her mind's eye. To take this power back wouldn't be a reward, but rather an affirmation and a reclamation.

But do I still want it? Who am I? What do I want to be? The question lingered in her mind, but it didn't trouble her. It filled her with a strange tranquility and a growing sense of purpose.

Uva had never been opposed to her eldritch metamorphosis; she'd just hated that she never got to choose.

“And now you do,” Hymn said.

Dense sheets of translucent mana rained down, untempered, unshaped. Uva let her mind slip and wander, and as it did, Harkness escaped once more, manifesting behind her as a concentration of mind mana molded the Owl into an analogy of matter.

A low hiss of pure fury and frustration cut through the downpour. “So, you've prevailed. You are a proper Legend now. All these things are true. What are you hesitating for? What are you waiting for? Decide. Take in that power and move on. Bring this farce to an end.”

But Uva didn't act, wasn't provoked by the haste and anguish in the Owl's voice. Instead of dealing with the Hatchling, she turned and faced Harkness. “I apologize.”

Her response caught both the Owl and the Headmaster both off guard.

“You… apologize,” Harkness said, her breath coming fast and tense. Her instincts guided her toward anger, for if this was a moment of mockery, she wouldn't abide by it. Her pride was too great. Even if she was to be cast into that isolation chamber, forged with Uva's mind, she would spit her hate. She would make her scorn known before she was bowed down into the dark and driven to the edge of sanity. Harkness would spit that last bit of loathing at her captor to make sure that Uva knew she was no better than the eldritch gods that once tried to take a slave of her.

The apology ruined everything, and left Harkness lost and confused.

Hatred and animosity were expected. Hatred and animosity remained between the two, but Uva's apology was genuine nonetheless. The Owl's mind veered then toward the only place it knew to go: suspicion and doubt. And with that came dread. What game was Uva playing?

“No game,” Uva denied. “No game at all. Truth be spoken, I have been having thoughts about my Feat, the one that allows me to contain your ego and all egos. I think it would have been more moral of me to just kill you. It would have been better if I'd just finished you off properly in the Fairwoods instead of taking this copy of you into me; it would have spared us both the indignity of me becoming a mirror of the gods that offended my soul and you being made less than a slave, just a well-sculpted mimicry attached to my mind.”

“I'm more than that—” Harkness began. But as soon as her rage flared, it was quelled as her false consciousness flickered out and Uva took hold.

“No, I am not.” Uva spoke through her now. This wasn't a usurpation, no more than someone could usurp a simulation of someone else's mind.

This wasn't truly Harkness. There was no self-awareness here. No soul. No mind of its own. It was simply a projection, an estimation of what the Owl might do, but even so, one's character was established and demonstrated upon the foundations of behavior. Even when there was no one to inflict consequence, it was best to keep behavior consistent.

Uva had learned this lesson well.

“You aren't real, but I am, and I should have held myself to a higher esteem, a truer standard. For phantom though you are, you still feel too close to a slave. And so I'm going to change some of this. I'm going to make you a simulacrum, rather than a direct representation. I should have done that from the start, but I suppose my spite enjoyed your suffering too much, or the facade of your suffering.”

Both Uva and Harkness spoke in sync, each facing each other as an uncanny equilibrium took hold.

Ultimately, the alteration took less than a thought. In a moment, Harkness went from a true representation of herself, distilled from what was harvested of her memories and consumed ego, to a near-perfect replica, but ultimately a cooperative aspect of Uva’s personality instead.

“Are you negotiating with your own consciousness?” Hymn asked, frowning with disapproval.

“I am simply setting a few standards for myself. I wouldn't want to make the same mistake as the Outsider gods in the end.”

“Oh, do trust me, girl. Considering how you're behaving right now, you're going in the opposite direction at dramatic speeds. The Outsider gods usually don't question themselves. There's not enough of a concrete ego there to perform a question yet. You, however, are all questions, all inquiries, and I wouldn't call you self-doubting, but you do find yourself caught in a quandary right now, don't you?”

She didn't reply to that question, not immediately. Instead, she asked one of her own, speaking through both the body of Harkness and her own. “Why aren't you mutated, Hymn?”

“Why didn't the Stranger force a metamorphosis on me, you mean?” He lowered his head and smiled. There was no humor in it. “Oh, he did. Several times, in fact, but eventually he gave up. I learned how he infused my skills, and I managed to distill his essence within those skills and embed them in specific Fingerlings. In time, I inverted that process and began implanting myself in the Fingerlings instead.”

“How very karmic,” Uva replied with dry appreciation.

Hymn snorted. “Quite, and I do thank you for noticing. I figured out how to do such a thing during my first Legendary Delve as well.” He drew in a long breath and stared up at the psionic storm branching out from Uva's mind. But not only her mind, for it was connected to the grand spire she stood upon, and within that place were all the lesser minds she entwined with her own. Those minds were dreaming. Dreaming of an ever-growing structure that protected them, that moved them. It was more than a tower; it was also a bridge. It was also a transforming organism. It was matter and mind and all the things in between. In summation, it was an ongoing metamorphosis itself, something that trespassed boundaries. Something that was more than what it was originally. A transgression, but also an evolution. A dream that crossed over into the flesh.

“What has you hesitating?” Hymn asked, compelled to be genuine for a reason he didn't fully seem to grasp. “For most, the choice is simple: You either wish to remain more as yourself, or you are drawn toward power and willing to sacrifice and shed your human form to become something other.”

