“Should I learn a stealth skill as well?” I asked after considering what I’d need to do to acquire a young dungeon core in the midst of a potential incursion. It seemed that remaining undetected could only make my job a lot easier.

“While a slotted stealth skill would certainly enhance the effects of any stealth-based equipment you might use, there is no particular need for you to have that level of concealment right away,” Veridia answered. “During training and while on actual missions, you’ll be provided with the resources you need to remain safe.

“Normally, you’d be limited to steel-ranked equipment since you’re both only bronze rank, but our crafters have a way of preventing our equipment from drawing on its user. That will allow you to utilize equipment of any rank, mitigating the necessity of slotting such skills.”

That made sense. I knew several types of equipment and artifacts could hide someone, so using those instead of requiring I slot and train with a new skill would be more efficient.

“Anyway,” Veridia continued, “If you have no additional questions, you should go ahead and take advantage of the break to grab some food. This afternoon’s lesson is going to be quite long since we have a lot to cover.”

Stephen and I excused ourselves, and I transferred us into my demesne to eat lunch. Aerie and Lana were both excited to see us when we arrived, though it had only been half an hour since they saw us last as far as they were concerned.

Though I didn’t keep the space in stasis when I wasn’t present anymore, I still tended to slow time so the asolade kits didn’t get into too much trouble.

“So, what do you think?” I asked as I retrieved the ingredients to make a sandwich from the small storage device that I used in place of a refrigerator. “Is this something you’re interested in pursuing?”

“I think so,” Stephen replied. “I’m not too keen on the idea of either of us taking part in dangerous missions while we’re still so weak, but I like the idea itself. I’ve always believed the powerful should do what they can to protect those who are weaker from unreasonable threats. Obviously, I’m not one to coddle those who can defend themselves, but keeping demons from attacking cities seems like a logical thing to do if we can.”

“I feel the same way. It’s mostly because of the children, if I’m going to be honest.”

“Same here. I’ve always believed that children should be protected, no matter what,” Stephen agreed.

I smiled as I finished putting together my sandwich and started wrapping up the ingredients that we’d both finished using.

“I’ll take care of the rest,” Stephen said softly before reaching for my hand. “I really am glad that you came into my life. I didn’t realize just how lonely I was before.”

“Me too,” I replied, squeezing his hands gently. “Speaking of feeling a bit lonely, how do you think Cora and Mike are settling in their new home?”

The shifter quickly finished putting away the ingredients and carried his sandwich over to the table.

“I have no doubt they are settling in just fine. I wouldn’t worry too much.”

It was hard not to worry since the move marked a huge shift in our lives to date. In all likelihood, our party would split in the coming weeks or months, and if we really did start taking part in incursion response efforts, there was an extremely high likelihood we would quickly outpace Mike and Cora as far as progression was concerned.

“I wonder if the people in charge of setting up IRTs try to recruit Ascenders in particular,” I said.

“Why would you think something like that?”

I tilted my head and asked, “You didn’t notice? I’m pretty sure half of the people in our class are Ascenders.”

“Really?” he asked with wide eyes. It was clear the thought hadn’t occurred to him.

“Yes. Only two of them had their Ascender titles visible, but I’m almost certain there were more Ascenders among the group. Just based on how they interacted with their party members, I suspect the rest of their groups are Ascenders as well.”

“Or, they could have found competent natives to work with.”

“That’s true, but their party members also gave off the same vibe. It’s hard to describe.”

“No, I get it,” Stephen said. “Even though they’ve all likely lived a millennium at this point, the experiences just aren’t quite the same. I’ll pay more attention when we get back from lunch.”

I waved a hand dismissively. “At this point, it’s not like it really matters.”

“True, but it is something worth considering,” Stephen said. “And if the essence gains really are as significant as she said, it would make sense to target Ascenders for the teams.”

“I was thinking the same thing.”

If the next ascension was the first step toward true immortality, it wouldn’t make sense for the goddess to want less experienced delvers rapidly rising through the ranks. In fact, I could easily see such a thing causing people to fail their evolutions since they wouldn’t have the actual experience to support their progress.

But for Ascenders, that wasn’t necessarily the case.

“Well, regardless,” Stephen said, swallowing the last bite of his sandwich. “That’s not really something we need to concern ourselves with. If we do end up progressing faster, I’ll just consider it a bonus.”

“I agree. It’s a bit sad that we’ll likely be leaving Cora and Mike behind, though.”

“That was going to happen, regardless. Once they decided to settle down and start a family, it was inevitable.”

He wasn’t wrong, but the thought of leaving them behind saddened me. It reminded me too much of how I’d left my friends and family behind when I’d returned to the dungeon and then eventually ascended.

Neither had necessarily been my choice, but that didn’t change the outcome.

Now, we had the option of slowing down and taking things slowly, but I wasn’t quite ready to do so just yet. It wasn’t that I didn’t want to start a family or anything; there were just other things that I wanted to experience first.

At a minimum, I felt like it would be better to reach the next evolution first. Or maybe… I just didn’t know how to take things slow.

I kept telling myself that I wanted to slow down and enjoy life, to start a family, and to actually live. But now that I was actually in a position to do that, I found myself putting it off.

Sure, reaching the next milestone would be good – arguably better than settling down now, in fact. But was it really necessary?

Or was I just afraid?

I glanced at the man next to me. I didn’t think that I was afraid of really committing. Stephen certainly was a wonderful person, and I was grateful to have him in my life. In fact, I honestly couldn’t imagine life without him.

“What? Do I have something on my face?” Stephen asked, automatically wiping his cheek.

I smiled softly and said, “No. I was just thinking about how glad I am that you’re in my life.”

“I feel the same way.” He wrapped an arm around me and pulled me closer. “Every day, I thank Dia that she put us in the same Ascender Dungeon.”

“The two of you be careful,” Veridia said as we approached the dungeon’s entrance. “This will be your first delve without your full party, right?”

“Technically, but we usually split into pairs when we were inside, so we’re already used to it,” Stephen answered.

The elder Porter seemed surprised at his response. “Truly? Well, regardless, be safe. We’ll see you in class on Primday.”

Primday was this realm’s Monday analog. Today was Finiday, this realm’s Friday. The class was spending the weekend in the dungeon applying the lessons we’d been learning, and though we couldn’t join the others due to our significantly lower levels, Stephen and I had been given our own assignments.

It sucked not being able to join them for group training, but we both understood. Besides, it wouldn’t be long before we were responding to real incursion breaches. We were set to shadow one of the primary teams out of Portal the week after next.

After watching the large group ahead of us enter together, Stephen and I made our way into the dungeon for the first time as a duo.

“It feels a bit wrong, doesn’t it?” I asked.

“I wouldn’t say wrong, but definitely different,” Stephen agreed. He tugged at the new armor on his chest. “The new equipment is going to take some getting used to as well.”

Though the equipment wasn’t meant to replace our normal delving gear, we’d both been told to wear the new equipment issued by the Porter Guild as part of our training for this particular delve.

The intent was to ensure everything was working properly and break it in a bit before our first deployment. Most likely, this would be the only delve we did with the new equipment. After that, we’d go back to our normal gear when in the dungeon.

The equipment we’d been given was silver-ranked. As bronze rankers, we’d normally be limited to bronze-ranked equipment, or a few steel-ranked pieces if particular care had been taken with their crafting to ensure the strain on our souls wouldn’t be too severe.

For the powers behind the Incursion Response Teams to be able to provide each of us a full set of silver-ranked equipment was actually quite remarkable, given the craftsmanship that had to be involved just to make it safe for us to wear.

“Well, we’ll be delving with Mike and Cora next weekend in Arkenton. I wonder what the dungeon there is like,” I mused.

“You read the information available.”

I sighed. “Yeah, but we both know a dungeon guide isn’t the same as experiencing something for yourself.”

“Speaking of, did you want to try finding this floor’s challenge since we’re supposed to be practicing our stealth?”

“Sure,” I said brightly. “It’s a bit sad we didn’t find it before Mike and Cora moved, but I’m absolutely down for running the challenge with you.”

“I still think it’s a bit strange that the dungeon had your native language in the last floor’s challenge,” Stephen said with a wrinkled brow.

“Me too. I mentioned it to Priest Zeth when I saw him at the clinic afterward, but he had no idea what to make of the information.”

“If it’s the same on this one, you should ask him again. Maybe he’s gotten some kind of divine revelation or something.”

That was a good point. Dia was pretty active in this realm, unlike my old realm’s deity.

“I’ll do that.”