His engine would be running on fumes right about now. With August breathing down their throats, Esmeralda would have no choice but to fuse with [Second Singularity] while it still held dangerous levels of corrupted spacetime. While still dangerous, the situation was much better now.

The ninth gateway crumbled. Instead of disappearing, August’s presence grew stronger.

‘He’s using the fluctuations of the colliding timelines to locate us,’ Esmeralda warned.

‘So what should we do?’

‘There’s nothing we can do but keep going. Sooner or later, you’ll pick the right one,’ Esmeralda said. ‘If he’s about to descend, I’ll just have to swallow the singularity ahead of schedule.’

Zac refused to see a repeat of the past, and he continued through the next gateway like a man possessed. Ten, eleven, twelve. Timelines kept collapsing under [Void Mountain]. Zac couldn’t be certain, but he felt the Bloodline Talent had gained an imperceptible weight to it. It seemed like erasing high-grade Daos didn’t drain as much Void Energy as before, and the speed had improved too.

Unfortunately, luck wasn’t on Zac’s side. August’s presence was stronger than ever by the time Zac had closed all twenty-two obviously corrupted timelines. Finding the ones lurking in the shadows would be difficult. The inner realm had descended into an all-out war after the rapid outbursts.

‘Something’s wrong! There’s a pattern!’

“Pattern?” Zac muttered, suddenly drawing on a set of runes in his mind. “Courtesy through rite, wisdom through imagery...”

Zac’s vision shifted, adding a new dimension. Suddenly, he saw thousands of bridges all around him. They were the connections made from condensed spacetime, each holding countless possibilities. And in some cases, madness. Torrents of ichor suddenly burst from Zac’s Abyssal eyes as deep cracks opened up. He’d witnessed something beyond his tolerance, but that brief glimpse was all he needed.

“It’s you!” Zac growled, rushing toward a timeline that Esmeralda hadn’t pointed out.

It didn’t have the same distinct aura as the world he’d briefly visited on Sevona’s island, yet he trusted what he’d seen. That seemingly ordinary timeline was a spider in the web, connecting to more than a third of the realm’s gateways through almost invisible bonds. Zac would never have noticed if the chaos hadn’t reached a crescendo. If he could close it, the whole network would collapse.

The waters rippled as if it knew it had been exposed, and it suddenly shot out hundreds of water jets. Zac managed to destroy a few, but he wasn’t the target. The jets crashed into its bonded timelines to create a secondary connection. And then, the spider began devouring its subordinate dimension.

‘Not good!’ Zac thought, but it was too late to stop.

The small patch of ocean ballooned to ten times its original size. Not only that, it gained an oily layer of corruption. That was to be expected. More disappointing was that the runes of Imperial Faith had been bolstered by the transformation rather than breaking down on their own. Zac only managed to destroy three runes before his mind screamed of danger.

Zac pulled back, narrowly dodging a spear that emerged from the water. He frowned, seeing it bulging in dozens of spots. Then, he saw the unmistakable contours of a face. They were breaking through. He only had time to realize the danger before the first man appeared. The fact that he was only Late D-grade wasn’t much of a comfort since he was just the first of many.

One by one, they forced their way through the shimmering wall to appear before him. Zac’s expression grew overcast as he saw multiple familiar faces. Some were figures he’d seen during the worship ceremony; others were Sealbearers he’d read about in reports. All of them reeked of corruption, to the point that they sported tumorous growths or horrid mutations.

Chains rattled as [Death’s Duality] appeared in Zac’s hand. Since these foul creatures refused to go down without a fight, he’d just have to cut them down along with the portal they crawled out of.
