A pulse of gold came out from the wand-using orc. It crashed against Shiv's temporal shell and inflicted chipping damage. It wasn't enough. The wand-using orc himself remained frozen. Shiv reached out and picked the wyvern-shielded orc off his feet, lifting the orc over his head. Despite the gray-skinned brute's size, he weighed almost nothing to Shiv, especially after Shiv's battles with the Court Leviathan, the Recollector, and the Jealousy. With a casual act of brutality, Shiv brought the orc's back down upon his knee, and a satisfying crack sounded through the world. Then Shiv repeated the act again three more times, until he was sure that the orc was utterly crippled. And because he felt like being a prick to the orc, he finally placed the orc back down the same way he'd been standing and let time resume.

The orc suddenly let out a cry as he bit the tip of his tongue off, and blood sprayed across Shiv's chest. He just sneered at the orc as the beast crashed down against the ground. Rather than reacting in violence, the other orcs all looked at each other and shared a collective snort.

The wand-using orc simply shook his head as well. "Boy's gotta learn at some point, right?"

"Indeed," Whisper said. He gestured to the orc Shiv had just broken. "This one here is Wall. That's what the humans called him during his last campaign in Forbidden Africa."

"What?" Can Hu said, marching over to join the conversation. "He was there? Why?”

“New Albion,” Wall wheezed. He looked at Shiv and laughed. "You got me good, human. You really got me pretty good. Right vicious, you were. The only proper way to be.”

Shiv just shook his head as the paralyzed orc looked upon him with pride and appreciation. What a weird fucking species, Shiv thought to himself.

"We are everywhere," Whisper said, talking to Can Hu, "and we are recruited by everyone who wants a Pathbearer of unique expertise that does not balk at suicidal missions. Should it be that surprising that New Albion inquires after our services?"

"Not really," Shiv replied, "but it does make me more than a little paranoid about you. If you know anything about me, you know that New Albion is near the bottom of my shit list, next to the First Blood, Vicar Sullain, the Outsiders, Compact…”

"You enjoy defecating on a great many people, don't you, Deathless?" Whisper said.

"Wouldn't say enjoy," Shiv replied. "It's just gotta be done."

"No," Whisper replied, shaking his head. "Don't lie to me. It is not good to lie. Not to me or yourself. You enjoy it. You enjoy killing. It's in your blood. It's of your nature."

Shiv leaned in, rather unimpressed by the psychoanalysis. "You want to know what else is my nature?"

Whisper grinned. "Do tell."

"Telling you to shut the fuck up," Shiv growled. "If we're going to work together, if you don't want to end up like him," Shiv pointed down at the broken Wall, "then you're going to do what I say. You're going to follow orders."

"If that is what makes sense to me at any given point," Whisper replied.

"Really? You're going to just go with insubordination immediately?"

"We are not a military outfit," Whisper said. "Me, Wall," and then he started pointing to the other orcs, starting with the one wearing the automata, "Mortar," the Chronomancer, "Tequila," and finally, the suit-wearing orc, "and Band, have all joined your cause willingly as an advance from the Challenger."

"An advance," Shiv repeated, unable to keep the frustration out of his voice.

"Yes, indeed. We encountered 812 after his return. Some of your people call him Stone, if you didn't know."

"And you don't call each other anything? Just numbers? What about if you die the same number of times? Do you two play scissors, paper, asshole to see who gets to keep the number?”

"We have a general measure of another," the orc said. "We do not need to know each other's names. We just need to understand what the other does, and what we can do to kill him. You need names, you cling to this notion of society, and so we will accommodate you, for now."
