“Pei. Can’t learn anything useful from my dog-brained husband but you’ve learned how to lie like him well enough.”

Lord Husband shook his head in denial. “I’d never lie to you. I’m not brave enough for that.”

Despite her retort, Mother looked pleased with his response, patting his cheeks with a motherly smile. “Tch, seeing you lie without blinking, perhaps I’ve been too harsh in judging that Fung boy. You’re a born skirt chaser is what you are.”

“It’s both a curse and a blessing. Thank you for arranging all of this. It’s beautiful.”

“Thank my new Disciple, Rustram, he did all the work. Don’t look so shocked, I may be feeble bodied but my mind is still sharp. And don’t think for one second you can keep bullying him either, I’ll not stand for it. You’re nowhere near strong enough to keep me from taking a cane to your behind.” Waving him off, she added, “You’ve ignored your concubine long enough. I won’t tell you to treat her well because you’ll do so regardless, but don’t be so mule-headed and contrary. She’s no childhood friend or rival-turned-lover, but get to know her first, then get to making grandchildren for me to spoil.”

“I’ll do my best Mom.” After guiding Mother to her seat, Lord Husband returned to Luo-Luo’s side with a smile, though her heart broke to see that this one was just tired. “Well, shall we?” Taking her hand, he turned to the audience and spoke over their childish giggling. “Honoured guests, it is my pleasure and privilege to present my concubine, Imperial Servant Zheng Luo.” The audience clapped and Luo-Luo curtsied in thanks, but it was all more subdued than she’d have liked. She wasn’t sure if it was because her Lord Husband had many enemies and detractors, or because his voice was so deadpan it drained the energy from everyone listening.

Her Lord Husband might be many things, but charismatic, he was not.

Nor were he possessed of good memory, it would seem. Having apparently forgotten everything else he was supposed to say, he looked up at Luo-Luo and shrugged before bringing her to their seats, placing Luo-Luo next to Mother while Lord Husband and Alsantset on the other side. Straining to hold her smile in place, she leaned against his arm and said, “Lord Husband is wise to allow his guests to speak their mind before announcing his new status as an Imperial Consort. Clever to hide the token too, lest those more observant notice and hold their tongue.”

“Ah right. Sorry. I knew I was forgetting something but couldn’t remember what.” Patting her hand, he gently separated from her and sighed, choosing to sit and repeatedly clear his throat instead of continue their conversation while the servants brought food to their table. Yet another flaw was his poor acting skills, his smile slipping, shoulders slumping, and back slouching the moment he thought he was out of the public eye, but as the host, he never would be. A far cry from his proud, noble persona, but he looked so tired Luo-Luo didn’t have the heart to condemn him. The battles this morning must have taxed him greatly, but as the newly crowned number one talent in the Empire, he needed to pay heed to his public image. No one would accept a tired, lethargic hero and presenting himself as such would only earn him scorn.

Throughout the meal, Luo-Luo tried her best to keep him looking sharp, but her efforts were wasted. Each time he’d straighten up and restore his proud, noble demeanour, but minutes later he’d slump back into his seat with half-lidded eyes. Perhaps noticing his ordeal, Lord Husband’s friends arrived to toast to his good fortune and give him good reason to look tired, but it only made things worse as the first cup of wine had him coughing up a storm. This gave Lord Husband’s detractors more fuel with which to mock him, the fresh-faced young talent who couldn’t hold his drink, so in an attempt to regain face, Rain downed a second drink and almost immediately coughed it back up. Exiting the stage to go ‘clean himself off’, Lord Husband left his friends and other guests standing at the table, and only young magistrate Fung's disarming smile and artful handling kept the situation from spiralling out of control.

Mother assured her everything would be all right, that Rain probably inhaled his wine a little too quickly and never could hold his drink, but by the time Lord Husband returned, the first course had been cleared away and Luo-Luo could barely remember tasting her food. Hoping to draw attention away from him and give him more time to recover, she asked the servants to bring her zither on stage. Standing in front of the guests, Luo-Luo curtsied once more as the crowd fell silent, politely waiting to hear her performance. Though she ached to say something on behalf of her Lord Husband, it would be unbecoming of a concubine to address so many noble personages, so she sat down to play her tune and prayed it would be enough.

Closing her eyes, she steadied her breathing and cleared her mind. After long seconds of silence, she sat up and smiled, ready to begin. Plucking a string, she played a single opening note and left it to hang in the air, a powerful, pure sound to cleanse one’s soul and ease one’s heart.

Or it would have were it not interrupted by a series of hacking coughs emanating from her Lord Husband’s throat.

Why must he ruin everything?

The crowd gasped and Luo-Luo turned to watch in horror as her Lord Husband’s face went from deep red to dark purple, his body doubled over with the force of his coughs. Pounding the table with his fist, he fell to his knees and gasped, a long, wheezing, tortured sound which squeezed her heart until it ached. The wheezing ended as he toppled over, only for Alsantset to catch him and gently lower him to the floor. Father took control and forced everyone back, making room for the Medical Saint to approach.

Utter silence washed over the courtyard as the Medical Saint looked over his student, while Lin-Lin and Mila held one another tight, worry etched across both their faces for Lord Husband had yet to make another sound. It wasn’t long before the Medical Saint looked up and shared a silent exchange with Father, whose stony demeanour cracked with fury. Drawing his sword, Father brandished it and bellowed, “Seal the exits, gather the servants, and bring me the Magistrate! No one leaves until we find the bastard who poisoned. My. Son!”

Chapter Meme
