Checking the mirror for the umpteenth time, Luo-Luo straightened her hair ornaments and smoothed out her dress, though neither were out of place to begin with. Fanning herself to keep from perspiring, she took a long, calming breath, and then another, wondering why her body felt so hot even though her breath formed misty white clouds which were carried away by a smooth, steady breeze. Absurd is what it was, but she lacked the time and learning to delve into the mysteries of the human body with her entrance into high society mere minutes away. She’d spent six long years dreaming of this moment and yet somehow she was still caught unprepared, mentally scrambling as she went over the preparations to double check if she’d overlooked anything of importance or made any obvious gaffes.

Oh, if only she hadn’t insisted on having this banquet as quickly as possible, she could have taken her time to ensure everyone knew their part and nothing would go wrong. Too late for regrets now, her Lord Husband was awaiting her presence and to leave him and his guests waiting would make for a horrible first impression, but such matters were out of her hands. As the leading heroine of tonight’s banquet, she should be last to take the stage, but her sister-wives and their families had yet to arrive. Oh Mother above, why did her Lord Husband seat their guests before everyone was ready? This was a disaster, their guests were people of influence and standing, unaccustomed to being asked to wait. If this delay were to upset them, then all would be lost, her Lord Husband shunned by his peers and she would be blamed. Then in his rage, he would cast her aside and leave her to fend for herself, a poor, defenseless girl with -

“Luo-Luo, help please.”

Leaving her father and guards behind, Lin-Lin ran down the hallway with the twin bears ambling in her wake. In a flurry of silk and cotton, Lin-Lin skidded to a halt and flashed her charming smile, presenting Luo-Luo with a box of silver hairpins and a jewelled mesh with sapphire-encrusted bells, all of which were supposed to be worn in her hair. Her braided hair, no less, the same frayed braids she’d worn all day, not even brushed or oiled. Knowing time was of the essence, Luo-Luo inwardly cringed and answered, “Luo-Luo is happy to help.” Extensive brushing or elaborate styling was out of the question, but she’d done more with less. “Lin-Lin would look fetching with her hair in a low, knotted bun, or perhaps she prefers a stick shell?”

Recoiling from Luo-Luo’s hands, Lin-Lin grabbed her braids and shook her head in vehement denial. “No thank you, just put the pins and net on please, ya? Hubby loves Lin-Lin’s braids.”

“Really?” The exclamation slipped out before she could stop it, so surprised by her Lord Husband’s tastes. Then again, it made sense, her Lord Husband was still a young man of nineteen, his memories of childhood still fresh in his mind. Perhaps he’d be more receptive if Luo-Luo braided her hair too...

“Yup.” Certain her braids would be left untouched, Lin-Lin turned around to let Luo-Luo do her work, doing her best to cover up the frayed braids while slipping the unneeded hairpins in around the sweet girl’s bunny ears. “Hubby used to come over every afternoon and cook lunch for all three of us, then afterwards he’d brush and braid my hair. When he was done, he’d give them a light tug, smile, and tell me I was too cute. Hubby’s the best, ya?”

How enviable to be so cherished and loved...

“Oh, how the years fly by...” Lin-Lin’s father was a dramatic sort, not entirely what Luo-Luo expected of a Medical Saint, dabbing his eyes with a handkerchief while shaking his head. “It seems like yesterday when I carried you into our home for the first time, so tiny and precious you fit in the crook of my arm, and now my precious Lin-Lin is a woman grown. Too fast, too fast.”

“It’s okay daddy, Lin-Lin will always be here for you.”

Smiling at the touching daughter/father exchange, Luo-Luo added a few final touches to Lin-Lin’s hair and brought her to the mirror for a look. Glancing over the younger girl’s outfit with a critical eye, Luo-Luo’s eyes widened in alarm as an errant thought crossed her mind. Made from a vibrant blue silk and lined with silky, white fur, Lin-Lin’s dress was beautifully embroidered and stunning to look at, but cut in an almost archaic fashion. A loosely draped, high-necked, wide-sleeved blouse over two layered skirts, one short and fringed, the other long and flowing, all held in place with a broad, moon-patterned sash, this type of dress hadn’t been seen in the homeland for at least two-hundred years.

Though outdated, this wasn’t an issue which concerned Luo-Luo, for like the girl herself, Lin-Lin’s dress had a certain elegance and charm, bringing to mind a loose and refined independence which Luo-Luo envied. No, what concerned her was how modest the dress was, covering sweet Lin-Lin from chin to floor without exposing so much as a toe or finger. She even had her lovely white scarf draped over her shoulders, as if the high-necked blouse and modest shirt beneath it were not enough to protect her virtue.

In contrast, Luo-Luo’s skin-tight, red and gold silk dress bore a low neckline, left her shoulders and arms bare, and ended above her knees. She’d spotted it in the third shop they’d visited and fallen in love with the embroidery, but she’d forgotten to account for her one important thing: her Lord Husband’s people were prudes. Why didn’t Mother say anything? She’d taken one look at Luo-Luo’s dress and set to haggling over the price. Though brusque of temper and harsh of tongue, Mother’s actions spoke of a woman with a kind, caring nature, always reassuring Luo-Luo not to worry about the price and that she was a part of the family.

Luo-Luo was grateful of Mother’s easy acceptance, but had it all been a ruse? Did Mother give her just enough rope to hang herself, expecting Luo-Luo to embarrass herself strutting about in a scanty dress like some common harlot? Luo-Luo’s worries redoubled as her sister-in-law arrived wearing yet another modest, though more contemporary, dark purple dress. The high-necked, button-up ensemble hugged the contours of her athletic figure and left little to the imagination, but also covered her from neck to ankle. With her long brown hair in a half-up twisted crown, unadorned save for the white tufts of fur protruding around her expressive tiger ears, Alsantset was a strikingly beautiful woman who could never be mistaken for helpless, her smoky eyes and serious demeanour only further enhancing her ferocious, untamed look. That same look struck fear into Luo-Luo’s heart as Alsantset examined her from head to toe, sneering in visible disapproval at Luo-Luo’s dress.

Resisting the urge to cover herself up, Luo-Luo straightened up and weathered her sister-in-law’s scrutiny with feigned courage, silently taking a stand against this fearsome women. So what if she liked wearing provocative dresses? She wasn’t like Alsantset, a warrior first and woman second. Luo-Luo relied solely on her husband for status and cared for no opinion but his. Besides, she wasn’t ashamed of her body and had worked hard to keep herself beautiful. Oils to keep her hair silky and smooth, lotions and pumice stones to keep her skin soft and callous-free, stretches and exercises to keep in shape, Luo-Luo’s days and nights were filled with endless busywork to keep herself looking youthful and alluring.

After a long, silent standoff, Alsantset’s stony glare broke into a fearsome smile. “Good,” she said, patting Luo-Luo’s shoulders a little too hard. “Above all else, you must always have courage. The women of the Bekhai are a stalwart and hardy bunch, not delicate mice to be coddled and sheltered. Remember this.”

Before Luo-Luo could compose a response, Alsantset nodded and strode off, exiting out the double doors, through the sheer, silk curtains and directly onto the stage, raised and extended so Mother’s wheeled chair could go directly from the hall to her table without traversing through any stairs. No, this wasn’t the time to marvel over their forethought, why did sister-in-law take the stage before everyone else had arrived?

“Nothing to worry about girl,” Mother said, still massaging Jimjam’s cheeks. “They’ll be here soon enough. Can’t keep our guests waiting too long, now can we?”

“Yes Mother.” Fidgeting with her earrings, Luo-Luo checked if they were both still intact, worried a chain might have snapped or an amethyst lost on the way over. Where was Mila and her family?

Instead of delaying for more time, Lin-Lin grabbed her father’s hand and skipped onto stage, rushing over to her hubby for a loving, family embrace. The twin bears followed in her wake, looking ever so adorable with their silk neck scarves. Clumsily ambling about in a circuitous fashion, they eagerly explored their new surroundings to the delight of the crowd, but thankfully, neither animal ruined anything, drawn off to the side by some unseen decoy. With no one left to go on stage, long, torturous seconds passed as Luo-Luo stared down the empty hallway, releasing a breath she didn’t know she’d been holding when Mila, Li-Li, and their parents turned the corner, followed by the other two wildcats wearing their delightful little outfits. Making their way over step by step, they moved as if they had all the time in the world and it took every ounce of discipline Luo-Luo had not to scream at them to hurry.

Deep, calming breaths. No need to panic. They know what they’re doing.

Truth be told, their pace was far from slow, but it still felt like an eternity before they stepped past Luo-Luo and out onto the stage. Only after they strode through the silk curtain did Luo-Luo have time to appreciate their outfits. While she had yet to officially meet them, father-in-law Husolt and mother-in-law Akanai seemed like a loving couple as they walked hand in hand across the stage. Father-in-law was a strapping, barrel chested man with a wild beard and thick eyebrows, dressed rather carelessly in a loose, military style shirt which showed off his bushy chest hair. On the other hand, mother-in-law’s elegant outfit validated Luo-Luo’s own, wearing an adventurous skirt which was not only shorter than Luo-Luo’s, but also bore a scandalous opening down one side. It gave her more freedom of movement, but also allowed the audience brief glimpses at her tantalizing thigh as she strode across stage. Her low-cut blouse offered an alluring view of her impressive, milky-white bosom and bared shoulders, but the massive, double bladed pole-arm resting on one of said shoulders was enough to give most onlookers pause, not to mention the wrist-thick staff carried by her robust and untamed husband.

As for Mila and Li-Li, the two were an adorable pairing, walking arm in arm behind their parents. With her black silk trousers, glimmering breastplate, and her hair pulled back and up into a high ponytail, Li-Li looked every bit the part of a young noble warrior, prim and proper as could be. The only other changes to her ensemble were a pair of glittering earrings and a platinum tiara, both embedded with emeralds which complimented her green eyes beautifully. Mila’s outfit was equally as racy as her mother’s, though she wore a shawl over her shoulders to convey modesty without changing a thing. A ruby studded bangle sat on her wrist and an egg-sized ruby dangled from her necklace, while teardrop rubies hung from her earlobes and shimmered in her tiara, a twin to Li-Li’s own which was made visible now that Mila’s hair was properly brushed and arranged. Luo-Luo envied the soft curls and lively colour of Mila’s beautiful red hair, not to mention her striking freckles which served to enhance her beauty. So ravishing and exotic, add in her toned body and warrior’s training and Luo-Luo worried she couldn’t measure up in comparison.

Plus, Mila and Rain were the same height too...

“Come girl, it’s our turn now.” Brushing Jimjam’s head off of her lap, Sarnai picked away at the errant strands of fur left behind on her modest purple dress. “Let’s not leave them waiting any longer, it’s time to make your entrance and awe them with your beauty.”

Blinking in surprise, Luo-Luo hesitated to correct Mother, but it needed to be said. “Mother... custom demands the concubine be delivered by her family. Mother should head out first, Luo-Luo will follow soon after.”

“Bah, custom. You have no family to present you, no? I’ll not have my daughter-in-law walk on stage alone. Unless that’s what you’d prefer,” Mother added with a smile. “I’m sure every eye will be on you regardless, which suits me fine.”

Moved by Mother’s warm affection, Luo-Luo nodded and took the handles to Mother’s wheeled chair. Together, they passed through the silk curtain and onto the stage, where Luo-Luo’s Lord Husband waited to greet them. Standing tall in his black and gold clothes, he looked so regal and imposing, a youthful face tempered by maturity and adversity. So young and so talented, her Lord Husband was clearly a dragon among men, one destined for greatness whether it be through Martial might or intellectual acumen.

As the Crier announced their arrival, the audience broke into hushed whispers and muted chuckles, amused by the large difference in height between Luo-Luo and her Lord Husband, obvious despite his efforts to minimize it by wearing boots. She worried this would happen and put him in a foul mood, but he ignored the crowd and fell to his knees to greet Mother and pet Jimjam. “I like what you’ve done with your hair Mom,” he said in a hoarse voice, punctuating his statement with a tired, but genuine smile. “It makes you look more beautiful than usual.”

“Pei. Can’t learn anything useful from my dog-brained husband but you’ve learned how to lie like him well enough.”

Lord Husband shook his head in denial. “I’d never lie to you. I’m not brave enough for that.”

Despite her retort, Mother looked pleased with his response, patting his cheeks with a motherly smile. “Tch, seeing you lie without blinking, perhaps I’ve been too harsh in judging that Fung boy. You’re a born skirt chaser is what you are.”

“It’s both a curse and a blessing. Thank you for arranging all of this. It’s beautiful.”

“Thank my new Disciple, Rustram, he did all the work. Don’t look so shocked, I may be feeble bodied but my mind is still sharp. And don’t think for one second you can keep bullying him either, I’ll not stand for it. You’re nowhere near strong enough to keep me from taking a cane to your behind.” Waving him off, she added, “You’ve ignored your concubine long enough. I won’t tell you to treat her well because you’ll do so regardless, but don’t be so mule-headed and contrary. She’s no childhood friend or rival-turned-lover, but get to know her first, then get to making grandchildren for me to spoil.”

“I’ll do my best Mom.” After guiding Mother to her seat, Lord Husband returned to Luo-Luo’s side with a smile, though her heart broke to see that this one was just tired. “Well, shall we?” Taking her hand, he turned to the audience and spoke over their childish giggling. “Honoured guests, it is my pleasure and privilege to present my concubine, Imperial Servant Zheng Luo.” The audience clapped and Luo-Luo curtsied in thanks, but it was all more subdued than she’d have liked. She wasn’t sure if it was because her Lord Husband had many enemies and detractors, or because his voice was so deadpan it drained the energy from everyone listening.

Her Lord Husband might be many things, but charismatic, he was not.

Nor were he possessed of good memory, it would seem. Having apparently forgotten everything else he was supposed to say, he looked up at Luo-Luo and shrugged before bringing her to their seats, placing Luo-Luo next to Mother while Lord Husband and Alsantset on the other side. Straining to hold her smile in place, she leaned against his arm and said, “Lord Husband is wise to allow his guests to speak their mind before announcing his new status as an Imperial Consort. Clever to hide the token too, lest those more observant notice and hold their tongue.”

“Ah right. Sorry. I knew I was forgetting something but couldn’t remember what.” Patting her hand, he gently separated from her and sighed, choosing to sit and repeatedly clear his throat instead of continue their conversation while the servants brought food to their table. Yet another flaw was his poor acting skills, his smile slipping, shoulders slumping, and back slouching the moment he thought he was out of the public eye, but as the host, he never would be. A far cry from his proud, noble persona, but he looked so tired Luo-Luo didn’t have the heart to condemn him. The battles this morning must have taxed him greatly, but as the newly crowned number one talent in the Empire, he needed to pay heed to his public image. No one would accept a tired, lethargic hero and presenting himself as such would only earn him scorn.

Throughout the meal, Luo-Luo tried her best to keep him looking sharp, but her efforts were wasted. Each time he’d straighten up and restore his proud, noble demeanour, but minutes later he’d slump back into his seat with half-lidded eyes. Perhaps noticing his ordeal, Lord Husband’s friends arrived to toast to his good fortune and give him good reason to look tired, but it only made things worse as the first cup of wine had him coughing up a storm. This gave Lord Husband’s detractors more fuel with which to mock him, the fresh-faced young talent who couldn’t hold his drink, so in an attempt to regain face, Rain downed a second drink and almost immediately coughed it back up. Exiting the stage to go ‘clean himself off’, Lord Husband left his friends and other guests standing at the table, and only young magistrate Fung's disarming smile and artful handling kept the situation from spiralling out of control.

Mother assured her everything would be all right, that Rain probably inhaled his wine a little too quickly and never could hold his drink, but by the time Lord Husband returned, the first course had been cleared away and Luo-Luo could barely remember tasting her food. Hoping to draw attention away from him and give him more time to recover, she asked the servants to bring her zither on stage. Standing in front of the guests, Luo-Luo curtsied once more as the crowd fell silent, politely waiting to hear her performance. Though she ached to say something on behalf of her Lord Husband, it would be unbecoming of a concubine to address so many noble personages, so she sat down to play her tune and prayed it would be enough.

Closing her eyes, she steadied her breathing and cleared her mind. After long seconds of silence, she sat up and smiled, ready to begin. Plucking a string, she played a single opening note and left it to hang in the air, a powerful, pure sound to cleanse one’s soul and ease one’s heart.

Or it would have were it not interrupted by a series of hacking coughs emanating from her Lord Husband’s throat.

Why must he ruin everything?

The crowd gasped and Luo-Luo turned to watch in horror as her Lord Husband’s face went from deep red to dark purple, his body doubled over with the force of his coughs. Pounding the table with his fist, he fell to his knees and gasped, a long, wheezing, tortured sound which squeezed her heart until it ached. The wheezing ended as he toppled over, only for Alsantset to catch him and gently lower him to the floor. Father took control and forced everyone back, making room for the Medical Saint to approach.

Utter silence washed over the courtyard as the Medical Saint looked over his student, while Lin-Lin and Mila held one another tight, worry etched across both their faces for Lord Husband had yet to make another sound. It wasn’t long before the Medical Saint looked up and shared a silent exchange with Father, whose stony demeanour cracked with fury. Drawing his sword, Father brandished it and bellowed, “Seal the exits, gather the servants, and bring me the Magistrate! No one leaves until we find the bastard who poisoned. My. Son!”

Chapter Meme
