A lot of things had come out during the interrogations, from the capabilities of the black staff woman, to names and places and people that were of more interest to the Inquisition, than to Erick. Erick hadn’t said a damned word the whole time, and no one had asked him anything more than cursory questions. But now that Wess had actually asked a direct question, and Erick remained silent, that silence spoke volumes loud enough for Wess to put many different puzzle pieces together, especially when all of the detainees had called their captain ‘Shadowclaw’. ‘Shadowclaw’ was a stupid name, Erick almost said. Her name was Fyuri, and she was a menace.

Erick decided to say, “I’m still not sure what happened there. I was shooting to kill, and then I flinched.”

“You didn’t miss at all when the suspects fled out of their base.” Wess lightly stared. “You struck and killed each person, instantly and without missing once.”

“Yup.”

“… So you know that woman. This ‘Shadowclaw’.” Wess didn’t need an answer to that. He continued, “Will you be assisting us with her capture?”

“I’ll be moving on my own now, Wess, and I will be moving to capture her. I need to make a few new things to deal with her, and I need to talk to others. I will keep you informed.”

“Did she have a lightning ring around her neck?”

“No,” Erick said, thankful that he could answer that one, without lying.

“Who is she?”

Perhaps Erick was too angry as he said, “You already know who she is. You’ve known this whole time, but you’re the one who kept her name away from me. You’re the one who fiddled with the reports that the Throne handed over to House Benevolence. I’m not even that mad.” Erick said, “You did that because you thought I’d be compromised. But the only reason I missed, Wess, was because I wasn’t aware who, exactly, we were hunting. I was surprised. I will not be surprised again.”

“We weren’t exactly sure of anything. And we don’t actually know who she is, Ashes.”

“… Well maybe you’re not lying, but only because you weren’t told either.”

“So help me to know who she is,” Wess said, trying to keep his demeanor on an even keel.

“Her name is known to me as one thing, of which I will not be releasing out into the world, since it is her True Name; the one she was given when she was born on Riam, oh so long ago. Maybe that’s why her name wasn’t in the files; because to know it is to spread a memetic hazard and to awaken even more of those evils.” Erick said, “Shadowclaw is a fine thing to call her.”

Wess scowled lightly, trying not to show too much emotion.

Erick said, “I’ll ask Erick to [Cascade Imaging] for the woman out in the rest of the world, if you would allow him to use that spell on Greensoil. He might be able to use that spell in here, in this dungeon. But I’m not sure about that.”

“… I’ll move that question up the line. I’ll have an answer for you by tomorrow. Will you be staying here in the dungeon?”

“I’m going to see one person, and when you’re watching me from the control room, you’re going to give me an hour before you confront them.”

“… We’ll give you the length of one conversation, in one location.”

Erick stood, saying, “Good enough.”

And then he left.

- - - -

Erick rested on a couch, one arm on the armrest, the other on the back. His staff floated to the side, looking like a spike of runed and subtly glowing gold. Or maybe the reflection was just of a golden wheat field on a particularly bright day. Hard to say. Since that ‘Eradicate’, it seemed even more gold than it had any right to be—

The door opened, and a woman stepped inside the room. She was unarmed, and unarmored. Not a single meta-artifact held to her body. She wore a shapely, if comfortable blue dress atop a white tunic with full sleeves, while her boots were more made for kicking around in the mud. They were clothes that one might expect to be arrested in, to allow oneself to be comfortable for what was to come. Her skin was pale, while her hair and eyes were so dark brown, they looked almost black. So that was different. Her eyes had been golden last time, and now they were brown. Her lips were the same shade of blood red, though.

The seriousness of her face was the same as Ashes had seen many, many times before.

Rebecca closed the door behind her, asking, “Do we have time to talk?”

“Enough, and then the Inquisitors will be coming here.”

Rebecca sat down on the other couch, across from him. “I’m not her.”

“No. You’re not.” Erick said, “And I’m not Ashes.”

Rebecca said, “I heard she escaped. We already have people looking for her. It will be difficult for me to coordinate that search, now that I’m to be detained.”

“You know your True Name already, don’t you.”

“I do. I learned it last time the nobility of Greensoil sought to use an awakened NPC copy of myself in order to achieve up there what I have achieved down here…” Rebecca asked, “This information is Sealed by the Viridian Throne, you know, but it’s coming out again… I’m not even sure if the Inquisitors truly know what they’re going after. I assume she’s already escaped the dungeon completely. Gone off to other places… I know not where. But her lackeys remain. We’ll capture them. Turn them over to the Throne, as we did last time… Along with the other Fyuri who also went bad.”

“Why do you think you didn’t ‘go bad’?”

It was a loaded question.

Rebecca recognized that.

She began, “A shadowcat escaped the first floor several years ago, back when the Iron Bandits were less than they were today. That shadowcat saw the full breadth of the horrors of Riam, and how those horrors had been turned into amusement and training by the people of this world.” Rebecca said, “I saw the utter death of Riam, and how Atunir won. And I thought myself one of the good people. I lived here in Utopia for a while, growing accustomed to my human body and accustomed to the Iron Bandits. I spent half a decade as ‘Rebecca’ and all of that time making the Iron Bandits into a true force. And then 15 months ago, Tuilo Manfield, the scion of House Manfield, discovered who I was patterned after. He grabbed that shadowcat off the first floor and dragged them through to Utopia, and then he inflicted upon her their True Name, through the use of a Name Finder artifact that they made… Or found. We’re not sure.

“That Fyuri went on to become a force for the Manfields, the Chesterfields, the Waterroads, the Adamsmiths, and the Farfields. It was a coalition of powers. And then, for completely understandable reasons since Fyuri is a witch and a horror, Fyuri tried to carve out her own place of power in Greendale by stealing faces and otherwise. This was too much. The nobles who had raised her up turned her in.

“And I helped to eradicate all of her tendrils of power she had wormed into the land down here, while those nobles did the same to her powers up there. Fyuri made a lot of mistakes, so it was easy enough to find out what she had done wrong, and especially because she had 5 noble families all turn on her.

“But Tuilo Manfield and his plans for domination of some sort remained. I was never made aware of those full plans, but the Throne knows.” Rebecca said, “Tuilo Manfield captured another shadowcat, and this time, I can only assume that she instantly realized what those five families had done to her previous incarnation. So she played along until she could kill them all, which is exactly what she did.

“I have already told all of these suspicions to the Viridian Throne. That you are here, now, asking me these questions, shows that these suspicions of mine have proven true.”

Rebecca went silent.

Ashes asked, “When you first saw me, did you know me?”

“In the way one recognizes a dream walking around in front of them.”

“When did you learn of your own True Name?”

“In the dismantling of the first Fyuri’s power.”

“Who did you kill when you Awakened?”

“… A baker who maligned me with an improperly frosted cake. A schoolgirl who got mud on my shoes. A young woman who had eyes on Tom.” Rebecca said, “Two NPCs who didn’t matter. The woman respawned on the entrance floor. These days I kill anyone who dislikes my rule, but they always end up on the entrance floor. I’m not actually killing people… Not really.”

“Do you want that impetus removed? I can get the Wizard to [Reincarnation] you.”

“That’s one solution to your fears of me, but I have mastered myself in the years before I knew my name as Fyuri. I don’t need, nor want, someone else to decide my disposition. Besides, if I did take that option then I couldn’t be in power down here, for I am a hidden Inquisitor of the Viridian Throne. I assume that position will be revoked from me after this recent proof that a Fyuri was behind all these demonic murders.” Fyuri said, “It was good to meet you again, though, Ashes. I never thought that would ever happen.”

Ashes just stared, trying to understand his own emotions in that moment.

Fyuri said, “I wasn’t aware that you went on to become the Summoner until recently, but I knew you had that sort of power in you, so it’s not that surprising in retrospect, here, ten thousand lifetimes removed from that ancient past.” She chuckled; a forlorn sound. “I suppose you ‘summon’ a Wizard these days instead of a god. Fitting, considering the lesser nature of our current reality.”

Ashes did his damnedest to ignore that attempt at connecting. He ignored his own impetus to just murder Fyuri and rip apart her soul so she couldn’t revive at all.

He moved on, “The other Fyuri got her black staff from a Summoner. She saw me come in here, and she went and got one from the Summoner. And then she did whatever she wanted with it. Maybe she even grabbed ‘The Summoner’ out of floor four, or five.”

“Possible, but unlikely. The Summoner doesn’t move and will kill anyone who tries to take him off his floor. But then again, she knew your name, and therefore she knew the Summoner’s True Name.” Fyuri said, “I still feel some loving impetus with you right now, but I know for a fact that if roles were reversed, and I had you in my complete power, I would kill you or torture you or do any number of other, horrible things, to make you mine in truth. Maybe we could even have kids this time. Riam doesn’t exist anymore, after all. No more would my family keep you down. No more family telling me I can’t have you exactly how I want you. No more High Councils holding us back. You always wanted to be a stay-at-home dad, didn’t you? I would have made that happen.”

“I did want that, in some sort of way,” Ashes said. “But you would destroy the world to make it again in your desired shape. And I wanted that threat to end more than I wanted a life with you.”

Fyuri’s breath hitched.

An affectation? Or truth? Impossible to know which, or why.

Fyuri collected herself.

“And that is why I am down here, in the Glittering Depths, limiting myself.” Fyuri said, “I believe in [Reincarnation]. I have hope in Xoat Reborn, to be able to change me into something better. But… I’ll have to take a delay on that option right now.” Fyuri breathed in, her gold eyes transforming back to black. Erick had no idea when they had become gold, but now they were black again. Rebecca said, “I do hope that the option for [Reincarnation] will remain open, if the Viridian Throne releases me back to this land.”

“The option will not ‘remain’. It will be enforced.”

Rebecca softly smiled. “That works, too. When you tell Xoat Reborn of all of this, I ask you to bring up the option of him creating a Name Finder, and [Reincarnation]ing every other Riamite, as well. They deserve second chances, for most of them were just soldiers, doing jobs, caught up in Riam’s propaganda machines, and they deserve to know their full histories before they’re changed into new people.”

Erick nodded once.

And then Erick left, opening the door to find a crowd of Inquisitors waiting in the hall. Erick moved out, and those men and women in green armor and suits moved in, to easily capture Rebecca, for she did not resist at all. Erick didn’t watch beyond that. He was already half gone out of the building, but he didn’t manage to fully escape before another confrontation appeared.

For Wess was waiting at the entrance to the Iron Bandits company house. The green-armored Inquisitor said, “It appears I was not allowed to be aware of a great many things.”

“Me either.” Erick asked, “Have you found Shadowclaw?”

“Not yet. But we have a great deal more information now. The Viridian Throne thanks House Benevolence for their assistance. The Wizard is allowed to Image for whoever he wishes to image for, for the next week. Please inform us of any hits on the Scan, either in here, or out there on Greensoil.”

Erick nodded. “Rebecca is getting [Reincarnation]ed.”

Wess’s lips pinched a little, almost saying something against Erick’s commandment—

Erick walked away.

“I didn’t know she was an Inquisitor,” Wess said, to Erick’s back. “I didn’t know any of that.”

Erick waved a little, dismissive.

He kept walking.

- - - -

“I have a philosophical question, Poi,” Erick said, as he sipped a beer and watched the sunset from his cloud castle.

Poi sipped his beer beside Erick, waiting.

“It’s come up before, and it’ll come up again, but… If you know someone is manipulating you through their words in order to achieve a goal that is not awful, and you can find no fault with their words no matter how much you tumble them around in your mind… Is it okay to be manipulated? Or do you rebel, just because you can? Just because you hate the person saying those words?”

“Finding no fault means that their words are sound, and they should be heeded, no matter how distasteful the person speaking those words.”

“… Yeah.” Erick sighed. “That’s the decision I’ve always made before, but this time feels different. Worse.”

Poi nodded, knowingly.

Erick continued, “In less philosophical talk: So Greensoil is going to use Fyuri and the Summoner that Fyuri managed to Awaken in order to make some megaweapons... If they can find her, and if she agrees to work for them. Which she will. But it’s more likely that they’ll just try to Awaken a different Summoner… Or maybe they already have, and that’s failed for whatever reasons. Or maybe it succeeded. Whatever has happened there has only happened in order for Greensoil to gain more power. That’s why they kept Odaari around, too.”

