Push back Riam’s abominable forces. 3/4

MP up! +1000 mana production per day!

Rescue and Revenge, 5/??

The more you fight, the larger your challenges and the greater your rewards.

MP up! +500 mana production per day!

Rescue and Revenge, 6/??

The more you fight, the larger your challenges and the greater your rewards.

MP up! +500 mana production per day!

Rescue and Revenge, 7/??

The more you fight, the larger your challenges and the greater your rewards.

MP up! +500 mana production per day!

Camp Cleared!

Push back Riam’s abominable forces. 4/4

MP up! +1000 mana production per day!

FLOOR TWO COMPLETE!

NOTICE: You have already cleared Floor Two. Mana Production for repeated floor clears is capped at 100,000 mana. Delve the Endless Depths if you wish for more mana than that, and if you wish for actual mana regeneration that carries over to Veird and elsewhere!

Erick’s Status came to him unbidden.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

Health: 5000/5000

MP per day: 35,000

Meta-Irons: 4650, 92 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 10/10, 837 in storage

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 1000/1000

Staff of Divine Absolution, 2500/2500

Breastplate of Absolute Damage and Regenerative Health, 250/250

Bracelet of [Hidden Whirlwind], 100/100

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 100/100

All-Seeing Eye, 500/500

Ring of [Identify], 50/50

Belt of Many Functions, [Blessed Memory], [Eternal Benediction], [Benediction of the Unseen], 50/50, 50/50, 50/50

Unused Meta-Irons: <Expand list>

Unused Meta-Diamonds: <Expand List>

- -

Erick looked to his side, where the Staff of Divine Absolution hovered point down, right within gripping range. So that’s what Erick did, wrapping his hand around the sparking runes of gold and white. Clarice gave a small warning noise as Erick did that, completely unintentional and worried for the sake of being worried, while Wess struggled to maintain his composure. The staff was completely undeserving of that sort of worry, though. Erick put his hand around it more firmly. It was warm to his touch.

Erick said to the staff, “You did very well.”

The staff vibrated a little in what Erick could only assume was joy.

“I need to give you a name, though. Unless you have one you’d like to be called?”

The staff went inert.

… Erick hummed. “Not yet, then? Unsure? Or you don’t care?”

The staff was inert.

Erick gripped it tight, and said, “You did good. We’ll talk more later.” Erick looked to Wess, and asked, “Did anyone come out of grasslands?— Oh shit. They could just exit to floor 3? Will the exit appear to them? I didn’t even consider that.”

Clarice was having a moment, and could not contribute to the conversation right now.

She had once described the culmination of Floor Four to Erick as ‘holding out until the Summoner called down light across the entire battlefield and killed everything’, so that, combined with what she already thought of when she thought of Ashes, was giving her some pause.

Erick would get to that later.

Wess rapidly reoriented. “No. It’s a lot better than that. They can take the exit if they desire, for it will appear to whoever is on the floor and wishes to exit, but they’ll end up in the white room, and we’ve got that place locked down. They won’t take it, though, because they know they’ll be trapped.” He looked to the air, and said, “If Dungeon Master Kinder knows what he is doing, he will already be encouraging the actual delvers to escape so we don’t have to worry—”

A message appeared to Wess; Erick had to read it backwards.

Floor cleared of delvers.

“Us and the intruders are now the only people on this floor,” Wess said, “We proceed.”

Clarice rapidly said, “We’re going to the fifth floor after this.”

“When we can, Clarice.” Erick moved on, “I never explored the Plains Base. Is there a hidden place with supplies where a group of knowledgeable people could hide out for a while?”

“My team didn’t fight the Riamites,” Clarice said, “We escaped to the Mountain; I’ve never been—”

100 meters left of the main building, cellar, hidden by illusions. It’s a secret place for delvers to find if they’re brave or sneaky enough. We just looked there, and they’re in there. They know you’re coming. We’ve tracked their delver names, now, so we know who they are. We can track them anywhere, now.

It is not necessary to fight them. I am attempting to have them leave peacefully, now that there is nowhere for them to escape.

One moment, please.

Clarice read the air. “… That’s almost anti-climactic.”

“Better this way,” Wess said, breathing out in relief. “Never know when a takedown can go bad.”

Clarice smirked.

Erick said, “I want to speak to all of them.”

Wess frowned, and said, “The Viridian Throne and House Benevolence will have to come to an agreement about that before—”

A column of black light, rimmed in white and extending from the Plains Base into the sky far, far to the right, simply appeared where Inquisitor Wess had been, like someone had drawn a line of darkness across the world. And then the black light passed.

Wess’s legs fell to the ground—

To the left, toward the targets, the black world was rimmed in blue, the beam frozen by the power of the dungeon before it could kill Erick, too.

Messages scrawled through the air.

Ashes Woodfield (8 saves remaining)

Ashes Woodfield (7 saves remaining)

Ashes Woodfield (6 saves remaining)

Ashes Woodfield (5 saves remaining)

Ashes Woodfield (4 saves remaining)

Ashes Woodfield (3 saves remaining)

That’s as far as the messages got before Erick tore at the world with Time Magic, reversing course, spending almost all the mana in his core in order to [Return].

He would not be able to do that again.

- - - -

Clarice read the air. “… That’s almost anti-climactic—”

“Everyone DOWN, now!” Erick shouted, turning to air and vanishing down the side of the hill.

Wess and Clarice rapidly reoriented, with Clarice acting barely faster than the Inquisitor, both of them rushing down the hill toward Erick.

Erick kept going, saying, “I don’t know. Don’t ask questions right now. They saw us, and we were fucked if we stayed on that hill. They have some sort of obliterating darklight spell that—”

The three of them were down between the wide hills, hidden from sight from the base. That didn’t protect them as much as Erick thought it would. His words tore away from him as a spear of absolute darkness cleaved across the Plains Base, carving through buildings and hillsides alike—

And then Clarice was there, her right hand filled with fractal geometry, her power aimed at the cleaving beam, scattering power up and down in a great shielding. Her shield held more than enough to protect all three of them, but the beam still hit everywhere else in a sweeping arc. Buildings and hillsides collapsed. The ground underfoot was less than solid, and hunks of the sky were suddenly missing; black holes punched through the blue eternity.

“Scatter takedown,” Wess said, and then he moved.

Clarice followed Wess.

Erick went in the opposite direction, wind carrying him far as he hoped he was reading his fellows correctly. He would do better sniping, anyway. With two quick leaps, Erick passed by scorched stone and fields, where fire still burned and red-tabarded bodies lay broken by lightning, while uncountable civilians lay dead and decayed for days, their own lives extinguished by Riamite spells and weapons.

Buildings continued to fall all around in the aftermath of the black beam attack, but Erick scaled one anyway, rushing up the side of a tilting stone structure, his gold staff brimming with power, marking him as a beacon to attack, for sure. Erick could survive the black beam for at least a few seconds. How come Wess couldn’t? Did he only have a few Saves left? Wess must have thought 3 or 4 saves would be enough—

Darkness glittered atop one of the four lookout towers, atop the main base of the Plains, where red flags had been draped down all four sides. That black light grew, and then fractured the world. A meter-thick beam of black light came right for Erick.

Erick moved off the side of the crumbling building, wind carrying him fast as blacklight erased the world behind him, following almost as fast as he could move. It would have caught up to him if he kept going in one direction, but he could move in more ways than just in a straight line. Erick pushed off the very air itself, wind and light and shadow carrying him where he wanted to go; straight up. And then back. The line of black seemed to have some lag to it, like it was a stream of particles and the person aiming it couldn’t reorient fast enough to stay ahead of Erick.

It was enough of a lag that Erick could see who was attacking him.

Erick glanced to the tower.

Fyuri.

Pale skin, almost white. Red lips, bright as fresh blood. Amber eyes, glowing like a sun, but with black pupils that held more darkness in them than Ashes had ever known before she came into his life. Fyuri had a black staff in her hands and black armor on her body, and a wicked smile on her face, showing off fangs as sharp as knives—

The black beam almost caught up to Ashes, annihilation tickling at his toes.

And then Erick moved again, repositioning just as much as he was recoiling mentally. What the fuck had that been? Something had happened.

No time to think about it.

Erick danced across the Plains Base, annihilation carving away the world underfoot. That black death ended as Erick stood upon the waters of the steaming lake, as that lake drained away into the floor below, or into whatever destruction Fyuri had wrought. Whatever was going on with that black staff it was surely akin to Erick’s own Staff of Divine Absolution, and Fyuri was surely just pretending to have run out of ammo.

Erick glanced back at the tower—

The hillside to the right erupted with blacklight—

Erick dodged up and left, and then kept dodging, wind carrying him out of danger while Fyuri attempted to strike from some spot where he couldn’t see. Briefly, Ashes wondered how Fyuri had seen him when she had been on the other side of the hill, but she was a being of shadow and sight, and so seeing around corners would be easy for her. She could attack from anywhere at all. She probably had one of his own Bracelets of [Hidden Whirlwind], too, so she was good on movement.

Ashes needed to go on the offensive.

He could see from anywhere, too, if he wanted.

The battle so far had been about 25 seconds long. It might go a lot longer, or a lot shorter, if Fyuri decided to attack the others. But at a glance, and straining his All-Seeing Eye a fraction, Ashes saw through the false world that was the bunker, down near the side of the main Plains Base structure. The ground had been ripped up completely, and Clarice and Wess had moved on to fighting people underground, while—

From the other side of the base came another beam of black, aiming right for Ashes, burning away the world in its wake.

Erick would have aimed a few Bolts at the other invaders, to help Clarice and Wess kill the enemies without worry, but they were underground and Ashes was too focused on his own personal demons.

Ashes ripped through the sky, twisting left and right, dodging much more than necessary—

Ashes whipped around his staff and took aim at Fyuri from across the sky. The remains of a crater still separated him and his former wife, but in an eternal moment, he crested that crater, momentum carrying him upward. They locked eyes. Smoldering flames in the crater lit Fyuri from the back, highlighting her curves, and her arms. He was already aiming at her. She was already aiming at him, her black staff trailing darkness through the air, that darkness slowly catching up to Ashes.

She looked down the barrel of her bolter at Ashes.

Ashes looked down the barrel of his bolter at Fyuri.

She mouthed, ‘I will always love you, Ashes.’

Ashes's heart beat hard. He fired.

His aim was off. His target indistinct.

A Bolt of absolute power ripped out of the tip of his golden staff and curled around the blacklight, rushing down its length and striking the black staff. Fyuri had already abandoned the weapon, turning to darkness and wind to escape. The black bolter exploded in fractals of destruction. Ashes dodged the explosion, falling back hard.

By the time he got back to the crater...

Fyuri was gone.

- - - -

In the minutes and hours that followed, Erick went over what had happened several times, trying to figure out what had gone wrong, and where. He also stood watch over a makeshift detention center that the Inquisition had thrown together on the entrance floor, to interrogate everyone that had respawned here on the top floor. The Inquisition didn’t want to let anyone onto Veird just yet, because who knew what sort of powers they had out there, while here, in the dungeon, all their meta-items had been taken away or destroyed, so Fyuri’s conspirators were weak as kittens.

Not everyone respawned up here.

Of the expected 14 people, only 9 had appeared. One of those missing people was Fyuri, who had gotten away completely. Four others were also missing, which meant that they either died true deaths, which was not likely, or they respawned in the golden fields of Utopia, which was almost certainly what had happened. That meant that those 4 people were natives of Utopia, who had yet to complete the dungeon course that natives went through to be allowed to travel to Veird.

All this time, Wess had been doing his job as Inquisitor, talking to people, with Erick standing in the background along with others, watching over those talks. No one had spoken to Erick about anything, though, because everyone knew that Wess would be doing that soon enough.

Eventually, the initial interviews were done.

Wess took Erick aside, and Erick went willingly.

In a small room far away from the detention center, Wess sat down with Erick in a side room that was not monitored by others. Clarice had gone home to Utopia hours ago, with the clear understanding between her and Erick that they would get together later for more dungeon delving. So for now, it was just Wess and Erick.

Wess asked, “Did you not have a clear shot on that woman, and you took what you could get? Or did you miss on purpose?”

