“The tyrant humans and point-bought archmages of Greensoil aren’t like the natural-born and actually-talented powers of this world. Those humans have to steal and coerce their power out of the Dark, or through other sources.” Poi said, “Not like it really matters, though. They already have megaweapons, and they’ll have more and more as time goes on. But we have you. And Kirginatharp. Bright Smile. Quilatalap. The Geodes. Wizard Destiny. That’s not counting the gods that also ensure this world remains intact. The list goes on.”

“… I still don’t like it.” Erick sighed. “But I won’t be a tyrant, either.”

“Dinner won’t be ready for a while.” Poi asked, “Want another beer?”

“… Actually, I want to talk about the full breadth of the dungeon and what it means to have memories that are not my own… Not to the therapist. Gabby is not someone I want involved with this right now.” Erick looked to Poi. “I would have your opinion on the matter.”

Years ago, Erick had requested a Mind Mage therapist to help with consultations for dragons, during the Dragon Exodus, to untangle true desires from those who were being forced to undergo a transformation of [Reincarnation] or Benevolencing, against their wills. These days, Mind Mage Gabby was among those who interviewed those who were on the [Reincarnation] list, to help sort them out before Erick got to them, on his [Reincarnation] days. Gabby was also the therapist whom Erick saw every now and then.

Poi set his beer down. “Are you sure you don’t want to talk to Gabby?”

“I’m sure.”

Poi breathed in, then began, “Every person has a personal mind slime that composes their entire mental being, and which interacts with the world around them in a myriad of ways. One of these ways which most people are most familiar with, is the creation of magic through the interactions of mind, mana, and intent. Other ways of interacting include the touching of another’s mind, and the exchange of information. This second one is what we focus on right now, because memories exist in the mana, just as much as they exist in other people. It all bleeds together.

“And that’s the concept called ‘mind bleed’.

“A young Mind Mage, just awakening to the fact that they experience the world differently than other people, soon becomes aware that they are stealing and copying the mental impressions left by others all around them; living memories, or memories in the mana, that people can see with Meditation. Mind Mages live tens of lives by the time they reach ten years old; more in a large city, less in a rural location.

“It can be a struggle to learn to control oneself, to not be influenced by others, but we all manage it eventually, because we’re all found out by other, more experienced Mind Mages, who teach us, or we learn control on our own.

“There are memories in the mana, like I said. And inside that dungeon, you found a memory in the mana that resonated with you.” Poi said, “You’re probably going to find a lot more, Erick, because you’re a Paradox Wizard, who has already met yourself in the mana, long before today.

“So I’ll give you the same sets of advice that I was given, and that other Mind Mages have given younglings many, many times:

“Become the solid wall in order to control your personal world, or the worlds of others will control you.

“Or:

“Become the tree, taking in good knowledge and letting the bad go, while growing as much as you desire to grow.

“Or:

“Accept everything, and become the perfect gestalt of the world around you.”

For a moment, Erick thought. “It has to be the second option, right?”

Poi shrugged. “Every path can be successful.”

“… Really?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “For us Mind Mages, those who choose to become the Wall are those who choose to abandon their gifts of mindsight in favor of becoming themselves, and only themselves. These people become like a mental version of the Class Juggernaut; able to stand up to the storm of mental monsters and memetic threats and come out completely unscratched.

“Most of us choose to become the Tree; to judge what we see and to take in what we wish. Sometimes, that choice of being a Tree eventually morphs into being the Wall, when we’ve taken in all we wish to take, or that choice might morph into becoming a Gestalt, because we see the world, and we desire to be as much a part of the world as possible.

“The Gestalt is a rarer path, but it is the path of those who accept everyone and who can connect with anyone. This is the path for those who desire to become one with the world, and those people are whom the Crossing is based upon. Every single Ascendant Mind is a Gestalt.

“All paths are valid. The choice is ultimately up to the individual.”

Erick looked out at the sunset, across the land of Candlepoint and the distant mountains that separated the Crystal Forest from the Wasteland Kingdoms. White clouds tumbled on that horizon. Being a tree seemed okay. But being a gestalt seemed okay, too. And of course, being a wall had a certain amount of appeal.

Walls could wear down, though, and being one with everything would lead to the dissolution of self.

So a tree was probably better.

Hmm.

Erick asked Poi, “What did Greensoil try while I was indisposed for a day?”

“Nothing, surprisingly.”

Erick laughed. “What!” He smiled. “That's crazy.”

“I’m surprised, too. But it’s not actually that surprising, since they’re focused on shoring up their gains from your involvement in the dungeon, and you were only on this hunt for a day.”

“… Yeah.”

“Any further luck Imaging Greensoil?”

“Ophiel is still doing that, but he hasn’t been able to find anything except for hideouts.” Erick cast his Sight over to Ophiel, in the skies of Greensoil, to check on the [Cascade Imaging] maps he had put up in the air. Still nothing except for a few blue dots here and there. Another shift of Sight and a few quick movements of Ophiel showed Erick that the Inquisitors were on the case in every single apartment building, workshop, bank, bakery, and a good 40-and-more other assorted places, where Fyuri’s DNA had shown up. Erick came back to himself. “Still nothing solid, but they did find the 4 missing conspirators… Those guys all seemed to have gotten to the Surface, somehow. Hopefully Darundi will not push back when I ask to interview them all myself, or when I ask to take Odaari from them.”

“Are you really going to take Odaari?”

“That’s up to Darundi.” Erick asked, “Do you think I shouldn’t?”

“No comment.”

Erick grinned and chuckled. And then he took a sip of beer.

The sunset was pretty gorgeous.

After watching the sunset for a while, on a whim, Erick dialed up the power of his All-Seeing Eye to max.

The blue sky fell away. The clouds vanished. The horizon disappeared.

The sun was a blazing ball of white-gold, unobscured by atmosphere or the planet, with solar flares curling around the edges and falling back in like massive curls of a dragon’s long body. Erick blinked, and the world returned. He chuckled as he brushed tears out of his eyes, and his body healed from the damage of looking straight at the sun.

Poi finished off his beer, saying, “Surprised you didn’t burn yourself more than that.”

Erick smiled, as he asked, “Want another beer?”

“Yes.”

Ophiel leapt up from his perch, saying, “I get! I get!”

Erick would have opened a small [Gate] in the keg in the kitchen to fill his and Poi’s cups that way, but Ophiel’s option worked too. “Thank you, Ophiel.”
