Wesle handed the cardboard autograph over to Jasi. And when she laughed next to Temile, he felt every eye in the restaurant turn to her. He felt dirty, unkempt, the cut on his cheek from where he’d been shaving this morning in The Wandering Inn as large as a sword gash.
His right hand’s thumb also felt obvious and exposed, despite the fact that he’d hidden it under the tablecloth. Compared to him, Jasi shone. One of the two most famous [Actors] in the city, a sensation that had taken the City of Adventurers by storm, she wrote, sounding out her autograph for the delighted Engam.
“I hope…you will have a chance to see us on stage again, Engam. Love, Jasi Redigal. Thank you so much! Wasn’t that the play where we were still getting our feet and we accidentally burned half the set?”
The part-Dwarf woman grinned over her wineglass on her taller seat as the [Waiter] bowed and circulated the table. The first bottle of wine was poured generously into Temile’s glass. No stinting for this crowd.
He didn’t fit in. There was Emme, the real [Manager] of the troupe in Invrisil. Wesle, the male [Actor] who had the eye of every eligible bachelorette—and some who weren’t eligible—in the city on him.
Kilkran, bald but golden-voiced. Esbell, Yimurr, their first Gnoll [Actor], Pralcem, the second, Jexam, the Drake behind the scenes, Andel, the [Writer]…
This was the crew. The originals, take no exceptions, who had left Celum and gone to Invrisil before the door existed. They’d beat the door, in fact, and become legends by their hard work.
Temile? Temile had…stayed. But they’d insisted he come along. Now—the Players shone.
In fact, they’d had to give him ‘his take’ of their profits just so he could buy a suit that fit this restaurant. The Players were rich. They wore magical artifacts, Cedava’s tailoring, and they’d gotten this booking by being invited. Not even asking.
Gone were the days when they were a ragtag group performing out of a warehouse or a curtain in the Frenzied Hare, with Erin Solstice serving tables and making food while helping them with their lines.
Temile almost missed it. And yet—when the first course was placed down and literally levitated upwards such they you had to use one of the delicately sharp forks to spear it, like a fish moving through the air—you sort of didn’t miss hunger and no money.
“Half magical air, half spun sugar. Nali-sticks and Toanberries, combined together. The dipping sauce adds the slightest savory to balance the sweet. A classic of the Djinni’s Spoon—and the cause of one fatality where a particularly hungry customer ate thirty and levitated eight miles into the air before the spell wore off.”
The [Waiter] delivered all that with a flair of his own. He might have been a good [Actor]. Temile hesitated, and bit his lip on the comment.
It was far from a quiet, reserved table. The others were talking—arguing over the moment with in Elisial. They were all the centers of attention—half-acting even now.
“No, no, I recall it now! We did burn the set! I nearly killed Andel—but Eltistiman saved the day! Most of the audience had no idea half the set was magical and it worked so well we had Eltistiman do the next three plays with illusions for the props!”
Kilkran was laughing as he hugged Eltistiman with one arm. The [Magician] was not one of the originals, but he had certainly earned his place. Eltistiman toasted the others with a glass.
“And my life was entirely for the better the moment I asked to join your troupe!”
“Dead gods. And we met you with those [Thugs] or whatever in the inn. Remember? Wesle and the others decided it was a good idea to pretend to be [Warriors]—”
Jasi laughed and Wesle turned red. Temile grinned as he took another deep drink—he had heard that one.
“Hah! Well…I may have had a fat head. But I did just get my [Method Actor] Skill.”
The [Actor] conceded. The others chuckled. It was Yimur who lifted a paw.
“And at last—I can finally catch up to you there, Wesle. No more of you quietly lording it over the rest of us! ‘Oh, do you want me to string a bow? I know how, thanks to my Skill. Anyone fancy a little duel? I’ve been studying Gold-rank [Warriors]…’”
The others laughed again. Orica, who had been almost as quiet as Temile, lifted a fork and the floating sugar she’d been nibbling on.
“Yes, that’s right. To Yimur and the [Humble Actor] Skill!”
Temile could voice agreement here, and did so gladly. This was a celebration as much as a reunion and—if Emme had been hinting—something more. Yimur took a bow to applause around the room.
“Skills and levels. Do you have any new ones as a [Producer], Temile?”
Jasi leaned over and murmured to him as the others began arguing about who Yimur should shadow first. Temile felt a flash of…jealousy? He had no right to that. He’d volunteered to stay, after all.
“Ah, well, just a few. I’m not Emme. So my [Producer] class only gave me a few. [Eye for Talent], [Pinpoint Discord]—helps with the arguments behind the scenes, and a decent one in [Revitalizing Touch].”
“Oh! Like a [Masseuse]? Or some [Healers]?”
She smiled.
“Yes. Funny story—it saved our lives in this performance where—”
Before he could tell the not-so-great story, Temile was interrupted by the [Waiter] again. This time he had the first course.
“Players of Celum, our first dish. Goose elrava. Which is to say—”
He placed the dish down with a flourish. It was, in fact…everyone exclaimed at the pile of oddly-colored…
“Salt?”
Emme looked up. Engam nodded.
“Exactly, Miss Emme. Salt, in six varieties. A special blend, mixed with elements of Sage’s Grass, spices from three continents—all to create a baking shell. And inside is the goose—the Anitt-breed. Known for their ferocity such that far larger monsters will not dare to cross them. Highly intelligent, highly delectable. The salt comes away—as so—”
He produced a brush and flicked it over the dish. It was a clever trick; Temile was sure the [Magical Chef] or whatever the person’s class was had prepared the goose and re-covered it with salt. How else to explain the glaze and other additions from the ‘baked’ dish?
But the salt mixture whirled up, landed in a flurry on the table, and became…
A Salt Golem. Nothing like the real thing, but it briskly donned the little hat Engam placed on its head, cut and divided and served the goose to the delight of the Players.
And it was delicious and moist—not what you’d expect for something baked in salt. Or was it? Temile was no [Cook]. He saw Jasi pressing a clawed hand to her mouth.
“It is so good. I’m drooling. Temile, what were you saying?”
“I’ve completely forgotten. I wonder if we can give Erin some of this?”
“Dead gods! She really should have come with us!”
“You know her. She hasn’t even used the booth. I don’t actually think we told her we were going to the Djinni’s Spoon. Did you, Temile?”
“It completely slipped my mind. But perhaps if we can bring some back we’ll convince her….”
“I’ll petition the [Chef] myself for a second one. On bended knee!”
Kilkran got up to laughter. Half the table wanted to stop him, the other half egged him on. He entered the kitchen to the audible delight of the [Chef].
Jasi rolled her eyes. She looked back at Temile.
“Erin serves you food, doesn’t she?”
“Room and board for those of us not taking lodging elsewhere. Very decent food. Just not…”
Jasi nodded.
“I still recall Agnes’ inn. I wonder what became of it during the Bloodraider’s attack?”
The two shuddered. Temile was glad to have taken the Players to Erin’s inn. But he had an aunt who’d narrowly avoided…
“Er, Jasi. I’m quite grateful to you all making me a part of the Players. To be honest, I fairly don’t fit in.”
The man confessed at last. It burst out of him. Jasi’s eyes widened.
“What? You were the one who stayed to keep the Players alive in Celum, Temile! Of course we’d make you one of the originals! Emme was beside herself when we found out we hadn’t paid you properly!”
“Exactly. We thought you’d be furious. Kilkran can’t look you in the eye, hence him going off.”
Orica leaned over. Temile started.
“Him? But I’m not half as grand as—”
He waved an arm around and found it was shaking. This place scared him more than any stage. He could stand in front of a crowd of hundreds or even thousand in Invrisil and perform his lines even if he was scared spitless. But this place?
Jasi started laughing. Orica joined in as well. She shook her head.
“Temile. You think I don’t feel like I’m out of place? I was a [Washer] less than a year ago! I’m so scared I’ll spill wine and have to pay for the tablecloth I nearly wet myself!”
The [Producer] stared at Jasi. She looked so sincere. Of course, she could be lying. But then he remembered—really remembered who they were.
Look at them. Here was Jasi, who had washed clothing until her scales fell off, and whose brother had lured an [Innkeeper] into a mugging. Wesle, the unfortunate [Guardsman] who’d had to deal with a stranger from Liscor.
Kilkran, the [Blacksmith] with a heart of gold and Yimur, his assistant! Emme, who’d been working as a [Manager] overseeing [Stablehands]. Andel had been a [Potter]—
Slowly Temile relaxed. And then he laughed. Jasi’s eyes twinkled at him.
“We should have remembered what it’s like. We’ve done this several times—but the first restaurant we went to like this we were so terrified. I think we still are, but you know [Actors]. Forgive us?”
“Well, I feel the right fool. ‘Cut me in swain, milady, with a sword, and it ‘twould be a kindness for your tongue’s no less sharp!’”
He muttered. It was a line from Elisial and Jasi’s laughter and her clapping her hands made him relax. Suddenly—the food was ten times more delicious and it had already been phantasmal.
Kilkran came back with a team of the staff, all of whom had his autograph, and a promise to get the goose in exchange for an autograph from all of them. The next course was a cassoulet—magical of course.
“Sixteen different meats, each from a magical animal. For instance, we have Frost Wyvern prime cuts, Roc’s wing, Stelbore—seasoned and prepared separately to remove the gaminess—naturally our vegetable medley is no less magical. The beans, for instance, are the Qizl beans which grow to those fantastical giant vines if given enough mana, overnight as the legends say—”
The others were interrupted by a shout. Pralcem had rapped another of the [Actor]’s fingers as he helped himself to the delicious meal.
“Pralcem, damn it! That’s my fencing-hand! How will we perform later if I’m injured?”
The other Gnoll growled.
“You’ll put a potion on it. Let the [Waiter] finish.”
Temile was half-listening. Orica was looking at the dish as it was served. She spoke to Jasi and Temile as they began the third course with great delight.
“With the Skills of the [Chef], apparently we’ll be full on the courses but won’t fill up. We can go three days without even needing to think of a bite and if we do eat—we won’t gain weight. It’s the kind of thing a Gold-rank adventurer can order before going on a long mission.”
“Fantastic. You know, that [Waiter] could have been one of us. I’m sure he’d pass an audition in the Players of Liscor.”
“Tell him! He might actually join!”
Jasi laughed. Temile shook his head.
“He probably earns more than I—than our Players of Liscor do in a night here than a month of work.”
“Oh—true. Is it just not as popular?”
Some of the others looked at Temile. He rolled his shoulders.
“The difference between a city Liscor’s size and one of Invrisil’s, I’m afraid. But we make quite a good living! Just not this.”
“Wait until you get invited to Pallass, Temile. Your day will come. Then I want some of the money flowing back into our coffers!”
Kilkran laughed and Temile grinned.
“It’s a promise, Five Families willing. Pallass is just reluctant to have us in. First it was because we were mostly Humans—”
“Now?”
“That we came from a Human-city. I can’t win.”
There was good-natured laughter and cursing all around. Two of the others elbowed Jexam.
“Put in a good word for you, Jexam! And you, Jasi.”
“We’re from the north! They won’t take us.”
“Ah, well, maybe after today Temile will have his shot.”
Emme looked around and the table stirred. Jasi smiled knowingly, and so did Wesle and Kilkran, and a few others, but no one elaborated.
“High-level. That’s the difference between us, Jasi. All that time on the road…”
“You had the harder job. Only one of us fought Crelers.”
Jasi looked at Temile’s stump. He flexed his hand and shuddered.
“True enough. Dead gods, but I thought I was truly dead.”
“I’m still trying to make it into a story. It’s just—action and players.”
Orica waved a hand. Temile shrugged.
“If I thought I could star in a play by the Players, I’d cut off more than a thumb! …How’s a pinky sound?”
More laughter. The wine was flowing well and the food kept coming. The cassoulet had been a marvel and difficult too! It had taken over a week of careful marinating for some components and magical cooking being what it was—the [Chef] had preservation runes all over to prevent even the slightest hint of decay, rot, or even contamination by pesky air.
“This next dish will grow your hair out. Wonder what it’ll do to your neck-spines, Jasi?”
“It’s a type of hair. Go to Rhir’s hell, Andel. And this is excellent cooking, Engam.”
The [Waiter] bowed.
“It’s a delight you think so, Miss Jasi. The chef will be honored. It may not be as…flashy as some restaurants. Invisible dishes, flaming foods—”
“We’ve seen all this.”
The man nodded.
“The Djinni’s Spoon used to have more such dishes, as the first course shows. But the restaurant took to quality over show. Fads like teleporting food come and go. Quality lasts.”
“Well said!”
It came from all the [Actors]. It was a sentiment they could get behind. After all—they were performing tales so timeless they had created a second resurgence in this moment.
“Speaking of Skills—any new ones for you, Jasi? I know Wesle’s gotten even more disgusting…I didn’t get a chance to see it, though.”
Wesle Salkie, the [Method Actor] who had been Level 26 around the time he’d come to Invrisil had smashed past Level 30 and was now a rare class. [Famed Method Actor]—an addition to the class and he was gaining Skills to match! Not that anyone knew what the standard was. But—
“[Everyday Prop]? Wesle, go on, show Temile.”
“What, you mean, my sword?”
