“I mean, I want to learn magic. Not just keep up my studies, Beza. Where did that Beza go? The one who was learning in books and arguing with professors? That Mons? We’re more like adventurers these days. We have jobs. We should be [Mages]. Students of magic! We—”
“Hello?”
The door opened and a suspicious face poked her head out. Montressa and Bezale had been standing outside the shop for the last minute or so, talking. The two jumped.
“Oh! Um. Miss…Cedava? We’re Montressa and Bezale. We sent you a letter via Street Runner regarding a meeting?”
The suspicious [Seamstress]’s face cleared. She was, in fact, the best and most-fashionable clothier in all of Invrisil, which was where Montressa and Bezale were. She opened the door wider, letting a bustling shop’s sounds pour over them.
“Of course! I didn’t expect…”
She eyed Bezale. The Minotauress was all charm, though.
“We quite understand, Miss Cedava. Would you like to speak here or more privately…?”
“My backroom. Please excuse me. Sharit? Take over the front for me, please.”
A Dullahan with pins in his mouth made his body wave at the woman. The two [Mages] headed back with Cedava. The [Seamstress] was a bit flustered, and eyed the two’s considerably younger age askance as she offered them some tea. But Montressa and Beza had done this before.
Calm, polite, professional. They’d received lessons from Wistram on how to act. Of course—they were acting in their own capacity here, and that was the first thing Montressa said after the niceties were done.
“We maintain our Wistram contracts, but we’d like to be up front that this is not an Academy business, as we said, Miss Cedava.”
“Of course….”
The woman looked uneasy for a moment. Beza stepped in. They’d perfected this part too.
“Naturally, that’s to everyone’s benefit. Wistram-sponsored is less preferable to relying on the academy’s resources without the political entanglement.”
“I can see that. And you two are running the…”
Mons had a polite smile on her face as she adjusted her posture. There was a way to do this, especially two-on-one. You could be intimidating since the other person was obviously outnumbered. But reassurance was what they wanted here, so Bezale sat a bit back as Montressa took the intimate role.
If Beza leaned forwards the other person was in fear of being stabbed in the head by a horn. Or Beza head butting them.
“We’re coordinating the network, yes, Miss Cedava. But we’re hardly the managers. Rather, we facilitate. You’d own your business here, in Liscor, or Pallass. Our job is just to handle hiccups. And of course, there’s a larger system to fall back on. We are making use of the door, after all.”
“Of course. Through…the…er…”
“The Wandering Inn.”
It was only partly untrue, which is why it would have soared past a truth spell. Montressa had workshopped a lot of the dialogue with one, in fact. Cedava might have been using one concealed somewhere; there was a flicker by the desk behind Montressa she was picking up, but all the better. That meant Cedava was smart and also that she knew they were telling the truth.
Even if…Erin wasn’t exactly sanctioning this. But it was true, everything Mons and Beza had said and the deal they were laying out.
“A shop in Liscor. You know…it’s a small city. Compared to Invrisil.”
“A shop in a city that’s added over a tenth of its population in the last months. Two tenths, actually, right Beza?”
“And Pallass. Remember, Miss Cedava. Don’t think of Liscor as a city in the old, geographical sense. Think of it as a city half an hour away from Invrisil. And half an hour away from Pallass. And soon—dozens of other cities.”
The woman’s eyes widened. But it was true. The [Lords] of Izril that Erin was delivering goods to were making the same inquiries as a few Drake cities and Human ones.
“I can…see that. But Invrisil would be the same city, wouldn’t it?”
“Exactly. But you already have a shop here. Liscor on the other hand is where The Wandering Inn is based. And Pallass? It’s the City of Inventions. Two other cities.”
The [Seamstress] was nodding. She was no fool; she was the most savvy [Seamstress] in Invrisil, both businesswoman and designer of fantastic clothing. That was why Magnolia Reinhart had come to her for her new dresses that had left such a mark.
Oh yes. A mark. True, the King of Destruction had been in the news and there were always new things coming in via scrying orb. Niers Astoragon playing chess, the drama with the Couriers at sea.
Something for everyone. But the world of fashion was still dwelling on things like Magnolia’s dress. Never mind the assassination attempt.
Even passing through her shop to the back had shown Montressa that Cedava’s business was hopping. Everyone wanted a dress in the new fashion!
“Opening up two more business in two different cities is a huge thing to imagine, Mage Montressa. I can barely keep my shop running even after hiring twice as much staff and giving the others overtime…”
Cedava laughed. Mons just raised an eyebrow.
“Miss Cedava. You’re swamped here. But that means two more shops will have three times as much business. And revenue.”
That shook the woman. She licked her lips.
“You think so?”
Beza’s turn. She steepled her fingers together.
“Miss Cedava. I’ve been in Liscor and I know there’s demand for your clothing at the right prices. Pallass? Different prices. We can, ahem, tailor to each city. But the moment won’t last forever. Everyone steals designs…”
The [Seamstress]’s gaze darkened.
“Yes they do. Half of the [Seamstresses] and [Tailors] and so-called [Fashionistas] are stealing the designs I came up with.”
Montressa barely noticed the hesitation. She probably would have missed it if she hadn’t known to look for it.
The ones Magnolia gave you from Earth, you mean, eh? But she smiled innocuously.
“Well, you can beat the competition, Miss Cedava. Bezale and I are willing to do the footwork, make the connections. And don’t think of it as being too far away to manage. We’ll bring the applicants who’ll run your shop and cut your dresses here. You want to make sure they have the right Skills? Communicate a new design? Invrisil is two door jumps away at most.”
The woman was nodding.
“I—let’s say I want to open one shop in Pallass…or maybe Liscor…”
“We’re all too willing to adjust. Take it however slow you want, Miss Cedava.”
“And you have ideas?”
“We have a roster. Beza, our Liscor file.”
The woman was astounded as Mons and Bezale pulled up a file on each of the people they thought could be Cedava’s representative in Liscor—and people who might move from Invrisil or Pallass to fill the role.
“You had that all ready?”
“Just in case you’d accept. We’re moving fast, Miss Cedava. You’re not the only person investing in other cities.”
Her eyes flickered. Yes, that’s right. We clue you in that you’re part of a bigger thing and you’ll sign our contract. Mons was not unskillful in this game. After all—she had a been a Secret Broker in Wistram.
From there it was just going over details and terms and offering Cedava a magical contract to sign. Mons was perfectly willing to give the woman a day or two, but she’d clearly already been bought by the pitch or even beforehand. She signed then and there and then tossed something extra in to sweeten the deal.
“We’re booked now, but I’ll put both of you down for a free dress on the house. Any style. It’s a pleasure to be working with you two.”
Mons and Beza kept their faces straight. Only when they had bade farewell and gotten several blocks away did they celebrate.
“Another client!”
The two high-fived and Mons hugged Beza. Cedava was number six! Their new network of business and possibly secret brokering was off the ground!
It was all about understanding, seeing the potentiality in the magic door. Not just that you could move goods from one place to another—that was old hat, basic.
It was about talent. Having a [Seamstress] like Cedava able to compete with Pallass—and in her case, take Pallass by storm since she had the new designs Pallass had seen the Human [Ladies] wearing!
All of Montressa and Bezale’s clients were that level of savvy. Which meant getting them onboard easy. The first had actually helped come up with the idea.
It had been Rufelt and Lasica. Not on Cedava’s level. But rather, Lasica and Rufelt had agreed to take on lower-level [Chefs] and [Bartenders] from Invrisil and Liscor to train up. The idea had sprung from a night on the city with Montressa and Bezale lamenting Palt’s exalted position—right after Pelt had jumped over to Esthelm.
After that? It had flowed like clockwork.
Client number two was Pelt. The two were helping him ship out his custom order and get the high-roller clients as well as source ore via Pallass and Invrisil. They had the skillset—Wistram was a name. And then had come Hedault, and…
They had yet to turn a massive profit. Or…much of one. Mons and Beza were running around getting new clients, setting up the businesses. But they were already reaping dividends. After all—they were the unofficial gatekeepers of the doorway.
No one else had quite mastered the ability to walk through the door like they could. They didn’t know Erin Solstice. And from what Montressa now understood—any would-be entrepreneurs would run up against a brick wall in Erin and then have to deal with Lyonette.
It was a strange new world. Montressa was poised to be the first multi-city broker. She hadn’t gone into secret-brokering, which was something with the gangs of each city and more dangerous—but here she was.
Palt was welcome to his damn status as the go-getter for his faction with Erin giving him Earth-only information. Montressa had taken the other option, which might be more advantageous to her personally in the long run. After all—money and influence weren’t what Erin had in spades. Not like this. But then again—she didn’t want to get to know Erin as well as Palt did.
“I think this calls for a night in Tails and Scales.”
Beza rubbed her hands together. They were, of course, on the entry list. Mons was smiling. But one thing subdued her joy.
“This is going to be us, isn’t it, Beza? I mean—I’m glad you’re working with me. But…that’s it for our careers in our factions, isn’t it?”
The Minotauress’ head lowered. The Scriptels were allied with the Revivalists. And they’d both lied about Erin.
“…We weren’t the largest horns around anyways. And when the wind blows you west, you don’t sail east.”
“Unless it’s the Last Tide.”
“Don’t be smart.”
Beza elbowed Montressa again. The [Aegiscaster] smiled.
“So…drinks. When do you want to rub Palt’s face in it?”
“With the new dresses and a bucket of gold. And Montressa?”
“Mhm?”
Beza stopped her friend and looked at her seriously.
“It’s all ahead, Montressa. You and I—this is it. Studying? We can afford the spellbooks we’d never get until we were at the top of our factions. Success? Your team up with Beatrice won’t be half as successful as this.”
She was right. Montressa felt…a bit more grounded. As if she had been floating on the family’s lake right outside the Valeross mansion. And finally—she was tethered.
The [Mage] reached out and grasped Beza’s arm.
“I guess we’ve got to break the news to Erin too at some point. Maybe at Tails and Scales tonight?”
“Maybe Lyonette first? Which do we tackle? The [Princess]’ll want a cut.”
“Um…Erin. Erin’s the one we need. Lyonette’s savvy.”
“She is a [Princess].”
Beza used a quick [Silence] spell on that last bit. Montressa nodded. Oh yes. There was a reason to be at The Wandering Inn. She couldn’t believe she hadn’t put it together. But, well—red hair wasn’t all Terandrian royalty. But Lyonette really, really needed her anti-[Appraisal] ring. Montressa had been flipping out about Mrsha when she’d figured that out.
Strangely…Pawn hadn’t had a single level. Either he was like that Ryoka or something else was up. But Montressa had time.
She and Beza were just about to go look for gifts to placate Erin and Lyonette when they both raised their fingers to their brows.
“Argh. Duty calls.”
“Cheer up. This proves they need us.”
Client #3 wanted a word. And since they were also poised to really make Montressa and Bezale rich, the two hurried off. They were based in Invrisil, too. The two went to find the Players of Celum. That Emme knew when to make deals too.
 
—-
 
Look at them. Look at where they’ve come.
Opening clothing shops in multiple cities, making suspicious bug-free pies, writing religious texts.
Putting on a kilt. Sometimes—everyone just needed to look themselves in a mirror and wonder how far they’d come. Sometimes—it was a stranger who looked back at you.
Temile stopped admiring himself in the spoon when he realized Jasi was laughing at him. The Drake saw the [Producer] blush.
“Sorry. Don’t want them to throw us out.”
He gulped, only partly joking as he stared around the restaurant, the Djinni’s Spoon. One of the most high-class and sought-after establishments in the entire City of Adventurers.
Not currently being run by a Djinni, incidentally. The little historical placard they’d been given along with the expensive, gleaming silverware at the cloth table which was actually just a cloth draped in the air to act like a table—hard on the surface but with nothing to smack your shins into—explained the history of the place.
Apparently, the Djinni’s Spoon had used to employ a Chandrarian Djinni as the cook, but it had been forced to sell the Djinni a long time ago when they’d fallen on hard times. Still, the restaurant had rallied on good cooking and still kept the name and magical bent.
“Don’t worry, Temile. The [Chef] asked for your autograph along with all of ours. They won’t kick us out until they get them.”
“Mine?”
“You performed with us on stage!”
“Just once. And that was a spontaneous show. I’m not nearly as good as the main cast of the Players—”
Temile felt nervous and out-of-place in this fancy restaurant. He sat straight as if the elegant [Waiter] practically gliding over to them were inspecting his behavior.
“Ladies, gentlemen. We’re delighted to host the Players of Celum tonight. The management would like to express what an honor it is and if I might be unprofessional for just a moment—I saw the second showing of Elisial and I was star struck.”
“Oh, thank you so much! May I ask your name?”
That came from Wesle. The [Waiter] blushed as he bowed.
“Engam, sir.”
“Well, let me just write…Jasi, do you want to do the embellishments?”
