That was when the security let the audience who had followed the [Singer] rush forwards. They charged onto the field and Cara took the stage. She began to sing with her band and the view panned across the band and the audience.
That was the Queen of Pop. Her first song was a music video. A classic. To get everyone’s attention. When she had it—the [Popstar] could finally tell them what she wanted to say.
 
—-
 
“Ancestors. That was amazing. Was that real? An illusion? I’m shaking!”
There was a ten-minute break between songs and Drassi filled it. She was blown away, as most of the people were. Staging a performance? Making up something on television?
“Is that inauthentic, though? That was not a real battlefield—”
Noass was pondering the ethics of it all, which struck Erin as vaguely hypocritical. Drassi flung her papers up.
“Who cares? It was amazing! I need that song! And the second one’s starting now! Everyone had better watch!”
And they were watching. Anyone who had a scrying orb—Trey, Teres, Daly and the United Nations—Tom, Richard, Erin—
All of them were watching. Including the ones who knew. Like Magnolia Reinhart. Others, like Niers Astoragon.
“We can use this. Anyone who asks about that music? It’ll help us identify more.”
That was the conclusion the Archmages had come to. They were watching the performance, annoyed that this was the one Human who was too popular to grab—yet.
The second song was even closer to an opera. And now Cara had ‘taught’ the audience what to expect—she put on a performance.
The Players of Celum were watching. For different reasons. Erin and the Earthers in her inn were as intense as could be. Jasi? She was just blown away.
The makeup. The style. Cara spoke to her as a fellow performer. The second music video opened with a set piece, a bit of stage-opera before music began.
As everyone watched—this is what they saw.
Cara O’Sullivan was nowhere out in sight. But a white-haired man in black robes with a grinning skull for a mask was bent over a scrying orb.
Cara O’Sullivan. The name flashed and she appeared in the orb, running. Stumbling. The [Necromancer] pointed and the darkness rustled.
It was a poor copy of Az’kerash. But shorthand worked. People shuddered as they stared at the [Necromancer].
Aaron Vanwell started for different reasons. He looked at Elena.
“That’s not her real name. The scrying spell doesn’t work on her.”
“But that’s how a scrying spell works?”
He nodded slowly.
The camera changed. Cara was backing away, holding a torch in the darkness. Things closed in around her. A shambling zombie, the [Necromancer]’s minions.
All of this was very offensive to the actual Necromancer of Terandria. But he wasn’t going to write in to complain. Cara backed up as the torch went out. The monsters and bad people closed in—
And then she began to sing and magical lights illuminated the set, driving the monsters back. That was the plot. More actors moved forwards, helping drive the bad guys back. The band joined Cara and there she saw, singing as she was beset by evil.
A classic music video. As it went on—Cara was forced to abandon the stage as the undead and evil army pursued her. She ran—towards what seemed at first to be relief.
The audience saw a [General] in armor and a bunch of [Soldiers] in black armor. Shorthand, again—but those who didn’t know music videos still gasped when the man drew a sword and hacked at Cara. She fell back—and for a second, a flag fluttered behind him.
Ailendamus’ crest. Cara fled as the army pursued her with the undead. She snatched up a sword and someone covered her.
The Thronebearer of Calanfer. The crest of the 4th Princess shone in the light. Lyonette gasped.
“Seraphel.”
The woman raised her sword and the sky brightened for a moment. She held her ground as Cara fell back. The second person to rescue her was the [Huntress]. She stood on a grave, firing her crossbow. Noelictus’ flag was planted behind her. The half-Elf and Dwarf were fighting around her.
Onwards. The last set piece Cara came to had a bunch of [Mages] who unloaded spells into the darkness. Shining staves, wands.
Wistram Academy. The [Mages] watching from their orbs cheered. Even the Archmages exchanged pleased nods.
“There, you see? She is grateful. Not a complete fool after all.”
Viltach was very happy. Feor and Naili nodded, a bit dubiously. Nothing about what Naili had ever seen of Cara had shown she liked Wistram. But the [Mages] were clearly the heroes.
Beneath Wistram’s sigil—the island on the isle—they were fighting the evil army and undead back. There was another symbol below it. A triangle with an eye. Cara stood beneath it.
“Huh, that’s not our sigil. What, is that one of our factions?”
“No idea.”
Naili eyed the pyramid and eye until the music video cut to the last scene, which was a typically climatic battle.
Cut to the [Necromancer] still scrying Cara via her magical name through the orb. Then—Cara was joined by her band, and the entire cast of ‘good’ guys. They vanquished the evil as the sun rose.
A classic video. And the audience loved it. It had action! Drama! Drassi was raving again as the band set up for the last song—which had no music video.
“…So that’s how it is.”
Rémi Canada sat back. He had been taking notes with the second music video. It was so—clear. He rubbed at his neck.
“Anti-scrying orbs. We’re compromised. I’m compromised.”
He looked at Cara. She was bowing. Spreading her arms. It said it all, really. How brilliant.
“We can’t go to Wistram, then. And now they know where she is.”
“You can’t hide if you’re the Singer of Terandria. I get it. We can’t use our real names, Daly.”
Geneva muttered. Her heart was beating fast. She stared at Cara as her band set up. She’d gotten it too. Perhaps the message wasn’t as clear if you were from a country…but that was a fairly universal message.
“Calanfer. That’s which [Knight] it is. And that’s…Noelictus. Half-Elf and Dwarf?”
“Mhm. Does she mean in general or…?”
“Shh. The last song’s starting.”
 
—-
 
Unfortunately, or fortunately…the last song was just a song. Take on Me, by Aha. Of course, Cara performed it to her best. And she could actually sing this one rather than act in a music video. It was just a feel-good song. She performed it in her ‘war makeup’, though. And the crowd loved it.
She had done what she needed to. The message was out there—and her face. At least they couldn’t [Scry] her. She had made a stand.
Come and get me, you bastards. Cara felt relaxed. She went through the song, and then had time to be interviewed by the Drakes in Pallass.
“Miss Cara, that was some amazing singing. And I love the—what did you call them?”
“A musical broadcast. You see, it’s a stage. Acting and music. I am so delighted you liked it!”
The [Singer] was beaming and sitting demurely, the spirit of the [Popstar] who wanted to get her music out into the world. Drassi kept nodding. She had orders not to ask where the music came from.
“I’m told you can buy these song-recordings from Terandria. And Wistram! Now—the first musical broadcast was great. Action. War! I love how it fit the lyrics.”
“Well, I wrote them just for the scene.”
Cara felt a pinch on her conscience. But she was playing the song. Drassi sighed.
“I wish I had that talent. But—the second video had a few interesting qualities, didn’t it? The plot was a bit more confusing. Have you met a [Necromancer] before?”
Yes.
“No. But I think the—the Necromancer weighs on all our minds. It’s just—I suppose you picked up on some of symbology?”
“I…might have.”
Cara leaned forwards earnestly. Time to throw non-Earthers off the track.
“It was about Ailendamus’ war with the Dawn Concordat.”
What? King Itorin II was suddenly very upset. Drassi clapped her claws together.
“I knew it! That army had their flag, right? Is this you being against Ailendamus?”
Cara looked up for a second. She gave the Drake an earnest look, and looked troubled as she clasped her hands together, leaning forwards.
“You know, Drassi. I’m not—for any one nation. Or against. I just—I suppose these last few songs were me being so troubled by war. Which Ailendamus has chosen to start again. I’m just not one for violence, myself.”
She kicked my ass yesterday! Greg mouthed silently off-screen. Cara went on, her eyes shimmering a bit.
“It’s just one of those things where I wonder—war? Can we really accept so many deaths for what, land? What about people? I’m actually writing another song on the topic—”
Drassi was nodding sympathetically. Noass hurriedly shoved into the camera.
“—And I think that’s all we have for now! Thank you! Thank you, Miss Cara. The Singer of Terandria, what a wonderful person. Let’s go now to a Human-led orchestra from northern Chandrar. I give you the Bowsong of—”
 
—-
 
The image cut out. Erin was shaking. Like Remi—she had gotten it. Parts of it.
So that was how it was. Lyonette looked at Erin, concerned.
“Erin, what’s wrong? You kept saying ‘she’s saying something’. What was she saying? The Singer? She’s from Earth, right?”
Erin dared not say a word. But she looked at Kevin, Rose—the others. They retreated to the secret Earth-rooms.
“Did you all get the same thing?”
Rose whirled and looked at the others. Kevin scratched at his head. Troy and Leon were missing—Galina was with the Players who were up next. But the rest, Imani, Joseph, Erin—all nodded.
“I got—well, Palt told me you can scry someone if they aren’t warded with their names. That’s what they told you during the first chat, right, Rose?”
“That’s right. And we knew there was someone at Wistram. But—”
Rose looked up. But the sign. Kevin exhaled.
“So they are like the Illuminati? Maybe it was a mistake?”
“There’s no sign like that in this world. Not that I know of, I think.”
Erin shook her head. Joseph groaned.
“Then what was the rest? Ailendamus are the bad guys? She said that.”
Which made the good guys, by process of elimination, Noelictus, Calanfer—
“What did you say, Lyonette? It’s not just the Thronebearers?”
“No…I mean, that is the [Knight] order of my kingdom. But that one was wearing the crest of my sister. Seraphel du Marquin.”
She whispered that last to Erin, but the young woman barely heard it. It was too much to process. So that meant—allies? Or just good people? What about the half-Elf and Dwarf? Erin needed Dawil. Or Pelt.
Either way—the music video had told her everything. Those other band members—were they from Earth?
There you are. You, and Geneva. And Ryoka too. Erin raised her head.
“We’re not alone, guys. We just need to be careful.”
Rose exhaled. Kevin scrubbed a hand through his hair and Joseph looked around for another drink.
“Guess we’d better make an airplane then, right guys?”
“Or upgrade your door.”
Erin sat there. Ryoka needed to come here and they had to talk about this. Here I am, Cara said. Here is what you need to watch out for. Erin wondered…if someone was going to go after her.
 
—-
 
One world’s worries aside, the music video and Singer of Terandria had shaken the Players of Celum. If they were growing to be experts of one craft—they had just seen centuries of refinement. Another art form.
“She’s like one of us. That’s what I felt. Her poise, the way she was moving—”
Jasi was talking amid a babble to no one in particular. Emme was having an apoplexy.
“How do we top that? We’ll never attract anyone! Look!”
Even the audience in the inn was too busy chatting to focus on the poor Chandrarian orchestra. They had beautiful music and they’d worked so hard.
But they were up against the Queen of Pop. If attention was sunlight, Cara had stolen the spotlight and all that was left were a few glimmers by dusk.
And yet—Jasi was hooked.
“That look. Did you see it, Wesle? She looked so—dirty, yet amazing! War-torn. It’s so stylish!”
“I was more impressed by the drums! I was trying to copy some of the band—the one playing the guitar in front I couldn’t copy. But the drums? Look at this!”
Wesle had pulled out the drum set Kevin and Numbtongue used. He began laying down a similar beat, having copied Thien. Jasi was distracted.
“Where’s my dye for the neck spines? If I adjusted my clothing like this…”
“What do we do? No one’s going to watch us!”
Kilkran wailed. Jasi looked at him.
“Enough people will see. Pipe down, Kilkran. And remember—I want to say something before the play.”
“But Jasi—”
The Drake was too busy dabbing some color onto her neck spines. Cara’s hair had been dyed near the ends. Like…so?
“Jasi! We’re going to perform—”
Orica was horrified. Jasi rolled her eyes.
“In an hour! I can get this off in less than five minutes, Orica. I’m trying that look before I forget. There was a bit of…sensuality. Like this—”
[Perfect Imitation]. She grabbed a cup and pretended it was a microphone. And if she sang—
As it turned out, the mug had liquid in it. Jasi got some on her dress. Emme nearly died then and there.
“Get me water and a cleaning cloth!”
“Emme! Relax! I’ll get some water from…”
There was a crowd in the inn, which was very full. Jasi was on-stage—they’d decided to perform in The Wandering Inn for good luck. Mrsha was dancing with Ekirra—they had loved the song. Jasi saw the [Actors] pushing through the crowd and shook her head.
She just needed a bit of water. And thanks to Erin, she knew how to expedite the process.
“Door, please!”
She walked towards a wall and into the Garden of Sanctuary. It was shortcut to the kitchen or outhouse. Jasi heard an electric sound as she entered the [Garden]. She looked up as the door closed and saw—
Numbtongue. Erin’s problems were not his and he was copying the guitar from the song. Jasi blinked up at him.
“Whoa.”
The Hobgoblin [Bard] was shooting lightning from his strings. And unlike Wesle—his talent was the product of hard work, not just a Skill. He was flawlessly doing the guitar-portion of the first song and improvising on the fly.
The Hobgoblin realized he had an audience as he saw Jasi walking over to the pond. A few Fortress Beavers waddled past Jasi. He waved at her.
“Good music!”
“Yeah! That’s an amazing copy, Numbtongue! Do you think you could actually perform the song?”
“Sure. Heard two before. On—”
Kevin’s laptop. Numbtongue closed his mouth on that.
“On song-crystals? I’m definitely buying some!”
Jasi nodded earnestly. She sighed.
“Wesle’s practicing the drums. He can copy the drummer, you know.”
“Ooh. Nice Skill. Something wrong?”
The Drake rolled her eyes and lashed her tail.
