She had a nervous smile on her face. Jasi saw a line of people.
“Miss Agnes?”
“It’s just—well, if you’d just sit and sign a few autographs while we talked, it would help so much. There are so many fans who you left here. And it’s free coin! Doesn’t cost much of anything but ink and parchment, does it? Just for a few minutes—”
Jasi’s goodwill towards her home disappeared. She protested—but Agnes knew her. And you weren’t a hero in your hometown, wasn’t that what adventurers said?
In the end, Jasi signed autographs for a good twenty minutes while answering questions of how wonderful Invrisil was. Then she fled. Numbtongue held off the crowd—mainly just by folding his arms and standing there. He could have been a good [Actor]. He caught up two streets down.
“Well, that was something.”
Jasi sighed. Agnes was still Agnes. In a way—it was reassuring. But who was Jasi, now? She caught sight of herself in the reflection and the beautiful Drake in rich clothing…
Past and present. Numbtongue had a second pizza which he put in his bag of holding.
“Was it worth it?”
Jasi turned to Numbtongue. She smiled, slightly.
“Yes, yes it was, Numbtongue. And I think I realized something.”
“Good. Then where to?”
Jasi pointed.
“Back to the inn. The Singer’s broadcast is starting soon. And I want to see it.”
“Mhm.”
They left Celum as it was. Numbtongue followed Jasi, and she saw him pull the guitar out of a bag of holding.
“So—you want to go to Invrisil?”
“And not die.”
The Hobgoblin qualified the statement. Jasi laughed and linked arms with him, much to the [Bard]’s surprise.
“Well, if you want, we’ll let you watch one of our plays anytime! And come with us to restaurants! Erin won’t! It might be dicey, but we’re [Actors]!”
“Really?”
She smiled and nodded. She might be different—but she liked having money and fame. Numbtongue followed her, eagerly.
“…When are you next eating out?”
The two chattered. And then they went back to The Wandering Inn. And the Queen of Pop began her broadcast.
 
—-
 
Cara O’Sullivan was preparing for her broadcast. It would be the likes of which the world had never seen. Literally. She had a scrying orb in her personal trailer and she had been watching it.
“Television. The best technology to bring to this world.”
Rae laughed at that. She was clearly nervous. Cara smiled at her. A fake smile for a fake person. She wasn’t half as nice as she acted as the Queen of Pop. But make it real because it helped Rae.
“Relax, Rae. It’s going to be alright. You just stand in your spot and play.”
“But if I make a mistake—”
“Trust me. You won’t. Just worry about Greg fucking it up. It’s all about the Queen of Pop, anyways. You’ll be fine.”
“Thanks, Cara.”
Some of the color came back into the bass-player’s cheeks. Cara nodded at Thien.
“You set up, Thien?”
“I’m going to shit myself.”
“So long as the camera doesn’t see it, go ahead. You get to sit down, anyways.”
He laughed. Cara looked around. Greg was psyching himself up—the band was getting ready on their stage.
A real stage, incidentally. Wood, draped background—Abebi had set it up for them. But while they’d be playing there and the distant audience would be quieted with [Hush] spells to prevent them cheering into the song—Cara wouldn’t be joining them at first.
“Cara! Cara, the [Huntress] is here at last! So is the [Knight]!”
“Excellent. Just wait for Abebi’s signal, everyone. I’m going to my spot. We’re going to walk it over a few times. Time to start—twenty four minutes!”
The non-Earther staff and the band tensed when they heard it. Cara strode off the stage and began jogging to get to where Abebi was with some of the Wistram [Mages].
They were cutting it close. She wished she had a day to rehearse. But Wistram hadn’t given them a slot and getting the important actors had been hard too. Since there was a damn war with the Creler-humping bastards of Ailendamus—
“Fuck them.”
Cara gritted her teeth. It was a sentiment that wouldn’t land her in trouble with any of the three special actors who had come at her request. Make it four—the stylish, long-jacket, hat-and-crossbows Hunter of the Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus had just arrived.
“Cara! Thank goodness! Everything’s set up. I just have to give you the amulets, and walk the others through the scene. I just explained what it is we’re doing—”
“Not to us!”
The aggrieved [Scrier] from Wistram had no idea what was going on. Cara pointed at him.
“You. Stand where Abebi wants and let her direct the shot.”
“But we’re Wistram’s—”
“Shut up and go.”
Abebi pushed the woman and Cara turned to the four. They were—in order—a Dwarf, a half-Elf, a Hunter from Noelictus—and a Thronebearer of Calanfer.
The half-Elf and Dwarf were hired specifically. Both female—the half-Elf was about as tall as Cara and had agreed to dye her hair to match. Cara felt shabby and mortal compared to her, but the half-Elf was a fan of her music.
The other two were harder to get. The Thronebearer bowed.
“Singer. It is an honor. I come from embattled Calanfer at your request.”
“Thank you so much, Dame…?”
The [Knight] was female. She even looked sort of like Cara, which was excellent. She performed a salute.
“Dame Neranthei, at your service, Singer. I am of the lowest rank of my Order—a Lightholder. I was told I would serve. And my Order can spare no one else.”
“Of course. I’m very grateful you could come to me. Of course—I’ll recompense your order.”
Again, the woman bowed. Her eyes flickered upwards.
“In truth, our Grandmaster might not have given me the order to come, even for you, Singer. But the [Princess]’ request swayed him.”
She had the crest of the 4th Princess of Calanfer on her breastplate. So—personal security. Cara smiled.
“Is Princess Seraphel safe?”
“Until the Eternal Throne is taken—she will be. I shall convey your words to her, if you wish it.”
“Maybe later. And thank you, Huntress Melizsa.”
“Noelictus keep you, Miss Cara.”
The [Hunter] tipped her hat. Also female—also with the same rough height and color of hair. She looked at Cara directly.
“For the Singer of Afiele, we would come. I understand this will be broadcast across the world.”
“Yes…do you understand what you have to do? Just walk—and keep your composure.”
The four nodded. The Dwarf and half-Elf were palpably more nervous. The Thronebearer and [Huntress] just looked concerned they’d make a mistake.
“Just walk?”
“That’s right. It’s the scene, the scene. Come on. I’ll show you your routes. The key is to keep acting. I’ll demonstrate.”
Cara slowed her pace and showed them. They watched her face, the way she moved slower.
“I see. And while that happens, the spells…?”
“That’s right. Abebi’s got five amulets.”
“What caliber? My own wards might suffice.”
The [Huntress] was curious. Cara didn’t know. The [Huntress] went to talk with Abebi and came back.
“Ah, charged spells. I’ll swap for that one, then. They should hold through all the spells.”
That reassured the Dwarf and half-Elf. Cara felt…anxious. But she was committed.
“Just remember. Don’t look directly at the [Scrier]. You’re acting. Pretending. Dame Neranthei, you’re first. Right here, you see? As we pass by this rise…so you’re walking this route. Let’s go through it.”
They did. The Thronebearer looked relieved.
“Very simple. And we walk to the end…?”
“That’s right. And your task is done. Then just walk away from the camera—the scrying orb.”
The others looked at each other. They didn’t get the entirety of what Cara wanted. But she had no time to show them or explain. The dirt-and-grass stretch that they’d dug up to create a few hundred feet of space in front of the stage was only prepared for one take.
“We have the [Mages] in place! Wands at the ready! Cara, are you set? Eight minutes to go!”
Abebi’s voice cracked with nerves. Cara was calmer.
“Are you both alright? It will be terrifying.”
“We—we’re good, Miss Cara. And it’s a huge honor.”
The Dwarf’s voice cracked as she clutched at her ornamental armor—she was no [Warrior], she just looked the part. The hardest part with her was deciding whether to ask for a Dwarf woman with a beard or clean-shaven. Cara had gone with clean-shaven—apparently it wasn’t that common.
“Alright. We’re ready! Have the music queued! Wait for Abebi’s countdown! [Scriers]—ready?”
The [Mages] called out .They’d been walked through their route and were beginning to pick up what was happening.
“R—ready!”
“Alright! We get one take, so no mistakes! I’m ready too.”
Cara walked over to the starting point. The [Scrier] took a position across from her, so she was smaller in the background but still visible. The [Makeup Artist] from Earth ran over to check Cara one last time.
“And…”
The scrying orb Abebi was watching had Drassi and Noass on it.
“…wonderful performance of skill at arms by the two [Fencers]. Next, if you’ve been consulting our itinerary, and I know you have by the [Messages] flooding in, we have a special performance by the newest [Singer] to sweep the world! The Queen of Pop! The Siren of Songs! Ooh. The Siren of Savere won’t like that, will she?”
Drassi was reading from her card. These days—Wistram had a free TV Guide to the programs, updated every day at the Mage’s Guild. And featured prominently had been—
Noass coughed.
“Er, the Singer of Terandria has a number of appellations, Drassi. Let’s not delay her performance. I understand we’ll get three of her newest songs. And you can purchase sound-crystals of each song—a recording if you will—from most [Merchants] who carry cargo from Terandria! She’s extremely popular in Terandria and her music is reaching the rest of the world. Have you listened to it?”
Drassi nodded.
“I have indeed! It’s catchy—upbeat, or soulful—and she has so many songs! She’s amazing, Noass. I can’t wait to see what she’s going to sing. I think we’re going live in three…”
The scrying orb flickered to Cara, standing in the background, the sun setting behind her.
Of course—Abebi had been watching the broadcast with a delay. So Cara was already performing.
 
—-
 
In The Wandering Inn, this is what the audience saw. Around the world—they saw the Queen of Pop, standing with the sun setting behind her—but ambient light illuminating the ground more than the sky alone would.
The ground was…torn. Soil and grass had been dug up. And the Queen of Pop? You expected her to be like Jasi, a shimmering mirage of magical products and a wonderful dress, like the other [Singers] who had been featured.
But not Cara. She was in makeup. But her clothing was closer to rider’s clothing—albeit of a quality suiting a lady. And it was—torn along one arm. She had dirt on her cheek, a cut on her arm.
“Is—is something wrong? It looks like she’s been attacked—”
Drassi’s voice came through a second before the sound cut off. And then—the music began to play.
The electric guitar made Numbtongue look up. Daly fell out of his seat.
“It’s one of us.”
On the stage, Greg began to strum to the music coming from the speakers held next to the scrying orb by one of the crew. But the ‘camera’ wasn’t on him. Cara began walking forwards as the music began to play.
Then—the first [Fireball] detonated ahead of her. Everyone watching ducked. Half of the staff on the set did too. If the audience wasn’t under [Silence] spells—they would have screamed too loud.
The explosion was muffled. But the impact and fountaining dirt and bloom of fire? Cara flinched, but she kept walking. And that was the first explosion.
[Lightning] came down from the skies as another [Mage] used the charge built in the wand. It flashed down and Cara walked forwards. She felt the crackle of electricity do something to her wild hair. But she was wearing the protection amulet. As she had told the other actors—it was about the scene.
The wind was blowing dust and grit, not enough to cover anything in the scene. Just enough—a [Geomancer] and [Wind Mage] were providing the effects. Cara had spent lavishly for this.
This was not the bright pop songs other people had heard her sing. This was in the vein of some of the songs she was coming out with. Rock instead of pop.
And she had chosen a legend of Earth to bring to the world’s attention.
Boulevard of Broken Dreams, recorded by Cara and an actual band, was playing on the computer that was held just behind the scrying orb. Cara walked ahead as another flash of light showered dirt behind her.
“Arrows!”
Half a dozen [Archers] loosed flaming arrows onto the ground, aiming to land in the shot but miss Cara—narrowly.
Abebi’s fists were clenched. It rode on Cara. She had to not flinch from that too. And it was one thing to do that with special effects, but these were real spells. Cara had told Abebi she could handle it. She had seen battlefields before.
She was flinching with some of the spells detonating. But that was real. Cara walked forwards, as the audience saw the shot panning, rotating slowly to fit the carefully-choreographed scene. From the side, now, the Queen of Pop walked through a battlefield of spells and arrows.
“What is this?”
Jasi was staring. Erin and the others from Earth knew the answer. It was the world’s first music video. Cara was singing as she walked, a microphone in her hand. But it was just lip-syncing to the song—she didn’t keep to it.
“This is…”
Erin stared at Cara. Memorizing her face. Cara O’Sullivan was walking forwards. And—as the song played, one of her shadows—another actor, appeared out of the smoke.
A Thronebearer of Calanfer. Dame Neranthei. Her armor was a bit sooty, and blood was on her gauntlets. She looked at Cara—and the two nodded at each other.
They walked on, through hellfire and a battlefield. A group of [Warriors] fought past Cara as the spells ceased for a second. Neranthei vanished. And then—was Huntress Melitza.
The Hunter of Noelictus walked with a crossbow in her hands as if this was a real battlefield. The hat on her head turned as she and Cara glanced at each other.
They walked on. Again, a cloud of smoke and impact from a [Fireball] made the [Huntress] vanish. Cara walked through, coughing. And there was the half-Elf.
There was a trick to it. They each looked a bit like Cara. It fit the song. Cara walked with her shadows—the fourth was the Dwarf. The battlefield was destroyed as she finally reached the stage.
