“This is true.”
Both looked at Mrsha as she banged on the table. She wanted in on this conversation! Importantly, she hand-signed to Numbtongue, who could understand her.
Stone Spears tribe had lower-leveled Gnolls [Warriors]. And some left. But we had higher-leveled [Chieftains] and [Hunters] and things!
They still died when the Goblin Lord attacked. Mrsha felt a pang, but it wasn’t the sharp one it used to be. Moreover, Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters both nodded.
“Non-combat classes level in peace. Not a Redfang specialty. But she has a good point.”
That was why Numbtongue was, like, #2 on the coolness-list. Mrsha puffed out her chest proudly. He gave credit where credit was due.
“Indeed. But—and perhaps I am misinterpreting—Antinium have no [Chieftains]. I do not believe we can obtain the class as we are.”
Numbtongue and Mrsha both blinked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium had read Mrsha—perfectly. Of course, he’d seen so before and Antinium had that understanding of body language like Goblins. But it was still impressive!
You understand this?
Yellow Splatters nodded. He reached for a straw in a cup of blue juice and sipped.
“Yes.”
Mrsha was delighted! Of course, her sign-language was all her design, but she’d been improving it with the help of some of the other Earthers, who knew tiny bits of sign language. She really felt understood of late. Especially with [Druids] and Goblins and Antinium and Ekirra and Visma.
“It is something to think about. Thank you, Mrsha. Do you have anything you need?”
Mrsha shook her head; she was just here for the ambiance. Ekirra saw Yellow Splatters turn his head and froze for a second.
“I—I—d-do you eat Gnolls if they’re bad?”
Ekirra looked up at Yellow Splatters and asked the first question so far. The Antinium heard Numbtongue snort.
“No.”
“Oh. Good. There’s an Antinium working in the inn now! Actually, three! There’s one!”
Ekirra pointed at Silveran, who was sweeping the floor. Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles and raised them and Mrsha laughed at Ekirra.
“We know. It is a good thing.”
Mrsha nodded. They had their own rooms and everything! Well—room. Unlike Bird, the three Workers that Erin had gotten from the Hive wanted to sleep together. Bird had expressed an interest himself—but his collection of bird feathers, arrows, and his Fortress of Fluff required a room to himself. He was actually sort of messy, that Bird.
Numbtongue. Do you want to go adventuring later? I have clothing. It is stinky-stupid. So I can’t play. But we can have fun in the mountains!
Mrsha conveyed all that with several gestures. Numbtongue had his own name—he grinned as she pretended to pinch her tongue. The ‘do you want’ was conveyed in ‘want’, a clasping motion to the chest with one paw, and so on.
It wasn’t a one-to-one exactly of words to intention, but Mrsha pinching her nose and tapping her head and such were logical motions such that you could infer from her face a lot of what she was saying.
“No adventuring today. I am practicing on the guitar. Too tired.”
What? Lazy!
The [Bard] was unaffected by her insults. He’d been out late, doing sword-things again. Mrsha scowled; Numbtongue was actually teaching Lyonette some moves. He’d gotten suddenly a lot more interested in his sword. But he hadn’t said why—yet. It was a secret and he clearly wanted to tell Erin.
“Don’t kick me. Go play in the Garden if you’re bored. Or shoot arrows with Bird.”
The Hobgoblin shook his head at Mrsha. He was downgraded five ranks on the cool list instantly. Still—everyone had days when they wanted to do their thing and Mrsha was prepared to forgive. Mrsha the Benevolent and Kind could do no less. She was trying to figure out who else she could bother with Ekirra when the Gnoll cub yawned.
“Mrsha—can I have an icy-slurpy thing from the kitchen? Please?”
He whispered to Mrsha. She looked up. That sounded good.
It was a standing order from Lyonette to the staff that Mrsha’s friends and their family got ‘bonuses’, like some of the guests. Mainly because they were friends—and partly to keep them coming back to The Wandering Inn. That meant Ekirra could sometimes sneak some food that Mrsha couldn’t from the kitchens.
Erin’s shaved ice slurpies were an invention that had come out just the other day. Free ice from her sad-fire freezer or Palt’s magic plus some blue fruit juice or sugar-mix with a bit of fruit juice?
Delicious. The food spies had had a field day with that. Erin had tried to get everyone to eat inside on the first day, instead of sneaking their food away. Mrsha distinctly recalled watching one spy from Liscor buy the snow cone and running for the exit while Erin chased them with a broom.
It was still a fad for the inn because ice wasn’t the easiest thing to copy. Although all the big restaurants and inns like Peslas’ Tailless Thief had [Mages] or access to magic or Skills. Still, Ekirra was wagging his tail.
“Please, Mrsha? Dad says other kids want to be your friend so they can go to the inn. He says it’s ‘dis-in-genuous’, but I should be your friend even without free food. But can I have free food?”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. New friends? She signed back after a moment’s thought.
Get free food for me, too! Friend! Anyone else want food?
She looked at Numbtongue.
“Yes. I’ll get it. One cone for Mrsha, one for Ekirra…”
He looked around the table. The other Antinium had been quietly eating from bowls of fufu dipped in the spicy broth and goat’s meat they loved to eat from Imani’s kitchen. Well—only one of them was a Worker anyways, so they hadn’t exactly been leaping to join the conversation.
Purple Smiles raised a hand. The Worker nodded. The other Painted Soldiers susurrated. Mrsha finally recognized two more ‘unique’ Soldiers among the crowd at the booth.
Chesacre and Thaina! Of course, each Soldier had a name, but the two who were female Soldiers were unique. Not only because their art formed a whole across the two bodies, but because they were…female.
The other Soldiers were male, or, possibly, indifferent. Yellow Splatters had gone over it with Numbtongue and decided he was probably male. Pawn had expressed the same idea, much to Lyonette’s relief. She was bothered by all of it.
Erin said it was their choice and that the entire thing was ‘complicated’ to Mrsha and that she wasn’t an expert. Rose said Chesacre and Thaina were wonderful and used a lot of unfamiliar words.
Mrsha thought Chesacre and Thaina were amazing. Not high on the ‘cool’ list, but they’d gone into the dungeon, survived Headsnatcher, and come back! A thousand Antinium had gone in—and only they’d made it.
That was amazing. And sad. And very brave! Now, Chesacre and Thaina looked at each other, one of their hands holding the other’s, as Mrsha almost always saw them. Then—Thaina raised two free hands as she moved her bowl out of the way. And she said—
I and this one would like a drink too.
Mrsha—stared. So did Numbtongue, Yellow Splatters, and the other Antinium. Ekirra was picking his nose again while staring at the ceiling.
It hadn’t been perfect. Instead of a proper name, Thaina had just pointed. But she had done all the words. With Mrsha’s sign-language!
“You two want a drink?”
The [Soulbard] blinked at Thaina. She nodded.
Please.
That was a drawing-in motion and a half-smile, which, translated into Antinium expressions, was a slight raise and opening of the mandibles. It was…so natural.
How did they know? Of course they knew! Chesacre and Thaina and the other Antinium were regulars of the inn nowadays and they had seen Mrsha signing and teaching other people. But they had never tried to do it themselves. Because it had been Mrsha’s language.
But it wasn’t just hers. Mrsha processed all of that in a moment. Of course. Soldiers couldn’t talk. They had never talked. Their names—their identities had come when they had painted themselves.
Yet—they could have words. Thaina seemed to know what she had done. She put her hands on the table, and then looked at Mrsha.
Your words. May I have them? Please?
The little Gnoll saw the others looking at her. She looked at Thaina, saw the trembling of the fingers, and smiled. Mrsha carefully signed back.
Yes! Today is a very good day.
She saw Thaina’s antennae move. And then Chesacre carefully raised her hands.
Yes.
 
—-
 
Numbtongue’s raid on the kitchens was harder these days. Imani nearly fended him off until he said the slurpies were for the Antinium and Mrsha and Ekirra. Then she let him have them.
“Numbtongue. Are all those for you?”
Erin passed the Hobgoblin with a dozen of the precious snowcones balanced in his arms. He grunted.
“For the table. Ekirra wanted them.”
“Is it too much, Erin? I told him they’re for paying guests—”
Imani stared at Numbtongue. He grinned toothily at her. They had an odd rivalry. Imani, who was terrified of bumps in the night, and most scary things, defended her kitchen from Numbtongue casually wandering in and stealing the fruits of her labor. He had learned she would chase him out or smack him a good one if he tried. Mrsha had gotten the same lesson, incidentally.
“Oh…well, it’s cool. Ekirra’s an exception, Imani and it’s just ice and flavor.”
“You’re not the one who has to shave it down.”
Imani grumbled. Erin opened and closed her mouth and Numbtongue smirked at her.
“By the way, the Soldiers are talking with Mrsha’s sign language.”
He remarked as he walked back to the table. Erin’s nodded absently. Then her head snapped around.
“Wait, what?”
She ran over to the table, after Numbtongue.
“You can talk? With Mrsha’s…? That makes so much sense! Guys! You can speak?”
She looked at the Antinium. After a second, one of the Soldiers slowly raised his hands.
My foot hurts.
Everyone looked at Polkadot’s foot. It actually had a gash on it. Erin’s jaw dropped.
“Someone get Polkadot a healing potion! Oh my—”
She hesitated.
“Holy heck! No, wait! Heck! Wait—”
Before she could figure out a better turn of phrase, Mrsha snatched a snow-cone and began licking it. Numbtongue was serene in the moment, despite being as pleased by the developments as Mrsha. The Antinium began to nibble at the ice as Erin scrubbed at her hair.
“This is so good! Yellow Splatters! Pawn is going to be so happy. I have to tell him! We’re going by Garry’s bakery, anyways. This is—great. Right?”
“It is an excellent day.”
The [Sergeant] was smiling. Erin looked around. Ekirra and Mrsha had their faces buried in the snow cones, Numbtongue was chowing down with the Antinium—she threw her hands up.
“Does no one know how to be astounded properly?”
“Erin, where did you go? I thought you were getting the dishes—oh no. What is it this time?”
Lyonette groaned as she saw Erin dancing around by the booth. Erin turned.
“They can speak!”
The [Princess] got what Erin meant after a hurried explanation. Then she beamed at the Antinium.
“This is wonderful news! I’ll tell Pawn! He’ll be delighted. And you came up with it just now, Thaina?”
The Soldier nodded slowly.
I wanted to speak. So I did.
The others smiled. Lyonette turned to Erin.
“Let’s go to them.”
“Yeah, but—hand-waving? Shouting? Come on, guys! Dance a bit! Show me you care!”
Erin did it, laughing at the way Mrsha nearly snorted ice out her nose. She grinned as the Antinium and Numbtongue smiled.
“Fine. I hope Pawn flips, though. Imani! Imani, I actually need those dishes for Garry…”
The [Innkeeper] collected the fufu, and other dishes from Imani and Palt’s repertoire that Garry had wanted to sample. He was the only [Chef] who got recipes and the dishes themselves.
“Throw in a bag of that rice we got, please? No, wait—four bags. The big ones. He has to make food for the Free Queen and the others. He’ll pay us back.”
Imani helped load the huge bags of rice that came from Oteslia into Erin’s bag of holding. Then the two young women hurried into Liscor to spread the good news.
After they had gone. Numbtongue licked the snow cone and Ekirra decided he did want to run around after all. He had stains on his clothing, but then, so did Mrsha. The little Gnoll scowled after Lyonette. She looked around at the group.
She and Pawn have sex.
She informed the group. The Antinium, Goblin, and other Gnoll looked at her.
We know.
Yellow Splatters signed back.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was smiling. It did seem obvious in hindsight. But that wasn’t what was special about that little moment in the inn.
What was special was—it hadn’t come from her. One of the Soldiers had decided to do it of their own volition. And that was what was extraordinary.
The inn was changing. No—
Liscor was changing. Erin Solstice walked down the streets with Lyonette. And she remembered what it had been. She had been alone in the crowds, a stranger.
Now—she saw other Humans. Not many. She was still a minority. But there were Humans from Esthelm, Celum, and even further! Even a Dullahan on vacation.
And look! An Antinium patrol of Painted Antinium was marching down the street. Erin waved.
“Hey, good luck! Stop by the inn on the way back!”
They all stopped for her, which was embarrassing. But the Painted Antinium were more welcome. Some people knew specific Antinium.
And yes…some people hated the Humans in their city. Some gave the Antinium dirty looks and spoke about the Hive and the Antinium Wars.
But the proof, to Erin, that there was more good than bad was in the bakery.
Garry’s bakery was still running. And since they’d arranged to meet here, the [Chef] himself was running the stall.
“So…how much is this entire quiche?”
“Two copper coins.”
“Two copper coins.”
“…One copper coin?”
The [Chef] was ‘haggling’ with a very suspicious Human [Laborer] who’d stopped by the shop, right outside the entrance to the Hive. The man hesitated.
“And it’s got no bugs in it?”
“That is not guaranteed. Did you take it from the non-bug section?”
“Yeah…”
“Then it had no more chance of bugs than any loaf of bread you eat. Which, statistically does have a bug in it.”
“You’re lying to me.”
“There are often bits of grasshopper or other insects from the wheat harvest in grain. Is this not a fact you are aware of? I believe it adds nutritional value.”
The man hesitated. But he’d gone too far and was being weirded out by it all. He fumbled a copper coin onto the table.
“Uh…thanks. My mate said that the muffins here were to die for. Here’s hoping no bugs, right? How much for a muffin?”
“One copper.”
“One copper?”
“…One copper for two?”
“Garry!”
The Antinium turned as Erin came over, beaming. The muffins looked to die for, and she plucked one up.
