“Emme’s convinced no one will watch us after the impact the Singer made. It’s not like this is going to end our careers.”
“Mhm.”
Numbtongue kept strumming. Jasi looked past him.
“I’m glad to have seen it. The Singer—what a look. Hey—do you think I could look like that?”
“Why not? Bit of blood, ash…you have to tear your dress.”
“Yeah. Maybe after the performance. I just love the—”
Jasi was young. It spoke to her, and Numbtongue too. Noass had spent some time lambasting the death of ‘real music’ during his intermission. Numbtongue grinned.
“Makeup on the Singer looks a bit like Redfang warpaint. See? Looks good.”
He had some on his body. Jasi clapped her claws together.
“Right! That’s great! And you know what? I bet I could copy the Queen of Pop’s song!”
“Really?”
Numbtongue was astonished. Jasi smiled.
“We’re [Actors], Wesle, and I. Pralcem too—we have Skills to copy. Not as good as the real thing, but…is that your drum set?”
“Hmm. Kevin’s. We perform on stage.”
“Really?”
“Yep. You could join us.”
Numbtongue grinned. Jasi looked at him. Her mouth fell open.
“Wait. I—I just had an idea. Numbtongue. How well do you know those songs?”
“Mm. Take on Me? Boulevard of Broken Dreams? I know those two. Not the other one.”
“And—and could you play? If I—and Wesle and Pralcem—”
Jasi’s mind was spinning. She could sing, Wesle had drums—what other instruments were there? And they were…
But—then her face fell. She looked at Numbtongue. And remembered he was a Goblin. Sometimes you forgot. Not that he was green, or had crimson eyes. But what he was supposed to be.
“What?”
Numbtongue looked at Jasi. She sighed.
“It’s just—I’m sorry, but if we—”
She looked at him. Numbtongue’s hair was frazzled. Because he’d been wearing that helmet the entire time. She opened and closed her mouth.
“What?”
Jasi glanced at the magic door. She adjusted her dress—then carefully ripped a sleeve with her claws. The [Bard] raised an eyebrow.
“Is that bad?”
“We can get Eltistiman to [Repair] it if we need to. And speaking of which—Numbtongue, would you like to try something crazy? I don’t know if it’d work. But—this is Erin’s inn, right?”
He looked at her, an eyebrow raised. She told him her idea. And he started laughing. Of course he was in.
 
—-
 
Cara was relaxing after the performance. She felt blissful. There was a whole lot of shit that was about to come her way.
Ailendamus would not like her taking a side. But they had already made her an enemy. They just didn’t remember. She hadn’t been the Queen of Pop at the time. As for the rest…
Wistram might get the Illuminati reference she’d painted them under if someone blabbed. But so what? It was done. Now, she was ready for what came next.
She’d deal with it tomorrow. Cara lay back—she hadn’t even bothered to take off her makeup and dress. She was so tired…
But she was still amped from the performance. So she turned on the scrying orb. Now this felt like home, in a sense.
“…wonderful performance. Not the Queen of Pop, but it doesn’t all need to be that, eh, Drassi? Some of us like classic music.”
“Up yours, Noass.”
Cara laughed as the two Drakes talked over the last performance. She liked Drassi. The two Drakes glared at each other.
“Now, we have a performance by the Players of Celum. A sensation that’s come to Invrisil. They’re putting on this…what are they called?”
“Plays.”
The Queen of Pop hit her head. She stared at the ceiling—she’d fallen out of her bed.
“What the fuck?”
She shot upright. Noass was asking Drassi what it was. The Drake folded her arms.
“They started in Celum! I’ve seen them. There’s some in Liscor, Invrisil—it’s great. It’s like a [Performer] except—well, more stylized. You’re going to want to watch it, folks.”
Was the attention there? Not…really. Bowsong’s performance and Cara’s own entertainment had distracted the audience. The scrying orbs were on, but no one was there, so to speak.
Cara was all the way there. She stared at the orb as Drassi introduced the Players. [Actors]? Were they from Earth? She turned to shout for Abebi to take notes—
And then the orb changed. In it appeared a Drake. Cara sat back.
“Not from Earth.”
She was standing on a stage. And holding…Cara blinked. It looked like a microphone. Glittering—and the Drake had a torn dress. Her scales were glistening. Her neck-spines hung wetly—they were dyed bright green on the ends.
Jasi even had some of Numbtongue’s war paint on a cheek. She looked up. Cara looked at a copy of her dress. A copy of her. Then she saw the stage light up.
A man sat at a drum set. A Gnoll held a backup guitar. And an armored figure wearing a blank helmet stood to the side with a guitar sparking.
“Is this…”
Wesle began hammering on the drums. Thien burst into the wagon.
“Cara! Someone’s playing—”
He saw her turn. Wesle was laying down the same beat—playing as well as Thien had. And then the armored figure began playing the guitar—except properly, not like Greg.
“Holy. Shit. They’re not—”
Take on Me began playing as Jasi began singing into the microphone. They were playing the same song! Cara stared.
The [Actors] had stage presence. They had seen how Cara did it. Now—they were copying her song! And adding to it! Jasi was rocking out and the [Guitarist]—
“Dude. That guy can play! Is that lightning coming from the strings?”
“Someone get rid of Greg and get me whoever that is.”
Cara stared at Numbtongue as he played. His armor and helmet were nondescript—but he’d painted two red eyes and a frowny-face on it.
“He has to be from Earth. That’s a reference to—”
Jasi was singing. Not as well as Cara, despite her [Perfect Imitation]—Cara had more Skills that Jasi hadn’t copied. But look at her. She had real passion. She was laughing, singing—
And she caught sight of herself in the blank scrying mirror on the wall of the inn. Jasi blinked. She stumbled over her words as she saw her reflection.
Look at that Jasi in the mirror. The Drake gave herself a wide-eyed look. Just for a moment. Then—the [Actress] smiled. She laughed and sang with herself. Past and present.
Look at me now.
The Players of Celum grabbed the spotlight from the Singer in a moment.
 
—-
 
Grimalkin of Pallass and Chaldion stared at the unexpected cover of the Singer’s cover of an Earth song. It really wasn’t the point.
“So that’s an entire group in Terandria. They’re not as rare as you thought, Sinew Magus.”
“Thoughts, Grand Strategist?”
The old Drake grimaced. This was getting bigger than even he could imagine. And he’d been able to understand what Grimalkin had told him.
“We need to figure out how large this is. Wistram…Wistram must know. So that means—”
A claw covered his face. Chaldion kept speaking for a second and tried to jerk back. Saliss of Lights slowly pushed him out of the way. And Grimalkin.
“Who. Is. That. Drake?”
He was staring at Jasi. Grimalkin recoiled as the [Alchemist] gazed into the scrying orb and Jasi, who had just finished her song. At her style. The mood. He had seen Cara. But this was a Drake. And her look—
Rebellious. Unconventional. Noass was spluttering about the addition to the lineup, but Drassi was celebrating it. Because it was…youth.
And Saliss wasn’t the only one who was fascinated. Other Drakes in Pallass, other young people in Invrisil, across Izril and the world had something to copy. It was like a wave.
Lady Salkis of Pallass was heading for the 8th Floor. She had never had a reason to visit before but—her [Bodyguards] could barely catch up to the usually-sick or meek [Lady].
“Lady Salkis, please wait! Your father would be worried sick! That inn is not safe. There are Humans—it’s considered a hotspot of dangerous activities—”
She pushed open the door, following the song. Jasi—whom Salkis now had to see more of. The Drake halted as she opened the door and saw, amid the cheering, the crowd, the [Mage] with the scrying mirror asking questions of Jasi—a figure in armor make his escape.
Numbtongue walked back out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He had only been there for the music. And to be on the scrying orb, but he wasn’t going to push his luck. He pulled off his helmet as the onyx-scaled Drake came through the door of the common room.
The Hobgoblin blinked at Salkis. She stared at a Hobgoblin. The [Bodyguards] cried out in horror and reached for their weapons before a Mrsha kicked them in the back of the legs with wroth and fury.
Whoa. Salkis looked at Jasi, Numbtongue, and around the inn. She…decided she was going to like it here. After all. She was a ██████████ ██████.
 
—-
 
“That wasn’t stealing. At least, we surely hope it wasn’t. It was a tribute to the Queen of Pop, which amazed us all. And we are [Actors].”
Jasi was giving an interview to the camera. She was panting, but looked elated. Drassi was nodding eagerly.
“And you just—copied it? Like that?”
“Life’s but a stage. And we’re actors who fret every moment, Miss Drassi.”
The [Reporter] chuckled. Jasi looked up.
“And now, ladies and gentlemen. Our actual performance is a play, which we’d like to dedicate to the city of Celum, which is where all this began. We’re actually starting a fundraiser and we’ll be donating the proceeds of the next ten plays and putting on special performances for the cause of rebuilding…”
Something for home. Wesle was smiling and nodding. It felt right. Erin wasn’t the only person who could do something. After all—Jasi was an [Actor]. And she had learned from the best.
Emme introduced the play as Jasi stepped back behind the curtains.
“And now, let us begin, dear audience. A classic—Hamlet, by the Bard of Avon. Please, silence until the play is over. The events on stage are not real—except as stories. We are the Players of Celum, and we pray your indulgence. When the curtains open—the play begins.”
She stepped back. And now—with considerable attention, Jasi playing the Queen Gertrude, Wesle as Hamlet, Kilkran as Claudius, and so on, put on their show.
Updated a bit. Changed in places, with nuance like a Drake wedding a Human man over a fictitious throne and Gnolls in the cast. But quintessentially the same. And they shone.
Erin Solstice emerged from her rooms to find Numbtongue chatting with a Drake she vaguely recognized. Mrsha was trying to beat a bodyguard to death with her paws. Erin pointed to the sign and saw the Players of Celum enter Pallass—and take the world’s stage.
Cara watched people like her.
It was possibly an ordinary day in The Wandering Inn. Or a good moment. Could you have one with the other? As the sun left the sky, and much ado about everything occurred, the stars rose.
The Players got an invitation to Pallass. Cara sent a [Message] to them and got dozens in return. Ailendamus got royally peeved, Erin decided to add another sign people had to walk around in her inn…
Mrsha got a kilt. She used it as a pillow as she waited for tomorrow, which would be even more fun.
The stars shone in the night sky, with two full moons. It was another day.
A Raskghar slowly creaked open the closed shutters of the adventurer’s barricades. It sniffed the air and growled to all of the others.
It was time.
