The door closed. Jasi looked around.
“Oh. Celum.”
She sighed. She had seen it with Wesle and Grev right after the attack. But—it still hurt.
Celum had been wrecked by the Bloodfeast Raider’s raid. Now—at least the ash was gone, the bodies buried.
But it looked like a shell of the city it had been. Jasi saw the city of Celum in her mind, bustling, not a trading hub, but always busy and enough for a place where she had grown up all her life.
Now—the streets were broken, some being laid, but the money and the people weren’t here. Many had left. Many had died. Some had gone to other cities, others to Liscor…
Erin Solstice herself had helped one of the [Innkeepers] from Celum, Timbor Parthian, who’d lost his entire inn, find work in Liscor. He had set up an inn in the new district that was being built with help from Selys.
But not everyone had an Erin. Jasi began to wander as the [Warrior] folded his arms, looking around. She walked down street after street. Looking for…
“Oh no.”
Her home street was gone. The shabby apartment? Torn down and replaced by a [Healer]’s clinic. Jasi stared. It had been months.
But it felt like years. She was conscious of looks at her—she was still wearing the dress from the Djinni’s Spoon. Someone came over.
“Milady? Spare a few coppers? We lost it all in the Bloodfeast attack. Me’n my sister are starving.”
A boy cupped his hands and looked pitifully up at her. His face was sooty, smudged, and his clothing torn. Jasi saw a pitiful girl clinging to his arm.
“Oh—”
The boy pressed forwards.
“Please, Miss. We haven’t ate for the last few days—”
His eyes flickered. Just in time, Jasi slapped the hand reaching for her coin pouch down. The boy sneaking up on her from behind yelped.
“Damnit! Run!”
He fled. The other two [Beggar]-[Thieves] turned to run.
“Hold it!”
Jasi snapped and the two froze. It was useful, being able to copy a Watch Captain’s snap. Jasi had imitated Zevara there. She beckoned them over.
“I won’t hurt you. But you two should know better than to run that con here.”
“What? You’re from the street?”
The boy’s jaw dropped. He hung back with the girl, who didn’t look so waifish anymore. They were clearly ready to book it if Jasi came after them.
Street urchins, like Grev. She put her claws on her hips.
“My brother did the same thing all the time. I’d have never thought someone would try it on me.”
They gave her goggle-eyed looks.
“And why not? You walk around with that much sparkle, here?”
Jasi had forgotten how she must look. And this street—it wasn’t rich, and it hadn’t been even before the attack. She had been so poor, washing clothes for coppers.
She shook her head.
“You two—are you actually starving?”
“It’s not fun. Most folk ran off after the attack. Fucking raiders.”
The boy spat. Jasi nodded. That was what she remembered too. She dug in her pouch.
“Here.”
She tossed a gold coin at both of them. The two yelped and grabbed for it. The boy bit the coin.
“Are you crazy?”
“No. I grew up here. And don’t you dare have a gang mug me or I’ll kill you. Go on.”
The boy and girl hesitated. Then the girl pointed, eyes wide.
“You—you’re Jasi! The Players of Celum!”
The Drake saw heads turn with the exclamation. Suddenly, the entire street was looking at her. She smiled, ruefully.
“That’s me.”
“You came back? I heard you’d left! Can I have an autograph? Hold on—maybe I can get one’ve the autograph blanks! Please?”
Jasi eyed the boy, who was desperately looking around.
“I just gave you a gold coin.”
“An autograph’s worth more! ‘Specially if you kiss it!”
“Miss Jasi! I saw your play!”
Someone sprinted up to Jasi. The Drake saw a man, fumbling for…
“I am a huge fan! I wanted to go to Invrisil, but I couldn’t find a ticket! Sign—sign my shirt! Please!”
He ripped his cloak off and bared his chest. Jasi backed up.
“I’m sorry, but I just came to—”
“It’s Jasi! She’s here! Are you going to perform? Please sign an autograph! Please! It’d mean food for a month!”
More people were flooding down the street. Like the boy, they had pieces of parchment, anything possible to sign.
And Jasi started to get worried. She’d had this in Invrisil, but Emme always had bodyguards or Eltistiman around. Here? The people had that desperate look. She backed up.
“I’m sorry. I have to go. I—”
[The Actor’s Shadow]? But that wasn’t a Skill to get away. Jasi began to turn. She might have to run but—
“Miss Jasi! Please! If you could just spare a minute, an hour! I’m such a fan—”
The man who wanted her to sign his shirt grabbed at her shoulder. He lunged—
An arm checked him into the ground. The Human man was stunned. Jasi saw the [Warrior] blocking the way, arms spread. He was wearing armor—she turned and ran.
“Thank you!”
She fled. The crowd was slowed by the stranger. Jasi just had to turn randomly a few times and she lost them. She stopped, panting, and brushed at her face.
“[Perfect Imitation]—”
Shoulders down. Head bowed. Spine curved…Jasi couldn’t do anything about the clothing, but she could act different. She slipped out of the alleyway, suddenly meeker, scurrying with a different stride as if she were a [Scribe] or [Secretary] carrying some missive.
No one immediately followed her. Jasi breathed a sigh of relief. Unconsciously she turned the corner—
And saw the strange adventurer walking towards her. Jasi—froze.
She didn’t know whoever had helped her. And they had helped her. But they weren’t one of the Player’s [Bodyguards]. She didn’t recognize the helmet or armor either.
Jasi turned back the other way, still acting. But she realized the stranger was striding towards her and sped up.
Back to the inn? No! She was too far from Erin’s door. Jasi turned down another street, desperately searching for…the other figure raised a hand.
“Wait!”
She ignored the muffled voice. Jasi fled, faster, and saw the figure take off. He charged after her.
“Stop!”
Jasi grabbed at her wand she carried for self-defense. She raised it—and the [Warrior] grabbed her arm and pointed it up. Jasi opened her mouth to scream—
“It’s me. Stop, stop.”
The Hobgoblin flipped up the visor of his helmet with a growl. Jasi froze.
“Numbtongue?”
He grinned at her.
“Surprise.”
He let go of her quickly. Some people had stared—Jasi calmed down at once and began to laugh.
“You scared me! What are you doing here?”
“What, fellow person? I am just going for a walk. I am not a Goblin.”
The Hob’s voice was muffled behind his helmet. He was wearing gear such that no part of his body showed. Jasi clapped her claws together.
“Why?”
“I want to eat salt-geese. Testing it out in Celum. You shouldn’t walk around without guards. Too dangerous.”
Jasi nodded slowly. She didn’t know Numbtongue that well—he had appeared after Erin had returned to Liscor. But she’d been in the inn with him and the Redfangs for a while. Now, he was the last one left.
“I know. I wasn’t thinking. I just wanted to come back and see…it’s so different.”
The Hobgoblin gave her a knowing look.
“Yes. Things change. Very strange to see.”
They stared around Celum. Numbtongue pointed.
“There. There was Stitchworks.”
“Oh! Really?”
Jasi couldn’t even see where the shop had been. A butcher’s shop had opened in place. Numbtongue nodded.
“Everything’s different now. Poor Celum.”
Poor Celum indeed. Jasi nodded. She looked around.
“Dead gods. We’re right next to…the Frenzied Hare. Is it still open?”
“Hm. Erin’s other old inn?”
The Hobgoblin had never been. Jasi nodded.
“It might have survived the attack. Do you…have a minute, Numbtongue?”
“Sure.”
The two walked down the street. Jasi felt her sense of nostalgia intensify with every passing step. Yes, she’d followed Erin here—and then the first play! Oh, dead gods, it was all coming back.
This street had been spared the ravages of the attack. And here it was. Jasi stared up at the faded sign.
The Frenzied Hare. 
And a little sign had been attached below it.
Serves pizza!
It looked like Erin herself had written that and no one had ever bothered to take it down. Someone had crossed out another bit angrily.
Now showing, the Players of Celum!
“Dead gods.”
“Pizza.”
The two had different reactions. Jasi looked at the inn. It looked…not empty, but not bustling either. She hesitantly took a few steps forwards.
“I just want to go in for a second. Just a—”
Jasi pushed open the doors. And there she was. A worn inn. A pair of servers—a young man and woman, clearly tired, not Maran and…who was the other one?
And a woman, emerging from the kitchen, arguing with one of the staff.
“Coming! Have a seat anywhere! I’ll just—”
Miss Agnes turned and saw Jasi in the doorway. She dropped the tray with the mini-pizza and two tankards. Someone at a table cursed as the two crashed to the ground. But the [Innkeeper] didn’t even notice.
“Jasi?”
The Drake walked back in time, in a daze.
“Miss Agnes?”
“Dead gods. You look—Jasi? Is it really you? Let me see you, my dear!”
The old woman spread her arms, beaming. Jasi hesitated, but Agnes swept up to her and clasped her arms.
“You look incredible! Are the other Players here? I never thought I’d see you! The star of Invrisil! Sit, sit!”
“I just—I was in the area and I thought I’d check on—it’s good to see you, Miss Agnes!”
“And you, my dear! Sit down. I’ll get you—is this your friend?”
“Er—bodyguard.”
“Hi.”
Numbtongue grunted. Agnes stared at him and then beamed.
“Of course you’d have one! Sit down. Ekal! Ekal! Get Jasi something to drink! No, the finest wine! What will you have, Jasi?”
“I’m fine, really.”
The Drake found herself swept into a chair. Agnes fussed around her. And everyone in the inn was staring. Jasi knew what she had to do. She went around, signing little autograph cards—she had her own supply. She met a coughing man from the kitchen—
“Who was that?”
“Jerom, of course.”
Agnes gave Jasi a strange look. The Drake had never actually met the woman’s husband, who had been ill the entire time Erin had been helping out. She blinked—it was a blast from the past.
“Jasi, it is so good to see you! Are the other Players here?”
Agnes beamed after she’d put away the autograph in her belt. Jasi looked at her. And suddenly—she was the same terrified Drake [Washer] who Erin was insisting become a [Barmaid].
She felt smaller, poorer, and Agnes felt more important, even towering, all of a sudden. But Agnes was looking at her like she was some glittering jewel.
“I—no. They’re in The Wandering Inn.”
Agnes’ face twitched a bit at the name.
“Well, I’m delighted you came here, Jasi! It’s so good of you to do that! Won’t you stay a bit? So much has happened—you heard about the attack?”
“I came back to see after it. The Bloodfeast Raiders?”
The woman shuddered.
“Monsters. Monsters! And Celum won’t ever be the same! Jerom and I couldn’t sleep for weeks! We’re only lucky one of them didn’t attack the inn. So many lost everything—did you hear that The Drunken Swordsman’s gone? Poor Timbor. He left Celum. I haven’t heard of him once. Ulna is worried sick. She’s still running Blazehound—it was only partly damaged, but half the inns closed in a single day.”
Despite that, the Frenzied hare didn’t seem to have more customers. Jasi supposed that the exodus of people hadn’t given the inn more guests even if it was one of fewer remaining.
“He made it to Liscor. Timbor, I mean. He’s actually opened The Drunken Swordsman a second time. But he’s calling it The Drunken Gnoll instead.”
“Did he? Liscor? I can’t imagine it. I’d visit, but the inn’s got me running about. And I’d…”
Have to meet Erin Solstice. Agnes and Erin had not parted on good terms. Jasi hesitated.
“Are Maran and Safry…?”
Agnes’ face froze.
“At Ulna’s. She took them in. But let’s not talk about here. Tell me about Invrisil!”
Jasi glanced at the door. Some of the people who’d gotten her autograph—including both of the servers—had left. And more were trying to get in.
“I—don’t know if I have time. The Players of Celum are doing wonderfully—”
“Don’t mind them. The Players? And you still call yourselves Celum’s players!”
“Of course. We did come from here. And we don’t forget…”
But she had forgotten. Jasi found Miss Agnes a stranger and so familiar it hurt. And it hurt because—well—Jasi was the same girl again.
And Miss Agnes was a bit overbearing. Pushy. And Jasi now recalled—she hadn’t liked Miss Agnes. The woman had disliked her because she was a Drake and in her eyes, a poor girl looking for a handout. But Miss Agnes now clearly thought Jasi could do no wrong.
Yet she treated Jasi as she had. A curious give and take of past and present.
“Just sit, Jasi. I’ll handle them. You lot!”
The [Innkeeper] stood up and Jasi saw Numbtongue’s visor open and shut so he could have a slice of pizza while no one was looking.
“I’ll get us out, Numbtongue. I just…”
“It’s fine. Mm. Good pizza. That Human is a good [Cook].”
The Hobgoblin seemed content just to be here. He snatched another piece of pizza and turned his head to eat it. Jasi watched Miss Agnes arguing with the people who wanted to see her.
She hadn’t liked Agnes. But the inn—the state of Celum—it hurt Jasi. This was her home. She’d helped out of course, at the beginning. But she was living in Invrisil now.
“I thought it’d look better than this. I…forgot.”
“Mhm.”
The Goblin replied. Jasi was shamefaced. She looked at herself in the mugs. Agnes’ inn wasn’t good. But her husband was a good [Cook] when he was healthy. And she still polished the mugs. Erin had fallen out with her. But Agnes had helped take Erin in. Here—
“I started acting in this inn, you know.”
Numbtongue gave Jasi a sidelong look. He stared across the inn—they would have hung the curtain there—and Erin would be making popcorn…
“Really?”
“Oh yes. Way back in the day. Erin was stranded here. She had a jar of dead bees, Octavia was running her shop…and she asked us to help her put on a play one day. It was just me, Grev, Wesle—Erin used to call him ‘Fuzzylips’ all the time, did you know that?”
The Hobgoblin laughed so hard he nearly fell out his seat. Jasi smiled.
“It’s why he doesn’t grow facial hair anymore. He couldn’t bear it. Dead gods. Back then, Erin was struggling so much to even go back to Liscor.”
“It’s far on foot or horseback. Without magic.”
Jasi nodded. Look at them now. Look at—
Her musings were cut off as Agnes bustled over.
“Jasi? I have a tiny little request, if you’d listen to it?”
