Wesle reached out—and drew a long, nobleman’s sword. Beautiful steel, jeweled pommel—it looked and swung like an expensive weapon. And it was—except for the enchantment. In the next moment, Wesle sat back and poured himself a cup.
“Not that it’d be a weapon for me, guvnah. Humble folk that I am.”
He winked as the mug, which even smelled like the ones Temile had drunk out of at cheap bars, was filled with a dirty bottle that the Djinni’s Spoon wouldn’t serve to dogs. Wesle took a swig, gagged, and handed it to Kilkran.
“Try this, Kilkran.”
“Dead gods, it tastes like home. Get it away from me!”
The man swatted it away and the drink and mug went flying. They vanished before they hit the floor to applause, as if Wesle had done a scene.
Any prop. Well, any everyday prop. A Skill to make anyone green with envy. But—Jasi hadn’t fallen behind in her own right.
[Famed Lead Actress] was her class—a predictable upgrade. But her Skills? Well, one of them was born in how she looked now.
Jasi had always been pretty. But now she glimmered with a kind of vitality and vigor that not even make up—which she could produce ten gold coin’s worth of for free with every performance—or potions could give her.
[Refinement by Accolade]. She literally improved with every performance. [Audience Charge] made her even more of an impact when she was doing well. [Perfect Imitation] was her version of Wesle’s Skill.
And to cap her Level 30 class was…
[The Actor’s Shadow]. If Wesle could produce any mundane object for his bit—Jasi could replace him.
Temile had seen it happen. Jasi could create a doppelganger who was…well, a shadow of the real thing. Which was still good and would get better with time. She could literally perform two roles on stage at the same time or use her shadow in a sacrificial bit like as Juliet—a real stabbing through the heart.
But the true power of the Skill? [The Actor’s Shadow] created a shadow-Jasi. Of…any species. They all were quintessentially Jasi—same height, relative to species. Same build. But dead gods.
What a Skill.
 
—-
 
Temile was deeper into his cups, but reassured that there were sobering potions such that he’d walk out fresh as a daisy if he so chose. He looked around and finally realized they were down a Player, except for Erin.
“Where’s Grev, Jasi?”
She grimaced.
“Hanging with his friends. Being a Face. Out of trouble, I think. He just refused point-blank to come to another restaurant. Mainly because I won’t let him drink.”
“Really? When I was a lad—”
“Erin told me it was dangerous. I think Grev actually listens, but he doesn’t care for us ‘old folk’ anyways. He’ll be about. He won’t want to miss the event later today. Speaking of which…”
They were having lunch, of course, although it felt like dinner with how much he was eating—and not getting full! Temile just felt more invigorated, in fact.
“Ah yes. What is the big surprise? Anyone? I know you’ve been keeping it secret, Emme. You’re performing in Pallass, is that it?”
“If we were, Temile, you’d be managing it. Guess again.”
The half-Dwarf woman had a sparkle in her eyes. Temile felt a leap in his chest.
“…You’re going to First Landing? Another noble’s invited you to a private play?”
They’d done that several times. The others shook their heads. Some like Yimur didn’t know. Wesle sighed.
“With Magnolia Reinhart gone…it’s tricky. We’re not uh, sure, if she’s still the patron. We’ve asked, but her mansion is virtually empty. Dicey.”
Politics. The others went silent for a moment, warily. But they were [Actors]. Hopefully no one killed them for being entertaining.
Emme waved that off.
“Damn it, Wesle. Now I have to say it since you brought us down. Temile was never going to guess!”
Wesle winked at Temile and the other man grinned. Emme looked around.
“I have—at great expense and effort—finally booked us a chance to open Pallass and First Landing to us. We’re popular and word’s spreading, but a Walled City is too good for us and First Landing has yet to know the Players. So—the 1st Troupe is going to put on the performance of a lifetime tonight. Half past seven—possibly later. That’s one of the reasons we’re eating magical food now.”
“Who’re we performing for? Even if it’s a dozen nobles, and I haven’t heard of that many, that’s not worth a ‘lifetime’s performance’, Emme.”
Kilkran adjusted his doublet, looking offended. Also—somewhat arrogant. But some of the other [Actors] were nodding. Emme scowled.
“You want more than a dozen nobles, Kilkran? Try dozens of monarchs. Try the world. Wistram has agreed to feature us on a segment tonight! It was hard to get and—”
That was all she said because the table exploded into noise. Some of the eavesdroppers from the other tables scrambled to gossip the news out. The Players were on their feet.
“And you didn’t let us rehearse?”
One of the [Actors] screamed. Emme shouted them down.
“We’ve done this a hundred times! It’s Hamlet and don’t argue! We have plenty of time! There are just a few—complications—I asked for two experts to help us. I think they’re nearly here.”
She nodded at the door and called for Montressa and Bezale to be let in. Temile sat down, heart pounding in his chest.
This was it. Wistram? Television? Montressa was looking around the fancy restaurant. She looked at the Players, ready to take it to the next level. She hesitated.
“Uh—bad news, Emme. Players. You’ve been pushed down two slots in the lineup. There’s uh…complications.”
“What?”
The others exclaimed. Montressa winced. And Temile—listening—realized that Wistram didn’t value the Players as highly as some of them did themselves. They had no idea what the Players were. And television was a hard stage to get onto.
But they’d see.
 
—-
 
The Players of Celum poured into The Wandering Inn to discuss the issue. Numbtongue half-noticed them. He was sitting with Bird and Erin.
Yellow Splatters had returned to the Hive to spread the good word. Pawn had left his good word in his room upstairs and Lyonette was managing the new hires—including Ishkr’s sister.
She looked rather like the [Head Waiter]. Except younger, and clearly—unhappy with her new employment. Ishkr was talking to her and she was growling a reply. Numbtongue watched with the fascination he always had with sibling dynamics. Then he went back to Bird.
“Okay. Bird song—take two.”
The two were quietly composing. Bird rocked back and forth.
“I am Bird. There are birds. Have you heard about the water bird?”
Numbtongue was trying to fit the guitar to Bird’s song—which he might have made up just now. They were completely different lyrics than yesterday, or even five seconds ago. Erin was laughing.
And Numbtongue’s fascination with electric guitar riffs wasn’t exactly the same as Bird’s melodies. But the two were having fun.
“What’s this about being pushed back? It took me ages to book the slot!”
Emme was pulling at her hair. Numbtongue strummed as he half-listened. Bird scratched at his head.
“I am out of words to rhyme with bird, Erin.”
“Word? Heard? Nerd? T-turd?”
“Ew.”
“I’m no good with rhymes, Bird.”
“That is apparent, Erin.”
The Hobgoblin saw Montressa trying to sooth the wrath of Emme.
“I’m sorry. I’m trying to get in touch with my people, Emme. Believe me, it’s not something on our end. Rather, it’s uh…politics.”
“How?”
It was rather simple to Numbtongue. He bypassed the layers of meaning and went to a very Goblin-answer.
The Wistram television was the first of its kind. People wanted to be on it. That was everyone, from [Kings] and [Queens] to powerful [Warlords] and [Mages].
Not everyone could be on it. It was like a quiver of magic arrows being shared in the Redfang tribe. First it went to those who deserved, nay, needed the time. Extraordinary events like the King of Destruction’s battles and so on took precedence.
But Wistram needed to fill the times when the Hundredfriends Courier wasn’t sailing into harbor. And so they ‘booked’ slots with scheduled events. A chess game. A soccer match. Two Level 50 [Fencers] going at it. A poem by the world’s best [Poet].
And so on. Erin broke in here to whisper.
“That’s like home! It’s TV, Numbtongue. Hey, the Players look great. I would have gone to that restaurant with Temile! But I was doing the job applications. Apparently it was really fancy.”
“Mm. Should have taken me.”
“I’d have sent you if they wouldn’t kill you!”
The Hobgoblin grinned.
“Alas.”
“The point is that you weren’t guaranteed a slot, Emme. They probably even told you that.”
“But we paid them over two thousand gold—”
“Two thousand?”
Temile gagged on the drink he’d taken from the Djinni’s Spoon. Kilkran stared in horror at Emme—she waved a finger at them.
“Don’t talk! Do you know how much a booking at the Djinni’s Spoon is worth? Anyways—it was for the chance!”
“You’ll get the money back if they cancel, or they’ll move you down. The point is it’s inevitable, Emme. I’m sorry—and believe me, Beza and I are leaning on our friends to get you confirmed.”
Montressa was apologetic. Meanwhile, Kilkran came over.
“Miss Erin, you are lovely as always! And Bird! Numbtongue, isn’t it?”
The Hobgoblin stared at the bald man with a voice like deep velvet, if that was even a thing. A saw being dragged pleasantly through wood while submerged in honey. Erin beamed.
“Kilkran! You look great! What’s that you’ve got?”
“Oh. A, ah, gift. You weren’t able to come to the Djinni’s Spoon so we thought we’d—”
Almost shamefaced, the man offered Erin the salt-goose. All his bravado in Invrisil was more subdued around Erin. She had been there from the start, when he’d auditioned. She laughed in delight.
“What? Baked in salt? That’s silly! Who’d do something like that? Palt! Imani! Lyonette, look at this! Mrsha too! It’s a salt-goose!”
“A goose in salt?”
Bird stopped humming. He sat up. Kilkran placed it on the table. Bird brushed some salt off as the others came out. Palt whistled.
“Is that from one of the magical restaurants? Erin—that’s high-class! You can bake in salt, you know.”
“Get out. What will you weirdos think of next?”
Erin laughed. Bird meanwhile was vibrating.
“A salt bird. A salt bird! I very much like you, Kilkran.”
“Think nothing of it. Er—I don’t think you eat the salt Bird…”
Numbtongue sniffed the goose. Oh yes. Mrsha was already drooling. It was going to be a rather fine dinner. But he still wanted to listen.
“Look—it’s about precedence. I don’t know who bumped you down, but it might have been royalty. They have deeper pockets and they look more entertaining.”
“Than us?”
Andel was outraged. Jasi rolled her eyes.
“No one’s seen a play, Andel. It’s not Montressa’s fault. Let’s just prepare for our slot if we do get one. This is an audition.”
“That’s right. No slacking. Kilkran, stop showing off the goose! We’ve got to make sure…”
The others were debating. As it turned out they were ready—they just didn’t know when they would be called to action. They might be bumped up the queue.
“They must be flooded. I’m sure the Mage’s Guild in Invrisil has a representative who’s supposed to facilitate the scrying. Well—Beza and I can make sure they go where you want. Emme, let’s go. The rest of you—we’ll take care of it.”
“Maybe a run-through of the play on stage?”
Kilkran murmured to Wesle. The [Actor] shrugged.
“We have done Hamlet in our sleep, but why not? We have an audience!”
Indeed, a number of people in the inn were practically begging for it and the Players were handing out the valuable autographs. Numbtongue saw Erin rolling her eyes as Kilkran tried to hand her a special one.
“It’s worth something, Erin! I’d be hurt if you didn’t have this one! First-class!”
“I know, Kilkran. It’s just so—funny! Thank you, I’ll treasure it. And here’s Grev.”
“Heya, Erin. I heard Emme had her beard in a twist. You all done with the restaurant? Anything explode while I was away?”
The boy walked into the inn. Like the others—he was fuller, richer. Like a Hobgoblin returning to his Tribe. Numbtongue strummed quietly, watching the Players glitter. They were before his time. An original crew, back when Erin had been in Celum.
Look at them now. Vying to get on the enchanted mirror in the common room—currently dark while the one in the rec room was always on—with royalty. He wasn’t worried about their issues finding reception.
Their hour would come. And if it meant more good food, he was all in. He wondered if it were possible to sneak into Invrisil? Numbtongue had a thought and left the table to go to his room.
Unlike Bird, whose room was a [Hunter]’s haven of arrows, trophies, and so on, Numbtongue had a much different setup.
Weapons for Shorthilt, rocks and gems from Pyrite, and any number of tools for fixing his guitar or maintaining his gear. Two spare crossbows; Erin gave him money and the Hobgoblin had gotten used to ordering gear. And…he rummaged around and found a few tools.
“Hmm.”
Pyrite and Numbtongue had both had an idea. Shorthilt was mostly weapons-based information. Reiss folded his arms, scowling as he watched them work from afar.
“This is a bad idea.”
Numbtongue ignored him. And in the inn, Erin Solstice broke off from chatting with the Players to get a very important letter.
“Miss Solstice? Mage’s Guild [Message]. Here you go.”
A Street Runner from Liscor appeared to hand Erin a few letters. The [Innkeeper] stopped to open it. Mrsha’s ears perked up at the exclamation.
“What? Wow! Mrsha! Gah, what is this? It’s another Manus-spam letter. Shoo! But here! Look at this! I just got a [Message] from Ryoka! Mrsha! She’s coming to Invrisil! She’s already on her way!”
The Gnoll cub threw up her paws. So did Erin. They danced around and Erin laughed.
“And—wait. She’s bringing a friend? She has something big…no way!”
“Huh. I didn’t know she had any friends.”
Lyonette folded her arms and sniffed. Erin ignored that. She laughed in delight. Jasi looked thoughtfully at Erin, because she remembered Ryoka.
“The gang’s all getting back together.”
Wesle smiled. Jasi nodded and turned. Beza, who had remained to chat with Wistram while Montressa and Emme went to the Mage’s Guild in Invrisil, exclaimed.
“Maweil’s sails. Damn it, no wonder we were moved down!”
She threw down the scroll she’d been using to write [Messages] on with a curse. The others looked at her.
“What is it, Beza?”
