“How’s my favorite Antinium [Chef]? And that’s only you, so don’t get worried. You can’t sell these for a copper, Garry! They’re worth a lot more! Even with bugs! Can I have one?”
“Yes, Erin. It is good to see you.”
The Antinium smiled. Erin took a big bite of the raisin muffin, and the [Laborer] brightened. He fumbled for his coin pouch.
“I’ll have s—”
Erin sprayed the acidfly-muffin to the side. The man backed away as Erin coughed.
“No, wait! I didn’t check which one it was. That uh—it was good except for bugs. You know I have a thing about bugs, Garry.”
“I have observed this, Erin. I am sorry you do not find it palatable. Yet.”
The [Chef] reassured her. Lyonette caught up as Erin drank from her water flask.
“Hello, Garry. Is your shop doing well?”
The Antinium smiled.
“I have lost money every single day since opening. However, I have also cleared my entire inventory. Even the bug-items. I am leveling up.”
“That’s great, really. Do I have anything in my teeth? Where’s Pawn? We’ve got great news, Garry.”
The [Chef]’s antennae perked up. As Erin unloaded her bag of holding he listened to the revelation about Antinium speech.
“This is most excellent. I am very happy! I must have my two assistants learn to speak…although I do not know if they will be able to do the same signing.”
“Why?”
“Their bodies are not the same. They have different appendages.”
“That’s right…because they’re Flying Antinium? What are their names again?”
“Pisca and Runel. They are both nearing Level 10 as [Assistant Baker] and [Assistant Cook].”
“Ooh! And here’s the rice…Imani says she’d be glad to have you in the kitchen if you want to practice.”
Garry delicately sampled the dishes Erin had put out.
“This is indeed…mm. Yes. I am very pleased. I think I will attempt to make them first, Erin, and then inquire if I have questions. Interesting…a root mashed up? What if I added intestines of, say, larvae and…”
The young woman’s smile turned a bit green as Garry began speculating. Erin loved Garry’s bakery, really. But she had vowed never to buy anything close to the insect-section.
“Is Pawn around, Garry?”
“I believe so. He went to purchase some supplies and has been delayed. Is Bird doing well, Erin?”
“He’s as happy as can be. I think he’s planning on upgrading the tower—the third floor’s done but Lyonette wants an attic. Bird’s got plans since he asked for all this wood and nails and rope and stuff.”
“He’d better not try making changes without me. But at least he’s busy and not asking for a ballista. Or a catapult. Or a trebuchet.”
Lyonette rolled her eyes. Then she and Erin saw a figure heading down the mostly-empty street. Garry saw a hungry-looking Drake boy in less-than-stellar clothing run up.
“The usual, Kesst? I have a special pie for you. It does not have bugs. Do not look at me like that. One moment…one copper, please.”
Erin turned her head—but Lyonette hugged Pawn and distracted her and the Drake boy was gone with an entire pie before she could blink.
“Pawn! I have the most wonderful news!”
“Really? But how disappointing. I thought I was the only one with a wonderful discovery today. Once again, Erin has outdone me. It was her, wasn’t it?”
Pawn, the [Priest] of the Painted Antinium smiled as he embraced Lyonette back. He had something in his hands…a journal? And a quill.
“It wasn’t me, for once! Hi Pawn! How’s it going?”
“Very well, Erin. And soon to be better?”
“The Soldiers can talk! With Mrsha’s sign language! It’s so obvious—they can’t write, but they can talk!”
Erin threw up her hands. Garry copied her. Pawn’s antennae went still for a moment.
“Oh. Of course. How—wonderful.”
“Pawn?”
The [Priest] clasped two hands together.
“I am overcome with emotion, Lyonette. And I feel foolish that I did not think of it myself. This—this is wonderful news! And it fits. It shall be the last entry I write in this.”
He brandished the notebook at Lyonette and Erin. The two regarded it curiously.
“What’s that, Pawn? Your diary? Hey, that’s not a bad idea!”
The [Innkeeper] saw Pawn shake his head slightly.
“Oh no, Erin. This is no journal. This…is to become our sacred text. I have just added the first entry.”
The young woman saw Lyonette’s head swivel towards her. Her jaw dropped.
“You mean, a bible?”
“If that is the word, yes. I was given to understand by Ryoka that there are many such documents. Conflicting reports.”
“Uh…sort of.”
That was somehow Pawn. He’s taken this to another level that Erin couldn’t follow him to in a moment. She had to process this.
“You’re going to write it, Pawn?”
“Who else but me, Erin? It occurred to me the other day that if I died—”
“Don’t say that.”
Lyonette squeezed Pawn with a scowl. He went on, doggedly.
“—and that I am simply inefficient by myself. There are [Acolytes]. But a written text is reproducible. Why? Is there something wrong with me writing one?”
“Er. N—y—I think I’ll let Ryoka answer that. You might be the right person, actually. Unless there’s a dude who walks on water somewhere. Wait—no—he didn’t actually write anything down. Huh.”
“I could ask Magus Grimalkin?”
Pawn tilted his head left and right, doubtfully. Erin laughed.
“So—what are you writing?”
The [Priest] offered her the journal. It was plain, and the ink freshly dried.
“Everything the Antinium need to know to find Heaven. That is all, Erin. I do not have the confidence to do anything else.”
To him, it was a manual to getting into Heaven. Erin opened it—Pawn had yet to give his text a name. She read, slowly, seeing the neat handwriting of the Antinium, economical with space yet still legible.
 
In the beginning, someone might have created the world. Or, possibly, it sprang into existence due to a number of factors. The world of our reality was potentially created in seven days. Other sources claim different lengths of time or methods. Reports are unclear and unverifiable. 
It does not matter. Once, perhaps, there were gods. But they were not gods for us. Far later, when the gods were dead, the Antinium were created and created themselves…we were not born, but made.
 
It went on for a bit. Pawn did not know the full story of the Antinium and he wrote that down.
“It’s uh—very honest about the gaps, Pawn.”
“It is not the important part, Erin. I am just giving perspective. What do you think?”
“Um. I think it’s great. Really. Do you think it’ll really help with your sermons, Pawn?”
“I believe so, Erin. After all—I plan to hire an [Illustrator] and pay for the important parts.”
“What parts?”
The [Priest] pointed up.
“The sky. This book must have color. And each one should have a flower. I have thought about more to add. I am open to suggestions.”
Erin and Lyonette exchanged a glance. Erin smiled.
“You know—I think every religious text could use a picture of the sky and a flower. What about…some smells? Besides flowers?”
“Cinnamon. These are good ideas, yes. Shall we go conduct the interviews? You said you were on a busy schedule, Lyonette.”
Pawn made a few notes on a separate journal. Erin saw Lyonette nod.
“Absolutely. Ishkr should have the applicants all set. Garry, I’m sorry, we have to run back to the inn, but…”
“I am quite happy, Miss Lyonette, Erin. I must add these recipes to my cookbook. I will have someone take over my bakery. And I found a dead rat on the street. Goodbye!”
The [Chef] happily hurried back into the Hive. Erin waved after him and they walked back to the inn. They walked back—Erin bounced on her feet and slapped her forehead.
“Oh no. I have to pick up some sugar! I promised Imani!”
“You could get someone to—”
Too late, Lyonette saw Erin run off towards Krshia’s stall. She rolled her eyes, but she headed back to the inn with Pawn. He was writing in his journal.
“More of your text, Pawn? Erin’s explained the idea of g—the idea of—the idea of religion, but it’s so strange.”
She stumbled a bit. Pawn looked up and nodded.
“I know. I could explain again.”
“It’s fine. I don’t need to get it.”
“Yet you enjoy my presence anyways. How curious.”
Lyonette started giggling. Pawn’s deadpan astonishment always made her do that. Pawn looked ahead.
“So. How is your day going?”
“I got Mrsha to wear a dress. Well, a kilt. You’ll see once we get to the inn. And we’re hoping to hire eight more positions onto the staff.”
“How many of them will be Antinium? There are thirty seven applicants.”
Lyonette hesitated.
“I’m hoping to add four, Pawn. Permanently. But I want more Drakes, Gnolls, even a Human if one’s applied.”
“I see. I hope they meet the qualifications. How will you decide?”
“…Erin and I will do it. She’ll probably handle the Antinium unless you have observations.”
Pawn tilted his head back and forth.
“Did you not once tell me that Erin was ‘garbage at managing the staff’?”
Lyonette looked around for Erin. She sighed.
“Erin…cannot fire people. Or balance a budget. She doesn’t really have an eye for talent, either. However, she does bring out the best in people regardless of who they are. If she finds someone she likes, I’ll definitely consider hiring them. We work well together.”
“I see. That does seem useful. I will offer my suggestions if you would like.”
“I would like that. Just whisper them to me or tell me when no one will hear, though, m’kay? Especially because we might have to hire Ishkr’s sister. He asked us to consider it and he’s really been so helpful—but uh—even he won’t recommend her, so be subtle, alright?”
“Of course. I have learned subterfuge, Lyonette.”
She laughed a bit at that and Pawn smiled. But then—he did not show her what he’d just written either.
 
In the beginning, there was an inn. And a kind person came there one day. Her name was Erin Solstice…
 
—-
 
An ordinary day in The Wandering Inn. Or unordinary, as it might turn out to be. But either way, it began quietly, without explosions or too much drama.
…How many days had passed since the last event? What counted? The Wyvern attack? Magnolia Reinhart storming into Liscor?
No matter how you sliced it, though, a lot had happened. Even recently, the inn had been demolished and rebuilt, and didn’t that feel like an age ago? And still, here the inn was. Here it remained.
It made Montressa du Valeross feel…odd. Odd, because part of her enjoyed these days.
It was as if she had exhausted all her mana. But instead of feeling mana burnt, or mana drained—she was just empty. Not apathetic. Just empty of the hate and rage and fear.
She had been like that for a while, now. She woke up every day, ate a tasty breakfast, went out with Beza or sat about taking notes, arguing, watching the orb. Studied magic in the evenings…
It was like…being at Wistram Academy.
No. Wrong.
It was like how being at Wistram should have been. How it had been for about two years before her world had turned upside down. That day when Calvaron died, and she became an outcast and her two friends left.
She should have gone with them. No—she shouldn’t have judged them as she did. No—she had her reasons to do that and they had been fair and unfair at the same time.
“It was just a bad time.”
That was how Montressa could accept it. It was not a neat bow on the past. Nor did it clear up the present. Erin still held Montressa at a remove. Her access to the Garden of Sanctuary was…spotty. Mrsha kept pranking Bezale. Her status in Wistram was in jeopardy, if she ever returned. Beatrice would surely kill her.
And was…that fine? Again, it wasn’t great. But Montressa realized she was done.
Done with hunting Pisces. Done with her grudge that had carried her out this far. Forgiving him was hard. But trying to kill him was impossible.
He had done it. Unleashed the undead. He was a [Necromancer]. He had lied to her and…he was also the same person who had linked with Ceria. Killed an Adult Creler.
Someone could be a friend, a hero, hateful and glorious and more at the same time. Montressa wasn’t done thinking it over. But she couldn’t maintain her quest.
Neither did she have a team anymore. Isceil was dead. Ulinde had gone to the Halfseekers, chasing her dream. Palt was…with them and not at the same time.
And Beza? Even she had a different journey, reckoning with Calruz and herself. So where did Montressa fall into all of it?
“You know. Erin won’t kick us out. I don’t think so, at least. Not unless we make a mistake like before. Maybe we could do some spells for her. Temporary enchantments and so on.”
“Mhm.”
The two were walking down a street. Montressa went on.
“And we both earn enough to pay rent and for food and other necessities. I mean, Liscor’s not exactly First Landing. It’s not expensive.”
“Reasonable, yes.”
“So…we could live here forever, couldn’t we? I mean, what else would we do?”
At that, Bezale stopped. She looked at Montressa.
“I’m going home.”
“Now?”
The [Aegiscaster] saw the [Spellscribe], her tall, muscular friend, smile.
“Not now, Montressa. But someday I will return to the House of Minos and I wish to bring back a worthy gift for my people when I do. A…story.”
“I get that.”
“And you have a family. What will House Valeross say?”
“Honestly? They wouldn’t be pleased, but if I helped out a bit—I’m a [Mage], Bezale. That sort of makes me a friendly outsider who can help but who’s not expected to be political or get married. I just…”
“You’re being melancholy again. You haven’t been staring at that Erin’s flames, have you?”
Bezale elbowed Montressa in the chest. The [Mage] almost laughed.
“No. No, it’s just—I don’t know what to do, Beza.”
“Mhm.”
“I mean—”
The Minotauress folded her arms and leaned against a wall for a moment.
“I know what you mean. Me too, Montressa. Me too.”
The two looked at each other. And there it was. Mons had been so much younger—years younger, half a decade and thus a quarter of her life ago when Pisces had earned her enmity. Her life had been consumed by her isolation, her grudge.
Now what? What did she have left?
“I…can barely remember being a 1st Year student. Or 2nd Year. What did I want to do before I wanted to put Pisces in jail, take revenge?”
Montressa looked at her hands. Bezale raised her fist to knock.
“Perhaps save it for after we—”
“I wanted to be a great [Mage]. I wanted to become an Archmage. Beza. I want to keep studying magic.”
The Minotauress looked at Mons. She lowered her fist.
“Okay. What’s stopping you?”
