“It was a priority-client for Wistram. They…out paid, essentially. More influence, more contacts I think. Nothing we can do. They’ve moved everyone down the roster and they might take longer—it’s going to be touch-and-go.”
“What? Who did that?”
Andel and the others were outraged. Beza raised her hands.
“I’m sorry. It’s—a special relationship. I am positive I couldn’t do anything about it.”
“Who’s the client, then?”
The Minotauress hesitated. Her eyes flicked across the room. At Erin, Kevin, who was yawning and ruffling his hair. Joseph, coming down after sleeping in far too late.
“Have you ever heard of…the Singer of Terandria?”
 
—-
 
Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria, the [Popstar], the Baroness of the Beat…etc. etc…was speaking into her smartphone.
And that demanded a second, or even third look if you knew what that meant. She wasn’t recording something on an app. She was talking to someone.
It astounded Abebi. Reception in another world? She and the band that accompanied Cara were poised. They were all of Earth, and the sight of someone using a phone as it had been intended?
Hypnotizing. Like drugs for a starved addict. Because it was home.
And the person on the other side was also from Earth. Not that they’d ever spoken to him. Greg, the [Guitarist], had tried, and Thien had put him in a headlock. The [Drummer] knew the score.
Rae, the [Bassist], Abebi, the [Manager] of the Queen of Pop’s tour, and half a dozen others. All from Earth. All found, or who had heard the [Popstar]’s music and come to her.
Abebi was one of the oldest, with Thien. She’d seen some real sights. But even she hadn’t known Cara from the beginning, only after the star had risen quite a ways on her own. She listened now to a name she’d heard once or twice—and then usually with a lot of explicit language.
“Fuck you, Aaron. Don’t screw with me on this one. The Academy’s been refusing to put me on your TV show for the last month. Tell whoever’s listening that I’m not sticking to a script. I’m performing. You booked me—and you owe me.”
“Come on, Cara. I helped get you the spot. At least…”
The fainter voice was cut off as Cara talked over him.
“You want to talk about help, Blackmage? You don’t want to do a ‘who owes who’ with me. You want trust? Put Elena on. No? That’s what I thought.”
History. Abebi raised her eyebrows at Thien and he grimaced. Elena, the person they’d sent to Wistram to scout it out had signaled them it was not the safe haven they wanted. Certainly, that was what Cara believed.
She stood there, flinty-eyed, listening to the voice on the other end. She’d just finished another concert—this time in the far north of Pheislant. The band was moving.
War had broken out in the south with Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat and they wanted no part of it. Pheislant had the potentiality to be drawn in, so Abebi was taking the band north. Not that it was safer in some of the northern countries.
Noelictus, Pheislant, Nadel—a lot of nations had grudges against Ailendamus, but the vast kingdom was too powerful. Abebi was taking them straight towards Oztera, who had no personal beef with the war.
They weren’t heroes, and they weren’t going to fight. Abebi had seen some actual fights. Blood—death—they were from Earth. Few of them had the stomach to kill people like that.
“Really? Is that how it is? We’re booked, Aaron. I know it’s not your fault. Okay. Okay, how about this? I won’t have a handler. We’ll broadcast. You pick it up. And if you want to cancel? Go ahead. Just give me a second…”
She turned off her iPhone. Abebi saw Cara toss it down on the bed in the wagon and curse.
“What’s up, Cara? Are we not performing?”
The [Popstar] was still sweaty. She had just performed and but for the wagon’s soundproofed walls, they would have heard the cheering crowd. Thousands of people who’d come to listen. Groupies—including the nobility or royalty!
“We’re performing alright, Abebi. Is the area all set?”
“Set, we’ve got our own [Mages] on standby…we’re just waiting for two of the special actors. Are you sure they’ll make it? It’s a war—”
“I’m sure. We have a relationship. Don’t you worry. I saw some of the [Knights] on the docks, greeting their dead. As for the [Hunter]—they don’t let you down either. Just drive us—as soon as I clear up this.”
She took a breath. Then the Singer—changed.
Gone, gone the angry, Irish young woman who was dressed in a glittering costume, her makeup painted on, often ranting about feudalism or the injustices of this world.
Out came the Singer of Terandria. She opened the wagon’s doors and Abebi and the band heard a roar of sound.
“Hello, my shining stars of Terandria!”
Cara was different from the Singer, to Abebi. One was a person—the other, well, a celebrity. She walked out with a smile for the crowd. As Cara would say—a fake smile because she was a [Thespian] as well as a [Popstar].
But she was convincing if it was an act. Cara had sung for four hours—longer than a lot of concerts, using stamina and healing potions and her Skills to perform all her hits. She gave it her all when she was out there.
“I’m sorry, no encore!”
The roar of the crowd was just quieter than the [Singer]’s magnified voice. She went on.
“I am delighted you all came out for me. I just wanted to say that it’s my dream to let all of Terandria hear my voice. And everyone who’s bought a song-crystal or come out to support me—thank you so much.”
A pause for the cheering. Abebi saw Cara’s iPhone vibrate.
“Let me just—”
“Touch it, Greg, and Cara will beat you to death with your mic. And that’s after I do.”
Thien warned him. Greg sourly backed away from the iPhone. He was the most problematic member of the band. And more problematic because he was necessary for the guitarist spot, even if he couldn’t actually play. But he was good at pretending and that mattered.
So far they’d faked it and Rae was improving. But Cara had used actors who played along with the music she created from her iPhone and Skills up till now.
Abebi wanted a real band. Accidents happened and while Cara could sing—she needed instruments to play the countless songs from Earth. So the current crew was handpicked from the Earthers that Cara had found. The rest were…safe. Elsewhere. And Abebi would be damned before anyone heard where it was from her.
When they returned, Greg would probably be left behind. But for now they needed him on tour.
“I’d love to perform again before I go. I had a wonderful surprise for you all! An appearance on Wistram’s magic-vision network!”
This time Abebi actually went deaf before she put on the earplugs. She saw the others grabbing for the same. The [Manager] whistled. So that was what Cara was doing? The [Popstar]’s voice was still audible even through the enchanted ear buds.
“It was all set up for just two hours from now! But I’m sorry to say, my lovely stars that Wistram Academy decided to cancel at the last moment. I don’t know why, but—”
She was drowned out by a howl of fury. Abebi knew from experience that Wistram had tails on them who followed them from concert to concert. If they were in the crowd, she hoped for their sakes they weren’t noticeable.
“Broadcast! Broadcast!”
“I’m sorry! I truly am! I’m trying to get the show back on, but—”
Cara went on for a few more minutes. And her heartfelt apology just made the crowd angrier. When she closed the door, Abebi wanted to applaud.
“That was impressive, Cara.”
“It was me using the one advantage I have. Don’t call it impressive, Abebi. Mobs are a scary fucking thing.”
Cara corrected the young woman from Nigeria. She sighed and rubbed at her brows—carefully, to avoid smudging the makeup.
“We just need one show. Then we can say quits to Wistram—until they start threatening Elena. I don’t know what I’m going to do, but if those bastards hurt her—”
She snatched up the vibrating iPhone.
“Aaron! Hello! How do you like that? Give. Me. A. Slot. Two hours from now—my place, my rules. We’ll perform three songs. And do a lovely interview with whomever you want. Or I’ll ride off into that glorious sunset while you get to answer the fans why I’m not on the broadcast. I hope Mage’s Guilds are enchanted to be fireproof. Well?”
After a while, she put down the iPhone.
“Okay. We’re back on. Abebi—I need to die in a corner for a while. I’ll be in my wagon. The rest of you—get ready. This is going to be one for the history books.”
“I’ll make a note, Cara.”
That came from Thien. He grinned as he sat down. [Drummer] he might be—and he could actually play—but he was also pursuing another class.
The world’s first encyclopedia written by someone from Earth was his pet project. Trying to figure out the actual state of the world, catalogue all nations, the effect magic had on the world—he was a [Historian]. But his real class was ‘scientist of the world.’ Everything was an entry in Thien’s book.
It was something he was allowed to do, rather than try to find enough copper coins to survive. All thanks to Cara. The others had time to look for answers, or learn, or recover from what they’d been through. Greg had his opportunity to meet all the lovely ladies of Terandria.
Cara left the wagon, looking tired before she opened the door and announced to her fans that the broadcast was back on thanks to their hard work. Abebi began ordering the caravan forwards. They’d need the security to keep the crowd well back for the first song. And they’d need to coordinate…
It was going to be a performance to remember.
 
—-
 
So the Players of Celum were going after the Queen of Pop’s performance on the silver screen. Or…glass orb as the case might be.
Apparently the show had been scheduled, bumping everyone down, then cancelled—then quickly reinstated. Beza and Montressa were pitching fits. Along with everyone else in the lineup.
“This is not good. She’s got an hour segment. And then an orchestra from Chandrar plays. And then us.”
Emme was grousing. Jasi didn’t understand what was wrong. Temile laid it out for her.
“It’s attention, Jasi. We don’t have to worry about it because the Players are the biggest thing in Invrisil—but think about it from the perspective of the scrying orb.”
The [Lead Actress] tried. It was hard—but she imagined the orb as a kind of stage. Temile nodded to the current broadcast—an intense game of football between two Garuda teams in Chandrar.
“How many people are watching that, do you think?”
“Um…thousands? Tens of thousands. Hundreds?”
“I…maybe? I don’t know. I mean, proportionally, Jasi.”
The Drake squinted at the orb. It was fast-paced, good action. However, she’d seen Joseph’s team playing.
“Well…it’s not the newest thing around. No offense to the Garuda, but I saw the first games of soccer.”
“Exactly. If it’s not new or eye-catching, we get less of the population of whoever’s watching. And the other problem holds true. After the King of Destruction was defeated by the Minotaurs—what was on after that?”
“Ah.”
Jasi saw the problem. If the Queen of Pop was too big, she’d satisfy the audience and leave the Players in the cold.
“Not much we can do about that. We just have to do our best.”
“That’s your role. Emme and I will be trying to figure out ways to spice it up. Just relax—or practice. I’m sure they’d love you on stage. The [Actors] from Liscor think you’re some kind of hero.”
Jasi laughed. But it was true—the Gnolls and Drakes and all the [Actors] besides the original cast looked up to her.
It was…strange being in The Wandering Inn. In Invrisil she was used to the attention. Jasi couldn’t step outside without signing an autograph or shaking a hand. She’d learned some of the pitfalls of fame—it was hard to meet people who didn’t want something from you, or saw only Jasi, the [Actor].
Even so. How far they’d come. Jasi looked across the room. Grev had taken to swanky clothing—although he downplayed it a bit so he could hang out on the ‘street’ with his ‘gang’. He wanted to be a Face.
When she still remembered begging the Watch not to put him in prison or exile him for his crimes. And they owed it all to…
“Mrsha! Put your kilt back on!”
Erin Solstice ran across the inn, chasing Mrsha who’d finally snapped and torn off her shirt and clothing to run around with her fur on, as things were supposed to be. She was laughing and chasing the Gnoll all over the inn as the Players set up on stage.
She hadn’t changed. But then—Erin didn’t have the Player’s fame or fortune. She seemed leery of it. Emme had pressed Erin to take some money. They’d had to give it to Lyonette because Erin had claimed it was all theirs.
She was inspiring and exasperating sometimes. Jasi smiled and rose.
“Going to perform with us? Come on, Jasi! For old time’s sake!”
Kilkran called out to cheers from around the room. Jasi laughed and waved apologetically.
“Actually…I’m going for a walk, Kilkran. Sorry! I’m sorry. But we’ll be performing later!”
“Fine! But you owe a performance up here!”
The others laughed. Jasi rose—and walked out of the common room. Into the long hallway that seemed so unnecessary. Eltistiman hated walking down it for some reason.
“Hi.”
There was a Gnoll standing at the door these days; it was a permanent job for one of the staff to let people in and out rather than let them wait. The older Gnoll nudged her as she scowled.
“It’s ‘Hello, who’s going for Invrisil’?”
“Bite me, Isk. Why couldn’t I get another job? I don’t want to…”
She snapped back up at him. Jasi half-smiled as the Gnolls growled at each other. Ishkr apologetically lifted a paw.
“I am so sorry. Who is going to Liscor?”
He adjusted the dial, and let the people through. Then he adjusted it to Celum—
“For Invrisil, Miss Jasi? We have to charge you the fee…”
Ishkr gave her an apologetic look. Jasi didn’t offer him the silver coins like the other handful of people going through.
“Actually, Ishkr, I’d like to go to Celum. Is that possible?”
“Of course. Let’s see. Wailant has his door here. But we installed another stone after the attack…here we are.”
Ishkr consulted the little dial and adjusted it. His younger sister looked interested.
“If we’re staff, can I go through to Invrisil without paying?”
“Shh! And if you go off while we’re working—I had to ask Miss Lyonette and Erin to hire you! This is your last chance—”
The two Gnolls started arguing again. Jasi went through on her own with one other person, an adventurer or something.
“We check the door every ten minutes—that’s what you say, Liska—”
