All things changed. Everything good someday came to an end. Freedom, thou fleeting thing. Innocence lost.
Mrsha du Marquin was crying. Weeping. She hung on, but the unkind hands tore her away. She turned pleadingly—but the monster had no pity.
“It’s time for clothing, Mrsha. A dress, pants at least!”
The white Gnoll fought. Viciously! She punched, kicked—
“Ow! Kick me one more time young lady, and you will get no dessert!”
Mrsha hesitated. She’d just cleared her last ‘no dessert’ punishment. She lowered her fists. She stared up at her mother, the [Princess]’ narked look, and sullenly shuffled over to her seat.
It was a combination lesson-dressing in The Wandering Inn. Lyonette had designs, cloth samples, and since she had Mrsha’s ‘homework hour’—incorrectly dubbed by Erin since it was actually her hour(s) of schooling each day—she had decided to make it about clothing.
“Don’t give me that look, Mrsha, sweetie. You’ll get to design your clothing!”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. That…sounded better. She had visions of herself in some snazzy outfit, like the ones on the movies! Or—armor?
Lyonette misread Mrsha’s eager expression. She did not misread the quick paw-signs, though. Her face went blank.
“…No, Mrsha. Not armor. You’re not a [Warrior]. I mean a dress. But first—you should know more about clothing. I can’t believe Erin and Krshia…”
She hesitated. Love ‘em, really. But Erin Solstice was not exactly trustworthy in the realms of common sense. You suspected she knew more than she normally acted, but her teaching Mrsha about clothing terminology? Less likely than Mrsha learning how to play chess blindfolded.
And Mrsha’s other teachers? Bird wore a loincloth and only because people expected him to. Numbtongue had dressed similarly and while he wore and had his own slowly-growing wardrobe, he was a Redfang and sometimes sat around all day in chainmail.
And Krshia—Mrsha’s last regular ‘teacher’ with Elirr and Selys as supplementals—was a Plains Gnoll. Clothing mattered, but Krshia wasn’t much about fashion.
It fell to Lyonette. She adjusted the board and picked up a bit of chalk as Mrsha gloomily sat in her teaching chair.
“Don’t give me that look, Mrsha. When we’re done we’ll go over your clothing and buy you a set! You cannot keep running around naked.”
And why, pray? Mrsha sneered as she signed that she had fur. Lyonette rolled her eyes exasperatedly.
“I am not getting into it with you, young miss. Now—about skirts.”
Mrsha’s face fell. Did you know that skirts came in all shapes and sizes and cuts? The minutiae of whether a skirt had this many folds, or was knee-high rather than floor-length differed its classification!
The next hour of Mrsha’s life was filled with knowledge. The difference between pleated and knife-pleated, eight panel, four panel, draped, accordion, waist, pencil…
Wow. Look at all the words for clothing you’re never going to get me to wear. Mrsha’s face was that of a prisoner being herded towards the torture room. Lyonette doggedly drummed the words into Mrsha’s head.
“You need to wear something today, Mrsha. Just so you can see it’s not a burden. No, it is not painful! Stop signing that!”
Mrsha was communicating with Lyonette with her sign-language rather than her notes. The allure of being perfectly understood via text had worn off for Mrsha and signing was faster—so long as the other person could actually understand her language.
The Gnoll child scowled and folded her arms, but Lyonette was blocking the door and she could veto dessert, which was cake. The tyrant would have her due.
“Selys has offered to pay for the dresses…she’ll buy one. The rest will come from one of Krshia’s [Tailor] friends who works with Gnolls. You have to choose, Mrsha. Choose a dress. And maybe pants. And a shirt! You’ll look so cute in it!”
Lyonette even had one of the borrowed smartphones, having discovered the allure of free pictures. Mrsha looked at the pile of clothing samples. She looked at Lyonette’s board full of ideas and then at the [Princess].
 
—-
 
Thirty minutes later, Mrsha waddled downstairs, feeling as if she’d won a pyrrhic victory of sorts. Lyonette followed, scowling a tiny bit.
She had gotten her way. Mrsha was wearing a shirt and a kind of dress. She looked rather odd in it. But she walked downstairs on her two legs with a vague air of pride.
“Mrsha? Did Lyonette actually get you to put on a—hah!”
Erin laughed when she saw Mrsha. Lyonette glared.
“It’s the only thing she would put on.”
Mrsha was wearing a cotton shirt—and a kilt. She had tossed all the other dresses out of the lineup for the most open design. It had been that or a toga, and Lyonette had chosen the lesser of two evils.
It looked very funny to Erin.
“I didn’t even know there was plaid on sale in Liscor!”
“I got the samples from Invrisil. Why? Does it look—off to you?”
“No…but it does uh, sort of looks like a thing guys from Earth might wear. If they were from a certain country.”
Mrsha had clearly chosen the one combination of clothing designed to make her least lady-like. Lyonette was exasperated.
“It’s a start. Alright, Mrsha. You’re allowed to play now.”
Mrsha brightened up. She grabbed her belt and Lyonette raised a finger.
“In clothing! And no getting it torn or ripped!”
The Gnoll child scowled and stomped off. Erin shook her head as she watched Mrsha go. All she needed was a tiny beret to match.
“Did you get pictures of her in other outfits?”
“A few. Here…”
The Wandering Inn was open for another day in this long summer. Mrsha walked around on two-legs, doing her customary round of the inn more ungainly. But she was entering her shifting year and she already seemed a bit taller to Erin.
“Is that Mrsha?”
Several of the regulars exclaimed when they saw her. Mostly with amusement. Mrsha bore it with ill grace. Menolit laughed his tail off over his loaded baked potato with a snack. She slapped his claw away as he tried to ruffle her head and attempted to grab his potato—she was too slow in this clothing!
“You’re so cute. They should put little pictures of you up around the inn! Or some art! Tell Erin to do that—I keep saying the common room needs more culture!”
Uriesta, a Drake in her mid-forties, tried to tempt Mrsha with a bit of salad. The Gnoll took one look at the leaf and turned her head. She stomped off, looking for her real friends, the ones who’d commiserate with her rather than be annoying adults.
“Mrsha? It’s me, Mrsha!”
The young Gnoll’s ears perked up as she heard a familiar, and welcome voice. She turned. Ekirra? But instead of the red blur she was expecting to race towards her and hug her—she saw an unsteady fellow on two legs, wearing pants.
Mrsha’s face fell.
Damn them. They’d gotten to Ekirra too! He was waddling around, fully-dressed and looking uncomfortable.
“Mrsha! You look funny!”
His mouth opened and he started laughing as he saw Mrsha. The Gnoll furiously signed back—Ekirra was funny too!
The young Gnoll cocked his head as he read her words and shrugged.
“It’s so stiff!”
He complained. Mrsha nodded. She’d nearly gone for pants—but it was too constraining! The kilt was her happiest compromise. Ekirra nearly began to roll around on the floor, but he caught himself.
“I can’t get dirty. Mrsha…I hate clothing! I want to be a Plains Gnoll, not a City Gnoll! They don’t have to wear clothing, right?”
Not at all! They can wear loincloths!
Mrsha emphatically signed back. Plains Gnolls were so much more civilized than silly people with their rules on clothing. Ekirra sighed. He tried to sit down and scratch one ear with a hind leg, but his pants stopped him.
“Want to play tag?”
The two looked around. Mrsha had her collection of balls, but—she just didn’t feel fast. She shook her head.
Where’s Visma?
“Grounded. She stole an amulet.”
Again?
Mrsha expressed her dismay. If she and Ekirra were going through the shifting year, Visma was still going through her hoarding phase. She’d gotten in trouble last week for hiding money she’d stolen from her parent’s pouch.
Ekirra nodded dismally.
“For two days. Do you think I can take my pants off when I play football? Is Mister Joseph here?”
He looked around for his hero, Joseph, the football coach of Liscor, who was currently leading the score 1-0 in the new football league.
Not here. He’s sleeping.
After having too much to drink. Erin had told him off last night. Joseph had ‘a problem’, according to her. But he was trying. Ekirra nodded understandingly.
“Mister Dizk next door drinks too much. He smells bad, like pee and throwing up. Mom says I can’t say that to him.”
The two walked down the common room, grousing about adult foibles. Both attracted attention as the ‘cute little cubs’ they were. Mrsha nearly cast [Dirt Spray] at the third person who said that in the sickly-sweet tone of voice. She was still learning some magic and Palt had taught her that one!
Speaking of which…where was Palt? Since running about sucked in clothing, Mrsha wanted some interesting people. Erin might do, but she and Lyonette were doing something official with the staff today and Mrsha didn’t want to bother them. That left any number of entertaining people, though.
Relc was gone. Poor Relc. But there was Numbtongue, Octavia—sometimes—Saliss, Grimalkin if he was here, Moore, Jelaqua, Palt, Bird…it wasn’t Mrsha’s friends, but the ‘fun people’ she had a list of. Lyonette was Mrsha’s mother and a resident of the inn, for instance. But she wasn’t cool.
Palt wore kilts, hence Mrsha copying him. She looked around for him, but she didn’t immediately pick up his unique scent of smoke and whatever else was in his cigars. He might have been in the kitchen, helping Imani.
Mrsha wondered if the two were going to fall in love. She was fairly certain they weren’t in a relationship—yet—even if Erin and Lyonette and Rose were all saying how ‘good’ it was that Palt was helping Imani. But Gnolls were Gnolls—neither had had sex. The nose knew.
And Mrsha and Ekirra knew more than kids ought to. Like—Mrsha could have called when Selys and Hawk were close to breaking up. Or whenever Relc had a fun night, although he generally told everyone in sight anyways. She didn’t want to know this stuff, but there you were. You could put clay in your nose or live knowing facts.
There were…people…who got to have more fun than others. Not that Mrsha saw the point. But Maviola and Olesm for instance were repeat offenders on the ‘gross’ scale. Poor Menolit had entered the ranks of the yuck as well, which was actually a good thing Mrsha supposed. Jelaqua…well, Selphids smelled like death and preservatives as much as that, but she knew because of Moore. Krshia had let Mrsha down, and despite the lack of a Palt-Imani connection, she got around more than Bezale and Montressa…
So had Pisces, now and then. The Antinium were refreshingly safe in that regard, except for Pawn.
She sniffed—and blinked. Hold on. Someone here was smelling like that. She looked up—and saw a unique sight, even for The Wandering Inn.
A Lamia paused in slithering past Mrsha. Hexel, the [Architect] and one of four Lizardfolk in Liscor blinked at Mrsha.
“Well, look at you! Mrsha, is it? Come to join the ranks of the clothed?”
Mrsha nodded, a bit warily. She didn’t know Hexel too well. But he was nice. She waved at him and hunted around for her cards.
I am suffering.
Hexel laughed as he read the card. He handed it back, uncaring of the side-looks some Drakes still gave him after all this time. He was usually in Liscor, anyways. Building stuff.
“Don’t worry. If you grow a tail, you don’t need to wear pants.”
He gestured at his own clothing, which was more of a vest which ran down just to where his tail began. Mrsha nodded approvingly. She’d bear that in mind.
Have a good day!
Hexel wrinkled his brow at the second card. Then Mrsha held up another with a huge ‘?’ to clarify. The Lamia blinked.
“Ah. Well, it’s quite good for just waking up. Thank you.”
Jerks. ?.
This time the Lamia laughed.
“Unpleasant people, you mean? I’ve found my ways of dealing with them. And Liscor has been quite—welcoming. Some of the city’s inhabitants, anyways. Besides. Jerks exist in Baleros too. Irritable Gorgons ruin one’s day.”
Mrsha gave a sage nod. Before she could ask how big a Gorgon was—a subject of debate between her and her friends—the [Architect] took a glance at the sky.
“I’m late. I must go. Thank you for the kind words on the card, Miss Mrsha. I really should stay here more often. Maybe tonight? But your Council has me curling my tail until its raw! Not that I mind—excuse me.”
He slithered past Mrsha after flicking her the cards. She sighed. She hadn’t gotten to figure out how to ask if he’d upgrade Liscor’s park! She’d write him a letter in case he got back.
There went an interesting person who didn’t stay at the inn. Why, he treated it as if it were some kind of…semi-permanent lodging where you ate and slept and nothing more. 
“He’s scaly. And shiny.”
Ekirra had been staring at Hexel the entire time and unapologetically picking his nose with his tongue. Mrsha nodded. The other three Lizardfolk that Hexel had brought with him were much more colorful than Drakes. Too bad they were so nervous.
What now? Mrsha looked around for another diversion. Well—her eyes lit up as she saw a gang of cool cats to roll with.
Or rather—a very fun Hobgoblin and some Antinium. Mrsha pulled Ekirra over and found Yellow Splatters, Numbtongue, one of the Painted Workers, and a number of Painted Soldiers in a booth.
These were all exceptionally fun people to be around. Antinium and Goblins weren’t too good to have fun or get dirty. Mrsha pulled Ekirra—who was suddenly shy—over.
“…Tier 5 or 6, I think. It is very reassuring to have her around, but perhaps we do not level?”
“Too strong. Safe fighting means no levels. Sounds like Xrn does too much work.”
“I see. But, surely, it is better than dying?”
Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters were having a quiet debate as the other Antinium listened. The two friends glanced up as Mrsha slid into a seat next to Purple Smiles.
“Hello, Mrsha. And this is…Ekirra?”
Yellow Splatters had a wonderfully deep voice. The Gnoll cub stared at him with round eyes.
“Yes?”
Mrsha nudged Ekirra. There was nothing to fear! The Antinium didn’t even get mad if you accidentally knocked over a glass. They probably wouldn’t even complain if Mrsha swiped their food!
Not that she would. Antinium were off-limits. Numbtongue waved at Mrsha and replied to Yellow Splatters.
“No high levels means you die—just later. Death of weakness.”
Yellow Splatters sighed.
