“Uh-oh.” The words escaped Shiv as he saw the wall of flame washing toward the shanty. The chill of non-existence assailed him from all sides, but according to the girl who didn't exist, he still had ten more minutes left to burn thanks to all the attacks he'd assimilated via his dodge.

But while he gained the luxury of time with his new Skill Evolution, the same couldn't be said about the many slaves that were currently aflame. Some of them were being melted into the heated sheet after they jumped down from their stilted buildings and onto the surface of the grill. Others who could fly carried one or two of their fellow slaves with them, but most struggled in vain just to preserve themselves.

At the same time, Longinus was changing. The frequency of his divine mana and the very architecture and shape his field took on began to deform and shift. But Shiv turned away from the god and rushed to save the commis. The choice was a simple one to make: he'd already anchored a temporal echo into Longinus with his last slash. He would come back and ambush him later when he was done, but the people here were about to become collateral damage, and Shiv had seen enough pointless death for one lifetime.

He condensed his Chronomancy field. Spared of the world's ambience, he saw how his own magic coated him. He was condensed in a thick membrane of screaming mana, the field around him spiraling like a centrifuge, accelerating his personal timeline to obscene levels. The moment he did, however, he felt his Chronomancy peel layers of Vitae free from his body like a flicking blade. Startled, he immediately released his Chronomancy and sped toward the shanty the normal way, racing against the flames directly. “What the hells was that? Did my own time magic just rip me apart?”

“Seems so,” the girl who didn't exist commented. She kept pace with him without moving her legs, her arms folded, and her nose wriggling in derision. “You just lost another couple of minutes from that stunt, so you got maybe five left in this place before you have to surface again. If I had to guess, though, that just now happened because time isn't real back here.”

Shiv gritted his teeth. He could see the tsunami of Pyromancy closing in on the slaves. He wasn't going to get to them in time, not without halting time itself, but he couldn't do that Backstage. “I have no godsdamn idea what you're talking about. Time is clearly real out here. Everything's still moving around me.”

The girl rolled her eyes. “No, everything's still moving in the context of Integration and under the System's general timeline. Back here, the only thing that technically exists is you, and you're currently accelerating your own time, so yeah, you're burning through your own vitality because you're flinging yourself into the future at an obscene pace.”

“How do you know all this?” Sage asked from Shiv's right, regarding the fake girl with suspicion. “If you are merely a construct of our subconsciousness, there is no way we could come to this conclusion, even with guesswork. We don't have nearly enough understanding of magical theory.”

The girl shrugged. “Well, neither do I, technically. I don't know how I know anything. I wasn't real up until a few seconds ago. If you're expecting to get a clear answer from me, too bad, because I don't even have any to give myself.” There was a slight hint of bitterness in her words. “To be honest, I don't even know if this version of me will remain once you leave the Backstage. Maybe next time you come over, there will be another of me, or maybe none of me at all. If I'm there again, it might be a different one each time, or it might be me again. Who's to say? Lots of existential questions, huh?”

“Dread,” A Glimpse of Perspective moaned. “Dread surrounds me at all sides. Dread and existential torment!”

A Glimpse of Perspective 82 > 83

The Backstage was turning into a madhouse, and it was getting real hard for Shiv to focus. “Alright. Everyone, shut up. No more weird questions. I’m going to surface, stop the wave of fire, and—”

“Incorrect,” Sage interrupted with a scoff. “You are going to surface, stop time, survive long enough to twist the ruptured metal sheet into a knot to seal where the flames are spilling out from, and then likely dodge whatever attack Longinus sends your way before returning to the backrooms. There's little you can do for the people who are already burned into the sheet—you have to accept them as already lost.”

Shiv closed his eyes and struggled to restrain the sheer frustration he felt toward his own Psychology skill. “Yeah. Thanks for the suggestion—it's what I planned to do anyway. Man, if I get any more of you in my head, I can declare myself Town Lord of my own imaginative community.”

“Maybe you can consider fusing some of them into the same skill. Considering how often you die, A Glimpse of Perspective and Gardener of Doubt aren't that far off, and with all of the work Sage keeps putting in for you…” The non-existent girl clicked her tongue and ran a hand through her golden hair. “Let's just say I won't be surprised if Sage ends up being your dominant personality down the line.”

The tumbling blaze was less than a hundred meters away from the slaves’ grill ghetto. Shiv was still a bit over two hundred. “Yeah, let’s keep talking about all this stuff so I can level my Schizophrenia Skill the next time I get Backstage. Gonna have to surface now.”

“Go fuck his shit up, Shiv,” the girl called out, sounding more than a little like Rose now. “And see you soon. Or goodbye. Depends on the existential coin toss, really. I’m calling heads, by the way! I’d like to stick around—”

Shiv surfaced back across the borders of Integration without another word—mostly because he was out of time, but also because he was tired of dealing with metaphysical terror bullshit on an hourly basis and didn't want any more of it right now.

The vitality cost to cross back over was paltry compared to the toll he paid for plunging into the Backstage. The instant he arrived, the world came alight in a cataclysmic burst of vitality. The life force coating Integration sparked crimson, heralding his arrival. His reunion with reality didn't just come with a light show; everyone who forgot his existence suddenly remembered—all of them at the same time.

***

“Ah,” Uva gasped.

“What is it?” Mara asked, nervous about her pilot’s strange behavior. “Something wrong?”

“Oh, no, it's nothing. Just keep walking and avoid eye contact.”

Indeed, nothing was wrong. It was just that the memories had come back to Uva. He’s out of context again. I should leave a note inside my subconscious reminding myself not to be paranoid or confused when it happens again.

Her many consciousnesses shared a faint smile. And it would happen again. With great repetition. Shiv wasn’t the kind to dive out of context once and not again. She didn’t know what her dear brute was doing, but Evanescia was probably about to get all the entertainment she desired.

And probably a lot more than she could handle.

***

Adam’s eyes widened. The Culturist’s expression tightened.

“Oh,” the Paragon breathed. “Shiv. Of course it’s Shiv.” He groaned and began to rise. His Spellstring was called to hand as he rolled his shoulder. “Alright, then. Let’s see about this.”

The Culturist cocked his head. “And what is it that we’re about to see to?”

“Helping Shiv ruin Evanescia’s day, of course,” Adam replied smoothly. He bit back a breath of nausea as he forced himself to focus. His over-evolved Awareness was a calamity held at bay by the Culturist's power. It was like being safe behind a series of towering walls, but he could feel the walls creaking, groaning under the strain of an ocean pushing in from all around. And the pressure only continued to build with every passing second.

“I have lesser doubts about our combat effectiveness under the strain of your new Awareness,” the Culturist began. “My greater concern is one of general impotence. I do not see how we can turn the tide against the Usurper-Narrator at all.”

Adam glared up at the orc. “Well, I'm not going to do nothing and leave Shiv on his own.”

“That's not what I'm saying. We won't be very combat effective, but we can help in other ways as well. And with the chaos the Deathless is most certain to cause, he can also help us. While the Usurper-Narrator's attention is locked to him, I think it is time we discover just what your new Awareness skill can do. My counsel, if you would listen to it, is that we must be effective. We face a foe far beyond us, and so, distance, subterfuge, and intelligence are to be our allies. We need to understand her ways better than she understands us if we want to have a chance of escaping this dimension. Your concern for your friend is warranted, but foolishness is not a flaw we have the luxury of affording. For his sake and yours, we must be calculated.”

Adam lowered his bow after a moment's hesitation. “Right. Calculated.” Taking a moment to quell his hammering heartbeat and work through a throbbing headache, Adam sat back down and faced the Culturist. “So. I’ll cast my senses, and you'll bear the weight.”

The Legendary orc nodded. “Slowly. Carefully. With focus and control instead of desperate abandon.”

“With focus and control,” Adam echoed. He breathed out. His eyes began to simmer and burn. The incandescent dawn above his fiery crown developed a seed of pure azure at its core.

Once more, Adam wielded his Legendary Awareness.

Once more, the world exploded in detail, scope, and revelations.

“There’s so much,” Adam whispered, barely able to handle the sheer amount of information, even with the Culturist filtering things for him.

The Legendary orc shook, and sweat began to pour down his face once again. “Seek Shiv. Find him with your Divination. And then guide our Awareness over. Chart the path. Focus on the path. Ignore everything else.”

And with that, the Paragon’s Legendary eyes grew bright with a tinge of violet mana as well.

***

“How did you do that, Deathless? How?” Evanescia's disquiet was only matched by her overwhelming elation. She loved being surprised by her characters, even if this surprise exceeded safety thresholds. Somehow, he'd managed to hide himself from her. Not just from her perception, but from her memories as well. As she scanned through the Fairwoods, she realized that, for a few moments, he didn't exist at all. That meant his feat was even greater than she'd initially assumed. He'd actually managed to slip out from the pages of her world.

No one had ever managed to do that. Not until now.

Your genius lives on inside your child, as demonstrated by his creation. Evanescia offered those words to her own creator as a silent compliment and a slight hint of mockery. Dear Udraal had come along with his works. The Deathless was an astonishing Pathbearer, not only in terms of growth, but also in his capacity to defy the System itself.

The fact that he existed spoke volumes about Udraal’s genius—and the intellect he'd inherited from his mother. But it also betrayed the way he saw the world; what he'd built was a beast in human skin—a creature of struggle and defiance against reality. He was a monster meant to break free from any cage, to fall and rise again until he could adapt to and bring down any foe.

Evanescia, her maker the mother of Shiv's, stood as his mirror. She was meant to cage, meant to reign, meant to shape and align desired outcomes.

“Which makes us… exponential foils to each other, does it?” The Usurper-Narrator giggled to herself and kicked her feet. “Isn’t that something…”

Wisdom and reason told her to reset the loop and disable the Deathless. She couldn't control him, not until she understood how that skill of his worked. If she couldn't remember him and he could break free from the confines of the Fairwoods, that made him a threat far beyond Silence’s acceptable parameters. And it would be a most sour-tasting irony for Evanescia to see herself usurped in turn.

But she didn't act, at least not immediately. There was something else hidden in the sourness of her emotions. Something she'd almost forgotten the taste of.

Turning away from her wisdom, she listened to the thrill, that burning excitement that was as dangerous as it had been missed. She knew this to be tension, true tension; stakes! Watching and living vicariously through her characters offered a facsimile of the real thing, but being embroiled in a meta-story on top of all the existing narratives was just tantalizing.

“I really, really shouldn't.” Evanescia's self-chiding words shuddered in the undercurrent of the Fairwoods, and they were truth. She really shouldn't. Powerful though the Deathless was in his world, he still paled before numerous Pathbearers she'd captured from all across Integration. But few of them were like him in terms of uniqueness and nature. Even Mythic Pathbearers and gods had only one life to lose, while the Deathless could come back over and over, a true recurring villain for her, the Heroine of a Thousand Faces.

Her mind drifted away from the stories that were in play, and a fantasy took hold. She imagined herself facing him across a hundred different arcs, across countless settings, across infinite tales. She could slay him, break him, shatter his mind, and cast him in all manner of roles. He would always return. More importantly, even if she came close to caging him, he might just be able to escape into the sequel. But she would always be there to stop him. She would always be there to contain him, to match him, to overcome him.

