In time, all practitioners of the Final Way will learn that violence is one thing, and not another. The words that wound a heart, the spells that shatter a mind, the blows that rend a body are all a cohesive whole, for the tripartite nature of an individual cannot be denied.

Cutting at one's understanding of themselves will cause their movements to falter. Wool slips the strings that guide the body. When the mind succumbs, the vessel also collapses, and the same thing otherwise. When the vessel is damaged, the structure supporting the mind will be undone. Furthermore, in the throes of defeat, the hard blood that fuels a righteous Pathbearer will be extinguished, causing them to flag, and twisting their actions against them.

For what right Pathbearer will offer their back to an enemy aside from turning to avoid pain, aside from fleeing in utter defeat?

So if we posit the structure of an individual's truth, then the three strikes we can deliver with body, mind, and being can also be made indistinguishable. Why not? Can a body strike a mind? Why not can words sunder flesh? Why not can a mind shake a heart and furthermore?

We live in a world where all things are battles. All struggles bear weight. To see one's philosophy crumble and have their ego mutilated is no less mortal a wound compared to that which is delivered by blade to neck. And so it is with stepping forward to the next precipice of the fist, the word, and the mind that the word and the ruin make themselves known. From this style, you transcend the meager limitations of distance, of stripes, of the very nature of physical, mental, and spiritual conflict, for they are merged as a final alchemized alloy; for the first time, violence itself will be made whole inside you.

I impose upon you, philosophers high of rhetoric, but weak of strength, take on the burdens of Physicality. Hone your body as you have your mind.

I impose upon you, warriors great and mighty, beings capable of wrestling titans down to the ground before delivering a finishing blow to their flesh, give your mind and heart the gift you have bestowed upon your mortal form.

I impose upon you, great wizards of the mind, wielders of mental reality, shapers of consciousness: do not deprive yourself of true learning. Do not deprive yourself of the final way. The ability to sculpt and deform is not the epistemology of a thing. It is only with true understanding and a complete tripartite whole that you may attain a wholeness before the System, and you may strike with violence absolute.

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

340 (I)

The Way of Tripartite Ruin [I]

A rake of pain slid across Longinus's face from out of nowhere. There was no forewarning to the attack, no hint offered by his Divination and Awareness Skill Fusion; no vector for a projectile; no hint of the enemy's presence.

But the searing scratches of pain on his face ebbed true. Someone had clawed him, and their claws went deep, shredding more than matter, carving at his very soul. Even though his resilience paled compared to the Endbreaker, Longinus stood unbreakable before the strongest Legends and could casually reform any damage inflicted upon his form, even by the hands of a Mythic adversary. And where Halsur dwarfed Longinus in terms of physical integrity, the Wanderer was unmatched when it came not only to escape, evasion, but also spiritual resilience. Even the Republic's greatest Animancers struggled to chip his soul.

Thus, for this unseen vermin to leave three lingering scars on his material visage was an offense Longinus couldn't abide. “You mongrel fuck deformed abortion of a bastard!” His voice commingled with his current Avatar, and the latter’s mannerisms bled through.

Longinus feasted upon Georges’ emotional anguish, and a rush of power surged through him, amplifying his Divinity via the Wanderer’s second Domain: Hunger. A hunger for all things: foods, sensations, experiences, relations, and above all, emotions. But even with the amplification, his Awareness proved lacking. Or perhaps his enemy was just that much greater than he. It wouldn't be the first time a particularly sneaky rat snuck into his kitchen. It wouldn't be the first time someone managed to strike at his vessel.

“Valor!” Longinus bellowed. “Is that you, you decrepit cockless fuck! Have you finally managed to entrap yourself in this cage of mine as well?" A bitter laugh escaped him. “Oh, we knew you would come for us. I knew you wouldn't let things just be bygones. The others were arrogant enough to think they were beyond you, but I've prepared. I know your skills, Valor. I know I can’t find you right now, but I know your limitations. You think just because a blind and retarded Crone Goddess couldn't find you within her own hollowed skull, you can avoid me within my personal abode? Your son must have shattered more of you than I thought!”

With the slightest exertion of his will, reality twisted. Longinus' Divinity bled over from his Domain and painted glistening lances across the sky. The dense smog was illuminated by a screen of needle-thin weapons of incandescence, each one pointed down, their tips glowing ominous and red, infused with the capability to pierce vitality and sunder a soul. But each one was also infused with Longinus' Awareness, further charged with his Divination. As he held his offensive volley reserve, a separate one of purely violet needles flashed into being and promptly speared down upon the ground.

Waves of scrying magic snaked across the pocket dimension that was The Boiling Toad. Not a single square millimeter of the entire space was left unchecked. Every slave was scoured and analyzed, every dimensional studied for compromise. Longinus' paranoia was so great that he even turned his many eyes upon himself.

Because who else, aside from Valor Thann, could be so audacious to hide within the soul of a god? It wouldn't be the first time the old Undying managed to pull such a trick, but he wouldn't be able to cheat Longinus this way.

No, that was impossible. The Wanderer wasn't the strongest of the Ascendants. He wasn't the wisest. He wasn't the most learned or the greatest at magic. But he was cunning. He understood people. He played and wielded people for his pleasure. And that, ultimately, made Valor Thann a thing to him, something to overcome and control, just like everyone else.

Or so Longinus assumed.

Pain ignited along the Traveler's back. From his shoulder blade to his hip was he hewn through by an unseen strike that carved another gouge out from his soul. “Thann! You fucking—” Twin cores of outrage exploded inside Longinus. So great was his rage that it bled over into his Avatar, drowning all sense of self that remained in the man. There was no more Georges. There were simply two vessels for Longinus, and two vessels fueled by an unmatched urge to seek and destroy. The lances he summoned pierced down, and countless more spawned forth.

All this took was a pittance of his divine mana. Even as a fragment of himself, a mere shadow severed from the grand totality of his power by the Usurper-Narrator, he was a god, and he had his own worshippers here, in this sub-realm for his Domain he was building for himself. He could unleash a rainstorm of Jousting Wanderers for the next hundred years without draining himself of worship—and he had more than one skill to wield.

Once more, Longinus swiped his hand. The divine matter composing his gauntlet sent an unseen ripple through the world, and his desire was made material. Parter of Seas was not a flashy skill, but it was an exceedingly rare one, a skill that combined a distance traveled with the user's Physicality. The longer he spent in motion, the more clear terrain he crossed, the more he gathered all that empty space into himself, converting it into usable ammunition of a very specific type.

With this meager gesticulation, sections of the world were rendered into a vacuum. No matter could stop its own displacement before Parter of Seas. Even Legendary-Tier Magical Resistance barely offered a dying breath of protection before his will.

Sections of the Boiling Toad simply ceased to be. The grill station that spanned an entire biome had impossibly clean furrows carved into the metal, and the gleaming steel sputtered as volcanic eruptions’ worth of magical flames poured free from the damaged convection plates below. The rolling infernos tumbled along the landscape, approaching one of the many slave shanties that populated the grill station. Longinus grimaced. He counted no less than a hundred and twenty filthy commis living there, tasked with helping him create his masterworks of flavor. “This is your fault, Valor. You killed these people, not me. And you will pay for taking what is mine. You will pay for making me lose my subjects. My worshippers!”

Longinus’ voice echoed forth from every lance he possessed. For the lances were a manifestation of his being, of his highest will to seek the horizon, to pierce through whatever stood in his path, to shatter, to sunder and slay until the way was clear. But what they weren't was omniscient. Despite the destruction he called forth, the oldest monster of Integrated Earth remained Unseen, Unheard, and Unknown to Longinus.

And the sheer humiliation that inflicted upon Longinus shifted his personality and power into a new combat paradigm.

Connoisseur of the Seven Sins: Pride > Envy

Skill Unfused: Rider Toward Hidden Delights > The Prying Eye (Legendary) - The Intruder of Hearts (Legendary)

Skill Fused: The Prying Eye (Legendary) - Mirage Beyond the Bend (Legendary) > Ghost-At-Eternal-Distance (Legendary)

Longinus' soul transformed. His countless lances fused into one, becoming a massive, resplendent thing that bled crimson and incandescent brightness into the world. A new sun was born at the heart of the Boiling Toad, and its namesake belonged to Longinus. For he and the spear were one and the same, and while the spear changed, so did he.

His person split into two. His Avatar remained in place: a fishing hook, a piece of bait dangling afar. Meanwhile, the true core of Longinus stretched far beyond, extending past the borders of the Boiling Toad and through even the fabric of space itself, back into the narrow niche he carved into his own divine Domain.

The moment he arrived, he felt the rest of himself reach out, trying to pull this severed fragment of his totality back into wholeness.

The true form of Longinus failed. Even though this shard of himself could reach his Domain, there was something blocking him from fully crossing over. The Fairwoods were a cage for mortals and gods alike. Once you let the story bleed into you, once the Broken Watchtower cast its flame upon you, you were anchored in place.

Until the Reader was satisfied.

But Longinus knew better. The Reader would never be satisfied, for eternal was her avarice for stories.

Trapped. Always trapped. No way out…

A part of Longinus sobbed in despondent misery. The crawling mass of madness grew, but he bottled it tight and assuaged it with gentle words. “I know, sweety, I know,” Longinus whispered to his broken psyche. "I’ll grant you something to sate the hurt on soon. I promise. I love you.”

And he would, when the time was right, when Valor Thann was found. Longinus would allow his despair to manifest in full, and the Undying Pathbearer would suffer the taste of true hopelessness before Longinus pulled him back into the embrace of highest love. For ultimately, Longinus didn't want to break his enemies. He wanted the world to know the glory of the Wanderer, to know what it meant to be loved by a proper god, and to love a proper god in return.

“Come out, Valor! Come out and face me! There is no end to me. No end. But there will be a fucking point where you fail! Come out and give yourself to me. The pain will last for but a moment. The sweetness of my touch will remain forevermore. You know what I am. You know you want it…”

With each second that passed without Valor revealing himself, he watched the Pyromantic flames tumble the commis ghetto, looked on as their little bodies leaped out from their stilted buildings of scraps and bone, watched them fry themselves on the gleaming sheet of the grill in their desperation to escape.

Such a pity. So much flesh we will never touch again, the despair within lamented.

“There there, dear heart,” Longinus spoke to his one true love. “It’s not so bad. They won’t be gone for good. We will take it back. We will have it all back. In the next loop. And what is lost for good was undeserving of us in the first place.”

His mind knew that to be a bitter lie, but in his heart, it remained the unvarnished truth. Longinus was a god, and what a god willed, the world permitted. The System allowed. For he, more than anyone else, more than any of these fucking Fae or Evanescia herself, was anointed to be above all.

But we weren’t, an even quieter, truer despair whispered, so deep down that Longinus couldn’t truly hear it. This isn’t who we were supposed to be. We just wanted to be loved. Why are we doing this? Please… stop it. I don’t want to be… this. I don’t want this. Please stop. I don’t want to be this monster anymore. System, Evanescia, Valor… Someone kill me.

I don’t want to be this kind of animal anymore.

I'm sorry.

I wish I never became this.

I wish I never became a god.

A part of the Wanderer almost noticed the anguish buried deep, deep down. But the degeneration had a way of making someone a ruin of themselves, and of leaving certain parts trapped below the rubble.

Almost wasn’t enough.

***

