“You can’t fight every darkness or bask in every light. Accept this, so that you can choose the right battles for yourself and fight them at full strength.”

It makes sense to me, so I don’t know why I haven’t figured out what I need to yet.

I understand the dark and light are both here, always one layer away from each other. I know I can’t have everything or fix everything.

I’ve already told myself that the hardest part of my choosing season will be choosing what I lose.

Maybe my problem is acceptance. Acceptance is different than knowing. It’s hard.

And I’m tired of losing things.

Thanks for letting me talk, Mom and Dad. I’m sorry that there’s nowhere for the System to send this letter.

I’ll always love you.

Alden

******

******

Alden watched a whole Anesidoran afternoon pass by.

Superhumans, mopeds, and cars filled the street. Drones zipped, and sluggish gray clouds rolled overhead. He saw a few families come and go from the lotus-shaped building. They all had such a particular, beautiful kind of happiness about them.

He spent a while trying to focus on that instead of the smudges, but the words of his own letter made him feel like he had to give Healer Yenu and Lind-otta the benefit of the doubt.

One layer away from here, there were so many problems. And although Alden could walk through a lot of doors in his life, he’d lose something precious and face something hard behind every one of them.

He told himself to accept it, but then caught himself, hours later, searching again for a door that was better than all the others. A special, magic door that gave him everything he truly cared about while taking nothing important away.

Okay, he thought. I understand. There really is something here I ought to let go of.

He worked on himself as well as he could while he waited.

It was nearly seven in the evening when a black car finally pulled up to the womb vault and Ladda-ser and Panna-ser stepped out. Alden was damp and freezing. He hadn’t quite managed to make himself stop looking for that magic door.

But he was glad to see help come, and he went to stand on the sidewalk in front of the vault so that they’d have to speak to him when they emerged. Forty-five minutes later they came back out, and he stepped in front of them.

“Master Ladda-ser,” he said with a bow, “did you repair the artificial womb?”

“Of course she did,” said Panna-ser, bundled up in a white coat over his angel robe. “Her repair was close to perfection.”

Ladda-ser nodded. One of her eyes was on a drone, and the other was studying Alden’s chin like she’d found something interesting on it.

“Is the baby well?” he asked.

“Of course it is. You could have brought it to us, and it would also have been well,” Panna-ser said. “This trip was unnecessary.”

Alden was relieved. “That’s so good,” he said to Ladda-ser. “Thank you.”

Another car was pulling up for them.

“Panna-ser,” Alden said as the assistant hurried toward it ahead of his sister, “give me both of your ears, please.”

Panna-ser looked around.

“If you try to get me to do something for you again by hiding information you suspect I would care about, I’ll never do another favor for you. I’ll pretend I can’t hear you when you speak. Master Ladda-ser will have to ask me for everything herself.”

Panna-ser moistened his lips. “I didn’t hide—”

“You either hid the fact that it was an in-use womb on purpose, or you’re unbelievably awful at explaining things clearly. Either way, don’t do it again. And I hope you wiped off that handprint you left on my clean window.”

The Artonan frowned. Ladda-ser was looking at her brother questioningly.

“There are too many unavoidable smudges in the world,” said Alden. “I don’t have to accept yours.”

After their car had left, he lifted the hand with the driving ring on it and called the nonagon toward him from across the street.

All right. That was a long day.

The Superhero Snowball Fight was about to start in the gym. He’d been excited about it earlier in the week.

I could still go. Catch the second half?

He was tired and hungry. Grabbing food sounded better than anything else right now. He decided to try for the event anyway mostly because he didn’t want to wake up in the morning feeling sad about missing out.

He got his flight path approved and lifted off, looking down at the womb vault as he rose.

Relax while you can, little guy. It’s a mess out here.

******
