Realistically, when a bunch of adult professionals agree on something, and I’m the only person in the building who thinks they’re being crazy, it’s probably me who’s wrong.

So he tried to adjust his thinking. He even looked up information on the internet to prove to himself that he was ignorant.

“Tears in artificial wombs almost never lead to serious complications for the developing fetus,” he read. “Thanks to round-the-clock monitoring and quick intervention…”

“Nothing quick about this,” he said under his breath. “Who wants to be quick? Instead, we can sit around talking about teleportation allotments and who’s the real boss.”

“Find any good snacks in here?”

Alden shut his mouth and dismissed the search window. The doctor in the sweater vest had just stepped into the break room.

“I’m not hungry.”

The man walked over to the counter and grabbed a yellow apple from beside the espresso machine. “I expected to develop an aversion to these when I became an MD, but I still like them.”

Alden watched him bite into it.

“That was a joke,” he said after he’d swallowed.

“I got it. An apple a day doesn’t keep you away,” Alden said. “It was a decent joke.”

“Kid…” He set the apple back down. “Never mind. Want to watch me put the womb back to bed until the wizard can get down here to fix things?”

“So Master Ladda-ser’s still not coming right away?”

“No. But we did finally talk to her instead of her brother.”

“And you’re still not going to let me carry it to her?”

“Afraid not.”

“What if I just sit here in your break room holding the pod until she shows up? That way there would be a zero percent chance of anything going wrong. It’s cool what I can do. It’ll be like no time at all passed for the baby, and then Ladda-ser will be here doing the repair.”

“You offered that earlier…. It won’t work because I would have to call the parents and explain this whole situation to them. Their fetal health monitors would alert them when your skill cut off the connection. The problem we have here isn’t urgent enough to justify stressing them out for hours and making them doubt we’re taking good care of their offspring.”

“So they don’t even know that their artificial womb is messed up?”

“You think I should call them and tell them there’s a problem, but we’re not doing anything about it yet because the wizard on duty who can fix it is more interested in a different project?”

Alden stared at him. “Well…I guess that’s better than telling them that the wizard would fix it right away if you used the hospital’s nonemergency teleportation allotment for her travel, but you won’t because…you won’t.”

“It’s a flawed universe,” said the doctor, heading for the door again. “But they don’t need to be worried. And if the parents don’t need to be worried, you definitely don’t have any business worrying about it. I’ve been doing this whole doctor thing for a while, you know, and I hate emergencies where I have to stuff my patients into new wombs. If I thought there was any real chance I’d have to do that today, I wouldn’t be letting everyone hold meetings about this or giving a sixteen-and-three-quarter-year-old volunteer the personal tour. Are you coming?”

Alden got up to follow him into the room that held the source of the day’s conflict.

The pods that protected and monitored the wombs were called cradles. They were ovoid, and their default exterior setting was an opaque tan color. But this one was in display mode, showing what the womb inside currently looked like. The material that surrounded the growing fetus reminded Alden of a wet tomatillo husk, only red. Even though it was supposed to be sturdier and safer than the wombs nature had given humanity, it looked fragile. And this one’s pod was showing a bright highlight over an area where it had detected a flaw in the husk, a spot in danger of tearing.

Alden studied it, trying to decide if it was any bigger than when he’d first seen it. He didn’t think it was.

“Maybe there was some mishap during the transfer,” the doctor said, looking at the problem area, too. “A smaller hospital, a practitioner who isn’t as familiar with the procedure…anything really. Things happen.”

The womb moved suddenly, and Alden jumped, his hands coming out of his pockets, ready for the catastrophe.

“That’s a little foot,” said the doctor, chuckling as he pointed at the new lump where the resident was pressing against the womb. “We’re getting some exercise right now.”

He changed a setting on the cradle, and the life inside it was displayed. Alden had seen images like this before. He’d watched television on multiple worlds and had sex ed classes in two different countries. But none of that was the same as standing in this room, only a step away from such a spectacular thing.

The baby was a boy. A few weeks ago, in a hospital in Barbados, he’d been transferred from his mother to the artificial womb after medical issues had put them both at risk. A couple of months from now, he and his pod would be sent back there, and the womb would be opened by his parents.

He’d be born just like that, a brand new human being. Someone’s son.

But for now he was here, in front of Alden Thorn. Tiny, thin-limbed, and kicking.

You should stop that. You’re so small. There’s plenty of room for you to chill in there without taking your feelings out on the walls. They’re not great walls. Your cradle says you’re in a rickety apartment.

“All right,” said the doctor, picking the whole cradle up. “Let’s go put him back with the others.”

“Why not keep him in here?”

“We could. Some of the enchantments on the cradles support each other when they’re all hanging together, though, so it’s slightly more ideal.”

At least they’re letting the little guy have one ideal situation today.

The vault part of the womb vault was divided into several different softly lit chambers. In each, hundreds of cradles hung from the walls, every one of them on its own mobile arm. The chambers weren’t designed for visitors, but they were meant to be viewed at certain times by the families whose children were growing here. There was a piano in the room where the baby in the damaged womb was staying. Tomorrow, people from all over the world whose wombs were held here would call in to listen to a musician play a few songs. It was one of several ways the womb vault tried to create a warmer experience for long distance families.

Alden watched the doctor hand the cradle off to a free arm. It lifted up to join the others on the wall and hung there, in display mode, still showing the damaged area.

They’ve got their whole lives ahead of them. And a million choices to make about who they’ll be.

Every joy, every thrill, and every mistake was still to come for them. The piano wasn’t playing right now, but the insides of their cradles wouldn’t be silent. Most of them would be hearing the sounds of their parents’ voices and heartbeats.

It still seemed wrong to Alden that someone could stand here looking at them all and then go into a meeting and argue about the things they were arguing about in there. He could tell himself that he was naive and that the adults here knew better than him, but he couldn’t feel it.

“I’ve literally paid to teleport my cat before. Sometimes people teleport in their favorite foods. There’s probably someone on Anesidora right this second eating a special bagel that the System brought in through the TC.”

“That’s true,” said the doctor.

Alden looked at him. He wanted to ask if they would have chosen today to have their standoff with an oddball wizard whose assistant kept stepping on toes if the damaged womb had belonged to a local. If this had been an Avowed’s baby. He really wanted to ask.

“It was good to meet you, Alden.” The doctor smiled at him. “I think I’d probably let you deliver a pizza.”

“Thanks.”

“But I’m going to send you off now since we don’t need you.”

Alden nodded.

The doctor led the way back to the door that connected to the lobby.

“I’ll stay here,” Alden said, as the man reached for the handle. “In the lobby. Just in case something does happen and you need my skill. Even if it’s only a one in a thousand chance.”

“You can’t stay in the visitation area. It’s for families who want to spend time with their cradles.”

“I’ll just stay near the building then. I won’t bother anyone.”

The doctor sighed. “Don’t do that.”

“Don’t worry about it. I want to.”

“I wasn’t worried about it. I was thinking it was unnecessary. And that some people might be annoyed to see you lingering nearby. People who would rather have you washing windows than sticking around looking eager to carry out Panna-ser’s instructions.”

“I don’t care about annoying some people,” said Alden. “There’s a public street right outside, so it’s not like anyone can force me to go very far. I’ll be here. Now you know. I appreciate that you showed me around.”

******

“Dear Stuart,”

“Stu-art’h,”

“Hey, Stu…”

“Boe,”

“Dear Kibby,”

“Yo, Earth!”

Alden frowned at his interface. He was sitting under an awning outside a pastry shop, drinking coffee that no amount of sugar could mask the burnt flavor of, with the nonagon positioned to block the wind and misty rain at his back. He was chilly, but he had a chair and a view of the womb vault’s entrance from here, so this was where he’d stay until he saw Ladda-ser go in.

He expected to be parked in this spot for hours.

He felt like saying something. To someone. But he couldn’t seem to figure out what or to whom.

He typed, “Dear,” into his interface again and watched the golden word shine there for a very long time.

“Dear Mom and Dad…”

Yeah, he thought. I see. Maybe this is that kind of day.

******

******

Dear Mom and Dad,

It’s me. Alden. We haven’t seen each other in a long time.

I miss you. It sucks that the way I miss you is so much about imagining what it would be like to have you here with me now instead of remembering things we actually did together back then. I like the memories better. The imagining can be pretty empty. Or it’s only ideas I’ve stolen from seeing other people with their parents.

Like maybe you’d call to check up on how I’m doing laundry because Haoyu’s mom does that.

Or maybe if I told you about the decisions I’m struggling with at the moment, you’d give me your opinions and then say that you trust me. That when I feel confident I should act with my full strength and the knowledge that you won’t be disappointed, no matter what I choose.

The Primary said that to Stuart. It must have felt really, really good for him to hear those words.

I’m writing to you today because…

That sounds like a line from a business proposal or something. Forget that I said it.

I got to see inside a womb vault today. It made me think of you.

It also made me think about how some baby bokabvs grow up perfectly safe and happy and others turn into tortured demons that get eaten by the Quaternary’s griveck traveling companion.

I thought about klerms, too. Stuart brought me one the other day, after I told him that Bti-qwol had killed the one I preserved with my skill. He called my ability to protect living things profound, and he said that in the future I could ask him for his help to save the most insignificant bacterium in the universe if it was important to me.

He really says things like that.

He really means them.

The Anesidoran womb vault people and some wizards who work at Central Crescent have no idea how close they came to getting a call from an art’h about why we can’t get this one specific unborn baby’s housing situation fixed immediately.

They still might.

I’m trying to be practical. I think this is hitting me harder than it should. The baby’s just doing his best to live, but everything that happens to him is decided by these big forces he has no control over.

Humans. Artonans. Avowed. An island that is a prison and also enviably luxurious. A war that’s out there but that doesn’t often feel real here.

I’m afraid of being pushed and pulled by those same forces, too.

My mind healer, Yenu-pezth, asked me why I was suddenly trying to avoid looking at the smudges that exist on all the bright moments I’ve had lately. This knight who saved my life, Lind-otta, asked me how hard it was to go through Thegund and what would make me want to do something like that again. I keep asking myself who I’m going to be in this universe.

None of the answers are perfect.

I want better ones, but I’m afraid there aren’t better ones.

I think I’d really love to be a teacher. Or a doctor. A person who builds an amazing home for a family. A great friend. Someone who doesn’t get shunned at the local Christmas market.

Someone who can do magic. Who won’t be punished for it and who doesn’t have to hide it from anyone.

Someone who belongs, completely and with no awkwardness, in some world.

Sorry, Dad…but not a pastor. The public speaking. The giving other people advice. Trying to explain God. Every week. That’s not for me. I’m sure about that.

I’m also sure about sitting here in this uncomfortable chair with this crappy coffee until I see an Artonan go into that building. I live here until further notice. I’ll still be here at sunrise if I have to.

I’ve chosen one small battle. If it’s pointless, I’m okay with that.

Lind-otta also said something about this. Earlier today, I was trying to remember exactly how she put it, but then Panna-ser came along and got me involved in this. I think I remember it now. She used the same phrase as the Primary. The one that means full strength.

