He did manage to make a new record player that worked marginally better than his first one, as well as construct a record recorder that worked much, much better than his first iteration of the device. Splitting recording and playing into different devices seemed like an obvious necessity, in retrospect, but like a Shade once said to him: ‘Too bad [Future Sight] isn’t as good as Rear-sight’.

He even managed to work a bit on his own mana sense, working toward [Witness] and [Future Sight], but he had to stop after a while, and move on to something else. So he moved back to his music players.

With a bit of experimentation with his current spells, he managed to make a soundless space in a part of the room, somewhat suspended from the floor, and almost completely cut off from all exterior vibrations. He had discovered that small vibrations in the floor and in the air were accounting for a loss of fidelity on his recordings.

Subsequent recordings in that still space, surrounded by a bubble of [Stillness] and not actually intersected by that [Stillness], produced much better records than before. He tried the same with a [Hermetic Seal], shaped to the space, and found that both spells worked about as good as each other. Further refinement would require more experimentation.

He presented a new record player to O’kabil that evening, along with a few records made from a few ‘throw-away’ song crystals she had left in his care.

An hour later, she immediately gave him some of her ancient, most precious song crystals. She was present for those recordings, for there was no way that she would miss those last songs if the recording turned out bad, or if the crystals broke halfway through.

One of the four crystals did break halfway through. O’kabil sighed, as small silver tears rolled down her face.

Three survived, and O’kabil was overjoyed to have permanent copies of her music.

That night, and for the entire night, the Holy O’kabil glowed with a sad, happy, bright light, her mists filled with joy while a long lost and nearly forgotten song flowed through her boughs. If one listened really, really closely, they might have heard voices hundreds of years old, singing songs that had not been sung for just as long.

The next day, Erick had requests for record players from four different Arbors, including Wyrmrest, Nosier, Home, and Rottundra. The day after that, there were even more requests.

He might not have been making magic, but making music was certainly a nice distraction.

- - - -

The last day of the Triumph of Light came and went.

Two days later, into the first of the year, Erick woke up and checked his Status because he had felt a change. It took him a while to understand what had shifted, or even why he had felt the need to check his Status at all. But there it was, at the top of the blue box. He was 49.

His new birthday was the second of the year.

Two more days later would mark Erick and Jane’s first year on Veird. The Fourth of the First. A few weeks from then would mark the start of Particle Magic joining the Script. Things and events were coming down the line, and Erick needed to be ready for them, but for now, it was still vacation time.

He got up to make breakfast, but Jane was already up and making that breakfast, chopping up potatoes and onions just like Erick had planned and set out the night before.

“Hey, honey!” Erick asked, “How’d your night go?”

Jane winced upon hearing Erick’s voice. She mumbled, “It went fine.” Frowning, but speaking as calmly as she could, she said, “Kordon can’t hunt for shit without overpowering the target—” She paused. She said, “No. That’s unfair. He's pretty damn good. I’m just…” She sighed. She asked, “Did you turn 49 today?”

As Jane began speaking Erick was worried, rather deeply, that Kordon had done something wrong to his daughter, and if so, then he was going to have to bring the wrath of several gods and his own archmage power down on that boy’s head. But this was not about that! This was just about birthdays…

Erick almost smiled, but then he stopped.

This was not about boy troubles. Jane was upset about something much worse.

Was today her birthday, too? Or had that not come yet? Had she had her birthday yesterday, and she wasn’t willing to bring it up until today? Oh. Shit. Had he missed her birthday?

But!

If he had, then Jane’s mother lied to both of them about when Jane was born. They were supposed to be on the same day. That’s how it had always been.

Oh. This could be bad. That could be very bad.

Best to pull that bandaid off fast!

Extremely seriously, Erick said, “The Status says 49.”

Instantly, Jane relaxed. She set down the knife she was using to chop potatoes, and sniffled. She said, “I just got 23.” She laughed, then said, “At least That Woman didn’t lie about that!”

Erick went over and hugged his daughter. “Happy birthday, Jane.”

“Happy birthday, Dad.”

“So what kind of cake do you want?”

“Chocolate.”

- - - -

All over the world, news of the events of Ar’Kendrithyst and then Treehome spread as fast as [Telepathy] could connect people, which was pretty darn fast. The people in power spoke of what would happen next. They asked each other of plans, and counter-plans.

What if Erick comes here next?

Would he even tell us if he did?

Barely anyone understood the significance of the Worldly Path, but even fewer heard that Erick was on that Path.

Look now to a rather contained part of the world, and yet the most not-contained part of Veird at all, where plans are held like prepared guillotines and words are wielded like hidden daggers full of poison. The two presences here understand the Worldly Path, and know enough to know what it means.

Two people who hate each other stand across from each other in a small ocean cave, where the Elites of the Headmaster come to get quests and take [Gate]s to other parts of the Veird’s surface. These two people represent the opposite sides of the two largest forces of good and other-good in the world, though neither side could ever see each other in that way. To each other, the other side is pure evil. On the rare charitable days between them, they merely regard their counterparts as deluded sycophants to their own misguided causes.

This is one of those rare days.

One of the people is a shirtless, muscular man of dark skin, with eyes and a body that glows pale gold. His kilt is made of knives, while a pale-gold sword hovers behind his back, sized to his whole, slightly floating body. His name is Oteril.

The other is an incani woman of red skin, wearing a slick black dress. She glows with a different sort of inner radiance, that is more like a dark, red gloom. Her eyes are fiery rubies, while a disk of red light hovers behind her head and back. Her name is Aviza.

Time passes.

With no one there to quest, and no one having shown up in the last hour, Aviza decided to speak nicely to her counterpart, saying, “Why not take your Converter home?”

Oteril had gone through this discussion before, and so gave his usual response to almost all of Aviza’s ‘requests’ for less war, “As soon as you demons rescind your dark power, and let that power vanish into the Void, we will step back from war on all fronts. We are not the untrustworthy ones, here. You are.”

Aviza said, “We’ll have to kill her, then, you know. It’s just a matter of time.”

“How do you know it’s a ‘her’?”

Another hour passed in silence.

Aviza said, “If you go after Erick, then we will have to respond in kind. With our own archmages.”

“He’s plotting to clear out the entirety of the Forest of Glaquin from multiple monster threats. Why would we want to interrupt that? Why would you want to interrupt that?”

Another hour passed in silence.

Aviza, slightly angry, said, “Step lightly, Angel.”

“Die in the Depths, Demon.”

“Why do you want us to rescind the power we took from the demons? Oh yeah. Because it used to be yours. Emphasis on ‘used to be’. Well Heaven ain’t all yours anymore, Angel, so suck off a dragon and choke on the lava.”

Oteril narrowed his golden eyes, saying, “You don’t have a spark of the Heavens. You have a spark of the Depths. The Abyss. The Unending Far. It twists you into mockeries of yourself and you are deluded enough to call this taint a form of power. You are misguided, as are all the demons that have ever come before you, for there is nothing Good about where you have built your houses.” He said, “In the name of all that is Good and Holy and Right, I pray you to seek reason. Give up your hold on the Fragmented Horror of the Old Demons and become something better than what you were forced to be.”

“Caizoa is about ready to tackle that Converter Angel. Maybe we can capture that old girl and get a backdoor into Celes. Wouldn’t that be nice.”

Oteril flinched as though struck. He went silent.

Aviza smiled, knowing that she had drawn blood.
