"My responsibilities. The tasks. The duties. The lives I was in charge of. The number of things that one has to do to make sure the Gate runs. To keep all these refugees alive. All of it was too much. I wasn't prepared for this. I thought it would be a simple thing. Oh, I was a fool. A greedy, greedy fool! So short-sighted, so certain of myself. I was a fool and a fraud. This was practically my fate. My mother, she was a fool and a fraud. I was damned by birth. Damned!"

"Null Mont," Shiv said sweetly. "Help me understand. Just help me understand. No one's angry at you yet." This time, his own body trembled, but Null Mont didn't have Gardener of Doubt, so she couldn't perceive how deep his lie went.

He gave the Weaveress a few seconds to gather herself, and when she finally calmed enough, she began recounting her many, many failures. "It all got worse the moment you left. Our scouts were attacked, and I left them to their own devices. It's not uncommon for the First Blood to go for our forces when they encounter one another in the Abyss. Instead, I focused on the infrastructure and the refugees. I tried to negotiate their return to the surface. In exchange for mithril or other things that might be regarded as valuable back at Weave, it was all to gain myself some influence, some prestige, and position. I didn't intend to steal this Gate from you. I only intended for my stay to be temporary, long enough to cover myself in glory. You have to believe me. You have to."

"Alright, alright," Shiv said. "We believe you. But that doesn't explain how everything else got so bad."

"I didn't see it coming either. Everything just kept going wrong! One small problem there, one large problem here. The hydro-processing plant was sabotaged. I thought it was some kind of mana failure at first, but my specialty is physics. Physics! I forced myself into this position so that I can climb the ranks faster. Previously, I was a theoretical physicist for Weave's Experimental Artillery Division. I studied military tactics and strategy as well, of course. But my experiences in that were mostly, well, theoretical. So, you see, I found myself focusing more on fixing specific problems, like the hydro plant. It confounded me. It offended me. I kept trying to assign more people to resolve that while also negotiating with the mercenary leaders that I might have neglected establishing a proper outpost on the outside."

Adam pressed a palm against his forehead and muttered something under his breath. His facade shattered entirely. He couldn't hide how much Null Mont’s incompetence made him suffer anymore.

"And then, well, some of our scouts were compromised. The vampires, they had Psychomancers. They managed to turn some of our forward forces. The information we received was falsified. It wasn't until Still Water and her team went out that we realized just how bad things were."

With that admission, Shiv grimaced as well. Here was a lesson: an army that lacked specific Pathbearers, who possessed specific skills, was no army at all. Stripped of Uva, the Weaveresses and Umbrals of the Gate were vulnerable to hostile Psychomancers. Without certain specialists or Pathbearers of a sufficient Tier, an army was like a set of armor with plates removed, deliberately exposing points of weakness to a potential enemy.

"Why didn't you try to sound a retreat, or to call for more assistance from Weave?" Adam asked, hissing his words even as he hid his face behind his palm.

"Because it was too late, and the refugees... I couldn't just leave them here, but I also didn't want to just let them all out onto the surface. So I just didn't know what to do. I was trying to solve so many things, and then the vampire infiltrators got in, and I had to deal with those issues. For days, we hunted them; they were the priority, and I thought it wouldn't be so bad once we managed to get that under control. But during the chaos they caused... the chaos... the vampire forces outside began to mass and build, and by the time we dealt with the infiltrators, it was already too late."

Null Mont's excuses were a jumbled mess, but Shiv still managed to piece the general details together. She had focused on things that didn't matter as much, leaving her forces in the field on their own until they were subverted, fed the Gate false information, allowed infiltrators to break into the Gate, and that subsequent crisis caused them to be unprepared for the actual invasion. It was practically a mirror of what Shiv and Adam did against Gate Theborn before its collapse. However, the big difference between Theborn and Piety was the lack of a proper army without Shiv and his orcs. That, and somehow, Null Mont proved significantly more incompetent than even Confriga.

Adam drew his palm away from his face and released a long-suffering sigh as he stared up at the ceiling. He didn't seem to have much anger left inside him anymore. It was all just disappointment now, and disbelief.

"Well…" Shiv chuckled. There wasn't much amusement there, but it was still kind of funny in a sad way. He patted Null Mont on the back as she started hyperventilating again. "At least she's not a traitor. She's just really, really, really, really, really incompetent."

"Forgive me…" Null Mont whimpered.

"A word of advice to you young Pathbearers," the Culturist said, eyeing Null Mont with a disdainful expression. "Always have a proper chain of command established, or at least make sure the people below you are competent enough to retain a measure of stability. Otherwise, events like these transpire. They are always bitter lessons."

"In our defense, we weren't expecting to be kidnapped by the Ascendants and then locked down in the capital," Shiv grunted.

The Culturist huffed. "What we expect matters little. We must be prepared for almost anything."

Shiv wanted to argue and disagree, but frankly, the orc was right. The System was unreasonable, and bullshit waited around every turn. Them not dealing with Null Mont permanently in some fashion was a mistake on their part. But Shiv had thought he could use her.

Wait, he suddenly realized. I can still use her. But I don't need her to stay here. I just need to give her what she wants. We can get rid of her for good after that.
