Though curious as to what he meant, Luo-Luo held her tongue for a moment, and her patience was soon rewarded. “Junior Brother,” the Abbot said, his wrinkled, hairless brow furrowed in confusion, “Am I to understand you’ve been feeding Water Chi to the Divine Turtle?”

“Yea, of course. Why do you think I called it Chi Tea to begin with? I sure as hell wasn’t drinking my bath water. Funny story, I’m pretty sure that’s how she found me in the first place too. I was meditating in a tub of water trying to bind it like a weapon, and when I opened my eyes, there she was.” Blinking owlishly while looking at the Abbot, Lord Husband said, “I swear I already told you this.” Frowning, he added, “Or maybe I meant to and forgot. I have a lot of secrets, and it’s hard to keep track of who knows what.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Closing his eyes, the Abbot performed a mudra with his hands, a symbolic gesture meant to convey his emotions and facilitate the flow of breathing. This one in particular, with hands pressed together and fingers interlaced while pointing at the ground, was symbolic of a watering can and represented an overabundance of negative emotions which were gathered into the hands and subsequently poured out through the fingers. Luo-Luo sympathized with the poor Abbot, because prying information out of Lord Husband was more difficult than pulling teeth, and she felt like she’d aged more in the last year than in the six years before it.

It was long seconds before the Abbot reined in his temper, and when he opened his eyes again, he didn’t rush to speak. First, he took a deep breath, and then another, and only then did he trust himself to speak, his tone and expression devoid of all emotion. “Junior Brother, you still possess several gourds of manufactured Water Chi, correct? Might this monk take one to study?”

“Sure, I’ll just get...” Stopping once he realized the Abbot was already gone, Lord Husband scowled and muttered, “Or go get it yourself, not like I need privacy or anything.” With a long, tired sigh as if he were the aggrieved party, he turned to his escort and said, “Brother Biao, could you go make sure the Abbot doesn’t drink my Chi Tea and remind him that those three gourds may well be the key to my recovery? Thank you.” Rolling his eyes at Lin-Lin, he offered her his arm and said, “Care to join me for an early dinner?”

“Love to, hubby.”

Arm in arm the two of them went, moving slowly since Lord Husband’s injuries kept him from making proper use of his walker, so it was up to Lin-Lin to help him along. Uncharacteristically, Li-Li also stepped in to help, leaving nothing for Luo-Luo to do besides follow obediently behind them. She didn’t even warrant an invitation, though she understood it was merely a joke, but still it would be nice if he offered his arm to her every once in a while, even if she had to slouch over to take it. They didn’t need to go far since food would be brought to them, so once Lord Husband was seated, Luo-Luo smiled and said, “Lin-Lin, Li-Li, why don’t we change before dinner?”

It didn’t take much to convince Lin-Lin since she loved dressing up for her hubby, not that he ever noticed, but Li-Li was more difficult to deal with. She only agreed to come with after Lin-Lin picked up on Luo-Luo’s aim and asked the half-cat for help with her hair, and soon enough, the three of them were picking out clothes in Luo-Luo’s yurt. “Remember,” she said while hastily throwing on a tasteful dress with various animals embroidered across it, “While Lord Husband has permission to circumvent the ban on fire for medical reasons, the rest of us do not, so it’s best if we continued eating travel rations so as not to give our enemies reason to criticize and accuse him of impropriety.”

Scrunching her nose up in ire, Lin-Lin puffed her cheeks and pouted for long seconds while Li-Li took on a similar expression, and the two traded glances before the former muttered, “Okay...” Eyes widening in hope, she asked, “Mm, what if he can’t finish his dinner? I can eat it then, ya?”

So lovable. “Certainly,” Luo-Luo said, tapping Lin-Lin gently on the nose, “But don’t tell him or else he’ll purposely eat less or try to share, and he needs to eat as much as he can.”

“Don’t worry, ya?” Grinning until her eyes were mere lines, Lin-Lin tilted her head and said, “I won’t take food from hubby’s plate until he can’t eat another bite.”

So charmed by the sweet girl, Luo-Luo forgot the other topic she wanted to discuss until they were all dressed and ready for dinner, at which point Lin-Lin skipped away ahead of them and plopped down beside Lord Husband. Luo-Luo had hoped to impose on Lin-Lin’s mercy and perhaps arrange a schedule for seating themselves beside him, or at the very least, make her plight known to Li-Li so the half-cat would give her permission to sit beside Lord Husband again. Thus far, there’d been no discernible reason for Luo-Luo to come all the way to the front lines with them, and after going through the frightening ordeal which had been her first battle, she needed to make this trip worth the effort. Despite three walls and thousands of defenders separating her from the bulk of the fighting, Luo-Luo had never been more terrified in her life, than she had been last night. Four hours of battle seemed to stretch into eternity, but looking back now, it felt like it had all passed by in an instant.

All she wanted to do was sit at Lord Husband’s side, attend to his needs while he ate his meal, and perhaps carry a conversation which had nothing to do with the war, his businesses, or his current plight. Was that so much to ask for?

So distracted by her self pity, Luo-Luo failed to notice Sister-in-Law Alsantset’s arrival and only came to her senses when a delectable scent reached her nose. Pork-bone congee with finely sliced peppered greens and a fresh fried dough fritter, a simple, yet nourishing meal to suit Lord Husband’s needs, and Luo-Luo’s heart swelled with the pride of accomplishment, even if no one remembered it was mostly her idea to begin with.

Her pride didn’t last long as she spotted the problem, one so obvious she missed it at first glance. “There’s too much food for Lord Husband to finish.” A massive pot full, in fact, enough to feed Lord Husband until his belly exploded.

“Of course,” Sister-in-Law Alsantset replied, her words thick with disdain. “The difference between cooking for one and cooking for ten is negligible, and twenty only requires a modicum of more effort.”

“But... the rules...”

“Bah.” Waving a hand in dismissal, the fierce tigress scowled and gestured at the other camps around them. “You find me an Officer in Sinuji who claims he ate a cold lunch, and I will show you a liar. If the Disciplinary Corps wants to make an issue of this, they will turn themselves into a laughing stock amongst the nobility, though they won’t be laughing for long after I demand they step up and swear they followed protocol to the letter or be punished alongside little Rain.”

“You know, that raises a good point.” Speaking around a mouthful of dough fritter, Lord Husband used the remaining piece to point at Sister-in-Law Alsantset. “I’ve been going about this all wrong. The Disciplinary Corps accused me of nepotism, so I figured my best bet was to be humble and obedient, but what’s the point? It won’t change a thing about the political climate and it gives off the impression that I’ve submitted to their judgment. Fuck that. I’m going to model myself after the average officer and take all the liberties they do. If the Justicars take issue with my actions, then I can just point out all the other violations going on and claim they’re targeting me unjustly.”

A terrible idea in Luo-Luo’s opinion, but before she could voice it, Sister-in-Law Alsantset all but shoved a bowl of hot congee into Luo-Luo’s hand and fixed her with a feral grin. “Eat now girl, before it gets cold, and when your belly is full, you will show everyone how far you have come along the Martial Path. You are one of the Bekhai, and the Bekhai have no useless Martial Warriors.”

Luo-Luo’s mind blanked in panic at the familiar, yet chilling statement. Staring at the bowl of congee in her hands, she prayed it would last forever. Though she Demonstrated the Forms every single day since sister Mila first tasked her to, Luo-Luo had yet to receive any guidance or spar with another living being. Day in and day out, she practised her modified dance routines alone, yet little had changed. She was neither stronger nor more muscular than before, and in fact had seemingly lost weight since most of her clothes needed to be taken in, so she had no idea how she was supposed to show progress when there was none to be had. Fretting over the near future, Luo-Luo ate her congee one small spoonful at a time, while everyone laughed and made merry around her, an outsider sitting alone amongst friends.

When their meal all but finished, the Abbot reappeared with gourd in hand and thrust it at Lord Husband’s chest. “Drink this, Junior Brother.”

“Uh... I’d rather not.” Carefully taking the gourd if only to keep it away from the Abbot, Lord Husband inspected the gourd for leaks or defects and said, “I don’t want to waste it, because I’ll probably need it to recover. I can’t store Chi or Heavenly Energy in my shattered Core, but like events in Sinuji proved, I can still manipulate Heavenly Energy, or more specifically the Heavenly Energy created from purified Spectres. Since we now know I can still collect Spectres, this means that once I figure out how to access my shattered Core and work out a couple other pertinent details, I can then use this Chi Tea to start the purification process and use the resulting Heavenly Energy to keep it going until I have enough to bring myself back to full fighting strength.” Seeing Luo-Luo’s disbelieving stare, he shrugged and explained, “It’s not a great plan, or even a finalized one, but it’s the best one I’ve got. I still don’t want to try until I know more, so I’d rather not waste a third of the Water Chi I have left.”

...No wonder he’d been so confident of his recovery. Why would he not share this with Luo-Luo? Had she not proven her loyalty time and time again?

“Trust in the Heavens, Junior Brother,” the Abbot said, patting his chest with confidence. “This monk believes everything happens for a reason, no matter how indecipherable said reason might be. This monk cannot explain the details in depth for fear of negatively affecting the outcome, but if you drink the water, you will soon understand.”

It look long minutes of silent deliberation before Lord Husband made a move, and when he did, he gave no warning in advance. Uncapping the gourd, he brought it up to his lips and drank deep, greedily guzzling down what must have been stale water without letting a single drop escape. Seconds stretched into eternity before the gourd was drained dry, and Lord Husband even held it upside down and shook it over his extended tongue in case there was still some water left inside. Panting as he sat in place, there was an expectant gleam in his eye as he turned his attention turned inwards for any sign of change, and...

...

......

“Nothing.” Cradling the empty gourd, Lord Husband’s despair was heartbreaking to behold as he gazed up at the confused Abbot. “Nothing happened, and now the gourd is empty.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the Abbot replied, bowing his head in obvious contrition. “Perhaps... Perhaps this monk was mistaken. Ah, such pride, such sin.”

“You arrogant son of a –”

Whether it was for the sake of his pride or Lord Husband’s, the Abbot threw up a Sound Barrier which shut everyone else out, but Luo-Luo’s heart ached as she watched Lord Husband scream until his face turned red, the rage a mask to soothe his pain. That gourd had contained more than just Water Chi, for within it, held the hope for his recovery, and now he’d squandered a third of it away on a fruitless endeavour. Oh, her poor, poor beloved, he would need someone to hold him close and soothe his anger, someone’s shoulder to cry on and bosom to bury in, and –

“Come.” Pulled away from the scene by Sister-in-Law Alsantset, the woman all but stalked off towards the training grounds with Luo-Luo in tow, while Li-Li was walking ahead of them with her two guards at her sides. “Little brother will vent his anger with or without us there, and if I remain, then I might do something I will sorely regret,” the tigress said, growling through clenched teeth. “Sweet Lin will be there to cheer him up, but there is little you or I can do to affect him. He will recover, or he will not, and all we can do is protect him and prepare for the possibility of failure. To do this, we must be strong.” Looking Luo-Luo in the eye as they walked, Sister-in-Law Alsantset added, “You have the blood of Imperials, which I am told is synonymous with strength. I would like to see firsthand if this is true.”

Unsure how to answer, Luo-Luo simply nodded and clasped her mace tight, the weapon so natural hanging at her side that she often forgot it was even there. Perhaps it was true, but she doubted it mattered as much as others believed, for talent meant little in the long run. No, to become a Martial Warrior, one required a lifetime of dedication and training, so Luo-Luo feared she’d simply started too late. Regardless of her talents, she had long since decided to devote her effort to the Martial Path, so for better or worse, she would stand at Lord Husband’s side and protect him from harm, no matter who the enemy might be.

