“Mmhmm... Yea, right there wifey.”

“Like this?”

“Harder please.”

“Are you sure?”

“Don’t worry, I can handle it.”

“Okay hubby. How’s this?”

“Perfect. You’re the best.”

Cheeks burning and eyes averted, Luo-Luo stood at the sides and wrung her hands while doing her best not to stare at the immoral couple, yet she was unable to tear her eyes away. Lost in their own little world, Lord Husband and Lin-Lin carried on with their display without a care in the world and paid no mind to the audience around them. More surprising was how no one else seemed to care, not Li-Li sitting beside them cradling Sarankho in her arms, nor the Abbot who stood with back turned chanting Sutras for all to hear. The Divine Turtle watching from above did nothing to dissuade them, and Luo-Luo’s handmaidens didn’t even bat an eye before offering their services, but thankfully Lord Husband wasn’t so callous as to accept, not while Luo-Luo herself had yet to partake.

Was she overthinking things? No, impossible. How could all these people here not understand? There Lord Husband lay soaking in his smooth-stone tub, basking beneath the afternoon sun while he and Lin-Lin engaged in the most erotic and sensual act a woman could perform for her man without batting an eye. Her sleeves rolled up past the elbows and cheeks flushed from the heat of the water, Lin-Lin stood there lathering Lord Husband’s hair and rigorously massaged his scalp, her expert touch eliciting muted groans of pleasure while he lay naked and half asleep.

Back in the Academy, Luo-Luo’s teachers had taught her all manner of ways in which to entice and pamper her future Patron, but those techniques paled in comparison to Lin-Lin’s prowess. On the surface, there was nothing lewd or obscene taking place, no naked breasts pressed against the back of his neck or smooth legs wrapped around his waist. Instead, Lin-Lin stood behind Lord Husband and at an appropriate distance from the tub, not quite arms lengths but with a clear, deliberate space between them so her clothes wouldn’t get wet. Had Luo-Luo been in her place, she would’ve gladly stripped bare, sat facing Lord Husband on his lap, and flaunted her body for Lord Husband to appreciate, but her actions would’ve been for naught. Eyes closed and body limp, he lay there naked as the day he was born save for a cloth floating in the water which more or less kept him modest, utterly relaxed and wholly defenceless while his darling wifey worked her magic.

Which surprisingly enough, didn’t look all that different from how she would pet the animals, from the grasping motions she made with her fingers right down to the same silly expression on the receiver's face.

Eyeing sweet Aurie sitting obediently to one side, Luo-Luo choked on her laughter as she pictured Lord Husband’s face superimposed over the docile wildcat’s, but her mirth died quickly as reality reared its ugly head. Though blissfully enjoying Lin-Lin’s ministrations, Lord Husband’s condition was no laughing matter. His emaciated frame was only scratching the surface, but the earlier meeting with the Army Healers would go a long ways towards remedying this. Hot baths and hot food were a luxury here on the front lines, one which might see Lord Husband castigated in the court of public opinion, but there was no helping it. He’d only been away from the citadel for a single week, ten measly days of eating nothing but travel rations, and already he’d lost most of his mediocre reserves of body fat. Worse, his heroics on the wall last night had taxed him greatly, leaving a smattering of ugly purple and yellow bruises across his body, the worst of which were situated around his left shoulder which he almost tore and dislocated dragging soldier Tarsov to safety.

Her poor, heroic Lord Husband, weak as a day-old kitten yet still possessing the courage of a lion. He and his people suffered greatly during the fierce battle last night, and while none had died, many of his soldiers now lay grievously injured in the medical tent. Ironically, Tarsov was better off than most, up and about while his benefactor Saida lay unconscious in her cot, easily the worst off of the bunch after taking multiple wounds to hold back the Defiled so Lord Husband could bring the fallen Tarsov away. Luo-Luo had overheard the soldiers say the Healers almost failed to save the heroine’s life and her status was still touch and go, but having seen the aftermath of the heroine’s actions when she visited the tents earlier, Luo-Luo wholeheartedly believed them.

It made for a touching tale, one of a warrior woman standing guard over her fallen lover and courageous superior, but apparently, Saida and Tarsov could barely stand one another. Even then, such was the depths of their camaraderie that she didn’t even think twice about risking her life without knowing if he was dead or alive...

A gross oversimplification of course, with more than a little romanticizing on Luo-Luo’s part. Had Saida not stepped up to guard Tarsov’s fallen form, then the Defiled would’ve gained a foothold on the battlements and soon overwhelmed the rest of Lord Husband’s tired defenders. Even with Saida’s valiant efforts, Lord Husband’s people might have been overrun regardless if not for the intervention from one Hondou Masahige, a lowly Lieutenant whose family was tightly linked to the Mitsue’s. A direct subordinate of Sinuji’s commander, Masahige was obviously Mitsue Watanabe’s puppet and sacrificial lamb, a mouthpiece through which to relay his orders and absolve him of all culpability. A tricky matter, dealing with Lord Husband while his true status had yet to be revealed, for their enemies still had to respect Shen ZhenWu standing behind him, but so long as Masahige died before any Imperial inquiry, then Watanabe could claim his subordinate acted on his own, a simple truth Lord Husband didn’t wholly appreciate.

It was maddening. Usually, Lord Husband’s paranoia bordered on the extreme, yet he was still willing to give Masahige the benefit of a doubt. Not because he thought the man genuinely wanted to help him, no, Lord Husband believed the Lieutenant was a warrior first, one who’d been moved to action by Dastan’s exemplary heroics, as if a man like Masahige would ever admire a slave. Luo-Luo had seen his type a thousand times before, an ambitious underling who delighted in carrying out his patron’s dirty work. Status was everything to people like him, because his loyalty hinged upon the ability to use his patron’s status against others, so in Masahige’s eyes, a slave would always be a slave, no matter how valiant or heroic.

Of course, it occurred to her that Masahige might not have been moved to action on the wall by Dastan’s heroics, but by Lord Husband’s. From the way he told it, Masahige only sprung into action after Lord Husband attacked a Defiled tribesman and dragged a fallen soldier away, all at great risk to himself, but he dismissed her theory as ‘ridiculous’. “When a mouse attacks a cat, no one thinks, ‘brave mouse’,” he’d said, flashing that hateful, knowing smile which meant there was no chance of changing his mind without irrefutable proof, and even then it would be difficult.

Sadly, he wasn’t wrong as all her contacts reported that few cared to speak of Lord Husband’s heroics except to dismiss them as sheer madness. In this, his intelligence worked against him, being a stubborn, opinionated man who bucked and kicked every time Luo-Luo tried to take the reins, but what else was she to do? This was a complicated matter which required a soft touch, and Lord Husband’s actions were akin to a sparrow playing the part of a bull. Courageous as he might be, no one would be awed or intimidated by his actions, not while he remained crippled and without hope, but even now, with his soldiers injured and death hanging over his head, he still refused to try a different approach and continued going about as if his full recovery was only a matter of time.

An issue of support, in Luo-Luo’s opinion, for the Bekhai offered him too much. A strange thing to complain about considering how noble and benevolent their actions were considering most other factions would’ve thrown Lord Husband to the wolves, but with his people’s backing, he had yet to accept the cold, hard truth: there was no recovering from this, no coming back from a shattered Core, not without long decades of struggles and hardships. Not even four months had passed since his fall in Sinuji, yet here he was behaving as if his recovery would soon be finished when in truth, he had yet to even begin. Granted, Lord Husband was an outlier in many ways, including his Heaven-Blessed Talent to absorb the Father’s incorporeal minions which Luo-Luo had thought were things of myth and superstition. Spectres, Lord Husband called them, and everyone else adopted the moniker as well, but Luo-Luo couldn’t stop thinking about the bedtime stories her teachers had told them whilst she was still but a child, of how the first Demons were avatars of anger and hatred without form or substance, creatures which poisoned the hearts of humanity and turned them against the Mother.

Was that not what Spectres were? Demons yet to take form? If so, then didn’t that mean Lord Husband had a veritable horde of would-be Demons clinging to his eternal soul? Was Lord Husband a Chosen Son of the Mother, here to save them from the Enemy, or was he the Father’s secret weapon hiding in plain sight, a vessel with which He could infiltrate the highest echelons of Imperial Society, and perhaps even turn the Emperor of humanity himself?

A most frightening thought, one which had Luo-Luo tossing and turning long before the battle began, but there were no answers to be had. All she could do was trust Lord Husband and do her best to keep him safe, but it seemed like an impossible undertaking considering he refused any and all of her suggestions out of hand. Lowering himself to charm common soldiers was a grievous mistake, and doubly so when doing it amongst pious soldiers who were only there to greet the Divine Turtle, but Lord Husband went ahead with his plan anyways to obvious results. Though he admitted the error of his ways after the fact, he made no mention of Luo-Luo’s warning or how he could’ve avoided such a blunder if he’d only listened to her advice.

And as if to rub salt into her wounds, Lord Husband’s voice sounded out right then, saying, “I’m glad I didn’t send Junior back to his family or have him killed out of hand. This was his best idea yet.”

A crime is what this was, bullying of the highest levels. This was all the result of Luo-Luo’s hard work, but no one appreciated her efforts. Junior Yimu’s plan had been to use the Healers to have Lord Husband discharged from his duties, but it would never have worked because it relied too heavily on the kindness of strangers. Not only would the attending Healer be subjected to intense public scrutiny after following through with Junior’s idea, their family would also be in danger of Imperial retribution. Any fool with half a brain could see that Falling Rain was pitted against the Disciplinary Corps, so who would dare help a stranger in such dire straits without a benefit to be had? Luo-Luo had worked hard to guide Lord Husband to see the benefits at hand, not just to obtain permission to circumvent the ban on fire, but also to forge a connection with the Healers of Sinuji. Having met and interacted with him, the Healers might feel obligated to keep informed of his situation, and while they might not directly offer him aid, the more influential eyes on Lord Husband, the safer he would be, for even Justicars couldn’t openly flout the Empire’s laws, only twist them to their advantage.

While it was true her stubborn Lord Husband had balked at her suggestion until Junior Yimu convinced him otherwise, it was hardly fair to give him all the credit for only half the work. Such was Luo-Luo’s fate as the neglected concubine, standing off to one side while the other wives enjoyed Lord Husband’s favour. Not just Lin-Lin either, but Li-Li too now, always lingering within arms reach of him yet not close enough to allow Luo-Luo room to join. It was either plant herself between Li-Li and Lord Husband which might upset the taciturn half-cat, or sit beside Lin-Lin where she would be promptly ignored and forgotten. Lord Husband only had eyes for his ‘sweet wifey’ these days, though Luo-Luo could hardly blame him. Between her lovable personality and budding womanly charms, Lin-Lin had a delightful air about her which made it impossible to dislike her no matter what she said or did.

No matter how hard Luo-Luo tried. To think, she once believed sister Yan would be her most difficult competitor when the innocent and charming Lin-Lin had already long since won the race.

Lord Husband’s hot bath lasted almost an entire hour, but it was a much needed soak for his bruised and battered body. By the time he was finished, he almost looked like a different man with his slick, groomed hair and contented expression, striding out past the wooden dividers to greet the Divine Turtle with arms outstretched. Giggling as she lowered her head to the ground with a defeated squeak, he wrapped his arms around her beak and hugged her tight, or as close to a hug as one could get when dealing with a creature her size. Not even half the height of her head, Lord Husband was less than a nibble to the Divine Turtle, but she handled him with a gentleness that belied her strength, nuzzling him ever so slightly in response to his affections. “Sorry Ping Ping,” Lord Husband whispered, giving the ridge between her eyes a vigorous patting. “Once I sort out this shattered Core business, I’ll get you a whole pool of Chi Tea for you to drink. Promise.”

