Yan was so proud of her husband when he stopped to consider his words carefully, a sign of his hard-earned maturity. “I am against forcibly helping him Create a Core,” Rain said, his tone soft yet determined. “You think I’d be doing him a favour, but in truth, it’d be a disservice. Yes, I could push him to Core Creation, or you could turn to one of the Supreme Families quietly offering to do so for a price, except what they don’t tell you is that this is an option of last resort. The first step is the most important, because it sets the foundation for everything that has yet to come. The Path to the Dao is one of self reflection, so how can you set a firm foundation with outside assistance? A caterpillar does not complete its transformation into a butterfly from within the cocoon. Only after it has struggled free can it be called such, as it is that struggle which gives it the strength needed to unfurl its wings and fly.”

To this day, Rain believed creating the Stormguard had been a mistake, and the facts proved it. Only a single Peak Expert had emerged from their ranks after a decade, with few prospects of more, while Rustram had languished for eight long years with little to no improvement until finally shoring up his defects, overcoming his reliance on Rain, and progressing by leaps and bounds almost overnight. Not everyone had a will as strong as Rustram however, or a Mentor as dedicated as Mother-in-Law Sarnai however, so Rain believed it was best to let nature take its course. Unfortunately, with the Supreme Families seeking allies outside the Eastern Province and offering to make Martial Warriors out of talentless heirs and scions for a price, Yan knew it was only a matter of time before their friend grew desperate enough to seek help elsewhere.

“But what if he never succeeds?” Zian asked, his voice almost a whisper as he watched his son cackle with delight in Mafu’s arms. “What if all his struggles are for naught and he is unable to Create his Core?”

“Would that truly be so terrible?” Rain asked, which was the wrong way to go about this. “Most people aren’t Martial Warriors, and they get by just fine. An Yang would still have parents and siblings who love him so, and all the trappings of wealth and status you can bestow. What’s more, I’ve long been a proponent of separating Martial and civil affairs, because it only makes sense. We take our strongest Warriors and place them in positions of political importance, forcing them to split their attention between two vastly different professions. How does that make any sense? It’d be better to put someone who knows what they’re doing in charge, and leave Martial Warriors to focus on their chosen Path.”

It was clear to Yan that Zian wasn’t convinced, and even Fung still harboured his doubts regarding Rain’s vision of separation between military and state, but she knew he wouldn’t budge on this. Seeing his argument falling flat, he made a face and heaved a long sigh. “I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again, the Martial Path is not the sole Path to Divinity. In all these years, I’ve only met one person I felt was close to achieving True Divinity. Know who it is?”

“The former Emperor, I would guess,” Zian replied, following it up with the standard, “May he live for ten-thousand years.”

An obvious candidate, considering Liang Wu Sheng spent a good thirty-seven years privy to all of the Eternal Emperor’s thoughts and actions while under his control. Doubly so if you added in the fact that the former Emperor stepped down in order to focus on his Martial Path and ascend to True Divinity himself, though that was over five years ago and they’d heard nothing since. Yan thought it wasn’t likely to be him though, because if it was, Rain never would’ve asked the question. Fung, Seoyoon, and Jing Fei made their own guesses, naming the Old Wolf, the Abbot, and Grandpa Du respectively, though Yan suspected the last was done out of flattery more than anything else. As for her guess, she knew her husband better than most, so she grinned and said, “It’s someone we’ve never heard of, isn’t it?”

“Indeed it is.” His fetching smile made her go weak in the knees, but he was too focused on the conversation to notice the glint in her hungry eyes. “It’s an old potter living in some nameless village in the middle of nowhere. Spends days making simple, unadorned crockery which he sells for a few coppers apiece. Nothing remarkable about most of it, until you look at his teapots. Anyone here know how they test a teapot to determine if its well made?”

“They empty a full teapot into a bucket of water from a good height,” Jing Fei replied, showing she was the only one among them with any appreciation of culture, as Yan herself hadn’t know the answer either. “The more it splashes and bubbles, the worse the teapot, whereas a pour from a high-quality teapot will barely disturb the water at all.”

“Exactly,” Rain said. “There’s a whole lot of physics that goes into explaining why, but that’s not important. The important thing is that this nameless potter is makes the highest quality tea pots, bar none. They go beyond providing a smooth pour; the stream of water coming out of the spout doesn’t even make noise when it hits the surface of the water in the bucket. More to the point, when he himself is the one pouring, the water moves so smoothly it looks frozen, which is an effect called Laminar Flow. It’s not physics that makes the pour so smooth however, it’s his conceptualization of how the perfect tea pot should behave, his Will imposed upon the world through the simple act of pouring tea.” Looking around to make sure everyone understood the gravity of the situation, Rain explained, “This man isn’t a Martial Warrior. He has no Core, Aura, Domain, or any Martial skills to speak of, yet in this one minor, seemingly insignificant facet of the Dao of Water, his understanding surpasses mine by leaps and bounds, allowing him to affect the physical world without even meaning to. He doesn’t know this though, as he works and lives alone. I only know this because the Abbot stumbled across him during his journeys. The potter stands at a precipice, and if he is able to take one step further along his Path, then he might well Ascend to True Divinity like the carp leaping over the Dragon’s Gate.”

So don’t worry too much about An Yang’s future, was the unspoken conclusion to Rain’s tangent. Whether Zian and Jing Fei were entirely convinced was another thing, so all Yan could do was hope An Yang would soon find success on his own before his parents were driven to desperation. Thankfully Monk Happy’s class was ending, and as Tanaraq arrived to teach the Forms, both couples proceeded to oversee their children’s practice, leaving Yan in blissful solitude with her oh so handsome husband. “Promise me something?” She asked, slipping a hand into his jacket and under his shirt to run her fingers over his stomach.

“Difficult to say no with you feeling me up like that,” Rain replied, chuckling as he slipped his arms around her waist and tuned to face her, which only gave her hand easy access to his obliques. “What is it, oh dear wife of mine?”

“That we’ll never become overbearing parents like that.”

“Ha.” Giving her a kiss on the nose, Rain’s hands wandered the same as hers and brushed against the small of her back, his fingers seeking out the gaps of her tight, hip-hugging pants. “Easy to say when we’ve yet to become parents ourselves. They love their children and only want the best for them. The issue is that what they think is best might not always be right.” Shrugging, Rain added, “Like when we feed the birds so much they can’t fly, and then we have to put them on a diet again.”

“It is not the same,” Yan retorted, though in truth, he might have a point.

“Of course not,” Rain replied, showing the wisdom of his years as his hands continued to wander. The evident desire in his eyes did much to soothe Yan’s wounded ego after a morning spent with Seoyoon and Jing Fei, and she was more than happy to tease him with a languid shift of her hips. Left, then right, then left again, a slow, rocking motion not meant to escape his roving fingers, but to draw them deeper in. “Problem is,” Rain said, after much too long a pause, “If you’re asking me to keep you sane, then who’s going to keep me from going crazy over our children? You’re speaking to a man who barely understands the meaning of restraint.”

“You’re right. You’d spoil our children even more than you spoil the animals.” Breathing in his scent, she leaned forward to give him a light kiss, one that left her hungry for more. “I should be asking Mila instead.”

“Mm.”

Heaving a sigh, Yan turned to stand side by side with her husband instead of face to face, so as to better resist his charms and keep from getting distracted. Flicking her bangs out of her eyes, she leaned in to rest her temple against his and asked, “So… what are you going to do about An Yang?”

“What else can I do?” Shifting aside so he could rest his chin on her shoulder while hugging her from behind, Rain’s weight settled firmly against her as he sank in defeat. “I laid out the facts as best I could, but Zian wasn’t listening. All his tiger-dad brain heard was ‘no’, and he checked out of the conversation.” Gesturing at the school around them, Rain said, “I wish they understood more about what we’re trying to do here. All Paths lead to the Dao, but so much focus on the Martial Dao leaves the rest unexplored and undeveloped. It narrows everyone’s perspectives, because if you believe the Martial Dao is the Path to the Dao, then it becomes the only Dao, because you don’t see any alternative Path as a viable one. Like the potter. He’s so close to success, except he himself doesn’t know it, because he doesn’t believe anything he does could ever have a connection to the Dao. It’s like teeth; people regrow them because they don’t know better, and in the same vein, many people find the Dao denied them because they believe the Martial Path is the only Path to the Dao. If we can change this, convince people all Paths lead to the Dao, then it’ll be like throwing a stone into stagnant water, causing countless ripples as people find new Insights in everyday actions.”

Which was all good and well, but Yan knew well enough that Zian and Jing Fei’s worries would not be laid to rest so easily. Parents always wanted what was best for their children, and following the known Path was always better than setting out to forge a brand new one. No point arguing the matter though, as it was out of their hands, so she gave her husband a look to ask if anyone could see them, then leaned in for a kiss when he indicated ‘no’. A short kiss, one which she broke off all too quickly, as she was in a teasing mood. Lost in a haze of lust, Rain leaned in for a deeper kiss, but Yan kept her face turned away and pretended she hadn’t noticed. “What brought you here anyways?” She asked. “I thought you were helping Dastan install the toilet?”

“Came looking for Buddy,” Rain replied. “Stole a basket of berries from Tali and is hiding his presence from me. Didn’t know he could do that.”

Oops. Perhaps she should have confiscated the berries, but Yan couldn’t do that to sweet Buddy. “He was here earlier, basket of berries and all. Uneaten, if you can believe it.” Best to leave out that she added to his collection, though Rain would probably find out anyways. Stupid dog was in hiding while keeping to the same schedule, so it wouldn’t take long to track him down. At this very moment, he was likely on his way to join Luo-Luo for her mid-morning tea and snacks, after which he’d take a nice, long nap in her office while she worked. Poor Buddy. Even though stealing wasn’t right, she couldn’t help but sympathize with the sweet beast, so she decided to help him evade justice for a little while longer. “Go on then. Run off after your dog and leave your lonely, overworked wife unattended.”

“Well, I could be convinced to stay,” Rain replied, grinning as he leaned in for another kiss.

She held him back with little more than a shake of her head. “Not in public,” she said, even though she knew his Concealment kept them hidden from prying eyes and ears. They weren’t twenty years young any more, a fact made all the more evident by how mature and responsible their friends had become. Wrenching herself out of his embrace, Yan turned and strode away, making it three steps before she turned back to crook her finger at him. “My office is empty,” she said, the words barely out passed her lips before she found herself lifted up in her husband’s arms as he raced towards the closed confines of her private work room. In the back of her mind, she made a note to mention Buddy’s strange behavior and see what Rain made of it, but for now, there were far more pressing matters to attend to.

Forget a harem of handsome men. Most days, Yan found it exhausting to keep her husband in check even with help from her four sister wives, but today, she was feeling more than up to the challenge.
