To her delight, Buddy carefully gathered them up in his mouth and tried to put them in his basket, an unfamiliar task he was ill-suited for. Though she was running short on time, she watched him struggle with the yam leaves for a good minute before deigning to help out, for which she was rewarded with another lick of the hands. “Yuck,” she exclaimed, though her tone was still warm and happy, which only encouraged him to lick her hands more. “Yes, I love you too Buddy, but there’s no more. That’s all I have.”

Honest as always, the sweet dog gave a little huff and turned to leave, taking his basket between his teeth once more. “Wait up,” Yan said, and Buddy turned and lowered his whole furry frame, as if prepared to run should she try to rob him of his bounty. “Relax. When have I ever stolen your food?” Rolling her eyes, Yan pointed at the fish laying on the pavement and said, “That’s still yours. I certainly don’t want it.”

After Buddy devoured his treat and trotted off with tail a wagging, Yan shook her head and strode back into her school, just in time to catch the chime signalling the start of class. It didn’t take long to find Fung, Seoyoon, Zian, and Jing Fei milling about with their children and servants in tow, and she marvelled at how two men could be so pretty and pleasing to the eye. The pair of Young Magistrates had aged like fine wine, filling out their suitably heroic frames, which combined with their chiselled, porcelain features and taut, stylish outfits made them the spitting image of heroic Warriors rather than doting fathers they were. The way they behaved around their children only made them that much more attractive, as Fung made silly faces at his eldest daughter Su Ling and Zian carried his youngest around on his shoulders. The former only had two children, while the latter was on his fifth, and from how affectionate Zian and Jing Fei behaved in public, Yan suspected they might soon have a sixth.

Not that she could blame either of them. Zian might well be one of the most beautiful men in existence, as far as appearances alone went, while Jing Fei had gone and developed into a city-destroying beauty in these last few years. She’d lost the lanky and almost bony frame she’d possessed in her youth to fill out into a delightfully plump and voluptuous frame, one she had no shame in showing off while wearing tight dresses in near scandalous cuts. Motherhood was almost a cheat when it came to gaining a feminine physique, though Yan doubted that it would do much for her coltish frame even if she were capable of bearing a child.

Which she was glad she wasn’t. Seeing one live birth was traumatic enough, so Yan had no choice but to admit Jing Fei was far braver than she, to continue going through that torturous experience even after having twins.

They made a little small talk as Yan led them to one of the open courtyards where Monk Happy was teaching a class on meditation outside on this beautiful day. “Breathe in,” he intoned, drawing the words out over long seconds to create an almost hypnotic rhythm for the children to follow. “And out. Draw in the good, and push out the bad. Breathe in. And out. Seek emptiness within, and peace and tranquility will follow.” Following her Sent orders, Fung and Zian’s children quietly found a place to sit on the grass and took up the proper posture, with backs straight, legs crossed, and hands resting on their knees and palms facing upwards. They were all well-behaved and well-disciplined to boot, aside from the youngest who refused to come down from Zian’s head, but little An Yu was only three and could hardly be expected to meditate.

Nor did any of the adults take part in the class, and Yan wasn’t sure how far to push it. Rain would outright say they might learn something from this children’s lesson, which risked insulting his friends even if it was the truth. Not that they’d care much, as Fung and Zian were used to Rain’s complete and utter lack of propriety and hadn’t run off yet. Still, Yan wasn’t so shameless as to pick up all his bad habits, especially since good friends were in short supply. Luckily, they were all here to learn about the school, if not from the classes themselves, so once they were quietly hidden behind a shroud of Concealment and shrouded in Quietude, Zian asked, “How effective is meditation with regards to finding success along the Martial Path?”

Of course, Yan knew that what Zian really wanted to ask was if meditation could help his eldest son, An Yang, find success at Core Creation. The boy was only ten, but Zian had nothing if not high expectations for his children, especially since An Yang’s twin sister Fei Ying had Created her Core six months ago. Now, both fretful parents were worried their eldest son would never Create his Core even though he was barely past the average age of success. To be fair, Zian and Jing Fei had been geniuses who found Balance at the tender age of eight, so the prospect of their eldest son not being born a genius was reason enough for them to worry.

Another reason Yan was happier as an Aunt or teacher rather than a mother. No high expectations to manage.

“Meditation is a subject the Brotherhood offered to teach,” Yan began, keeping her tone as neutral as possible without slipping into condescension. A fine line to walk, but after five years of teaching, she found that this was the best approach to use when dealing with overbearing parents. “As such, the practice is not directly correlated with the Martial Path as you or I experienced it.”

“Then why teach it?” Jing Fei asked, pursing her plump, succulent lips in oh so fetching a manner. On her younger self, Yan would have said it made her look irritable and petulant, but the mature beauty made it look positively sultry and alluring, as if daring you to try and claim a kiss.

It was all Rain’s fault, these errant thoughts of Yan’s, his perversion rubbing off onto her over the years, so it took an effort of will on her part to respond calmly and without emotion. “Because this is not a Martial school,” Yan replied, smiling as she gestured at the students arrayed before her. “Most of these children are from simple village families, or orphans the school looks after. It’s the same idea as the schools we raised in your cities, and across the provinces too, a place to provide food, education, and supervision to children of all ages and backgrounds. As for why we teach meditation, it’s because Rain believes it is necessary for all to find time for self-reflection, so that people all across the Empire will be less prone to Defilement.”

More to the point was Rain’s insistence of how the Martial Path was not the only Path, as evidenced by how far the monks of the Brotherhood were able to progress without ever lifting a hand in anger. Combat was merely a stick to drive one forward to new heights, but True Divinity could only be reached when driven by motivation of self.

Whatever that meant.

Yan fended off more questions for the next half-hour, most of which came from Jing Fei. No wilting violet, this one, and her pointed inquiry concealed many unspoken barbs that found fault in Yan’s school and curriculum. Not because Jing Fei thought the school lacklustre, but because she was reluctant to send her darling eldest son off to study with the People, as Zian seemed so eager to go through with, which was the only reason Yan held her temper whilst suffering through this impromptu interrogation with good grace. It didn’t stop her from wishing she could respond more like Grandpa Du, who would happily tell Jing Fei where to stuff her questions, but he had the liberty of picking and choosing his students, while Yan was here to teach anyone who might care to learn.

Thankfully, being a class meant for children, monk Happy didn’t keep his class meditating for long, and soon moved on to teaching them the phonology and the four inflections of each phonetic. Being ten and fully literate, An Yang shuffled back with shoulders slumped and head slung low, meaning she knew the answer to Zian’s question before he even asked it, but he was nothing if not stubborn. “So?” Zian asked, unable to keep the notes of hope concealed beneath his stern demeanour. “Did you find this instruction helpful?”

“I don’t know,” An Yang replied, every bit the sullen and sombre young man he appeared to be.

“What do you mean you don’t know?” The heat in Zian’s voice was more than the reply deserved, but Yan knew he only wanted the best for his boy. “It either is or it isn’t. One or the other. How can you not know?”

“It’d be more surprising if he did know.” Appearing among them without warning, Rain flashed his dazzling smile which made him outshine both men beside him. Dressed plainly in an unbuttoned, high-collared jacket with its buttons undone, and loose, flowing trousers that failed to show off his calves, he looked more like a drunk slacker than anything else, yet somehow still stood out next to Zian and Fung. Unaware of Yan’s silent comparisons, Rain wrapped three of the children up in a hug, including An Yang, and said, “A half-hour is hardly enough to get settled in for meditation, especially when it was his first go at it.” Much like his friends, Rain had filled out his frame over the years, to the point where she could barely make out the scrawny youth of yesteryear. No one would ever call him tall or burly, but he’d grown into a lean and well-defined body that was evident even under his baggy clothes, and it took all of Yan’s willpower not to slip a hand into his jacket and under his shirt. The man had abs to die for, and muscles sitting over his hips that were just a delight to squeeze, with a perfect combination of firm yet yielding that made her feel all sorts of things.

It would be inappropriate to act on those feelings right now, especially while all the children swarmed their favourite Uncle Rainy.

Mafu, Atir, Zabu, and Shana had all trundled in behind Rain, and he quickly put them to work carrying the children around the courtyard. It was much safer than riding the quins bareback, as they would sooner die than drop their charges, so soon enough, the courtyard was filled with the sounds of chittering quins and children screaming in delight. Yan would have put a stop to it if it wasn’t for Rain keeping the noise and commotion from distracting students focused on their classes. A complex and multifaceted working of Concealment and Quietude, keeping the noise and movement hidden from the masses while leaving Yan and their parents privy to every laugh and smile.

It was impossible for Yan to pull off so complex a working, especially if it had to remain in place while separated from herself, but Rain did it effortlessly without so much as blinking an eye. It was all thanks to the ‘Computer’ Keystone he kept in his head, an artifact of his past life that was capable of automating all manner of complex tasks using only a series of ones and zeroes. No matter how many times he tried to explain it, he always fell short of putting into words how the artifact worked, mostly because he himself confessed he only knew the broad strokes. Only a select few were privy to this knowledge of course, as not even Fung and Zian knew this much, which made this feat all the more impressive to them.

After apologizing for being a poor host and making jokes about seeing them up so early, Rain went back to his explanation of meditation. “The point of meditation is to cultivate a state of mind,” he began, pressing his fingers against both sides of his head like he was trying to contain his thoughts. “It’s similar to what you might experience after a long training session, or while embroiled in a bitter battle. Clear out all irrelevant thoughts in order to focus only on the relevant. In battle, even a simulated one brought about by training, that means survival, but I’m trying to show everyone that it’s time we moved beyond focusing solely on survival and the Martial Path. It’s time to look at the bigger picture and find what we’ve all been missing. You can’t see the forest for the trees, so sometimes, you need to step back in order to put things in perspective, and meditation is one way to do so.”

Were this anyone else, Yan had the feeling Jing Fei would call Rain a charlatan, because his explanations were largely vague and without significance. Being the sole True Human Divinity in existence however, his words carried a weight few others could match. “You know I would love to have your son here,” Rain continued, placing a hand on Zian’s shoulder but addressing Jing Fei directly, showing he knew exactly who made the decisions between them. “I would treat him like my own and make sure he had everything he needs to succeed, but the truth is, he doesn’t need me for that. You both do the same, and probably do a better job than I ever could, because I haven’t the foggiest idea what a Magistrate needs to know.” Gesturing around him, Rain said, “What’s more, the point of this school and others like it isn’t to raise Martial Warriors, no more than it’s meant to raise scribes, bookkeepers, or what have you. The point is to prepare these children and give them all the tools they need to find success regardless of what Path they might choose. With this broad focus, I believe meditation will serve many of them well, giving them a means to find clarity of thought and purpose in troubled times.”

It was a grand ambition, one few truly understood, not even Rain’s closest friends. The best evidence of this was Zian’s response. “You say that you could do nothing for An Yang that we couldn’t do as well,” he said, his tone straddling the line between plea and accusation, “But you know that is not true.”

