Having been trained to command soldiers in battle, Yan originally thought teaching children would be as easy as turning her hand.

If only she’d known how wrong she’d been. The chaos of the battlefield was nothing compared to the chaos of the schoolyard, because there was no way to bring order to the mayhem and pandemonium unfolding before her. It was the mad dash before the bell as the last wave of students rushed through the gates in a last desperate attempt to arrive on time and avoid the penalties of showing up late. Happened every morning without fail even though the children had classes five days a week, and it never failed to amaze and astound her. Some ran in on their own two feet, while others who lived further away arrived by quin-pulled rickshaw. Both groups lacked any excuse for their tardiness, as they only had themselves to blame. They were their own worst enemy, striving to sleep as much as they could or steal as much time to socialize before class, and it was easy to tell which students were which. The former were a more solitary bunch, while the latter always arrived in groups of three or more, and Yan gave them both the same stern and faintly disapproving look as they ran headlong towards their classes.

Lacking any and all sense of order while they were at it, getting in each others’ way more often than not, which made for a stark contrast from the quins all lining up for their treats. After putting away their rickshaws in a neat and orderly manner no less, and Yan’s heart warmed to see it. The sweet darlings were all trained to run their routes through the winding paved streets, after making sure their young charges were all buckled in of course. Oddly enough, training quins these complex commands was much easier than teaching children even the simplest of tasks, because while roosequins would do almost anything for a snack, children could only be bribed so much.

To say nothing of how adorable and appreciative the roosequins were as they squinted their eyes while relishing the dried fishy treats.

Regardless if you were talking about roosequins or children however, there was always one troublemaker to deal with, and today’s troublemaker was a serial offender. “No,” Yan said, stepping forward with her finger outstretched, and it took an effort of will not to wince as her target regarded her with a hurt and woeful expression. It was all a sham, a ploy to garner sympathy, one she would not fall for again. “Everyone gets one treat,” she declared, and her unyielding tone set the oversized quin to squealing, letting loose a high-pitched appeal for mercy, but she would not be swayed so easily. “I said no Mafu, so stop begging. It’s unbecoming of a Spiritual Beast.”

Her criticism did nothing to quell Mafu’s complaints, and the oversized quin doubled down by pressing his fat head into her arms, leaving her no choice but to hug him close and massage his cheeks.

“He’s lots lots bigger than the other quinnies.” Looking pretty as a porcelain doll dressed in her traditional Central dress, sweet Su Yin fidgeted about with her tiny hands while watching in wide-eyed awe at Mafu’s silly antics. “Means he needs lots lots more fishies, right?”

The girl was so cute Yan could almost die, but Su Yin’s mother was immune to her saccharine charms. “Su Yin!” Seoyoon scolded, shooting her daughter a stern and disapproving glare. “Do not presume to tell your Aunty Yan how to go about her business. It’s rude.”

“It’s okay,” Yan interjected, mostly because she couldn’t bear to see Su Yin’s crestfallen expression. Kneeling down so they could speak eye to eye, Yan reached out to tickle the five-year-old girl’s chin until she giggled and looked up. “You’re absolutely right, Su Yin. Big Mafu needs a lot of fishies to fill his fat belly, and he gets that when he goes out hunting. These fishies though? They’re a reward for his help bringing the students to school, a reward each and every one of them get so long as they help.” Spotting a familiar brown blur bounding awkwardly towards her alongside a handful of students, Yan grinned and pointed him out for Su Yin. “Even small doggies like Buddy over there, who most certainly doesn’t need so many fishies to fill his belly. Think of it this way; say your mama asked you and your sister to help sweep the halls, and you both do the best job ever. Then, when it comes time to reward you for your work, she gives your sister two candies, but you only get one. Is that fair?”

“No,” Su Yin declared, shaking her head in rigorous denial which set her twin tails to flying. “Not fair.”

“Exactly.” Gathering the cherubic darling up into her arms, Yan hugged Su Yin tight and fought back a squeal as the little girl hugged back with her tiny little hands. As she stood and turned back to Mafu, the sweet quin nuzzled them both, and Yan melted even more as Su Yin hugged his head and gave him a little kiss. While the girl giggled and the quin squeaked, Yan grabbed a small fish from the buck and held it out for Buddy as he ran over to greet them with a woven basket of berries clenched between his jaws. Spiritual berries, it would seem, as the dark blue fruits bore a sheen and lustre not seen on their more mundane counterparts, but she doubted Su Yin or her mother would recognize as much. “That’s why Mafu and Buddy get the same reward,” Yan concluded, lowering the fish for the dog to eat. “Because they did the same job after all, so it’s only fair right?”

“Uhn.”

Cute as the little girl might be, Yan currently only had eyes for Buddy, who gingerly placed his basket of berries down before coming to heel. Like a hound should too, all prim and proper with his feet under him, instead of splayed out to the sides like he usually sat. Stranger still was the fact that he had yet to snatch the fish out of her hands, though his wide-eyed stare and the string of drool trailing out of his oversized jowls spoke volumes to his greed. Sitting pretty could be explained by the paved concrete and present company, as Buddy knew to be on his best behaviour in front of guests despite being spoiled rotten. She’d never known him to hold back when it came to food however, so seeing him wait patiently with a small basket of Spiritual berries was uncharacteristic to say the least. If others knew what he’d brought, they’d cry tears of envy and jealousy, though no one else was likely to covet those precious fruits considering they were covered in dog drool.

Or at least no one human, Yan amended, as Mafu caught the scent and dipped his head down for a sniff, only to be rebuked by a gruff, booming bark from Buddy which sent the oversized Spiritual Roosequin darting away to hide under a rickshaw.

“Buddy!” Yan scolded, patting sweet Su Yin on the back to keep her calm, but the girl was not so easily scared. At least Buddy had the good grace to look ashamed, though he gave Mafu a glare and a growl that said he blamed the quin for his current plight. Heaving a bonafide sigh, Buddy popped up on his back legs and lazily twirled about once, much to Su Yin’s delight, before extending his head for a pat which the young girl obliged. Then, after the briefest of pats, Buddy sat back down and acted the fool once more, dipping his head and dropping his ears while giving Yan his best mournful expression.

“Does he not like fishies?” Su Yin asked, seeing Yan dangle the fish before Buddy’s face without any success.

“This dog will eat anything if you let him,” Yan replied. “Except orange peels. He doesn’t like those.”

Su Yin laughed, her joyous expression a tinkling bell that sent warmth surging through Yan, as well as an insidious urge to hug the girl as hard as she could even though that would end poorly. “You’re not supposed to eat the peels, silly.”

“He knows, yet he still tries every time.” And threw a hissy fit afterwards, barking at the discarded peels like they’d done him a grave injustice by being so bitter and unpalatable.

Su Yin frowned in thought and Yan had to hand the sweet girl over to her mother before she did something she would regret. It almost broke her heart to see the sweet darling’s sad pout as she was handed off, but she settled into Seoyoon’s embrace without argument. The raven-haired swordswoman had come a long way since her time in the Hwarang, though Yan supposed the same could be said for all of them. It was still surprising to see the former ice-queen fuss over her darling daughter, smoothing the girl’s skirts and stroking her hair while fussing about this and that. A harsh tongue and a soft touch, that was Seoyoon in a nutshell, a clucking hen of a mother who could transform into a dragon in the blink of an eye.

“It comes so naturally to you,” Seoyoon said, once her daughter was in hand. “Mothering that is. It took me years to figure out, and I’m still learning to this day. Don’t tell my husband I admitted as much though.”

“That’s funny,” Yan replied, flashing her best smile at the other woman, one who’d since grown to be one of her closest friends. “I was just thinking the same of you. If it doesn’t come naturally, then at least know that motherhood suits you well, and I envy you and your two darling daughters.”

Seoyoon’s expression was not quite pity, not even commiseration, but more along the lines of ‘what can you do?’. “When the time comes,” Seoyoon began, reaching out to give Yan’s shoulder a squeeze, “You will make an excellent mother.”

Perhaps, but as Rain would say, it was so much better being the uncle or aunt. All the fun without any of the horrible and disgusting work, which while true, wasn’t polite to say out loud, so Yan smiled, nodded, and changed the subject. “Classes are about to begin. Why don’t you take little Su Yin to find her sister and daddy? If you could get Zian and his family too, that would be great. I just need to deal with Buddy here and then I’ll be right with you.” Once they were away, Yan turned to the poor, wretched dog, who sat there with his head hung low and mouth dripping with drool. “Here you go Buddy,” Yan offered, wiggling the smelly treat in front of his face. “You worked for this and clearly want it, so why won’t you eat it?”

Buddy replied with a long, sad, and mournful whine, one he pitched high and low as if giving voice to his grievances. It was so endearing Yan couldn’t help laughing at Buddy’s plight, but he didn’t take offense. Instead, he happily leaned into her fingers as she gave his neck a scratch, and closed his eyes as the sensation set his hind leg to thumping. While he was distracted, she placed the fish down in front of him before reaching into his basket of berries, and to her surprise, Buddy was so concerned by her actions that he shied away from her touch. He wouldn’t let her resume scratching him either, kept circling around with a look of concern, his big, brown eyes so full of pleading as he snuffled and whimpered in distress. “It’s okay Buddy,” she crooned, picking up a few berries and presenting them to him. “These are yours. Here.”

To which he responded by ever so gently closing his mouth around her hand and guiding it back to the basket with a muffled whuff. He even gave her hand a few conciliatory licks after letting it go, as if to apologize for putting his rounded fangs on her skin while remaining adamant about not eating the berries or the fish sitting at his feet. Up until now, Yan had merely been amused by his antics, but now she was growing concerned, because in all the time she’d known this strange, floppy-eared hound, she’d never known him to refuse food. The restraint was clearly taking a toll on the poor dog’s mind, as he panted and drooled before this bounty of offerings, so she put the berries back into the basket and cupped Buddy’s cheeks, running her thumbs over his velvety fur and bristly whiskers. “What’s wrong?” She asked, her heart breaking as he heaved a little doggy sigh and sank his chin in her hands. “Is your tummy upset? You eat too much hay?” A near monthly occurrence, Buddy getting into the rabbit’s feed which he would promptly throw up after an hour or so, but the rabbits were all out with Lin-Lin and Taduk. It was one of their quarterly trips as Rain would say, seeking out new Spiritual Plants and tracking the movements of the Divine Beast or Beasts responsible for fertilizing them.

Thus far, Buddy, Ping Ping, and Pong Pong were still the only confirmed Divine Beasts, but there were most certainly others out there, animals Rain, Lin-Lin, and Taduk were determined to find and befriend.

For differing reasons of course, but that wasn’t Yan’s concern, as Buddy perked his head up at the word ‘grass’. Just to verify, Yan repeated it a second time, and was rewarded by a happy, tippy-tappy dance from Buddy, while a third repetition had him yipping with sheer glee. Reaching into her leather purse, a gift from Rain based on designs from his past life, she shifted aside some papers to reveal her stash of treats, including some reserved for the herbivores among their furry loved ones. “Sorry Buddy,” Yan said, pulling out a small handful of yam leaves. “I don’t think you can eat these, and even if you could, there isn’t much.” With the rabbits off on their trip, Guai Guai was the only one who liked eating greens, so she didn’t bother stocking up on treats this morning, figuring she’d have plenty of time to get more after classes were finished for the day. Holding out the meagre bunch of shoots and stems, she let Buddy sniff them and said, “See?”

