It was pitch black inside the room. The light from the hallway illuminated only the entrance, the rest of the space cast in dark shadows and murky shapes. It seemed quite large from what Daphne could tell, and there were multiple tables and shelves set up, probably for storage.

Muttering a chant under her breath, the mage snapped her fingers. A ball of fire crackled to life in her hand, and she raised it to illuminate the room.

The moment the firelight lit up the space, she froze.

There, lying on the ground near the back of the room, were bodies.

Daphne immediately hurried forward, dropping the jar of sea glass in her rush. She crouched down beside the closest one, pouring a bit more ichor into the fire to make it brighter.

They were human bodies—about six in total. All of them were laid flat on their backs, pale faces tilted up at the ceiling, eyes closed as though in sleep.

They weren’t asleep, though. When she carefully touched one, the skin was ice-cold. There was no pulse.

All of them were dead.

By now, a hurricane of thoughts and emotions were racing through Daphne’s head, and her heart was beating so loudly that she swore she could hear it ringing in her ears.

It wasn’t just that these dead bodies were lying in this locked room, stashed away and hidden from view. There was something else nagging at her mind. A feeling that she was missing something.

She forced herself to look at the corpses’ faces more carefully, and that was when it hit her.

She recognized them. They looked different in their dead, lifeless states, but they were faces she’d seen in the newspaper article.

These were all people who’d disappeared.

Footsteps sounded from behind, and Daphne immediately leapt to her feet. She spun around and raised her hand defensively, eyes narrowing as they landed on the figure who’d stepped into view.

“You.” The word dripped with pure venom, her growing unease and horror twisting into something sharper and more focused. The flame in her hand grew brighter.

Standing in the doorway, Llyr’s cold blue eyes stared back at her.
