Ekirra. The Gnoll boy screamed—then he clung to her arms—then he was shrieking in delight, waving his arms as if trying to help them fly as she skimmed across the ground.
It would probably have given Ekirra’s family heart attacks to see, but Ryoka’s flight a mere eight feet over the ground rose as the wind blew her up—and she was holding the Gnoll under the armpits as he kicked his legs, and Ryoka turned.
She circled back across the road, and an army of children ran after her with such a ruckus that the oxen pulling the Haven snorted and slowed. But Ryoka?
She was surprisingly good with kids. For she passed over the Haven—and deposited the screaming Ekirra on the upper deck, where he slid on his butt nearly into Barnethei. The [Vice Innkeeper] nimbly stopped him with one foot, like a soccer ball. He might not be The Wandering Inn’s best [Server], Ishkr—but the man, wearing a maroon vest over an ironed, white undershirt and polished brass buckles, did have style.
He flipped a long breadstick out of the basket and handed it to the dizzy Ekirra. Then he stepped on. And Ryoka just dove—and snatched up another child out of the crowd.
“Me next! Me next!”
She carried kid after kid over the ground, wisely putting the ones who weren’t at home with flying down before they threw up. She did it eight times—then landed.
“Alright, alright. You little devils win. But I’m not doing this around the Haven. I’ll see you outside The Wandering Inn in Liscor. Last one to the door doesn’t get to fly.”
She dashed off, followed by a swarm of children. They promptly stopped Tyrion from getting a word in edgewise with Ryoka—and before he got to the door, Jericha and Ullim both stopped him. Sammial and Hethon carefully followed Ryoka through, not meeting their father’s gaze.
Kevin got to his feet slowly, grinning. He saw Nerry and Shaestrel had followed Ryoka as well. Wow. Ryoka was friendlier than he had ever seen her before. What else was changed?
Kevin sauntered towards The Wandering Inn, grinning fit to burst as snow continued to fall from the sky. Frost Faeries. Ryoka—
Oh, and the new theatre. He wondered if Erin had figured out how it worked yet. She’d had the gall to hang up the curtain and tell everyone entry was forbidden until she worked it out. It hadn’t stopped Mrsha or Lyonette or Numbtongue from having a look, but Kevin had wanted to see Ryoka’s Faeblade first.
“Man, it sucks having so much cool stuff to see.”
He observed sanguinely as he passed Lord Tyrion into The Wandering Inn. The [Lord] stared at the door and slowly tried to edge towards it as Jericha pulled with a meaningful look in her eyes. Tyrion was almost there when Liska slammed the door on his foot.
 
——
 
The day after winter came, The Wandering Inn was filled with the sound of thirty children chasing the Wind Runner of Reizmelt through the door. Liska flattened herself against the wall as Ryoka shouted.
“Sorry, Liska! I’m just—”
Hethon and Sammial were part of the rush that chased Ryoka down the hallway and outside. By the time the rest of the inn went to see what the racket was about, they could see Ryoka blowing children around with their ‘sailboats’ or letting them parachute down the hill and race back up.
“What? Whuzzat. It’s too early for smiling. Who’s laughing? I’ll stab them. I’ll stab you all.”
And the crankiest, most pained [Innkeeper] in the world wanted none of it. She rolled past a curtain closing off the common room from the rest of the inn, as a young, respectful Gnoll who was too busy for Ryoka pushed her.
Mrsha du Marquin glowered out the window at the traitorous Ryoka as she pushed Erin. The [Innkeeper] winced as Mrsha bumped her into a table.
“Don’t bump, Mrsha. Lyonette, can you take over?”
Lyonette took the handles as Mrsha crossed her arms. Stupid Ryoka. Erin glowered out the window as she spoke—wincing with every word.
“Why’s Ryoka good with kids? Is the world crazy? My tongue hurts. Why do tongue muscles exist? Why did Zeladona ruin my tongue?”
“She was good at shouting.”
Numbtongue observed as Erin shuddered. She was in a kind of aching pain so bad she‘d barely gotten out of her bed—even after reaching Level 49.
In fact, only a dosage of healing potions and a numbing spell had gotten her up. She was practically grinding her teeth.
“Lyonette, give me another drop of potion.”
“Not until…eleven, Erin. Sorry. Grimalkin’s orders.”
“Screw his orders. Everything hurts.”
“I thought Palt cast [Numb]. Didn’t it work? No healing—but I’ll call him up from Liscor if you need it again. You agreed to do this right this time, Erin.”
Lyonette reminded Erin gently, but the [Innkeeper]’s glower and the pulse of her aura were hard to refuse. Only the [Princess] could push back—and Erin bit her lip.
“Everything hurts. Two drops won’t stop me from gaining muscle.”
“One drop. Every three hours. It’ll let you get strong. No more. Muscleman Grimalkin is right.”
Numbtongue poked Erin cheerfully in the side. Lightly, with one finger, to remind her why she was still wheelchair bound after months of recovery. Healing potions would reverse her growth.
It was meant to be just a teasing poke, but the look of agony was so profound that the Hobgoblin instantly withdrew his finger. Erin turned her head and then grabbed one wheel of her chair.
“That hurts.”
She ran over his foot. The Hobgoblin swore and hopped on one foot, and the orange cat decided this was an attack on his master. So Reagen yowled at Erin and prepared to launch himself onto her face.
Erin was saved from a cat-attack by Mrsha. The cat leapt off Numbtongue’s shoulder, and Mrsha grabbed it and put the writhing cat on her head and patted it until it began to purr. Then she handed the floppy, orange rag back to Numbtongue.
“He’s such a good cat. Yes he is.”
The [Bard] cooed over his cat. Erin just glared at him.
“Don’t get on my bad side, Numbtongue. Not today. I’m in pain, and even my cool new [World’s Eye Theatre] makes my head hurt. Ryoka’s on my bad list for…like, a hundred reasons. Don’t be second on my list, buddy.”
“Or what?”
Erin stared at Numbtongue. He grinned at her…and she narrowed her eyes. The [Bard] felt a prickle on his shoulders and hunched them.
“No aura, no aura! You don’t have anything bad to do to me. Can’t starve me. Calescent makes all the food.”
“Numbtongue—don’t push her.”
Lyonette whispered exasperatedly, but the [Bard] slapped his chest. He was partly provoking Erin to make her forget about her pain. Unfortunately, Erin Solstice wasn’t in a good mood today.
“You think I can’t punish you, Numbtongue? You’re awfully cheery for a Goblin who doesn’t pay rent. And since I have actual guards for the inn these days, even Nanette does more to help out around here than you. Why don’t you help Calescent if you’re such pals? By peeling potatoes and washing all the dishes.”
Numbtongue hesitated.
“N-no. I don’t want to do that.”
“Oh yeah? I don’t want to do my morning exercises.”
The [Bard] was sweating now, and Mrsha slowly backed away as Lyonette watched the two show down.
“You can’t make me do work. I’m not Bird.”
“Oh yeah? Then Calescent doesn’t have to give you food. Ishkr! No one feeds Numbtongue until he puts an hour into the kitchen.”
“You can’t do that!”
“Wanna bet? Let’s have breakfast and see who gets served.”
The evil of Erin Solstice today knew no bounds. Numbtongue’s jaw dropped, and he looked around for aid in his moment of unfair persecution. But Mrsha the Suddenly Cowardly decided she was going to be such a good girl, she was going to set the table for breakfast all by herself.
And Lyonette—whom Numbtongue had arguably beaten in the quest for ultimate authority—just folded her arms and gave him a faux-sympathetic look. The [Bard] spluttered and pointed at Erin.
“You’re just mad because you have the arm-strength of a mouse. You—lazy [Innkeeper]! Zeladona was better than you.”
“Two hours!”
The Hobgoblin hesitated. He looked around, realizing he could come back in later and grab some food once Erin had calmed down from her unreasonable stance. Only to realize…Ishkr was no longer the lone server of the inn.
And unlike before, the Workers were carefully watching Erin, and one had even set up an hourglass on an hour’s timer. Rosencrantz added another hourglass, and Peggy, the Hobgoblin leader, leaned over.
“No one feeds him. Go clean out his room of snacks.”
A Cave Goblin [Thief] dashed upstairs with a huge grin. Numbtongue threw up his hands.
“You can’t—”
He rounded on Erin, met her gaze—and slunk over to the kitchen. Numbtongue only poked his head out once.
“You’re mean when you’re grumpy. Not cool at all. A real…Nerrhavia.”
Sometimes knowing which buttons to press was not a wise ability to have. Erin’s twitch was so profound that Numbtongue ducked behind Calescent and began washing up fast. But Erin said nothing and slowly turned her head to look around the inn.
Anyone else? The guests either looked away or watched with amusement or surprise. Except for one woman, who applauded lightly.
“My, she does seem to be changing for the better. That was a remarkable display of pique.”
Magnolia Reinhart commented to Ressa as Erin gave her a sour glower. But the [Lady] just called out.
“Oh, do get Miss Solstice some painkillers, Miss Lyonette! I’m told those won’t hurt her recovery, and we may all breathe easier around her. Better yet—don’t bother with the spell. Doesn’t the door go to Riverfarm? Witch Eloise prescribes teas for all occasions, including ones for pained joints. A cup of that should set Miss Erin alright for the day. Without upsetting our dear Sinew Magus, I might add.”
She might be annoying—but she also provided a very reasonable answer. Lyonette’s head snapped up, and Erin glanced at the door.
“That—would be good. Can someone…?”
“On it, right away, Miss Erin! I’ll be back in a tic.”
Normen opened the hidden passageway and, jamming his new Demas Metal helmet onto his head like a hat, practically dashed down the hallway. The rest of the inn watched him go as Erin settled back into her chair.
Normen took only eleven minutes to get to Riverfarm and back, and judging from his panting, he ran to find Eloise, grabbed one of her special teabags, and came back. The inn practically gave him a standing ovation when he did.
Mostly because Erin’s agony and ensuing bad mood had been so pervasive it had overshadowed her levels and new Skill—and had been one of the reasons why Ryoka decided to visit the Haven. To be fair—it was a lot of pain from all of Erin’s torn muscles.
Also to be fair—when Erin had taken half the cup of hot tea down, scalding her tongue, she shuddered…then relaxed as the pain in her entire everything vanished. She sat back in her chair and smiled.
“Whew! See? I told you the [Numb] spell didn’t quite work, Lyonette. Wow, that feels better.”
The [Princess] eyed Erin as Mrsha looked up from her bowl of mashed Yellats and butter with relief.
“Does that mean Numbtongue can stop washing dishes?”
“Mm…better let him learn his lesson.”
Magnolia nodded happily as Erin stuck a fork into her mouth and began eating with a passion. But she felt awake now—and there they were.
“Flying, huh? Sorta cool, sorta cool. Has Ryoka gotten you flying yet, Mrsha? You should definitely make her carry you around! I wonder how she got so good with kids?”
Mrsha exchanged a side-eye with Lyonette as Erin reversed her sour grapes. Lyonette coughed.
“I think she interacted with the [Prince] and [Princess] of Ailendamus? And Lord Sammial Veltras.”
Veltras. Erin’s smile slipped, and Mrsha scowled. She stared outside where a pair of [Lords] were running after Ryoka as she did a backflip off a hill with the help of the wind. Erin paused, fork in her mouth, and swallowed slowly.
“Yeah. I guess it’s gonna be that kind of day, huh? We’d better address that sooner or later. I’m surprised they’re still here, what with what happened to Yvlon’s family. Is—are Ylawes and Ysara coming back?”
Everyone fell silent, and Magnolia frowned mightily and looked at Ressa, who, sighing, put away her breakfast and reached for the top item on the morning’s dossier.
News had come in from last night, but only reached the inn this morning. It was being broadcast on Wistram News Network later today as Lyonette understood it. But a small segment. She felt it should be larger, but Relz and Noass controlled the news, and a minor house’s manor burning down wasn’t considered big ‘worldwide news’.
Even if it was arson.
“Ylawes is alright. He was investigating who the masked folk were, but there are no clues, Erin.”
“Are his parents…?”
“Alive. Just sick from inhaling all that smoke. No one’s dead that he knows—but the mines, farms—a lot of House Byres went up in smoke. They’re heading back our way. That is—towards Riverfarm. Given the attack, Emperor Laken offered to protect them, and Lord Yitton—or Ylawes—accepted.”
Erin drummed her fingers on the table. Mrsha sighed in relief—and so did a certain pale-skinned young woman having breakfast while hiding her face with a newspaper.
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle was glad no one was looking at her. Her hands were shaking as the Vampire girl licked her lips.
Rivel, you idiot! All the idiots! Of all the things to do—she hadn’t guessed it would be that! This was beyond stupid. She could only hope that no one looked into it.
Like Magnolia Reinhart. Who was sitting right there and didn’t seem pleased that one of her relatives and a noble house had just been the target of attacks. Oh, dead gods.
But that was the news of the world, along with winter and Erin’s Christmas initiative and, still, Zeladona’s Trial of Blades. If anything, the amazing part was that The Wandering Inn wasn’t still packed to the gills.
Then again, that was why Ser Dalimont and Ser Lormel and Dame Ushar weren’t here. They were outside, turning away people by the dozen who wanted to come through, and Liska had similar orders to bar entry to the inn proper and just transport.
Erin was a celebrity. She had arguably been one already, but right now, she was forgoing even the intake of coin and guests to have a quieter morning. For their sake as much as hers; her bad mood had pushed everything to the side. Because…in order…Erin heaved a sigh as she pushed her plate back.
“I guess it’s time to do it again. The numbering system.”
Heads turned, and Relc made a fist of excitement at his table. You mean, Erin’s patented method of dealing with problems? Proof she could at least count to ten? Erin was muttering to herself.
