“Ryoka. Gotta have Ryoka. Let’s make her #1. I guess that ties into Nerry and, uh…Shaestrel. One, two, three. Then there’s, uh…uh…”
“Your new Skill?”
Lyonette looked pointedly at the curtain behind Erin. A sign had been clumsily affixed to the curtain with the words ‘keep out’ on them. Erin grunted.
“Four. Talking to Ylawes and Ysara about the family’s five. Er…didn’t people wanna talk to me about the entire Zeladona thing? Great. That’s, like, six billion…Saliss is six billion and one…Demsleth! Wait, go back to Ryoka. Let’s call that #1.5. So we’re up to six billion and one point five…”
Her grasp on math was rapidly slipping. Lyonette was already getting a headache, but fortunately for Erin—someone cleared his throat.
“With respect, Miss Erin, I can sort out most inquiries and hand you all the letters that you need to do yourself. If you want to check over the form responses…can we meet for fifteen minutes? Then I can handle everything you don’t want personally.”
Erin’s head turned, and the Magician of Math, the Sovereign of Sunny Glasses, the…[Mathematician], Yelroan, grinned at her. Her jaw dropped.
“I forgot you were there. Uh—h-hi, Yelroan! How’s it going? Do you have a room? Please tell me we gave him a room.”
She looked at Lyonette, and he smiled politely at her.
“I do have a room. And if you’d like, I can write up a schedule.”
“A what? A schedule?”
Yelroan cleared his throat. He had a clipboard, and he’d been taking notes as Erin spoke. He had a bit of ink on his blonde fur, but besides that, he had a light tunic on and a bunch of scrolls and some portable writing gear hanging from his belt. He looked like some kind of Gnollish [Loremaster] of arcane or mathematical texts.
“For people meeting you. Every issue on your list gets an hour, and we cross them off.”
“A schedule. Wh…whoa. Are we that fancy?”
Erin looked at Lyonette, and the [Princess] gave Yelroan a look of profound relief. Nanette smiled as she sipped from her morning cup of milk next to Yelroan. Erin? She looked at the Gnoll, and Nanette, and at Ryoka coming in with a flood of kids, and realized things were different. So she cracked her fingers—nearly screamed in agony—and decided to see what had changed.
 
——
 
The world could change suddenly and dramatically. Everything you knew could be upset—for the better or worse.
Ksmvr knew this. He had once been Prognugator of the Free Hive for about a month. He had been exiled, worthless—become an adventurer. He’d found treasure in Albez and seen certain death—Crelers—sweeping down on him and his team.
He had thought his team was dead. He had fought in a war, sailed across a world to go home. Good things…and bad.
“Therefore, this is just a passing moment. The folly of greed, and—and it does not matter. These things do not matter like people. What we have will inevitably go, and we were silly to cling to them. I should have enjoyed these things more. It does not matter. If it hurts because I am cut, blood is my tears.”
He lay on his side in a wagon as it bounced south at a quick pace. Two skeletal horses pulled it forwards without end, a bumpy if free ride that never needed to slow save for the passengers’ comfort.
In fact, the Horns of Hammerad, used to the rough travel, had even added pillows and hay to make the ride better. Blankets, too, for the cold. Ksmvr had one over him, and his head lay in Yvlon’s lap.
She was patting him on the head.
“It’s—we’ll get you more trees, Ksmvr.”
There was an odd look on her face. As if she were trying not to laugh—but she wasn’t going to laugh anyways. Because Ksmvr looked so—sad. It was just patently ridiculous, and yet Yvlon seemed almost as if she were trying not to cry too. For him.
“That is alright, Yvlon. Your family has suffered too much. I do not need trees. You should keep all of them.”
“We don’t need all the—we can spare two trees.”
Yvlon murmured. She looked back north, as if she were trying to see the smoke rising from House Byres. Of course, they were beyond the High Passes, but she looked so disturbed she almost seemed glad she was comforting Ksmvr.
Ceria had asked point-blank if she wanted to turn around, but Yvlon had claimed they had too much to do. Plus, their passengers would surely object to the delay. And they were definitely watching Ksmvr, the Baron of Two Trees, process the fact that in the burning of the keep, the two trees he had been gifted were now ash.
Wil was trying not to laugh. He knew it was entirely inappropriate, but something about seeing Ksmvr, the Antinium, mourning two…trees was so incongruous he was fighting with every muscle not to let out a guffaw. He was normally the reserved [Lord]—but his chest was shaking.
And in truth, Ceria Springwalker might have been hiding her face against Pisces’ shoulder in a paroxysm of empathetic grief—or she might be giggling a bit. But that was probably because she had no real morality, only sympathy for Ksmvr.
Wil didn’t really have an excuse. He was just an asshole. Merrik kept nudging him, and Wil tried—but the hard nudges made his lips tremble harder. Venaz eyed Wil’s red face and sweating brow and muttered.
“Peki.”
The Garuda sitting by Wil’s other shoulder and staring at the snow falling from the sky looked around, stared at Wil, and nodded to Venaz.
She punched Wil in the side so hard the laugh came out with what felt like half his spleen.
“Ha-plubh!”
Ksmvr looked up as Wil doubled over, clutching at the agony in his side. That had not been a light punch. He groaned.
“Peki!”
“Don’t make fun of his trees. You have House Kallinad lands. Two trees is a lot in Pomle.”
Wil turned beet red as Peki said the quiet part out loud over the moving wagon. Nailren, who had been napping as they headed south along the trade routes to the Great Plains, raised his head and snorted.
“In the Great Plains, too.”
“Come to think of it—the Professor would tell you two trees could be two Paeths. Shameful.”
Venaz decided to pile on. Wil, still wondering if Peki had ruptured the lining of his stomach, looked up through watering eyes.
“I didn’t mean—it’s just surprising. I’m sorry.”
He addressed that to Ksmvr, and the Antinium raised his head slowly.
“Lord-Strategist Wil Kallinad. I do not begrudge your amusement. I am told I can be a very silly Antinium. Nor do I expect you to understand why I loved having two trees. A man who owns a thousand would not care, but I have never owned anything in my life. I had two trees. Now, I have none. Your amusement does not hurt me, so do laugh if you wish to without restraint. I am glad someone feels levity.”
He nodded to Wil with such pained dignity that Ceria began hiccuping—in her ‘grief’. Pisces covered his mouth and looked away, delighted as Wil turned crimson. Yvlon eyed him as Merrik stared at Ksmvr, then punched Wil in the shoulder.
“Nice going, Wil. Giving us Terandrians a bad name.”
“I just—I am sincerely sorry, Adventurer Ksmvr. Could I—I’m sure the trees could be replanted? Could I, uh—offer you two trees to help with the loss?”
Wil was red and again feeling as if he were either being made fun of or this was entirely serious. Ksmvr raised his head, and this time, his antennae lowered sharply.
“I don’t want your trees, Lord Kallinad. That is not how it works. Please, do not offer me again. You do not respect the trees you throw around like pieces of wood.”
To save Wil, Yvlon murmured.
“Didn’t the Empress of Beasts offer you a bunch of trees, Ksmvr? Maybe you have them.”
Ksmvr returned to staring at the snowing sky. Snowflakes melted on his chitinous carapace, and his faceted eyes stared up at the winter with a kind of somber wonder reflected in them.
“She did. And several rocks. But Nsiia also stole my sword. So everything she offers is suspect. She is a dirty thief. Quite literally. She washes herself with dirt. Like Yinah.”
His ruminations into Nsiia’s hygiene was so—Wil felt his lips quivering and saw Peki raise a fist again. In desperation, he looked around the wagon.
“Er—er—could I invite you to join us on our route to Zeres after we reach the Great Plains, Horns of Hammerad? We’ll travel from Zeres with the rest of the Swords of Serept, but we are going home. Frankly, if you wanted to, we would enjoy the company at sea.”
“Or in Baleros. The Titan will be having us on the field. We should be back as soon as possible—we’ll have to charter a Courier ship if we can.”
Venaz murmured. The students nodded and sat up.
The Titan was at war. They’d heard he’d taken all the senior students from the academy, and the younger ones were actually helping with the Forgotten Wing company’s push into the Dyed Lands.
From having their adventure abroad, they couldn’t wait to get back. It felt like an entire year had passed—and fair, it had been all of fall for Wil. He had leveled up significantly, seen a war—the passing of an age—
Erin Solstice. For all that, he felt like he was leaving behind so many opportunities, and he realized this was what the Professor talked about.
‘Every choice is a regret. A [Strategist] is someone who agonizes over what they’ve lost. A [General] like the King of Destruction gets to never question his choices.’
If Wil stayed…if he turned around and asked to join Erin’s inn—did he have much to offer her? He didn’t know, but he wondered if Venaz and Merrik thought the same.
Yerra…would she even come with them or would she stay with Feshi?
Feshi would not be coming back. What a thought. The only person Wil knew had regrets was Peki. She had put him onto this train of thought by confessing she’d thought of staying. When he’d asked why—she’d claimed she wanted to lead the Antinium in Liscor’s army. To see what following that career path would have led her towards.
…But she had gone, in the end. Now, Wil was loath to throw away the one connection they had directly to The Wandering Inn. Merrik nodded.
“It wouldn’t be far out of your way—the City of Waves is a sight if you’ve never been.”
“I just saw it when Fetohep sailed past. Better not mention that—but it would be fun to visit.”
Ceria murmured. Pisces shrugged, but the [Necromancer] elaborated after a pause. It was hard to say who was more uncomfortable around the other, Pisces or Wil.
“It would be a fine opportunity to sightsee, perhaps purchase something with our gold reservoirs? And—I believe the [Sword Legend] from the Village of the Dead hailed from Zeres, didn’t he? Or at least, he trained there.”
Ceria’s eyes flickered, and Yvlon sat up a bit. Wil exhaled. This. This was why he liked adventurers so much. Unfortunately—Ksmvr glanced at him and pointedly away.
“I do not know if the company will be as pleasant. I have never met someone who takes trees lightly. They are very heavy in my experience.”
“Oh, come on.”
It was mostly banter. It was probably banter—but even Nailren started laughing at Wil as the [Lord] tried to mend bridges with Ksmvr—until the Antinium pointed out those were made of trees.
And all the while they humiliated Wil ‘Treegiver’ Kallinad and Ksmvr moped, he lay in Yvlon’s lap and she patted his head.
Yvlon—who sat in the wagon’s seat, wearing warm clothing, not armor—and next to her sat a kind of leather gauntlet with a short tip of wood.
A pegleg. Peggy had sized it for her, but Yvlon hadn’t even learned to walk on it yet, just hobbled into the wagon. She focused on Ksmvr, who had lost two trees. She had lost her family’s manor and a foot. Ksmvr asked for snacks, hugs, and more attention than Pisces and Ceria had ever heard him demand in his entire life.
Who was taking care of whom? It was a chill, beautiful winter day under the falling snow. But it was a reminder.
The Winter Solstice was coming.
 
——
 
When Ryoka Griffin finally got rid of the children, it was only by promising she’d do this tomorrow. And she suspected it wouldn’t be the forty plus children who left—but double that number.
She just hoped no one got mad, like parents. Because the truth was watching Ekirra go sailing down the hill, screaming he was Rasea Zecrew while waving a sword with an eyepatch on—
That was childhood. That was the childhood she wanted, and if she could give that to Sammial, who flew eighty feet clinging to a parachute of the Haven’s sheets—
She would give it to them. Only afterwards did she feel guilty.
Not about Mrsha. The little Gnoll girl would get a ride all of her own, whenever she wanted. Not entirely Mrsha.
It was when she saw the little lamb staring at her meaningfully from her room in the inn. Nerry disappeared—but Ryoka felt that old lurch of…anxiety.
She had duties.
But if Nerry were the stomach ulcer you managed with medicine, Shaestrel was acid in her veins. A terror as existential and deep—because she looked at the Spring Fae hovering there.
Shaestrel was nothing like Ivolethe. The other faerie had the same height—and the Winter Fae looked like insectile women carved of crystal-ice. But they were aspects of winter.
Shaestrel was spring. And she seemed far more like a plant and a wild thing, changing moment to moment, as if her true nature were—
Perspective.
Ryoka blinked, and as she stood by The Wandering Inn and saw the Spring Fae hovering there, at the edge of the roof, she saw what might have been a woman. If she had a body of fur—and the head of a boar. An animal crossed with a person staring at her—
A lady of the Spring Court, wearing sandals laced with the same grass and flowers Ryoka had seen in the lands of the fae. An empty scabbard at her waist, a white flower like a badge of mourning in her hair. Auburn hair that burned like a dawning sun, and eyes that had seen stars being born, green constellations in midnight ink—
All these things at once. None in truth. The little faerie stared down at Ryoka with the haughtiness of a [Queen]. And the expectation…that was what scared Ryoka.
“Shaestrel.”
 
“Don’t wear out my name. I gave it to ye and the mistress of the hearth only as a thing of hospitality. We are not friends—nor am I so kind to your lot as Ivolethe is. And she—only to ye.”
 
She was familiar and not. The other Winter Fae, not Ivolethe, had always seemed more flighty than Ivolethe. Younger, Ryoka had realized, or lesser.
This one—Shaestrel was like Melidore. Not half as intense as he was, but he had come in his full aspect. Ryoka could only speculate about the ranks of the Faerie Court. But as she wiped sweat from her brow, she decided it was time to ask.
“Yesterday, we didn’t get to talk much.”
The fae’s eyes scrunched up with amusement.
 
