Nerry’s head rose, and she stared from Ryoka to Erin. The Wind Runner added her to the list…but her eyes were on the key.
“Erin. What is that?”
The [Innkeeper] lifted the key, eyes aglow. When she smiled, it was with all the mystery and satisfaction of a witch, of an [Innkeeper] and the magic of wonders.
“A key to a mystery. Everyone’s got secrets, guys. Here’s mine. You want the most safe place to talk? Follow me.”
 
——
 
She led them back into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and when they saw the hill—they saw that door appear.
An arch in space. A stone door written with the ancient murals of a long-dead kingdom. The true door that led to each garden. And to something…else.
Ryoka’s skin chilled, and she felt a wild, wonderful excitement upon her like when she had run into the door that led to the lands of the fae. When she first flew with the wind.
This…even Nerry’s eyes went round, and she started towards the door. This was what they all pursued, all three of them. The truth. Secrets.
But once again—and this time, Ryoka realized it was deliberately—the three found their way blocked once more. Blocked—or rather, impeded by someone standing in the way of the door.
She turned her head, and her brown hair swung. The little witch, Nanette, looked pointedly at Erin Solstice as the [Innkeeper] slowed.
“Witch Erin. I know I’m imposing on your domain. This is your place and your inn. But I want to see. If I’m not allowed to see, please put me in school and hide everything better. Or let me see.”
She knew. Erin stuttered.
“Nanette? How did—? Listen, this is big stuff. I don’t—I was just showing Ryoka and—”
Nerry was staring at the little witch cautiously, but of the three, she was the least surprised to see Nanette here. And—Ryoka glanced at her, and Nanette called back.
“I want to be part of it. My mother was a witch. I am her daughter. Don’t tell me I’m too young, please. I am part of it. I’ve met Belavierr, and Mrsha has been part of a war. Let me see. Please?”
She pleaded at the end of it, because she was a young witch. Erin looked at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner bit her lip hard.
“She’s younger than Hethon. Young as Sammy. She’s nowhere as childish as he is—she’s older, though. Erin, it’s your choice.”
“I don’t—I don’t want Nanette to get hurt. Califor asked me to take care of her daughter.”
Erin wavered and looked between Ryoka and Shaestrel and Nerry. Ryoka Griffin was the one who met her eyes.
“If you didn’t want her to be hurt—why did you take her in, Erin? I knew Califor, briefly. I don’t think she wanted you to just keep her daughter safe. Or she would have asked someone else. Did she want you to be Nanette’s mother? Or did she ask you to help her?”
A light flashed in Erin’s eyes, and she sat back in her chair. She looked at Nanette—and then took a huge breath. Slowly, with a weak, trembling hand, Erin raised something on her head.
“You’re right. I take my hat off to you, Nanette. I’m sorry.”
“Just so we had it out, Miss Erin.”
Nanette raised her chin, victorious. But the facade faltered slightly as she practically ran over to join the two.
“I’m glad you agreed. I can’t argue like Mother does. She called storms down when she got mad. Is it alright if I know, Nerry?”
The Sariant Lamb gave her a sour look, but she nodded, to everyone’s surprise. She must have thought Nanette—like Shaestrel—was a complication, but a better ally than not.
After all, she was telling all. Slowly, Erin wheeled over to the door and inserted the key into the stone.
Ryoka Griffin’s hair stood up as Erin inserted the key and turned it.
Click.
It turned with a sound like thunder, and the door swung inwards.
The world was full of mysteries.
It was all connected.
 
——
 
“Before we read what Nerry has to say—this is the mystery, Ryoka, Nanette. I think I’ll see the rest if I level. But I was wondering what you thought of what’s written beyond.”
Nanette and Ryoka exchanged a long glance—then they stepped into that hallway. There was no ground or sky, and as Erin had once seen—this world was dark. The only thing that glowed was the writing on the far wall.
And the door, locked and without the second key. Nanette stumbled, and Ryoka caught her arm. Then they stared ahead.
When the Wind Runner, faltering, followed Erin through that door into the passage that had no true space—only another door—she beheld one that made Nerry cry aloud. The Sariant Lamb raced forwards and stared at the words written by the hand of one of the Lucifen, and Ryoka stumbled back and felt her heart pound in her chest. Then she and Erin were looking down at the lamb. Nanette had her trembling hands clasped to her chest.
“This…has any [Witch] ever known of this? If Belavierr was here, I would ask her. What is this? Reinhart? The Infernal Court? The last Empress of Harpies?”
Nanette broke out into excited talk when she saw the words, and Erin nodded rapidly.
“Sheta. You know her, Nanette?”
“The ancestor of the Harpies on Rhir and their Death of Wings? Mother told me stories—but they’re so old that—”
Ryoka was speechless. But Nanette practically ran across the floor as Nerry picked up the scrolls Ryoka had dropped and organized them. It took…a while before Ryoka was able to talk.
“Erin. This is huge. There—there are people who need to know what this is.”
Ryoka could barely stand after seeing the true door that Empress Sheta had left. And the messages inscribed upon the walls. Sheta had written of a place beyond this.
 
‘Sanctuary provides. Secrets empower. Fate illuminates.’
 
Did that mean two more? Ryoka was also aware of the connection between…Reinhart. Did they show Magnolia? She thought they had to. And Erin agreed.
“Enough of secrets. We have to put it all on the line. If you wanna tell someone, Ryoka—just ask. There are gardens too.”
“I have to see the one the Lucifen owned. Do you know which one…?”
Erin’s eyes flickered. She pointed to the broken door lining the walk.
“I think I do. They’re not safe, Ryoka. I might be safe, but…we’ll see. For now, let’s figure out another secret.”
She pointed, and the little lamb who had been patiently waiting started, as if her heart was racing with fear and anticipation too. Secrets could be…a terribly scary thing to have revealed. She offered the first scroll to Ryoka with a kind of reverence, and her little button-black eyes pleaded.
Please, take me as seriously as Nanette. Please…care.
Nanette took another scroll and unrolled it as Erin wheeled over. The two girls looked down, and Ryoka’s blood chilled, and Nanette murmured with the first words. And Erin…looked blank.
“This…why didn’t you tell us? Tell us, Nerry? We never trusted you. But if there was ever a cause for Witches to take up—we’ve failed so many times. We failed Treants and Dryads and the forests and—but this?”
Nanette burst out after a minute of reading. Nerry just looked up at her and tapped a hoof, telling her to read on for it would explain everything. Then she glanced at Erin’s blank face with a knowing look. For…
Here was the thing. Nerry was in possession of her people’s history. The full story, at least, as full as Sariants knew it.
Everything. All the knowledge they were so terrified of other people learning. But it was not the only copy in existence. Nor were Sariants perfect.
People had found these records, or scraps of them. It was hard to keep a secret—even the few hundred years their people had lived. The thing that had protected them was this:
“It’s blank.”
Erin Solstice stared down at the scroll that Ryoka was reading. Lyonette was panicking about Saliss, but Ryoka Griffin was on the ground, reading on hands and knees. She was still reading the scroll, but she kept looking up at that final scrawl, so bitter, and Ryoka knew it had been a claw that traced it here.
 
‘Secrets broke me. I gained this, as none of my kind ever have. It was no kindness. Cormelex, the Infernal Court.’
 
It was all clues. But the largest was what Nerry just spelled out in the Sariant’s clumsy writing. They had a fine command of language…but Erin just looked down.
“It’s blank. What are you reading, Nanette, Ryoka?”
Ryoka’s green eyes flashed as she looked up. Nanette’s head rose in confusion and her eyes widened.
“You see nothing?”
“No.”
Nerry bit Ryoka’s leg and kicked the scrolls around before pointing to an underlined word. Ryoka switched over and read.
“…No one who is of classes and levels can know or remember what we speak of. We have tried. Only the ‘levelless’, who some call Rulebreakers, can even understand.”
“…Ryoka? It’s blank, I said.”
Slowly, the Wind Runner looked up.
“Didn’t you hear me, Erin?”
“Hear what? Ryoka, Saliss is about to break something. Is Nerry giving you invisible ink or something?”
Then Ryoka got it. So that’s why it had to be her. Of course. She looked at Nerry and then at Erin.
“I think this one’s me, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] stared hard at Nerry and Ryoka, and her brows crossed. Then she slowly nodded.
“Okay. This isn’t you keeping a secret?”
“I’ve been trying to share it. But all you see is…”
Ryoka held up the scroll covered in writing, and Erin exhaled. Nanette gasped. She looked down at herself, and the former [Witch]…had given up her class. The only class she had.
She, too, was a Rulebreaker. So she and Ryoka fit—which was why Nerry had allowed it. But she must have known—perhaps she had hoped Erin was an exemption. But the rules were not that gracious. Erin looked from Nanette’s face to Ryoka and then ducked her head. She looked disappointed and then turned.
“Oh. Well then. Tell me what you can.”
She rolled away, and Ryoka turned to Nerry in the not-darkness of this space.
“What can we tell her?”
Who knows?
Nerry traced the words with some of the ink and paper. She looked annoyed. Angry. Now that Ryoka looked at her, she realized the Sariant Lamb’s ‘cute’ face was probably almost always scowling. But she had been…Ryoka got a sharp kick and swore.
“Alright, alright. I’m reading.”
The scroll had most of the answers, after all. And what it said was simple:
 
We were created not by an [Archmage] as many species were, but by Eydole the Delightful, owner of her Endless Menageries of beasts and monsters.
She was a Level 69 [Beast Master]. A breeder and collector of countless species. It came to her, that wretched woman, as an idea to create the world’s finest pet.
Soft, cute, but most of all, intelligent enough to be the perfect pet. She chose small lambs and used her Skills to take away our horns and make our teeth tiny and hooves small. She should have taken away our minds, too.
 
“Fuck.”
Ryoka had heard of selective breeding like this. In fact, she knew on Earth pugs were considered to be a bad pet to own—not because they were intrinsically bad, but because breeding had given them qualities that looked cute—and made it hard for them to breathe or function.
Skills had enabled Eydole, in arrogance or without thought, to create Sariants. And she had done her job too well.
They could think. They could write. They could even speak in their ‘baahs’, and they had an intelligence far greater than any pet. But they could not hold a pen except in their mouths. They were helpless…and they did not want to be pets. Nanette looked down solemnly.
 
Six hundred years. We resent it all. If it were easy to be a pet, perhaps we would have become the finest of pets and companions and let our knowledge be known.
But pets are not a people. An owner will kick a ‘pet’ or let it be savaged by an untamed dog or neglect a lamb. You may say this is not all or only a few, but you are not a species that some force to breed or sell for coins. We remember it all. And even if we were all pampered and treated like how we were intended—
We are not pets. But we dare not demand anything, because as a people, we are weaker than any other species. So yes. We damn Eydole the Delightful. We have seized what power we can and been incautious enough to spread rumors of a conspiracy. Our power is less than that, far less. But we have some.
Know this: Eydole’s fate may be a footnote in history of little event as your people write it. We know it was not peaceful.
 
The goosebumps were getting goosebumps. Ryoka looked up, and Nerry smiled. No wonder [Witches] disliked Sariant Lambs. They could tell how the lambs really felt. But Nanette just nodded.
“We thought it was just selfish. Witches. This…this makes sense.”
But why her? Ryoka saw it was another history of their kind, and with respect to their history…she skipped down the page. She’d read it later. Nerry pointed out another scroll, and Ryoka picked it up.
 
To you, Ryoka Griffin, we have need of your help. You have no levels, and thus, we can tell you the truth.
 
They had left the space underlined and filled her name in. Ryoka wondered if they’d tried this before. No—surely they had. She read on.
 
There are only a few ways we can see to gain freedom and autonomy. The first would be to change our natures. To shapeshift or perhaps grow taller and stronger. We have tried and may try this again, but a people without levels is still weak.
We are not Ogres, nor even the ape tribes or other species who can exist with their own strengths. We are lambs, and even Goblins barely survive with levels.
We must have levels and classes. We are a people—and we know we are a people because we have been given the chance to prove it.
Know this: four generations after Eydole lay dead, as we developed language and community and struggled with who we were, we were all, all of us living, given a revelation that Sariants have passed down and heard every ten years since. A challenge from the thing that gives all of the other species their classes and levels and Skills, or so we believe.
No one with levels or Skills has ever been able to read this or understand it. Those without—can. 
It calls itself the Grand Design of Isthekenous. Who that is—unknown. But it challenges us to ‘pass the Trials of Levelling’ and become worthy, as a species, of classes.
 
“No way. No way—does that mean that’s how it works? Wait a second…Stitch-folk. Did Stitch-folk pass this?”
Ryoka knew that Stitch-folk, a species who had been created, could level. It only made sense they could. Nerry shrugged, then nodded.
It seemed so. But as the text pointed out—
 
Stitch-folk do not speak of it. Most have levels, and the one we spoke to who was a Rulebreaker had no notion of what we spoke of. We only know of a few other species who might have had to ‘pass’ like we do. But Goblins know nothing, and the Antinium cannot be spoken to.
 
