“Nary two words between yon mortals pshing themselves over the snow. ‘Twas worth the effort to see that high-and-mighty [Princess] digging the furball of luck out of the snowdrift! And to humble the green idiot.”
 
By that she meant that the fae had dropped multiple feet of snow and Mrsha had been buried—but unharmed by the first snowdrift. As for Relc, Ryoka had seen a snowball as tall as he was knock him off the hill.
She knew this was completely off-topic, but she had to ask.
“Why…why do you hate Relc? I know he annoyed the Winter Fae before. You’ve met him?”
Shaestrel flipped upside down and hung there, cross-legged.
 
“Not I. Think you I’d come to this wasteland of hope and dreams? The others chatter on. It matters not, aye? A grudge is to be kept, after all.”
 
She…definitely had a fae-like point of view. And everything she said mattered. Ryoka saw the Spring Fae eying her.
 
“Ask. Ask. Why haven’t I flown off with the rest of my kin? Or perhaps why I’m green, eh? Let’s play a game. Ask me the best question.”
 
“Or…?”
Ryoka knew faerie games and got nervous. Shaestrel bared her teeth.
 
“I’ll take a chunk of your flesh and blood.”
 
She saw Ryoka’s face and elaborated with a roll of her eyes.
 
“I’ll bite ye. Satyr’s blood, yer soft. No fun at all. Nevermind. Just ask.”
 
She folded her arms and stared up at the sky. Ryoka hesitated, but even this craziness made her want to cry because it was…magic. She hesitated, stared at Shaestrel, and then spoke.
“—Yulnous and the others flew on to deliver winter to the rest of this world. Just as promised. Because you keep your promises. Even now. Will flying faster—prevent them from being caught?”
It was the first question and the one that made Shaestrel slowly rotate upright. Her smile vanished, and she opened her mouth. Then—
Ryoka felt a pair of teeth unfasten from around the tip of her ear. She yelped, clapped a hand to her ear—and the faerie flew out from where she had been leaning on Ryoka’s head. Her ear hurt, but a hair more pressure and she would have lost—
How had she—?
 
“Good enough. The answer is simple. Speed may matter, aye. It is not as if our foes move fast. Or have bodies to catch. We are in danger. But we swore an oath. So we dared it. Our King forbade us not, and sanctioned us not. I? I should not be here, but Yulnous stopped me not. The Wild Hunt stopped me not. So here I be.”
 
Ryoka sucked in her breath. She tried to translate that into plainspeak. And process what Shaestrel had done. She’d unbit Ryoka’s ear because the question had been good. Was she messing with time?
 
“No. Just location. You figured out how to see. But our home took it easy on ye anyways. If you came back a second time, we’d make it more challenging.”
 
Shaestrel laughed at Ryoka’s face. The Wind Runner shook her head.
“So you’re saying—you’re breaking the rules like Ivolethe. You weren’t forbidden from coming here—you’re probably in trouble. The Winter Fae shouldn’t be here. But you promised.”
 
“Yes. And promises are everything.”
 
Such a sad gaze. Such a determined one. The fae knew what was here. Dead gods. Something that could probably threaten them. And they came.
They always did. Ryoka remembered the hill of flowers/the hill of graves/the hill of swords.
The grave of the Faerie Queen.
She looked at Shaestrel and knew that if she asked if the Spring Fae knew what she was doing, she’d get far worse than a bite. So Ryoka went on.
“Ivolethe…?”
 
“Still punished not to see you. Though her disgrace is less. Afore you ask, the court of our King is aflutter. A thousand thousand guests saw the horrors of your world and quailed.”
 
“The…”
The faerie clapped a hand to her forehead in annoyance and shouted.
 
“Argh. Ask the [Innkeeper]. Ask her! I have not the patience to explain it! I knew I should have waited until you knew! Fuck this time and your stupid mind.”
 
She pointed at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner gulped. But Shaestrel calmed down after a second.
 
“Nae. Nae, I should not be angry. I came…because I wanted to. Because no one forbade it.”
 
Ryoka bit her lip. Something was off—even for a fae, Shaestrel sounded more open than Ivolethe had ever been—and more cagey.
“To…help?”
Instantly, the Spring Fae shook her head and wagged a finger at Ryoka. With a mighty frown, she glared.
 
“I never said that. Ye did not hear me say that. That is a lie and against all rules, and I would swive ye with Excalibur itself before I broke that rule. I spit on the idea. Ptey.”
 
She spat to the side, squinting her eyes in disgust. Then she opened her left eye, and a green mote studied Ryoka.
Now, the Wind Runner was catching on.
“Ah. So you’re not helping me. That would be completely unacceptable.”
 
“Especially given the odds.”
 
“Yeah. And you’re only here because no one told you not to come. Including the Faerie King.”
 
“He never said a word, no.”
 
“And you’re not here to—help me out?”
Shaestrel rolled her eyes.
 
“No, not at all. Does that clear it up?”
 
It did. Ryoka was astonished. Stunned—and both worried and relieved. Because that meant…
“Really? You’re allowed to—”
“Would you shut up and not draw attention to it?”
The voice that whispered in her ear was immediate and not like the fae’s normal tones. Shaestrel never opened her mouth—it sounded like a howling gust of wind and a beetle’s buzz combined.
Ryoka shut her mouth. But she had needed to know.
Okay, this wasn’t just ‘bending the rules’ like the Faerie King would tolerate. There were…possibly big consequences. Shaestrel seemed to approve of Ryoka’s novel cognition. She spoke in an airy, lighter tone.
 
“So I suppose I’ll follow you around a lot. Ivolethe said you feed your companions well enough. Fine mead and vittles! That’s why I’m here! And to see you embarrass yourself across this world. And if you had a few questions, I might deign to answer them.”
 
Ryoka licked her lips. This was where she established just how helpful Shaestrel might be. And she might…
The last time Oberon had interceded, that she saw, he had pulled a fast one on Rhisveri and unleashed literal armadas worth of firepower into the void, and the other times he’d given her his obol and the Faeblade. When Ivolethe ‘broke the rules’, she’d frozen Venitra into a block of ice.
Shaestrel was not here on a joyride or to see Ryoka. She was here on a mission, and the look in her eyes said she knew the risks. She had come to make war within her strange laws.
“What kind of answers can you give? Am I…was I wasting time, playing with the children?”
The fae knew everything—or more than Ryoka, at any rate. They knew prophecy and the reasons the world was the way it was. Shaestrel hummed like a buzzing bee, and Apista crawled out to see what it was. Shaestrel patted the bee on the head as she leaned on it and spoke.
 
“To answer your question, Ryoka Griffin, when I first heard of Ivolethe’s ‘friend’—aye, when she was older and different, an aeon ago—I laughed so hard I nearly shat myself. Never in my times did I think I’d see it come to pass, and she swore a blue streak for a hundred years afterwards. The poor fool who told it to her daren’t show his face in the court until a moon had fallen from the sky. To see you now, I say it was a joke that would set all to laughing another lifetime. Look at you.”
 
Ryoka scowled as Apista waved her antennae and buzz-chuckled.
“Thanks.”
Shaestrel lifted a hand, and the mocking smile that had appeared turned serious.
 
“No, I mean it. Fate is tricky. Never once did I think I’d come here. I swore, in fact, never to return to this damned place. But fate is a tricky bitch. Here I am. Here I am, and I will not help you with all of my heart. But…”
 
She cast right and left and grunted as she eyed Ryoka.
 
“…Yer best friend. What is her name?”
 
Ryoka hesitated, and the faerie rolled her eyes.
 
“Name four, then.”
 
“Uh—uh—Erin?”
 
“Keep going. Don’t look at me! Not everything is a test, you blithering idiot, you! Just say it!”
 
“Um—Erin, Fierre, Garia, uh, uh, Charlay? Mrsha? Uh—”
Shaestrel crossed her arms and waved at Ryoka.
 
“Yes. As I thought. So I’m somewhere…else. Somewhen. You see, I don’t know if it was this that’s the right one. Because if I see a single drop of rain in fate’s storm and know where it lands—my King sees the storm itself and the mountain and ground. So I trust his judgment. You see? Any advice I give you…should be taken as that. Some things I know, and I will tell you what I know as opposed to what I think. Makes sense?”
 
“Sort of.”
So her advice wasn’t perfect. Ivolethe had said as much—and Shaestrel made the situation worse.
 
“Even more annoying is that even if you see as much as my king—he plays his games against opponents who see the entirety of it. And they love twisting fate around—and she’s—”
 
“A bitch? Is it a ‘she’?”
 
“Ever heard of the three fates? They’re always she and always pretentious. ‘We know all! Even our end!’ Well, ye didn’t see the part where I snipped a thread! Hah! …That didn’t end well.”
 
Ryoka felt like this was an endless, fascinating rabbit hole of confusion she could go down. So she backed away from that and re-focused.
“So the children…did I do the wrong thing there? Am I in the wrong place? I made a huge mess in Ailendamus and—you know what I’ve done.”
Shaestrel closed her eyes now and opened one eye again. She studied Ryoka, suddenly deathly serious, and spoke.
 
“Most of it. Yes, I’ve come to you to see what you do, Ryoka, and to kick you if need be. To answer your question of Ailendamus—of course you pissed about and made a fool of yourself. We don’t expect perfection. To answer your question of now—making children happy is never a bad thing, aye?”
 
She looked more kindly after the children packing up their toys than Ryoka expected. The Wind Runner almost smiled at that, but then Shaestrel turned her gaze on her.
 
“Now, though, you come home to your friend. The hearthkeeper. A [Lord] besotted on your heels. A blade in hand. A quest upon you from the Wyrm. An old man waking from his deep sleep. I do not offer you advice immediately how to resolve it all.”
 
“But I don’t know what to do…”
Ryoka hesitated and felt a surge of terror again. It was like when Erin was dead or trying to find Ivolethe. She was reminded of Demsleth, Magnolia.
A hand seized Ryoka’s face. Not kindly—it cupped her chin, and fingernails sharp and ragged cut into her skin. Shaestrel stared down at Ryoka, and her breath stank of spring mold and blood and…
It was firm, and she looked at Ryoka with a kind of pleading intensity.
 
“Ryoka Griffin. I cannot fight your battle or live it for you. Listen to me. Not every moment need be spent racing towards the goal you and I know. You cannot do it yourself. But listen to me when I tell you it is serious. So…I do not know you. We were not fated friends. But show me why He trusts you. Why Ivolethe does.”
 
Ryoka inhaled, and perhaps that was what she had needed to hear. Not an answer, but a challenge. She stepped back, and Shaestrel flew up higher.
 
“I think I’ll stop distracting you. Go. ‘Down came Shaestrel oft her flighty throne, breaking her promises yay again. Promisebreaker, vanquished maiden of war. Unfit for her Queen’s side or the dignity of it all. Down came she, and met a mortal who befriended the wind. And then…’”
 
And then? Ryoka Griffin exhaled. She looked up and went to find Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
When she found Erin Solstice, Ryoka had Nerry in her arms. The little lamb had given her a long stare—and Shaestrel a wary one.
“She’s a friend, Nerry. And don’t…don’t get mad. She’s one you want to have as a friend, and all the Sariants in the world don’t scare her.”
The Spring Fae flew overhead in Erin’s inn—for there was no cold iron in it except maybe a few pans, none in the nails—and she was welcome. She bared her teeth as Nerry gave the fae a long look.
But Nerry said nothing. She might write something given time, but she expressed herself with baahs, often cute, or her own physical attacks. She was high on Ryoka’s list.
Erin, though? They had talked a bit in the garden of koi fish about what they had seen and their mutual enemy. Ryoka was glad to be on the same side.
But one conversation was the start of it all. Zeladona, ironically, was a distraction. They needed to do more, and if Ryoka ran without doing that, now, after all she knew and had done—she thought Shaestrel would bite more than her ear off.
Plus, you had to admit from that objective-ish standpoint that Erin had a new Skill. And it was pretty cool. If you thought about it. Symbolically, it just fit, and yes, maybe certain attention had been put on…
 
“Dead thee gods, shut up, shut up…”
 
Shaestrel was muttering for some reason behind Ryoka. Perhaps she heard something? Ryoka looked around, but she was walking behind the curtain in the common room of the inn.
“Lyonette, can I speak to Erin? It’s sort of important.”
Lyonette looked up from where she and a blonde Gnoll were sitting over a sheaf of papers.
“Funny you should say that. You’re next on her list. She’s investigating her new theatre now she’s no longer killing everyone she sees. Go on through. I’ll note it on the schedule.”
“Erin’s got a schedule?”
Ryoka stared. Lyonette stared at Nerry, who gave her an innocent baah from Ryoka’s arms.
“Yes. And this is Yelroan. Nice to see you’re enjoying our zoo of pets. Mister Yelroan—are you sure we can afford the costs?”
He fiddled with his glasses and smiled.
“You can call me ‘Yelroan’. Plain’s Eye never did titles, Lyonette. If I can call you that. I could do Pr—er—Manager? Assistant Manager?”
“Lyonette will do.”
He nodded as Ryoka eyed the curtain and walked towards it. She heard a rustle as he showed her something.
“Obviously, paying attention to the inn’s costs is important. But I have a method for that, and I’ll be recording this coming month’s expenses and income very thoroughly.”
“I gave you my notes.”
