There was a plan.
There was always a plan. There had to be—or else you were winging it and balancing the fate of your nation—nations—upon chance and ‘intuition’, the thought that you were in command of all the facts, all the knowledge, and were the superior intelligence. Objectively, that was a stupid thing to believe even if you had a hundred brilliant minds all working in tandem, not just one.
You had to have a plan. Not just ‘I know what comes next’, but an overall goal you were working towards. Many nations chased, in some kind of endless pursuit, the goals of acquiring more lands, more power, more influence or money—or were insular in that they followed the leaders, who pursued their own mortal goals.
The smart ones had plans. Khelt had a plan. It had executed its plan. It was executing its plan to stay sovereign, stay safe. When it rested for thousands of years, it slowly built up arsenals and soldiers in pursuit of the plan that Khelta had laid down.
What they were doing now…was unclear. Presumably, the plan had changed.
Someone who had no plan was Flos Reimarch. The first time, he had a plan. It was a selfish child’s plan of conquering as much as he could see. Yes, of safeguarding his people, of winning separate wars and finding his boon companions, his Seven, but underneath it, his will to take Chandrar was the plan.
Right now? He was making his comeback. His swan song, his return to glory, and his dream. That was how it seemed, and if that were the case—he was a fool soon to die.
“Therefore, the fact that he is not dead indicates he does have a plan. And it is not just conquering Chandrar. Luck carries him only so far. His levels, his loyal servants—he strikes out like an aimless Hydra at times, but the will behind it speaks of a plan.”
This was a change in perception. It came as winter fell on Chandrar—literally.
Snow was raining down from the heavens. So rare a sight on Chandrar that Stitch-folk were stepping outside stucco mud houses and raising their hands to catch it, throwing snowballs even as it melted.
Odd. The Winter Sprites normally skipped Chandrar or went across the coast. This time—they had come in fast. So fast that some of the [Scouts] had thought Takhatres was attacking again, despite sightings putting him on the Nerrhavian warfront.
Did they have a plan? Interesting question. The figure noting the falling snow could not remember ever seeing winter come in so fast. And the Winter Sprites…capricious imps that rarely did more than throw snow or blow wind at people.
They looked like they were in a hurry. But the real question was if they were a kind of quasi-Elemental like most believed—why would one of them, a green one, be following the Wind Runner around Liscor?
“No green Winter Sprites have ever been seen before. The Wind Runner may know some kind of old magic…but this is unique. Another caused an avalanche in a Runner’s Guild. They were seen when the Goblin Lord wiped out a Gnoll tribe. The Wind Runner was in the company of a blue one. These are the reported facts. They are…intelligent. Or perhaps another shift is occurring. An Elemental of Law in Riverfarm? Along with Sariants. What do they know?”
You could just say it was the changing of an age. But why was the age changing? Secrets of Gnolls were coming to life. Khelt was moving.
There is a plan. And it is deeper than I can fathom. Multiple currents going deep. 
The figure thinking all this was analytical. He was, after all, a [Clerk]. Well, he had been. In fact, he had been one of the world’s finest [Clerks].
Xorne. Exotic to some, but a common enough name for a Stitch-man. He had been very good at his job, which was, among other things, noticing patterns. Making plans. He’d started in a Merchant’s Guild and moved up to running it. Oddly, he’d never become a [Guildmaster], because the management was more fun than rulership, if that made sense. More rewarding.
Nor had he stayed in the Merchant’s Guild long. Talent was noticed, and like the famous Salii—much like Yelroan, individuals who helped run giant industries—he had been headhunted by one of the finest organizers in the world.
Bastion-General Quiteil had personally recruited Xorne. The Stitch-man had gone to 4th Wall and redesigned the modalities of attack and defense, even laid the groundwork for the 5th Wall’s push. That had been a lot of his life. At 57 years old, he’d gone home for a rare break to the Chacesoi Collective, a series of city-states, of which he belonged to Chacesoi itself.
There he had gotten into trouble with the law. Theft, apparently. Very strange for a man who was paid by the Blighted Kingdom and reported to Quiteil himself. Despite the Blighted Kingdom’s objections and sending for a [Diplomat], the ruling had been fast.
He’d been executed within the week. A very upsetting event that Xorne still thought of. Beheading. Not as painless as most people thought—especially because a Stitch-person’s head could feel for a good five minutes before they died.
The Blighted Kingdom was still angry about the event. They had weighed a reprisal, but they always balanced that with what they received—and a hundred bales of silk for their own Stitch-folk had quieted an immediate, vocal reprisal.
And besides—the Empire of Sands now ruled the entire western coast down to Roshal. They were as generous as Nerrhavia—more so given the war right now. And doubly besides…Xorne, and thus the Emperor of Sands, knew full well he’d been sent to investigate in a clandestine manner.
It had never occurred to the Blighted Kingdom that the Emperor of Sands would simply execute a dignitary of Xorne’s level. But then, they hadn’t realized yet what made the Emperor of Sands different.
Xorne’s head sat on a body that didn’t quite match his head. The skin tone was slightly off, and if you noted his head, grey and neat-trimmed, you might wonder why his body seemed to belong to a fitter, younger man.
He didn’t care to personalize it. He just sat. And thought. Xorne was in command of many things. For one, the memories of the Emperor of Sands, who he was. Another—his personal memories, including all of the Blighted Kingdom’s secrets that he was privy to.
The gestalt of the two was fascinating. And yes, he was annoyed about the beheading. When it came time for another head more suited to leading, he would not nominate the young man.
Pathorex, the charismatic prince. The leader from the front—at odds with some of the heads. There was also the pun-spitting Saet-rei, who was charming and cunning and an expert at working the infrastructure of a nation.
Vorrem the Scorpion, from Scaied, was another head. He had ‘met his end’ in battle against the Empire of Sands when it first emerged, and his head had never been seen publicly. But then, the Emperor or Empress of Sands was very secretive.
They had many heads. Xorne wasn’t even the most intelligent or dangerous of the lot. But he was—stable.
Some were not. Death had a way of changing someone. The Emperor, then, was careful about which heads they wore. A bad head could be dangerous. But they had to have a plan.
There was a plan. Xorne had been astonished to learn it when he was inducted, and his thinking now was to gainsay that plan.
“The Blighted King did something to procure the ‘heroes’. This is a fact.”
“Are you sure?”
The Emperor of Sands looked up. Around him, in walls of hollowed sandstone, oddly cheap for such a regal room, were heads. They stared down at him in his private chambers—not a throne room.
“I am certain. During my tenure under Quiteil, I was responsible for safeguarding an excavation. Rather, erasing every single text and record from our military records and collating the information to give to Quiteil himself. He took the singular file for what I could only assume were personal archives in possession of the crown. In fact, a higher-level purge was debated. Some kind of contingency the Blighted Kingdom has in store. That was deemed unnecessary.”
“Private methods of hiding their deeds? A sticky situation. Or rather, a stitchy situation, eh?”
That came from Emira Saet-rei, and the other heads muttered or called out insults. Xorne stared up.
“I will have you gagged.”
“I’ll be good. Don’t stuff my mouth with cotton. I was just hemping around.”
“Gag her.”
A servant moved in the background. Xorne understood, really. When you were a head, you were…neither the Emperor, nor apart. You were just you. In service to something else.
He considered that he might have found this horrific if he were Xorne, the individual. Then duly reported it to Quiteil, and the Blighted Kingdom would have launched experiments. Perhaps they had. But that would have been classified like this.
He went on, for the benefit of himself and herself.
“The excavation was of an ancient ritual scroll. It came from a shattered ruin. Literally melted so deep into the ground it was found by [Blast Miners] digging out Demon tunnels or ore. Yet the scroll was intact. I presume the connection between the ‘[Heroes]’ and this scroll was the plan. Logic defines it.”
“Fascinating. Then the Blighted Kingdom knew how to make [Heroes]. Why so many? How could they enable so many? Even one would be difficult, and we know how.”
General Vorrem was patently fascinated. He was about to ask a bunch of questions of Xorne, which might get annoying, but the [Clerk] was prepared to listen. Until another voice spoke.
“d-don’t forget. don’t…”
A voice trickled down, and Vorrem stopped. The other heads, some of which had been mocking Saet-rei, conversing, or demanding to be put on—stopped. A silence fell as a head higher up whispered.
The voice was lost. Usually—this head never spoke and a veil covered it. But when it did—
The Emperor of Sands listened to himself. And the voice was mad. If he put on that head—he would do it only as a last resort. No one was mad enough to do it. There was no telling what he’d do, then, and the Emperor had to choose to change heads.
But he listened now.
“don’t forget chance. chance is always…chaos.”
The head whispered down to him. A lost voice seeking a path it no longer remembered. Xorne nodded.
“Chaos. Yes. I understand.”
“good…”
Then silence. Xorne resumed speaking.
“Chaos or chance—but I believe it ties into the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria, perhaps even the Wind Runner and Rémi Canada. All of them. Similar ages. Human. Unique insights or classes. There is a grander scheme.”
He was putting it all together, in his meticulous way, and the other heads, despite incredulity or their own biases, listened.
“The King of Destruction has a plan. I cannot see it—but I now observe Teresa and Trey Atwood. Our spies cannot get near them thanks to Gazi of Reim. But the commonality—”
“Humans. Do we acquire them? How can they be found?”
“Data puts them everywhere. The Singer’s ‘band’ is comprised of Humans who she picked up in other cities. Magnolia Reinhart has done the same. Wistram has been stealing them.”
“So has Roshal. Is that why their emissary waits for us?”
Vorrem rumbled. The Emperor argued with himself. Many heads did not like Roshal. Others saw them as excellent trading partners. But dangerous.
Oh, they all knew how dangerous Roshal was. At this moment…Xorne raised his hand.
“I will speak to them. A request for audience is unusual. But I will finish my thought. Fetohep of Khelt moving. The King of Destruction’s goals. There is a plan. Perhaps the Titan knows it. Why did he go to Izril?”
“Curious.”
“Mbgmgh.”
Saet-rei tried to speak. Wearily, Xorne motioned. He addressed her head.
“If you tell a pun, I will have you hung upside-down until I return.”
You could get an amazing headache like that, disembodied head or not. Saet-rei made no puns.
“Consider—infatuation. I dabbled as a [Matchmaker], and I can tell a smitten heart when I see one. Incidentally, I would like to be worn so I can speak to Lord Pellmia.”
“…Good point. No, to your other request.”
This was the benefit of having multiple heads. They were almost done deliberating, but then Saet-rei spoke in a troubled voice.
“Morungdervei is dead. Or rather—Rastandius is dead. However he called himself. Is it his part of it all? Was it part of his plan?”
The heads fell silent, and Xorne spoke. Even in the Blighted Kingdom, the [Soothsayer] had been on a short list of names such as Foliana, Magnolia Reinhart, Saliss, and so on.
“…Fallen to his own schemes. I wonder how he died. His power was—unsettling.”
If they could have, they would have found and taken him, though he could be a double-edged sword, but he had been stubborn, and it hadn’t been deemed worth the cost to try. One could argue he had helped make Flos of Reim.
If only by accident.
“if he has set in motion any plans, they go onwards without him to guide them. assuming he is dead. too many old powers. the board must be swept clean.”
The voice from above, again. A heavy silence fell upon the Emperor of Sands, and even his skin crawled. But then he nodded.
“It will be done. First Roshal. Another old power on the move. Let us see why.”
Xorne slowly rose and let the servants adorn his body with robes the color of blood. Then he walked from the private rooms to see what Roshal wanted.
He knew the state of the Empire of Sands at this moment. It was ruler of the western coast and now moving inland. Bloody, short wars had gone their way. It had not been so easy last year.
Takhatres, Lord of the Skies, had conducted an incredible campaign against the Empire of Sands, razing villages, harassing armies, and tying down a vast section of the Empire of Sands’ forces.
But Flos Reimarch had called him back because he was needed. In truth—Xorne had regarded it as a reductive equation, for all the more warlike heads had been forced to try to deal with such a high-level, mobile force.
Officers, soldiers, supplies, even towns came and went. But Flos had been forced to choose between sabotaging the Empire of Sands’ own growth and expansion or one of his most powerful assets. He had chosen to recall Takhatres and race the Empire of Sands for dominion.
Thus far—he had fallen behind. Though you could argue that he had done exceptionally well, fighting off multiple giant nations around him.
But the Empire of Sands was expanding, and thus Roshal came to call.
 
——
 
The [Slaver] was a Stitch-woman, and she had expected Saet-Rei. Xorne took some amusement in her discomfort.
“Emira Ultce of Roshal. Be seated.”
