She turned, and Saliss leaned over to watch through the door as Ryoka broke off from a discussion of terminology and stepped through. Nervously—Ryoka came to a halt in the spotlight.
“You sure you want to do this, Erin?”
“Yep. I am absolutely sure I don’t want to do this. But guess what? You started this, so you stand right next to me—and let’s go. It’s time. If we begin—we begin here, and Demsleth and everyone else comes after.”
“I was first! Remember that when you write the history books! Saliss! Number one!”
Saliss shouted after them. Erin laughed and nodded. Then—she looked up and clapped her hands. Ryoka Griffin looked very scared, but the light burned as the glass dome blinked…and then out of every hexagonal pane, the glass darkened and the sky overhead turned to midnight.
Then…the dozens, dozens of panes changed, each one showing a different scene, a different…place and point of view.
And person.
Erin Solstice shimmered as her viewpoint suddenly changed, and she saw—first of all—a young man with dreadlocks fiddling with a set of colorful armor. He looked up—stared at her—and leapt off his workbench so hard he crashed into a wall.
“What the fuck.”
Aaron Vanwell, aka ‘Blackmage’, stared at a young woman in a wheelchair and a taller one with black hair who crossed and uncrossed her arms then realized she was not projecting the cool atmosphere she wanted. She should have worn a cape. And a hood.
“Aaron Vanwell? I’m Erin Solstice. We meet at last.”
The [Innkeeper] was smiling. Her eyes twinkled with mischief and mirth and nerves—and he swore the air over her head looked like it was shimmering. Aaron stared at Erin—and she turned her head.
Flicker. He heard her voice, speaking with interest as she looked to the side at something else—at a wall or…
“Are you…Geneva Scala? Hey, Niers. I levelled.”
Aaron’s mouth went wide—and wider as Erin turned, addressing someone else.
“I’m not a killer! It’s me, Erin! Rémi Canada? Cara? Er—you’re Greg, right? Can you get me Cara? I couldn’t get to her directly. Might be a wrong name.”
She turned, and they could not see the others, but Erin slowly rotated around with her chair as Ryoka swallowed.
“…Who’s the clown?”
“Tom. Thomas. This isn’t perfect. You can’t talk to each other, but I can hear all of you. It’s okay. I have something I need to say. Then we can talk. Let’s just let everyone else get somewhere private, please. This is a Skill. No one’s watching but us. Friends.”
Saliss winked at Ryoka as Nerry and Shaestrel peered in. Erin Solstice took a breath.
“When you’re ready—or not—we’ll begin.”
