He was Saliss’ friend and confidant, and the Named-rank adventurer knew that. So he was gentle—as he grabbed Mirn’s arm and dragged him down eye-to-eye.
With the strength of a lion. Mirn tensed up as Saliss’ yellow, slitted gaze met his. The other Drake’s voice was very soft.
“Mirn. I’m well aware of what it means. Some people will take it. And I’ll give you some damn potions, and you can confirm it has no frills or expiry date. If some of us want it—I’ll let them go. Let them go and build new lives. But not me. This potion is the perfect joke. Like them all. I get to let Onieva out, but she doesn’t remember me, doesn’t remember the old man perfectly. This potion doesn’t do what I want. It just creates Onieva. And it leaves me here.”
He gestured around the laboratory. Mirn—Mirn would never completely get it, but he had more insight into what it was like to be Saliss than anyone else. His excited look turned to one of pain.
“Saliss…”
The [Alchemist]’s voice was as flat as his face.
“Don’t mistake me, Mirn. I’m happy. This is cheaper than my old method—and Onieva should live. She should be…I’m glad she went out there. Despite the trouble. But with this potion, it’s her and me. Get it? That’s not how this works. Onieva isn’t someone else. That’s how Chaldion thinks. I’ve always been her. And taking away the memories of Saliss, no matter how welcome…”
He stood up and looked down at the unwelcome fakeness of his orange scales. The incongruity that had crept up on him every day until he went off to find out why. And yes, one sip of that magical vial would take it away. But. Saliss’ voice rasped like acid was in his own lungs.
“As long as Onieva forgets, she’s as fake as Saliss. I am Onieva. I was proud of knowing I struggled. Every damned memory—I’ll fight every Drake in Izril to hold onto it. Mirn. Do you get it?”
His friend looked up, water in his eyes.
“I get it, Saliss. Ancestors. I get it.”
“Some people will want to leave it behind. I welcome them to it. Not me. I can’t. If it was just pain—it defines me. Proud of who I am. I…damn it.”
Saliss stared out between his claws. He had been so used to this—not the day-to-day, but the cycle he existed in. Trying to improve his level, doing what had to be done as Saliss, the moments of freedom, pushing the old man, trying to drag Pallass one tiny step further. Fighting the Antinium and whomever else was trying to kill innocent people.
Now the sky was inverted, and he didn’t know…Saliss looked around and then shook his head. He looked down, and if you saw a naked Drake, you saw what you were meant to. He?
He saw scars. Won over a thousand battles. Death and fire. When he opened and closed his claws, he knew how easy it was to swing a sword. Raise a spear, shoot an arrow. Not just that—how simple it was to take down a wall.
To turn a building to ash?
He had thought, some days, that he could take apart Pallass in a year. Undo everything that millenia of his people had kept and built and rebuilt over generations. If he really wanted to.
It was too easy. That was why Named-rank adventurers were mad, all of them. One day they reached out and broke someone’s arm with all the effort of someone taking a glass of water. They realized they could do anything they wanted. Or they drowned in blood.
Mirn was not wrong to look at him like that. But there was something more to Saliss.
“Onieva has always been me, Mirn. You get that.”
“Absolutely. We just didn’t realize it until later.”
“But there is Saliss, too.”
The [Protector] frowned. By this, the [Alchemist] seemed to mean more than his identity as a Named-rank adventurer and his deeds for Pallass. Saliss lifted a claw and divided the air in two.
“I am Onieva. That is who I’d rather be. That has been my goal and dream—to realize her. But Saliss? I’ve lived in his scales for decades. I realized—he exists. Not like two minds or some Selphid shit. But the idea of Saliss of Lights…the Drake who does what Pallass needs.”
Mirn ducked his head, tasting bile. He knew—only some of what Saliss meant. Even the Eyes of Pallass thought Saliss was given suicide missions, that the Walled Cities leaned on him at times. The Antinium attack was just one example. When no one else could do it—when they needed somewhere erased because something was crawling up, be it Crelers or something worse, they called for Saliss.
Once—they had made the mistake of thinking Saliss was just a toy-soldier like Zeter and involved him in their wars. They had called for a soldier, and Manus had seen what that meant. Saliss believed in wars. Mirn had been there, before he resigned his commission and then joined the Eyes of Pallass—then resigned altogether when he realized who he was and what his purpose was.
He still remembered a younger [Alchemist]. Saliss had gazed out across enemy lines—then found high ground. Then had come yellow rain. Acid rain.
“Too much. They asked you too much. Your grandfather…”
“He believes in Pallass. He really does, Mirn. Saliss is his heir. Saliss—but for the personality is everything Chaldion wanted. And you know what? I still think we need Saliss. But he was never meant to live forever. Some day, he’ll die in some monster den or on the battlefield. He’ll never have children, a family. He’s like Tyrion Veltras. He lives for war. And even Tyrion Veltras had kids.”
Saliss was chuckling about that. He looked over at Mirn with a bloodless grin.
“Now though—there’s a difference between Saliss and Onieva. Because of the potion, you see? And now Saliss…Saliss is wondering whether the split’s too perfect. Whether Onieva needs him. She’s a lot happier, alone. But I am…”
He stared at his claws.
“Maybe it would be better to forget. Which one’s right? Am I her other half or am I the poison weighing her down? I’m an [Alchemist], Mirn. If there’s a bad part of this formula—I get rid of it. I excise it, isolate it, and throw it away.”
“Don’t—don’t talk like that, Saliss. I know you. The good you’ve done—”
The Named-rank adventurer didn’t react to the claw on his shoulder.
“I can’t tell, Mirn. I can’t do this. I can’t play around. I need to ask what this is about. And there’s someone who can answer it for me.”
“What are you going to do? Saliss? Saliss? Onieva?”
Mirn watched Saliss stride to the door. He opened his mouth and then saw Saliss walk back, go over to a vault, and open it. It took him a minute to unlock—and he pulled out three vials. Then he put them in his bag of holding and turned.
“I’ll see you later. On the off-chance—if you hear a loud ‘bang’, clear the city with everyone you can grab.”
Then he walked out the door. Mirn didn’t follow after Saliss. He looked after the Drake. And Saliss of Lights walked off the 9th Floor and towards the inn’s door. No more games. The pretense was faltering.
On the way, he set off Watch Sergeant Kel, the Day Strategist, and everyone else’s [Dangersense]. Not because of what he intended. Some things were just so dangerous that if you held them, they should scare you.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin and Erin Solstice were standing in the [World’s Eye Theatre] when Erin felt a buzz at the back of her mind.
“Uh…I think my [Dangersense] just went off.”
“What?”
Ryoka turned, and Erin whirled her head around.
“Saliss? Someone just walked into my inn. And I think he’s got—a bomb?”
She didn’t know, but her control of the inn let her know who was where in it. Even Shriekblade wasn’t immune to her abilities.
“Wh-why would he have that?”
“Saliss? I dunno. He has lots of exploding things. But I think he’s got a really—really—um. Maybe we should go back and check?”
Erin looked at Ryoka. Ryoka looked at Shaestrel. The Faerie stared back at them.
 
“I’m not telling you everything. I told ye, I don’t know everything.”
 
“But you knew about my Skill.”
The faerie rolled her eyes as Erin protested.
 
“I can see what is blindingly obvious. Not this. Ye have work to do. Hop to it.”
 
Ryoka Griffin turned to Erin. The [Innkeeper] bit her lip, but she opened the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“This is faster. Grassy wheels here I come. I need to show you the real door here, too, Ryoka. There’s…a lot to discuss, isn’t there?”
Ryoka looked down at Nerry, and the little lamb eyed Erin and her.
“Yes. There is. Saliss seems to think so, too.”
“He was #4. I didn’t forget him.”
Erin protested weakly, but Ryoka looked at Shaestrel again, and this time, the faerie gave her the blankest stare in the world. No help. She had said her piece and put down her challenge, her request to Ryoka.
It was the Wind Runner who looked at the nervous [Innkeeper]. Erin, who had just demonstrated her new Skill, who had summoned the spirit of a legend of swords from ancient times—who had killed Skinner and done everything including dying and coming back to life—
—For some reason seemed afraid of this. If an undead [Ninja] made of A’ctelios Salash’s flesh were to suddenly backflip into existence and try to kill them all, Ryoka had no doubt that Erin, wheelchair or not, would draw a knife and begin throwing fire or doing something witchy.
But this? Ryoka hesitated—then she reached over and offered Erin a hand. The [Innkeeper] glanced at the three fingers…then took it gently and squeezed hard.
“I think, Erin—it’s time to have a conversation. The thing I’m the worst at. And it can’t just be us. It should include us, but maybe…maybe we should begin. Everything.”
Erin looked at Ryoka almost in a panic.
“Now? But we have the cool theatre and…”
Ryoka glanced towards the doorway and wondered what Saliss was doing. And there were other people.
“I think we don’t get to wait forever. Time, Erin. Let’s talk about what we’re going to do, before we do it. We should have a plan.”
“I’m no good at plans. Neither are you.”
Mrsha ran into the garden and hesitated. She wasn’t sure if she liked the idea of ‘bomb’ and ‘Saliss’. She hesitated and held up a card.
I’m going to prank Halrac and a bunch of people with the theatre. Can I do that?
“Sure. Just don’t cause any international incidents.”
It said a lot that Erin and Ryoka thought this was the most responsible place for Mrsha to be. The girl nodded eagerly and began to cue up Ekirra and Visma. Erin let Ryoka push her into the garden. Nanette stared after them, but Erin and Ryoka were following Nerry about this great task before them, and they left the two children behind. Ryoka commented to Erin as Shaestrel flew behind them.
“I do plan some things, Erin. Calm down. You’re hyperventilating.”
“No I’m not! And you didn’t have a plan at Ailendamus.”
“I did too. It wasn’t a good plan, but I had one.”
Ryoka retorted mildly, and Erin twisted in her seat.
“What was it?”
“Let them capture me as a prisoner. Steal their scroll. Wake you up.”
The Wind Runner was straight-faced as Erin’s mouth moved slowly. She blushed a bit after a second.
“Like I said, it wasn’t a good plan. But it was simple, and I got half of it—two-thirds—the entire thing worked in the end. This time—I think we have an opportunity. Demsleth is sitting in your inn. We can’t miss this. Saliss of Lights?”
She had another thought.
“Klbkch. Xrn.”
“Whoa. Whoa. Xrn? She’s crazy. You might have missed it, but she lost part of her head. And she’s scary, Ryoka. Like—Klbkch can be scary, but Xrn’s serious.”
“Good. Erin. You know who we’re up against.”
The [Innkeeper] did, more than Ryoka. She had to tell Ryoka more of what they’d done. But the [Innkeeper] was close to panic.
“Do we have to do a big meeting?”
Ryoka stopped on the grass and pointed Erin around, waiting for a door to reappear.
“How do you think it’ll go best? Individually or all together? I don’t know people as well as you do, Erin. And I’m honestly not good at making high-level decisions, cold as ice.”
The [Innkeeper] gave her a bug-eyed stare.
“And you’re turning to me?”
Ryoka gripped her shoulder reassuringly.
“You know how to do it, Erin. I? I know how to be a problem and annoy the shit out of people. We have—Teriarch. Magnolia Reinhart is in your inn. Saliss of Lights just came in. Klbkch, Xrn—this is the moment. We can even seduce Valeterisa.”
“…What?”
“With magic. I’m not sure if she’s as trustworthy, but she is the Archmage of Izril. She lifted Fissival. And there’s Rafaema, too.”
“Who? Oh, that snooty Wall Lady? What’s special about her? I know the Lulv guy. If I see him, I’ll have Mrsha break his kneecaps.”
Erin’s look of panic turned to one of such vehemence that Ryoka wondered how she could deny she was suited for this. Perhaps she just didn’t hang out around mirrors long enough. Ryoka calmly coughed into one fist.
“Well, yeah, she probably has most of Manus on her side. She’s a Dragon. Should we do Fierre..? Nah. Let’s do Rags or someone, though.”
Erin Solstice stared ahead, then slowly twisted her neck around with some effort.
“…How did you come to that conclusion?”
Ryoka eyed Erin.
“I saw it. Well, not her—but she’s under some kind of illusion spell. She has two mismatched eyes, she’s a full Oldblood who has a breath attack about ten times stronger than Zevara’s, she has a full bodyguard of Manus’ finest…let me think. She’s attached to Demsleth, and if you listen close, she keeps referencing things she’s way too young to know.”
Erin just kept staring at Ryoka. The Wind Runner poked her with a slight smile.
“Your special power is making people like you and listen to you. Mine is noticing weird stuff. Where do we begin, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] took a breath. Then she exhaled. Long and hard and sat back against her wheelchair. She looked down at it and muttered.
“If I’m going to be stuck in here a while—I need Kevin to upgrade this. With, like, a missile launcher. Or at least magical wheels. If we begin—we do the conversation here, Ryoka. After I show you something. Garden?”
She smiled, and even Shaestrel looked at her suspiciously. But that…Erin refused to say more, for now. They’d see it soon enough.
 
——
 
Rafaema of Manus was sitting next to Demsleth. The old man with his pot-belly and his rosy cheeks and incredible appetite hadn’t done much today.
He had just been—eating. Telling stories. Bantering with the other old man who smelled so off to Rafaema. Like a breeze blowing across a glade—only, all of that encapsulated in a scent.
She didn’t know what was going on and why he had left his cave or why he was taking such an odd form. Only that—he was real.
“You’re so young. Are you underfed?”
“I’m—I’m a—I’m fifteen.”
