The power of the [World’s Eye Theatre] was that, in the center of the beam of light, you could stand and ‘see’ the world around you. When Erin sat in her wheelchair, she got a view of where the Horns were. It wasn’t perfect—but she could project herself to her friends rather than having to crane her neck up and shout at the dome and have a real-time conversation.
It was hazy, though, like a blur across the world, and the sound wasn’t perfect. Erin suspected that, like her [Portal Door], distance mattered. So close to the inn—well, from just south of Pallass, it wasn’t very noticeable.
Or…was it something else? As Erin was figuring out how to control the ‘projection’ function of her theatre, she realized it was about the sunlight. Or moonlight. The beam of light coming through the ceiling could widen or shrink to include Ryoka and everyone else in, at max, about a perfect circle ten feet wide.
What was more fascinating, though, was that the beam of light could move and the projection had a limited radius before it ‘ran out of space’. Mrsha proved that by playing ‘tag’ with Gire and running around—they could actually chase each other across the grass.
“Got you! Got—”
Mrsha leapt, giggling, and Gire grabbed as Mrsha’s face turned to alarm.
Thud.
She went off the edge of the stage, and Ryoka ran over as Mrsha began to howl. The sight of a child in pain made Venaz chuckle. And it did rouse Pisces. When he came to, he denied he’d fainted, and Erin apologized profusely.
“I thought it was funny. I didn’t think, um—”
“It was clearly the magical backlash. Magical backlash.”
His cheeks were red, but Erin realized she might be a bit too close to being dead to pull this kind of prank. As she rolled towards him, she frowned.
“Huh? What the…someone push me!”
She waved her hands, and Ryoka walked over as Gire apologized to Mrsha, who was shaking her fist at the stage. But Erin was waving.
“Ryoka, push me back, push me over there! Nanette, say hello to everyone! Here’s Nanette, guys!”
“Is this some kind of neglect play? I think Pisces’s suffered enough.”
The Horns watched as Erin rolled straight through a wagon and heard her voice, oddly, grow a bit sharper.
“No, no. Do you see that? What the…”
Ryoka frowned, and Pisces, sitting up, saw her fuzzy hair grow clear and sharp. She looked, suddenly, just like a transparent Ryoka. Erin tapped her chest, puzzled.
“So we are clear. It’s not hologram style! Wait—can we do that? Hold up.”
Everyone vanished. The Horns waited, and then a spectral figure appeared. Ryoka Griffin stood, made of fuzzy—fuzzier blue light. She stared at someone off-screen.
“Say it.”
“No.”
“Say it. Come on! You only get one chance!”
 
“Say it, ye coward!”
 
Ryoka sighed loudly.
“Oh—”
She turned back and looked at the Horns with a glum expression.
“Help me, Horns of Hammerad. You’re my only hope. There. Happy?”
Erin cackled with laughter as she rolled into frame. The Horns didn’t get it, but Ceria eyed the blue Ryoka as she returned to normal colors. What she took away from this was that Erin could add effects to the projection. Like a good [Illusionist].
“Ryoka! You ruined it! You…hm. There it is again. Look, I’m fuzzing out.”
Sure enough, the wheelchair took on that haze and blur. Erin backed up—and it went normal again. She looked around, and suddenly, Ceria felt a prickle down her back. She tried to edge back and casually lean against the wagon—but Yvlon’s head swung around, and she grabbed her captain’s ear with a pair of fingers.
“Fuzzy, you say, Erin? I wonder why.”
Erin’s head snapped up. She frowned—then she rolled forwards again. This time, she rolled straight towards Ceria, and the closer she got—
The more distorted her image became.
“Gee. I wonder, uh, what could be doing that?”
Ceria smiled weakly. Erin stared at her, and Ryoka raised her brows. But then Erin turned her head.
“Not just you. Huh. Look who else is carrying a fuzzer.”
To his credit, when she rolled towards him, Colth didn’t back away. He just gave her a wide grin.
“Named-rank adventurers carry protections, Miss Solstice. But you shouldn’t be able to scry me in any sense of the word. That’s…really interesting. Wistram couldn’t do better. At least, old Wistram.”
Even so, when Erin got within a handspan of him, she turned into such a mess of twisted fuzz that it was impossible to hear her. So one supposed that the Skill wasn’t omniscient when it came to anyone high-level.
But this was amazing, and Erin turned back to the Horns.
“Looks like you won’t be able to get away from me! I’ll be able to check on all of my friends now! I don’t think this thing has the same limits as the [Portal Door]—at least, we haven’t found one. So what’s up, guys? How’s your trip going?”
“Hello, Erin. I am mourning my trees.”
Ksmvr waved, and Erin reached out.
“Ksmvr! Give me a hug! I’m so sorry!”
He fake-hugged her projection.
“Thank you, Erin. Please tell the Byres family I am very sad for them. Are Ysara and Ylawes coming back?”
Erin’s face screwed up.
“I don’t know—but wait a second. I could ask! Let’s do that next, Ryoka!”
“Maybe tell Lyonette too? Let’s keep this secret. Very secret, got it?”
The Horns nodded, and the [Strategists] hesitated. But Merrik made a mouth-sealing motion, and Nailren, Ekhtouch, all agreed.
A powerful Skill. And she wasn’t even Level 50 yet. Just wait for that one. What would it be?
Just wait.
Erin laughed, for now, as Ksmvr pointed at Wil.
“I am glad you are so sympathetic to my loss, too. Lord Kallinad has been mocking my trees.”
“He what?”
“Oh, come on!”
 
——
 
Bear in mind, it was fun. Finding out what Erin’s new Skill did, Ryoka playing with kids and talking to faeries…
This was magic. And silliness. And it was what The Wandering Inn fed off of, the quiet moments.
The blood, the death and drama were there. But let them have a moment where Mrsha tried to challenge Wil to a bout of fisticuffs for Ksmvr’s honor. And where Numbtongue sadly piled plates in the kitchen, grumbling about tyrannical [Innkeepers] while Reagen got hair over all his hard work.
Calescent kicked them out.
Not everyone was having such a fine, unfettered day. For instance—when Ksmvr had brought up Tree-Hater Wil Kallinad, Ryoka’s smile had gone out. For she…was reminded of her own tasks. She had burned a great tree and ended a species.
Yet her day was mixed, like that, and better on the whole for her friends and all that had happened here.
When Saliss of Lights woke up, he knew. He knew…but in the way of a dreamer waking out of a nightmare only to discover it was reality.
It was the feeling someone had the day after they were robbed or suffered the loss of a loved one.
He had been here before. And he knew it was no figment of his imagination—though part of him wanted it to be.
The [Alchemist] sat up in his bed and realized it was his alchemy workshop. His real home, not the one he barely used on Pallass’ 6th floor. His scales felt wrong. He felt wrong—but that was normal.
Dysmorphia was the old word that [Alchemists] and experts had called it. Those that had learned to change bodies, shapeshift into magical beasts…he had studied them in Nerrhavia. Though his goals and theirs had been different.
Well, for some. Some had understood and left him clues. Saliss processed the fact that he was back in his body. He was naked, but his scales tingled. And his mind, even as it caught up with those odd memories that seemed dreamlike, even as he processed Zeladona and—everything—
Someone’s in my lab. Single figure. Air-breathing heat source.
Saliss thought he knew who it was—but he flicked one wrist.
[Quick Draw: Borer Acid Vial].
He didn’t bother thinking of the Skill—at this point, it was reflexive. In less than half a second of waking, he was armed. He stood against one wall, and when the person turned, Saliss could have blown the acid over the other Drake half a dozen times.
“…Saliss?”
Mirn jumped as Saliss sighed and poked his head out from behind the door.
“Dead gods. You’re awake!”
“What are you doing in my lab? I told you things go boom in there.”
“I was just looking. I’m not an idiot!”
Saliss tucked away the acid vial without a comment. Mirn, his friend of old, saw the vial of pale yellow acid vanish, and he didn’t mention it. He knew Saliss was careful and wouldn’t use it on him—
But the [Protector] did look nervous. He feared Saliss, even if they were friends.
With good reason. All Named-rank adventurers were weapons. Some were just less honest about it. Tessa was honest—painfully so.
“Zeter. Tell me I don’t remember Sixswords. That bastard cut down…what happened?”
“Take it easy. Have a seat. I have some food—what do you remember?”
Saliss sat back down and put his head in his hands.
“Everything.”
That answered a lot. Mirn sucked in his breath.
“Then you remember being Onieva?”
“I don’t remember being her. I am…I was her. But without Saliss. That potion—I couldn’t remember a thing about me.”
The Faerie Flower potion. Saliss had known, he had known it had a catch. It always did. It was everything he had tried to create.
A cheap, long-lasting transformation potion that had no side-effects. But the one drawback was…you forgot who you had been?
“What do you remember? I have some water…”
“I’ve got water.”
The [Alchemist] produced a flask of water which he drank, flicking the cork off. He had a few questions.
“I remember almost everything—but like a dream, Mirn. You need to fill in the gaps. What did she do? No—start with why I’m here. The potion didn’t wear off?”
“No. I told her to take a sip of the tonic. Just like last time. I told her it was a healing potion.”
“Huh. I remember not quite buying it.”
Mirn hesitated.
“She—you—”
“Go with Onieva, for now. She’s me. She’s me—but the potion is separating us. Damn it. Just—I knew it wasn’t a healing potion, Mirn. I was an [Alchemist]. I had my levels, my Skills—”
“You did? All of them? No wonder you were able to hold your own against Sixswords and the others! Ancestors, Saliss! Onieva tore up the battlefield! She wasn’t the most dramatic part of the tournament, but everyone saw you—her—fighting Klbkch the Slayer! It’s the talk of Pallass! It’s…the talk of Pallass.”
Saliss looked up, and his heart leapt and fell. Like someone jumping off a cliff. Why couldn’t things be good without fetters? It would be so easy if he were a Stitch-person, perhaps, or…Erin or Ryoka.
Not Saliss, the Named-rank Adventurer. Not a Drake.
Not a Turnscale pretending to be a ‘respectable’ member of society. Onieva was not supposed to be known to the rest of the world. She, his true self, had been a safeguarded secret.
Now—Onieva was known, and he had put himself, Mirn, and so much at risk.
The worst part was that Onieva hadn’t known. Mirn sat down.
“So not a thought you might be Saliss? Not a question why Onieva’s an [Alchemist] of his level?”
“I didn’t think of it. It’s a complete transformation, Mirn. I don’t even know I was—I wouldn’t call myself a Turnscale, I don’t think. I know you’re my friend, and I wouldn’t betray that or anyone else. But I am Onieva. And she’s—happy. Go back to the tournament. Just tell me what she did.”
Mirn did, starting with a recap of the events. Saliss remembered Erin Solstice becoming Zeladona of Blades. The Drake wasn’t as wide-eyed and babbling as the rest of the world.
“Okay. She cut a hole straight down to the Free Hive? Okay. What did the old man say?”
Mirn tried to laugh.
“He—he was worried about you. Really.”
“I bet he was.”
“No, he was really…anyways, he was trying to get Zeladona to kill someone. But everyone stopped him.”
Saliss grunted.
“You should have let him ask.”
Most of his memories were the same. Saliss rubbed a claw across his face as he tried to calculate what had been lost.
“Lieutenant Comois? That bastard did more damage—one of Edellein’s fools. And we lost him. Sixswords, cutting off limbs like he thinks this is some kind of good thing. I bet you he didn’t level.”
“Everyone else did, to hear it. Did you…?”
“Not as an [Alchemist].”
Saliss glanced up, and Mirn’s mouth opened. The Named-rank Adventurer wasn’t in the mood to slap people on the back about the levels Zeladona had granted them. Or the sword arts. He just sat there.
Mirn brought up the obvious. The Drake with his dark blue scales sat next to Saliss on the cot the [Alchemist] used after late-nights working on a project.
He’d slept here more than anywhere else. Weeks, sometimes months in this lab, working on ways to kill people or reverse time.
He’d given his life to being Saliss of Lights. He’d slain more monsters and people than you could dream of. All in service to the City of Inventions that he didn’t actually care for. But someone had to.
The old man, Pallass…Saliss of Lights was the Named-rank of Pallass. Often, he had wondered and even hoped that if he left, someone would fill his role. The world would seamlessly replace him. But if not—what would be the cost?
Now—fate was laughing at him. Mirn cleared his throat a few times.
“That potion. How much did you say it cost to manufacture, Saliss?”
“Assuming we pay nothing for the Faerie Flowers? Fifty-nine gold coins.”
Mirn winced. Saliss barely blinked. For a potion like this?
“It doesn’t seem to run out.”
“No, it does not.”
Mirn chose his next words even more carefully.
“You know, we never talked with the others about—it’s obviously because your other formulas were so expensive you could barely afford—”
“Yeah. This is perfect. With one catch. One huge catch. But I think some will take it. Take it, Mirn…and never go back. And if this lasts forever, they’ll leave it all behind. Leave their cities and be—happy.”
It was twisting in his chest and gut like a knife. Onieva wasn’t perfect, but she had none of the things that dragged at him like teeth and daggers, weighing him down. Mirn looked at Saliss.
“I’m a son of the walls. I still loved Pallass enough to serve. Right now, I’m going to talk to you like an Architect. Like Mirn the [Protector]. I think that if you can give me six—no, three potions, and we’re very careful, you have to give them to me.”
“If three people vanish—”
Mirn threw up his claws.
“We’ll make plans and excuses! We’ll do a trial run—you can eat a hundred and fifty gold coins. I’ll pay for it out of the shared funds.”
“I put money in that fund.”
“Ancestors, Saliss! This could mean—it’s everything you wanted! I know you forget, but—”
