Kevin the bootlegger and pirate had stolen a lot of movies he liked. But his hard drive had limits, so he’d deleted a lot of movies and replaced them—forgotten to delete others—Ryoka snapped her fingers.
“He has that new—the, um—the shitty Lord of the Rings movie! The Hobbit!”
“Hey, I liked it!”
“The originals were classic. But Kevin doesn’t have those. The Fellowship of the Ring is so much…”
Ryoka and Erin stopped arguing, and Shaestrel looked up. The Spring Faerie had heard Ryoka had once told stories of Earth’s myths to her kin to impress them. She had wondered if Ryoka had the time to tell her the same.
For fae loved stories. Now…she saw another reason to justify her long, dangerous journey. The Faerie King had not opened any door—they had taken a different road to get here. But perhaps this…
Made it slightly worth it.
 
“For a cheating thing built by fools, ye art interesting.”
 
If you forgot—the first movie began with prophecy. A woman’s voice, speaking into the darkness. Then the words appeared overhead and the strains of a violin. Then history.
A classic, beautiful story adapted for the screen. But there was no copy of it, not that Erin or Ryoka knew, anywhere in this world.
Even the sound was…different. It came not from speakers, from mundane diodes and the connections of wires, but from ears.
It sounded…exactly as a girl had once heard it. Perhaps too loud—the slight crackle of an older movie theatre’s speakers in the narration. Just like Erin Solstice had once remembered when her parents took her to see the Fellowship of the Ring for the first time. Then she realized what the [World’s Eye Theatre] was doing.
“[Perfect Recall].”
It was—synergy. Skill synergy. The movie began playing as Mrsha’s mouth opened wide and wider. She realized what this meant before Ryoka and Erin, stunned, could process this.
I get to watch all the movies! Get me popcorn! Get me Ekirra and Numbtongue and Bird! I’m living here! Gire missed it! Gire missed it!
Mrsha ran around flinging up her arms. Ryoka had to do a bit of the same as she shouted how impossible this was and the possibilities of—could they show the Players of Celum actual Broadway plays? Nanette? Nanette was trying not to look too excited by all the movies. She had to have a witch’s dignity. Then she raised a hand.
“Miss Erin? If you can play something you’ve watched…what about a pure memory?”
Everyone turned to Erin in excitement as the [Innkeeper] gasped and tried.
…She could not. But she could play a theatre and actors on stage onto the screen. Almost as if anything that counted as…<ENTERTAINMENT> worked.
Erin couldn’t run around, but she waved her arms until she got tired and then laughed.
“This is so great! We have to show Lyonette! Lyonette—Mrsha, push me up the stairs! Also, someone help get rid of Nerry’s poo.”
The embarrassed Sariant Lamb had, in fact, already kicked the offending piece into a bag of holding. Cursed biology. She should have been made better.
Shaestrel looked down at the angry lamb, and she alone focused amidst the mortals’ excitement. This was wonderful, yes. This was amazing, true.
…But it wasn’t like this was that unique. If someone, something had been coming up with the idea for what the [World’s Eye Theatre] was—it might have drawn from existing abilities.
Like, for instance, a powerful Combined Skill that allowed someone to do much the same. Albeit in a simulation of Earth.
Anyways, here it was. Ryoka was racing to get up and show everyone—and wondering when to ask if Sammial and Hethon could be allowed in. Just because they were kids and deserved to laugh. She had piled Mrsha and Nerry into Erin’s lap and was preparing to push them all up when someone coughed.
 
“Cough. Cough.”
 
The five others paused. The voice was loud. Ryoka turned her head.
“What was that?”
 
“Cough. Cough. I have something in my throat.”
 
Shaestrel hovered there, hands behind her back, staring up at the glass dome overhead. Ryoka hesitated. Erin pointed at her.
“Is she cool or is she gonna snowball me or give me fake flowers? Because I’ll take more flowers.”
The Spring Fae whirled around and glared.
 
“Another thing ye were not supposed to do! We’ll have to see about that. Damn mortals. No. Not that. Are you all done here?”
 
“Um. Yep? This is cool, right?”
 
“Oh. Aye…aye…yes. Definitely ‘cool’ to your little brains.”
 
Shaestrel drew out the comment slowly. Ryoka looked at Erin—and her friend wasn’t stupid.
“Is there…something else we’re missing, Shaestrel?”
 
“I never said that. It twas just me clearing my throat. By all means, run off.”
 
The faerie looked around innocently. And Ryoka, Erin, and Mrsha exchanged looks, and Nerry was already hopping off Erin’s lap.
“Okay…we know it can do movies. But it can’t do Flos. Because he’s protected? Or too far?”
Erin and Ryoka began to talk as they kept Shaestrel in the corner of their eyes. Mrsha scribbled furiously.
Perhaps he’s a protected jerk? Erin scratched her head.
“Good point! But that’s a sorta weak scrying spell. On par with regular stuff, really. But let’s try someone we know isn’t protected. Like…”
Ryoka raised a hand.
“Halrac?”
“Oh! Halrac! Go—Halrac!”
The dome flickered high overhead. It didn’t change. Erin’s face fell.
“What? It’s not a scrying spell?”
“Not like a regular one.”
Ryoka observed. Nerry stared at Shaestrel and then at Mrsha. The Gnoll girl was frantically writing ideas. Nanette had her chin in her hand, and was trying to think of what the answer was.
Prithee, perhaps it can spy on other people’s conversations! Try that!
As Erin tried, Nerry grabbed the scrap of parchment Mrsha discarded—she dipped a hoof in the ink pot and hopped off behind a seat. Ryoka noticed, and the Sariant Lamb glanced at her.
“Can you hear Shaestrel, Nerry?”
Nerry gave Ryoka an odd look. Of course she could. Couldn’t everyone? She blinked as Ryoka explained that Mrsha needed one girl or the other to repeat the Spring Fae’s comments or Shaestrel had to speak differently in order to be heard by all.
The rules didn’t apply to Nerry like they did to Klbkch or most people. Odd. She, like Teriarch, heard everything perfectly.
But Nerry just began writing, tracing with one hoof, and Ryoka read over her shoulder.
Dn’t go up. Frie lks dwn. Try dwn.
Writing was not fun for her, and even Mrsha had an opposable thumb. Ryoka couldn’t imagine how long that appeal to her had taken. But Nerry had noticed something Ryoka hadn’t.
Shaestrel kept staring down, not up at the dome. She resumed her innocent stare when she noticed Ryoka looking at her. Nerry smiled triumphantly—then hissed and tried to kick the paper away.
But it was too late. Nanette stared past Ryoka down at the words. And her eyes looked triumphant.
“I knew it.”
The lamb went to headbutt-charge Nanette, but the girl just picked her up and held her up over her head. The lamb’s legs kicked as she looked at Ryoka.
“And you knew it too. Is this another secret, Miss Ryoka?”
“I…keep it quiet.”
“Am I part of it? I want to be part of it.”
The witch insisted with a mighty frown. But then she saw Mrsha looking over, swiftly put Nerry down, and snatched up the piece of parchment. All three looked innocent as Mrsha raced over.
“I have an idea! N—Nanette figured out something, Mrsha. Hold on. Down. Down…”
Then Ryoka focused on the place where they were standing, the center of the theatre, below that glass eye. The light coming from the ‘pupil’ could shine perfectly down in the center of the room despite the position of the sun. In fact—she thought the ‘eye’ was tracking the sun to create this optical effect.
“Huh. Erin…can you try something besides seeing other people? Look at where we are.”
Erin saw what Ryoka was talking about and rolled forwards. She sat in the natural beam of light, and it seemed like she sensed something the others didn’t. Her hazel eyes closed—and then she blinked. She opened her eyes, stared at Shaestrel—and then she hesitated.
“No way. It couldn’t be—but if I wanted a theatre, this is cool, but even movies aren’t—what if there’s a function beyond just…”
Ryoka waited. Erin Solstice made to move out of the beam of light—but Shaestrel muttered out of the corner of her mouth.
 
“Yeh’ve got poo on your wheels.”
 
The [Innkeeper] stopped. She looked at Shaestrel as Mrsha rubbed a bit of parchment on the wheels, and then her eyes lit up. She looked around, then down at Mrsha—and she spoke. This time, her voice was like thunder.
And what she said was this:
“Show me the Horns of Hammerad! No—show me to the Horns!”
Then—
The [World’s Eye Theatre] began to glow.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker had gotten tired of making fun of Wil after an hour. She decided to cheer up Gireulashia in the meantime.
The Ekhtouch Gnolls were too big to ride on the single wagon comfortably—so half were running and the other half riding giant horses sized for them.
Gire had to run—and she’d been leaving a trail of disgusting handkerchiefs behind her.
“Chieftain Gireulashia, maybe you can go back to Liscor soon? It won’t be too long. Please stop crying. It’s super loud.”
The [Paragon] sniffed as the rest of her tribe took their fingers out of their ears.
“No I can’t.”
“You can…Liscor’s great. It’s friendly to Gnolls, you’re the Chieftain—”
“I can’t take them to Liscor. Not right away. The New Lands are too valuable. Don’t be stupid. I can’t do it as Chieftain. I have to secure something. I’m not going to be able to see Mrsha for months! Years!”
Gire whined. Ceria sort of got what she meant, and she was impressed Gire’s emotions didn’t get the better of her. She was clearly aware that if her tribe went to Liscor, they would be missing out on the landrush.
“So Ekhtouch is going to the new lands after all? I thought you might not. Your tribe’s small, and isn’t it dangerous?”
“If you’re not us, sure. We’ll just sell our services and be practical. That’s why I’m getting [Dowser Shamans]. We’ll sell water inland. I’m going to secure a well.”
Ceria blinked. Her first instinct was to assume Gire was lying or being a fool…until she thought about what Gire was saying.
If you were on the coast, you could purify saltwater with some effort. [Hydromancers] could do it—but a city couldn’t rely on an individual unless some grand ritual was in place.
And inland? All the major cities that had used to be on Izril’s western coast were landlocked. People heading inland might follow rivers…but a well would be very nice to have.
“Interesting plan. You know, the Horns might be going that way too. No promises—Yvlon’s injured, and we have to meet Honored Berr. But if you want an adventuring team, let us know.”
Gire sniffed again and gave Ceria a long, searching stare.
“Your team’s good. I’ll think about it. I just miss Mrsha. She’s gone, and I can’t see her.”
And as if her words had summoned this moment, Ceria Springwalker felt a prickle coming from her scalp. Her circlet grew cold, and someone spoke.
“Well, maybe you can! Look where my favorite team is! Whoops, don’t let Griffon Hunt or the Halfseekers hear you say—”
Erin Solstice appeared in the road, beaming. She must have been listening to them for a second to time this perfectly. She appeared, her body brimming with a kind of faux radiance.
Her voice was impossible. Ceria, leaning over the wagon, jerked upright. Gire stopped running—and Colth, who had been riding and keeping up a conversation with the Ekhtouch, snapped his head around.
“What th—”
He had a dagger out and ready to throw, but he spotted Erin and began to relax as the Horns, Nailren, and Niers’ students sat up. They looked around and saw Erin.
She sat in the road, beaming, looking—semi-there. As if she had some kind of falsity to her skin, a fake-ish glow that captured color in an odd way. But the sound was perfect, and even the wheelchair was there.
A hologram. But they didn’t know that. To the Horns, they saw Erin appear like magic. Then—
The wagon ran her over.
The skeletal horses swerved as Pisces grabbed the reins and shouted. But Erin hadn’t realized her quarry was moving.
“Dead gods, you ran her over, Pisces!”
Yvlon shouted. She tried to get up, forgot her foot was missing, and fell over Ksmvr.
“Erin! Erin! Dead gods!”
“It wasn’t my—it’s an ill—what was that?”
Pisces whirled the wagon around, and it nearly went over as the Horns piled out of the wagon. Ekhtouch leapt from their saddles, and the horses screamed. Ceria looked around, and then she saw—
Erin Solstice was lying on the ground, staring up at the sky. She was spread-eagled, and her mouth was open. Pisces’ eyes bulged—
“Pisces…help…”
Erin gasped. Then, before the [Necromancer] could have a heart attack, a pair of familiar hands and white paws pulled Erin’s legs.
“No. I’m vanishing! I’m vanishiiiii—”
Erin slowly slid ‘out’ of existence, vanishing against an invisible something. She lay with her head grinning at them from the side.
“But look who’s here to save me! Mrsha!”
The Gnoll girl bounded into existence, and Gire gobbled. Mrsha spread her arms, pointed at Gire, leapt towards her, and vanished again. She came running back into ‘frame’, and Ryoka edged forwards, pushing Erin’s wheelchair into reality.
Only then did Pisces begin breathing. Ceria’s mind leapt to the logical conclusion.
“A projected illusion spell?”
“You leveled up!”
Colth hollered as he leapt from his saddle. He laughed in delight.
“Larracel will be doing backflips of rage! Dead gods! She couldn’t come, but she followed us anyways!”
He reached over, and his hand passed through Erin. She was being helped into her wheelchair by Ryoka, and she was laughing.
“Got you! Sorry, Pisces, just a joke. Pisces? Pisces?”
Mrsha was waving at Gire and writing—then they were doing pawsigns as the two howled in delight. Erin beamed at Ceria, who was cackling in delight—and wondering what this might mean. Erin could now talk to her friends without an intermediary! How far did this reach?
What might it do? But that would have to wait. Yvlon, swearing, had finally put the fake leg on. She got out of the wagon with Ksmvr helping her down. Just in time to look over and extend a silver arm.
Pisces went straight over backwards in a real faint. Erin stopped giggling and looked down. Mrsha and Ryoka stared at the [Necromancer] as he keeled over. Silently, they looked at Erin and then shuffled out of frame.
“I, uh…Pisces?”
 
——
 
