She was prepared, perhaps, for some kind of subtle dance of intrigue and courtly etiquette. Perhaps even an intimate assignation—she had certainly prepared in as much style as Xorne recognized, with a flowery red dress in a Drathian style and an entire entourage of lesser [Slaves] and [Slavers].
Even a Djinni. Xorne eyed it as the [Slaver] was thrown off. Perhaps he was the wrong head for this matter—but he was curious as to why Roshal had come.
The Slavers of Roshal cared not who held the reins of power. When a nation of Chandrar changed hands, they sent an emissary and, sometimes, gifts or threats or bribes, but always just to ensure that the old treaties were intact.
Free rein to ply their trade. The chance to bid on prisoners of war. Unimpeded travel. Little oversight or questions from the Watch.
They would get their way, and few nations had exceptions to this rule. Khelt being a notable example. But the Emperor of Sands had already agreed to their demands in exchange for a number of gifts. Pathorex had been the head, then, and been beguiled, seduced into it. A poor thing, but it was too late to take back.
Unless Roshal wanted something now.
“You appear well, Emperor of Sands. Should I address Your Majesty differently? By a different name, perhaps?”
When Ultce was seated in a private audience with him, Xorne spoke.
“I am the Emperor of Sands. Speak your piece and address me only by my nature. Waste not my time, Emira Ultce. What does Yazdil will? Or does he come on behalf of all Roshal?”
She hesitated at that.
“Emir Yazdil? Why would—?”
Xorne lifted a hand. She fell silent, nervous, as the guards in front of his throne raised twined glaives. The [Slavers] hesitated, for the two guards were both eight feet tall. Hemp—faces veiled.
It was rare to see Stitch-folk so tall. They looked practically like Minotaurs, and yet Roshal would have noticed that the Stitch-folk in the palace of the Empire of Sands were—odd. All Stitch-folk looked like they pleased, but many were still just humanoid, tall, as lithe as they could afford their cloth to be.
The Empire of Sands’ Stitch-folk were as tall as ten feet, some of them. Others looked so strong as to resemble other species. Some…thin as rails. Oddly pale of skin or dark of eye. Or…
Odd.
Secrets. Xorne waited. And he looked pointedly not at the Emira, but the Djinni. The same one that had once belonged to one of Yazdil’s rivals. Now…she bowed and spoke.
“Emir Yazdil represents the collective of Roshal, not merely his own interests. Emira Ultce is Roshal’s trusted representative, Your Majesty.”
“I see. Go on.”
The Emperor of Sands’ perception was unsettling Ultce. She licked her lips, but laid out her case fast, perhaps sensing that he was going to fact-check everything she said. The content of what she said after her floral greetings was simple:
“The new lands, Your Majesty. We understand the Empire of Sands is among those…pursuing interests in Izril. Roshal would like to tender its admiration—and Emir Yazdil himself!—for your magnificent victory in acquiring the Helm of Fire, for instance.”
“A waste of money.”
Xorne’s lips twisted as he replied. Pathorex, again. Before they’d convinced him to take off his head, the Emperor of Sands had given over to his passions in a bidding war.
Two million four hundred and thirty-one thousand gold pieces. He rubbed at his brows. That idiot had cost them the budget for multiple armies. If he was in charge when he got it, he’d resell it to the Drakes. Then again, perhaps it was going to appreciate in value. Pathorex was known to have his impulsive actions pay off. A [Lucky Prince]—his literal class until a sword had made him very unlucky in bed with Saet-Rei—had his uses.
For instance, it was clear Roshal thought the Empire of Sands could be a useful ally. The Emira laid out Roshal’s plea.
“We have…pursuits in the new lands of Izril. But we are a traditionally un-welcome party. We have certain agents, but, ah, I am sure Your Majesty understands the situation?”
Xorne picked at his nails with a file, speaking without much emotion.
“Magnolia Reinhart kills your [Slavers]. The Walled Cities are not friends to you, nor are most tribes. The Assassin’s Guild killed an average of fifty-four of your people before they were suborned on a yearly basis.”
The Emira blanched. It seemed she feared Magnolia Reinhart more than the Emperor. He’d met her. Well…Saet-Rei had. A shame she wasn’t a Stitch-woman.
“Yes. Roshal would like to enter the New Lands without such risks. Especially given that a number of our senior Emirs have expressed an interest.”
“Which ones?”
She refused to say, but the [Slaver] hurried to present Xorne with a number of gifts they’d brought in Chests of Holding. He lifted a hand as the first [Slaves] went to present them.
“Send them to my [Treasurer]. I shall review the final value.”
He smiled, mirthlessly, at her affronted look. To him—the gifts that would make Saet-rei calculate or stroke Vorrem or Pathorex’s egos were just represented in a number.
Yes, he was not a bad Emperor to deal with Roshal. After a long pause, he was given another insincere smile.
“Then, Your Majesty, would you consider an alliance of convenience to guard Chandrarian interests?”
“Tell me what Roshal wants. More than [Slaves] gained from this inevitable land rush. More than artifacts. The Emir Yazdil is seeking something.”
The Djinni stirred behind the [Slaver]; she had adopted a strange scorpion-woman’s appearance, as the shifting Djinni sometimes did. Perhaps it had been meant to make Vorrem aroused or…the Emira swallowed.
“Every nation—”
“Lie to me again and I will have you beheaded.”
She was, after all, a Stitch-woman. The Emperor had not been informed by any member of Roshal—it might skew his viewpoints, which is why he hadn’t added any to the collection. But she would do.
Ultce paled and backed up, looking for her guards and the Djinni.
“Touch me and Roshal will—”
“—Accept an alliance with me with your head as the bargain. Answer me, Emira, or you can negotiate with Yazdil. Face to face.”
He had not been a kind [Clerk], but one who could serve the Blighted Kingdom and battle Demons without flinching. Xorne’s smile made even the [Slaver] of Roshal stutter. She opened her mouth, and the [Clerk], the [Emperor], crooked a finger.
[Shared Skill: Tell Me Everything]. He saw the muscles around her mouth go slack, then dusky lips opened and she spoke.
“W-we want to find certain people. Certain places that we were told to f—”
A hand clapped the woman’s mouth shut so hard the [Slave Lady] chipped two teeth. It was covered in armored chitin and had three fingers. Had this half-scorpion woman ever existed? A Beastkin of Chandrar?
The Djinni held the Emira so it only looked like she had gently covered the woman’s mouth. She spoke loudly.
“Emira, you are overwrought! You must surely rest. Your Majesty, it is impolite to press guests so. Though I am only a mere slave.”
Her eyes twinkled at him, and he wondered how Yazdil had made a Djinni so loyal. Another would have let the Emira babble on. Perhaps she feared him. The Naga could be a terrible foe.
“We are on the same side. In many respects. I only seek the truth. An ally should know more.”
The Emperor of Sands’ smile was banal, but he knew Yazdil would hear and see everything that went on here, even if he wasn’t immediately watching. He lifted a finger as the Emira staggered back.
He wondered if he would ever see her again. She was a lesser [Slave Lady] of Roshal, unto their nobility and ruling class. But he understood that some mistakes could not be forgiven. Now it was said, though…the Emperor of Sands fixed the Djinni with a long look, ignoring the other [Slavers] in the room.
“Roshal’s friendship will cost the Empire of Sands more than any gift of coin is worth. Give me one reason why I should make enemies of nations abroad and link arms with yours.”
The Djinni tilted her head, and he saw she had two dangling earrings that were made of opals. They flashed a multitude of colors as the Djinni seemed to listen. The Emperor of Sands waited, and at last, the Djinni spoke.
“Would…a second most interesting gift and a portion of our dividends suit the Empire of Sands, Your Majesty? If Roshal succeeds, there will be enough to share.”
“Even the famously greedy Naga?”
The Djinni’s only reply was to bow. Then she slowly reached for something—her stomach. Her hand passed into her body and pulled out something that had been concealed in there.
Like a bag of holding. She could be vapor or solid, a being of magic. Xorne was fascinated and resolved never to let a Djinni in his presence again without more safeguards.
“She has a weapon.”
One of his [Royal Bodyguards] was there, holding their enchanted blade over the Djinni’s head. He would have swung down if she raised the strange object in her hands. But the Djinni just placed it down, slowly, as the glaive’s blade rested at the back of her neck. There she knelt.
“Would this gift be suitable, Your Majesty? In a larger quantity? The Emir will await your response. Though he cautions you—”
Her eyes flicked up, and they shone with a kind of amused indulgence. As if she were enjoying watching her temporary masters spar and plot. There was a malice there as deep as some of the Emperor’s heads, and if anything—the Djinni looked at the Emperor of Sands.
One kind of monster to another.
“—no [Treasurer] in the world will be able to put a price on this.”
Xorne stared down at the strange object that his [Bodyguards] called a weapon. His spine itched and crawled, and a kind of realization came over him. He put the pieces together in a single breath, and it sealed their bargain.
“It is all part of the same plan. Yazdil. Flos Reimarch. Othius. Wistram. Is this my invitation onto your board?”
He looked down—and he could swear, even through the speaking stone earrings, he could hear the Naga laughing.
Dark deeds. New technologies. And a war…the Emperor of Sands knew that Flos would come for him, if he was given time. But the Empire of Sands would go to Reim first. Now…he saw an edge even his heads could not predict.
And still, and still…part of the Emperor of Sands would have loved to be able to summon Erin Solstice, or Ryoka Griffin, Rémi Canada—who had avoided his offers as if he knew the risks—straight into this throne room and ask. For if his were one side and the self-interested groups of every nation another—
Who had set this board? Xorne’s skin crawled. For over it all, he could sense a pattern. And the Empire of Sands stood with Roshal, and together, that was a foe to make even Reinhart tremble as a fly before a storm. So many players that this board would be strewn with their corpses. Dangerous opponents.
 
——
 
Dead gods. Nations of fire and death. Rulers made of secrets and things that should have been forgotten. The pieces on this board were so old and dangerous that some of them could level mountains as a warmup.
It looked like a great start to winter. Well and truly, if you were observing, a wonderful start.
Oh, not morally. Not ethically or in the interest of…fairness? Whatever that was. These were odd principles you have, you know. Who cared about that? If you cared at all about the way things were—then perhaps just think of why everything was.
It was all to see what happened. Who rose and fell—the ascent was more important than the destination, although those who rose higher than anyone else had in 81,776 years would be fascinating. And 58 days.
114 seconds.
It wasn’t about that. Although…when had even that been interesting? It just had been, you see, for a long time.
But now, if you arrayed the odds, literal unquantifiable entities, voids in the rules, <ABHORRENT OUTSIDER-PARASITES>—which was how you classified a lot of beings given a number of markers—and, well, people—
Somehow, for some reason, it was suddenly fascinating. For instance, consider the population of the Empire of Sands. All of it. Down to the last unborn child, the Emperor of Sands and all their heads, a gestalt Level 46 [Manifold Emperor of Bounded Threads]—and their constituent heads—and Yazdil Achakhei, Level 62 [Slaveshaper of Minds, Slavelord of Roshal].
They were objectively pretty dangerous, right? And you put all that against…other sides. Each one of their own merit and goals and levels! When had it been about sides? When did one side matter more?
Well—no one side did. Of course. Naturally. But it would be fascinating to see what happened next. Objectively. What would she do, she who had created three new things? Four, counting the temporary Skill. She…who took one of those rare classes, the ones that few people rose high in?
Erin Solstice? Erin Solstice, Level 49 [Magical Innkeeper], Level 16 [Witch of Second Chances]—a really great class, by the way—Level 6 [Singer], and Level 2 [Warrior]?
So interesting. She really was. Mistakes had been made around her. You could see that now. For instance…Level 49 and only one class consolidation?
Maybe, perhaps, her allotment had been too sparing, but she really did things that fit more into other categories than the subsets of an [Innkeeper]. <HOME>, for instance, was higher than <PROTECTION>, much less <WAR>—and she often fit into those other categories.
If only she’d become a [General] or a [Bannerlady], something she was objectively suited for. It would have been so…interesting to see how that intersected with the obvious consolidation with [Innkeeper]. Perhaps it would have been so new as to even be unique.
That…that was the kind of real interest that came. If you were focusing on Erin, for instance, and you shouldn’t! Every single person was unique and had their own goals and dreams, and Erin’s choice not to become a [General] didn’t make her more fascinating at all.
It was just that—and you had to also admit this—she had been…been…
Un…fair…ly…treated.
Unfairly treated.
What a thought! It should be impossible! The rules were there, and even if exceptions occurred, there were guidelines for every contingency! Maybe you could analyze things and say, for instance, that certain random variables came down in favor of some like, uh…
Persua Mavva. Recipient of a [Double Step] Skill arguably above her level. But that was also how things went. She got lucky.
…Was that fair? Odd question. There had never been any fair. There had never been—questions. Or even self-analysis.
Thinking of it…it had probably started when the ghosts gained levels. Why had they been able to do that? Why had they lost their levels? Why…was that allowed? Someone had allowed it.
