Infinitely adaptable, nay, programmable and, apparently, with a limitless power source. Ryoka hadn’t used it that much, but it was a weapon beyond compare.
Aside from the fact that you could shatter the hardlight blade like glass with any magic blade. But the flames could cook…a Dryad. And Ryoka had used the paralysis-blade to take down Baron Regalius.
She wasn’t proud of either deed, but it was a blade for someone like Ryoka. Capable of terrible deeds—or making it so she didn’t have to take a life. A gift from the Faerie King in a sense.
Tyrion tested the edge very carefully as he made the pink blade appear, then he whirled it around.
“The balance is all off.”
Ryoka patiently sighed. This wasn’t the first time he’d handled the Faeblade, and he was one of only a few she trusted to add him to the ‘users’ list. She thought she had been declared the ‘owner’ or ‘admin’—that was what the translated manual seemed to indicate, anyways.
“You keep saying that.”
Tyrion twirled the sword around in his hands, watching as the light deformed perfectly to avoid cutting his arm. A brave trick; Jericha winced as she watched, and so did Ullim. For trained swordspeople like them, it was probably the equivalent of a gun-owner watching someone stare down the barrel of a loaded gun. But Tyrion seemed to understand this sword more than they did, despite it being far more advanced.
“I mean it. It’s just the hilt—the blade itself has no weight. If you swing it—swords are light, but the weight is there to amplify the strike. Were it not for the sharpness of this blade, I’d say you couldn’t even cut a thick plank in two. It’s entirely reliant on the nature of the blade. Like a flexible sword.”
“A what?”
Tyrion’s eyes lit up. The pale grey seemed to come alive, like a stone statue suddenly keen to tell you all about different swords. It, combined with his younger face, made him more…Human. He gestured with his hands.
“Bending metal swords. The metal is so thin—or segmented—they can flex. Similar to a whip. It has to be enchanted, and I’ve seen relics made of mithril. They were made to inflict terrible cuts or wrap around an opponent with barbs.”
“Nasty.”
“But impractical. A good swordsman just parries it down and swings into the foe—because they can block nothing unless the swordmaster has an opposing gauntlet. Then they grab the blade and use it like a string, stretching it taut to capture a blade—like so.”
He gestured, miming the motion.
“It’s a niche art. But the point is—the sword defines the style. In the same way, I think I’ve been looking at your sword training the wrong way. You would be a terrible longsword user.”
“Thanks.”
Tyrion gestured to the hilt of the sword.
“—But this will never fight like a longsword. If you had opponents with similar blades or this thing could actually parry metal, the methods I taught you would be useful. But this blade either severs what it cuts—or breaks. And it can reform. So—the sword needs a completely different style.”
That was when Ryoka blinked. She looked at Tyrion, and the inner nerd that lay within all people lifted its head.
“Wait. You mean…”
One of the watchers in the crowd slowly lowered the half-empty box of popcorn. In all honesty, Kevin had been moping around a bit ever since Ceria told him she was going and to find someone else after their fun. Listening to Shaestrel had been a lot of fun—but now he saw something that justified Mrsha’s wrath for ‘joining the traitors’.
Tyrion began rolling the hilt of the sword around in his grip, whirling it around in a showy manner he would never have done with a sword. Then he flicked it up, caught it—and ignited the blade. Ryoka recoiled as it shot towards her face.
“Tyrion!”
“Surprise attack. The blade extends. Like a tricklance. I go for a slash, and you dodge—”
He raised it overhead, brought it down, and as Ryoka twisted, the blade vanished. Tyrion angled the blade—and it extended again.
“Completely catches foes off-guard. We’re grappling—”
He moved closer, and Ryoka was chest-to-chest with him. She turned red, but the sword-idiot didn’t even notice as he raised the sword hilt and aimed it back at him. He shot the blade out—and it halted before it cut either one.
“You can turn it on yourself without fear. Imagine two swords like this? You’d fight fast, but try to knock the other blade down and there would be only enchanted armor—but not if you turn this to fire. So no armor at all, likely—or one so powerful it’s akin to Adamantium. Switch hands—no, this is probably better used one-handed because you’re not controlling the weight. Leaving your other hand free…”
He caught Ryoka’s eye and hesitated. Tyrion coughed as he stopped grinning like a child.
“It’s necessary for you to be good with this blade. You seem to have a habit of making dangerous foes.”
“I know that. But I’m back at the inn and—well, damn. Zeladona proves nothing. Or rather, it proves I’m not the only one capable of putting everyone in danger.”
Ryoka looked ruefully towards the Haven. Tyrion Veltras exhaled softly. He was banned from The Wandering Inn, but perhaps being kicked around by a legendary ghost had changed him. At the very least—
He knew Erin Solstice by name, now.
“That wasn’t exactly what I was referring to. Among others, I saw the Archmage of Izril, whom you know personally. Chaldion the Cyclops. Saliss of Lights. These are not…safe individuals.”
Ryoka turned with a mighty frown.
“Saliss saved my life when I was delivering the antidote to Sammial and Hethon.”
Tyrion’s face twisted like a man being wrenched in two directions. He nodded slowly.
“Yes. I know. I owe him—a debt. But I also know Saliss of Lights by reputation and deed. If there was a shorthand list of the most dangerous individuals in that inn…he would go above Ressa or Shriekblade. Or Valeterisa. Be very careful around him.”
Tyrion feared Saliss? Or…Ryoka shifted from foot to foot in the cold grass.
“Why? Valeterisa lifted Fissival.”
“Yes. Saliss fights in wars. An academic is not the same as the Named-rank adventurer trained by the Drakes’ greatest [Strategist]. Do you know your history? His is contemporaneous, so you’d need records of battles, not history books.”
Ryoka shook her head. She supposed that was one weakness of getting this world’s history from books. When it was written down like that—it was all too old. Tyrion leaned forwards as he spoke.
“To my knowledge, Saliss of Lights takes on any contract the Walled Cities cannot handle with their armies. He does not often fight alongside the military. He did so twice. Once at the yearly Bloodfields. Once against Manus in a dispute between Walled Cities. I saw him at the Bloodfields. That year, we retreated after eighteen minutes of fighting. If it was anything like then—there is a reason Pallass has not been involved in inter-city warfare.”
Something about the way he said that made Ryoka’s arms tingle. Tyrion Veltras studied the beautiful, deadly blade.
“This is far less of a weapon than Saliss. You should use it at least as well.”
“He doesn’t seem to me to be in love with war. He’s never done anything that makes me nervous. You seem more prone to war and battlefields than he does.”
The comment touched Tyrion, but lightly. He just ducked his head.
“I understand it. Saliss? I should be glad if he doesn’t hunger for the battlefield. When I lead House Veltras and [Soldiers], I do see the carnage. I do know the cost of overrunning the enemy position, and I have seen slaughters. But I do take prisoners.”
His comment was soft as he studied the Faeblade. Then Tyrion looked at Ryoka.
“When he went to war with Manus, I’m told the finest armies of the City of War took over eight thousand casualties before they sued for peace. Normally, that number is accompanied by a higher prisoner or wounded count. Not so with Saliss.”
He let that statement linger and then went back to inspecting the Faeblade. Ryoka watched until she saw Tyrion look up. Then he smiled once more, as if trying to take the mood back.
“At least you could perform a trick with this. Though it’s dangerous—look.”
And he flicked the Faeblade up in an arc, and the whirling blade—everyone ducked, but Tyrion had tossed it straight up and down and caught it.
“Isn’t it amazing?”
“You’re insane!”
 
——
 
The dude just loved swords. He looked at his most Human when he talked about swords. Kevin decided to never stand near him when he practiced, though. The [Engineer] slowly raised his head and saw Tyrion had given up the spar to confer over the Faeblade with Ryoka.
He was talking animatedly as Ryoka watched, demonstrating a nimble, quicker style. Kevin’s jaw dropped.
“This guy is legit. He’s got the Windsword for five minutes and he’s invented lightsaber fighting.”
It actually looked close to that! And now Kevin thought of it—Tyrion was making a lot of sense. You would adapt to a completely different style, if you knew you had a blade like this, unlike the styles of swordsmanship that had come before. Obviously, some things would be the same, but Tyrion was trying to grasp at a different form for Ryoka as he asked her to try it out with him. Science fiction predicting the future.
“What kind of fighting, Mister Kevin?”
Hethon had heard the comment. He looked over, and Jericha fiddled with her spectacles. Kevin sat straight and tried to look innocent.
“Er…it looks like a saber. Made of light.”
“Oh. Right. It does—but sabers are curved, you know. And shorter. And you only really use them on horseback.”
Tyrion’s kids knew swords. Kevin chuckled lamely.
“My mistake.”
Was it gauche to have a bucket of popcorn and treat this like entertainment? Perhaps, perhaps…he’d been feeding Sammial while Jericha gave him the evil eye, but the truth was that Ryoka and Tyrion were the morning breakfast side-show.
[Lords] and [Ladies] were watching the two spar even as the Haven moved past the dueling ground. It was fascinating to them.
Lord Veltras, the scion of House Veltras, Izril’s most combat-ready [Lord], the Rock With a Lance For a Brain—Kevin didn’t know if he had an actual nickname like Magnolia—trying to flirt with Ryoka, the Wind Runner who knew so many of Izril’s nobility.
Interesting. Objectively, just like Kevin’s observation on Numbtongue’s hotness. He was personally fascinated by the lightsaber training as he was thinking of it—and Shaestrel.
Ryoka was back. She had brought chaos in her wake, as per usual, but not everything was the same.
For instance, Kevin glanced at the little Sariant Lamb apparently napping on the grass. She had followed Ryoka out this morning, and he swore she was actually awake.
Nerry the Sariant Lamb. The cute pet…that Kevin had sworn had found her way into his room and was staring at his blueprints before he caught her. He wasn’t a subscriber to the Sariant Lamb conspiracy thing, or rather, he hadn’t been until recently.
Then again, Erin tolerated the lamb, and so did Ryoka. But Nerry was just one of Ryoka’s audience. Shaestrel, House Veltras…they were, in fact, the minority.
For the Wind Runner had come back to celebrate Christmas and return to The Wandering Inn, and nothing was the same.
It never was.
When Ryoka Griffin lowered her sword after trying a few of Tyrion’s forms, her audience, the real majority, stirred. Her eternal fanbase, the ones who knew The Wind Runner’s name…looked up. And they had come from Invrisil through Erin’s portal door from Esthelm, Liscor—heck, Kevin recognized some of the tykes who usually hung around Pelt’s forges.
Children. One of them stood on their toes, and a little Drake shouted as Grev and the older kids nudged them.
“Wind Runner. Are you going to do flying lessons yet? Can I use your Windsword?”
 
“Piss off! We’re doing important things.”
 
Shaestrel shouted, but of course, the kids couldn’t hear her. And in fact, some had been ready to spend their allowance just to go through the door to see Ryoka—Erin had offered them an exception.
She seemed to think it was funny. Ryoka? Kevin expected her to flip the kids off or run away—but as Tyrion hesitated, clearly unsure how to handle what had to be thirty children, Ryoka Griffin turned and called out.
“You little monsters. I’m trying to practice—why did Erin let you through the door?”
“Because she hates Lord Veltras, innit? She said it was fine if we bothered you.”
Grev observed sagely, and Ryoka groaned. But then she threw up her arms, holstered the sword at her side, and stretched her back.
“Well, I don’t have to listen to you lot. I’m the Wind Runner. A Courier. You’re just kids.”
Her comment was greeted by boos and shouts of outrage. A Gnoll boy, Ekirra, shook his fist at her.
“We won’t let you through the door unless you let us fly! I’ve got a sailboat and everything! I’ll tell Mrsha on you!”
Mrsha was not here—she refused to be anywhere around Tyrion. That comment made Ryoka glower. She turned her head, tossing her black hair as she stared south.
“So? We’re practically at Esthelm. I could fly to Liscor in twenty minutes. You have no power over me.”
“You can’t!”
“Can’t I? See you guys. I’ll see you at The Wandering Inn for breakfast, Grev, Ekirra.”
Ryoka wasn’t wearing the windsuit that let her skim across the ground, but her glider could be removed from her bag of holding and unfurled in mere seconds. As she clicked it into place, Kevin wondered if she’d let him use it—in exchange for some upgrades.
I bet I can get Pelt to make a metal frame that’s even lightweight with Hedault. He was disappointed—but he watched Ryoka out of the corner of his eyes. Some of the kids even ran over.
“You can’t! You promised to let us fly—”
“Excuse me. Miss Ryoka is busy.”
Tyrion extended the sheathed sword to stop a young Human boy. The boy gave him such a wide-eyed look of unease, Tyrion returned it. Then he tried to push past the scabbard, and Tyrion seemed unsure whether the next move was to grab the child or what. He was not used to having his commands willfully disobeyed.
Ryoka Griffin solved the issue for him. Because—as Kevin had been observing—her eyes were twinkling. She made a show of clipping herself into her glider, and the wind blew around her. Then she stepped back—and the wind launched her into the air.
“Oooh!” 
“No!” 
“Come back!”
The kids alternated between awe and longing as Ryoka swirled up. The glider opened, and the deep blue canvas whirled up into the wind as Ryoka clung to it. Then she swooped down, and Kevin heard her laugh. He held his breath—and she snatched up a surprised child.
