He kept patting her on the head, like a little girl. The Drake, Visma, and her were apparently the same in the old Dragon’s eyes. Rafaema flushed, because even with her voice lowered, she dared not speak her real age aloud.
Even with Ferris here—watching them out of the corner of his eyes. Lulv and Aldonss had wanted to come into this dangerous inn, but Erin had scared them. But the Gnoll was keeping well away, mostly just trying to cram as many slices of pizza into his mouth as he could.
“Yes, you are. Taletevirion, look at her. Does she look underfed?”
Demsleth passed her one of the three milkshakes he’d ordered. It was frothy with a cherry and whipped cream on top, and Rafaema wasn’t about to pass it up. She loved sugar. Which he knew.
“Nope. She’s just small. And closer to…fifteen if you multiply out.”
The Unicorn commented wryly, observing how Rafaema bristled at that. Until she realized…they were serious. She had even rounded up, but they meant—
“I’ve lived a long time. And seen a lot. I’m a Wall Lady of Manus.”
In her attempts to impress the two however slightly, she made the mistake of trying to play the game of titles. Instantly, Demsleth threw back his head and guffawed as Taletevirion invented the Milkshake Blaster.
The two old men laughed so hard in their corner of the inn they drew the attention of some of the regulars. Rafaema’s cobalt scales turned purple as Magnolia politely glanced their way. She might be listening in—they weren’t using speaking stones.
Her smile made Rafaema go scarlet.
“Wall Lady of Manus? Taletevirion—you do it, you do it.”
Demsleth panted, and Taletevirion snorted.
“And I’m the Duke of Avel, Baron Lord of the Woods of Veltras—Knight Commander of—no, I can’t even do it. Wall Lady of Manus. She doesn’t even have two! She’s so cute.”
“You—you—”
No one had ever spoken to Rafaema like this. She could not stop the flush in her cheeks. Demsleth noticed her face and began to pat her clawed hand gently with his.
“Now, now. Don’t be angry. Your temper’s something you need to control. And humility! I’m—I’m not sorry we met like this. But we’ll have to have a longer conversation about everything. Just know, my dear, that comparing such things is gauche and silly. I know every young one wants to go around collecting names, but it doesn’t matter. This matters.”
He raised a cup, and Taletevirion clinked the remainder of his glass with Demsleth.
“Civility. Meetings.”
“You gigantic hypocrite. You’d be sleeping another century without me.”
Demsleth turned redder—then acknowledged it with a nod. He looked at Rafaema.
“We have a lot to talk about. Allow me a chance to visit…House Reinhart.”
He looked at Magnolia, and Rafaema bristled.
“But I—”
“You have time, my dear. Don’t argue with me.”
He flicked her snout with a finger! Rafaema gasped in outrage, but Demsleth was murmuring to Taletevirion.
“I don’t…remember her. Tell me something of Magnolia, Taletevirion. Please.”
“You could call her one of your greatest disasters—or greatest pupils. You heard what she did at Oteslia? She’s known you. Hear her out. She took over Reinhart when she was fifteen, fought the Antinium—you knew her before that.”
“Dead gods. The House of Vipers? Were they waning?”
“No. She was just waxing.”
Words didn’t describe how envious and impatient Rafaema felt in this moment. And happy—but she wanted Demsleth to look at her. She tugged his arm.
“There’s someone else, too, you should meet.”
He looked down at her and wearied in an instant.
“Another? Oh…oh, why did any think to hide in the cities? Desperation? Who were they? I can think of names—but why you two alone? What nature is the other?”
“He. He’s younger by…two years. And he’s, um…earth?”
“Earth. Oteslia.”
Demsleth put it together with a groan and put his head in his hands. Taletevirion’s silver gaze swung to Rafaema. But he did not look happy, either.
“What a terrible fate.”
“It’s not them. Don’t say it like that. But—two! After all this time? Damn them. What was the point of—”
The old man struck the table with his hands. And he misjudged his strength, because he snapped the entire third of the table with a crack like thunder.
“Dead gods!”
Lyonette whirled, and Taletevirion caught the table before it went over with all the food. Instantly, Demsleth tossed some coins on the table.
“I’m sorry, Miss. Must have been rot in the wood—allow me.”
He was certainly moving enough gold around for Lyonette to quickly drag over another table with two Antinium Workers. Rafaema had gotten to her feet to help, and Lyonette smiled at them semi-unconvincingly.
“Not at all, Master Demsleth. Can I get you anything else?”
“I think I’ve eaten quite a bit. Perhaps it’s time to retire to a private space. Reinhart mansion, perhaps? Ah, but Manus will never allow it. Maybe I’ll go and come back.”
He burped. The ‘Gourmet’ had, in fact, eaten enough for six people, and only the fact that he’d been paying in gold had kept the food coming. Rafaema protested.
“I can—my minders, I mean, my company won’t like it. But just stay and—”
She was about to grab his arm as Magnolia rose. Then someone spoke.
“Excuse me. I need a word.”
Rafaema turned and saw a familiar Drake with orange scales. Nude—he hadn’t put on the privacy box. She recognized the Named-rank adventurer and narrowed her eyes.
“Adventurer Saliss. Now is not the—”
“Oh, it’s you. Hi.”
He took her shoulder, and the Lightning Dragon, fast as she was—
Skidded across the floor and caught herself eight feet away. She whirled, and Demsleth looked up. Lyonette turned.
“Saliss! I—”
She had [Dangersense]. The [Princess] eyed Saliss as Dame Ushar came striding into the common room.
“Miss Lyonette! Just the woman I was looking for.”
“Ushar, I—wait a—”
The Thronebearer practically dragged her into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Demsleth? He just looked up blankly. Taletevirion sniffed the air and sneezed.
“Oh shit. I think this one’s you, Demsleth.”
“Is it? Can I help you, er…why are you naked?”
The old man was not stupid. He tensed up so fast and then relaxed with a blank smile that Rafaema hesitated before going over to upbraid Saliss. She sniffed the air and smelled something…
Foreign—that put her scales tingling.
Saliss of Lights gave Demsleth a big smile.
“You don’t remember me?”
“I’m afraid I’ve lost my memories.”
He chuckled, but warily. Saliss just shrugged.
“Then you’re not…related to Eldavin?”
Another tense. Rafaema’s eyes flickered as Magnolia Reinhart stared at Saliss, and her good nature changed to one of alarm as well. Ressa was hesitating. The Named-rank adventurer was not playing games.
“Distantly.”
Demsleth decided to go with the most obvious answer. Saliss shrugged.
“I don’t know what it is. I don’t care. Not right now. I’m—a bit annoyed. Stressed, you could say. But I’m not an idiot. Your eye colors are exactly the same.”
He looked at the heliotrope and cerulean of Demsleth—the identical of Eldavin. The old man’s eyes widened in a panic, and Taletevirion put his head in his hands.
“You arrogant idiot. You forget shadows, and you can’t even do eye-colors?”
Demsleth kicked Taletevirion savagely under the table.
“Shut up. Shut up. I’m sorry if Eldavin has offended you, Alchemist…?”
“Saliss. And he did not. Just tell me one thing.”
Saliss took a breath. He was trembling. He hadn’t known if they were the same, but they were close enough. He felt it.
He had to know. It was all falling to pieces, so…the Named-rank adventurer looked down at Demsleth as Klbkch got to his feet warily. No silencing spells, no privacy. Just that old man’s eyes.
“Do you know me?”
Demsleth stared up at Saliss, and his eyes neither widened nor flickered. But they focused on him—and grew terribly sad. Rafaema blustered.
“What is this, some kind of ego—”
Taletevirion looked at her, and she felt Magnolia’s hand snap her mouth shut. Saliss didn’t even look her way. He repeated the question with a voice that trembled slightly. And a tone to set The Wandering Inn to silence.
“Do you…know…me?”
Too much rested on the answer to this. But once before, and again, in the summer, an old half-Elf had looked at Saliss and spoken words he wished he had heard decades ago. He had to hear them now or…
Demsleth looked up. When he spoke, it was only for them, and no one could read his lips or hear the words save Saliss.
“Yes. I know you, girl. Is that what you wanted to hear?”
She shook. But then had to ask, desperately, with a catch in the voice.
“How do you know? Is it true? Or are you just—seeing something like alchemy? Are you certain?”
Demsleth rose slightly. He didn’t look offended personally—but his eyes did blaze, as if the question were entirely wrong. A portly older man, silly and hungry and humbled.
Or—a weary traveller. His dark green cloak fell across his shoulders, and Saliss wondered how long he had wandered. He stood taller and looked down at the Drake. When he spoke, it was softly.
“My eyes have seen a hundred thousand tales. Each one unique. It is more than magic, child. When I was young, despite all I was given, I saw it not a hundred times. A thousand thousand times. Now? Because I have known the truth, I can pick it out shining in the dark. I see you. You are not wrong—but you knew that.”
He reached out and gently patted her on the shoulder.
“If you need to, come to me and I will reassure you of what I see.”
The trembling Drake finally let go of the deadman’s switch. It took two more steps to activate—but it had been a deathgrip. But she went on, asking.
“Would it be better just to forget it all? That’s what I had to ask. All the steps I took to come here are so stained. Do I continue? Now what? Now what…it’s been such a long road already.”
He, he…looked up as their voices became audible once more, and ‘Demsleth’ stood less tall, less impressively. Two actors upon reality’s stage not ready to step out from behind the curtain as themselves. But they wanted to. If only the audience would cheer.
“It’s your choice. But if you are asking if one takes away from the other—never. How do you know the air tastes sweeter on the mountaintop if you have not climbed? As for the future—it will be a struggle. It should not be a fight, but it is. Win.”
So said the old man. The [Alchemist] looked up, and when he stood, it was with a smile. His back straightened—and when he turned, he looked like he had again, to the occupants of the inn. They didn’t know what he had been lacking a moment ago.
Perhaps it was the weight? No—no, the weight was always there. The insolence, too. But the naked Drake stood more easily, then. With a kind of wild dignity, naked or not. That was the difference. Enough pride to scorch the [Emperor] of Riverfarm humble. The confidence to laugh at them.
He was tired, though. But now? The weary Drake’s eyes rose, and a young woman halted in her wheelchair. Erin Solstice. Saliss’ head rose, and he exhaled.
Erin was peeking into the inn with Lyonette pointing their way.
“Hey. Sorry about the scare.”
He tried to smile, and Erin Solstice rolled forwards.
“Everything alright, Saliss?”
“No. Not at the moment, Erin.”
It slipped out. The Named-rank adventurer was surprised by the truth, and Lyonette gulped. But Erin…the [Innkeeper] who had looked so nervous when speaking to Ryoka about any hint of plans and the future sat up in her wheelchair.
“Is there something I can do?”
The Named-rank adventurer felt like he’d been hit on the head. For the next words that popped out were honest. And truthful.
“Yes. I need your help.”
There was no way she could have known what it was or how large the struggle might be. But she surely knew that if Saliss needed help…
Erin’s only response was to smile.
“Alright. I’ll do my best. Demsleth? Can I get some of your time? Ryoka Griffin would like a word. Same with you, Saliss. I have something to talk about. And to show you.”
The old man looked up, and his mismatched eyes glittered. Slowly, he turned with a groan of age. Erin Solstice turned her head and called out.
“Klbkch? Ryoka wants to chat later. Bring Xrn.”
The Slayer stiffened at his table and knocked his mug off the side. Erin’s hazel eyes almost seemed to glow. And they met Magnolia Reinhart’s. The [Lady] looked up, and Erin murmured.
“You too.”
A dozen conversations of a different nature each. But if you could see how it moved together—even the fae had to follow that tangled vine. Secrets and mysteries older than Demsleth. Powers with motives even Shaestrel did not know the whole of. It touched upon Goblins, and Rags’ gaze brightened as she got out of her seat.
But where one end of this great puzzle began, one trail of string started…
Was with Sariant Lambs.
 
——
 
It was hard to even talk. Writing was slow and cumbersome. And language was different between the two. However, she and her kind had prepared an age to tell someone. So Nerry drew from that.
That was not her name, of course. She’d had a bunch of them. Little Fluffy—a very common name for her people. Samantha.
Names…didn’t matter for Sariant Lambs. Names mattered for a people, and they were not one.
At the same time, they were. So she showed Ryoka what they had written—then promptly buried in places where they would only be found if it were all for naught. A kind of confession, a history so someone would know.
“Scrolls?”
They were hidden in the floorboards in the Earthers’ secret rooms. When Erin realized Nerry had a secret cache of items including wands and potions, she nearly flipped.
“Alright, there is a conspiracy. Wait till Laken hears of this.”
Nerry and Ryoka instantly panicked.
“No! No! This is between us, Erin. I promised Nerry. This isn’t light, and it’s dangerous.”
The [Innkeeper] looked exasperated as she threw up her hands.
“Oh—fine. I’ll help, and I won’t tell Laken. That was mostly a joke. I don’t trust him that much, anyways. Calm down.”
Her flippant attitude clearly didn’t jive with Nerry, and the lamb did a flying kick to Erin’s leg. She was violent! Erin swore and swiped weakly at her.
“You—who’s helping who?”
You’re helping on my terms. The little lamb snarled at Erin as if to say that. Ryoka, oddly, was the peacemaker. She picked up the bundle of scrolls.
“Okay, where are we reading them?”
“I know just the place. The hallway. The real door.”
The…what? Ryoka nearly dropped the scrolls as she and Nerry exchanged a glance. But Erin Solstice just smiled. She lifted a hand, and the air warped—
And she was holding a feathered key. 
