Nanette stared at the delicate cursive and shook her head.
“I am a Witch. You? Say that to Mavika’s face.”
Mrsha hesitated. Hold on, now. Let’s not get crazy. She was about to write that when Nanette gave her a pointed look. The girl leaned over and whispered in Mrsha’s ear.
“You’re not a witch. Don’t play games with my class unless you want to get burnt. Claim you’re an [Archmage] in front of Valeterisa first.”
Mrsha’s jaw opened wide. She looked at Nanette—then fell over on the floor and dragged herself behind Ryoka. Nanette straightened the hat she didn’t have.
Okay. Don’t make Nanette mad. But now the girl was here—Ryoka tried to smile down at her.
“How’s, uh, things?”
“I just came to the inn and Miss Solstice was possessed by a ghost. Wiskeria summoned an Elemental of Law—and now Miss Solstice has a new theater. I’ve been interested. I was trying to figure out if the windows were the same thing as Captain Halrac’s arrow. Would you like to see?”
Nanette turned—and Mrsha’s head snapped up as they remembered Halrac.
He hadn’t said much about what had happened when he vanished. He remembered nothing, and he was actually abed in Riverfarm; it seemed like he hadn’t eaten for two days straight.
No one had known what that stuff on his arrow was. It wasn’t magical that anyone could tell—and no one was about to touch or fire it. Right now, it was in a special case, and once Halrac got better, they’d investigate.
Doubtless, it mattered. But when Nanette said that—
That pushed Ryoka forwards. She walked straight ahead, and to her surprise, the corridor grew, if not brighter—immediately more open.
Windows shone through the corridor not twenty feet past the lanterns. Something about this place made Ryoka feel she’d walked further than she had physically—like the [Garden of Sanctuary], this place existed in a kind of other dimension.
But the windows…showed the view outside the inn. Perfect little square windows showing Ekirra and Visma giggling as they kicked a ball around. Mrsha banged on the window that had four panes of what seemed to be glass—but when she touched the perfect little view of the outside, she recoiled.
It wasn’t glass at all! It was something smooth and perfectly solid.
“See? It’s not the wall, either. It feels like something—or nothing.”
Nanette tapped the not-glass panes. It looked like an ordinary window, and a strip of wood ran between the four panes, but the glass was the fake part.
“Dead gods, what is it?”
Ryoka saw the witch produce a knife. Nanette tapped the glass, and Ryoka hesitated before stopping her—but Nanette thrust the tip into the glass and then showed them the edge.
“I just have a cheap dagger, but look.”
She’d blunted the edge. And Nanette had tried to break or mark the glass. She stuck a finger in her mouth and touched the glass.
The saliva ran straight off it onto the wood. There was no friction whatsoever. Even a mirror would take a bit of a stain.
In fact, there was a bit of ketchup on the floor.
“It’s strange stuff. Skill stuff. But it seems to just show the outside world. See?”
She pointed out, and everyone admired the view outside the inn. There was no way the windows…
“This is the front of the inn, isn’t it?”
Ryoka frowned because the windows seemed to be pointing the wrong way. Nanette nodded. Mrsha had been looking around.
We should be looking north, not west. It’s all wrong! Magic?
That was Nanette’s take too. The not-glass was thus both no material anyone understood and reflecting the wrong image—at least according to the laws of physics. Like a projection onto a screen? Ryoka shuddered as she eyed someone walking up the hill.
Klbkch. He slowed slightly as he jogged up the hill—rather fast, as if he wanted to get to the inn and see Erin soon. He’d come from the side, not from Liscor, and Ryoka suspected he’d used a secret entrance to the inn.
Then—the Antinium produced a tiny tin of what looked like floor wax and began patting it on his head and shoulders! Buffing himself up! He checked his uniform, and though they had no sound, Mrsha and Ryoka could see he’d bought some of Relc’s favorite dried, spiced Prelons, which he took out of a bag of holding. He promptly put them under a bag of dried sardines, which Relc hated.
He was looking good for Erin! Or his friend? Ryoka laughed—and was glad Klbkch couldn’t hear them. But the strangest thing happened.
Klbkch looked up suddenly and then whirled around. He stared…and dropped the bags of snacks and put a hand on his sword. He kept rotating and rotating, growing increasingly uneasy.
As if he didn’t know where, but he knew he was being watched.
 
“Good instincts, that warrior.”
 
Ryoka nodded to Shaestrel. Nanette eyed Klbkch warily.
“No one’s introduced me to Klbkch.”
“I can do it later if you want, Nanette?”
“Mm. I should be delighted to meet someone like him, Mother always said she wanted to walk into the Hivelands, but she didn’t because she had me.”
When Nanette said it like that—Ryoka was reminded who Klbkch was to his people. She nodded slowly. Then, to save Klbkch, she moved on with Mrsha and Nanette.
These were, of course, just the details. Just the filling between one room and another. The windows, the furniture…they were all little gaps in what should be. Because this Skill had not existed before, a few judgment calls had been made. Maybe it should have been left blank but…why not?
The [World’s Eye Theatre] was bright as Ryoka and Mrsha walked out of the hallway of about forty feet, a rather long walk for a part of the inn not visible from the outside. The red carpet stretched into it and snaked around the dome.
Perhaps the hallway was too long or the dome too…circular. Perhaps something liked domes. It didn’t matter, in the end. For it was done, and now it was a Skill that might pass to others once the current holder lost the Skill.
And Ryoka’s breath came out in a long rush as she stared about.
“Dead gods.”
Mrsha looked around, and her jaw dropped, and Nerry’s mouth was open too as they stared around what Ryoka could only describe as a theatre—a proper theatre like the Globe, like the biggest in her world, with beautiful, soft seats with no apparent stitching, perfectly placed in wide, descending rows towards a central amphitheater. Nanette stared up, and she put a hand on her hair as again, if trying to hold onto her hat.
The chairs were—foldable? Mrsha had never seen folding chairs, but these would fall open to let you sit if you put any weight on them. Why like that? They could even recline. Fancy.
It surely came from Erin’s own ideas of a theatre. The stage in the center was where a performer or the center of the room could be in view of all—but the first thing that drew Ryoka’s eye were the seats.
Stupid, she knew, but she noticed the lack of stitching in the same way Hethon had noticed her footwraps had no end to the thread. These had not been processed in any normal way.
Neither had the glass. And it was that which Mrsha stared up at—for she had the most unsettling feeling in the world for a second.
As if Xherw and Ulcreziek still haunted her. For she realized what Ryoka took a moment to see.
“The dome. It’s…an eye?”
Glass walls rose above them, reflecting the sky above the inn, the mountains, glass with no warp or signs of where they were joined. They still had a kind of geometric quality to them, such that each ‘pane’ was a hexagon that fit together with the rest. But they rose upwards until you saw a line across the ceiling. The glass changed there to create a perfect circle that looked like the pupil of an eye, then the outline of an iris.
An eye, staring up at the sky. Nanette whispered.
“Symbols. But is it staring at us or are we staring through it?”
And below it, sitting in the center of the amphitheater, in her chair, for there were ramps along with gentle stairs and guardrails, was Erin Solstice. She turned in her chair and spread her arms weakly as Ryoka, Nanette, Mrsha, Nerry and Shaestrel stared down at her.
“Hey! Look at my new Skill! I’m so glad you made it—I can’t get out!”
“Erin, this is am…wait, what?”
Ryoka looked down at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] shouted back.
“I can’t roll up the ramps. I kept shouting for someone to come get me! Didn’t Mrsha hear? Stop—stop laughing!”
The, uh, design of the [World’s Eye Theatre] had assumed you were capable of moving up the incline towards the top-most level where Ryoka and Mrsha stood. Erin had apparently been trying to roll up the ramps using the handrails for the last ten minutes…but she’d lost her strength in her arms and ended up rolling back into the center of the room.
“Can’t you use your garden door to get out?”
Erin glowered, her arms folded.
“My wheels get stuck in the grass and dirt, and someone’s got to clean them. I thought Mrsha would come running. Nanette! I thought I sensed you! Didn’t you hear me?”
The little witch ducked her head.
“I did, Miss Solstice.”
“What? Why didn’t you come get me?”
“I thought you should learn a lesson about what you can and can’t do. Magus Grimalkin keeps trying to teach you.”
She was mean! Erin’s mouth fell open, and Ryoka began to like Nanette more and more. The little witch was unmoved, and Erin ducked a fight she might not want to take at this moment. Ryoka apologized for not coming sooner.
“Mrsha got nervous. So did I—have you seen the windows?”
“Windows? Who looks at windows? Look at that!”
Erin pointed up at the dome. Then she grinned.
“At least I learned some things while I was here. Look at this.”
She clapped her hands with a wicked smile, and Ryoka realized that Erin might be a bit annoyed today. Because without warning her—
The glass dome overhead blinked.
The ‘eye’ of glass moved. A ripple passed through the ceiling, as of a vast eye opening and shutting. Mrsha promptly grabbed Ryoka’s hand tight—and suddenly, Ryoka was staring up at stars.
“What the heck?”
“I think it’s the sky if you took out the sun. Literally night-vision. I don’t think I can make this place show me fake things. I can do that in the garden. But this is different. This is real. See? Hey! Liscor’s walls!”
Erin clapped her hands again, and the eye blinked. This time it was faster, and when it re-focused Ryoka felt vertigo again. Because the view had shifted. Now—they were staring at Liscor’s walls, but the view was zoomed in.
Watch Captain Zevara was standing on the battlements, staring out across the Floodplains with a steely-eyed look of concentration. When the [Guardsman] patrolling walked past her, she exhaled, yawned, and sipped from a cup of coffee.
“It’s a scrying orb! It’s the world’s largest scrying orb!”
“No, it’s not! Don’t make it sound that uncool!”
Erin rebutted Ryoka’s statement instantly. The Wind Runner pointed at the dome.
“It’s plenty cool, Erin! Imagine how much Palt would charge to make it? You’ve got the world’s greatest scrying orb. G-good for you. I wonder if Wistram can see through it?”
Erin’s proud smile turned into an increasingly huge scowl as Mrsha rubbed her paws excitedly. Just imagine watching TV here! But Ryoka was less, uh, impressed.
“I’m sure it has other functions.”
“Can it show me Chandrar? Show me…the King of Destruction!”
“No, don’t do—”
Nanette looked alarmed. But it was too late. Ryoka clapped her hands. Erin watched, and because Ryoka was allowed, the dome’s eye blinked. And it showed—
Noass’ nose-holes flared so huge Ryoka saw into his sinuses as Wistram News Network, Channel 1 appeared.
“—King of Destruction on the march once more. We have reports the un-burnt King of Reim has left his capital, and he seems to be heading south with most of his armies. We can only assume Nerrhavia is his target, and we will be interviewing one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s finest [Generals], General Thelican, momentarily. The forecast for the war—”
His voice was so loud that everyone clapped their hands to their ears. It turned out that the [World’s Eye Theatre] had a sound system.
“Quieter, quieter!”
Erin screamed, and Noass’ voice became a gnat. The ringing in Ryoka’s ears? Did not.
“Great. So you have the world’s most impressive voice-command television system.”
Ryoka grinned. If that was how it showed ‘Flos’—and it was impressive that it had figured out what she wanted—
Erin Solstice stared at Ryoka.
“You’ve been gone half a year. I don’t miss you, right now. This is my new Skill. It was green. I could use some support.”
“It’s amazing, Erin. Let’s make popcorn and hook Kevin’s computer up to it later. Er…sorry. Nanette, why was this a bad idea?”
The little witch had folded her arms and gave the two an annoyed look. It made them feel like they were the irresponsible kids.
“What would you have done if you scried him and he noticed? Gazi the Omniscient is a half-Gazer. If you look at him—he might have looked back.”
“Eh, it’s fine. I’ve got something to say to that guy, anyways. He owes me, like, eight gold coins.”
Erin waved it off, and Nanette and Ryoka stared at her. The younger witch bit her lip.
“Do you…have a plan for everyone you meet?”
“Not everyone, Nanette. But I am ready for a lot of them.”
The [Witch of Second Chances] winked one hazel eye, and Nanette bobbed her head respectfully.
“Yes, Witch Erin. Sorry for interrupting.”
“At least you think my Skill is cool. Unlike Ryoka.”
Ryoka tried to mollify Erin. She was just—it was great, a new part of Erin’s inn, but really. It was just a fancy new theatre-movie combo. And she firmly believed that.
Right until she realized the huge glass eye had blinked—and the dome turned dark. Erin, Ryoka, Mrsha, Nanette, and Nerry stared up at the screen.
Then—an Ogre, the most hideous one she had ever seen, kicked his way out of a stall door. Nerry saw his visage appear overhead, magnified a thousandfold in perfect detail.
She wasn’t proud of soiling herself. Ryoka stepped on the pellet as she leapt back.
“What the f—what did I step in—how did it do that?”
“It plays movies? It plays movies!?”
Erin screamed back. Shrek was playing at maximum volume, and then Erin pointed up.
“Silence! Wait a second. It plays movies.”
She looked at Ryoka. Ryoka looked at her bare foot. Mrsha’s jaw was still dropped. Then—Erin’s head swiveled around.
“But Kevin’s laptop is in the garden.”
“Can it…pull from that?”
“Y—maybe. Quick! Name another movie we watched when we had movie night! What else does he have?”
“Um—um—”
