“Yes…but I’d like to have a different system, if you don’t mind. You see, you write down costs and income—but I’d like to use a method I call ‘two-ledger notation’. I put it into place to make sure Plain’s Eye’s money went where it was supposed to. I learned it from Salazsar where a famous [Secretary] restored her company’s finances—it will make sure we don’t lose money. And frankly, when you see your sources of income and I propose a few more, I don’t think a few Sariant Lambs will matter—though we’ll know how much one costs per year.”
Lyonette blinked and brightened up as she stared at the odd boxes Yelroan drew up on a piece of paper. He looked exceptionally proud of his refinements to this method, which had kept an entire major tribe more or less free of missing income.
And he had done this mostly just by hearing what Salii had done and reverse-engineering the concept from logic. Lyonette could well appreciate this as she stared at Yelroan’s novel thinking.
If her father were here, or mother, they would have adopted Yelroan on the spot—well, maybe. And in the face of all this?
Joseph, walking by the table, was about to, in the classic Earther style, give it the ‘real name’ and ruin all of Yelroan’s hard work. Because Earthers had done everything first, apparently.
Except this. Ryoka pushed past the curtain and stopped. Someone was sitting on the floor ahead of her, looking gloomy as she read a letter.
Mrsha du Marquin looked over and sighed as she saw Ryoka.
Oh, you. Hello, you. Finally deigning to hang out with us common folk?
“Mrsha…I’m sorry I haven’t said hello today. Here’s Nerry and Shaestrel.”
Mrsha eyed the Spring Fae and Sariant Lamb. Then she sighed again. She handed Ryoka another card.
I suppose I can spare the time. Gire’s gone.
“Oh no. Your friend? The one who…dangled me in the well?”
Mrsha’s head drooped. She and Gire had cried about it all night, but the Ekhtouch [Paragon] had left in the morning like a ghost. And she’d left Mrsha this letter.
It had eighteen pages. All about why she had to go and Ekhtouch’s future and how sad she was. Ryoka peeked at it, and Mrsha punched her toe.
Private.
When the City Runner stopped hopping on one foot, she and Mrsha looked at each other. Mrsha didn’t rush into Ryoka’s arms—she had and had been glad to see Ryoka, but—
You’re not my mother. Lyonette is. You might be an aunt of some kind—I haven’t worked out your genealogy yet. You saved my life, and we’re friends…but you run away too much.
Ryoka stared at the card Mrsha handed her. The girl stood up—and to Ryoka’s astonishment, Mrsha was wearing a kilt. She walked around on two legs as Ryoka stuttered.
“You—you’re walking? I thought it was a fluke Lyonette got you in clothing!”
I have been for months. I condescend to verticality.
Ryoka had begun getting Mrsha’s floral letters, and that hadn’t changed, but the girl looked so old, now. Not old as in ‘grown up’, but the difference between, well…how old had she been? Seven…now eight.
She might only be eight, but time was different in this world. Years were longer. Ryoka felt sad. But then Mrsha stuck out a paw.
I confess, I am glad to see you. I have been hesitating before the proverbial abyss. Erin has rolled beyond, and I fear to tread without a shield. Will you go with me? I was going to ask Numbtongue, but he’s still peeling potatoes.
It wasn’t much, but Ryoka bent down and squeezed the paw.
“I’d be delighted to be your shield. If it’s okay.”
Mrsha sniffed.
Gire does it better because she’s bigger. But forsooth—the [World’s Eye Theatre] awaits. Do you…know what it is?
Ryoka’s head came up. She eyed what lay beyond Erin’s curtain and realized why Erin hadn’t immediately rushed everyone to see. Perhaps even she didn’t know what it was because…
“No. But it’s not dangerous, right?”
Probably not. You go first.
 
——
 
To understand the [World’s Eye Theatre], you had to know what had changed.
Before, the [Grand Theatre] had been an impressive stretch of room that compressed itself into Erin’s inn. Such that you would get an odd sense of dissonance—the room that should have been an already-spacious inn’s common room turned into a chamber three hundred feet long with a wide dais at the end where the Players of Celum could perform.
Essentially, it stretched Erin’s common room, only it lacked for windows, and it had copied her semi-beaten chairs and tables, eventually upgrading into a rather lovely mini-theatre.
The Season’s Theatre in Invrisil and the Players of Liscor and Pallass had later overshadowed this low-frills theatre, but it had still seated a number of guests.
Now, though…something had completely redesigned the nature of the theatre. Potentially correcting a weaker number of Skills for someone of Erin’s level and class.
After all, Pisces was barely Level 38, ten full levels less than Erin. True, he had a rarer consolidation himself, but at his level, with his abilities and knowledge, he could summon a Skeleton Lord once a month.
Grimalkin, in his 40’s as well, could punch out a Frost Wyvern if not a Greater Frost Wyvern. Erin was at a similar level of achievement, if not direct power to Grimalkin.
Her [Garden of Sanctuary], [Like Fire, Memory], and so on were powerful Skills. But this?
The reason not even Relc, Fierre, and several other guests who’d peeked behind the curtain had gone further was because there was more to see. The chairs that had been plain wood or padded, old cloth cushions at best were now…
Glass? The rest of the room, including the common room, was probably only two hundred feet long. It had shrunk by a third—but Ryoka saw a glass table that looked ornate and fancy and a padded chair with an odd, bright green design and laced covering. Another looked…like a knitted tea cosy over a chair of mahogany wood, rather expensive.
A [Merchant]’s chair? Versus the glass table that had rose or perhaps ruby feet shaped like a lion or some animal’s claws, see-through and delicate.
One was not like the other. In fact, while the chairs and tables were upgraded—someone had no sense of style. They were put together as if the grouping had been by monetary value rather than any understanding of what matched.
Still, this was much like the [Grand Theatre] before, and a stage rose at one end of the room. A glittering, black curtain hung there, studded with what looked like stars. It could sweep across the ceiling on wood rollers and close the stage off from view.
“Swanky.”
If this were all, it would have been a side-grade in Ryoka’s mind. The stage looked nice, but Ryoka stared at the most…obvious thing that had made the other guests hesitate. Mrsha tugged Ryoka over to the stage to show her one thing.
“What’s this? What’s—”
Ryoka’s voice suddenly went dead as Mrsha pushed her towards the curtain and pulled it in front of her face. Ryoka tried to speak through the thick fabric, and though her vocal chords vibrated, not a sound came through.
[Silence].
Nerry observed the curtain probably was enchanted with silence spells, possibly to keep anyone from hearing through. Just a little perk. Mrsha, of course, just liked the curtain; it had beautiful sequins sewn onto it, and Ryoka just bet the Players would be raring to perform here.
“Anything else interesting about this spot? Magical familiars? Floating chairs?”
Mrsha shook her head rapidly. Nothing like Barnethei or Larracel’s power. She pointed, and Ryoka exhaled.
“Okay. Well then…Erin went through there?”
The [Innkeeper] had rallied enough with Eloise’s tea to push herself across the floorboards and into…Mrsha and Ryoka stared.
When they lit the lanterns hanging on each side of the passage, it would look better. The rounded corridor was only dark because none of the glass torches were illuminated. And it was just a long hallway.
Leading…
“Erin? It’s me and Mrsha. And Shaestrel and Nerry! Can we see what your new theatre looks like?”
Ryoka slowly walked forwards towards the hallway and listened, but she heard nothing beyond. Or…was there a faint sound at the edge of hearing? There was a murmur from the regular inn drowning it out.
No seeing down the passageway. Ryoka hesitated, and Mrsha took her hand—and then nodded. She handed Ryoka a pre-written card.
You first, Redshirt.
“Who teaches you this stuff?”
Kevin.
Ryoka sighed, but she wasn’t scared—she was actually exc—
Clap, clap.
The distant sound reached them, and the lanterns on the wall flared to life. Magical light, a bright blue, blazing like the eye of a [Wizard], filled the carpeted hallway, and Ryoka flinched.
“Erin! You scared me to death!”
She thought she heard laughter. Mrsha was hiding behind Ryoka’s leg. Nerry was hiding behind Mrsha. Shaestrel just sighed.
 
“The largest cowards in any timeline. Oh, just the luck. I—huh?”
 
The Spring Faerie looked up, and Ryoka Griffin, Mrsha, Nerry, and Shaestrel herself started. The dark corridor had been so black as to not show anyone anything beyond—and the wind was silent here.
A little, primal part of Ryoka had feared the darkness. Mrsha the Vainglorious had not dared to follow Erin. And they were the heart of the inn.
The heart of it, like Numbtongue dangling potato scraps over Reagen’s head until Calescent poked him back to work.
Lyonette and Yelroan, bending over the budget. And Bird. The Worker had pulled up a chair at their table and kept trying to add in a budget for a ballista. The worst part was that Yelroan was humoring him.
Parts of the inn, like Octavia trying to bargain with Rags for her potions, made it come alive. But there was always…more. Someone else like Yelroan.
Or, now, as the lights came on—a little girl. One of the scariest things to see in a dark hallway. Perhaps even a point of pride that it was girls.
Sammial would have just been funny. But this girl had brown pigtails, carefully braided, and no hat. She stood, staring ahead, and she feared no darkness.
She had been a [Witch]. Now, she was just a witch. The difference was how you thought of it. Nanette turned as Mrsha recoiled and grabbed Ryoka’s hand.
“Nanette! You scared us to death! Were you in here all along?”
“Hullo, Miss Ryoka. I’m sorry I frightened you. I was just looking. Am I in your way?”
Nanette turned and gave Ryoka a slight smile. Ryoka realized—she had completely forgotten Nanette was there.
The witch often could blend in with the inn, a talent that she might have been taught. But she was also no Mrsha, who got attention by causing trouble. Mrsha, of course, ran over to laugh and tell Nanette how good the prank was.
But the young girl shyly glanced up at Ryoka.
“If I’m in the way, I’ll leave.”
She peeked at Shaestrel and stuck her tongue out at Nerry. Ryoka looked at Mrsha.
“No! Not at all. I’m…in your debt.”
“In my mother’s debt. You don’t have to take me along if you want to be with Mrsha. I know I’m new.”
The girl was somehow able to be more straightforwards at her young age than Ryoka, twice her age, could manage. Ryoka flushed, and Mrsha waved her paws frantically.
No, we’re not mad you’re here! We’re glad! Come with us, please?
Nanette waited, and Ryoka nodded.
“Of course. You’re part of the inn.”
“May I be part of the secrets too, then?”
Nanette looked at Shaestrel and Nerry, and Ryoka hesitated. Mrsha’s head swung around, and she eyed the lamb blankly. But Ryoka…wavered.
It was a lot. A lot that she did not pull Mrsha into. But then, Mrsha was a kid, and she was going to school now, and that was right.
But Nanette? She waited, as if asking Ryoka to tell her whether she was a kid or…Ryoka nudged Nerry. The lamb instantly kicked her in the ankle.
“Nerry. Be nice. This is Nanette. Nanette…a witch. And Shaestrel, this is Nanette Weishart.”
 
“Good day to ye. I tip my hat to thee.”
 
To Ryoka’s astonishment, the Spring Fae reached up and made the motion with an almost stiffly dignified nod. Nanette peered up at her.
“So that’s what you look like. I tip my hat to thee. You never showed yourself to us before.”
 
“Your lot likes to meddle, and there are rules. I am Shaestrel. Another child on a dangerous journey. Is this wisdom?”
 
Shaestrel looked tired, suddenly, and at Ryoka almost accusatorially, and the Wind Runner wondered if she was doing the wrong thing. But Nanette lifted her small chin.
“Miss Shaestrel. I understand your reservations, but I am a witch. I don’t recall asking.”
At that, the faerie laughed ruefully.
 
“Spoken like the rest of your meddlesome lot. There’s the lot who’d face down my ilk and Dragons with naught but a hat and the sass of ages. So be it.”
 
And with that, she did a flying leap and landed in Nanette’s hair. Nerry glowered at the witch, but Nanette produced something.
“Nerry. Are you hungry? Here.”
She handed the Sariant Lamb something, and Ryoka saw Nerry grudgingly grab a stick of jerky and begin chewing it.
“Wait. Are you the one feeding Nerry?”
The lamb was clearly self-sufficient, and Nanette tilted her head.
“I sometimes get her what she wants from the shelves, but I think she feeds herself. We’ve come to a bargain, she and I. We’re both guests of Miss Erin.”
“Why meat?”
“I don’t know. Ask her.”
The lamb chewed with an evil grin at Ryoka and Mrsha. But Mrsha gave Nanette a flying leap that turned into a hug.
You’re so cool! I’m going to be a [Witch] too, someday! And a [Wizard]! Mrsha the Witch-Wizard! And a [Druid].
Nanette read the notecard, and her rosy-cheeked smile hesitated. She glanced at Mrsha.
“Maybe just the other two.”
What? Not a [Witch]? I’d be a great one! Right?
Mrsha looked at Ryoka for confirmation and got a hesitant nod from a classic encouraging adult with the spine of melted cheese who didn’t want to crush anyone’s dreams. Nerry just farted, which seemed to be a commentary in itself. Nanette?
“You’d be a bad one, Mrsha. As you are. Don’t joke about it, please.”
Mrsha’s face fell as Nanette pushed back for the first time. She spluttered and held up a notecard.
I just meant I’d be a good one. Forsooth?
“No. I won’t lie about being a witch.”
Shaestrel seemed to be enjoying the one-sided beatdown. Ryoka hesitated.
“W—Nanette knows what she’s talking about, Mrsha. It’s a tough class.”
I could so become a good [Witch]. You don’t know. Just because your mom was one and you were one…doesn’t prove anything. You can’t decide who’s a [Witch]!
Nanette took a deep breath and tried not to look vexed.
“That’s something a real witch would say, Mrsha. I suppose you’re right. Erin said it like that, and everyone agreed. But you say it—or write it—badly.”
How? I’m great at writing.
