They both looked at Nanette, but the little girl shook her head.
“Either it was a secret Mother thought I was too young for—or she didn’t know. [Witches] know there are a lot of things we’re not privy to. I can ask. I will ask the others, but I don’t know anything about this. And the Stitchfolk and Antinium would know more.”
Again, no [Witch] or lamb had ever asked an Antinium for the truth. But that now was something Ryoka thought she could solve. She muttered.
“So what are the trials of levelling?”
A third sheet was passed over. Even Shaestrel was fascinated. She was muttering about the absurdity of this all—and giving Nerry sympathetic looks that the Sariant Lamb spat at her for. Ryoka Griffin read slowly—then looked up.
She could almost hear it. And if she now saw the Sariant Lambs as a people, this is what they would hear every ten years. From that dispassionate voice that sounded a bit like your own internal voice and something else. A list.
 
<Trials of Levelling — Sariant Lambs>
In order to be evaluated for class-potential and induction into the Grand Design of Isthekenous, your people must complete the 3 following trials. No time limit has been given. Evaluation will commence on completion of all three.
 
<Trial of Esteem — The Respect of Species>
<Trial of Creation — The Tower of Sariants>
<Trial of Growth — The Unsurpassed One>
 
Each one was—odd. The Sariants had written down the details exactly, and Ryoka didn’t understand. She understood why, but she looked at the ‘Tower of Sariants’, and her neck hairs rose again.
 
<Trial of Creation — The Tower of Sariants>
To prove yours is a people capable of creation and shall endure, build unto this world a construction unique only to your people. None of levels may give thee aid in the smallest part of this building.
Let it rise higher than any other before you. To a height of 892.4 feet from top to base, and let it stand at least a minute. Then yours will be a people who have proven they have the potential to climb yet further.
 
“What. The. Fuck.”
That was twice the size of some skyscrapers! And why was the height so…specific? And moreover…Ryoka looked at Nerry, and the lamb gave her a mirthless smile.
You see?
It was not fair at all. If it were Humans—Ryoka could see it being done, if not without magic and the tools of the era. It would be like the pyramids—
Or the Tower of Babel from myths. 
The thought had occurred to Nanette too.
“Is this based on something? Miss Ryoka?”
“Maybe something from my world. Er…”
It occurred to Ryoka that Nanette had no idea what that meant. The little witch was mid-nod when her head swung up.
“Your what?”
“Don’t you—”
“Is that what Eloise and Hedag refused to tell the younger [Witches] about? Your what? You—”
Nanette’s eyes went round, and she leapt to her feet. Nerry huffed—she had figured out something the same. She gave Ryoka a look as Nanette pushed her arm.
“You have to stop doing this! What else don’t I know?”
Tell us!
The lamb kicked Ryoka from the other side. Ryoka tried to fend both off until Shaestrel decided to join in.
 
“Yeah, tell us, ye lying cunt!”
 
She drop-kicked Ryoka in the nose, and the Wind Runner howled.
“Everyone, shut up! I’ll make a damn list, alright? Let’s focus on one conspiracy at a time! The tower…it’s insane! In my world, only a few buildings are this tall! It’s ridiculous to ask of Sariants!”
What were they supposed to do, headbutt nails into wood? Nerry kept writing.
The other trials are like this, too. We need to fulfill them or…find another way. 
“I don’t know how to build something that tall.”
But you are the Wind Runner. Do it. We’ll reward you, but you will help us. I will be watching you. You’re committed. 
The Sariant Lamb bared her little teeth. Ryoka looked at her and then stood up.
“This is insane. Okay—okay…but you have to help me. And Erin.”
Nerry nodded grudgingly. Ryoka slowly walked out of the hallway of secrets and decided to leave the Sariant Lamb’s texts near the door. It was probably the safest place.
“Is this high on your list of priorities, Shaestrel?”
 
“I am not giving ye hints here. Yer fate is your own—I am helping you with details.”
 
The Spring Faerie didn’t follow that up with a wink or nudge, so Ryoka took that to be serious. She scrubbed at her hair.
“This—what kind of detail helps me build a tower?”
 
“Perhaps we’ll see.”
 
Nanette looked dizzy. She stumbled towards the door.
“I…I need to go find Witch Eloise. Or—who else is from there, Ryoka?”
“Er…Kevin, Joseph, Imani—”
“May I ask them questions? It seems I have a lot of catching up to do. I shall be back when I understand more.”
The little witch glowered—but then she seemed resolved to get the truth. Ryoka felt for whomever she spoke to, and she sort of hoped it was Laken himself. But Nanette headed out, and after a moment, Ryoka followed.
So Ryoka walked on out of the garden and almost right into Saliss of Lights. The Named-rank adventurer was poking at some yellow flowers as he sat with Erin.
“Saliss?”
“Oh, hey, amateur-hero. Good to see you’re alive.”
Saliss’ presence made Ryoka stop. The last time they had really been together for a long time, he had gone with her north.
With Maviola El, to take on an entire Assassin’s Guild. Now, Saliss of Light looked tired and, somehow, relieved. Like he too had the weight of a world upon his shoulders.
“It’s…good to see you. Are you here to talk?”
“Yep. Some of that. I wanted Erin’s help.”
Saliss turned to Erin and pointed at Ryoka.
“Do I trust her? She gives me the sense that she’ll leak any secret out the moment someone pokes her. This is serious, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] defended Ryoka with a smile.
“She knows the really big secrets, Saliss. All of ‘em.”
Saliss exhaled.
“Then maybe…you Earth people know more already. But it’s serious to me. Got it? So serious I will kill anyone who endangers my people. I have done it.”
He looked around seriously, and Erin and Ryoka swallowed. But then Ryoka hesitated.
“Wait. Did you just say…Earth people?”
Did he know who they were? Saliss put his claws on his cheeks and feigned surprise.
“What? Oh, I just said earth. As in this earth. Why would you think I meant Earth as in the planet with a bunch of seven billion Humans and your stupid fancy airplanes and cars and electricity? Because if that was a big secret—it’s not being well kept. Half of Pallass’ High Command knows, and the other half is only in the dark because they’ll blab. Like Edellein.”
Ryoka’s open mouth of horror was growing wider by the second. Nerry stared at Erin and Ryoka sharply and hid behind Ryoka’s leg as Saliss went on.
“You have your secrets—I have mine. Yours suck.”
Erin spluttered as she raised a hand.
“Who told you? How do you know? Krshia guessed, and I’ve told people like Ceria and Pisces…Grimalkin figured it out—how many people did he tell? Did Chaldion tell you?”
Saliss just shrugged with a kind of pitying look.
“Erin. Erin. Erin. He was reporting to everyone the entire time. Well, everyone that mattered. High Command, Named-ranks, all of it about you, the inn, and then the truth about Earth. Even the theories. He got some of it. Though he was on about time travel for ages. He knew you were from somewhere, but as to how we found out—seen Troydel around? Leon?”
“Those bastards! I’ll kill them! I knew they did it once—I’ll kill them again!”
Ryoka exploded. Erin looked around.
“Where’s my knife? Those two—!”
“Relax. Everyone noticed Wistram stealing Humans. It was only a matter of time. The old man—Chaldion—is a genius at finding weak spots. He was going to get it out. But you’re lucky Troydel exists or he’d have found a way to spirit you off to Pallass, Erin.”
“He could try.”
The [Innkeeper] muttered darkly. Saliss almost smiled at that.
“I’d have loved to see it. Anyways. That’s been in the open for a long time. I’m talking about me. My people. Drakes. I…”
He stared at Ryoka and Erin and looked so untrusting of Ryoka that she offered to leave. But Saliss just exhaled.
“No. Erin will have to tell someone. Lyonette, at least, and good luck with her. I hear our cousins over the water have it just as bad. Baleros is better in places…Chandrar’s mixed. They don’t care in Rhir so long as you’re on the Blighted Kingdom’s side. Wistram’s practically fairweather in some areas.”
“Care about what, Saliss?”
Erin gave him a perplexed look. Ryoka, though…the way Saliss was talking was making her run ahead of the conversation. She began to look at Saliss, and he met her gaze with such force she stared past him.
“…Erin. It’s the hardest thing in the world for me to say. Not just about me—and I won’t bring up me. Not yet. Not—”
He took a breath and scrubbed at his neck-spines.
“Not yet. Just in general. Just…do you know Drake society well? You’ve been in Liscor. It’s not the same, but you understand how the Watch is in charge. How we run our cities. Have you ever heard of or met a Drake that wasn’t—that didn’t fit in? To how things work? There are a lot of people like that, but I represent one group. We’re technically criminals under the law. If we are found—we’ll be hanged or exiled or jailed or worse. The law is against us, and so are most people. Do you know what I’m talking about? I am trusting you with it because I think I know you. So please…”
He looked at Erin, and he was rambling, more than Saliss ever had before. The [Innkeeper]’s face was one great puzzle, verging on a conclusion she couldn’t quite name. But she knew. It was Ryoka who thought of a word—and Saliss spoke it with all the danger and venom and…pride, yes, pride, in the world.
“Turnscales. I am…a Turnscale. One of many in hiding.”
Erin blinked, and she knew that word. Ryoka turned to Saliss, and then the piece fit into place, and she saw him.
Part of him. Saliss’ eyes flicked to Ryoka and then to Erin—and Ryoka was wavering between trying to say something that would make him feel safe, know he wouldn’t be attacked or that they’d flinch. The perfect words…always escaped her.
But Erin? Erin just blinked and looked up at Saliss, and there were a lot of things she could say that were right—but also dead wrong.
Like:
‘Oh, is that all? I thought you meant something big.’
‘We have that on Earth.’
‘It’s okay, Saliss. I’m an ally.’
Which were all terrible, even if elements of them were meant for the best. Because this was not Earth, and the stakes…the stakes were high there, too. But they were a hundred times higher here.
So Erin Solstice did not say these things. She considered her words and then looked at Saliss. She replied slowly and calmly, and her voice filled the garden.
“You’re a Turnscale.”
Saliss raised his chin and nodded silently. Erin Solstice inhaled, exhaled, a calm breath, and looked him in his eyes. Her head dipped in a nod.
“So was Zel Shivertail. And Sserys of Liscor. They were the best of Drakes. They were heroes.”
She hesitated, a dozen other unsaid things on the cusp of speaking, and then nodded again. Saliss exhaled a long, long breath—and clenched one hand.
“Yes, they were. Thank you for saying that. And never tell anyone. We will be hunted. We are being hunted—I need to tell you because I need help. For more than…for a lot.”
“Okay.”
Erin sat forward, and Saliss raised his brow.
“Just like that? It’s not a potion or a flame, Erin. You think you’ve seen Drakes at their worst? Taking my side—if they ever find out, it will be worse than the Meeting of Tribes, I think. I wish I was exaggerating.”
He took a step back, and spread his arms. Saliss of Lights gestured at everything.
“I am a Turnscale. I’m glad you think that’s not a thing to be pitied or disgusted by or feared. But I was never asking about what you thought of who I am. None of us will. I just need to know if you’ll let me in your inn and whether we are…friends. If we’re not, tell me now. Nothing in this world will change no matter what anyone says or does. But I…would like to have a friend.”
He looked at her, pained because she had the power to smash a tiny fragment of his heart if she chose. That was the danger. Erin held her breath and looked at him. Then she gripped the arms of her wheelchair hard.
“Saliss. You’re my best friend. If anyone has a problem with that—let them come. I have an inn.”
Erin reached out and wanted to take Saliss’ claw, but she was stuck in her wheelchair and her arm was too short. So he looked at that weak hand and then took it. He squeezed it gently and then with a kind of renewed strength, and when he looked up—
He grinned with an echo of that flame burning atop her head, like Saliss of Lights in earnest.
“Good.”
Then both he and Erin turned to Ryoka, and the force of their combined stares made Ryoka start. She fumbled for words to add to this moment and said the first thing she could come up with.
“Our world has the same issues, Saliss. Not exactly, but—we know you exist. If you want allies, you’ll find a lot in Earthers.”
So she hoped. Saliss gazed at Ryoka, and his other claw came up and crossed over his hand squeezing Erin’s. He gripped Ryoka’s hand hard.
“Sounds good. And if our worlds ever collide in earnest, I’ll wait for reinforcements. Or I’ll go to your cities and burn them all down.”
It was a promise.
 
——
 
Time to talk. An ocean of dialogue, a sea of unspoken words finally breaking a dam. Saliss stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary], occasionally poking Ryoka, who kept trying to sidle away.
Demsleth was waiting as Magnolia Reinhart adjusted her skirts and rose. Klbkch was heading up from the Hives, and a Centenium with glowing eyes followed.
Talk. And talk—and invariably some of the words would be useless, but they were going to settle things.
The inn’s new accomplice, that great expert in math and organization and common sense, Yelroan, might not know it all, but he did what Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin could not.
He booked Hedault for a consultation with Ryoka Griffin at 3 PM the next day. Among other things, that too waited.
Amidst it all, though, all this nostalgia and questing with little lambs and faeries and things that had begun long ago—Erin Solstice took a second to wheel herself into the [World’s Eye Theatre] and saw Mrsha had already been pranking a number of people and having a lot of fun if all the tracks on the floor were an indication.
“Dirty rugrats.”
She rolled into the center of the floor and exhaled. A lot to do and say. But first?
“Ryoka, you coming?”
