He made a note to ask Luna about that when he saw her next, but they were left alone as promised for their remaining break.

Still, he had good practice enchanting everyone's remaining bits of mundane armor before their halfway mark.

It was around that point that Matt got a message from Kelley, complaining about how someone had stolen the planet.

“Some crazy asshole stole the planet and rift from us, Matt. They just up and swapped planets. We lost it all! And worst of all, she gave everyone a mana stone fifteen Tiers above them, and The Pathers got screwed there too! We just got notes to collect when we fell off. I don't want money! I want my rift back!” The crafter was obviously distraught, while Matt was bewildered.

Liz, on the other hand, started cursing.

“Those idiots! They stole another planet. I can't believe them! They said they weren't watching. If they weren't watching, how did they know about what I did there! I'm going to beat my mom when I see her. I’ll turn her into a chicken!”

She devolved into grumbles about punishment after punishment she would inflict on her parents when she saw them next. Each one became more and more outlandish as she worked herself into a huff.

Matt just found it hard to imagine that her parents had stolen a world. He wanted to ask how that was even possible, but refrained, as he saw how angry Liz was.

Kelley and most of the other crafters, with no reason to stay in Queendom territory, were moving back into the Empire proper. There, they intended to use their newfound knowledge to advance their craft and make money.

To Matt’s irritation, he actually wasn't able to pay off the debt during their travels, with nothing to add the mana to. It would have been nice to be able to do it during his down time, but when he asked, he was told to wait until they arrived.

Three months later, they arrived in the Empire proper, but to a world that was at the edge of inhabited space.

It was a Tier 9 planet that, while useful, was new enough to be crawling with monsters. It only had two cities currently settled and secure. Otherwise, it was an untamed wilderness, though generally hotter than the normal planets.

When they arrived, they were given coordinates deep into one of the continents, and were directed to fly there.

They found themselves in a vast desert that slowly turned into an oven that irritated them all. Even Matt, with [Cracked Phantom Armor], was affected. He had to feel Aster’s misery. His arctic fox was not suited to such dry and scorching environments.

Once everyone was in a bad mood, they found a flying house that hovered over the treetops of an oasis, to find a man waving at them.

“Well, hello. I'm Wrangle, and glad to meet you. Come inside. I’ve heard so many interesting things that I simply must see for myself!”
