Everyone was looking at her, and she waved. “I'm April. Liaison for their management team.” She pointed at Matt, Liz, and Aster.

She turned back to Matt and flicked a finger at him. “This is the destination Luna wants you to go to. I've set a travel plan for you. It's not a rush, but you don't really have time to dally either. Two larger stops because of teleportation timings, but as long as you follow this, you should be able to travel in comfort.”

Matt was reviewing the plan and complained, “These are all luxury travel plans. I can't afford this.” He paused to ask, “Can I?”

April just blinked at him. “Yes? Yes, you can. It's not even that expensive. But more importantly, there are millions of people trying to get out of Queendom territory, or returning home to said territory. The cheaper accommodations are booked for months.”

Mathew opened his mouth and raised a finger, but April answered, “Yes, those plans included you all. Baxter asked me to schedule for you as well.”

She peered at all of them with a raised eyebrow. “Questions? Comments? Concerns?” Seeing them silent, she continued, “Good. Then I’m off. I won't see you at your destination unless things go really well on my end.”

The woman looked ready and was fading away when Liz asked, “What are you doing?”

April reappeared and quickly said, “Setting up your next travel plans. This war was supposed to last a lot longer, giving me more time before our initial meeting, but Luna wanted us all to meet you first. I’m the new girl, so I get to do the grunt work. Luna wants half a dozen people to spend time with you all in just the next few years.” She sighed. “Anything else? I really need to get going.”

When Liz shook her head, April vanished.

Melinda asked, “What do we owe you for the transportation cost? I didn't plan for that.”

At the same time Vinnie asked, “Who was she?” His eyes lingered on where her lower half had been, and he kept blinking.

Sam reached out to slap him while Melinda did the same. He dodged the attacks with practiced ease.

Matt tried to think back and realized that he had never actually explained to them about the management team.

“Well, because of my abilities, we were investigated and got the option to toughen up The Path with a personal trainer. Their job is to ensure we don't slack off.”

Seeing Melinda's entire team wince at the mention of slacking off, Matt rushed ahead. “So that was April. The liaison for the other two. I guess we won't be seeing her as much as I thought.”

Vinnie made a sad noise before dodging two more slaps.

Melinda straightened up. “As interesting as that is…” She smiled before continuing, “And congratulations, that sounds really important— I don't want charity. We can reimburse you for anything she charges you.”

Matt looked back to the travel plans that said the tickets for the entire travel were already paid for.

He relayed that, to everyone's confusion.

Liz offered, “We have to pay somehow. We’re still on The Path, and can't get free things.” She was flicking through her own AI, judging by the rapid movement of her eyes. “Ah, here it is. Oh. Oh!”

She laughed. “Matt, check your training regimen.”

Not knowing that he could do that, Matt checked.

Time charging mana stones owed: 17 days.

Matt opened his mouth but clicked it shut.

He laughed to Melinda. “Well, unless you want to donate to the mana fund that I’m apparently responsible for, you can't really pay for it.”

Tara offered, “We have some mana stones. If the conversion cost is the same, we can pay for ourselves.”

Matt did the math and shot back, “Unless you have a Tier 25 mana stone, no. Apparently, I’m paying with my mana, and it's dirt cheap.”

Liz actually nodded at that. “I can see that actually. The reason mana stones are worth so much is because they don't change size. For your mana, it’ll take a butt load of storage to fit all that. I bet Luna has something in mind.”

Mathew still objected. “It doesn't seem fair. We don't want charity. We want to shore up our weaknesses and stand on our own.”

He looked between Melinda and Matt. “And to not rely on anyone's Talent.”

Matt shrugged while sitting back in the chair. “I really don't know what you can do. This is something that will only cost me a few weeks out of our travels. I can have it paid off before we even reach the halfway mark, if I donate for six hours a day. We’re going to be traveling for a while.”

Kyle, who was thawing out, said, “Yeah. Jokes aside, this feels wrong. We aren't here for free rides.”

Eventually, they accepted the trip, as there was little else they could do but get left behind to deal with the masses of people trying to leave the Tier 6 planet. It took some light bickering and explanation of all parts, but they all agreed that they would pay their own way after this.

Matt really didn't mind, but kept his mouth shut. He understood, but his Talent was paying for it, making it feel free.

Only a few hours later, they boarded a massive flying ship that soared through the sky, nearing the outer atmosphere to increase speeds. It was still slow, but Matt really didn't want to be outside in the pollen-riddled air. Especially after having to use [Cracked Phantom Armor] for the majority of the time he had been stuck on that golem and war-infested planet. It was as annoying as it was pretty.

Their rooms were amazing. Matt and Liz had a massive shower and tub combo that they relaxed in until they were pruney and cold.

They had planned for a dinner with Melinda's team, but their messages had gone unanswered, and Matt suspected they were as tired as he was.

The war had its downtime, sure, but the stress of never knowing if an assassin was going to attack you, even in the neutral city, meant that everyone was always on alert. It was exhausting in a way he hadn’t realized until the need for it was gone.

Add onto that the stress of leading the last of the Kingdom troops against internal opposition, and Matt just really wanted to sleep.

He was lying in bed with Liz and Aster when he had the feeling that someone was watching him.

That sent a spike of adrenaline, which fully woke him up and startled Liz.

“What?” She didn't bring her head out of the pillow as she asked.

“Liz, could Luna be watching us right now? I just had the thought. If she made notes about us having sex, that means she's really watching us at all times.”

Liz yawned as she cuddled Aster. “Yeah, so?”

“That's an invasion of our privacy. It's creepy.”

He looked around, but saw nothing out of the ordinary.

Liz, to his irritation, seemed unbothered. “Yeah, that's what it means to live with high Tier people. They always know what's going on around them, unless you block them out.”

Matt latched onto that. “How do we do that?”

Liz pulled him back down to curl into him. “Reach a Tier near hers. Or super expensive formations which don't really stop dedicated snooping. She’s going to watch us all the time, but we can still ask her to leave us alone when we sleep.”

Without opening her eyes, she called out, “Luna. Please don’t pay attention when a normal person would expect privacy. Thank you.”

“That's it?”

Liz mumbled, “All we can do. And I really doubt that we’re the most interesting thing going on. She wants to train us, not watch us poop.”

Matt, still unsettled, snarked, “I don't know. Maybe she has a notebook about how we can poop better.”

***

Luna looked into her piles of notebooks and threw two of them out.

***

The next day, they mostly relaxed as they watched the planet pass under them, until they arrived at their destination. It was a large, but under construction city, which housed the teleporter that would take them to their next destination.

As they traveled, they settled into a routine of self-training where they could and relaxation when appropriate. It lasted a week before they all got bored and started to spar when they could. They even bought out rifts when they had longer wait times at the teleporter cities.

The sparring was good for all of them.

Matt had to admit that his friends had improved greatly, and even their AI simulated full contact spars were much harder. He was now unable to defeat them even a quarter of the time. Between Vinnie and Tara, they usually had him quickly pinned down and taken out.

Their coordination was much better, and Kyle and Mathew kept him from attacking the more vulnerable back line. It usually spelled his doom once Tara or Vinnie hit him, or pulled him underground. Tara was able to place shots though his armor if he wasn't concentrating the extra layer on a single spot, and he hadn’t had the chance to absorb his new [Earth Manipulation] skill to counter Vinnie.

He was proud of them for specifically countering him, and once he started to change tactics, things settled back into an even split of wins and losses.

With Liz and Aster helping, they still utterly dominated, but each round got slightly harder as each side learned to contend with each other. They never lost, but they did occasionally have one of them taken out by the end of it. All and all, it was good training.

Matt also spent a lot of time absorbing the skills he had bought.

[Water Manipulation], [Earth Manipulation], [Air Manipulation], and [Fire Manipulation] were all Tier 8 Manipulation skills that, while common enough, sold for a premium because of how useful they were. The cost of one on the open market was usually above a Tier 14 skill just because of how practical they were.

He had also gotten some of the Tier 14 variants, [Lightning Manipulation], [Mud Manipulation], and [Lava Manipulation]. Those were the only three Tier 14 manipulation skills left in the point shop when they left. They were mostly useless in the day to day, as he needed the element available to actually be able to manipulate them.

Matt found that, for all his training, he had relatively awful mana control. Where Liz could weave masterful shapes out of her blood tendrils, Matt was lucky to get water to do more than splash in the direction he wanted.

It caused him to spend more time with his mana control orb, though he used to think that he had gotten quite proficient with it. Apparently, it wasn’t good enough. He found the dexterity needed for the manipulation skills was on a completely different level. He was used to sending mana to spells inside his spirit, which was automatic for him at this point. But manually controlling spells once they were out of his body was another matter entirely.

Manipulation spells were weird. They had an initial mana cost, and for the Tier 8 skills, it was only 50, which he could easily afford with the use of a mana stone. Then, they turned into channel skills, where the skill just needed mana per second to function. That cost was based on the quantity of the element that one wished to move, and how intricate the desired movement was.

The casters' mastery of the skill also increased those limits, while also reducing the MPS cost, as he found out when talking to Vinnie and Liz. Even with Vinnie's innate skill, he had to practice a ton to be fluid with his control. Liz had things slightly easier with her Talent, but water was also just an easier element to move in general.

Matt found his ability to move earth even weaker than his ability to move water. He found air and fire easier, but apparently, most did.

Even with his apparent lack of skill, Matt found it fun to train. Everyone spent time together honing their skills in a single chamber, so Matt could keep them topped off with mana, which allowed them to grow that much quicker. The time together felt less like work and more like busy playtime.

It was like when they were with Annie, Emily, and Conor. They were able to progress the mastery of their skill in a short amount of time when they could practice with zero mana worries.

Matt was pretty sure that he had given Melinda an aneurysm when he asked her for help with the healing skill that they bought.

He couldn't even cast the spell yet, with the initial cost being 100 mana, but he wanted to learn how it worked.

Apparently, “Cast and send mana” was not how it worked. Melinda had started giving him anatomy lessons every day.

Matt tried to commit it all to memory, but knew that he would never amount to much of a healer by the second day. Melinda refused to give up, and even took him to a few hospitals where he shadowed her.

That impressed him. Melinda had a deft touch with the patients, and it wasn't just her Talent. She got people to open up and talk to her about their lives and worries. She put them at ease, and usually made her patients leave with a smile, no matter the horrific condition some of them came with. Baxter was always there, watching in the background, but rarely interfering. Matt thought he saw pride on the older man's face more than once as he watched Melinda work.

When Matt needed a change of pace, he used the rune library that he had bought to practice his enchanting with various items. He had even finally convinced Melinda's team to let him make them a few items that suited them perfectly.

Melinda was the only one with a very minor sub-aspect to her mana, but as it was death-themed, she flatly refused any item with it. She went as far as to get Baxter to tell her how to remove it. Matt thought it was a waste, but kept his mouth firmly shut.

According to the older man, it was mostly an effort of not wanting to aspect your mana with your Concept. Matt listened with the opposite idea. He wanted mana with the endless sub-aspect. That would be amazing for his enchanting work, but sadly, he had zero progress in that area, where Melinda quickly cleaned her mana.

