Ren made the rest of the women bathing suits. Some of them kissed his cheek like Jennifer did, and others merely thanked him and pat his shoulder. The last one stared at him as he made her favorite bathing suit. It was one that she never could have afforded in real life, but had always wanted.

“I hope you're not expecting me to kiss you like the others.” She said, with a little meanness in her voice.

“I don't expect you to even say thank you.” Ren said, and smiled at her.

“Excuse me?” She looked at him with wide eyes.

“I'm doing this because I want to.” Ren said. “I'm not doing it for people to thank me.” He said. “They can thank me if they want to, but I don't expect it.”

“But...”

“I learned the hard way that if you do something for someone and expect to be thanked for it, then you didn't do it for the right reasons.” Ren said, then smiled sadly as he remembered his last day in the dwarf lands, and how it had ended. He finished the suit and handed it to her, and she reached out and took his hand instead. He looked at her, and he could see a very similar sad smile on her face, too.

“Thank you.” She said, took the suit with her other hand, and equipped it. “Thank you very much.”

Ren stepped close and looked up at her. “You are very welcome.” He said and beamed a smile at her, and her sad smile changed into a real one. “Now go and show the others what kind of beast you are in the water.”

She snorted a laugh and walked over to the other girls, as the impromptu pool party was getting into full swing.

“Can you make us swim trunks?” Hank asked as he stared at his favorite dancer. “I have got to get in the water with her.”

Ren chuckled and handed him a pair of swim trunks. “Go have fun.”

“You're the best!” Hank said, equipped the swim trunks, and ran over to the girls. He scooped up the one he wanted and jumped into the pool. Everyone laughed, and Ren handed the other guys swim trunks; then Tommy, Dillon and Billy jumped in as well.

“Didja plan this?” Clint asked as he equipped the pair of trunks Ren had given him.

“No, it was just a spur of the moment thing.” Ren said. “Let me know if you want the pool removed when I come back next week.”

Clint listened to the laughter and carrying on, looked over at the pool and looked back. He shook his head and smiled. “Ah think ah'll be keepin' it fer tha foreseeable future.”

Ren nodded, stored his portable sewing kit and table, then equipped his Travelling Clothes. “I better get going.” He said and turned to walk away.

“Ren.”

Ren stopped walking and looked back at Clint. “Yeah?”

“Wha' happened ou' there?”

Ren opened his mouth to say, then looked at Janice. “Ask Janice. She saw it all.”

“Ah'm askin' you.” Clint said.

Ren sighed. “I was being stupid.” He said, and started to explain what had happened. Clint's eyes widened more and more as Ren told him the story, and by the end, Clint didn't know what to say.

“If you want me to resign for being so reckless, just say so.” Ren said.

Clint let a smile spread across his face and put a hand on Ren's shoulder. “We're tha Reckless Rough Riders, Ren.” He said and squeezed his shoulder. “Yer gonna fit righ' in.”

Ren smiled and nodded.

“Wan' me ta tell ya about wha' happened at tha Pink Pearl?”

Ren shook his head. “Just from having all the girls with you, I know you shut the place down.”

Clint laughed. “It wasn' tha easy.”

“You can message me with the details, or fill me in next week.” Ren said. “I really do have to go.”

“Good luck wit whatevah yer doin'.” Clint said.

You mean whoever. Ren thought and chuckled. “Bye, Clint.”

“Bye, Ren.”

Ren started to walk up the hill, then stopped when he heard a shout.

“REN!” Janice yelled and ran over to him. “You're not abandoning me, are you?”

“Of course not.” Ren said. “I just thought you'd want to stay here with your friends.”

“When will you be back?”

“Clint said the next quest isn't until next week game-time.”

“Then I'm coming with you.” Janice said.

“I'm letting Princess go all out.” Ren cautioned her. “You know what that means.”

“I had a thought about that.” Janice said, and smiled.
