“Right after the game night starts.” Ren said and picked up the VR headset. “I'll see you both at supper.” He said and put the headset on. “I hope I'm not too late.”

“You said they were relaxing for the whole weekend, so you've only missed one day.” Elise said. “You've got the whole game week to go yet.”

“I don't know if I can relax for a whole week.” Ren laughed. “I have a hard time just getting a few hours to do that!”

“At least try, darling.” Elise said and bent over to kiss him on the lips. “Have fun.”

“Thanks.” Ren said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren appeared in the white loading area of the game for some reason. “Huh? What's going on?”

System Notice!

The new World Event 'Ghoulpocalypse' now permeates the game environment.

Quests and tasks are optional, as they always are, and can be found at regular intervals from normal quest givers or randomly while out in the wilderness zones.

Can you make a difference? Can you stand by and let the world be overrun by the undead ghoul hordes?

“Ha.” Ren smiled. “That notification is way too late to matter to me now.” He said. “I'm a little surprised I had to die to get it, though.”

System Notice!

Congratulations! Your character level is high enough that new options are now available to you.

Dual Class Upgrade: You will stop gaining levels in your current class, and can choose a complimentary class and will gain skills and levels at half the normal rate, and still be able to use your old skills.

New Class Upgrade: You can give up your current class (and all related skills) completely and start another class entirely. You will gain XP and Skill bonus percentages based on your old level. Current Bonuses: +48%

New Species: Because of the current addition of two new Starter Cities, if you choose an upgrade, you can also choose the option to change species.

Giant: Grants bonuses to Strength, Toughness, Endurance, Spell Resistance, Race-specific Skills

High Elf: Grants bonuses to Dexterity, Agility, Vitality, Inherent Spell Casting (limited class spells, unless magic user is chosen), Race-specific Skills

“No way!” Ren nearly yelled. “Having them be starter cities caused this option to become available?” He read the popup again. “Wow!”

System Notice!

Do you wish to change or alter your class and / or race?

Yes / No / Ask Me Later

“Ask me later.” Ren said. “I'm not done of my Artificer class yet.”

The popups disappeared and the upstairs of the Main House faded into existence around him. He had appeared on the spawn point in the middle of the meeting room, and he knew the next few minutes were going to be emotional.

Notice!

Your willingness to go above and beyond all other actions, and to sacrifice yourself to keep the integrity of the world intact, has earned you a new title: Vasalor's Chosen.

It didn't tell me what the title gives me. Ren thought, and was about to ask about that when he heard a shout.

“REN!” Teepo yelled and flew out of the apartment to land on his shoulder.

Hey, buddy. Ren thought, then felt his connections with Xuunah, Nathalia, and all 5 of the maids. He looked down at his hands where the Lightning being had tried to convert him just before he died, and saw that the armored fingers on his gauntlets were still peeled back. He took off the gauntlets and repaired them in an instant, then put them back on and stored his armor as he equipped his Travelling Clothes. He activated his Auras, except for Fear, Hatred, Spider, and Heat Sense, then walked over to his apartment door.

“They've all been waiting for you.” Teepo said.

I know. Ren thought and smiled, then opened the door.
