Something magical was happening in the common-turned-dining room. Something Marcel had never thought possible.

Silence.

Not complete silence, of course; three dozen small mouths were slurping and munching on their dinner as if the food before them would disappear if they dared take a breath between spoonfuls.

But no screaming, no shouting, no giggling; none of the noises his brain associated with meals. It was surreal.

Then he brought his own spoon up to his mouth, let the fragrant broth seep past his lips, and his eyes widened. He pulled the utensil back and stared at it, then repeated the motion, just to be sure.

Yep, this tasted like wealth. He didn't even know soup could make him think of money, but here he was. Only a rich person could eat something this good.

He gave the flat “veggie bread” a glance. He'd seen the girl, Niala, steam then paste the less palatable parts, spread it on plates, and roast them in the oven. The resulting slab looked dry and bland, but maybe...

He broke off a piece and brought it to his mouth. The taste was pleasant, though subtle, and it was indeed dry, turning back into a sort of paste when mixed with his saliva.

He shrugged. One small culinary miracle out of two was still impressive, and-

The catkin poked his shoulder, drawing his attention. She smiled, took a small bit of veggie-bread and dipped it in her soup before popping it in her mouth.

Ah.

Marcel frowned but mirrored her, and he became a believer. The broth was chock-full of flavours, and the dry bread drank deep of it, engorging itself with them. The subtle taste was still there, but now mixed with the soup's to create something new.

Instantly he understood how to eat this meal; one spoon of soup, dip a piece of bread in the broth, then eat the piece. It soaked up whatever liquid was left, saturated his mouth with a different taste, and the cycle repeated.

Now he saw how the kids were eating like little machines; they couldn't get enough of the parade of tastes entering their mouths too used to mundane soups and stews.

And neither could he; he found himself bent forward, nose hovering over his bowl, and his hands working mechanically.

Distantly, he realized he really would have cursed himself had he refused the woman's help. He was too busy stuffing his face to notice, however.

While David vacuumed his bowl of soup, along with everyone else, Niala let her gaze sweep the room, looking for the boy she'd seen.

He wasn't there. Frowning, she tapped at Marcel's shoulder again. The bearkin startled and looked up from his meal, some broth dripping at the corner of his mouth. He wiped it off with the sleeve of his robe. “What is it, girlie?”

“Is this all your kids?”

He narrowed his eyes. “Of course it is, why?”

She tucked her ears down. “Can you make sure? I'd have to start giving seconds and run out before everyone has had at least one portion.”

His eyes widened for a second, and she thought she saw genuine concern deep within right before he swivelled his head toward the room and began counting under his breath.

She smiled; he was gruff, and the place was a mess, but the man looked like he actually cared. More than that, though, she'd seen the littlest ones hide behind him. She could trust the kids' hearts; they wouldn't take refuge behind someone who didn't treat them well.

And after taking a good look around, the kids seemed healthy and alert. They had giggled and ran like kids should. They might be living in near squalor, but there was love within these old walls, which made their situation all the more tragic.

Marcel grumbled next to her and spoke up. “Kids! KIDS! Stop slurping for a second and listen! We're missing one! Who is it?”

The children gradually stopped devouring their food and looked up, then among themselves, eyes puzzled. A little girl's clear voice cut the silence. “Has anyone seen Donnie?”

That got their heads swivelling, and the name was repeated several times before the kid council decided he was the one missing, informed their caretaker as such, and returned to their most important task: eating and making sure their neighbours didn't steal their veggie bread.

Marcel heaved a sigh and got up. “I'll go look for him,” he informed them as he walked past.

Niala kept watch over the throng. Some of them finished their portion and began staring at their empty bowl, willing it to refill in between stealing glances back at the large pot still half-filled with soup.

She chuckled, hiding her mouth behind her hand, and spoke up. “Kids, listen; once everyone has finished their portion, we'll serve seconds! Just be patient, ok?”

Hopeful eyes widened and turned to stare at the slow eaters and the younger kids.

She knew she shouldn't, but their stares were too funny to ignore, and she giggled. A little girl looked up from her bowl and smiled, only for an older boy to whisper in her ear. Her eyes went round, and she plunged back into her soup bowl, racing to finish it.

A pair of footsteps came from her left. She turned her head to find Marcel accompanying the young boy she'd intercepted earlier. He was shuffling his feet and stared at the tips of his shoes, like a prisoner walking to the gallows.

She sighed with a smile, got up, ladled a bowl of soup, then picked up a portion of veggie bread, and walked over to meet the incoming pair. They stopped, and the boy eventually looked up through his hair, blinking in surprise when he found a warm smile instead of a scowl.

Niala offered the food to the boy, who hesitated for a few seconds before accepting it. He gave her one last look, then headed toward the farthest spot he could find to sit down and begin eating.

Marcel walked up to Niala. “I'm guessing Donnie's the kid you saw?”

“He is.”

“You're certain he stole something?” The bearkin asked, sounding like he wished he hadn't.

She shook her head. “I just know city guards were running after him, and he was clutching a bundle in his arms.”

He dredged out a sigh. “They're good kids. They know stealing is bad.”

She smiled at him. “I'm sure they do. They look like they have a kind caretaker.”

His mouth hung open for half a second before he clamped it down. “Hrrm, yeah, well, I do what I can.”

“It looks like it, but it also looks like you don't get what you need. Are you an official orphanage?”

He narrowed his eyes. “You're asking because we should be getting funding if we are, right?”

Her eyes answered that question.

Marcel shook his head downward before looking back up. “It's complicated. I'll tell you after we're done with the meal and the older kids can oversee their play period for a bit.”

She nodded. “I just want to help,” she reminded him, smiling.

“Yeah, well, help usually don't come free,” he shot back before returning to his chair.

The rest of dinner time went by without much trouble. Niala gave seconds to nearly everyone, with only a few of the smaller kids letting her know they weren't hungry anymore.

The mounting uproar of screams and laughter signalled the end of the meal and the beginning of play time. Marcel directed the kids out into the courtyard, tasking the older ones with overseeing the rest and keeping them within the boundary of the monastery.

With that done, he led David and Niala to a small office which looked half-forgotten. Marcel cleared the light layer of dust as he sat down in a creaking chair and waited for them to do the same from across the old desk.

He clasped his hands together and looked in their direction and weakly smiled. “First, thank you for the meal. It was probably the best soup I've ever had, and certainly the best for the kids.”

His expression flattened. “Now, you say you want to help, but you came here chasing one of my kids. I'm telling you right now, whatever he might have done, I know it was for a good reason, and I'm not going to let you drag him away from here unless he wants to.”

David crossed his arms and leaned back, staring at the bearkin, who held his gaze.

Niala gave her husband a side-eye and a frown before turning to look at Marcel and smiling. “I told you already, we just want to help. Before we get to Donnie, could you tell us a bit about this monastery? Why are you alone taking care of over thirty kids? There's another orphanage in town and-”

The bearkin growled. “And they don't feed their kids right! Or teach them anything but the barest of letters and numbers! They're just keeping them alive until they can kick them out when they turn seventeen!”

His hands separated and balled into fists. “The kids are left out there with barely anything; no marketable skills, no knowledge on how to be an adult! At best, the boys become labourers, and the girls housemaids. At worst...” He gritted his teeth, then forced himself to take a deep breath.

He continued with a tenuous calm. “This was a monastery of Saint Oridor, the saint of family, guardianship and belonging. It was founded a few years after Bellharbour itself, and it grew alongside it. It has always doubled as the local orphanage, just like any other small town where his faithful erect a monastery, because that's what Saint Oridor stood for.”

He paused, his eyes remembering older times, before sighing and continuing. “I was raised here myself, and when I turned seventeen I decided to join the order, to give back as I'd received. Even then though, the monastery had been on the decline for a long time. There were few brothers and sisters left, and donations were drying up.”

Marcel leaned back in his chair. “About thirty years ago, the order decided it couldn't support this place anymore. However, since we had a few orphans back then still, they asked for volunteers to stay and take care of them while the town built a new, official orphanage. I was one of two who stayed. The other, Sister Saria, passed away ten years ago.”

Niala's ears wiggled. “Why do you have so many kids still, then? Your last wards would have grown out of this place a long time ago.”

Marcel dipped his head. “Some did; the others were transferred to the new orphanage. Aria and I were in the process of closing down the monastery for good, selling its land, and so on when one of the older kids we sent there came back to see us; he'd been nearly seventeen, so he only stayed there for a season.”

He growled. “What he told us made us enrage; preportioned meals for everyone, the most basic of teaching, regimented playtime with 'approved' games only.” His hard eyes looked at them in turn. “It's run like a prison. We lodged complaints with the town hall, asked to be recognized as the official orphanage instead of a monastery; we would take care of all the kids.”

He hit the desk with his fist. “But we were ignored, and I learned why some time after; the monastery borders the noble district, and it's a large parcel of prime land. Some of the nobles want us gone as an eyesore; some want the land for themselves to build a mansion, so they blocked us. We kept pushing, though, and we found enough kind ears to sign a petition and have the building declared an auxiliary of the main orphanage. We'd be funded by them, and we could take in kids again.”

David quirked a brow. “Could have fooled me about the funds. Didn't look like you received any.”

“We don't!” Marcel barked, leaned back into his chair, defeated. “We don't... We're supposed to, but that pit-bound purser always finds a reason to withhold most of it. I spend everything we get on food and school supplies, and then I go out and beg for more.”

He let out a long, deep sigh. “Once I'm too old to take care of this place, the kids will have to go to the main orphanage, and I've never managed to get them to change their ways.”

David smirked. “I think you'll be alright.”

Marcel blinked. “What? Why?”

“You have attracted the attention of a guardian angel.”

The bearkin frowned. “What are you talking about?”

David tilted his head to his left, toward Niala.

Marcel turned his head and flinched back as two wide, glistening amethyst eyes were locked onto him. Niala, with small tears beading at the corners of her eyes, spoke with the devotion of a paladin about to step onto the battlefield.

“Mr. Marcel. We're going to make this orphanage the best orphanage the kingdom has ever known.” She declared, nodding as she finished.

“Listen, Girlie, I know you mean well, and you did give me quite a bit of money, but neither of you look like nobles or rich merchants, and that's the kind of pull you'll need to change things around here.”

The man grinned, while the woman gave him a toothed smile.

Marcel suddenly hoped he hadn't actually attracted a pair of fanatics to his little corner of the world.

He wasn't sure the old monastery could weather that kind of storm.