Erick just looked at the skeleton woman, uncomprehending.

Priestess noticed. She explained, “We have well over sixty archmage-level casters. Do you know how many archmages there are in the Wasteland? The answer is three. In the rest of the world? 47, with most of them being wrought who hide down in the Geodes who deal with their own problems, divorced from the rest of the world. On the surface? There are 17, and you, makes 18. We have more archmages than the rest of the world combined. And we know where every single one of them hides.

“Even if they were to fight us, we would win in the long run.” She added, “And even if we lose the initial confrontation, we just resurrect the fallen. The only ones capable of true resurrections out in the world are the Lifebinder, with her imperfect spells, and a handful of others down at the Fractured Citadels. Only Messalina is a free agent, but even with her, whom we would just kill at the first real instance of her joining a war, all of them are hindered by the Headmaster’s hatred of [Resurrection].

“We have already won any true war. And even if we Shades and the other archmages wisely stayed off of the field of battle, all of this—” She gestured out over the waters of the pond in front of them, to the Palace, to the air above, then back to Erick. “All of this is veneer to our true power. You saw the souls wandering the crystal roads near the Spire, did you not? Those ones are capable of being raised into generals, and commanders. But out in the city? Those wild shadows? They’re all alive, and we could turn them into a chaotic force to cleanse the world nine times over, before the Geodes could ever respond. There are hundreds of thousands of waiting soldiers in every single kendrithyst spire in this city.

“We have already won any possible martial victory, Erick.” She said, “This is what victory looks like for us. Every day, we Shades challenge those who would challenge God, in order to forge the world stronger than it was the day before. I will admit that the horror and the bloodshed can be a bit much sometimes, but you cannot bake a cake without breaking eggs.”

Anger rose in Erick as the skeleton spoke. When she was done with her sermon, for of course, priests couldn’t speak without giving a sermon, Erick shot back, “Then why does Melemizargo believe himself in a [Mesmerize]? Why haven’t you broken the world completely?”

“We have helped him when he has asked. He’s usually only asked for oddities or for generalities, but this Candlepoint thing was his idea, from start to finish, and we Clergy readily followed his commands. But before you came along and lit a Fire for Melemizargo, it was much, much harder to organize the crazed and the murderous Shades into a cohesive whole.” She added, “We don’t destroy the world, because that is not who we are, though our doctrines do tend to draw those types to the Clergy. In the end, we support all who would make the world stronger than it was before.”

Erick felt like that was a lie. He couldn’t quite tell how he could tell, but something about this whole conversation felt off. He looked to the stretched-skeleton of the Priestess, and said, “You have no facial features so that you can lie easier.”

She looked down, and folded her bare-bones hands over each other, on top of her black-cloth wrapped legs. “That is not why I am like this, but you are not the first to level this complaint at me.” She spoke with a heavy voice. “I used to be alvani; the child of the love between an angel and a human. But then the Ancient Demons acted as Ancient Demons did, and killed my people, and every other Half on Veird, in an attempt to murder the remaining angels.

“I keep this form because it is as close to my own as I can, but I cannot ever regain who I was, because the Script denies me my truth. When the Ancient Demons killed the Halves, their changes to the Script collapsed part of that great and terrible magic, ensuring that their damage could never be undone.” She looked across the pond, to Quilatalap, and his people. The orcol glanced her way, but turned back to his students, as Priestess said, “Have you not wondered why Quilatalap is an orcol? Those people did not exist before the Sundering, before the treachery of the Ancient Demons, and the creation of the incani. He might be a lich twice as old as the Script itself, but even he cannot circumvent this particular problem of the over-magic that strangles this world.”

As Priestess went quiet, Erick simply sat there, and wondered at her words. He imagined that he would be wondering at her words for a long time, but right now, words only laid the foundation for further words, and that seemed rather useless. Maybe Priestess was telling him the truth, or maybe she was simply speaking of truths that Erick wanted to hear. Whatever the case, she had implied that she was older than the Script, and had lived through the Sundering.

“How old were you when the Sundering happened?”

Priestess said, “A hundred and one.” She added, “After the Sundering, I perished. I have come back since then, occasionally, but only when Melemizargo demands. My life is in His hands, and though I have seen many horrors carried out in His name, I have always stood by His side. But I have only lived a handful of centuries since the Script took hold of Veird.” She lifted her right arm and regarded the bones, and the black cloth that wrapped around invisible flesh. The bones were cracking; tiny hairline fractures that leaked shadow, but at her directed sight, the bone returned to solid. Erick hadn’t noticed, until that moment, but her whole body was in a constant state of decay. “It is painful to live this life, but I am the only one of my kind left, and it is impossible to simply move on to a new vessel; I have tried. My soul is held together by His Wizardry, Erick, for the only other option is the End, and I will not go quietly into oblivion.”

Erick looked away, not sure how to respond to the depth of the conviction in her voice. Eventually, he managed to say, “Sorry that happened to you.”

She sat straight. “Yes. It is a sorry thing.” She asked, “What do you know of Wizards?”

Erick rolled with the conversation, saying, “They cause magic to manifest in odd ways and they’re capable of feats outside of the Script. And that they caused the Sundering.” He added, “And I just learned that they produce mana.”

Priestess nodded. “It is entirely possible that the Old Wizards caused the Sundering, but that is doubtful. They were not all-powerful. Even before the Script, with its Propagation Ban, replication magic was rather limited in scope because the Darkness was there to prevent the more horrendous abuses of magic. But speaking of... The Bans of the Script is a good segue into Wizardry.

“We do not know how the Sundering happened, but all of the Bans were created to stop the most obvious ways that the Sundering could have occurred. Propagation, for obvious reasons. Dimensional, for similarly obvious reasons. The Infinitesimal Ban was not to stop Particle Magic, though that is probably what led to Particle Magic never being discovered until now. That third Ban was enacted to prevent people from interacting with the Script itself, and to limit the creation of Wizards.” She looked to Erick, adding, “Though some Wizards still exist, by proof of your own existence sitting right in front of me.”

Erick scrunched his eyebrows at the woman.

“I can see you are confused. It is a confusing topic, with many, many parallels into your current situation. Keep in mind, though, that I feel you have not fully explored your own Wizardry, and I wish to help you make the final leap, as it were, to True Wizardry. You must also keep in mind that some of the facts of the Old Cosmology are still true to this day. Let me explain:

“Before the Sundering, Wizards created new magics.

“This creation was due entirely to the fact that Wizards created mana. Like Xoat who came First, all Wizards naturally create mana that is perfectly attuned to them.

“As an aside: All creatures created mana back before the Sundering, but only Wizards did so in a measurable abundance. Even the strongest Archmage had to use exterior mana in order to cast.

“This mana used to need to be refined into usable mana and held in your ‘core’, which was your mana pool. Then you took your core and cast your spells.” She pointed to the white core in the center of her own ribcage. “Shades use this old method of casting. This method of casting is not blockable by the Script if you gain Melemizargo’s favor and are broken from the Script with His Wizardry.

“Anyway: Wizards created more mana than any other creature or person or sunstone, or anything else. Taking this perfectly attuned mana, they Created, Destroyed, and caused Paradoxes. For mana is possibility, and when mana is perfectly tuned to a person, the possibilities are infinite.

“Wizards created mana. Their students, the mages, could take this excess environmental mana into their own cores, and cast the spells of their Wizard benefactors. This was how the mage dynasties came into being.

“The Script stopped all of that, with the Infinitesimal Ban. Whatever minuscule personal mana is generated by the people of Veird these days is automagically manifested in the Core of Veird.”

Erick wasn’t sure about any of that. His understanding of the Infinitesimal Ban was not Priestess’s understanding. But. Sure, some of her words might be true, but when the gods took Erick up to be judged by Atunir, Sininindi, and Phagar, they had used the words ‘Atomic Magic’ and ‘fusion and fission are not possible under the Sundering Bans’, or something like that. They had certainly used ‘infinitesimal’ to mean the same thing as ‘atomic’, hadn’t they?

… There was something strange going on here. Either this woman was lying to him, or the gods were. Or maybe they were both telling the truth? Maybe the Infinitesimal Ban worked on more than just Particles, and it was a happy coincidence that atomic bombs weren’t possible under the Script? Stranger things had happened?

Or. Hmm...

Rozeta had once said that other planar people had fallen to Veird who held similar knowledge as Erick. During that conversation in that black volcano, someone had asked after the possibility of creating another Ban. Maybe they had already created an ‘Atomic Ban’, and Erick had been conflating that one with ‘Infinitesimal Ban’ this whole time? The gods were known to let people think whatever they wanted to think, after all; Rozeta, in particular, was heavily guilty of this.

If an ‘Atomic Ban’ was out there, and specifically killed all atomic weaponry…

How come no one had ever heard of ‘Particles’ before?

Ah. Right. The gods might have released a Forgotten Campaign to kill that magic. Maybe… Maybe the mage who made Atomic Magic had never shared their magic like Erick had, and the choice to enact a Forgotten Campaign was much easier against that forgotten mage?

How would Erick even go about searching for that sort of magic? To see if he was right? He could just talk to Phagar, maybe. If knowledge of all atomic spells were truly erased from Veird, then Phagar would know.

Should he ask Phagar that question, though?

Priestess continued, “But as a Wizard, it is possible to focus on increasing your own production of mana, on drawing out infinity through the void as the Wizards of Old once did.” Now excited, Priestess said, “And then you can condense a core, and with a core, you can cast true Wizardry! You can do anything you want! You might even be able to create [Gate]s back to your own world, or guard yourself against any exterior magic, or any number of other techniques.”

Oh, yeah. That. Erick saw right through all of that. “You mean I can cause a mana rad to condense around my heart, and thus fall to monsterfication and into Melemizargo’s claws.”

Priestess lightly shook her head, as she said, “Ah. No. That would not happen, but I can see how you would think this. I can see you don’t trust me, or any of us, and that is sad, but understandable. Thank you for listening to me. Even this much is more than I could have hoped for.” She slowly stood, to float into the air away from Erick.

Erick stood, to bid her farewell, but—

She turned to Erick, saying, “I will leave you with this: Wizards, once they create their core and solidify their Wizardry, cannot change their choice. Creation, Destruction, Paradox. Whichever one you choose, that is you, forever.

“You have likely used some of your Wizardry to create Particle Magic, but you cannot have used much of it, since you have only been on Veird for a very short time, and people the entire world over are inventing Particle Spells. In addition to that, I cannot feel any mana coming off from you at all, so if it were not for My God, I would not consider you a Wizard at all.

“It is my guess that in the creation of Particle Magic, you merely unlocked something that was already here to begin with.

“But even if you did use your Wizardry to craft Particle Magic into the world, without a core you cannot have done much harm to your future power.

“Whatever choice you make with your power, sundering souls is how most people create excess mana these days. If you used your Wizardry specifically to create more mana, then when we eventually spread to the other worlds of this New Cosmology, we won’t have to sunder souls in order to fill these new worlds with mana.”

Erick froze.

Priestess spoke with a terrible, soft voice, “We never hid the fact that Melemizargo wants to spread from this Scripted world. You and many, many world leaders have already put all the clues together. Good for you.

“But know this:

“When we are successful in our travels to new worlds, there will be a problem. A problem for you. Not for us.

“When I say ‘us’ I’m not speaking of just us Shades and of the Clergy. I mean everyone on Veird. The Interfaith Church. The rulers of all the nations of Veird. All of us! Once word gets out that we can travel to new worlds and turn those dead hunks of rock out there into living worlds, everyone will want a piece, and Melemizargo will give it to them, as the God of Magic always has.

“But these new worlds would be empty of mana, for they have had no Script to hold in that mana.” The Priestess said, “Worlds without mana are useless, and we will all look to the Wizards and the condemned to power these new worlds, and the result won’t be pretty, for you, or for others.

