After a thorough explanation of Vanya’s ideas for a Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge, Soltic was impressed. Lord Jarod and Lady Glariol had been more than that. They had begun to speak of plans, and hidden resources, and what would need to happen, going forward, for Vanya’s plan to actually happen. Primarily, they needed to link with others in the city, to get the Church and the Regency and the Dungeon Guild ready to accept an adjustment of at least one of the seven dungeons. If the adjustments went well, and if others approved, then they could go forward with all the rest of the Grand Dungeon creation.

“The first major issue to solve is getting Vanya approved by the lords. We’ll set that up, but you have to follow through.” Lord Jarod finished with, “So hide. Delve for a while. Find out everything you can. We’ll contact you in four days with more information. Be prepared to defend your ideas, and your self.”

Soon enough, Soltic and Vanya were back at their rooms in the Dungeon Guild.

It was time for Erick to learn a special technique.

They were under an Obfuscation and Privacy spell, because Erick, as Erick, stood on one side of the room and Quilatalap, as Quilatalap, stood on the other. A simple grand rad hovered in the air between them. It was not special in any specific way, having been one of any number of suitable grand rads taken out of Quilatalap’s storage rooms for this task, but it was necessary to learn this specific trick; smaller rads didn’t pull in mana like a grand rad did. Even now, the grand rad was subtly shaping the manasphere around it, drawing in mana like a siphon, like a weaker version of a dungeon’s entrance, and core.

Erick shook out his hands to loosen up, then he reached his aura out to cover the rad, manually shaping a spell, humming as he did so, locking his resonance to the crystalline growth’s own resonance. Quilatalap looked on, not saying anything; just watching. Rapidly, Erick felt a connection to the rad take hold. The malformed sphere of crystal began to resonate with the very air, pulling in even more atmospheric mana; pulling in Erick’s mana—

The grand rad shimmered and cracked, filling the air with a spark of blue fire—

“Dammit,” Erick said, knowing what was coming already.

The grand rad suddenly flashed over, igniting like black powder, sending plumes of blue fire into the air. That fire washed over the room, alighting the space with tiny blue flames that began to turn orange as the bedding, the drapes, and the floor caught flame.

Grand rads were not normally so volatile, but this particular one was, for whatever reason. Quilatalap thought that the problem was on Erick’s end, and so, like he had said a few times already—

“You’re gonna want to [Return],” Quilatalap said, nonjudgmental.

Erick sighed. And then he [Return]ed to 10 seconds in the past, sending his cognizance into his perspective of before he had fucked up the experiment. The grand rad hovered before him, and Erick did not continue as he was supposed to. Instead, he looked to Quilatalap and said, “I have never needed to use [Return] so many times in a single day. Explain it to me again, in a different way than you did before.”

Quilatalap looked at him. “… How many failures has that been?”

“Three [Return]s. Catastrophic failure each time.”

“Maybe you’re trying too hard… Or have I suggested that already?”

Erick explained his process succinctly, “Elemental Book in my aura. Surround the rad. Resonate with the rad. Feel the words spill out of it. Don’t push too hard. It’s not [Editing Aura]; it’s simply checking on the makeup of the grand rad, of the organized structure of the mana therein.”

“Let’s try it from the second part of the process; might have more luck there.” Quilatalap moved on, explaining once again, “This experiment here is simply a test run, to get you familiar with the process of interfacing with a rad, but you won’t be able to interface with the dungeon core, and the developed version of this magic isn’t meant to allow you to interface directly with a dungeon core, anyway. This magic is to allow you to look as though from a grand distance; anywhere inside a dungeon core space. Close, far, doesn’t matter.

“So, this time, I want you to hold your mana open and let Elemental Book flow through the air to the grand rad. Don’t envelop the rad entirely. Check on it from afar.

“When your mana touches the rad, I want you to take that ephemeral connection and see what the Book tells you. You might make a spell out of it here on Veird, but the only way it’s going to work inside a dungeon is if you know how to work it correctly, without Script assistance.” Quilatalap added, “And you’re not trying to [Identify] the grand rad, though this spell is loosely based on [Identify]. You’re trying to mana sense the parameters of the dominant mana controller in the area. Different applications of this magic can let you identify Domain work without [Identify]ing anything at all.”

“[Identify] without [Identify],” Erick said, “Sure. I’ll try it again that way.”

Quilatalap nodded.

Erick stood a bit straighter. And then he held out his aura, flowed some Elemental Book through all of himself and also the air, and felt the subtle pull of the grand rad’s flow, tugging his Book into the malformed crystal. He watched the world with his mana sense...

And it was working this time. Erick did not get a blue box, but he did get to read the mana in the air. It was sort of like reading, anyway. It was also sort of like listening, and feeling, and knowing—

He got a blue box.

Mana Reading, concentration, special range, 5 mana per second

Attempt to understand and label the predominant forces in the mana. Specific targets with specific connections give better readings.

He also got a stream of words crossing through his senses, though they were more like idea-forms, and not like words at all.

Fire. Death. A malformation of snake and bird. A trickster that has been tricked. Level 59. Forms of Couatl. Variant. Killed by Death. Illusion and whimsy and hate. Kill the living. Transform bones into babies. Spread. Plague. Grow and tear. Strength 57. Vitality 89. Willpower 38. Focus 99. Age 3. Natural Flight. Decay Venom. Toxic Immunity. Fires of the Damned. Crawler of Pestilence. Drinker of the Damned. Floater in the trees. Strikes-from-behind...

As the deluge of information flooded Erick’s Sight, he rapidly began to understand that he was seeing the grand rad through the lens of Elemental Book, joined to the viewpoint of the Script. When he had that realization the information shifted; instead of being a floating impression of Elemental Book, of words, Erick saw fragments of events inside those words. The words were not simply telling a story, they were illustrating that story.

It was a story of the largest events in the Death Couatl’s life. The moment when the couatl turned into a thing of bones and venom and illusion magics; when it killed a group of pixies at the edge of pixie lands; when it was killed in return, and yet reformed later, for it was a natural undead and it could not be killed so easily as normal creatures could be killed.

Erick watched the death couatl die to the pixies, and its grand rad harvested from the body, ensuring that it remained dead. The grand rad had changed hands many times, Erick saw, but he could not see those hands, exactly. Whatever the case, it had ended up here, in this room, under this experiment…

Erick pulled back, then looked to Quilatalap.

Quilatalap was grinning. “It worked that time. What did you see?”

“A variant couatl. Death, Decay-Fire, along with the usual couatl bend toward Illusion. Pixies killed it eventually.” Erick said, “I got a spell, too. [Mana Reading]. Not a base spell, though. What’s the base spell?”

“[Identify]. Could also be [Witness]. Not sure.”

Erick scrunched his face. “ ‘Not sure’?”

Quilatalap chuckled. “[Mana Reading] isn’t a base spell like [Witness], because if it were then you’d have 10 ranks of it. You can’t buy it for a point, which means that it’s one of the hidden spells that you have to make yourself. In addition, [Mana Reading] is only ever attained by people who put a lot of effort into Book Magic and mana sensing and aura control, so the exact way that [Mana Reading] happens is up for debate.” Quilatalap shrugged. “An academic debate, too. It’s not even a useful spell in almost all ways, because, again, it’s Book Magic. You could probably ask Rozeta if you wanted to know the real truth of the progenitor of [Mana Reading]. I certainly don’t know how all the magic of the Script got there in the first place.”

Erick smiled a little at that. Sometimes, in their teaching sessions, he reached the end of Quilatalap’s knowledge, and every time it surprised him.

Quilatalap continued, “Anyway. With the level of personal control you have shown, you should be able to read a dungeon core rather well from anywhere inside a dungeon. From there, you can use what you find to plan a course of attack, or of change. The spell doesn’t give you any real power, though. Just information.” Quilatalap said, “Like. Let us pretend this couatl rad was a dungeon core. Using this magic, I would see that the couatl is death-aligned and dislikes pixies, so, in order to infiltrate the dungeon all the way down to its core without setting it off, I could transform myself into a full skeleton, and then walk into the place and talk about killing annoying pixies. I could do that for a day or two, and eventually the core would make contact with me because it would see in me a kindred spirit. From there, if I got closer to the core, or if I could at least have a direct line of sight to it, then I might be able to cast this same sort of magic again and get even better information with which to tailor the rest of my approach. At the very least, if the dungeon does not approach you, then you can use this sort of magic to track down the flow of mana in a dungeon, in more precise ways, and figure out where the core actually is. There’s a lot of caveats to the usefulness of this spellwork, and it is very soft in its usefulness, but when it works, it works well.”

Erick smiled a little bit. “Sometimes it takes Jane a week to find an uncooperative dungeon core.”

Quilatalap shrugged. “If you want to teach her this magic, you can, but it only really works on dungeon cores that aren’t trying to fuck you over. This sort of spell can be used to get a generalized, Book Magic interpretation of any active spell effect, actually. You can even use it against other people a little bit, but biology gets in the way of that. And, like I’ve said more than a few times, it’s Book Magic; it’s not precise, it’s not foolproof, it’s not to be relied upon. But it can give you clues to follow up on, if you know how to read it right.” He added, “Those caveats are why Book Magic isn’t more widely used; it relies too much on your own vision and point of view to make sense of what it’s sensing.”

“I get it, I get it. Jane probably wouldn't be interested anyway.” Erick said, “I still don’t understand how she goes into dungeons all the damned time. And not just the nice dungeons, but the dungeons that have gone bad or been abused and who want to kill everyone for those hatreds.”

“Aye; she likely couldn’t use [Mana Reading], or simple mana reading.” Quilatalap said, “And don’t forget that some dungeons are simply born hostile to life. It might help to think of dungeons less like gate spaces, and more like alternate realities anchored to this one via a specialized mana core. Sometimes alternate realities are simply hostile to everything.”

“Ahh… Yeah. Kinda sad, isn’t it?”

Quilatalap shrugged. “Life is kinda sad sometimes, causing all sorts of possibilities to spring to being in the Dark, as we live and work and dream of other places and possibilities.”

“… Huh. You know… I don’t think I have a single Elemental Dream spell. Are there many of those?”

“There used to be a lot of Elemental Dream. Now, though, it’d call Dream one of the Very Esoteric Elements; mostly the realm of the gods these days. Maybe some Mind Mages, too. The Red Dream of the Orcols is both Dream and the domain of Aloethag, for instance.” Quilatalap said, “Elemental Dream is close to Elemental Illusion, but heavily angled toward Chaos. Some call Elemental Dream as Pure Chaos, but that’s untrue. Elemental Dream is very good for meeting others on a level field, exposing neither side to danger. Of course, Elemental Dream is very bad about doing what you want it to do, and working how you want it to work. When Paradox Wizards talk to other versions of themselves, that’s sort of like Dreaming.”

“Well that’s all rather interesting.” Erick moved the conversation back to the current work. “What’s the spell to change the dungeon without others knowing?”

“That was a little lie of mine. It’s actually just [Editing Aura], and many small pieces of the cores of dungeons I have worked on before. The only part you’re missing are the pieces of other dungeons, but you can accrete a small duplicate fraction of your own core and use that instead.”

Erick was chuckling. “You acted like you knew some special magics back there with Jarod and Glariol! It’s just [Editing Aura]!”

Quilatalap smiled warmly. “Us ‘cultists’ don’t give up information about ourselves nearly as well as you ‘xoatists’.”

Erick felt his face heat as his expression dropped. He whispered, “Gods above, I have to act like a Xoatist now, don’t I.”

Quilatalap chuckled, transforming back into Vanya before he was finished laughing, a deep belly mirth turning into a happy woman’s giggle. “We should visit the local Xoatist church!”

“No,” Erick said, as he turned into Soltic.

“It’ll be fun! We can see what they’re saying about you, you can half-die from embarrassment, and you can also see what a Xoatist service is like! Who knows! You might have to really pretend to be one of them in front of Lord and Lady Maryol.”

“I will get by with being thought of as a yet-another lying immortal, thank you very much.”

Vanya giggled again.

Before they continued with their day, Soltic opened a [Gate] back to Vanya’s grand rad hoard and she put the couatl rad back in its stasis lock on its appropriate shelf. And then it was time for dungeon delve #2, this time in dungeon 1, the central dungeon of the 7 dungeons of the Pit.

- - - -

The last delve of the day, the 4 pm slot, was one of the worst delves of the day for a few reasons, though you couldn’t tell any of those reasons without going inside. Even from the inside, things looked mostly normal.

But the air had a sinister quality to it that it didn’t have in the earlier delving time slots.

Stone barges covered the land in every direction, looking like the tops of thick walls in an open-air maze filled with water. Iridescent white coral growths stuck up here and there, like solid, 3-meter tall messes of porous bone, frozen in an unseen current. The sky above was the underside of a water’s surface, while the water down here, between the roads, was a dark abyss. Dungeon 1 looked almost identical to dungeon 5, from yesterday, but the absolute shape of it all was very different. Only someone who looked out for details could really tell the difference, though, and only in the shape of the roads and the positions of the coral.

Soltic spotted even more extra details than the normal ones. The water looked a little red in spots, but then, when he looked directly, the red was gone. The corals looked sharper; more brittle. The sky was dimmer, as though clouds held far above the watery surface.

And the amount of loot was less. That was the major change in the late-day delving time slot. The dungeon had to grow its loot; and that growing took time. The best time to delve was in the morning, at the crack of dawn, but those slots were reserved for the Regency forces; the public was not allowed in those first-loot dives.

Vanya strode across the shimmer of darkness that separated the safe entrance from the rest of the dungeon, headed toward the first coral growth, saying, “Even if the take is a lot less than at the beginning of the day, we gotta do a full clear, because I want some new clothes.”

A minor lie. They needed to do a full clear so that all the traps were sprung and all the danger was done, and then the core would become exposed. Theoretically. At least that’s what the Maryols had guessed and Vanya had also guessed; they didn’t really know. For all of the Maryol’s nobility and connections in Storm’s Edge, they were just adventuring nobles who existed outside of the system here at the Pit. They knew a lot, but not as much as insiders, and that was by the design of the Regency.

Vanya was of the opinion that the dungeon had maybe three zones. The first zone, where they were now, a ‘free for all zone’ at the second floor, where the fish and such lived and ate and did whatever, and then there was the third floor, where the core was. Though to call them ‘floors’ was a misnomer. This top ‘floor’ was surely a floor; it was flat and expansive enough. But the space below the barges, below the abyss, was likely a series of holding tanks filled with monsters, and completely not set up for people to move through.

Whatever the case, they needed a full dungeon run in order to force the dungeon to spend enough resources on driving Vanya and Soltic away so that there was less between her and the core. A delve through the second layer, beyond the abyss below, would be better, but that was not going to happen.

But in order to do a full clear up here...

Soltic frowned as he followed Vanya, saying, “So one of us has to attack the tentacles, enraging the octopus, and then we die, and the danger ramps up considerably.”

“You don’t have to attack the tentacles with me. You can keep a lookout for the radiant eel and try to kill it when it shows.”

Soltic breathed a bit, then said, “How about we try… I don’t know. Anything else in order to talk to the dungeon.”

“Well…” Vanya glanced back at him, and then paused her walk, and turned around. “Dungeons are places of controlled chaos, with a few different ways to do them correctly for the best benefit, but that benefit is measured out by the dungeon itself, and the values of two different people are often not the same at all. And yes, dungeons are people. It’s very possible to break the systems they impose in order to impose your own solutions. The purpose of the Trials of the Dark, after all, is to help people become stronger on their own merit. So, if you can break the dungeon, then you deserve to break the dungeon and impose your will upon it.” Vanya said, “Just know that if you break the dungeon by doing something truly outside of the scope of the dungeon, then you might actually break the dungeon, Soltic. This means that all the monsters are released, the bosses go wild, and a bunch of other shit happens, but you do gain access to the core, and are able to truly impose your will.” She asked, “So? Do you want to break the dungeon, and deal with that plague? Or do you want to do it normally, allowing me to get close to the core without causing any longer-term problems for us?”

“… Let’s do it normally. I’ll stand back and you can do whatever you want.”

Vanya smiled a little. “Thank you. I’ll attack the tentacles. Let it take me, or whatever it wants to do. You stand back.”

Soltic nodded a little, but said nothing else.

And Vanya turned to the coral they had reached while talking. It was a normal 3-meter tall tower of twisting ‘bone’, with a hollow cavity in the center that was filled with liquid light, and a little collection of gold wires inside that light. The wires were much smaller than they were the other day. This small bit was only worth about 3 or 4 gold, though it would have to be mixed with other metals and transformed into coins in order to be worth that much.

With a quick ripple of Force, Vanya severed the coral growth from top to bottom right, perfectly missing the cavity in the center. As a third of the coral slid off the tower and crashed into the water, the gold stood exposed among a splash of light, and Vanya grabbed the gold.

Instantly, bubbles burbled from the waters; 4 of them. Each bubble burst, releasing a toother; a rather standard variation of what happened to normal, small fish when they monsterized. As Vanya killed those toothers and pulled out the rads from the two real ones, Soltic stood back, preparing to watch Vanya die.

… And then nothing happened. The two copied toothers broke apart into motes of mana, while the red pools from the two real ones began to drip down the sides of the stone barge, into the waters. As blood spread, nothing happened—

Vanya had been waiting for it, but she stood up suddenly.

“Oh. Right,” Soltic said, realizing what Vanya had just realized. “We got to the second growth before the tentacles came out.”

Vanya smiled, and then they moved on to the second coral growth, saying, “This place has solid-set rules! I’m impressed.” With the passing of a monowire line of Force, Vanya carved her way into the second growth and then, with other magics, she pulled out the goods and stuffed it into a bag, along with the other rads. Bubbles burbled from the waters again, and a quick whip-crack of Force ended the decay-eel threat before it could get close enough to harm.

Putrid green eel slapped against the stone road—

A thick, red-purple tentacle, lined with fangs and suckers, whipped out of the water to slam onto the fish bits. Vanya met the intruder with a line of molecular Force, while laying several other lines of molecular Force all around her battlefield.

The tentacle crashed into the cutting wire and then, like it had touched a burning stove, or like it had strummed a cutting string on a banjo, the tentacle pulled back. Or at least it tried to. The wire had dug into the flesh, halfway, and when the creature pulled back, bleeding profusely, it didn’t pull directly backward. It retreated at an angle, cutting off a good section of its body, leaving behind a meter-long section of flesh, festooned with suckers and fangs and bright blue blood.

The ocean under the barges screamed—

A hundred tentacles reached up from the waters nearby, each of them already scrambling over themselves in their haste to get to Vanya, who had turtled-up behind layers and layers of monowire Force. It was not a one-sided battle, as Soltic had initially suspected it would be. Vanya was surprised her wires held out for more than half a second, too.

The wires didn’t even break in the assault, either. What got Vanya was much more simple than tentacles reaching for her, and capturing her, to rip her apart.

She lasted three seconds. Maybe three and a half seconds. Tentacles broke. Blue blood went everywhere. The ocean screamed. And water boiled over the edges of the stone walkway. A half a tentacle got through the wire cage, and that was it. The slickness of the floor is what actually did Vanya in. Perhaps an [Alter Friction] was used, too. Vanya put [Alter Friction] on her monowires, too, and that was a Force spell, in a Force dungeon, so it made sense that the octopus could do something similar.

Vanya had secured her footing with a flight spell, but that didn’t seem to matter.

She slipped. She carved herself upon her own defenses, and from there it was a quick end. The octopus got hold of her, and through a surge of water from the side…

Soltic watched as Vanya passed through her own slicer, and disappeared into the water, into a boiling of tentacles and an exultation of triumph from the octopus, still deep under the abyss, down below the stone barges. Soltic had remained 20 meters away this whole time.

All he could do was watch.

When the disaster was over, he sat himself down on the stone ground, and waited, mumbling to himself, “I thought I was done with therapy, but I suppose I have something new to talk about.” He sat there on the cold stone and watched, almost lazily, as a slow radiant eel came out of the waters to the right, glowing as bright as the sun. It plucked a distant coral from the roads, turning the bone-like material into countless iridescent white fish, and, perhaps lazily, took the gold wires down into the depths. The eel did this once more, and then a third time, but by then, Erick’s melancholy had turned to anger. He said to the dungeon, “Fuck you.”

He took aim. A well-formed and powered [Force Beam] lanced out of Soltic’s aura, traveling a much longer distance than a normal [Force Beam], to clip the radiant eel on the tail, scattering motes of radiance off into the air. The eel yipped, then dove down into the depths, before it could take the coral and its prize.

Soltic stood up and prepared for the tentacles to come for him. They weren’t supposed to, according to the dungeon’s design and history, but dungeons got weird sometimes.

Nothing happened for five minutes, and then the safe space by the dungeon entrance flashed over, completely dark. When the dark retreated Vanya stood there, naked and cognizant and then rapidly applying magics to herself to conjure her armor. Soltic knew that she did not really die; that she was always going to come back. But still, watching her be shoved through her own magic like that was…

“That was uncomfortable,” Vanya said, walking close enough that they were together again. She wrapped Soltic in a quick hug, then pulled away. “The octopus has a [Force Domain]. I probably could have taken it if it hadn’t taken over control of my Force spellwork.”

Soltic blinked a few times. “It took over your spellwork?” And then he realized. “Oh. It has Force Weaver— Oh. The dungeon only allows Force Magic but the dungeon master has Force Weaver, so… No wonder no one has ever been able to kill the octopus.”

“It has something like Force Weaver; not sure if it has that Ability specifically. Whatever it was, it corrupted my natural connection to my mana, usurping control, but if I had a [Force Domain] I could have prevented that. It didn’t actually turn my Force Magic against me, though. Nor did it conjure Force of its own.”

Quilatalap had Domains of every possible kind. Erick even had a [Force Domain]. It wasn’t nearly as good as his Benevolence spellwork, but it was serviceable.

Vanya and Soltic did not have a [Force Domain], though.

Soltic asked, “Shall we do the rest of the dungeon? Worry about [Force Domain] later?”

“Sure.” Vanya added, “I have realized why the Regency and others like this dungeon like it is; it’s near perfect in its simplicity and safety. Do you know how difficult it is to find a Domain-holding monster? Impossi— Oh… Hmm.”

“… What?”

“Maybe it’s a person— The octopus, I mean. It might be a [Polymorph]ed person, inside that octopus— But. Hmm. Then why are there dungeon breaks at all?” Vanya looked out across the waters. “… A problem to tackle another day. Did the radiant eel come out?”

“Yeah. I clipped it when it tried to take a coral.”

“Good. From what I’ve heard, the eel shouldn’t return. Maybe we’ll get all the rest of the gold today!” Excitedly, she added, “And we’ll get that wyrm, too!”

Soltic almost said something else, about danger and death and other overly-worried things, but he decided to hold that comment back until the end of the delve.

They went to the next coral, Vanya popped it, and then the two of them together defended themselves from the sudden appearance of three great black sharks. There was no shark meat to be had, though, because all three were copies.

The next coral came with a swarm of toothers; 63 of them to start, and then an additional 30 when the first group didn’t inflict any damage. Several of them were real this time, so they collected those rads and added them to the new bag, held on Soltic’s back.

By coral #13, which was 2 corals away from the halfway point, Soltic and Vanya were facing an ocean-churning horde of toothers and smaller darters and a few larger, more problematic cephalopods. The funky-looking squids, each of them two meters tall and hanging back, floated in the air and acted like turrets. They were the real problem. Those 8-legged floaters fired [Force Bolt]s at Soltic and Vanya in bursts of 8, and also in series, releasing one Bolt right after the other.

Both Soltic and Vanya each had to employ floating Shield spells in order to fend off those Bolts. They had to recast those Shield spells a few times, too, but the Shields worked well.

Soon, they had reached the end of the line; a stone barge that ended at open water. On the other side of open water lay another stone barge. Between them lay a coral, growing tall and white in the watery light from above.

A quick snap of Force released the gold wires from the center. A pull-and-stuff placed the wires into Soltic’s bag, just in time for the water to boil all around the broken coral. The boiling spread, like ten thousand fish swam under the waves all around, and something had disturbed those fish to breach the surface.

And then, the coral before them plunged into the waves, as though it was yanked down by a god. A whirlpool formed where the coral had vanished. Darkness spread upward—

White water shot into the sky, and then transformed into a sleek, white dragon, endlessly coiling up from the depths, roaring with hate—

As the beast coiled in the air, Soltic realized a few fast facts. It was neither ‘white’ nor a ‘dragon’. It was dragon-shaped, but it was made out of coral and bone and blood and viscera, with yet another glowing spot in the center of it where the grand rad usually was in a wyrm. It certainly looked like a wyrm, but it was not a wyrm at all. Soltic had no idea why the delvers called it a wyrm when it clearly wasn’t, but Wyrm Season had been a rather well-controlled phenomenon for a decade now, so maybe the newer generations were simply not used to seeing a real wyrm.

The ‘wyrm’ roared, and flew into the sky, then rapidly came back down onto the other nearest coral, left behind from the previous treasure taking. The beast flickered with power as it crashed into the left-over growth, diving back into the water, and then curling up and around the stone barge, as it headed for another coral growth that Soltic and Vanya had broken in their passage.

Vanya rushed forward, giving chase, saying, “It’s getting healthier with each coral it eats! Come on! We gotta kill it fast!”

Soltic could see that, he supposed. He kept right up with Vanya, saying, “It’s not a wyrm at all.”

Vanya laughed as she shot a person-thick [Force Beam] at the ‘wyrm’, just behind its head. She clipped the beast and trailed a line of destruction down the white-thing’s flank, carving away coral and flesh as she went. The beast began to dodge, but Vanya’s aim was impeccable, and for a full 7 seconds, she carved away bits of the monster. Finally, though, her spell cut, and the beast, sensing weakness, howled and turned toward Vanya, rushing, mouth wide open, fangs of bone and coral ready to crush down—

Soltic and Vanya both shoved [Force Beam]s through its body, disrupting its form but not killing it. It kept rushing forward, right at the delvers, but Vanya erected a quick series of [Force Wall]s, and monowire cutters between them, along with a bunch of smaller magics.

And then they waited, there in the middle of the walkway, right in front of the monster’s open maw as it rushed at them, right into the trap.

The beast turned to coral bits and broken, cubed flesh as momentum kept it coming. It was already dead long before those bits impacted the Walls around Soltic and Vanya, but whatever spell Vanya had put upon the monowires out there forced the wyrm’s barge-sized body to keep coming, to keep turning to broken bits.

Coral and blood and bone went into the waters all around, and then finally, some inner radiance impacted the cubing-Force in front of Soltic and Vanya. Just like how the inner treasure spots inside the coral growths turned to floating light when disturbed, the light inside of the wyrm turned into floating radiance. That radiance spread outward, and the entire coral wyrm began to break; to disintegrate.

The waters filled with falling coral and fish bits.

Behind them, some of that coral came back together, forming an iridescent white extension to the grey-white stone barges, connecting the first half of the dungeon floor to the second half. Undisturbed coral lay on that other side, full of gold, waiting to be plucked.

Soltic said, “So that radiant spot in the coral wyrm was probably the radiant eel, and the coral treasures are its ‘eggs’.”

“I’m going to keep all of this first floor when I remake this dungeon. I love it.” Vanya walked toward the coral bridge, and then went right over it without a single care, saying, “Simple, yet elegant; just like this bridge. Just how I want to make the Grand Dungeon.”

She was not pulled under by a tentacle monster. She went across without incident.

… Soltic followed along, his heavy feet crunching a little bit into the coral as he walked atop it, but a bit of Force under his shoes stopped any further destruction to the bridge. When he reached the other side, he asked, “When you told the Maryols your plan for this place… Was that the full plan?”

“Ideas will have to be adjusted, of course, but yes. Pretty sure; yeah. It’ll be a recreation of Storm’s Edge, covered in coral. I think I’ll keep the coral wyrms, if they are actually just radiant eels. Those things seemed pretty smart; able to follow instructions well.” She raised her voice, speaking to the dungeon, “And I want to keep the octopus, too. They seem very smart!” When nothing burbled up from the waters, Vanya said to Soltic, “This whole thing is going to be magnificent.”

Yesterday, Vanya had outlined her general idea, as given to her by Sininindi. The goddess of Storm and Sea wanted to make extensive use of the False Society option inherent to every dungeon core; to create a city of fake people who could eventually become real through interaction with the rest of the world, when the rest of the world visited them through the dungeon. The False Society option was basically pre-fugue shadelings on steroids. Or maybe it was more like the routine parts of a wrought Geode, where everyone had a routine they did each day, like getting bread from the bakery at exactly 9:18 am, or get up at 4:27 am in order to bake the bread, or to gift the same book to the same person every week on ninthday, at dinnertime.

There had been a lot of talk about the False Society option in every major political circle of the entire world, long before the actual horrors of that option showed themselves on the Surface, years ago, in the middle of the Freelands ordeal. Not a lot of people knew much about that full horror, but Erick did. Quilatalap did. All of the major players of House Benevolence did, because Erick had needed to step in to solve that population crisis. The Maryols sort of knew...

But the common person did not.

They reached the next coral growth. Vanya cut it up, and extracted the goods. They killed the fish. They walked to the next growth.

And Soltic decided to say, “There’s going to be a lot of pushback on the False Society.”

Vanya nodded, solemnly. “I expect it. But the system produces people that are real, eventually, and when they wake they’re real people. You saw those interviews with the people from the Free Dungeon.”

For the sake of [Witness], Vanya had said ‘you saw those interviews’, when in fact Erick had directly participated in those interviews. A lot of thoughts suddenly crossed Erick’s mind at that moment. Maybe, while ‘Vanya’ was here, ‘Soltic’ needed to go back to the Free Dungeon, and check on how that place operated when he wasn’t The Wizard, coming in and making sure the place was running right. He was pretty sure that Destiny, the Chaos Wizard, was making sure the place ran well…

But he still needed to do Atunir’s quest, and then Melemizargo’s, in order to remove Yggdrasil’s seal. That took priority. So, no, he’d do the Freeland stuff some other time, though that whole problem would likely come up here, when the False Society option actually took root in this land. Erick might have moved on before that controversy actually got into full swing, though.

What would he look like in his next incognito persona? Maybe not Soltic, but Soltic was definitely moving on once Vanya was ensconced in her Grand Dungeon; they’d already planned their ‘public breakup’.

Or maybe he’d keep ‘Soltic’ around as he went to do whatever Atunir wanted? But probably not. He liked the way that people treated ‘Soltic’ as just another person, for Erick did not like being The Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, but the job had been a calling; he had stepped up and made the world better for his presence.

Erick still felt ‘Called’ to do that ‘job’, even now… But it had only been several days since his retirement. It took a while to break a habit, didn’t it. Even now, Erick wanted to send out Ophiel and make this Grand Dungeon happen within a week, instead of however long it would take Vanya to do this job, the slower way.

… Gods above, what was he going to do with his life?

Was everything going to be slow now?

Like this dungeon delve?

Slow, and personable, and done over the course of hours, instead of using Ophiels in overwhelming force to enact his will upon the land? But that’s what he wanted, right? To go slower? To have less power over the world? But...

Oh.

Oh gods.

Oh no—

“Soltic?” Vanya’s voice came to him as though from a great distance, but she was standing only a meter away. “You okay?”

The two of them were a scant few meters from the next coral growth and Soltic had just been standing there, his heart beating wild, sweat crawling down his body, under his stuffy clothes. The Force armor around his chest was too tight. It was hard to breathe.

He looked to Vanya, and said, “Everything is changing again and I fear I am having an existential crisis, but I’ll get over it soon.”

Vanya looked to the dungeon, then ignored it all as she put a hand on Soltic’s arm, gently saying, “Let’s stop here for today. I can do the rest some other time.”

“No.” Softer, “… No. We came here. Let’s do this. Sorry. Let’s do this.”

Vanya paused, then strongly asked, “Are you sure?”

“Yes.”

They finished the dungeon as fast as they could, and then Soltic led the way out.

- - - -

After they stepped out of the dungeon, and before Vanya could ask what was wrong—

First, the Gold Taker stripped them of 80% of their stuff.

And then Soltic said, “Please ignore me and go back into the dungeon to do what you wanted to do. Your death and all the rest of it disturbed me in a way I was not prepared to handle. That’s all there was to it. I freaked. Sorry.” And because he didn’t want Vanya to worry, he added, “I would like to go back in, actually. To test out those sensory spells you have.”

Vanya took his hand, cast some flight spells, and said, “We’re not going back in there. Let’s go get dinner at Storm’s Edge.”

“… Okay. That sounds—” Soltic relaxed as Vanya pulled him into the air. “That sounds a lot better. We have— what? Looks like 300 gold?”

Vanya put on a smile, flying forward, saying, “More than enough for a nice night on the town.”

- - - -

Dinner was at an upscale place high above the harbor, where they served the best fish caught in the Letri Ocean. Afterward came a walk on the beach, and a nice, frisky time behind a dune. Erick spoke of when he had had a vision from Phagar, about doing this with the woman of his dreams, years and years ago, and here they were, finally doing it. Quilatalap, as Vanya, laughed for a long time at that. It was a wonderful laugh.

Eventually, they wandered over to the playhouses, where Soltic and Vanya took their seats among the crowd to watch a comedy-of-errors about a family and a murder and an estate. It was a nice evening, but then, at the climax of the second act...

The Son stood above the grave of the Father, calling out, “I have the deck of cards! I have the will of the magistrate and the binky of the babe! I will find who killed you, father! I just need to put the pieces into the puzzle box! If only my damned mother wasn’t guarding the box like a crime boss, then—”

Soltic had had his mana sense off for the evening, since they were watching a play and to see more than what was shown was to ruin everything. So he, and most of the audience, was surprised when a man jumped out of the side of the stage wearing white wings and a robe of eyes. It was a stand in for Ophiel.

Erick took a sudden hold on Ophiel, who was watching the play from the rafters, and who was suddenly excited to see himself on stage.

The Son called out, “Who the fuck are you?”

“I’m the Wizard’s [Familiar] and I’m here to solve the murder for you! It was the—”

The Son pointed a finger at ‘Ophiel’ and ‘Ophiel’ exploded into feathers and eyes, but really he just ducked below a fake hedge as an illusion expanded from the space where he had been.

The Son looked to the audience, cheerfully saying, “No spoilers!”

The audience laughed, and the curtain closed on the end of the second act. Some people booed at ‘Ophiel’, saying that including Ophiel in the play was a controversial thing. The people who booed were drowned out by the laughter at killing Ophiel. Or maybe it was funny to have such a persona here on stage? And to be disrespected like that?

… Well if Erick couldn’t laugh at himself, then he was probably too uptight about everything.

And maybe he was.

It was pretty unrealistic to have a simple spell ‘explode’ ‘Ophiel’ like that, though. As Ophiel telepathically told his father that fact over and over again, Erick quietly smiled and agreed. Ophiel hadn’t been exploded in a long time.

The third act of the play had ‘Erick’ coming in at the actual climax of the play and wiping away the entire problem altogether, solving the ‘murder’ as a simple act of chance, and creating four estates where there were just one before, separating the families out to their own properties. As a final touch, he installed a Gate Network between them. Very rapidly, the family decided that they preferred arguing with each other every damned day, instead of living apart.

Erick laughed loud at that.

Most of the audience did too, but afterward, there was controversy.

As the playhouse emptied, people spoke about the play in excited tones, and angry tones, and all the tones between. The regulars liked it, saying it was a fantastic performance tonight, while some of the people who had decided to see the play on a whim were less than charitable about the inclusion of the Wizard into the narrative. They had gone to a play to get away from world events, and you never knew when the Wizard was actually watching.

One conversation progressed far beyond some small talking between friends.

“Including The Wizard in the play was like including a Shade,” said one particularly uneducated person.

An older woman, with her friend, chose to shout, “He’s better than the shades! You young idiots don’t know how good you have it. Be silent!”

The young idiot and his young friend shouted back, “He took away [Teleport] and now we have to bow to the silver cost of using a magic that we should all have without him!”

It was an old argument, taken up by new people, but neither of them were prepared to actually argue. Their words devolved into name-calling, and then some guards got involved and split them up. There was no danger of spellwork coming out and harming anyone, though, for like they did at the Songli Highlands with the Songstresses, but in a much easier way, the Node Network and accompanying spellwork of Storm’s Edge locked down most magics of the violent variety.

“I liked the play,” Vanya said, as she held onto Soltic’s arm.

Soltic grumbled, unsure. Yes, he had liked the play too, aside from the involvement of ‘The Wizard’, but that sort of stuff was a part of his life now. His mind was mostly on the argument in the street. For a little while Soltic and Vanya walked in silence, down the street toward the flying courtyard, where they would be allowed to leave the city on a Platform spell.

The night was nice, and full of stars. It was near the end of the year, so the weather was cooler than it would be otherwise, but with Everbless controlling the weather, there was little doubt as to the true nature of the nice, calm night… Even beyond Veird’s normal, abnormal weather patterns. Like… The Underworld existed, and everything moved so oddly around here, so yes, the weather was always technically abnormal.

The weather tonight was wonderful, and the company was even better.

Soltic asked, “Want to go ask the Regency about what avenues exist to legally work on the dungeons?”

“That’s certainly a change of direction. Don’t want to wait on the Maryols to contact us with a go-time?”

Soltic said, “I’m not used to waiting on other people to act. But also I’m… I need to be doing something important with my life that’s more than… This. I mean… I love this, being with you. But…” Soltic looked out across the land. “I was doing a lot more before we came here.”

They had reached the flight square; the great open space where lanes of wardlight traffic illuminated the setting night, and all the spaces in between were filled with anti-flight spellwork, and other anti-danger [Ward]s of all kinds. All of the anti-magic spellwork of the Node Network was completely invisible, and linked together by a mostly-invisible Network that reached up from some of the taller towers around the city. Some of those tall towers were normal buildings that had been retrofitted to support the expansion and control of the ‘electrical grid’ of Storm’s Edge. Others were purpose-built to support the Node Network, and those ones were easy to pick out among the skyline. One of those hub-towers rose from the side of the flight square; it was almost like an Eiffel Tower structure; wide at the bottom and tapered to a point at the top, where a splash of invisible lines of power connected it to other tapered towers, all across the rest of the city. Storm’s Edge didn’t have the lines of light flowing through the sky that Candlepoint had, and that was by their choice.

Soltic stepped to the side of the flight square, to stand with Vanya for a moment, before he controlled his throat and mouth with aura control to ensure his next words were for Vanya only, and not for anyone who might be able to mana sense him well enough to be able to suss out his words. ‘What those kids said back there doesn’t bother me. Their complaints are valid, which is why I chose to step down from the House right now, but at the same time, none of them have to die in some random monster attack anymore. We did that. House Benevolence and everyone and you, too. We were proactive with the world, and now, here I am on a quest that isn’t involving me directly as of this moment, and I find myself unable to relax due to having everyone working except me. So yes. Let’s go around the Maryols and go directly to the Regency, or maybe we can invade the dungeon at night and dig deep into its guts, or do something else, whatever else, faster than how it is currently being done.’ He added, ‘Maybe I’ll be able to relax once I have a task in front of me.’

‘Let’s go bother the Maryols,’ Vanya sent, near instantly. ‘And then when they tell us they need more time, we can ask them about the Regency, to see how they think the Regency will react to being asked to change the dungeons. If we don’t like what the Maryols say, we can go on without them.’

Soltic grinned. ‘Sounds great.’

Vanya squeezed Soltic’s hand. “We might not be welcome in the noble district, but we can certainly try.”

“We can try.” Soltic nodded.

- - - -

The guard’s eyes narrowed, and he said, “This is not a place for sightseeing. Please return to the public parts of town, and do not return here without written authorization or escort.”

Soltic and Vanya had expected this, so they did not object.

Seeing that they weren’t trying to force the issue, the guard un-narrowed his eyes, and continued, “If you have a noble house which can speak for you, then feel free to send them a missive. There’s a cafe just over there. A lot of people spend time there as they wait for escorts to come get them.” He added, “Also, it’s really late for you guys to be trying this. I don’t know who you are, but it’s suspicious.”

“Ah. Sorry.” Soltic said, “We’re Underworlders, so—”

“I don’t need to know,” said the guard, without rancor.

As a tendril of thought poked away from her head, Vanya said, “I’m sending the message now to House Maryol’s castellan. We’ll go to that cafe.” She bowed to the guard. “Thank you.”

The guard’s response was to make a shooing motion with his hands.

Soltic and Vanya turned around and went to the cafe.

They sat down for coffee and cake, and watched the night sky poke out from behind disappearing clouds. Beyond the lights of Storm’s Edge, the sky was a deep field of black, festooned with stars. The moons were not out tonight, so it was very dark while some guy played soft music on a piano-ish sort of table instrument in the corner of the very nice, upscale bar. Erick knew the name of the instrument, but he called it a ‘piano’ in his mind. It wasn’t a piano, though.

It was different.

Everything was different again. Erick had grown used to Veird, and his place in it. He knew his future. He had had plans.

Erick controlled his vocal cords and his mouth with his aura again, then sent to Quilatalap, ‘So the whole plan for the grand dungeon… is Sininindi trying for a prototype Second Script?’

Quilatalap grinned. ‘You think so too, eh?’

‘But she hasn’t given you actual instructions for that Second Script?’

‘I’m sure I’ll get specific instructions eventually. For now, the plan is as she wants it. Mostly, she just wants the delvers to learn true magic, however I can make that happen.’

‘When you explained it all to the Maryols, you laid out your plan for the dungeon so that it could produce the most resources as well as people.’

‘That too,’ Quilatalap said, with a smile.

‘You know… It still weirds me out for gods to be making people, but I suppose that’s normal for gods to do and so I’ve mostly gotten over it, but still… It’s weird, right?’

‘They’re fully formed people who will be given an instant path to citizenship of Storm’s Edge if they pass a test, which they will pass in order to escape the dungeon in the first place. Sininindi wasn’t clear about much, but she was clear about that.’ Quilatalap sipped his cream coffee, sending, ‘Gods making people is about the least weird thing about these dungeons.’

‘… I suppose. So she just wants… To teach magic to people?’

‘Sininindi was rather unclear on what she wanted with regard to the way she wanted magic to work inside there. She only told me that she wanted me to ensure that the people who came out of the dungeon would be able to survive in any environment. That’s the only real parameter she gave me, and it’s a fine one. Everything else about the Grand Dungeon will be based around that idea.’ Quilatalap sent, ‘Probably going to have a central city and 6 side-dungeons, each of which teach a basic aura control and mana alter, as well as requiring spellwork that one learns from the other dungeons. We’ve even got 6 dungeons and a seventh one in the center, already, so the current resources on the ground work. The central dungeon will become a city like Storm’s Edge, but mountainous, and the other dungeons will be scattered to the edges of the Dark Reflection of this island.’ Quilatalap finished with, ‘If it all goes well, it should work out very well, and be a self-reinforcing system. Delvers will fall into the city to start with, and then work through the dungeons, while citizens of the city will grow in the city, and… achieve sapience and go through the dungeons— So that part isn’t so clear to me. Maybe I’ll have the delvers go through one of the 6 dungeons in order to reach the central one, or something. I’ll have to do something good with the octopuses and coral wyrms, too.’

‘Perhaps make it so that the dungeon people have six factions of magical learning inside, overseen by six octopuses or coral wyrms of various types, or something like that.’

Quilatalap smiled. ‘It’s going to be a lot of work. As long as Storm’s Edge approves of the idea and works with me to make it happen, we could have the preliminary dungeon up and active in as little as 6 months. It’ll only take one month before I’m safe here on my own, though.’

‘Even with you restricting yourself to ‘Vanya’?’

Quilatalap nodded. ‘That part shouldn’t be a problem, though if I do make a copy of myself in this dungeon then—’ Another tendril of thought joined the group, and Quilatalap looked away briefly. Vanya came back, saying, “Nero is at the entrance waiting for us.”

Soltic downed the rest of his coffee.

- - - -

Lord Jarod greeted them in the smoking library, dressed in finery despite the late hour. “Welcome back, Miss Silver, Mister Cross. I’m afraid your request for a meeting will have to be just with me, for Glariol is off entertaining friends at a neighbor’s house. I should be there, too, but your message came and I decided I could take a break for half an hour.” He gestured to the chairs, taking a seat as he said in a cheerful voice, “Sit! Please.”

Nero waved off, saying, “I’ve got to get back to the party, too,” and then he left.

Both of the nobles had been wearing truly nice clothes. By comparison, and though they had put on some of their nicer stuff after the dungeon, Vanya and Soltic looked like hobos.

Vanya and Soltic sat, as Vanya said, “Apologies for taking you away from your party, but we’d like to move faster on adjusting the dungeons into a Grand Dungeon. We’d like to do something on our end. Going to the Regency, talking around at the Dungeon Guild; whatever you feel is best.”

“Ahh…” Jarod nodded a little. “Did you manage to interface with Dungeon #1 today?”

“Minorly. We’ll have to get access to the actual dungeon core room for me to interface better.”

Jarod’s eyes went a little wide, both in surprise and joy.

Soltic controlled his own expression. He hadn’t noticed Vanya interfacing with the dungeon… But then again, he was kinda out of it by that point. It had taken him a few hours to come to terms with Vanya’s death and resurrection, and then the rest of the delve didn’t really help, either.

“What did you discover?” Jarod asked, excitedly.

Yes. What did she discover?

Vanya held up a hand and conjured a lightward image of the dungeon, and then all the rest of the space down below those surface stone barges. She explained, “The dungeon is shaped like this, with the working part at the top, and then another 5 kilometers of space down below. Maybe more. All the fish and organization is done down there, in the depths, and that’s where the dungeon master lives, too, cultivating gold from a massive central expansion somewhere at the very bottom. The coral is all made of bone taken from the kills of the monsters, or from the fish that live in the space which the octopus eats. The dungeon master is a variant prismatic octopus that is both very happy with his job of maintaining the dungeon, and very capable. I believe this means that the octopus has been soul edited by some Soul Mage.” Vanya finished with, “I found out a lot more than that, but those are the big things. Whoever is maintaining the dungeon is doing an exceedingly good job, and they have an extensive amount of magical knowledge in order to facilitate this creation. I did not, however, find a repro of anyone person-shaped, so this means that whoever is editing this dungeon this well doesn’t need, or wants, to make a repro in order to facilitate their act of dungeon creation. Or maybe there’s some [Polymorph]ed person-repro in there, but I do not know of that.”

“That’s…” Jarod looked around, his mind whirring, as he thought. He came to a conclusion fast. “You said you wanted to speed up this process? I think we can do that. I told you about a few people you would need to get to know, and one of those people is at the party we were at. Aroido Tidewalker, of the Tidewalkers. You know of them?”

Vanya nodded. “The ruling family of Storm’s Edge. The Regency. The one in charge of overall operations of the dungeons.”

“Aroido is a smaller part of the Regency, but he is the one in charge of the dungeons, and he’s always suspiciously tight-lipped about all that. If you use what you’ve told me on him, but subtler, you will either be able to get him to open up, or he’ll shut you down and ruin your chances of doing this the easy way.” Jarod asked, “Do you want to do that? Take that chance?”

Vanya smiled. “Yes. I do.”

“Good! We could find you some clothes in the closets and dress you up for the party. It’s an informal thing but you’ve still got to look presentable. It’s already late, so you won’t get more than a minute of his time, so make it count.” Jarod said to Soltic, “And if you promise not to expose anyone’s deepest secrets then you’re invited, too.”

Soltic smirked a little— And then he lost his smirk. “Ah. I can promise that. How is Barda, anyway? I haven’t seen her around.”

“She’s taken it rather poorly, but she’ll acclimate.” Jarod stood, saying, “I think we have some outfits in your size, too, though Shavon might need to [Adjust] them— Ah. She’s the maid you saw on your way in...”
