“We also talk about it and discuss things, and we work things out.” Teepo said. “It takes time, and if you'll let us, we'll spend as much time with you as you want.” He chittered in laughter. “In some cases, more than you can stand.”

Fire Dancer smiled.

“Until we can relax around each other long enough to talk without coming to blows, Ren has another surprise to distract you.” Teepo said.

“It's not another sex toy, is it?” Fire Dancer asked, angrily.

Ren sighed. “Teepo...”

“It's something better than that.” Teepo said. “Come on, Ren! Show her!”

“I was going to save this until after we had been here for a while.” Ren said and looked around the room, then pointed. “If my limited plans of the castle are correct, that is an outside wall.”

“It is.” Fire Dancer said. “What are you planning to do?”

“Can you make a doorway there?” Ren asked.

“This is my realm.” Fire Dancer scowled. “I can do anything I want here.”

“My apologies, Deity of Fire. I misspoke.” Ren said and bowed his head. “I said 'can' when I meant 'will'. It's a common Adventurer's mistake.” He said. “Will you make a doorway there?”

Fire Dancer took a breath and let it out, then waved a hand. A doorway formed in the indestructible wall and Ren flew over to it. Teepo told him where to place the 6 inch cube so that it could be enlarged to 10 times its size. When it was activated, it would be in the right spot to be attached to Fire Dancer's bedroom. Ren ran back into the bedroom and stopped just inside the doorway, then activated the modified Instant Tower of Fire.

“Hey, it worked!” Ren said as the tower sprung into place and looked at the distance between the new building and the bedroom. “We were only off by a foot, too!”

“I left that much space so that the battlement walls wouldn't hit the castle when it expanded.” Teepo said.

“Then never mind.” Ren laughed. “It's perfect.”

“What is it?” Fire Dancer asked.

“If you will pull it in the last bit of distance and attach it, it's your new library and dressing room.” Ren said.

“It's my WHAT?” Fire Dancer yelled.

“I figured you might be a little bored and would like something new to look at.” Ren said.

“A library.” Fire Dancer said in a flat tone.

“With thousands of actual books made of parchment!” Ren exclaimed and waved to the room.

“Hold on, why aren't they burning?” Fire Dancer asked, then she gasped. “You didn't!”

“I did!” Ren laughed. “Each and every one of them has been protected with the Indestructible spell!”

“Great Vasalor.” Fire Dancer said in astonishment and walked over to the doorway. She used her Fire Manipulation ability and pulled the tower in close, then attached it to her castle and stepped inside.
