“Aww.” Lily said, and put a hand over her heart. “Now I want to wear a bikini so he can stare at me, too.”

Ren, Elise, and Denise laughed.

“Don't you have a boyfriend?” Ren asked.

“I do, but...” Lily blushed a little. “He doesn't look at me like you look at them.”

“Why not?” Ren asked, then shook his head. “I'm sorry, I shouldn't ask you such personal questions.”

“Yeah, don't mind Ren. He's always been pretty straight-forward.” Denise said.

“It's okay. I brought it up.” Lily said. “He... well, I guess he's just not as into me as you are with them.”

“Is it okay to call him an idiot?” Ren asked her, and Denise swatted his ear. “Ow.”

Lily laughed. “I'll let it slide this time, because you guys are always fun to hang with; but, don't make it a habit.”

“I can't promise that.” Ren said and smiled. “Denise should keep me in check, though.”

“It'll be difficult, but I'm up for the challenge.” Denise said and tugged Ren's earlobe, then stood up and looked at Lily. “This is the best bikini out of all of them, and the bottom fits perfectly.” She said and turned to show them off. Since Ren's face was right there, he really had no choice but to look.

She said it was okay to look. Ren thought, and didn't try to move his head away or close his eyes.

Denise turned back to face Lily. “Can this short string be replaced without ruining the suit?”

“Sure.” Lily said. “I have the right color string out back.”

“Great.” Denise said. “Let's go into the changing room and figure out the right measurement for me.”

They went into the changing room and shut the door.

“Do you love her?” Elise asked, and Ren looked at her.

“I've only seen her three times in this store, and she has a boyfriend.” Ren said. “I like her, but it's that friend kind of like, not the 'boy, I wanna have sex with her' like.” He smiled. “So, of course I don't love Lily.”

Elise snorted a laugh. “I meant Denise.”

“Oh!” Ren said, then he had to think about it. “It's not love... I mean, it's not like I've had a lot of experience with it, but...” He shrugged. “She's nice, and pretty, and she can be a pain sometimes.” He smiled. “She's a good friend.”

“With benefits.”

“Kind of.” Ren said. “I've only seen her completely naked when she gave me a shower this morning. A while ago, I did play with her breasts a little.” He frowned. “She made me angry at the time and I stopped, though.”

“You aren't going to deny it? Or tell me it's all just a misunderstanding?”

“Why would I do that?” Ren asked. “The last thing I'd ever do is lie to you.” He said. “You should already know all about my relationships with everyone, Elise. Why are you asking me about this?”

Elise looked down at the hand she held to her cleavage and sighed.

“It's just...” A tear came to her eye, and she wiped it away. “I don't want you to fall in love with anyone else before... before you fall in love with me.”

“Would that be so bad?” Ren asked her.

“Yes!” Elise said, and didn't bother wiping the tear away this time. “Five more women, Ren! You... you have... 5 more of them to please you... and... and I... we... we haven't even...”

“Shh.” Ren said and took his hand from her grip to put it on her shoulder to brace himself. He leaned over and gave her a gentle kiss. “Before you say anything else, I want you to help me break in my new bed.”

“Wh-what?”

“I'm sorry, Elise.” Ren said. “I didn't just want you to see the house. I had an ulterior motive for inviting you over.”

Elise wiped at her tears as she chuckled. “You... you little devil...”

“I know.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm the most horrible person in the world.”

“The worst.” Elise said. “I'm kneeling beside you, in a bikini that barely covers me, and you won't even try to play with me.”

“That's because if I start, I don't know if I could stop.” Ren grinned. “I don't think I would want anyone else to see such a beautiful woman being ravaged by such a beast.”

Elise laughed. “You always know just what to say to cheer me up.”

“It's only the truth.” Ren said, then gave her another kiss.

*

John and Holly had gone into one of the spare bedrooms to change. He was fast, because he just hauled off his clothes and pulled on a pair of swim trunks. Holly on the other hand, took a few minutes more to get ready.

“Wow.” John said as he saw the bikini that Holly wore. “Can I tell you again how sexy you are?”

“Geez, John!” Holly said. “You literally just saw me naked!”

John laughed. “I did, but... damn, that is a nice bikini.”

Holly shook her head. “The pool is calling my name.” She said and walked past him.

“That was me.” John said. “All last night.”

Holly snorted a laugh and slapped his arm. “Come on, you horn-dog.” She picked up Nancy's presents and they left the spare bedroom, then went out to the back yard.

“Uncle John!” Nancy said, and ran over to him. She hopped up into his arms, and he laughed as he caught her easily. “What did you get me?”

“You don't want to wait until later?” John asked her, and she shook her head.

“I already know what everyone else got me.” Nancy said, and a large group of her friends came over. “Yours is going to be the only surprise.”

John put her down, and Holly passed him the small bag. “This is from Holly.”

“Thanks, Holly!” Nancy said with a big fake smile, and opened the present. A few of her friends gasped at the Virgin Mary antique cameo and silver chain. “I...” She looked at Holly. “Thank you.” She said with sincerity.

“Happy Birthday.” Holly said, and handed John the big bag.

“This is from me.” John said, and gave it to Nancy. She opened the present and everyone gasped.

“Oh my GOD! Dr. Dre's Beat wireless headphones!” Nancy yelled, danced around a little bit, then passed them to Holly. “Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!”

“You're welco-” John's words were cut off when Nancy wrapped her arms around his neck and gave him a big kiss.

“You're the BEST!” Nancy said as she let him go, then took the headphones back from Holly. John stood there with wide eyes and his mouth open in surprise as Nancy walked away with her group of friends to play with her very expensive new toy.
