Sallis died with a grimace of disbelief just beginning to form on his lips.

Your group has defeated Hunter of the Deepened Flame [Flame Strike] – Half-Elf – level 133 (Fire).

The enraged assassin sprinted up to Ali’s bubble on steps of shadow, and his dagger rang loudly as it struck her golden defensive magic. A crack appeared. “I am. Going. To kill. You!” He drew back his arm again.

But to Ali’s surprise, the gray cast of the Spirit Realm did not vanish, and color did not return. Instead, all about her, ethereal wisps of white mana seeped into her being, binding her to a powerful formation, trapping her halfway between the real world and the Spirit Realm.

Ali struggled, trying to free herself from the unexpected attack, while simultaneously trying to avoid the dangerous assassin who was hell-bent on trying to get through her barrier, all the while trying to figure out who had cast this strange spell. Was it the witch? It looked like a curse, but it was nothing like ice-affinity mana.

“Will you fucking die already!” Beltz screamed, his blades beginning to blur with rapid strikes, chipping away at her strongest domain-enhanced barrier while she remained vulnerable, unable to defend herself. Unable to move.

But Tol’brekk had other ideas, unleashing his axes with whistling strikes. Beltz managed to dodge the first blade, but the second followed instantly, a sweeping attack with the Decimation Slash Labrys that crunched into his thigh, sending him cartwheeling to the ground.

The Troll Berserker leaped again, landing on the prone assassin before he could even bounce. What followed was a bloody mess of smashing axes as the stunned assassin was turned into pulp.

“Your end is the price for the path you have made,” Tol’brekk declared as the sound of a chime rang out in Ali’s mind.

Your group has defeated Assassin of Midnight Shadows [Prince of Darkness] – Human – level 138 (Shadow).

That’s four. While Ali wrestled with the strange binding magic holding her between realms, she had the presence of mind to notice she had only received four of five notifications. This meant the Beastkin warrior, Bartak, had somehow survived the initial attack that sent him plummeting into the jungle far below.

Desperate not to lose track of the remaining major threat, she sent her awareness downward, quickly finding the warrior facing off against her Poison Wyvern boss. There were dozens of summoned minions – dragons and kobolds – all lying dead around him, but the Beastkin warrior was in very bad shape. Blood poured from his wounds as the wyvern swooped overhead spraying him with fresh poison.

How? Oh, the bleeds, Ali realized. Her Poison Wyvern was no threat to a platinum warrior like Bartak, but it wasn’t the wyvern that was killing him. Since his evolution to Carnage Berserker, Tol’brekk did all his critical damage in the form of a bleed instead of normal damage. His class paths had gained him substantial boosts to inflicted bleeds and critical damage, all tied to the magnitude of his rage. When he had hit the warrior, he had been at three percent health.

As she watched, the Beastkin collapsed to one knee, and then toppled over, landing with a splash in an enormous pool of his own blood, the empty glass of a healing potion vial shattering beneath him.

Your group has defeated Crimson Blade [Dungeon Bane] – Beastkin – level 142 (Fire).

Holy…. One hundred and forty-two? Those bleeds must have been enormous. Then, Ali remembered she had cursed him with a level eighty-five Amplify Damage. Far out of the range of his healer, it must have been more than enough to overwhelm his potion and entire life total – tanks were not exactly known for their excessive wisdom and magical resistance. Even Mato, with his high wisdom, had required custom craftsmanship and extraordinary crafting materials to stack enough resistance for some fights. Bartak didn’t seem like the type to do that.

Arrogance always had its price, a lesson she knew she’d never forget after this fight. Always be prepared. Never assume anything.

As if released by that death, her notifications popped up.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 109 (+4).+40 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 61.Arcane Recall has reached level 22 (+2).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 44.Martial Insight has reached level 75 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 52.Identify has reached level 24.Your Carnage Berserker has reached level 107 (+7).

“Thank goodness,” Ali whispered, filled with relief at the sight of the notifications. “Now… where am I and how the heck do I get out of here?”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
