“I was an assistant for a fey Alchemist who also doubled as a gastrointestinal healer,” Whisper said. “Their food and soup mixtures were delectable. The alchemist tasted good boiled too.”

Tequila comparatively shrugged. “Well, my main experience comes with mixing wines and alcoholic beverages, but I did learn how to cook to a slight degree just to have an accompaniment with my libations.”

And just then, Band pulled something out from his chainmail suit jacket. It was a blade. A blade that Shiv recognized to be Moonsteel. It was practically the exact same make as the one George's had handed Shiv before he was thrown off of Blackedge. Shiv's eyes widened. “How did you get that?”

Band simply grinned. “From Chef.”

“What chef?” Shiv said.

Band shook his head. “Cook meal, then tell. Or maybe not, if meal bad. If meal shit.”

Shiv squinted at the orc. “Do you know Georges Archambault?”

Band just sneered. “Will tell. Only if good meal. Not raw and shit.”

Shiv's lip curled. “Alright, motherfucker, that's how you want to do it? Fine.”

“That is how I want,” Band said. “Motherfucker.”

Part of Shiv knew the orc was provoking him, but cooking was special. And Band was going to die of a food coma for this.

Just then, Uva manifested herself next to him. “Shiv, I—”

“Turn that one's mind off, Uva,” Shiv said, pointing at Gemstone. “I got something to prove.”

“What?” Uva said. “We need to process the prisoners. We need to—”

“We need to cook one of these basilisks. And they're going to help me,” Shiv said, glaring at the orcs. “They're going to help me, and they're going to be the first ones to taste the dish this time.”

And, as he said that, Whisper reached into his midnight robes and pulled out several orc-sized aprons. Shiv's disbelief only grew as Whisper produced sauces, salts, and other implements as well. “Chef,” Whisper said, “do you have condiments, or shall I provide the ones I have on me?”

“Challenger,” Shiv called out, “you planned this, you bastard. You blind-sided me with cooking orcs.”

“So, is that a yes or a no, Chef?” Whisper asked innocently.
