A shame Bei had died so young. The more he learned, the more he realized how unique she’d been, able to hide in his shadow and bring them both hundreds of meters in the blink of an eye. Awakened to the Esoteric Blessing of Space according to Mentor, but killed before her true power could be realized. Yet another heinous crime to lay at the feet of Falling Rain, but so long as Gen could face him in single combat, he would balance the scales of injustice. Then, he could set his mind to rest and truly begin searching for a new wife, a better, stronger, more beautiful Bei to hold him tight and keep him safe.

“By the Heavens, no... Emissary, look!”

Terrified he’d been followed, Gen spun about and looked behind them, but the cavalry battle was still in full effect. The Defiled were beaten, but they would continue to fight unto their dying breath, so it would be some time before the Imperials finished cleaning up. Annoyed by the scare, Gen followed Kash’s gaze to the northern camp of Sinuji, where the battle continued in full force, but still couldn’t see what had his idiot subordinate so panicked until his gaze moved past the campgrounds to the open fields of Sinuji. When Gen last saw them, they had been teeming with Defiled savages awaiting their turn on the front lines, blocked by the sheer density of bodies gathered in one place. Now, those fields still bustled with movement, but the Defiled numbers dwindled before Gen’s eyes as an Imperial force tore through them with merciless brutality.

Their numbers were pitifully small, merely a thousand mounted warriors, but before this meagre, but strange force, the Defiled were all but helpless to resist. Leading the way was a herd of cattle-mounted warriors, Bekhai from the look of their armour, riding behind ten cattle-drawn carriages with blades affixed to their wheels. Charging across the battlefield in two neat little rows, the cattle and carriages punched through the Defiled like paper and rendered their corpses into meat paste, cleaved by blade and axe or crushed beneath hoof and wheel. Nothing could stop them in their tracks as Defiled dove aside to avoid them, but powerful though their charge might be, it was nothing in comparison to the power of a hundred heavily-armoured mounted Southerners, marked by their colourful and elaborate plate armour. These ironclad warriors sat atop one of two mounts, the lesser and more numerous being some sort of grey, single-horned creature twice the size of a bull and at least thrice as fierce. Their thick hides looked tough enough to blunt the edge of any mundane weapon, and if that weren’t enough, most of their hulking forms were covered by steel-studded barding for even more protection as they trampled and crushed the Defiled underfoot.

Imposing as these one-horned juggernauts might be, the other type of southern mount were a dozen times more terrifying. Large did not even begin to describe them, for they towered over most walls, much less warriors, bearing long, snake-like noses and four gargantuan tusks, each one honed to a point and thicker than an average warrior’s waist. Though there were only a mere handful of the beasts, their trumpeting could be heard across the battlefield as they trudged deep into the Defiled masses while tossing their heads this way and that, clearing the savage warriors by the dozen with every sweep of their tusks. Similarly armoured like the other southerners, their riders stood on their backs wielding titanic polearms which measured six meters long at the minimum and sported vicious, double-bladed heads. Far too unwieldy for use on foot, but atop those monstrous creatures of destruction, the southern warriors were like tigers given wings with their far-reaching weapons, scything through any Defiled who escaped the wrath of their mounts.

There were other mounted warriors interspersed among them, mostly riding horses though there were a few more exotic breeds, like rams, boars, and even one long-legged bird who seemed more deadly than its rider. The appearance of this monstrous cavalry force was not enough to turn the tide of battle, but things were looking bleak for the Defiled forces as far as the northern flank went. Why the Defiled Commander put so much emphasis here, Gen wasn’t sure, but as today had already proven, he knew little of tactics and warfare. Still, he would have to help, but how?

Physically, he was still well rested, but the mental blow of losing to Falling Rain once more left him weary and worn, not to mention depleting his energy reserves was always exhausting. Regardless of the reason, he couldn’t stand idly by as the Defiled were pushed back into the centre, so he fumbled for Kash’s bow before realizing it’d been broken in the mess they left behind. Taking a deep breath, he said, “Dismount and walk the gajashias so they can rest. We’ll attack once they’ve recovered.” With help from his Transcendents of course, who were already making their way over here along with the many Spirits who’d been freed from their fleshly confines and now lingered about the battlefield. Their power would become his, and while he considered them a precious resource, killing Falling Rain was a noble goal.

Only... for some strange reason, Gen felt the Spirits were hesitant to obey his call for aid, demanding he leave instead of staying to fight. Why? Why were they so difficult to work with today?

“Emissary, return to your gajashia,” Deng cried, just as Gen’s foot touched the ground. “The enemy, they come for us!”

Shadows flitted overhead as arrows rained down upon them, and Gen turned to see Rain and his Bekhai charging towards them. The bastard must have circled around the cavalry battle to get here, still standing atop his beast with bow in hand. Loosing one last arrow, Rain placed his bow aside and took up his glaive, pointing it at Gen with murder in his eyes. No words were exchanged, but he saw the message there, plain and simple. Today, they would fight, and one, or both would die.

Cackling in delight, Gen shoved Kash away and mounted the gajashia alone, his finger-blades stretching until they were half-a-meter long. Sacrificing all the Spirits within him, he restored his reserves to full and loosed a measured bolt of flame at his hateful enemy, praying the bastard would survive the attack because he didn’t deserve a quick death. The bolt arced through the air in a fiery blaze, Guided unerringly towards its target by Gen’s careful focus, but as it drew near, Rain lashed out with his glaive and the bolt sputtered out and died without fanfare.

Wondering why his projectile didn’t explode, Gen summoned more free-floating Spirits to join him for the battle ahead, but then Rain... rippled in place, not a physical anomaly, but a spiritual one. Much like the birth of a Transcendent, a void opened from within Falling Rain, and all of a sudden, the Spirits were no longer in control of their movements as the raging vortex drew them screaming and clawing into the void which was Falling Rain.

‘The Devourer comes,’ the Spirits cried, a thousand, thousand voices speaking as one, and from their tone, it was clear his name was synonymous with doom.

And then the Spirits spoke no more, having been cast into oblivion by Falling Rain. No Spirits within and no Spirits without, for those lucky enough to escape disaster had already fled the field while the others anchored within their Defiled hosts were scurrying to join them, leaving Gen to face his fearsome foe wholly bereft of their aid.

Oh, Heavens above... why have you forsaken your chosen son?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
