The [Mana Beam] was almost a foot wide and evaporated the man's head with no chance for him to react.

Simultaneously with his sword hand, Matt used [Dispelling Edge] to cut through the magical outer shell of the second tank's shield.

The third defensive fighter rushed Matt, trying to shove him away with his shield, but [Cosmic Pressure] caught them both off guard with its powerful fluctuations.

Matt tried to keep the spell from affecting the ground, but anything with structure was pulverized into dust in the small radius he let it expand to.

Taking a page out of Aster’s book, Matt used [Cast Illusion] to fake casting [Mana Beam] once more. Thanks to all of the work he’d done creating illusions for Aster when she practiced their new Intent ability, the beam both looked and felt like a real spell.

The charging tank flicked backward, immediately raising his shield to stop the bar of mana from killing him. That was until he noticed the spell wasn’t doing any damage to him or his shield, where he reversed and went back on the offensive.

Matt lowered his hand, but as he did so he replaced his false [Mana Beam] with the real one.

Unprepared, the tank and everything behind him was sliced in half.

A spear took Matt in the chest, driven by an explosion of wind to thrust it through both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor].

Not caring about the poison, nor the fragments that tried to pump air into his arteries and cause biological issues he’d need to sort out mid fight, Matt simply pumped more mana into [Regeneration] until all of the damage went away and the shards were forced out.

Turning to take out the last tank, Matt found they no longer had a head and he was holding them up with his sword embedded into their shield.

Wrenching it free, he was about to move on, but someone else finally couldn’t stand by and watch as Liz ripped off one of Remi’s legs.

A Tier 33 floated down fluctuating her cultivation, trying to get them to stop fighting. “Enough is e—”

Matt’s anger burned even hotter, though it was mildly mollified by the two Empire teams already moving to block the woman.

“Anyone who interferes becomes a target.”

He didn’t speak to her, she’d already sealed her fate, rather the additional interlopers still considering their options. The last thing he wanted was more people helping.

Jumping, Matt launched himself upward at the Tier 33, wanting to show everyone the fate of someone who decided to meddle.

While he wasn't able to identify the woman with her [AI] not broadcasting, that only signified she didn’t have enough backing to act openly.

She seemed shocked he’d attack her, but her eyes hardened as she kicked out, a water-based skill empowering the blow. She aimed at his lower half, but he didn’t even bother with reinforcing [Cracked Phantom Armor].

Instead, he let his legs evaporate in order to bring his longsword up and around. He wanted to cut through her armpit and destroy her head from below. At the same time he also preemptively casting a near invisible [Gravitic Bolt] behind her to close off her best escape routes.

He saw the hesitation in her movements as she started questioning how to respond without getting hunted down for punching down, but he had no intention of letting her think.

If he was going to give a lesson, he was going to do it properly.

She crossed her arms, a water covered shield appearing to block his [Mana Slash].

She succeeded, but that left her entirely unprepared as Matt, pushing [Archmage's Presence] and its Tier 44 body enhancements to their limits in his spirit, punched her in the chest.

He wanted to go for her head, but he hadn’t missed the tendrils of water hiding amongst her dark hair, waiting to strike or possibly entangle him.

Water vapor started to condense on and around Matt but he flexed [Water Manipulation], entering into a struggle for control over the moisture.

With a four Tier difference, he could only hold on, let alone trying to compete with her many years of experience, thanks to the sheer volume of mana he was willing to throw around.

Not that he forgot to keep up his cover as he drained Tier 1 mana stone after mana stone of their energy as they crumbled to dust.

For all her efforts his punch still landed and [Fist Blast] shattered her outer armor and caved in her chest. It failed to kill her but he kept close, not letting her create distance as she tried to disengage and skirt around him.

He landed two more blows, the first hit a leg and was more of a bluff but she didn’t fall for it and properly blocked the second fully empowered sword swing.

His core three melee skills detonated and cracked a teal colored water shield but they failed to penetrate. They did rattle the Tier 33 enough they turned to flee but he didn’t want to let her go so easily.

Neither did the [Cracked Mana Trap] filled with ice mana that solidified her protective shield.

Being a water mage, she surely had some control over her element while it was frozen, but while Matt could only compete in a battle of manipulations with his Talent, Aster simply out-finessed her.

Facing the two of them, she never stood a chance, even if she did save her life at the expense of leaving her body behind.

Matt wasn’t sure what she’d been thinking, as she wasn’t anything more than a mid-level elite who couldn’t fight up full Tiers. Remi himself had a Tier 33 combat power and couldn’t handle them, but he didn’t care why, only that she hadn’t succeeded in interrupting Liz’s fight.

He knew who Remi’s backing was, and so did Liz. They didn’t care he had the Republic's Rank 3 bloodline as a grandfather; even Vana himself wouldn’t dare to come and complain about a descendant dying by their hands or try to interfere in such a blatant manner.

Seeing everyone on his team was falling or had already fallen, Remi didn’t try to stick around, knowing they could collapse on him at any moment.

Despair was plain to see as he tried to break free from Liz’s encirclement, but without his team to support him and relieve some of the pressure, he stood no chance against Liz.

He didn’t go down without a fight.

Liz lost all but three of her clones as Remi used an essence empowered spell in a last ditch effort to escape but the surviving Lizzes didn’t hesitate in the slightest.

Using the ichor still in the air, one of the Lizzes exploded as she used her existence to cast [Blood Sacrifice] and [Bloody Spirit] empowering the farthest back Lizz.

Amplified to her limit, that Liz cast [Scarlet Plague] while using [Corrosive Blood] and [Congeal] to break through the wolf’s internal protections.

In case that wasn't enough alone, the last remaining Liz closed the gap and slammed into his flank using [Heartpiercer] to strike his second most vital organ.

The spell detonated, exploding his chest, but Remi’s final lifesaving measure did its best to protect his brain.

The unobtrusive tan barrier blocked the first deadly spear thrust into his head, but Aster froze the lightning bolt as it tried to let him escape.

Trapped with Liz, he met his end with a final howl of despair, but no one else stepped in to save him.

Seeing they’d all come through alive, even if everyone was wounded, he was happy enough with their results. Susanne, predictably, came out the worst, having lost a leg that he knew they wouldn’t be able to grow back for months, if not years, at the earliest.

Rah and Ra’kam were both lightly injured, but most of the blood that covered them was from the people who’d tried to rush Aster and Zack, thinking they were weak targets.

Even Gan Le did his job exceptionally well, and while he was lightly injured, he was doing better than everyone but Matt and Liz, who’d already healed.

Gesturing around, Matt asked the planet, “Now, was that so hard? I don’t care if you want to fight, but the rules exist for a reason. Follow them or I will make sure there is no next time.”

Hearing someone snort above him Matt looked up to meet the eyes of a Tier 35 who hadn’t moved to space like most others.

Seeing someone he couldn’t fight with his fist yet Matt didn’t let them start the conversation.

“Is this the hill you want to die on? The willingness to ruin the very aspected world you are fighting so hard to gain control over? Because of that you’ll take my interference as a challenge instead of correcting yourself and trying to secure the prize?”

Matt didn’t waver as the higher Tier tried to silently intimidate him. Anything they said would open them up to further retaliation and all of the Tier 36’s seemed interested if he was willing to punch down.

They were hoping for it.

Covered in the blood of a Tier 33, Matt met everyone's gaze with his own, letting his unwavering determination shine through.

Their Tier was a temporary advantage and they all knew it.

When silence was his only answer, Matt turned his attention to the strange realm.

Allie flickered, touching the thankfully still intact jewelry box where it floated, before she returned next to them.

“Safe, competitive, group based, and gathering focused. A solid strange realm if I don’t say so myself. Feels like fighting is possible even if not the main point. I think this is a winner.”

Matt nodded.

He fully agreed with her assessment even if they’d want to gather what information they could before entering.

Now it was time to see if anyone would enter such a strange realm with them.

Cleaning himself off, Matt looked around, channeling Manny as best as he could without going overboard.

It was utter confidence and unquestioned control.

Matt wanted a fraction of that. “Now what does everyone know about the strange realm and who wants to enter with us?”

That instantly kicked the fighting back off as the Great Powers tried to settle who would control the planet for the rest of the breach.

The weaker teams disengaged, letting the higher Tiers deal with the ownership issue. Instead they started vying for a slot in the strange realm. Their jockeying for position nearly sparked another fight but a glare from Liz squashed both teams before tempers could flare up.

Aster slipped through the groups quickly gathering what little was known about the strange realm.

It wasn’t much, but things seemed positive and they confirmed growth items were the reward even though their information was limited.

So far, only two batches of people had entered. And out of those, only three groups did well enough to get the growth item rewards.

The first batch got the opportunity to turn any item they had or could create fast enough before the reward dissipated, into a growth item.

That alone would have been enough to start a riot, but there was reportedly a high degree of customization allowed, meaning even the roughest starting item could turn into something exquisite.

The second reward was the one Matt wanted.

The ability to modify an existing growth item.

Only the second group had a team get that reward, and if anyone knew what that singular team had done differently to get that reward, no one spoke up about it.

Eyes kept looking to them to see if they’d interfere, but they didn’t care so long as the fighting stayed off planet.

When it became clear that the Clans Tier 36s were too much stronger than everyone else, they temporarily claimed dominion of the planet, putting an end to the squabbling where they could finally enter the strange realm.
