Flapping her wings didn’t only give her a boost of speed as she threw herself at Remi, but golden droplets of ichor sprayed half a dozen of the closest fighters. Not content with her speed, Liz used the boost in momentum to further amplify [Blood Dash].

For a brief moment, she blurred even to the highest perception rate Matt could think at.

The blood her skill left behind was initially red, but as she subsumed control over the conjured liquid with her Talent, crimson turned golden as fire and lightning spread, turning it into ichor.

When she stopped moving, she’d impaled a lieutenant who couldn't seem to understand how she’d bypassed all of his defensive mechanisms.

Originally, she’d considered [Analgesic] only good for spreading her plague spells, but since her transformation into ichor, Liz had learned a lot about both skill modification and its many applications, as well as the mana type itself.

Together with Allie and Rah, she'd learned to apply the spell to herself. That let her avoid a lot of reactive skill triggers.

Triggers such as lifesaving devices.

And once she’d gotten in contact with their blood, they were done.

Ripping her spear out the man's back, she threw herself at where Remi was surrounded by his peak elite defenders.

Behind her, another Liz burst forth from her first victory, beginning her own offensive.

Using the Master’s Dominion Natural Treasure, she transferred parts of her Domain between clones, carefully controlling the tempo of her battles so she’d always have an opportunity to strike out offensively at close to full power.

She was burning willpower doing so much, but it made her [Sanguine Legionnaire]s formidable and unpredictable threats.

Boosted by the speed potion, Matt threw himself forward with everyone else, letting his blade speak for him.

The runes were there to stabilize the solidified core of his longsword; it allowed him to further empower [Mana Slash], [Mana Charge], and [Tribulation Strike] past what his spirit alone could handle.

A shield bearer tried to deflect Matt’s blow upward, using both a spell and the natural shape of his shield.

It was a good idea.

Neither effort mattered.

Unleashing its power upon first contact, [Mana Charge] cracked the Tier 33 shield, compromising the top half’s structural integrity. [Tribulation Strike] did more than finish off the tank, it obliterated the man behind him as well.

Continuing with his swing, he unleashed his yet unused [Mana Slash].

The crescent of mana cut through four more people, though it didn’t kill them instantly, having not hit their heads. It did, however, pass through their fight and nearly struck a team who was, like everyone else, still loitering on the planet.

That got them and most other teams moving, but he didn’t have the spare attention to give to them as their momentum was blunted.

[Cracked Air Slide] flung Matt forward, getting him out of the way of an implosion aimed where his head had been. He led with his longsword once more, but this time, his opponents were far more wary, not wanting to take a blow head on.

Matt took a slash to his leg, but he ignored it as he barreled into two more melee cultivators, relying on his overwhelming physical power.

He focused on the Republic fighters, and for his efforts, he popped two lifesaving measures early. He took one woman's life, but the other slipped away at the last moment, and he didn’t have enough time to focus on them as a talisman appeared on his back.

A slip of paper so thin it was nearly invisible flared to life with an inordinate amount of mana as it detonated.

Seeing the talisman and the core rune it was using, Matt swapped places with a Liz that was pincered between two of Remi’s lieutenants.

Better than average, they were trying to whittle the lone Liz down without letting her reform.

They were doing the right things, but they were too slow.

When Matt appeared, he deliberately tried to remove the talisman, activating the secondary trap hidden inside.

Now stuck to his left hand, he struck like a viper, grabbing the rapier-wielding man’s head in both of his hands.

The talisman detonated, creating a new crater.

Matt appeared out of the smoke as Liz swapped their places once more, and he felt three new rings form as Liz created more clones beneath the obscurement.

The moment he reappeared in his original fight, he saw that Liz had wounded one of the men but hadn’t been able to infect them.

Moving to assist, Matt immediately halted his movement as one of the remaining peak elites reached him.

The dagger-wielding man blurred with fire mana of all things, shimmering like a heat wave until he turned completely invisible.

The ice and wind Aster had coated the battlefield with didn’t stop him, but Matt wasn’t too surprised by that.

What did catch him off guard was how fast the blade slammed into his neck at an upward angle, trying to drive into his brain.

Matt didn’t reach behind him, instead throwing an elbow to his left while twisting his head right to dodge the follow-up strike.

A different dagger, one so red it almost appeared black, skittered across the second layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor]’s solidified shell.

The small amount of contact told Matt everything he needed to know. A fire assassin wasn’t exactly typical but he’d seen such before. However the blade being made with a Tier 33 flame trapped deep in its center was far more interesting.

And deadly if the warning his spiritual sense gave him wasn’t wrong.

Thrusting, Matt narrowly missed the shimmering appearance, even as two other cultivators tried to attack his rear. They aimed to trade his attention back and forth, but Matt had no time for such petty tricks while he was surrounded by enemies.

Darting forward, as if afraid to fall into their trap, Matt let [Cracked Mana Trap] deal with the two annoyances as they tried to keep up with him.

The first blade slammed into his chest, coming out of nowhere, but Matt ignored it even as it tried to hollow out his insides with its stored flames. Slashing out he tried to wound the assassin in return. His blow hit nothing, forcing him to slow down and listen to his senses as well as his instincts.

Peak and pinnacle elites weren't easy to kill but that didn’t mean impossible.

Stepping one time too many in his pursuit, the crystalline ground around him exploded as a formation appeared, very similar to what he’d done just a moment ago.

The trapped energy had some kind of anti-mana property, similar to depleted metals but far more potent.

It wasn’t a matter of Tier but rather fundamental nature.

While it was some form of ‘poison energy’, it wasn’t a mana type, as [Cracked Phantom Armor] didn’t try to aspect to it. And that was all he needed to know.

Dropping the second outer layer of his armor, as well as letting the mana free from its solid prison, Matt circumvented the attempt far farther than the assassin anticipated.

Free, unhindered, and unpoisoned, the flame assassin tried disengaging, but Matt activated [Cosmic Pressure] to hold them in place. Knowing they were in danger, the assassin tried to activate one of their lifesaving measures before he closed the distance.

It even worked.

Just not enough.

[Portal] opened only large enough to fit his hand through, but that didn’t stop him as he forcefully pulled the assassin through the too small aperture.

Finally with a moment to breathe as the man's essence dispersed, Matt checked in on the others.

Susanne and Rah, along with his new partner Ra’kam, slammed into their enemies a moment later, cutting into the group putting pressure on the flank.

In a spare set of the crew's armor, Susanne didn’t fight as if her body was barely holding itself together.

Using her precognition focused entirely on her own blade, Susanne danced, leaving razor sharp streamers behind her every move.

Rah and Ra’kam worked well as a team, despite their short time together.

He hadn’t had time to enchant any of Ra’kam’s scales, but they’d fed him numerous high-Tier metals, adding another level of defense to the already resilient creature.

Together, they acted as pillars, holding their spots even as Remi’s weakest members tried to sweep through the three of them.

With nigh indestructible stone armor, Rah traded blows, focusing on covering Susanne as she darted in and out.

Ra’kam did more than hold his own. Low to the ground and with its head just as well armored as its back, the spiritual creature feared no injury and happily used its size and strength to rip apart anyone caught in its dexterous claws.

Gan Le stayed back with the crew, which turned out to be a good call as two people tried to circle around, possibly to take hostages.

They tried to talk Gan Le out of interfering, but his response was oh so typical Sects. “I guaranteed no harm would come to these five in exchange for my freedom. If you wish. Ahh there we go. Much simpler now.”

When the two tried to split up, they found themselves inexorably bound to Gan Le. Matt recognized the tether and knew how infuriatingly resilient it was, and Remi’s little bandits weren't as durable as he was under the tank’s fists.

The crew were fine under his protection.

Matt ducked a scimitar swing. The man was aggressive but Matt didn’t punish him, despite being able to reach out and grab his leg.

The overextension was only a hair, but an arrow passed through where his head would have been if he’d gone for the attack.

When it was clear the arrow would miss, it started charging with power as it began to self-detonate.

Instead of defending himself, Matt threw his sword through the archer trying to fill Patricia’s role.

She dodged the initial blow, but thanks to a quirk between the interactions of [Crescent Sweep] and [Sword Twin], she had to dodge far more than that. So long as [Crescent Sweep] was cast before [Sword Twin], all of the copies would inherit the recall effect.

Once the sword was behind the archer, Matt split one of the three [Sword Twin]s hidden in the blade off and recalled it.

She almost managed to dodge, but lost part of a leg.

She dodged the second illusionary version, but she failed to dodge the real blade as it morphed mid-flight.

Bracing himself, Matt swung his now solid greatsword, casting another [Mana Slash]. The crescent of mana was amplified by the size of his blade and killed another one of Remi’s personal elites as it tore through the sky.

Spotting one of the peak elites, Matt engaged with them even as Remi shouted something in rage as his size expanded twice over. His pressure rose as he activated his best spells and potions.

Three Lizzes attacked him at once while everyone else cut through his people.

Remi started the battle out full of vigor, chomping at a Liz who didn’t try to block, letting him sink his teeth into her shoulder and neck.

Ichor splattered, but the Liz wasn’t phased in the slightest.

Neither was Remi, who had strong enough defenses that she wasn’t able to just infect him and hollow him out from the inside.

Not letting the opportunity pass, Liz used their closeness to stab the wolf in his throat with her shortened [Feather Armory] spear over and over, even as two of her clones piled on top of him and attacked from the flank.

Her Domain and ‘main body’ changed from the one in his mouth to one of the Lizzes on him. As she attacked, an arc of lightning splintered off and splattered on a green shield, triggering a protection before it was needed.

That reduced the power it had to resist the spear itself, and her spear drew blood.

Rising out of his fur, the red liquid stabbed back down, causing him to howl even as he turned, snapping out at the new Liz.

A large wolf head appeared around him, empowering his bite, but as Liz dodged, she got caught in one of the follow-up explosions.

Pouncing forward, he tried to pin her down, wanting to tear her apart as he did last time. Remi’s eyes went wide as Matt and Liz swapped places for a moment.

Matt met Remi’s paw with his rising sword.

[Mana Slash] cut to the bone, but Matt didn’t get to appreciate the result as Liz returned him to his original battle with a now bleeding elite. Reaching out, Matt pulled him forward with [Telekinesis].

The elite's head vanished as he teleported away, trying to escape, but a distant burst of essence indicated Allie’s intervention.

Liz flashed sideways using [Blood Dash] and their speed potion effect to dodge a throwing knife aimed for her head. Pointing a finger she finished off a wounded Tier 32 with [Blood Bullet] when she stopped moving.

A moment later, another Liz burst from his corpse. She, in turn, moved to kill someone else to create a new Liz before joining the Remi fight.

A pulse of surprise through Matt’s bond only registered as ‘to be asked about later’ but his full attention was on breaking the blockade of three defensive fighters who banded together to stop him.

He was in no mood to play with them.

If his friends weren’t so close, he’d [Breach] them away, but even if they weren’t he wasn’t willing to cause that much damage to the planet, making it a bit of a moot point.

Instead, he tapped into [Telekinesis] again.

Using a few million mana, he created a blade of force behind the trio already moving at its maximum speed.

Abusing how hard to detect [Telekinesis] was, he didn’t aim for their heads, which might trigger a lifesaving measure. Rather, he aimed at their legs.

He shattered two legs, but didn’t fully take anyone down, though his distraction did its job. After getting up close and personal, he grabbed one of the shields.

He didn’t try to fight the tank and pull his shield away, instead using his grip to lock his hand in place and then pointed his finger at the tank’s head.

