Ryoka Griffin stood on the top of a snow-covered hill, facing the wind. Her arms were spread out, and she raised her head as the cold winter winds blew around her. The snow-flecked breeze tugged at her light clothing, a shirt and loose leggings, wholly inappropriate for the season. But the young woman paid no attention to the cold. In fact, such was her body heat that the snow had melted around her bare feet, exposing flattened grass underneath.
She was completely still as the air ruffled her long hair. Ryoka breathed in and felt the cold in her lungs. But she let not one muscle move; made no concession to the elements. Her breathing slowed, and Ryoka became one with nature. She was one with the world. One with the cosmos.
After another minute Ryoka opened her eyes.
“This is stupid.”
She dropped her arms to her side. She twisted her neck and heard a crick. Wincing, she rubbed at her shoulders and looked around. Then she glared at her midriff.
“Hey, Ivolethe! Did you hear me? I said this is stupid. It’s not working.”
Somewhat predictably, Ryoka’s midriff did not respond to her comment. But after a second, one of the compartments in her belt rustled, and a small head poked out. The tiny crystal head had bulging cheeks, and as Ivolethe flew out of the pouch she crammed the last bit of dried sweet fruit into her mouth.
 
“What’s wrong, Ryoka?”
 
The young woman paused and eyed Ivolethe. The naked faerie was just as ignorant of the cold as Ryoka was, but she had clearly been feasting in Ryoka’s pouch while the young woman tried to commune with the wind. The faerie was covered in bits of dried fruit; the sticky sweets clung to her like leeches.
Ivolethe didn’t seem to mind. The faerie peeled a bit of raisin off her stomach while Ryoka pushed at her hair distractedly. She spoke with waspish exasperation, but trying to moderate her tone.
“This isn’t working. I’ve been here for over an hour doing what you said, and all I have to show for it is wet feet and sore shoulders.”
 
“Hmm.”
 
The faerie eyed Ryoka skeptically, and then flew around her in a quick pattern. When she stopped she looked disappointed.
 
“You feel nothing? Even after taking in the wind?”
 
“Aside from the need to pee? Nothing.”
Ryoka sighed as the faerie scowled. She spread her hands.
“I don’t know. What should I be feeling?”
 
“The wind.”
 
The faerie gave her a look as if Ryoka was insane. Ryoka gave the faerie the same look.
“I’ve been feeling the wind. But I don’t feel a connection to it or whatever. Look, is there something else we can try?”
 
“I suppose we must try something else, then.”
 
Ivolethe screwed up her face in concentration. Ryoka began stretching her sore legs, watching the faerie think.
In theory, they were right now studying faerie magic. That was to say, Ivolethe was trying to teach Ryoka how the Frost Faeries conjured snow and moved faster than anything Ryoka had even seen in the world. Trying was the operative word here, though.
“Are you sure this is how you teach people faerie magic?”
 
“No.”
 
Ryoka paused as she grabbed her foot from behind, stretching the muscles in her legs out.
“What do you mean, ‘no’? I thought you knew what you were doing! You told me to stand here and listen to the wind!”
The faerie glared at her.
 
“And I thought it would help! No wonder ye heard nothing, though, since all ye do is jabber on with your complaints!”
 
“I’m doing my best. But I don’t even know what I’m doing! What part of the wind are you talking about?”
 
“There!”
 
Ryoka’s head turned as the faerie shouted. All she saw was a bit of grey sky. She turned back to the faerie, scowling. But Ivolethe didn’t look like she was pulling a prank on Ryoka. She flew up swiftly into the sky, over a hundred feet in seconds, and then flew in a twisting, downwards spiral around the hill. The human girl watched her, entranced by the graceful motion.
The faerie flew past Ryoka in a rush of air, and then stopped. She looked down at Ryoka, smiling. Ryoka had to smile back.
 
“Did ye see it?”
 
Ryoka paused and frowned.
“See what?”
Ivolethe’s smile faded and her face went slack. She gestured.
 
“The wind, of course! Did ye see as I followed it?”
 
“I saw you flying. That’s all.”
The tiny faerie slapped her forehead and shouted curses at Ryoka. The Runner listened, slightly impressed at the variety of insults.
“Look, clearly I can’t see what you can. You might be seeing something by magic or with your sense that I can’t. Can you try showing me whatever’s so important another way?”
Ivolethe grumbled and folded her arms as she thought.
 
“Perhaps. But this is the most obvious way for me.”
 
“Really?”
Another scowl.
 
“It is not as if I have practice teaching magic to mortals. The fey come into existence knowing magic. Teaching you magic is like trying to teach a fish to swim.”
 
Ryoka opened her mouth to reply and paused. She frowned, raised a finger.
“What do you—”
Ivolethe rolled her eyes, annoyed.
 
“No one teaches a fish to swim, fool! They either know or they do not.”
 
“Ah, right. Well, try thinking like a bird, then. Show me how a fish would teach a bird to swim or something. I don’t feel anything so far.”
A glare was the only warning Ryoka got. Ivolethe flew up, and then the wind changed. Ryoka felt that, and she saw a wall of white snow swirl upwards and then rush at her like a wave.
“Holy—”
The gust of wind and snow blew Ryoka off the hilltop. She tumbled down the slope, cursing and shouting. When she sat up, dizzy and bruised, Ivolethe flew down and grinned at her.
 
“Did ye feel anything?”
 
“Fuck you!”
Ryoka threw a snowball at Ivolethe. The faerie laughed and flew out of the way. She conjured a snowball of her own and Ryoka raised her arm before it collided with her bare skin. The Human and faerie continued in this vein for several minutes. In the end, Ryoka stopped because she hadn’t managed to tag Ivolethe once, and she’d taken six snowballs to the head.
“I’m tired. And the magic soup is wearing off. Let’s go back into the city and try again later, okay?”
 
“Okay.”
 
The two began to move, Ryoka starting at a jog and moving faster, Ivolethe flying high overhead, laughing in the cold. And though she’d made no progress, Ryoka felt better. She looked at the faerie flying high above her and smiled.
 
—-
 
It’s an odd thing. A precious thing. Friendship, I mean. I feel like every second I’m going to make a horrible mistake and ruin things forever. But I don’t. Instead, it feels like every time I’m about to get into a fight or say something I regret I find a better word to say, or a better way to act.
I didn’t lose my temper with Ivolethe. Okay, I shouted and threw snow, but that was because I knew she wouldn’t care and I wouldn’t hit her. She isn’t like Erin. I can tell her exactly how I feel because she’ll do the same for me.
It’s so odd. Is Ivolethe a friend? Erin’s one, I’m pretty sure of that. But can I be friends with a faerie after only two days? It feels like it, but I’m not sure.
And how would I know? I’ve never had a good friend before. I’ve had ‘friends’, but that’s just a word. But someone who’s there for you even if it means risking their life? That’s new. And Ivolethe is about as good an example of that kind of friendship as you can get. She’s fearless, brave, and she’s quite open about the fact that she’s breaking rules to hang out with me.
Because that’s the nature of Frost Faeries. They’re the type of beings that go all-in with whatever they do. If they want to do something, they just go for it. And I like that about them the most.
Ivolethe and I return to the city in good time. I really only left it to practice her faerie magic, and since that was a bust we get back before it’s even midday. The stream of people leaving and entering Celum is still busy, but I make good time.
For two reasons. The first is that I’m a Runner, and I can essentially ignore most of the lengthy customs process the [Guardsmen] subject visitors to. The second is that I have a Frost Faerie sitting on my head, and news from yesterday has already gotten around.
It’s a strange thing. If I were in the United States and I walked around with a dangerous creature like a Frost Faerie, I’d probably be tossed in jail in a heartbeat. But in this world, I’m just treated like a high-level [Mage], or any Gold-rank adventurer, really. If Ivolethe causes trouble I’ll be held accountable. Aside from that, I’m free to do whatever I want, and people give me a wide berth as an added bonus.
The Runner’s Guild being destroyed would normally get me locked up and fined, but thanks to eyewitnesses seeing Persua and the other Runners grabbing Ivolethe, I got off scot-free. That may also have had to do with the fact that the Frost Faeries were busy raining ten kinds of hell on the Runners as they ran indoors, and the local Watch didn’t want to paint a target on their heads.
 
“Where are ye going?”
 
Ivolethe’s voice is small, but perfectly audible in my ears, even above the voices of the pedestrians shouting and clogging the streets. I run past them, finding less-crowded streets to turn down.
“I’m going to visit Erin. Then I’ll see if I can find Garia. I need to thank her for yesterday.”
 
“The big girl with the heart of a mouse? Sounds boring.”
 
The faerie jumps off my head and flies into my pouch even as I dodge around a laborer lugging a sack of something along. She’s so nimble! I can feel her rummaging around in there, and make a mental note to buy some more stuff for her to eat. I’ve got the coin, and it shuts her up and keeps her happy.
Here’s how it stands. Since yesterday, Ivolethe has pretty much been by my side day and night. She says it’s interesting and I won’t complain. She sometimes leaves, when I sleep for example, but other times she seems perfectly content to stay in my belt pouch. Especially when we’re indoors. I tried to convince her to leave, but she bit my thumb once. She’s agreed to stay in the pouch if I’m indoors, though, and a steady supply of food means she won’t break that promise.
I slow as I pass by the Runner’s Guild on my way to Octavia’s shop. A crowd of people, as well as a group of sweaty men holding shovels and pickaxes is gathered around the ruined building. The men are trying to excavate the building one shovelful of snow at a time, and not having much luck.
Some of the people watching this catch sight of me. I speed up as one of the [Receptionists] gives me a dirty look. Oops. I’d better not rub salt in the wounds. At least Persua’s not there—I heard she was being kept by the [Healer] for rest overnight, even though potions mended most of the wounds I gave her.
Persua.
I shake my head and continue onwards. So many problems, and I don’t have time to dwell on that. Erin comes first.
 
—-
 
Octavia’s shop is as chaotic as ever, but I immediately notice Erin’s presence as soon as I push the door open. Ivolethe pokes her head out of my pouch; she feels safe enough to do that here.
 
“Something smells good. Is the innkeeper girl making more food?”
 
“Looks like it.”
I walk into the shop and hear voices arguing with each other.
“I told you—no, look at that! You’ve ruined it with the potion!”
“It doesn’t look that bad! Stop complaining—I told you Ryoka will pay for the potions, and I want to see if it does anything!”
“I’ll waste gold, that’s what will happen! And—can you smell that? It’s burning!”
Cautiously—I’ve seen how Erin experiments by now—I edge into what should be Octavia’s kitchen. Instead, it’s been transformed into a second alchemical workplace, and two girls are bickering over a stew that’s mostly green with something bobbing in the thin liquid. I clear my throat.
“Erin? Octavia? Everything going okay?”
“No!”
They’ve got good synchronization. I raise my hands as Octavia tries to complain about Erin using her potions in her cooking, and Erin offers me a taste of whatever vileness is cooking away.
“I’m not here to eat anything. I just need more of that Corusdeer soup, Erin. It’s wearing off again.”
“Really?”
Erin frowns and goes over to an open cupboard. It’s stocked with a half dozen jars of thick orange soup. Octavia rolls her eyes and calls after Erin.
“I told you that the soup was too thin this time! Too much carrot; not enough pepper!”
“It was worth a shot! Here you are Ryoka.”
“Thanks.”
I eye the mixture in the pot.
“Do I want to know?”
“I think this one’s a dud too. But we’re getting close; I can feel it! I’ve already figured out how to make mana soup!”
The girl with stitches folds her arms and snorts.
“That’s just a mana potion that’s slightly more edible than the rest. What’s the point?”
“It tastes better than your stupid potion!”
As the two begin to bicker, I edge out of the store. Erin seems…happy. At least, happy to keep doing this. I wonder why? I’m willing to foot the bill for her project, but I’d go nuts if I had to keep making failed potions all day. Or if I had to listen to Octavia for more than ten minutes straight.
 
“Got your magic drink?”
 
Ivolethe pokes her head out of my belt pouch, staring at the orange drink. I look at it as well; it’s just soup, but I feel like I’m holding a potion in some kind of videogame. Even long after it’s been bottled, the Corusdeer soup is warm to the touch; it’s magical, and if Erin can make anything else like it, I’ll shove gold down Octavia’s throat as long as it takes.
“Soup. And yes, I’m good. Let’s go find—”
“Is that you, Ryoka?”
Someone calls out to me as I leave Octavia’s shop. I whirl in surprise, and then smile.
“Fals?”
The tall Runner steps out from the wall he was leaning against. I walk towards him, smiling. Why am I so happy to see him? Maybe it’s because it feels like forever since we last spoke.
“What are you doing here?”
“Thought I’d find you; someone told me you were hanging out here every day. How have you been?”
“Good. I—good.”
I hold out a hand to shake his, and then pause. Fals looks down and sees my two missing fingers from my right hand. His face freezes—and then he clasps my hand gently as if nothing’s the matter.
“Bad run?”
“Yes.”
It’s strange how I don’t have to explain it to him. Fals nods at me, face growing serious.
“I’d wondered where you went. I heard you were at Liscor from Valceif when he came back this way—then nothing. Did you finish the delivery?”
“I did. Traded two fingers for it.”
“But you did it. A good Runner never falters, and I’ve never seen you even hesitate.”
