The compliment makes me feel better, even though I didn’t know I’d been feeling bad. I nod at him, and he smiles slightly in return.
It’s so strange. The last time we spoke I still hated everything about him. But now we’re—okay. I look closer at Fals and see that he’s changed a bit as well. He looks tired, and maybe not as happy as before.
“How have you been? Are you here on a delivery?”
“I was. Had to drag over a freshly-made sword for some Silver-rank adventurer in the city. It was a pain to track her down, but it was good coin. I was going to stop by the Guild, but apparently you had something to do with it being closed?”
I blush.
“Oh. That—”
“Don’t worry about it. One of the Guild workers filled me in.”
Fals shivers a bit as the wind blows harder. He stares at my t-shirt and bare feet.
“Dead gods, you’re making me cold just looking at you. Is that part of your friendship with the…Winter Sprites?”
“This? No, this is a potion.”
“Oh.”
I feel Ivolethe rustling around in my pouch. She’s paying more attention now that Fals is talking about her.
“Are they going to press charges after all, do you think?”
Fals shook his head.
“No; everyone knows how stupid it is to mess with the Winter Sprites. Besides, ah, there’s some concern about what would happen if they did charge you. At the moment you’re banned from the guild in Celum, which isn’t saying much.”
“Huh.”
I feel the pouch at my belt open. Fals blinks as Ivolethe flies up. She lands on my head, grinning at me and him.
 
“Who’s the shivering mortal, Ryoka? A lover of yours? Or just a prat?”
 
“Shut it, Ivolethe.”
“Ivolethe? Is that the Frost Faerie?”
Fals squints at a point just to the left of my head. I’m intrigued—even when she’s sitting, Ivolethe’s glamor works.
“Yup.”
“All I see is a blur.”
Gingerly, Fals nods his head towards Ivolethe, staring to the right of her.
“I’m pleased to meet you, Miss Ivolethe.”
 
“Hah! A mortal with manners! Too bad ye can’t hear me, eh?”
 
Ivolethe laughs and flicks a bit of snow at Fals. He splutters and wipes away the snow with a grin.
“Not fond of anyone but you, are they?”
“Sorry about that.”
I flick Ivolethe off my head, making her shout in outrage. She hits me on the head with an icy pebble before retreating into my pouch. I grimace as Fals chuckles. He stops when I glare at him.
“You seem like you get along with her. I wish I could hear what she says—I assume she speaks?”
I nod.
“If we go indoors you’ll be able to see and hear her. And believe me, you’ll wish you couldn’t.”
“Well, as much as I’d like to, that’s dangerous for her, isn’t it?”
Too dangerous, especially for an immortal. I can’t believe Ivolethe would take the risk, but again, she goes all in. Death might matter to her, but she’d risk it for a friend without a second thought.
Fals notices my expression and grows serious again. He clears his throat as he shifts his weight from one leg to another.
“I’m sorry about Persua, Ryoka. I’m not saying thrashing her was the right thing to do, but I know what she can be like.”
“Yeah…I was surprised not to see you there, though. It looked like she was having a party; were you busy?”
He shakes his head, making a face.
“Hardly. I’ve been staying away from Celum on purpose. Ever since she got the [Double Step]  Skill she’s been taking away the jobs from all us City Runners. We can barely find any work. I tried talking to her, but—she wouldn’t listen.”
That’s surprising. I frown at Fals.
“Not even to you?”
“Not to me or anyone else. It’s funny, but you were right, Ryoka. Persua used to be part of the team, and we’d help her and she’d help us if we needed a hand on a tough delivery or someone got injured. But the instant she was better than the rest of us? She left us behind.”
His expression is—unhappy. Fals shakes his head and stares at his worn shoes, looking more worn and upset than I’ve ever seen him. I stare at him, not sure what to say.
Part of me wants to mock him, to ask him what he expected. But I don’t. Fals is a good Runner, and he believed in working together. That Persua threw him and every one of her friends under the bus the instant she rose above them doesn’t surprise me.
What does surprise me is how quickly Fals was replaced in the Guild’s hierarchy. He’s the most senior Runner, and up until me and Persua, he was the best in the local area. Does that mean nothing to them?
What should I say? I think for a second, and then jerk my head.
“Come on, let’s get a drink.”
He’s surprised, but accepts after a moment. I lead Fals at a quick jog down the street. Another good thing. Runners don’t walk if we have a choice, so we get to the Frenzied Hare in a third as much time as it would take if Erin and I went*.
*Especially because she’ll stop and talk to everyone she knows. Oh, hey Wesle! How’s being a guard? Hey Agnes! Out for a stroll? Hey Mr. Dog! Why don’t I stop for five minutes and scratch you between the ears!
Agnes recognizes me on sight, and in a moment she has one of the barmaids find me and Fals a table. I order a mild ale and he chooses a ‘Firebird’, which is some kind of a local drink. It’s quite a bit stronger than my drink, which makes my eyebrows shoot up.
“You’re not planning on running today?”
“I don’t fancy going to another city for requests, and the Guild here is all messed up.”
Fals shakes his head as he downs half of the fiery drink served to him and drinks from a glass of water quickly. He shakes his head as I sip my drink.
“Not having a good day?”
“Try week and a half. Ever since Persua got her Skill.”
“Huh. I’d have thought you’d be glad to be rid of her, even if she did abandon everyone here.”
“I suppose that’s the one upside. She’ll be running cross-continent deliveries if she makes Courier, and even if she doesn’t, she’ll probably move up north where there’s more work.”
Fals sighs as he sips at his drink again. His face is a bit red, but he still looks…morose. Yes, that’s the word for it. He looks morose, beaten down, depressed. After a few more minutes, he tells me why.
“It’s just a bit frustrating. I’ve been running and leveling up as a [Runner] for the last…must be sixteen years already. I was the best in the area until you showed up, but you trained to be as fast as you are, so I don’t mind. All my Skills are stamina-based and defensive, anyways. But Persua gets lucky one time and suddenly she’s a better Runner than I am.”
“Isn’t that the way the system works?”
“Yes. No. There’s always chance in how the Skills get assigned, but there’s a pattern to things! You put in the hard work, you get more Skills. But sometimes people can just get—lucky! And it’s not fair, damn it!”
He waves for another drink, jaw set. I feel for him; he’s going through what I felt not too long ago. What I struggle with now, to be honest. It just bites him harder, because he’s in the system and still not getting rewarded.
“I’d say relax. Don’t worry about it. Soon Persua will be gone, and you’ll be the best Runner again. Well, aside from me. The Guild will be fawning all over you soon enough.”
Fals stares at me and then laughs.
“It’s odd hearing you be the voice of reason. But you’re right. It’s just depressing seeing Persua of all people become so successful. If it was someone like Garia, I’d be cheering her on. I wish it had been her, to be honest. She could use the help.”
I frown over my drink. It’s not even half empty and Fals is on his second tumbler. He’s really upset. I guess I can listen; I was going to find Garia anyway, and she might be in here later.
“What’s wrong with Garia? Is she hurt? Or is it something else?”
“She’s had problems of her own. Garia’s a good Runner, Ryoka, you know that. She can haul as much as a horse around, but she’s slow. And sometimes—she gets lost.”
The young man in front of me shakes his head, shoulders sagging. His words make me sit up in my chair.
“Lost? What do you mean?”
He waves towards the window. Ivolethe rustles around in my pouch and I order a bowl of nuts to dump in there to keep her calm.
“It’s the snow. Everything looks the same to her—she loses track of the road. Her eyesight isn’t as good as yours or mine, that’s the problem.”
Eyesight problems? Why would—oh. They don’t have glasses here. Or do they?
“Isn’t there a—a spell that could help her out with that? Improve her vision?”
“Oh, it’s not a matter of how far she can see.”
Fals flicks his wrist dismissively.
“If it were, there are spectacles—although it would be hard for her to wear those clumsy things while running—or she could buy an enchanted pair. Pricey, but she could save up. Her problem is that she can’t tell the difference between white and grey, you see? If she’s on the road and it’s just snowed—”
Color blindness. Oh. I close my eyes. There’s nothing I can do about that. Fals nods wearily.
“Everyone’s got problems, Ryoka. Garia’s a good Runner, but winter is tough for her.”
“Sounds like it.”
I sigh. I haven’t been a good friend—a friend at all to these people, have I?
“I should hang out with her more. Talk to her. I know she’s wanted to go on a delivery with me; I could do that now and then.”
Fals smiles.
“Would you? She’d love that. In fact, she’s invited me over to stay at her parent’s farm—thanks for helping her out after she got injured. I’d go, but…it would be better if two of us went rather than just me.”
He pauses delicately and I consider the invitation. He’s saying he doesn’t like Garia, which is fair enough, I guess. It’s not as if he has to like her, and he’s still a good friend to her. And as for me?
“Why the hell not? I’ll tag along sometime. Can I bring a friend?”
“Interesting way of putting it. I’m sure Garia wouldn’t mind the company, and she tells me her folks are just as friendly as she is. I’ll ask her about it when I see her.”
“She might come walking in here soon enough. She usually eats here—more often now that there’s a new cook. Were you waiting for her?”
“What? No, I was going to see you.”
“What for?”
Fals pauses, cup touching his mouth. He lowers it and smacks his head.
“What? Oh, of course! Dead gods, I’ll start forgetting my own name soon enough.”
He puts down his drink and leans across the table to me, smiling. Suddenly I remember that Fals doesn’t like Garia. He likes me. At least, I think he did at one point. Fuck. What’s he going to—
“You know those adventurers you were hanging out with? The ah, Horns?”
My thoughts freeze. I focus on Fals.
“Yes. What about them?”
“I was just in Remendia, and I heard of a big celebration that was thrown in Ocre. I missed the festivities—but apparently the city was celebrating a group of adventurers who just completed a dungeon crawl. They came out with a lot of loot. And guess what they were calling themselves?”
I sit back in my chair, too shocked for words. The Horns of Hammerad? Gerial, Calruz, and—
No, no. They’re dead. It’s just Ceria now. I remember that Erin told me she’d formed another group with Pisces, Yvlon, and one of the Antinium. But I didn’t realize—
I’m standing before I know it. Fals looks at me, concerned. I stare towards the door. Ocre? Not too far. It’s only midday—not even that. I can make it by tonight.
“I—I’ve got to go. I have to—can you tell Garia? And Erin?”
I look at Fals. He nods at me, understanding.
“I’ll let Garia know. But who’s Erin?”
“She’s the other innkeeper here!”
I shout at him as I run out the door. I’m already picking up the pace as I run down the street.
It’s too late now. They went through the dungeon and survived. Fals said that. It’s all over now; why am I running? But I have to see.
The last time I left them, they were all dead when I got back. All dead. I never said goodbye. But this—
They did it. I just have to see that. I have to look Ceria in the eye and congratulate her. I—
They really did it. I’m smiling, but my eyes are stinging as I race out of Celum and run through the snow.
 
—-
 
The young woman ran through the snow, dashing through snow banks, feet flashing across the ground. She ran fast. Well, comparably fast. To the faeries flying high overhead, she was as slow as a falling snowflake.
Oh, if pressed the faeries would admit that Ryoka ran faster than the snow in a literal sense. But to their eyes she was like a rolling stone, or a scurrying rodent, or the slow orbit of the sun. She moved, yes, but she ran against the wind, blundering through nature. She did not dance upon the world like they did.
And the faeries did dance, or fly, or maybe both at the same time high overhead. Ryoka ran on, not hearing as they flew and argued with one of their number.
 
“Why are you following her? She’s done naught interesting for days, sister!”
 
One of the faeries complained to a faerie who flew closer to Ryoka than the rest. She sounded aggrieved, but the faerie in question—Ivolethe—just flicked her wings at her sister as she flew.
 
“Ah, buzz off if you feel like it! What I do is my own concern!”
“It’s ours if you want to give away our secrets!”
 
Another faerie called out, voice high and challenging. She was younger than Ivolethe—ancient by mortal standards, but younger in a way only the faeries would count. She flinched as Ivolethe glared at her.
 
“‘Tis my business! Interfere and I’ll pluck out your eyes you stripling whelp!”
 
She flew aggressively at the other faerie and the young one flew away, squeaking. But other faeries flew around Ivolethe, and they were not afraid.
 
“It is our business, sister. You pay too much attention to her.”
“I have cause.”
“An ‘if’ on the sea of possibilities is not enough. You risk too much—death, even!—for a mortal. It is not as if she is prophesied.”
“My life is my own. Or are ye a king of mine, to order me about?”
“Not I. But what if I was to tell our king of what ye do? What then?”
“Yes! Stop following the mortal like a silly pet! You stay in her belongings like a kept thing! Stop!”
 
More voices urged Ivolethe. She snarled and flew at them, but the faeries just flew around her, shouting.
 
“Yes, come away!”
“We’ll tell!”
“You went into the place of iron! Fool!”
“It was my choice! My risk! And ye hardly helped!”
 
Ivolethe roared at them, her voice lost to Ryoka as the girl leapt over a frozen log below. She pointed at the other faeries, accusing.
 
