“What was that tripe ye brought to revenge me? Destroying a building? Throwing snow and ice at those fools? ‘Twas hardly an hour passed before you forswore vengeance and flew off as if naught had happened!”
 
One of the faeries laughed at Ivolethe’s anger.
 
“You went into the home of iron uninvited. You dared them and struck first. If you had died, we would have called for vengeance. But you are alive and only your pride is injured, so be content with that! And because of you, the mortal has a dire oath sworn against her, a prophecy of vengeance and blood!”
“I know.”
 
Ivolethe sighed. The faeries grew silent then; they respected oaths and vows of vengeance more than they did lives. After a while, the other faeries began to fly off. The ones around Ivolethe urged her to join them, but she just shook her head.
 
“A little longer. A little longer. What is time to we?”
“Careful, sister. Do not wait too long.”
“Teach her if you will! But there will be consequence and dire reckoning!”
“Aye.”
 
Ivolethe nodded, watching her sisters fly off. She flew lower, and whispered the words.
 
“There always is. But it will come no matter what I do or do not.”
 
Then she flew next to Ryoka and had fun creating patches of ice to trip the girl up.
 
—-
 
Ceria Springwalker was not a half-Elf for whom socializing came to naturally. She could not be a social butterfly, or social squirrel, or social anything, really. She had friends, and she could enjoy a night at a bar or one of the parties in Wistram easily enough, but she’d grown up solitary, and gotten used to being alone once she’d left her home.
Most half-Elves were like that. And so while Ceria was perfectly content to have people fawn over her and buy her drinks (or have her buy the bar a round of drinks), she eventually had to retire from the crowds and go to her room in the inn.
Below, she could hear the party still going on. Pisces and Ksmvr were busy entertaining the mass of people crowding the tables below, and she knew they had to be drinking heavily even now. Pisces could put away a surprising amount of liquor despite his thin frame, and Ksmvr seemed to be almost immune to the stuff.
The world swam in a not-unpleasant way as Ceria lay on her bed and grinned. Some people would say that drinking before the sun had even set—in the winter, no less—was unacceptable. But those people hadn’t just cleared an ancient dungeon and come back with treasure, now had they?
It had probably been a bad idea to drink the last two…three mugs, though. Ceria was just contemplating a nap when she heard a commotion on the stairs. She sat up warily, and her eyes flicked to the door. She had no gold on her—rather, she and the other Horns of Hammerad had a letter of accreditation magically sealed, allowing her to draw the coin she needed from the Merchant’s Guild if need be. It was useless to thieves, but they didn’t know that and already twice the bouncers at the inn had caught people trying to break into their rooms.
Were they now going for a more direct assault? Ceria focused on the [Ice Spike] spell although she really didn’t want to kill anyone. Maybe a blunted [Ice Shard] spell? Or just set their clothes on fire? She heard someone shouting, and then pounding feet. She raised her hand—
And Ryoka burst into the room. The young woman’s hair was a mess, and she was breathing heavily. Sweat ran down her forehead, despite her light attire. Her eyes fixed on Ceria, and the two young women stared at each other.
“Ryoka?”
Ceria stood up slowly. She heard someone shout, and then Ryoka was tackled from the side. Ceria ran out and shouted at the men trying to wrestle Ryoka. She heard faint shouting, as if someone tiny and far away was trapped in Ryoka’s belt. It was almost like a buzz. But Ceria had no time to wonder what that was.
“Stop, stop! She’s a friend!”
She shouted at the inn’s security and eventually managed to get them off Ryoka. Ceria pulled the Runner up, surprised at how warm Ryoka felt. Then she managed to soothe the [Innkeeper], and got Ryoka into her room before she could start any more trouble.
“Bring up a tray of drinks, please. Something strong to take the chill off.”
Ceria closed the door and pulled a seat out for Ryoka. The taller Human girl sat, looking around. The room Ceria had been given was huge, the biggest in the inn, meant for a couple. She was alone in it, befitting of her role as the team’s leader. In truth, it was too big for Ceria but they weren’t planning on staying in the city for more than another night, and it was perfect for talking with Ryoka.
That was, if either of them could speak. At first Ceria was buzzing with questions—how had Ryoka heard they were here? How was Erin doing? Had she heard about the Goblin attack? What about Rags? But then she found herself tongue-tied, unable to say a word.
When had they last sat together in a room, the two of them? In the inn with the Winter Sprites, so briefly. And before that? So long ago…it had been the day they’d left Esthelm, the day Ryoka had unwisely picked a fight and the Horns of Hammerad and the other adventuring groups had gone to Liscor. So long ago. A lifetime ago.
Ryoka was thinking the same thing. She sat, looking Ceria up and down. Ceria saw her eyes linger on her skeletal hand and smiled just for a second. That had to be—
“Your fingers.”
The words slipped out of Ceria in a gasp. She stared at Ryoka’s right hand, at the two healed stumps of scar tissue where her fingers should have been. Ryoka started, and held up her hand. She smiled, almost ruefully.
“I keep forgetting how many people haven’t seen this. Yeah, I lost my fingers.”
“How? Where? Was it on your delivery?”
“Yeah. The one south. It went…south.”
Ryoka laughed a bit while Ceria stared at her hand. She looked away, but then deliberately held her hand out to Ceria.
“It’s not exactly as bad as your hand, although I wish I’d kept the bones.”
Ceria gently reached out and touched Ryoka’s hand. She didn’t know what to say. Losing fingers was normal for adventurers—it was all too easy to lose body parts when a monster was in your face. But it was never easy, not with a friend—
“I’m sorry.”
“It happened. There was nothing I could do to stop it.”
“A monster did it?”
“Goblin. Bit them right off.”
“Goblins—you mean, the ones that attacked Esthelm?”
“Sort of. It’s a long story.”
Ryoka’s expression closed off a bit. She looked pained, older. Ceria saw her shake her head.
“I’ll tell you later. I’m not here to dwell on my mistakes—and I’ve got a lot. I just had to come here, to see you.”
“You certainly did it dramatically. Couldn’t you have asked to see me rather than run up the stairs?”
The young woman grinned and shrugged, abashed.
“You’re a celebrity now. They were turning away everyone who wanted to talk to you. I don’t think they would have accepted my word that we were friends.”
“True.”
Ceria laughed, and the hardest part was over. She looked at Ryoka, marveling.
“Not a day’s passed since we got out of Albez, and you find us. How?”
“A friend of mine heard a rumor about some Silver-rank team that cleared a dungeon. I raced over here, and every person on the street knew where you were staying.”
“Oh? So you know what we’ve been up to?”
“A bit. Just the important details. Although to hear other people say it, you guys went into the Ruins of Albez and slaughtered every monster you saw until you found a treasure vault.”
Ryoka grinned at Ceria. The half-Elf had to laugh.
“Hardly. We were digging around in that place aimlessly for over a week! If it weren’t for the map Olesm found—dead gods, there’s so much that has happened! Did you see Pisces and Ksmvr in the common room?”
“I did. They didn’t recognize me, though. Of course, they were both drunk.”
“Even Ksmvr? I might have to go down and see that.”
“He’s still drinking. I’m not sure if the Antinium can get alcohol poisoning, but you might need to stop him.”
“They’ve got antidotes for that. I’ll go down in a bit. For now—”
There was a polite knock at the door. Ceria broke off and got up. The [Innkeeper] himself was at the door with some drinks for her and Ryoka. She took it and thanked him before sitting with Ryoka at the table again. The young woman shook her head as she eyed the stiff beverage.
“They treat you like royalty, don’t they?”
“Anything for the heroic adventurers. I haven’t felt this pampered—ever.”
Ceria sighed as she stared at her drink. She should have ordered water, not more alcohol. She paused, and looked at Ryoka. The other girl was staring at her.
“What?”
“Nothing. It’s just—you guys really did it, didn’t you?”
She looked at Ceria, something in her eyes. Ceria Springwalker shook her head, smiling, feeling something in her heart move.
“It wasn’t nearly as easy as the rumors make it out to be. We nearly died several times. Yvlon is getting bits of metal cut out of her arm as we speak. We’re not even sure if we can remove the armor without damaging her arm…”
“But you did it.”
“Yes. We did.”
How she wished. How she wished she could have said that to Ryoka at another time, in another place. In an inn in Liscor, laughing with delight as the other adventurers celebrated down below. But that moment would never come.
And yet, she knew that Ryoka was thinking the same thing. Seized by a sudden impulse, Ceria grabbed her mug. She lifted it.
“To the old Horns of Hammerad. We did it.”
“You did.”
The two clinked mugs and then drank. Ceria gulped the strong alcohol down and then sighed.
“It doesn’t feel real. I keep pinching myself, and I still can’t believe we’re alive.”
“You’re telling me? I just heard about all this, and I’m still in shock.”
Ceria laughed lightly.
“Well, we’ve had a day. I just keep thinking I’m going to wake up in the pit again or—”
She paused, and ignored Ryoka’s inquiring look.
“Anyways, the rumors are partly true. We’re rich, we’re famous, and we got out of Albez with a load of treasure and some magical artifacts. Pisces and Ksmvr are trying to get rid of it all today, but we’re set for a long time.”
“I’m glad.”
That was all Ryoka said, but Ceria heard everything she meant in it. She nodded, and then remembered.
“I’ve got money for Erin too—we talked, and there’s forty gold coins waiting for her.”
Ryoka whistled softly.
“That’s a lot more than she said she lent you.”
Ceria grinned.
“We’d give her even more, but we don’t have that much gold to toss around.”
“The rumor I heard coming into the city was that you and the others were set up for life.”
The half-Elf had to laugh at that, ruefully.
“We were. We pulled in nearly a hundred pounds worth of gold and gems, did you know? That would be enough to outfit us in style or pay for our retirement—Pisces, Yvlon and Ksmvr’s, at least, I’d run out before I died of old age—but we spent it instead.”
“On what? Magical equipment?”
“No. It’s going to the people who died in Liscor.”
“Oh.”
Silence descended again, but not for too long. Ceria explained.
“We’re giving them each a share. If we can, that is. Direct family—lovers—it’s hard to confirm, but we’ll give all the relatives of the dead what we can. It’s not enough, but it’s something.”
Ryoka nodded.
“Noble of you. Not sure it’s practical.”
“Neither am I. But Yvlon’s said she’ll forfeit her share of the magical artifacts if need be. I’m not sure it’ll come to that, but she’ll have last pick at any rate.”
“Artifacts? You mentioned those. You came away with more than just gold and jewels?”
“In a sense.”
Ceria grimaced as she explained what they’d recovered.
“Burnt and mangled, mostly. But they’re powerful. The trouble is, we can’t figure out what they do or if they’re still dangerous.”
“I can see that’s a problem. Can’t you hire another [Mage] to analyze the stuff, though?”
Ceria shook her head.
“Not in this city. There’s no one high-level enough to tell us what the items do, or whether they can be repaired. Pisces and I have had a look at the enchantments, but the more complex a spell is, the harder it is to…untangle the individual spells I guess is the best way of putting it. And since they’re all damaged, it’s even more of a mess.”
“I see.”
Ryoka frowned.
“Magical weapons, huh?”
“And a bag and the pack of a dead adventurer. Frankly, I suspect those two might be the more valuable pieces of loot. I’m sure the bag is actually a bag of holding, and if that’s the case, who knows what could be in there?”
“But you haven’t opened it?”
“Too risky. The bag and the pack are both trapped, at least, so we think. There’s a binding spell that prevents both from being opened—or damaged—and I don’t want to mess with either one. If the wards are anything like the dungeon we just went through, I wouldn’t want the bag opened even if I were on the other side of the city.”
“Was it really that dangerous down there?”
Ryoka looked inquiringly at Ceria. The half-Elf hesitated. She didn’t want to lie, but she didn’t want to tell the truth either. Even remembering the ordeal made her shudder.
“It was—bad. Very bad.”
She didn’t press for details, but Ryoka’s expression told Ceria she would listen. And Ceria knew she had to tell her. Slowly, she began to relate the entire tale to Ryoka, skipping over only the parts that were too hard to tell her, the details of the pit.
“Near the end, I think we were all a bit insane, even after the spell had ended. We made a lot of bad mistakes, and we lost the majority of the treasure because we made a mistake.”
“It wasn’t your fault. None of you were thinking straight.”
“That’s true enough, but we should have fallen back. If we’d just taken the time…”
Again, Ceria had to make herself break off. There was no use going over the moment again and again. She turned the topic away from the past and onto the future instead. She made her tone lighter.
“After Yvlon gets treated and we’ve had another day to rest, we’re going to have to think hard about what we want to do next.”
“As adventurers, you mean?”
“Not that. I mean, not yet. I think we’re all in this now; we’ve been bit by the adventuring beast. But we need to improve ourselves first. We all leveled up from that dungeon—several times actually! But if we want to continue, we need to get those artifacts analyzed. They’re the difference between us being Silver-rank and Gold-rank.”
Ryoka nodded, thinking hard.
“Any idea how you could do that? I have one idea, but it would be…risky…”
