The City runner searched around. She looked at the hopeful faces, at the scorched land, at Hedag, and listened for Laken’s voice. Then she shook her head.
“Nowhere.”
Hedag laughed. She slapped Ryoka on the back.
“You’d have made a fine [Witch], girl. A fine [Witch].”
 
—–
 
Night fell. Laken Godart worked into it. Riverfarm had so much that needed doing, and he was finally back. He only stopped when Lady Rie and Mister Prost both stopped taking his orders. Then Laken realized he was exhausted and needed some sleep.
“There’s always tomorrow. I’ll sleep, I’ll sleep, Prost! Don’t threaten me with Yesel.”
Laken yawned. He looked around, intending to tell Gamel to prepare a bed. And then he stopped. Slowly, his head turned.
“Oh. I’m back, aren’t I?”
It was alone that Laken came to Durene’s cottage. Well, not alone; Gamel had walked him the entire way there, and the [Knight] was hovering by the gates. Laken had to throw rocks in his vague direction until the young man finally left him. And then Laken took a few minutes before he knocked on the door.
He didn’t know why he did that. Frostwing was already screeching inside, and Laken was pushing Bismarck’s head away from licking him when Durene opened the door. The [Paladin] stared at Laken. He stared back.
“It’s good to see you, Durene. May I…come in?”
“Oh. Sure. I mean, we saw each other just—”
“Yeah.”
“…Come in! Of course! It’s your…”
Laken walked inside. The house wasn’t exactly like he remembered, but he’d known that as soon as he focused on it. Durene was sleeping in the kitchen, and someone had occupied her bed. It was messier with more work needed on the roof and some unwashed dishes on the counter—Frostwing’s nest was bigger, and Bismarck had made his own den around back—but it was familiar.
And not. So was Durene. Laken awkwardly stood with her for a bit before they sat down at the kitchen table. Neither one knew where to begin, and when they did—
“You brought Goblins back. And you took months doing it.”
“I had to, Durene. I explained it. Goblins are people—”
“Hah!”
“I thought you of all people would understand.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“Durene, you’re half Troll. Goblins are—”
“Trolls aren’t the same as Goblins!”
“No. But they’re both considered monsters. And neither are. Durene, Goblins—”
“Killed my friends! They killed the army, and they burned and killed and hurt a bunch of people! You were there, Laken! Remember fighting them at Riverfarm?”
“I’d never forget. But—”
“But what? But what?”
“Listen to me! But they’re not all alike! Or are all Humans alike?”
“They’re evil. All of ‘em.”
“How can you say that?”
“How can you say there are good ones? Has anyone ever met a good Goblin? No one has!”
“Maybe because no one’s given them a chance. How many good Trolls can you name?”
“Don’t you dare—”
“If I let them die, the army would have hacked them to pieces. Goblins who’d surrendered. Goblins who couldn’t fight. Children.”
“…”
“Don’t give me that look.”
“I’m not giving you any look. You can’t even see it.”
“I can tell you’re giving me a look, Durene. I have an [Emperor]’s senses.”
“Well, why didn’t you sense how I felt about this!”
“Because it’s not about you, Durene.”
“How is it not about me when the Goblins killed my friends?”
“I—I’m sorry. You’re right, it affects you. But Durene—those Goblins are people. And if I killed them, or let them die, knowing what I do now, I’d never forgive myself. And I wouldn’t be an [Emperor]. Or at least, not one you’d like.”
“…”
“The Goblins stay, Durene. And they’ll be protected, given the same rights as anyone else. If they kill someone, they’ll be punished. If they steal, they’ll be punished. And if someone kills a Goblin, I will treat them like a murderer.”
“No one’s going to like it. And I bet you anything that people like Ram’ll go after the Goblins. If they don’t attack us in our sleep. Are you at least watching them?”
“I have a guard on them now. To protect them from Humans, among other things. It doesn’t matter if you don’t like them, Durene. In fact, it’s fine that way. I’ve got a plan. It may work. But it doesn’t matter if people hate the Goblins’ guts. I will show them…”
Laken trailed off. Their first fight hadn’t been the worst. No one had broken anything. But Laken was more upset by this than anything else today. He stroked Frostwing’s head as the bird huddled in his lap. He could tell Durene was looking at him. At last, she burst out with it. The Goblins were only part.
“What happened? Laken, what happened when you left? Why was it so long? Why did…what happened?”
And he had no answer for that. He had a plan, an answer for everything else. But not that. Laken hung his head and shook it slowly.
“I made a huge mistake, Durene. And everything—all of this—is a result of it. I made a mistake. I’m so sorry it took me so long to return home.”
She didn’t reply. After a while, she got up and sat beside him. Laken turned his head. He could feel Durene there. But she didn’t embrace him. They just sat together. After a while, Durene wiped at her eyes.
“I thought it would be easier when you came back. I waited and waited.”
“I’m sorry.”
He reached for her hand. Durene pulled it away.
“Ryoka had to tell me you’re not perfect. That you make mistakes. I had to…I need to be a [Paladin], Laken. Or I need you to take it away. I can’t be half of it, though. I want to fight. And if you’re wrong about Goblins, maybe you were wrong about me.”
“I’m not.”
Laken whispered, but the half-Troll girl didn’t respond. So they sat there. Familiar strangers sitting together in the cottage. Until the door opened.
Laken started. He heard a gasp, then Ryoka’s voice.
“I’ll just, uh, sleep outside. In the village, actually.”
“Ryoka? Oh—”
The [Emperor] belatedly remembered the two other cots. Durene stood up hastily.
“Ryoka—”
“No, no! Go back to whatever you were doing!”
“We weren’t—”
The two began, but Ryoka had already shut the door. Laken could hear her retreating, then a distant voice.
“Hey, Wiskeria! You don’t want to go in there—”
Laken and Durene sat in silence after that. They paused, and then one of them began laughing, and the other joined in. Somehow, that had helped. In the end, they sat on Durene’s bed. She listened as he told her of what had passed, of what he had done. Trying to explain, or maybe justify. And then it was her turn.
“So much happened after I woke up. I can’t even explain…”
“Tell me. Tell me from the start. From the fever.”
And she did. Laken sat, listening to that familiar voice, willing himself not to interject too much, to listen. To understand. Durene sat there, so close it hurt. After a while, he found himself holding her hand. And she looked at him and tried to remember if it had felt like that before he’d left. They slept apart that night. Somehow…it just ended up that way.
 
[Emperor Level 20!]
[Skill – Group: Surge of Inspiration obtained!]
[Skill – Empire: Fields of Bounty obtained!]
 
 
Day 72
 
Ryoka saw Laken’s new Skills the next day. The [Emperor] was up at dawn, raring to get to work. And Riverfarm was up with him. She caught him using the Skill on a group of [Woodcutters] who’d volunteered to see what the Skill was about.
“[Surge of Inspiration].”
The group jumped as one and then patted their bodies and each other, laughing. One of them raised his axe and uttered a loud yell.
“Dead gods, but I feel awake! I could chop down half a forest myself!”
“Well, it’s just burnt roots and stumps! Come on, let’s get to work! Your Majesty, that’s one Skill I wouldn’t mind you using on us every day! We’ll let you know how long it lasts!”
The leader laughed as he hefted the axe. The group moved off, practically jogging. Laken looked bemused.
“The instant I got back, I leveled up. It’s probably the world’s way of telling me I should never have left. And that Skill! That would have been so useful on the ride back. And the [Fields of Bounty] will allow me to feed all the people coming here.”
He nodded to Ram. The [Head Farmer] was practically bursting with delight, both from his new class that had replaced his [Rancher] class—it was apparently an upgrade—and Laken’s Skills. He indicated the fields, which were being expanded again, as he spoke to Laken.
“I reckon I can see some of the crops growing, Sire! What with all the Skills us [Farmers] have plus yours—even the grown plants look twice as good as they did yesterday! What do you think, Miss Griffin?”
Ryoka paused. She’d been offered some of the newest crop—corn—and was chewing on it. She gulped and nodded.
“Nice corn. Almost as good as Farmer Lupp’s. Well, half as good.”
Ram seemed insulted. Laken just smiled.
“I’m sure that’s a compliment, Mister Ram. Or maybe encouragement. Keep up the good work! I need to attend to the Goblin situation and the refugees coming in. You’ll be fine?”
“Oh, uh, yes, Your Majesty! I won’t let you down! Me and the [Farmers]’ll have your storehouses bursting in no time! Just so long as those filthy Goblins don’t slit our throats! But you have a plan for that! We’ll use them as monster bait or workers, right? Something only an [Emperor]’d think up!”
“Something like…well, nothing like that. But you’ll see, Mister Ram. Don’t worry about the Goblins. And keep people from thinking about going after them.”
Laken waved Ram off. Then he turned to Ryoka. Gamel was already waiting with a small horde of people who wanted Laken’s attention.
“Ryoka, I know I promised to talk, but I’m still in the middle of a thousand minor crises. Can you wait? I could use your help with Lady Rie and sending messages if you need something to do.”
Ryoka looked up, startled, and then shook her head.
“What? No. I’m fine. I’m just going to…sit here. If that’s alright.”
“Of course.”
Laken nodded and vanished into a crowd. Ryoka barely noticed him go. Then she stood up and went to a house on the edge of Riverfarm. More houses were being built, of course, and other buildings too. Laken was creating more than just houses and remodeling some that could become storefronts, other buildings. Even inns.
But the house Ryoka stopped at was just a house. Quiet. So quiet it hurt. And inside were two [Witches]. One was Hedag. The other was Nanette.
“Hey.”
“Miss Runner-Girl. Miss Ryoka Griffin. How do you feel?”
Hedag greeted Ryoka. The City Runner paused, then realized Hedag was indicating her slightly tender-footed gait. Ryoka shrugged.
“No calluses. I burned my feet off on that run. I still smell smoke.”
“Ah, when you led a tornado made of flame. You never said how you did it.”
Hedag’s eyes glinted as she sat next to Nanette. The [Witch] girl was sitting on the ground. Just sitting there, her expression distant. She wasn’t crying. She wasn’t…Ryoka forced herself to answer Hedag.
“How’d I know it would follow me? I didn’t. It’s the wind. It didn’t like being held. And tornados—well, I was pretty sure that it would move after me if I gave it a headwind. I mean, I know that sounds dodgy, but I had help. Califor gave me some tips.”
Califor. No one was invoking her name, but Ryoka felt she had to. The girl felt a lump in her throat. Yet Hedag’s cheerful voice made Ryoka flinch.
“Ah, if she did, then you had better odds than not. Well, however it was done, you have a Hedag’s thanks. And a village’s no doubt. Even Califor would have struggled to end that whirlwind and the rest of the fire. Perhaps she might have failed. And then, what a waste, eh?”
And Califor’s name made her look at Nanette. The girl had stirred once in reply to the name. But Hedag didn’t seem guilty at saying it out loud. The [Executioner] was tender as she combed Nanette’s hair. But she had made the girl eat and drink this morning when she’d refused to. In her way, Hedag was crueler than Mavika. She refused to let Nanette alone.
“I’m sorry. I never should have trusted her.”
That was all Ryoka could say to Nanette. She sat down, looking and not looking at the girl. Hedag watched the two as Ryoka sat there, hating herself more than any other day in her life.
Nanette didn’t respond. She lay there, motionless. Like a doll with its strings cut. Hedag drank. Ryoka spoke haltingly. Nanette said nothing.
They had made it through the fire, Califor and Nanette. That was the story Wiskeria and the rest of the coven had heard from Nanette before shattering grief had given way to this. The path of events that had led Califor to return to put out the fire at the cost of her life was simple.
They had met Belavierr. And in that meeting, she had stolen a bit of Nanette’s hair. Just a strand or two. But that was enough. Belavierr hadn’t ever lied. She’d told the truth; she couldn’t stop the wildfire with her craft. She might have if she used all her magic and her life, but she hadn’t wanted to die. And what she could do was kill Nanette. So she’d made Califor an offer: her daughter or her life.
And to save her daughter from the Stitch Witch, Califor, a legendary [Witch] in her own right, had ridden back and stopped the fire. She’d saved Wiskeria. And Belavierr had cheated her death again.
It was such a simple story. All of Belavierr’s stories of her evil were the same. Ryoka felt sick. But this had crossed a line. This hadn’t been a deal or self-defense. This had been evil. As Nanette sat next to her, Hedag honed her axe.
“This blade’s never ended a [Witch]. Hedags don’t go after [Witches] much. And this Hedag is a [Witch], so there’s less point. In our covens, we look the other way from the sins a [Witch] does so long as it brings no grief upon our kind. We’ve little enough allies to peck each other apart. But when a [Witch] kills another [Witch]—then they are hunted. By other [Witches]. And if ever I meet Belavierr, I owe her a Hedag’s justice.”
Ryoka couldn’t care about that. Belavierr was gone. She had killed Califor. Killed her and left Nanette with nothing. That was what mattered. She had to ask.
“Was she…Nanette’s…”
“Mother? Califor?”
Hedag’s voice was too loud. Ryoka and Nanette flinched. Hedag nodded.
“She was Nanette’s mother. If she pretended otherwise, it was to spare Nanette the attention she might have had otherwise. Or else other [Witches] would have looked to her like Wiskeria. Judged. You know how we are.”
“I’m so sorry.”
Ryoka said it again. Hedag snorted. She delicately moved the axe across the whetstone. And her gaze was merciless as she gazed at Ryoka.
