“Sorrys and regrets have never salved a wound, Wind-Girl. Go. And do what good you may elsewhere. Leave Nanette to herself. And say her name. Califor.”
“But Nanette’s—”
Ryoka looked at the girl. She was crying, crying without moving. Hedag’s voice was implacable.
“She was Nanette’s mother. And she was named Califor. Don’t pretend she never existed. And you, Nanette, let it hurt. Let it hurt or the wound will never heal.”
The girl wept. And Ryoka looked at her and Hedag. And she didn’t have the courage to stay.
 
 
Day 73
 
It took Laken two days to deal with the Goblins. And when he did, Ryoka was there. She had to be. She didn’t know what Laken intended, but she was ready for…anything. She still had yet to talk to him. Riverfarm was still growing as more shell-shocked folks made their way here, speaking of the fire. Laken was reorganizing, dealing with the problems of city folk versus villagers, people wanting special treatment because of their class, even petty thefts.
And the thing was, he was dealing with the problems, not patching them up for later. [Thieves] were evicted after a lashing or time in the pillories. People were told to live with their neighbors or politely informed they could leave. And two [Bandit] groups were smashed by Beniar and his [Riders] in night raids almost before they’d been formed.
The [Emperor] was back. Most people couldn’t be happier. But even the happiest, even people like Prost and Durene, feared the Goblins. Twice, people had come after the prisoners in their wagons, for vengeance or out of fear.
Both times, Laken had spotted the trouble coming, but the Goblins? Ryoka knew that Laken couldn’t have turned them loose along his trip without them being hunted down or potentially terrorizing some area, but she couldn’t imagine how he’d handle them now.
She didn’t have to wait any longer. The Goblins were being unloaded out of the wagons. They formed a huge mass, warily eying the caravan guards and the militia that Laken had recreated. The Humans were armed and roughly equal in number to the Goblins; only a few were Hobs. Even so, it felt like the Humans were more terrified than the Goblins at this moment.
They were wary. Oh yes, Ryoka could see some of them looking around, clearly seeking lines of escape. But the place Laken had put them—next to a river curving south from Riverfarm and too far away from a forest and a mountain to the west—wasn’t a good place for running. It was relatively flat, here at least. So the Goblins stayed put. At least, for the moment.
They were strange to Ryoka. She was no Goblin expert, but she could at least tell that they were from different…tribes. Some even had grey skin! Others, a few, were marked with red paint—practically covered with it. One even wore a chef’s hat. It was dirty and had lost some of its floof, but the little Goblin had it on her head as she hid behind another Hobgoblin who was definitely female. Her entire body was covered in exotic paint, and she looked around warily, watching, listening.
“Well, so this is what you all look like. And you.”
Laken waited until the last Goblin left the carts. Then he addressed them. He didn’t get any closer, but he was speaking to one of the Hobgoblins who wore red paint. The Hobgoblin stared at Laken, but didn’t respond. In fact, the Goblins were eerily quiet and still. Laken sighed. He pointedly turned his head across the Goblins’ ranks.
“I know you can understand me. And I know you’re there. I can’t imagine what you must feel. But we’ve arrived at our destination. And you must know what comes next.”
There was a susurration among the Humans. A slow tensing among the Goblins. Laken nodded.
“A choice. Now, listen to me. And watch.”
He walked forwards. Gamel started, and the Humans with weapons wavered, but Laken stopped a good two dozen paces short of the Goblins. He frowned at the ground and then stuck one shoe in the wet earth. It was barren, devoid of grass, but some new shoots were already blooming. Life even after fire. Laken ignored the burgeoning green and dragged his foot along the ground. Everyone stared as the [Emperor] drew a line straight from the river past the Goblins. He stopped, kicked some mud off the tip of his shoe, and pointed at the line.
“You see this line? Beyond this line is my land. The land of Riverfarm. The Unseen Empire.”
He was addressing the Hobgoblin with the stripes. Laken stepped back. The Redfang Hob walked forwards and investigated the line. He eyed it, then pointed at the land across the line. Laken nodded.
“My territory.”
The Goblin instantly stepped over the line. Ryoka, Beniar—all of the Humans tensed. Laken just chuckled. The Hobgoblin watched, expectant. Laken nodded.
“Well now, you’re on my land. So that means my laws apply. Steal, harm, or break the laws of Riverfarm and you will face the consequences. And I will tell you each of the laws if you ask. While you are on my land, you will be treated like people. If someone harms you, I will know. And I will punish the guilty. But I cannot promise you will be safe.”
The Hobgoblin stared at him. He peered at the other side of the line. Walked across it. Then he kicked some dirt over the line as if to say ‘so what’? Laken nodded patiently.
“Beyond this line are Goblin lands. Your territory. And your rules. Perhaps someone will have need to cross this line. If, for instance, some Goblins took something that belonged to Humans. Someone shot a deer and it ran across this line. Sometimes, Humans may need to cross this line. But whether and how we do is up to you. How you act.”
He waited. The Goblins waited. Some of them began picking their noses. Laken continued, undeterred.
“The line isn’t just here. It continues. From here straight up to that mountain. I also warn you that I control much of the land to your south. But if you go south and west too far, you will run into lands claimed by Humans. This immediate area is my territory for at least twenty miles south of here. And my people will patrol my borders while not stepping onto Goblin lands. You see? Along the river is how far it goes. We will put people down the river and catch those who might try to hurt you if we can. But again—you know us Humans.”
The Goblins stirred. So did Ryoka. Laken wasn’t promising them much. You know Humans. It was practically a warning. But Laken was saying…Ryoka’s eyes narrowed. The [Emperor] continued, and both Humans and Goblins were listening, trying to figure out what his game was.
“I can see what happens on my land, by the way. I can see what you do. You can try taking vengeance. Or you can run off. I’ll stop you if you attack Humans. I won’t stop you if you run off, or protect you. And this is the only thing I will ever give you. This line. Oh—and this.”
He pointed casually to something behind the Goblins. They turned around and stared at the pile of objects and opened crates. One of them stared inside. A little Goblin poked his hand in and pulled something out. Laken nodded.
“Hammers. Nails. Hoes. Shovels. Etcetera. And food to last you a week, if you manage it. That’s all. Do with it as you will. And remember—my line. My territory. That’s yours.”
He turned and began to walk away. The Goblins stared at his back. Beniar’s jaw was practically falling off his face. Ryoka could feel the disbelief in the air from both sides. That was it? But Laken only stopped once.
“Oh, and one more thing.”
Hundreds of stomachs and butts instinctively clenched. This was it. The [Emperor] pointed back towards the crate.
“It’s right on top of the pillows. Try not to break it.”
The Goblins stared at the crates. The [Emperor] smiled once.
“See you.”
Then he walked away. Slowly, the Humans followed. Some of them were already arguing with the [Emperor].
“Your Majesty! We have to set a guard!”
“Then set one.”
“They have weapons!”
“Well, if they use them, I’ll know. This is what an army’s for, Beniar. Speaking of which, we need to begin recruitment and training.”
“But—”
“What else do you want, Beniar? I’ll let you have it. But no killing Goblins. Anything else I’m fine with.”
And then their voices trailed off. The female Human with bare feet stared at the Goblins a while longer before running off. And the Goblins of four tribes—the tribe of Tremborag, the Great Chieftain of the Mountain, the Redfang Warriors, the Flooded Waters tribe Goblins, and the Solstice Goblins, who had once been Cave Goblins—all stared at each other.
Ulvama was muttering to herself. Some of the Hobs were looking at each other. They had no chieftain. The chieftains might all be dead. Did they form a new tribe? What about the strange, blind Human’s words?
It was one of the Redfangs who made the first move. She was a Hob and a Redfang, and she had her priorities straight. The first thing the Redfang Hob did was grab the shovel and lift it. She checked it for faults and swung it once. Nodded.
Sharp. It was no sword, but she could kill something with it. The other Redfang Hobgoblin nodded. He checked the crates, looking at saws, nails, all kinds of things you could make useful weapons from. Or fortifications. He grunted, and two of the smaller Redfang Warriors began arming themselves, debating on how to get ahold of some armor.
And then the Redfang Hob paused. He remembered the [Emperor]’s words. Slowly, suspiciously, he looked for the crate filled with pillows, which some Goblins were already tearing apart for feathers, which were good for all kinds of stuff, like toilet paper or arrow fletching. And the Redfang Hob stopped.
The other Goblins saw his posture, saw the shock. Not alarm, so they crowded closer. And they all stopped, staring down into the crate. At the other thing the [Emperor] had left.
They stared at it. Ulvama blinked. Pebblesnatch came from behind her. The little Cave Goblin’s eyes were wide, because she recognized it too. They all did.
It was the iPhone.
 
 
Day 74
 
“Emperor Laken wishes to see you, Miss Griffin.”
Three days after he’d arrived, Ryoka finally got the call to meet Laken. She couldn’t blame him, not really. He’d been fielding [Messages] left and right yesterday. Among housing thousands, designing a new village, gathering food and supplies and working out what was essentially a bureaucracy in the making, Laken had also had to deal with the Drakes.
Or rather, one Drake, whose body had been preserved in a coffin. Not out of respect, but necessity. Ryoka could only listen to a few reports, but it appeared that the Drakes’ attack on other lands had gone off with mixed success. In places, they’d just done damage and left, like Lord Veltras’ estates. In others, they’d gone in personally and caused damage, like Lord Erill’s home where the Drakes had cut down notable figures before retreating—or dying.
However, there were few bodies. Fewer signs of proof. The Drakes had magical objects on them, but most had preferred to destroy their gear before dying. And none had anything that connected them to a city or organization.
It was a mess. But Laken was communicating with the other nobles who’d been affected. Tellingly, they were all wealthy or powerful individuals that had taken part in the siege of Liscor. Smaller [Lords] like Yitton Byres hadn’t been hit, only the big ones. And Laken.
“Laken? Are you here?”
Ryoka pushed open the door. Gamel glared at the impropriety, but Laken looked up from the table. He’d converted one of the houses into a meeting room so people would stop borrowing Rie’s or Prost’s homes. Another thing the [Emperor] could do that stuck.
“Yes, come in, have a seat. Can Gamel get you anything?”
“Nope.”
“Then that will be all, Gamel. Give us some room. And keep people away unless it’s an emergency.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
The door closed. Gamel cast one curious glance at Ryoka before the door closed. Laken sighed, sat back, and then spoke in a much more conversational tone of voice.
“I’m sorry it took so long to arrange a meeting. But I’ve been swamped—”
“So I see. It’s no problem. How’re things?”
Ryoka stretched out at the table, watching Laken closely. He didn’t turn his head to look at her. He was aware of where she was, of course, but he didn’t react to her like someone with eyes would, and that was disconcerting. He was surer than she was of the locations of things around him, actually. Case in point, Laken reached to one side and lifted a cup without turning his head.
“They’ve been there a day. The [Witches], I mean. Your Centauress friend really did get there in two days. And apparently, the [Witches] managed to figure out an antidote in record time.”
“According to who?”
Laken paused, and then he laughed.
“Ah, well, it was quick. Puts the [Healers] to shame, really. But apparently that [Witch]. Mavika? She’s experienced with Drake poisons and their venom. Apparently, one of them was spitting it into the water supply and increasing the dosage.”
“Nasty. So the dogs are alright?”
The conversation was moving faster than the [Emperor] had expected, but he just exhaled and shook his head, weary.
“More or less. Lots of them died. And some people too, but Gralton cares more about dogs than…the rest are recovering. The [Witches] are headed back now. I’ll need to prepare Mavika’s reward if she wants it all at once. But you don’t need to hear about my issues.”
“Nope. We’re here to chat. Come on, take a load off.”
Ryoka gestured at the table. Laken smiled.
“Can I get you anything to eat? We’ve got snacks.”
“Huh. Well, maybe. Let me check. Oh—”
Ryoka got up and went to the cupboard. She frowned at what was inside. Then she motioned to Laken.
“Hey, uh, it’s not a snack, but—”
“What? Something wrong with the walnuts?”
Laken looked up with a frown. Ryoka motioned to him, and he got up.
“I don’t know if you can see it with your [Emperor] vision. Come here.”
He walked over, past a chair, and straight into Ryoka’s fist. She hit him in the stomach as hard as she could—she didn’t feel like breaking a finger on his jaw.
Laken doubled over. He didn’t groan, and he didn’t retch—he just fell over, clutching his stomach. Ryoka watched him double over on the floor in silent agony for a minute. She debated a kick, but thought better. After another minute, she heard a sound.
He was swearing in German. Ryoka listened a bit and stared at her hand. No good. She’d hoped it would feel different, but she still felt like she’d just sucker-punched a blind man. Not a great feeling.
Ryoka walked over and took a seat at the table again. Well, she did feel better now she’d gotten that out into the open. She addressed Laken on the floor.
“I hope you know why I did that.”
