“That’s okay. Maybe I’ll see her in my next life. Or when I die. But at least she’s…alive.”
She sat there with him. Laken waited, but nothing more came from Ryoka. After a while, he began to chuckle again. When Ryoka made an inquiring sound, he shook his head.
“When did it all go so wrong, eh?”
“Yeah. What happened to the Laken I met? The guy who seemed more upbeat and less—world-weary? You looked like you had the world on your shoulders, in the meeting with the coven.”
The [Emperor] paused.
“Well, this Laken has a lot more mistakes he doesn’t want to make again. The old Laken you met back then was just a kid playing at being [Emperor]. Well-intentioned, but this time, I know what the cost of failure is. This Ryoka is a bit more impressive.”
“What? You barely remember the old me.”
“Well, this one apparently controls tornadoes instead of just running through blizzards.”
Ryoka hung her head.
“I barely did anything. I was just the observer, and when it counted…”
Laken’s voice was gentle, but gentle as opposed to redemptive.
“You saved what you could. Not enough. I left my people alone for too long. We can both do better. I need to regain their trust. Durene’s…everyone’s…where will we begin?”
Then they were just tired. Ryoka rubbed at her face, and she glanced at Laken.
“You could start by paying me.”
Laken chuckled. Ryoka didn’t.
“I’m serious. I have expenses.”
“I know. I’ll get the money to you. I’m not hurting for coin. Call it my first Skill or just luck; Gralton, one of my new allies, is one of the richer [Lords] in the area. And Yitton Byres has his silver mines, although he’s not hugely wealthy. I can borrow from them until I get Riverfarm an actual economy. That’s actually easier than the Goblins, by the way.”
“Really? In that case, a thousand gold coins—”
“Don’t be greedy.”
“I outran a tornado made of fire to save your damn village. And the [Witches]—”
He had been chuckling until she brought up Califor. The two fell silent again. Ryoka scrubbed at her face.
“You never met her. But Miss Califor was a hero, Laken. You owe them. I don’t know exactly what they’ll ask, but you owe them something large. As large as a life.”
“I know. Tell me just one thing, Ryoka. What was the other one like? Belavierr?”
Ryoka paused. She took a long, long time to reply.
“Like…a nightmare, Laken. A nightmare, at first. But a classic one. One you think you know. So it’s scary, but you expect it, in a way. Horrifying as it may be. And then you wake up. And you think it was just a dream. You think you know reality. But then you realize you’re still dreaming. That’s her.”
Laken shuddered. The two sat in silence for a while longer. At last, he cleared his throat.
“I don’t expect you to stay. I’d like you to. If you wanted it, I could find you a role in Riverfarm. For you and your friends. But I doubt you trust me that much.”
“Nope. And I’m a Runner. Born to run.”
Laken smiled.
“Will you keep in touch?”
“You bet I’ll check in now and again.”
Ryoka nodded. She stood up and, after a moment, hesitated.
“The traitor. The one who ordered the attack on the Goblins at Lancrel. I told you about my suspicions, didn’t I?”
Laken paused. Ryoka had, by [Message]. He spoke slowly.
“Tyrion Veltras was as good as his word back then. He asked every single noble under truth spell if they had committed the crime. His subordinate, Jericha, did it. And the traitor never showed up.”
“You can fool a [Detect Truth] spell. Not just with the wording. You can literally just ignore it if you have the right artifact. Or spell.”
Ryoka watched Laken’s expression. He swore under his breath.
“Alright. Who’s your guess?”
She told him and watched his face change. Laken got up to pace. Ryoka quietly spread her arms.
“It’s only a guess.”
Laken nodded distractedly, but she saw how rattled he was.
“In storytelling logic, your first guess is always wrong. And it’s always the last person you expect. Like Durene, I suppose. Or Frostwing.”
“If we were in a story. How many of them have Goblins that aren’t monsters?”
Laken paused at that. Then he sat back down.
“I’ll check it out. Even if you’re right, finding proof will be hard. Especially because everyone knows about my [Emperor] senses. Still. Lady Rie?”
“Yup.”
“Damn. I’ll…she was loyal the entire time I was gone, Ryoka.”
“If she’s one of the Circle of Thorns’ members, she might want to turn you against Magnolia.”
Ryoka pointed out. Laken scrubbed his face.
“If she is. If she is, I’ll make my decision. Let’s…talk about something else. I’ll watch her, Ryoka. If you’re right, I’ll find out eventually.”
The young woman nodded. She sat in silence with Laken for a bit and then thought of a topic.
“What are you going to do about the [Witches]?”
“I have a few thoughts. Would you like to talk about it?”
Laken smiled bleakly. Ryoka smiled too. The two sat across from each other, wary, trying to understand each other. Trying to be…friends. Ryoka laughed, forcing it a bit.
“Sure. But if you ask me how to make a ballista, I’m going to hit you again.”
Laken chuckled.
“Don’t worry. I’m pretty sure I could work one out myself.”
This time, Ryoka’s laughter was genuine. She reached out and punched Laken. In the shoulder. He replied with a sharp punch, and she swore.
“Ow!”
“Sorry, I always thought you hit each other harder when people told me about doing it…”
And they sat there and talked until Gamel brought dinner. They might have become friends. Or they might have already been friends. Ryoka didn’t know.
She left that night. Before the other [Witches] returned. It wasn’t that she didn’t want to know what happened next. It was just that Ryoka had a fairly good idea of what Laken would do. And this was not her empire. Strangely, unsettlingly, and rightly, it was his. He belonged here. And she—
She had to go. She had friends in Reizmelt. She had a friend in Charlay. She would come back to see what he’d done. But Riverfarm—she’d done all she could here. So she left. And the [Emperor] sat and thought of all she’d talked to him about over that night.
He wished she’d stayed.
 
 
Day 76
 
The coven met outside of the [Emperor]’s throne room and talked quietly. They had come back. And they had been summoned not an hour after Eloise had flown back, riding on Alevica’s broom. Neither [Witch] had enjoyed the journey, but they gathered nonetheless. Mavika spoke, peering at the others in turn.
“He paid his promises due. I counsel caution, but remember that he has kept his words true.”
Eloise was next. Good advice came in threes, and the three oldest [Witches] gave it in turn.
“I counsel caution as well. [Emperors] have many tricks and Skills.”
“I counsel trust, then. For his people love him, and the children too. And they have eyes that see through what adults do. Besides. We have paid too much in Califor’s life not to see this through. There’s a rhyme for you, Mavika. Good enough?”
Hedag laughed. The other [Witches] nodded. All but Nanette. She followed like a ghost. She had to be there or the coven wouldn’t be whole. But it was already broken. Califor was gone. And Belavierr…
Wiskeria’s stomach clenched as she entered the throne room. She had spoken to Laken about the events that had unfolded, but not in detail. And he had not told her how he felt about the other [Witches]. Nor could she promise the coven that they’d get what they wanted. But—here they were. After all that had happened, Wiskeria stood with her fellow [Witches].
She could do nothing less.
“His Majesty, Emperor Godart, Protector of Durene’s Cottage, Ruler of Riverfarm and the surrounding area, and sovereign lord of the Unseen Empire!”
Gamel cried the address as the [Witches] approached the throne. Alevica snorted. Hedag laughed. Wiskeria thought that Laken had intended it that way, but Eloise’s silent elbows made the other [Witches] bow slightly. And Laken nodded in reply.
“Approach and speak freely.”
The coven did. They lined up, six [Witches] standing together. Wiskeria, Hedag, Mavika, Nanette, Alevica, Eloise. And they felt the absence of the other two. Laken stared down at them from his carved, wooden throne. And his voice was neither harsh nor welcoming.
“So. A coven comes before me. A coven whose members have wrought great ill and good for my lands and that of my allies. And a coven comes to me today to strike a bargain.”
Wiskeria paused. Laken’s voice was distant and impartial. It wasn’t like the Laken she knew. Sitting on that throne, he looked like an [Emperor], though he had no crown and his garments were plain. It was Eloise who spoke for the others.
“Your Majesty, we speak for all [Witches] across Izril. And we make you a simple offer. Consider what you have seen us do. Consider our craft that you have witnessed or heard of. We are [Witches], and we bring good. Sometimes ill, yes, but often good. We provide magic, charms, our expertise. What we ask—all we ask—is that we be given freedom to practice our arts on your lands, free of persecution.”
“Sheltered by my empire.”
Eloise paused.
“If you would say it like that, yes, Your Majesty. We would like you to guarantee that bounties on [Witches] be invalidated on your lands unless there was ample reason given. It is not a crime to be a [Witch].”
“But some [Witches] commit crimes, true?”
Eloise paused. Wiskeria stared up at the [Emperor]. What was he doing? The coven shifted restlessly.
“Some do, Your Majesty. But some [Carpenters] are monsters. Some are good workers. Often, a [Witch] is blamed for things she has not done. Or spells, bargains, undertook on behalf of another.”
“Such as…?”
“Cursing a cheating husband, Your Majesty. Casting a hex that makes a well scream his name and the woman he slept with. Giving someone a boil. Petty crimes like that are things [Witches] do. It’s a service, like a [Mercenary].”
Wiskeria broke in desperately. Laken stared at her.
“Or a [Thug] beating a man after being paid. Those are hostile magics, Witch Wiskeria.”
Eloise spoke quickly.
“They are not what all [Witches] do. Many do not cast such magics, Your Majesty. In fact, many bring a positive change. Such as Witch Mavika, who eradicated pests from your fields.”
Laken frowned.
“Yes, I have heard that from Prost. But that does not change the point, Witch Eloise. Under your pact, [Witches] would be free to practice their craft in my lands. Free from prejudice or their crimes of old. And part of that craft might harm my citizens.”
The coven paused and shuffled their feet. Well, if he wanted to get technical about it—Wiskeria’s heart was pounding. No one could deny that. But think of all the good they’d done! And then she thought of her mother, and her heart sank.
Eloise was trying to choose her next words carefully. But it was Alevica who stepped up next. She spoke in her most charming voice possible. So charming that Wiskeria was positive she’d used some of her craft.
“It is true that [Witches] cannot be bound, Your Majesty. But we are no group of criminals like [Bandits] or [Raiders]. We are a calling and a class. Some of us do great evil. Others great good. We only ask that we not be treated as enemies without judgment.”
Wiskeria held her breath. Eloise was glaring—as was Mavika. They’d agreed not to use magic on Laken! If it went wrong—
The [Emperor] shook his head, then replied sharply.
“You ask for more than that. You want this to become a gathering of [Witches]. A haven in case the rest of Izril turns against you. How many [Witches] would come here if they knew they could practice most of their craft without interference or judgment?”
“Er—”
Alevica floundered. She glanced around. And it was Hedag who replied with a broad smile.
“We would always be judged, [Emperor]-Fellow. Here is just a place where many of us would like to pause. Or practice our craft without hired [Mercenaries] seeking our life. But that depends on the [Emperor]. Do you see a need for a Hedag? Or do you think the Hedag belongs beneath the axe she’s swung?”
Laken paused, and Wiskeria winced. But it was the right direction. Because Laken nodded and relaxed on his throne.
“You, Witch Hedag, I see a need for. Because I would do the very same if I feared a man were abusing his child. Prost has told me of the man you executed. And I do not fault you for that either. I thank you.”
The coven relaxed. Laken went on.
“But if I were to catch a [Lord] or someone of similar power who had committed murder or worse, would you stride into my prison and behead him then and there?”
Every eye turned to Hedag. Wiskeria willed the old [Witch] to respond diplomatically, but Hedag just shrugged and drank from her flask.
“I suppose that’d lie in the justice I saw such as him receive, wouldn’t it? If it did not satisfy, then the old ways would come out as surely as I stand here.”
The coven glared. Hedag was unmoved. Laken murmured on his throne.
“Old ways are not always the best ways.”
It was an echo of what Califor had said. Nanette jerked and looked up with lost eyes, stared around, before realizing and hanging her head. It silently broke the hearts of all who saw it. But Laken’s eyes were closed. He went on, debating with himself as much as the room.
“If I let Witch Hedag practice her craft and punish parents who abused children, spouses, and criminals, should I forbid [Witches] from casting curses? Making deals like Belavierr did with Rehanna?”
No one replied. Laken eventually paused. When he looked down at the [Witches], he did look. His eyes opened a bit, as if he wanted to see them. And Wiskeria saw his faded eyes and wavered.
“There are no good answers. [Witches]. You may do what is best for Riverfarm. Or you may do ill, and perhaps I could judge you individually and treat you like the people you are. Perhaps there is a place for [Witches] here, despite the potential for strife. If you agreed to hold the most basic rules of hospitality—to kill no one, cheat no one, and offer deals that the other side can clearly understand—perhaps I could allow your presence.”
He waved his arm, gesturing above.
“I have made a court of far stranger folk my vassals, and I considered that a fine deal. For the service one of your own has done Riverfarm, I acknowledge that this may be the least of the ways I can repay it.”
The coven waited. Everyone could hear the ‘but’. It came out differently from the [Emperor].
