Day 71
 
The next day, Laken returned home.
He returned on a quiet day. The rains that had poured from the sky after the days of fire had flooded the barren ground. So much so that the banks of Riverfarm’s river were overflowing. The water was actually a danger to the landscape; it was eroding the soil, which wasn’t prepared for this much stored rain. There was a potential now for the fields of scorched plants to drown.
Another aspect of the Drakes’ plans, if they’d thought so far ahead. But the heavy downpour had stopped in the morning, leaving only intermittent showers.
Ryoka stood by Riverfarm’s entrance with the others. Waiting. They knew he was coming. So they waited. [Witches]. Villagers. Her, Charlay. Silently.
They could have been working. The fields were half-ruined by fire. Parts of Riverfarm had been evacuated due to the fire damage. There were a hundred things to do. But all the people of Riverfarm had done yesterday was cremate and bury the dead, or rather, what remained of those they’d found.
No one had the spirit for anything else. Even the [Witches] were silent. Their hats still dripped with rainwater. They were motionless.
Five of them. Hedag. Eloise. Mavika. Alevica. Wiskeria. The one missing was Nanette. But no one had forced her to come outside. After yesterday, after the revelation that it had been Califor who had stopped the fire at the cost of her life, she hadn’t moved. Belavierr had fled. And Nanette was…gone.
Broken. Ryoka didn’t want to think of it like that. But that was what it looked like. Someone had taken Nanette’s heart, had taken that smiling, cheerful little [Witch] and removed her happiness. Belavierr had killed Califor, had forced her to her death. And Califor had been Nanette’s mother. Her true mother, by blood as well as parenthood. And she was dead.
There wasn’t anything else to say. Ryoka couldn’t even cry. She hated herself. Hated herself for ever believing Belavierr was more than a monster. Hated herself for trying to give her a chance. And she hated the Drake who had died.
She didn’t even know his name. But he had engineered this pointless death, spread the fire that had taken so many lives. He had done it so casually, too. Without even knowing Riverfarm. He was an agent of a foreign power. And he had killed hundreds, perhaps thousands of people in this region for a war that few had taken part in.
Ryoka had never felt more like she was home than today. It was the same world, deep down. The same people, even if they wore different bodies. She hated it. But she couldn’t even be angry. So she stood there.
And there Laken came. Just before midmorning, the silence of the crowd was broken. A bright, blue bird took wing. She flew up, and Frostwing’s piercing scream made the people below start. The bird had sensed the grief in the air perhaps, but she was a simpler creature. And she had picked up on something before the others. She flew east, flapping her wings rapidly. Then she dove out of the skies, a blue bolt of feathers, shrieking.
On the ground, a Mossbear got up from where he had been napping besides Durene. Bismarck, his fur singed, looked up and roared. He lumbered forwards, people scattering around him. He raced after Frostwing, moving faster than Ryoka could remember seeing him. Ryoka stood taller, craning her neck with the others to see. It was Durene who exclaimed and pointed first.
Then Ryoka saw him. A distant figure riding slowly towards them, one of two on the road. He didn’t lead the way. He was following another man, who was guiding both his horse and the young man’s. But the [Emperor]’s head was craning, following Frostwing as she flew down towards him. He raised an arm, and she landed there, pecking and shrieking at him.
“Is that…?”
Eloise murmured. Durene ran forwards a few steps.
“It’s him.”
She was certain, even as far away as she was. Durene hesitated, then began to trot, then run. Prost watched her. And then he followed at a jog. Chimmy, Miss Yesel, and the rest of his family followed as well.
“It’s His Majesty!”
Jelov the [Carpenter] shouted, spraying people around him with spit. He crab-ran after the others. And then Riverfarm’s villagers were running, calling out his name. The others, who had never met Laken, watched. Startled. But then they followed, first at a quick walk, then faster. Ryoka ran past them. Charlay galloped on her right.
“Why are we running? Why are we running?”
Ryoka had no answer. But everyone in Riverfarm was racing towards him. And he sensed them. He dismounted from the horse as the other rider stopped. He jumped back, shouting, laughing, as Bismarck nearly knocked him flat. And he hugged the Mossbear. His head rose. And his closed eyes turned. He urged Frostwing onto Bismarck’s back. And he turned as Durene thundered at him.
“You—you—you’ve been gone so—”
Laken Godart stood there as Durene skidded to a stop in front of him. Ryoka was third, Charlay second. She looked at the [Emperor]. He stood in front of his horse. And he seemed larger than she remembered. He filled the air, for all he was shorter than both her and Durene. He turned his head, his eyes still closed. Towards Ryoka. But it was to Durene he turned back to.
“I know. My dear Durene. I know. I’m sorry.”
He walked towards her. The half-Troll girl hesitated. And she moved forwards timidly. The two stopped in front of each other awkwardly. Laken tilted his head up, as if to see her face. Durene hesitantly raised a hand.
They reached out. Laken straightened, and Durene’s head bent. And—she didn’t expect it, but he had intended it—they kissed there. Riverfarm’s folk stopped, panting. And waited. After a second, Laken turned towards them. The man on the horse slowly dismounted.
“Your Majesty.”
Mister Prost spoke slowly. Lady Rie panted as she caught up, having to push through the crowds. Laken turned his head. He didn’t speak at first. He just turned his head, his closed eyes passing over the faces in the crowd. Laken paused. And then he nodded.
“Mister Prost. My people. I’ve missed you so dearly. You and Riverfarm. I have been gone too long. At last, I have returned. Hear me. I am your [Emperor]. And I have come back.”
And he smiled slightly. Prost and the villagers of Riverfarm bowed their heads. Then they took a knee. In the muddy road. Lady Rie curtsied, ignoring the same muck. The people behind them hesitated. Lancrel’s folk, townsfolk, and villagers from further off wavered. But something compelled them. Perhaps it was the way he stood. Or the way he fit in this place. Like a missing part of the village. Perhaps it was only his class, but Ryoka felt it too.
Slowly, they knelt. Men, women, children. Only Ryoka remained standing. Ryoka, Charlay, who wavered and then locked her legs. And the [Witches]. The man behind Laken seemed disapproving. Laken himself just smiled.
“Thank you. You still find me worthy, then, Prost?”
“I have never doubted you for a moment, sire. Not since the day you found my family in the snow.”
Prost spoke, his head bowed. Laken nodded.
“Then I will answer that faith. Rise, my [Steward]. I am back. And though much grief has passed, I intend to begin mending my errors. Rise. And look: I did not return alone.”
He pointed. Ryoka saw, behind him, another procession travelling on foot. A few were mounted, but the majority of the [Engineers] and [Builders] walked. They too broke into a run when they saw the gathering. And one of the mounted men, Gamel, raced towards the crowd with Tessia riding behind him.
“Gamel! Tessia!”
“It’s the [Engineers]! They’ve all returned!”
Some of the villagers exclaimed excitedly. Laken nodded, and those who knew the people running towards them broke out of the crowd and met them. The delighted laughter and exclamations felt odd to Ryoka’s ears. Unfamiliar after so long without hearing them. But, oh, so welcome.
The young man on horseback, Gamel, dismounted. He bowed precisely towards Laken.
“Your Majesty.”
“Thank you, Gamel. Tessia, your parents are over that way.”
Laken pointed to his left. Tessia cried out and ran to an older couple fighting their way through the crowd. Gamel smiled. Laken turned his head.
“Do you have anyone you would like to see, Gamel?”
“No one not buried, Your Majesty. And they can wait. Your orders?”
The [Emperor] paused. And then he nodded.
“Very well, Gamel, with me. Mister Prost, Lady Rie, Durene, and Lord Yitton, would you all walk with me?”
Laken turned his head. And Ryoka saw him nod once towards her. But then he set off with the five people trailing after him. The crowd parted as Laken walked forwards. The [Emperor] turned his head.
“Lady Rie, a delight to hear your voice.”
“You flatter me, Your Majesty. Was your return uneventful?”
“Besides witnessing the devastation? Quite. However, my delayed return has given me time to assess the damage. We have much to do.”
“Yes, sire. Only—”
Prost hesitated. Laken turned towards him.
“Yes, Mister Prost?”
The [Steward] wavered. Their conversation was being followed by everyone present. And the moment of Laken’s arrival was passing. Ryoka could see the others appraising him. Waiting on his words. Prost raked a hand through his greying hair.
“I don’t know where to begin. The fire that…Drake caused didn’t damage Riverfarm much. But there was a [Witch].”
“Belavierr. Yes. I understand most of what transpired from Lady Rie’s [Message].”
Laken’s words caused a shudder to run through those around him. The [Emperor] paused. And he looked around.
“Mister Prost, I understand. Riverfarm has been through so much. But, surely you haven’t reached the limits of your stamina the moment I return? Or am I overestimating you [Farmers] and village folk?”
He smiled at the slight flush on Prost’s face. Laken shook his head, forestalling the man’s reply.
“I know. Yet, we have been through worse, Prost. I remember a village covered in snow. A time when we fought in the streets of Riverfarm. We have seen times just as dark. And each time, Riverfarm rebuilt itself. This time, mercifully, there is more left. And I will replace the rest piece by piece. But I can’t do it alone. May I lean on you for help?”
“Of course. Of course, Your Majesty.”
Prost’s voice cleared. And he looked around, assessing, a spark back in his eyes. Laken nodded.
“This is still a home. And it has weathered both ice and fire. And I am finally back. So, let us get to work! And then break open the stores and toast and mourn! Miss Yesel! Chimmy!”
He reached out, addressing the girl and woman in the crowd. Others gathered around. Laken turned, addressing people by their names. Smiling. Prost had to eventually shout for order and help Laken extricate himself from the crowd. Laughing, the [Emperor] continued onwards.
“Very well, Mister Prost. I see that Riverfarm’s folk are hale and hearty. But the village is quite a bit bigger than I remember. Will you introduce me to the newcomers?”
He turned and faced the other folk. They shifted, a bit disconcerted by the stare that was not a stare with Laken’s closed eyes. Prost nodded.
“These are folk from other towns and villages, Your Majesty. Some from small places like Fendele, others larger places like Tulntown. Most are from Lancrel, though.”
“Ah, yes. Lancrel.”
Laken murmured. A shadow crossed his brow. He nodded, turning his head to regard the crowd.
“I welcome you all. I regret that I was not here earlier. And I thank you for your efforts in building Riverfarm. I am Laken Godart. Riverfarm’s [Emperor]. I will meet with all of you in time and learn who each of you are. Today, though, we have work to do. Riverfarm has endured a great disaster. But it stands. And it will become greater still.”
Murmuring. The people watched Laken, some wary, others disbelieving. Many hopeful. Others, doubting because he was blind. But Laken was confident. He didn’t hesitate. He was turning back to Prost when a voice rang out.
“Excuse me! Excuse me! Make way!”
Ryoka, listening, winced as she saw a familiar face pushing through the crowd. And Councilwoman Beatica did have to push. Her metaphorical stocks were in the dumps after the disaster that had left her with some magically-healed burns and countless others dead in the river. But she still faced Laken, breathless.
“Pardon me. Your…Majesty.”
“Yes? Can I help you, Miss?”
Laken paused, turning back to Councilwoman Beatica with a bemused expression on his face. Surely he had to know who she was—but his brows rose. Lady Rie glared and urgently whispered in his ear, but the [Emperor] stepped forwards.
Everyone was watching this too. Councilwoman Beatica smoothed her dress, straightened, and spoke with every shred of authority she had. She smiled ingratiatingly—until it occurred to her that was pointless on Laken.
“I am Councilwoman Beatica, your—Your Majesty. And I am pleased to welcome you on behalf of—”
She got no further. Laken, with impeccable timing, raised his brows and exclaimed.
“A [Councilwoman]?”
He whirled, cutting off Beatica’s flow, and frowned at Lady Rie.
“I didn’t know Riverfarm had elected a council. Nor that my people were intending to replace my [Steward], Mister Prost. What is the meaning of this, Lady Rie?”
For a moment, the [Lady] looked as surprised as anyone else. Then she smiled.
“Your pardon, Emperor Godart, but I’m afraid you misheard Councilwoman Beatica. She was not referring to Riverfarm’s council.”
“Not referring to…?”
Laken’s frown made the smile on Beatica’s face waver. She licked her lips.
“I am of Lancrel, Your Majesty, but as I was saying—”
“Ah, Lancrel. Of course.”
Laken lightly tapped the heel of his palm on his forehead. He smiled and nodded. Then, suddenly, he focused on Councilwoman Beatica.
“This is Riverfarm, Miss Beatica. You are aware of that?”
The woman spluttered.
“Yes, but—”
The [Emperor] nodded happily. Then he walked right past her.
“I am delighted to meet you, Miss Beatica. However, I must attend to Riverfarm’s pressing needs at the moment. I look forwards to meeting you with the rest of my new subjects when time permits.”
“But—”
“If you have an issue, you may address it to one of my subordinates if they have time for you, Miss Beatica. However, your former station does not grant you any authority here. Lancrel’s folk are welcome here—as citizens of the Unseen Empire.”
Ryoka enjoyed seeing the woman’s face go slack. She opened her mouth, but Laken was already ignoring her. He addressed the rest of the crowd, who had seen Councilwoman Beatica’s power evaporate like, well, an idea.
