“—scheißkerl—I was wondering why you sounded off. I’m going to throw up.”
Laken tried to pull himself up onto his chair. He winced and decided to lie still for a second longer. Ryoka raised one eyebrow.
“You’re not going to call for Gamel and have me executed?”
“Gods damn it, Ryoka—go ahead and start kicking me if you want, but don’t hit me in the stomach or I’ll puke.”
Laken was still curled up, despite trying to stand. Ryoka folded her arms.
“I’m not going to beat you up. You deserved one. And I gave you one.”
“Yes, well, I can’t stop you.”
“You’re not actually blind. I mean—”
Ryoka hesitated as Laken’s closed eyes turned towards her incredulously. She flushed, despite knowing he couldn’t see it.
“You deserved that.”
“I think—it hurts—I think if you hit me for the reason I’m thinking about, I deserve far worse. Are you going to punch me every time you and I are alone?”
Laken pulled himself up. He sat, doubled over, and his entire face was one grimace. Now, Ryoka was getting angrily defensive.
“You deserve it. Don’t prevaricate with me.”
“I’m going to prevaricate on the floor. No one’s ever given me a punch like that. How does Beniar do his fighting thing? Is there a bucket?”
Ryoka wavered, then grabbed one. She slammed it down, and Laken recoiled, then dragged himself back to the table where he sat and held the bucket with clear fear it would be used.
“Want to talk seriously instead of being Mister Emperor?”
Laken put his head down on the table. After a second, he raised a hand.
“Don’t hit me again. May I ask one question?”
“I’m not going to hit you. Again. What is it?”
“Is the punch for neglecting Durene, Riverfarm? Califor dying? Not sensing the Drake saboteur? Or is it about the Goblins?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“…The Goblins. But I guess the rest of that counts too. For sieging Liscor, jackass.”
Laken’s face was a full wince.
“Can I ask you to hit me in the leg for the rest of it? I really do feel like I’m—”
“Shut up. Do you even know what you did?”
Ryoka glared at him. She raised a fist, and Laken flinched. Since that made her feel like the bad person, Ryoka slowly put her hands back on the table.
“I owed you a punch. And if you met my friend, she’d probably give you ten times that. If she didn’t try to stab you first. What the hell were you thinking?”
“Is this the part where I explain like I was going to?”
Ryoka’s growled.
“You nearly wiped out a city of innocent Drakes and Gnolls!”
Laken’s face was sweaty as he glowered in her general direction.
“Firstly. I didn’t know we were attacking Liscor. Do you not remember there was a Goblin Lord? He attacked Riverfarm! When Tyrion Veltras came by, a Goblin army had just been fighting mine. When he told me Liscor was the target, I wasn’t in a position to refuse.”
Ryoka hesitated. In her gut-punching decision, she’d largely been focused on how to execute it without Gamel trying to murder her. She had forgotten…
“You could have backed out.”
“Oh, absolutely. A blind [Emperor] with a few hundred followers arguing with the head of House Veltras. After he took the trebuchets from me, what would have changed? That would be the most idiotic political move I can think of. I did what I could. Just so you know, I told the trebuchets to stop firing when I could. It wasn’t much.”
“…How many people died?”
Laken had enough energy to sit up by now. He grimaced.
“Tens of thousands.”
“Dead gods. I’m going to kill you! No one said—”
Ryoka almost went for his throat, and Laken recoiled.
“I know, I know. They were massacred, but I didn’t even think we were killing people! Just—monsters. It was mostly both tribes. Then Tyrion tried to wipe them all out. I know it was heinous.”
His grimace drew Ryoka up short. She hesitated.
“Wait. You’re talking about Goblins.”
It was Laken’s turn to actually crack one eye open as if he could see.
“Yes.”
“I mean Liscorians.”
“Well, you said people. Wait, were you punching me because I sieged Liscor?”
Laken’s voice rose, a touch indignant, and Ryoka hesitated.
“No, I owed you that for the Goblins too—”
She just hadn’t thought about the Goblins so much as Erin’s city and Erin herself. But now the [Emperor] was scowling in her direction.
“I thought the punch was for the Goblins, which I admit, I deserve! You care about the city? Damn the city. No one even got hurt! We hit it a few times with rocks!”
“I heard Antinium died—”
“Goblins were wiped out by the tens of thousands. Tribes. I held one’s hand, and he told me his brothers were dead. I—I have been thinking of that. Dreaming of that, Ryoka.”
The Wind Runner paused. Suddenly, she was on the defensive.
“—That’s terrible. I haven’t met many Goblins aside from the ones Erin had. But all of it was—”
The [Emperor] took a deep breath, almost retched, then faced her.
“Hit me again.”
“What? Are you crazy?”
Laken bared his stomach, looking apprehensive.
“Hit me again. You clearly meant that first punch about Liscor.”
“I’m not going to hit you so you can throw up on me.”
“No, I insist on behalf of Goblins. Hold on, I can go find them. I’m sure they’ll do the job.”
The Wind Runner stared at the [Emperor]—then gave him a light punch to the stomach. He punched her back.
“Motherf—”
Ryoka swore. Laken swung, a bit wildly, as she leaned back.
“That’s your ‘I killed all the Goblins punch’?”
“Fuck you, I’ll kick you so hard you and Durene won’t ever have fun again. Stop flailing. You deserved that punch for Liscor and the Goblins, alright?”
Somehow, her ability to lecture him from a place of moral outrage had faded. Laken crossed his legs, and then he spoke slowly, measuring his words.
“Let’s start over. Before I got to Liscor—let’s talk about Goblins. The first time I met Goblins, they were trying to kill everyone in Riverfarm. Perhaps I should have realized they weren’t all like that. But I was told monsters were monsters. That was my mistake. That and giving Tyrion Veltras weapons to use against the Drakes. But I didn’t foresee—hah—the end result of what was happening. The entire time, I thought I was defending Riverfarm from monsters, then helping a decent man. When I realized what I was doing? That was when I tried to stop it. Too late, each time. I regret it.”
Ryoka paused. As explanations went, that was pretty good.
“So you know they’re not monsters, right? They’re pretty intelligent.”
Laken rubbed at his face.
“—I talked to one. I’m wondering if you know how much of a people they are, Ryoka. Listening to them scream at Liscor would have been enough. But I met a Goblin Chieftain the day my army attacked theirs at Lancrel. Yes, I know.”
The young woman sat there, taking this in.
“—All of this mess in Riverfarm was a result of sieging Liscor, you know. Those Drakes were sent here to take revenge. I’ll bet anything. Eloise says they probably come from Manus, their, um, City of War.”
Laken grimaced.
“Story checks out. It’s a mess. And everyone’s telling me what monsters Drakes are. What awful things they’ve done. But—let me know if they’re any different than Goblins.”
“Nope. Bit scalier. Hot tempered. Stubborn. Pretty damn Human, really.”
“That’s what I thought. Gnolls?”
“Furry Humans. Pretty decent people. Don’t blow up their shops.”
Laken sighed. He massaged his stomach, then put his head down on the table.
“I am in so much pain.”
After a beat, Ryoka coughed.
“…Maybe you didn’t deserve me hitting you that hard. So you, uh, took your time getting back because you wanted to save some Goblins, right? I get that.”
Laken kicked her so hard under the table that Ryoka doubled over in pain. The [Emperor]’s face was too triumphant when he looked up.
“That makes us even. I’ve never had a fistfight before. I almost want to have one.”
“I could oblige that.”
Ryoka raised her fists, and Laken shook his head. Then his face fell.
“—I did what I could, Ryoka, to make amends for Goblins. In doing so, Riverfarm was devastated. Gralton’s dogs paid for it with their lives. And so did Riverfarm’s people, but most of all—Witch Califor. Who, I am told, was a great [Witch]. No matter what I do, someone suffers.”
The urge to fight went out of her. Ryoka sat, ignoring the pain in her stinging shin. She bowed her head.
“Yeah. And that’s…a huge loss. Believe me. I wish you could have met her. The other [Witches] are great. But I liked her the most.”
Laken nodded, silently.
“My fault.”
“No. Belavierr’s. The Drake’s.”
“Who was here because I sieged Liscor. As you said.”
“Tyrion Veltras sieged Liscor. Listen—”
“You can’t un-punch me, Ryoka. Give me some credit for all of this. Not all of it. But I am responsible.”
Ryoka glowered at Laken, who, again, was immune to most stares.
“Now you’re doing the opposite of what I—you did the best you could. I get it. If you had let go of the Goblins? They would have been hunted down. The cages are a bad look—”
“They weren’t happy, but they survived. Again, if there were a better option—”
“Not all your fault.”
“Well, how much of it is my fault? Because I feel very responsible, Ryoka. This isn’t something I can just wash my hands of. I feel guilty, and I would very much rather feel guilty than not. It seems to me I would be a [Tyrant] rather than an [Emperor] if I felt nothing was wrong.”
Laken snapped at Ryoka, and she had to admit this was true. Ryoka thought for a second.
“Let’s say…you’re one punch’s worth of guilty. How about that?”
The two sat there, and Laken’s mouth worked—then he began laughing. She laughed too until Laken seized the bucket. Then…
Then they were calmer. And Ryoka felt like instead of the foreign [Emperor] who had done so many terrible things, she had once again encountered the young, blind man with the best of intentions in Invrisil.
“Okay. This actually went better than I thought it might.”
Laken sighed, and Ryoka had to wonder what he’d thought she would do. She had to agree.
“I guess me too. I thought I might be running out of here with Beniar hunting me down. Okay. Sorry for hitting you…sort of. Can I ask what you’re doing now that you're back?”
Laken raised an eyebrow.
“You saw what I was doing.”
“Rebuilding. What comes after that?”
The [Emperor] shrugged. He sat up, grabbed his cup, and drank.
“I have a few ideas. Mainly, it will be turning Riverfarm into an actual place. One that has goods to export, has a reason for people to pay attention to it. Besides the trebuchets. Deal with the [Witches]. Forge an alliance between Riverfarm and Gralton’s and Yitton’s lands. Basic stuff like that.”
“Fair enough. So you don’t have a grand plan?”
“I have multiple plans. Whether they’re grand is debatable. You want me to get into detail?”
“Please. But first, talk to me about the Goblins. What the hell was that yesterday? Are you just going to let them form a tribe? Or what? What’s your angle with them?”
Laken frowned.
“They haven’t all run off, if that’s what you mean. But I didn’t lie to them. I will leave them alone. I have hopes for them. But it depends on what they do.”
“Tell me.”
Ryoka leaned forwards. Laken hesitated, and she waited. She wanted to trust him. But every conscious part of her pulled herself back. Trust had been given too freely of late. At last, Laken sighed.
“Well, for one thing, they’re occupying the only good mining spot on my lands. And they have my iPhone until it runs out of charge. And to judge from what I’m seeing—they’re preparing to be attacked. They’re building a base. And here’s what I predict happening if I tweak things right…”
He leaned forwards. Ryoka listened. She blinked.
“That might work. Historically, I mean, there are parallels.”
Laken rolled his closed eyes.
“Oh, lecture me on the parallels. Parallels? I had no idea there were historical parallels in what I was doing. Go ahead, tell me all about the history of the world.”
Ryoka coughed, embarrassed.
“Sorry. I just meant—that could work. Okay. I believe you. It’s a good plan, at least. But it does depend on the Goblins.”
“They’re people. They might not do what I expect them to. But I’ve given them a chance. That’s all I can do.”
The two sat in silence after that. Ryoka hesitated. She bit her lip. Laken faced ahead. And then he raised his head.
“—Same for the [Witches]. I will repay whatever debt I can. Especially to…Nanette? I promise. I have a lot of debts and—oh. Huh. I completely forgot about them. Ah, right, I was going to tell you.”
“Oh? What?”
Ryoka wasn’t sure what he might have to bring up specifically to her. If it was a residency offer, she felt like she’d ruined that with the gut punch. But to her surprise, Laken was suddenly intent on her. And as he spoke—she felt a chill run down her back.
The [Emperor] hesitated. He bit his lip and looked rueful. And then focused on Ryoka.
“I…forgot, Ryoka. In the early spring, I summoned the fae. And I met one of them. She called herself Ivolethe. She wanted you to know she’s alive.”
Ryoka stared at Laken. He waited. She was frozen in place. After a minute, he coughed.
“Ryoka?”
She didn’t respond. She’d turned into a statue. Worried, Laken reached out.
“Ry—”
“Ivolethe’s alive?”
Ryoka leapt to her feet. She stared at Laken, white-faced, although he couldn’t have known that. He leaned back.
“Yes—”
He got no further because Ryoka let out a shout that made Gamel open the door. He saw Ryoka dancing around inside, laughing hysterically. Laken shooed Gamel away, and the door closed. Ryoka didn’t notice. She laughed and began to sob, then lost her balance.
Laken waited, surprised. Ryoka was laughing and crying on the floor. She didn’t stop. Her laughter was relieved, wild, hysterical. Eventually, Laken began to laugh as well.
It took a long while for them to stop. At last, Ryoka returned to her seat. Her throat was raw. But she reached out and grabbed Laken’s hands, to his surprise. And he sensed the tears in her voice and eyes.
“You know, I’d forgive you for almost anything for telling me that. Thank you. Thank you. She’s…”
He wished he could see her face. Because every line of her he sensed—Ryoka sat down in the chair again.
Redemption. He didn’t know what had happened between her and Ivolethe. But the City Runner wiped tears from her eyes. So it hurt Laken to deliver the next part of the message.
“She’ll never see you in this world. It’s her punishment or something.”
Ryoka froze. But after a moment, she replied, quietly unsurprised.
