“However, answer me one thing. If there are good among you, and those who do ill, who can hold [Witches] to account? Who will know when they commit a crime? I alone? There is a saying where I come from, [Witches]. Who watches the watchers? In this case, who watches the [Witches] to see what they do? Who will hold them accountable if another Belavierr appears? Who will judge them, if I am unable?”
The coven paused. And each [Witch] looked at the other, seeking who had the best response. It was Mavika who spoke, forestalling the others. Wiskeria heard a laugh, high and mocking. And Mavika spoke for the first time in the throne room. She pointed a finger up at Laken as Wiskeria closed her eyes and tried to imagine how she was going to explain this to any angry [Witches] who came calling. But Mavika’s eyes never wavered as she met Laken’s.
“Haven’t you noticed, young man? Everyone watches us. We watch each other, as wise folk do. You ask whether we can hold each other to account? The greatest [Witch] living, Belavierr, has come to your lands, and the dead lie in her wake, it is true. To balance that, Witch Califor, the Witch Califor saved your village. Weigh that on your scales of judgment, [Emperor]. For you do not know who witches, nay, the world lost. We do. And still, we came to you.”
Wiskeria waited. They all waited as Mavika’s heavy address filled the room. Laken paused. And then he exhaled. Slowly, he nodded, and he leaned forwards, as if there was nothing more he could say. No weighty proclamation; as if there hadn’t been an option but—yes.
“Very well then. We will hammer out this agreement. [Witches] should not be allowed to cast…permanent hexes. Perhaps there is a place to let them punish wrongdoers. But there must be limits. There must be accountability. And we will see how far I will stretch and how far you will. But…”
The coven held its breath. Laken nodded.
“[Witches] may roam Riverfarm. They may practice their craft. And they may come here safe from persecution unwarranted. I must obey the laws of hospitality. More importantly—if Goblins are people, then [Witches] are too. In the name of Witch Califor, who saved Riverfarm, they will be welcomed. Better to have great good and great evil than neither of either at all.”
He nodded down at the coven. At one [Witch]. And she didn’t look up at him. But Wiskeria realized that it was Nanette who had swayed Laken all along. The girl stood there, blank to the world. But as the [Witches] and the [Emperor] spoke and argued, Nanette slowly gazed up. At the rising moons. Because there was one last thing left.
 
 
Day 77
 
It was done. The coven had made a deal with the [Emperor] of Riverfarm. And it had been hard-won, too hard-won. It had come at far too high a price. But the cost of it hadn’t come from just Laken. It had come from the plots of Drakes, an order of [Knights]. And a [Witch] who had forsworn herself for her daughter.
Someday, Belavierr would face her punishment. Wiskeria had sworn it. She would never cease hunting her mother. And she would become stronger. She would put an end to her mother herself.
But tonight wasn’t about Belavierr. It had been seven days since the fire. Seven days since Miss Califor had died. And on this day, the coven of Riverfarm gathered for one last purpose.
The story of Califor had ended. Her thread had been cut, perhaps untimely short. The Stitch Witch had plucked it to trick her own death. And there the story ended for most. But [Witches] had always known a secret about stories. There was always the ending. And then there was what came after.
Six of them gathered. It was a hexagram that they drew on the dark earth where her ashes had been buried. The ground was covered with flowers. And someone had spoken of raising a monument. But in the dark of the night, past midnight, the [Witch]’s hour made the plucked flowers look pale and strange. The two risen moons were close to full.
And the coven had a purpose to fulfill. They had argued over it. Eloise had almost refused to take part. Hedag had been wary. But Mavika insisted. And so had Nanette. Now, Mavika finished the hexagram and placed a catalyst in the center. A handkerchief.
Miss Califor’s. All her clothing had burnt away. Her possessions, such as they were, had mostly gone with her. But Nanette had her mother’s handkerchief. She sacrificed it now. And she cut herself—she called by blood.
The cut was deep. And the blood that trickled from Nanette’s hand made the girl’s face even paler. Her eyes were huge in her head. She shouldn’t have been here. But she had wanted it. She shouldn’t have known about the ritual. Eloise’s fury with Mavika had been frightening. But the crow [Witch] was unmoved.
“It has not been done successfully in years. Few ghosts remain. Few spirits to harness or summon or make deals with. But she was the most powerful in generations. And she died with a grudge. She surely remains. For answers, for your sake, we summon her. But be wary.”
That was all Mavika said. She led the coven. And her low chant echoed across the scorched earth. The [Witches] walked clockwise, then counter-clockwise. Their steps traced a perfect circle. They stamped, and the light flickered.
The only light came from the moons. Everything else was dark. Wiskeria could feel the power. In the ground, in the air, in the time and place and other [Witches]. But they weren’t calling on any of these things.
They were calling on her. The bloody handkerchief shone in the faint moonlight. The blood seeped from Nanette’s hand onto the ground. It ran. It joined. It flowed.
And something was watching them. Something else was there. Wiskeria could feel it. It was gathering in the center of the circle. Mavika ordered the coven back.
“Do not cross the circle.”
It was the one they had walked. Wiskeria could feel it. They’d traced a barrier in the earth. And beyond that point reality had begun to melt. Slough away. Something else lay on the other side. You could fall into it.
But they were calling. As the [Witches] waited, in silence, Wiskeria realized she couldn’t hear anything in the distance. No animals. Not even the rustle of wind. The silence grew and grew. Until it was so quiet that the heartbeat of all the [Witches] was deafening. And then that sound stopped. And something else spoke.
Whispered.
“Nanette.”
The child looked up. She grew pale. She raised her bloody hand. Something was in the center of the hexagram. Something had appeared. It wasn’t made of smoke or even magic. It was something even paler than moonlight. Almost invisible. But taking form. Wiskeria stared.
It did not look like Califor, but the voice was familiar. Nanette stumbled forwards.
“Mother? Mother?”
She was caught by Mavika and Eloise. The young [Witch] fought, but Mavika dragged her back. The older [Witch] was triumphant and alarmed.
“Stay outside of the circle!”
They pulled Nanette back. The girl twisted, crying, and then shouted again.
“Mother! Miss Califor! Are you there?”
“It is me.”
There she stood. It was Califor. Twisted, tattered. She looked—Wiskeria shuddered and felt Alevica shudder beside her. She was burned. Her form was partially destroyed. Twisted. But it was her. The face, the silhouette—or was it?
The coven looked to Mavika. The crow [Witch] paused. She glanced up. A raven flew overhead. Mavika stared at the thing in the circle. And she slowly nodded.
“Califor Weishart. Your coven calls you. Your daughter beseeches you. She wishes to see your face. Do you know her name?”
“Nanette Weishart. My daughter.”
Even in death, Califor’s voice sounded a bit impatient. Mavika nodded. She and Eloise let go of Nanette a bit, and the girl rushed forwards. They held her from the edge of the circle, though. Nanette wept.
“Mother! I’m sorry! It’s my fault!”
“No. I curse the Stitch Witch. Belavierr. Blame no one but her, Daughter.”
Her voice didn’t echo. And it was distinct, snappish, familiar in every syllable. But it was far away. Not distant in volume, but in…Wiskeria closed her eyes as tears sprang to them. Califor’s figure bent, her fingers reaching for her daughter.
“My daughter. You have lost your craft. You have lost your way. And you have lost me. I would give any of these back to you. But I am dead.”
“Come back! Please! I’ll be good! I’ll do anything!”
Nanette begged the ghost. She reached out, and Eloise snatched her hand back. Slowly, regretfully, Califor stood.
“No. I cannot. You must be a [Witch], Nanette. That is my last lesson to you. In the end, we all must walk alone.”
“No! I want to go with you!”
Nanette struggled, screaming. This time, Hedag helped hold her back. Wiskeria’s heart was breaking. Nanette should not have been here. But Mavika was speaking. She held up a pure crystal jar, beautifully carved. And the [Witch]’s eyes flashed.
“Come, Califor. Become your daughter’s strength. Return to the world of the living for a day. A year. Return and be bound.”
Wiskeria held her breath. Not for years had a spirit been summoned. Let alone—she looked at Nanette. But this was wrong. Wiskeria wanted to protest. Not like this. But Califor was shaking her head.
“No. Not for my daughter. I cannot.”
“Why? You hold to the world with your grudge! Why do you not wish to return? What do you see, Califor? For centuries, [Witches] have lost what lies beyond! What has gone wrong?”
Mavika beseeched Califor. And the ghost’s voice was quiet.
“What do I see? Nothing. It is empty. Terribly empty. There is nothing here. They are all gone, hiding. Gathering? I will not stay either. I will not be eaten.”
“Eaten?”
Wiskeria heard the faint voice come from Alevica. The Witch Runner was shivering. And Wiskeria felt it too. Something was leaking from the other side. A cold. A feeling that pulled at Wiskeria. She wanted to walk forwards, and it terrified her.
Califor turned. She stared past Nanette.
“Something walks this ground, sisters. Something older than us all. Something hungers. And it has devoured the land of death. It comes for you, the living. And it is strongest here. On these lands. Some things—I know them. We all do, in the marrow of our class and souls. But they are nameless. He, the one who pursues me among them, is nameless. It must be so. They must never return. I have seen the past in these figures. And yet I fear the future.”
She turned. Mavika was speechless. The crow [Witch] backed up as Califor stepped past her. The dead [Witch]’s eyes moved past her. Searching. And they found Wiskeria. Califor reached out to the limits of the circle, entreating.
“Wiskeria, daughter of Belavierr, who was my death. I crave a boon.”
“Don’t go, Wis. Don’t go. Remember the rules.”
Alevica’s teeth chattered. The ghost paused. And she became more firm. Realer. Her voice closer.
“I call you by your debt. Wiskeria. Come.”
“The ritual has gone on too long. We have made her an offer. Return her! Mavika!”
Eloise snapped. Mavika nodded. But then her head snapped up. Wiskeria was moving.
“Witch Wiskeria! Do not—”
“I have to.”
Wiskeria stared at Califor. The [Witch] was dead. Because of her. Alevica grabbed for her.
“No! Wiskeria, it’s a trick—”
But it was too late. Califor was realer by the second. The lines in her face, her eyes—the other side called to Wiskeria. She stepped forwards, dreamlike, as Califor beckoned to her.
Her foot went through the circle. Mavika hissed, but it was too late. Califor smiled. And then she reached out and seized Wiskeria. Suddenly, her form changed to fire.
Fire. The same fire that had burned her as she died. Her hands were living flame. They grabbed Wiskeria. And suddenly, the flame was real. Wiskeria felt the burning pain. She started to scream. The [Witches] struck at the hexagram, erasing it. Hedag kicked the ground and cursed as Nanette fought to get to her mother. And Califor’s voice echoed in Wiskeria’s ears as she grabbed the [Witch]’s arms.
“Wiskeria. For you, I have died. I curse your mother. I curse her. And I charge you. Keep my daughter safe. Swear it on your life!”
“I swear! I swear!”
Wiskeria screamed. She would have sworn anything to stop the pain! Califor didn’t relent. Her grip tightened. She drew Wiskeria closer. Mavika was shouting something, but Califor’s voice filled Wiskeria’s ears. The ghost sounded almost gentle over Wiskeria’s screams.
“Keep her safe, and beware. Beware what walks in death’s land.”
“Wh—w—”
The ghost paused. And she looked through Wiskeria. Even in death, Wiskeria saw Miss Califor was afraid.
“His name should end and never be spoken. But it will be spoken. So I say it and damn the world for my daughter. Just as Belavierr damned me. And when you hear his name, flee. And take Nanette far, far away. He is our enemy. [Witches] have sworn his death. We were there. We must honor our vows.”
“Who?”
Wiskeria screamed. Califor didn’t reply. Her grip squeezed, and Wiskeria howled. Her flesh caught on fire.
“The ritual’s broken! Seize her!”
Eloise cried. The hexagram was snuffed out. And the portal was closing. Califor was drawn back into the center of the circle. The other [Witches] leapt forwards, pulling Wiskeria back.
But Califor held on. And her lips whispered a word into Wiskeria’s ear. One word that burned into Wiskeria’s mind like the flames that seared her arms. And then the flames vanished. The presence disappeared.
Califor was gone.
Wiskeria lay on the ground, shuddering, screaming in pain as the word and burns marked her. The potion Alevica poured on her didn’t remove the raw handprints on her arm. Nor did Eloise’s charm. Nothing did. As the coven bent around Wiskeria, the last [Witch] stood in front of the circle.
“Miss—?”
Nanette glanced around. But her mother had said nothing more. Not to her, her daughter. She hadn’t even looked at her. Nanette tore off her hat. She sank to her knees, weeping. She lay there, curled up. Until, so quietly that she thought she’d imagined it, she heard a voice.
The girl looked up. And then she saw it. Something lying on the ground. In the center of the circle. It was a little burned. Charred near the tip. But it rested there where it had burnt away to ash before. The other [Witches] turned and stared.
“Nanette—”
Eloise raised a hand. But the girl ignored her. She crawled forwards, eyes wide, disbelieving. And she reached out with a shaking hand. Slowly, the girl took Califor’s hat from the altar and hugged it to her. Tears ran down her cheeks.
“Mommy.”
