“Drakes.”
Someone cursed. Laken nodded gravely.
“Exactly. But his ailment was sickness. It’s in his kennels. He’s falling apart over it. Which brings me to my issue.”
He turned back to the coven, who were all watching him like hawks save for Mavika, who had a crowish glare. Laken nodded.
“Ladies, [Witches], first, how may I address you?”
Hedag laughed. She leaned on her axe, speaking at Laken from under her wide, brown hat.
“Call us [Witches], you who call yourself [Emperor]. For that is what we are. And you.”
Laken nodded, turning his head left and right as if to catch Hedag’s voice and memorize it. He paused, then went on.
“Very well. [Witches], I have a request for you as [Emperor] of Riverfarm and the Unseen Empire. At this moment, a friend of mine, a [Lord], is struck by disaster. The same Drakes who set fire to Riverfarm have engineered a plague in his lands. Or perhaps it is poison, a combination of both. As we speak, his dogs and people lie dying. Gralton’s [Healers] are stymied by the sickness. But [Witches] might have better luck. Have any of you the craft to heal Gralton’s sick?”
The request caught the entire coven off-guard. Ryoka saw them exchange glances, and then all turned to stare at Eloise. The tea [Witch] pursed her lips and answered after a moment.
“I may. It is a sudden request, Your Majesty. But—several of us know the craft of poison or remedies thereof to some extent. Are you requesting us to come to this Lord Gralton’s aid?”
“If I asked it, would you agree? I would consider it a boon that would not go unrewarded.”
The coven paused. Mavika glared and replied waspishly.
“A boon to be repaid with words or deeds, [Emperor] of men? If you would seek to ask for our deeds, do you have aught to offer or do you simply make a request?”
Laken raised an eyebrow.
“Witch Mavika, is it? I poorly phrased my statement. Of course, I offer payment for services rendered. But the question I wished to ask was whether you would consider doing it at all.”
“That depends on the offer.”
“Mavika!”
Eloise hissed. Mavika ignored her. Laken smiled, though. It almost seemed like he was enjoying himself. But his tone was courteous as he nodded.
“Of course. Then, to cure Gralton’s lands, I offer you coin and an [Emperor]’s gratitude. Witch Eloise, do you desire gold?”
“It is always welcome, Your Majesty.”
The [Witch] replied smoothly. Laken nodded thoughtfully.
“In that case—four hundred gold coins to each [Witch] who has the skill to heal Gralton’s ill.”
“I’ll do it!”
Alevica’s hand shot up before Laken had finished speaking. All the coven looked at her. Alevica was still pale, but the light of avarice had given her new energy. Eloise hesitated.
“I as well. As a favor to both His Majesty and for those in need. We shall set out at once, then. We may require horses. I may, at any rate, if Alevica is well enough to fly.”
“Excellent. I will provide you with directions and transport. Are there any among you who can cure poisons? Wiskeria?”
The [Witch] hesitated and then shook her head.
“Not me, Laken. I can do some, but Eloise and Alevica can do far more than I can. But maybe…”
She glanced at Hedag. The [Executioner] shook her head.
“Not I. And little Nanette—no. But Mavika might.”
Everyone regarded Mavika. The crow [Witch] folded her arms. Some of her crows were circling overhead, cawing. Frostwing flew through them, screaming, and they scattered.
“I have knowledge of poison and ills. But gold does not motivate this [Witch]’s will.”
She sounded like she was just being stubborn, if the look on Eloise’s face was anything to go by. But Laken was equal to the challenge. He bowed, very politely, which surprised Ryoka until she remembered. German folklore meant he was probably aware of the dangers of insulting as much as she. Or he just understood what Mavika was like.
“Witch Mavika, if gold does not suit you, what about food? Four gold coin’s worth of food for your flocks, whenever you ask it. Meat or grain. So long, of course, as you do all in your power to come to Gralton’s aide.”
In fact, he really understood her. Laken must have memorized the descriptions of each [Witch]. Mavika blinked. And the crow perched on a roof overhead cawed hungrily. She wavered, then nodded grudgingly.
“Done.”
“Excellent. Then I, Laken Godart, do swear to pay your price due if you swear to work to your utmost within the spirit of your vow and reason to bring aid to Gralton’s land.”
Laken held out his hand, and Mavika shook it. He turned, nodding, and looked at the young man hurrying up towards him with his arms full.
“We may need to borrow a house. The throne room doesn’t have tables, as I recall, Gamel. Lady Rie is that way—we’ll convene with her. I require a larger map to show these [Witches] where Gralton’s lands are.”
“I will see to it at once, sire!”
Gamel wheezed. Laken led the way towards Lady Rie’s house as Gamel hurried inside. The [Emperor] was muttering to Yitton, and Ryoka edged forwards with Charlay to listen.
“Yitton, tell Gralton he’s going to have to put up the gold when they arrive. Eight hundred pieces. I think he’ll call that cheap for his dogs, don’t you?”
“I do indeed.”
Then the two City Runners jumped as Laken turned to them. Laken was smiling again.
“Ryoka, would you introduce me to your friend? Dustrider Charlay, I presume?”
He paused as Charlay drew up, suddenly nervous.
“I—that’s right! You know my nickname?”
Charlay was thunderstruck. Laken charming.
“Of course. Dustrider Charlay, I must thank you for aiding Ryoka as well as coming to Riverfarm’s aid in its time of crisis. I will not forget it, but at this moment, I have a request. Tell me, would you consent to a delivery? I would like to send a [Witch] straight to Lord Gralton’s lands. And a letter, from me, explaining the situation.”
The Centauress seemed pleased, then alarmed.
“I can do it! But—wait a second. I have to carry someone? On my back?”
He only smiled. Ryoka nearly did. But she was watching him. Hesitating. At last, Charlay nodded.
“Well—if it’s Eloise, sure! If it’s Alevica, forget about it!”
“Up yours, horse. I can fly!”
Laken ignored Alevica. He nodded.
“In that case, I would prevail on you to transport Witch Eloise and a letter. For a delivery fee of…twenty-five gold pieces?”
Charlay hesitated. Ryoka nearly whistled, but in the face of the price he’d offered the two [Witches], it wasn’t that much. It was good for a delivery that would probably be safe, just fast, but…Charlay gave Ryoka a side-long glance.
“Well…I could definitely do it. If I, uh, was paid a bit more? You’re paying the [Witches] um…twelve times what you’re paying me!”
“Sixteen, Charlay.”
“Sixteen!”
She looked hopeful as her tail swished back and forth. Laken frowned.
“Can you cure an entire province of poisoned dogs?”
“No…but I can run really fast.”
Charlay pouted. Laken paused.
“The distance is three days for someone on horseback without Skills. If you can make it in two, I’ll triple your fee.”
“Alright! In that case, get on, Eloise! I’ll get you to this Gralton’s place in no time! Which way!”
Charlay reared, and Laken dodged back, looking vaguely alarmed. He turned his head towards Ryoka and made a bemused face. Then Lady Rie was hurrying out with a map. The [Witches] crowded around. Mavika nodded.
“My flock and I can make the journey in two days as well. One, if the winds fly behind us.”
“I can make it in two days. Probably.”
Alevica gritted her teeth, poking her stomach. Laken glanced around.
“Do so at all speed, please. Time is of the essence. Gralton’s dogs aren’t all dead, but many are dying by the hour. As are his people, to a lesser extent. I will send him a [Message] informing him you are arriving. He will give you all the aid you require. However, do you need anything prepared in advance?”
The [Witches] conferred briefly. Mavika looked up.
“If it is plague, Feverwort. If it is poison—easier. Eloise’s teas purge the body. I have other ways. Sage’s Grass if it is poison. Sage’s Grass, pure charcoal, and the venoms of many creatures. Preferably the Drake who spat poison if it lives.”
“I’m told Gralton’s surviving dogs ripped it apart. But I’ll send a [Message] at once. Nesor!”
Laken called, and the young man standing at the table behind him jumped. Ryoka watched as Laken conferred, began working on a map with Lady Rie—and then Mister Prost entered the room to receive his own copy of a map with fishing spots. Ryoka’s hermit-fisher friend was one of the people he sent to collect the bounty. And Ryoka—just watched.
He needed Prost, Rie, and the others. Laken had a plan, one borne of time on the road and his [Emperor]’s sight, but he needed people he could trust to implement his plans. What he had was an edge—the ability to see where animals were, or fish, pinpoint people exactly—and that was a huge advantage. But what he was really giving the people of Riverfarm was purpose. Prost had tried, but he wasn’t a leader in that way. Laken was. He had a vision, and the moment he’d returned, Riverfarm had begun moving and shaping itself around that vision.
In a way, he was like a [Witch]. But one who had made an empire his craft. And Ryoka saw, evaluated, and compared it to the Laken she had met in Invrisil and the one she had heard about who had led Goblins to a siege at Liscor. This third Laken and the other two mixed and mingled. And she thought until Durene burst through the doors with a panicked shout.
“Laken! There’s a caravan coming this way! A lot of wagons with bars! They’re filled with Goblins.”
Everyone in the room froze. And Ryoka glanced up. Laken calmly raised his head.
“Yes. Yes they are. I told you I was bringing them back.”
“But—they’re coming here! Into the village!”
Laken paused. He frowned.
“That could be dangerous. I agree. Durene, with me. Prost, Rie, I won’t be long.”
He strode out of the room. Ryoka followed, her heart beating faster. Goblins? Could one of them be…?
The wagons were huge and packed with Goblins. It was a huge procession of them! Dozens of wagons, all with bars, lurching slowly towards Riverfarm. The people had seen them and were crying out in shock. Laken walked towards the caravan, which had an escort of…it had to be at least a hundred [Guards]. Perhaps three times that many Goblins, or more.
Ryoka felt sick watching them crammed together, staring out. Durene just shuddered with hatred, but Ryoka was scanning each face for a familiar Goblin. She didn’t see Rags. And she could sense the hostility behind her.
“Everyone, back to your work! Emperor Laken has this in hand! Back to work, I say!”
Prost had followed Laken outside. He stood with the [Emperor], and Ryoka distinctly heard him and Laken exchanging some words.
“…will find a place later. [Guards], yes, but not one is to be—”
Laken broke off and raised a hand. A relieved-looking man was riding towards him, a sword at his side. Laken called out.
“[Caravan Master] Dintal! Thank you for your tireless work. I will commend your name to the Merchant’s Guild and issue you and your men a bonus for your efforts.”
“It’s a relief to be here, Your Majesty! Where do you want these Goblins?”
The man called out, pulling to a stop before Laken. The [Emperor] smiled thinly, clearly aware of the stares he was getting.
“I have a spot picked out, Dintal. However, I have one last task for you. Move the caravan south along the river. Until I give you the word, guard the Goblins. Anyone, and I mean anyone, who attacks them, you will stop. Without killing, preferably. But if any Goblin dies, I will regretfully withhold both your bonus and commendation. Thank you.”
And with that, Laken turned his back and kept speaking to Mister Prost. Dintal stared, but then he looked resigned. Ryoka saw him turn and whistle.
“You heard Emperor Godart! Move the Goblins! And stay clear of the wagons, everyone! These bastards’ll throw their shit at you! Throw a stone and don’t be surprised if they throw it back! Come on, move it!”
The caravan moved, turning down the road. Ryoka saw the exclamations and fear and hatred on the people’s faces—but she was more curious about the resigned expressions on the faces of the [Guards]. Not malice. And the Goblins just stared. They were watching Laken, looking around. Not with hostility, necessarily. But a keen intelligence. And Laken was watching them.
“I’ll have Gamel instruct Dintal. And I’ll need some of Beniar’s people and folk you can trust watching the wagons, Prost. No—I’ll make Dintal’s men stay another night. I’ll have to pay them well, too. But keep Riverfarm’s folk moving, and they won’t be able to interfere until I settle matters with the Goblins.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Prost didn’t seem happy as he kept staring at the wagons, but he did obey. That was a sign of loyalty alright. But Ryoka just stared at Laken. His head was still following the Goblin carts. And he eventually looked back at her. Laken didn’t smile this time. He just looked weary.
“Part of the road home, Ryoka. And there’s no road to redemption or forgiveness. But I have to do this.”
She didn’t reply. After a moment, Laken nodded back towards Riverfarm.
“Back to work. The Goblins will have to wait. They’ve waited for over two months; I’ll subject them to another day.”
He walked back towards the village. Ryoka saw him enter Lady Rie’s house, but she didn’t follow him. The City Runner glanced around.
Riverfarm was in full bustle. And the three [Witches] had already left, along with Charlay. Only Wiskeria and Hedag remained. The [Executioner] was leaning on her axe, her eyes alight with interest as she watched people moving with a renewed sense of purpose.
“Some [Emperor] this is. I’d heard stories, and I’ve met a [King], but this is a man like few others! Is it his class that does it, or him?”
She laughed. Ryoka would have liked to know that too. Wiskeria shook her head. She seemed relieved. Relieved and still heartbroken.
“He’s back. Finally.”
She made no move to follow Laken. Nor had he called for her among his advisors. But it was Hedag who pushed Wiskeria gently towards the house. She looked at the older [Witch].
“But I—”
“You’re the one who stayed here and forced us to come to you, Wiskeria-Girl. Go and do what you must. I’ll stay with Nanette.”
The [Witches] exchanged a glance. And then Wiskeria nodded, squared her shoulders, and walked into Lady Rie’s house. Ryoka regarded Hedag. And the [Executioner] grinned.
“And where do you fit into this village now, Ryoka-Girl?”
