“If you have come here, you are my people. No less regardless of whence you came, but no more than that either. Any of you might be a leader. And you will have chances to rise to the occasion. But right now, in this moment, my [Steward] is Mister Prost. Lady Rie is his counterpart. The man who stands next to me is Gamel, my aide and [Knight]. Lord Yitton Byres has come to visit Riverfarm. Durene is my consort and [Paladin]. And I will rely on each of them to manage Riverfarm. Now, let us begin.”
Laken clapped his hands, and the air was suddenly brisk. He strode back to Riverfarm, and the five adjutants followed him. And everyone else thereafter. Laken spoke briskly, turning his head to Mister Prost.
“There are three main issues that need attending to now. Firstly, the fires and aftermath. I sense no remaining embers after the rain. The sacrifice of the…[Witch] must have caused that.”
He paused and turned his head towards the five [Witches] watching him. Laken nodded and went on.
“However, there is much to do. Mister Prost, I am placing you in charge of the repair work. A number of buildings on the western and southern edges of Riverfarm are damaged. Begin pulling down any that can’t be repaired. Next, I want teams of sweepers removing all this ash and dust before we breathe it in. Wash it down the street with buckets if you have to.”
“At once, sire.”
Prost beamed. He looked ten years younger as Laken smiled. The [Emperor] nodded towards the distant river and the fields beyond it.
“Lastly, I want [Farmers] to begin replanting fields and every [Hunter] and [Archer] you can spare in another team. There’s a herd of deer—regular deer—who fled the fires. They’re north of us, about eight miles. Have wagons ready to bring back the carcasses.”
“Hunting, Your Majesty?”
Prost exclaimed, but in the next moment, he was nodding.
“Absolutely. It will be done, sire. Let me get—”
He began searching around, but Laken held up a hand.
“No need to deal with all of it yourself, Mister Prost. That does remind me. Before you set to work—excuse me, you, sir, and you, Miss, with the hammer in the belt. Step forwards please.”
Laken turned and unerringly pointed to two people in the crowd. There was a start, but the two he’d indicated came forwards slowly. Ryoka recognized both. Laken nodded to the man and the woman.
“Ram, isn’t it? And [Forewoman] Beycalt. I’ve heard of both of you.”
“You have? I mean, Your Majesty?”
Beycalt stammered. Ram looked delighted.
“You remember me, Emperor Laken?”
“I do indeed. Ram from Windrest. How could I forget? And you, Miss Beycalt, I’ve heard good things of. Both of you.”
Both man and woman bowed their heads, flushing. Laken went on, speaking in a loud, carrying voice as he turned back to Mister Prost.
“Mister Prost, you’ve done a splendid job as [Steward], as has Lady Rie. But no man or woman can handle an entire village alone, let alone one of Riverfarm’s size. Thus, I am naming Mister Ram my [Head Farmer] and Forewoman Beycalt my [Construction Supervisor]. Both will be in charge of their respective fields and have the authority to issue orders and promote people below them to jobs such as [Foreman]. Or [Forewoman].”
“Promoted?”
Ram exclaimed. Beycalt’s eyes bulged.
“[Supervisor]?”
“Of course. A [Forewoman] can’t handle Riverfarm’s construction, can she? Nor can Mister Prost manage everything himself. You’ve both held your positions of authority under him. I am simply confirming it. With a class change. Let me know if you don’t level up.”
Laken turned, smiling slightly. Then his voice sharpened again.
“Mister Prost, Supervisor Beycalt, Headman Ram, please take whomever you need! Mister Prost will confer with you.”
The [Steward] nodded and, beaming, clapped Ram on the shoulder. The former [Rancher] pointed at Laken. So did Beycalt.
“But he just—a [Supervisor]?”
“To work, Beycalt! And you, Ram! It’s nothing you can’t handle, or His Majesty wouldn’t have chosen you. All you have to do is pick folks you know can do the job. Just like before. Beycalt, you know who can swing a hammer! We’ll start with the edges first, and Ram, how many hands do you need to replant and expand?”
“Well—”
The confused expression faded from both their faces. They glanced back at Laken, and he nodded. He looked sideways and addressed the young man walking beside him.
“Gamel. Please introduce Tessia and our [Engineers] to Supervisor Beycalt. They’ll be helpful in setting up those houses. And get me a big piece of parchment as well. Riverfarm’s layout is good, but I want to update it. I’ll need—”
“Drawing charcoal, sire; I will have it in a minute. [Engineers], with me!”
Gamel’s call stirred the crowd. He turned and marched back towards Tessia and the others. And then Prost, Ram, and Beycalt were calling names, and men and women, realizing they’d be called on, were halting. Meanwhile, the procession was continuing, heading into the village. Laken was glancing up at the sky, or rather, tilting his head up since he didn’t need to see.
“I feel like I’m going to be hit in the head with a raindrop any second. Let’s get ready for rain. And get some food ready! Have people had a filling meal, Lady Rie?”
“Some food, yes, Emperor Godart. I wouldn’t call it filling.”
“Then let’s have a rolling lunch. [Cooks] to their stations! We have a number of cookhouses now, don’t we? We’ll run food out to the [Farmers], if it’s not pouring. But that’s a smaller task. Now—the second issue. Beniar! Why are you hanging back there?”
He waved at the crowd. At his words, the armored [Cataphract] pushed his way forwards, beaming.
“Your Majesty! I didn’t want to presume!”
“And here I was expecting you to ride me down and hug me in that uncomfortable armor. Get over here! You’re needed! The Darksky Riders have been Riverfarm’s shield and sword—I’m going to have to expand your ranks as well as honor the lot of you!”
There was a whoop from behind Beniar. He strode forwards as Laken turned, taking the course around the village. He gestured at Lady Rie and Beniar next. Ryoka, hurrying to watch him, saw Lord Yitton watching with approval and fascination—Durene with pride.
“Lady Rie. I count seventeen groups on the road. Find me a map and take Beniar and his Darksky Riders. Once I’ve located them for you, send the [Riders] to them and invite them to join Riverfarm. Few villages remain standing. Two towns were half-destroyed. Send the [Riders] to those towns as well.”
“So many?”
Lady Rie looked worried. Laken’s face sobered.
“Yes. And too many were caught by the fire. But those who did make it are by and large homeless. I intend to do what Ryoka did and offer them Riverfarm’s security.”
He nodded in Ryoka’s direction. The City Runner jumped as every head swung towards her for a moment. That was another thing. In Invrisil, Laken had just been…blind. But here, it was like he had eyes in the back of his head as well as everywhere else! It was adding to the impression he made as he spoke. Lady Rie frowned.
“What if they decline, Your Majesty?”
Laken shook his head.
“It is an offer they may refuse. Riverfarm can feed and house them, but it is a choice, Lady Rie. Which is why we need to bring in food now. Which reminds me…”
He snapped his fingers, vexed. Then he turned as Gamel hurried back towards him.
“Gamel! I also have a list of bodies of water with fish in them! Anyone who knows how to fish will need to be transported to and from those spots—but not overharvest any one location! Get me two maps, one for Lady Rie, another for Prost! And that parchment!”
“Yes, Your Majesty—”
Laken turned back to Lady Rie, nodding.
“Food, as I said. And if the groups do agree to enter Riverfarm, they must be found places to sleep, heads counted, and lists of their classes and useful Skills accounted for. Negotiations are in order as well; we will need to work with every town and city nearby to repair so much damage. Lady Rie, I am entrusting that role to you and whomever you would like to appoint. Perhaps you have a list of some of our more diplomatic members of Riverfarm?”
Lady Rie inhaled. And somewhere in the crowd, Beatica looked up eagerly. Laken’s smile was all too knowing.
“We may need managers to distribute goods, Lady Rie. To coordinate cooking, supplies—any number of roles! I will entrust their appointment to you, Lady Rie. They are under your authority, of course. Send whomever you please on horseback at once. And while you’re at it, about fifty-eight totems have been burned. Jelov will need to replace them.”
The [Lady] could not have looked more pleased if Laken had told her she could hit Beatica with a broom. Her head turned, and the [Councilwoman] paled as Lady Rie smiled ghoulishly at her. Ryoka guessed that the most distant city or town would soon be getting a newly-appointed diplomat visiting them. Probably riding the most ill-tempered mule Rie could find. The [Lady] curtseyed.
“At once, Your Majesty. I will see to everything that needs doing. And confer with you as to the location of these groups in…thirty minutes? Very good, Your Majesty. Oh, Miss Yesel? A word, if you would. And you too, Mister Tharei. I suppose you as well, Miss Beatica. Come along now!”
She strode off, taking more people with her. That was the trick to it, Ryoka realized. Laken was still moving. He hadn’t even paused when Rie took her leave. He was speaking to Jelov next. The [Carpenter] had somehow managed to get between Durene and Yitton and was now beam-spitting at Laken.
“Your Majesty, so glad to see you! Knew you’d be back, and hope you whooped those Goblins a second arse! You need new totems? Of course! They burned, didn’t they? Fire does that, ‘least, if we carve it of plain wood. We could make some out of fireproof stuff, but that costs the earth and’s hard to work, so it is! But you need more? Can do! Me and a few of the other, heh, [Carpenters]’ll be glad to do it! Of course, I’d be glad to lead them…”
He waggled his eyebrows in a way that made Ryoka vaguely nauseated, but Laken’s lack of sight meant he didn’t even pause. He smiled and patted Jelov on the shoulder as he wiped his face with a sleeve.
“Good work, Jelov. But I haven’t decided on a [Royal Carpenter] yet. I’d prefer you, of course, but I understand Prost’s had words with you about selling trinkets. Please do something about the coins in the floorboard under your bed. It’s distracting me. Now, onto the third issue at hand.”
As the [Carpenter] choked on his own tongue, Laken turned to face the group still following him. More and more people were being called away, but a great number still watched Laken. Among them were the [Witches], who had made their way to the front. As well as Ryoka and Charlay. The Centauress was tugging on Ryoka’s arm.
“That’s Riverfarm’s [Emperor]! But he’s blind! And he can see everything? Is it a Skill! He’s pretty cool! Hey, you know him, Ryoka?”
“The last issue. Shut up, Charlay.”
Ryoka muttered back. She watched as the [Witches] straightened expectantly. Laken paused. Then he walked right past the [Witches] and stopped in front of Charlay and Ryoka. He looked up at them as all five [Witches] turned, seeming peeved under their pointed hats. Laken nodded absently.
“The third task is Gralton. But first—Ryoka Griffin. It’s been a while.”
“Hi, Laken.”
Ryoka didn’t know whether to smile or frown at Laken. Since it wouldn’t matter, she did neither. Laken paused. The two stood together, unsaid words spilling in the air. Laken nodded.
“I owe you a debt, Ryoka. And we have much to discuss. But later.”
“Right.”
“We are here as well, [Emperor] of men. Do not ignore us.”
A voice spoke menacingly from behind Laken. He paused, then turned around. The [Witch] who had spoken, Mavika, received a blank not-a-stare.
“That was hardly my intention, Miss [Witch]. Ryoka Griffin is a friend of the throne. And you, my guests of whom I have heard so much. I greet you and hope the hospitality you have been offered has suited you. To whom am I speaking?”
It was well done. Mavika paused. And it was Eloise who replied with a curtsey as formal as Lady Rie’s.
“Your Majesty, Emperor Godart. I am Witch Eloise, and this is Witch Mavika. We are [Witches] who have come to request an audience on behalf of the [Witches] of Izril. We five are part of a coven, and we ask that you hear our petition when time may allow. We formally greet you and thank you for your hospitality—as well as forbearance for any incidents our number may have caused you during our stay.”
She tipped her hat and stepped on Mavika’s foot while elbowing Hedag. The other [Witches] bowed or nodded. Mavika just glared before jerking her head. Laken tilted his head in reply.
“I greet you, [Witches] of Riverfarm’s Coven. I am aware of the great debt I owe you and the [Witch] known as Miss Califor especially. Your actions have saved Riverfarm, and I will not forget that.”
The other [Witches] nodded approvingly. Laken went on with a slight frown.
“However, I understand that one of your number has brought death and strife to Riverfarm. She has slain a [Knight] and [Hunters] from Terandria’s guild on my lands, taken the life out of one of my subjects and—coerced others to their deaths. Tell me. Do you claim the Stitch Witch, Belavierr, as one of your own?”
The question went straight back towards Mavika. All the [Witches], Ryoka, and everyone else, paused to hear her response. Mavika bared her teeth.
“No. She has taken the life of one of her fellow [Witches] without cause. This coven has found her wanting. She is welcome among neither [Witches] nor men.”
“Very well. In that case, I bid you all welcome. Avail yourselves of my hospitality until we have the opportunity to meet. But as I mentioned, it is Lord Gralton that needs must attend to. Yitton, have we heard anything more from him?”
The man that had been accompanying Laken stepped forwards. Ryoka saw an older man’s face, lined and stern, but quite well-kept. European, like the landed nobility of Izril’s Human population, turning grey from dark blond. It was also somewhat familiar. Ryoka narrowed her eyes. Wait did Laken say Byres earlier?
Yitton nodded.
“Nothing yet, Your Majesty.”
“Then it’s safe to say Gralton’s situation is unchanged. And he is in need.”
“Who’s Gralton, Laken?”
Durene whispered and then turned red when everyone stared at her. Laken patted her arm reassuringly.
“Gralton is one of two [Lords] who accompanied me back, Durene. Remember, I wrote of them?”
“Oh, right. Where is he?”
“In his estates. Which is the problem. His lands were hit by a mysterious plague around the same time as Riverfarm was.”
