“The raid upon the manse of a noble was not done in haste, nor without considering other avenues,” the old man said, his voice quiet and mild, yet all heard his words. “It was this humble servant of His Imperial Majesty who advised the course of action, when Junior Yanjing sought the council of his elder. He presented overwhelming evidence that such a raid was necessary.”

That cut most of the rage off at the knees. The Lord Director was a man that was the very definition of temperance. The old man was one of the more tolerable sorts. Even Jufeng’s predecessor told him to heed the man’s council well, and that worked—mostly because the man rarely felt the need to give it. He was content in his little kingdom and never involved himself when Jufeng wanted to do things, unless it would interfere with the running of the realm. And even then, the old man would work with him to get the things that he wanted done instead of just saying no and digging in his heels.

“Overwhelming evidence?” Ban asked.

“In addition to the documents that show gross embezzlement, and testimony from the surrounding towns of foul play, including delayed food shipments and arson… we also obtained testimony from one of the daughters of the Wu Clan.” The old man continued.

Jufeng raised an eyebrow. “And why would the daughter of the Wu Clan speak against her family?”

“The Wu clan plotted to have her son assassinated, and then attempted to use my office as a bludgeon against her, when her son proved too difficult to strike.” Yanjing was the one who spoke this time. He sounded legitimately upset.

Who knew the weasel had such a sense of justice? It was rare that he misjudged a person so badly.

“And who is her son? Is he known to this court?” he asked.

“The acting Lord Magistrate of Grass Sea City.”

Once more there were gasps, and Jufeng’s eyes narrowed.

The Special Inspector, now the Acting Lord Magistrate. One of his best pieces; the man who had cut down Grass Sea City, and taken out half the pains in Jufeng’s ass.

It was the Wus who had sponsored the man. He thought it was their masterstroke; their creature, to take over a position. His successes had been unnatural. Miraculous, even. He had thought the Wus fully behind him.

Instead, it seemed that they were indeed trying to get him killed, and only the luck of the heavens had saved him.

He frowned.

“And what did your raid discover?” He asked.

“The attempted assassination of a Lord Magistrate, the successful assassination of another. Purposefully sabotaging food aid during famine. Directing their agents to prevent fire brigades from doing their job, so their rival's buildings were burned.” Yanjing started.

The room was silent, as the accusations kept coming, with different books being lifted up each time.

Jufeng kept his face carefully neutral as the man spoke. He would have to double check his own records later, and perhaps burn some of them. There was probably near enough damning evidence in his own little black scrolls; one needed somewhere to record who owed them what favours, details on payments, or collections of correspondence for later blackmail.

And indeed, there was much dirty laundry currently being thrown onto the floor. Yanjing was being diplomatic by not mentioning names here and now. But Jufeng could see multiple people in the Wu’s faction squirming as a certain fact or another was revealed.

Jufeng wanted nothing more than to pinch the bridge of his nose. He wanted to curb the Wu Clan’s power. Many did. But they also had certain uses. Their contributions to him were many, and the Lord of the Treasury really knew how to throw parties.

Yet with everything thrown into the open like this? He couldn’t not act. Especially because one of the men they had killed had been his wife’s cousin—and that had been one of his summer homes that had been damaged by that fire.

He could feel a vein bulging in his forehead.

There was going to be blood. A war of shadows. But right now… there was only one thing he could do.

“I have heard enough. Lord Magistrate, your verdict?” He asked.

Ban’s face was hard and cold.

“The evidence is indeed overwhelming. I recognise Lord Wu’s own handwriting, as well as their seal. It is the opinion of this Magistrate that they are, indeed, guilty.”

“Then I, the Lord Governor of the Azure Hills, Command the immediate arrest of the Wu Clan and the seizure of their properties.” He declared, “Let none harbour them. Let them be brought to account for their crimes.”

And, he thought to himself, let none escape.

Because if they did things were going to get very, very messy.

==============================

The Lord Magistrate of Verdant Hill watched it all from the viewing gallery in the back, his wife sitting beside him and holding his hand. Xue Ji stood behind them, a small, amused smile on her lips.

The command echoed through the room, and immediately, men started to move out.

While The Lord Magistrate was loathe to give up praise for being part of the group to take the Wu Clan down, and be on the floor making arguments and unveiling his enemies’ deeds… it was not the wisest course of action. What was some praise, weighed against being able to go home without fear?

He would be relegated to a single line in this sorry affair. If he appeared at all.

It was the best outcome.

The legal holdings of the Wu Clan would be seized. The head of the Wu Clan and all his descendants would be seized and placed under arrest immediately, while the investigation continued.

…there was a high likelihood his wife’s father would be exiled or executed, as well as a great many more of her family.

He turned to his wife… yet he found her watching with her face a blank mask, when the Lord Governor finished reading his verdict.

“To think this all happened because Chanchou wanted to torment me one last time,” she said in a dispassionate voice.

“Spite is indeed a powerful motivator.” Xue Ji mused.

“They’re going to try and run, I think.” his wife whispered. “They probably have different routes now. But I remember, the one my sister and I were told to use…”

She trailed off.

“Shall I take you there, my Lady?” Xue Ji asked.

For a while, Lady Wu didn’t answer.
