The sharp claws of this silver demon tear through my side as he comes flying toward me again.

This exchange, I do not try to completely dodge. I only avoid letting him hit vital points, detonating my sword manifestations before he can get too close.

"I have waited here longer than you two could ever comprehend. I will destroy the only thing you've come here to save, erode the origin plane with time itself before your eyes. Then, let's see who outlasts who in the abyss. This is my territory, it will be impossible for you to ever stop me!"

Laughs echo through the gel, as his silver body grows even thinner, flying away toward Maria, leaving a gaping hole in all of my energy forms.

The silver threads left behind do not assimilate with me at all. Instead, they're either completely rejected and spat out into the sea of consciousness around me, or they're collected by my sword's aura that emanates around it, collecting more and more threads into its raging river in its core.

I feel my blade getting heavier in my hands, making it even harder to move at will in this dense environment.

Yet the tears in my energy bodies are like cracks opening up in the sea, draining enormous amounts of this dense gel into my very being.

It flows through all of my energy pathways, even flowing and attaching to the silver threads that are webbing through my being. The potent rivers of demonic gel collide in my chest, all in one place—at the epicenter of my merging cores.

Upon collision, it's as though this foreign substance is being torn apart and separated, falling into my demon's core, soul energy core, and purple divine core with the raw energy that suits them. Yet, instantaneously, the pressure from being crushed back together makes far more silver threads unfold from the void and explode outward through my body.

Enough is summoned in order to tether to the flowing red gel that expands out from my merging cores.

Enormous amounts of this demon's consciousness are devoured and turned into my own power.

The claw marks automatically heal, but after being struck twice and comprehending the sensation, I'm able to mentally open up microtears all over the outside of my body.

They do not only open up the top layer to expose my Origin Body, instead, they tear open through every single layer of my existence, deep into my own sea of consciousness at the very center of my cores.

Dense purple gel begins constantly flowing down through my energy form, and when I kick through the void, I feel slightly lighter, and the heavy sword in my grasp is more agile.

As the mental lag between Maria and myself catches up to transmit what I've discovered, a flash of blue light shines through the dark sea.

While Noctus turns his back on the angel, he's left a deep claw mark through her side, even ripping through one of her wings. He is grinning wide, ear to ear, like it is a victory. Yet I see Maria grinning right back, and an extremely cold, pulsing sensation ripples through this sea.

Instead of summoning more cores instantly to create more energy capable of sealing up these horrific wounds, she allows them to ravage her energy bodies further.

The heavy claw marks sink deeper into her wings, down into her flesh, seeping through every layer of her being, even fracturing like ice. It creates countless cracks all over her mind, bodies, and soul.

It exposes every single energy form and layer of her being to the forces of nature outside.

The moment these fractures touch the very center of her being, this is when an icy surge of endless power explodes out. Not only does she recreate soul energy cores and divine cores in the center of her being, but expands her aura outward to create an all-encompassing domain of devouring.

It is very similar to the technique she has used in the past, in the green zone of the upper realm. She would let her aura expand outward in an enormous blue orb of light, and every single particle of energy inside it would disappear into her being as nourishment.

A massive sphere the size of an entire galaxy is deleted in this purple gel.

It flashes bright blue, and inside, every bit of this gel is frozen solid.

The demon loses control of its essence in this small area of its sea, as all of the pure ether, primordial aura, vibrations, and purple divine threads are pulled inward toward all of her energy forms to instantly heal the cracks and nourish her soul.

The demonic energy left behind is overwhelmed by a sparkling rainbow pressure, as waves of Source resin make this energy seemingly disappear.

For a moment, the pressure of the sea around Maria is completely lifted, she can move as fast and as freely as we could while floating through the dark membrane before.

This brief swiftness is quickly counteracted. As the bright blue sphere fades, the surrounding purple sea comes crashing back in to fill the void. Yet, when Maria is thrust back in, the density of silver threads and royal blue gel flowing through her body is much higher, making her movements much quicker too.

The enormous demon's purple sea of consciousness within the soul array starts to shrink.
