Rain grimaced, his rage replaced with resignation. He looked down at their captive with a frown. “So be it. A quick death.”

If this guy lives, they lose their plausible deniability.

The pain twisting his guts gave him some measure of solace. It wasn’t getting any easier.

“I—“ Legruz began, intending to argue, but Rain quelled him with a glare.

“This never happened,” Rain said. “Do you have time for a house war? I don’t. Whoever sent these assholes is listening; else, this guy wouldn’t be so keen on keeping his mouth shut. They have his family, or I’ll eat my helmet.” He looked at the Mage and saw his guess was accurate enough before returning his focus to Legruz. “You think they’re just going to let us haul him to Nadir and risk him talking?” He snorted, then looked to Mora. “No, we’ll show him the only mercy we can, then we’ll take the bypass. Nobody will stop us unless they want some mercy too. We won’t even stop to loot the bodies. If we don’t take any evidence, we won’t give them a reason to hunt us down, and the gear’s probably bound anyway. Any objections?”

“None from me,” Ameliah said. “Best we can do under the circumstances. We have to be fast, though.”

Rain controlled his expression as he waited for Mora’s reply, unwilling to compromise his mercenary persona by showing doubt. The Foundry would burn for this—or its leaders, at any rate. He didn’t have the power to make that happen today, but one day, there would be a reckoning.

“I agree,” Mora finally said. “The Entente saw nothing. There will be no report.”

“Legruz?” Rain asked.

“You have my silence!” Legruz said with conviction, his vindictive fury forgotten. “His poor family! Oh, the tragedy! I shall paint a mural in their honor!”

Ameliah got to her feet, removing her hand from the Space Mage’s throat. The man just lay there, making no move to resist as she summoned her bow.

“I cannot watch!” Legruz declared, turning away and pressing the back of a hand to his forehead.

“I don’t suppose there’s any chance you’ll tell us your skill list?” Rain asked, looking down at their captive.

“No,” the defeated Mage said tiredly, closing his eyes. “My employer would object. To me saying, and to you knowing.”

“Damn,” Rain said with a sigh.

“We’re on the same side in this,” Ameliah said, drawing back an arrow. “Your death buys not just our freedom but that of your family. You’ve stayed loyal, so they’ve got no reason to hurt them once you’re gone. You know that, or you wouldn’t have tried to do it yourself. Please let me help you this time. And for what it’s worth, I’m sorry.”

Even for her, that was a bit too much compassion toward someone who’d just attacked them. Rain realized what she was doing an instant before he felt the party link snap into place. The Space Mage’s eyes shot open as Unity brushed against him, adding him—and his skills up to tier three—to the collective.

Rain only had an instant to look at the list before Ameliah’s arrow sent his soul to the beyond, but an instant was enough. With his memory, he’d be able to recall it at his leisure.

It was...something.

It didn’t make him feel any better, but it was something. As was the fact their side had come out relatively unscathed.

He’d take it.
