“We're not animals, okay!” The woman exclaimed, her confidence back in full force. “We fought to break free of our shackles! We are our own people! We don't want owners anymore!”

Ren slid off the chair and knelt in front of her as he felt her frantic and desperate emotions, then gave her a hug. “I don't want to own you, either.” He reassured her and let her go. “Even my concubines... my Mistresses... don't have to follow the rules set out for that position.”

“Wh-wh-what?!?” The woman stammered as she stared at him.

“Like I told Dilseffa's father last night, I lifted and changed their restrictions.” Ren said. “Even though they accepted the position and I accepted them in return, being my concubine isn't what defines them.”

“But... but...”

“I'm not like the other patrons that use, and possibly in some cases abuse, the members of their domains.” Ren said and took her hand again. He felt her flinch and try to hide her emotions. “Can I ask you a question?”

“N-no.” The woman whispered, and he smiled.

“You killed the one that held your mark, didn't you?” Ren asked.

“I... I...” The woman's eyes filled with tears and she tried not to answer; but, the circle pulsed and she shivered. “Y-yes.” She admitted. “He was a sadistic bastard and he... he...”

“Shh.” Ren said and took her into another hug. “You don't have to give the details.”

“I... I do. I must!” She exclaimed, and hugged Ren back tightly and told him everything. All of the things her old patron did to her and the other women in his domain. How he thought nothing of them and how he had taken both married and unmarried women, then their sisters, their daughters, and in one case a granddaughter because he wanted to complete the set.

“You couldn't take it anymore.” Ren said and kept a hold of her, even though she tried to let him go in the middle of her story.

“No! I couldn't! The granddaughter was the last straw!” The woman exclaimed. “She had just become a woman and he hurt her so much! It was her first time and he ruined her!” She cried. “I couldn't let him do that to any more women.” She tried to push Ren away again as more tears poured down her face. “None of the others wanted to go against him, because he was so powerful and would ruin their families if they did; but, I didn't care!”

“It was just you, then.” Ren said, and she nodded slightly.

“While he was distracted by pleasing himself, I took one of his prized maces and smashed the back of his head in.” The woman said, and her tears slowed and stopped. “He fell unconscious and I pulled him off of... well, it doesn't matter.” She said. “I didn't stop. I hit him and hit him and hit him.” Her face turned feral as she relived the event and Ren felt her emotions. “I wanted... no, needed... to make sure that he would never touch another woman again. I beat him until I crushed his skull and his face caved in.”
