From there, Pyre did a quick check of herself, trying to remember exactly which parts she’d been the most lazy about shaping the first time around. It was less than she’d thought—she was a little impressed with how much effort past-her had put into this. Not that there weren’t obviously off areas, of course. The total lack of toes being a pretty big one to start with.

And so, in the dark tunnel, Pyre began reshaping all her misshapen bones and adding any bones, joints, and ligaments that she’d skipped.

By the time she was done, she’d corrected her old human skeleton attempt into an actually accurate one. She walked around a few times to make sure she could move right and hadn’t fucked up somewhere, then mentally pictured “saving” over her old skeleton. She felt a wave of warmth pass through her, which she took to mean that her current skeleton had been successfully stored.

Satisfied, Pyre absorbed her current bones and collected her body into a more compact blob to let her flesh continue healing. She made her way back down the tunnels.

By the time the demon reached the exit, it had stopped raining outside. The ground was covered in so many puddles that it was practically flooded, though—the rain had been quick, but fierce. The continued rumble of thunder also meant a second round was probably coming soon.

“You done?”

In response, Callan turned from where he was hovering over Pyre’s dropped bag, apparently having decided to guard it. It was kind of endearing in that human, straightforward way of his.

“What were you doing?” he asked, sounding curious.

“Testing a new ability,” Pyre replied. She grew a blunt-ended bone and used it to scoop up her bag. “Figured out all your system stuff?”

Callan nodded fervently. “Yeah, the options were a little different from what I remembered back when I first chose my class, but I guess that makes sense since I’m not a human anymore, and there were also some cool trait options I wasn’t expecting to get so soon. I think some of them could combo really well with different spells, but that also makes me wonder if I’ll get ghost-exclusive magic options at some point? That could be really interesting.”

He was rambling again, Pyre thought in amusement. He seemed to realize it a moment after she did and hastily cleared his throat. “So, uh, yeah,” he finished awkwardly.

“Well, I hope you didn’t forget the way to Magrath while you were reading all those notifications,” the demon joked. She waved her flesh in the direction of the exit. “‘Cause I don’t know about you, but it looks like it’s two seconds away from raining again, and I don’t think the map would survive that.”

The ghost snorted. “Yeah, probably not.”

Carefully, Callan floated outside, eyes darting around like he was expecting Tivona to suddenly rise from the grave. Their surroundings, however, were clear. Hovering higher, he squinted at the horizon.

“If we head back to the Lightning Pass, we should be able to make it out of the mountains by tomorrow morning,” Callan said. His eyes moved to the demon. “Are you okay to travel?”

“Eh, I’m fine.” Pyre adjusted her form and grew some bone plates to act as an extra shield while she continued healing. “You got hit by lightning too, you know.”

“Not nearly as much,” Callan argued. He didn’t protest when the demon made her way out of the tunnels as well, though, her bag swinging on the bone with each movement.

“Come on,” she said. “I want to get this mark off as soon as possible.”
