The war magic that had summoned her was the first instance of a spell using a twisted aspect spawned by the corrupted Source. The spell was one that used the aspect of infernal hope, and it drew on the greatest hopes of its targets to summon an avatar of slaughter.

Kelri had smiled gently, then waved a hand casually. The bonds of hope that had summoned her turned into searing fire. Neither Vyron's shield nor Cale's barrier could do a thing, because that hope came from within.

Thelrik, Balria, and their people all fell into thousands of cauterized bloody pieces in a single instant, and he hadn't been able to do a damn thing.

Cale's resulting roar of pain and anger had left a smoking crater in place of the cult, but that was a small comfort in the wake of what had happened. Especially since Kelri's spectre survived, stolen away into the Cult's armies by a transportation spell embedded in her avatar. The deaths she had wrought until he finally put her down...

"I couldn't protect my friends," Cale said. "I lost them, one by one."

Estel had taken his own life, unable to cope with the constant deaths that plagued his mind. Sheriya simply left without a word. Vyron created his ultimate spell, but it was one that burned his own life force to create a permanent, immutable shield around his home; he effectively transformed himself into an eternal guardian, and his fate had perhaps been the kindest.

"I tried to keep going," he said, though the truth was that he hadn't had much of a choice. With his crew gone, there was no one to bring his worldship to him, and no way for him to hop between worlds without archmages willing to help. The branch-hopping spell was too delicate for him to cast. "I needed more power, so I got it, and I tried to protect the people I could."

Damien stiffened, staring at him closely. "You... got more power," he repeated.

Cale winced. He'd been trying to dance his way around it. "I did."

"You said you gain more mana whenever you reincarnate."

"I also said that, yes."

"Did you—"

"Yes," Cale said, cutting him off. He didn't want to get further into this. He had needed that power to protect each new realm he found himself in, and even then, it hadn't really been enough. He had no idea how many lives he'd spent trying to grow, but he knew he had spent over a thousand lives afterward trying to protect whatever realm he found himself in.

It worked, for a time, but there was always a new spell. Some new corruption of magic he'd never witnessed before that he couldn't yet adjust his barriers to.

"The point is... I tried. I want you to know that. I tried for a long time to be a protector. And when that didn't work, I tried to end it at the root. I killed tyrants and despots. When that didn't work, I tried diplomacy. I trained archmages to help me branch-hop and searched for the best and brightest minds across the realms to find ways to use my power well. To create systems that could resist the Lower Branch Cults, or help establish worlds that could last against them.

"None of it worked. But I tried. I tried everything I could before I went for the last resort. Most of the Monoliths did, too, although some began to work with the Cults, thinking that it would be over if one of them won. The war just grew and grew no matter what we did, and eventually, a small group of us decided it needed to be stopped at the source.

"So we got together. Icon there was a part of it. Vital was, too. The Leviathan. We couldn't let things continue, and the only reason all this was possible and continuing was due to branch-hopping, which was becoming easier and easier as the realms consolidated. The only way to stop this, as far as we knew, would be to destroy Yggdrasil itself."

Cale's breath grew haggard as he remembered against his will; he clenched his fists, trying to stop himself from shaking. It was anger and despair both that welled up from him now. He remembered hating that he had to make the choice, hating that it was the only option he could see. Hating that he knew he would do it anyway.

His apprentices stared at him, shocked. Cale wasn't certain if he even needed to continue; surely by now they would understand the monstrous decision he'd had to make? What he'd done?

Damien reached out and took hold of his hand, squeezing it. Cale froze.

Then he let out a trembling breath and forced himself to continue.

"If you remember, I said that Yggdrasil fed on the Source of Magic," he said quietly. "When we finally went to look at it again, we realized that the corruption of the Source also led to the corruption of the World Tree. It was like it was diseased, and the disease was spreading into the realms, infecting the people within. Making them angrier and crueler.

"It wasn't much of a choice after that. We decided it had to be done. But some of the Monoliths opposed us. They knew what we were proposing would kill an untold number of people. There was no way to cut down Yggdrasil that wouldn't devastate the realms. The best we could do was minimize the impact, have the Leviathan catch the remains of all the realms, and even then..."

Cale sighed.

"We fought our way down through the branches until we could get to the trunk," he said dully. "We fought friends on the way. Friends and enemies both, really, but the friends were the worst. Vital died during that journey. I thought Icon did, too. But I made it, eventually, to the base of Yggdrasil."

"And you cut it down," Damien said quietly.

Cale nodded wearily. "And I cut it down," he said. "It took me seven days."

"We do not have time," the Arrow of Time told him, her voice tight with anxiety. "The others will find us soon. You must do this quickly, Cale."

"I'm doing this as fast as I can," Cale said.

"You are doing it as fast and as carefully as you can," the Arrow of Time said. "But we do not have time for careful. The Source grows more corrupt with each day, and Yggdrasil's will protect it as long as it stands."

"We need to make the time," Cale said. "You don't understand what it's like, Ari. I know this has to be done, but if I'm careless—if I slip even once—that's a whole other realm lost. And I can hear and see them all, Ari. Every time."

The Arrow of Time stared at him. "...I will hold out as long as I can."

"Thank you," Cale said. He lined up the full force of his magic, then slammed it into Yggdrasil again, careful to strike it in the same exact place.

The tree shook. He shut his eyes against the vision that rushed into him—the vision of the sky of a realm being rent open, the people within screaming as they were sucked out into the void. There was no Abyss, then, to hold them. They were gone. Untold lives, untold families, untold innocents.

"How many?" Flia asked, her tone gentle.

Cale had the number memorized, and he repeated it dully. "Seventeen realms were completely destroyed and couldn't be salvaged," he said. "Two hundred and fifteen were severely damaged, with more than half their population dying. Eight thousand, one hundred and twelve took at least minor damage. Ten percent or more deaths."

Damien launched himself at him, and Cale almost flinched before he realized his apprentice was hugging him—and then everyone crowded around him, warm and understanding and impossible, and for the first time in too long, Cale let himself break down.

They would have questions for him, he knew. They might still change their minds when they realized the extent of what he'd done. But for now, they saw only that he needed them as friends, and it was all they needed.

Cale didn't know what he'd done to deserve them, but if they still wanted him after all this, then he was going to have to come back to the academy even if it killed him.
