He’d held onto a small hope of studying the array or even using it to siphon some Chaos Motes for himself. However, this place wasn’t safe. All the accumulated energy of the grand array had been unloaded at once, and it had either been transformed into or exchanged for the Ninth Hell’s Death. Zac could feel his Void Vajra Constitution being suppressed by the overwhelming Miasma, and neither his Eoz nor Void Emperor bloodlines protected his body from rapid decay.

Zac pinned his hopes on the situation on the other side being more bearable, or at least holding the opportunity for him to retreat to safety. There was nowhere to flee inside the mountain, and he knew the situation would only grow worse before it got better. A tremendous force was building in the array below.

The good news was that the array flags had all stopped moving, allowing Zac to make a beeline for a pitch-black tear in the cave’s center. He endured the overwhelming Death, shooting through the gate like a streak of gold in a sea of darkness. In the absolute darkness that obscured his sight and suppressed his Soul Sense, his mind suddenly synced up with his Draugr counterpart. He’d made it through.

Another indicator was that the energy levels had reached somewhat bearable levels, to the point where his withered skin began regaining its healthy glow. Nevertheless, to say it was comfortable would be a lie. Even if Zac was unique in his Life-attuned body’s ability to safely absorb Miasma, the density and quality of the Death-attuned energies left him queasy.

He decisively sealed off most of his body, channeling everything he couldn’t keep out to his Draugr half. Surprisingly, he immediately felt an incredible hunger conveyed from his Eoz bloodline. While it was nowhere near what he felt when entering the Abyssal Pond back in Kavista, the Death-attuned energies were actually beneficial to his bloodline.

It was by no means the first time Zac had managed to nourish his Draugr constitution over the years, but that was usually after steeping the Death-attuned treasures in his personal Void. This energy needed no refinement to be of use, something that was almost unheard of among Draugr with their picky bloodlines.

Before Zac could further study the unique Death released by the Primo’s Eye or figure out why he couldn’t see a thing, a voice carried over through the darkness.

“You’re here. It took you long enough.”
