From its humble beginnings of a dark, empty void, Dastan’s Natal Palace had undergone extensive changes in the last year. Towering walls with gates modelled after Sanshu’s own surrounded a large, white-stone plaza, in the middle of which sat a replica of Dastan’s childhood home. Surrounded by beautiful and luxurious buildings, each one was filled with ‘necessities’, things like beautiful clothes, wondrous toys, training equipment, sumptuous feasts, and other pastimes more erotic in nature. In short, this world contained everything Dastan could need or want.

Only it was about twenty times too small for him to fit inside and perfectly sized for the Natal Soul.

This wasn’t to say Dastan enjoyed no benefits. Despite its silly and somewhat adorable appearance, the little creature was an incredible boost to Dastan’s Martial prowess. Taking over the role previously occupied by the Spectres, this tiny caricature helped Dastan passively Reinforce, Lighten and Stabilize. Their bond allowed for an unspoken, instinctive coordination between themselves and left Dastan free to focus on other, more timing-based Chi skills like Deflection and Amplification, a most useful advantage.

The benefits from the Natal Soul didn’t end there either. Peering in on the large-headed, small-bodied facsimile, he watched it train against shadowy enemies with his axe and shield, slashing and bashing his enemies with unbridled aggression and child-like glee. A studious little fellow, it spent most of its time in training and happily shared its revelations and insights, passing them on through their bond with no need for words or actions. What’s more, as the Palace grew larger, Dastan also found his memory improving, able to memorize short excerpts from scrolls with a single glance or recall his sparring matches in frightening detail.

All this with no conscious effort, a frightening boon to Dastan’s skills even without considering the ability to practise Chi skills inside the void. If this was Rain’s personally developed skill, then his brilliance was truly unmatched.

Finally noticing his arrival, the Natal Soul beamed with joy as it soared over to tug on Dastan’s moustache. Fixing it with a mock-serious glare, he said, “Listen here now. You understand the stakes here? This is the most important match we have fought to date. There’ll be no fooling around today, you hear me soldier?” Leaping to attention, the Natal Soul snapped off a military salute and showed off its skills. After a year of training, the little Soul no longer waved his axe aimlessly about, executing a deadly combination of attacks with practised efficiency, though it ruined the atmosphere by sneaking hopeful glances at Dastan’s expression to seek his approval.

So adorable. How could this sweet little mental son possibly be plotting to take over Dastan’s life? Vichear was overreacting. The boss might have some personal issues to work out, but lately, things seemed better than ever. There was absolutely nothing to worry about.

Awoken by a pat on the shoulder from Jochi, Dastan nodded his thanks and unstrapped his Runic shield, removing the leather cover now that secrecy was no longer required. The fourth match had come to an end, with the expressionless Wu Gam standing over a battered and bleeding Yong-Jin, the latter in rough shape as a Healer tended to his internal wounds. The onlookers displayed a mixture of shock and intrigue, while the boss and other remaining competitors all wore similar frowns. Glancing at the older Sentinel, Jochi shrugged and Sent, “The little fox is a dangerous opponent, more in tune with his Blessing than any I’ve ever seen. I wager the bout would’ve ended instantly if he wasn’t so worried about killing his opponent. A few more years and Rain might be his equal, but as it stands, I fear our talented leader is outmatched.”

Swallowing his fear, Dastan pushed Wu Gam’s strength to the back of his mind and focused on his only opponent, Hideo. The pale-faced, powdered, and perfumed young noble was still awestruck by Wu Gam’s performance, but Dastan couldn’t count on this to last. He only hoped to survive the first exchange and not bring shame to the boss and the Zhandos name. Then again, he was nothing but a slave and a little more shame wouldn’t really hurt Dastan’s family name, a family of traitors who’d been so blinded by anger and greed they couldn’t see the simple truth dangling-

“Hey.” Smacking Dastan on the back, the boss smirked and Sent, “Don’t worry about the crowd, don’t worry about your status, don’t even worry about winning or losing. Go out there and show the world you deserve to stand here, not as my underling but as my peer.” Chuckling, he added, “Besides, how strong could Hideo be? Wu Gam already showed how ridiculous he is, like a second Mila, so what are the chances there’s a third?”

Musing over the boss’s words, Dastan’s shoulders eased and tension melted away as he shook with laughter. While Mitsue Hideo might be talented, hardworking, and experienced, he was but a mere mortal, nowhere close to the likes of Sumila, Wu Gam, and Falling Rain. Indeed, how could there possibly be so many monstrous talents in one generation? Hideo was probably no different from Zian or Song, both of whom Dastan had crossed blades with. While victory had not always been his, neither of his opponents had enjoyed a flawless record against him, and though they still held the advantage, it wasn’t by much. Even if Hideo was stronger, it wouldn’t be by much, which meant Dastan had more than a fighting chance. Slave or not, Dastan had proven time and time again that he deserved to stand alongside the greatest of his generation.

And today, he would prove it to the Empire.

Body loose and spirits high, Dastan strode forth with his axe and shield, ready to win glory for the North. After bowing before the Legate, Dastan smiled at his distracted foe and offered a word of advice. “Concentrate on this match. Worry about Wu Gam if you make it that far.”

“Hmph.” Smashing his maces together with a resounding clang, Hideo scowled and deigned not to reply. When the Crier announced, “...Begin!”, Hideo leapt forward in a powerful charge, closing the distance in the blink of an eye. It wasn’t a combined Form like the boss’s charge, merely an Amplified version of Traverses the Mountain, but still shockingly fast. Expecting this move, Dastan slipped to his right and caught the brunt of the charge on his new Runic shield. The inscription stopped any Reverberations from passing through, but it did nothing to dampen the Amplified swing and sent Dastan skidding across the platform. With his Natal Soul Stabilizing their body, Dastan regained control in time to block the second charge, though his arm went numb at the powerful impact.

Not good. With how much Chi the Runic shield drained with each blow, he would last maybe another two dozen blows at most. He had to avoid the charge and to do that, he needed to be lighter, his reactions quicker, his footsteps faster. Responding to these thoughts, the Natal Soul Lightened his body and Dastan gave himself over to the Forms, his movements so light it felt like gliding across the platform. Hideo’s next charge barely grazed the Runic shield and as expected, it devoured less of Dastan’s Chi. Mind calm and body loose, he danced around his opponent like a bird flitting about a bull. An apt comparison, since his opponent focused primarily on the Bull Forms, his twin maces smashing about like horns as he trampled across the stage, leaving splintered wood and spraying water in his wake. In contrast, Dastan only needed Rising Steps from the Oriole Forms to avoid him, dodging blows whenever he could and blocking with his Runic shield when he couldn’t.

Whether Hideo charged, leaped, or slowly advanced, Dastan accepted the challenge and met him head on, not intending to wear Hideo down or enrage him, but trying to avoid his opponent with the least amount of movement possible. This was nothing more than a sparring match with no one’s life at stake, so why waste such a perfect opportunity to sharpen his skills? Round and round they went as Dastan took Hideo on a merry chase, his axe never striking and his smile never slipping.

After long minutes of dancing about, Dastan finally decided enough was enough when an errant swing of Hideo’s mace almost took his head off. Spotting an opening, a disruption in his opponent’s rhythm caused by fatigue, Dastan made his first attack of the match, slipping his axe through his opponent’s defence and lightly tapping his neck to leave a thin, barely perceptible line of blood. Still smiling, Dastan reversed his grip and clasped his hands. “Thank you for letting me win.”

There was a single second of silence which stretched out into an eternity, and in that second, Mitsue Hideo’s expression went through a multitude of changes. Shock, anger, denial, then acceptance, his shoulders slumped as he admitted defeat and Dastan graciously accepted. While they both bowed towards the Legate, Nan Ping erupted into thunderous applause in what felt like the most heartfelt ovation of the day.

Father, Mother, I, your son, have brought honour to the Zhandos name.

Chapter Meme
