He raised his voice. Trey didn’t know who was listening, but the door instantly opened, and the servant, Eim, poked his head through.
“Your Majesty has a wish?”
“Parchment and ink, please, Eim. Scrap parchment I think, but large enough for a table. And…hm, these tables are too short. A larger table.”
“At once.”
The door closed. Trey stared at Flos.
“You’re going to draw a map?”
“Of course. It sounds entertaining, and I do know the various nations. But while I wait—there was something else I was going to do, Trey. Issue an edict and form a unit.”
“What, like a proclamation? And why a unit?”
Trey frowned at Flos. The [King] chuckled.
“Sort of. I’m not talking about regular edicts and units of soldiers, though. I’m referring to a [King]’s Skills. It’s past time you learned more of mine.”
“Isn’t it dangerous for me to know?”
“Dangerous as in secret? No, I imagine most of my Skills are well-known. And I want to explain this because I’m wrestling with which edict to issue. You see—hm, how should I explain this? Well, you know that as a [King], many of my Skills affect my kingdom, don’t you, Trey?”
The young man nodded. Flos nodded as well.
“It’s a boon, especially if you consider how large a kingdom can be. And a single Skill can do…ah, so much! Now, generally kingdom-wide Skills are rare, even for rulers to obtain. I have a few, like a Skill that allows my soldiers to level up quicker. That is a very powerful Skill, if a low-level one for a [King] specializing in war. But just having it can make my nation more powerful than one without a high-level [King] over time, you see?”
Trey did see.
“So your powers affect your kingdom, but not yourself as much. That’s why you’re weaker than Mars in battle.”
“Exactly. Her Skills are almost all specific to herself. But mine affect more people. Both have their merits, but one thing a ruler can do is issue…temporary Skills. Or should I say, conditional Skills? For instance, I have the power to issue an edict over my lands. But only one, and should I issue another, it will replace the first.”
“Oh. That’s exactly like a video game. Like a buff. I get it.”
The King of Destruction paused, looking miffed.
“I’d forgotten how much these video games of yours resemble this world. I must try one on that phone of yours.”
“It’s out of battery, remember?”
“Hm. Yes. Drat. I recall. If only there was a way…you had that cord thing, don’t you? Maybe Ulyse could charge it. He can conjure lightning, if not as much as Amerys.”
Trey sincerely doubted Ulyse’s ability to conjure electricity would do anything but fry his iPhone, but he nodded.
“Maybe…but go on about edicts.”
“Hm, yes. I can only have one. And before you say that it is a simple task—an edict shapes my will and my kingdom. I cannot change it as easily as one might change boots. It’s just like blessings, honestly.”
“Blessings?”
Flos waved a hand.
“A type of Skill that monarchs gain. Again, you may only have one active. [Blessing of Rains], for instance, was considered a wonder in Chandrar because it guaranteed regular rainfall, however little. I have one and only one. But edicts? I have three. And each is powerful, but comes with a cost, so I have not been willing to use one yet. But with three nations nominally under my control, it is time to use one.”
“Okay then. What are they?”
Trey leaned forward, a bit excited despite himself. Flos took a drink, smiling.
“Neither Drevish nor Tottenval. Well, my edicts are [Edict of Bloom], [Edict of Silversky], and [Edict of the Blooded]. Care to guess what each does?”
“Er, I don’t know about Silversky, but one sounds like restoration and the other like war.”
The [King] looked pleased.
“Correct! The [Edict of Bloom] revitalizes a war-torn kingdom. Ideal for Germina and Hellios, although we’ve hardly razed much. But Reim would benefit. It allows crops to grow quicker, wounds to mend, children to be born and conceived more fruitfully and quickly among animals and people—”
“Wait, born quicker? That’s not on!”
“Why not? A child will be born in six months fully formed rather than nine for a Human mother.”
“But you can’t just—wouldn’t it make her hungrier or—how does that work?”
Flos shrugged.
“I think mothers do get hungrier, but the time of plenty affects all things, Trey. By contrast, [Edict of the Blooded] boosts preparation for war. All those with an inclination to fight level up much quicker, and those with the talent for battle discover it.”
Trey thought that sounded reasonable. Mothers giving birth faster and crops growing sounded like way too much power to him. He saw why Flos had waited though; with Germina and Hellios under his command, he’d have lots more crops growing, and in the spring too!
“Okay, but what’s [Edict of Silversky]? Does it turn the sky silver?”
“No. But it does change the weather. I think the Skill comes from the nature of silver as a pure metal, rather than anything else. You see, I gained the Skill during a particularly bad set of sandstorms that threatened my kingdom. The [Edict of Silversky] is a purifying edict. Under its effects, lies are difficult to tell, the weather balances, and hostile presences find themselves unwelcome in my kingdom. Most importantly, it frees the dreams and feelings of my subjects from negative influence, and that is sometimes more than just external. Those who find themselves plagued by sadness or fury without reason calm, and I consider it the best of my edicts to use in times of peace.”
“Huh. That does sound nice. It almost sounds like that edict, uh, purifies bad thoughts. Like someone with depression. Imbalances in the head.”
“You think so too? We did talk about medicine, didn’t we? If only we had some [Doctors] from your world. Hm. But yes, it is a valuable edict and the one with least consequence. But I fear it will be the [Edict of Bloom] or the [Edict of the Blooded] I call upon.”
Trey frowned and sipped from his sweet cup of grape juice. It was excellent, really.
“What’s the negatives of using either edict? Shouldn’t a Skill be helpful?”
Flos sighed.
“Edicts are temporary, Trey. As such, their effects are more pronounced, and there are disadvantages. The [Edict of Bloom] may invigorate my lands, but it is also a time of strife, for monsters will take advantage of the rapid growth as well. Too, the rapid growth takes nutrients from the soil, and as you pointed out, mothers require more sustenance, as do animals. It is intensive on the people, for we may reap harvests and grow, but it takes work.”
“And the [Edict of the Blooded]? Wait—do people get violent?”
“Ah, you understand. Yes, my people train to war, but it encourages them towards battle, sometimes with tragic results. If I used it, Hellios might see more rebellions by young men, and I would receive reports of higher rates of injury among my soldiers. It is a tradeoff.”
“What does the [Edict of Silversky] do, then?”
“It simply makes things calm. Pure to the extent that it is sometimes agonizing. No harsh weather, no great storms, no lies—imagine not telling a lie for a month, Trey. People crave excitement, if in small amounts. It is an edict I use after a long time of unrest.”
Trey nodded. Now that Flos said it, all three edicts sounded like trouble in their own way.
“So which will you use? Will you use any of them?”
Flos grimaced.
“I must. It is an advantage I cannot turn down. And I think—yes, I think the [Edict of Bloom] is the one I must use now that I say it out loud. War may be imminent, but it is spring, and there is no better time for it. We will be able to reap two spring harvests or an earlier autumnal harvest this way.”
He gently slapped his hands together. Trey flinched, expecting the edict to begin right then and there, but Flos just shook his head.
“I will issue it tomorrow. It requires at least a bit of ceremony, and I wouldn’t spring it on my subjects. They will know what to expect. Now, onto units. If I explain edicts, we should explain units before my servants return.”
He gestured at the door. Trey blinked, wondering why it was taking them so long. Flos grinned.
“They’re probably trying to find a table they can fit through the doors and parchment worthy of me writing on it. Never mind. Units are simple, Trey. And they are a Skill that reflects across [Generals] as well. We may designate a group to have certain…qualities. To be granted powers simply by inducting new members.”
“You mean, like a group of warriors who all have flaming swords?”
“Ah, exactly. Except that if it’s my Skill, they don’t need to have enchantments on their blades. Their swords will simply burst into flame when they draw them. They’ll have burning armor too, I suppose, although that would be inconvenient.”
Trey’s jaw dropped. He’d only meant that as an example!
“That’s good too! Why haven’t you made one of them yet? Wait…”
Flos was twirling a finger, smiling. Trey thought and applied a video game’s logic to the answer.
“…You can’t yet because you haven’t met the requirements.”
“Ah! A splendid answer! That’s exactly it, Trey. I have several units I could call into being, and none of them I can yet form. Some units are simple to create—such as only needing some [Riders] to form a cavalry-based unit like [Driftwind Riders], who always have the wind at their backs. But more powerful units require certain conditions be met. For instance, a group of riders who also all wear heavy armor to become the [Steelshorn Relentless]. In which case their armor—which was already a pain to deal with—becomes twice as thick. Thankfully, they weren’t immune to lightning.”
Flos sighed as he poured Trey a refill of his drink. Trey gulped some more down.
“So how’ll you fix that problem?”
“By checking on how many enchanted blades we have. I don’t need too many, just a hundred or so—”
“A hundred?”
“—to form the weakest of my units, yes. Even if all the blades are only slightly magical, turning a hundred soldiers into a unit would make them considerably stronger in battle. But I don’t think I took that many. The Quarass’ treasury and Hellios’ had gold and other artifacts I’ll have Gazi sort through, but not quite enough blades.”
Again, Flos sighed. Trey choked on his wine.
“You robbed both treasuries? I thought you allied with the Quarass!”
The King of Destruction tugged on his beard.
“Of course. But I still need gold, and her artifacts were going to waste. I will share with her of course, but as our armies will fight together, my officers need them most. Venith’s shield is enchanted, but he could use some enchanted armor like the old days. And if I had a few artifacts for Parasol Stroll…”
Trey sat back in his chair. That was Flos for you. One second talking about the benefits and demerits of Skills, the next casually robbing kingdoms of their treasures. He heard the door open.
“Your Majesty, sincerest apologies for the wait. We have a chair and table as well as the parchment and ink—”
“Ah, Eim, wonderful. Place it here. Trey, move these chairs back.”
Ignoring the servant’s protests, Flos casually pulled his chair back, and they brought a huge table in with six men. And parchment and ink. Trey stared at it as it filled the quiet sitting room, quite out of place, but Flos seemed pleased.
“Thank you. That will be all. Trey, gather around here. Time to see the heart of tonight’s little discussion. I am going to show you Reim’s enemies. At least our immediate ones.”
He laughed heartily. Trey walked around the table to Flos’ side. The King of Destruction was already dipping his quill into the ink pot, murmuring to himself as he drew.
“Let’s see. I suppose I’ll start with Chandrar, shall I? Not all of it, since the perspective needs to be closer. But if I do the eastern and northern parts…there. And here’s Reim. You see it?”
Trey did, and he’d seen the map of Chandrar enough times to know it looked like a lowercase ‘R’, at least, that was how he thought of it. The western half was longer than the eastern, but it was wider than it was long. Okay, a really stretched lowercase ‘R’.
But what had shaken Trey when Orthenon had first pointed them out on the map was how small Reim was. Flos didn’t seem to mind, and he pointed out the little blob of Reim proudly to Trey.
“We are in the northeast of Chandrar, one of the countries bordering the great desert. As a consequence, Reim is dry, as are the nations around us. Germina, Hellios, especially Khelt…you see? Germina is north of us, Hellios northeast. Both are so close by, so they contributed most to the army that attacked Reim.”
The King of Destruction drew two small nations up from Reim. Trey squinted at the map, confused. It didn’t look like the one Orthenon had.
“Hold on, Fl—er, Your Majesty. I thought Reim didn’t border Hellios and Germina until now. It was even smaller than this, and there were some cities between us. Which you took over.”
Flos waved a hand.
“Of course. Not all lands are held by one kingdom. There are individual cities here and there, areas ruled by tribes…lesser countries who come and go around Reim to the south here. I’ll just draw a few of the ones that I know. But I excluded the ones north of Reim and the others because I can’t be bothered to draw every single one in.”
“Hey. That’s—”
Trey protested. Flos turned to him.
“I could conquer one of those cities or states with Mars and five cats, Trey. Don’t bother with the small details.”
Oh, to be a fly on the wall if anyone heard that. Trey almost felt sorry for the [Kings] and rulers Flos casually ignored with the strokes of his quill.
“There. You see? We have those smaller countries bordering our south I can’t be bothered to remember. Poor lands, by and large—really a no man’s land. To the north was Germina and Hellios, both our former closest enemies. Our most dangerous at the time.”
Trey nodded, biting his lip.
“But you took them out in two battles, so they weren’t all that strong, were they?”
Flos turned to Trey, looking astonished.
“Of course they were! Trey, these were both established nations with hundreds of years of history—thousands in Germina’s case. It’s old beyond belief, one of the four remaining Shield Nations!”
“Yeah, but its power has waned, right? Or—or it’s still a small nation.”
“Compared to some. But it could still command respect from around Chandrar.”
Flos frowned at Trey, looking deeply troubled by Trey’s blasé attitude. Trey frowned at Flos, deeply confused by Flos’ respectful attitude.
“But you beat Germina and Hellios like that! I was there!”
He snapped his fingers. Flos shook his head, sighing.
