“So did I. And yes, I doubt she’s at that level. And the actual forging of a blade is only half of a [Blacksmith]’s work. Preparing the metal is just as important. But her father apparently forged that ingot before his passing, so perhaps it is in her capabilities. If it isn’t? We will see.”
The [Steward] nodded. That they would. He cast a glance towards the door, and Flos knew their time was nearly at an end. He grasped for a few more sentences before they left. Something fun. Idle chatter. He would miss Orthenon for however long the man took to settle Hellios and Germina. The task might take him weeks or months, but Orthenon never protested, no matter how arduous his work.
“A funny thing. I’m told Naq-Alrama steel is twice as tricky to forge as mithril, but no one speaks of Adamantine.”
“Perhaps because few know how to forge it themselves. And it is such a rare metal.”
“Easy to miss, or so I’m told. I heard a [Miner] once dug up a huge vein. He thought the stuff was useless, so he sold it to a [Bricklayer] to make cheap bricks of. It apparently isn’t that hard unless processed.”
“It is not.”
“Ah! Then that explains it. You see, one day, a Dwarf from Terandria visited the city the [Bricklayer] was working in, and he came across a wall built of the stuff. Can you imagine, Orthenon? Enough metal to make several breastplates of pure Adamantine baked into the side of a crumbling wall!”
Flos chuckled, and Orthenon smiled.
“If I spot any, I will bring it back, my King. But I must be off. Have you any surprises to offer me before I go?”
Flos did. But he knew that would prompt a final discussion, so he’d been holding it in until the last moment. But now was the time. He sighed as he put his drink aside and leaned forwards.
“A few surprises, but all necessary as I will convince you, old friend. Firstly, I intend to issue an edict, Orthenon. An edict, and perhaps reform one of the units of old.”
“That would be welcome on both counts. Have we the resources for a unit?”
The [King] shrugged.
“We brought back some treasure from Hellios and Germina. I will see, but it is on my mind. But the true surprise for you and the world is that I’m planning on conducting in that most displeasing of enterprises. Diplomacy. The world waits for me to declare war again, and the kingdoms and nations of Chandrar already plot my downfall. So I intend to give them something else to think about.”
Orthenon’s brows shot up and together sharply. He hadn’t expected this, which made Flos happy. If he hadn’t, it was likely no one else would be expecting this either.
“What do you intend to send to the other nations of Chandrar, Your Majesty?”
He had a wary look on his face, as if he might have to physically restrain Flos—as he’d done more than once—from making a stupid mistake. But Flos was confident Orthenon would see the merit of this plan. He smiled broadly and sat back in his chair.
“Peace, Orthenon. I intend to issue a world-wide declaration of peace.”
A bark of surprised laughter came out of Orthenon’s mouth, a moment of true levity. He laughed, and Flos committed the moment forever in his mind. But the King of Destruction didn’t laugh with Orthenon. He raised one eyebrow.
“It wasn’t a joke.”
 
——
 
Trey Atwood sat in the banquet. He ate in the banquet. He had some of his hair catch on fire in the banquet when one of the Parasol Stroll mages did his fire trick. He watched Nawal during the banquet. This was what Trey Atwood did.
He thought Nawal looked very relieved after she sat down at her table, but he didn’t get a chance to talk with her. And she disappeared too soon afterwards. He hadn’t seen her after he’d caught her from fainting—and nearly been tackled by that huge guard, Hesseif, and Bezha, who may or may not be Nawal’s mother.
But it didn’t surprise Trey, honestly. Nawal and her entire tribe had looked overwhelmed by the King of Destruction’s scrutiny—and his presence. She had already collapsed once from her task of smithing, so they retired quickly after the banquet started winding down.
That left Trey with Gazi. Only, Gazi left the table first, and Flos and Orthenon left shortly thereafter. And so Trey was left with Teres at last.
Trey had eaten during the banquet. And chatted to Gazi and watched the show and worried for Nawal. What he hadn’t really done was talk to Teres. Things were still awkward between them.
Oh, they’d said hello. Trey recalled them reuniting after the week or so apart. She’d found him playing with his sand sprites and wondering to himself if Nawal would be okay.
“Hey. I’m back.”
“Oh. That’s grand. How was it?”
“Good. It was—okay, here’s what happened…”
And they’d talked. Teres had given Trey a full accounting of what had gone down with Flos and the Quarass and Hellios, and he’d been properly amazed and asked questions, but at no point had he sat down right next to her and leaned on her shoulder or vice-versa. At no point had they begun talking so fast their words overlapped or hugged each other or…or felt close.
They felt like friends. Or family members. Or like brother and sister, even, but not like twins, which is what they were. So close they could sometimes know what the other was thinking. But now Trey couldn’t tell what Teresa thought. She had changed. And so had he.
They’d fought. And they still hadn’t figured out how to come back together. Trey wondered if they ever would. He wondered if they should. They’d been so angry at each other at the time.
Gloomily, Trey picked at his food. He kept glancing up at Teres because he had the feeling she was doing it when he wasn’t looking. Finally, there was a point when they both looked up at the same time and caught each other staring.
“Uh.”
“What?”
“I was just—”
“Okay, fine, but it’s only—”
They stopped. And grinned at each other, because they’d had a moment of simultaneous understanding.
What? I was just checking to see if you were checking. Okay, fine, but it’s only because I want to talk to you. Idiot.
She missed him after all. Trey scooted closer, taking over Gazi’s spot. Teres rolled her eyes.
“You think she sat between us on purpose?”
“Could be. She’s like that. Sometimes she’s nice—”
“Hah!”
“She is! But she hides it. I told you. And sometimes she likes being mean. Like she was to Nawal. But she’s never really mean—”
“Tell that to His Majesty. He told me all kinds of things on the road. Gazi’s dangerous, Trey. She was a slave once, you know that?”
“I do.”
“Well…he found her and raised her, and I guess she was a lot more timid. But she became one of his Seven by killing a lot of people. A lot.”
“I know. She said she got to be one of Flos’ best vassals by playing up being scary.”
“I don’t think scary’s the right word. Here’s what I heard she did once from Flos. There was this spy, and she ate both his eyes and then—”
“Excuse me, Sir Trey. His Majesty requests your presence at once.”
Trey and Teres jumped. They saw one of the servants beckoning to Trey. He swallowed a moment of disappointment and then an impulse to tell the servant to go away. That might work on Flos, well maybe, but his servants treated the King of Destruction’s words like law, and they would drag Trey if need be.
“Me? But—what about you, Teres?”
He looked at his sister, hoping she would come with him. But the servant just shook his head.
“His Majesty ordered only your presence. This way.”
He was already impatient. Teres made a face.
“I bet he wants to talk to you about all kinds of stuff from our home—”
She waggled her eyebrows, although Trey wasn’t sure how secret their secret really was to begin with.
“—to you. I couldn’t handle it. Go on. I’ll talk to you tonight.”
“Promise?”
“Promise. And you can tell me about that veiled girl. She’s a [Blacksmith]?”
Trey sighed as he saw Teres’ disapproving look to where Nawal had been. He slid out of his chair and followed the [Servant], who set a quick trot through the castle.
“In here.”
The [Servant] pointed Trey to a room Trey was vaguely familiar with. It wasn’t Flos’ bedroom, but a sitting room Flos sometimes used. It had a lovely view and a balcony. The King of Destruction was using that when Trey entered the room.
“Ah, Trey. I’m grateful you’re here. Thank you—Eim, isn’t it? Your father used to deliver me a nightcap when I was younger.”
Flos thanked the [Servant], and Trey found a seat rather than look at the way the manservant’s eyes would light up. He heard the door close after a moment of conversation, and Flos came over to sit down. The King of Destruction smiled at Trey. He had a cup of wine in his hand, half-empty.
“It has been a long time since we spoke, hasn’t it? A week? It feels like months! Would you like a drink? Something else to eat?”
“No thank you, Your Majesty. I was talking with my sister. We hadn’t seen each other either.”
Trey pointedly glanced at the door. Flos paused, and Trey felt a moment’s pinch of conscience. Flos was nothing but kind mostly, and aside from the slave thing, which Trey had been forbidden from bringing up (and had given up trying because Flos wouldn’t listen even when he tried), he was good to talk to. But Trey couldn’t bring himself to be as casual and say ‘Flos’ like Teres did. And he was peeved about not speaking to Teres.
“Ah, my apologies, Trey. I’d forgotten the bonds of siblings. No, twins. But I hope you two will chat tonight. Teres did mention missing you on the road.”
“Did she?”
Trey perked up a bit. Flos smiled.
“Don’t tell her I said that. I won’t keep you overlong. But I did wish to call you here to talk. You know it eases my mind to talk to you two.”
“Is this more stuff about history? Teres said you pestered her all about war and our world.”
Flos shook his head, which relieved Trey a bit.
“No, no. I just wanted—well, a willing ear, I’ll confess.”
The [King] looked actually embarrassed as he shifted in his seat. Trey looked nonplussed, so Flos explained.
“You see, Trey, it is enjoyable to see your reaction as someone not of this world. You are one of a handful of people I am able to speak to without a level of…distance. As a [King]. And explaining concepts to you, or informing you or Teres of my plans, helps firm them in my mind. I used to do that to the other of my Seven back in the day. Not Mars or Gazi—or Orthenon—Mars is a terrible listener at times, Gazi gets bored, and Orthenon is too serious and too sharp.”
“Who’d you talk to, then? Takhatres? Amerys? Or…the others?”
Trey tried to remember the other three of the Seven. Drevish he knew, the [Architect]. But the other two were…
The [King] noticed Trey’s moment of hesitation. He smiled sadly.
“Takhatres was good to talk to. Amerys was almost as poor a listener as Mars. The three you’re thinking of are Drevish, Queravia, and Tottenval. They were my companions of choice for these kinds of talks.”
“Why them?”
“Why not? Well, perhaps because all three had different qualities. Drevish was an [Architect], one of two of my Seven not suited to war, so he had no patience for grand strategies. He would listen and give me his frank—and quite sharp!—opinions. But he would listen, and his ideas were fascinating, as you might expect from someone who could build a castle out of water in the desert.”
“He did that?”
“Oh yes, to prove he could. It used up so much magic, and Orthenon was so furious…but it was a grand sight, and I think I gave Drevish an entire vintage of wines to celebrate. Ah, but where was I? Drevish was one, and Tottenval another. Both cared little for war. Have I told you about Tottenval?”
“No. Only that he died at sea.”
“Yes. It was…he died saving my life where no one else could. And he was no warrior, but a [Gardener]. Not even a magical one. He made Reim bloom and fed my entire kingdom. A Beastkin from Baleros. I will tell you of his passing someday. But not today. Not now.”
Flos shook his head, a shadow crossing his features. He took a long drink of wine, as if to banish it.
“Tottenval was good to talk to, mainly because he was so incurious. I would tell him some grand scheme Queravia and Orthenon had concocted or of our latest enemies and their might, and he would say, ‘so?’ As if it were the most mundane thing in the world! That would only make me try and describe the magnificence of what I saw to him even harder until he got it or I realized how trivial the matter really was. The perspective of a [Gardener], Trey.”
Trey nodded, trying to imagine Tottenval in his head. He wondered how he had died. And how he had saved Flos’ life.
“I get it. But what about Queravia? Weren’t you…”
This time, Trey was afraid to say it. Hints from Mars and Gazi had helped him here, but Flos’ expression had changed. It wasn’t just grief, and the King of Destruction’s fine metal cup bore the imprint of his hand when he lowered it this time.
“Yes. We were close. If that was what you were asking. Who told you? Mars? Gazi? Someone…no. Another topic. Another time. Yes, I loved talking with her just because her company was enjoyable. That was all.”
Flos got up and refilled his goblet. Trey stared at his back until Flos sat down again. This time, the King of Destruction shook his head.
“Another time. Why did I bring that up? Ah, merely to say that I enjoy talking to you and Teres in the same way, Trey. And I would like you to know more about my enemies. You see, I’m about to put into place a rather daring plan—at least in some senses of the word. But I’m not entirely confident in it. Or rather, I suspect only some of my enemies will accept my proposal, and I’d like to think over the others.”
“What’re you going to do?”
“Send a message. Which reminds me, if anything lands on the balcony let me know, would you? I’m expecting a guest before I retire.”
Flos pointed over his shoulder at the balcony. Trey craned his neck around, frowning. The King of Destruction waved at him to sit back down.
“Later, later. For now, a little lesson.”
“I get those from Gazi every day. And Orthenon too!”
“Ah, but do they teach you geography? The affairs of other nations?”
“Yes. All the time.”
The King of Destruction looked put out.
“Well, I’m preparing my own lesson. How well do you know the other nations bordering ours? Belchan? Jecrass? Khelt?”
Trey squirmed in his seat.
“I can point them out on a map. But I need to see one.”
Flos grimaced.
“A map? I could order one brought, but maps of nations are always changing. And if I do that, I’m liable to spill this wine at some point, and Orthenon will kill me if I ruin…no, I have a better idea. A moment!”
