Ten bricks of stone were carried in. They were placed on the ground, piled up, forming two columns. And on that column Nawal’s sword was placed, supported on both tip and handle. Next, a huge sledgehammer, capped by a heavy striking head for breaking stone—or armor—was brought to the King’s Steward. The man carrying it handed it to the King of Destruction. With one hand, Flos casually lifted it from the base of the handle and held it out as his audience watched.
Again, the King of Destruction turned and addressed the table behind him, ignoring the horrified look on Nawal’s face.
“I believe I once told you, Teres, that a proper sword with a proper enchantment could survive a blow from a warhammer. But the metal that makes the sword must be fine to hold the enchantment and forged just as perfectly. If the blade is weak, or the metal imperfect, the magic is likewise flawed. So. This is my test of Tannousin’s craft.”
Then he turned back to the sword resting on the blocks. With one hand, Flos lifted the sledgehammer, and before Nawal could close her eyes, brought it down on the center of the blade held up in the air by the bricks. She saw the sledgehammer connect perfectly in the center and heard a crash of sound.
And her sword crunched. Not the metal—but the handle and sword tip! With nowhere to go, they tore through the bricks piled up underneath, cracking them with the force of the blow. The sword itself barely even flexed, but the bricks shattered, and the sword tumbled to the ground. There was a burst of sound, but hardly louder than the roaring in Nawal’s ears. She stumbled, and Silmak caught her. But there, in the remains of the bricks, dusty, but perfectly intact, was her sword.
Flos held the hammer to the servant and bent to pick it up. He inspected the blade and shook his head.
“Unharmed. A strong enchantment and the metal itself is just as powerfully made.”
Nawal felt light-headed. She smiled victoriously behind her veil as Flos turned to Daiton. The man was looking down at the crushed blocks, swaying on his feet. He looked like he might faint.
“Daiton.”
Flos had to say his name twice before the [Smith]’s head jerked up. The King of Destruction gestured to Nawal’s sword in his hands.
“Daiton. This sword is beautiful. And, I think, beyond what you have made. Do you dispute this?”
“No. No, Your Majesty. I cannot. It surpasses my own. And—Nawalishifra of Clan…she did it in a day. With my steel, sire. I cannot match that feat.”
Daiton whispered. Nawal’s excitement faded as she saw the old man had tears in his eyes. Daiton slowly looked at his sword and bowed his head.
“I’m ashamed. But I will retire my hammer. I cannot call myself a master if a smith half my age can outperform me so. None of my blades could hold such an enchantment.”
He turned to go, stumbling, but Flos held up a hand.
“Hold, Daiton.”
The man stopped and turned back. Flos held up Nawal’s blade. He glanced at Nawal now.
“Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. Daiton is my master blacksmith, and I gave him the charge of forging my armies their arms and armor because of his skill. You have placed a superior blade in my hands. But I have a question for you, Nawalishifra. Do you then claim you can do Daiton’s work? Provide my armies with steel for all the tens or hundreds of thousands who join my rank?”
He gestured towards the sword he held. Nawal gulped. A hundred thousand? She could barely forge one sword every day, and she’d forced herself to get one done! If she had to refine metal for more blades, even if her clan helped her, no, even if she had apprentices…
Silmak broke in, his voice high with nerves.
“Your Majesty, I am ashamed to say that would be impossible, even for the best smith of the Tannousin. We forge a single blade of masterpiece slowly. We could never hope to supply an army, let alone the numberless warriors who serve the King of Destruction.”
Flos nodded.
“I see. But that is what I require from my master of smiths. Daiton may not produce a blade of this quality, but his swords are strong steel, and he can make enough to outfit an army. Hm. It is a quandary. On one hand, I cannot deny the fact that Nawalishifra’s blade is the better one. But if she cannot produce more than a single blade, am I to give the rest of my [Soldiers] rocks?”
He glanced meaningfully around. Orthenon nodded briskly, and some of the other warriors in the room were doing the same. Then Flos’ eyes settled on Nawal. And suddenly, she had a horrible realization.
Of course Flos knew Daiton wasn’t able to produce blades worthy of enchantment. Of course he knew Nawal was the better smith—probably before he’d even seen the blades! He was the King of Destruction and a seasoned warrior in his own right. He had to know the quality of Daiton’s blades. But he was content with that.
And he was right—he didn’t need enchanted blades for regular soldiers, just good steel, produced as fast as Daiton could manage it. But Nawal had challenged him and, in doing so, insulted the King of Destruction in his halls by showing his smith up.
But he was giving her a chance. Nawal forced saliva into her mouth and spoke up loudly.
“Your Majesty. I—I cannot forge steel as fast as Master Daiton. I am slow, and my purpose is to make and forge Naq-Alrama steel. In that, I will humbly serve, but I could never replace your master of smiths. I humbly withdraw my sword from comparing it to Master Daiton’s and beg your forgiveness—and his—for the insult.”
She bowed as low to the ground as she could. She heard more voices around her and then a quiet again. Flos nodded.
“Raise your head, Nawalishifra. I do not take offence. And I am grateful to have laid my eyes on a blade this peerless. As for Daiton, I think he is humbled in his own way, but I think the matter is closed.”
Nawal did raise her head. She saw Daiton nodding fervently and nodded as well.
“I beg for forgiveness, Your Majesty. I did not mean to bring insult, and I did not realize the difference in what was sought. I only saw the…the quality of metal.”
Flos inclined his head. He turned to face the rest of the room and, in doing so, picked up Daiton’s blade. He held both side by side.
“Well and so. Remember this, to all who listen. Yes, I do not expect any enchanted blades from my forges. But Master Daiton’s art is, in his way, peerless. For he makes [Smiths] out of apprentices with ease and can create swords I am proud to give my [Soldiers]. I would not ask him to make me a blade capable of slaying Dragons. But when I call for my armies, I know they will be armed with the finest steel he has made and count myself lucky to have his services.”
He looked back at Daiton and bowed his head slightly. Nawal heard someone bang on the table—Jelaim, banging his cup. And then there was applause. Daiton looked up, tears in his eyes, and knelt, shoulders shaking as he wept. Flos looked at Nawal.
“My smith indeed. I commend Daiton and his apprentices. And yes, I do need blades that can be enchanted. But that is why you have been summoned, Clan Tannousin. I expect you to live up to your reputation as the peerless smiths of the desert. You have already proven your skill. Continue to do so and I will reward you with my gratitude equal to your labors.”
He looked down at Nawal and Silmak. The two knelt, and both pledged to forge Flos the greatest blades of Naq-Alrama steel he had ever laid eyes upon. And Nawal meant it. As she rose and shook Daiton’s hands and apologized again to the teary-eyed smith, she saw how Flos had engineered all of this night so that neither Daiton nor Nawal would bear the offence of her petty feud.
And she admired him. Admired and feared. But she was no longer petrified as she sat down in her seat. She looked up at him as he sat, still inspecting her blade and chatting to his [Steward] and wondered if this story might be told about the Tannousin clan fires someday. That of the foolish girl [Smith] who had challenged herself against his [Blacksmith] and failed to best him. Would they say she was foolish for missing the point? Or that the King of Destruction had cleverly twisted it so that the outcome was a draw? Would they tell legends of her?
Now that was a terrifying, and incredible, thought.
 
——
 
The banquet ended. Oh, there were no doubt other events of note, at least from Clan Tannousin’s side, wonders and things to think deeply on, but to the King of Destruction, there was less wonder and more mundanity. He enjoyed himself of course, but Nawal was right that he had tasted delicacies and hosted banquets that people still told stories about. So the food and drink was a passing pleasure, and Flos retired after two more hours to his room.
There he summoned Orthenon, his [Steward]. The man was actually waiting outside his door, having anticipated Flos’ summons. He slipped in as Flos was sitting with a cup of mulled wine.
“My lord?”
“I’ve been thinking, Orthenon. Trey and Teres both call me by my name, usually without honorifics. It’s been so long, and the casual appellation is somewhat delightful. People in their world are usually so informal. Would you ever consider doing the same?”
The [Steward] paused as he came to sit across from his ruler.
“I don’t believe I ever would, sire.”
“A pity. Gazi said the same thing. Mars tried it, but she gave up.”
Flos sighed. He hadn’t really expected anything different from Orthenon. It was a mark of their bond that Orthenon even sat in his presence; he was a man who believed in formality, and though he was as much friend as vassal to Flos, he couldn’t bear to be too informal. As one might expect of a man who’d been raised in the Drath Archipelago.
“Never mind. I’ve given you my instructions regarding the Quarass. I don’t intend to keep you—will you set out tonight?”
“As soon as we finish speaking, Your Majesty. I will send Venith and Maresar back. Then Mars when I reach Hellios.”
“Good. I could use Mars. And Gazi too, if her eye were healed. You and they are the only things keeping our enemies from assaulting us. They fear you, and rightly so.”
“They will have more cause if Germina and Hellios’ armies both join with yours.”
“True. But even then, do you think that Nerrhavia would fear us? Or Fetohep’s armies of Khelt? No, no. It is my Seven that shook the world the first time. And I fear that without all of my Seven, this undertaking may yet fail.”
Orthenon was silent for a moment, and Flos knew he was taking his words seriously. Of course. Orthenon had plotted Reim’s strategy countless times, and he was the one who had led their armies to devastating victory after victory along with Queravia.
“Takhatres is stalling the Empire of Sands himself. But when he returns, we will have two armies, and one of them devastating by any measure. If we have time, I can bring you an army that could fight even a coalition of states with you leading them and Mars and I supporting. And should Gazi heal, we won’t need to watch our backs. However…”
“We still lack for [Mages]. Yes. And that is a void only filled by Amerys.”
The two men fell silent. Flos stared into his cup. Orthenon stared at him, then the window, which reflected the dark desert and city of Reim.
“It is not like her to be silent, Your Majesty. If she truly did turn traitor—”
Flos held up a hand.
“What is there to betray? I left her and my kingdom. Her wrath would be expected. Ah, but Orthenon—I’d expect her [Message] at least. I’m sure Wistram has something over her, but to think they could hold her this long? Even with two Archmages, I would still place my faith in her.”
“Perhaps there were three.”
“Perhaps. Wistram has not deigned to answer my challenge. And I must have Amerys. Orthenon, I am troubled by her absence. But I realize I cannot dwell on it. Germina is now our ally, or so I hope, and let that be enough to give other nations pause. If the Quarass…no. You will do as you see fit. Enough, let’s talk of something happier before you leave.”
Flos sat up and smiled at his old friend. Orthenon gave him a brief smile as well. Someone could mistake him for being emotionless or cold. But that was only because they had never seen Orthenon’s wrath or heard him laugh. Such events were rare, but Flos cherished each memory.
“As His Majesty wishes. Then what of the sword you held? How is the sword of the Tannousin smith?”
Flos raised an eyebrow.
“Fine? It was a sword of pure steel. I’ve held similar enchanted weapons before. But—then again, it is excellent work for a single day. I wager half the Dwarf [Smiths] I’ve ever met would be hard-pressed to pull off such a feat.”
“I agree. I had reservations upon seeing a female [Smith] from the Tannousin tribe. But they have brought Naq-Alrama steel. Do you intend them to forge you a personal sword?”
Flos waved his cup idly.
“Well, one would be nice to have. My old sword was enchanted quite wonderfully, while a Naq-Alrama sword is but a mage-killer. I was thinking of asking for a spear for you, Orthenon. And blades for Takhatres on top of a sword for myself. What do you think?”
The King of Destruction was pleased by the grin that lit up Orthenon’s face.
“I would be delighted.”
“I thought you might. Naq-Alrama steel is worth paying a fortune for, even if we get only a handful of weapons out of it. But if I can convince this Nawalishifra to stay, I would benefit from more weapons of that quality. It will be tricky, but Trey has a way with people, or so it seems.”
Orthenon frowned. Flos knew he didn’t quite like Trey as much as Teres and still regarded the twins as oddities, potentially dangerous ones.
“I confess that I do not know Trey as well as you do, my King. But you have an eye for people I lack. If his presence may persuade the Tannousin clan, by all means let him stay with them. He was part of the impetus of today’s bet.”
“Ah. You see? I must have a talk with him tonight. Send him here as you go, would you?”
Flos laughed hugely. This was what he enjoyed. The randomness and unpredictability of people. Gold was stagnant, and magic got old. But people? Each one was different, and those that interested him seldom failed to disappoint.
Orthenon pensively watched as Flos took a drink of his wine.
“In truth, I still wonder about her competence, Your Majesty. Nawalishifra looks too young to be a full-blooded [Blacksmith] by her tribe’s standards. She is obviously quite good, but I once heard that a [Blacksmith] had to be Level 40 to work Naq-Alrama steel.”
