His magic had never wanted anything more than to protect him. How had he missed that? This was true of all mages. A mana core was magic that was yours. It was mana that came to you because it was uniquely suited for you, no matter that it could hold different aspects. It had a temperament and a will, and it had chosen him.

He had never chosen it in turn. He'd locked it out, instead, first with anger and then with reluctance, and even now there was the burning ember he'd never been able to let go—that sense that his mana was at fault, somehow. That his core was to blame for his misery.

Leo let the thought pass through him, and then he let it go. The realization had occurred in the span of a heartbeat, and his magic was still attempting to close that door in his heart. A door he'd built himself because he couldn't accept his own magic.

He reached out and held that door open.

I'm sorry, Leo thought. And thank you. For protecting me.

He was probably anthropomorphizing his mana a little too much. None of the books he'd read on the subject said anything about apologizing to one's own mana. It seemed to work, though.

Leo felt the difference reverberating in his soul, and when he opened his eyes, they flickered with the green-gold of the Labyrinth.

Then he realized his friends were fighting. He blinked.

"About time!" Flia called. "Did you finally figure it out?"

"I... think so?" Leo felt somewhat light-headed. "I need Cale to check my core when he's back."

"You need to help us with these things!" Flia leapt back to avoid a crashing limb, and the little shadeling that was her familiar spun out of her shadow with a snarl, chomping furiously. The monster she was fighting screeched in pain and fell back.

But it wasn't the only one. Somehow, while Leo had been figuring out his magic, a small swarm of goblin-adjacent creatures had descended upon them; Syphus and Damien were fighting, too, trying to keep them off Leo while he figured out his magic. Syphus fired a sticky-looking spell to glue one of them to a wall, and Damien gestured, doing something to the area that made them all slow down.

"Right," Leo said, grimacing slightly as he tried to shake off his reverie. He hated swarms. [Labyrinthine Defense] worked best with a single opponent; the moment he had a swarm to go up against, he had to rely much more on barriers and improvised spatial manipulation...

Except the spell he was reaching for had vanished. Only then did Leo notice the message the Gift had waiting for him.

Core integration detected!

[Labyrinthine Defense] is no longer suited for your magic. It has evolved into [Minotaur's Domain].

[Minotaur's Domain] [Fifth Tier, Active (Unique)] [5000 Mana]

Conjure a domain based on your understanding of the Labyrinth. Up to ten individuals caught within the Minotaur's Domain will be subjected to its effects.

The Minotaur's Domain weaves intent and action into a multicursal labyrinth of choice and possibility. The difficulty of navigating this labyrinth is dependent on the number of allies and enemies caught within the effect.

This spell is capable of further evolution. The effects, tier, and mana cost of this spell may change with your understanding of the Labyrinth.

This spell is but a fraction of the Labyrinth.

At the heart of the Labyrinth, Asterion awaits.

Leo's gaze snapped almost involuntarily to the final line of the spell description; he felt a chill run up his spine, but banished it just as quickly. He had notes about this, but he'd have to worry about it later. He cast the spell, allowing himself, for once, to put his trust in his magic. Ten wasn't nearly enough to deal with the swarm, but with his friends as part of his domain...

Possibility bloomed in his mind, and he saw the path they needed to take.

Cale nodded slowly, taking all this in. "Right," he said slowly. "I'm still not sure how this explains why you have twenty crablins tied up and stacked on my bed. You couldn't just give them to Akkau?"
