“Here, Mazin. Try it like this,” she offered, demonstrating a correction to his defense.

“Ok,” he gasped, still recovering his breath, but he tried it, blocking the second punch well enough.

“Why don’t you two go and practice a little now?” Malika said, and she pulsed the whole area with Mantra of the Ancestors, causing a grinding crunch as Inaya’s nose reset under the power of her healing.

“Yes, Elder Malika,” they sang out, scampering off with far too much energy.

“And this time, don’t neglect your defenses,” she yelled after them.

Martial Instruction has reached level 31.

Malika sat back down beside the peach tree and closed her eyes once more, looking forward to enjoying her restored peace. If those kids were anything to go on, her Martial Instruction was on track to become her highest-leveled skill soon.

Kezda, she reflected, was a town transformed. When she had first visited, it had been a poor farming town, struggling on the border of poverty, scratching an existence out of the arid and dry rocks. Many of the townsfolk had been saddled with weak or worthless classes, and the few with proper combat classes had been overworked and often thrust into fights they were woefully ill-equipped to handle.

But now, the town bustled with new activity, thriving on the orchards of fruit trees Ali had brought with her domain and the Gate. Nearly every single person had reset their class at her shrine. It was now a town full of fighters, monks, and martial artists, most of whom had joined the guild in Myrin’s Keep for access to the guild quest board, and an influx of fresh coin must be the cause of the burgeoning luxuries she could see all around.

Houses sported fresh coats of paint, and the main road had even been paved with proper flagstones by hiring one of Thorel Moldur’s Dwarven stonemasons. Colorful pennants flew from houses and trees, but the biggest change, by far, was the wealth of uninhibited smiles upon most of their faces as they went about their daily activities.

But Malika’s reverie was immediately interrupted again.

“Malika, Calen found it. The Gate is up,” Ali said, her voice echoing in Malika’s mind from who knew where.

“On my way,” she said, springing to her feet and sprinting through the Gate back to Myrin’s Keep.

Another Rift. Time to earn my keep.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
