Erick Looked deep inside Cascadio, past the fractal mess, past countless ages, millions of years falling away before an eye could blink. There, at the center of the man, was the idea of a star that had been embodied many, many times, over and over, because his world had worshiped that star as their sun for a long time. They even had a ritual to crown the sun onto a man, in order to bring about a Bountiful Era.

One man so adorned finally accomplished the task, becoming emperor in his life and then enshrined as the God Of Bountiful Radiance, the Evergiving Sun. This, then, was the Truth of Cascadio’s beginnings.

His soul was stretched far further than any soul should ever be stretched, with almost everything that wasn’t him becoming the new him, like pouring resons into an already-filled person. Erick had almost done that to himself, once upon a time. His resons had fallen out of him like golden amber.

Cascadio’s resons had become him.

Erick called to that soul, at the center of it all, “Do you want to become a person again?”

… yes ...

The answer was quiet, not even really there at all, and then came a cacophony of questions from all the rest of Cascadio, from all his other reson-filled self. Cascadio was a god to trillions, and he did not want to lose that. He wanted to help people. He wanted to party forever, bringing bounty to all.

Erick couldn’t, and wouldn’t, shove a Mantle onto him. What he could do, though, was what he did.

Erick grasped the sunlight in the sky and wove it into threads along with the Mantle of the Sun taken from his own, where all the other nascent Mantles lay, creating a half-cape that was more than a little bare. He held out the threadbare Mantle to the entirety of Cascadio, but mostly to his inner self, saying, “You’ll have to fill in those holes on your own.”

Fractal Cascadio retreated.

Inner Cascadio reached out…

And then both of them paused.

And then they took the Mantle and put it on their own shoulders. It settled down, and it didn’t settle at all. It became one with Cascadio… And not at all. But it was there. Nothing grand happened, but Erick could already feel Inner Cascadio waking up. The man who had become a god was once again becoming a man, and it would not happen in any short amount of time.

Xoat saw it all and said, “That’ll take a while. Too long for me to see the result. Now for some Other last measures.” He turned and looked upon the dragon in their midst. “Melemizargo. You are not forgiven for the hatred you sowed within Nothanganathor. Don’t do that. This is your second chance. You don’t get a third chance.” In an offhanded way, he added, “Unless Erick wishes to give you a third chance. I certainly didn’t foresee Nothanganathor using my power to start all this mess. Maybe a part of me wanted to come back so I could say hello to everyone, but I really doubt that. I much prefer a smaller sort of life than this one. Nothing seems real, here.”

Fairy Moon spoke through her tears, “You don’t have to leave so soon.”

Gregarious gently took Fairy Moon’s hand, saying nothing and just enough at the same time.

Fairy Moon squeezed Gregarious’s hand like it was a lifeline.

Shadow sighed a little.

Xoat smiled, and said, “I want to return to life, Father. This… This is but a dream. I want to leave before the dream becomes a nightmare.”

Fairy Moon gave a tiny, tight nod, as she had no doubt done many times already.

They had said all the words they needed to say, long before today.

Xoat said to Erick, “You’re the reason that this is turning out so well for everyone. So don’t forget that. I think the hatred between Melemizargo and Nothanganathor really got to my greater self in a way that I never expected. Wizard Wars tend to do that, and that one grew way too large. I think, if Nothanganathor would have won, then I would have chosen anger and rage, instead of loving understanding. Who knows how long I would have raged, with no one able to hand off my life to. Whatever universe he created would have been destroyed in a thousand years by people coming to kill me and return me to the Dark… But he was a good emperor, so maybe not. He probably had plans for everything. He certainly would have been putting down rebellions all the time, though, and some Wizard would have eventually overthrown him after we got fed up with his shit.

“Forgiveness is easier on the soul, and the future.”

Erick said nothing. This was the time for him to listen, and that is what he did.

Xoat said to everyone, “Erick here is the reason that the Primal Lightning you saw was White instead of Red. Everyone who saw the White had a chance to live, on Veird. Everyone who saw the Red perished, drawn into Nothanganathor’s Sign of Power.”

Some people’s eyes whipped around to Erick, to Rozeta, then to Melemizargo and back to Erick. Rozeta simply breathed in, as a piece of Knowledge she had not had, firmly set into space. There were gasps.

Rozeta looked up, at no one and everyone, as she confirmed for herself, “Everyone saw the White Lightning. It did not kill the Painted Cosmology. It led people to Veird, as the epicenter of the Sundering storm. But the actual center of that lightning was Erick. As Xoat.”

Everyone looked to Erick with new reverence.

Erick felt the Mantle around his shoulders grow heavier with purpose.

Ah.

Erick’s primacy had been questionable before, hadn’t it?

Now he felt what true power was.

Xoat said, “Erick. A final gift to you, to do with what you will. I suspect Melemizargo has plans for this, since he knows what lies inside, but you need to retain the actual item.”

Xoat, wrapped in Black and the Darkest thing in this space, held out a hand and curled it over. Like a coin trick, he revealed Nothanganathor’s Sign of Power, all colorless sharp edges, endlessly collapsing and expanding with Infinity. Both Erick and Xoat had been trapped in it for several thousand years, but only 1400-ish of that were truly lucid for Erick, and even that was a stretch. Looking back on that time spent in there, trapped as he had been, it all felt like an [Onward].

Xoat handed the Sign of Power to Erick, who took it.

Erick did a coin trick of his own to bring it into himself. Instantly, he knew another whole reality.

He would get to that later.

Xoat intoned, “My Carving Knife. Our Erick Flatt.”

The world washed away a little bit at that utterance. Many fae vanished. Some gods did, too. No one died, but everyone who needed to evacuate, evacuated.

“I want you to know what you are doing, so you do what I need you to do.

“Look upon me, and know that I am too much. You have seen the one you call the Fractal Fairy, and you know their strength. I am holding back a lot right now. I don’t want to hold back at all. I like people. I love life. But I am too strong to be around the people I love, to experience the lives full of people I will love. So I parcel myself out so that I don’t break the world.

“I don’t want that power.

“No one should have that much power.

“And so, as you carve, know that you are creating something that can experience life as a real person, once again. This is what I want. This is who I want to be. A Wizard in a tower, playing with magic. A baker with a side-gig as a farmer. A shipwright. A slave. A master. A killer, and the killed. All parts of me separated fully, expanded out to forever, to join with My Darkness and carve out life from my life well lived.

“That is what you are doing.

“This is not a death.

“Not for me.

“You should cherish life, for it is the best thing out there.”

Xoat stopped speaking and there was a simple knife sticking out of his chest, that was not simple at all, for Erick held the hilt and the knife glowed gold and black and white and rainbow.

Reality flowed out of Xoat’s wound, into the world, channeled along Erick’s axis of Benevolence.

In an offhanded sort of way, Erick noticed that the other people in the party were evacuating, as the very land itself turned to black rainbows, as power flowed out from where Erick held the knife. In another offhanded sort of way, Erick felt Xoat’s soft hands upon his forearm, gripping the knife in his chest. His touch was gentle, and so was the flood, at first.

And then he gripped Erick and a universe flood poured out of him, from the wound in the front, and in his back.

The world washed away in Black rainbows.

And then it was just Erick, floating in the Dark, with Xoat coming apart in an aurora of light that became Everything. The Dark grabbed at the Light, and pulled it into More. It drank the Light, it drank up everything that was Xoat, and worlds appeared through the twists of Dark, in the cracks between tendrils and claws and hands and everything else.

And then Fairy Moon was there, floating beside Erick, holding Erick’s free hand, her other hand on his shoulder, as she watched her son come apart in the Dark.

Shadow appeared next, a hand on Erick’s other shoulder.

Gregarious touched Erick’s outstretched arm where his hand still gripped the dagger in Prince Xoat’s heart.

The other fae appeared, as though stepping out from behind Erick, to take part in the sacrifice.

In the Creation.

Xoat smiled as he closed his eyes once again, his strong grip turning softer, holding Erick’s hand to the dagger in his chest.

A tidal wave of light and power rushed outward, streaming into the Dark.

A long, long time ago, Xoat and the Dark had been separate entities. And then Xoat got cast into the Dark by his Sister, upon Xoat’s own design, and he became One with Darkness. This body here? This temporary existence as the Prince, as Xoat? It was not the real him anymore. He had ascended and become something more when he joined the Darkness all those eons ago, and this here was just an embodiment, like pulling the mind out of a person.

The Dark called to Xoat, and Xoat rejoined himself in a flood, becoming the headwaters of a new mana ocean.

Xoat’s voice was a soft thing in the rush of power, “Consider your Mantle a test run for when you want to make your own universe, and know that sacrifice isn’t the only path. After you walk that path, wherever it might lead, send me some of yourself.”

Erick said, “Might be a long, long time.”

“As it should be.”
