Amara rested her head against the grimy concrete wall, "We shall disagree then. I'll never trust him."

I waved a hand, "That's fine by me. Anyways, about the system, is there any way for Schema to inhibit my learning? Could it be like the opposite of forming a skill?"

"That...That is perhaps possible, but unlikely. Based on how Schema's operated, he isn't allowed to tamper with sentient personalities. Inhibiting one's learning is, in part, doing so."

The light flickered again before shutting off. I formed a quintessence bulb where the light was, the white glow similar to the fluorescent's shimmer. I peered at it while saying, "Then how is making people learn skills faster not the same?"

Amara hissed, "Schema does nothing of the sort. Schema's skill system operates mainly through the idea of guided learning. Much of one's learning experience is spent experimenting with worthless adaptations. One expends effort learning the useless, then they must toss out the useless once more. Schema eliminates that process, creating precise developments that result in the most efficient gain."

Amara lifted her head off the wall, "This indication is compounded by system augments when one steps closer to perfection. Its idea of perfection. This smooths the process utterly, ensuring a far faster learning speed because of it."

I blinked, "Wow. So it's a carefully crafted facade. In a way, at least."

"Yes. That's not far from the truth."

"Ok, so how would Schema even stop me from manifesting primordial mana in the first place then? It sounds like it wouldn't be allowed."

Amara tapped her teeth together before murmuring, "I don't know. From your description, it's as if it's vanquishing your mana before it fully forms."

I rested my chin on my knees, "So it's like...Anti-mana, or something."

"Or anti-energy."

My eyes widened as I straightened up, "Or an energy source that just destroys it entirely."

Amara scoffed, "Hm. That would work."

I raised a hand, "I know what it is. I think Schema's using entropy mana."

Amara leaned back into the wall, her hair slicing her surroundings. Her voice rose, "That's must be the source. It isn't allowed to dismantle your knowledge or abilities. Instead of that, it may be transmitting entropy in careful doses to quell your abilities. It's a loophole for its programming, but it may be used."

She snarled, "Schema is a clever wolf, I must say. He exhausts his prey's endurance instead of fighting to bite its throat. It may have convinced you that your talent was lacking, given time."

I sighed, "He almost did. The thing is, how are we going to stop entropy? I can't make the stuff anyway. Probably, at least. I need to experience it before I can fight it, assuming it's the thing stopping me."

Amara leaned forward, staring at the dusty floor, "Does Plazia know more about entropy than he let on?"

I wondered aloud, "Huh. I don't think so. Plazia would probably use it all the time if he could. He doesn't pull any punches or hide his trump cards."

Amara tapped her head against the wall, "Then who else would use entropy?"

I tapped the wall with a fist, "You know, based on its description, it sounds like Yawm's abilities or the Overseers' gauntlets. They can make things disappear without a trace sometimes. They say it's antimatter, but antimatter would blow everything up to my knowledge. Well, based on theoretical physics, and ugh, I'm definitely not an expert."

Amara sighed, "They may wield entropy within themselves and guide it via the technological augments...Perhaps you could stretch your relationship with the Overseer to test our hypothesis?"

I shook my head, "The last thing I want to do is screw that guy over. He's done right by me. There should be another way." A moment passed before I remembered the fight Plazia showed me, "Oh, I know an Overseer we could take out without any problems."

Amara mocked, "Ah, so you know of Overseers aside from our own? Did you find it out in the wild or perhaps somewhere in the containment units?"

I shook my head, standing up, "No, this Overseer was Hybridized and strong, but I think we can get its gear no problem. With Plazia's help, we should be able to keep it too by hiding it from Schema."

Amara laughed aloud, more a cackle than a chuckle. She mused, "You would kill a destroyer?"

I smiled down at Amara, "I'd do more than that. I may be able to pull it out of Elysium's clutches."

Amara took a moment before muttering, "You...You want to save it?"

My grin turned wicked,

"And I'll figure out what it knows after I do."
