Unfortunately, it had run into the worst possible matchup today.

It was smart to begin fleeing immediately, but there would be no escape for it.

Orodan tore through the air towards the group of Void Archons. They were good, very good. Natural speed casters whose six arms gave them an overwhelming amount of spellpower to field in any single moment. However, all that was worthless against someone whose elemental resistances were absurdly high, and whose ability to heal himself was beyond any damage they could do.

Like an inevitable apocalypse, he reached their ranks. The first four in arm’s reach died in a single swing, cleaved in one motion alone.

The Embodiment of the Hivemind’s mind and soul were on their way to the next target now, some hapless Void Archon who would be host to it. The one it had abandoned? Damaged, burnt out as though a God had run rampant in the body of a Chosen while using it to descend as Avatar.

However, the problem with it deciding to invade System space… was that it now became subject to the timeline. Something the greater cosmos didn’t necessarily have.

“C-chronomancy!” yelled a nearby orc captain whose formation was pushing forward to exploit the gap.

The enemy Embodier’s very being was nearly at its next destination when it suddenly froze. It was smart, having identified chronomancy as one of the possible paths to thwarting its escape into other hosts. Consequently, it had anchored itself by tethering multiple gigantic energy sources to its own pool. Not directly usable in combat, but for the purposes of any chronomantic tampering external reserves were so tightly braided that a time mage would have to drag them backwards too.

An impossible feat… for anyone besides Orodan Wainwright.

Its mind and soul began reverting backwards through time.

The reaction from the hivemind it controlled was immediate and very frantic.

Vision of Purity let him see through the buildings and debris to get a good view of how every single Void Archon fighting in this city suddenly rose like puppets on strings to converge on his position.

The moment he had arrived and displayed Eidolon of Violence, it began fleeing. The moment he began yanking it backwards through time, it called upon each and every member of the hive. But most piteously, there was no way for it to have known about him.

It had done everything correctly and reasonably.

But that mattered for little against him.

“Guard the Embodier! They’re trying to swarm him with spellfire! Shieldwall!” a heroic orcish Transcendent roared, blowing a powerful warhorn which had the orc heavy infantry roused to greater heights of power.

The Void Archons absolutely drowned him in all manner of spells. Yet it was to no avail as he simply weathered it. His left hand was outstretched towards the air, controlling the Time Reversal. His right, the sword arm, began lashing out and carving Void Archons apart like a farmer reaping a grown field.

They caught on soon enough, gaining a greater distance from him, but it was too late.

Orcs stepped in, using their preoccupation with killing Orodan to batter, kill and force the assaulting Void Archons back. In the now taken ground an entire unit of heavy infantry Transcendents formed around him, shields at the ready as they formed a circle.

“Embodier! Whatever sorcery you are working has them wetting the bed like whelps! Do not stop, we shall protect you!” the orcish captain declared, her warhorn blowing yet again.

It was intriguing. The horn itself was a weapon and it was apparent to him that the Void Archons’ very minds and souls were suffering some sort of harm with every bellow of the instrument.

The press of melee combat continued for a few seconds longer, though without Orodan getting involved lest he lose his grip. The Embodiment-level Void Archon whose spirit he had a grasp on was quite wily and attempting every trick under the sun to get free. A single lapse in concentration on his end and it would be away.

“Move.”

The word was calm, but it had the orcs moving quick. Transcendents didn’t get to where they were by being slow to react.

And not a moment too soon as the enemy Embodier’s being was dragged back in time and into the original host body it had first occupied when descending to survey Orodan’s entry.

Its mouth opened for a shriek, only for his left hand to enter and tear its tongue out while his sword buried itself to the hilt in its heart. A smart foe, but one very poorly suited to melee once something managed to reach it.

It tried one more time, a moment of desperation, to reach out and turn a nearby orc in order to jump to it… but this too failed as Orodan grasped it tight with Incipience of Infinity and redirected its possession attempt towards him.

A prospect that was doomed to one outcome.

#

“Grahh! I drink to your name, Orodan Wainwright! Come! Clash your skull against mine so we may exchange philosophies!”

The orcish captain, the one with the warhorn, then proceeded to empty her arm-sized drinking horn entirely… and meet his forehead, skull-to-skull, for a headbutt.

Which promptly resulted in her knocking herself out. Though, given the pleased grin on her face as she slumped to the floor, who knew if that was even a bad thing?

“Urahh! Captain’s under the table! Drink more, we can’t dishonor her!”

“More barrels of drink! We’re going to run out at this rate!”

Orodan was still relatively new to the entire ecosystem and culture of social norms surrounding Transcendents and beyond. But what he did know was that very few, if any, Transcendents of Alastaia or the Blackworth would be reveling in drink and song after a battle like this.

But that was just the orcish culture. Where even the most ancient Transcendents and the honored Embodiers beyond were expected to not just hone the body through training and battle, but also hone the mind and spirit through philosophy and celebration.

Indeed, he could see a few of the Transcendent-level orcs pondering deeply before each lift of their drinking horn, as though this too was a form of meditation for them.

Meditation before battle, the pursuit of perfection during it, introspection after it. He was a warrior himself, but wasn’t sure if he could match the sheer philosophical weight these people ascribed to battle and violence.

Still, after a battle like that and the following sweep Orodan had accompanied them on, it was understandable that everyone would be in a celebratory mood.

Grezka-Thal’s Unyielding Wallfighters. An odd name for a subordinate company of the overarching Azkar’s Reavers, but it made sense when looking at how those shield-wielding Transcendents had excelled at urban warfare and locking zones down.

For starters, and the entire point of the celebration… Orodan had slain a key Hivelord of the Void Archon collective. Because that was a thing.

The Fallen Void Archons he had seen in the past, a Gate Guardian of Alastaia, the Prophet; these were beings who had long ago been ripped from the greater cosmos and caught within the bounds of System space during its formation. However, as the Reject had once told him, there was life beyond the bounds of their little sanctuary for even he had originated from a world of cultivators beyond the System.

The Fallen Void Archons’ original counterparts then, were Void Archons. Not at all fallen, and very much part of a terrifying, linked psionic network. A hive. One whose overlords could simply think something and have entire armies of Void Archons carrying that out in perfect sync.

In killing the Embodiment-level Hivelord who had descended to deal with his arrival, he had disrupted a key part of their gestalt consciousness. According to the Reavers’ shamans, this had forced a Hivelord in charge of an entirely separate network to step in and attempt to salvage the situation. An overburdening which led to both networks doing rather poorly.

Naturally, Orodan and the orcs had been of one mind; best to strike while the iron was hot. Thus they had sallied out and reinforced other battlefields, liberated a world or two by crushing the strongest concentrations of Void Archons and caused a cascading failure in the Invaders’ assault.

Even while he had been busy running from one battle to the next, his victories had freed up large amounts of manpower and resources, which allowed for reinforcements to locally concentrate and start winning in other theatres within the Crimson Sink Galaxy.

It was astonishing how over the course of just three hours of fighting, dimensionally stepping and fighting again, the galactic map now looked dramatically less red. Though Orodan was no grand strategist, even he could see the importance of one critical victory starting a chain reaction on an otherwise closely matched front.

All-in-all, the Void Archons had actually cut their losses and retreated through the breach they entered through. Better to lose just one Embodier than risk losing another, or so Zaessythra had said. There were other fronts along the border those alien beings were present on, so they could afford to fail in the Crimson Sink.

Which of course meant the wartorn galaxy was now free to resume fighting among themselves, or in this case, provide more reinforcements to the border since there were still external foes to face. Which was why the celebration was so raucous.

“The sight of my people is new to you, time looper?”

It was the Embodiment-level orc who had greeted them upon their first arrival. A powerful mage and a leader among their kind.

“I have seen orcs before upon my homeworld. Goblins too,” he replied, noting the drinking hall was full of them and the occasional ogre. “Though not with this level of civilization behind them.”

“Ah, they had mentioned you are from a young world. It seems mundane soil can sprout mighty trees indeed,” she praised, and then her look turned a bit more serious. “You were meant to await approval from Glyphward Fortress before intervening anywhere. Barring that, approval from myself or Azkar. Yet, in spite of that you decided to just act of your own accord. You realize that could be taken as a diplomatic slight, yes?”

“I do.”

“And your response?”

“I’ll do it again in the next loop too,” he replied with a smile.

The orc stilled for a moment, and then barked out a laugh.

“You are a mad one, Orodan Wainwright. Azkar will like you,” she said, forcing a fresh drinking horn to his lips. “Drink. On the morrow Glyphward will convene and surely send word of their approval for your entry. Whether that ends with Talasgan and Kalmiron ending your life, I know not. But for as long as you are here, you are welcome.”

[New Skill → Poison Resistance 4 (Exquisite)]

Bitter, but with depth and a richness to it.

He felt Acid Resistance do some work too, but despite the new skill acquired… it was a rather pleasant-tasting drink with subtle undertones. Perhaps he could cook with it sometime?

“Look at him handle that grog! Get him more!”

“Oh, he’s on his way out… hey, let’s touch skulls, time looper!”

Orodan mostly tried to avoid headbutting the orcs lest they suffer actual injury at his hands. It was a cultural tradition of theirs, to share knowledge by impacting skull against skull.

He heartily approved of course, but felt that giving them fractured heads would be a bit discourteous.

Which led to him eventually departing the hall and making for the lodgings that had been prepared for their party. Talricto he left behind. The spider was having far too much fun regaling the orcs with stories of her nonsense, collecting trinkets and getting stupidly inebriated off the drink.

Which brought him back to where the group was before he had so suddenly departed.

Alagameth, Zaessythra and Almyra were waiting for him too.

“Good. As I expected, the festivities would bore you,” his paramour spoke. She looked as though she’d been fighting too. “Surprised? Do not be. We were hardly about to sit around drinking tea while you got work done. Apart from tactically guiding you from engagement to engagement, I was also forced to get my hands dirty.”

Though from the sound of it, she hadn’t minded that at all.

“Shame would have overcome me if I had not entered the fray while my allies fought,” Alagameth added. “Orodan Wainwright, I stand corrected. Things are not so bleak after all if you can make such a difference. Already some of my old friends in Glyphward have sent word that the Fortress is bustling with rumor and… and hope.”

Having four more Embodiment-level figures enter a sector to reinforce it does tend to help morale,” Almyra dryly remarked. “Importantly, it sends a signal that the central galaxies are not going to remain idle while the borders of System space are threatened.”

The border galaxies were used to dealing with Invaders and providing Transcendents and Embodiers for the defense of System space. The central galaxies on the other hand remained relatively untouched. Prior to the dire state of the current day, there was simply no need for forces to deploy from the center. The Administrators were not about to descend and order tithes and contribution. Not when things were fine and the borders were secure.

Orodan had upended all of that with both his time-loop changing stunts in past loops.

Now, with breaches both internal and external, and only two functional Administrators left to contribute to the defense, they did not even have the time to go galaxy-to-galaxy ordering the various factions in each to send forces outward.

