“We are naturally dour, proliferative and possessed of a martial inclination. Yet, we are not without sense, or honor,” the Embodier spoke. “Orodan Wainwright. Trusting in this orb of yours without any verification would be foolish. But to not extend any offer of cooperation at all after your efforts would be equally short-sighted. You and your fellows proposed using this orb of yours to transfer memories across your time loops? Very well. We shall allow you to use it upon Grezka-Thal who you elevated. Alongside a number of our shamans who do not have any critical information. The device and process must face scrutiny from our own makers and enchanters. Agreed?”

“I have no objections to this. Study the orb as you wish and implement as many safeguards as you prefer.”

It was meant as an offer of cooperation, not a trick or a set of shackles. Furthermore, the chance to hone his philosophy beside these orcs was valuable.

Orodan wasn't sure what happened past level 200 of a skill. Neither Almyra nor the orcs’ records spoke of what exactly lay beyond the peak of Embodiment. Almyra hypothesized Boundlessness, but that felt… incorrect to him. Boundless Ones were different to the limited beings of the System the same way a man was different in nature to a dragon. He had a suspicion of his own that stepping past level 200 in a skill had was related to Boundlessness perhaps… but not the answer itself.

Furthermore, he was an anomaly, a freak. It was theorized that the Warrior was at level 200 of a skill. The Administrator had to be. But Talasgan had been there for… millions of years? Billions?

In contrast, Orodan, in under a thousand years was sitting at level 193.

Almyra—ruthless as her approach of throwing an Embodier's Sacrifice had been—was not entirely wrong for doing so. She had correctly identified the critical fact.

That he grew fastest under extreme pressure.

Given all the battle which lay ahead of him, it was not unreasonable to think he would be reaching level 200 in Domain of Perfect Cleaning. And following that, in his other Celestial skills.

What would happen if he did what nobody else in System space had been known to do? What if he stepped past level 200?

The possibility of that caused in him a feeling he almost never felt.

The weight of worry.

He had nearly lost himself to Infinity and Cleanliness. And even if Violence was a core part of him, he had a bad feeling about allowing the others two outstrip it too far.

Which was why this was so important. He needed to solidify the foundations of his skills. In particular, he needed to elevate Eidolon of Violence into Transcendence and bring it closer in-line with the other two. For that, these orcs and their philosophy seemed prime material for helping him consolidate what he already had rather than just blindly moving forward in levels.

The conversation and discussion continued on for a few moments more. The topic turning towards plans of shared knowledge, skills and crafts, alongside what objectives could be hit early to establish goodwill in the next loop. Furthermore, Grezka-Thal and the designated individuals were brought in for mind transfer and that process wrapped up, with plenty of cautious and wary shamans and specialists carefully scrutinizing the process to ensure there was no foul play.

Eventually, those discussions came to a close, with Zaessythra and Almyra filing away the relevant information. Which left only one thing on the table, literally.

The sigils of Glyphward Fortress. Glimmering tokens which granted the bearer permission to travel to the central node of the System’s boundary. Or rather, some manner of identifier which prevented the defenses from all zooming in to murder someone on the approach.

“With that, I believe our talks are ended. Time looper. I would like to believe your words are true, for it is… rare that any of your kind ever cooperates with us orcs. But if they are… then may we clash skulls in your next loop,” the Embodier spoke. “If you wish for resupply before departure, our quartermasters have been instructed to help free of any charge.”

“The offer is appreciated, Uriza-Vakhal, but we have made arrangements for such things already. In fact, if it is not too discourteous, we would leave right now. Any later and I fear Orodan shall tear open a rift and sally outside the System’s borders by himself out of impatience,” Zaessythra diplomatically spoke.

The orcs chuckled in amusement and Orodan tried not to look too glum.

He wasn’t that bad. He would’ve at least looked at a map first.

His grumbling was put to the side as farewells were said, Grezka insisted he return and spar her again, and Uriza thanked him for helping push the Invader faction of Void Archons out from their galaxy.

Finally, it was Talricto, adorned in all manner of orcish finery, who opened a stable rift to the void, and without further ado, their party stepped through.

The Wisdom Hall of Azkar’s Gate suddenly turned to the pitch black canvas of the deep void.

They were still on the inner side of the border between System space and the greater cosmos, but they were so far from even the nearest border galaxy that it looked but a pinprick. And then he turned…

…and saw the border.

He had torn through this boundary to go back in once, but being in purely soul form had made his regular eyesight rather spotty. That and the sheer agony of cranking Incipience of Infinity to impossible heights while dead had robbed him of the chance to truly take it in.

It wasn’t colorful, otherwise it could be seen from the center of System space. But it certainly was massive.

A pitch black canvas which the naked eye could barely tell was any different to the void they were in. But the sheer scale of it, and the way it sealed off absolutely every approach, spatial, dimensional and otherwise… it was grand in a way Orodan had never seen across all his loops.

The tokens on them glowed, and subtle runes in the boundary lit up, revealing another gigantic structure. Or rather, a colossal fort the size of an entire star system simply emerged from the midnight veil of the boundary like a sea serpent rearing its head.

Even at the extreme distance they were, outside of the danger range of the boundary’s defenses, Orodan could still make out a single individual standing upon a forward jutting battlement of the fortress.

An Administrator.

And the spellcaster did not look happy in the slightest.

“Orodan Wainwright.”

The Mage’s voice somehow carried through the void at an entirely calm and conversational volume despite the distance.

“You have slain one of our number. And your companion carries two stolen items which belong to us,” he spoke, and then tapped his staff, causing fireballs the size of entire star systems to suddenly flare into existence beside him. Talricto shrank away at the sheer luminosity and Alagameth was prepared to flee. “I will say this once…”

“…hand over the two Administrators’ Mantles and come in peacefully.”

Orodan smiled.

“No.”
