“Signal or not, I doubt our little group of five will be enough. If the System is truly under such assault that the Administrators can barely be spared… then what difference will we make?” Zaessythra asked. “I am glad to sally out and strike at whatever threatens the boundaries, but it is clear that even the Warrior cannot turn this situation by himself. Orodan will still require many more loops before this can be turned.”

Almyra nodded.

“And that is certainly the main factor we will be relying upon. But do not undersell what he has done already. Even before arriving here, he slew Anomaly #3. I have perused the listings of known Invaders and their threat levels. That creature was among the top of that list. Freeing up the resources of an entire Galaxy is no small feat either.”

Which explained why Talasgan himself had come by to assist Orodan during the very first fight he had against it.

“Then let’s widen that further. Let me go out and strike some more targets in nearby border galaxies.”

“And be seen as a destabilizing force by their local powers? No,” Almyra denied. “Make no mistake Orodan, you fought within the bounds of the Crimson Sink without any reprisal because it had Invaders within, and because the local factions did not see you as a problem. Azkar’s Reavers are not the ruling factions of other border galaxies. Many of them are insular, slow to trust, and will see your sudden intrusion as an equivalent threat to the Invaders. We chose this galaxy as our arrival point for a reason. The orcs are rowdy and conflict-prone, but that also comes with them being more permissible of certain things.”

“Then we are to wait?”

“News from Glyphward should arrive tomorrow. Until that seal of approval is in our hands, we can only wait.”

Or train, in Orodan’s case. These orc philosophers and their unique methods of war had piqued his interest.

He would not slack. After all, while he and his fellow Embodiers and Talricto fought here, the Alastaian alliance was fighting back home, launching an invasion of Narictus.

#

Sword met axe.

Grezka-Thal was good. The orc captain’s axe hooked around Orodan’s sword, seeking to wrench him off the line of attack via the bind.

Of course, he had been fighting axe-wielding opponents even before the loops. That was an old trick, and a feint she had bit on.

A surge of soul energy flowed into his loyal militia sword, making it impossibly rigid and unyielding. Using it as a lever, he reversed the hook attempt and yanked her closer for a clinched grapple.

One didn’t get to the level of Transcendence as a melee combatant by having holes in their style. He was greatly holding back, but even then his flurry of blows in the clinch were ferocious.

She actually gave ground, disengaging and resetting her stance.

“A blade that is too rigid will snap. Will is the same. It must bend where necessary to allow survival.”

“Rigidity is not the concern, depth is. The thin blade must bend, the mountain need not. To bend is to compromise. Deepen your mind’s well of fortitude and compromise will no longer be a concern.”

She frowned, her philosophy computing his words.

They traded blows for a second pass, then a third, and finally he cut loose just slightly. Not in terms of power, but technique.

His previously measured and conventional approach switched to his typical style of raw aggression and sheer violence.

The orc held, for a while. Admirably too. But if warriors had to use wiles and finesse when facing monsters, then Orodan Wainwright was the monster among monsters. In a singular chain of attack, he hit multiple times. He took non-consequential blows and even used the knockback and force from them to add to his next attack.

Within a minute, even with speed and strength equalized, she hit the ground.

“Impressive,” he honestly noted. “But you do not use the horn at all.”

“You press like a berserker who even the worst of beasts would fear. But if you insist, it shall be my honor, Embodier,” she said, returning to her feet and drawing her warhorn.

The first ring of the horn cut through air and distance like they were nothing. There were no soundwaves traveling through the air which his Vision of Purity could see. Rather, it was as though the moment her lips supplied air to the implement, the sound was simply… there.

It struck Orodan’s mind and soul. He was not affected, but the power of that assault was undeniable.

“You are far surer of that than you are the axe.”

“I refuse to be a battle-drummer. My place among the band is at the front, axe and shield in hand.”

“As is mine. Yet this is also an important part of me,” Orodan spoke, withdrawing a broom from his dimensional ring. “Come. Ring that horn of battle once more. Let us see whose philosophy holds stronger.”

“Grah! I accept this challenge, time looper! May the War-Father and my band see that Grezka-Thal honors her tenets today!” she boomed. “Ancestors watch the ringing of this horn today. Heart and soul guide me and make the ring true.”

He held back. Of course he did. Erasing someone from existence with raw power and a skill level of 192 was not his aim.

But as the outbound force of Orodan’s Domain of Perfect Cleaning collided against the surging ring of this orc’s warhorn, he found himself confronted by questions. As though her philosophy was clashing against his.

Was Cleaning restoration? Or to seek a state of something more? Was it based upon his perception? Who gave him the right to bear the judge’s gavel on that perception?

He had answered these questions in the past. But now the question, angrily and stubbornly posed by the defiant ring of the warhorn was a simple one.

Did his perception of cleanliness have the right to swat aside the ideals of others?

Her horn was swift, sure and true. It refused to bow.

The pressure of his Domain of Perfect Cleaning was overwhelming, absolute. Even when held back it seemed inevitable.

Yet at the last moment, the orc’s horn turned not just outward… but inward. Drawing upon more from within.

Nobody else could have seen it, but Orodan, whose System and soul were not that which everyone else had, could see clearly how the glyphs were interacting with one another.

It was almost as though-

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 192 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 193]

His thoughts were cut off as a surge of raw power forced him to quickly adapt and shore up his own philosophy behind cleaning.

The collision caused an almighty wave of neutral force to emanate for hundreds of miles. Not destructive, but heavy, causing all souls caught in its wake to feel the sheer pressure of it. Not physically, but in their very souls.

And once the dust settled, it was apparent why as Orodan finally understood what had occurred within the orc’s soul.

Ridiculous.

“I do not believe in fate… but I seem to be running into Celestial skill bearers a little too often,” he calmly uttered.

It had to be something. Destiny, cosmic law, attraction between the Celestial. Whatever it was, it could no longer be called mere coincidence.

Old Man Hannegan. Fenton Penny. Parthus Edrosic. These were people who either had a Celestial skill or were on the path to attaining one.

And now, Orodan had met Grezka-Thal, whose warhorn rang with such surety in the clash against him that she had created a Celestial skill herself.

Yes, his eyes confirmed it. The glyphs within her soul were Celestial.

It was not the horn she carried. It was of good make, but ordinary.

But in her hands… it was anything but.

“What’s the name of that skill?” he asked.

“Summons of the Cosmic Captain…? Celestial? It cannot be…”

“It very much can,” Orodan corrected. “I suppose this is the point where I would start preparing for an assault from whichever power controls this galaxy. But… since that is you and your band of reavers, all there’s left to do is offer congratulations.”

“I am… Bearer of a Celestial Skill?”

He nodded in confirmation, giving her permission to actually believe it. This was no civilian of Alastaia, nor some Adept fledgling from a lowly world such as his own. Grezka-Thal was captain of her own company, a Transcendent-level warrior of Azkar’s Reavers, the largest faction of orcs and goblins within System space. She knew exactly what Celestial skills were and how extreme such an event was.

And so too, did everyone else of import within her faction.

Space warped and tore apart as the Embodiment-level orc mage from earlier stepped through.

“Grezka-Thal! What is the meaning of this?”

“Ancestor, a Celestial skill- while sparring our guest- I did not-”

“Quiet child. Ring that horn again,” the orc Embodier ordered.

The captain nodded, bringing the implement to her lips once more.

As expected, Vision of Purity allowed him to carefully note how the sound exploded without her even needing to empty her lungs. Furthermore, it did not emanate outwards, but simply came into being within the radius of her blast. It was not a wave which spread at the speed of sound, but a phenomenon which simply existed the moment her lips met the horn in sync with her will.

Frankly, just as he was capable of cleaning without needing a broom, he was absolutely certain that this orc needed no implement either.

“A Celestial… very good,” the Embodier spoke, a pleased and assessing look in her eyes. She then turned to Orodan. “A Celestial awakening another; how fortuitous the War-Father’s band is today. Orodan Wainwright, you have earned much favor among us today. We shall discuss terms and rewards with you soon. But for now…”

She sharply gestured to the air, and as though on command the fabric of space warped and a squad of orc Transcendents came forth. Heavy armor, shields and two-handed weaponry as well. A few mages among them too.

“Grezka-Thal is henceforth to be known as Grezka the Celestial. Guard her with your lives. This is not an asset the War-Father would see wasted,” the Embodier ordered. “As for you, Orodan Wainwright, come… I believe the messenger from Glyphward Fortress has delivered something pertinent to your situation.”

#

“Uriza-Vakhal, that this man is the time looper… I can believe. But to claim that he has brought tens of thousands into the loops and can now also bring in further via this… orb he carries? It defies common sense. I do not disbelieve… but I simply shine the light of suspicion upon his motives. He has done much for us, no reaver would dispute it. But should we involve ourselves in his business?”

The orc Embodier he had been speaking to remained silent as she listened to the counsel of one of her advisors.

“Your counsel is heard, Egrash-Thal, be seated,” the Embodier spoke, acknowledging his input. “It is true that these claims are extraordinary. But the past few days have been the start of an extraordinary time of chaos. What say my other Thals?”

“Vakhal. No other explanation fits as perfectly. In other times I would call it suspicious, but the rumors from Glyphward are consistent. The Master of Death has proclaimed the Prophet dead. The Warrior and the Mage fight with more… fatality.”

On the counsel went.

None of them were unreasonable or frothing at the mouth to make themselves look good. This was no elected council chamber of the Republic, but the Wisdom Hall of Azkar's Gate.

Orcs, Orodan was learning, were big on philosophy and reasonable debate. There were no frilly and pretentious nobles with more gold and inherited titles than sense. Each orc chosen to provide their input was a Thal, the orcish moniker for Transcendent. Behind them, their juniors who composed arguments, discussed among themselves in real time and helped refine their respective Thal's argument. Though, the Thals alone were allowed to speak.

Loud braying, cheering or jeering got one thrown out of the hall by force and their reputation as a philosopher called into question. It was a far cry from most political gatherings Orodan was used to and had him feeling like he'd stepped into a solemn library.

“Vakhal, to pose a more utilitarian viewpoint, the time looper has done nothing but benefit us thus far. This is not to argue we should become subservient, but when compared to the records of time loopers of the past who treated us as vermin to exterminate… the thought of an alliance is easier to stomach.”

For a few seconds, the presiding Embodier thought.

“We are not easy to live with, this is true. Our last great war against the central galaxies occurred due to the War-Father having too much drink and taking a halfling woman to bed alongside a witch. The creation and proliferation of goblins was the result. Though they are now loyal members of our band, their introduction to the cosmos did not go over well. As the Scourge can attest to.”

Almyra took no offense to being referred to in such a way. But Orodan had a spark light up in his head.

Was that where goblins had come from?

Was this War-Father… the reason for Zukelmux's existence?

The history of System space was wild and full of conflict it seemed. There was a greater context to these things, events, wars and incidents which had been ongoing before Orodan Wainwright had ever been born.

He was the last ditch effort of the Eldritch Boundless One and the Custodian to fix the rotting System from withing. But before that there had been other time loopers, other problems and many wars.

Who knew if Almyra had been chosen only for the purpose of dealing with the Eldritch, or whether the expansion of orckind across the cosmos had also been a factor in her anointment.

