“No. All of you, listen well if you have any shred of honor. The Scourge won her battles true. Whether through violence or tricks, we were bested and forced out of our footholds in the Vystaxium Galaxy and beyond. It would be dishonor upon the War-Father’s name if a passenger on his road were to feel your ire,” the Embodier spoke, addressing the room. “Lower your gazes. Swallow that anger and let it temper your inner arguments and weapons’ philosophies. We shall not debase ourselves over a loss fairly suffered. For the true warrior must swallow loss as well as they enjoy victory. Without one, there cannot be the other.”

The room quieted down at that chastisement. Orodan was… moved. It was a philosophy he could very much agree with himself.

Almyra gave a slight nod to convey her appreciation.

“But we must ask. If the Collective has dealt with all of its foes… then the wicked plague? Is it perhaps the Prophet’s departure which allows you to venture forth so?”

“Departure? From the ranks of the living perhaps.” Almyra spoke and then gestured towards Orodan. “This is Orodan Wainwright. He separated the Prophet’s head from its shoulders.”

And before the room could erupt in disbelief and chaos, she added one final line.

“And he is the time looper.”

#

The news hadn’t exactly been received quietly.

The room had gone into shocked silence, then disbelief, and following that… uproar.

Not the sort where they tried accosting them, but more along the lines that it needed to be verified and word sent to the War-Father, Azkar. Apparently, there had already been whispers floating around, originating from certain individuals of power who had ways of tracking an Administrator’s status.

Of course, nobody here, lower on the scale, was going to directly go to the source and question them about it. The Embodiers capable of verifying whether an Administrator lived or had died were all either on the front lines assisting with the defense of System boundaries, or sequestered away in the deep void between galaxies where they couldn’t be found.

Supposedly, on the front lines, an Embodier going by the moniker of the Master of Death had said something about the Prophet’s death. Of course, said Embodier was notoriously tight-lipped and eccentric, choosing only to talk whenever it pleased them. And whoever fought beside this Embodier had then taken that and run with in the form of rumors.

A bonfire which had then only been exacerbated by the complete lack of any sighting of the Prophet over the last few days. A bonfire Almyra had now decided to hurl an ocean of oil onto by revealing that Orodan had slain the zealot.

All said and done, they had been given very high-quality lodgings—not that it mattered to Orodan—and politely asked to remain a while as they verified things and worked on getting Glyphward Fortress to approve their arrival. Rushing to the front was apparently a good way to receive a full barrage of defenses capable of shredding even Embodiers down to their cells.

Understandable. After all, there was no way of knowing whether an arrival was friendly or hostile, and that went doubly so in this time of great uncertainty where there were plenty of breaches in the System’s boundary.

“You know, you never told me that you fought this mercenary band back in the day.”

In fact, during a prior loop he recalled visiting a grand library connected to Almyra’s time loop. It was a library that held records of every foe she’d defeated or lost to. Valuable knowledge. There she’d explained that the world the library was upon had originally been held by an orc horde.

He had not known it then, but it was most likely Azkar’s Reavers she had been referring to.

“It was in the records of the Vystaxium Galaxy’s history. Blame me not for your unwillingness to peruse them,” Almyra replied. “The orcs were… troublesome. Still are of course, but considerably less so after a series of wars where I was forced to systemically slaughter them to the last to get them out of our galaxy. The Collective had help of course, from Kharadun Voidfortress and his dwarves. A natural enmity among his people and Azkars’. But after much bloodshed we managed to throw the War-Father and his forces out. Other galaxies managed it too, and the Reavers’ warlike tendencies have turned more towards mercenary work ever since.”

Which, given the System’s current condition, meant there was plenty of mercenary work to go around.

“Hmm… and you doubt yourself as a time looper despite that. Foolish,” Orodan remarked. “I’ve killed foes here and there. Saving a galaxy from an invading orcish warband? I cannot say I have such a feat under my belt.”

“It was hardly something I did with the wave of a hand and a spell. My personal prowess in combat mattered less than my ability to coordinate the Collective’s war machine from the shadows and support Alstatyn where needed,” she replied. “You on the other hand, are a combat monster. Azkar-Ar-Vadam, otherwise known as Azkar the War-Father, a name they so strongly insist be said in their tongue that it has bypassed System translation. I have no doubts that you can best him, especially after you defeated the Voidfortress too. But know that he will likely try to challenge you. As is his way, the orcish way.”

The orcish way, which as Orodan had come to learn involved honor, philosophy and a continuous desire to sharpen their arguments and minds as much as they honed their bodies.

“Good. I shall look forward to it.”

“Of course you will. I would not have entered the belly of the beast and set foot upon Azkar’s gate world, the seat of his power, without having you here. Honor-bound as the orcs are… it is not something you leave to chance,” Almyra said.

Alagameth and Zaessythra were looking over a map of the System’s borders steadily. It was not one provided by Edrosic, but one given by their hosts.

Unlike Edrosic’s map, this one had live, up-to-date locations of not just breaches, but notable Invaders, nodes, defender clusters, galaxies and worlds which could be relied upon to locally hold and then send reinforcements to the front. More importantly, it also showed where the Invaders had made inroads.

“Chaotic,” Orodan remarked. “I wasn’t aware galaxies and worlds had obligations to send reinforcements to the border.”

“They did not. Millions of years I have lived, witnessing the System’s edges buckle, thrive and remain resilient in the face of whatever came. A time or two I have even seen Invaders make their way inside only to be dealt with swiftly by the Administrators or their allies. But to see the map in such a state now… it defies all notions of normality,” Alagameth spoke. “Never in all my years have the Administrators called for border galaxies to send reinforcements to the nodes. And this many Invaders inside System space? We have… we have ushered in the end of the System as we know it if we do not fix this.”

Almyra viewed the situation with her typical lens of pragmatism and logic, as did Zaessythra. Talricto was more occupied fiddling with some orcish decor she had ‘found’. But the spatial spider, Alagameth, sounded very shaken.

“Have heart,” Zaessythra said gently. “We shall strike at them and begin reversing this situation as soon as we are able.”

“But… how? I have held faith in Orodan Wainwright and his absurd abilities, and still do. But to see a state of being that I have known since I was but a hatchling change in such a way…” the spatial Embodier muttered. “I have served upon the border many a time in my younger years. When I was a Transcendent, and even after reaching Embodiment. But to see it like this… every moment we spend waiting for Glyphward to approve us is… Orodan?”

He had seen enough.

“I’ll be back. Maybe,” he spoke.

“Wait! You cannot just throw yourself into the front lines! It will create a diplomatic incident!” Almyra warned, her eyes widening as soul energy began emanating from him, being poured into Dimensionalism.

Zaessythra was calmer, as though having expected this.

“It will create waves,” she calmly stated, looking at the map. “And chaos of an unstructured sort.”

“Then structure it. Be the voice in my ear as you’ve been for so long already,” he replied calmly, not even bothered by the fact that Talricto had already clambered onto his shoulder. “Let me guess… you’re coming along to take whatever shiny things catch your eye?”

“You know me too well, disciple.”

He felt Zaessythra extend a tendril of… something, towards his mind. Being borne of the combination of two Boundless clashing at full power had given her some frightening power. Capable of causing sheer agony enough that even Orodan’s mind had nearly frayed. It also gave her a unique resistance to the two Invaders he’d fought, and who knew what other odd abilities.

He allowed her to connect. But in truth, he felt that she was the only being he’d met thus far that could genuinely force the issue if she truly wanted. Not even a Boundless had made him feel as wary of them as she did.

“There we are. Just like old times, hmm?”

“You mean back when you were a book I could toss around with impunity?”

She gave him the mental equivalent of a playful smack upon the head at that.

The first place on the map that he’d noted, and that Zaessythra also agreed with, was not horribly far from the world they were upon. It was an active battlefield where Azkar’s Reavers were fighting against a particular faction of Invaders.

[Dimensional Step 53 → Dimensionsal Step 54]

His sword and shield rasped out and into his hands as a Dimensional Step carried him through. And the very first thing he felt was the sensation that his step had hit a net. As though something had noticed his entry very clearly.

Now, Orodan was now subtle master of Dimensionalism with impressive finesse. Yes, he was a Grandmaster of the skill, but that did not make him the equal of someone whose Grandmastery came about through pure fine control. His path was that of raw power.

And it was about time something caught wind of him when he entered like a charging bull each time.

An absolute cavalcade of elemental death flew right for his face before he even stepped out onto the other side…only for the subtle dimensional manipulations of the spider atop his shoulders to prevent it.

Orodan was shifted to the right, just in time for his prior position to be utterly eviscerated by a volley of spellfire.

“You might not need to dodge, but I do. Pay attention fool,” Talricto complained as she slinked off his shoulder and vanished.

Personally, Orodan thought she was full of it. He had seen Talricto use dimensional shields to block far greater assaults.

Still, with her gone only one thing remained. The fight.

It was an orcish world, that much was evident given the banners, motifs and the love for iron-braced walls, furniture and construction. But what was very much out of place were the squads of Fallen Void Archons roaming the streets slinging spells at orc shieldwalls.

They must have been quite skilled at Dimensionalism, to read his step before it even occurred and respond with a preemptive strike.

Tall. Very much so, standing at fifteen feet. Lanky, but with six arms, an elongated white head and yellow eyes which nothing else in System space really had. Orodan had seen the Prophet in its true form, and he had fought Fallen Void Archons before. But there was something notably different about these.

The very tops of their heads shone with a sickly yellow light. And Vision of Purity told him that the light was some sort of… tether, linking all of them together. Psionic power.

Psionic power which now jumped into the body of a Void Archon at the front. Its yellow eyes glowing even brighter.

The eyes of the leading one, now far stronger than it had bee before, glowed. Immediately, as though in perfect sync, two additional squads of Transcendent-level Archons eerily snapped their attention towards him, completely ignoring the orcish formations they had been hammering.

It had been Transcendent before, but from the leading one, Orodan got the vague instinctive feeling that it was now an Embodiment-level foe.

And Orodan tried using Identify.

[Invader Name: Azriyal Exvathamar (Species: Void Archon)Title 1: Embodiment of the HivemindTitle 2: Speed Casting TranscendentTitle 3: Psionic TranscendentTitle 4: Elemental TranscendentTitle 5: Embodier Slayer]

Invader name? That was a new one. And a Void Archon, not fallen?

“Orodan. That’s one of their leaders. Kill it and you gut their invasion,” Zaessythra spoke telepathically.

Noted. This was the prime target then.

It gutturally spoke, a series of higher and then lower-pitched vibrations aimed right at him. Orodan realized embarrassingly late that it was likely trying to speak to him, but the System could not translate it at all.

Its next series of words however, a foul and wicked speech which made the very air turn heavy and brackish, he needed no translation for.

Something under his skin crawled, as though warning him the words were dangerous. So Orodan’s shield lashed, out Eidolon of Violence crumpling the words themselves into utter paste with a shield bash.

The air warped, shrieked and then stilled as the Eidolon of Violence smashed reality to steal the very words which had been carrying upon the air.

Now that… that got quite the reaction from it.

The yellow light within its eyes glowed…

…and then dimmed.

Its soul and consciousness leapt from its body, aiming for another extremely distant one.

Embodiment of the Hivemind. It made all too much sense now how this wicked thing was meant to fight. It could descend upon any Void Archon and become it, and just as easily leave to another body.

