After promising to do something about our camp’s location and placating the crowd with free alcohol (one thing Luo-Luo did right, though I shudder to think of the cost), I lead by example and follow through with my advice, starting with what’s probably the most problematic case. “Ulfsaar,” I call, knowing many will see and hear what I’m doing. “A word?” The knotted buttons of his snug-fit uniform strain as the hulking half-bear tries to hide his snarl, but he doesn’t try very hard. Swallowing my fear, I clap Ulfsaar on the shoulder and ask, “How do you feel about cattle?”

“They are delicious.”

I’d laugh, but I don’t think he’s joking. “Well, too bad because you can’t eat these cattle.” Ignoring how many of Ulfsaar’s former bandits are gathering close, I point at my herd of mixed cattle and say, “What do you see when you look at them?”

“Food.”

“...Beyond that.”

“No word games,” Ulfsaar snaps, his fists balled at his sides. “Speak plainly.”

Refusing to back down, I narrow my eyes and wait until the big guy reins in his temper, his expression regretful, yet also unrepentant. He’s sorry he spoke out, but believes he is right to be angry, except he doesn’t really understand why he’s angry. “You once told me you studied bears in order to seek your purpose.”

“A mistake,” he growls, now angry at his past self. “I am no beast.”

“True, but that doesn’t mean you can’t learn from their example.” Pointing at the herd again, I say, “Take another look and tell me what you see.”

“I see dumb, smelly animals chewing grass like the placid beasts they are.”

Mean. “Okay, now think back to the first time you saw the herd, a day’s west of Sinuji. They were chewing grass then too. Did you notice anything different about them?”

“...No.”

“Exactly.” Seeing his confusion, I continue, “Here, they are safe and sound, but out west, they were in constant danger, yet in both cases, they remained calm until a threat presented itself. Like you, they are strong and powerful, and like you, their temper is fierce to behold, but unlike them, you’ve forgotten how to let go of your anger.” Growing defensive, Ulfsaar growls, a hoarse, guttural sound which sets my bones to shaking, but I press on. “We spent a lot of time surrounded by danger, so you held onto that anger because you think the anger makes you strong, but it doesn’t. Anger is a crutch, one you’ve come to rely on too much, so it’s time to change.”

“What do you know, child?” Ulfsaar reaches out to grab me by the neck, but the ring of weapons stays his hand. His people, the warriors he brought from Sanshu, all stand ready to cut him down should he lose control, and leading them is his sweet wife. Her eyes filled with sorrow, Neera gazes at the man her husband has become and Ulfsaar deflates before her scrutiny.

Waving his people away, I continue speaking as if he didn’t just consider killing me in his rage. “I know that despite your prodigious strength, you are a man who loves peace. I know that given the choice, you would never again turn your weapon against a living foe and you pursue Martial Strength because you seek the Mother’s lessons within the Forms. I know that you followed me here out of a sense of obligation more than loyalty, because despite my objections, you still believe I am the Mother’s Chosen Son. I know you recently formed your Natal Palace, yet your strength has stagnated, and most importantly, I know why. Throw away the crutch, Ulfsaar. You don’t need it. You have people you can rely on if you need help to stand.” Patting his arm, I say the next part through Sending so only he hears it. “Release your anger and seek Balance my friend, else next time, I fear I won’t be enough to save you from the Father’s agents.”

It’s a risk even implying I can do what I do, but I trust him. I fed him a line about drugs and detox after I ripped the Spectres from his soul back in Sanshu, but he’s always suspected otherwise, which I assume is why he’s still following me. My gambit pays off as Ulfsaar’s eyes widen in surprise, and after a long, excruciating pause, he nods. That’s all I get, but it’s enough. “Good. Another thing. I’ve got a job for you and your crew.”

“Your command?” Ulfsaar asks, his voice quiet and eyes reverent, which isn’t the best, but it’ll have to do.

With a triumphant grin, I point at my herd a third time. “Make sure they don’t wander off and pick out the best candidates for combat training. You and your giants are too slow on your feet, so I’m thinking it’s time we gave you some personal transport. Try and wash them too if you can. They stink.” Plus, it’ll be good for Ulfsaar to look after a living, breathing creature instead of killing it, sorta like a therapy cow, and it saves me from having to hire too many cattle-hands.

That’s like three or four birds with one stone. Great value. Much savings.

After hammering out the details, I leave Ulfsaar to it and move on to my next trouble problem, this time an easier one. “Anyone seen Awdar?” I ask, speaking to no one in particular. “I’m gonna beat the shit out of him and burn his drugs. Wanna help?”

Chapter Meme
