“There are a few things you can change on your own, but not that.” Teressa said, “You need a Registrar to change how things are counted, but it costs a grand rad to change that, and no guard or governmental agency accepts non-standard Status reports. Letters are cleaner.”

Erick smirked, thinking it nicely convenient that Ecks and English were both a 26 letter language. Somewhere in the past months he had started to think and write in Ecks, and his boxes had switched to match, but the numbers of letters had stayed the same.

“As a known archmage, he doesn’t have to worry about that, so much,” Poi offered.

Teressa said, “You can switch how experience presents, though. A lot of high level people do that. That’s an accepted deviation in commonly accepted Status presentations.”

Kiri demanded, “Just tell me the letters already.”

Erick smiled, saying, “E-M-O-D-L.” He added, “I think I will go to Irogh and switch that up.”

Kiri waved him off as she looked into the distance, deep in thought.

Teressa said, “Spur is popular enough now that you’re going to have to make an appointment.”

“That’s not a problem,” Erick said. “I can wait.” He asked, “How do you switch how experience shows?”

Teressa said, “A small prayer to Rozeta, asking for the change.”

“Shhh!” Kiri said, flapping her arms, still thinking.

Erick smiled as he ate another piece of potato. Teressa was a really good cook. The beef drippings had basically fried the potatoes and carrots and onions into deliciousness, as everything simmered in spices, salt, and fats. Erick asked, “Which spices did you use for this, Teressa? It’s really good.”

“That rosemary you made, but primarily the spikepuff and bluebottle from Ratchet’s store, along with a lot of butter, salt, and that pepper you made, too. I like that pepper.”

“Pepper is pretty goo—”

Kiri shouted, “Two million, five hundred and twenty three thousand, six hundred and twenty FOUR! HA!” She said, “Got it!”

Erick chuckled. He brought up the final box for the last Grand Ruby Mimic. He said, “Here’s an easier one for you, Kiri. A-P-N.”

Kiri took a moment. She said, “1106. What was that?”

“The number of Grand Ruby Mimics.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide. “Holy gods and demons!” She whispered, “What level are you— Nope! Sorry. Forget I asked.”

For a brief moment, Poi looked ready to say some harsh words to Kiri, but he relaxed.

Erick said to Poi, “2,523,624 normal mimics. EMODL, if they’re asking. 1106 Grand Ruby Mimics. APN.”

Poi nodded. After another moment, he said, “They thank you for your time and effort. You will be paid the agreed upon price as soon as they are able to collect the remains off of the land.” He added, “They wish to know where your [Cascade Imaging] is, so that they might find more mimics.”

Ah. Yes. That.

“Tell them… I forgot.” Kooky planar archmages can be forgetful when it suits them, right? Erick added, “Besides, we didn’t need it, and a lot of the mimics have gone underground in the cities, or at least in the one I saw.”

Poi paused, listening to the air. He said, “They knew about the infestation underground, but they thank you for your concern. Mimics get down there, but they won’t survive, so they’re not a concern. When the final mimic is cleared and the land is retaken, they are asking for your [Exalted Storm Aura] to help heal the land back to green. Your payment should be ready at such a time, too.”

“I’ll think about it, but right now my answer is ‘yes’.”

Poi looked away. He turned back to the dinner table, saying, “That’s it.”

“Good.” Erick smiled, then gave a small, silent prayer to Rozeta, asking for a small change.

His Status popped up, unbidden, looking slightly different.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 76, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 7.64 e17 / 8.94 e17

Class: 6/6

Points: 30

HP

2100/2100

29,700 per day

MP

6900/6900

29,700 per day

Strength

20

+50

[70]

Vitality

20

+50

[70]

Willpower

65

+50

[115]

Focus

65

+50

[115]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

30 points was a lot of extra points. He’d figure out where to put them all later, but he’d probably keep his Stats mostly balanced as they were. He could certainly use more Willpower, though. More maximum mana was always good.

Erick asked, “So anything happen while I was busy killing mimics? Any news of Candlepoint?”
