Kiri smiled as she read the box, her eyes turning emerald green with an inner light. She dismissed the box, then turned to Erick, asking, “So… Uh. Can I…? Can I have a try?”

Erick was more than willing to let her, but, “My Domain doesn’t work that well, but there has to be more of a reason that they’re not killing these things.” Erick sent her a telepathic image of the location, and a brief idea of how to get there. “But if you want to try your hand with Sunny, go ahead.”

The Sunny on Kiri’s shoulders, all green and sparkling, blipped away in an emerald flash. Kiri was already viewing the world through her [Familiar]; Erick could tell by how she went still, and her eyes closed.

Erick transferred back to Ophiel.

He watched as Sunny spat fire at the second Grand Ruby Mimic, who was still tanking Ophiel’s Domain. That fire promptly rebounded against Sunny. And then Sunny was gone. Huh. Erick came back to himself. Kiri frowned as she summoned another Sunny.

“What was that?” Erick asked.

“That was my first attempt.” Kiri patted Sunny on the head, saying, “It was just a tier 4 fireball. It obviously wasn’t good enough against the mimic’s innate [Reflection]. The big ones must have a better version of the original ability.”

Kiri’s second attempt went much better.

Sunny popped holes in the mimic with a spell Kiri had never used before, that she called [Hermetic Bolts]. Those holes spilled out torrents of ruby blood. It didn’t seem to do much, but it did enough. In the end, she could damage them, but not enough to kill them; Erick got 75% Participation. Ophiel’s Domain actually did the deed.

Kiri went and got Teressa, since Poi was already asleep. Teressa smirked as she read a book, watching over the both of them in the sunroom, while Erick sent his Ophiel down the leading mimic edge, and Kiri tried to kill a Grand Ruby Mimic on her own.

She cheered, wonderfully, when she managed to actually get the kill. It was a nice sound.

Erick had already moved on, far beyond Kiri’s location.

Poi came downstairs an hour later, rubbing the sleep out of his eyes. He said, “Frontier is done. Did they have Puppet Minds, too?”

Erick checked his notifications; there had been a lot of notifications. After several minutes, he found them. “Yup. Puppet Master aaaaand—” He counted. He declared, “15 Puppet Minds!”

“… Fuck.” Poi muttered, “Fine.” He walked away as a dozen lines of intent began radiating from his head.

Erick would ask him about that tomorrow.

He returned to overseeing Ophiel’s journey across the Wasteland, which he now supplemented with the four Ophiel who had been at Frontier. Now, all ten Ophiel and their Saturn-like setups were flying across the Crystal Plague. Grand Ruby Mimics seemed to litter the front line. Erick killed most of them with a single [Electrolysis Bomb], for there was no time to wait for Kiri to kill however many she could. But Kiri did get one every half hour, or so, which was about as long as it took her to kill a single one, and then rest up for the next.

When an Ophiel was at full mana, Erick had them send out [Withering Slime]s across the land, directed north, south, and east. The semi-sentient thick air would search out and kill every monster it would come across, which was almost entirely mimics, in this case. Each wave would only last ten minutes, but that was more than enough time to kill the most prominent threats, and take care of a lot of the smaller, normal mimics.

It wasn’t long before the northern line of Ophiels hit the Greyhorn mountains, and the southern line of Ophiels hit the ocean, near the Wall.

Erick turned back, and continued, killing the second wave of mimics that sprung up after the first ones had died, along with more Grand Ruby Mimics that seemed to appear out of nowhere.

Kiri crashed, too tired to do any more, as the sun rose across Spur.

Erick continued to oversee Ophiel's flight across the Wasteland, popping Grand Ruby Mimics as needed.

This was not a job that would just take until midnight. Looking back on it, Erick realized that Sirocco was joking.

Teressa made breakfast. Erick ate with her and Poi, and then she went to bed, and Poi took over guard duty.

Erick continued to kill mimics the whole time. Ophiel was rather good about auto-piloting and alerting him to the appearance of the big red mimics. He took breaks here and there, but he made sure Ophiel was on the correct track; it was a constant battle to keep him on track, and make sure that the leading edge did not return to full strength.

By lunch, he had gone over the leading edge twice; it had only moved west a little in that time.

By dinner, Erick had gone over the leading edge a third time. Yet still, more mimics popped up.

By now, other people had begun to join Erick in killing the mimics. People in purple and gold robes flew high and rained fire, or cutting wind, or chilling frost. They hovered on platforms and crushed mimics under boulders, or rained acid, or built walls to prevent the advance.

More than once, he saw what had to be other archmages.

The first time Erick spied another potential archmage, they were dressed in black and gold, and flying upon a golden disk. At their command, the ground swelled under the frontlines of the mimics, for ten kilometers in every direction; the land became an ocean of stone. Mimics fell in to that ocean, and as waves ripped the surface, crushed mimic bodies moved the entire front line of mimics kilometers to the east.

That was pretty cool.

Erick waved at the stranger with Ophiel. They waved back.

The second meeting of the archmages occurred when the land in front of Ophiel was covered not in living mimics, but in dead mimics, and thick, orange mist. The black and gold caster of that spell was a small woman who hovered in a ball of orange light. She trailed clouds of that orange glow onto the ground below. Whatever the range was on that spell, it was further than the line of five Ophiel he had stretched out for 25 kilometers to the east and west; much further.

A slight problem occurred when their spells overlapped. When Erick got the kill on the mimics below, a [Cleanse] burst up through the thick air of his Domain and cut a ten-meter hole in the woman’s orange cloud.

She and Erick were headed in opposite directions, directly toward one another, so when her path intercepted his, she flew closer to Ophiel and pointed down, so that Erick could see what he was doing to her spell. He had already seen. What did she want him to do about it? Not kill the mimics? Whatever the case, she spoke loud and angry in a language Erick did not know and kept right on going, the way Erick had come, looking disgusted.

When Erick finally passed the orange cloud, the mimics that inhabited that poisoned land were only those who had come further from the east. That archmage’s spell had done a lot better job keeping the mimics dead than Erick’s had; his didn’t get the baby mimics, hers killed everything. But she was only one person, and though her magic certainly had range, her poison killed everything. Not even the little bit of green that the mimics had barreled past survived the archmage’s passage. The land was dead and brown and decayed.

Erick continued to kill the Grand Ruby Mimics when they came up, while his double line of Ophiels continued to [Domain of the Withering Slime] the land, in 25 kilometer long perpendicular chains. Ophiel continued to blast out ten-minute duration [Withering Slime]s out into the teeming mimics, when they had the mana.

By dinner time Erick noticed a change in the horde, and in the Wasteland.

People had constructed tall stone walls where there had been none before, where the land to the west was heavily damaged, but salvageable, and the land to the east was still full of mimics. There weren’t nearly as many of the monsters as before, and Erick had killed a great many of the large red ones, so maybe these smaller walls would hold?

When Erick passed by the same section of land, on his return trip, those smaller walls were larger, and a second set of walls had gone up further east. In a short while, Erick had found his Ophiel flying over a corridor of bare land, between two minor walls.

It wasn’t long before Iordex told him, through Poi, to move his Ophiels back toward the leading edge, which he, and everyone else working together, had pushed back 25 kilometers.

By midnight of the second day, they had pushed the horde back 50 kilometers, and people had layered minor walls in 25 kilometer wide corridors, from that new leading edge, all the way back to the Wall, now only 350 kilometers away. The former leading edge was empty of all mimics. They had broken the horde.

After a bit of organizing with Iordex, Erick switched to sending waves of [Withering Slime] forward, down those corridors. Those waves of semi-sentient dehydrating air seemed to stay in those corridors, rather well. With the decreased monster density in front of him, Ophiel flew a lot faster, too.

By morning of the third day, Erick was, perhaps, a little tired. He wasn’t running [Hunter’s Instincts], after all. Besides, the major danger seemed to be over. In his flights down the corridors, he had seen both the Stone Archmage and the Poisoner several more times, but only in the day. Erick waved to the Stone Mage in passing, and she waved back, as she gradually closed the leading corridor behind him, veritably picking up and moving a million tons of stone like she was simply moving her hand across a game board.

Erick did not directly see the Poisoner again, but he did see her orange cloud billow over the edge of the corridor next door, more than once.

By lunchtime, Erick had moved another corridor over, and flew over his first city.

The city was a ten kilometer wide ruin. Orange dust laid heavy over rotting wood and orange stone. Grand cathedrals and tall apartment buildings were half rubble, their insides strewn across wide streets and over smaller structures. Great rents in the wall of the city were crowded with five meter long gashes, laid deep in the stone. Nothing moved.

But Ophiel’s domain sucked into the ground, like a seeking amoeba, tunneling into the sewers crafted under the city to deal with both sewage, and the slimes that would have spawned in the city if the sewers didn’t exist. He couldn’t see what the Withering had found where he was, high above the ruins, but he didn’t need to.

Thick air billowed up and out from holes in the ground. Erick briefly came back to himself, and the casual, slight ticking of mimic death notifications, turned into a small torrent. A hundred mimics died in a minute, before the rain of blue boxes turned gentle again.

“It’s like cleaning a house with a toothbrush,” Erick complained, over dinner. “Obviously we’re making progress, but it seems never ending.”

Teressa had cooked a nice roast with a lot of potatoes and carrots and onions, exactly how Erick had showed her a month ago. She used some of the stranger spices in the meal, but they were good spices, whatever they were.

Kiri said, “That poisoner killed all the plants, so maybe the respawn will get better.”

Poi suddenly looked up from his plate. If a new line of intent had joined the jumble around his head, then Erick didn’t see it happen. Poi said, “Iordex is saying that the job is over.”

Erick set down his fork. Something like relief tickled at the back of his mind.

“Woo!” Kiri cheered, small yet happy.

Teressa smirked as she went to get up from her chair, saying, “I’ll crack open a keg.”

The moment of relief passed. Erick frowned. “But it’s not over yet?”

Teressa sat back down.

Erick continued, “There’s still at least 300 kilometers between the front lines and the Wall.”

“What’s the story, Poi?” Kiri asked.

Poi listened to the air. He said, “He’s not willing to tell me exactly what happened, but someone attacked their Stone Archmage, breaching through three walls in the process and leading a minor horde back into green lands. Others stopped the advance. Their Stone Archmage is recovering in an undisclosed location. Without her, the clean up has been set back weeks because she won’t be recovered for weeks.” Poi said, “So the job is done, for now. They’ll send out their other mages to go about the task slower, but more methodical.”

“Well... Okay. I guess.” Erick asked, “Then that’s that?”

“I guess,” Poi said.

Erick thought for a moment. He said, “Tell them I hope for her full recovery.” He narrowed his eyes, and asked, “Ask them, specifically, if she was soul-mutated, or whatever it is, into an angel.”

Poi listened to the air. “They say ‘thank you for the concern, but that is not the case’.”

“… Okay?” Erick asked, “So what happened?”

“They’re deflecting my questions with non-answers.”

“… Fine.”

Poi asked, “They would like to know your final count?”

Erick wondered if this problem of transparency would go away if he actually sided with the Wasteland.

Eh. He’d never do that.

If they didn’t want to tell him, then that was on them. So Erick switched to answering their question. He brought up the stream of blue notifications raining at the side of his vision, looking at the latest one.

You have slain Crystal Mimic EMODL!

95% participation

+ 20,693,935 exp

Ophiel was still working though, so it wasn’t two seconds later that Erick got another notification.

He asked, “Is there a way to stop it from listing kill counts alphabetically?”

Kiri excitedly said, “Oh! Oh! I can do this. Give me the letters.”

