Matt’s suspicion that the truly important people had already long since gone through this strange realm was only confirmed when he got a good look at it.

The corporation behind this group had gotten their value out of it and was happy enough to profit from the excess.

Floating around the obelisk, they touched it in unison.

Matt found his consciousness drawn into a dark spot with only a single area of light.

Unable and unwilling to resist, Matt looked at the three copies of the obelisk he had just been touching.

The first blazed like a star in the sky full of twenty nine Tiers of essence.

Matt was a little moved upon seeing his life's work represented like that.

What was less flattering were the other two pillars. The one representing his mana core was empty, with only the barest wisps of essence swirling around thanks to his efforts at fixing his mana concentration, while the third pillar was missing its orb entirely.

It was a little hurtful to see both displayed like that, but they accurately represented his cultivation.

Matt’s mana was entirely Talent-driven, and instead of letting him abuse that fact like in the shadow strange realm. Because he wasn't actually in his real body and his Talent wasn't related to his body, he was limited by the restriction in this strange realm. He could have risked choosing his nearly empty magical core but that seemed like a waste.

Knowing he couldn’t risk being a true burden to the team, he touched the shining core. The instant he did so, he vanished from the mental landscape.

A moment later, he found himself coming to consciousness standing under a baking sun that beat down on his bare shoulders relentlessly, despite being less than an hour from setting.

Looking around, Matt found himself standing with a group of others as a thin and sickly looking man yelled at them from the back of a wagon.

Inspecting himself, Matt found nothing wrong. He was in a facsimile of his own body, but his other cultivation cores were entirely gone as if they had never existed. That included his mana and spirit full of skills, but he shrugged that off.

In fact, even his physical core was ‘empty’. It wasn’t actually empty but his essence was locked away by a mist-like substance.

Matt spent some time playing with it, trying to learn something, but it felt like poking cotton with a stick. No matter what he did, his feedback was limited, making his efforts ultimately useless.

Paying attention to the leader's words, Matt quickly figured out the scenario they were in. The old man’s ‘rousing speech’ combined with the spotty memories implanted in Matt’s memory worked together seamlessly in that regard, but he didn’t push deeper and see if he could learn more.

The ‘world’ they inhabited was recovering from a disaster, and most of the human population centers had been decimated by the very sun which beat down on them as they listened.

Matt had some vague ideas about the disaster, but his new memories about the monsters were far from complete.

What he did care about was there though.

The monsters they would need to fight were formed from the sunlight and ferociously attacked any humans.

Straining his now much weaker ears, Matt could hear clashes from the wall and knew the city's defenders were fighting off rogue monsters even as they spoke. They would continue to do so until the sun fell below the horizon and the monsters vanished.

Matt knew some might want to explore this odd world but he simply didn’t have the time. He, along with everyone else with him, were being ‘volunteered’ for the expedition that was leaving the moment the gates opened.

As harsh as the fighting sounded, the city had long since been a safe haven, surrounded by the oasis’ ever fertile field.

As such, the city population boomed and something had to be done about the third and fourth children.

So every year, a new city was reclaimed via an expedition of the expendables.

Only one out of ten caravans made it to their new location and survived according to the information in his memories.

Matt assumed that was because they were entering in with a massive group whose average Tier was two Tiers over the strange realm’s, but so long as the monsters were killable, they would manage.

Once the old man stopped shouting, they were forced to join up with the rest of the caravan.

Seeing the rest of the crew mostly assembled, Matt felt slightly better, but that feeling only lasted until he realized there weren't any of the people who chose their bloodlines with them at all.

He got his answer a few minutes before the sun set as a group of children brought them additional food animals.

To anyone else, it would look like an odd selection, but Matt recognized the oddities as being members of the crew.

Best of all, among the cages of chickens were a pair of a fox and a golden hawk, representing Aster and Liz, shoved into a cage together.

Seeing they were temporarily safe, Matt simply nodded at them instead of immediately moving to a rescue.

Matt earned himself two sets of glares, but he winked at them as Allie chortled next to him.

“Oh, they are going to be so pissed at you.”

Matt didn’t let her side step responsibility. “I’m basically useless here. I’ve got my sword and little else. You can teleport them out. I can’t.”

Allie snorted. “I wish. No magic at all yet. I can feel my Talent is mostly working, but I don’t have access to my skills yet. What about you, mister I usually cheat in these things?”

Susanne’s arrival kicked off a storm among the normal members of the caravan, given her noble status.

Matt was nodding to her to say hello as he bickered with Allie when he felt an odd sensation emanating from her that caused the words to catch in his throat.

The first thing that caught his attention was that she wasn’t a volunteer like himself and most of the crew had been. Instead, her clothes were much nicer with hardened leather sandwiched between local top end fabrics.

She also had her sword.

It wasn’t a replica of her blade, but looked exactly like her actual manifestation, including its not quite corporal material.

Her words flat and tight, Susanne whispered so only they could hear, “Something isn’t right.”

Matt frowned as she took the words out of his mouth even as Allie nodded, looking at her torn and tattered robes to Susanne’s elegant set. “Yeah, clearly.”

He hadn't considered that angle, but rather that she seemed to have access to her Concept when Matt had his actual Domain blocked off, which seemed unusual.

Testing his own arsenal in case he overlooked something, Matt found only his Power seemed to work out of his Domain-based abilities, but its effects were scaled down to his current body, not letting him cheat as Allie often accused him off.

However, Susanne’s look silenced the amused Allie. Seeing that, Rah stopped trying to form a blade out of the loose sand and waited for her to finish explaining.

Allie, Zack, and Rah had chosen their magical abilities, not that Matt could blame them. But because of that difference, Matt didn’t like the tone in Susanne’s voice.

“The nobles of this area know something about the forest ahead. I wasn’t told what exactly, but I know there is something deadly there. I suspect it's a hint about a possible boss, but the locals are terrified of it.”

After a little more quick back and forth, they searched their memories, only to conclude the strange realm had given them an odd scenario and they should do their best to play it out.

Allie then looked at Susanne’s sword. “So how are you creating your manifestation? I can’t do shit with mine.”

Susanne shocked them all by saying, “I’m not.” The usually stoic swordswoman smiled and added, “I had the same thought when I activated it. Honestly it feels like my sword, which is nice.”

With a twist of her arm, she showed the four of them a silver bracelet embedded through her wrist. It looked well healed with zero scarring, nor was there any redness or swelling that would have indicated it was new.

“I’m not exactly sure what this is beyond an enchanted object, but it lets me create any weapon I can picture. All I know is that these weapons are the noble’s way to make a physical fighter as dangerous as a mage, and recreating them should be our number one priority.”

Seeing the world grow dark, they were shouted at to get ready to start moving.

Matt and a dozen of the others who had chosen their physical cores, and had the corresponding intimidating auras, barged into the kitchen wagon, where they calmly explained to the very angry chef that their friends weren’t dinner.

All three of the cooks looked at them like they were crazy, but Matt didn’t mind.

Instead, they got to work.

Not defending the caravan. In this world, when the sun went down it was a time of peace and the caravan was able to move along unbothered until the sun rose.

Instead, they started inspecting the few enchanted items they could find.

Everyone with enchanting experience figured out the logic behind the runes, but they found it impossible to actually enchant any items.

Sadly, without any magic of their own yet, they were left speculating until they got some amount of power.

As they started moving down the well-maintained road that led away from the city, it transformed from clean cobblestone to gravel and eventually to dirt and mud, before fading to the mere suggestion of a road.

Trekking alongside the wagons, Matt could feel small little pulses of energy appearing inside of him as they walked.

The power removed the fog over his cultivation and with every dozen or so steps, Matt felt a small fraction of his power return.

They had been hiking along for two hours when they suffered their first attack.

Mundane griffins, the size of small horses with the claws of eagles, swooped down at them from the clear sky, looking for an easy meal. The only sound to give away their ambush, was the whisper of the wind passing through their feathers.

If it wasn’t for Liz being a predator of the sky, and the griffin’s first target, the caravan might have suffered serious casualties on their first night in the sand dunes.

Grabbing one of the throwing spears, Matt joined the other professional guards.

Being one of the volunteers, he had no armor, not even the leathers the guards had, but Matt wasn’t too worried about the griffins, having seen them move.

Matt and team were mostly there to protect the mages.

As the flock descended, trying to grab their next meal, spells rose up to meet them.

Even if Matt had been a native of the strange realm, it would have become immediately obvious who was part of the Unsparing’s crew and who was an inhabitant of the strange realm. Upon seeing the natives trying to protect themselves he was grateful the seven of them had come in with so many competent people.

The Unsparing’s crew’s attacks were well-aimed and powerful, while the other volunteers' attacks were sloppy, with few even hitting. Those that did manage to land a hit did little in the way of damage, making them nearly useless.

The professional guards, however, were closer to the crew, in that their attacks landed and took care of the stranglers that made it through the spell rain without fail.

Without his spiritual perception, Matt couldn’t watch everything as he was used to, and so instead looked around the battlefield, trusting in Susanne to watch his head.

He used his time to scan around, worried about a possible ambush.

His worry was for naught, as after seeing their prey fought back, the griffins flew off with their numbers reduced.

There were, however, more small bursts of energy that entered Matt’s core.

Unlike the first energies, this energy was a light purple that tried to convert his genesis energy.

It failed.

It skittered along his core for a moment, like a worm trying to dig into steel, but after a few failed attempts, the power disrupted and revealed more of the fog. Seeing the kills weren’t useful but also weren’t going to waste, Matt was happy enough.

A moment later, Liz landed on his shoulder and started squawking happily.

Matt winced as her nails pierced his now mortal flesh and she unclenched slightly, bobbing down to show her apology.

Not that he was too hurt. Liz, on the other hand, was missing a few chunks of feathers and he made sure she was okay and didn’t need dedicated healing.

Thankfully, the crew had two dedicated healers and they had both chosen their magical cores, meaning they had some level of magical healing.

While he was doing that, one of the guards tried to get him to help with the collecting of the griffin bodies for dinner that evening, but a single glare had the man looking elsewhere for people to work for them.

Matt didn’t mind helping, but he was going to finish looking after Liz first.

Aster, thankfully, made it through the battle without any major issue thanks to her aurora abilities that her bloodline naturally gave her.

With the desert being so cold at night, her ice was surprisingly powerful, so long as there was moisture in the air for her to condense down. Her illusions were small thanks to her limited power, but her precision in applying that power ensured their fighters rarely fought equal engagements.

Without stopping for long, they continued their march until they circled up at a cleared rest spot, and the cooks got to work just a few hours before sunrise, when those not on guard would sleep.

Thankfully, being so close to the city, the protections were in place and they wouldn’t need the weaker portable defenses.

Tired from walking alongside the caravan all day, Matt took the opportunity to nap along with the rest of the volunteers.

They all knew what was coming in the next few hours.

As the sun rose, monsters rose with them.

