Being so close to the city, they were under siege in moments, with the guards and volunteers holding off the initial rush that attacked mindlessly.

Matt stood next to Susanne and a member of the crew at the prepared walls of the camping ground.

The physical cultivators were in the frontlines while the mages took their places on the wagons, letting them see the entire battlefield and attack without too much worry about hitting an ally.

The guard captain behind them was talking calmly, trying to keep the volunteers from spooking, but Matt tuned him out.

Instead, he inspected the blade he had been given in the dawn's radiance.

It was far better than he expected with his status. The blade drank in the first vestiges of sunlight like parched ground absorbed a spilled cup of water, empowering itself.

Matt felt the blade hum as miniscule lines on the blade lit up one by one.

His blade was nothing like Susanne’s enchanted item, but Matt wasn’t able to inspect it any longer.

The sun created creatures were upon them with a silent ferocity.

The creatures' bodies were odd mixtures of things familiar and strange, but that didn’t hamper them as they raced at the barrier.

Matt’s first opponent was a cactus with scorpion claws for ‘arms’, propelled along by a snake's tail that let it move through the sand easily.

Deflecting its first pincer attack, Matt used the half wall they were defending to arrest its movement.

Seeing an opening, Matt thrust his blade forward, aiming for the creature's tiny gem-like eye.

The creature of light tried to dodge, but Matt’s blade was already anticipating the move and he skewered it.

That almost cost Matt an arm as he barely dodged a pincer in time.

Pulling his blade free, Matt tried to cut the monster in half, but found his blade struggling to cut through the solidified light.

Bracing himself, Matt twisted with all of his might and tore his blade free, sending golden sparks showering over the attacking horde before being sucked into the caravan leader's bull horn in a stream along with the others.

His blade glowed with a dangerous amount of energy, but Matt found an essence-like power flowing into him.

It tried to convert his Genesis Energy again, but it failed and instead simply gave Matt a tiny portion of his cultivation back. Calculating, he found it was far less than a normal kill's worth of ‘essence’ but Matt didn’t mind.

They didn’t have to last long necessarily.

This world, this scenario, had figured out its own methods of survival.

Once the sun fully rose, their base would be safe as the defenses activated, but they would need to last that long.

Matt forced back a monkey with a rhino's head, earning himself a moment to breathe, allowing him to see as Susanne slaughtered the light creatures like she was their mortal enemy. Where his blade hardly affected them and it took considerable effort to kill a single monster, her special enchanted weapon cut through them easily.

Not that he minded her success; this was a cooperative strange realm, and with every monster she killed, the more energy the bull horn absorbed and the more of Matt’s cultivation base was unlocked.

Sadly, the feast only lasted three minutes as the sun fully revealed itself.

Once it fully rose, the monsters stopped forming.

They didn’t vanish, but the camping area they had paused in was equipped with its own defenses and with the sun hanging high, the monsters were unable to penetrate the barrier of light.

The duality of the morning and evening creating and destroying the monsters respectively was interesting, and Matt wanted to explore more.

He wasn’t sure what any of it meant, or if it meant anything at all, but Matt wanted to find out.

To that end, as most were gathered to stand a few hours on guard to ensure none of the light creatures attacked the barrier for too long, the Unsparing’s crew took their first opportunity to share the fragments of knowledge the strange realm had given them.

They actually learned two useful things.

One of the maintenance crew had memories of working for Susanne’s noble family, and knew for a fact that her bracelet had been crafted locally.

That told them it might be possible to recreate the more powerful blades, but it would take time to get that far, as they would need to learn the enchanting method.

Seeing that, all of the crafters, even the ones that chose their physical cores, were working together trying to brainstorm the answer and happily assisting with secondary tasks when the experiments started in earnest.

It didn’t take them long to figure out what they needed.

The same thing that powered everything in the strange realm: solidified sunlight.

Collecting it was possible and became their priority as the crew was rotated through guard shifts as everyone else slept.

The other thing they learned on that first day was that they could quit any time they reached a safe place to set down a city, with all of them getting the feeling that should they continue their challenge, they might be doing so with a new caravan.
