Cameron shrugged. “Not like I do with the rest of the guild staff, but from what I’ve picked up, this is a worry they always have, since they work on contract and funding might be cut at any time, so this isn’t anything new for them. And, frankly, their job security since working here is far better than anyone else's, as a dozen organizations will happily pick them up for even a chance at the guild’s secrets. This guild has started a bit of an aperology revolution, and these researchers are quite literally some of the best in the field, at least most experienced. They might be some of the best non-Talented ones in the Realm, given the abysmal state of the discipline which just makes them all the more hireable. Even the non-aperology researchers are fine, since they were good enough to get hired here, they can get a job in about thirty seconds if the guild goes under. They worry for the guild and the opportunities it brings them, but not for their livelihood.”

Matt asked a few more questions, but let Cameron get back to work before wandering around the guild headquarters, letting his spiritual perception spread and feed him information from the public goings on.

As Cameron said, things were generally good, and people were positive, but things weren't perfect either. He didn’t expect perfection, but he didn’t want to rest on his laurels either.

Circling back around to the head offices, Matt entered his office and grabbed Kees, where they discussed several strategies to combat the issues Cameron raised, and the ones management had noted themselves.

The only one that was viable in the short-term was putting a decades’ worth of everyone's wages in a publicly viewable account, to try and mitigate some of their fears, but that was still a massive step that came with numerous downsides, making it something to be considered but not implemented immediately.

Other ideas were bandied around but, like Cameron said, there was no easy answer that wouldn't destroy the heart of the guild’s ethos.

Almost like someone was playing a prank on Matt, he had to cut seven projects from final funding approval, as the guild, despite not ever needing to worry about running out of money, didn’t have unlimited money to spend all at once.

The earlier talks made each decision even harder, but Matt still pushed several interesting ideas down for another decade.

On a more positive note, he reviewed the impact reports about the skill creation method and was relieved to see that, as a whole, the Empire was reacting well and in line with the guilds predictions.

Already, a Tier 40 corporation had created a roughly Tier 14 variation of [Solar Flare] and put it up for sale. It was a good first sign that high-Tier corporations were putting in the work to develop them, as they clearly saw a long term market in the new skills.

The corporation in question was selling it for a king's ransom when adjusted for Tier, but Matt didn’t intervene and instead congratulated the group, using the opportunity to remind everyone his guild wasn’t about making products for the higher Tiers. He had inspected the skill structure, and it was functional, but only barely, being far worse than a moderately modified [Fireball], let alone a [Fireball] that had an upgrade orb used on it.

Still, it was the start of what he had expected when they released the information about the creatable skills, and he was sure other variations would follow as people become more familiar with the skills, and people naturally developed them.

The most interesting development was the skills appearing, or rather failing to appear, naturally in rifts.

[Physical Empowerment], [Lesser Fire Weapon], and [Fury of the Blade] all appeared as Tier 8 skill shards. Whatever mechanism the rifts used had adjusted them, ‘optimizing’ them and therefore removing or changing many of the structures that made them so easy to create by hand, but were redundant to the actual functioning of the skill. The problem was that, in doing so, it didn’t bring them, at least in power, on par with other Tier 8 skills, meaning they were still weak Tier 8 skills that had lost their main advantage of simplicity.

Ironically, after an early premium as researchers bought them up in bulk to study and use as inspiration for the created version, the price cratered to well below what most would expect for a Tier 8 skill. The optimizations, despite improving the skills’ power slightly, made them currently completely incompatible with all modification guides for the created version on top of competing with a free alternative. Personally, Matt expected the price would stabilize higher than it currently was, as said researchers started to show results and the modification field had more time to mature in general, but only time would tell if he was correct or if they would drop even further.

The same could not be said for [Solar Flare] or [Hand Shield] which, as far as anyone knew, had never appeared in a rift. Most theorized it was because they were too similar to [Fireball] and [Mana Shield] respectively, but they had no way to prove or disprove that hypothesis.

Overall the Empire was taking to the skills beautifully and Matt just took a few hours to revel in the unmitigated success. He even went as far as sending out a few guild wide messages and scheduling a week off as well as a party to celebrate.

While the Empire was reacting, they weren’t the only ones.

Each Great Power reacted differently, but all had embraced the skills after their internal audits and tests.

Officially, the Corporations didn’t react, but their companies were running with the methods in their own ways, which just meant that, similar to the Empire, the effects would take a while to truly show themselves, but they undoubtedly would.

The Guilds were surprisingly willing to dive into the method, and took to the five skills seemingly overnight. As a whole, they seemed to be more interested in the method behind their creation, and they had started looking at trying to make truly bespoke skills, similar to the Sects.

Matt wished them luck, but he doubted they would make significant progress. Skills weren't as simple as enchantments and runes, or they would have released more than five of them.

The Clans, however, took to [Lesser Fire Weapon] and [Physical Empowerment] with a fervor. Not just for their delvers, but for their low-Tier crafters as well, who were already testing how the skills could be used in smithing. His reports spoke of rumors of some of their clans working on modifying [Hand Shield] to merge multiple castings together, forming a wall of overlapping and amplified shields. He was deeply dubious of their veracity, even if he hoped they could manage to make the infuriating skill more applicable.

Similarly the Monster Collective, like the Empire’s bloodline populations, took to [Lesser Fire Weapon] and [Physical Empowerment] as low-Tier skills. The latter more so than even the former, as it could be used to enhance their often much larger and more powerful bodies further, giving them even more bang for their mana. The reports said they had even taken to using the water and earth variations of the former, after having gotten the structures from the guild’s public archives and created their training regimens for them.

The Federation almost seemed like they weren't going to react to the news at all but, just months ago, things started to change according to the Empire's spies. They had initially rolled the skills out in a small number of their warrior training facilities, but once the methods proved effective, they had stopped.

Reports were now hinting at the Federation looking to entirely rework their mortal populations. Those same reports spoke of six connected planets deep in Federation space destroying massive amounts of Tier 4 rifts and seeding them with aura rifts, as well as purging any information about natural Concepts. Those same planets had also rolled out modified skill creation methods en masse before severing all but one tether to the rest of the Federation leaving them an isolated cluster.

Matt tried using his Ascender status to get access to more of the spies' information, but the changes were new enough that that was all they had, so he instead requested to be kept looped into any further developments. The spies were also having to be careful, as the Federation had locked down those worlds and purged any spies they could find poking around them.

He had known he couldn’t stop others from abusing the information he spread with his guild and use it for ill, but eventually he would be in a position that he could extract payment for each infraction.

Still, it pained him to see it happening so quickly.

The Sects, however, were almost his biggest supporters, with the guild receiving tens of thousands of official ‘thank you’s from the most influential sects. Where the Federation seemed to be trying to keep things under wraps while embracing the skills, the Sects were making the five basic skills Matt had shared as widely available as possible. Though Matt was fairly sure that was only because they realized the futility in trying to keep it concealed with the information freely available in most of the other Great Powers.

At the same time, the Sects were still working on bespoke skills, as well as simplifying each sect’s unique skills into easier Tier 0 starting points. They were making fast progress according to the reports, though there was nothing confirmed in just five years and only rumors of rumors.

The Republic, however, was having a bit of a crisis, with a few of the upper echelon factions pushing to reduce the amount of low-Tier worlds that were allowed to become veil worlds, and instead wanting to turn them into low-Tier havens. The unsaid bit was them wanting to make awakening cheap enough so they could copy the Empire. Or rather, unsaid by the project's supporters, and widely shouted by the effort’s detractors.

Time would tell, but the contrast between them and the Federation due to their centralized and decentralized power structures was stark. Still, Matt had more hope for the Republic in the long run.

Once he finished that, he went and set himself up with Erwin, Aisha, and Theodore, who were working on trying to push aura rifts into the higher Tiers. Namely, the aura types that the other Ascenders had been pestering him about, with Max and Sien as top priority. Though, as his personal team and friends, they were able to and did go on tangents.

The guild had discovered steam, illusion, and precision aura, with his team being personally responsible for the last, when Theodore had a hunch that the three of them were able to follow to a success.

Matt, having been out of the loop for so long, was more relegated to an assistant position than he would have liked when he returned. But he didn’t truly mind, as he got caught up while at least getting his hands dirty, which was all he had really wanted.

Just a month into the work, he was interrupted by Allie popping into existence next to him. “What are you doing free? I figured they would have shoved you into quarantine for at least a decade after you returned.”

“No real way to stop Max if she did want to do anything according to them, so after a scan or ten and the normal three months, they let me go.”

“I actually hate you. Ugh, here.”

Vanishing, she appeared a moment later with Melinda in tow.

“I’ll check back in later. Byeeeee!”

Turning to face the still reacting healer, Matt lowered his perception to her Tier. “Hey Melinda.”

Growling, she cursed at Allie. Or where Allie had been. “Stop doing that!”

Turning back to Matt, her face softened into a ‘I want something’ smile. “You are just the person I wanted to see.” She leaned in for a quick hug. “Thanks again.”

Matt, bemused, raised an eyebrow. “You’re welcome?”

Grinning, she said, “Okay, step back for a moment. I’ve been looking over the information you sent me about the spiritual damage between our last raid and looking for other bases. It's very interesting. It was also the last bit of information I think I need to form my Intent, but now I need your help to push through to the finish. Or at least I think I do.”

Matt hadn’t expected that, and was genuinely happy for one of his oldest friends. “Congratulations! What do you need my help for though? I can’t really imagine how I can help, but I’m willing to do whatever I can.”

“It's a rift, Matt. It's always been the rifts, but I couldn’t really see it.”

“Really? Back when we were Tier 6? You were actually right in your Phrase and Image?”

Melinda stopped as she looked at him as if he was crazy. “What, no? I was super wrong back then. If I had known what an Anchor was and tried to make an Intent, I would be dead— dead— with how wrong I was. No, I was referring to the cycle. The way rifts breathe life into nothing while being fueled by death. My Concept’s Phrase is Death but my Intent’s Phrase is ‘Feeds Life’. ‘Death Feeds Life’ being the culmination. My Intent’s Image is more amorphous, but it’s a myriad of things growing from the miasma goop my Concept creates from the things it kills. Fungi, plants, and life itself can come from the death of the old.”

It was uncommon for someone to have a Domain that so obviously fed on the previous parts, but it wasn’t unheard of by any means. It also worked with her ideas of the cycle of life and death. Or, that was how he interpreted everything she had said.

“What, no meld then? I can attest that it's very useful. And the power boost is fantastic, as well as all of the ancillary effects that come from the half stage Domain.”

