Melinda gave him a weird look. “No, thank you. I’m not crazy like you. First, I don’t even want to know what would happen if you merge Life and Death directly like that. It’s not a road I want to go down. Seems necromantic at best, and I’d prefer to save people, not use their corpses. Second, have you seen the odds on successfully managing a meld? Frankly, I’m happy this way. My Concept, even as repugnant as it is, will hopefully be able to feed my Intent, Which I see as a positive. Instead of just being there, but opposite of what I actually want, which is a healing Domain, it can be useful. I knew this would be hard when I chose not to break my Concept, but I think this is the best outcome. Life from death, happiness from tragedy. Cycles, and all that stuff.”

Rubbing his hands together, Matt acquiesced to her choice. “Well, what can I do to help?”

Melinda’s excitement dimmed significantly, but she gestured around. “Rifts. Or at least I think I need them. My gut tells me they will lead to my Anchor, one way or another. Life and death, all stemming from my Domain.”

Waving Erwin, Aisha, and Theodore down, Matt explained what Melinda needed and, when they agreed to help, they started testing.

Melinda felt they needed a rift made entirely out of her Domain, but that was easier said than done.

The first thing they did was create a Tier 1 rift and let her kill a monster with her Concept.

Harvesting the goop, they analyzed it.

Having not seen it since he was a Tier 6, Matt didn’t expect much from it, but got a pleasant surprise as he inspected it.

Having dabbled in natural environmental cycles after his failed expansion of Titan’s Torch’s guild headquarters on Lilly, he knew a little about what made a good fertilizer, and the goop was pretty much picture perfect for a soil additive.

No, that wasn’t quite right. It was entirely possible something, the right something, could grow in the goop itself.

Matt figured that perfect something would make for a pretty good Anchor candidate.

Apparently, she and Allie had already visited a dozen botany stores and even Liz, who let Melinda try her bloodline tree, but none of them felt right for her Anchor.

There not being a mana type for Melinda’s Concept goop, Matt, Erwin, Aisha, and Theodore just started throwing stuff at the wall, looking for anything that created a themed rift.

Aisha was the first to have a mild success from mixing poison and mud mana in near equal measures.

It wasn’t exactly what Melinda wanted, as the monsters were more tentacle horror that resembled plants than actual plants, but it was a step in the right direction.

Theodore was a close second by using healing and decay mana to create a rift with unique slimes made out of some version of Melinda’s goop.

Erwin, on the other hand, was eating her goop and seeing if he could create anything with it as a base, seemingly not bothered by its source, its taste, or everyone else's expressions.

As a whole, the guild hadn’t even really started to dabble with anything higher than Level 3 mana types, but Matt had always been attracted to the artistic side of aperology more so than the scientific. Between that and the fact he was footing the bill for all of the testing, Matt had no issues in going straight to life and death mana as the sources for his rifts.

Level 3 mana types were incredibly complex.

Death mana, as an example, was made out of shadow mana as the primary, with a secondary mana type of decay mana. As if that wasn’t complicated enough, it also had supporting mana types of wood and blood that stabilized the whole structure like a physical molecule.

Except, none of those were level one mana types except shadow mana, meaning each mana type was made up of its own mana types, further complicating everything. Decay mana was level two and made out of shadow and earth, while wood was made out of earth, water, and light mana at level 3, and blood mana was also a level 3 mana type made out of water, healing and decay.

And all of that went into each and every unit of death mana, each ripe for pairing off and forming other mana types in the pressures of creating a rift, or just mixing badly with Melinda’s goop.

Not that life mana was any less complex, with it being made out of healing, wood and light mana.

Worse yet was that the two mana types were polar opposites, and didn’t typically play well together, even if popular media did exaggerate just how badly the two conflicted.

Trying to create a rift out of the two mana types was an exercise in frustration, but Matt felt it would ultimately lead to the most fitting possible Anchor for Melinda.

His initial creations were just the typical low level monster rifts, but after blazing through a few hundred attempts, Matt finally got something unique.

The monsters inside the rift were vine monsters of exuberant life surrounding a core of death at their heart.

A mouse the rift had created that dared to leave its cave was snapped up and shoved inside the vines, just to be quickly melted and its flesh converted into nutrients, which empowered the plant.

The moment Melinda saw them, she immediately identified them. “This feels like what I need.”

“Is your Anchor the rift monster?” Matt had to ask.

It wouldn’t be a first, but it was rare for anyone to have a monster as their Anchor. Most who went down that route had Created Anchors and just made a facsimile of the creature in question.

“No, but it feels like a step in the right direction.”

Stepping, Melinda crossed the Tier 1 rift to arrive before the boss in an instant.

It was a similarly large version of the monsters, but with a cartoonishly large fly trap-type head filled with razor sharp teeth.

Its vines couldn’t even approach them, but, for a Tier 1 team, it was both strong and fast enough to make it a fatal threat.

“Want me to kill it?” Matt asked.

Melinda just waved, and the boss disintegrated into goop.

“Let's start over with this as the base. My gut tells me this is right, but I need to see different monsters. Can you make a few hundred new rifts for me, please and thank you?”

Matt didn’t argue, and instead started making rifts out of the new goop.

If they didn’t need to push into the higher Tiers, it wouldn’t be too hard or even take too long to just make hundreds, if not thousands, of variations.
