Ali reacted instantly, adding her Arcane Bolts to Calen’s boosted magic arrows, and calling for Lightning Bolts and whatever else her minions could muster. It took about fifteen seconds of concentrated fire before the emerald-scaled wyvern faltered, falling out of the sky in an uncontrolled spiral, trailing smoke, blood, and spraying poison everywhere, to land with a crash in the middle of her shamans’ nova totems. With a blurring strike of its tail, the Piercer Scorpion decapitated the stricken creature in an instant.

Well, thanks for nothing, she thought sarcastically.

Ali’s attention ranged widely across the field. Her Kobold Acolyte’s holy magic began to fade as the Glimmer Shards circled, reforming their formation with their decimated numbers. Mato was holding his own against the thumping crash of the monstrous attacks while the combination of healing magics kept him from dying from the assault.

Calen’s arrows switched instantly to the second wyvern, and Ali followed his lead, sending her magic, along with that of her minions soaring into the air, while simultaneously watching the remnants of the shards for a good opportunity to strike. She struggled to split her awareness in so many different ways while still focusing well enough to keep track of what she needed to respond to, certain that somehow, she was missing something important.

Now!

Right as the Glimmer Shards resumed their formation, she instructed her Fire Mages to strike. But as soon as she did, one of her mages collapsed. Followed immediately after by her archer and a Bone Mage dropping to the ground. Without the powerful healing boost granted by the pillar of light, her Acolytes were simply unable to keep up with the relentless poison.

Stay alive just a little longer, she willed with all her heart.

“Fire!”

Two fireballs lofted into the air, and one more Bone Mage collapsed immediately after. Two massive detonations of flame and smoke exploded in the air and again glass shards rained down onto the battlefield. This time, only a single Glimmer Shard emerged from the smoke and fire, shooting down to bounce off the thick armor of the Piercer Scorpion.

Calen’s brilliant light faded, but it was enough. High in the air, the stricken wyvern circled lower and lower, struggling with a crippled wing before crash-landing heavily on the ground where Ali’s remaining shamans quickly destroyed it.

“Everyone on the scorpion,” Calen instructed.

“How’s your mana?” Ali asked of the Acolyte standing beside her.

“It is gone, Ancient Mistress,” she replied.

Retrieving two mana potions, Ali handed one to each of her Acolytes, ignoring the cost of the expensive consumables she was burning on her minions before fixing the remaining Glimmer Shard in her mind and burning it down with her Arcane Bolts.

From just beyond the range of the Piercer Scorpion’s deadly Bone Nova, they unleashed everything they had on the powerful elemental boss, sending bone chips and splinters flying in a continual rain of magic as the minutes stretched on longer and longer. Even with the mana potions, her Acolytes still ran low.

“I am out of mana, Ancient Mistress,” a Fire Mage announced.

“Stop healing him,” she instructed. Her Acolytes’ mana was at a premium, and she had to prioritize Mato. A Fire Mage without mana wasn’t worth healing, and she was out of potions. Within seconds the Kobold collapsed, leaving her with only two Acolytes, one Fire Mage, and one Storm Shaman.

“I’ll keep them alive,” Malika said, pausing briefly beside her. “Just concentrate on Mato, we need your magic to get through that bone armor.”

“Here,” Calen said, handing her several mana potions. Quickly Ali distributed them among her remaining minions, caring nothing for the sheer amount of money her summoned monsters were guzzling.

Finally, her shaman’s Lightning Bolt opened a crack large enough that it didn’t immediately close up, and she called for the Fireball. You’d better aim right, she thought. Her Fire Mage was almost out of mana, and they had no more potions. But the fireball flew true, blasting deep into the rent in the bone armor.

With a muffled thump, the fire magic detonated within the elemental, sending a spiderweb of cracks ripping through the outer carapace and gouts of flame spraying from the new gaps between its freshly sundered armor plates.

“I’m out of mana,” her mage declared and toppled over finally succumbing to the poison, subjecting Ali to the disturbing sensation of losing the Empowered Summoner boost to her intelligence attribute.

The Piercer Scorpion froze, standing completely still for several long seconds. A bolt of lightning crackled as Malika and Calen unloaded their attacks at the monster. Then its legs abruptly buckled and it crashed to the ground. A few moments later, Ali heard the sweet sound of her notification chime.

Ignoring the chime, Ali swooped toward her companions. Notifications could wait. “Everyone alright?” she called.

Malika faked a big yawn. “Simple.”
