The village seemed quieter than usual as I ran my morning laps. No one was in the fields, people weren’t clearing trees, and our budding wall was left unattended, just for today, that is. There were still a couple of hunters patrolling the edge of the village, but they were the only people I encountered on my run.

However, if you walked more than ten feet into the village, you would see that the quiet façade was only skin deep. The village was full of excitement because today was the last day of the year, and everyone was preparing for the end-of-year festival.

Usually, the end-of-year festival wasn't enough to warrant everybody taking the entire day off, but this year was particular. Not only had the village survived goblin attacks, magic beasts, and a change in leadership from Olebert to Scholl, but we were also celebrating Richard and Sandra’s union today. And almost the whole village was helping with the preparations.

That’s why I’m running alone right now. Mother was with Sarette making some last-minute adjustments to the couple's wedding tassels. Dad was out with the hunters looking for fresh meat for the festivities later. Richard was having his builders fasten together a tiny stage in front of Camden's house for the ceremony, while Sandra was being fawned over by most of the village's women.

I offered to help, but I was told I wasn’t needed. Which, not going to lie, I felt a little sad about.

But then again, I wasn’t good enough with sowing to help put the final touches on the tassel, there were plenty of people working on the stage, and I knew next to nothing about fashion.

The only thing I could’ve helped with was the hunting, and even then, I was told I was more of a ‘hit things over the head’ kind of girl rather than the silent hunter type.

So, with nothing important to do, I figured I’d stick to my morning routine and take a few laps around the village. And without Mother with me, I don’t need to hold back.

Pumping my arms, I finish my twenty-fifth lap around the village in ten minutes, my personal best. My stopping point put me directly in front of the village where the first part of the wall was being constructed.

I could get a good look at how far along everything was coming without getting in anybody’s way with nobody around. Although, of course, there wasn't much to see at the moment other than a lot of upturned dirt. But that was because all of the progress made was underground.

The day after Kervin left the village, Richard deemed he had enough material prepped to start laying the wall's foundation, and it was magical.

Mostly because Sandra used magic to dig the hole.

I’d seen her use magic to turn over the village’s fields, but it wasn’t exactly flashy like a fireball spell. The trench she dug for Richard, on the other hand, that was impressive. Sandra assured me her spell wasn’t always that over the top and that she was only able to do what she did because she incorporated her new Inject Mana skill into her spell. But it was still impressive.

Sandra was able to peel back earth like a chef peeled an onion. She couldn’t move all the dirt at once, so she did it in waves, basically turning the ground into a receding tide of dirt.

Sandra did in ten minutes what all of Richards's crew would’ve taken two days to accomplish, and that was with her limited mana pool.

I tried to copy her spell by observing how her mana functioned, but I sadly failed. She used Inject Mana to force her spell deep into the earth where it activated, but with her Quick Casting skill combined with her Chanting skill, I wasn’t able to follow along with what she was mumbling under her breath. I had tried to mimic Sandra's spell by manually manipulating my mana as her spell did, but that went over as well as I expected.

I'm not sure if my skills weren't high enough or if there was some fundamental difference between casting magic with incantations and physical manipulation. Of course, the latter helps the former, but that's all I knew.

Sandra and I love to bounce theories off of one another, but that's all we can do as we are. Plus, I can’t prod Sandra for too many answers because even though she hides it well, I can tell she’s disappointed by her lack of knowledge.

This is understandable because Sandra’s family paid good money for her to learn magic, and all she got in return was a half-ass lesson. If anything, the Downs’ paid more for the spells Sandra learned, with only a few tips and tricks thrown in for good measure, most of which she couldn’t share.

Part of me wants to pay off Sandra’s debt so she can teach me the spells that she’s learned; however, Sandra already feels like she owes me to the point she demanded we form a contract between us. I don’t think she’d agree to me paying off her debt, no matter my motives.

Sighing, I reach out and tap the stone wall sticking out of the ground. Since Kervin left the village, they’ve built about 200 feet of wall. At the moment, it only sticks a foot out of the ground, and anything in this forest could quickly get over it as it is now, but Richard claims from here on out, progress will be faster.

According to him, the villagers who volunteered to help were gaining their first skills. They were only tier 1 and 2 max, but everything speeds up the process bit by bit. I was told the foundation was the most challenging part to build, and though they were about to start building up rather than down, part of their crew was going to remain dedicated to digging and laying down more foundation to expand the wall around the village.

When completed, the wall will be two feet thick and should protect the village from most of the dangers of the forest. It might not protect against a strong magic beast, but it would certainly slow them down and give people time to react. And if magic beasts were that common, the village wouldn’t be here right now. This last year was truly an exception among exceptions.

Climbing onto the small wall, I test my footing by jumping in place. The stone under my feet doesn’t budge a millimeter, and then, when I’m positive the wall can take it, I launch myself into the air and activate Air Walk. I climb higher and higher until I can see the entirety of the village before me, and it’s a beautiful sight.

The morning sun was shining brightly down onto our little patch of heaven. There was no morning chill in the air, seeing how this was the last day of spring. It was getting hotter out, and things would only heat up tomorrow with summer officially starting, and I wasn't just talking about the weather.

Pacore told me he would settle his business with Olebert as soon as possible. Meaning I don’t know how much longer I have here.

It pained me to know that he could show up tomorrow, and I wouldn’t have a say in my leaving. My going protects the village, but I still have things I want to do before leaving. I want to hold my future niece or nephew before I go and make sure that they will grow up in a safe environment. As safe as they could be out here in the forest anyways.

The steadily growing wall below me helped with that second part, but I could still do more. I’m still designing my second set of armor, but in the meantime, I’m practicing by making various armor pieces for the village’s armory. My goal is to fill up Richard’s fancy building before Pacore comes to drag me off to Scholl.

And then there was the third thing I wanted to do.

It wasn’t as important as my first two goals, but it was still something I’ve been working towards over the last year, ever since the goblin extermination.

I wanted to see what was in the deeper reaches of the forest.

I want to see where the chameleon spiders came from with my own eyes, and I want to see what else was possibly living there.

My parents know I wanted to explore the depths of the Endless Forest, but I bet they thought I forgot about it with everything that’s been going on recently. I've naturally had to put exploring on the back burner between my training with Tabitha and everything else I've been working on. But now…

I flex my hands as I gaze off into the distance at the sea of trees beyond the edge of the village. I don’t want to have any more regrets than I need to when I leave the village, so starting tomorrow, I’ll start my preparations. I won’t mention my plans until I have more things squared away, but I will see what’s out there.

With that promise, I slow down my use of Air Walk and let myself drift back to the ground, where someone is waiting for me.

“I saw you in the sky,” Tabitha notes as my feet once again touch down on the hard stone.

“Yeah, I wanted to see the village,” I lightly reply.

Tabitha nods in understanding but honestly looks bored. She knows I won't agree to train with her today, but I still thought she would ask. The fact that we’re alone right now, and she wasn't begging to train with me, was honestly a little disconcerting.

“I take it you don’t have much to do today either?” I ask, trying to strike up a conversation.

“I’ve never been good with festivals,” Tabitha tells me without a hint of emotion. “I was required to attend them with my Master, but I never enjoyed them. Too many people looking for weaknesses to exploit.”

“Sounds fun,” I note with a lot of sarcasm, but then smile at Tabitha. “But you don’t have to worry about that here.”

Tabitha’s eyes widen just a bit, signaling she understands what I’m getting at. Tabitha is the strongest person in the village, and other than myself, no one here has any relationship with Scholl. No one was stupid enough to anger the woman in armor, let alone try anything. So if she wanted to relax for a change, by all rights, she could.

“Maybe you’re right,” Tabitha mumbles.

“If you think so, may I make a suggestion?”

"You may," Tabitha permits me to speak my mind.

“Take off your armor for a change, and leave your weapons in your room,” I tell her. “Enjoy the festival; I know I will. I've been waiting for this for years."

Tabitha lightly shivers at the mere mention of disarming herself, but I can see that she’s thinking it over. “I’ll… I’ll think about it,” Tabitha says, lacking her usual confident tone for a change. “I’m going to patrol the village’s perimeter again.”

“Alright, see you tonight. Don’t be late for my brother’s wedding ceremony.”

Tabitha pauses as she turns around to walk away. “I’ll be there.” That’s all she says before walking into the woods.

I chuckle and shake my head. To think I would openly ask her to attend my brother’s wedding. I can't help but feel we've become closer, even with all her torturous training. Even if I initially didn't like her because of her relationship to Pacore, I’d be blind if I didn’t see how much she’s putting into training me.

Then there’s what she’s done to help the village. People gossip about how they’ve seen her patrolling the edge of the forest now and again. And everyone knows she’s killed more than one Karhu that had wandered a bit too close to the village.

To me, it always felt like she spent all her time watching me, but that obviously wasn’t the case.

I may not completely understand her devotion to Pacore, but she personally has done enough for me and the village that I don’t despise her anymore. At least when she’s not tearing up my armor with her sword, that is.

“Well, now what do I do?” I ask out loud to no one.

Maybe I should check up on Master and make sure he’s coming to the festival. Not to bother him, certainly not. After all, it would be just like Master to not show up and blame it on not being invited. I was going to make sure Master would attend the celebrations, even if I had to drag him there myself.

**********

Most of my day was boring, and I spent most of it bugging Master until he promised to join in on the celebrations.

The festivities didn’t start until much later in the day, but with the sun dipping over the horizon, things were finally kicking off.

There was a sense of excitement in the air.

Everyone in the village watched as Camden made his up onto the newly built stage in front of his house.

I was standing with my family to the left of the stage, periodically smirking at my brother, who looked both the happiest he’s ever been as well as the most nervous. He wouldn’t take his eyes off Camden's front door, which was where Sandra was supposed to emerge from at the beginning of the ceremony.

“Friends! Thank you for coming!” Camden’s voice boomed over the crowd, earning him a few good-natured cheers in return.

“We’ll get to the end of year festivities in a moment, but we all know why we are here. Today my precious daughter is getting married, and it couldn’t be to anyone better.” Everyone erupts in applause.

Camden waves his hands, gesturing for people to quiet down when people don’t stop cheering. “Usually, I'd call up the bride's father to join me on stage, but seeing how I'm already here, that makes things easier.” Camden’s joke earned a few chuckles from the crowd. His joke is only funny because everyone knows what happens next. This was the part where the bride's father was supposed to give the groom a hard time.

“Richard,” Camden gestures at my brother. “Come up and state before me and everyone else what you have to offer my daughter."

“Good luck,” I whisper to Richard as I affectionally pat his back; I use just enough force to make him take his first step towards the stage.

Richard locks eyes with Camden, and I see a small battle of wills take place. To his credit, Brother doesn’t flinch under Camden’s gaze and steadily makes his way up on stage to stand in front of Sandra's father.

“Well?” Camden asks with an air of superiority.

