Looking down at my empty cup, I was suddenly conscious of my buzz, or lack thereof. The ale wasn't that strong, but I was essentially a lightweight, or at least I was in my past life I was. I chugged almost 20 ounces of ale, and I don't feel so much as a thing. “It isn’t strong enough for me to get drunk,” I say to myself more as stating a fact rather than asking for clarification from Master.

Master chuckles, “Not unless you plan on drinking everything the village has. Here, let me give you a proper first drink.” Master reaches to his side where his waterskin is. He uncorks the stopper and pours a deep amber liquid into my empty mug. "Care for some?" Master offers Tabitha after he pours me the equivalent of a double.

Tabitha hesitates for a moment, but she eventually takes the offered alcohol. She brings the container up to her nose and sniffs. “Hmmm, not as strong as Master’s,” she notes.

What the hell! Pacore drinks something more potent than this? The fumes wafting up from my tankard stung my eyes. The stuff I was about to drink was probably closer to jet fuel than it was to alcohol, and Pacore drinks something stronger!?

Master looked a little offended to hear his homebrew wasn’t up to Pacore’s standards, but his sour expression was quickly replaced with a happy smirk after Tabitha pours a generous amount of his alcohol into her tankard of ale.

Tabitha sipped her newly spiked drink, and I watched as her cheeks began to flush.

"What about you?" Master asks me, seeing me watch Tabitha try her drink without touching my own. "Scared?"

“Honestly, a little bit," I joke before finally trying the stuff Del always carries with him.

I sip my drink and immediately regret my decision. Unlike Tabitha’s, my drink wasn’t diluted in ale, so when the warm liquid touches my tong, it feels like it is melting. My brain told me to spit out whatever was in my mouth, but I fought against that impulse and forced down the amber poison.

My throat burned as it went down, and when the alcohol finally made its way to my stomach, it felt like it would burn a hole through it. I reeled back and started coughing. My vision went blurry for a second as I felt the world start tilt under my feet.

“Whoa there,” Master moves next to me and steadies me with a firm hand on my shoulder.

“That’s some kick,” I wheeze.

Master laughs, “You handled that better than I thought you would.”

“Thanks, but can we move this over to a bench or table. I’d rather nurse this sitting down.”

“Sure, we can do that.”

The three of us make our way over to a nearby vacant table, and once I’m sitting down, I take another sip of alcohol. “I know I’ve seen you drinking this forever, but what’s it made oof?" I ask.

Master chuckles at me for some reason. “I ferment Jack berries; they're a small berry in the woods around here, mildly poisonous. It’s hard to get them to keep their taste while still having them not lose their kick.”

“Tasstess goood for poison," I chirp, taking a larger sip. The longer I drink it, the better it tastes, and the easier it goes down.

My body feels warm, and my muscles untense for the first time in what feels like ages. Why is Tabitha smiling at me? We aren't sparring… are we?

“Mind if we join?” A voice behind me asks.

Craning my neck to the side, I see Frank and Lloyd. “Ssuurrre!" I shout, waving the two over to take a seat.

Both men recoil from my voice, but that’s because I’m awesome.

“I see Aaliyah is enjoying her first drink,” Llyod chuckles at me.

“Anndd what dooss that mean?!” I challenge, ready to stand up and throw fists.

“Whoa there,” Master forces me back to my seat before I could fully stand up. Why is he stopping me? I invited them to join us, and Llyod made fun of me.

“I shoullld kick hiss asss!”

“I’m sure you could, but I think he just meant you look happy.”

"Really?" I turn to Llyod, who has his hand over his mouth. Is he trying to hold back his laughter, or is he struggling to breathe? I finish off what was left in my cup as I ponder this.

“Care for more?” Master offers me his waterskin.

“Yesh, pwese,” I hold out my cup. I finally realize why Master enjoys drinking so much; I feel like I could take on the world. This was my first night being an adult again, and I was going to enjoy myself.

And judging by everyone smiling around me, I won’t be the only one.

“To the new year!” I shout and throw back another shot.

From then on, things got blurry. But who cares, I was having fun.
