Brother clears his throat and places his hand over his heart. “I Richard, do swear to you and everyone here that I will provide for Sandra to the best of my abilities and beyond. If she asks for it, I will build her a castle with my own two hands and treat her like the queen I know she is. To the end of my days, I will keep her safe and allow no harm to befall her. In the gods' names, I swear!"

“Wooo!" I cheer like many others in the crowd. His speech was a little over the top, with the whole build a castle thing, but when you consider it was Richard who came up with the idea to build a wall around the village, you would realize he might be able to do it. Though I doubt Master would agree to supply him with the stone if he tried.

“Mmm,” Camden gives Brother an approving nod. “I wouldn’t accept anything else. But let us see if your bride feels the same way. Sandra Downs, do you accept?” Camden turns towards his front door.

Slowly, the door swings open, revealing Sandra standing in the doorway wearing a beautiful blue dress. Unlike Earth, people don't wear white when they get married, at least not in Olebert where this ceremony originates. Her dress caught the last rays of the sunset and sparkled in the light. Sandra confidently walked out onto the stage, wearing the biggest smile I’d ever seen, even greater than Brother's if that was possible. “I accept. A thousand times, yes.”

I spot a tear in the corner of Camden’s eye. I’m not sure if it was because he was happy for his daughter or because he was essentially giving her away. Either way, he was fighting to hold back his tears.

Camden pauses to cough and wipe at his eyes, earning him a few heckles from the crowd.

“Too late to stop now!” One person shouts. “Don’t choke,” another yells over everybody else.

Camden straightens himself out and continues with the ceremony, ignoring the jokes at his expense. “Alright then, all we need is someone to act as a witness that isn't a part of the two families."

Earlier, I asked Mother about why the witness had to be someone not related to the bride and groom, and she told me it was to make sure the two families weren't forcing the couple together. Having an outside party witness the matrimony might not be a foolproof way to stop a forced marriage, but it helped somewhat.

“I’ll do it!” I hear Frank’s voice in the crowd, along with multiple other people volunteering.

“I already asked someone,” Camden barks, silencing everyone. “If our esteemed guest can join us up on stage.”

The crowd goes silent, and I hear someone sigh before people start parting and making way for the person to reach the stage. Whoever they are, they certainly don’t sound very enthusiastic.

From my position, I couldn’t see much of the person stepping forward; however, I could see one thing, their hair. It was blue, and that was all I needed to see to know who Camden asked to stand witness to Richard and Sandra's wedding. But though I recognized her, others didn't.

“Who’s that?”

“I don’t know.”

"Idiots, it's her."

Tabitha walked out of the crowd, and I immediately understood why some people didn't recognize her. She wasn’t wearing her armor like I suggested this morning. She still has her sword at her hip, so she didn’t take all my advice, but you could see that she was at least trying. You couldn’t fault people for not recognizing her right away, I see her almost every other day, and even I’ve never seen her without her armor on.

Tabitha rigidly makes her way on stage and stands next to Camden, wearing what had to be a military uniform. Her outfit wasn’t over the top, but it stood out compared to people’s everyday wear. And true to someone in a uniform, Tabitha didn’t let her posture slip, standing straight as an arrow. Her hand is resting on her sword's handle while her eyes constantly scanned the crowd.

She looks like she’s expecting a monster to pop out of nowhere. I didn't realize she would be this nervous without her armor on.

“If you can, please state your name?” Camden politely asks Tabitha as she joins him up on stage.

“Lady Tabitha Leres, Second captain under Scholl’s third battalion. Student of Pacore the Deathless.”

“She’s a noble!?” More than one person shouts. Many are surprised to hear Tabitha's full name and rank, and that includes me. I knew Tabitha was an important person, but a noble as well?

“Thank you, Lady Leres,” Camden bows in the way someone does when greeting a person of higher stature before turning back to a shocked crowd. "With such an important person witnessing my daughter’s wedding, I’m sure no one would question this ceremony’s authenticity. Families, please bring up the tassels.”

Camden doesn’t give us long to think about Tabitha’s title before he calls us on stage. While Mom, Dad, and I enter from the left, Sandra’s brothers and her mother climb on stage from the right. We then move next to the person we aren’t related to. So, we gather around Sandra while her family moves next to Brother. The act is supposed to symbolize our two families coming together.

“Do both families have their tassels?” Camden looks back and forth between Mother and his wife, clearly seeing the vibrant blue and gold tassels each holds.

“We do,” They both respond together, clearly happy to see their babies finally getting married.

“Present them, please.” Camden holds out his hands.

Mother and Sarette offer up an end of their tassels, and Camden continues the ceremony.

“With these,” he proclaims, grabbing the two tassels. “We bind the lives of Sandra Downs and Richard together.” Camden precedes to tie the two tassels together with a marriage knot.

“Take each other’s hands,” he instructs the couple.

Gingerly, Brother reaches to his side and gently takes Sandra’s hand into his own, all while sporting the most love-struck smile I’ve ever seen. Sandra has a similar smile, making the two look lost in their own world as Sandra’s father continues the ceremony.

"With these tassels, we bind not only this couple but their families as well."

I can't help but chuckle to myself. Our families have been inseparable for years, making the ceremony just the icing on top of the proverbial cake.

The village cheers as Camden wraps the tassels around Richard and Sandra’s hands, binding them together both physically and metaphorically.

“Let the gods rejoice and bless this union!” Camden shouts over the growing excitement of the crowd. “I now pronounce you both Sandra and Richard Downs!”

Because our family didn’t have a last name, Richard automatically adopted Sandra’s now that they were officially married.

"Congratulations, you two," Camden lets his MC persona slip as he leans forward and hugs the two of them.

“I’m so happy for you!” Mom gushes as she affectionately clings to Dad’s side.

As soon as Camden parts from the newlywed couple, they kiss to the joy of the crowd.

And just like that, Sandra and Brother’s marriage ceremony was complete. For a relatively short spectacle, it was pretty beautiful. Personally, I think simplicity is best. Mom said the nobles and the rich like to turn their weddings into multi-day affairs, but those are a minority

and sound like a pain to attend to.

It was more practical to tack a marriage on to any event already scheduled in a village-like ours. There could even be multiple weddings cerebrated at once, but that was rare in a village of our size. Moreover, it made sense considering people will drink the same for one marriage or five.

“Time to drink!” A man in the crowd shouted, with others quickly joining in, ready to get the party started.

“Not quite yet,” Camden cuts off the cheering crowd before they can move to crack open the kegs of ale. Camden shuffles around Richard and Sandra, who were still tightly embracing one another, taking center-stage. “We’ll get to the drinking in a moment. But first, we still have the end of year ceremony.”

Many in the audience groan but stop when Camden gives the crowd a somber look. “We mustn’t forget the people we lost this year. Those who died of old age and especially those who gave their lives to defend the village.”

Everyone in the crowd goes silent as Camden starts reciting names from memory. Just as he said, the first two were people who died of old age; that was where Camden would usually have to stop, but next came the names of those who died during the goblin attack.

I didn’t know most of them, but their deaths still weighed on my heart. Back then, if I was as strong as I am now, I probably could’ve saved them.

“May we all pray that they found peace and comfort in Goddess Ilia’s gentle embrace,” Camden prays aloud, and everyone repeats what he says verbatim.

I mumble the words and lower my head in prayer like everybody else, but it isn't to show respect to the gods. My prayer is solely for the souls of the dearly departed in hopes that they safely made their way into the circle of reincarnation. There was no reason they should be subjected to meeting with those crass beings everybody calls gods. A peaceful afterlife is what they truly deserve.

Everyone shares in the moment of silence.

Camden waits a full five minutes before breaking the silence over the crowd. “We will not forget those we lost, but we will not overlook the good either. This last year was the most trying our village has ever seen, and we came out stronger from it. My daughter and her husband returned home and brought with them waves of change. Our fields are bigger than they ever have been before, and many have leveled. You could argue our village was safer than ever, and with the wall, many of you are helping to build, Spotted Creek Village will be even safer in the years to come.”

“New life is coming to our village,” Camden glances at Sandra with a smile on his face. “And we have a new adult joining us as well.”

There is confusion amongst the crowd, but that quickly fades when Camden gestures for me to stand next to him. “Some of you might have forgotten, with how much she has helped the village, but Aaliyah turned fifteen this year. She is the pride of our village, and we all must celebrate this momentous occasion.”

Camden gestures to a few people standing next to the kegs; in turn, they begin to crack open the alcohol and start pouring tankards of ale. People then start passing out the cups, but no one drinks yet.

One woman brings multiple tankards up onto the stage and hands them to us, making sure to hand one filled with juice to Sandra.

Camden waits for everyone present to have a drink before holding his up above his head. “This is for the dead, and for the living; to our past, and to our future. May the next year be better than the last!” Camden throws back his head and starts chugging his ale, and everyone does the same.

Well, not everyone chugs their drink, some sip their alcohol, but the point is everyone drinks at the same time. So I tentatively bring my tankard up to my mouth and give it a sniff before I take a swig.

I wasn’t that much of a drinker in my past life, and it had been so long since I've tasted alcohol that I couldn't remember what beer tasted like. So, it indeed was like I was drinking for the first time. And…

It wasn’t that good.

The ale was warm and tasted like liquid bread. I didn’t know what to expect from medieval alcohol, but it wasn’t this.

I didn’t want to compare the ale to modern-day beer because it wasn’t, but I had to guess they both served the same purpose. You didn’t drink beer because it tasted good; you drank it because you wanted to get plastered. So, despite the ale’s lack-luster taste, I copied Camden and threw my head back, and chugged my beverage down to the last drop.

Tonight, the village was going to party, and I'd been sober for fifteen years. I deserved a drink.

Tonight, I was going to get drunk, no two ways about it.

“Let the party begin!” Camden happily proclaimed to the joy of the village.

The official ceremony was complete, and now everyone was free to celebrate however they saw fit. Fires were started as people started to barbecue skewers while others crowded around the kegs. People broke off into groups and sat at benches and tables people had set up during the day.

Many people came up to personally congratulate Sandra and Richard on their wedding, while others congratulated me on turning fifteen, even though technically my birthday was over half a year ago. Mom and Dad stood next to Camden and Sarette, content to watch their kids' first taste at marriage.

Everyone focused on the married couple, and only I and a few others noticed Tabitha slink off to the side. A brave few tried to approach her to wish her a happy festival, but all turned away when she dismissed them with her eyes. Tabitha didn’t exactly have an aura that said ‘come talk to me,' and I'd already had enough attention for the day, so I decided to join her.

When I walked up to her, I noticed that she was frowning down at the cup in her hands; she had barely drunk any of her ale. "Not up to your standards?" I chuckle.

“Did you like it?” She asks, raising a questioning eyebrow.

“I don’t have to like it to get drunk off of it.”

Tabitha snorts, “Good luck with that.”

“What do you mean?”

"She means at your level; this stuff might as well be bad tasting water.”

I turn to see Master walking over to us. I had seen him in the crowd during the ceremony, but I wasn’t sure if he was going to stick around after the main part was over. But, wait, what did he say about my level?

