“It’s quite possible he’s a truly neutral god,” Riivo said, “But because people will always produce Good and Evil worship, that Evil had to go somewhere so it went into him. Doesn’t change anything, but it’s good to know what one is dealing with when one has to do dealings.”

Erick was reminded… “So killing all the Clergy was never the way to actually de-power Melemizargo, was it.”

“It’s made a difference.” Riivo said, “That, or maybe some of his insanity is going away, for real. But if the insanity is a problem of him soaking in the Evil of the world, then I dare say that he is likely finally acclimating to the Evil, and that is something to truly fear.”

Erick had a lot of thoughts in quick succession, then he asked the important question, “Does mana actually need to have an ‘evil’ force in it to be balanced? Or is that simply your interpretation of events and situations? Is there such a thing as ‘Elemental Evil’?”

Riivo almost spoke, but—

Tasar smiled wider. “Ah ha! And this is why Riivo’s idea is blasphemous.” She happily said to the iron man, “There is no Elemental Evil. While there is some valid claim between people praying for gods to turn to them a Sightless eye, and the rise of Dark gods, it is simply that; a claim, and likely only half the truth. A god only actually turns Dark when their worshipers turn to the Dark, but we're not sure what that actually means except for corruption in the church.” She turned to Erick, saying, “There was a third type of worship pre-Sundering; sacrificial worship.” She said to Riivo, “This ‘sacrificial worship’ was erased in the Script; it no longer works. If there were ever any truth to this idea of ‘Elemental Evil’ it was in the idea of sacrificial worship, and it, along with all the Evil Gods, did not survive the Sundering.”

Riivo almost said something, but he saw Erick had a question.

“Is that why there haven’t been any gods born since the Sundering?” Erick asked, “The natural trio of worshiping methods were permanently disrupted?”

Riivo almost said something again, but he paused.

Tasar glanced at Erick a bit. “No one really knows.”

Riivo said, “Aisha would be the one to ask about that, but before we rejoin the party, do you have any smaller questions of magic? I would like to reward you with something for all you’ve done for the world, and for what you will continue to do. A specific spell that you’re having trouble with, perhaps? I would like to help you make it, and in doing so enlighten you as to how Archmage’s Rest works.”

Erick mentally marked that something weird had just happened with their avoidance of god talk, then went with the flow, saying, “I was wondering about one specific magic. Are there any [Personal Ward]s of perfect defense? I was moving around with Nirzir Void Song of Eralis in Songli for a little while, as I’m sure you know, and she’s working on a spell of perfect defense. Is such a thing actually possible for fleshy people?”

“Oh oh oh! Now that is a very, very complicated question.” Riivo chuckled, saying, “Something smaller, perhaps?”

“Very difficult.” Tasar asked, “Do you have a starting point, Erick?”

“Well. My daughter has Perfected Body and Scion of Balance, so she was thinking of a [Bloody Personal Ward] with a high multiplier, allowing her to take a portion of damage as physical but letting her [Ward] be three or four times as large. Will that actually work?”

Riivo was already shaking his head before Erick even finished.

But it was Tasar who said, “Don’t let your daughter do that. If she already has a [Bloody Personal Ward] you still have twenty years to get her to stop, but she needs to figure out another way to defend herself as soon as she can.”

Erick’s skin felt suddenly cold. “Ah.”

“Tasar is quite right.” Riivo said, “This method of a large multiplier for [Personal Ward] at the cost of full coverage is possible through other means, though. You could simply have her do that; a [Personal Ward] that only covers 75% or 50% of damage taken or whatever percentage of damage she is comfortable with taking. With the ability for most frontliners to have a [Rejuvenation] constantly restoring their Health the whole time they’re using that Health in battle, this might be the best option to ensure longevity in a [Personal Ward]. But in addition to that, I would suggest something like a [Gloom Ward] which can mitigate a small percentage of damage taken, or a true [Shadow Ward], but Shadow Magics do tend to make one look like an enemy; her choice, I would say. A [Metal Ward] would be useful if she has a metallic form, but if she does not then she won’t gain much benefit from that. It’s hard to say without knowing more about her capabilities, and you shouldn’t tell those to anyone; not even me.”

Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “Would you have any suggestions for me, with regards to a new [Personal Ward]?”

Riivo hummed a little as he thought.

Tasar said, “Don’t go for anything fancy with a [Personal Ward]; no Esoteric Elements, and certainly no Blood Magic. All you need is a simple absolute damage mitigation [Personal Ward]. Anything above 100 would be acceptable, and this can be achieved through normal Force Magic integration.”

Riivo countered, “You say that because you’re adamantium.”

Erick was a bit lost.

“My methods work for others, too,” Tasar strongly said, and then she calmly added, “The individual numbers might need adjustment, but Erick has Constitution, so he might be nearly as difficult to damage as— Well. Maybe not as difficult as adamantium, but at least as solid as any normal metal.”

Riivo didn’t look convinced. “I don’t like the idea of relying on any of these New Stats for anything. They’re too new. Too untested. Such methodology would open him up to way too many threats, especially without Scion of Balance. Even the smallest plinking of [Soul Burn] and any proper [Decay] magic would—” He said to Erick, “You need all the Health you can get. You shouldn’t use any [Personal Ward] method that leaves you open to taking Health damage at all.”

Erick asked, “Do either of you have a good example of the type of [Ward] you’re talking about? I’ve never heard of absolute damage mitigation before now.”

Riivo spoke to Erick, but he was mainly speaking to Tasar, “It’s not used outside of specific circumstances, like if you’re wrought and have tried and tested natural defenses.”

Tasar simply handed Erick a blue box, saying, “This is what I use.”

Steadfast Ward, instant, self, 5000 mana

Enact a personal ward of absolute defense, preventing 250 damage from all outside sources. Lasts 24 hours.

Erick’s eyes went wide. Then he thought, and guessed, “Against every attack? After all natural defenses? Is that what this is?—”

Oh.

Sitnakov must have had something like this… All wrought had something like this? Unless it didn’t work how Erick thought it would work. His own [Personal Ward] took all damage first, while, just like Constitution, [Defend] did not work until his [Personal Ward] was gone.

Tasar said, “It’s a complicated interaction if you make the spell wrong, for a properly made [Steadfast] ward needs to be made to take all your natural defenses into account, first, and this is not how [Personal Ward]s work. It doesn’t help that you won’t know if you’ve made the good version of [Steadfast Ward] until you do some testing on your own.” Tasar said, “But if you make it right, natural mitigation and various abilities like [Defend] come into play first, which means a 10,000 damage [Fireball] might become 1000 points of damage, which is then mitigated to 900, but 100,000 damage from 100 [Force Bolt]s, each worth 1000 damage, would be fully mitigated.”

Riivo countered Tasar’s good words with, “Absolute damage [Personal Ward]s are terrible against Decay spellwork, giving you less than a tenth of the numbers on the box against those spells. Any damage over time effects. And you can’t use two [Personal Ward]s at once without being a Warder.”

Tasar said, “But you can [Cleanse] away most [Decay] spells, and if you can’t do that then Elemental Bodying them away works well enough.”

Riivo said, “Some damage over time magics burrow into the person, preventing...”

Tasar countered Riivo again, and then Riivo countered her right back, their conversation turning spirited and exact, with examples of the pros and cons of [Steadfast Ward].

But the more he heard, the more Erick became enamored with the idea of absolute mitigation. He was at theoretically 87% damage reduction because of Constitution, therefore a [Personal Ward] of this type might be fantastic. His Constitution mitigation was only ‘theoretical’, though, because like Riivo said, these New Stats were not wholly what they appeared to be. Perhaps he was closer to 65% or 75% damage reduction. It was something to experiment with, anyway; more testing was required.

Erick interrupted the back and forth between the two metal archmages, asking, “Can you apply these ideas in area [Ward]s, too? I might not be able to use this, but Yggdrasil certainly can. Also, is this 250 number the best you can do? What about a variable mana modifier?”

Yggdrasil bounced on Erick’s shoulder upon hearing his name. Erick sent the big guy some nice, indistinct feelings— And then he paid attention to Ophiel, too, giving the little guy a pat before he could fluff up at not being included in the conversation.

“Ah!” Riivo’s face lit up. “Yggdrasil should certainly have this sort of spell. That is a marvelous idea.”

Tasar smiled, too. “Yes it is a good idea, and yes he should.”

“I had not considered— No bother.” Riivo waved a dismissive hand, then said, “Let us rejoin the party and let the mechanisms of Archmage’s Rest help you to learn this magic. I think Ryul made one of these worth 310 absolute damage mitigation and an [Area Ward] worth 50.”

Tasar said, “Ryul is a Force Mage, though, so results will vary.”

“Yes, yes.” Riivo led the way back toward the party, saying, “Achieving a Variable modifier to this particular magic would likely require Blood Magic, so you don’t want to do that. This is a spell you will have active at all times, after all.”

Erick walked beside the two wrought, saying, “I’m sure immortal views on magic are longer term than most mortals will ever live, but surely there is room for emergency use for many dangerous magics?”

Tasar fully stopped for a short moment. She resumed walking quickly enough, saying, “Best practices are still best practices.”

Riivo’s steps stuttered only the barest fraction as he smoothly said, “I agree with Tasar, and I disagree with you, Erick. There is no use for improperly made magic except as a learning tool toward more perfect spellwork. At the same time, perfection is never truly attainable, but it is something one should aim toward. Only the most learned Blood Mage should ever use their magic on themselves.”

“What about anti-Blood Magic?” Erick asked, suddenly conscious of the anti-Blood Magic charm on his wrist.

“That is fine.” Riivo said, “Anti-Blood Magic is a denial of certain spellforms, whereas Blood Magic is the enactment of those spellforms upon a body; the first usually causes no issues for it is an interaction between magics, while the second can lead to many problems. Now, truly bad anti-Blood Magic could lead to malformed Blood Magic affecting you in horrible ways, but those malformed effects can usually be [Cleanse]d away, unlike the truly insidious Blood Magic that cannot be [Cleanse]d. And besides that, all Blood Magic you want working on your body is something you wouldn’t want to [Ward] against in the first place.” He added, “There is a true solution to bad Blood Magic, though, but unless you want to pledge fealty to Aloethag, the Bloody Goddess, then you should take care what sort of Blood Magic you choose to use.”

That all tracked with what Erick knew.

Soon they were back at the party, which Erick recognized was more like he was being paraded around as their newest conquest, and less like he was his own person, choosing to be in this space. It was a little pushy on Riivo’s part, but he and the rest of Archmage’s Rest were doing what they needed to do to ensure that Erick threw in with them. It’s not like Erick wasn’t getting any benefits out of this arrangement, either. He probably would sign the paperwork making him an official member either at the end of this party, or perhaps tomorrow.

Riivo called the party to order and explained that there was a small spell that Erick wanted to work on, based on [Steadfast Ward]. He specifically called on the harpy Ryul, who looked delighted to be included, and then on a Blood Archmage named Juris, who looked interested but reserved. Juris was a human man of nearly black skin from the Greensoil Republic. Erick was a bit wary of him due to his stated allegiances, but he seemed personable enough. And then Riivo asked for volunteers. Two more people chose to participate; the celesteel prognosticator/historian Aisha, who had some sort of Exalted Magic going on with her, and an owl shifter human woman Warder from Eidolon, named Boralia, who wore an owl mask that did not cover her mouth. Erick doubted he would get to know them all more than in an acquaintance sort of way, but that was no reason not to be personable himself. He tried, anyway; mostly, he shoved his paranoia down as far as it would go and went with the flow.

In a completely normal way that mirrored Erick’s time at Oceanside when he gave his own talk of Particle Magic, Riivo, Erick, Tasar, Ryul, and the three others, moved to a large meeting room to the side of the main floor. Some party workers or otherwise normal employees followed behind, wheeling in some treats on carts into the meeting room, before stepping back out.

Once it was just archmages, Riivo cast some anti-Sight spells across the room, then began summoning some chalkboards. Words started to appear on the boards as he happily spoke of magic, saying, “[Steadfast Ward]s are [Ward]s which are useful in certain situations, but since only a Warder can have two [Personal Ward]s at once, their [Personal Ward] use is mostly relegated to certain special situations. Every archmage should know of this magic, though, because there are many times when absolute defense is more useful than a gradually wearing down [Personal Ward]…”

As Riivo spoke his enthusiastic joy spread to others. Five minutes later he was done with his overview and asked if Aisha could take over. The celesteel human wrought happily stepped to the front of the room and began giving a small lecture on history.

