Erick stepped into the hallway close to Tasar’s office, but before he could knock, Tasar’s green copper mother opened the door, inviting him inside with a small smile and an easy countenance. She asked if he wished for tea, and this time they might actually get to enjoy it since Tasar might be a while. Erick accepted.

Erick sat down across from the older woman. “Tasar took me to her home neighborhood yesterday. It was a bit of a culture shock, but still enjoyable. I assume it was your hometown, too?”

Otaliya poured tea, happily saying, “Yes. Many, many centuries ago, but I haven’t been back in a long time. Not since I ran into my former husband and everything changed. Tasar goes back sometimes but I bet either of us could answer questions about it. Why do you ask?” She handed him his tea, then sipped her own.

Erick took his tea, sipped it, and set it back down, before saying, “A few reasons. The main one though, is that I want to know what it means to deal with the adamantium wrought, and you might be able to shine some nice light on that situation. I’ll probably ask Tasar, too, but that seems like it could be insensitive.”

“Not much experience with wrought, eh?”

“Practically zero.” Erick said, “Though now as I’m saying it, it seems rather ridiculous to not just ask her these sorts of questions, too.”

Otaliya smiled a bit, saying, “Many people operate under certain misapprehensions about wrought, mainly regarding the idea that since we’re all made of different metals and since we have a caste system that we’re all truly different from each other. This is both vastly untrue, and yet also true in smaller ways. In the smaller ways, Silvers like their magics, Coppers like their routines more than most, and the Heavies like cultivating, maintaining, and ensuring the proper use of power. But in the larger ways, everyone can love and live with everyone else. But love often leads to children, and certain blends… They do not survive. I got lucky with my children. Many others aren’t ever willing to take the chance.

“But as for the Heavies themselves— The adamantium. They are the rulers by ancient decree, and they take that role very seriously. That’s all you really have to know about them. Individually they’re as different as anyone, but on the whole, they are born ready to break the world if they have to, in order to make it better, and this makes them both great leaders and terribly stubborn. If you try to fit into their world they’ll love you more than most. If you go against the flow they’ll discard you at best, or… They’ll try to discard you, first. Escalation is never the best way to deal with the Heavies.”

Erick felt some relief, but an entirely new set of apprehensions fell upon his shoulders.

“Thank you.” Erick asked, “Do you have any advice for someone headed into an inquiry with the Church of Rozeta and others?”

“Oh!” Otaliya perked up. “Are you headed into an inquiry?”

“I am, as soon as I get around to it.” Erick said, “I was given suggestions to speak to at least three emergency inquiry preparatory committees before I go to my inquiry, and to take my Bright Tea appointment before the inquiry, too.”

Otaliya went still for a moment, seeming to decide something. Then she said, “All good advice. I used to do a lot of that years ago. I can serve as one of those EIPCs, if you desire, free of charge, and give you a wrought perspective that is different from most. I used to do this all the time for people in your particular situation of needing to deal with the Heavies and other powerful organizations inside Stratagold.” She rapidly added, “But you should get some current-day EIPCs, too. Downstairs in the main lobby, down to the right, you’ll find many inquiry services. An emergency IPC will cost a fair bit, but you would likely get a massive discount due to their desire to secure a win. They all trade on their reputations down there, and getting a win with you would put them in a category higher than most others.” She smiled, adding, “Savior of Light.”

Erick smiled. “Well then.” He nodded. “I believe I will take you up on that offer, but not today. I still have some organization of my own to clear away before I start thinking about my inquiry. This is lovely tea, by the way. What kind is it?”

“Tasar goes far and wide with her t-stations, so this one comes all the way from…”

They spoke of nothing in particular for a little while until Tasar showed.

- - - -

In a well-guarded room in the center of the embassy, Erick walked with Tasar down a solid hallway deep into the bowels of the place. They passed guards stationed to prevent entry and magical barriers that could be thrown up to block egress whenever they were needed. There were even a pair of portcullises on both ends of the hallway. At the end of the short descent was a grand space that only had one way in and one way out, and only contained a few objects; a guard station near the entrance, a blast door ready to slam shut in case of wrongful entry, a large holographic map of the t-station networks distributed across the world, and one single t-station, sitting in the center.

As they were in the room, a pair of people popped out of the t-station, glanced at Erick and Tasar, and kept walking up the hallway. They showed papers to the guards—

More people blipped in, then moved out.

So this place was an actual working t-station node, then? The structure of the place and all the traffic brought forth a question that had percolated in Erick’s mind, but which he hadn’t gotten to ask until now.

“So these things are all over the place… Why was Enduring Forge trying to create them? They would know that these t-stations already existed, right?” He looked to Tasar, asking, “Did I get sucked into your t-network when I stepped onto that pad in Enduring Forge?”

“Ah. Well… Those are complicated questions.” Tasar said, “What happened when you stepped on that hexagon of deep sky silver is that your possibility was magnified and turned to mana and then transmitted, but the bounding runes on that pad were weakly made and too destructive, so you ended up following the normal paths that thick air mana takes to the Core. It’s a miracle you didn’t die, but you are on the Worldly Path, so unlikely events do tend to happen in your particular case. But you didn’t touch upon any ‘t-station network’, for there is no t-station network; not like you have with a Gate Network.”

“Hmm.”

There were a lot more questions to ask, But...

“So I understand that you try to keep runework out of the hands of people who would misuse it…” Erick asked, “Did you guys do anything to Enduring Forge, when I vanished?”

“That particular nascent t-station has since been removed from Enduring Forge because it was very incorrectly made. It’s my understanding that their head Rune Smith was in search of answers as to the death of her former husband due to that same pad, so after this development we tried to tell her what likely happened to the best of our abilities. Her husband likely followed the same path that you did to the Core, like many other people have before you. Perhaps Enduring Forge will write down what we told them so we won’t have to have this discussion with them again in another 25 years, but someone is always trying something to replicate the success of the t-stations, and they’re always failing, and usually with deaths happening to cement that failure.” Tasar said, “Rarely do we catch those people before they kill themselves.”

Tasar had probably seen a lot of people kill themselves due to improper Spatial Magic.

And yet, Erick had to ask, “Will you be giving Enduring Forge assistance with making a real t-station?”

“Not at all.” Tasar said, “This network is highly vulnerable to ingress, so it has to be commensurately more secure. We don’t really allow the public to use these things, either.” She glanced at another pair of people who had come down the hallway behind Erick and Tasar, to step on the t-station and vanish to parts unknown. “All these people are cleared for certain travel, but this location is very secure. It is our hope that you will eventually take the t-station near Yggdrasil and put it in a more secure location.” She added, “And also not replicate it on the Surface.”

Erick could have gotten mad about that.

But...

He took all his hateful thoughts about the regressive educational policies of the powers of this world and put them in a box, and then he buried that box in the far back of his mind, for now. Later, he would unearth that box and have a grand time yelling at someone who deserved it. Did Tasar deserve this yelling? Perhaps. Perhaps not. Did the Headmaster? Oh most certainly yes, but Erick would at least have a calm talk with that Old Dragon before the yelling began. Hopefully, Erick could hold it together when they visited Archmage’s Rest…

So Erick just breathed, and he prepared for whatever was about to happen by distracting himself, first.

He stood before the holographic map. It was a globe cut into a hundred layers, like an onion, and upon every layer there were separate, veiny networks of various colors; diagrams of individual t-station networks. The t-station in the room was connected to a golden-colored network that spanned the world. Other colored networks were located around other Geodes, leading to other lands. This particular t-station, if Erick was reading it right, did not connect to those other nodes, but it did connect to the larger t-stations inside Stratagold’s network.

All these people coming in and out of this node were likely coming from the major ports allied with Stratagold.

Erick asked, “Which one is Archmage’s Rest?”

Tasar gestured to the t-station, saying, “Archmage’s Rest is north of Stratagold in a place called Vibrant Falls. I think you’ll like it. Most people do.”

Erick accompanied Tasar onto the platform.

The world blipped black and green.

- - - -

The world came back and Erick stared outward at the beautiful lands ahead, for the t-station was positioned on an open spit of land. Tasar said something about moving off to the side, and Erick followed her lead, but also, he just stared.

The land was broken for a hundred kilometers up and down. It was like someone had opened up a hundred separate levels of the Underworld and played with the geology that made the world work, creating metropolis-sized spires of horizontal stone that reached out from shadowed spaces beyond sight, pointing toward the largest waterfall Erick had ever seen. A silent ocean poured down through the center of this massive space, blue and shining with light, while greenery grew on every kilometers-long spire. The magnitude of the space was hard to truly fathom, for Erick had seen wrecked land before, but this was on a whole other level; on a whole hundred levels.

And yet, it wasn’t wrecked at all. The land was cultivated, illuminated, with smaller waterfalls pouring down from higher spires to lower spires, creating lakes and streams that then poured down to the next level. Fishes flew in the air, alongside birds. Clouds were everywhere. Mist obscured much of the central space, for that central waterfall was kilometers across.

It wasn’t nearly as loud as he thought it should be. All Erick could really hear was a gentle wind and some far away river.

People lived here; a lot of people. Mansions and log cabins and stone castles and buildings with curled corner roofs and even a yurt, over there; people were everywhere, and yet each were on their own. A few small cities were scattered in the bright cavern, but mostly people lived on their own, with their own farms and their own caretakers. They weren’t all wrought out there, either; mostly, they were fleshy people.

Erick looked up, and saw even more. Spires reached out above him like the fingers of gods to touch the waterfall and tear off small pieces of it as it fell. He couldn’t see all the way up, and nor could he see all the way down. He wanted to explore, but also, he knew he could not. Not right now.

Erick rapidly proceeded through a dozen different emotions, and said, “The Underworld really is on a different level than the Surface, isn’t it. I truly had no idea— I mean. I knew. But I didn’t know.”

Tasar smiled at that. Then she gestured toward a building down the path, saying, “Let’s head to the main office.”

The building was rather simple in design but that simplicity was a lie to fool the people who couldn’t see the truth. With [True Sight] active, the 2 story townhouse that was their destination became merely the foyer for a grand castle that…

Erick recognized the form of Archmage’s Rest. He had seen it before.

“It’s the Grand Wizard’s Tower of the Core,” Erick said. He glanced around. A lot of things were hidden by illusions, from the guard station with its guards over there, to the [Familiar]s hiding in some of the branches of the trees; all of them watched Erick and Tasar as they strolled by. But there were no statues of Wizards anywhere. “Different, though.”

Tasar nodded as they walked, saying, “The Worldly Path moves the Walker in odd, replicating and yet escalating ways. I look forward to experiencing this phenomenon again when we walk the Path into other lands. It will be difficult, but nothing good is ever easy.”

“No Wizard statues is kinda bugging me, though. Why none of them?”

“Wizards are, as always, a threat. We do not venerate them.” Tasar said, “We are not the gods, with their Sights of the before-times, when they saw Wizards as more than the true monsters that they are.”

Erick left most of that discussion on the table and picked up, “Then why the recreation of the tower?”

“Ah.” Tasar said, “The Dark actually did that. Every time Archmage’s Rest has come together the Dark has changed the building around us to this form. Eventually we accepted it as the cost of doing business.”

Erick eyed Tasar. “… Really.”

Tasar smiled and laughed a little. “Truly! The Dark loves the Wizards —which is one more reason to add to the pile of why they cannot be allowed to openly live on Veird— and he hates us, and we hate the Wizards, so he tortures us with this sort of small [Strike].”

