With every conversation Erick had about Wizards he felt more and more a pull toward the Dark, simply due to the desire to survive. He could practically see it now: Him, discovered as a Wizard, facing off against the wrought and every other normal society on Veird. With the shadelings protecting him, Yggdrasil would blow up crucial infrastructure across the entire world, to prevent an easy war against him, but he would still fail. Then Melemizargo would sweep in at the last second to secure Erick’s life, further alienating everyone…

Erick put those thoughts in a box and threw away the key, as he said, “I hope you can contain that anger if we do find a Wizard. I don’t come from your culture, so I have no basis for this hate, but anyone with half a Sight to see would see this hate of yours and run the other way or fight to the death.”

Tasar pulled back everything; her emotions, her self, her own hatred. She had accidentally let too much show, and now she was chastised and she didn’t like it. After another moment she hid her disgust at how easily she was seen through, and simply said, “You are correct. I will likely need to let you take forward position when we meet a Wizard, for I have met too many to see them as anything other than dangerous.”

Erick said, “I would hear of your other meetings later, if you are willing to tell.”

Tasar relaxed a fraction. “Of course. The people inside will have insights and histories into the Wizards of Veird as well, though we might not get that far today.”

They had reached the front door to the fake entrance. It opened for them automatically, revealing an entrance to a large foyer that Erick had already seen once, with people standing around the space like they were welcoming Erick and Tasar to a cake party at a food court at a mall. Riivo was there, standing right in front of an array of ten other people, only a few of which were made of metal. Erick recognized one of the other fleshy people as Ryul, the 20-something red harpy Force Mage he had met at Oceanside. The barely dressed bird-man looked excited to see Erick, and he was, for he was the first to start clapping.

In a flickering moment, everyone else started clapping, too, with Riivo giving a loud cheer, followed soon by everyone else in attendance. Lights, like minor fireworks, flashed in the air as illusory streamers fell down from on high, cementing the festive atmosphere. Behind the archmages there were more people stationed to the sides of the large food court-like space, some servers in the very back, but a lot of apprentices or otherwise in robes and such who joined in the cheer, shaking the building with their clapping, hollering mirth.

Erick stood stunned.

He had not seen any of this until he stepped through the front doors, and now that he was here it was too late to back out and simply run away. So he put on a happy face, and with any luck his facade of joy would turn real, soon enough.

Old man Riivo stepped forward, clapping his iron hands together and smiling wide. The crowd quieted a bit, and then all the way, as Riivo began to speak, “It is not often that we gather to celebrate the accomplishments of one person. Gathering in thanks happens even less, but it does happen! Today we have the honor to do both. Thank you, Archmage Erick Flatt, for all you’ve contributed to the advancement of magic on Veird, for all you have done against the Dark, and for all we hope you will one day achieve! Thank you!”

As one, everyone on this level and the level above, cheered, “Thank you!”

A band in the back of the room started playing a jaunty tune on violins and other assorted string instruments. Ophiel perked up on Erick’s shoulder, wanting to go play with the band, but Erick kept him near as Riivo further approached.

Riivo smiled at Erick, then spoke to Tasar, “I see it managed to stay a surprise.”

“He has a lot on his mind, so it is good that this happened sooner, rather than later.” Tasar nodded to Erick. “Congratulations and thank you, Erick. This is Riivo’s base of power, though, so I will go get some cake. Want me to get you a slice?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “And a beer.”

Tasar smirked, then nodded as she walked off.

Erick refused to be overly paranoid, though a large part of him wanted to calculate all the ways in which these people could kill him if they wanted, but as he scanned the eyes of everyone looking his way, as he saw the lack of magic among most of them, he knew he wasn’t in immediate danger. Or, at least, that’s what he wanted to believe. He really should have seen this sort of surprise coming. Did he miss any clues from Tasar? Did he—

Riivo smiled as he softly said, “Now you’re probably wondering how come you didn’t see this coming, as would anyone in your situation. But the fact is that Tasar told us you were coming here not twenty minutes ago and then we got everything ready rather quickly. You’d be surprised how easy it is to put together a party down here. This is only the night crew, though. More people will likely start showing up as the night progresses, but we archmages are a busy lot. I expect some people to come in and grab some cake and then scurry off, but you!” As though he was telling a joke, Riivo said, “You get to be the center of attention, and maybe we can even figure out some magic you desire, eh?”

Erick… Did feel better about the suddenness of the festivities, and now that he looked around, he saw a lot of people had gone right back to talking to whoever they were with, as though conversations had been interrupted and could now resume. A few people had gone back into their offices on the second floor, but many people in the audience were already attacking the various dishes set out for all. Some were very much waiting for their chance to speak to Erick, though.

“Thanks for the explanation, and for excusing my jumpiness.” Erick tried to return Riivo’s smile as he said, “It’s been a tough year.”

Light laughter came easily from the iron man. Riivo gestured back to the party, saying, “Come! Let me introduce you to some future companions. We don’t have every archmage in our little club, but everyone here has proven their character ten times over, and we all work to ensure that the world is a bit more stable today than it was yesterday.”

Erick joked, but not really, “Then you must all secretly hate me.”

A few true smiles. A few fake ones. A few non-reactions.

Riivo gave a true chuckle, then said, “Ah! It’s all about where we go from here, Erick, for only a fool would deny the benefits of forcing destruction and repentance upon the Dark Clergy.”

The gathered archmages relaxed at that—

Ryul the harpy took a half step forward and happily said, “From non-humble beginnings to this, and now going after [Gate]! I still owe you for that lesson with Particle Magic, Erick, but now I also owe you for clearing out all the Dark Sects that have plagued my homeland for centuries.”

Erick brightened. “I was wondering where you were over there.”

“My jobs take me to many places,” Ryul said.

Riivo spoke up, “Ryul joined us right out of Oceanside. Headmaster Kirginatharp recommended him, and he has proven to be a valued asset to us, and to the safety of the world. Some of the cleanest Force Magic I have seen in a long time.”

Ryul bowed just his head, then took a half step back.

Riivo explained, “In Archmage’s Rest, you get what you put in, and Ryul here is an example of those who decide to take the heaviest burdens to achieve access to our deepest libraries. He’s got a lot left to go, but he’s headed in the right direction.”

“Worse ways to catch up to everyone else than killing off monsters and protecting places here and there,” Ryul said.

“Quite right.” Riivo gestured to a pink-metal incani man on the far left, saying, “This is Devond, an archmage with a strict focus on Book Magic, and our head librarian in charge of the archives. He controls who gets to see what, so one must go through him to achieve the best known answers to whatever magics you might desire— But only with the correct permissions, of course.”

Devond bowed his head, remaining silent and impassive.

Riivo gestured to the human-shaped woman next in line, who was made of iridescent metal, saying, “This is Aisha. She is also one of our librarians, but her skills are in both Book Magic and Prognostication, with a focus on the past. While Devond is in charge of physical copies of the library, Aisha knows all the lore you could ever desire to know.”

Aisha gave a small smile and a smaller nod. “I’d like to talk to you about your pursuit of your Worldly Path when you get a chance, to help you arrive at the best possible end without the final step being into the Dark.”

“I would like that.” Erick said, “Thank you.”

Riivo nodded, then continued, “And here we have…”

There were a lot of names. A lot of fields of study to memorize, recall, and connect to other people in the crowds. Riivo took Erick through all of them. Soon enough, Tasar came back with a drink and Erick’s cake at the end of those introductions. All throughout, there was an undercurrent of working toward order and peace, while hammering down chaos and disruption. More than once, Erick got the hint that Riivo and the others wanted him to pull back his plans for the world, but Riivo knew none of those specific plans and Erick wasn’t going to have that conversation with these people at the moment.

Eventually the archmages had had their introductions, and either their requests for more talk later or their polite, yet silent exits from the conversation. Some people got up and left the party altogether, after they had made their meeting. Erick got the impression that some of these people appreciated him, but many just wished he would not be there, for whatever unsaid reason. Erick wasn’t going to press any of them for answers, though, because he did not need that sort of drama in his life.

Eventually, Riivo and Tasar guided Erick around the place, pointing out various services that he could use now that he was a member. Somehow, Erick had become a member without actually signing any paperwork, and he brought this up, to which Riivo just smiled and said that they could fill that out right now if he wanted. Or he could do it later. Whichever he decided, Erick was already guaranteed entrance down to seven star level of the library, but only years of safety and security would allow him to go deeper to 10 star and beyond. Erick asked about inquiry preparations. Riivo pointed out that they had an office for that, too. Offices to get approved for a t-station were over there; this was one of Tasar’s many work offices, actually. Places to hire out quests for people which you couldn’t be arsed to do yourself were located right over there; a branch of the Adventurer’s Guild, but small, and for archmages only.

Apprentice services. Resource requests from Stratagold. Prognostication and planning services turned out to be a whole floor of the building, where they often did outsourcing for whoever was vetted for hiring. Archmage services for hire were also an option, which is what Ryul was doing to climb the ranks. Three whole floors above that were the private offices of the various archmages in residence, for very few archmages wished to be on their own; it was dangerous out there. But mostly those offices were fronts; empty of substance and only used for [Familiar] speaking. Many of them had [Familiar]s of various sorts hanging out atop desks in those rooms, but the archmages themselves were mostly located at their houses in the lands of Vibrant Falls. If one needed a truly private meeting with any of the archmages here, they could go meet the archmage in person, outside of Archmage’s Rest.

“It truly is a beautiful land out there,” Erick said, as they passed a window.

“It is.” Riivo said, “Do you wish for a plot of land out there? I can secure that for you.”

“Oh. No. Thank you, though. Spur is home and I have plans for there, anyway.” Erick said, “I’m just surprised that a place like this exists at all, with Melemizargo being near all archmages, all the time.”

Riivo nodded sagely.

Tasar said, “The Dark God is a being of insane desires but he is not all powerful. We’ve scared him off ten thousand times since the birth of our people. The last time he tried something destructive here in Vibrant Falls we took a wing.”

“The Shades came by and stole that wing not five hours later, but I almost got a new cloak out of it.” Riivo said. “They avoid direct confrontations because they know they would lose… And sadly, we are guilty of the same fault.”

Erick scrunched his face. “But he turns wherever you gather into a Grand Wizard’s Tower?”

Riivo scowled for the first time in the night, saying, “He does that whenever I’m out of residence. Very annoying.”

“There is a bit of a disconnect, isn’t there.” Tasar shrugged. “He has power and he uses it in strange ways all the time. I have no explanation beyond his insanity.”

Riivo “I’m partial to the Evil God theory.”

“I haven’t heard that one.” Erick said, “But I have heard of Dark Gods before. They’re not the same?”

“No, they are not. Modern church teachings conflate many terms, but...” Riivo explained, “Gods require worship to remain in power, naturally granted to them by people who work under that god’s auspices or direction, but not all worship is the same. Wishing for a god not to harm, and then that god not harming, thus fulfilling that wish, is about the same as wishing for a god to help, and then that god helping. In this way, by simply not harming, the Dark God passively accumulates half of all worship, while actual desire for help is fulfilled by every other god out there, depending on individual desire. There is a bit of overlap in some areas, though, like with Sininindi and people desiring for storms not to harm their experiences on the ocean, or with Sumtir taking worship from both sides of battle when both sides think they are in the right.” Riivo said, “People are the base cause of godly occurrence, but since all of the actually-Evil gods failed to make it to Veird in the Sundering, and since people still produce both evil and good, the Dark God took on the Evil half of worship. Before that he was just neutral, and Dark, but now he is unavoidably Evil.”

Erick paused. “I’ve heard some of that before. But not quite so… succinct.”

Tasar held a gentle smile, as she said, “So very blasphemous, too.”

Erick rapidly added, “And I never heard that as an explanation for Melemizargo’s insanity.”

