Aisha began, “Best practices for [Steadfast Ward]s are probably exactly what you would expect; highly useful in cases of plentiful, small damage coming your way. Historically, the spell came from mages in the Geodes, because wrought are made of metal and therefore have high damage thresholds. Certain [Polymorph] forms greatly benefit from a [Steadfast Ward], but for the vast majority of people a [Steadfast Ward] is suboptimal.” She asked Erick, “Which makes me wonder why this spell? What are you going for?”

It was Erick’s turn to speak, then. As everyone else watched, Erick stood, and said, “For Yggdrasil, mainly, but I do want to experiment with it myself, if only to make a [Personal Ward] that allows me to make use of [Defend] beyond the anti-kill aspects of that skill.” He explained, “My original question posed to Riivo and Tasar was asking after a [Bloody Personal Ward] for my daughter—” He glanced to Juris, the Blood Mage, as he said, “My Polymage daughter has Perfected Body. I was led to believe, before coming here, that Perfected Body made one immune to the harmful effects of Blood Magic, and the high multiplier for Blood Magic made the spell attractive in certain ways. The conversation transitioned from there.” He sat back down.

Aisha took her seat, saying, “Then there’s no need to go into too much history.”

“Quite right.” Riivo took his seat, too, saying, “Let’s go for a round of discussion, then. Juris?”

Without standing, Juris spoke, “The Class Ability for Perfected Body is one of the goals of all learned Blood Mages, but while it does prevent the majority of side effects from many Blood spells, one should not ever wear Blood Magic around all the time, like one does with a [Personal Ward]. The time table for such degradation is decades for mortals and centuries for immortals. But even so, a [Bloody Personal Ward] with a high multiplier is a good idea if you are comfortable with making pacts with Aloethag, or with the originally intended use of [Polymorph]. Both methods remove potential long term [Bloody Personal Ward] concerns.”

Erick asked, “What does a pact with Aloethag look like?”

Juris said, “Usually a million Health spilled in her name unless you’ve done that a few times already. Aisha would know more of that than I.”

The room turned toward Aisha.

Aisha said, “A million Health is her usual demand but there are side effects of being automatically included in the Red Dream, which can…”

The conversation shifted from one person to the next, and each time it moved, Erick felt a little less worried. None of the people here were jumpy. All of the people back in the main rooms were chatting away, taking their cake or their drinks and sitting around, or walking back to their offices to eat while they worked. It was very much an ‘office party’ atmosphere, and Erick kinda liked it. It was very, very magical, but it was also rather mundane.

He liked that the conversation around [Steadfast Ward] was a great way to get to know his fellow archmages, too. Except…

Except Erick realized that he was a very terrible liar. He knew this already, and while he could lie sometimes, he could not lie well. And he had fucked up.

Juris, the Blood Mage, who knew all about Perfected Body, had Perfected Body himself. The veins in his arms were near mirrors of each other, while his eyes and ears were perfectly symmetrical. Unblemished skin! Zero scars! And though Juris’s body was slightly less muscular than Erick’s, Erick’s own Perfected Body was easy enough to see for anyone with any Sight to them at all. Erick had been walking around with his Perfected Body for a while without anyone questioning him, but talking about how Jane had Perfected Body like he didn’t was just a bridge too far.

Like.

Hur, dur. I don’t have Perfected Body, no sir!

Gah!

It was suspicious, is what it was.

And Erick had fucked up.

He was not a good liar. Never had been. Never would be. This boded badly for keeping his Wizardly nature under wraps, but, maybe if Erick got out of here fast enough, he could avoid the inquisi—

There was no avoiding the inquisition. Inquisitor Kromolok had probably recognized Erick’s Perfected Body the second they saw each other, but… Meh. Kromolok was a Mind Mage and probably under normal Mind Mage protocol. Even if he did have a certain amount of leeway due to being the leader of the Forgotten Campaigns, Kromolok hadn’t outed Erick yet…

What was more concerning was that Tasar and Sitnakov, and now all these other people, saw Erick trying to act like he didn’t have Perfected Body. Well. Maybe he had just the right amount of doubt, there. It was likely public knowledge that Jane had Perfected Body, too. So…

Meh.

… Whatever!

Like. These people were saying unsaid things and poking at each other with hidden-dagger questions, too. They were mostly leaving him alone, even though this conversation was about magic he was going after. Perhaps he had given them enough—

Bah.

Moving right along.

Ryul eventually got to speak but it was after everyone else; he was the youngest there at 35, though, so this much was partially understandable. While everyone else had spoken of theory and idea and best practices (and tried to extract from everyone else every hidden bit of knowledge they could, without directly extracting knowledge; Juris seemed to be the largest offender of them all, though. Tasar, Ryul, and Aisha were the least guilty of this), it was Ryul who took over actually explaining how [Steadfast Ward] worked. And he was good.

Ryul got right in the zone, enthusiastically speaking of his field of expertise, connecting Force Magic and Shaping in ways that Erick hadn’t truly considered before. The harpy man was hungry for advancement.

… Looking at Ryul, Erick honestly felt a bit bad that he was so suspicious of everyone here, and of Archmage’s Rest as a whole. Like, yes, there were a lot of unsaid plots and plans happening with every turn of phrase, but on the surface, this was a lot of real, hard information about magic. And here was Ryul, dipping his toes into at least two archmage societies —both Oceanside and here— and yet all Erick could feel for the moment was dread.

But at the same time, not a single person called him out for having Perfected Body and pretending not to. Erick was conflicted. Paranoid, yeah, but mostly conflicted.

As Ryul finished his explanations, which only took fifteen minutes and ended up with three chalkboards full of arcane notation and five diagrams of how the body worked under Steadfast magic, Ryul moved across his work, explaining it more succinctly, “Whereas every body has some innate absolute damage reduction on the scale between 1% of your Health or 5 Health, [Steadfast Ward] is all about a strengthening that natural resistance by stringing ethereal Force under the skin and through the bones and muscle. It is this Shaping that requires the most precision to achieve the greatest effect for a [Personal Ward], but it is still possible to achieve a lesser Steadfast Effect when stringing this magic into a wide scale [Area Ward]. But for all aspects of this spell, to start at the beginning, you must use an ablation effect, which you have strongly aligned with the skin, and it must be ethereal, too, for actual [Force Wall]s or any other Force effect in your working could create a spell that simply traps people inside a skin-tight bubble which could lead to death from asphyxiation or wrong placement on a battlefield.” Ryul looked to Erick, saying, “In this way, [Steadfast Ward] works wonders against small damages, and will allow [Defend] and other mitigation methods to function, dropping the threat of a thousand-needle attack down to nothing. The drawback of this is that the larger attacks are more dangerous.”

Riivo spoke first, saying, “A wonderful explanation, Ryul! You have done well today. Thank you for your expertise. Anyone else have anything to add?”

The owl shifter Warder from Eidolon, Boralia, spoke, “I use one of these in addition to my [Personal Ward]. I’ve gone about it a bit differently.”

Ryul gestured toward the boards as he went back to his chair. “I would love to hear your methodology.”

Boralia got up and went to the chalkboards.

The group of archmages spoke for an hour more, leaving Erick with a lot to think about, and many thanks for all of them.

Back in the main room Erick spoke to each of them individually a bit more, as well as some newcomers who showed up late. Ryul spoke of how he hoped his lesson was well received, and Erick told him it was, while Juris hinted even more at knowing that Erick had Perfected Body. No one else was as overt with poking through Erick’s ‘lies’, though; probably because they didn’t feel the need. Almost everyone noticed Juris poking holes and they universally agreed it was bad form, but no one said anything against the human from Greensoil, either.

Erick capped the night off with signing the paperwork to join Archmage’s Rest as an official member.

There was a bit more celebration after that, but most people began to move on.

- - -

An hour later it was just Erick, Tasar, and Riivo in the main room. Much of the food had been eaten or squirreled away into the offices around the tower since every non-archmage, and even a few archmages like Ryul, had work to do. Work continued as the world continued to turn.

At the end, Erick said to Riivo, “Thank you for the invitation. I look forward to working with you in the future.”

“Just go at your own pace, Erick.” Speaking like a kindly old man, Riivo said, “You’ve been through a lot. You’ve done more than most ever would, causing a lot of other people to look up to you. Just glance at Ryul, running around trying to catch up. He’s not the only one.” He said, “But I’ve seen bonfires sputter and fail more often than you will ever know, and you are a bonfire, Erick. The brightest one this world may see for a long, long time. So go at your own pace, okay? You have earned your rest. We’re a support structure for archmages in many more ways than simply being a community, so drop by any time, okay?”

Erick smiled softly. “Thanks.”

“I mean it now!” Riivo smiled as he said, “Come by anytime, for any need. We’ve got lots of books on Wizards, too; more than the few you’ve scavenged from the Core. Aisha wants to talk to you about all that stuff, too.”

“… Yeah. I’ll need to do that, I suppose.”

There were a few more words, but the night was over.

Erick and Tasar departed.

Soon, they were back at the t-station on the beach in Yggdrasil’s cavern.

Erick said, “I didn’t get to ask too much about the approval process for giving magic to the rest of the world, but they seemed nice. I’ll have to do that some other day, too. Thanks for accompanying me, Tasar.”

Tasar smirked a little, saying, “Thank you for accepting my accompaniment. Were you interested in doing anything else today?”

“I’d like to speak to a few more emergency inquiry preparatory committees, but it was suggested to me that I take Bright Tea before the inquiry.” Erick asked, “Is there any word on when either event has to happen? Are you to be my counsel for either?”

“I will be there for both events, and I would like to discuss preparations as well. As for the events themselves they will happen whenever you want it to happen. Bright Tea is a bi-weekly event. You can attend any one you wish to attend. The next one is in 3 days, though.”

Erick nodded. “Then… Let’s go speak to some EIPCs. Oh. Your mother volunteered her services for that, too.”

Tasar suddenly stood straight, almost freezing as she stared at Erick. Then she softened, but only the smallest bit. “She did?”

“… Is that odd?”

“Nope! Not at all.” Tasar glanced backward, down the beach to the tunnel that led to the embassy. Then she turned back to the t-station not four meters away. She took a step to the gold and platinum platform, saying, “I’m going to go on ahead and speak to my mother before you show. Uh. Nothing bad.” She stared at Erick a bit, then she stepped on the platform and vanished in a blip of black-green light.

Erick stood alone on the beach.

… He went back to Yggdrasil, had another meal of [Renew] in his Other Form, then he went back to the beach and mosied toward the embassy, to speak to some EIPCs. He found several willing to talk to him, so he tentatively set some meetings with them before heading upstairs to Tasar’s room, to speak to her and her mother, Otaliya.

Arriving back at Tasar’s office, Erick saw Tasar on one side of the room acting like nothing was wrong while Otaliya stood on the other side, and nothing was wrong. The table was gone and a tea cup was in chips in a corner of the room and some wooden splinters were in the hallway, and the near history of the manasphere was blank, but nothing obvious was wrong.

Otaliya simply smiled, moving calmly as she gestured to the door Erick had come in through, saying, “Shall we talk downstairs with the other EIPCs?”

Erick ignored Tasar giving her mother a death glare, and said to Otaliya, “I just spoke to a few and set up some meetings, but I’m sure they’d love to talk now. So sure. Let’s go.”

Erick walked out of the room first.

Otaliya stared at the doorway for a long moment, then she breathed deep and walked through, acting like nothing was wrong.

But Tasar’s eyes bugged out as her mother entered the hallway. For a long moment Tasar did nothing. Then she rushed out to follow. She didn’t shut the door behind her, though, because the door was missing. Even the hinges were gone from their settings in the stone. Erick had no idea what happened to the door either, because the history of the manasphere had also been erased from the hallway.
