Ren walked over to her, and saw her blonde hair was flat and stringy like it hadn't been washed, her bra and bikini underwear were so worn that they were barely covering her, and she had a sad expression. He held a hand out to her, and she shook her head.

“I loved Murdrasu.”

“Zunala!” One of the others exclaimed.

“No! I won't betray him!”

“I'm sorry you feel that living is betraying him.” Ren said, and she looked at him with wide eyes. “I am not going to replace him in your life. I'm not going to love you like he did... and I'm definitely not going to hate you, either.”

Zunala didn't know what to do with that admission. She was the oldest, and she had the most experience with her ability; so, she knew that he was telling the truth.

“I want you to be the bridge.” Ren said. “It will take too long to give each of them enough to feed, but if you funnel what they need...”

“I... I see.” Zunala said. “I still won't feed from you.”

“Then don't.” Ren said and motioned to the other succubi. “Feed from them instead.”

“Wh-what?”

“They are going to enjoy this.” Ren said. “A lot.” He smiled. “You can feed from that, as long as you don't overdo it and hurt someone.” He frowned. “I'll kill you if you do.”

“You have no right to-”

“You are old enough to control your ability.” Ren said and cut her off. “If you hurt someone, it's on purpose. Do not tell me otherwise.”

Ren felt a general agreement from the other succubi, and so did Zunala.

“Yes, all right. I'll do as you say.” Zunala sighed. “You have all the power here.”

Ren chuckled. “You do realize there are 20 of you and only one of me, right?” He felt the realization go through them. “If you did attack, I would kill a lot of you; but, I can't possibly get all of you before some of your attacks hit me.”

“We'd be crazy to attack you.” Wynphine said. “You're taking us out of this hellhole!”

“I'm not taking you anywhere.” Ren said and smiled. “We are leaving this 'hellhole' together.”

Surprise went through them, and then Zunala held her hand out to him.

“Do what you need to.”

“Everyone? Please put a hand on Zunala, and she will act as a filter for you.” Ren said and took Zunala's hand. “If all you want is desire, take that from her. If you need passion, take that. If you think you can handle everything, then touch me as well.”

Nearly all of the succubi put hands on Zunala; her arms, back, and even her wings. Wynphine, one of the two sisters he had met first, and Ellaria, the one he had healed of the molten metal burn, were the only ones to put a hand on both him and Zunala.

“Are you ready?” Ren asked as he built up a reservoir of shared sexual experiences he had with Lylyth, the Queen of the Dark Elves, and all of their eyes widened because they could feel it.

“Th-that's... too much...” Zunala managed to say through her surprise.

“Don't worry, it won't be a flood.” Ren said and smiled. “Just a steady river than you can all ride in, with you as the rudder to steer.”

“I'll try.”

“That's all anyone can ask.” Ren said and opened the reservoir a little bit. Zunala caught her breath as more emotion than she'd ever felt before poured into her. The other succubi started to absorb what they wanted from it, and it eased the pressure from her. She took several short breaths and closed her eyes, and Ren felt that she was doing just as he said. She guided the emotions to where they needed to go efficiently, and he gave her a short burst of appreciation. She opened her eyes to look at him, and he reached out to take her other hand.

“Hold on, this is going to be a bumpy ride.” Ren said and made the small trickle into the river he said he was going to give her.

“Oh, GOD!” Zunala yelled, and several of the others echoed her when the emotions poured out of Ren for them to consume. They had always had to take what they needed, and never had someone just give them what they wanted. Ren felt their trepidation and disbelief that he would do this for them and not want anything in return, so he activated his own Emotion Siphon ability.

“Will this make you feel better about me feeding you?” Ren asked and sampled a tiny bit of pleasure from each of them. With them all touching, he could do it easily. They all gasped as they felt his ability touch them, and several of them shuddered and felt a bunch more pleasure from his gentle caress.

“Did you just... why does this feel so good?” Wynphine asked.

“Willing partners always taste better.” Ren said. “Can you take more?”

“M-m-more?”

“I need to sleep for at least 5 hours to rest.” Ren said. “My modified Ring of Sustenance doesn't kick in until tomorrow.”

“But...”

“Zunala can take a lot more, so I'm going to pour more in.” Ren said. “You can feed accordingly, and then I need to go to sleep.”

“O-okay.”

Ren opened the reservoir a lot wider and made a raging river. All of the succubi dropped to their knees and their eyes started to glow. He felt each of them in his Aura now, and he could see who was struggling with the emotions and who needed more. He moved his hand from Zunala's hand up to her face, and she stared at him. He used her like a sieve and directed the emotions to where they needed to go and helped those that were struggling.

“How... can you... do that?” Zunala asked, and she started to feed from the other succubi and how good they all felt.

“Practice.” Ren said and looked at the other succubi. “Some of you are already full.”

Three of them nodded and let go. Their eyes stopped glowing and he couldn't feel them in the Aura anymore. Over the next few minutes, most of the others let go and watched the last few.

“Seldanna, you're full.” Wynphine said. “Don't overload your ability.”

“I... I can take more! I can!”

Ren weaned her down to just a trickle, and she started to cry.

“Please... I don't want it to end.” Seldanna said.

“This is just the first feeding to see who needed what and to get you all back to a healthy state.” Ren said.

“Wh-what?”

“I'll do it again in the morning, now that I know what you need and how much to give.” Ren smiled. “So relax and let me finish these last three.”

“I... all right.” Seldanna let go and her eyes stopped glowing. She rubbed her arms and then hugged herself. “That felt so nice.”

Ren turned his attention to Wynphine, Ellaria, and Zunala. “You're all taking it directly, and it's still not enough.” He smiled. “A higher dose it is.”

The three succubi stopped breathing as he opened up the reservoir and let the flood go into them. Ellaria let go, then Wynphine a second later; but Zunala held onto him. She was feeding directly from him, despite her words from earlier. Her blonde hair had filled out and looked like it had been washed and dried. It was fluffy and curly, and he looked at her skin. It was a nicer shade of red than the faded color it had been before.

“Wh-what are you?” Zunala asked 10 seconds later, then she had to let go of him before her ability overloaded.

“I'm an Adventurer, and my name is Ren.” Ren said and smiled. “It's nice to meet you.”
