Leviathan's body slammed between David and Niala, the fel disappearing beneath it and releasing its hold on them both.

David stumbled forward, fell to a knee, but forced himself back to his feet. He pushed mana into his strong body imbuement, feeling his pathways strain like dried skin trying to bend, and vaulted over Leviathan's body.

He landed a few paces away from Niala, who had fallen to her side, holding her sides and staring at the fel's hand poking out from under the sea serpent's body.

He walked to her and offered his hand. She startled when it entered her field of vision, but unfolded an arm and grabbed on. He pulled her up and looked her over. His voice was flat. “Niala, are you hurt?”

Her ears twitched as she looked at his face and shook her head slowly. “N-no... maybe, I don't know, I feel strange. Why are you speaking like that?”

“What do you mean?” He asked tonelessly.

She frowned. “Like... that. Like golem-David.” Worry flushed her face as she began inspecting her husband, looking into his eyes. “Did the fel do something to you?”

“It drained my mana, but I think my summoning of Leviathan might have affected it. If you're fine, let's make sure the fel is disposed of.”

Without waiting for her reply, he turned around and went toward the fel's hand. He extended his hand.

Niala's eyes went wide as Heartsong materialized in his outstretched fingers. “David! How- How did you!?”

He looked back, eyes flat. “This blade is aetherically linked to us. Now that I can think clearly, I realized that it could be called by pushing its essence through my pathway. You should be able to do the same. Do not, right now. It might split it in two and halve its effectiveness.” He explained, turning back toward the fel's hand and stabbing at it with Heartsong.

The blade pierced the skin, barely, as if he was stabbing a rock. A muffled scream sounded from under Leviathan's belly, and the hand curled like a claw around the metal piercing it.

“The fel is not dead. Niala, do you have your potion? Is it still enchanted?”

Niala blinked. “I- yeah, I think, I- David! Stop! You're freaking me out!”

He tilted his head. “What's wrong?”

“This!” She said, waving her hands in his direction. “All of this! What's going on? What happened to you?!”

He stared at her for a second. “I needed to push through the pain. I found an imbuement to shield my mind. It is being shielded from all superfluous stimuli. This is very efficient.”

Her ears folded down. “Oh, no no no! You're not turning into an emotionless golem! Stop that imbuement, right now!”

He frowned. “Now is not the time. We must deal with-”

She crossed the distance between them in two strides and flung herself at him, landing her lips on his mouth, giving him the biggest, goopiest kiss while pouring an unending torrent of love and desire through their link.

He tried to pull away, but she strained her arms around him, gluing herself to his body.

She kept up the assault until she felt his body relax. Soon after, his arms slowly reached for her back, where his hands found purchase on her tunic, and he leaned into the kiss.

Only then did she pull back and reopen her eyes to find David's loving, caring, and slightly menacing eyes staring back at her.

She whispered. “Are you back?”

He nodded.

“Good.” She declared, letting go and settling back fully on the floor. She looked up at him with irate concern. “Don't DO this again! You felt like- like not you!”

He lowered his head and scratched the back of his head. “Didn't mean... I... needed to-”

She put a hand on his chest, stopping him. “I know! I know... I'm not blaming you, I'm sorry, I'm just... that was scary...”

He smiled and grasped her hand, planting a kiss on it. “Sorry, I scared you. Let's finish the fel and get out of here.”

She smiled back, ears flopping back up. “Yes!”

Turning toward the heartsong-impaled hand, she walked up to it, still holding the potion she had woven a tale in. She looked back at David. “How do we do this? I don't want to splash this on Leviathan, but if he moves, the fel might spring back up.”

David frowned. “I think it'll be ok. It was siphoning me when I called Leviathan.”

She tilted her head. “And?”

“And the explosion... Ah, right, you don't know about the explosion.”

She blinked. “What explosion?”

“Never mind that. You should have at least a few seconds.” He looked up at his aspect. “Leviathan, move away from the thing you're squishing right now, please.”

The sea serpent dipped his head and slithered away with all the grace of a boulder, revealing the relatively intact body of the fel underneath. It was staring straight up, with a rivulet of white blood tracing down from the corner of its mouth.

Its head turned their way, its eye seeking their face.

Niala didn't give it time. She flicked the dagger-shaped throwing phial from her hand, grabbed it with her wind, and pointed at the fel's chest with a finger.

The air compressed and snapped. The phial zipped and collided with the fel's flesh, the wind straining to push it further. The small explosive charge at its tip did not trigger.

Instead, it began spinning like a drill, picking up speed until it whirred. Smoke and the smell of burnt sickened flesh wafted up from the point of contact as it began burrowing into it.

The fel gnashed its teeth and reached for the drilling phial with its free hand. With a jerk, it closed its hand over it, crushing it.

Its hand opened on dry glass shards. The phial's content had injected itself into him. Its eyes went to his chest wound for a second before returning to Niala's face. Its voice cracked. “No poison may strike me down.”

Niala met the fel's stare. “That's not a poison.”

David glanced at Niala. “It's not?”

She shook her head. “It's a healing potion. The strongest healing potion I could make.”

His eyes snapped to her fully. “You-”

She looked back at him. “Just as a test! It was just a test! But then I succeeded, so I kept it! For science!” Her head turned back toward the fel with a mix of sympathy and resignation. “But I figured... if none of my poisons worked...”

David moved his gaze toward the fel before stepping to Niala, pulling Heartsong back from the fel's hand and gently pulling her a few dozen paces away. “Leviathan, get farther away. There might be a splash zone.”

“Splash zone, my lord?” He asked even as he coiled himself toward his lord, coiling his body around them as a shield, but leaving a gap for them to look through.

David looked at his ever-faithful aspect. “...Thanks, Leviathan.”

All eyes turned to the fel as it got to its feet and inspected its body. Its eyes returned to its foes as it extended an arm in their direction.

David and Niala waited.

Mikayl One-One would remember this day until he finally ascended.

Even then, he felt as if these events would remain with him.

He had been far from completely defeated, but he had been much diminished. His pathways were burst open, with only a trickle of his own mana available, the rest leaking everywhere. Worst, he had lost a significant amount of His essence, setting him back at least a thousand years.

But it mattered not. Only the path forward did, and these misguided foes had paved it for him.

He could feel his body knitting itself back together, along with his pathways forming back. A healing potion? One of incomprehensible potency, given to him freely.

It almost reminded him of what humour was.

He got back to his feet, observed his body and, with renewed vigour, lifted his hand and called forth one of His blessings.

Then his outstretched arm sloughed off at the bone and plopped on the floor. He stared, flabbergasted, as his arm regrew.

With pink skin.

The tint of skin he had before he was touched by Him.

What?

He ripped this monstrosity away from him.

The blood was a vile, polluted red.

The limb grew back. Before he could remove it a second time, one of his legs oozed away and pooled on the floor. He tipped over even as he grew a new limb to replace it.

He reached for it. His remaining ascended arm crumbled into filaments before he had finished his movement.

He couldn't accept this.

Pulling from within, he called upon His gift, His essence still held within his pathways, and forced his ascended flesh to grow the proper limbs.

His human arm and leg burst open as a new, white version replaced them, only to melt away once more.

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

Stop.

No.

No!

Stop!

STOP!

At some point, after watching the fel grow back limbs after limbs, alternating between pink and white, and the floor around it began to resemble a psychotic butcher's shop, they had to look away.

They waited until the flesh-ripping and screaming stopped.

Then they waited a little bit more.

When they did, eventually, motion for Leviathan to uncoil from around them, they walked on the fel.

Or rather, the human that had been a fel.

Its... his limbs were pristine, unblemished, perfectly formed.

And very, very dead.

Of what he had been, only the eyes remained, still yellowed and pin-pricked.

They held the glint of life yet, though the flames were fast fading. Its chest did not move. It had never moved for the time they had witnessed it.

Perhaps he had forgotten how to even breathe.

He turned his head toward them. His voice was richer, less monotone, but still mostly devoid of emotion. “What have you done?”

David squinted. “We defeated you. Release the hostages.”

A simile of a laugh ravaged the man's throat. “They... have released themselves, though I do not know where they went. I no longer feel the living stone.”

They looked at each other. David stepped forward. “Then, we're done here.” He said, lifting Heartsong to deliver a final blow.

The man began laughing, turning into a wrecking cough. It subsided after a moment. “How... droll, to remember what irony is. Yes... Yes, we are done here, you and I. All of us.”

David aimed Heartsong at the man's forehead. “No riddles. What in the pits are you on about?”

Instead of answering, the man lowered his eyes, looking at the pile of flesh that surrounded him.

Following his gaze, David and Niala recoiled half a step when the white flesh began quivering and oozing, pulling itself toward the normal pieces.

His voice was filled with amusement and exultation. “You cannot deny His hunger to be whole again. I was the Sanctified, the one through whom he would be reborn. But I also gave him a boundary. Now, His essence is released, and it will feed.”

The white flesh began enveloping its pink counterpart. The pieces closest to the man's dying body latched onto it and began consuming him.

He threw his head back. “Ha ha ha! In my final hour, I am nothing but a morsel for his primordial desire! Feast on me, my Lord! Use m-”

His word died in his throat at the same time David pierced his head with Heartsong.

The white flesh, however, did not stop. David slashed at it, but it was like cutting blubber. It simply reattached itself and kept feeding.

He kept slashing at the squirming mass, cutting it into small pieces which re-attached to each other. “Do you have any idea? Try your poisons again?”

She nodded and threw some of her remaining phials at the mass. It sizzled and melted some of it, but it simply surged back once it was over.

“I don't have enough left, and even if I did, I think it wouldn't work.” She said, ears tucked down.

“Why not?” He asked, Heartsong endlessly filleting the fel flesh.

She looked at him. “I just... all that man was saying, the essence, the corruption. I think I'm beginning to understand what mana corruption is.”

He squinted. “What is it?”

She let her eyes drift toward the mass of white flesh in the process of coagulating. “There's something in the aetheric sea, a contaminant of some sort, and it lodges itself in our mana pathways. When it reaches a critical mass, it... expresses itself, like a cancer with a mind of its own.”

“And then what?” David asked.

“Then... mana corruption, or rather, hunger. The cancer wants more of itself. That's why fels are magivores; it's so that they can gather more. This man, he must have had more of this substance within him than anyone, enough so that even his dead flesh has a desire.” She explained, nodding toward the grotesque spectacle slowly unfolding in front of them.

“If that's true, then Heartsong should be able to burn it away? Isn't that what's happening when I'm slicing fels with it?”

She shook her head. “I don't think it's burning it away. I think it's just... splitting it back apart, into motes too small for them to have a mind, and they get reabsorbed into the aetheric sea through the membrane. Now, here, the concentration is too high. Heartsong's effect is just being overpowered.”

David grimaced even as he kept swinging his sword. “Then, what? A stronger boom? A bigger Heartsong?”

She looked at him, eyes wide open, ears flat. “I don't know.”