The shade didn’t teleport and her wind whip bulldozed straight through Randidly’s three fangs. Even their force neutralization couldn’t buy him enough time to react. The impact sent him sprawling, leaving his ability to read ripples as messy and useless.

Randidly slapped his palms against the ground with enough force to toss his body several meters into the air, avoiding a powerful follow-up sweep of the wind whip. His eyes were narrowed. This monstrous power of yours…!

He gripped the edge of a pyramid and swung his body forward, moving toward the shade. The purple saber reached the apex of its arc and fell down, eventually landing back in the shade’s hand on the ground. She clicked her tongue, even while she wrapped herself in a complex arrangement of the wind whip. Her smile up at him was sly. “Were you trying to cheat? How boring. You deserve to get slapped around a bit for that.”

Randidly remained silent. His blood hummed through his veins, adding a peculiar frequency of ripple to the surrounding space. Those ripples marched to become part of the complex patterns that surrounded his body as Randidly accelerated forward again.

The shade cackled. “Good! If you can’t take that first step forward, nothing will ever change. But if you encounter a wall you cannot pass, what will you do?”

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 265!

OHMMMM

This sensation… Randidly’s eyes narrowed as he ducked underneath the lashing whip. Her desire… I can’t really tell the details, but this isn’t just about reaching the summit. I can barely feel its edge.

Underneath all the other ripples, something immense stirred. Suddenly all the other details fell away and the shade’s body became larger and larger in Randidly’s vision. He peered within the limits of her frame and saw millions of ripples, layered upon each other. Strange, metaphysical bubbles fluttered up through the ripples of her being; at the base of the powerful tenth guardian, her purest desire flexed.

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 266!

Randidly’s palm strike lashed up and the shade jerked her head back. Instead of throwing her weapon to the side, she slashed decisively downward at Randidly. He just grinned as he pivoted his legs and unleashed another palm strike. A vicious grey core formed even as the purple saber cut.

BOOOM!

Congratulations! Your Skill Dragon Queen’s Sinister Tongue (T) has grown to Level 498!

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 267!

Randidly’s palm slammed into the shade’s chest and sent her skidding back. His expression warped; some rigid pattern armor around her person dispersed much of the force. And he didn’t dare follow-up on the strike because her purple saber cut a deep divot into Sulfur and part of Randidly’s side.

The shade tilted her head to the side. Small bits of steam wafted up from the location where the grey core impacted her patterns, but she seemed unharmed. However, her eyes were growing increasingly bright and hungry. Nether continued to rush out from Randidly and strengthen her significance. “In the face of an impassable wall, you would charge forward? Throw yourself against it again and again?”

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 268!

The bubbles erupting from the base of the shade’s existence became larger and more violent through her ripples. Randidly’s gaze flickered and became clouded. He saw a strange scene of the woman with a burning gaze looking at the sky, her cries strangled to silence by grief. Yet the next moment the vision was gone.

Since the shade waited for his answer without attacking, Randidly considered. Then he shrugged. “It sounds like madness, doesn’t it? But it’s the choice I’ve made, time and time again. As long as it keeps working, I won’t stop.”

“Not so mad after all,” The shade’s eyes crinkled at the edges. But that baleful intensity continued to grow. Drops of neon purple slid off her saber and pattered onto the ground. Then she blurred into motion, the sharp purple edge of her blade leading the attack.
