He looked away first before speaking slowly. "Our plan has failed anyway. Lord Vaelric and Lord Varentis have taken too many of the refugees into their villages."

What should have been bad news only made the figure laugh louder. It was a low, uneven sound that made the back of his neck prickle.

After it subsided, the figure leaned back in his chair, hands drumming the table lightly. "It matters not. The tide has already grown too large for two young lords and an old fool to stop the chaos now."

He made a strange sound with his mouth, as though he had just tasted something amusing. "It's a shame you didn't manage to get Lord Varentis and Lord Vaelric together back during winter. Would've made things easier that way."

A deep frown formed on the man's expression. "I didn't expect Lord Varentis to act through the market like that...and that merchant girl to help him so openly."

Perhaps for the first time since he met the figure, a look of surprise flickered in his eyes. "...Merchant girl?"

The man stared at him, brow raised. "...The one from the Mervaine family?"

For a long moment, the figure did not seem to move, only for his shoulders to start shaking. Again, that same humorless laughter began to slip from his lips before halting abruptly.

He leaned forward, eyes boring into him. "You are certain she's alive then? Both of them together?"

Swallowing hard, the man gave a slow nod. "I saw it myself. She went back to Ashridge with Lord Varentis."

"...I thought you had ears inside the Mervaine family...how could you not have known this?"

The figure remained silent for a time, his eyes lowered. "Hmm...and I had thought the young lord would've chosen to..."

His head lifted to regard him. "Good work. You've brought something of value after all."

Without another word, he waved dismissively, already looking back down to his parchment.

Resisting the urge to frown, the man turned and made to leave quickly.

As he opened the door about to step outside, the figure muttered a few last words out loud.

"It seems things aren't going to be that boring after all."
