“Hey, never hurts to make sure,” Vilas shrugged as he and Jake discussed the skill a bit more. It was mainly Jake talking and Vilastromoz listening to Jake’s sometimes wild ideas, most of which sounded equally fun and impossible. Towards the end of their talk, the Viper did ultimately abandon his resolution to not give any direct advice, as there was one application Jake hadn’t stumbled on that he was simply too curious to test out.

“You know, as a way to pay you back for my lack of belief in my dear Chosen earlier, allow me to give you one amusing idea to test out. Do you remember the time you went to the sculptor from the Primordial Church?” Vilas asked with a sly smile.

“I do...” Jake said, a bit unsure.

“What he did back then was technically called an invocation, and it wouldn’t be far off to say he invoked an aspect of his Patron,” the Viper said in a hinting voice.

“You mean that... surely not?”

“But maybe. If anyone could handle that, it would be you.”

“... it would be hilarious if it worked, wouldn’t it?” Jake said, definitely on board now.

“Oh, it really would, but I reckon it’ll only work with my direct assistance,” Vilas said, a big smile on his lips. “So, wanna give it a shot?”

“Do you even have to ask?”

Having just recently broken through to Godqueen, Artemis still had aspects of her Path to fully stabilize and explore. Being at the apex of the Circles of Divinity meant that this part of her Path had come to an end, and she now had to work on the next step, but to do that, everything had to be absolutely perfect, or breaking through to the Empyrean Steps was a mere pipedream.

She was currently meditating in the palace with Jake down in his alchemy lab, and as a god, she naturally kept her comprehension of the outside world, even when in meditation. While busy... she felt something.

Her eyes shot open as Artemis looked toward the alchemy lab. A shiver ran down her spine as she quickly stood up upon feeling the unsettling presence move. Elsewhere, she saw Jasper already hiding away, with even the Unique Lifeform outside having noticed the commotion before rapidly floating inside.

Artemis didn’t even look at the Forest King as he floated inside, but kept her eyes on the doorway. For a moment, she had been unsure, but as it got closer, there was no doubt.

When the door opened, Artemis was already down on one knee, with the Unique Lifeform purposefully floating back a bit.

“I greet the Malefic One,” Artemis said as the familiar aura blanketed the room. It was unmistakably the aura of the Malefic One himself, even if it radiated out from Jake’s body.

She didn’t raise her gaze as the Malefic One possessing the body of Jake spoke. “Damn, it really worked, and well enough to fool even a Godqueen.”
