"Some kind of Awakened crab or whatever. One of those rebel types. Fights for the dignity of sea creatures everywhere. He's a staunch vegetarian, martial pacifist, and all that stuff. And apparently…" She leaned in to whisper in his ear, "He's got a thing for human males. Likes ravishing them. Sounds like some kind of weird rumor a guy would make up after a little too much alcohol and with a little too much interest in zoophilia, but you never—”

Shiv’s mind rejected this line of dialogue. He chose to redirect the conversation’s trajectory. "You know something, Jessica? I don't want to think about Silverclaw right now. Let's try the beans."

That statement, more than anything else he'd ever done, made Adam's eyes widen and bulge. "You're genuinely going to try that, Shiv? It smells like... like literal death! If I had to put vileness in a can, it would be that."

"Hey!" Jessica snapped, genuinely offended. "It doesn't smell great, but it fills you up good, alright? Once, I ate this while I was an Adept, and I stayed up for a month. Didn't need to eat or drink anything the whole time either. Trust me, it packs a real kick. Just try not to breathe in while you eat."

"Shiv, please, you don't need to do this," Adam begged.

"You really don't. It smells bad," Gone called out from the other side of the kitchen. She had a patch of duct tape over her nose slits. Nearby, Candles lay face down, his limbs splayed out in different directions. The Pyromancer was utterly out of it. Sitting cross-legged on top of him and staring warily at Jessica's “cooking” was Five. He had constructed a strange metallic mask using his machinery-shaping skill, and with every breath, Shiv could hear air filters activating.

It was only then that he realized someone was missing. "Hey, where's Valor?"

"I've been here the entire time," Valor said, a step to Shiv’s right. Shiv nearly jumped out of his skin. Adam dashed back, letting out a panicked yelp—and slammed into Uva. Instead of being knocked off her feet, her body folded in awkward directions, turning into something like a slingshot before she snapped Adam back in place.

"Broken Moon, Valor!” Adam hissed. “You didn’t need to sneak up on me!"

"I wasn't trying to sneak up on any of you," Valor replied with the faintest hint of pride. "You were simply not paying attention. And so you failed to notice me."

Adam wanted to argue, but decided that apologizing to Uva took precedence. “Uva, I—”

“It’s fine, Adam,” Uva cooed. “Why else should I bend in strange and unnatural ways other than to keep you from slamming into random walls?”

"You should try Legend Hawgrave’s cooking," Valor encouraged. "I don't think the taste of the beans is so bad. It might be peculiar, but I find it is quite similar to..." The ancient Pathbearer stopped to consider a proper description for the canned meal, waving a hand around. "I think it's a bit like a durian."

Shiv eyed the cans. "A durian, huh?" But his thoughts veered to a violent halt as the greater implications behind Valor's words presented themselves. "Wait, you tasted it? You ate it? You can eat now?"

Valor smiled. "I have my torso back, and though my Biomancy isn't at its previous peak, I can still emulate a stomach and especially a tongue long enough for me to gain appreciation of how something tastes."

Twin emotions clashed inside Shiv. He was overjoyed and offended at the same time.

"You could have waited, Valor! I could have fed you first! Your first meal after forty years didn't need to be… this stuff."

"Hey, stop insulting my beans," Jessica said. She seemed genuinely disheartened by this point, and Shiv was almost starting to feel bad.

"It's really quite fine," Valor said. "I was surprised at Jessica's ability to, eh, get Candles to heat up a few of her rations. Really, you should try it. The smell is bad, but the taste is, well, I wouldn't say divine, but more than passable for a soldier."

"And besides, you made a promise to me. We had a competition, and you lost." Jessica waved her kitchen knife at Shiv threateningly. "So, are you going to be honorable and do the right thing, or are you gonna chicken out because the beans give off a bit of a weird smell?"

Shiv's gaze once again snapped to the cans. “A bit of a weird smell” was certainly putting it lightly. It was moreso what he expected a special kind of hell to smell like. For the briefest of moments, Shiv considered fleeing. He could stop time, reverse time, revert himself to where he was outside, and just run. Or he could use his Severed Shadow to flee without anyone noticing. Afterward, he could have his physical body commit suicide or something. It wouldn't be able to track him that way.

Actually, let's test something, Shiv thought to himself. He created a temporal shell around his Severed Shadow, and immediately it jolted three seconds backward in time to where his physical body had been. A thrill coursed through Shiv. His physical body and his Severed Shadow were technically the same entity. That meant all his positions across time were interchangeable. He could flee if he wanted to. He really could.

But Shiv didn't. After all, a promise was a promise. And how bad could a can of beans be?

"Alright…" Shiv sighed. He took a final step forward and stared down, where he saw the black-red beans glaring back at him. They looked a bit like angry little decapitated heads. He didn't even know why he thought they were angry, just that there was an aura of menace to them. Must be overthinking this. "Jessica, if this thing tastes as bad as it smells, I'm killing myself."

She waved him off dismissively. "Please, kid, you commit more suicides in a day than someone picks their nose. If you want to make me feel bad, you're gonna have to try a little harder than that."

Shiv scoffed, picked up the can of beans in the middle, and, without any more hesitation, poured it down his throat. He heard Adam breathe in sharply. He felt everyone's eyes narrow in on him.

And the flavor was…

The taste was…

Shiv swallowed hard. The food went down into his stomach like a tombstone plunging into a body of water.

"So, how is it?" Jessica asked, leaning forward.

Shiv didn’t give her a verbal reply. Instead, he tried calling his Last Morsel to hand, only to realize it was stuck with his Severed Shadow. Shiv grunted in annoyance and had his Revenant form deliver the frying pan to him using tendrils of Vitae. The frying pan slipped in through the doors and was dropped on the grill before Shiv. Everyone looked on, wondering what he was about to do.

Just as Shiv prepared to behead himself to annoy Jessica, something made him hesitate. There was a gleaming crimson glow that radiated out from the bladed rim of the Morsel. It was the color of vitality infused in the edge. And within that color came a rippling presence, a cutting presence. Intuitively, Shiv realized that his new soul power now extended to anything that could be used like a knife. Shiv released the Last Morsel. At the same time, he guided his Severed Shadow back into the room and had it solidify. As it strode past a confused-looking Adam and Uva, Shiv wasted no time. He used his physical body to reach inside his dimensional cape and pull out the gift he'd received from Georges on the day of the eclipse—Halspur’s Perfect-Edged Chef’s Knife.

The same vital glow ignited along the edge of the blade, and that confirmed his instinctive realization.

"Huh," Shiv said. "I was planning to cut my own head off to be dramatic, but, uh. This is more interesting. Looks like anything I can use as a knife gets coated in my Vitae. It also gains my cutting aura too."

"Shit, really?" Jessica tilted her head. "You know what? I'm not even offended. Cut your head off. I want to see if you can do it. You're pretty damn tough, so if I were you–"

Shiv didn't need any instructions on how to conduct a proper suicide. He immediately dragged his knife along his neck, but instead of the naked metal kissing his skin, it was the cutting aura that washed through him. The cutting projection split his Heroic-Tier Toughness apart like a scalpel passing through butter. Shiv's material durability offered no resistance at all. The only difficulty that he felt along the cut was when he hacked through his physical body's Aegis of Assimilation. A detonation of pain filled his mind, and Shiv nearly doubled over, but through the mana strain, he remained focused, too entranced by the things he was discovering.

Everyone else seemed to notice too. His cutting presence bounced and bent as it greeted an opposing mana field. But even so, the Heroic magical skill he infused in his physical body was only bone before iron blade. In the end, his head toppled free of his body with a spray of blood. The cut that remained was so finely made that Shiv felt there was some artistry there.

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 164 > 165

If someone could get a Suicide skill, I might just end up as the first Legend, Shiv thought semi-sarcastically.

Comedy 10 > 11

He chuckled dryly. Thanks, System. Great consolation prize.

Skill Gained: Coping (Common) 1

And it stopped being funny for Shiv. Fuck you.
