“What do you mean, you're garnishing more of my wages?” Angeilin squeaked to the clerk at the desk.

“You just handed in 7 gold coins. That's nearly a week and a half's wages.”

“I know that, and I told you how I got it. So why?”

“You've obviously been hoarding it from the House.”

Angeilin widened her eyes. “Are you questioning my Honor?!?”

“Yes.”

“You... YOU...” Angeilin yelled, and several other clerks looked their way.

“Calm down, please.” The dwarf said, and looked around.

“You are an IDIOT!” Angeilin yelled. “I've defended this House for years. YEARS!” She skreeched. “I've argued with my husband for decades, over you taking my pay.” She said, calming down a little when one of the guards came over to see what the disturbance was. Angeilin pointed a finger at the clerk. “This idiot just questioned my Honor, right here in the Main House!”

The guard looked surprised, and turned to stare at the clerk with stern eyes. “You really are an idiot.”

“What's going on over here?” The manager said as he approached. The guard filled him in and the manager sighed. “Ma'am, what can we do to make this up to you?”

Angeilin looked at him like he was crazy. “I think... I think my husband was right.” She said. “This... man... questioned my Honor, over money of all things, and you want to make it up to me?” Angeilin took a deep breath to calm down. “If I was a man, he'd be challenged and I'd get my Honor back.” She said to the manager's surprised face. “How will you make that up to me?”

The manager opened his mouth to speak, closed it, then sighed.

“Exactly.” Angeilin said, disgusted. “He's a member of the Main Family. Nothing will happen to him because of this.” She said. “He increased the garnish on my wages to 45%, and since he's a Main family member and you're not... you can't even stop it.”

The manager nodded slightly.

“Then, there is something you can do for me.”

“What is it, Ma'am?”

“You are granting my husband's release from the House, and also his petition for my release to go with him.”

“W-w-what?”

“I will not stand by and let you take nearly half of my money, for NO REASON!” Angeilin screetched. “After all these years, and all the money you've taken from me...” She shook her head. “I'll have no more of it.”

“But... but...”

“Get the forms.” She squeaked. “I want to sign them right now.”

The manager left to get the forms, and Angeilin looked at the smug clerk.

“As for you.” She said and smiled. “My husband won't like hearing about how I've been treated here today.”

“Like that matters.” The clerk said.

“Shut your mouth!” The guard said, and the clerk looked at him in shock. “I'll not have you speak in that tone in front of this woman.”

“And what are you going to do about it?”

“Unlike her, I can challenge you, sir.”

The clerk's eyes bulged, and he sputtered several times.

The manager came back with the forms and saw the state of the clerk. “What happened now?”

The clerk stopped sputtering and glared at the guard. “This... this guard...”

“I'm also submitting my resignation.”

The clerk and manager stared at him, then the guard felt a tiny hand touch his. He looked down at Angeilin and she smiled.

“You don't have to do that.” She said. “It's bad enough that they're losing me and my husband.”

The guard smiled at her. “You're right.” He said. “It is bad, especially since it's people like him...” The guard waved to the clerk. “...are the ones that are running this place, and not people like you.”

“What about your family?” Angeilin asked.

“I haven't found anyone to share that Honor with.”

Angeilin nodded slightly and turned to the manager. “Are they filled out?”

“Yes.” He said and handed them to her. She read them and then frowned. “What's this gold penalty?”

“Your husband needs to compensate the House for a year's work.”

Angeilin chuckled, and it sounded like glasses tinkling. “Sir, he hasn't worked a job in nearly 20 years. He owes you nothing for not working next year, too.”

The manager looked at her with surprise on his face. “But... everyone works.”

Angeilin chuckled again. “He told me that there was no point for him to work, because you'd be taking the money anyways.” She smiled. “You can check your records, but he's never paid anything... until today. You've seen how it's turned out.”

The manager sighed and took the form back, scratched out the gold penalty, and put his initials by the correction. “Bring this back after he signs it.” The manager said and handed it to her.

Angeilin smiled. “I'm his wife. I can sign in his name if he isn't here.” She scribbled her signature on the form and then looked at the one meant for her. Since it was a spousal support form, there was no penalty and she grinned as she signed it and handed both forms to the manager. He checked them over and saw an empty space on one.

“What House are you going to, Ma'am.”

“Is that required?” She asked, and the manager nodded slightly. “House Neram offered my husband a job.”

The manager filled in the name, added his initials, and turned to the guard. “I'll be right back with your form.”

They watched as the manager walked away. The clerk didn't say anything else to them and sat there in silence.

Angeilin looked up at the guard. “What are you going to do now?”

The guard smiled at her. “Do you think House Neram is hiring?”

She smiled back. “I can almost guarantee it.”

The manager came back with the form for the guard. The poor man stared at the gold penalty, shook his head, and signed it. The manager checked it was in order, put his initials on it, and looked at the guard. “You have a week to arrange payment.” He said to the guard and turned to face them both. “I'm sorry that this incident happened, and I'm sorry that we've lost 2 good workers because of it. If you change you-”

Angeilin stared at the manager and he stopped speaking.

“My husband is a great worker.” She said, proudly. “He just doesn't want to work for this House.” Angeilin turned and walked to the door. “Neither do I.” She said and a tear came to her eye. “Not anymore.”

The guard followed her, and once she was outside the building and had walked half a block, he knelt and held her as she cried. She was done after a few minutes, and he let her go.

“I... I'm sorry.” Angeilin said, wiping her tears away with her hand. “It just hit me... what I just did.”

The guard chuckled. “I'm still waiting for it to hit me.”

Angeilin snorted a laugh and then smiled. “Thank you.”

The guard waved her thanks away. “Where are you headed?”

“House Neram.” She said. “Hopefully I can catch my husband there, before he turns the job down.”

“I'd like to accompany you, if I may?”

Angeilin nodded slightly. “I'd appreciate the company.”

They walked down the street several blocks, until they came to the main road. They followed that for several blocks as well, and then took the turn to go to House Neram.

“I hope we can catch him!” Angeilin said and tried to walk faster.

“Ma'am, you shouldn't push yourself too hard.” The guard said.

“Are you saying I can't do it?”

“No, Ma'am. I'm saying you'll be too exhausted to talk, if you rush.”

She sighed and nodded slightly. “You're right. We'll get there when we get there.”

Just then, they heard several carts approach from behind. They stopped walking and turned around to see 12 carts being pulled by ponies, coming up the road. The lead cart slowed down and the others passed it.

“Are you headed to House Neram?” The female driver asked. There was a woman beside her and a woman in the back.

“How did you know?” Angeilin asked.

The driver laughed. “There's nothing else out this way.”

“Oh.”

“Hop in. I'll give you a lift.”

“Thank you.” Angeilin and the guard said together, and he helped her climb up into the back.

*

Ren had made several stacks of french toast, more than enough for all of Barnar's workers. If Ren's guess was right, some of them were going to need extra food this morning.

“I'll be right back.” He said and took several pieces of french toast out to Princess. “There you go.” He'd barely gotten his hand out of the way before she gobbled it down. Ren stood back and glared at her. “Hey, now!” He said sternly. “That wasn't nice.”

She bleated loudly and put her nose next to the bowl.

“No, I need to say something first.” Ren said and concentrated on his Command Aura. “I am not your servant. I am taking care of you because you are mine. You will treat me with respect.”

Princess ducked her head and huffed, then lay her head down next to the bowl. Ren took a deep breath and sighed. He stepped over to her and pat her neck.

“You're a big girl. You can eat without trying to take my hand off.”

She huffed and closed her eyes.

“Okay.” Ren said and stood up. “That's fine.” He walked over to the stable door. “I've been spoiling you a little too much, with all this great tasting food.” He said. “It's been more than you can handle, so I'll only give you what you need to eat from now on.” Ren opened the door and stepped out.

*BLEAT*

Ren turned around and looked at her. “What?”

Princess nodded and huffed, and pushed the bowl away with her nose.

“You'll be more careful from now on?”

She nodded and huffed again.

“Okay.” Ren said and went back over to the bowl. “If this happens again, I'll start treating you like an actual mount.” He said and looked her in the eye. “You won't like that.”

Princess shook her head and Ren dropped 3 more pieces of french toast in the bowl. He moved the bowl back to where she liked it, and Princess picked a piece up with her lips and chewed it slowly.

“I said you needed to be careful about biting me when I feed you.” Ren said. “Once you have it in front of you, you can eat it however you like.”

Princess sucked the piece into her mouth, swallowed, then jammed her face into the bowl.

“You won't enjoy it as much like that, though.” Ren said and left the stable. He heard several carts coming up the road and ran inside to tell Nathalia and her mother that he was going to be busy for a while. Nathalia kissed him and he ran back outside.

Feel like another ride, Teepo?

“Yeah!” Teepo said and climbed onto Ren's hand. Ren tossed Teepo up about 20 feet and Teepo confirmed that it was a mix of carts, both Barnar's and the rented ones.

Thanks, Teepo.

Ren unlocked the main gate, and left it open. The stonemason workers needed easy access, and he didn't want to stand there all day and have to keep unlocking it, just to let them inside. He went out to the main road and walked over to the road he'd made himself. As the carts passed, Ren greeted everyone. Some waved, some smiled, and one woman winked at him. The other woman in the cart smacked her in the back of the head. Ren tried not to smile as the last cart came by and he greeted the women. The cart came to a stop, however; and a guard from another House got out of the back, and he helped someone else climb down. Ren recognized her immediately and stepped over to her. He reached down for her hand and bent over it.

“Ma'am.” Ren said, let her hand go, and stood up straight. “It's a pleasure to see you again.”

Angeilin blushed slightly at his formal greeting and it made her forget what she wanted to say.

“Are you here because of my offer to your husband?”

“Yes. Yes, I am.” She said, trying to regain her composure.

Ren knelt on one knee so he could look her in the face without her having to constantly look up to him. “May I ask what you decided?”

Angeilin reached out her hand for Ren to take again.

“We accept.”
