Ren 'woke up' in the game, and looked at Nathalia. He'd only been out for an hour, so he still had about 8 hours left until morning. He shifted over a little bit to get closer to her, and she opened her eyes.

“Hey, beautiful.” Ren said.

“Hi.” Nathalia said, and her face flushed a little red at Ren's compliment. He held an arm up and she turned onto her side, moved in close, and cuddled into his chest. He half-hugged her again, just like he did before, and rested his hand on her hip. They both took in a deep breath and exhaled together.

“This feels so nice.” Nathalia said and looked up at Ren.

“It really does.” Ren said, cupped the side of her face with his other hand, and gently kissed her lips. Nathalia caressed his abdomen as the kiss went on a little longer than Ren had intended, then Little Ren made another appearance. The edge of her hand brushed the top of the bulge and Ren took in a breath through his nose. Nathalia broke the kiss and ducked her head down onto his chest, and stared at what she'd accidentally touched.

“G-goodnight, R-Ren.” Nathalia said in a slightly shaky voice.

“Goodnight, Nathalia.” Ren said, and smiled as he drifted off to sleep. The bulge stayed around for a while, and she looked at it the entire time. She tried to look at something else... anything else... but, her eyes were always drawn right back to it.

I have to resist. Nathalia thought. No matter how much I want to see it, I have to resist!  When the bulge eventually went away, she relaxed and sighed, then drifted off to sleep herself.

*

Dorcot was having a hard time trying to have a conversation with his wife. She'd always been a bit stubborn, and it was one of the qualities that had drawn him to her; but sometimes it got in the way, like now.

“Sugarplum! Please...”

“No! I won't hear another word!” She squeaked at him. “This is my House. I've lived here all my life. I've raised 3 children here, and 10 grandchildren! I won't turn my back on it now, just because someone is tempting you away by waving a few stones in front of your face.”

“Baby, please...” Dorcot pleaded.

“I said no!” She whirled around and pointed a finger in his face. Dorcot was over a foot taller than her, so that was quite an accomplishment. “And you're not allowed to accept the position, either.” She dropped her finger and put her hands on her hips. “I'm fine with you working there, but you aren't leaving my House.”

Dorcot knelt in front of her on one knee, and took one of the hands from her hip. “My little Lambchop.”

Angeilin couldn't stop herself from smiling, as Dorcot called her by the private nickname he only used when they were 'alone'.

“You know how I feel about that...” He said. “...but I've never asked you to try and change it, have I?”

She shook her head.

“I've sat by and watched your House take so much of your hard earned money all these years.” Dorcot said. “If you want to stay in this House, I won't argue with you about it.” He reached into his pocket and put 7 gold coins into her hand.

“What... what's this?!?”

“I did a job today.” Dorgot said and let the hand go, and she almost dropped it. “That's 35% of what I earned.”

“J-j-j-just for today?” Angeilin stammered.

He nodded and pulled out the 13 gold coins he had left. “Here's the rest of it.” He said and passed it to her. She had to cup her arms together to hold it all.

“By the gods!” She squeaked in shock.

“That's what I said after he offered me a job.”

“If you made this... every day...” She said. More than a month's wages in only a day!

“No, you're right. This is your House.” He said. “We'll stay.”

“But...”

Dorcot leaned over and gave his diminutive wife a passionate kiss. She dropped the pile of coins, and they clattered across the floor as she wrapped her arms around his neck. The two of them stayed that way for a couple of minutes, and then Dorcot broke the kiss.

“It's getting late.” He said. “Are you coming to bed?”

Angeilin nodded slightly. He hasn't kissed me like that in years!

Dorcot smiled at her, and picked Angeilin up in the classic 'princess carry', with a hand behind her back and one under her knees. She gave a squeaky 'yip' and hugged his neck tighter. He carried her into their tiny bedroom, which was in their tiny house, that sat on the tiny lot assigned by her House decades before. Dorcot closed the door with his foot, and squeaky giggles were heard a moment later.

The money that scattered across the floor had been completely forgotten.

*

Ren woke up in bed, and saw that Nathalia had draped herself across his chest. One arm had worked itself up under the one he was hugging her with, and her other arm had a good grip on his opposite shoulder. Half of her body was on top of him, and one of her legs was across both of his. Since she was wearing a dress, it was like he was covered in a blanket. Ren didn't move; mainly because it did feel really nice, and he didn't want to wake her up. That thought was short lived, however.

Nathalia's even breaths stopped, she took in a deep breath, then exhaled. She compressed all of her muscles at once, essentially giving Ren a full body hug, and then she sighed. Ren lifted his free arm and the one he had on her hip, and gave her a hug back. She froze for a moment and then lifted her head to look at him.

“Oh, you're awake.” Nathalia said and let his shoulder go, then pulled her leg back.

“What's wrong?” Ren asked.

“What?”

“Why are you pulling away?”

“I... I thought... well, I was practically laying on top of you.”

“Yeah, and?”

“You don't think that was a bit too much touching?” Nathalia asked, and then took a deep breath. “I mean, you were asleep, and I couldn't help myself, and I wanted to hug you, but you were laying down and I couldn't wrap my arms around you and I wanted to hold you close, so I-”

Ren chuckled. “Nathalia...” He said and held onto her. “Darling, it's okay.”

Nathalia looked at Ren in surprise. “R-really?” He called me Darling!

“We have some time before we have to get up.” Ren said. “Let me enjoy holding you close for just a little while longer.”

Nathalia beamed a smile and draped herself back over Ren and snuggled down. She took in another breath and sighed. “Thank you.”

Ren chuckled again, then ran a hand along the side of her face. “Nathalia, you don't have to thank me.” He said, and she looked up at him. “I think we're both getting more out of this, than either of us believes the other is getting.”

“What are you saying?”

“Lucy hurt me a lot when she left, and you were right there for me.” Ren said and cupped the side of her face. “I don't know what I would have done, if...” He shook his head. “No, I won't guess about that.” He said. “You gave me something to hold on to, when I thought I was losing everything.” He smiled. “And I grabbed on with both hands.” Ren gave Nathalia a quick kiss, and let her face go. “Thank you.”

“It was the same for me.” Nathalia said and smiled. “I'd met this great guy, got engaged, spent more time with him than any other man in my life, and then developed a great friendship. Then we had the engagement nullified, you saved the House, and then I was sent to a convent... and I wouldn't get to see you again for a whole year!” She said. “I was nearly heart-broken.” She sighed. “When you decided to escort me along the way, and told me you'd be right there for me the whole time, I... I went a little crazy I think.” Nathalia laughed. “Something came over me, and I took a chance on you... then when you actually said yes, I was over the moon!” She gave Ren a quick kiss. “Thank you.”

“We make quite the pair.” Ren said and smiled.

“We sure do.” Nathalia said, took Ren's hand and intertwined her fingers in his, then held on. He pulled their clasped hands up onto his chest and held them over his heart. Nathalia ducked her head down onto Ren's chest, and snuggled into him. They both took deep breaths and exhaled together.

*

Dorcot was making breakfast for his wife. It was only eggs and toast, but at least they had enough money now so that things weren't so tight. If they rationed it out, they'd have a really good month before they had to go back and scrape out a living on her paycheck alone. Angeilin opened the bedroom door and came out to the kitchen. She sat down at the table and rested her head on her crossed arms.

“I'm still exhausted.” Angeilin yawned. “I didn't get a lot of sleep last night.”

Dorcot put a plate of eggs and toast on the table in front of her, and her eyes widened.

“What's this?” She asked, surprised.

“I couldn't sleep myself, so I got up early and made you breakfast.” Dorcot said, and sat across from her to eat. “We've got a bit of extra money right now, so I might head over to the farm and pick up a few things.”

Angeilin sat up straight and dug into the food, then froze. “The money!” She looked frantically over the floor but couldn't see anything.

Dorcot laughed. “I picked it up already.” He said and put 7 gold coins on the table. “You better take that to the Main House before... ah... it get's dropped again.”

Angeilin blushed a deep red and nodded slightly. She tucked the money into her pocket and looked at her husband. “What came over you last night?” She asked and kept eating.

“I don't know.” Dorcot shrugged. “I was really happy, and when I took your hand and got close to you, I just...” He smiled. “...I couldn't help myself.”

Angeilin smiled and ducked her head a little. They finished eating breakfast and Dorcot cleared away the dishes.

“Dorcot.”

“Yes, Sugarplum?” Dorcot asked as he started washing the dishes from the night before.

“Will you be stopping by House Neram while you're out today?”

“I am.”

“Good.” She said and hopped out of the chair. If he makes as much today as he did yesterday...

“I was supposed to go back last night to give him my answer.” Dorcot said.

“What are you going to say?”

“No, of course.”

“But...”

“Honey, you're right. You won't leave, and I can't go without you.”

“But, the job...”

“You know why I won't work for anyone else.” He said, stopped washing the dishes, and turned around. “Look at your pockets. They're overflowing... and you have to give the House a week and a half's worth of wages, just because you aren't working for them.” Dorcot sighed. “I was tempted to just keep it myself and not tell you; but I've never hidden anything from you for the whole time we've been together, and I wasn't going to start now.”

“Dorcot... do it just for a week... and then-”

“Then what?” He said and walked over to her, and knelt. “Let's assume I get paid 20 gold a day for the next 6 days. That's 120 gold, Angeilin... and the House will get 42 of that. 42!” He said and raised his hands in the air for a second, then looked her in the eyes. “I'm not a greedy man. When I was making a lot of money, I didn't think twice about giving money to the House.” Dorcot took her hand and smiled. “But when I lost my job, did they help us out? Did they help me find a job? Did they give you one?”

“There weren't any jobs available, Dorcot.” Angeilin tried to defend her House.

“For 20 years?”

Angeilin sighed.

“I'm tired of the House bleeding us dry, for no reason other than they can.” Dorcot said.

“And I'm tired of hearing this old argument.” She said.

“I know.”

“I have to get to work.” Angeilin slowly pulled her hand from Dorcot's grasp. “I'll see you tonight.”

“Of course, Sugarplum.” He said and gave her a kiss. “I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Angeilin said and left the tiny house. She walked down the street several blocks to the Main House, to drop off the garnished wages.

*

“Hey, Ren. It's almost time.” Teepo said. “I was just in the kitchen, and Narhilda is reheating the stew.”

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought, then rubbed Nathalia's back a little. “Time to get up.”

Nathalia wiggled a little and cuddled closer.

“If you don't want to eat stew for breakfast, you need to let me up.”

Nathalia lifted her head and smiled at him. “Why should I care what I eat, when I have you like this?”

“You have me locked up pretty tight.” Ren said and smiled. “But I have a key.”

“Oh, really?” Nathalia said and gave him a kiss. “What exactly is this ke-eeeahhH!”

Ren had pinched her butt.

Nathalia jumped up and rolled over Ren to his other side, and let his hand go. “Ren!” She said, faced towards him, and rubbed a hand on her backside. “You didn't have to pinch me.”

Ren slid close to her and smiled. “I gave you fair warning.” He said and gave her a quick kiss. “Let me help you with that.” Ren reached for where he'd pinched her. “I'm sorry if it hurt.” He gently ran his hand in slow circles over her cheek and she closed her eyes.

Ren took that opportunity to lean in and nuzzle her neck. Nathalia giggled and he moved up to her earlobe.

“Mmmm....” Nathalia said and hugged Ren with one hand, then ran her other hand through his hair.

“You're doing a great job making breakfast.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Ren stopped nuzzling her ear and leaned back. “I want to make french toast for breakfast.”

“Why didn't you say so!” Nathalia gave him a quick kiss and pushed him away. She rolled of the bed and stood up. “What are you waiting for? Get up, mister!”

Ren laughed and rolled off the bed to stand up himself, and Nathalia practically dragged him into the kitchen.

“Stop whatever you're doing, Ma.” Nathalia said and grinned. “Ren's making french toast.”

“Ooo.” Narhilda said and smiled as she stepped away from the stove. “Have at it.”

Ren shook his head as Narhilda joined her daughter at the kitchen table and he set everything up to cook one of their favorite breakfast dishes.

“I'm starting to regret that I showed you this on the ship, Nathalia.” He said and smiled.

She laughed and her mother joined in. “That's a lie.”

Ren grinned and winked at her. A short time later, he had several pieces done up and set them on the table.

“You've shown me how you do it, but I still can't get them as fluffy as you do.” Nathalia said. “These taste better, too.”

Ren laughed as he made a few more pieces of french toast. “They always taste better because you don't have to cook them.”

“That, too.” Nathalia said between mouthfuls.

*

“Okay, people. Load up.” Barnar said to his crew. Everyone had actually shown up on time. Some of them staggered a little, but that was to be expected. Barnar smiled. “Come on, the carts aren't going to load themselves!”

*

