Fa Xiaolan struggled to her feet, the hand she used to slow herself down now lacking fingertips. Blood covered her arms, feet and clothes, she looked like someone on the verge of death.

Yet, when she raised her gaze to look at Long Chen, there was nothing except an unyielding perseverance.

“Me? Marry you?” She coughed, this time spitting out a larger than normal amount of blood. Her gaze remained firm.

“Long Chen…” Fa Xiaolan said slowly, her pressure increasing as an ethereal flame burned in her eyes. “You’re still wet behind the ears!”

She screamed, her voice so booming it defend the weaker spectators for a moment, and her Phoenix joined in. It caught ablaze, the ethereal form it once had burning into a corporeal form that made the Thunderous Dragon roar in pain.

However, it didn’t let go. His master, Long Chen, did not allow him.

Yet, the man himself was also shocked, as two thick, large fire whips wrapped around his mid section and chest faster than he could blink. Fa Xiaolan held them tight, and they gripped him even tighter, rendering his attempt to struggle futile.

The once dead sea of fire on the ground came to life, all the flames that once filled the area concentrating at Long Chen’s feet. His clothes and normal jewelery disintegrated into ash in less than an instant, and the mental shock he sustained left him vulnerable.

Grrroar!

The dragon high above groaned and let go of the Phoenix, retreating behind his master, trying with futility to undo the whips.

“I think the winner has been decided.” Fairy Xiulang said, a proud smile hiding behind her fan.

Old Yang shook his head, looking at his direct disciple with pity. “If he hadn’t held back, would the result have been so?”

“That’s his weakness. He took pity on the ‘weak’ Fa Xiaolan and didn’t go all out from the start. He didn’t respect his opponent, and so he failed.”

“He can’t be blamed entirely for this matter. I am curious, how did your disciple grow in strength so suddenly?”

Hearing that question, Fairy Xiulang’s mood darkened. “Such matters are not to be spoke with to outsiders.”

“Am I really an outsider? Fairy Xiulang, we’ve known each other for a thousand years, your secrets are my secrets, and likewise.”

“Hmph, old Yang, your tongue is sharp and words are sweet, but would you tell me how your disciple managed to manifest such a corpoeal Phantom Beast?”

“That—” He wanted to argue, but the Phoenix’ scream from the arena below caught him off guard.

Fa Xiolan was pulling on the whips, her muscles tightening as she increased the amount of Qi poured into them. The Phoenix, on the other hand, dove from the sky toward Long Chen, but the dragon rushed out to intercept it.

However, Long Chen was helpless to do anything, with both arms restrained and Phantom Beast forced to defend, he could only endure the melting of his skin.

“This is a bit of a dirty trick, isn’t it?” He groaned, trying to free himself, but the whips tightened further, his blood boiling. However, he didn’t look panicked.

Fa Xiaolan remained silent.

A smirk creased Long Chen’s lips, his muscles tightening and thunder crackling along his skin. A horn appeared on his forehead, similarly crackling with lighting. Once that happened, all it took was a few thugs and the fire whips snapped.

Fa Xiaolan stepped backward, sweat drenching her forehead.

“You should have given up.” Long Chen said, his right hand— now turned into a claw— channelling powerful lighting attack.

Fa Xiaolan heaved a sigh and weaved a series of hand signs. The Phoenix returned to her, disappearing into her body. In almost that same instant, a pair of fiery wings appeared on her back, and she didn’t hesitate to lunge at the Long Chen, who was watching the scene with increluity.

It took a long time to describe, but the entire transformation and the attack happened than in less time than it takes a spark to fly off a piece of flint.

By the time Long Chen reacted, Fa Xiaolan was already upon him, fiery claw driving through his abdomen, barely missing his dantian.

“I, Fa Xiaolan, will never give up!” She declared even as blood poured out through her cracking skin, and her wings disappeared into faint traces of ember.
