She let out a painful yip and rolled on the roof, avoiding the volley of arrows rushing toward her like hungry vipers. Slapping her bag of holding, she took out a blood-red pill which she quickly ingested, and the wound on her shoulder began to visibly heal.

She jumped to her feet and her sword shone with a brilliant pink-colored Qi, and after crouching and dodging another wave of arrows, she slashed horizontally, sending a large wave of Qi toward the man.

Shang Hue was aware that it wouldn’t do much offensively, but the man didn’t know that. The color of the also hid her own movement technique, so she rushed toward the assassin alongside it.

Invisible to the eye and to the Divine Sense, she was once again upon the man, who was busy raising defenses against the useless Qi Wave. He hadn’t noticed Shang Hue, and by the time he did, it was far too late.

Her sword sung down, and he dodged a fatal strike by a hair’s breadth, raising his spear to block the incoming slash. Sparks flew as metal met metal, but even so, Shang Hue was pressing on the sword with all her strength and weight, while the man was forced to defend.

Shang Hue’s Divine Sense informed her that more arrows had been shot, and he had less than a second to decide what she would do. Dodge, or continue attacking?

She smirked, and chose the latter.

“Butterfly Sovereign first form, Shapeless Wings.”

“Huh? What? You-”

Before the man could continue his sentence, the sword exploded in his face, and Shang Hue had angeled herself so the explosion would blow her away perfectly away from the arrows. One grazed her shoulder and the other embedded itself into her back, but besides that she’d avoided the brunt of the attack.

The rest of the arrows thumped in a muffled kind of way as they hit whatever remained of the large assassin. If the explosion hadn’t killed him, the wounds would have, and if that wasn’t fast enough, then the arrows of his friends finished the job for her.

She found it regretable, though, that she’d lost yet another sword. They weren’t the cheap kind, so her father would definetely be angry.

When Shang Hue looked at the rest of the assassin, they’d already left, leaving behind the two wounded ones and the corpse of their leader. That worked out fine for her since she’d ran out of Qi with that last attack.

But they didn’t know that.

“How interesting.” She laughed as they disappeared from her
