He sat up, then dusted himself free of snow. “Sorry, it was just such a perfect setup. That was too cheesy to resist.” He smiled. “I meant it, though. You do make me happy.”

Ameliah snorted. “You make me happy too. You’re also annoying.”

Rain chuckled, leaning against the rock from his position on the ground. “I’m not upset about losing the vote because it means people are willing to stand up to me.”

“And that’s good?”

Rain snorted. “Of course it’s good. I barely know what I’m doing, Ameliah. I want people to challenge me. They should.” He smiled. “I’ve only been here for like three months. It seems like a lifetime, but there’s just so much I don’t know. I’ve been trying to model the company after examples from my own world, but I’m realizing that people aren’t…ready?” He shook his head. “No, that sounds condescending. Um…”

“I get it,” Ameliah said, resting her hand on his shoulder. “Would you go back? If you could?”

Rain shook his head vehemently. “No way.”

“What if I came with you?”

Rain smiled. “Now that would be something. Just the look on your face when you saw a city…” He chuckled, then shook his head. “Maybe just to visit. I don’t think magic would work there, and without it, I’m nothing.”

“No, you’re not,” Ameliah said. “Don’t say things like that.”

Rain began to reply, but the words froze on his tongue. His automated Detection macro had gotten a hit on the threat list, which included monsters, people he didn’t know, and a few people that he did. Quickly, he ran through the identification sequence.

Human? Human that I know? The Crimson Swords? Balls.

Rain stood up, looking in the direction of the signal. “Ameliah, Hegar and his friends are coming.”

“Shit,” she said, standing as well. She looked back at the camp, then at him. “Do you want to meet them here?”

Rain nodded, lowering his voice to a whisper. “Can you Message Vanna, please? I want her to get Lana out of sight first, then get the camp ready for scenario two. Everyone is to stay back for now.”

Ameliah didn’t reply immediately, staring in toward the walls. A few seconds later, she looked back at him, then began signing in hand code. “Done. I’ll warn Tallheart too and ask him to hurry back. I’m sure I can handle them, but I’d still feel better with him here.”

“Good,” Rain signed back with one hand, fumbling with his helmet with the other. He managed to get it undone from his belt, then slipped it on. This accomplished, he concentrated, not on the system’s interface, but on the layer he’d been steadily constructing on top of it.

macroset combat_default -v

Default Combat Posture

Stat boost available: 193/173

Base State

Strength: 40/40

Endurance: 20/20

Clarity: Remainder, 133/167

Winter: Active

Mana Manipulation: Inactive

Precepts

Offensive Aura safeties disabled

Detection macro active

Combat HUD activated

Skill cards activated

Focus Boost

Auto Trigger: Focus-scaling aura use

Focus is prioritized up to tolerance + 20

Points are taken first from Clarity, then evenly from Strength and Endurance, provided that health and stamina will not be impacted

Strength Boost

Keyword Trigger: Strength

Strength is prioritized up to tolerance

Points are taken from Clarity only

Defense Boost

Keyword Trigger: Defense

Endurance is prioritized up to tolerance + 20

Points are taken from Clarity only

Cur

Max

Health

1,549

2,000

Armor

13,338

13,338

Saturation

0

13,202

Stamina

347

600

Mana

8,092

8,092

He glanced briefly at the reminder window that described the macro set, then brushed it aside, leaving just his HUD. He signed to Ameliah again urgently. “Heal me for five hundred, please.”

Wordlessly, Ameliah grabbed his hand, and health rushed into him, bringing him up to maximum.

“Thanks,” Rain signaled, adjusting his cloak to conceal his sword and using Essence Well to repay her the mana she’d spent and then some. A window appeared, but he didn’t even look at it. Ameliah indicated that she was full, and he stopped, Essence Well’s card disappearing automatically as Winter returned.

Theoretically, Rain could have asked her to fill his stamina as well, but that was a transfer, not a conversion. He had no way to help her replace it, and if things went to shit, she’d need stamina more than he would. Besides, there was no time.

Hegar rounded the hill that had been blocking him from sight. “Flaming… Gah!” he shouted, drawing his rapier in a blur.

Reflexively, Rain activated Force Ward.

Force Ward (10/10)

Channel: 100%

Compression: 13 meters

Increase physical resistance by 68.04% for all entities

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 1 mp/dmg mitigated

“You were right, Gar,” Anton said, following Hegar into view. “They knew we were coming.”

“Hello,” Brovose said mildly, nodding to them. “How did you detect us? Was it Scrying Pool? Piercing Gaze? Danger Sense?”

Rain glanced at Ameliah out of the corner of his visor, but her face was a mask. He looked back at Hegar and frowned, ignoring Brovose entirely. Hegar was the one pointing a weapon at them. “Why are you here?”

“I’m here for what’s mine,” Hegar said, not lowering his sword.

Rain sensed Ameliah shift beside him. He adjusted Force Ward up by another ten percent, then shook his head. “She doesn’t belong to you. She doesn’t belong to anyone.”

“I…” Hegar began, then paused. “What? Oh, Lana. Her too, obviously. I meant the crack.” He swished his sword, gesturing toward it. “It’s ours.”

“No, it isn’t,” Ameliah said, her voice like ice. “Leave.”

Rain winced. Don’t escalate!

“You dare?!” Hegar gasped, lowering his arm. Anton was grinning like a shark, twirling an arrow between his fingers.

Brovose merely yawned.

Hegar snapped his sword back up, pointing at Rain faster than he could react. “I challenge you to a duel! Winner gets the crack and the girl! Loser leaves Vestvall for good!”

[Don’t do anything,] Ameliah said, using Message to send the silent words straight into Rain’s mind. [Let me handle this.]

She stepped forward, and Hegar grinned, shifting his sword to point at her. “So, you accept?”

Ameliah shook her head. “No. There will be no duel. Leave.”

“No duel?” Hegar asked, twirling his rapier in an elaborate flourish before spreading his arms in a mocking gesture. “Are you afraid?”

“No,” Ameliah said coldly.

“I told you this was the wrong way to handle things, Hegar,” Brovose said mildly. “Though I don’t know why I bothered.”

Hegar whirled on him. “Shut up! I’m the one who talks!”

“Let’s deal, then,” Anton said, ignoring Hegar’s spluttering. “We can both get what we want. We’ll delve together. You get the blues, and we get the rest. All of it. Anything of value.”

Ameliah glanced at Rain. [I don’t trust them, and I wouldn’t want to work with them even if I did. What do you think?]

Rain shook his head, addressing Anton. “No. That won’t work for us.”

“Why not?” Brovose asked, sounding curious.

Rain frowned but didn’t reply. One, Ameliah doesn’t trust you. Two, I don’t trust you either. Three, you’re assholes. Four, we don’t need you. Five, blues are rare, and there’s no guarantee we’ll even find one. Six… I don’t need a six. You don’t need to do the math to know it’s a shit deal.

“Leave,” Ameliah said. “Final warning.”

Rain looked at her uneasily. I know she told me to let her handle this, but…

“This is a violation of Guild law,” Hegar snarled. “You have no right!”

“It isn’t a violation, and even if it were, the Guild has nothing to do with this,” Ameliah said icily. “This is about what you did to Lana, as well as Stint and the people of Vestvall.”

“What the hells are you talking about, woman?” Hegar demanded. “We haven’t done anything!”

“Five,” Ameliah said.

Rain shifted closer to her uneasily. I hope you know what you’re doing…

Anton tilted his head. “Five what?”

“Four,” Ameliah said. A tremor ran through the ground. She’d used Stoneset, transforming the earth beneath their feet temporarily. [If they strike first, don’t hold back. They won’t. And to be clear, I’m not bluffing.]

“Ah, I get it. So you’ll duel after all!” Hegar said, taking a stance. He gestured at the circle of stone, barely visible beneath the snow. “So nice of you to make us an arena.”

Ameliah shook her head. “No, not a duel. Three.” [They’ll expect us to attack on one, not zero. I’m going to need your help. I’m not sure I can hold them off until Tallheart gets here.]

Hegar had replied while Ameliah had been speaking, but Rain had been too focused on her words to hear a thing he’d said. It was all he could do to keep the panic he was feeling from showing on his face.

“Two.” Ameliah’s voice had become strained—not from exertion, Rain realized, but from anger.

[Rain, I know you won’t think this is necessary, but I’m telling you, it is. If we can’t intimidate them, we’ll have to fight, and fight for real. Even if they leave, they’ll probably just come back when we’re not expecting them, or when we’re not here to protect the others.]

The rock that they’d been using as a chair tore itself free from the newly-hardened ground, sending gravel skittering across the snow. It was larger than he’d thought, about the size of a refrigerator, with more than half of it having been hidden below the surface.

“Everyone, calm down!” Brovose said urgently, cutting off Hegar in the midst of his angry ranting. The red-haired mage had taken a step back and was pointing at the hovering boulder. “That’s Stone Balance. It’s tier-two, but boosted somehow. The amount of power she’s showing is dangerous, Gar. She’s serious about this.”

“Good,” Hegar said, grinning and taking a duelist’s stance. “I’m serious too.“

“One.”

“Ameliah, no!” Rain shouted, whipping his head around to stare at Ameliah. He threw out his arm, intent on placing a hand between her and Hegar.

He was nowhere near fast enough, only beginning the motion as three things happened all at once, accompanied by a rumble of shifting earth.

First, Ameliah jumped. She flew toward the hovering stone, and it began moving ever so slightly to meet her—Rock Pull, drawing them together proportional to their masses.

Second, Anton’s arrow hammered into the side of Rain’s head. His mana dropped, and the force of the impact sent him spinning to the ground. He hit the stone surface, hard. His head rebounded, though the Forceweave padding absorbed the worst of the blow.

His new position allowed him to see the third thing that had happened—also the source of the rumbling sound. Between him and the Crimson Swords was a wall of mud taller than a house. Ameliah must have summoned it at the same time she’d pulled herself away. There was a hole in the wall like an exit wound where Anton’s arrow had blasted straight through.

“HAAAA!” Ameliah shouted, soaring over the boulder. She sling-shotted around it like a comet dive-bombing the sun, tracing a hand along its surface. A trail of orange light followed her fingers, and Rain’s eyes widened, shaking him out of his daze. Rockbomb.

Ameliah’s feet hit the ground before the boulder did, and she dropped straight into a wide squat. She punched out with both hands, and the enormous stone blasted forward, headed straight for where Hegar and the others had been standing. There was a thud of impact as it smashed its way through the wall of mud, but no explosion. Rockbomb took a few seconds to activate fully, and it hadn’t been nearly that long.

Rain cursed, scrambling back from the expected detonation, but it didn’t come. There was a flash of blue light from the other side of the wall, then a brighter flash of orange, but no sound.

What?

As Rain got back to his feet, Ameliah leapt through the hole in the wall, corkscrewing through the air. Rain reached out, perhaps to try to stop her, he wasn’t sure, but she was already through. He didn’t have time to consider whether he should follow, as a flicker of motion had brought his gaze to the top of the wall.

Hegar was standing there, pointing his rapier at him in challenge.

“Draw your sword, Swordmage!” Hegar shouted.

Another hole exploded in the wall, and a second arrow hit Rain in the face, not even a centimeter below the eye slit of his helmet. His head snapped back, and he fell, Force Ward consuming a few hundred more points of mana. With the Hardness rune active, his armor could withstand up to eight hundred and four physical damage without being harmed. The aura had taken up the slack, the system apparently having decided that his armor’s integrity was more important than his mana reserves.

“Damn it, Skinner!” Hegar shouted over his shoulder as Rain pushed himself up into a sitting position. “I want to duel him one-on—ahh!”

Hegar was blasted off the wall. Ameliah had thrown a Stone Spear, and it had drilled into his back, sending him flying before spinning away on a slightly different trajectory.

[Keep him busy,] Ameliah said. [I’ve got the other two.]

Rain sat up, spotting one of Anton’s arrows lying on the ground in front of him. The tip had been blunted by the impact with his helmet. He raised a hand to his faceplate in stunned horror. If that had been a centimeter higher…

“Damn it!” Hegar said, dusting himself off. He stretched, rubbing at his back, before turning to look at Rain. “Hey, what’s wrong with you? Don’t tell me Skinner actually got you with that cheap shot. Come on! On your feet and draw!”

Rain forced himself to look away from the arrow. Force Ward would have stopped it; it would have just cost more mana. Fuck, if not for that Mud Wall... He shook his head, getting to his feet. Focus on the problem in front of you. Worry about how you almost died again later.

“There we go,” Hegar purred roughly, falling into a dueling stance. “Come at me.”

Rain raised a finger, signaling him to wait. The earth shook, and there was grinding of stone-on-stone from beyond the wall, but he forced himself to ignore it. Ameliah will be fine. She’s silver; they’re not.

He cleared his throat. “Ruleset?” She told me to keep him busy, so I’ll keep him busy.

Hegar laughed, swishing his blade. “How traditional? Let’s see. We’ve got the ring, so… Osaran?”

Rain tilted his head as if considering, waiting for as long as he dared. “Osaran rules…” he finally said, speaking slowly. “That would mean one on one. To incapacitation, surrender, or ring-out. To be clear, that means non-lethal.”

Hegar grinned. “No it doesn’t. What would be the fun in that? A dead body is pretty damn incapacitated.”

