“Yes Teacher.” How does one find Spiritual Plants the old fashioned way? Putting the question aside for after I get back, I grab Unity and step into the water, sinking faster than expected with the extra twenty-kilogram weight. Ready and waiting for my arrival, Ping Ping squeaks in joy as I paddle over to meet her. She’s a real sweetheart, always keeping a good distance from the skiff. She’s probably worried about overturning it or something, which means she’s more courteous and considerate than probably 90% of nobles in the Empire.

Having recently discovered how annoying carrying something around can be, I elect to climb onto Ping Ping’s shell instead of letting her hold me in her arm. Glancing back to check if I’m ready, Ping Ping dives down with unbridled glee, hurtling through the water so fast I almost lose my grip. Reaching the bottom in an instant, the giant turtle waves her legs to disturb the sandy sea floor and snaps up a hidden creature, a large, burrowed fish of some sort. Bringing it back to the surface, she gobbles up her meal in dainty little chomps, taking her time to relish the taste as I laugh on her shell. There’s nothing like catching a ride through the bay on Ping Ping, feeling the surge of water rushing past your face and the pressure building up in your ears as thousands of kilograms of water crushes you in its embrace, and then... she surfaces and you’re free of it all, gulping down lungfuls of air as the warm sun shines on your skin, giddy with relief and euphoria.

It’s almost enough to make me forget my problems. Almost.

After a few more trips to the bay floor, it becomes apparent Ping Ping is just having fun, her belly full and mood playful as she shows me her undersea world. Saddened to put an end to her fun, I pat her neck and point at the skiff, indicating it’s time to head back. Spiralling around in protest, she heads for the boat at a slow, underwater glide, moping like a child as play time comes to an end. Using Aura to console her, I mentally make note to bring her out more in the days to come, because she deserves to have fun too. It can’t be easy lugging around all that weight on land, and I bet she feels three times lighter in the water.

Immersed in my thoughts as we drift towards the skiff from below, a small flash of movement catches my eye. It’s so minor I almost miss it, but as Ping Ping meanders closer and closer, the movements become more pronounced. It’s as if a piece of the boat was fluid and slowly oozing away as we approach, trying to keep the bulk of the boat between us. Curiosity piqued, I use Ping Ping as a springboard and swim over to the fluid patch, keeping a respectable distance between us. The patch stills and blends into the skiff’s siding, so well hidden I’m almost certain it’ll disappear if I even blink. Using the butte of my new weapon, I give the strange patch a gentle poke -

-And almost shit myself when it comes to life in spray of darkness and tentacles.

Racing for the surface, I sputter and gasp while lifting whatever attacked me into the air, almost gutting myself on the sharp blade tip. Blinking the water out of my eyes, I identify my attacker as a brown, spotted tentacled-miscreation about the size of a pumpkin, all soft and gooey as it attempts to rip my weapon apart. Luckily, Unity has been bound and is almost indestructible, but even if it weren’t, this pint-sized octopus poses no threat. Drawn by my flailing movements, Ping Ping circles around the skiff to see if I’m okay, her eyes fixating on the creature stuck to the end of my weapon. Opening her mouth, she fires out a ball of water and stuns the beast unconscious with a single shot. Dropping with a splash, the creature floats in place, rendered motionless and defenceless by Ping Ping’s might.

Inwardly shuddering at the ugly, tentacled horror, I prod it a few more times before I’m certain it won’t attack. Might as well give it to Ping Ping for a snack. “Wait,” Taduk yells, leaning dangerously over the side of the skiff to inspect the octopus. “Give it here.”

Following his gestures, I see Mama Bun struggling to get out of Guard Leader’s embrace, eagerly eyeing the floating octopus. “Uhh... Teacher, this isn’t a mobile plant, it’s an octopus...”

“Don’t be silly, I know it’s not a plant. Bring it up here so I can take a look,” Taduk says, reaching his grabby hands like a child for a toy.

Reluctant to touch the gross, slimy creature, I swallow my revulsion and lift it out of the water, warning my teacher to be careful. “I don’t think it’s dead yet, but if we keep it out of water long enough, it will be soon enough.”

With a non-committal grunt, Taduk drags the octopus into the skiff and Mama Bun explodes into a flurry of motion. Slipping out of Guard Leader’s grasp, the long-eared floof tackles the poor unconscious octopus and dives into the tangle of tentacles to root about for her long awaited prize. Much to her dismay, Taduk is one step ahead of her and fishes out a fuzzy green stone a little larger than his fist and holds it up high with a rousing cry of victory. Unwilling to capitulate, Mama Bun leaps into the air after it, her silky white fur stained in black ink and slime while her teeth chomp with unrestrained hunger.

Ewie... she’s gonna stink like octopus for days...

Chapter Meme
