And so passed the worst day of Dastan’s life, which he spent envying his dead comrades who’d been brave enough to leave everything behind, but in time, their deaths became one of his greatest regrets, for the next day proved to be a new beginning. From then on, he was no longer Dastan Zhandos, Warrant Officer and promising young Talent, and instead, he became Dastan Zhandos, Oath-bound slave of Falling Rain, which in the long run, proved to be more boon than burden. Though he found it difficult to trust the ‘tribal savage’ at first, it wasn’t long before Dastan realized just how fortunate he was to be fighting alongside Falling Rain, and not just because of his success. Today, you would be hard pressed to find a single soul in all the Empire who didn’t know his name, the brilliant young dragon who rose up from obscurity to become the undisputed number one young Talent of the Empire and eventually Legate of the Outer Provinces. Honour, nobility, intelligence, and cunning, these were the traits most associated with Falling Rain, but what most never realized was how compassionate a man he truly was. This was a man who pouted every time he saw chickens in cages or goats being led to the slaughter, or frowned and reached into his purse if he came across a child begging in the streets, and Dastan counted it as his greatest honour to fight alongside a friend like him.

Being Falling Rain’s slave was no punishment at all, but rather a chance to serve a great man and help see his vision through to completion. For this reason alone, Dastan refused to go through with shattering his Core even though he knew it would free him from his Oaths. Rain would never lie to him, not about something like this, but even though there was a time when Dastan would have given anything to be free of his constraints, he’d come to find that they were not so restricting after all. Outside of military orders, Rain only rarely ever gave Dastan a direct command, and usually only because he didn’t word his request carefully enough. In spite of his Oaths, Dastan had more freedom than ever before, because there was almost nothing Rain would deny him. Even as a Warrant Officer and the rising star of the Coalition, they demanded more from Dastan than Rain ever did. If he were awake and present here in the heart of Pan Si Xing, and Dastan expressed a desire to return home to see his parents back in the North, Rain would make it happen as quickly as he could. Not because he felt guilty for being a slave-master, or because he pitied Dastan’s circumstances, both of which were true, but because that was the sort of man Rain was, always willing to put in that extra effort to ensure that no one was fighting against their will. So much had changed in the last three years, and now Dastan hardly even noticed the weight of his Oaths anymore, because he knew down to the very core of his being that Rain would never use those Oaths to restrict him, which in turn meant Dastan never had to worry about failing to uphold them.

In light of all this, he saw no point in divesting himself of his Oaths, not at the steep cost of his Spiritual Weapon and Martial progress. The rest of his retinue felt the same, and not a single one of them accepted Rain’s offer to free them. There were only seven of them left from the original forty-nine who swore their slave Oaths in Sanshu, but none of them harboured any regrets. There was trustworthy Sahb, Dastan’s good friend since they met on their first day of training and someone who made up for his lacking talent with hard work and dedication. The hulking giant Balta, whose massive size belied his gentle and protective temperament, a man who never enjoyed killing and always put others first on the field of battle, for which he bore more than his fair share of scars to show for it. Fiery, cantankerous Saida, the prickly flower of his retinue with admirers aplenty, except she enjoyed chasing skirts more than most men. That didn’t make her any less stalwart or loyal than a man however, and Dastan knew that if she wasn’t the last person standing in a fight, it was only because she was too injured to keep standing. Then there was Camsul, a thin, wiry man who reminded Dastan of a whip, long, slender, and deceptively dangerous in the right situation. Though there were better fighters and duellists aplenty, Camsul still held the retinue record for most Chieftains slain in a single battle, a record he never spoke of yet bristled with pride whenever someone else brought it up. Last, but not least, were Rithy and Khin, twin brothers and orphans who once thought themselves lucky for securing a place in the Coalition’s training program, and now knew they were blessed by the Heavens because fate brought them to serve under Falling Rain. They were a quiet pair, and never were the best or brightest of the bunch, but they were loyal, steadfast, and hardworking to a fault, so Dastan could hardly ask for more.

All six of his comrades stood at his side as they waited in the dark tunnels beneath Pan Si Xing, and like Dastan, they were all eager for the fighting to begin. This was the only way they could ever repay Rain for all that he’d done for them, even if he would be the first person to claim they owed him nothing. As if the Heavens had heard his appeal, shouts sounded from the other side of the wall followed by the unmistakable din of combat, so Dastan secured his shield and hefted his axe in preparation of a bloody fight. Extensive as the underground network of tunnels might be, there were only a select few locations suitable to deploy more than a handful of soldiers at a time, but the last thing the Imperials wanted was to get stuck fighting in the tunnels below. It would be far too easy for the Defiled to bring the roof down on them from above, or worse, find their way into the tunnels through a different entrance to attack the Imperials from the rear, so to this end, Hongji had assigned each retinue a group of forward scouts who were meant to infiltrate the city from a less obvious tunnel entrance and help secure the selected deployment zones. Clearly the scouts attached to Jorani’s retinue had been discovered before they could secure this particular deployment zone, and Dastan knew there was only one move to make from here.

“Welp,” Jorani said, his voice startlingly loud in the dark confines of the tunnel below. “Guess we’re doin’ things the hard way. Ral, smash us a hole in the wall, will ye? The one right in front of ye. No, not to the right, right in front, the direction I’m pushin’ ye towards. Stop turning, and just swing, will ye?”

“Sorry Jor.” The bashful apology would have been laughable if not for the earth-shaking blow that followed, one that brought down the wall and flooded the tunnels with dust and flickering lantern-light which illuminated the Runic-Armoured behemoth of a half-dog as he wound up for his second swing. The staff hummed and rocks crumbled as the weapon demolished everything in its path, and Dastan didn’t wait for his orders before charging out to support his allies, for the light and dust brought with it the metallic tang of blood in the air, which meant there was no time to waste. Though he moved without uttering a word, he did so in full confidence knowing that his comrades would be right there beside him, moving as if directed by one mind. Inside the cellar proper was Ravil and his scouts, standing over the corpses of three Defiled who’d managed to raise the alarm, but Dastan paid them no attention. Instead, he rushed up the stairs and into the building proper to secure the front door, which he arrived at just as the first band of curious tribesmen poked their heads in to see what all the fuss was about. His axe swept through the throat of the first Defiled through, but rather than charge out into the streets, Dastan stepped back to give his foes just enough room to come into the barracks proper where he’d have more room to swing his axe without fear of getting swarmed from all sides. While he did this, his people moved to block the other exits and even the staircase up in case there were more threats lingering above, but for now, Dastan was all on his own.

Hardly an issue for a Domain-Capable Expert like himself, and he dispatched the next two tribesmen who tried to push through with laughable ease. Then, the weight of numbers became too much to hold back as two became five, then seven and more as tribesmen pushed their way into the room to meet their bloody end. There was no need for guile or finesse here, and Dastan treated his work like chopping logs as they rolled downhill towards him, hardly a logical way to procure firewood, but a challenge he relished nonetheless. Despite giving ground with each passing second, he wasted no movements as he fought the good fight and killed the Enemy as they came. As his left foot stepped back, his right foot scythed across to catch the ankle of an advancing tribesman. Though not enough to topple his assailant, Dastan’s efforts bought him a half second of reprieve as his foe struggled to remain upright, a half second he used to pivot about on his back foot and safely bring his axe around in a wide, scything arc which caught the struggling tribesman in the throat and two of his closest allies in the shoulder and ribs respectively.

Three dead in one swing, but in the time it took to make his attack, five more Defiled had made their way into the room. Despite the present danger, Dastan couldn’t help but swell with pride at how cleanly he’d come away, his cheeks straining to contain his gleeful grin at how incredible his new skill proved to be. The steel of his axe hadn’t even touched the third assailant, but he’d long since mastered the Severing strike and recently even modified it to enhance his regular attacks. Rather than dispatch a blade of Honed Chi hurtling from his axe, Dastan could now keep that blade of Chi affixed to the weapon itself, extending out from the top-most point of his axe and adding an extra twelve centimetres of reach to his attacks. One centimetre longer equals one centimetre stronger, or so the saying went, though these days, most people used it in reference to a different weapon that every man carried in his trousers at all times. Mother knows Dastan himself had made the joke often enough, though Saida was always quick to point out that skill beat size ten times out of ten, which usually led to her challenging the men to a contest of amorous skill which few cared to take her up on, not after she emerged victorious against poor Tarsov and crippled his bedroom confidence.

Still grinning in spite of the odds stacked against him, Dastan relished the thrill of the fight and the privilege of going into battle with such stalwart allies beside him, and not just his comrades from the Coalition either. Just as the Enemy numbers grew too great for him to handle, Ral arrived in a ponderous fury as he cleared half the room with a single swing of his staff. There was nothing fancy about the half-dog’s attack, no clever use of Honing or well-timed Amplification, not even a basic push-pull hand movement to maximize the amount of force applied. No, for Ral, this one-handed swipe of his staff represented the pinnacle of his skills, a well-telegraphed attack the Enemy should have easily blocked. Did block, in fact, as the first tribesman in line had his sword raised and braced to do just that, but Ral put so much raw power into the swing that even the fifth and final Defiled in line died on impact despite having four relatively soft bodies dampening the blow.

And then Ral wound up his staff and unleashed a second, similar sweeping strike, clearing the rest of the room of every tribesman that’d made their way in thus far.

“Good job Ral,” Dastan called, flashing a feral grin as the next tribesman at the door hesitated to push in. “Hang back a bit until more of them come in, got it?”

It was always best to pose commands as a question when speaking to Ral, because if you didn’t, he wouldn’t ask for clarification if he didn’t understand. This time however, Ral simply responded with a cheery, “Yass ser Mister Dastan ser, you gots it.” There was no convincing the simple man to drop the ‘sirs’ or ‘misters’, as he’d gotten it into his head that Dastan was someone to be respected, which was odd because Ral was far more casual and comfortable with Rain. Yet another miracle the Chosen Son of the Mother had mysteriously managed to pull off, but Dastan was determined to make friends with the big guy, because Ral was a friend worth having.

Holding his shield up in front of him, Dastan gathered his strength and unleashed it in a single bound aimed at the tribesman standing in the door. Unable to back away due to the press of bodies behind him, Dastan’s target tried to bat him away in a desperate effort to preserve his life, but the Runic Shield activated and Deflected the reckless swing on impact. Metal rang and bones crunched as he slammed shield first into his foe and the second Runic effect of his shield activated to halt him in his tracks. Some form of Reverberation that served to dampen the force of an attack, but only for him. The tribesman still suffered the full weight of Dastan’s charge, dying before he crashed into the Defiled behind him and bowling them over as they struggled to push their way through. Cackling in pure delight, Dastan held his ground for all of three seconds during which he hacked five more assailants to death as they tried to pass through, but then he had no choice but to retreat because while the Defiled were many things, stupid was not one of them.

