The day Dastan Zhandos swore his slave Oaths was, without a doubt, the worst day of his life.

That fateful day felt like a lifetime ago, though only three years had passed since Magistrate Chu TongZu made Dastan choose between slavery or death. For whatever reason, the details of that day in particular seemed hazy and indistinct, a jumbled mess of memories that sometimes felt like had happened to someone else. Perhaps it was because it happened prior to Forming his Natal Palace, whereupon he learned how to perfectly preserve his memories within, or maybe because failure and exhaustion had taken a toll on his mind and he’d done everything he could to distance himself from the moment, but regardless of the reasons, he only remembered a few key details of the day.

It started with him sitting in his cell, one he shared with his comrades and subordinates who survived the battle. Exactly sixty-two of them in total, including himself, Warriors one and all who gathered under Dastan’s banner for various differing reasons, and at the time, most of them no doubt wished they’d died fighting instead of allowing themselves to be captured. The guards were not kind to them, and not without reason, for The Golden Highland’s Coalition had betrayed Sanshu and the Empire both by consorting with Defiled. Though Dastan’s retinue had all proven their innocence by displaying Purity, that only made them even more reviled, for traitors were held in more contempt than the Enemy. At least the latter had reason to turn against the light, poor souls led astray by the Father’s foul lies, but Dastan’s retinue lacked even that paltry excuse, and thus were seen as beasts rather than men and treated as such.

There were beatings aplenty, which might explain Dastan’s lacking memory, and shame, so much shame, mostly stemming from himself, but this was not a time he cared to remember, so he focused on other memories instead.

The majority of his Warriors shared a similar background with Dastan himself, the children of men and women working for the Coalition who’d been provided food, training, and education in return for a set term of service. While most were there because their parents couldn’t afford to feed them, Dastan’s father had signed the contract on his behalf just after he turned twelve in a misguided sense of loyalty to the Coalition, a gesture meant to tie the Zhandos family to the merchant faction which went wholly unappreciated. There were also a select few Warriors who’d joined for the pay offered by the Golden Highlands Coalition, which was slightly less than what most regular soldiers were paid, but service under a Warrant Officer was more desirable since they were free to pick and choose their assignments. Since most Warrant Officers were fops with more money than sense who wanted the rank for show, it usually meant a cushy posting playing honour guard for some uppity young guppy.

Not so with Dastan, who’d earned his rank through blood, sweat, and effort. Well, technically the Coalition purchased his rank, but only because he’d proven his worth to them after years of gruelling training and dedicated service. When the poorly named Immortals attacked the convoy Dastan was guarding, he’d played a pivotal role in defeating the bandits by first rallying the guards to form an effective defence, and then killing their leader, the Highlander Headsman, in single combat. This earned him the attention of Major XiaoGong, the highest ranked Warrior serving under the Coalition and Dastan’s childhood hero, for he was the most feared duellist in all of Sanshu and the second highest ranking member of the Golden Highland Coalition, standing second only to his brother, the Chief Councilman XiaoBo.

It was quite the success story, two siblings of a middling house rising through the ranks of the Coalition to snatch the reins of control away from the more established merchant families, but most members of the Coalition cared only about profits, which the brothers brought in spades. Not through any prodigious talents, it turned out, but rather because both had been working with the infamous Butcher Yo Ling himself, fencing his plundered goods and providing the bandits with information and equipment aplenty to better raid the Coalition’s rivals. Both brothers also turned out to be Defiled just like their backer, and while XiaoBo was a disgusting cretin of a man with a sordid reputation even by Sanshu’s standards, XiaoGong had always held himself up as a model soldier, albeit one with a dark temper when the mood set upon him. Perhaps that was due to the Father’s influence on his thoughts, or maybe XiaoGong had always had that darkness inside him and the Father merely brought it to the forefront, but either way, Dastan had refused to believe the lies and slander right up until he saw proof even he could not deny.

Now there was a memory he would keep right up until his dying day, no matter how much he would rather forget. The guards had brought him and every other prisoner out to the central square, wrists and ankles shackled to a chain that ran alongside the stage. There, they were lightly beaten and flogged for hours as the sun rose while the audience gathered to hurl stones and worse at them from the stands, but all this was merely the opening act. Oh how the people of Sanshu screamed and jeered when XiaoBo appeared, the former Chief Councilman looking like a shadow of the wealthy merchant he once was, a gibbering mess of a man whose gelatinous frame quivered and quaked without pause. Next came Dastan’s hero, the man he’d hoped to one day succeed, and he remembered looking up at the stage with a mixture of dread and anticipation, for he thought surely the Major would meet his death with dignity. Instead, he was greeted with the sight of a raving madman straining at his bonds as eight soldiers struggled to drag him on stage, screaming hate-filled obscenities and blasphemies with his Chi-enhanced voice, the likes of which Dastan would never dare repeat. XiaoGong made threats and promises of death and suffering, describing what the minions of the Father would do to the ‘placid sheep’ of the ‘dog Emperor’ with language foul enough to make a seasoned sailor flinch, and for long, agonizing seconds, Dastan thought the man would never stop.

Then, the guards secured XiaoGong to the central pillar on stage and Fung’s half-weasel, Peak Expert manservant Fu Zhu Li stepped forward with his box of tools in hand, and XiaoGong spoke no more. The torturer knew his work well and set Dastan’s childhood hero to screaming in wordless agony, screams which still haunted his nightmares to this day. Much as he liked Fung and tried to get along with the man, it was difficult to put much faith or trust in someone who kept someone like Fu Zhu Li on hand.

Noon had yet to arrive when XiaoGong turned into a Demon, and despite closing his eyes for most of the ordeal, Dastan remembered every single second of the journey from start to finish. For a brief moment, there were two monsters on stage, then the Peak Expert observers killed the Demon and left Fu Zhu Li as he cleaned up. The entire event was so traumatizing, the guards didn’t even beat Dastan on the trip back to his cell, where they left him to stew in the horrors he’d just witnessed. A few hours later, Chu Tongzu called him into his office and offered him a choice between slavery or death, and Dastan had all but begged for death before the pitiless Magistrate reminded him of the family he still had left. If Dastan refused, his parents, aunts, uncles, siblings, cousins, and everyone else he loved and cherished would die alongside him, as well as all of the soldiers of his retinue, which was no choice at all. The only consolation was the fact that Dastan would serve under the only person he... not trusted, not then, but... respected, admired even. Falling Rain, the Warrant Officer who stood in opposition of the suffering demanded by the Purge, a man who risked his career and his life all so he could spare a few dozen peasants another minute of suffering.

A fool, but a righteous fool, one who empathized with others and stood up for his beliefs, the same way Dastan dreamed of one day doing.

Those dreams died with XiaoGong, but Dastan still clung to his old ideals when all else seemed lost. The public Oath giving ceremony took place a few hours later, which drew far less of a crowd than the torment and torture the day prior. Even though the Magistrate had declared that most of the Golden Highlands were merely patsies ignorant of the truth rather than Defiled sympathizers who’d turned against humanity, they were still criminals who were universally reviled by the entire city of Sanshu. In their eyes, a slave Oath was far too light a punishment for an agent of the Enemy, even an unwitting one like Dastan and his comrades, so few cared to come watch them say their Oaths. In total, forty-eight members of his retinue followed his example and gave their Oaths alongside him, while those who refused to speak the words were killed on the spot.

At the time, as he had still yet to adjust the metaphysical weight of his Oaths, Dastan had envied those twelve dead soldiers for their freedom, for they had nothing keeping them here in this life anymore and were free to move onto the next. It was something he’d never heard anyone speak of, the ponderous, oppressive burden of an Oath constraining your body, mind, and soul. Though the guards were quick to release Dastan from his shackles, he found himself bound by fetters ten times heavier than steel and a hundred times more cumbersome, for he found himself unable to even think of freedom without the Heavens dispensing punishment down from on high. Despite being almost dead on his feet from sheer exhaustion, he didn’t dare even blink in those first few seconds after swearing his Oaths for fear of missing some subtle, non-verbal cue from his new master. At first, it was Magistrate Chu TongZu who held the token that denoted who Dastan would obey, then the token was placed in a box and handed off to a guard. For long, agonizing seconds, he fought the urge to approach the guard and inquire if he had any orders to give, because while the rational part of his mind understood he was supposed to obey the Magistrate’s orders to return to his cell, the less than complete certainty of the situation left him frozen in place, unable to obey his given orders from one master lest he inadvertently disobey forthcoming ones from the next.

That was how he spent the rest of the day and night, struggling to acclimate to his new, unseen chains. There was a time when Dastan thought little of Oaths, because he believed that so long as you held true to them, then what harm was there in making one? Granted, the Oath he gave to the Shrike binding him to never speak of how he followed in Rain’s footsteps to defy her authority during the Purge irked him somewhat, but that never grew into an issue because he spent the next few days surrounded by people who were there. These slave Oaths, however, were so extensive and comprehensive Dastan was left reeling in their wake, because there were so many uncertainties left unanswered. He was sworn to defend his master no matter the cost, yet Chu TongZu had ordered him back to his cell, leaving him unable to uphold his Oath should danger present itself, a dilemma which drove him to near madness and panic. Though unable to rest easy due to his concerns for the Magistrate’s safety, Dastan’s Oaths rendered him unable to even sit still, desperate to leave and ensure that his master was safe yet anchored in place by his orders. There was also the matter of what wasn’t said, for though the Magistrate told him to await further orders in his cell, Dastan wasn’t sure if he was allowed to rest while he waited, or do much of anything else besides stand ready. Sleep was most certainly out of the question, because even if it was allowed, he was physically unable to still his mind and rest, but was he allowed to sit or close his eyes? If there’d been a bathroom outside the cell, would Dastan have been allowed to use it? What of food brought to his cell? If no one gave him permission, was he allowed to eat?

All in all, Dastan’s Oaths triggered hundreds upon hundreds of times in those first few hours, and only then did he realize how dark and insidious Oaths could truly be. Truly a misappropriation of Heavenly Energy to demand so heinous an Oath, but he would find few sympathizers if any among the free people of the Empire.

