While many were too blood-crazed to think straight and were more than happy to die two or three at a time in a vain attempt to push through the doorway, there were other, cagier and cannier Defiled who noticed that the sandstone walls of the building were rather easy to carve through. You didn’t even need a Spiritual Weapon to hack it apart, and the Defiled were nothing if not eager to kill, so they set to chopping away at the walls and windows without a care for silly concerns like gravity and structural support. Pleasant as it might be to watch the building topple over onto the gathered Defiled outside, there was a better than good chance that the building would simply crumble under its own weight instead and come crashing down on Dastan’s head, a concern he quickly Sent to Jorani.

“Back off and let them in,” came the half-rat’s reply. “I’ll be up in a sec.”

There was a time when Dastan would have pressed him for a more definite answer, but he’d come to trust the man Rain chose to take command of his retinue. Trust which was well rewarded as Jorani appeared with Wang Bao and his burliest bastards at his side, filing out of the cellar staircase in pairs with a cadenced discipline the Death Corps would envy. Then, without pausing to take in the surroundings, Jorani led his strike force upstairs to the next level as the Defiled swarmed in from the now undefended doorway and the enlarged windows they’d chopped through in their haste to get in. Some determined Defiled were still hacking away at the walls, just not as many as before, but the tradeoff was that even Ral’s big swings weren’t enough to clear the room anymore. He still killed the Defiled quick enough, while Dastan and Camsul darted to and fro picking off the stragglers he’d missed, but it wouldn’t be long before the three of them were overwhelmed by the sheer weight of numbers alone.

A crash sounded from upstairs, and through the press of bodies, Dastan saw something large and heavy smash into the crowd outside. Furniture would have been his first guess if he hadn’t already known what it was, because who would’ve expected Jorani to order his men to carry loose stones and barrels of sand down into the tunnels below? Dastan had assumed it was so they could barricade a street, but Jorani was nothing if not flexible. That being said, amusing as it was to see the Defiled crushed by projectiles from above, it didn’t do much to help thin the crowd in the building below, but rather encouraged them to get safely inside instead. Just as Dastan feared they’d reached the tipping point inside the main room, another Warrior threw herself into the fray and the pressure eased significantly.

One might think that two staff users was one too many in these close confines indoors, but where Ral relied on pure brawn to deliver his grand, sweeping attacks, his wife Chey had gone in a more traditional direction along the Martial Path. With hands positioned along the mid-section of her staff to leave a third of the weapon on each side, Chey’s range and power both were sorely lacking in comparison to Rals, but she more than made up for it with speed and precision. The staff came to life in her hands as if possessed with a mind of its own, a marvel to see as always. Dastan had seen a number of Martial Warriors wield their staves with consummate skill, but their movements almost always reminded him of a man with a long-handled axe or hammer, utilizing heavy, powerful Movements from the Bull or Bear Forms. In Chey’s hands, the staff was more akin to a two-headed snake, with Darting Fangs, Twisting Grasps, and Shaking Branches aplenty as it spun end over end in frighteningly fast circles. Many a stinging slap was delivered as she moved through the Defiled ranks, but short, vicious thrusts were her killing tool of choice, delivered with a deadly flick of the wrist that rotated her staff about as if trying to drill the dull head into her opponent’s flesh. Add in a healthy mix of perfect timing and prodigious application of Amplification, and each one of Chey’s speedy thrusts pulped flesh and crushed bone upon impact.

It was almost unfair how easy the woman made it look, as if she were merely lightly jabbing her opponents to make them explode. Not only were her attacks deadly, but Chey had the timing down pat and could unleash a flurry of strikes against multiple foes in quick succession. In one on one combat, even if Dastan hunkered down to block her thrusts with his Runic Shield, he wasn’t sure if his arm would go numb or if he’d run out of Chi first, but either way, he only saw defeat. Of course, this was assuming he let her take the initiative in the exchange, but denying her an opportunity to attack was easier said than done. Against Chey, you either dodged or died, that was the simple truth, and here on this battlefield, the Defiled had no room to dodge.

Even more impressive was how seamlessly her attacks slipped in between Ral’s grand, sweeping strikes, which he now angled perfectly to avoid getting in her way. Why the big guy couldn’t do the same with Dastan or Camsul was a question he intended to ask, but he doubted Ral would have a proper answer for him. Probably because he never thought to avoid hitting them, since they never asked him to try, which was a perfectly reasonable excuse in his simple mind. Still, it was all but impossible to resent Ral, especially when he went to such great efforts to body-block attacks meant for the others. Not that Dastan, Chey, or Camsul really needed the help most of the time, but he did so anyways because he thought it was better to be safe than sorry. Already, Ral had saved Camsul’s life once today by intercepting a dangerous blow with his shoulder, a figure which would no doubt go up and include many others before the battle was done. On the bright side, Ral’s Runic Armour kept him safe and uninjured from most of the Defiled attacks, but the downside was that he would be down and out for the count the second a Defiled strong or precise enough to get past the armour’s defences arrived.

For long minutes, Dastan fought alongside Camsul, Chey, and Ral to hold the main floor, but even though they encountered no real Experts of note, their stamina was not without limit. To this end, Dastan and Camsul soon switched out with Balta and Saida, which was a sight to warm his heart. Strange to see big Balta dwarfed by Ral beside him, but the gentle giant found his legs quickly enough as he used his Runic Shield to herd the Enemy into position for Ral to smash, while Saida took a more active approach to vie with her partner for kills. The flower-eating, grass-trampling woman was more than a little in love with Chey, and she seemed to believe that the way to win her affection was by showing her up in battle, but Chey was about as competitive as they come. She had to be in order to survive so long as a bandit, but a part of it was simply her nature, and the Defiled suffered all the more for it.

The corpses inside the main floor were quickly piling up to the point where the Defiled were tripping over them coming in, but outside, the crowds had somewhat thinned thanks to the barrage of barrels and stones from above. A dark object fell just as Dastan was scanning the crowd, but to his surprise, no heavy crash sounded to accompany it. Then more objects dropped with a similar lack of sound, followed by a bellowing howl that he could only describe as feral and panic inducing. “Come, ye bleedin’ bastards,” Wang Bao roared, his practised, dignified articulation slipping in the heat of the moment. “Me axe hungers for the blood of braves and cowards both!”

While the former bandit uttered his challenge, Jorani finished clearing the area with a few sweeps of his rope. “Into the streets,” he commanded, hollering loudly for everyone inside to hear. “Hold the intersections and let no one pass!”

Taking a moment to pass the orders back down into the cellar below, Dastan strode out with axe and shield, ready to fight once more. The battle had only just begun, and already their plan was falling apart as Jorani scrambled to take control, but Dastan knew in his heart of hearts what needed to be done. While they were busy making a fuss here, the other retinues would be quietly moving into position and herding slaves out through the tunnels, but even if Jorani could hold the street for hours without end, it would cost them dearly. More to the point, there was no guarantee that this admittedly small Imperial force would be enough to tempt Bai Qi out of hiding, because surely he’d already realized that their goal was his head. Difficult to kill a man lurking in Concealment, but aside from issuing a direct challenge, no one had any idea how to lure him out into the open. Though Lieutenant General Baatar was confident he would emerge victorious if pitted against the Lord of Martial Peace, Dastan was less confident of the man’s chances, and absolutely certain the Enemy forces wouldn’t just idly stand by and watch their Commander General fall.

Which meant they needed a situation so dire, Bai Qi would have no choice but to show himself and take charge, giving the Imperial forces the first shot at taking his head.

“People of the Empire,” Dastan called, infusing Chi into his voice and ignoring the barrage of strange looks and insistent Sendings telling him to keep quiet. “Liberation has come to Pang Si Xing, and you need only reach out and grasp it. Strike off the shackles of fear and oppression to take up arms against the Enemy, for today, we are all the Chosen Sons and Daughters of the Mother Above. Today, we fulfill our holy duty to scour the Father’s foul minions from these lands we hold so dear. Today, we strike a blow at the Defiled that will mark the first victory of many to come. Today, we show the world that West still resists!”

An avalanche of Sendings arrived to condemn him for his actions, and Jorani’s cutting glare spoke volumes to his displeasure, but they were all too far removed to understand what the people of Pan Si Xing were going through. Though Dastan was a Martial Warrior just like the rest of them, he knew what it was like to live and endure under an oppressor’s thumb. It was a slow death by centimetres in which you gave up more and more with each passing day, until there was nothing left for you to give, but still the oppressors howled for more, so you held your tongue and dug deeper into your own flesh to meet their demands once more. It was one thing to reject society and run out into the wilds to play bandit, and another all-together to watch the city you loved and grew up in transform into something wretched and unrecognizable before your very eyes. This was their home, their hearth, the place they raised their families and laid their heads to rest, a sanctuary the Enemy profaned with their very presence alone, and the people of Pan Si Xing would not stand for it.

Martial Warriors saw it as their duty to protect commoners and do battle against the Enemy, but commoners were stronger than most gave them credit for. Rain had already shown the Empire what they could do with little more than courage and a few weeks training, and though the people of Pan Si Xing lacked the latter, these hardy survivors had endured the heat of the Defiled forge for two years now, and they would not be found wanting. They said it themselves, over and over again like a catechism or prayer. “The West resists.” A statement spoken on a million tongues, an oil-well waiting to explode, and their response to his words were telling indeed. All across the city, chaos broke loose as the people of the Empire threw themselves upon the Enemy like crazed wolves descending on dragons. Many would die, but they cared not for their lives if it meant they could bring down their oppressors, for this was a fight they’d waited two years to take part in. Once news of the fighting spread, the civilians would have risen up even if Dastan said nothing at all, so at least this way, they would all rise up and fight together. Even though he knew Rain would be displeased by what he’d done, Dastan never swore an Oath to please his new master, only obey his orders. The Legate wanted the province conquered, and this was the way they’d do it, by showing every man, woman, and child of the West that they had the strength to tip the scales of balance in the Empire’s favour.

For the greatest force in the world was not strength of arms, but strength of spirit instead, and winning this battle to liberate Pan Si Xing would do much to restore Imperial spirits, commoners and Martial Warriors alike. Hope would win them this war, and hope is what Dastan would give them, even if it cost him everything, including the respect of the man he admired most.

Chapter Meme
