“Can you tell us what happened to you?” Ali asked, glancing at Lira who somehow managed to make sitting on a rough chunk of bone-encrusted rock in the dark and dusty forgotten library look effortlessly elegant, sipping on the tea Mato had brewed.

She sighed, “It’s… embarrassing.”

“It’s ok if you’d rather not.”

“No, it’s better that you know, for I have a favor to ask of you after,” Lira answered. “You must understand, all my friends perished in the destruction of Dal’mohra and the disaster that followed. I saw it, Aliandra; the army of the dead pouring from the city for days and laying waste to everything in its path. All fled or were crushed under his heels. Every person that his monsters slew was raised to serve the Blind Lich in undeath, feeding his power. Even the Council of Kings was turned. Artur Dragonsworn and Bragni Doomhammer were unleashed upon the world as Death Knights – generals to command his armies – and Thaldorien Stormshaper was raised as a wraith of terrifying power.”

“I know, I met them,” Ali whispered, shivering at the icy chill and dread of their auras as if the mere memory were enough to summon them. She had looked up to them, powerful icons of honor, duty, justice, and the pursuit of knowledge. The Blind Lich had swept them aside in an instant.

“It is perhaps a blessing that you did not have to endure what happened next,” Lira said, her eyes taking on a distant look of pain. “The Lich buried the ruins of Dal’mohra by dropping the mountain on it. His forces spread out, blackening the lands, sowing blight and death to whatever they touched.”

So that’s what happened… She had witnessed the beginning of those terrible events from within her mother’s stasis spell – the mountain crashing down on her and burying everything she knew.

“Are you talking about the Necromancer Wars?” Calen asked.

“Yes,” Lira answered. “For a time, it seemed that the forces of the living would prevail. When the Elves joined the Human kings, and the Dwarves descended from their mountain holds, the undead army’s advance ground to a standstill.”

“What happened then?” Ali asked, with the intensity and fixation of a person watching an avalanche roaring down the mountainside toward her.

“Somehow, he turned the great frost dragon, Kryostria,” Lira said.

“What?”

“He did not defeat her,” Lira said, her mouth twisting into a sharp line. “I know not what transpired, but she appeared above the battlefield one day, a withered shadow of her former vitality. A horror known as a Dracolich. I was not present, so I am guessing, but he must have used her to access a rift to the shattered realms beyond this one. Her appearance on the battlefield heralded a horde of Dragonkin that pushed the forces of men, elves, and dwarves back to the northern seas.”

“How did they stop him?” Calen asked, breathless.

“For the first, and only time in history, the mighty Troll kingdoms put aside their pride and banded together to aid the forces of the living,” Lira answered. “With the trolls taking the field, the tide of undead and Dragonkin was forced to a standstill again. But then, the Lich did something that changed the course of history forever. I felt the eldritch twisted magic that claimed Mi’ir Valdanis and swallowed it up. It rippled across the world like a horrific tainted nightmare, and when everyone woke, the Night Elf city was gone.”

“It swallowed up the whole city?” Ali gasped.

“And most of the Night Elves,” Lira said. “It was only the sacrifice of the Sun Elves that finally broke the Lich’s armies. Once the Blind Lich claimed Mi’ir Valdanis, he freed up his forces to press Aalion, driving the living back through the Thousand Celestial Peaks to the walls of the City of Light. Aliandra, I heard the explosion from half a continent away. Many believe it was foul magic wrought by the Lich, but I believe it was a spell wrought by the Sun Elf archmages, a last-ditch attempt to deny him his prize. Whichever it may have been, Aalion vanished, along with the Thousand Celestial Peaks, and the world was forever reshaped in the aftermath. Nevyn Eld and his armies were destroyed that day, and he was forced to resurrect via his Phylactery.”

“Holy shit,” Mato breathed.

“The Night Elves and Sun Elves suffered a grievous blow from which they have never recovered,” Lira added.

“Why didn’t he return and take over the world then?” Ali asked. “If he could resurrect after everyone died…”

“You must understand the mind of the Blind Lich, Aliandra,” Lira said, gazing at her intently. “Would a man strive to rule a kingdom of ants? Nevyn Eld does not care for rule – he cares only for personal power. Whatever he sought from Mi’ir Valdanis, he got it. And his prize in Aalion was forever denied to him. Even to this day, he still presses the Wood Elves and Ciradyl with his Shadow Council minions, but I believe he has turned his gaze to other realms to fuel his hunger for artifacts of power and new magic to fuel his malign research. It is the only reason we still live; we are beneath his gaze.”

“That’s… awful,” Ali murmured, her mind recoiling from the horror of Lira’s story. The Breaking of the World. A horror so great that the destruction of a city like Ared Culyn did not even warrant a mention. “Ciradyl… still stands?”

“Yes,” Lira answered. “The mythic Well of Souls still wards their city with its inscrutable magic.”

“Also, the Elven Pathfinder Guild is based in Ciradyl, and Lyeneru Silverleaf works tirelessly to track the Lich’s Shadow Council forces,” Calen said.

So much has changed. Barely anything she remembered was the same. Her thoughts returning to Lira, Ali asked, “How did you survive such devastation?”

“Much of my forest domain was destroyed in the march of the dead and the subsequent Breaking, leaving me greatly weakened. My magic is not suited for battle, as you well know, and the nurturing and growing of things is antithetical to the very nature of necromancy. I was not a target for the Lich, and the undead armies bypassed me, leaving me with no more than a small stand of trees to the south. It took centuries for me to recover what you refer to as the Lirasian Forest, and afterward, I remained reclusive, choosing to live apart from the affairs of the world.”

“I wallowed in my loneliness for thousands of years, content to drive everyone from my forest and enforce my fragile little illusion of peace,” Lira said, but her face twisted and her eyes hardened. “Then the Necromancer came. Alexander Gray.”

“How did he prevail?” Ali asked. After all, her aunt was a three-mark being. Even without combat spells, she should have been far more powerful than anything Ali had encountered so far in this age.

“Using a devious disguise artifact and honeyed words, he wooed me, and, in my loneliness, I allowed him into my heart,” Lira said. “He appeared to me as a Druid and even faked his mana affinity and the ability to cast nature magic. Then he cursed me. An evil concoction tainted by death and eldritch magics, inflicting Mana Severance and Nightmare Slumber upon me, a curse designed to block my connection to my domain.”

“How could he know how to do that?” Ali asked.

“The necromancer is but a pawn in the service of the Blind Lich. I am certain it was his master’s hand that crafted the curse.”

“And now?” Ali gasped. A curse from the Blind Lich was dire news, but she couldn’t see any signs of the magic upon her.

“The curse is broken now that I have regained a small domain,” Lira said.

“Good,” Mato said, clenching a fist.

Lira nodded her agreement and continued, “When I awoke, Alexander Gray had shed his disguise and cast a blight across the land, destroying my forest and turning all living creatures into the walking dead – skeletons, zombies, and worse. Without my domain, I am nothing – and he knew it.”

“The whole forest?” Calen gasped.

“Undead?” Mato growled.

Ali was horrified. Lira had said the Necromancer had destroyed her forest, but the truth of the story was much more dire. The entire forest and all life within it had been infected by the blight and raised as the undead. Such an unchecked concentration of undead would wreak untold destruction and death upon the entire region.

Lira stared off into the distance for a while. Calen mouthed the name, ‘Alexander Gray’, but Ali noticed he did not write it down. Was the man that powerful? That dangerous? She had rarely seen the half-elf look paler; she couldn’t help but shiver.

Eventually, Ali asked, “Do you want us to help you fight him?”

“No, dear,” she answered. “What I would ask of you is of much greater importance. My forest was the last of my dear children. If we cannot recover a tree or an acorn, I fear they will be lost to the world forever.”

“The Lirasian Oaks?” Mato asked. “The magical trees?”

“Yes, that is how they’re known in the common tongue. It will be an undertaking fraught with danger, but I implore you to take me back to the forest. Protect me from the undead while I search. There is no time to wait to regain my mana – I fear it may already be too late, but I cannot rest until I see for myself,” Lira said, anguish written in the lines of her face.

“I will help you,” Ali answered without hesitation.

“Are you sure, child? It is certain to be dangerous.”

“I’m sure,” Ali answered. If they found a few intact trees, she could add the imprint to her Grimoire and then summon them when they returned. She ignored the fact that she would have to convince the distraught Dryad to let her destroy perfectly good trees to make that plan work. A problem for later. “I have a few good friends I can ask for help, and it might be good for us to get away from the city for a while, right?”

“You’re right, Ali,” Mato said instantly. “I’m in.”

“Same,” Calen added.

“Me too,” said Malika.

***

Ali held Lira’s hand tight as she followed her friends through the winding tunnel and out to the mountain pass above the town. She blinked against the sudden brightness of the early morning sunlight and took a deep breath of fresh air. Lira’s hand trembled a little in hers as if she were nervous for what was to come, and Ali knew it had nothing to do with the flight.

She checked to make certain her Kobold mage and Acolyte were both within range of her Empowered Summoner. She wasn’t certain she could carry much more weight, so she was restricting herself to just one healer, and the mage to boost her intelligence. The only other minions she was bringing were three Poison Wyverns for extra firepower that she wouldn’t need to carry, and a flight of Luminous Dragonets in case she needed additional small portable eyes.

She channeled her mana, summoning the largest barrier disk she could manage, immediately surprised by the sheer volume of magic she could now wield – and how much easier the control came to her. Even though she was simply making a disk, her sense of control over the shape of her creation was unparalleled. The rapid levels she had gained made a surprising difference.

“Ok, everyone on,” she said, stepping onto the barrier and sitting in the middle while the others clambered onto her hovering disk. She could sense the weight of it, but with her empowered control, it would be manageable.

“You good, Ali?” Malika asked. When Ali had expressed some concern about being able to carry everyone, Malika had suggested she could reduce the load by running in the air, but it would consume her stamina quickly.

“Yes, this is ok,” Ali said, somewhat surprised to find that it was true. “Arcane Recall has really improved my Barrier spell.”

“By how much?” Calen asked, his curiosity written clearly on his face.

“A twenty-five percent improvement to power and control,” Ali answered, sharing her current skill description with them, getting a low, impressed whistle from the half-elf.

Arcane Recall – level 5You are proficient with Arcane magic. You gain +25% [skill x 5] to spell power, spell haste, mana control, and mental reaction speed with Arcane magic.Mana: Ignore the recharge for any Magic skill, spell, or triggered ability. Your magic is cast instantly. Recharge: 24 hours.Arcane, Metamagic, Mastery, Intelligence

“I remember that one, that’s a good skill,” he said. “What did you have to give up for it?”

“Arcane Bolt,” Ali answered. It was a steep cost, and she was still not quite sure how she would manage it during future fights, but the skill she had gained in its place was impressive. For her instant Barrier magic, spell haste made no difference, but the spell power improved the amount of barrier magic she could wield, and the control increased her ability to move or shape it – which included the amount of weight she could lift. In combination with her intelligence boost from Empowered Summoner and her Kobold mage, she was lifting all five of them and two Kobold minions on a five-meter diameter disk.

And I’m not even using my domain mana to boost it.

“You still have mages, archers, and shamans to fight with,” Calen said, nodding as he arrived at the same conclusion Ali had.

“Maybe you can get an offensive option later?” Malika mused.

“Yep, we’re going to miss your buzzing arcane mosquitos,” Mato chuckled. Ali made a face at him, but he was undeterred. “Wasn’t that what it was called, right, Calen? Minor Mosquito Barrage. Plus five to enemies getting no sleep. Bzzt.”

“Don’t drag me into this,” Calen said, shaking his head.

She levitated them all into the air and then flew off in a southerly direction, carefully skirting the town in case there was anyone with long-range defenses on the lookout. She sped up gradually until she found a comfortable cruising speed, taking joy in the experience of flying in the morning sunshine, tracking the Myrin River as they headed south. Malika and Calen occasionally ventured off on their own using their movement skills, returning when they needed to recover their mana.

Ali’s upbeat mood vanished after several hours of flight. As they began to reach the outlying farmland, the very land itself began to look sick. Everywhere the eye fell, plants were blackened or wilted, and occasionally low-lying areas were filled with a mist that glowed ominously with death-affinity mana. The miasma rapidly worsened as they flew on.

By the time they approached the tree line, everyone was staring at the unbelievable scope of the disaster unfolding below. Everything they flew over lay dead or dying.

“This is horrible…” Malika said quietly.

“It’s a crime against nature,” Mato answered.

“Look over there,” Calen pointed. “A village. Or what’s left of it.”

