Ali spied a few small buildings far below. Quickly she switched to her closest dragon, taking advantage of its acute eyesight, but she immediately wished she hadn’t. What was left of the crude town was mired in patches of ominous mist, but not all was still. The town crawled with skeletons.

“We should find the trees we can save, quickly,” Lira urged, leaning forward on the barrier to get a better look.

What trees? Ali chose not to voice the thought, but it was clear the others felt similarly. As far as she could see, the entire forest was blighted. None of the trees were green, and many of them were fallen. The ones that still stood had lost most of their leaves, thrusting blackened, bare branches toward the sky like headstones of rusted swords adorning a long-forgotten battlefield. This Alexander Gray was a monster. If he could destroy a forest on this scale…

But the forest was enormous, and Lira seemed so hopeful. Ali skimmed further south, pushing her barrier to fly as fast as was comfortable, while her friends scanned the ground for anything redeemable. Kilometers of forest rolled quickly by with no break in the unrelenting blight and dead trees.

Even from their height, Ali could clearly make out the Lirasian Oaks, or what remained of them, their blackened trunks rising high above the other trees and their bare branches spread wide. They looked just like the dead trunks in her forest cavern, reaching upward for millennia to support the tons of rock and stone that had fallen from the mountain.

“Over there!” Calen called out, pointing down and to their left. “I see green.”

At once, Ali banked to the side and flew off to where Calen had spied life. It was a single enormous oak that stood in splendid, solid majesty atop a hill, spared most of the blight and death. Proudly tall, its boughs spread wide, still filled with green.

“It looks alive,” Mato said, stepping off the barrier as Ali lowered it to the hillside.

“No!” Lira gasped, running toward the tree.

Then Ali suddenly saw it. From the deep roots, the tree drew the black ominous mana into it, infecting the core of the trunk. Already, the blight and dark necromancy sent shooting tendrils up through the viridian green of the tree’s mana, consuming it from the inside out. Helplessly, she watched as leaves began to wilt and blacken, some falling from the tree in the gusty breeze, floating away with the strong odor of rot and decay.

A vast surge of potent nature mana surged from Lira’s hands, pouring into the tree as she struggled to save it. She has this much, even without her forest? Ali thought, staring on in amazement, but through Arcane Insight, she could tell it was an effort in vain – Lira’s mana, much weaker than in her domain, slowed the spread of the hungry black tendrils, but she was powerless to stop it.

“Aunt Lira, please…” Ali begged.

But Lira fought with a desperation that arrested her voice and forced her to watch as Lira spent herself against the relentless tide of the unholy necromantic blight.

“Mato, stop her. Please,” Ali said, finally finding her voice when the tree had lost most of its leaves. Only faint traces of the green nature mana remained, and Lira was in serious danger of becoming infected with the blight again.

“No! No, no, please, no…” Lira wailed as Mato tore her away from the dead tree, his hands gentle and his face so, so sad.

Ali’s heart hung heavy in her breast as she took to the air again, listening quietly to Lira grieve the tree. Her tree. While Ali could not appreciate the connection between a Dryad – a tree spirit – and her trees, she most certainly resonated with the grief in Lira’s defeated posture, her sobbing, and the hand that clutched desperately at her own for what scant comfort she could provide.

“Let’s go further south, around the perimeter,” Calen suggested quietly. “I’ll keep scouting.” With that, he hopped off the barrier held aloft by his bright ephemeral wings, flying higher for a few minutes to get a broader view.

They flew on in silence for almost an hour before Calen pointed in a new direction.

“Maybe try over that way?” he suggested cautiously.

Lira immediately perked up with hope on her face, and Ali was grateful Calen had not acted overly excited. She struggled to see anything alive in the sea of death below. But a few minutes later, she found it. A small stand of several trees around the base of a massive Lirasian Oak, seemingly a tiny outpost of life amid the blight all around.

She lowered their trajectory, swooping down to the tiny oasis of life, alighting on the mossy, unspoiled ground. Lira’s face lit with joy at the sight of the tree, and she was about to leap to the ground when Calen’s bow fired an intensely glowing arrow through the trees.

Whatever he had hit squealed loudly, but like no animal Ali had ever heard.

“Ali, help!” Calen called out. “Nobody get close to it!”

His urgent cry halted Mato mid-shift. Ali forced her bile back down as she caught sight of the abomination. A grotesque, flesh-spider monstrosity scrabbled and crawled across the turf, dragging itself along with three spastically twitching mismatched arms and two legs sewn to a fleshy patchwork body. Several mouths wailed incessantly, belching clouds of black miasma that seemed to cling to the ground and the plants as it passed.

Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level 36 (Death)

Wherever the miasma struck, death followed. Plants shriveled, wilted, and died in moments. Grass blackened, and the mana of death magic bloomed in a horrifying parody of growth.

At once, Ali targeted it and fired Arcane Bolt – only to find her skill was missing and she had nothing to feed her mana to.

Oh, right, she thought. It would take a while to get used to not having her most trusty combat skill. Instead, she turned her attention to her minions and other skills. “Fire,” Ali commanded, and without any hesitation, she converted all her remaining barrier magic into shards. Shards that were much sharper now with her new enhanced control – and she sent them flying toward the nightmare monster.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress.” For once, her Kobold Fire Mage did not grin with pleasure at her command. With narrowed eyes and clenched teeth, her minion created fire as her shards shot out to pin the monster to the ground.

Ali gritted her teeth, ignoring Lira’s cries of pain as the Fireballs detonated among the trees, grateful that Mato was holding her from running in to try and save everything. Whatever that monster was, it needed to be burnt. Impaling it on her barriers had seemed to only accelerate the billowing clouds of miasma.

Calen’s arrows didn’t stop for a few moments after the chime, and Ali didn’t blame him one bit, but the Blighted Patchwork Horror had worked its evil. As the miasma soaked into the ground, thick ropy tendrils of black death mana shot up through the roots and into the trunks of the trees, as the blight claimed them.

“We should go,” Ali said, reforming her barrier for them.

“No, I can save them,” Lira moaned, beside herself at the sight of the rapidly spreading blight.

“I know you can see the infection,” Ali answered, trying to put as much kindness into her voice as she could. “You will just infect yourself if you touch the miasma.” Ali was certain Lira would not be able to save the trees – she was so much weaker out here than back in her domain. Just the thought of seeing Lira withered and dying to the blight a second time was more than she could bear.

They flew further south, and Ali had to endure Lira’s heart-wrenching sobbing again. It was hard to hear her grief for the trees, but Ali finally understood the reason Lira had asked for their help. She could not be rational in the face of this horror – the destruction of her forest – and Ali was here to stop her from doing something she couldn’t help that would get her killed or worse.

They flew for hours. Every time Calen found something, Lira’s face would light up with renewed hope, only to be crushed by the cruel reality when they inevitably discovered they were way too late to save anything. The day faded to evening and their stops became fewer until they could find no more and even Lira’s hope slumped to despair.

“I think we should go home,” Malika announced, finally putting words to the obvious truth – they had failed to find anything alive in what had once been the largest magical forest on the continent.

The Lirasian Oak is gone. The extinction of the amazing trees, sacrificed on the whim of an evil Necromancer, weighed heavily on Ali’s heart. It was an unfathomable loss to the world, but it was a loss to her personally also. Many of the trees in her father’s Grove had been the towering Lirasian Oaks and she remembered them fondly. Their dead trunks in her old cavern, still standing thousands of years later, were a testament to how much magic they had contained.

With a heavy heart, she turned her barrier toward the north and began flying back toward Myrin’s Keep.

“Aliandra, stop!” Lira’s voice cut through her sadness. “There in the town.” She seemed to be gesticulating animatedly toward the ruined town on the outskirts of the northernmost border of the forest. The town they had passed on the way down – barely visible now in the dimmer evening light.

“I remember. The boy – he had something. He tried to hide it. I have to find it. Please stop?”

Lira seemed to be babbling, but she urgently gripped Ali’s hand as she spoke, so she turned and descended toward the town. Ali wasn’t certain what exactly Lira was talking about, but the day had been extremely traumatic for her, and she was loath to cause more pain by trying to convince her that there was nothing alive down there.

In fact, the entire town seemed to be crawling with undead.

“Are we going to go down into that?” Mato asked with a grimace on his face. It had to be the first time she had heard Mato unexcited about a potential fight, but she felt the same sentiment.

“Please, I beg of you,” Lira pleaded, and Ali’s heart broke to hear her reduced to begging again.

“Can we? Just once more?” Ali asked her friends. It likely would be a fight, but she knew instinctively that she wouldn’t be able to convince Lira that it was another dead end unless she saw it for herself.

“Ok,” Malika said.

Mato grunted unhappily but did not object.

“Over there, Ali,” Calen said, selecting a relatively clear spot in the center to land, and she flew down to let them off.

“Get ready,” Mato said, holding off on his transformation until she had them on the ground, so she didn’t have to carry the extra weight of his Bear Form.

As soon as they landed, a low, creepy moan rose from the dusk-lit ruined village, accompanied by the clacking of bone as zombies and skeletons turned to face them and broke into a shambling rush. Mato charged forward, crashing into the undead with a loud roar, attracting the attention of most of them, while Malika sprang into action collecting the stragglers.

Without a full complement of minions, Ali felt vulnerable, popping her barrier around herself and Lira while she instructed her wyverns and her mage to attack. But Lira was not there.

“Lira!” she cried, but the Dryad was halfway across the dirt street sprinting toward a stone building and couldn’t hear her. She did not even notice the zombies that crept out of the dead bushes to reach her.

An incandescent arrow flew right past her fleeing form, striking one of the undead, and drawing it away from her, and Ali breathed a sigh of relief.

“I got it, Ali,” Calen said. “Concentrate on killing the pack around Mato.”

“Ok.” She directed her mage to open fire on the pack of skeletons and zombies and then Calen darted off, lining up the monsters so that the ones chasing him would have to pass within range of Mato’s claws.

Why are they not dying?

In the center of the ruined village’s main dirt road, a brutal melee of skeletons and zombies had formed surrounding the furious bear. More and more undead emerged from the buildings and the nearby dead forest, drawn to the crashing collisions and roaring of combat. Malika and Calen continued drawing them into the center, hoping that Mato would be able to secure them, but Ali was struggling. With only one Fire Mage and three Poison Wyverns, she should have been able to kill them, but for some reason only a few skeletons had collapsed – and mainly due to her Fire Mage or Mato’s powerful claws.

She glanced at her wyverns, swooping in and spraying jets of high-pressure poison onto the group of undead monsters – a green liquid that splashed through their bones and dripped to the ground. Unless…

“Calen, are undead immune to poison?”

“Yes. Fuck,” he shouted, dodging to the side and drawing several skeletons away from her.

“Claws and teeth.” Ali redirected her intent to the three swooping Wyverns and suddenly began to see results. Their talons tore chunks of dead flesh from the zombies, and their powerful jaws crushed skeleton bones with a gruesome crunching noise, but without the area damage of their poison, it was going to be a very long fight.

“Pick it up,” Ali instructed, and the powerful Wyvern jaws closed on the shoulder of a skeleton. With a sweep of its wings, it hauled the twitching monster high into the air and dropped it crashing to the ground.

“Ali! Help!” Calen shouted, and she snapped her head around just in time to see Lira emerging from the crude stone-walled lumber mill, something clutched tightly to her breast. Something that shone with several intense sparks of the most brilliant green mana she had ever seen, visible even through her hands.

A huge, tusked monster loomed behind the ecstatic, oblivious Dryad, towering head and shoulders above the lumber mill. Putrid fluid seeped from open wounds in its immensely broad chest and arms thicker than tree trunks. A chunk of its face had withered away, leaving the bone of its eye socket exposed to the flies buzzing around its rotting flesh.

“Aliandra! I found them!” Lira shouted.

“Watch out!” Ali screamed. It was clear that Lira had not seen or heard the monster charging toward her, three-fingered hands as large as barrels reaching for her. As if she saw it all in slow motion, the giant zombie troll slammed its enormous frame into the lumber mill, and the poorly constructed building exploded, not even slowing the monster down in the slightest.

Warrior – Zombie, Giant Troll – level 53

