Ali slammed a barrier into place between Lira and the sprinting mountain of rotting flesh, and Lira finally turned at the loud cracks of stone shattering against the golden wall. The troll drew back a giant arm as it sprinted through the flying remnants of the exploding mill and unleashed all its furious momentum into a punch that shattered Ali’s barrier, sending Lira tumbling head over heels, her precious bundle flying to the ground.

Acorns. Ali’s mind registered the trivial detail as she struggled to form a coherent strategy to deal with several tons of undead aggression tearing through a stone building as if it were made of paper.

Outclassed and woefully unprepared for an encounter of this magnitude, Ali triggered Arcane Recall – her ace in the hole. The entire village, all the undead, her friends, everything faded to gray, frozen in the midst of the fight. Even the lumber mill froze. Flying rocks hung stationary and silent mid-cascade on their way to the ground. Even the shards of her barrier were gray and dull.

I need a minion that can counter that monster. Her choice was obvious – with only her will, she summoned her Grimoire and began to create a Forest Guardian. Her elemental, at least, was heavier than that thing bearing down on Lira where she lay sprawled awkwardly in the dirt. Her mana flowed in this strange place; the stillness interrupted only occasionally when the entire terrain would flicker back to a different image for a moment before returning to the present.

Suddenly, something she did not expect happened. A harsh hiss disrupted the endless silence. Unable to even turn her head, or look around, Ali could only see it out of the corner of her eye. Something that glowed an intense blue turned and looked her way. Other than her Grimoire, it was the only color in this world. Ali’s heart was not beating, but if it could, it would be pounding as the thing shifted and she caught sight of many legs, and glowing eyes. Another hiss broke the silence, and against all she had learned of this place, it moved. Skittering back and forth the thing scurried across the road, easily stepping over Mato and the horde of undead frozen mid-fight as it bore down on her.

Hurry! Ali urged her magic, panicking now as the monster approached. She had no idea what it could do to her and, frozen as she was by her spell, she was helpless to flee or fight. She tried pushing her mana into her Grimoire faster, but it seemed to do nothing. She tried to turn her eyes, but she could not get a good look at what approached. She tried to cancel her Arcane Recall spell, but she could not.

It reached the edge of the road, barely a few meters from her when suddenly her summoning magic completed, and the world snapped back to color and a riot of combat noise. She had an enormous Forest Guardian standing over Lira, and she stumbled, heart racing, suddenly drenched with sweat.

She turned her head, but the blue, many-legged monster – whatever it was – was nowhere to be found.

“Attack the troll”, she managed, but she wouldn’t have needed the command. Her Guardian had seen the troll and immediately used Rush to charge it, slamming into the zombie with a titanic collision of mass that flattened the remnants of the mill, halting the zombie mid-stride. Roots and vines burst from the ground, twining around the zombie’s legs, withering and dying from the blight, but regrowing just as fast.

“Holy shit, Ali!” Calen exclaimed. “Good idea.”

Ali threw up another barrier to protect Lira from the flying debris of the battle of giants while she scrambled desperately through the dirt, collecting the acorns with their bright kernels of nature magic.

Still shaking from her close call in the strange gray world of her Arcane Recall, she reorganized her forces. The Wyverns she sent to rake and bite the head and shoulders of the giant troll, tearing bloodless rents and gashes in its rotting flesh.

“Fireball,” she said. She could not afford to let the skeletons sit around. As soon as the word left her mouth, her Kobold reacted with flame, and Malika sprinted away from the melee, joining the fight against the giant zombie instead.

“Make sure you heal Mato after each Fireball,” Ali instructed.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress,” her Kobold Acolyte replied, her voice respectful, but not interrupting her magic.

The detonation of fire was met with a surge of holy magic from Mato’s position in the center of the conflagration, along with several flying skeletons and burning fragments of bone.

“Again,” Ali commanded, recovering her barrier as Lira sprinted across the dirt street to stand beside her. Keeping a close eye on her, in case she ran off again, Ali fashioned her barrier magic into several long slender shards, sharpened with the keenness only possible with her new control skill, and fired at the zombie troll.

The shards impaled its great arms and chest, but it seemed to not bother the undead monster much. Punches continued to fly, rocking her Forest Guardian with ground-shaking impacts. The Guardian, for its part, stood its ground, roaring and tearing chunks of flesh from the zombie while it grappled with its roots to hold it in place. One of her Wyverns fell twitching on the ground, having gotten too close and drawing a powerful fist, but the other two still tore into the zombie troll with fast swooping slashes of their powerful talons or tails.

To her side, the next fireball detonated, and she sidestepped a burning skull that flew from the explosion, landing on the ground beside her. Her Acolyte seemed to be taking care of Mato, so Ali called for another fireball and resumed trying to impale the giant troll with fresh barrier shards.

Calen burst into brilliance as he used his Righteous Fury, but the troll seemed no worse for wear after the full duration of his skill had run its course. “Fuck, this thing is nuts,” he said. Dozens of arrows sprouted from its shoulders and chest, but the monster brushed them off like they were nothing.

“Its resilience is unreal,” Ali said, wielding several barrier shards constantly. Even under Malika’s onslaught, it still unloaded punches and slams onto the Guardian. It’s a good thing it can regenerate, she thought, but it was beginning to show signs of rot and blackening along its legs and flanks – a sure sign that the blight was outpacing even the torrent of its regeneration.

“How do we kill it?” Calen asked, still unleashing arrow after arrow, many of which bounced off the tough troll hide, but at that moment, Mato charged into the fray.

Ali glanced back, finding only a smoking pile of shattered bone fragments and burning mounds of zombie flesh where Mato had fought. Her Fire Mage grinned in satisfaction.

The tide of battle shifted quickly as Mato unleashed his Living Rend, dramatically reducing the giant troll’s tough natural armor, while her Fire Mage began peppering the monster with burning bolts of magic that left smoking holes in the rotting flesh. Calen directed his volleys of arrows toward the rips and wounds, and they stopped bouncing off ineffectively.

They battled on continuously for several minutes, and Ali sorely missed her trusty Arcane Bolt skill, but eventually, Mato’s armor reduction and the fire magic of her mage prevailed, and the enormous troll zombie toppled face-forward, making the scattered stone from the mill bounce as the impact shook the ground.

Your group has defeated Warrior – Skeleton – level 12-24 x32Your group has defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 13-19 x16Your group has defeated Warrior – Zombie, Giant Troll – level 53

“Everyone ok?” Calen asked.

Am I ok? So much had happened. Ali stared at the enormous body of the giant troll, still taller than her even lying face down in the rubble. She wrinkled her nose at the stench of decayed flesh. Giant trolls were most often chosen as the shock troops of the proud troll tribes, and she could honestly say she never wanted to face an intelligent one in battle. She could not tell what tribe it had been from because the ceremonial warpaint was faded and torn from combat and rot, and the braids on its tusks had rotted away.

“I think so,” Ali murmured, answering Calen’s question after a long moment. She still felt traumatized by whatever it was that tried to eat her when she was trying to summon her Forest Guardian. She did not even know what it looked like – only that it glowed blue and had far too many legs.

“Don’t touch me, I have the undead blight,” Mato said, as Malika tried to heal him.

“I have it too,” she answered, healing him anyway.

“Oh no, we need to get you guys some potions,” Ali exclaimed, torn from her reflections by the horrifying news. Somehow, their fight had put her friends in contact with the miasma or the blight directly, and both had caught the debilitating disease.

“I’m so sorry,” Lira said quietly, shifting uncomfortably, head downcast. “This would not have happened if I hadn’t dragged you out here on my selfish quest. I’ve put you all in mortal danger.”

“Nonsense, we agreed to help, it’s not your fault,” Mato answered, putting on a brave face. Ali knew how much he despised the undead, and to be infected with the blight must be excruciating for him on many levels.

“Here, Lira,” Ali said, offering her the acorns she had scooped up from the ground in the middle of the fight.

She clutched them to her chest like a mother cradling a lost infant. “Thank you.”

I need to get them to Eliyen, Ali thought, eyeing Mato and Malika. She couldn’t see any visible signs of the blight yet, but the telltale swirls of dark mana were unmistakable. She summoned her barrier at once, quickly climbing aboard after deconstructing her blighted Guardian and the zombie troll.

But how to get them into town without being spotted and tossed into the garrison’s deepest, darkest jail?
