Marshalla waited for Niala to stop glaring at David before continuing. “As you recall, thanks to your and Kevin's help, we were able to develop a means to measure the amount of mana corruption within someone's mana pathways.”

She retrieved a clipboard with a few sheets of paper and handed it to Niala. “These are the results of measurement tests in various towns and settlements throughout the kingdom, the goal being to set a baseline. A strange pattern emerged when we did; some towns had very low corruption. Lower than could be explained by the heavy presence of magic tools, which we now know helps slow down the “build up” of corruption.”

The scholar gave them a minute to look at the data, then resumed. “At first, we thought this was something to do with the population, but then one of the towns, Graveway, showed a significant drop for most of its population over the span of a few weeks.”

She sighed. “The scholar community scratched its head for a while, but we figured it out in the end; the drop coincided with the opening of a Boudoir. After several more tests, we narrowed it down to the Old Woman drink.”

Niala's ears twitched. “So you're saying that the drink is cleansing the mana pathways?”

Marshalla dipped her head. “It seems to work as a kind of solvent, splitting the corruption into insignificant motes. After about three days, the effect wears off, and the corruption begins coagulating once more, but it starts over from practically nothing. In effect, each time you drink an Old Woman, you reset years of corruption, at the very least.”

She levelled her gaze at them. “Consistent, frequent usage of the drink resets the process for practically a lifetime. I believe you understand why it cannot be kept from the people as a paid-for drink?”

Niala vehemently nodded, though David scrunched his mouth. Marshalla raised a brow at him. “You do not agree?”

He looked at her and shrugged. “I was wondering if the kingdom was going to pay for daily doses to every adult in the entire kingdom.”

“Well... no, probably not, and unnecessary. In terms of the corruption-cleansing effect, a single dose two to three times per season would be more than enough to erase any risks of mana corruption... Ah, I see.” She put a finger to the corner of her lips. “You would keep selling it for those who wish to consume it more often.”

“Just a thought,” David admitted. “There are specific laws regarding the distribution and sales of remedies. We'll need to review them.” He then frowned. “Marshalla, regarding the drink's effects, why do people feel better focused and more energetic? Is it due to the corruption cleansing?”

She nodded. “That's what we believe. The health of one's pathways has a great impact on how easily mana circulates in the body. Since mana is the basis of all life, anything that affects its proper flow also impacts one's well-being. Since the corruption effect is gradual, the general malaise settles over time without being noticed. Until it is flushed away, that is.”

Niala scratched her head. “Then why doesn't everyone feel that effect? Luke said that about one in ten people, and children, didn't take to the drink.”

“Yes, that was a question as well, and there are two answers here. In children, whose bodies are growing, the pathways are ever-changing, and the corruption is naturally cleansed away, unable to find purchase until the growth stops. As for the adults...”

She laced her fingers together. “We had to test those individuals thoroughly, but the results were as clear as they were surprising; they were all magivores, and thus, technically, weavers.”

Niala's eyes went wide, ears pointing straight up. “What?! Are they going to be kidnapped by the kingdom?!” She turned to her husband. “David! We need to go and have them emigrate to the Reign Ascendant!”

Marshalla held up a hand before David could reply. “There's no need, Niala. Their ability to consume mana was very weak, nearly insignificant in most cases. Their ability to weave was also so weak that they aren't thought to be able to even use it, or at least not in any significant manner. My colleagues and I have all agreed on the results, and we've sent our recommendation to the Crown.”

She smiled. “Beyond that, there is also the practical consideration; we don't expect the Crown to remove ten percent of its population from the workforce. That would be a catastrophic blow to the economy, and would probably incite riots.”

Niala frowned, ears lowering, and gave Marshalla a distrustful look.

She shook her head. “It won't happen, and on the improbable chance that it does, I will join your side in the ensuing fight. It's both the moral thing to do, and I'd like to be on the winning side anyway.”

David crossed his arms. “What's the next step, then? Do we stop selling right away?”

Marshalla turned to look at him. “I'm not sure. I think you should start stockpiling the herbs, and Niala? I know you probably won't argue, but the Kingdom will ask for the exact old woman recipe.”

The catkin nodded. “Of course. If it can help people, I will never say no.”

David smiled at his wife. Of course, she wouldn't.

Her left ear twitched, and she glanced at him from the corner of her eye, her lips curving into a smirk, and her cheeks lightly blushing.

His smile went ear to ear. She's just too cute.

Marshalla gave them a copy of the full report, but she had given them a good summary of everything, and she said she'd keep them informed as to the Kingdom's exact decision regarding the Old Woman.

Niala went through several phases on her way back: overjoyed at the prospect of getting rid of the Old Woman name, concerned about the people who had found employment thanks to its distribution, and finally, complete confusion over how exactly the drink was having this effect.

She remained deep in thought as David explained the situation to Linzi once they got back home. He thought she'd be a little sad, as she had invested in his brother Luke's Boudoir venture, but instead she practically jumped in place out of sheer joy, declaring she'd dump the rest of her savings into the Boudoir business.

When asked why, she declared that this was the best possible advertisement for the drink; not only was it healthy for you, cleansing your pathways, but it would be endorsed by the Crown as a universal remedy.

As long as they didn't ban the private sale of it- and why would they?- the expansion of the boudoirs was as guaranteed as the sun getting up the next day.

The goblin woman excused herself to go write letters to Rupert and Luke about the situation, leaving David alongside a Niala who had a deeply furrowed face.

“Still trying to figure it out?”

She looked up from her churning thoughts, ears folding down. “It just doesn't make sense. I know plenty of recipes for mana enervators, and none of the compounds for those are in the plants used for the Old Woman. I even had you test some of those, and you said they didn't do anything for you, just-” She swirled a hand around. “Made eddies in your mana.”

“They did just stir my mana around. Leviathan said they tickled. The Old Woman looks like it acts directly on the corruption, not on the mana; he never reported feeling anything when I drank it.”

One of her ears perked up as she angled her head. “...It acts directly on the corruption... which is a divine substance...”

Her other ear joined the first, springing up erect at the same time as she did. “David! I think I got it!”

“Got what?”

“Why I can't figure out which compound is having that effect! It's because it's not a compound that I know!” She exclaimed.

“I thought you knew everything?”

“I know everything we know, but there are things nobody knows!”

“Huh-huh...” He slowly nodded.

She jumped to her feet and grabbed his hand, turned around and pulled him along. “We're going to the brewing lab!”

She didn't have to say. He'd figured it out.

NIALA

This was big. Huge! Immense! A new compound! Wait, a possible new compound. Better not get her hopes up before she could confirm some things.

...

A new compound!

She shook her head. Calm, Niala, tests first, excitement later.

She burst out of her home and toward the new building housing her expanded brewing lab. Lychee had tagged along at some point, the bumblemoss apparently having sensed something involving alchemy was happening.

Niala had no idea how her pet kept doing that. She'd probably never find out.

She slammed the main door inward, palming the mana stone on the wall, which turned on the dozens of light orbs in sequence, illuminating her spacious- and well-furnished- alchemy lab.

For this momentous occasion, only the best would do, so she headed toward the alchemy workbench she had “borrowed” from the Radiant Archive and retrieved the supplies she would need.

Notebooks and pens were set to one side. A hand cart with crates of beakers, phials, pipettes and stirring sticks was rolled in by David. Samples of the plants to be tested were arrayed in lidded boxes. Measuring instruments lined one side of the table, and two mana burners were connected to the lab's mana network.

That installation had cost a pretty penny, but it was necessary for the highest grade of brewing. The several mana filters that now fed her burners ensured that only the most stable, pure mana reached them.

A precise flame made for a precise brew, as her father said.

Around here, David flitted to and from, predicting and retrieving the tools and instruments she needed thanks to his many hours spent assisting her. She might look like she took it for granted, but the smiles she gave him every time he handed her something dispelled the notion.

She was very grateful for his help, and she would let him know later, in ways she knew he really liked. And that I really like too- No, right now, it was time for experiments!

David brought her the last of her supplies, setting down the crate on a nearby table. He leaned against the table and observed what she was doing for a moment. “What are you looking for?” He asked her.

She didn't look, focusing on her work as she prepared the herbs, measuring and cutting them into portions that she set aside in numbered phials. “I know which compounds are in these, and I know how they react to each other to create certain effects.”

She grabbed a notebook and drew a table on one of its pages, writing down the same numbers as the phials. “The... decoagulating effect of the Old Woman either comes from an unknown interaction between the known compound, or from an unknown compound. I'm going to test for that.”

With her ears folded back, she set a beaker of distilled water to boil and retrieved small strips of alchemically-treated papers, holding one up for David to see. “These are compound strips. Each type will react to a single compound by turning colour. I'll start by making sure there aren't any that I'm unaware of in these plants.”

The paper slip went back to its sibling. “I don't expect to find any, but it's the first step.”

And with that, she was off. Her tail went still, with only the tip flicking. Her hands moved mechanically, precise and purposeful, as she boiled each herb individually, extracting its compounds.

She added a few drops of binding agents, a neutral substance that worked to agglomerate compounds together, and put each phial in a small centrifuge. The magic tool was turned on, set to a precise 552 rotation per minute, and left to run for exactly 32 seconds.

With a phial hook, she retrieved them, uncorked them, and held them up against a light globe, nodding as she found the subtle strata in the liquid she was expecting. The first herb, Vagrant's Soap, so called because poor people rubbed it on their bodies to hide other smells, had only two known compounds. The phial showed exactly the same, no surprise here.

The compound strips confirmed as such. The next three herbs were all the same, each leading to the expected separation and compound content.

By the time she dabbed the last strip and waited for the result, she could barely control the shiver in her hand. It was a new compound. It had to be a new compound. These herbs all contained exactly what she knew she would find.

That raised the issue of how to confirm the presence of that new compound.

In the past, she had run many experiments with the Old Woman recipe, trying to come up with a better-tasting version or to add other effects, but any deviation failed to reproduce the drink's uplifting property.

This meant it was something specific to these four herbs, and something the binding agent was not interacting with. That result wasn't too surprising, the agent having been formulated specifically to work with known compounds.

She would have to do this the old-fashioned way: aetheric distillation. An exacting and time-consuming process where mana was fed into a potion in tiny modulated increments until it hit a resonance with one of the compounds present and burned it off.

Looking around her lab, she realized she was missing some of the more advanced tools she needed. An oversight that irked her; she was used to having all of the magitool she needed at her Father's laboratory. They'd been left off her purchase list when she set up her own lab because of the price; some of them could buy her house two or three times over.

Only, now, after she'd seen what her finances were like...

It would take time to acquire them, though, and she didn't want to wait weeks or a full season. There was only one solution left: Begging Marshalla to borrow some of her instruments.