"See if he can do anything with some of that added help," Adam muttered to Shiv. “Show him the mask. If someone in the Neath can get that fixed, it will at least spare you from being noticed by everyone on the street when the System screams for them to rip your head off in exchange for almost a dozen Legendary skills.”

"Yeah, I know." Shiv hesitated slightly before he pulled out another thing from his cape: his broken Mask of False Paths. He held it out to the goblin.

"What the hells’ this?" Custiel asked.

"Just take it. You might know what it can do once you see the notification pop up."

The goblin did, though he accepted the mask's pieces apprehensively. A second passed, his breath hitched in his throat. "Holy shit. Perfect Semblance? Do you have any idea how rare this thing is? Heroic-Tier." The goblin smacked his lips together. He pressed the broken halves of the mask and aligned the cracks along the middle. "Still won't be strong enough to survive an Ascendant or another Divinity, but this thing will give you a free pass against practically anyone who isn't a god, assuming they aren't already suspicious. And if a deity is suspicious of you, you're fucked either way."

And that’s not too bad, since the Educator can help us blend in, Shiv mused. Cripple’s also available, so we have some cover from the others at least. Still doesn’t solve the problem of escaping the Republic entirely, though. And we do need to get out. We need to find Blackedge again.

"Right," Shiv said. "You know anyone that can fix it?"

The goblin paused. "Well, maybe. But we don't really work for free, if you catch my drift. And I might be forgetting a few things from all the mistreatment I've suffered so far."

"The goblin thinks he suffered mistreatment?" the Educator snapped. "He doesn't know what mistreatment is."

"Ignore her," Shiv said. "Say we can pay for it. Say we have mithril or another way to pay. How fast can they fix the mask? And, uh, can any living arrangements be made in the meantime?"

"Hells, everything's possible through the Neath, but the entire Ascendancy coming after you? That's a pretty big bill for you to foot. Not saying it's impossible, though." In fact, a slow smile crawled across his face, and he started looking at Irons once more. "I think everyone in this room can help each other a bit."

As the goblin smiled, the captain frowned.

"How's that?" Shiv asked.

“Well. Fixing this thing is going to take a Heroic-Tier Crafter and a Heroic-Tier Enchanter to make sure everything works right. And if you’re just looking for a way out of the city, I might got an idea.”

Both Shiv and Adam leaned in. “Right. We’re listening,” the Deathless said.

“Well. There are two people known to provide circumspect services at a certain Academy…”

Adam flinched.

Irons groaned. “Hero-Smith Concelhaunt and Hero-Enchanter Merrielmel?”

The goblin laughed. “Familiar with them, are we?”

“I always did think they lived a little too lavishly. Even for nobility. Even if they are tenured.”

Custiel grinned. “Yeah. Well. See, they contacted me about finding people desperate enough to be subjects in a new project of theirs. Something about making a device that will let someone briefly slip to, uh, some place Outside before dipping back into reality as a means of travel, if you catch my drift. Good, High-Tier warriors that are desperate at that. Their last batch didn’t quite make it back.”

Shiv and Adam looked at each other once more. The Gate Lord shuddered. The Deathless felt a sense of wariness and hope flicker inside him.

“Listen,” Custiel said, holding up his hands. “I can make a few arrangements. You let me go, we head outside like reasonable adults and discuss this, and I might be able to get you all into the academy. City might be under lockdown, but there are still plenty of ways to get around inside. And the capital’s a big place.”

Shiv breathed out and nodded. “Well. I did always want to go to an academy. Irons? Is school still in session?”

Adam creased his eyebrows in thought. “It’s… What, the end of week three?”

“Too late for me to get enrolled?” Shiv asked jokingly.

“Not unless you steal the identity of some poor, dead student with your repaired mask.” Adam chuckled. Then they both fell silent. Their mirth faded. The idea stayed. “Say, Captain,” Adam muttered. “Have there been any… unfortunate fatalities so far?”

For the first time, Captain Irons’s face tightened with discomfort.
