“...then the Legate handed me this invitation and told me to go ‘mend my tarnished reputation’.” Shrugging to share my helpless ignorance, I add, “After which I got changed, came straight home, sat down in this chair, told you guys everything that happened, and now we’re all caught up.”

I could’ve done without the tongue-in-cheek conclusion, but this entire day has been one interrogation after another and I’m sick and tired of being the focus of attention. It’s not anyone’s fault, because Mom, Dad, Akanai, and everyone else were just trying to help and want to know how my meeting with the Legate went, but I’m completely done with today and just want it all to be over. My social batteries have been drained dry and I need to recharge with a good old fashioned floofy cuddle puddle, but apparently today is the day of infinite social interaction.

My own personal hell. Mother take the wheel, because I can’t do this on my own.

If given the option, I would never choose to be this way. It feels shitty to resent people who care about my well-being just because I’d rather wallow in solitude, but I can’t help it. I am who I am, so now, not only am I frustrated and unsociable, I’m also ashamed and remorseful for being a grumpy grumps, but at least now I get to enjoy everyone’s outbursts of noble outrage and furious vows of retribution on my behalf.

“Good,” Dad says, beaming as he hands the invitation over to Akanai for her to peruse. “Good, good.”

...Was he not listening? I was stabbed and choked out as a test. It was so traumatic, I only remember two out of three near death experiences. Then the Legate made me pour his tea. The bastard!

“Mhm,” Akanai grunts, nodding in agreement while swelling with pride. “About time. Although the boy is difficult to work with, he is all but impossible to compel. Now that the Legate has accepted this, he finally offers us a workable compromise.”

...What?

Seeing my confusion etched in my dumbfounded expression, Mom takes the time to explain why they’re not outraged by the Legate’s actions. “There there, sweet child,” she says, stroking my cheek softly. “Your father and grandmother do not mean to downplay your ordeal, but while the Legate’s actions were heavy-handed, you would sooner see pigs fly than hear an Imperial Noble offer a heartfelt apology.” Shooting a pointed look at her shamefaced husband and mother-in-law, Mom snatches the invitation out of Akanai’s hand and holds it out for me to peruse. “However, to most Martial Warriors, this would be more than enough to make up for your suffering this afternoon, hence their insensitive and dog-brained remarks.”

“This?” Glancing over the invitation once more, it still reads exactly the same as before. “How is an invitation to a banquet almost two-hundred kilometres away supposed to make up for anything? I don’t even want to go.”

“But you must, no matter the consequences.” Mom’s steely tone leaves no room for argument, but she takes my hand to console me. “For this banquet is to honour your accomplishments and those of your closest allies. To not go is to dishonour their efforts and sacrifices.”

“It’s a banquet for the heroes of Sinuji,” I reply, reading directly off the invitation. “Taking place on the first day of spring. The only honour it mentions is being seated at the table of honour, next to that worthless idiot, Mitsue Watanabe.”

“Colonel General Nian Zu will be there as well,” Mom replies, giving me a long-suffering look as if wondering how I can be so dumb. “So will Brigadier Chen Hongji and others who you fought alongside in Sinuji. There, they will speak of your exploits and contributions while you smile and play the humble young Talent, thereby fulfilling your obligations to the Legate and mending your tarnished reputation, while also showing everyone you are once again in good health.”

Tch. I still don’t want to go. Sitting at the table of honour means I have to smile and wave at the crowd instead of hiding on the periphery and slipping away early. Rubbing elbows with the nobility is not my idea of a good time, and I had enough to last me a lifetime at Luo-Luo’s wedding banquet, which, I might add, ended in disaster when someone tried to poison me to death. Then again, I’m still not sure how I feel about that particular attempt on my life. On the one hand, I almost died. On the other, the banquet ended early and I got to keep all the gifts, so... I dunno. It wasn’t all bad. Let’s just call it a wash.

“Guess I’m taking a trip to the Central Citadel then.” Sighing, I look over the invitation once more and see that it only mentions Luo-Luo by name, who I guess is my plus one at the table of honour, and up to ten guests who will be seated elsewhere. There’s also a limit on the number of guards I can bring inside, namely twenty, and what appears to be a hastily added postscript which says that while arrangements will be made for the Guardian Turtle, any other animals will be turned away at the gates in the interest of public safety and hygiene, so I should plan accordingly. I imagine whoever wrote the invitation expects me to find someone to look after my pets during the banquet, but I’m wondering if there’s any way to smuggle a hare, two bears, three wildcats, sixteen rabbits, and twenty plus Laughing Birds into the party. I’d include the cattle too, but they don’t like crowds much, even if there’ll be food and music. “Space is limited, so who wants to come with?”

Maybe I could argue that they’re my guard animals, though I’d still need to limit myself to only twenty, and I can’t do that. I love all my floofs more or less equally, though Bugs’ attitude problem is really wearing on my nerves. I usually don’t mind letting him sleep on my bed, but I don’t want him or any of my floofs around when I’m having happy fun times with Yan. I don’t want them to watch, so they have to sleep outside, but stupid Bugs keeps thumping away at the pet door and trying to get back in while alerting everyone in the manor to the fact that I have a guest over in the middle of the night.

Not cool Bugs. Not cool.

In the end, it’s decided that Mom, Alsantset, Charok, Tali, and Tate will be joining me at the banquet, with Taduk, Lin-Lin, Mila, Yan, and Song rounding out the rest of my quota. As for guards, even though I’d rather bring the Bannermen to honour their contributions, Luo-Luo insists I use the Death Corps because even though I can’t trust them to keep their mouths shut, they are a status symbol I cannot do without at a public event of this magnitude. She’s right, but there’s no way in hell I won’t bring Dastan and his people to this banquet, because if we’re celebrating the heroes of Sinuji, then they deserve to stand front and centre.

With only ten guests and twenty guards, a lot of people are getting cut from the list, like Ghurda and the other Bannermen, Rustram and my officers, Monk Happy, and a whole lot more, but at least they’ll be making the trip with me. Dad couldn’t come even if he wanted to though, because he has to stay behind and command the Northern Citadel in Nian Zu’s absence. Akanai is also staying behind, mostly to keep Dad safe. She didn’t say as much in so many words, but it’s clear she’s worried he’ll be in danger without Nian Zu around to keep the peace. It’s adorable how she behaves like a helicopter mom while treating Dad like a rebellious teen, ignoring his sullen stares and pretending as if she has other reasons to hover around his workplace. Despite his moody expression, Dad loves the attention, as evidenced by his wagging tail drumming out a rhythmic beat against his poor wooden chair. Even though he was adopted late in life, he’s a momma’s boy through and through.

Then again, I’m not in any position to point fingers...

What comes next is the planning and preparation, because everyone knows this trip won’t be as cut and dry as it appears. If it were up to me, I’d fill my entire guest list with more guards and even trade Luo-Luo for Kuang Biao in a dress, because if history has taught me anything, it’s that dinner banquets are veritable minefields of political intrigue and assassination attempts, even more dangerous than dining in restaurants. A banquet is no place to bring loved ones and children, but my concerns are overlooked in favour of free food and the chance to see me ‘honoured’ in front of the Empire’s elites.

Hooray. Honestly, I’d rather suffer through a chili-oil colonic delivered by a pressure washer, but that’s just me.

Given how my input is unneeded and my surly demeanour unwanted, it isn’t long before Mom ‘suggests’ I go get ready for bed, which I am more than happy to comply with. Hand in hand with Lin-Lin and Yan, I walk them both back to Taduk’s manor next door while Mila, Song, Luo-Luo, and a whole menagerie of pets follow along behind us. Once everyone’s through the double doors, I glance at Yan who nods ever so slightly, indicating she’s already sent all the servants away and the coast is clear. Grinning from ear to ear, I scoop up Mama Bun and cuddle her close with a sigh, basking in the wonderful, healing properties of soft, shaggy, floof.

Finally. Sweet relief.

Giggling as the other animals gather around and clamour for affection, I collapse into a pile of bunny-kisses, bear cuddles, and kitten headbutts, which is about as close to Heaven as one can get here on this mortal plane. After having thoroughly indulged my need for floofs, I lie back in the grass with Baloo’s shoulder as a pillow and sweet Mama Bun still tucked in my arms. Sitting in a small circle around me, the five lovely ladies in my life smile and play with the animals as well, each one as enamoured by the floofs as I am. Across from me in my direct line of sight, the dazzling Luo-Luo hums a cheery tune while massaging Jimjam’s haunches, the usually diffident wildcat having taken a shine to the musically-inclined courtesan. They make a fine pair together, one feigning indifference while the other puts on airs, for it would be uncatlike to be affectionate and unwomanly to cuddle with animals. While I don’t exactly love her, she’s a sweet and endearing woman who I easily could see myself falling in love with once she learns how to be comfortable in her own skin.

Beside them sits Song, with Sarankho curled up in her arms, the prettiest of my wildcats snuggling with arguably the prettiest woman in the manor. I say arguably because all the women here are gorgeous beyond compare, but if I’m being honest, when talking about appearance and nothing else, Song suits my personal tastes best. Long legs? Check. Soulful eyes? Check. Demure demeanour? Check. The list goes on and she hits every point, but there’s more to love than just looks, and she hits those points too. She loves animals, hates losing, enjoys peace and solitude, and is a kind and loving soul.

But one who will probably never love me back. It’s okay though. I’ll settle for happy and nearby.

Then there’s fiery Mila, so confident and strong. Jealous too, but despite the fact that she can have her pick of any man in the Empire, she’s willing to settle for being one of my five wives instead. I’m not exaggerating either; with her crimson curls, gorgeous good looks, and consummate Martial Skills, nobles and peasants alike would come running if she merely crooked her finger in their direction. How am I supposed to ever make it up to her? What’s more, she’s always been my rival and goal, the person I needed to surpass in order to become a true Martial Warrior, but now she’s become even more. She’s my pillar, my rock, the person I can always rely on no matter what. She grumbles and glares even while patting Thumper a little too roughly on the head, but I know she’ll always be there whenever I need her most.

I don’t want to let her down with my weakness and frailty. Not just in the bedroom, but in everyday life. She is the true Number One Talent in the Empire, and she deserves a husband to match her, so I need to get my shit together and unravel my tangled Martial Dao.

Other than Luo-Luo’s humming, the only other sound is Yan’s mumbled voice as she quietly admonishes Tawny One for being too rough with Blackjack. I am head over heels for this incredible woman, and why wouldn’t I be? While not as talented as some, Yan is far more driven to succeed, and I suspect her future accomplishments will equal or even surpass those of her famed adoptive Grandfather. Of all the women in my life, she’s the most like me, not just in our off-beat humour and love of animals, but also how we’re both plagued by fears and insecurities. Unlike me, however, she sets out to rise above her inner doubts each and every day, and is willing to do anything to chase her dreams. I admire Mila’s strength, but I am in complete awe of Yan’s courage and determination, because I could never be brave enough to do what she’s done.

Best of all? She loves me with all her heart, so much that it scares me sometimes. What have I done to deserve her love and devotion? I’m not good enough for her, much less her and four others, but she’s made her decision and I couldn’t be happier for it.

