Last of all is sweet Lin-Lin, my cheery little wifey. Whether it be a smile or pout, the mere sight of her cherubic expression is enough to put a spring in my step, and I don’t know what I’d do without her. Having her by my side is like coming home after a long day’s work, except better and happier because it’s Lin-Lin. Just having her nearby makes me wanna wrap my arms around her and never let go, but I know if I do, I won’t be able to hold myself back any more. While still cute as a button, her twin braids have disappeared and been replaced by a braided crown, which lends her an air of grace and sophistication to go along with her fresh-faced innocence.

And now when I see her, I have an almost animalistic urge to take her, to claim her, to make her mine before anyone else can. Bad Rain. Stop it. We don’t lewd the Lin-Lin. No matter how charming or willing she might be...

Noticing my stare, my sweet wifey smiles and clutches Aurie close, cuddling the happy wildcat while scritching him behind the ears. “Hi hubby,” she says, beaming while Aurie rumbles in delight. “You feeling better?”

“Yup.” Pushing down those primal urges, I direct my mind away from sex and try to focus more on floof. “My neck is still a little sore and I get this sharp pain in my side whenever I turn too quickly, but otherwise, I’m one-hundred percent fine.” Eyeing her braided crown which is now unkempt from a day’s worth of excitement, I smile and add, “I love what you’ve done with your hair. It’s stylish, yet lively.”

Giggling into Aurie’s fur, Lin-Lin makes a sour face and sticks her tongue out in pique. “About time you said something,” she grumbles, huffing in feigned indignation. “I was starting to think you didn’t notice, ya? Li-Li did it for me. Isn’t it pretty?”

Sitting up with a grunt, I reach over and tuck a loose lock of hair behind her ear, undoubtedly having come undone while she was riding, running, jumping, or climbing somewhere. “It’s lovely, but not quite as robust as your twin-tailed braids. If you want to look the part of sophisticated young woman, then you’ll have to stop being so rambunctious and take up more ladylike endeavours. How do you feel about embroidery or mahjong?”

“Bo-ring.” Shifting Aurie around so she can lean against my shoulder, my wifey sighs in contentment and launches into the story of how her day went, which was much more enjoyable than mine. After I left for my meeting with the Legate, she played chess with Song while Mila, Yan, and Luo-Luo talked about what the Legate might want, then they all went for a rickshaw race and a run through the obstacle course to unwind before dinner, hence her unkempt hair. “We made plans to visit Daddy at the farm tomorrow,” she concludes, stifling a yawn while clutching my arm tight. “There’s more room for racing out there. You’re gonna come, ya?”

“I’d love to.” I haven’t been there since the new year celebrations, so at the very least, I can take a look at Taduk’s working space and see if he has everything he needs. My teacher is a brilliant man, but he sometimes does the strangest things, like refusing to wear a coat in a cold workroom because ‘coats are for outside’. I ended up having to get him a thick winter robe complete with an attached hood and fingerless gloves to keep him from freezing to death inside his secret lab, which sadly now sits unused since we’re stuck here in Central.

Plus, I’ll get to see Pong Pong, who likes the farm so much he refuses to leave. I haven’t seen him since I left for Sinuji, and Taduk says he won’t come back to visit, the stupid jerk. I suppose I could also say hi to Pong Pong’s pond mate too, but I’m not sure if Sir Inks-a-lot even cares about me anymore. It’s hard to tell on account of him being an octopus and all, but even though we got off on the wrong tentacle, the clingy little pervert’s grown on me.

“So about this morning,” Yan abruptly segues, having sat on the question long enough. “Were Grandpa and the others able to help?”

While Lin-Lin has a clear grasp of my social needs and limits, the others are fairly blind to it. That’s not their fault, I’m just weird and eccentric. “I don’t know,” I reply, unable to muster up the effort needed to explain. “Maybe? They gave me a lot to think about, but I have no idea where to start.” Do I explore my lack of faith? Get more control over my emotions? Figure out what my Dao truly is?

“Then start from the beginning, ya?” Lin-Lin says, which isn’t particularly helpful, but it’s not her fault.

Giving my sweet wifey a kiss on the forehead, I ask, “And where would the beginning be? Core Creation? I don’t know the first thing about it. No one does. You find Balance and bam. Core Created. That’s pretty much it.”

“No hubby.” No longer able to contain her dainty yawn, Lin-Lin stretches without letting go of my arm, which is about the cutest thing I’ve ever seen. “The beginning. Why do you wanna be strong?”

“Why does that matter?”

Like an over-enthusiastic student, Song answers in Lin-Lin’s stead. “Strength for the sake of strength is meaningless, for only with purpose can Martial Strength truly hold significance.”

...

Sometimes, I forget Lin-Lin is also a Martial Talent, albeit in her own, special sort of way.

“Okay then. So why do I seek strength?” It’s a good question, one which has plagued me since I first stepped foot on the Martial Path, and one I never really answered. Why do I want to be strong? At one point, it was because I never wanted to be helpless again, but now I know how ridiculous that dream is. Short of doing the impossible and ascending to literal Godhood, I will never be strong enough to fulfill that ambition, because there will always be some enemy to be wary of. Even someone as strong as the mole-rat Ancestral Beast can be rendered helpless by the stronger Guan Suo, and even he wasn’t confident of winning a fight against big poppa piggy.

Like Charok said, if personal safety is what I was after, then I should’ve abandoned the Martial Dao and become an herbalist instead. At that point, Ancestral Beasts would be no different from natural disasters, something to keep in mind, but not an ever-present concern. The farmer doesn’t worry about Legates and Divinities, he worries about the weather and his crop, or if his daughter will marry a good man or his son find a loving wife.

Yet still I pursued strength. Why?

Do I seek strength for the sake of strength? Not really. What’s the point of the strength? To fight? I enjoy a good spar or two, but I hate actually fighting. No, that’s not true either. I love it. I deny it every chance I get, but the truth is, I’m in love with the excitement and adrenaline, the death and bloodshed. I get bored sitting around at home with no one to fight or kill. I’m addicted to the experience, because I never feel more alive than when I take a life or narrowly avoid my own death. Just this afternoon, I thought I was going to die twice, yet the whole time I couldn’t stop joking and smiling, because even though it was a one-sided beating, it just felt good to fight again. No more weakly standing on the sidelines, no more watching while others die in my place, no, I was there in the thick of things, pitting my strength and intelligence against a worthy foe once again, and I loved every doomed second of it.

But... I wouldn’t say I seek strength for the sake of fighting. I enjoy it, but I’m not obsessed with it. I don’t go around starting fights for no reason, nor would I ever kill for the sake of killing. Don’t forget, before the Disciplinary Corps stuck their nose in my business, I was happy living life as a cripple. No stress, no struggle, just a simple goal to strive for each and every day, to set a new record of steps taken, and I. Was. Happy.

No, my love of combat is not the reason I seek Strength. So what other reasons are there?

To survive? If survival is all I’m after, then strength is not necessary. With my knowledge and skills, I could live comfortably with a dozen different professions.

To live free and unfettered? Ha, how’s that working out for me? Terribly is how.

To fight the Defiled? Even if I were at my peak strength, could I kill half-a-million Defiled by myself? Of course not, but my idea for a firebomb did just that. I’d be of more use as a researcher, working with Diyako and OuYang Yuhuan to develop more powerful weapons of war, like repeating crossbows and runic cannons.

So why do I seek strength?

“I have no idea why I seek strength,” I declare. “For shits and giggles maybe?” Seeing Mila’s disapproving frown, I continue, “What? It’s sort of a valid reason. Being a Martial Warrior is awesome, and way too fun to pass on. I want to run on treetops and stand on a charging quin, call forth a tsunami and punch a shark so hard it explodes.”

Also, I would really, really like to Conceal myself in a bathhouse. I mean, the People don’t mind being seen, I just want to look without being teased about it. Is that really so terrible?

In the wake of my irreverent answer, Mila continues to frown while Yan shakes her head and Lin-Lin devolves into a fit of giggles. Luo-Luo politely looks away, but oddly enough, Song nods in agreement. “I do not know why I seek strength either,” she replies, pursing her lips in a fetching pout. “Though it is definitely not for ‘shits and giggles’.”

The way she repeats the phrase in a stilted tone sets Lin-Lin to howling with laughter, and the rest of us soon join in. Song is stoic as ever and unsure why we’re all laughing, but happy to be a part of it regardless. She’s a sweet girl, and I wish her all the happiness in the world, because Mother knows she deserves it.

On that cheerful note, we all head off to bed for the night, though Yan gives me a sultry look which tells me she’ll be over as soon as she can, then glares at Buster who she mistakes for Bugs to remind me to leave the bunnies in Lin-Lin’s courtyard. My horned honey is insatiable, but there are worse tribulations to suffer through, so I’m understandably upbeat while walking Mila, Song, and Luo-Luo back to my manor where the former two can go home with Akanai and the latter can run off to her own bed. Seeing Mila’s scowl grow even deeper, I smile and pinch her cheeks with both hands on impulse.

A terrible, poorly thought-out impulse, bordering on suicidal.

“Don’t touch me,” Mila snaps, her frown turning into a pout. “Idiot.”

“What’s wrong, beloved?”

Instead of answering, my fiery betrothed fixes me with a pointed glare. “You forgot, didn’t you?”

...Don’t answer that. It’s a trap. Say something. Anything. “Uh-buh?” Brilliant.

“When is your celebration banquet supposed to take place?”

“Err, first day of spring.”

“And does that date not mean anything? Does nothing important come to mind?”

“Um... no?” Her teary gaze rends my heart to pieces, but I soon realize what she’s hinting at. “Are you worried we won’t make it back in time for our wedding?” Resisting the urge to laugh, I take her hand and bring her fingers to my lips. “Beloved, spring lasts for three months, or thereabouts. There’s a whole forty five days between the first day of spring and the spring equinox, plenty of time to visit the Central Citadel, have a few drinks, and head back to plan a wedding.” Seeing Mila’s dumbfounded expression and Luo-Luo’s subtle warning to shut my mouth, I stop and ask, “What? What am I missing here?”

“The spring equinox is the first day of spring,” Song helpfully supplies, “And not the midpoint, as you seem to believe it to be.”

...

......

I hate this fucking language.

Chapter Meme
