"Tragically, I do," the Culturist replied. "I make it my business to know all my potential adversaries, and you, you have been undone by your grief. I can read the nakedness of your sorrow in all your actions, in your decisions, in the way you live. But I am not here to judge you. We are all unmanned by life. We are all set to suffer for simply existing. But things have changed now. We have caught some of his flame. And more importantly, we can decide how he burns. And if we do not, then someone else will shape the way he immolates this world and combusts the System from within."

"How the fuck are you so goddamn certain he's going to ‘swallow the System’ instead of the other way around? Because so far he's not died. He's not faced that consequence above all other consequences."

"I know because He is like me if I weren't imperfect, if I weren't bound to a higher, darker, more parochial will. If my death did not strip me of power and leave me only the blessing of knowledge. He is an orc made perfect. No, an orc stripped away of the monster and left with the raw material to forge a true warrior. I know you see that in him. And I know it entices you to hammer your influence upon him."

In the distance, there came a series of thunderous sounds. Jessica knew that was the kid falling upon more hapless bloodspawn. They would all die facing him. And she was falling behind in their killing competition. But she wasn't worried about that part. The moment she decided to step in, it would be over in a blink. Best to let the boy have his fun. And best for her to decide whether she wanted to kill or walk away from this nosy bastard of an orc, who seemed to really enjoy the sound of his own voice.

"He has a great many influences in his life already. Valor will likely make him a true terror. The Deathless has not fully harnessed his potential for stealth, and Valor would see to it that he gains a potential successor in the Unseen Ways. When he does, I fear for everyone who faces the boy. But even at the height of his capabilities, Valor was not known to be the greatest duelist. His martial prowess was a thing of legend, yes, but perhaps of lesser legend compared to many of his contemporaries, all of whom met their ends in glorious battle against him despite this.”

The Culturist breathed out, watching the carnage in the distance with naked interest. “Then I stand before the Deathless. I stand along with all my orcs. We are a whetstone. We are the dialectic against him, what he could be if he gives in to his monstrous behaviors, but what he would never truly become since he lacks that love for absolute cruelty. Even so, there are many things we can show him, experiences, wars we can fight against him and with him, lessons in terms of magic. Biomancy and more. A generalized education from us is worth more than a university, but he should still continue attending the academy, if only to balance himself with humane socialization.”

Jessica huffed. The gray bastard’s worried father talk was a bit absurd, even if she could see where he was going with this.

"And then there are the others: Adam will likely serve as the Deathless' moral compass, and more. I suspect it won't be long before the Young Lord tries to show his friend how to use a bow. If only to mock him. The Deathless is already intimately engaged with our new Seeker, and she will have already left her marks on his potential Psychomancy. And there are so many more masters the Deathless will claim tutelage under. That vampire we encountered, the one with the impressive charm. Not to mention our mutual friend, Roland Arrow—who Udraal chose as a mentor for the Deathless before everything was even in motion."

Jessica tightened her grip on Rusty as her body was bathed in light. Over the enshadowed foliage of the nearby woods rose a colossal ball of flame. The ground shook. The air shrieked. Jessica continued glaring at the orc. "And now you're just deliberately goading me, you piece of shit. If you know me half as well as you claim you do, you know what that name does to me. But I see what you're doing. You're trying to drag me into this bullshit group mentorship scam thing you're setting up here. But I'm not falling for it."

The moment she finished that last sentence, the orc burst into laughter. "You already have."

"The fuck I have," Jessica snarled.

Rusty sighed. It was the sigh of a sword that was disappointed in its wielder, but also knew the inevitable had just occurred.

"Look, I haven't, Rusty, I haven't," Jessica insisted.

The Culturist had the indignity to laugh even harder.

"No, fuck you, I haven't. You shut the fuck up. I'm gonna—" Jessica growled in outrage and cut a gap into the fabric of space. "Eat shit, orc. And that kid can eat shit too, for all I care. He's gonna enjoy eating my canned beans after I finish with the vampires."

Before the Culturist could say anything else, Jessica's flaming wheels roared. Time seemed to slow as she accelerated herself like a raging comet. She moved 4 meters and crossed 40 kilometers in the same instant, emerging far beyond the ravine and depositing herself in the middle of First Blood territory. The air here was thick with sulfur and death; ruined flesh and boiling marrow greeted her nostrils. She struggled not to gag as she acclimated to the stench.

"Fucking hate vampires, bullshit… disgusting fucks," Jessica grumbled under her breath.
