“Damn [Martial Artists]. But it will be a feather upon my helmet the size of a Roc to best them.”
Not even the [Generals] of thirty years ago had done that. Setbacks were inevitable. He stroked his chin—then glanced to one side.
Being a [Great General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had some perks. He had to demand troops from the [Chancellor], but he had a few keys to…weapons of Nerrhavia’s Fallen he might not technically be allowed to have. Yet the Court of Steel was incautious, and the throne wasn’t as overbearing as it had been in older times.
They were embroiled with the pest problem and that fight between the royal bloodlines.
“Ah, Prince Zenol, you choose your friends poorly.”
Thelican shook his head as he inspected a weapon of resort. As in—he would resort to it if he had to. He touched the glass tubing and jumped and swore as it shocked his hand. Then he decided he had better not touch it.
If it went off, even a Stitch-folk like him wouldn’t be reconstructed from the damage it would do. Thelican then decided he would have some fine company and settled back to wait for his reinforcements. He found a map and began circling the flattest, most open ground spots he could find around Pomle. No valleys, no foliage for cover, no rivers or nuisances like that.
Textbook. His history books had told him that his predecessors had tried everything on the old Strongest of Pomle—but had deemed Pomle not worth the effort of going the full margin. Thelican? It had occurred to him multiple times he could simply sue for peace and quash the insult to one of the [Princes]. But why would he?
He always thought he was going to win. Every single battle. And as statistics showed if he bothered to compile them—
Half the time, he was right.
 
——
 
The most powerful asset on Pomle’s side was not the [Empress of Beasts]. Nor was it Orjin. The most powerful ally Pomle had was called Salii.
She created Pomle’s economy. She was responsible for healing potions, food, the refugees and freed slaves having places to stay. Without her, there was no war front, just a bunch of hungry [Martial Artists] and starving people fighting with each other and looking around for a ten-year-old potion or slapping mud-bandages on injuries.
She had taken Orjin’s side because she wanted to counter-level. Because she got rewards for [On The Job Training], actual Skills for giving her employers good service.
And because she rather liked Pomle, for all it was crazy. It was a kind of successful crazy.
The problem was this: Salii was also good at math. She was logical, made few mistakes, and could calculate where odds intersected with willpower and effort. She was no machine of math, but she used it along with a sense of people.
So she knew Pomle was going to lose.
It wasn’t hard to calculate. Even given their victories and Tiqr rising…even if you assumed counter-levelling would change things—
Let’s assume you had a thousand Orjins. Which they did not have. Let’s assume none of them died. To beat Nerrhavia down, you would have to have each Orjin kill a thousand soldiers. And that…would wear down their standing forces.
Not their conscripts. Those thousand would have artifacts, some of them, be [Mages], and fight you all at once.
The only way to win this war was when Nerrhavia sued for peace. And the problem was…
[Intercept Communications: Yordv Cotton]. Salii yanked a piece of paper out of the air and read it grimly as she paced around one of the homes she’d had built and commandeered.
“Six legions? Magic throwers…this isn’t good.”
She noted down the numbers. Yordv Cotton was one of Thelican’s [Strategists]. Not a high-level one; he reported to a superior, and Yordv was an idiot.
If he were smart, he’d question why one-in-twenty of his reports went missing. But he didn’t and instead just told the [Mages] to resend them and issued a complaint. It was nice going up against amateurs.
Salii had calculated that Nerrhavia would try to destroy Pomle just because they hated losing. But she had hoped Flos and the other issues would make them sue for peace.
She had a weak spot, it seemed, against unpredictable opponents. Like Erin Solstice. Or General Thelican’s asinine ego.
Sometimes, Salii wished she had the power to just—fight. Not manage. It would make her life simpler since people would manage her. She considered her options.
“I could leave.”
She did not want to. That gave you a bad reputation. Plus, it would be losing, and she hated losing. Yet the time was right.
[Spiritguard Deflection] was one of the Skills her big Level 50 capstone—[On The Job Training For Services Rendered]—had given her. It was a free Skill that was awarded for her efforts, not her level.
As an example—Salii’s [Intercept Communications] was a Skill that came from working from her previous job in a corporate setting. It was one of three she had gained.
She had just gained her second Skill here from working for Pomle during the war. Ahead of schedule by a year, but she’d take it.
[Martial Arts Proficiency: Style of the Roving Wall].
What a mouthful. But it technically meant that Salii was 2 out of the 3 Skills she thought she wanted from each of her employers. Not a bad time to cut her losses.
“…Not yet. Not yet. This is far better than working for the company.”
The power of her employer, Orjin, or the necessity of her work in Pomle might have upgraded her Skills. Salii wanted to test out her Skill—she’d gotten it just last night.
“Hah!”
She made a fist and punched the air. She had never been a brawler and immediately felt stupid. How did Pomle’s warriors do that without turning red? Salii coughed—then picked up her clipboard and went to find Orjin.
Ironically, she didn’t need to make it to him to find a reason to use her Skill. The Drake took one step outside her home and ducked so fast it saved her from being clocked in the head.
“What’s going—”
Salii’s claw came up, and she blocked a kick going towards her face. An off-guard [Martial Artist] blinked at her—then someone grabbed the surprised Human and threw him.
“Someone get the Strongest! Stop fighting—enough!”
“We will settle this now! Master Vandum’s Disciples—to me! To me! Pomle is under attack!”
“W—warriors of Windcaller! Fight these fools!”
“[Stonebody]—”
There were four different sides in here! Salii could [See Allegiances]. She saw Vandum’s so-called Disciples of the Martial Era fighting with their enchanted gauntlets against Sorron and Jalte’s [Stonebody Martial Artists]. But there were two more groups in the mix.
One was…a group of bald-headed warriors defending themselves with staffs and only robes for armor. They were doing well—but there were only eighteen of them in a melee nearly a hundred strong. The most numerous side by far—which made her remember them—were losing to all three other sides.
Windcaller Wrath. The cult that had tried to challenge Pomle had nearly forty members—who were getting punched, thrown, or knocked flat. Mind you—they weren’t entirely incompetent. Some were throwing wind-based punches and landing a few decent blows. Unfortunately—the melee was engulfing anyone who looked like a threat.
And it was right in front of her house! Salii ducked a jet of wind, and then her body started moving for her. She raised her clipboard—
[Spiritguard Deflection]!
—And knocked down a punch from a surprised [Sparkfist]! He recoiled—then saw her.
“Secretary? You can fight?”
“No—stop fighting. Don’t make me get Orjin—”
But it was too late. The fight-loving idiot raised his fists and punched again experimentally.
Damn—
Salii had no idea how her new [Martial Arts Proficiency] Skill worked. As it happened—it was like a [Weapon Proficiency] with a warrior. She somehow knew how to fight—and her clipboard thwacked down the fist.
“Ow. How did you do that?”
The Garuda looked puzzled as he rubbed his gauntlet. His fist had hit something like steel.
“[Indestructible Clipboard]. Don’t—”
He jumped into a flurry of punches and even a stomp meant to catch her tail before ending with a side-kick. And Salii—blocked.
One hand shoved aside a blow coming for her face. Another step took her tail lashing back—and her clipboard deflected a punch before she spun it down. The kick hit the clipboard’s edge, and Salii saw the [Sparkfist]’s face tighten a bit in pain as it dug into his bare flesh. He stepped back, struck his gauntlets together, and they ignited, shooting electricity everywhere. He grinned—
And Orjin tapped him on the shoulder. The [Sparkfist] whirled, blanched, threw a fi—
Orjin’s throw was faster than Salii could follow, proving that her Skill had limits. He grabbed the [Martial Artist] with one hand along his arm—the other on his opposite leg. Then he spun the [Sparkfist] straight into a group of brawling fighters.
Throwing nearly two hundred pounds of flesh at someone that fast stopped the fight. Orjin turned and began to throw out jabs. He walked between two [Grapplers] trying to knock each other down and punched them both. Salii watched people fall down and, panting, lowered her clipboard.
Someone clapped. Salthorn grinned as she stared at Salii, and the Drake realized half of Pomle’s guests and fighters were staring at her.
“Did you always move like that? Were you hiding it, [Secretary]?”
“New Skill. Same Drake. What do you think? Am I challenging the Strongest tomorrow or next year?”
Salthorn laughed, and the Selphid casually walked over to one of her students. The Dullahan gulped and lowered her fists as Salthorn stared at Mendi, her best student, but it was too late.
Salthorn’s [Weightless Throw] sent her apprentice thirty feet. Up. Salii saw Mendi twisting to land right—but the thump still made her wince. The Selphid dusted her hands off.
“Battle ability that comes from a Skill is genuine—but you’ll be a cut behind anyone in Pomle who’s reached…oh, Level 20? At your level, you can probably count on it to keep you safe from a mugging in a big city. It’s very defensive. Lots of parries. I wonder if I—”
She came at Salii suddenly, jabbing in strikes, punching—Salthorn was a [Grappling Master], so she wasn’t as fast—
But she was still over Level 40. Salii, yelping, called for her to stop, but the Selphid’s onslaught didn’t reach her. Salii’s hands knocked down punches, and she used her clipboard as an impromptu shield—right until Salthorn spun, kicked it as Salii held it two-handed, and launched her into the wall of her house.
Salii slid down, dazed, and Salthorn lifted a hand.
“Oops. Sorry. Your body’s not that enhanced. But you did very well. A Level 15 [Swordsman] might not touch you that easily in an actual fight with a bared blade. And with your deflection Skill, you could survive a battlefield. Though you should wear armor.”
Salii lay on the ground for a bit and decided she was not going to show off among Pomle’s lot. But Orjin’s rather amused look made her get up and smile.
“On the job training?”
He knew her Skill, and the Drake dizzily nodded.
“Next Skill should be something that gives me either muscles or tougher scales. But I’ll take it.”
“You looked adept. Six years, or three if you were gifted, would give you those kinds of innate reflexes. A Skill did it overnight.”
He sighed, and Salii shook her head.
“Don’t let’s start. Thank you for beating up the idiots. Now—who did Vandum and Sorron’s people attack? If it’s who I think it is, they might deserve less punishment.”
She pointed, and Orjin frowned as he stared at the forty-some beaten disciples and the [Monks]—whom he had not punched. One bowed to him, and Orjin looked at the Cult of Windcaller’s Fury as the Fury of Skies himself lifted a trembling hand from the stretcher on which his people were bearing him.
They looked—beaten. And the Fury of Skies’ face showed that more than anyone else. Salii stared at the [Monks] and Orjin at the cult who came back far humbler to Pomle. He leaned over to Salii and whispered.
“…The wind-ones look familiar. Do I know them?”
She covered her face with one claw and sighed.
 
——
 
“T-they called themselves the People of G-god. Not dead gods. G-o-d.”
It took the Fury of Skies a bit to explain. Partly because someone had broken a third of his teeth and his face was incredibly bruised—and they had no healing potions. Partly because the word itself was hard.
“What happened?”
“They kept coming, more and more. Calling our cult a—fakery. Then they said that the Prophet wouldn’t allow us to keep spreading lies. And we fought. At first, we won—but they ignored wounds. They healed, and some had strange powers. More than magic. The Fury of Skies faced their best warriors and laid them low. Sixteen—”
They were describing a fight along Zeikhal, the Great Desert. Both the ‘Prophet’, whom Salii had heard about, and the Cult of Windcaller’s Fury were liminal groups in the eyes of any nation.
Both took donations and had—apparently—very devoted followers. As Salii understood it, Windcaller’s Fury was, uh…not that discerning where their income came from.
They lay on the edge of a protection racket, and their followers gave up homes and all they had to learn from their spiritual leader, the Fury of Skies, who did have a decently high level. At least mid-thirties—but his brand of ‘martial arts’ was more show than anything.
He could conjure the wind—but Orjin had proven what actual battlefield technique did. Yet his cult did fight [Bandits] and preach a kind of way of life. The Prophet had objected.
“Let me guess. The first sixteen you fought were amateurs, and then they sent an actual warrior against you.”
Vandum sneered. The Fury of the Winds glared—but the fight was out of him. He flinched his eyes downwards.
“They were not. Whatever you think of me—they were decent enough. Strange powers. Blinding…one conjured a weapon of light, but I avoided it. But then I beat the sixteenth, and the Prophet sent against me what he called a [Bishop].”
“Who is the Prophet?”
“Just a man.”
One of the weary followers of the Windcaller’s Fury said that derisively, but the others looked nervous. The Fury of Skies himself shook slightly.
“He might be man. But that [Bishop]…called something. It was not a summoning spell. It had a burning gaze and wings, and it bested me. They called it a miracle, and then they fought us.”
Again. And again. So viciously that they stripped the Cult of Windcaller’s Fury of their possessions—including healing potions—and the battered Fury of Skies ended up in this state.
“That’s a lack of honor in combat. Practical, but it makes them sound like [Bandits] in their own right. Interesting abilities, though.”
