This was the kind of martial arts that many warriors did not like. Because it emphasized forms that were not used in combat. But it was beautiful. Orjin could not remember ever using this stance in a fight—it was almost like the thing that cult used, all artifice.
But it did take effort to perform. And here?
Here, he watched blue and green billow over his arms. When he turned—sand flew up around him, a cloud of blue dust he cut through with a palm like a blade. When he stomped, it fell out of the air, but it rose once more as he drew a hand up.
Proof there was something here. If only the passage of air, the force of his movements. Beauty.
“Superiority.”
Orjin touched the wound on his side. Pomle had always striven for perfection at arms. They were a practical lot. When Iratze had shown them a better way to fight, disavowed some of the old forms as inefficient, they had abandoned them. The cutting edge of combat in how to jab, punch, avoid being taken down to a ground-fight was mechanical and logical.
This was more the stuff of…what was his name? [Fist of the Western Wind]? Orjin couldn’t remember. It bothered him greatly because he had a personal distaste for whomever that was. But it gave him simple pleasure, the enjoyment of seeing the colors in the air.
A boy’s game. He added a plume of red and ‘caught’ the red dot within the green and blue. Kept it moving without losing most of the red dust by moving his hands carefully, adjusting the currents of the air so it didn’t swirl out and blend together.
He had a lot of practice doing this. Perhaps this was how he had learned [Aeriform Punch]? He could almost…sense where each strand of color would go. Make an orb of the red and have it swirl around him if he moved his hands in the right pattern.
How long he did this, he didn’t know. It was only when he felt the change in air that he stopped. Salii coughed.
“That’s…quite beautiful.”
The blue, green, and red—still in one clump—drifted down as Orjin turned. The Strongest looked like someone had hit him with a bucket of dye. He exhaled—then stomped, and most of it fell off him like rain.
“Enemies?”
“No. No, I’m sorry to bother you, Orjin. It’s a weird [Message] we’ve gotten. It can wait. And I was going to go over the Empress of Beast’s last [Message]…”
“I will hear it. This is my duty now.”
He felt weary as he stepped towards the door. Weary, for thinking of Pomle’s finances, corresponding, analyzing the progress of a war was not what he enjoyed or was good at, and it gave him a headache.
But he was the strongest and Pomle was at war, so he went. Salii gestured at the colors of sand on the floor, now mixed together.
“What will you do with that?”
“Sort it when I return. It will keep.”
Millions of grains of sand on the floor. The [Receptionist] looked at the three buckets and shook her head. Not in disbelief or scorn. She glanced at Orjin, his black skin sun-darkened further, a long scab reaching from his ribs down to his hip on his bare chest, black hair still colored green and blue. More athletic and honed than any warrior she had seen in the Walled Cities except perhaps the Sinew Magus himself.
Barefoot, he walked out of his hut, back into the busy Pomle now filled with warriors training by the thousands, freed [Slaves] and soldiers and even an animated Skeleton Lord swinging its sword around.
But he was Pomle.
 
——
 
The life of the Strongest was—challenge. And it was hard because you were the Strongest. So you challenged yourself, because you knew that every single person was preparing for the day they bested you.
Some stayed true to a style. Xil had been the Strongest for a decade with his spear until he had given up on the post. Orjin had been there. He had seen the [Peerless Spearmaster] let his best apprentice tap him on the chest—and then the new Strongest had lost the title within the hour.
Six months of fighting had resulted in the new Strongest. Orjin was more careful with his role. Unlike other Strongests, who’d demanded the challengers be a certain level or work their way up to him, he answered every opponent. When someone challenged him, he answered. If he lost any ‘serious’ match, he would resign his title.
So, Salii had to speak as the first challenge of the day began. In this case, it was the Skeleton Lord.
Ivery.
Chandrarians were not as afraid of undead as most continents’ folk, but such a powerful one made them uneasy. It—or was it he?—would patrol around the oasis by night, and the bright green, glowing eye-flames would accompany the scimitar blade he carried—armor looted from his foes. In his off-hand, he held a simple, round shield.
Or a weird piece of glass. A rock, which he would throw at his foes. It kept coming back. He could, in fairness, throw the ammunition hard enough to dent in a steel helmet.
He tried it now on Orjin. The Strongest saw the skeleton flick the stone so fast that one of the watching people cried out.
“Hey Ivery, don’t hurt—”
Eloque was taking a break from jabbing with a spear. Her scales, slightly pockmarked but returning to normal, shone under the sun as the faintly purple, semi-opaque piece of glass flew at Orjin’s chest.
The Strongest caught the piece of stone at about 90 MPH as Iratze calculated it. Almost as fast as a professional pitcher—straight at his chest. With no gloves or mitts. From fifteen feet away.
Ivery faltered—but he raised his sword and charged in without fear. Orjin waited for the slash to come.
He hadn’t seen the other one in a melee. Pomle did have them—but the chaos of a battlefield had shown them they didn’t prepare for a fight. It wasn’t having enemies all around that made things hard.
It was having enemies and allies—and being unable to track them all. Orjin closed his eyes. Sometimes, he almost felt like he could sense the flow of the blow in the air.
Was it…here? He struck out definitively, a sweeping blow that would knock the sword to the side if he were right.
No. He felt a searing line of pain down one arm—and reacted.
[Automatic Deflection]. His arm twisted out of the swing—then flicked the flat of the blade back. Orjin had to know how to deflect the blade for his Skill to trigger.
It was probably one of the best examples of how actual talent with the sword and practice informed a Skill. Ivery’s sword went wide as Orjin, sighing, opened his eyes. His arm was cut—a line of red.
Ivery’s jaw clattered as he whirled the blade up. His free hand flicked a dagger out, and the Skeleton Lord lunged, as fast as a striking snake. Salii had clocked him as well above a Silver-rank adventurer without artifacts in terms of pure combat ability.
Below a Gold-ranker armed with artifacts. Possibly just as dangerous in terms of sheer reaction and strength. His current armaments and ability to regenerate from wounds—and lack of organs or blood—meant he was a dangerous foe, one of the recognizable champions of Pomle that Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Savere, and other nations had learned to be wary of.
Orjin punched Ivery in the face, and the skeleton collapsed. He didn’t use a Skill. He was just faster than the Skeleton Lord. His other hand came up, ready to knock the sword aside—but Ivery was down.
A lot of fights went like that. It may have been embarrassing to the Skeleton Lord, who lay on his back until Eloque fussed over him and Rophir tried to shovel sand over him and bury him—the little half-Elf liked doing that—but it was how Orjin settled most fights.
Every [Warrior] who thought they could use their capstone Skill on him and score a point off the Strongest forgot that half of a match was defense. And if you didn’t have defense, you didn’t have offense.
If you couldn’t survive, block, or dodge one punch from Orjin, there was no point continuing. To be fair—he was the Strongest of Pomle.
Level 47 [Strongest Martial Artist of Pomle]. Exactly the same as you would guess. ‘Strongest of Pomle’ and similar classes had appeared when their nation had been founded. Some had claimed the first classes ever received were…
Green.
Whatever that meant. Orjin was not proud of his level. It put him above Ivery by sheer might of levels and passive Skills, but it was not like the first Strongest. He exhaled as Salii finished the report on food stocks.
He pretended he’d been listening. He hadn’t heard it.
“What was the level of the first Strongest? Has anyone ever said that in your…attempt to recover the history of Pomle, Salii?”
It had been one of her projects. The [Secretary] put a bookmark in her checklist and exhaled.
“Level 59. Which means you are one capstone away from him. If a big one. But you’ve levelled three times over the course of this war, so I have high hopes for you.”
Orjin’s head turned. He stared at her. The [Secretary] adjusted her spectacles.
“Are you certain? Who knew that? Xil?”
“No. Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] I just told you about. Because you were definitely listening, not punching one of our war assets.”
Orjin’s impassive face was virtually a Skill on its own. Unfortunately…Salii knew him. She spoke in a patient voice.
“I just received a missive from her. She’s the woman who owns The Wandering Inn. The one who was posting quests?”
“Finding the City of Stars? I remember that.”
“Friends with the Horns of Hammerad. Pisces Jealnet.”
“Yes.”
“He’s the [Necromancer] who made Ivery. Friends of Eloque and the freed [Slaves]?”
“Ah.”
The Drake rolled her eyes. She was very good at her job, though. One of her Skills was the most powerful Skill any subordinate—or superior—could ever want. The envy of corporate Earth.
[Did You Understand That?]
It was amazing—and depressing—how many false returns you got on that every day. Even with simple things. But the greatest [Secretary] of the Waning World—now the Journey of the Living—didn’t waste time.
“Level 59. He was also the last owner of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. A fact that Xil knew of and didn’t see fit to inform me of. A Skill Erin Solstice now has, because the [Magical Innkeeper] has possession of the garden. And she found his personal garden and diary. Including some of his personal techniques and a training room he possessed.”
Orjin stared at Salii. He got what she was saying, but the [Secretary] was moving in real-time as Eloque sat up.
“Pisces?”
The Drake sighed.
“Shall we take it from the top? I’m in communication with her now, but I think she’s waking up for breakfast. Happily—there’s at least one fellow mind over there. Always more fun than halfwits.”
 
——
 
Of course, she knew Yelroan, and he knew her. Unfortunately…Salii had to talk to Erin Solstice. Their conversation went something like this:
 
Erin: Heyhey! Sorry I was delayed! I was having a bruschetta. Yelroan told me you’re representing Pomle? Is the Strongest there? Can I talk to someone important?
Salii: That would be me. Can you elaborate and send copies of all the documents you claim to have uncovered? We are interested in anything you can copy over. I have a [Message]-capable [Mage]. Printing may take time as they are not proficient in image-copying, but we would deeply appreciate any information you can tender us, thank you.
Salii: May I confirm you have:

Diary of the First Strongest, Collos.
Personal technique scrolls of the above. Exact number?
Description of training room within the [Garden of Sanctuary]?

