Xil seemed interested, but no one in Pomle was about to go out and avenge Windcaller’s Fury. Salii pressed the Fury of Winds.
“Are they coming for you? Is that why you came?”
“No. No…they took everything. We came because we were defeated. We—I came because I must retrain.”
Again, Vandum snorted, but Orjin glanced at him, and he fell silent, rolling his eyes. Salthorn looked amused, but no one among Pomle’s seniors said anything.
“That is why Pomle exists. But where did the Prophet go if not here?”
“North. North…to a promised land. A deserving land to preach his…faith. Where his words will echo. I do not envy any nation he goes against. My own cult listened to his words, and over half my people went to him.”
“His is hardly a standing army. Even if they can summon…whatever that is.”
Salii was going to get details, but the Fury of Skies just looked—scared.
“They had more powers than just that. Healing without potions.”
Really? Well—Orjin broke the short silence.
“We could use that. If you wish to stay, Pomle is open to all. But we are at war…Fury of Skies. If you want to remain, you may need to fight. That is one thing. Why have the [Monks] of Galam come?”
Salii knew that name. She slowly reached for a clipboard, thinking of her Skill.
[Glossary of Salii: Galam].
She was returned with several pieces of information that flickered onto her clipboard. Everything Salii knew, neatly organized in her own writing and thoughts.
Galam. Monastery of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Independent. Affiliations—Emper, Stitch-man [Monk] of Stargazer’s Promise.
Of course. The leader bowed.
“Our [Abbot] bid us make this journey, Strongest. To come to Pomle and support you. One of the few remaining homes of martial arts should not fade without support.”
“Now there’s a warrior to listen to. Do you fear reprisal?”
Vandum’s eyes lit up. The [Battle Monk] shook his head.
“We have always chosen the side we feel is right. If Nerrhavia’s Fallen decides Galam need not exist for our actions here—so be it. We are staff-fighters mostly, Strongest. Some of us are trained with throwing bolas, and we have taken oaths of poverty. We are not Sottheim—but we do practice the Way of the Willow. Half our number have learned [Perfect Arrowstorm Guard] with the staff.”
Learned Skills! Pomle was instantly fascinated, and so was Salii. It took a lot of training to guarantee the passage of a Skill, and half the [Monks] had it? It turned out the junior ones weren’t high-enough level to gain it; every single [Monk] who reached Level 30 invariably got it. One of them could block entire volleys of arrows in a fight.
They were, thus, instantly welcomed in Pomle, not least for having the courage to oppose the nation from which they hailed. Another group might welcome them with suspicion; in Pomle, [Monks] were a known class who did well.
The Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath was not welcome, though. If it was just the idea of free, semi-useless shields for arrows and blades, then even Vandum would have accepted them.
However, this lot needed food, bandages if not healing potions, and they would strain Pomle’s already overfull community. Orjin was clearly reluctant to accept them too, until Salii ferreted some information out for him.
“Let me just write down a summary of the event…[Confirm Document]. Nope, that part is false.”
She crossed it out with a bit of red ink and then read out a truer summary for the Strongest.
“Windcaller’s Wrath did not start that fight, Orjin. Some of Sorron’s people spotted them coming in and assumed it was an attack. Vandum’s disciples did not make things better and tried to force the cult out before they could speak to you. On the premise that Pomle didn’t need useless fighters.”
Orjin frowned, and Sorron and Vandum both stirred at this. Neither one seemed ready to apologize, though. In another time—
In another time, half the senior warriors would ask ‘why do you care?’ And that would be that. Pomle would take care of itself, and a large group would either survive or vanish like the rest without aid or hostility. If they caused trouble, Pomle would take care of it.
Now, though, Sorron was first to speak. The Stitch-woman crossed arms covered with scars.
“Strongest, I object to this cult joining us. Even if they fight with us—they will spread this Fury of the Winds’ teachings.”
“So?”
“It’s inferior. If they come amongst us, at least have them join a master who can teach them how to fight. Xil, myself, Vandum…”
Orjin’s eyes found Vandum, and the [Martial Artist] said little to the Strongest directly—but from the way he and Sorron looked at each other…
“Something tells me the reason I found Vandum’s people and yours brawling outside my hut didn’t have to do with the cult at all. Plus—you involved the monks. That was no accident.”
Salii’s voice was crisp as she put something together. She shot the two masters a look.
“Are we having infighting now? Really? That’s the most Drake thing I’ve ever seen in the middle of a war.”
“No.”
Both reacted to the accusation at once. Sorron explained herself, looking embarrassed.
“We were simply—proving what is effective. In a war. Testing the newcomers.”
“Pomle’s law is not to attack those who do not wish to fight.”
Orjin’s frown was deepening. Vandum returned with a soft tone that was too calm.
“Nerrhavia is doing that already. And Savere. If the newcomers were better than we were—better to know and learn from them.”
He was not going to apologize. Orjin’s method of resolving this challenge to his rules was to grunt.
“The next time someone coming to Pomle in peace is attacked, I will have Salii investigate. If a master is behind it…I will challenge them.”
Vandum’s head snapped up, and Sorron blinked in surprise. He’d challenge them?
“And if we—win, Strongest?”
Sorron kept blinking at him until Orjin’s level tone made her freeze slightly.
“Then you would be Strongest.”
“And if we lose?”
“Then I would be Strongest. And I would tell you to leave Pomle that day.”
A deep silence fell over everyone present, and many of Pomle’s warriors looked disconcerted by the ultimatum. Salii—thought it was well done. Orjin was no [Politician] or [Statesman]. Sorron held his gaze before nodding.
Vandum…waited a beat before nodding and turning away. He was going to challenge Orjin someday, Salii knew. She would prefer to work for Orjin. She hoped—he would wait until this war ended.
But then she had to tell the cult of Windcaller’s Wrath where they could settle, give them a run down on the rules and see if there were troublemakers, and figure out how to incorporate them into Pomle.
It was never—easy. Salii could manage that. But she couldn’t help Pomle with what she sensed. This war was doing more than just killing Pomle’s folk. That was…something that could never be undone.
But it was also shaking their convictions and changing the martial artists within.
 
——
 
Iratze was a former MMA trainer from Earth. He was not a professional fighter. He was an amateur middleweight, and he had gone into the cage—the term for the fighting area, though sometimes they would use an actual boxing ring—enough times to know he’d never have a professional career.
But he was definitely good enough to help an amateur train, and the gym he’d worked at had seen actual professionals ranked at the top of the sport train there. One of the larger gyms in San Francisco.
That was his life until he was transported to another world. Iratze had considered he might someday have to use his training to defend himself in a fight—and he was aware of the legal ramifications of being associated with a sport.
—In that if a professional baseball pitcher threw a rock in a fight or any setting and hurt someone, that was assault with a deadly weapon. In the same way, if a boxer punched you, it was not the same as some random person, because their fists were among the most dangerous ones on the planet. So he had actually been cautious.
And he had understood the truth that his own trainer had taught him and his class on day one. He had pulled out a video—back when they used DVDs—and showed them a recording of a blackbelt getting beaten in a street fight by four people who’d never taken a martial art.
You did not pick fights. Learning MMA or any martial art did not make you bulletproof or able to take on four-to-one odds. With that said—there were absolutely Human beings who Iratze would put money on being able to take down four of anyone because they were 6’5’’ monsters who could end someone’s world with a single punch. But he bet they would be nervous in that situation too because someone could pull out a gun. Or just a knife.
So, the practitioner of Earth’s most advanced and modern form of hand-to-hand combat stood there, posture set, arms raised in a guard, giving his opponent less of him to look at. Side-on—it meant instead of his entire body, you got only his bare shoulder and one side of his body.
He felt naked—not that he wasn’t used to going in with only pants and wraps on—but naked here because there were over a hundred people watching him. But what made him feel uneasy—the crazy part…
…Was that he was staring at a man holding a spear aimed right at him. The challenge to Earth’s martial artist was simple. The [Soldier] of Tiqr had a spear and a shortsword. He was wearing plain iron armor, some kind of overlapping layers of thin plate metal on his arms, legs, and head. Chainmail across his torso.
The spear was steel—and sharp. It was seven feet long, though the [Soldier] was choked up a bit on it. It even had a guard, so that if someone ran onto it, they wouldn’t slide down the shaft and could be kicked off. The guard was also sharp and could be swung sideways to hammer a nail through the side of your head.
Iratze hadn’t seen the shortsword, but it was definitely sharp. He was sweating already. The goal posed to the representative of MMA was this:
Here is a soldier of the medieval age. Pretend you’re not worried about arrows. Pretend it’s just one soldier, not a battalion. Forget magic and Skills.
Take him out with your bare fists.
If one of Iratze’s trainees had come up to him and given him this scenario, Iratze would have told them it was almost certainly suicide. You did not fight a sword with your bare hands. Yet if he had to?
“…I’d put on some armor.”
It was the first thing he could think of. The [Martial Artists] watching stirred, and some made noises of discontent.
“You won’t even try?”
“He’s got a spear aimed at me.”
Every time Iratze moved right or left, the spear would track him. If he jumped in—it would slash, and he had to run down seven feet of it. True, once you got past the tip and guard, you weren’t in danger of that—but the [Soldier] would draw his sword.
And he was fast. All he had to do was swing that sword once and Iratze’s bare skin would fly open. There were no practice weapons here.
“Armor!”
Vandum called out impatiently, and Iratze panted for air as someone found him some plated armor like the [Soldier] was wearing. It instantly slowed Iratze down, but the metal over his arms and legs made him feel like he had more of a chance.
He had only one way that he could see to take down that [Soldier]. No striking. No letting the other guy swing with the sword or draw a dagger. Iratze waited until they were both ready—then went for a takedown.
He had to get the other person on the ground. Nevermind that he might be stabbed with the sword or dagger—he would never punch them out with a helmet on, even with gauntlets. Take them down and then—armbar.
Iratze actually made it past the tip of the spear. He had his arms raised in a high guard, like a boxer, one fist to either side of his head. He also came in low, so low the spear had trouble tracking him from above.
Most people didn’t realize how close to the ground you could get—and it was the scariest thing to see nearly two hundred pounds coming at you from that angle. Iratze saw the [Soldier] lower the spear and draw the sword.
“[Quick Draw]!”
A Skill. The blade came out fast. Too fast. He had it in his hand, and the blade went down—and skated over the armor of Iratze’s back in an uncoordinated slash. Iratze grabbed a leg and heaved it up as he slammed into the [Soldier]’s midsection. The double leg takedown worked.
They went down in a crash of metal, and the sword was still in the other man’s hand. He refused to let go of it, and the hilt slammed into Iratze’s cheek so hard he feared he’d cracked a tooth. But he was rotating his head down—swinging his legs up around the sword-arm, and pulling with his might.
“Aaaah! Aaaaa—stop! Stop-stop-stop—”
The shout of agony from the trained soldier in Tiqr’s army made everyone stare. It looked—ridiculous to them, Iratze bet.
It seemed as though the man from Earth had crawled onto the [Soldier]’s arm and was curling his legs around the arm and pulling it straight. A ridiculous position that few of Pomle’s [Martial Artists] would even consider getting into. Iratze’s head was aimed at the ground—he didn’t have the [Soldier] in a choke or pin.
But he was currently about to dislocate the man’s elbow or fracture the bone in half. What he was doing was an armbar—a move where his weight and strength was all overextending one very weak spot on the Human—or humanoid body.
The elbow. If Iratze pulled—he let go as he realized the sword was resting against his chest and the [Soldier] was crying out. He felt shaken as he stood. That—he’d almost just pulled the arm out of the socket in his fear.
He won, but as he rose, feeling at his bloody cheek, and Pomle’s [Martial Artists] stomped, the first words from Iratze’s mouth were—
“I’m not doing that ever again. Trying that in an actual battle would get me killed, I’m certain. I didn’t have a better way to take my opponent out. Swords…MMA doesn’t account for swords.”
He wasn’t sure if there was any hand-to-hand style in the entire history of Earth that had a good answer for how to beat someone with a sword or dagger—aside from having one yourself. If you could get someone on the ground in a grappling match, MMA might make up for not having a weapon—but a dagger would kill you before you got that armbar or pin off.
Vandum clapped Iratze on the shoulder as he offered him some water to wash his bloody mouth.
“What a strange maneuver. Armbar? It crippled him in a moment. He could have struck you or reached for another blade—but the pain was too much?”
“The pain was too much.”
“Yet if you broke his arm, you would lose some leverage. And I have known men who lose a limb and keep fighting.”
