Snap it. No move Iratze had taught him. No fanciful technique. Just strength and bone that would splinter like the [Assassin]’s neck. Orjin knew he should. Savere followed the Siren. He—
Refused. He held Revine’s neck and spoke, as he always had, to Vandum, to anyone who had ever challenged him.
“Surrender.”
“I surrender. I surrender!”
She screamed it, and he let go. Orjin felt her neck twist back, and Revine was clutching at her neck.
“Strongest! Kill her!”
Xil shouted. He flew up, and Revine stumbled back from Orjin. He didn’t. He just lifted his spear overhead—and she blinked back towards her bandits. They engulfed her in a protective mob, shouting, swords drawn as they flinched back from him—but Orjin just stood there.
“This challenge is over. Siren. Draw your forces back.”
She stared at him, eyes murderous, as Xil cursed. Revine coughed.
“You—you really are too soft for your own good, Strongest of Pomle. Do you kill [Soldiers] and spare [Generals] like that?”
“I have tried to kill no one. Even in battle.”
Her face went slack. Orjin looked at her. And it was true.
In battle, he had knocked [Soldiers] senseless, punched and fought his way towards enemy officers, and yes, killed both leader and subordinate. But he had not tried to murder them.
Thelican. The Siren when she had first met them—he could have slaughtered battalions of them. He did not.
The Strongest of Pomle waited, and Revine laughed. Laughed—and laughed—and then gave him a shake of her head.
“You really are a fool. Savere! Fall back. I’m done fighting with muscle-bound fools. Our foes are Illivere and Tiqr. You win, Strongest.”
She turned, and Xil hesitated, spear ready to throw. Where…
“Where’s the trap?”
Salii shouted, cupping her claws to her face. The Siren looked back in great annoyance, but stopped when she saw the famous [Secretary].
“I was supposed to win. Win and take Pomle and you and end this stupid war with you fist-loving freaks. Instead—we’re out. Do you think [Bandits] don’t understand duels? Fool.”
She whirled around. Then stopped dramatically and pulled down one eyelid as she glared sardonically at Orjin.
“The trap is all Thelican. Be grateful, Strongest, that I know he’ll come after me just as soon as he finishes with you and Tiqr.”
What did that mean? Orjin stared at Revine—then he whirled. Whirled and turned to Pomle. He raced up the dune, so fast that Salii was still turning when he got there.
Then he saw it. Orjin expected to see an army bearing down on Pomle again, but Thelican had learned his lesson.
Adequate. An adequate [General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen with the keys to the vaults. If you could not take an enemy by force of arms—then you did the other principles of war. And though you might condemn him—
Sometime during their duel, the sky had turned black. Black…despite it being day. Orjin looked up and saw streaks of light in the sky.
Lightning. Far more than Revine’s [Lightning Bolt] spell. Moving artificially, crackling, flickering a hundred thousand times each second at the speed of true lightning. [Grand Lightning]. But so fiercely even the greatest storms wouldn’t match it. Orjin’s eyes saw people fleeing the oasis—and no army. No army—save for a small group with a huge canister of glass that had unleashed the spell.
Then he saw the lightning writing something in the air. A message from another era, a bygone time traced a million times to form the glowing words that blinded everyone’s eyes.
Straight from Nerrhavia’s vaults to you. To Thelican’s real target, which he had hoped would hit the Strongest and a bunch of his enemies—but just the oasis would do. The writing said:
 
From the Emperor of Storms to you. A gift:
[Blighted Bolt of the Forsaken Lands].
 
It came down, twisting, larger than a redwood tree across. Black and yellow—but if electricity itself could turn putrid, that would be how it looked. Straight down—and it touched Pomle, and Orjin’s home vanished.
 
——
 
The first objective in war, Great General Thelican would later claim to the Council of Steel when he was summoned to explain the use of a Relic-grade weapon of war reserved for atrocities like Crelers or last-resorts, was to deny the enemy resources.
It could be land. It could be soldiers or materiel. Pomle were fearless [Martial Artists] of great levels. They had held off armies—but the one thing they could not defeat was thirst.
“That was a failsafe reserved for the likes of the Gathering Citad—for the worst emergencies! We have not even used them against the King of Destruction! Djinni are more acceptable than this! There is a limited supply, Thelican! They were to be held for things like another Tyrant!”
The furious [Chancellor of War] had to shut up when someone covered his mouth. Thelican responded calmly.
“This is true, Chancellor, but we may find another Relic or even create one. What I have done—what we have done is weaken a great foe in a single stroke. The Strongest was not killed due to—chance. But now they have no home.”
He smiled, and his allies took his side while his detractors called for a censure. But the truth was that the Court of Steel did not want to admit they hadn’t authorized using the weapon. To do so would imply Thelican or a [Great General] could pull from the armories unchecked. Queen Yisame’s glower made Thelican nervous, but she was a player of this game.
And he? He had won his war.
 
——
 
Vandum stood over what remained of the oasis. The precious water-collecting gemstones, all the water they used for the refugees of Roshal, the soldiers of Tiqr, and which gave Pomle life?
Gone.
Orjin stood there too. He was the victor. He was the Strongest.
He had triumphed over the Siren, and his home was gone. It seemed to him as though the air was…screaming.
The ground too. Not in a loud voice, but a kind of unspoken agony in the tendons of the world. The air smelled wrong.
Greasy. As if something had stained it. Shadows seemed too long, here, and the smog that rose from the black earth kept rising. The earth too…
It was more than charred. If it had just been fire, the natural groundwater in the precious oasis might have mixed to create filthy water—but something. Instead, the few [Martial Artists] who had touched the ground had backed away, some literally scraping off the tar of the ground. It tried to eat their skin.
A toxin in the very ground itself. It seemed, even now, to be spreading. Corruption in the firmament.
Screaming in the air. No one else said anything. They stood around the gaping wound where the oasis’ waters had run, and it seemed like a mouth opened in agony. Orjin could hear it screaming. He felt the ground—melting slowly and wondered if this would become some kind of sinkhole like A’ctelios Salash in time. Like Rhir.
All from one spell. The malice that remained here was a dripping candle of rot into the ear of the world. Then—Orjin could look at it no longer. He turned away, still silent.
Vandum, though, spoke.
“We must leave Pomle.”
That was not a question. Soon, the desert would dry this place further. All the trade that came through here? Gone.
Even if the waters returned, the land was twisted from the spell. Orjin would not trust anything that came from the greasy, blackened earth. Vandum continued.
“We must leave—and join Tiqr fighting. Or fight Nerrhavia for what they have done. Some may call this the end of Pomle. I? I say this is best.”
Many warriors who had been staring at the blackened hole looked up. But the [Bridge of the Martial World] was staring with a fire in his eyes he had not had since the beginning.
“I was there when we first fought and won our independence. When Pomle fought—many died—but we were the highest-level then. We waned when we achieved victory. Collos waned without a foe. Pomle was never this one place. It was an idea. Where we go, Pomle endures. I am going to make war on Nerrhavia’s Fallen and surpass the First Strongest. Come with me. Water, bedding, all of it—lies ahead.”
He pointed east, and Sorron and Jalte, Salthorn, Xil, the other masters and apprentices looked at him. Sorron was the first to call out.
“We do not agree on much, Vandum—but I will see Nerrhavia pay for destroying this place.”
They were preparing for war. A bitterer war—a bloodier war and far more personal than before.
Orjin?
His hut was still standing. He wished it had gone instead of the oasis. That almost anything had gone. He looked around as more voices rose. Pledging to fight and reclaim another Pomle.
But Orjin looked for…Eloque, the nervous Lizardwoman. Bearig, Rophir—Merr the Storm had continued her battle with her people, but she had trusted Pomle to keep her people safe.
They, too, were preparing to go. Orjin found them—and Iratze—talking.
“Strongest. We—”
“Where are you going to? I am sorry. The Peace of Pomle cannot protect you any longer. You are welcome to stay, but Pomle has been broken.”
They looked at him, and Bearig answered for the freed [Slaves].
“We will join Merr. She’s able to protect us. Nerrhavia’s no friend to us—but I may try to find my family. We’ll survive.”
“Iratze?”
“I’m joining Pomle.”
The [Grappler] met Orjin’s eyes. He seemed—uncertain why he didn’t find the same fire and outrage there. Gospe shook her head.
“We’re going to Illivere. We hope—we can be safe there. Or Tiqr if we can find Nsiia.”
“If you go with her soldiers, you may be safe.”
They were preparing to move out too. Orjin saw nods—until Eloque’s eyes fixed on something behind him. She froze—and then he heard a voice.
“Strongest.”
Orjin had always known that Vandum would challenge him again. Now—the big [Martial Artist] stood there, feet planted in the earth.
Mithril gauntlets on both arms, still red with blood; he had killed the Nerrhavian [Soldiers] who had unleashed the spell. He had daggers at his belt, a blade in one hand—and he looked at Orjin.
“I challenge you.”
Pomle turned to Orjin as the undefeated Strongest stood in his ruined oasis. Xil and Salthorn had not immediately promised to join Vandum. The man could leave, and he would take much of Pomle—but so long as the Strongest did not lend him his support, there would be a rift.
They both knew it. Orjin stood there until Salii shouted.
“Wait! Orjin just dueled Revine Zecrew! The Siren herself! Is this fair?”
“The Strongest answers every challenge. He always has. I will use no Skills. But I will use blades. Our Strongest eschews change. He treated every style as fair. Even Windcaller’s Wrath? He may be right. If he is—Pomle will fight as it has and win. If I am—we will change and hone ourselves again and again, getting rid of excess. Let’s find out.”
Vandum was waiting. Orjin could see it in every line of his body, ready to explode in an attack. Pomle waited as Vandum called out.
“Well, Strongest?”
And Orjin said this:
“No.”
It was such a shock that Vandum was mid-attack, assuming it would be a battle, when his fist froze. He halted, mid-leap, and Orjin stepped to one side.
“No?”
Never once had anyone heard Orjin refuse a challenge. Vandum whirled.
“Are you mocking me because you have beaten me before, Strongest? Do you want Skills? Then let us rest and come back at dawn—”
“No. No challenge.”
The [Bridge of the Martial World] was getting angrier. He pointed at Orjin, and now spit flew from his mouth as he shouted.
“Are you bored of this, Strongest? You do not seem to take it with the passion we have! This is a war—and you refuse to kill! Do you have so little attachment to Pomle?”
He pointed at Orjin, and the man stood there. His eyes were unmoving in his face; he did not cross his arms, but even Vandum set himself warily. When Orjin spoke, it was that same—apparently flat tone that had little emotion in it.
Until you realized—perhaps—that it was not because he was bored or emotionless. It was because he was weighing his words before he spoke. When Orjin said something, it was because he had thought of what he meant to say and then said it. He was always…one hundred percent engaged.
“It is not boredom. I did not train myself to kill. This war has had no meaning for me. Not the bloodshed. Not the causes. I began this war out of a simple desire to do what I willed. As Pomle’s Strongest has always done. And I have seen what it cost us. I have never taken my duties as Strongest lightly.”
Then—
Vandum struck his chest and left a bloody imprint, waiting. He held his arms out, as if beseeching—and Orjin shook his head.
“No. I triumphed over the Siren this evening. I defeated her—and Savere. But as I did, Thelican—Nerrhavia—struck Pomle. Struck it, and I could not parry it nor stop it or even see it coming. Pomle…I am the Strongest, and I did nothing. So.”
He stood there, and Salii realized what he meant first. She murmured, and Vandum looked at Orjin.
“You are still the Strongest amongst us until you lose.”
He raised his blade, as if to goad Orjin, but the man…just the man, the [Martial Artist], no longer the Strongest, turned. Orjin walked away slowly, and his voice drifted back to them.
“No. I already have.”
And that night—they fought. Fought even as the oasis died—and two voices spoke—to two men.
To Vandum, it said this:
 
[Conditions Met: Bridge of the Martial World → Strongest of the Martial Age!]
[Level 50 Strongest of the Martial Age!]
[Skill – Body: Skillbreaker’s Fist obtained!]
[Skill – Resistance: Magic obtained!]
 
Just two Skills. Just two—but he rose with a wild laugh, and Pomle followed. And to another man, who had once been called Strongest—now Orjin—it said this:
 
[Conditions Met: Strongest Martial Artist of Pomle → Magicbane Superior Martial Artist!]
[Level 48 Magicbane Superior Martial Artist!]
[Skill – Body: Magicbreaker’s Fist obtained!]
 
For a legend continuing Pomle’s story—the same Skills as the first. For the man also on that path, something fitting in the same vein. Orjin opened his eyes without the whoop of laughter, the cry of joy.
Orjin looked up and spoke again.
He said:
“No.”
 
[Level Up Canceled]
[Conditions Met: Strongest Martial Artist of Pomle → Superior Martial Artist.]
 
——
 
The next morning, Orjin packed what few possessions he had. He had some gold, food—he left the sand behind and his hut.
“So you are leaving Pomle. I thought so.”
“And you two are continuing the battles?”
Orjin looked at Salthorn and Xil, his two greatest friends among the others. Salthorn smiled sadly.
“I thought I would die in Pomle. I am not so perfect as to take their deeds silently—and my apprentices go to battle, so I will follow. Xil?”
The old Garuda leaned on his spear.
