“I fought for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I was a soldier, and they discharged me for reasons that are petty and behind me now. I, too, thought Pomle would be a fitting place to rest among company. Now I feel the battlefield calling. I wish to throw myself into it—and it will be my grave, but Vandum calls to me. I will see Pomle rise out of these ashes. But you, Orjin…I would have thought you’d fight.”
This was his home, more than the other two. And he was angry. Angry—but Orjin lifted a hand.
“I was taught all my life to master fury. Master it and never let it control me. Now, I see my old mentors and friends giving vent to it. If not immediately—Nerrhavia has destroyed the oasis.”
“A crime.”
“Yes. But no one in it. Vandum got the children and refugees away when he sensed the danger. For that, he deserves to be Strongest. How many did he defeat?”
“It had to be…over twenty. But Orjin, they destroyed Pomle.”
“This war was already killing us. Is the sensible thing to do after this not to find a Pomle elsewhere, rather than carve it out of our own blood and flesh and Nerrhavia’s?”
He spoke a kind of sense that no one wanted to hear, not right now. Salthorn was disturbed, but Xil smiled and leaned on his spear.
“You were the Strongest of Pomle in heart. But another one has arisen. You can still challenge him.”
Vandum was over there, but he was ignoring Orjin. Yet if Orjin turned—the man would put aside all else, even with his class. All of it on the line, including his life. In a heartbeat.
Part of Orjin wanted to step forwards, but he shook his head.
“I am uncertain. I do not know what the Strongest should be. Let Vandum lead Pomle. I…am going. I am sorry. I hope I will return alive. If I do, with an answer, I will seek out Pomle wherever it is. But I must go.”
They looked at him, and Salthorn grabbed his arm. Orjin returned the gesture. Xil spat again into the sands, but not in disgust.
“Then take this. I have no use for it. I demand it to weed out some annoying apprentices—but you have never cared for gold. So you might as well use it.”
He handed over a bag of holding. Orjin didn’t have one, and when he delved into it, it had more gold coins than he could ever remember seeing.
“I don’t need—”
“Take it. Or that Drake will make your life miserable.”
“What Drake?”
Then Orjin turned, and Salii strode over.
“How much gold am I working with? Well, I’ll take some of that, thank you. It’ll help Pomle, and the rest I can use better than you, Orjin. Just send me a [Message], and I will arrange it.”
She took the bag and promptly dumped half into her own bag of holding. Xil glared, and Orjin turned to her.
“You’re helping Vandum?”
“I promised to support Pomle, and frankly—you will all die of thirst if I don’t keep things in order. Besides. I’ve finally just begun to get busy now that I have to work for two employers at the same time. Where are you going?”
She made no motion to go with Orjin, but she tilted her head. Part of him felt bad about that, but he had not expected it. The Drake stood there as Xil flapped away and Salthorn walked off. That was all the goodbyes Pomle’s folk had. Yet Salii and Orjin, the duo who had shared so much time, stood there a moment.
Then he realized what she’d said.
“Two…?”
Salii held up two claw-fingers with exaggerated patience.
“I know you can count. Vandum is the Strongest now. That’s one. You make two. If he’s anything like you, the work won’t be egregious.”
“But I’m no longer the Strongest. I cannot pay you.”
“You never did. And I won’t be following you around, but I can certainly enable and support whatever you’re about to do.”
She gave him a clear-eyed stare and a half-smile. Orjin hesitated, but his heart rose a bit in his chest.
“Are you—sure? It won’t be too much?”
At this, she actually tapped him on the chest with her clipboard.
“I am capable of multi-tasking. Do you really think a dozen Strongests could tax my abilities? Running Pomle by myself was easier than one of Salazsar’s corporations. Have you tried paying Drake tax? Don’t worry about me. I chose my employers, and you need help. So where are you going, Orjin?”
The Drake somehow knew his thoughts. The Stronge—the man smiled at her, then looked at the greatest [Secretary] in the entire world. He had never really made use of her talents, ever.
Pomle had, but—
“I’ve made you angry because I needed nothing, haven’t I?”
“Furious. All my other employers have wanted something, but you were infuriatingly hard to work with. Now, the day I’m no longer working for you, you need something. Name it.”
Her eyes glinted, and Orjin…bit his tongue before he spoke.
“It may be difficult. Even for you.”
“Orjin, this clipboard can deflect [Fireballs]. I once had someone test an Adamantium pickaxe on it. It is the strongest thing in Pomle aside from your thick skull. I will hit you with it if you don’t tell me. Ask.”
She waited, and so Orjin turned to the [Secretary].
“I must find out what I have been working towards. Why—and the fallacies in my thinking and art that this war exposed. So…I need you, Salii, to find me someone. And gain me an introduction or…”
“—A letter of recommendation? A meeting with them and pave the way for it? Accommodations too, likely, and a destination and map.”
Salii was already making notes. She almost felt annoyed. This was [Secretary] work, but low-level. She sighed.
“Alright. Let me guess. It’s…Izril and Erin Solstice. No, wait. The King of Destruction? Your mother? Rhir and the Death of Magic would be interesting.”
Her lips quirked. Orjin gave her a rare smile and responded.
“No. I would like you to introduce me to Torreb. Torreb the Undefeated. The highest-level warrior on the continent, wherever he has retired. If not him—Mars the Illusionist. If not her, the Hero of Zethe or Fedorgon the Citybreaker.”
Salii’s claw slipped, and she nearly dropped her quill. She looked up at Orjin and coughed.
“He’s eighty years old and—I know where he is. You want to meet the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar? He—he’s Level 69.”
“Yes. Just like Collos.”
“You mean—ten levels higher than Collos. The Strongest may have bested him once—but Torreb outlived him.”
“I need to ask him my questions.”
Salii scrubbed at her neck-spines.
“It’s not easy. He would have thousands of daily supplicants if his kingdom didn’t keep him safe—I don’t have many connections—”
“If you can’t do it, I’ll try to meet him myself.”
Orjin saw the Drake’s head rise with wrath—until she saw his smile. It had faith she would find a way. Salii exhaled.
“—You’ll have to go west to start. Past the Empire of Scaied. Into the Lantern Lands. Take a [Message] scroll. You know how to work it? How fast do you want to travel?”
“If you can do anything faster than my feet? I’ll start running.”
He did not intend to stop. Orjin turned, and Salii began to hurry as he strode off. Faster, and faster as she told him what to do, not to fight any [Slavers], to tell them he was from Illivere if they stopped him because that was the best place to claim nationality, and—
And then he was gone. Leaving Pomle behind, searching for the answer. He left a war behind.
But he would return. First—Orjin had to know what lay ahead. Or how else would Pomle walk towards it? He looked back only once at that burnt oasis and whispered.
“It was my fault. I should have left the slaves alone.”
Then he paused and shook his head.
“No. I did what I thought was right. But my martial art, this path—there has to be something else. I swear, I will find it.”
Collos had searched all his life for it at the end. He had stopped at Level 59. At the very least, perhaps—
Torreb might know more. So Orjin ran.
