You could hammer your bones and crack them, break them, and build them up tougher and tougher again, like Sorron and Jalte promised. But…sometimes, you just broke them to dust. Shattered them, and nothing would fix them ever again.
Which was this?
 
——
 
Pomle was not a huge part of the war. And it was not one war or one front, either. If there was a protagonist of this story for a history book, it was the King of Destruction bearing down on Nerrhavia’s Fallen from the north, Nerrhavia itself, contested on multiple fronts, or—Empress Nsiia of Tiqr, fighting to reclaim her home.
Pomle would be one of the minor factions of nations taking sides here—on the level of the Monks of Sottheim. And they, arguably, were a more cohesive force.
This was not to make light of Pomle’s abilities in battle. In fact, their unassailability in direct assaults had forced Nerrhavia to draw back around them as Nsiia took more and more land and built up an actual presence.
Three times, Nerrhavia had tried. The first was remembered as much for the Horns’ presence as Khelt swooping in. After the disastrous engagement where Illivere fought Savere who fought Tiqr and Pomle and Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the gigantic superpower had withdrawn in disarray.
That had not lasted long. They had come back for a second round, this time supported by Savere in a formal attack.
Pomle’s canyon cliffs were a bigger battleground than the canyon passages itself. Garuda came up—and went down as Tiqr’s [Hunters] shot them down. They only stopped when Nerrhavia and Savere’s Garuda refused to go up there and die.
Meanwhile, the Hemp [Soldiers] were climbing alongside [Rogues] from Savere—or trying to tunnel through and create a breach into Pomle itself.
Tiqr’s [Druids] were reforming the earthen walls as [Mages] tried to break them down. Meanwhile, the [Soldiers] were literally face-to-face against Tiqr’s, pressing in and trying to breach one of the entrances by weight of numbers alone.
Tiqr had few [Mages] and Pomle almost none, so Nerrhavia feared no fire; the Siren of Savere was raining down water as she shot spells from her palanquin.
They almost came through the canyon walls. Almost. But Pomle had seen the sappers boring in and decided if they could not hold their home—they would go out.
[Martial Artists] leapt over the canyon walls and descended down cliffs as the soldiers vanished. One fell like a lightning bolt amongst terrified [Soldiers] armed with spades. A punching, kicking whirlwind who dented armor with each blow and sent over a dozen figures sprawling down—until a shower of arrows hit friend and foe alike. The [Martial Artist] fell with a cry—but the [Archers] barely had time to celebrate.
A Golem with a glowing dome crashed into their ranks as the [Empress] of Beasts broke down one of the walls of [Soldiers] herself. A glowing Relic in her hand—they fell back.
Bloody. So bloody—but Pomle’s individual fighters were strong enough to break the sappers’ lines time and time again.
So they fell back.
 
——
 
The third time, Nerrhavia was alone. Savere had agreed to fight Tiqr as the Siren’s grudge against Nsiia was rampant, and she wanted Tiqr’s lands. However—Illivere and Savere were clashing hard enough for her to withdraw.
Domehead. The Magus-Crafter had not declared for Tiqr, and Nerrhavia’s [Generals] had decided this was not the time to make an enemy of the states of Illivere.
Nevertheless, they were armoring their front along Illivere’s border just in case, and several minor kingdoms had ‘coincidentally’ declared war on Illivere, taking Savere’s side for the first time in…ever. Nsiia had used the Loquea Dree’s fearsome air superiority and the Monks of Sottheim to seize Savere’s lands along Tiqr’s northwestern border.
So Pomle had only a garrison of her troops when Nerrhavia tried them a third time.
This time, they didn’t reach Pomle’s canyons. The [Martial Artists] went out and held the mouths of the canyons rather than let themselves be encircled.
It was…not one against a hundred. Simply because you couldn’t encircle someone with a hundred people except at a great-distance, and this was hand-to-hand.
Nerrhavian [Soldiers] ran in entire battalions, turning into chaotic melees where pockets of Pomle’s warriors fought, surrounded, withdrawing or falling to blades and spells. But it was—difficult for Nerrhavia.
[Stonebody Martial Artists] refused to break, punching and kicking like stones around eddies of flesh. Bloody stones, hands breaking bones.
The gore weltering on the tip of a spear was only present on some, though. Xil’s [Speardancers] and the most high-level warriors of Pomle did the most damage by far. While the low-level ones held the pass—
Vandum went hunting. His apprentices snuck up on some [Mages], breaking through their guard-divisions, and broke necks and sundered flesh with punches that left blood and sinew hanging from their metal gauntlets.
[Officers] tried to push Pomle, push until they were broken and forced to retreat, but it didn’t—work—
Salthorn threw a screaming [Captain] to the ground so hard he dislocated an arm. She turned—and Orjin hit his second [General] with an [Aeriform Punch]. He landed, scattering [Soldiers], as the [Bodyguard] tried to attack him. But the [Martial Artist] simply drew back, taking them two-at-a-time, blocking them with their own soldiers. He threw a spear, saw it lodge in a chest—
An enchanted blade cut him down the side, and he grimaced—then, as a flaming sword aimed at his neck, he struck.
Palm like a blade. A Silk Stitch-folk [Bodyguard] went down, choking, windpipe crushed. The [General] was getting up when a spear went through his head.
Xil had thrown it from over three hundred feet away. Orjin saw the [General of the Line] go down—and the entire wing of Stitch-folk faltered—then began to flee. The [Great General] sounded a full retreat ten minutes later.
There was a lesson here. What Pomle lacked in numbers—they made up for in officer-killers. The prized leaders of Nerrhavia’s Glorious Hordes could inspire thousands under their command—but they could not best one of Pomle’s warriors in a straight fight.
And once a [General]’s Skills were lost, or a [Captain]’s—the [Soldiers] fell behind.
What Pomle learned was that any warrior under Level 20 would die if left alone. Even with potions. Even with training…they lost nearly two hundred of their own. All the practice of six years, ten, in Pomle’s oasis didn’t matter.
One low-level [Warrior of Pomle] versus eight Nerrhavian [Conscripts] might go either way. But either way—the warrior of Pomle found a hole in their side where a spear had gone straight through their flesh and came out dripping with blood. Perhaps lodged there if it was serrated, tearing the flesh outwards like a blossom of blood.
The Strongest had thought long of that. Vandum had relished the fact that his warriors—along with Sorron’s—had demonstrated they could take on overwhelming numbers of Nerrhavia’s low-level soldiers without fear of falling.
So three times Nerrhavia had failed to take Pomle, and the other battles were smaller in nature—engagements in the thousands, not tens of thousands. Both had bled, and Nerrhavia far more than Pomle.
But now it was time to understand someone on Nerrhavia’s side, for his actions dictated the course of this front of Nerrhavia’s war. While his counterparts were desperately summoning all their forces to repel Flos Reimarch…
The entire Pomle-Tiqr front was being managed by the overwhelmingly, incredibly—adequate—General Thelican.
 
——
 
General Thelican. An adequate man. Adequate.
Adequate. Adequate for his position. Adequate for what he did—by the standards of Nerrhavia’s Fallen today. Not by the standards of the greatest [Generals] to live—by his nation’s need for leadership at his level.
Adequate in his personal combat ability, which could equal a Gold-rank adventurer—with his personal armaments, of course. Adequate at politics, which had carried him to the Court of Silks and the Court of Steel in the highest position of Nerrhavia’s government.
Adequate in bed. Yes. You wouldn’t hear complaints to his face. He might get vague compliments. No one was spreading the word.
If the man had one power, it was patter-songs…in that he was probably in the top ten in Nerrhavia’s Fallen for them. As a [General]?
He was good enough. And that mattered. Because Thelican was adequate. He knew how to run a war.
“Pull up another six legions. I will have six legions, you understand, within the month on Kotol’s front. Past the city or each [Magistrate] will answer to the Court of Silks. Hemp. They can spare the Hemp. I’m not asking for them to be garbed in steel plate, even! This is doable, and it certainly is, [Chancellor].”
He was speaking to the Chancellor of War, who coordinated such things. Not over a drink or in person, which would have been far better, but Thelican didn’t have a few weeks to ride back to Tyrant’s Rest and meet the man there.
The [Chancellor] looked unhappy.
“The Court of Silks is not impressed by the way the war has gone, Thelican. Nsiia seems to grow in power each week—”
“She has the luck of five [Gamblers] and a populace who loves her. I will win this by the end of spring. Her people have a finite limit. Nerrhavia? The courts always complain when we lose an army. And—I hate to admit it, Chancellor, but so do I. But I know how to win.”
Thelican leaned in with a pained look on his face, and the Chancellor leaned in as well. Thelican was a [Great General] of Nerrhavia after all, and he spoke as a man taking one into his confidence. Adequate for Nerrhavia meant that as a [General], he was a better politician than a war leader.
“Chancellor Loqi. If I may be honest—Nerrhavia does lose too many wars. We could win them—and sometimes it’s foolishness we don’t.”
“Like the entire northern offensive against Flos?”
Thelican compressed his lips.
“I will not impugn my fellow [Generals], Loqi. They are facing legends, and that is the truth. You will hear no words against them from me.”
Especially not over a [Communication] spell. He went on smoothly.
“—But the fact is, we can arm one of our Silk Regiments with Icehowl Blades and put them upon our foes with enough chariots, high-level [Archers], and such to make even Flos Reimarch flinch. We do not. They are spread around, spread around our great empire. They must be.”
Nerrhavia’s Fallen was the largest nation in Chandrar, probably the world. The [Chancellor] pulled a face and grimaced.
“It’s never easy to move them. Which is why six legions—back in the days of Queen Merindue and the legendary [Kings] and [Queens], they had the Skills to muster a hundred thousand across the nation in a week! A week from the furthest corner!”
“Ah, well. Those are legends. That is why, though, Loqi, I am saying we lose. We lose—and learn—and when our enemies celebrate, they don’t realize they’ve bled to break one army. And another is coming. That is the power of Nerrhavia’s Glorious Hordes. They are endless.”
Loqi knew this, of course. But he was taken in by Thelican’s speaking, and the [Great General] was warming to his topic.
“I feel for the Hemp, you know? Poor folks. Cut poorly into their cloth—but I will send six legions of them armed with bronze at Tiqr—and they will do a fine job even if they trade one-to-three. [Troops: Commoner’s Offensive]. When I push them, they cut even Grand Elephant hide. But I do require more of them.”
“It didn’t work on Pomle.”
The [Chancellor] observed with a bite to his tone. Thelican had been ready for that and waved it off with a laugh.
“Learning, Loqi. I am learning how to fight them. They did beat us thirty years ago, and now I’ve been reading the history books. I have a new strategy, and this is why I am going to convince you to give me what I need.”
“…Go on.”
Another [General] would have been fired off the walls of Pallass for losing half of the [Soldiers] Thelican had. But even Chaldion would admit that Thelican was a slow learner—not a dunce who learned nothing at all. Thelican tapped one side of his nose as his servants filled a cup with water.
Interestingly—a beautiful wooden cup. Carved out of some expensive smokewood, which left amazing whorls in the white-black design—but wood. Thelican had observed the [Chancellor] using a wooden cup and demanded one himself so as to not rile the man further.
“Mage Throwers. I need them—and ballistae. No [Mages].”
“No [Mages]? The Hundred Thousand Tomes Academy will be happy about that. They were not pleased by their losses.”
“Well—not more than I would ask for six legions. But give me siege weapons. We didn’t bother because I was putting down a rebellion—but I will adjust my tactics against Pomle accordingly.”
“You need to give me more than that.”
Loqi was tapping his fingers on the desk—then he jerked, swatted at something, and Thelican heard a metallic buzz. He winced as a copper beetle flew away, and Loqi raised his voice.
“Servants! Another one! I will tell you this, Thelican. It almost beats living in the capital, serving on the front lines.”
He scowled, and the [Great General] managed not to roll his eyes. As if a few bugs were the same as conducting a war. Idiot. A Stitch-woman filled his cup as he spoke.
“The best of us suffer eternally, Loqi. Very well, you want tactics? I plan on drawing Pomle out of their oasis if I can. They are allied with Tiqr and must defend themselves from an encircling siege.”
“—And when they come to fight you?”
Thelican spread one hand.
“I let them. No more mass-assaults. No more charges. I reviewed how we fought Pomle last time, and this time, I shall park my siege weapons and let them charge me—if they dare. Hold my troops. Let them deflect arrows with their fists. I have tens of thousands.”
“…Defensive action?”
“They do too well in a massed army. Bombarding them worked. I could use a [Champion] if one is available. Perhaps a [Gladiator Champion]?”
Nerrhavia also fielded famous warriors who battled foes at the heads of their army. In fact—Mars had been one such until she met Flos Reimarch and decided to work for him. The [Chancellor] looked happier after understanding Thelican’s plan.
“That…seems better than the far-fetched plans I’ve heard to defeat the King of Destruction. Very well, I will submit your proposal before the Council of Steel. Do you have any other tricks?”
“Ah, Loqi. I always have another trick.”
Thelican tapped his nose again and smiled—and the [Chancellor] gave him a cooler smile, but nodded. And the truth was—
This too was mostly adequate. Thelican kept the smile until the spell ended—then he spat and rose.
