He was drunk. And not supposed to be on air, clearly. The soothing broadcast of late-night music from the string quartet turned off, and there he was.
Noass.
He was leaning on the desk of Wistram News Network, Channel 1, and he glared, red-eyed, into the camera.
He was a [News Anchor], so he had very good diction despite his clear intoxication thanks to his [Understood By All] Skill. Even Goblins liked watching him—though some of them threw things at the scrying orb because it was dislike-watching.
“I’m sick and tired of it. I’m calling a broadcast because we’ve been flooded—this channel—with comments from the audience. [Messages] day after day claiming Sir Relz and I are ‘biased’ as Drakes. Well, you know what?”
Noass took a huge drink out of a canteen and exhaled. You could practically see the fumes drifting from his mouth.
“—The truth is we’re not wrong. We’re Drakes, so what? The truth is that all these nations we cover? The…Balerosian kingdoms that pop up and go down? Cities that fall apart when someone sneezes on them? If they stopped fighting, killed some bandits, and their rulers could stop having incestuous relationships for five seconds, they would be miserable places to live in. Miserable, compared to a Walled City.”
He slapped the desk as someone tried to pull him off-screen, but Noass refused to go.
“And that’s still better than the shitholes they are! Like Pomle. Are they the ‘heroic’ martial artists or a bunch of idiot savages who poked the bear and got hit? They wipe their asses with sand. They don’t even have toilet paper! You want me to talk about bugs in your stupid Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Get a broom and put down some poison. It rains in Desonis, and you’ve got mold? Go bug your [Queen]! Oh wait, you can’t. She’s asleep. Taimaguros? Stupid name. It’s two nations that can’t stop fighting each other. Like an idiot who slaps himself in the head. So stop complaining if I spit facts at you—your nations are bad, and that’s the truth—now let me tell you what I think of Lizardfolk.”
Someone tried to tackle him. The new Dullahan, Theice, went to grab Noass as he flailed drunkenly at him. The audience heard a few snippets—
“—off me—Nagas are as suspicious as—the average Lizardfolk has half the intelligence of a Drake and—Gnolls—”
Then the broadcast shut off. Needless to say, Eldavin wanted to know who in Wistram had allowed the broadcast to go through—they’d had ten minutes to stop it. He announced Wistram would be investigating the incident, and he shook Telim’s hand and treated the [High Mage] to a lavish dinner that evening.
After all…it was great television. The numbers on Channel 1 were never higher. Noass’ reputation? Well…Sir Relz had an interesting next morning by himself taking viewer calls all day.
But what was more important? The numbers or the commentator? Noass had said what he’d said. How regrettable. Wistram disavowed it. See more on Channel 1, live.
 
——
 
That morning, Noass’ regrettable comments sparking worldwide furore and condemnation…never reached some of the people he had insulted.
Mostly because they didn’t watch the news. Which he probably would have claimed proved his point. But said sand-wiping savages of Pomle were busy.
Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle, was sitting in a mud-brick hut that had a cheap roof, it was true. He’d collected the water and mud from the oasis. Found palm leaves, occasionally dueled some of the other members of Pomle over scraps of wood or tumbleweeds, and painstakingly figured out how to make a hut.
Not by himself. He had copied a kind of design that had been there since Pomle had been founded. You put it along the canyon walls; the old members often had huts like this, if only to store something. Some buried their possessions or dug out part of the canyon to create a cruder cave.
These days, thanks to Salii, there were houses. These days, thanks to the war and refugees, there was a kind of village. These days…Pomle was not as small as it used to be.
It had been larger when it was first founded. About thirty years ago, the first Strongest had won this nation’s freedom by defeating every challenger that came against him.
Orjin didn’t know his name. He didn’t know the war. And he realized now how ignorant he was of the past.
It hadn’t mattered to him, growing up here. They of Pomle had saved what mattered: how to step and punch, the culture.
Thirty years was such a short time. Now—within half a century, Pomle might cease to exist. He thought of such things. He was, in a sense, the only generation to have grown up and lived in Pomle his entire life. No more fitting Strongest could emerge than the founder or someone who believed in the simple principles of this place.
But the first Strongest was dead. He had died aged 76, though even the Strongest had acknowledged his count might be off.
Orjin thought of that night. They had not mourned him with wailing or grief—but Pomle had gathered as they burned his body. Some of the Selphids had asked to take it but declined when they thought of the risk.
The Strongest who had won Pomle’s freedom had been…weaker than he should have been. A simple cold had not been his end. His years, a sandstorm choking the air, and his wounds had all combined into that quiet morning when someone walked past his hut and found him dead. His scars, that had gone into his lifestring itself, were magical.
After all, the Strongest had dueled [Mages] in war. Walked through firestorms. Fought foes armed with artifacts with his bare hands. For the [Strongest of the Martial Age]—it had proved Pomle’s way was right.
Orjin had been fifteen when he died. All he remembered was the old Stitch-man, who didn’t bother with combing his whitening hair, always noticeable among the younger [Martial Artists] from the huge, pale scar on his chest. He would stand there, watching the younger fighters practicing, often declining challenges.
Orjin had seen him fight thirteen times in his entire span at Pomle. Two—formal challenges to the position of Strongest. Other times against monsters or in sparring sessions.
It had never been a challenge. The last person to put up a fight that lasted more than thirty seconds had been Xil, the [Peerless Spearmaster]. He had flown in thirty years ago, having just been dishonorably discharged from Nerrhavia’s armies, and demanded they settle a score from Pomle’s war for independence.
He had lost.
 
——
 
There was nothing hard to understand about what made a good fighter as Pomle reckoned it. One element was the condition of the body.
Were you strong? Were you fast? That made as much of a difference as how skillfully you could fight. The other element that the [Martial Artists], [Warriors], and other people of Pomle coveted was their technique.
Palm versus spear. Sword against throwing technique. None of this was practical as other nations saw things. [Martial Artists] were not a respected class anywhere but maybe Drath and the House of Minos. A sword was sharper, could be enchanted; a fist was shorter, broke against steel, and all that training got you what?
Perhaps a body that could not be stolen like a blade. The mentality to go through life’s trials. Refinement of more than just how to punch.
Higher ideals and simpler ones. It was an argument Pomle had never settled. Were you here to train to kill or fight more effectively or were you in pursuit of some greater meaning?
Some, like Xil, claimed that the prowess of his students had nothing to do with morality or philosophy. A bastard could master a blade. If there was beauty, it came from practice, and talent still separated many apart.
Others, like Salthorn, the [Grappling Master], taught more than how to throw someone from any position. The Selphid was no killer, and her aspiration was to create a form of throwing so adaptive it took its place alongside swords, spears, and other weapons that any aspiring [Warrior] might decide to learn.
Orjin…had heard it all. And he was the Strongest of Pomle. If there were those here that could theoretically take his position, no one wanted the role. Especially now. If he was glad of one thing, it was that the debate still raged even a world away.
Earth was a funny place. Iratze, Raul, and the other children that Salii had uncovered had told the fascinated [Martial Artists] of their world. Demonstrated techniques that Pomle’s warriors had eagerly tried out and found good and practical.
A world of knowledge. From medical to how to train muscles to their own understanding of how to minimize injuries or…lift weights.
There was one of those ridiculous workout sets from Pallass that some [Warriors] used every day instead of sparring and swore by. Orjin had expected the thing to rust overnight, but he had given it a try and acknowledged it might work.
He disliked it. But he had not forbidden it; like everything in Pomle, it was a choice. What he had thought more of, though, with concern, was how Iratze had explained mixed martial arts or boxing and other disciplines in his world.
Some [Soldiers] apparently took lessons on how to defend themselves in close-quarters combat. There was knife-fighting and, yes, submission holds and similar moves that warriors practiced. Beyond that?
No martial art, no style of fist or throw had endured. The world of Earth was ruled by a different kind of weapon. And it was faster than Orjin could see, deadlier than any arrow he could loose from an unenchanted bow. Golem-machines could do more damage than any member of Pomle.
Even him. This bothered the Strongest, today. More than Noass’ comments, if he could have heard them. He did not mind using sand—not that Pomle’s folk actually did that.
He did not care where he slept. Or if his food was sometimes roasted scorpions or the meat of a palm fruit or cheap grain. He had never cared if Pomle was rich or poor, so long as the rules endured.
But inferiority? The thought that he was perfecting a kind of dead-end? That Pomle’s struggle and training was ultimately worthless when compared to actual armies and soldiers and weapons?
He disliked that intensely. The problem was…
This war might be proving Pomle had never needed to exist at all.
 
——
 
Orjin sat in his hut, thinking upon all of this as he mixed sand together. Then separated it. If that sounded like a child’s game…you did not see the faint colors in this room.
It was his habit, which he did not think of as traditional—just something he had been taught as a boy. When his calluses were bleeding, his arms would not rise for another punch, and he had sweated so much he needed to drink from the oasis until he was bloated—
The [Martial Artists] had taken him aside and taught him a way to pass the time until he slept. Which was to find a bucket, gather sand, and then haul it into a hut or crevice out of the wind.
You could do this in the open, but you’d lose your work, and it was fun to do this over a month or a year.
The sands of Pomle were reddish; the canyon walls were made of a red sandstone that gave it that color. But because the oasis was often struck by windy sandstorms, the sand was far more multi-colored up close.
From the Glass Straits came bits of glass flaked off. Zeikhal sent its sands here—and Orjin had heard some of the sand might come from coastal nations like Savere.
It mattered not…except that you could see tiny grains of green, blue, brown, red—all kinds of stone or gemstone mixed in together.
Take a bucket and walk the long way to your hut from the oasis. After all, the best sand often was found there. Or maybe it was just good muscle training; it was how he did it, regardless. Put the bucket down in your quiet hut, upon a floor stomped smooth of red clay. So thoroughly it was no longer ‘ground’, but a flat, clean surface of its own. Then he would spread the sand around and…sort it.
Green to green. Red to red. Browns…sometimes he was lazy and didn’t separate the shades. When he was a boy, he’d used his finger, a foot, or just blown it around with his mouth.
If this sounded insanely boring, well, it was a kind of way to meditate, something the [Monks] who came here liked. It let your mind drift off, and you could reflect on your training or just zone out.
Orjin would do this for hours, and even Salii, who had once seen his hobby, had called it the most mind-numbingly boring accounting in the world. After all, Orjin would take a bucket of perfectly sorted sand and toss it out every few months. He didn’t need it.
But he had a secret. And that was that…the sand was sort of fun.
More than the pellets of dried mud that Xil would make and have his students deflect—or he’d nail them like a fastball in the ‘baseball’ game. More than the pieces of colored sand-art that Salthorn made, which eroded within a year.
At this moment, Orjin had taken two buckets of sand he had ‘distilled’ into one color each over two years of work.
He poured them out around him as he sat, cross-legged. His side hurt. He had been slashed there by a sword in the last battle.
[Steel Skin] had meant that the enchanted blade did far less damage than it might have. [Enhanced Natural Healing] meant that the wound had already clotted. No potions. He would be ready to fight again when they came.
Nevermind that. Nevermind thinking of Earth…Orjin regarded the colorful sandpiles. The boy of fifteen would have been proud to have so much. He? He looked at the closed door of his hut, sealed so the wind had not a breath of air here. Then he took two handfuls of green and blue sand and threw them up.
He held his breath as two plumes of sand rose and showered down slowly; the grains could be very fine. Now that was beautiful. Orjin watched each individual grain of sand fall—in a scintillating cloud.
Then he clapped his hands. The sound of it rang, for he had clapped his hands with [Monks] who trained to make such sounds, to stomp like thunder and strike like the weight of an avalanche.
The air in the hut followed the movement. Orjin had learned [Aeriform Punch], and he could throw a wall of air at a foe. This—was far less powerful, but it still made the drifting sand in the air billow as he willed it.
A cloud of blue and green burst against each other in the center of the hut along the path of his hands. It covered the Strongest, and he saw how it looked.
Two colors like a sandstorm, meeting. He was seeing himself as well; he had a tiny shard of polished metal he liked using as a mirror. Then the Strongest stood in one motion and began to move.
Two colors. He could add three or six—swirled around him as he slowly performed one of the first routines he had been taught. The exaggerated poses, sweeping an arm up to block an enemy’s strike, a pivot with the feet as economical as possible—
