Vandum was one of them. If it were him—Iratze wondered if he would twist, breaking his own arm, and come for Iratze with a dagger in hand and nothing to lose.
The thought chilled Iratze’s blood and reaffirmed a truth he had realized the moment he’d come to Pomle and seen Orjin fighting the Fury of Winds.
Pomle did not practice the same kind of martial arts from Earth. Theirs were not…combat sports or self-defense. They were aspiring towards a type of hand-to-hand combat that could be used in a war and against blades.
He would have called them crazy. The best athletes and masters from his world would have said it was impossible, and it probably was—without Skills.
“I don’t like how exposed the armbar makes you. But I will admit—Sorron! Can we have one of your [Stonebody] disciples here? Iratze, try that on them. No one has managed to twist their arms.”
The first disciple of Sorron was a Drake, rare in Pomle—and had arms twice as large as Iratze’s. The [Grappler] gulped.
Iratze was a Level 18 [Grappler]—a fast rise in his levels for such a short time. Mostly due to being forced to spar with literal masters of Pomle, but he hadn’t fought in any war. He didn’t want to, and the other Earthers didn’t either.
Compared to this Level 31 [Stonebody Martial Artist]—he was outlevelled, and there was not a little bit of arrogance in the Drake’s eyes as he let Iratze grab one arm.
He was not prepared for Iratze to execute a standing armbar, though. This was a variation where Iratze captured the arm and twisted up, using his body weight to pull the Drake into him and pull his arm up—while forcing his head down.
Another way to break it. It—did not go the way Iratze wanted. He got the move off, and the surprised [Martial Artist] either let it happen or didn’t react right away. Then he pulled up—
And the arm wouldn’t move. 
Iratze couldn’t believe it. He had control of the wrist! The muscle of the grimacing Drake might be inferior to his entire body’s strength—
But his sinew and bones were tough as iron! Iratze pulled—and the Drake shifted—but refused to tap.
“I—need to use my other arm. I can’t free it. Do I try, Master Vandum?”
“Hm. No. Iratze’s failed. You can’t move it, can you?”
“No.”
It was the most unsettling feeling in the world. If Iratze had an armbar like that on someone even twice his weight, he expected it to work. Yes, an expert could reverse it or get out of it—but that body scared Iratze.
It wasn’t natural. Yet—when he and the Drake got on the ground and he pulled him into a full armbar with his legs, the weight and advantage there caused the gasping [Stonebody Martial Artist] to tap out.
“Give! I give!”
“Ah! His full weight did it. Sorron, we’ve finally found someone besides Salthorn who can out-grapple your people!”
The Stitch-woman was scowling—but only a tiny bit. And she and Jalte came over and both patted Iratze on the shoulders. You could tell they loved training and learning in and of itself, because the defeat to their style meant compliments from their mouth.
“It is a superior way of holding someone. All that weight…it looked silly to me and required so much flexibility to even get in position for it. But now I see. The question is—will it work on Jalte?”
The second highest-level [Stonebody]—and his class was [Ironbody]—felt like a rock. When Iratze pulled with all his might, Jalte admitted to a bit of pain. A tiny bit—and he then stood up with Iratze hanging off him and swung the [Grappler] around a bit until Iratze let go.
“Level difference. Orjin could pull your arm out of your socket. Or I could. But even Earth’s armbar won’t stop a Named-rank with the right Skills.”
Vandum observed calmly. He was already breaking down how the move that would incapacitate practically every Human on Earth…just failed here. The [Bridge of the Martial World] ticked off points on his hand.
“It would not work on Selphids. You’d break their arms but nothing else. Dullahans would just give you their arm, which is a weakness, but you cannot joint-lock them. Nagas don’t have the right body type. An Oldblood would succumb—but they can breathe Dragonfire at close range. This would not work on a monster without limbs like ours, and Skills can throw or remove you. Magic likewise. But if you get it off—the agony will incapacitate most.”
In fact, he made Sorron do the armbar on him, and his face contorted in agony until he tapped out. When Vandum stood, he was impressed. And yet also disappointed.
“You don’t have a martial art that can solve a lower-level fighter’s issues of closing with the foe? Nothing in Earth’s thousands of years?”
He pressed Iratze, and the young man shook his head.
“We don’t have—levels. We do self-defense. We don’t have hand-to-hand fighting. We have knife-fighting, but that’s a last resort.”
“Hah. You hear that, Sorron? Earth’s best warriors combine blades or ‘guns’ with our discipline. Grappling like Salthorn’s is perfect for duels—but we need to incorporate everything into our lofty ideals. You asked for armor when facing a spear. That’s proof enough.”
Vandum clapped Iratze on the shoulder again, and the young man realized he was being drawn into the debate engulfing Pomle. Sorron shot back.
“Yet his techniques did not work on our style entirely. Iratze, there isn’t anyone on Earth who has skin like steel, is there? Wouldn’t that change how your people fought?”
She looked around, and Raul finally saved his friend. He was another member of the gym that Iratze had been working at—who had been taken to this world in a huge mass.
“We actually, uh, do have that idea. Powered armor. It’s mostly a concept because we can’t make it, but if we did—”
Iratze rolled his eyes at him, but Sorron walked over, and nearly a dozen Earthers all tried to explain it was fiction, superheroes—the woman smiled as she turned to Vandum.
“Our way isn’t outmoded. What say you, Salthorn?”
The Selphid had been watching it all, including Iratze’s moves. She was the greatest master in throwing and grappling in Pomle, and Iratze had tried the armbar on her—only for her to literally reverse it on him in a flash. Then for fun, she’d let him do it, dislocated her arm, and laughed at his expression.
Now, though, the Selphid looked troubled.
“I say—Mendi should not have fought to prove any style was superior, including my own. Orjin was right. We all practice what we believe to be true.”
“But some of our methods fall behind. With greatest respect, Salthorn. You are peerless when we are close—but your apprentices cannot execute your maneuvers in battle.”
She nodded tiredly. Vandum was being gentle—for him—but it was true. Mendi had survived as Salthorn’s best apprentice, but the war in Pomle had killed a lot of fighters—and Salthorn’s grapplers, who had to get skin-to-skin to fight their enemies, had suffered badly in the melees.
This demonstration was already pulling ‘neutral’ [Martial Artists] towards Vandum or Sorron’s camps. And away from Salthorn and even experts like Lemocles. But then—the [Martial Artist of the Foiren Style] was silent, watching.
He was a lightning-fast striker. Someone who had loudly espoused a punching and kicking style that darted in, unloaded three or more blows in the time it took others to throw a single punch, and leapt away. It had been a popular thing for [Martial Artists] to train under him to improve their speed.
He had been one of Pomle’s masters who had gone out to fight during the three sieges of Pomle. His noisy training—some punches literally sounded like they cut the air, and the kicks snapped—was no longer echoing around Pomle. Nor did he have more than two apprentices left. The reason was simple.
Lemocles was missing one of his hands. A [Swordmaster] had lopped it off in battle. All that training and expertise—gone.
Vandum and Sorron were moving up, Lemocles’ ideals being forgotten. Salthorn watched as one of her apprentices never met her eyes and spoke with Vandum’s pupils. The [Bridge of the Martial World] noticed and leaned over to Iratze to murmur.
“It’s not a competition. Nor should we ignore the other methods. But we are always stealing. Always building our own comprehensive methods. Sorron is all about defense. I? I adapt. Thank you for demonstrating your own knowledge.”
He moved on, and hundreds followed him immediately. Lemocles sat there—until a man who had been speaking to Salii and the Fury of Winds walked over.
Orjin had been watching everything, and the Strongest of Pomle always caused a kind of hush when he appeared. But he had no apprentices. He trained alone and claimed no style. Vandum looked back from his own training grounds, and Sorron stopped. But all Orjin did was halt next to Lemocles.
“Have you put on the fake fist Salii found for you?”
The gaunt [Martial Artist] had not eaten or moved much. He looked up and replied slowly.
“—Slower. Slower and weaker, and it shatters.”
“Then use your good fist. Train with me.”
Lemocles would not move, but Orjin stood there like a shadow as people moved around them. Ten minutes, twenty—
Twenty-two minutes later, as Iratze was speaking to Gospe, another Earther, Lemocles leapt to his feet and threw a punch with a shout of annoyance.
Orjin blocked it. The other man set his pose—and his hand blurred in a jab—no, two! So fast Iratze thought he would have ruled Earth’s boxing world—any world involving striking if he had gone there, one hand or not.
Orjin couldn’t block them all, but he tried. A few punches landed, and he counted.
“One. Three…four…six—”
He began using one hand, and then they stopped to debate whether or not Lemocles should stand side-long with his good arm outstretched or if he could use his off-hand in a defensive position. Then they were calling Raul, who was a boxer, over to debate form. And that was Pomle.
Different kinds of Pomle, moving in different directions. Iratze wiped blood from his face, and someone spoke to him.
“Iratze, what are we doing here? There’s no way they’ll win a war like this.”
Gospe looked worried. She had just been visiting the gym with some friends—she was no [Martial Artist] at heart. Iratze…shook his head.
“They took us in when we had nowhere to go. Do you think we can make enough gold elsewhere? Where would we go?”
“Illivere.”
He looked up, and she turned. Some of the other members of his group looked at Iratze.
“Why?”
“We’re from Earth. We tell the Crafter-Magus—it’s rich. It’s safe. They’ve got Golems and—all we need to do is get there. We could go back whenever Domehead runs away again.”
“Illivere?”
Iratze hesitated. He looked at her and saw how miserable she was. He? He stood there, in this fascinating place where Pomle had decided to change the world and challenge magic and steel with their fists. It called to him. But she?
“Talk to Salii.”
He patted her shoulder with one arm, and she gave him a sad look.
“You should come with us. You don’t want to fight in this war, Iratze. You’re not—they’re not invincible.”
Masters losing limbs. Pomle’s warriors falling—Iratze looked around and saw Orjin, slowly speeding up as he blocked strike after strike. His arm and Lemocles’ were blurring.
A punch faster than you can see. Lemocles had introduced himself to Iratze by releasing sandflies and then catching them, one by one, with two fingers. Iratze shook his head.
“Maybe it’s not perfect. But I want to be like them. They’re onto something here.”
He stared at Orjin with more admiration than he had ever given even the best fighters in his world. Because Orjin could do what was literally impossible. Split the air, leap to the top of the canyon walls, balance on a shifting pile of stones—until Gospe replied.
“They can’t beat guns! Or armies. They’re a thousand [Martial Artists] against a million soldiers. They’ll lose.”
Thwack. Lemocles punched Orjin in the chest—the loudest and clearest impact. The Strongest’s focus had shifted. He looked over—and Gospe flinched, but the Strongest just replied in a clear and steady voice.
“Yes.”
He was not blind or deaf.
 
——
 
The most deadly, nefarious, and unassailable enemy to Pomle came at them again and again. Not Nerrhavia.
Savere.
The Siren had declared war on Pomle, and Tiqr, for the battle involving the Horns. And her forces…did not fall as easily as Nerrhavia’s. She had bested Vandum—though the Stitch-man had replaced his wounded limbs.
She had forced Sorron back and nearly killed her. Salthorn couldn’t get close. When the four masters came back, half-dragging Sorron, Orjin knew she had returned.
The Siren of Savere.
“It was a trap. Her [Rogues] were launching poisonous gas…we went out, and she was upon us. But for Sorron blocking her spells and Vandum throwing his trinkets—we would be dead.”
Xil landed like thunder, and the [Peerless Spearmaster] spat.
“You idiots. I told you time and again—leave her to me.”
None of them said anything. He should have moderated his words; they were all bleeding badly. Sorron had holes in her flesh.
Literal holes bored into her skin. Round and torn like…there was no equivalent weapon that Orjin had ever met. They had gone through Salthorn’s body, leaving gaps in her corpse’s frame, and Vandum’s armor was torn.
Water had done that. Jets of water, thousands of pounds of force concentrated into pinpoint jets that could tear metal apart.
“She’s come for Pomle?”
“I think…she’s been hired by Nerrhavia.”
“More poison! Wind spells, wind—”
Orjin looked up, and a puff of what looked like yellow dust appeared just inside the lip of the canyon. Another appeared—and then he saw an arrow being shot over the walls.
Savere was more difficult to fight than Nerrhavia because they did not send armies. They sent saboteurs, stealthed [Rogues] who shot poison and tried to snipe Pomle’s [Martial Artists].
In fairness, Pomle’s warriors were better at dealing with them than most. But the Siren—was another story.
“She has bested over half of Pomle’s masters who tried to go after her. No wonder she rules Savere with an iron fist, even with the [Pirates] and [Bandits] who come to her lands. Water. You had better watch out for her too. A shame the Empress of Beasts didn’t kill her when they came for Pomle’s peace.”
Xil murmured to Orjin. The Strongest just murmured back as he watched Vandum helping replace Sorron’s damaged limbs.
“None of them are poor at dodging. Even Sorron. How is she that unassailable in your mind?”
Xil grimaced.
“Magic has always been a warrior’s bane. Ask them yourself. I’ll keep watch.”
He strode off. Orjin walked over and sat down next to Salthorn. The Selphid was grimacing.
