Are there any other details or items you have missed? Can you confirm he was Level 59?
Erin: Whoa. Bullet points? A list? Uh, yeah, he said he was Level 59, so I believe him. Can I talk to the current Strongest? How’s it going over there? I have this friend, Pisces, and he might know someone in Pomle…?
Salii: I have been in communication with Adventurer Pisces.
Erin: You have? Well—how’s things?
Salii: We are currently at war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. With respect, will you kindly send us what we need? Each [Message] exchange is burning coins and time.
Erin: Oh. Sorry. Let me just—
 
To Salii’s credit, this exchange worked. The embarrassed [Innkeeper] actually presented everything in order and without a fuss. The [Secretary] managed to bully Erin into being helpful in five minutes, which put her ahead of the Blighted Kingdom, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and most of Erin’s acquaintances on the efficiency scale.
The part Salii didn’t anticipate was where Erin Solstice physically appeared. The Drake was scribbling in her clipboard as she and Orjin went to find some of the oldest members of Pomle.
One was Xil, the aforementioned [Peerless Spearmaster]. He was an old Garuda, one of the oldest in Pomle. His wing feathers were ragged, and he stayed on the ground a lot because seventy years had made his bones brittler than he liked.
“Xil! Tell me you’re not injuring our best warriors.”
“We’re training. If they take wounds, they won’t die in combat. And we have lost over two hundred of our own.”
Orjin’s pace slowed as he heard the old Garuda speak. He was standing on top of his training quarterstaff, planted in the ground, as if it were a balance poll.
There had been terrible losses. More than Pomle had ever taken—since its inception. Most were junior [Martial Artists]—but they had awoken to a reality of war in the months after their first battle alongside Tiqr.
Xil hopped down as a body moved. Eighteen warriors were lying on the ground, most bruised and some bloodied from the thrashing. Salthorn wasn’t down; she was rubbing at her arm.
“You dislocated my arm, Xil.”
“Get another body. They’re cheap in this war.”
The Garuda looked…active now. He was a former [Soldier], and he had come out of his semi-retirement. He had over eighty students, not the six he’d kept before, and he had even clashed with some of Pomle’s other best fighters.
Orjin knew that, because he saw the welts on the arm of the Stitch-woman, the Hemp-caste Sorron. She and Jalte, a Garuda, were thickset—in fact, Jalte was the biggest Garuda that Orjin had met, including the fearsome members of the Loquea Dree, the crow-type Garuda.
They were both members of one of the predominant schools in Pomle. Spears, Salthorn’s grappling—
Or the [Stonebody Martial Artists], who emphasized amazing defense, sometimes at the cost of mobility. Orjin had trained with them, hence his own [Steel Skin] Skill; he studied everything. But he had not—stepped into their class.
Stepping into their class meant accepting Skills that changed you fundamentally. For instance, Orjin had [Steel Skin] which did not change him fundamentally.
Jalte had [Ironmarrow Bones], which did. He no longer flew, and he was so heavy that Xil could flit around him. But the [Peerless Spearmaster] had put his entire force into the spear-strikes, and the fragile Garuda body whose bones normally broke easier than any other species—
Hadn’t even shifted. Xil just spat.
“That didn’t save your people from being hit by [Fireballs].”
“We will block them too. Caneriq did well in the last battle.”
Sorron retorted back. She and Xil did not get along, and Orjin used to have to mediate their arguments, which sometimes spilled forth in their apprentices. She had been at the head of over a hundred disciples before the war started.
Now? He saw Caneriq nursing his injuries that stood out on his arms and legs. He’d covered his face with an arm-guard as he advanced; arrows and spells had burnt the Stitch-man’s skin—then he had punched and kicked his way through Nerrhavia’s [Soldiers].
The result was nicks in his cloth-skin. Despite him being Cotton, that was all. He could replace the cloth and be ready for another fight.
It certainly spoke to the efficiency of the couple’s methodology. Neither one had been here at Pomle’s founding, but they had learned from an expert who practiced the same style and adopted it.
Their training, though, included making their apprentices hold up a guard as they were literally beaten with pieces of wood or punched and kicked until their bones broke and healed. It made them strong. Xil called it madness.
“The power to endure an avalanche isn’t as impressive as avoiding one.”
“Let’s save this old debate. Strongest. Do you need something? Is it another battle?”
The two [Stonebody] experts turned with perhaps eagerness as Orjin shook his head.
“The First Strongest of Pomle. Salii has questions for you, Xil. And anyone else who remembers him well. Salthorn?”
The Garuda rolled his eyes. Salthorn scratched at her head.
“I never knew him that well. Who else here would know?”
The Selphid snapped her fingers, then looked sidelong.
“Vandum. But he hates you, Orjin.”
The Strongest grimaced. Sorron and Jalte muttered; Salthorn had just named the last great expert who was almost definitely above Level 40.
Vandum had been the Strongest twice; Orjin had never taken his spot, but Vandum had challenged Orjin three times. He had lost each one, to the older [Martial Artist]’s disbelief. But it had not been an easy battle any time.
The last time, Orjin had broken nine bones and been forced to use his ultimate Skill, [Dulav-ra: Tetrad of the Solar Aura]. He had wounded the Stitch-man so badly that Vandum had been forced to leave Pomle for four months to have his body resewn. Then he had not shown his face near Orjin.
The last time Orjin remembered Vandum, he had been staring at the other man’s arm as the [Martial Artist] tried to get to his knees. It had lain there, torn off from a socket as the disbelieving warrior looked up, blood pooling onto dry sand. He had thought he would win—maybe he should have.
Even then, he had refused to relent or back down. Orjin had told him to stop before one of them died. Vandum had not. He had only stopped when he realized Orjin could have killed him and was holding back.
Then he had left, to retrain himself, and returned with a new arm, trying to build on his mistakes. He, too, was exemplary of Pomle’s ideals. But his fighting was intense, and he believed grievous wounds were an acceptable outcome to a duel. Orjin had forbidden it in Pomle when he was Strongest.
“I know where Vandum is. I’ll get him.”
Incredibly, Salii marched off towards the far end of Pomle. She had no fear. She returned in less than three minutes as the younger warriors got up. Orjin looked up and saw another man with brown skin from years in the sun. Red hair, and he had gotten thinner since he had lost the battle of strength with Orjin.
Vandum had reinvented himself with a Stitch-person’s ability to change their body decade after decade since Pomle. He had been only twenty when Pomle was freed. Now? He was in his fifties.
“Strongest.”
He actually nodded to Orjin. Xil raised his brows as Salii explained.
“Vandum has been testing my training areas. Not that we’re doing that during the war—”
“There’s always time to train during the war. Battles aren’t every day. They should be. We should be pushing Nerrhavia. Three of my [Sparkfist Warriors] went out and took a patrol of fifty to pieces.”
Vandum was a weapons-expert as well as a [Martial Artist]. His class was [Bridge of the Martial World].
He wore gauntlets made of mithril and offered his students gloves enchanted with runes. [Sparkfists] fought with these weapons, and their punches could electrify foes in armor. Especially in dry Chandrar. They often caused trouble when they fought with unarmed [Martial Artists] and won—or hurt their opponents badly.
Yet Orjin respected Vandum. He was unsure if the reverse was true, but Vandum had acknowledged Orjin’s skill in battle. He was, perhaps, the embodiment of Pomle’s ideals in one sense.
Striving for superiority in combat. Vandum’s bare fists were deadly weapons in themselves; the gauntlets of mithril made him more so. If there was a technical edge armor or magic could give him, he tried to work it into his fighting.
“Why are we bringing up the First Strongest?”
“Someone found his journal. Did you know he owned the [Garden of Sanctuary], Vandum?”
The older [Martial Artist] had been looking bored at Xil’s beaten trainees, but his head snapped around.
“Has someone recovered that?”
“Alright. Who else knew?”
Salii glared about. Xil raised a claw. Salthorn, a hand. Orjin raised a hand, and she nearly threw the clipboard at him. Sorron, having been here before Jalte, lifted one finger.
Erin Solstice raised one hand, and Vandum threw a dagger at her. Xil’s spear went up, and he deflected the dagger, which whined as it went careening to one side and blew up in a shower of flames. Orjin nearly punched her before he realized it was an illusion. Salthorn shouted warningly.
“Vandum!”
“Is it an enemy attack?”
The [Innkeeper] ducked in her wheelchair.
“Holy—geeze! Maybe this is why I don’t leave my inn! That wasn’t even a crossbow! Hi—”
“Yaaaaah!”
Salii’s reaction was slower than the [Martial Artists]’. She leapt into Jalte, slammed into the Garuda like an iron wall, and fell down, scattering her clipboard’s papers. Erin Solstice stared at the [Secretary] and then around at the [Martial Artists].
She winked out of sight as Salii began to curse.
 
——
 
“…And that’s everything. Can you copy this?”
Erin was having Yelroan hold up the scrolls as [Martial Artists] gathered around, copying or memorizing the forms. Orjin was busy reading from Salii’s clipboard. She had the contents of the First Strongest’s journal. The rest of the information was being passed around.
“So the garden looks like Pomle? Exactly?”
“Yup. Not a hidden thing. I went back and checked. Just the fighting room and his hut.”
“Sounds right. It used to be different. Collos would visualize ‘our place’, to learn where to fight. To have enough space to train. First it was there. When he found Pomle, he said it wasn’t valuable.”
Vandum actually looked nostalgic as he leaned against a palm tree. He was staring at Erin, who was staring back at his fiery red-hair.
“You’re the most, uh, interesting guy I’ve ever met. Vandum? Can you do a kame—no, can you change forms? Does your hair stick up if you get powered up?”
He stared blankly at her. He had no context for it, but Iratze had described him as the most anime-style member of Pomle. To be fair, he had the most expensive cloth-armor of the bunch with enchanted chainmail underneath, the mithril gauntlets, and fighting weapons of a magical nature.
“Is that something else you Earthers claim I should do? Raul told me about it. Secondary forms? I can adjust my limbs and appearance, but so can every Stitch-person.”
Erin’s mouth opened.
“Are…are there Earthers here?”
“That way. They said you were one.”
The [Innkeeper] was disconcerted by how many people knew her—and she turned her wheelchair.
“Can I speak to them?”
“First things first. What does this training room do? I don’t think we can use your garden to get to Izril, can we? That would be too powerful.”
Salii was muttering, and Erin shook her head.
“Nope. Sorry. And the training room is cool! Sort of. All kinds of people will appear around your level. You can ask for strong ones, weak ones…Jewel and Normen—they’re two of my employees, I guess—have been training with them. They get their butts kicked a lot. And Jewel’s a Gold-rank adventurer!”
Vandum looked pleased at this, and Orjin smiled. The two shared a nod, for once on the same page.
“Of course they do. They’re Pomle’s warriors. Exactly as Collos knew them. I am probably there—far lower leveled. And so would Orjin.”
Erin blinked at him.
“I am the Strongest of Pomle. I would have been fifteen if Collos’ memory of me was accurate. A [Soundstep Martial Artist]. I might have used a spear.”
“I forgot you practiced that.”
Vandum growled. Erin snapped her fingers.
“Hey! Relc might have fought you! He challenged a bunch of spear-dudes. I think I saw you?”
“How did I do?”
Erin scratched at her head as Orjin looked interested. Salii was practically tearing her neck-spines out at the fighting-talk, but she had walked over and was talking to a blonde Gnoll with some irritating sunglasses.
“Oh, Relc summoned like eight of you because he said he could win against all the best spearmasters in Pomle. Some angry Garuda dude got him before he could fight you all.”
“Hah! So your garden can pull out at least some of my potential. But Collos wrote he tired of it? It makes sense. He was beyond anyone else in Pomle.”
The journal’s brief notes made sense to Orjin. Most were mundane, but those end lines about searching for more…Vandum was staring at the words himself.
“The end to his path. Is that merely Level 60? No…magic in combat. Perhaps it is. After all—he was only content to use his fists. And he paid for it.”
He gave Orjin an intense look; his eyes were pale grey-yellow and seemed to spark with lightning in and of themselves. Orjin said nothing at first. Then exhaled.
“Perhaps you’re right. We will see.”
Erin looked from man to man, as if not comprehending what she had brought them.
“I…I hope it helps. I’d like to talk to those Earthers, and I know some of my friend’s friends are here. Is it…going badly?”
She looked around, but there were many [Soldiers] in Pomle. Tiqr had left a guard and was using this as one of their bases. To Erin, it might seem like Pomle was more powerful than it had ever been. But the truth? Orjin looked at her as Vandum assured her they were far from done fighting. His response was simple.
“This is not Pomle’s war for independence. Nerrhavia has made war on us because we freed slaves. Because we have supported Tiqr. There is no winning this conflict. Just enduring a storm.”
The other people of Pomle turned their heads. Xil nodded, and Salthorn’s grimace was pained. Sorron and Jalte’s faces were blank, for Orjin had begun this war, and yet they found something in it. Vandum? He shook his head.
“We are seeing if Pomle is worthy to endure, Strongest. This…is how we should have continued for thirty years. We are refining our techniques.”
Orjin shrugged.
“Or—seeing the very flaw in our ideals.”
