It was hard! Orjin didn’t understand the physics of water, so he couldn’t fathom how the watery dome was moving so fast as to present a kind of barrier against projectiles. All he knew was that the stone literally cracked into pieces and sank through the water shield.
—And there were four more till the Siren. She laughed, pointed a finger, and sent a tidal wave racing at him—and one of her Water Elementals. Orjin picked up another stone, but let the bag lie. No way for him to win a ranged war. He wasn’t going to throw his spear; he was sure it would break even with the few Skills he had.
The wall of water was seven feet high, taller than he was, and came at him fast. It might be heavy enough to knock him flat and slam him down—but he just walked towards it, keeping his eye on the Water Elemental.
“Orjin, the water, the water!”
Salthorn was shouting at him. Orjin saw the wave surging at him—and jumped it.
A ten-foot jump straight over the wall of water, carrying him to the wet ground beyond. He had been a [Surefoot Martial Artist]; he feared no muddy ground. Orjin was ready to meet the Water Elemental.
What he was not prepared for was for the tidal wave to halt—then turn around and surge back at him. The Strongest didn’t know magic. He had assumed—
It crashed into him, and he kept his footing.
[Immovable Stance: Manticore]. 
To shift him, you would have to overpower the weight of a Manticore, thousands of pounds. The tidal wave tried—his feet shifted, and he grimaced at the impact.
Only to realize it was now swirling up to engulf him. The Strongest tried to jump—but it was around him, weighing him down like lead—
And he did not train long in the water in dry Chandrar.
The Siren’s bandits were laughing as the Strongest was engulfed in a sphere of water and began to drown. He was moving fairly fast even underwater—but so what?
There was nothing to fight. Nothing to break. Just water—the Siren could literally hold him there until he drowned. The Water Elemental was fifteen feet tall and had fists of water that could smash people down with ease. It could best a Grand Elephant—and it waited as the Siren laughed and watched Orjin flailing.
“Is that all? The other Masters were better than this. Come, Orjin!”
He was aware the moment he broke free the Water Elemental would be upon him. The Strongest looked out, still holding his spear and the stone. His muscles tensed, and he grimaced.
Then…as he drifted up in the orb of water constricting him, Orjin crossed his legs, folded his arms holding both weapons, and sat there.
The laughter broke off. The [Bandits] stared as the Strongest just sat there in the bubble of water.
“The fuck? Is he holding his breath?”
One of them whispered to her leader. Omusc, the Drowned Woman who was part shellfish, stared in confusion.
That was a valid tactic if Orjin was like her—but even some Drowned Folk couldn’t just breathe water! The Siren looked as perplexed as everyone else.
“Does he think the spell will run out? Is he stupid?”
“He’s definitely stupid—but—okay. If this is how the boss wins, it works.”
He couldn’t do this forever. How long could you hold your breath? A minute? Two? The [Bandits] watched as the Strongest floated there. They waited, and one pulled out a looted timepiece.
…Three minutes passed. The Strongest floated there, staring out of the water blankly. He didn’t look like he was starving for oxygen yet. He didn’t move, blink, or twitch a muscle. He just…
Waited.
The Siren lost patience first. After thirty more seconds, she pointed, and the water began to constrict around him. The Strongest was being pressurized as the water pulled in on itself, like someone deep underwater.
He didn’t move. The water pulled in—and then halted. It must have been the maximum pressure that Revine could do with that much water. The Water Elemental’s fist stayed raised—and the Strongest didn’t move. His eyes didn’t pop from the pressure, and not a single bubble of air left his lungs.
Six minutes.
“Is he dead?”
No one knew the answer. Revine blinked—and then decided to test it out. She took aim with another jet of water and spoke.
“[Ice Lance].”
It fused into ice—slowly—and she aimed the huge lance of it at Orjin. Ice magic…which showed how much she wanted to kill Orjin.
She had been so furious after the Ice Squirrel betrayed her—Orjin didn’t move as the ice spell aimed at his chest. The water in the orb drew back, thinning to create a vector for the [Ice Lance] to travel by.
Revine fired the lance at Orjin. It shot across the distance, past the Water Elemental—and Omusc saw the Strongest move. His frozen body jerked as the lance spun at him—
Then he caught it, and the momentum blew him out of the orb. He landed, inhaled, and punched.
[Aeriform Fist]. Omusc’s eyeballs compressed with the force of the wind-explosion, and she wasn’t even close! The orb of water turned into rain, and Orjin dodged the Water Elemental swinging at him. He threw the stone and blew the top of its head off with the force of the throw. Then he was sprinting past the Water Elemental, running so fast that the Siren began firing her jets of water in a panic as he curved towards her.
 
——
 
He’d really been in trouble there for a second. When he’d been engulfed by the orb of water, Orjin had considered how hard it would be to break free. He had feared he might struggle and become a sitting duck, so he’d decided to gamble on a trick.
[Stasis Metabolism]. Another [Monk] Skill that most [Martial Artists] considered worthless, a downside of their class. When he used it, so long as he didn’t move—he didn’t need any air. He didn’t need food—he could just exist and think.
The ploy had worked. Revine had tried to crush him with the force of water, but Orjin’s body was stronger than that. It had been slightly uncomfortable, but she hadn’t managed to even give him the bends.
Her [Ice Lance] had been a bad idea. He had used it to free himself. He could not be caught again, though.
Magic-users. How had the First Strongest beaten them? The journal said—
He was faster. So he had not beaten magic itself. Orjin took a page from that book. He ducked as a jet of water a hundred times larger than the others fired at his head with enough force to probably tear his flesh from his bones.
[Martial Art: Sandflea Run].
Another Skill he had possessed since he was first starting this class. Nothing was worthless. And there were a hundred different running styles and Skills. His?
Hop. His foot touched the ground, and it propelled him with all the explosive force of a tiny insect jumping. It was not the same as [Flashstep]—his was a jump, a skip—
He kicked left, and a trio of [Water Jet] spells flashed past his face. Right—and ducked under another. A blade of water sliced horizontally at waist-height—
Hop—two legs over it, and he kicked. The water spell turned into a downpour of water as he severed the connection.
Hophophophophophophophophop—
It was impossible to catch him! The Siren’s pinpoint aim turned wild as she unleashed jet after jet of water. Then she realized he was getting too close.
“[Watery Floor]! [Cauldron of the Salamander].”
Water spread below Orjin’s feet, and he stopped warily. But rather than turn it to ice and freeze him like Ceria did, Revine was nastier. The water erupted, going from cool to boiling in a second. She had boiled enemy soldiers by the thousands like this, and the steam and rising heat—
Orjin jumped. Revine saw him flying above her dome as the second Water Elemental went at him. She had him! She aimed straight up.
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
She knew more than water spells. The bolt flashed up, and Orjin—skipped sideways.
The [Sandflea Run]! Did he have—
[Aerial Foothold]. He had thought long and hard how to fight the Death of Magic. And in his last three level ups—
The Strongest came down as the bolt of lightning, slower than true lightning but almost as deadly—missed him. He landed next to the dome, stuck his hand into the raging current of water—and grimaced.
“Str—”
The water grabbed his hand, and Orjin felt like Revine’s own grip had him. He tried to move back—and then the water dragged him up, over the top of the dome, and slammed him into the ground on the other side so hard he cracked the earth.
That—hurt.
 
——
 
[Water Dome of the Deep Sea Currents]!
The [Bandits] were cheering as Salii stared, hopping from foot to foot with nerves. Orjin rolled to one side—but a water jet tagged him for the first time.
It hammered his shoulder back into the ground and pierced his [Steel Skin]—but superficially. He was tougher than Revine thought.
Her magic was more adaptive than he thought. He had no conception that she could use the dome of water offensively like that. Stick a sword in and it would be ripped apart. His arm should have been torn off—
Point-blank, the Siren lanced him three more times with [Water Jet] as he rose, shielding his face. Each time, his skin rippled—and tore with the force of the spells.
“Just die, you obstinate pest!”
Revine was not so happy about their proximity, though. Her Water Elementals were rolling back to Orjin, but the terrors of her other foes were practically useless against him. He just ignored them. Orjin ducked a swing from one, and as it raised its hands for an overhead slam, he just raced around the dome’s other side. Then he raised his spear.
[Spear Dance: Crashing Rapids]!
Appropriately, the water-themed attack slashed into the dome, leaving tears that made Revine recoil with the force of Orjin’s slashes. But—his spear tore a second layer of the dome open, and the three remaining—
He couldn’t even reach that far in. Orjin leapt back, and the water dome recomposed itself, sealing the wounds he’d caused at once.
And he had just used a Skill.
“That fool. I taught him the spear, but he’s diversified his Skills! He’s only got one more spear dance!”
Xil groaned. Orjin, the expert in multiple fields, couldn’t fight long in one speciality.
“She’s concentrating all her magic. It must be one of her best Spells. Tier 5? Tier 6? She’s betting he can’t reach her. Salthorn. Could you get in?”
“I—don’t know. I’d have to throw the water somehow. Throw her from thirty feet away. I could try, but…”
The [Master Grappler] looked uncertain. Revine’s magical power was making the best of Pomle nervous. She was unto the same level of mastery in magic that they had achieved with their fists. And their Strongest was…
Unable to reach her? If she had trouble hitting him, he couldn’t get to her. Stalemate, and Orjin would inevitably take too much damage over time. He had to break through.
Orjin had one ultimate Skill left that Salii knew for a fact.
[Dulav-ra: Tetrad of the Solar Aura]. A close-combat attack that hit you four times with such intensity and heat that it could literally burn you. She knew he had to use it. So did he.
And so did Revine. She was muttering a spell, and as Orjin twisted, ducking a [Scythe of Blackwater] that passed overhead in the shape of the weapon—he moved.
His arms blurred together, and he kicked his spear into the dome of water, where it spun around crazily. Orjin’s arms rose to both sides, like he was imitating a bear—but they were already moving, ready to strike from four angles. Then—they glowed.
Dulav-ra. The style he had combined out of Pomle’s teachings. And—
[Tetrad of the Solar Aura]. A Skill that took from flame. Flame—heat encapsulated in glowing skin—so hot it turned water to steam.
He punched and struck four times, stepping into the first punch—sliding it into a two-palmed strike, a flying kick—each one carried him into another barrier of the water dome.
Each blow created a geyser of water that blew the spell apart. Revine’s eyes grew round with terror as her barrier evaporated.
Five! Four! Three! Two! Then Orjin was at the final barrier, barely ten feet between her palanquin, held up on its bed of water, and him. He had used his Level 40 Skill. He raised a fist for another [Aeriform Punch]—
And the Siren laughed at him. She laughed—and popped out of place on her palanquin. She appeared eighty feet away, and her two Water Elementals halted in front of her. She raised a hand and spoke.
“[Water Dome of the Deep Sea Currents]!”
She had just—teleported. [Lesser Teleport]. Orjin turned, panting, as the water around Revine and his spear whirled back towards her. All the water she had shot in their fight—returned to Revine and reformed that deadly dome.
And then he was back to square one. Pomle’s warriors groaned, and some shouted—but Revine just laughed.
Laughed—with a slight strain to her voice as she lifted a mana potion and drank greedily. She had burned through a lot of her magical power. But Orjin? He had used his best Skill.
“Round two, Strongest. I don’t need to win with more than my magic. The trap was in you ever thinking you could best me one-on-one! Even Nsiia was too smart for that!”
She shouted at him. Orjin, panting, began to run forward, dodging jets of water. He was slower, though, and his running Skill—
He took a [Water Jet] to the knee and slid behind some earth that had been upheaved by Revine’s spells. She rolled her eyes, and her two Water Elementals surged at him. Revine took careful aim as the largest [Water Jet] yet gathered in her fingers. If he didn’t move, she’d blast his cover and him into dust—then trap him with the water orb spell again. If he did—she’d wait until he was flatfooted and snipe him.
“Anything else to say, Orjin? No surrender. Not in Savere.”
And strangely, the Strongest did have something to say. He raised his voice.
“You took my spear.”
Revine’s brows crossed. Then opened in a sudden, paranoid instinct. She looked around, and there, swirling around her [Dome of Water] spell, was Orjin’s spear. His spear, which he’d kicked into her dome and she’d drawn back into her protections. And the tip was—
Glowing.
It was a [Weapon Expert]’s Skill. A [Monk]’s Skill. For someone who practiced multiple weapons. It was called—
[Imbue Skill]. A simple thing you could use to translate a Sword Skill into barehanded combat. Or vice-versa. Orjin had another one.
“[Delayed Blow]. [Aeriform Shockwave].”
The whumph of sound was followed by him leaping up and running. Just running past the dazed Water Elementals, through the rain of water falling down, towards the Siren. She was on her knees, shaking her head, trying to focus and cast—
He had her head in his hands. She was making a sound, guttural, at the back of her throat, and her neck was twisting, twisting.
