“She blew off part of my body. Orjin—she wants you.”
“She said that?”
“She said, ‘bring the Strongest out to face me’. She wants to humiliate you or even claim Pomle. She might not understand how our system works.”
He doubted that. If he fell—who else in Pomle would stand against her? Xil had confidence, but the Siren was demonstrating her superiority in magic.
“What happened?”
The Selphid closed her eyes.
“We tried to close with her. If we got close—”
They won. That was the logic of a [Martial Artist] versus a [Mage]. But they hadn’t managed it.
“She summoned a Water Elemental. Not a real one—but it blocked us. Walls of water—and those jets of it stopped Sorron cold. I tried to throw a water elemental. I had nothing to pin, nothing to grab. All my tricks—useless.”
She smiled painfully at him, and Orjin knew how much that hurt her ego.
“I managed it. [Holdless Throw]. Then she put a hole in my stomach.”
She said that as if throwing thousands of pounds of water was a light thing. But that moment had given Vandum an opening. He’d charged, intent on electrocuting the Siren—and she had raised a dome of water around herself.
“He tried to zap it with one of his artifacts, but she laughed at him until she nearly puked. It was—layered so whatever lightning struck it never reached her. He would have had to swim practically thirty feet, and he saw we were sitting ducks, so he fell back.”
Of them all, Vandum looked the least hurt. He was calmly taking a scroll out of one of his personal chests and equipping it to his belt.
“[Steelskin]. The next time we meet—she will have to try harder. But she is a vexing foe. Will you meet her, Strongest?”
Orjin sat there and thought a while. When he looked up, his blue eyes were blank.
“I have already beaten her in the first siege of Pomle. If she comes against us—I will find her.”
He stood and walked away. The other masters glanced up, and Vandum called out.
“What about her challenge?”
Orjin barely turned his head.
“She is not a warrior of Pomle.”
 
——
 
He killed an [Assassin] that night. They were a good one.
Orjin was in his hut, staring at a pile of unsorted sand when he exhaled and sensed the air moving. Though he had not heard the door open or close.
“You came through the wall. Vandum will be upset his people didn’t notice you.”
Silence. The shadows in his hut were almost all-encompassing because he had no glass or lights here save a single candle lantern. Then someone spoke, though Orjin could not tell from where.
“I am one of Savere’s Stilettos. If a low-level [Martial Artist] found me, I should kill myself on the spot.”
Orjin said nothing—but his legs were tensed in their sitting position. He was in a bad spot and couldn’t locate the [Assassin].
“You didn’t laugh at the name. Savere’s Stilettos? We didn’t choose it.”
“Was it meant to be funny? I—”
A blade pierced the back of his neck, but he was already twisting. The [Assassin] had expected him to duck—not for Orjin’s hand to go for the arm holding the blade itself. The deflection of the blade meant it ran down his spine and laid his skin open. Orjin felt the cut was too—wet.
Poison.
It was such a fast attack. How had they done that? Orjin was on his feet, and the cramped hut was still.
“[An Opening Slash]. If you had laughed, it would have become [Uncontrolled Laughter].”
A fatal weakness. Orjin wondered how many people had died like that, chuckling only to find themselves guffawing when their guard should be up.
The voice fell silent, and they waited. Orjin felt blood running down his back—then clotting. Then…
The [Assassin] was waiting for him to keel over. Or show any sign the poison was working. Orjin had his hands raised.
“…Creler’s eggs.”
Then they began to get—nervous. Because they realized Orjin was immune.
He’d trained with [Monks]. He had [Resistance: Poison]—so he was not immune, but he also had [Constitution of Half-Giants]. It took a lot of poison to take him down.
Stalemate, though. The blade could pierce his flesh. The [Assassin] might be preparing something else, and Orjin…Orjin stared at the sand floating around his hut. It did not leave a helpful imprint of where the [Assassin] was like he’d hoped. But it didn’t matter, did it?
He could sense the air around where the figure was breathing almost like a physical thing. Orjin’s lips moved as the silent figure tensed against the wall left and behind him.
“Lay down your weapons and surrender. I will not warn you again.”
And the voice—male or female he didn’t know—sounded almost sympathetic.
“I heard you were a monster of combat. A master shouldn’t hesit—”
Then a crunch. Then—the gurgling drip of something tearing—and he felt tiny ropes tearing. Strands—sinew wet and warm parting as he drew his hand back. Bone that had cracked like drywood against his hand.
He lowered his hand, and the [Assassin]’s head fell over. What remained of his neck—
Orjin stood there for a long time. Then he bent over and saw the [Assassin] had been lifting a wand. He lifted the body in his arms and walked outside of his hut as blood ran around the falling sand.
It caused no small commotion, and the masters agreed whomever this [Assassin] had been, they were good. At least Level 30—Salii pinpointed them as one of Savere’s Stilettos, the Siren’s own personal killers.
Not a Named-rank—but they’d had the drop on Orjin, and he’d won. After they’d applied their antidotes, Orjin sat in his hut.
He had a fever that night. A bad one that left his skin clammy and himself covered in sweat as his body fought the toxin in his bloodstream. He focused his breathing and forced what of it out that he could.
He wished he had [Expel Poisons], but all he could do was inhale, exhale—and focus as if he were preparing for a battle. It worked…but the smell of blood and the feelings of killing the [Assassin] lingered.
The Strongest took no pleasure in it. And he thought, not for the first time…Orjin gave vent to the emotions at last, finding just how to say it.
“I did not train in Pomle this long, or with this much passion, to kill more efficiently.”
He—disliked killing, he realized.
Intensely.
 
——
 
The second [Assassin] did not go after Orjin. They laid in wait and ambushed targets of opportunity. Sentries, off-guard warriors of Pomle.
Six were dead before Xil hunted that one down. Six—each one a good warrior. One had been in Pomle for eleven years, since he was a child.
The day after that, Orjin left Pomle. He walked out along the dusty road that connected the oasis to other waystations, across the roads of dry Chandrar that stretched across the southern coast and stood there, arms folded.
He waited there for three hours, staring into the distance. Orjin had brought only two things with him. The first—his spear, which was strapped to his back with a thin cord he could break with ease. The second? A sack of stones, the size of shot puts, each one rounded enough to his liking. That hung from his belt, weighing him down a bit on his right side.
When he sensed movement, Orjin lifted one of the stones.
“I know you’re there.”
Undeterred, the figure tried to keep crawling behind a three-foot high dune of sand. Only for Orjin to throw the stone so hard it blew the top of the dune into a plume of dust.
“Aah! Alright! Alright! Don’t attack! The Siren’s not here!”
“Where is she?”
The figure got up, and he saw it was a terrified woman, a [Rogue] who’d made her way close enough to where he sensed her presence and spotted her shadow—if not her body.
“She’s on her way. Tomorrow—east. Know that flat expanse beyond—fuck, this place is all desert—the one with the broken spires?”
“The training ground? Yes.”
“Well, she’ll be in the flat part of it. Right up where it turns into Zeikhal’s dunes. It’s not a trap. Uh—it’s not.”
Orjin just stared as the figure tried to backpedal away.
“Honest! Take your other masters. Take the Empress or that fucking Golem. She knows they won’t interfere. It’s you versus her. It’s not a trap. It’s not like we can hide ten thousand [Bandits] in this asscrack of a desert. Showdown. Got it?”
Orjin nodded.
“I will be there.”
He turned away, and the [Rogue] shouted at his back.
“You will? Because she’ll be there, and it’s my head on the line if you don’t come! Seriously—show up! Not a trap! She’ll keep sending [Assassins] if you refuse to take her challenge! She’ll win, too! She’s got tons of water magic! Bets are 3:1 on her! So, uh…I’d send someone else if I were you!”
 
——
 
Only Savere’s Siren would place bets on a duel. And only she would be so confident in her combat abilities as to duel the Strongest of Pomle. Who else would dare?
Yisame? Even Nsiia knew the dangers of fighting someone like Orjin. The King of Destruction? Raelt of Jecrass? Fetohep—
Okay, maybe a lot of [Rulers] had the ego. But the truth was that when Xil finished his third flight above the location, he landed with a gigantic frown.
“I think it’s not a trap. At least, I can’t see anyone hiding there. Which means she probably has a teleportation spell ready to send them in.”
“She’d only be able to do a hundred even if she’s using a lot of money. She’s no Archmage. Odd. I don’t see any troop movements besides her bodyguard. Mind you—there’s two thousand of them on horseback. Her best—and I am not using quotation marks.”
Salii shaded her eyes with her clipboard, and the two turned to Orjin. The Strongest exhaled.
“So this is a proper duel.”
“No. It’s a trap.”
Both Xil and Salii instantly chorused. When Orjin raised his brows, they clarified.
“It’s just one we can’t see. Maybe the Siren thinks she can defeat you. The other masters couldn’t get close.”
“I beat her on the battlefield the first time.”
Salii bet the Siren did not appreciate that and it was one of the reasons why she wanted a rematch. She sucked in her cheeks and peered over the ridgeline down into the dueling area.
“Yes…but this time she’s ready. Orjin—aside from the trap we know she has—she’s really ready for you.”
The Strongest looked up. He had his spear and the sack of shot puts. The Siren?
 
——
 
Two Water Elementals were moving back and forth over the dusty ground. The Siren sat on her golden palanquin in her [Dome of Water] spell, layered several times deep. She had a floating reservoir of water around her, like a lake in the dry ground—and floating orbs of water ready to fire.
She looked like an artillery position all on her own. To Iratze, who poked his head up as Pomle’s warriors waited for the Strongest to make his move, he wondered how she would fare in a war. Could you actually even hit her with a bullet through those shields of water?
Compared to that, the Strongest really was practically unarmed. He didn’t even have armor on! Vandum was trying to get him to take some.
“Just wear this charm at least! It’s [Water Resistance]. She’ll hex you, Orjin.”
“No. If this is not a trap, I will fight her as she thinks is fair.”
“She’s using magic. She’s layers deep in enchantments—this is like a [Martial Artist] digging traps and drinking potions before a battle!”
“Nevertheless. If I best her, Savere may fall back. Vandum—you go back to Pomle. I do not trust the Siren not to attack. We are close enough that we will be able to race back if an army appears. Xil—”
“If she tries anything, I will run her through. My spear won’t be slowed by that amount of water. If she’s wise, she knows it. At sea would be different. Here? She thinks she’ll take you, though, Orjin.”
The Strongest was speaking to the others. Vandum strode back towards Pomle, not far in the distance, as he shook his head. Orjin just stared down into the bowl where the Siren waited.
Her bodyguard and the small army were jeering and calling for him. Taunting Orjin, claiming odd things they thought might rile him up about his genitalia, appearance, bravery—
He walked over the dune, and they fell silent a moment, then the raucous shouting grew louder. He just tuned it out. The Siren swiveled on her palanquin, then raised a finger—before catching herself. She beckoned, smiling.
He had thought about this. Orjin paused a moment as Pomle’s warriors, an equal force to the one that lay below, stood on the dune, waiting. They said nothing—cheered not at all for him.
Their silence made the [Bandits]’ voices falter. They kept shouting for a minute, two—and then the voices faded out awkwardly. The Siren glared—but the silence became oppressive.
Two kinds of warrior stared at each other. One feared no challenge, made no insult or jibe. Orjin began to walk down the dune, a stone in hand, unhooking the heavy bag from his belt and casting it down at his feet. He looked at all the Siren’s magic without fear.
But he thought—as he stopped there, nearly two thousand feet away from her—that for some reason hers was the purer warrior.
What a strange betrayal of Pomle. How were her [Bandits], drinking wine like they were on a picnic, sneering, laughing, who trained little if at all and fought with poison and cheated and lied better warriors than Pomle’s?
Perhaps because they were not conflicted. The Siren was not conflicted. She had come for one reason: to kill Orjin.
She raised a finger, and he nodded at her. He was ready. The Siren’s eyes were cold, and she was focused. He?
He did not want to kill. This war was meaningless to him. To her?
Two kinds of warrior. At least he was not so hidebound he expected a signal to start. When the first beam of compressed water, thin as a needle, shot towards his right eye, it would have punctured the eye and blown it into shreds.
Orjin leaned left, and it missed. The stream of water cut off in half a second, and the whining sound of it striking a dune made the others jump in surprise. But that was how much force had gone into that deadly [Water Jet].
The Siren fired another jet and another with her finger, pulses of water at his chest—then his groin. Orjin twisted out of the way of another, then stepped left. Two misses.
“I meant what I said, Strongest! A fair duel! Fair as it can be with your grimy fists versus my magic. You’d do well to surrender!”
Revine Zecrew shouted, half-rising from her palanquin. For reply—Orjin threw a rock at her.
In fairness, he twisted, spinning his body to add centrifugal force and heaved it, not tossed it with only the muscles in his arm. Revine flinched as the stone hit the first barrier of water and cracked.
