In the end, Song abandoned the mystery of the "military road" to think about a serious and urgent matter.At this time tomorrow, its 10,000 convoys will arrive at the gates of Central Castle, where they will wait for the true test and pain of this trip. Since Mila is still fascinated by Insight Mist at midnight, Song leaves her irresponsibly, for whatever reason, because they may be forced to fight or flee at any time, and Mila needs someone to guide her. More importantly, Rennes pointed out a few days ago that Song was abducted not only because her parents would do everything possible to protect her. If he falls on Rain's enemies, they can use him to help him track, while swearing that he is always within three miles. Although her vote won't magically tell her where he is, they will force her to find him no matter how much it costs, which means that if they tell her Rain is in Bekhai village, she has no choice but to guide him. The captors passed it. . The fog on the mountain roads confirmed them.Therefore, if a rebellion occurs, it can be denied that it is one of the largest defensive fortresses in the North Sea.Despite knowing the risks, Rain cautiously warned her not to force her to stay with him and let Song move freely anytime, anywhere. Although overall he is happy to be with Mila, Song now considers the happiness of others: the shy and distant weasel is eager to be friends with friends. First, you should not release Dr. Sundunk unless you check his health first. Obviously, the creature has been injured, otherwise it would be easy to get rid of the shackles and use its power and ability to kill the hunter. Due to his awkward gait and apparent ignorance of the surrounding land, he feared that he would starve to death sooner or later and entered the farm to kill him. That's why she left the food to the beasts first, and although she felt wasteful and beautiful for the first time, she still left a bucket of expensive fresh meat in the middle of the field, and it was worth it. . When he returned later that night, a unique weasel paw print was found around the empty barrel.Unauthorized duplication: this narrative has been taken without consent. Report sightings.This day began two new rituals, leaving the castle each morning and afternoon to feed those cautious beasts. Although he tried to stay and see if they found him, gaining the Weasel's trust was not easy, and the clue was the only evidence that had existed since he released him a few days ago. The day they left for Central Castle, she woke up before the sun rose and left, leaving some meat in the northern castle and even near the south. He then spent the first day throwing a few smoked deer out of the carriage window one night before going to bed, and placed a bucket of raw meat outside the camp.The next morning, he found his efforts fruitful, because when he went to sacrifice the night before, he found weasel again. This creature is smart and determined, but as its journey progresses, its perseverance makes one wonder if it is really injured, lazy or unable to hunt alone. Obviously, she followed the 50km convoy daily effortlessly, so Song didn't know what to do with this fierce and clumsy creature, but she had to feed her anyway.Unfortunately, the situation soon forced him closer, and once the weasel entered the central castle, he would no longer be able to eat. He considered hiring an unconnected person to carry the meat, but there was no way to ensure that the people he hired met his requirements. Only a fool like her can rot raw meat in the wild, and this cunning bear looks very carefully for tasteless products. The latter is mainly Song's fantasy, because he has no evidence that he has established a connection with Weasel Bears, but unless he finds a viable solution, he will never be sure.
