“Guys?”
They had [Dangersenses]. If they’d detected something—Georgie put his back to the wall, holding the pickaxe up.
“C’mon, don’t leave me—hey! Hey!”
He thought he heard the most distant of shouts from above. But his voice made the glowing eyes stop. Then they began coming faster. Georgie raised his pickaxe.
“Stay back!”
He had [Gouge Throw]. He had combat Skills—a lot of them. That’s why Ilvriss’ people had tried to recruit him three times for their soldier initiative thing. But—Georgie raised the pickaxe to throw, then pivoted.
He’d heard the slightest sound to his left, from behind him. The mineshaft ran both ways. He turned—and the long undead was curled over him. Mouth open, a tube of rotted flesh and teeth, like a walking worm, a salamander which stood on two feet, silent as the grave—glowing slits for eyes hollowed out of its flesh.
Its jaws snapped shut and sliced through the top of his mining helmet without any effort. Georgie had ducked. He swung his pickaxe, screaming, and the red tip sheared into the monster’s body, just as lethal. Then he turned his head.
A dead Drake scuttled down the corridor, moving up the wall as it raced at him. A Drake with eight limbs, like a spider, mutated and naked and jaw cracked open so it was all mouth. He screamed as the voices grew louder, driving the pickaxe into the wall.
[Miner’s Swing].
Darkness buried them all, drowning out the pickaxe’s light.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was really happy to go on vacation to Liscor. Nothing had been going on with the mining so far, and aside from three more cattle raids…each one bigger than normal…he had agreed that getting away from the Terlands’ possible Assassin-Golems with a visit to the inn would be great for morale.
His morale.
Selfishly, he knew he was leaving his work behind, but he had nearly been killed by a Golem. And frankly…
“Miss Marquin and the inn are allies worth the time investment. If anyone can bail us out of this quagmire, it’s them.”
It was a mark of how much they’d changed, the inn’s reputation, or just the desperation of the moment that none of his staff argued with him. Indeed, half were trying to find reasons they should accompany him.
This really is like the command all swanning off while everyone else is miserable. That thought drew Ilvriss up.
“…Welsca, put aside a rather generous budget for amenities to be brought back via Courier to the dig sites. Fresh food from Riverfarm too. Also, I have a few plans with that piping we had delivered. Alrric has the particulars. I’d like teams to begin work right away. I will be back the moment I’m needed.”
“Sir!”
He also resolved he wouldn’t be long. He’d ride hard, no breaks, talk with Lyonette, be back as soon as—
 
——
 
Salad.
Ilvriss sat there with a bowl of artful leaves arranged in a flower with an acidic vinaigrette coating the thick, but surprisingly edible, Elfear lettuce. Which grew from trees. Gaiil-Drome. Fresh, Noelictan tomatoes, sliced avocado from Oteslia, and of all things…
“Tuna? Why in a salad, Miss Imani?”
He was in Barehoof Kitchens. Not The Wandering Inn. Ilvriss loved the inn. Respected Lyonette greatly. He’d told her he’d arrive after lunch.
This was lunch. He’d put in a reservation ahead of time, and Imani had not disappointed him. She smiled.
“It’s not a salad in the sense you were imagining, Wall Lord. There’s actually some Oteslian soybeans and rice at the bottom. Green soybeans; not fully ripened.”
“Thank goodness. I was going to say the concept was slightly revolting…so what is this?”
“A Poke Bowl. I adapted the recipe from my homeland, and the vinaigrette is my own creation. It tingles on the tongue.”
“I find it both savory and incredibly tart. What is in it?”
He hadn’t ever had it before and was digging in with relish after so much damn meat. He liked meat. He was a Drake and more carnivorous than most Humans, but dead gods, had no one over there ever heard of roughage for the intestines? Imani’s smile grew slyer.
“Acid Flies.”
Everyone but Ilvriss began to choke on their bowl. He just chewed thoughtfully.
“You diluted the acid until it’s harmless? Astonishing.”
“It’s a recipe no one dares copy. I am, in fact, a [Chef of Otherworldly Ingredients].”
He blinked. Then narrowed his eyes, glanced around, and stood to applaud. His staff did likewise, blankly, until he spoke.
“Have I missed your Level 40 celebration, Miss Imani? May I buy you a gift?”
He had a briefcase of gems, after all. Imani put her hands on her hips, beaming, as the entire restaurant burst into applause. She took a bow.
“It’s very recent, and I didn’t do anything like fight my way through five Crypt Lords barehanded like Garry…”
“That’s Level 50.”
“Of course it is.”
She rolled her eyes. But Ilvriss truly was astonished and gratified.
Here is perhaps one of the first Earthers to achieve what Erin did. Her cooking will define Liscor, just as any high-level personage would. She has replaced the niche Erin left in part. No, exceeded Erin’s banal pizzas and hamburgers.
Acid Fly vinaigrette. It’s a damn industry if it catches on, and it tastes indescribable.
How could he even say it? He sat down and ate with a will as people congratulated Imani, and Palt came out to brag. Ilvriss saw the very industry and economics of a city flowing and turning around her.
If Zail understood war alone, Ilvriss understood this. Imani beamed at him.
“I have to thank you for announcing it, Wall Lord. I wasn’t going to have a party…”
“Nonsense. It’s advertising, and it means lesser [Chefs] come crawling to you. You make alliances, forge pacts, see who’s the enemy…”
She laughed, rueful, fiddling with her eyepatch, and Ilvriss fell silent, recalling that she had real enemies.
“I fear that’s the case. However, I have my alliance already. Timbor is a fine [Innkeeper] who knows the score. As for enemies—I have a few in other cities.”
“Not Miss Lasica and Rufelt, I trust?”
“Oh no, she and I are friends, and she knows better than to war with me. Because I have more tricks than she does.”
My oh my. Whatever happened to that shy young woman he’d heard about from Erin? Here was a fully grown adult confident in her cooking. Ilvriss beamed.
“Well, I have a gift for you—Welsca, the briefcase. And I may ask if you have any food for sale upon my return? It is rather grim out there.”
“I can vaguely smell it. And for you, Wall Lord? I can certainly pack some lunches.”
She teased him. Then she sighed.
“I’m even hoping to take on some more apprentices. Scale up my kitchens and not just teach classes. Just as soon as the elections are done.”
He stopped eating and glanced at one wall of the rather trendy restaurant with open glass windows. Despite the rains, there were people in the streets for a rally, and he coughed.
“May I take it you have a few candidates you’d care to win?”
Imani had a bunch of colorful posters placed against one wall, showing beaming Drakes and Gnolls holding thumbs up or posing. They had little slogans.
 
‘Cats trust him, and so should you! Vote for Elirr for [Councilmember]! District E2’s candidate!’
‘Honest smithing, honest leadership! Re-elect Councilmember Raekea!’
‘Korrge Silverfang needs your vote for Amentus district W1!’
‘Lord Raithland of 3rd District will fight anyone for your vote! Even Archmages!’
‘Lism expanded the city, lowered rent, and made a second army! Vote for the only way, the Lism way!’
 
…That last one really didn’t sell him. But Ilvriss did admire the image of Raekea with a hammer in hand, ‘forging’ a new law on an anvil, and the illustration of Lord Raithland fighting the two Archmages.
Democracy was so funny. He rather thought that of all the posters, though, Elirr had the best one. He was holding a scroll in one hand, surrounded by adoring cats and other animals.
There was something more relatable about that one as opposed to Lism with one foot planted over the trio of people that Ilvriss assumed were his opponents in the race, holding a Liscorian flag.
He coughed.
“Er, how are the elections going?”
“Lyonette’s not said? I suppose she feels like she’s out of it. Between you and me, it’s been months of smear campaigns, candidates running on anti-Human, anti-Antinium, or just anti-current Council campaigns. Lots of old councilmembers…money from the Walled Cities…you wouldn’t know about that, would you?”
The [Chef] shot Ilvriss a pointed look, and he squirmed.
“I don’t actually know if Salazsar backed anyone…I suspect we might have, but Pallass and Manus were probably the two major donors.”
“It sounds like it. It’s a close race. The Council should have never allowed a snap election, but the city is growing, and so there are way more seats up for grabs. It’ll be a council of thirteen, now.”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“Which…district do you vote for? Forgive me, I don’t know these ‘elections’.”
Imani sighed.
“Elirr’s, thank goodness. I don’t think he’ll lose. For one thing, no one’s eating at my restaurant who votes against him!”
“Is that all legal with your democracy nons—er, protocols?”
She beamed at him.
“It is when I’m the [Chef]! But not all of the current Council might survive their challengers.”
She grew worried again, and Ilvriss drummed his fingers on the table. As far as he understood it, the current Council was rather good at adapting to Liscor. If a less-helpful majority took over…well, it wasn’t his city, but he had a lot of interests here.
“If I thought it would help, I’d weigh in, but I don’t think my presence here has much power anymore.”
“You don’t need to do anything, Wall Lord. But the person who could tip scales won’t even answer the Council’s calls. Maybe it’s for the best.”
Imani was shaking her head, and Ilvriss agreed. He glanced at a crowd chanting outside.
“No more chaos! No more madness! No-tress for Councilmember!”
He winced at the rhyming. Imani nodded outside.
“That’s Lism’s challenger. He sounds fairly reasonable, but he’s very anti-Free Hive. And if you listen closely, anti-Human immigration. He wants to stop paying anyone over Level 30 a fee for working here and put a charge on new residents.”
“That sounds like it would be disastrous for the city’s growth.”
“Well, he has a lot of supporters. Plenty of people don’t like the rent being controlled or the new visitors. And the old Council had a lot of Guildmasters and money.”
Ilvriss hmmed. By rights, he should be supporting the old guard, but if it was like his father…
“One would assume the average Liscorian sees the way the city has changed and feel it’s for the better.”
Imani gave him a dark look.
“Some still hate the inn, the Antinium, the Humans, us letting in Goblins, or—it just takes one hangup and they’re against the current Council. I think they’re listening to rumors or seeing that greener grass on the other side.”
“Fair enough. This is why I dislike elections.”
“As opposed to Wall Lords who’re passed down via bloodlines?”
She smiled sweetly at him, and he decided with his newfound wisdom not to engage in political discussions. Ilvriss coughed.
“I can’t blame Lyonette for abstaining either. Though if she hasn’t visited the city, she is missing out! All respect to Calescent, but this is far better cooking than the inn fields.”
“I know. Calescent serves more, weirder clients, but I think Lyonette believes we’re still on equal footing.”
Another self-satisfied smile. Ilvriss chuckled.
“I actually told her I was coming after lunch. Heheheh. All due respect to her; I’m sure she would have served me some food she thought of as delightful Calanferian cooking! And I grant you, she has a decent palate, but I have noticed her menu’s ‘elegant’ dishes are rather banal, unlike your cutting edge dishes, Miss Imani.”
He was, perhaps, a bit too relaxed. A bit too happy to be here. Imani hesitated, and a very saccharine voice spoke from behind Ilvriss.
“Oh my, I’m so terribly sorry, Wall Lord. I’ll have Calescent dispose of our banal cooking at once.”
He froze, mouth full of delightfully seasoned tuna as Lyonette du Marquin hobbled over, and a chair was placed at the table. Welsca and the aides all picked up their bowls and vanished. Ilvriss coughed.
“That was just a joke, Lyonette. Er—”
She beamed at him.
 
——
 
Lyonette wasn’t that mad, really. Ilvriss clearly thought she was, but she admitted Imani’s new dish and Acid Fly vinaigrette were superb. He didn’t need to keep leaning away from her or watching her feet. She wasn’t going to kick him.
“So, Ilvriss, you haven’t been murdered yet.”
“Thank you for—oh, no Golems. My father sent reinforcements, and we’re now on-guard, so I have confidence in my security. Some. I truly would like help with the [Ranchers], though. Miss Colfa’s advice would be splendid.”
Lyonette blinked. She turned to Colfa, who was enjoying a Poke Bowl.
“The Lischelles? Really?”
Nerul had said, but—Ilvriss heaved a sigh.
“The Terlands might try to kill me, but they don’t slow down everything with a brawl that leaves a hundred too injured to work, Lyonette! Plus, the damn cattle raids…we rather botched the cookout, didn’t we, Miss Colfa?”
The Vampiress shrugged and patted her mouth with a napkin.
“This is most excellent, Miss Imani. As to the cookout—it ain’t like it’d have gone better.”
She switched from her elegant speech to the Lischelles’ accent so fast Lyonette blinked. Colfa leaned over the table.
“Marvus and Aronia are stubborn as goats, and my sister’s more stubborn than he is. I never expected Diplomat Nerul to sway them; the fact that he put my sister on the back foot in her own turf is amazing. You gave them things to think about; Lyonette getting slapped and you being willing to try the Highstepper gave you some points.”
“How is my injury a boon?”
Lyonette grumbled, and Colfa flashed a smile at her.
“Because she didn’t know you were cracked, Lyonette. It’s one thing for Aronia to knock another woman out cold for three days and nights. But hitting a mother who’s poor-of-health? That’s embarrassin’. Not like it’ll stop Marvus, though.”
“Can we convince them, Miss Colfa, or is it a lost cause? My father wanted to fight them hand-to-hand.”
The woman tapped her lips.
“You know, it wouldn’t be the worst idea. You have to hit Marvus before he’ll back up; he’s like his bulls.”
“Hold on, hold on—”
Ilvriss was dismayed and said so. He hadn’t wanted to escalate, and that was just what Zail wanted! Colfa clarified.
