The old ways. Ilvriss had trotted out that tired saying, but only now did it occur to him that the old ways were definitely not always the best. The old ways had been war with the Humans before the Antinium had arrived.
Zail was those old ways. Ilvriss knew his father as the tired, grumpy Drake paranoid with loyalty to Salazsar, a divot taken out of his head, covered in war wounds, needing help to walk around, at times confused, at times just…empty.
The Drake who strode off the Wyvern and limped over still was old, still felt his wounds, but he walked like a soldier, and he had a single-edged sword on his hip that made the mind tingle to gaze at it.
Swordmaster of Salazsar. A title that Ilvriss had never acquired, despite his hard work. When Zail saluted Ilvriss’ command, for all he was shorter than Ilvriss, the younger Drake felt like he was still in Zail’s shadow.
It stung in a way Ilvriss had forgotten. Worse, Zail’s return wasn’t just in his bearing. He’d flown in on Wyvernback, amazingly fast. And he’d brought nearly two hundred [Soldiers] who were disembarking in good order.
“House Gemscale’s retinue. They’ll add to your security, Ilvriss. Where are your patrols? I heard you were being raided by [Ranchers].”
“Father, thank you for coming. Patrols? We have some regularly. These are our people?”
They didn’t have two hundred [Soldiers] in their personal staff, unless these were promoted [Mine Sentries]. Zail glanced up at the sky, the flat dung-infested plains, and at a group of Drakes and Gnolls marching slowly around the perimeter of Dig Site B.
“No fliers? No sentry towers? A Golem will punch through one in a second or ram through unless it has a six-layer [Earth Wall] spell. You, you. Start digging. The trench should be equally deep as it is tall.”
He gave orders, and Ilvriss’ heart sank, partly because…that was a sensible decision.
“Father, my people have security in hand—”
Zail ignored that.
“You’ve never fought Terlands. You didn’t bring Oldbloods? I’ll add more to our retinue when I get back. There are less than I’d like…”
“So these are our people? Are they new?”
Zail was striding along, and Ilvriss had to hurry to keep up. He didn’t like this, but Zail looked alive. Even happy.
“I’m employing them. That’s how we did it. Not just the Gemstone Regiments; we need our own trained people. I brought some of your fancy ‘special forces’ you initiated. They’re not bad.”
He must mean the anti-Az’kerash forces! Ilvriss saw some rather well-equipped soldiers milling about in a separate group. Who’d arranged that? He’d take them, but—he was growling at Zail now.
“Father, I’m not here to fight a war.”
“Maybe not, but you’d better be prepared for one! They nearly killed you, Ilvriss!”
Zail spun and jabbed Ilvriss in the chest with a claw. He was angry, Ilvriss realized to his gratification. Zail peered around, motioned everyone back, then lowered his voice.
“I saw that thing going after you. We all did. You did well escaping one, son. Plenty of comrades haven’t.”
He awkwardly put a claw on Ilvriss’ shoulder. Both men stared at it, and Zail took his claw back, clearing his throat.
“Everyone was watching. We didn’t spread news of the attack, since we don’t need a war, but believe me, it shook everyone. Your friends, other Wall Lords—even Calistoca stopped sniping with Itreus long enough to fall in line.”
“They all saw it?”
They all saw Ilvriss running for his life while good people fought and died? Ilvriss’ heart sank, but Zail was smiling encouragingly, and there it was again. We are not on the same tier of spellcasting.
“We showed the image around. Told people—quietly, son. Everyone cares. It’s galvanized support. We’ll pay the Terlands back for this, don’t you worry. Eschowar has a plan—”
“No!”
Ilvriss shouted. Zail recoiled as heads turned, but the Wall Lord took his father by the shoulders.
“Father, no! No Eschowar, no retaliation!”
“Ilvriss, lower your voice! They nearly killed—”
“I’m in their lands, Father. I might disagree with the damn Terlands and Lischelles and every idiot here, but if they kill me, we cannot go to war! Nor should Eschowar continue his stupid campaigns against Humans!”
“They sent a Hunter-Killer against you! They’ve killed—”
Zail’s eyes narrowed, and he began getting angry. Which was how Ilvriss often remembered him. But Ilvriss was just as angry. He only lost his temper like this with his father. The one man he couldn’t outrank, really.
“I’ve seen how this goes, Father! We have to ‘pay them back’, then we do something to them, they reply, and it escalates! Even if it’s not this year, we just build up bad blood until we can’t even go past Liscor without trying to assassinate each other! Look around: this is the result of our damn wars! There’s no point. We have real enemies to fight!”
“…You mean the Antinium.”
Zail had gone from angry to outraged to quiet. He eyed Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord thought a name.
Az’kerash.
But he could not say it here, so he gritted his teeth.
“And more. The Humans are not our foes here.”
“Plenty of times that’s been said only for them to stab us in the back at the right moment when we let our guards down.”
“And once, we were about to be overrun and Magnolia Reinhart came from behind us and bailed us out of annihilation!”
Ilvriss snapped. He’d never argued like this with Zail, and the older man recoiled.
“You sound like Navine. What’s gotten into you? Is it this…[Princess] you’ve been associating with?”
“It’s not the [Princess], it’s sense, Father. Listen to me. If Eschowar wants to respond to the Terlands, stop him. If they do something to me, don’t respond. We have bigger wars to win.”
Zail was staring at his son like he was a disappointment, a traitor, and a stranger. All the things Ilvriss feared, but the Wall Lord didn’t look away. Zail whispered.
“If they kill you, you want me to do nothing?”
“I hope it won’t come to that. Nor do I exactly want to go unavenged, but I need you to see the big picture, Father. That’s what you always told me.”
“A bigger picture than the North?”
“Yes. What did you think the Winter Solstice was about, Father? The Goblin King’s return?”
“So it’s the [Innkeeper] you care about. Her wars.”
Zail glanced away, now disappointed. Ilvriss wanted to punch him. He couldn’t, because the old man was probably still fragile, even if he appeared as tough as teak right now. Ilvriss tried to shake Zail, and the other Drake grabbed his hands. Forced Ilvriss’ claws off him.
He was way stronger than—Ilvriss swallowed because he just realized Zail was stronger than him. For all his age and wounds that had laid him lower, the Wall Lord’s eyes narrowed.
“You told me when you left that you had to do this alone. For Salazsar, Ilvriss. I…trusted you. I still do. But everything I remember about the north applies to them. Ulva Terland’s warred with us. She’ll never relent. How are you going to survive without fighting a war?”
Ilvriss didn’t know, and he said so. He stepped back.
“I’ll try to change their minds, Father.”
“Like Nerul?”
Zail sneered, and Ilvriss just gazed at him until the older Drake hesitated and grew uncertain. Ilvriss shook his head.
“That’s unworthy of you, Father. Yes, like Nerul, but also like Zel Shivertail. I’m no Tidebreaker. But I don’t think he was a fool. I have to try. General Sserys trusted me with locations. This is one of them.”
He’d been saving that trump card, and Zail went still. He hadn’t seen the ghosts, but Ilvriss had. Even now, that felt like a dream. Erin’s face being worn by a dead hero, whispering to him places to dig.
A silence arose, then, from Zail and the eavesdroppers. To that, Zail had no reply. He glanced around, then kicked at a dried piece of cow dung in the grass. After a while, he heaved a sigh.
“If you’re still set on doing this, you need more security, which I’ve brought. I’ll make some recommendations to your people. Just…don’t get yourself killed.”
That was, Ilvriss supposed, the best he could hope for. He nodded at his father and realized the times were changing. He just wished he were certain they were for the better. Old Drakes.
Old ways, some which Ilvriss thought were misguided. And sometimes…they hurt to see because they reminded you what you had to live up to and might never achieve. They said the young should surpass the old, but what if you stood in the shadow of legends?
In that one way, Ilvriss supposed he and Iradoren, the [Prince of Men], had been slightly alike.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail didn’t like how his fight with his son had gone. His certainty had become uncertainty, both in his son’s decisions…but also in what he thought was right. That was weakness, of course. Indecision was death on the battlefield. But he had always found it harder to deal with…other people than a war.
He knew war. His son had seen battlefields, fighting for Salazsar. But he had not fought even a hundredth as many battles as Zail. One was a [Lord of Commerce], even if Zail didn’t know his son’s exact class.
He had been a [Lord of the Battlefield] when he was younger. So, all his anxieties, confusion, indecisiveness vanished.
Wall Lord Zail drew his sword. The sword he carried had only a single edge. It was not Drathian, but a Drake’s design. Older than he was. The hilt was curved differently than Human blades, with deeper grooves and a wider base that a Human would have found hard to grip; perfect for a Drake to avoid their claws digging into each other.
Truegold hilt. 10% Mithril-composite Gaam-steel, fullered down the blade, with faded gem-patterns around the hilt. The reverse side was flat; a weakness, some called it, but a blade should cut true. There was only one place where it was not flat; the tip had a flared edge moving away from the cutting edge.
Spikes, shaped like flames, so if Zail needed to, he could reverse the slash and drive in the reverse edge into unguarded flesh. The curved spikes left wounds that didn’t close right and could hook an opponent’s weapon.
A sword of Salazsar’s sons. He’d once offered it to Ilvriss, but the boy hadn’t known how to use a single-edged sword. He was not a Swordmaster of Salazsar.
Zail carried no golden bell. He was not a [Fencer] or [Duelist]. He just had a single tag that hung from his belt since the pommel of the blade might catch. It was a sword of gems cracking the side of a mountain. The kind of seal that, if you were his audience, you might recognize.
But from where? You’d stare at the little seal as Zail lifted his sword and realize you’d seen it just once before. On the blade a [Sword Legend], a Revenant undead, had carried.
Then, you might understand what that meant. Perhaps Ilvriss himself did; Zail hadn’t been well enough to wield that sword in decades. The Wall Lord gripped his blade two-handed and swung. A horizontal cut, almost lazy in speed, but precise. He angled his body, stepping to the side, slashing up and backstepping.
A strange pattern. His first cut, across the oversized training dummy’s chest, was light, but when Zail sliced up, he came across the outside of the ‘Golem’s’ arm. He used that blow to push off with his sword, backstepping and pushing himself away in a single motion. He turned, his tail moving in the grass, and delivered a third whirling slash to the back of its leg.
He strode away from the training dummy, sauntering as he sheathed his sword, taking his scabbard from his belt and sheathing it horizontally. Then he addressed the watchers.
“That’s how you fight a Golem. One sword form, at least. Do that.”
Do…that? He nodded at some [Soldiers] to practice the move. Ilvriss was watching and blinking.
“There are anti-Golem sword techniques?”
“Of course there are. You weren’t ever taught any in your fancy sword school training?”
Zail frowned at Ilvriss. The younger man hesitated.
“Some, but that was an odd move. You used the second slash to propel yourself off the Golem’s arm. So you’re expecting it to attack like that?”
“Any limb will do. The most dangerous place to fight a Golem is head-on. Or to try and surround it; any decent one will tear apart a formation. You have to close with it. Keep moving around it. Strike the joints. Spear-formations won’t work.”
Well, they’d work, but the front ranks would be minced. A dozen Drakes with blades and courage could do the job of two hundred rank-and-file soldiers. Zail eyed Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord hesitated.
Zail had never had the chance to teach his son swordsmanship. His condition had deteriorated by the time Ilvriss was old enough to really want to learn. But now, the Wall Lord drew his own sword.
“I’ll try it.”
It took him eight tries to figure out the exact move to push off the Golem’s limb, and his ability to spin and slash was almost nonexistent. Zail snorted, trying not to be—
“You don’t do any twists or spins in battle?”
“Never expose your back to the enemy, Father. That’s what I was taught. Besides, the spins are too fast! How can you control yourself?”
“Pah. That’s what your tail is for!”
“My—ah.”
He didn’t use his tail! Humans might have trouble with these techniques, but your tail was an anchor and balance for this kind of move. Zail watched, shaking his head. But the second time Ilvriss managed a decent copy of Zail’s move, the old Wall Lord wished…
He wished he’d had this Skill to reclaim his strength decades ago. He watched for a while. Then he and Ilvriss retired to let other soldiers try the moves. They snacked on some things Ilvriss called ‘hot dogs’, which Zail worried about until he was told they were beef.
“You’re not bad. I suppose you really have been training.”
“Thank you, Father. I’m glad I meet with your approval. I won’t be a Swordmaster of Salazsar, though, no matter what I do.”
Ilvriss’ voice was dry, and Zail rolled his shoulders uncomfortably.
“That wasn’t an insult. You could be, if you took the time—”
“I don’t have your head for battles. I’m…decent. Decent at battle. Better at business. An all-rounder.”
“Well, you managed House Gemscale more adeptly than I could.”
“Thank you.”
This was one of the more positive conversations they’d ever had. It beat sitting in their apartments arguing. After a moment, Zail coughed.
“Look, Ilvriss. I understand you don’t want to escalate, but if you don’t reply, it’s weakness. They’ll keep coming at you. Bullies never stop. I taught you to fight back.”
Ilvriss sighed.
“You taught me to beat them down to protect Brilm, and I did, Father. That works on bullies and because it was just them. This is the north. It’s not the same.”
