Ilvriss is going to have to go back to his dig site eventually. If they can’t find him, they’ll kill all his officers. I really doubt the Order of Solstice is going to do bodyguard stuff. Good luck, Mom. I don’t have a vision of the future to help you with, aside from maybe learning to dance that cool Highstepper thing. Wish I’d seen that. Oh, and using your Skills and stuff.
Lyonette turned red as Nanette giggled, and she was reminded of the most personal failure of all. Failing to do that dance! Ilvriss had struggled, naturally, and it had been a trap, but she was Calanferian royalty. She felt like she could have done it if not for…her condition. She sat there, sour.
“Did you do your homework? Have a lovely day, sweetie.”
Mrsha gave her a smug thumbs up and went out of the inn. And Lyonette sat there in the rainy Floodplains with a far more rapidly-changing, urgent world beyond sleepy Liscor. She sighed as she pushed herself up, wincing at the effort it took, and walked over to one of the windows. She opened it to stare moodily at the rainy landscape.
Between the undead and Bush Shamblers…they wouldn’t slow a Hunter-Killer Golem for more than a minute combined. But the inn being invisible is our greatest asset. And Bird, Elia, Todi, and Earlia could all be good defense. I can’t make Tessa fight. Vaulont is a good anti-[Assassin]…
Liscor, so quiet and unchanging now. Like her hidden inn—
The light shone into Lyonette’s blue eyes. Yelroan leaned forwards, and the light caught his sunglasses and blinded Lyonette twice.
“My eyes! Yelroan, stop that, your damn glasses—what the—what is that?”
At first, Lyonette thought the sun had parted the clouds. Liscor’s spring rains ended at last. But while the rains were lessening, that wasn’t what made Yelroan lower his sunglasses.
“I was going to ask, Lyonette, but I heard we might be at war with the north. Hexel’s been annoyed all week.”
“Hexel? Our lovely [Architect]? About what?”
He wasn’t even living here anymore; he and his assistants had built homes for themselves and moved into the city. But he was working on the—Yelroan pointed up as Nanette craned her head around the table, and Dame Ushar half-turned from speaking into a stone.
“The inn? He wants to know if he has to finish the whole thing before you move in.”
The [Princess]’ neck craned back. Then she had to lean out the window—before walking to another one. But she didn’t have a great view of…
“Where is that coming from? Is that—”
She climbed the stairs to the second floor, and there she had a better view, but she still had to crane her neck back and bend down—so she climbed onto the third floor with Nanette, Yelroan, and Ushar all following. Then Lyonette decided just to climb up into—
Bird’s tower. The emerald Antinium was snoozing as she held a fishing pole with an extraordinarily long line that was anchored to several spots and ran into the waters below. Bird leapt up and fanned her wings as Lyonette rushed to the side of the tower.
“I was just experimenting! I’m allowed to f—Lyonette, why are you here? Without even knocking? Do you think this is the alleged free real estate Kevin keeps talking about? Shoo, shoo!”
“Bird, I just need to see—Eternal Throne!”
And there it was. Bird peered in the direction that Lyonette was looking.
“The new inn? Yes, it has been there for months. I can see how it astonishes you, if you were blind.”
“But it’s—it’s—it’s finished! At least some rooms are! And that’s Hexel! Look!”
Directly across from them, no, even a bit higher up, Lyonette saw the Lamia. His tail was coiled in a neat bun, and he stood behind a layer of nigh-perfect glass; only the raindrops bouncing off the surface told her it was there.
He had a coffee cup and breakfast croissant in either hand. And he was watching her. Perhaps—smirking. Lyonette goggled. She gaped. She flabbergasted as Nanette clapped one hand to her mouth, giggling, and Dame Ushar smiled. Bird tried to shove Yelroan back down the stairs.
“Out of my tower! This is not public property! Only Nanette is allowed up here! It’s not my fishing pole, I don’t know how it got up here!”
“But what is—”
Bird nearly shoved Lyonette over the edge of her tower and down the roof, and Lyonette decided to get a better vantage point elsewhere. But it meant she had to walk down all the stairs, go through the trapped hallway, and leave the inn itself to see.
 
——
 
The new inn. Drevish’s posthumous work and the place that would replace the current inn, a masterpiece in every way. It wasn’t done, naturally. It had been an ambitious, hugely expensive project that Lyonette had only funded with Erin’s [Box of Incontinuity].
Hexel Quithail, the Lamia from Baleros, had sourced countless workers for the project, both Antinium and Rheirgest’s undead. He’d paid for magical materials from around the world and had to work in the rain and use weatherproofing spells to lay foundations on the hill. Lyonette had grown used to the construction site outside her inn—it transpired that the half-destroyed common room had the best views once she de-activated the illusion spells.
The new inn was not connected to the old inn. It was being built a stone’s throw away on the same hill, but Hexel had said even the foundations needed to be new for Drevish’s designs, and he didn’t want any of the inn’s regular chaos. So the worksite had been months of progress.
Lyonette had seen it going up day-by-day, with [Necromancers] and Antinium and Hexel’s people, but it had faded into the back of her mind. Especially since you didn’t have a good view from the windows in the rain, and everyone used the portal door unless they were going out across the water-islands. Who went outside except to use the outhouses—which were now moved and had their own covered walkways for the rain—anyways?
Yet there it stood. A wall of gentle oakwood, varnished darker and given the texture of an older building, a plain color, rose from neat, stone foundations. Just plain grey stone, the color of Rock Crab shells forming the base of the building that stretched right and left as far as her eyes could see.
A fake cladding that concealed the real wall, of course. Mere wood cladding over far harder, enchanted stone in a double-layer exterior wall with solidified magicore forming an interior insulating sealant. But it looked like what it should be.
An inn. Only, it stood over The Wandering Inn of the current day like an adult next to a child. One…wall of it.
It’s just a wall, Mom. Just walk right or left and you can see it’s not done.
To be precise, the southern wall of the new inn was somewhat up. Three floors, to be precise, on top of the foundations. The rest of the inn was indeed still just under construction, Antinium hammering new beams into place, pouring magicore into funnels—all under a huge bubble spell to keep the rain out—and measuring things.
Constantly measuring and consulting huge blueprints tacked up to boards. A trio of [Necromancers] were gesturing at one room in progress—magicore blocks arranged like bricks to form a wall—and clearly unhappy. One pointed, the other two argued, then they ran over, and the undead began disassembling this section of wall and moved it exactly one foot to the left.
Clearly, the blueprints Drevish had drawn were insanely complex. But Lyonette didn’t understand.
“Why the wall? Why is Hexel starting from one side?”
Surely, he’d do all the first floor, well, first. Then the second floor? Nanette shook her head knowingly.
“The new inn is like a jigsaw puzzle, Miss Lyonette. Each room fits together; you could build in the center and work your way out, and so long as you’re on-specification, it would all work right! Master Hexel took personal charge of the southern wall because different groups are assigned to each room. Plus, he wanted a place to take breaks in.”
That explained why the wall and rooms there were built up. But the [Princess] still had to run her eyes along the new inn’s exterior.
If this is what it was going to be…it made the Adventurer’s Haven appear quaint.
The first thing that caught the eye, what had dazzled Lyonette, were the windows. These weren’t the kind of windows you got in Liscor.
Most windows were, by necessity, a square design, usually with individual panes held in place by a metal guard. The four-square window with iron bars forming a cross was a standard in most homes—you got bigger sheets of glass for extravagant storefronts, but glass was expensive.
These windows? Massive, polished, and crystal. If Lyonette recalled right—quadruple paned. From Ailendamus’ artisans. So wide they revealed the interiors of each room splendidly, even if she couldn’t see all the way inside from below.
Polished crystal framed by brass. No iron in the entire building, not from the nails to the struts. The windows were like eyes, reflecting the true heart of the inn, hidden behind this humble-ish exterior.
She knew the design. When you passed through one of the secured entrances, you would enter a security checkpoint, and then the real inn should begin. A common room for main access, of course. Walk-in kitchen, and a courtyard in the center. Hallways leading to separate rooms. The gymnasium, rec room, multiple stories of guest rooms, a huge basement, a stable built into one side, interior well, plumbing in the toilets and bathrooms, secret escape routes…
She had gone over the designs many times. Even seen Hexel bring them to life with his Skill. But this was the first time Lyonette had ever seen the inn…as it was.
There were three finished rooms, each on a different floor of the inn. The third floor, where Hexel stood, had a floor-to-ceiling window along the southern wall. A way to overlook the Floodplains of Liscor and bring life and light to the interior. You could walk up to it and see everything, unimpeded, and vice versa. Lyonette had a perfect view into…a lounge?
Lyonette could see, in the golden light filtering down through that window, a big common room. But not like the current inn, with its almost all-wood design, exposed rafters, and plain wood tables. She swore she saw bright, soft white marble tiles, a corner counter with bar stools set against the window to let someone sip coffee and stare out across the Floodplains.
Someone like…Asgra. The Cave Goblin was snacking on a donut and drinking coffee blearily, checking a clock built into the wall and clearly counting down the minutes before she got to work. She sat on a high padded stool and glanced around. Saw Lyonette staring up at her from the inn.
Paused…then pointed at the clock on one wall and kept eating. Not my shift, don’t bug me unless it’s a crisis. And I expect to be paid overtime.
“Is…is that the breakfast nook?”
“What, that? Yah, it very nice. We eat breakfast there all the time. You didn’t know it got done?”
Peggy passed by Lyonette. The [Princess] half-turned, but then kept staring upwards. At Hexel. He was sipping coffee as well. And from the way he and Asgra looked so at home, it was clear the two were used to taking breakfast here.
A blue glow from further down distracted Lyonette, and she switched her attention to the first floor instead of the third. One window was emitting light, but unlike the yellow [Light] spells from the breakfast nook, Lyonette saw, in another window themed like a porthole…she squinted, then saw a weird plant, an anemone with long, tendrilly pink arms, slowly moving from left to right. Then a fish swam past it.
“…Is that the aquarium?”
Peggy shrugged.
“Eh…yep.”
“It’s not supposed to have a window! It’s for all the damn fish in Erin’s [Gardens] and—”
“Hexel said he thought it very cool to stare at. So he put window in. Also, he said having fresh fish is very important. Drevish not know everything since he a dry Chandrarian. It sort of hard to see into the second floor. Hold on, let me turn on the lights.”
Peggy went striding into the rain. The second floor was indeed un-illuminated, and Lyonette had been squinting into the much more formal, arched windows that were purely Terandrian to her. The second floor was far larger than the first floor or third floor, incidentally. At least, this room was; it dominated the wall. The aquarium-room was just one room on the first floor, meant to store fish. The breakfast nook might fit, what, sixty people at max occupancy?
Both were fractions of the sprawling second floor, but what was on…then a pale white glow shone through the windows. Lyonette stood on her tiptoes, cursed, and then snapped.
“Chair!”
A resigned Ser Dalimont produced her chair, and she stood on that. That gave Lyonette just enough vantage to see a column on the inside of the 2nd floor windows. A glimpse of some familiar smoothed stone on the far end of the vast space, and her eyes went round in delight. Of course, this has to be only one thing!
“Oh, the ballroom!”
It wasn’t a full ballroom, as much as she’d tried to get Erin and Hexel to go for it, but it was one of the classiest parts of the inn. She’d sold it to Erin as a place where the [Innkeeper] and Ulvama could dance. But it would also have some duality for classy tea parties and, Lyonette recalled from the blueprints, it would have a splendid path from the dining rooms up to it via some gentle ramps that made it less Centaur un-friendly.
For the new inn was no box. Hexel hated boxed structures. The inn was a multi-floor compound, just like how Liscor’s 3rd District had changed the very square-shape design of the city and given it a bit of flair. Antinium and skeletons were hard at work building on top of the ballroom, and the inn…
The inn was functional. Lyonette’s eyes roamed back up to the third floor, and the light that shone from the windows was gold. Magical. Bright, unlike her inn lit only by a few [Light] spells, the fireplace, and some lanterns.
Modern. As close to the Eternal Throne as she’d seen. Only one place could be brighter, and that was the [Gardens of Sanctuary] when they were open.
There was space for them in this inn too. Above her, gazing down at her, was the [Architect] behind it all.
Hexel was finishing his croissant. He gave Lyonette an arch, self-satisfied look as he lorded down over the [Princess] in his great work, master of his domain. She stood in her silly, half-destroyed inn on her chair as he turned grandly, and Asgra groaned as she hopped off her seat to punch in for work for the day.
Peggy nudged Lyonette.
“He been doing that all week. Just in case you saw. He be really happy you finally noticed. We moving in yet?”
