“Strange times. These are such strange times. Who could ride an army at that many monsters and not lose ten times the number of soldiers? That’s how many troops you need to kill a Draugr on a good day.”
“Maviola El could, that’s who. She and Fulviolo set Salazsar’s armies to flight with three thousand men. Remember that? You know who could do that? The Twin Virtues conducting the hearts of Golems.”
“Is she going to make it? Here. My handkerchief. Mind your tears. The family’s going to need someone to tell them what’s going on…”
“We should prepare a statement. So what do we send? Armies? Golems? What happens to House Terland when she’s gone? She’s the last of the old families.”
“…Hearts of stone, beat for the last of the [Ladies] of Terland. Listen, o’ carven stone, for the voice to awaken your dignity. With each articulated step…”
“…walk with us, this path designed ‘twixt flesh and stone. Till the day you guide us…”
“…Our long dance waiting for our partners to laugh and sing. Awaken, hearts of stone. Your [Lady] is passing.”
They whispered the old words, and it felt like they heard them anew now. Shivering men and women, voices falling to silence, and the inner sanctum of House Terland going still as statues. Eventually, someone murmured.
“We should be there. Let’s go.”
 
——
 
…So as great powers were unable to help, or reaching out, the fate of many things rested on the life of a woman who lay on a healing dais, heart being manually activated by a Golem projecting a magical hand over her chest.
Not quite dead.
Not alive.
Ulva Terland lay, caught in the last moment of her life. Seeing it replay over and over again. Petria’s face, a mask of betrayal as she cupped red blood in her hands.
All the guilt of her life reflected onto Ulva as her heart stopped. And she…
She could not stop seeing Petria’s face, even as she told herself it was a lie. It was true enough, and the Drake who had taken Petria’s face had read Ulva’s heart. Her guilt. She had stabbed the Matriarch of House Terland with a blade that cleaved across time and space.
Again, Ulva saw Petria staring at her. Again, her heart stopped. And she found her life replaying itself.
First waking up and peering over to see an identical face staring at hers. Thinking nothing of it for years until she realized that face wasn’t her reflection in the mirror, but another being. So similar, they.
Growing up, running around with Golems, the only ones who could keep up, wild, speaking the language only they knew because they’d made it up, best friends with—
[Twin Virtues], they called them. Petria and Ulva, in their teens, each one with a favorite Golem, fighting with the other ‘greats’ of the Five Families. Maviola El and Gresaria Wellfar, battling in the news, the established legends while Petria and Ulva were the prodigies, bickering, arguing over their future, but never fighting. How could you fight with your own heart?
—Older and trying to be the same as Petria, who was more adventurous, more inclined to being the leader. Realizing they weren’t the identical twins anymore, but different, ever-so-subtly. Crying until Petria took her hands.
“You be the shield, I’ll be the sword, deal?”
Hugging her other half and agreeing. [Twin Virtues of House Terland: Fortitude of the Unwavering]. That was Petria. And Ulva—
[Twin Virtues of House Terland: Prudence of the Heart].
Heart.
Maybe that was when it had all been laid in place. Long ago—
 
Petria’s throat slashed as the blood ran. A [Princess]’ and Wall Lord’s auras clashing with her ailing heart—
Replay her life.
 
Flirting with the same [Lord] that Petria had, because she wanted to share the same thing her sister did. Arguing about the way Petria pushed ahead and Ulva sometimes…didn’t understand. They were supposed to be twins.
Trouble in Izril. Antinium to the south, and Petria listening to a young Magnolia Reinhart demanding the support of the Five Families. Standing up with Petria to send Golems with the might of the Five Families.
Then…the Goblin King emerging in Baleros. Dreams of peace with them dying in flames. Petria Terland’s face as she announced that House Terland would fight him upon their shores. Arguing with her sister.
Battle—and falling behind. Shouting for Petria as Golems died, Golem-Hearts igniting as Goblins slew them, powerful beyond belief. Turning her head and feeling her heart plucked away. Petria’s head, held in a bloody grasp as the crimson eyes swung to her. A scream that would never end.
 
…Twelve years. The last twelve years of her life had been the hardest, emptiest, of them all. They said, now, she was the last of the greats. Old Linter Veltras was dead. The old Wellfars were passed. Maviola El was gone. Magnolia Reinhart had upstaged the old guard.
They said Ulva Terland was the last of the Five Families from the old days. They treated her like she mattered. But the last twelve years had been just despair for Ulva Terland. Days and nights of terror, waking to see Petria dead and knowing half her heart was sundered. Keeping House Terland going because someone had to.
Mourning how few remained. Watching the world change once more and being unable to find joy in it. Seeing Goblins on the news and hating them. Hating and hating…until she felt the Goblin King come again, so soon.
And cowering in her House of Stone as a braver son went to fight him. Xitegen. Xitegen, whose family had starved. Just a boy. Just a boy…now a man.
“Dead gods. What a pathetic life it became.”
Ulva Terland sat and watched her life flash by. She didn’t appear her age; mid-sixties, older than she should have been, decrepit and worn from fear. Not even that old, really. But aged with grief.
She looked younger. A hint of green in her hair, a tunic sewn by Golem-hands blowing in the wind, a younger [Lady]’s dress adjusted for riding and Golem-work. Festooned with pockets for little tools to alter a Golem with. A generous belt on her hips, a [Golem Artificer]’s friend with a multitool to open Golems up.
She hadn’t looked like that for ages. A tinkerer. An experimenter, willing to change a Golem to see if it improved them. She’d studied in Illivere, in Wistram; she was young and proud. But shy. She’d throw on a dress and hide if suitors came to call. Because she needed her other half, the brave one.
Petria Terland liked men’s clothing. Even, annoyingly, suits. She had one on now, in Terland grey, a flower made of crystal pinned to her chest. She didn’t wear it often when they needed to be ‘official’, but she stood with that oddness that separated the two. Something…Ulva hadn’t been able to read as they hit their mid-forties. A change between them.
But it was still her. Her hair was longer, and she smiled with a wan joy. Ulva turned, peering up from the reflection of her life, and her eyes filled with tears.
“Petria.”
It was just like Ulva’s daily dreams—well, nightmares. Petria didn’t seize her throat and begin to drown her in the blood of Terlands, though. So it was a gracious dream for a dying old woman. Instead, her sister sat. And she cocked her head, staring at the memories flashing before Ulva’s eyes.
“Pathetic, you said? It seems a fine life, Ulva. If too sad at the end. You didn’t do aught when I died. Just hid away.”
That stung. But as if they were both alive, Ulva averted her eyes. Mumbled when no one else in this world had ever made her mumble since Petria’s death.
“I…I just didn’t know what to do. I kept House Terland running, didn’t I?”
“You ran it like a Golem. Unceasing, unchanging. That’s what you always hated about them, and so did I. That’s not you, Ulva. Twelve years is a long time to grieve.”
“Shouldn’t I?”
Petria smiled as she brushed her hair back. She sat with Ulva in what felt like a field of stars, overlooking Izril itself.
“No. I’m glad you did. But I just wish you’d been happier.”
“I wish you hadn’t died.”
“Well…he was faster than I thought.”
That was it? Ulva half-turned her head and nearly snarled at this illusion of her sister. Then she realized this was some dream as she died, and she let the illusion have it.
“That’s all you have to say? He’s ‘faster than you thought’? You were always overconfident! Always thought you could best anyone! Well, you finally ran into him, and unlike Maviola El or Killbes Wellfar, the Goblin King had no mercy to give! You killed yourself, Terlands, and me!”
Petria’s head bowed. She fiddled with her collar, just like the real Petria, and Ulva’s heart hurt because if this was a memory, it was truer than the Drake. Dead gods—and Petria’s next words were ones Ulva had never heard nor dreamed of. But they were Petria’s.
“I did do that. I’m so sorry, Ulva. I thought I could do it. I really did. And I left you, and look. Look at what I did to you and Terland and Izril.”
Tears were falling from her eyes now. She was faster to weep, faster to anger. Ulva averted her gaze.
“It’s over now. I’ll see you soon. There shall be war with the Drakes over this.”
She didn’t feel…good about it. It would be a pointless, bloody war. Who would they appoint to head the family? She had recommendations in place, but she would have switched them to Xitegen if she’d thought to amend her will. He was what they needed. Highest-levelled. Dead gods, they’d lost so many people. And the rest were shattered, even if they’d counter-levelled back then. Traumatized by the Goblin King.
Petria seemed to agree. She shook her head.
“This is not what the world needs. Not what Terlands need. There are greater foes, Ulva. I…I heard you didn’t go to the Winter Solstice. You let that boy go. Xitegen? I barely recall him. Wasn’t he some little lad? What about his parents?”
“Dead. All starved. His home fortress starved almost to the last person. They all fed him to keep him alive. One half-dead boy sitting on his keep’s battlements when I finally broke the siege. Don’t you remember?”
Ulva blinked tears out of her eyes, remembering his staring eyes as she bent to pick him up, weeping that she had been too slow, too weak. But Petria…just gazed at her sister.
“No. I wasn’t there. Ulva…do you think you’re dreaming?”
“I know I’m dying. What else could I be?”
Petria just nodded at that.
“You are. But Ulva…you’re not dreaming me. Where do you think you are?”
Ulva Terland stared at her sister. Then she turned her head. And the sky they sat in, over Izril, became something else. She felt herself floating high over the land she had lived in, and when she peeked up—she saw souls falling.
Like a rain of stars.
A lost man drifting downwards, weeping and clutching the infected arm that had been his death.
A trio, a married man and wife, young, and an older brother, explorers to the New Lands, still waving at a Gnoll who had saved them. Falling downwards, holding each other.
Naught but a babe ceasing its final wails and opening its eyes as a peace took it from the brief, painful world it had known.
An old man catching a child in his arms and carrying the baby downwards. Eyes opening wider, wider—
Ghosts. Not shedding their memories, their final experiences, but rather, radiating them outwards. They did not lose the memories; they were falling stars glowing with the light of their very souls. Some had been falling for months. Processing their own lives before they were ready to continue; others dropped faster, having fewer regrets, not caring to look back.
Life flashing before your eyes. It made Ulva’s own eyes sting to see.
Souls falling past her, towards…what? A copy of the world she had known? No. Ulva’s head rose, and she saw something else. There lay the Izril she had known. And beyond…
Her eyes stung. For the first time, Ulva glanced away from her sister, from the memories of her life streaming before her, and at something beyond which her mortal heart had no words for. She shaded her eyes.
“Petria. What’s that?”
Her sister turned and smiled.
“Something new. Something the woman who called herself ‘Goddess of Death’ finally remembered to grant the dead. The true promise her kind holds, which is why they are loved. What do you see, Ulva? I see gleaming gears, a land built of constructs and metal I cannot fathom. And beyond that, something not even Dragons dare comprehend. It gleams brighter than any Golem’s Heart.”
Ulva kept wiping her eyes.
“I don’t…am I dead then?”
“Yes. And no. You’re where we end up now. A new place. A better one than the old; believe me. There, we were just in holding. Prisoners and at the mercy of six gods. Now, we are free. Not all of us, but the Goddess of Death has met her end. I was one of the ones she ate. When I was freed, I waited here. For you.”
Ulva didn’t understand what any of that meant. She just reached out with both her arms.
“Then we’re together at last, Petria. And a far better ending it is! Let’s go.”
She went to embrace her twin and lost heart, and Petria hugged her. Then let go and pushed Ulva back.
“No. Not yet, Ulva.”
The gentle rejection made Ulva’s ghost stumble backwards. She tried to reach again. Crying out.
“Petria! We’ve just met and—”
Petria floated back. She spread her arms. Smiling with all the pride of the Terlands. And regrets.
“I’m dead, Ulva! I fought. In two lives. Once, I died against the Goblin King. The second time, I fought for the dignity of the dead. I lost, both times. But I stood with every Terland to ever exist. We damned the Seamwalkers and defied Death herself to the last. I am so proud of them and you. But I will not take you with me. Not yet. You’re not done. Are you?”
She pointed down at the streaming memories below Ulva, and the woman realized she wasn’t falling. She alone was not joining the rain of souls entering the lands of the dead. She hovered, borne aloft by the memories of a lifetime. And she realized, like a strange gravity, they were trying to drag her back.
To that unkind world where voices echoed.
 
“—not let her die! In the name of House Terland—!”
“—administer another 50 fraerls of Cepile Toxin. Now. And that potion, 300 fraerls. Do not argue with me, [Healer]. [Obey My Will].”
“—aunt? Great Aunt?”
 
They were calling for her. But Ulva did not want to live. She was weeping, reaching out.
“Petria? Petria, I am so tired. I have nothing to do here. I don’t love Terland enough. Not if this is what is after. Wait for me, I’ll join you. Even if—”
Petria slapped her hand down. And now she was stern, lecturing, pacing.
