“That’s it, Georgie! One more incident and I’m docking your pay!”
Dirr roared, and George swore at him, then stepped forwards to start mining. He swung his pickaxe hard and fast when he finally began mining, ripping through stone. The Drake was sweating already, but when he worked, the stone vanished. Annoyed, but seeing him working, the other Advance Miners spread out more. Dig. They didn’t have to widen the shaft much; they just had to go deep or far. That was the job.
Go first, and if anything was out there, sense the tremors, hear their [Dangersenses] or [Forewarning: Monsters] or other Skills go off, and get out of there before they died. Once they were done, then the regular [Miners] could come and actually widen the holes.
No one said a word as they dug for a while. Grunting, swearing—Georgie gnawed on the cigar in his mouth. At last, one of the Gnolls growled.
“You ever gonna light that damn cigar, Georgie?”
“I only got one from that fancy Gnoll. Like hell I’m lighting it. Down here with gas? You want us dead?”
“Just asking how stupid you were. Can’t tell with Madtail Georgie.”
“Fuck you.”
They did relax, though, which suggested that had been a fear. Georgie rolled his eyes.
“You think this is the first damn mine I’ve ever been on? I’ve done more advanced jobs than women you’ve kissed.”
The other [Advance Miner] turned and raised a fist, but another body-blocked him. Back to work. Georgie shifted the cigar around in his mouth, grinning. It beat tasting this damn soil. After a while, someone grunted.
“First [Ranchers], now Golems. Think we’ll get pulled out of this? Fat paycheck if our contracts end early.”
“Doubt it. Drakes don’t run.”
That came from one of the two Gnolls. Grunts of agreement. Georgie spat.
“You so ready to run? Why’d you lot sign up for this?”
“We work for the Gemscale Company. Wall Lord Ilvriss needed volunteers, and he pays well. We wanted to support him and see the north. Why the hell are you here, Georgie?”
One of the four miners with regular contracts with House Gemscale answered. They checked something; a little glass bird in a cage hanging by their hip.
Georgie had one too. For all he’d bust up any gear they gave him, he never damaged that.
Not the Miner’s Canary. It was a magical version of an old practice that [Miners] had. The canary which died before you did if you hit gas. This was a modern version of that, a magical artifact that detected poison, gas, and so on. If it chirped, they were gone. If they hadn’t given him one, he’d not have a cigar in his mouth; he had to smell if something was around him. Not that some deadly gases smelled.
In a different company, he might not be issued one, and then you’d hope someone had a Miner’s Canary, but that cost a lot of gold. The kind of gold even [Advance Miners] couldn’t make, which was why few groups could afford to go solo. Why the companies were the only place to work in Salazsar unless you were a risk-taker. And even then, they liked to cut corners. So Georgie relied on what he had.
Instinct. Practice. He did have a lot of experience. Being in his thirties as an [Advance Miner] meant he was an old man. You didn’t last long in this class. You retired or died at some point. Georgie grunted.
“I came because I’m the best there was, and they paid me five times the standard signing bonus.”
“Five times? You bastard!”
“Yeah? You didn’t negotiate your contract right.”
He sneered at them, and the female Drake in the team eyed him.
“And because no other reputable company wanted to hire you, eh, Georgie? Working a crazy job like this is the only way you get paid.”
He didn’t answer that. Just yanked something out of the stone and grunted.
“Found another shard.”
Oaths. He grinned as he tossed it in a bucket; there was a bounty on any ‘artifacts’ like these. Then he glanced into the hole.
“Hey, you lot, guess who’s pulling home a ten-gold bounty today?”
There were more shards in the tunnel. The others clustered around.
“Okay, that’s a team discovery.”
“Eat shit, I found it.”
“You can’t take credit for all of it, Georgie. We all got here! Don’t damage it. Someone get a shovel—”
Georgie plunged the pickaxe in the loose dirt and stone and ripped the entire area out with [Traction Pull]. They shouted as the dirt collapsed over them, and he grunted.
“Stop screaming. The stuff doesn’t break. I hit it with a pickaxe hard one time—it’s tougher’n basalt.”
He tapped the end of his steel pickaxe hard on one of the orange fragments, using a piece of stone as proof. Then gave it a damn good swing. His pickaxe powed upwards, and they shouted at him, but the piece of pottery or whatever just jumped.
“Ancestors, what the hell is this? Some kind of dungeon fragments? Armor?”
No one knew, but they sent one of them up to Dirr. Georgie listened with half an earhole to make sure they didn’t take credit for his work, then he kept mining.
Sweat and dirt was mixed in his scales now. It was hot. Oxygen lowered in the confined spaces; there was a shout after another twenty minutes.
“Fresh air coming down! [Windblast] in five!”
A [Mage] fired a wind spell down, cycling the air, and everyone breathed deeper, and felt their scales and fur cool. Then it heated up. Even with Ilvriss paying for it…
They worked in four hour shifts. Georgie would get off for an hour or two, then go back in. Ten hour days. Then back to sleeping in the shitty barracks after showering with a rain spell and, if you were lucky, fight a drunk [Rancher] and sleep without a healing potion for any cuts and scrapes.
Georgie’s arms hurt from the repetitive work. Healing potions in mines mattered. He was grimy. He took a piss in a corner when no one was looking rather than walk all the way up, and the Gnolls began swearing at him.
Yet they dug. And no matter how miserable it was, all of them, even Georgie, stayed. Not just for the pay. Not just to get in good with the Gemscale Company and get assigned to a cushier job or be promoted. One more reason, which everyone here knew:
They were all levelling.
Misery made levels. Adversity made levels. Georgie had levelled four times working here.
Four. He was eying Level 35 this year. If he did that, even the companies who’d blacklisted would take him back. Maybe even if they knew his other indiscreti—
The Drake’s practiced [Miner’s Swing]—which cleared far more ground than normal—struck something. He could cleave through most objects and just noticed what it was by how hard it had been. But this—
His pickaxe reverberated so hard it vibrated out of his grip. He swore, glancing at his scales; they felt nearly torn under his gloves.
“Shitting Ancestors on my head!”
“Hit your boots, Georgie?”
Laughter. He swore as he picked the pickaxe up.
“No, I hit—”
He went in gloves first, yanking stones and soil away. If it was some high-density rock, he’d hit it with his best Skill and powder the entire area, and damn the scaffolding. Then Georgie saw what he’d hit and stopped.
“…What is that?”
It was a long, broad slab of…something shiny. Covered by dirt, but when he brushed at it, the dirt fell away; it was brilliant, pale peach, and glowed.
His breath caught. Instantly, Georgie peeked around.
If this is valuable, could he smuggle it in his bag of holding? They did check, but—he brushed around the object, then realized there was no way to smuggle this.
It was taller than he was! And as dirt fell away, he saw stone, cracked from pressure, at the top of the—Georgie began digging down using his pickaxe. [Tool Utility: Pickshovel]. The dirt came away and revealed the piece of metal—he thought it was metal—running down deep.
It was a curious object. It formed a weird, wide top, like a wineglass, and much like a wineglass, it had a narrow stem and a wide base. Only, it was narrower than an actual wineglass, and Georgie, blinking, knew exactly what it was as he dug down and hit an empty pocket. Dirt showered down, and he saw…empty ground to his right and left as he stepped back from a hole.
“[Detect Cavern] just went off! Who hit one?”
That was a shout from another [Advance Miner]. The sounds of digging froze, and Georgie muttered.
“I found it. I think I found…it ain’t no nest.”
They shuffled, calling out, ready to run.
“Danger?”
“Don’t know. But I think we got what the Wall Lord wants. Or something. Hey…this the first time he’s dug down here? Anyone know?”
“How the hell should we…I think so, why?”
Georgie squatted down, and then he felt his heart racing. He had to pee again. He spoke very slowly.
“Well, then I don’t trust this thing. C’mere, don’t be hatchlings.”
“What’d you find?”
They crunched over, and he stared down.
“A support beam.”
They made noises of confusion, then came over and stopped. Like him, they knew it instantly. How could they not?
It was…a literal support beam. Just a pillar with a braced bottom and top, the kind you used in mines to, well, hold the ceiling up. Keep things from collapsing. But Georgie was used to ones made of wood or metal, but never this.
“What kind of metal is that?”
“Dunno. I could swing through steel, and it stopped my pickaxe. Just a dimple where I hit it, see? This is a damn mining shaft.”
That’s what it was. A neat one too. Not like their hasty dig; it was almost perfectly geometric, a half-circle carved through the earth, moving upwards by the looks of it. The dirt was on the ground but…Georgie muttered.
“The hell is that?”
He jumped down, and they shouted.
“Georgie, don’t be stupid! We’re calling it in!”
He ignored them. He had to see…there. He brushed at the dirt he’d collapsed inwards to make the hole and grunted. Beneath his boots, he saw it.
Pale orange. And white. Some kind of simple arrow pattern. The weird ceramic bits and pieces he’d found? His claws brushed away dirt, and a long pathway appeared before him. Connected tiles placed obsessively together. Broken in a few sections, snapped upwards, perhaps from the earth shifting.
“Someone tiled this damn mine shaft? That’s the craziest…”
He glanced around. The mine shaft stretched a long ways in either direction; the lantern at his hip barely illuminated anything. But it did catch…
“What’s this?”
Georgie strode over as the voices above him grew more distant. They were still shouting at him to come back, but he was rewarded for his daring. Because when he went down the nearly-pristine mine shaft, he found something lying on the ground.
Something he also knew.
A pickaxe.
It was long, a bit longer than he’d use, with a brassy handle with little carved runes on it, way too fancy. The grip would be absolutely shit when your hand got sweaty and held the metal; it had probably had a leather wrap which had worn off long ago. Georgie grunted.
“Must be some fancy piece-of-shit tool for a [Forem—Ancestors!”
When he picked the pickaxe up, it was too light. So light he nearly went over on his back. And the metal pick? It glowed.
A blue light burnt off the pale metal, and Georgie held up the pick, wide-eyed. He gasped as the first magical pickaxe he’d ever seen—real magic, not just [Lightweight] or [Durability] enchantments—flared to life. The handle’s runes glowed, and he stared at it. Then down at the ground.
Next to the pickaxe was a lantern, like his, but made of the palest white metal he’d ever seen. A work of art. It had a movable metal shutter, and when he picked it up…
“Doesn’t take oil. Or a candle. The hell’s this?”
It had a weird groove in the base. Some kind of slot which opened and closed. Georgie stared at it, then had a thought.
“Magical lantern. Does it take magical gems for power?”
Insanity. He cast around, then did the most logical thing possible.
He hid both items in his bag of holding. Georgie grinned. He was rich. He’d quit his job as soon as possible. He’d have to hide this in the mine shaft; they’d inspect his bag of holding for sure. Then he’d sneak back, grab it, run…
A part of Georgie felt guilty because he stole, but he’d never stolen this. A few gems? Sure. Most [Miners] took their profits back, and everyone knew that. It was how it worked.
But this was…like a Relic-class pickaxe or something. He actually hesitated, wondering if he should report it.
“Not like they’ll keep me around. Look out for Number 1.”
He reminded himself of the rules. Georgie hesitated, then he had to take the pickaxe out for a second look.
It was beautiful. Like the kind of thing a Wall Lord would use, not a common grunt like him. The glow of blue activated each time he held it. So light…but when he swung it, it felt like it had heft.
“This here, this is a real [Miner]’s tool. Someone made this who knows how it’s gotta weigh. Ancestors. Ancestors…”
Was this what the Wall Lord had come for? He hesitated again, holding it.
There’s gotta be more of this stuff lying around. Take it and go. Take it, sell it to someone—don’t know who—and just leave. Leave Salazsar, leave the south, leave all of Izril before they wise up and put a bounty on your head. Move to Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Baleros and just…
He didn’t really want to go. But hells, he was an [Advance Miner]. House Gemscale was his last company before he probably had to work outside of Salazsar, and they’d only hired him because they needed him for this job. Georgie stood there, still torn, and then he saw the oddest thing happen.
The glowing blue pickaxe head changed colors. It went from blue to red in an instant, filling the shaft with a lurid, unsettling light. Georgie instantly dropped it, but it kept glowing red in the darkness. And then he realized that his desire for wealth had made him commit the only sin an [Advance Miner] should never do.
He’d forgotten to look out for Number 1. Safety before anything else. Run, even if you see Adamantium ore in the dark. Because it now occurred to Georgie to ask a question.
“If this damn thing’s someone’s tool…who dropped it?”
There was no skeleton here, no body. No one put down something like this, and maybe the tunnel was so old that any body had rotted away. Or maybe it was still there.
Waiting. Georgie saw a light at the end of the tunnel. A faint, faint glow of purple, too far for the red pickaxe to illuminate it. He slowly picked up the enchanted pickaxe and began backing up towards the hole.
“Guys? Guys, throw me a rope—”
No response. Georgie backed up faster, and the purple lights began to move towards him. Ever so slowly. Then he saw another pair of lights appear in the darkness. Yellow. Then another pair, red.
Only a few beings had glowing eyes like that. Georgie shuffled faster until he nearly hit the support strut.
He looked up. The hole was right above him, but no one was there.
