“Oh, a brawl would never work, even if your father punched out every Lischelle himself. They’d just get all the [Rancher] clans to ride over, and it’d be a ten thousand-man brawl. Even if you won, you’d only get them coming at you harder. You’re right you don’t want to escalate. [Ranchers] are mean shots, and they’ll just ride over, shoot your cattle, shoot your horses, and ride off. But you still have to push them.”
“Delicately.”
Lyonette murmured. She felt bad too, because she hadn’t been at her best politically despite being a [Princess] of Calanfer. Drat it, this was exactly like her mother’s lessons!
“We have to push them in a way that doesn’t escalate, but makes them respect us.”
“That I can agree with.”
Ilvriss nodded, and Colfa began listing things that wouldn’t work.
“You can’t beat Marvus in a brawl. Probably literally. The only man big enough to do that would be Nerul, and Marvus is a lot of muscle.”
“I’ve trained to fight for over a year, Colfa, with the finest instructors—”
“He’s got probably two hundred pounds on you. You got ten levels on him? That might do it. With a sword, I’d bet on you. Without a sword, I’d bet my farm on him. Besides, as I said, he doesn’t respect you for punching him out. It’d just stop him throwing his weight around. As for Aronia…”
“Does she need anything? Can we buy her neutrality?”
Colfa was dubious.
“She’s rich enough. The Lischelles make tons of money. She’s proud of being a northerner, and I didn’t help, but she’d never even talk to you without me.”
“Was there anything in the family, um, squabble that I can help with, Colfa? I know sibling fights.”
Lyonette spoke up. She thought she did know sisterly rivalry, but Colfa gave her a pained smile.
“It’s not like you and your sisters, Lyonette. We’re too old, too far apart.”
“Oh come now. I fight like Gnolls and Drakes with my sisters all the time.”
“Hey. I resent that.”
They ignored Ilvriss, and Colfa shook her head.
“But you’re all still [Princesses] and living under your mother’s roof, more or less. I left my family. Walked off with an outsider, cut ties—I had to, but Aronia never forgave me. She always had a chip on her shoulder, and now that I’m…not as Skilled as I used to be, I think she likes that dynamic. It’s fine. Just don’t count on me talking her round.”
She sighed. Lyonette knew it was the secrecy of Vampires that had made Colfa not talk to her family, but she had to imagine that had caused hurt feelings. She chewed on one lip.
“I just wish we could have beaten them at their own game! The Highstepper—I’ve never seen that dance or that footwork!”
She burst out, and there Colfa and Ilvriss laughed at her. The Wall Lord grinned.
“Lyonette, of all the events there, I think that one they held against us least.”
“Exactly. Lyonette, it’s my family dance. No one ‘wins’ at the Highstepper. Didn’t you see them cheating? No one can do it without practice, and the adults all need boosting.”
“We could have done that dance. It’s not the hardest in the world. The 5-Step is harder.”
Lyonette grumbled. Colfa gave her an arch look, and Lyonette realized that the country-born woman wasn’t beyond defending her home.
“Easy for a noblewoman to claim when she didn’t get a tenth through it. You don’t have a chance in ten of pulling it off now, Lyonette. Not with your condition. I can barely do it these days, and that’s with my enhanced reflex…Skills. Dead gods, I really was fit as a girl.”
That genuinely stung. Lyonette knew it was accurate; she’d barely kept up with [Flawless Attempt] with Ilvriss.
“I could…! Fine. Let’s—Ilvriss, what else do you need?”
“Personnel? Thousands more personnel if anyone would work with us. Asrira’s managing the Sisters of Chell, but calming the Terlands, avoiding being cattle-raided, finding my damn objective and securing that…”
Ilvriss grew gloomier the more he listed things out. Lyonette clapped her hands.
“In that case—I’m definitely visiting more often, Ilvriss. And we shall get you those reinforcements! Come on!”
She stood, or tried to, wincing, and Colfa and Ilvriss helped her up. Lyonette hobbled for the doors.
“I have friends to call on!”
Just as Erin could mobilize an army to quell a riot, or defend her inn, Lyonette could do the same. A [Princess] called for aid!
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice refused. Normen was out, and Jewel was watching hundreds of [Squires] training. Antinium and other recruits. She glanced back at Lyonette as the [Princess] held out her hands towards Ilvriss.
“No, Lyonette.”
“But Jewel, his objective—”
“That’s political. You can ask Normen when he’s back from a High Passes escort, but he’ll say the same thing.”
“Everything’s political—”
Lyonette tried, but Jewel gave her a knowing look.
“We fight monsters, and we defend people who need defending, Lyonette. Ilvriss is very political. Erin told Normen we wouldn’t be part of the inn, and she was right.”
“Oh come on, Jewel. Don’t make me force you. I’m serious. Don’t smile! Remember Erin? Jewel, Jewel—”
 
——
 
Laken Godart couldn’t see, but he smelled the burnt hair and made a face.
“Er, problems, Lyonette?”
“It turns out Jewel’s grown a backbone.”
She did not elaborate. The [Emperor] made a show of smiling at her and the Wall Lord before turning to Lady Rie.
“And you’d like Riverfarm to contribute to Wall Lord Ilvriss’ efforts, I see. Very well.”
“Ah! You see?”
Lyonette was instantly relieved. Laken drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“I can send five hundred at what I am going to assume are very generous rates.”
“Only five hundred? We could use five thousand—”
“No.”
Laken cut Lyonette off, rather enjoying her reaction. He turned to Ilvriss.
“I don’t know what you’re digging up, Wall Lord, but I can guess. You may employ from my lands, but we have our own…conflicts. With a number of nobles, no less.”
“Actual conflicts, Your Majesty?”
The Wall Lord was polite. He wasn’t like the Drakes that Laken had expected, but the [Emperor] still recalled the saboteurs, and the Walled Cities…they spoke to each other. What Manus did, Salazsar had probably known. Besides, he smiled unhappily.
“Reinharts, local nobles—a group has decided they don’t care for the Unseen Empire’s expansion or our policy on Goblins. You have raids? We have raids.”
Annoying ones that darted in and out of his land. [Witches] arrested abroad. He gestured.
“I have to protect my empire. Moreover, I don’t really fancy helping a Wall Lord obtain his treasures, Lyonette, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“Laken Godart, you know what he’s doing—”
Laken’s voice snapped.
“I know exactly what he wants, Lyonette. But unless he’s sharing…? No? Then there are limits to what I’m willing to give.”
He sat back on his throne and turned.
“I believe I have more pressing matters. I have a coven of witches ready to fight with each other or those idiots—Lady Rie, send them in. Handle the people who want to work with the Wall Lord?”
He ignored Lyonette objecting as Gamel showed her the door. Laken did hold a hand up and turned his head.
“One last thing, Lyonette. Do you know why a bunch of new nobles are cropping up in the north?”
“New nobles? No, Laken. Ow! Emperor Godart.”
That was Ilvriss stepping on her foot, which amused Laken. Right up until he sensed Rie’s knowing eyes on him. He leaned forwards.
“The Circle of Thorns does not appear to be entirely dead, Lyonette. That is a warning in confidence, here. I would advise you to play dumb. But coalitions are forming, annoying Reinharts aside.”
He sat back on his throne as she went still, and Lyonette exhaled.
“I can only deal with so many…I suppose I must leave this to you, Emperor Laken?”
“I suppose you must, Lyonette. And with knowledge of the fact that I am engaged in my own conflicts, I wish you luck. Unless it benefits Riverfarm, there my largesse stands.”
He paused.
“It also includes some free shampoo. Lady Rie, please issue the Wall Lord and Lyonette with some.”
He rather enjoyed their spluttering as they were shown the door. And there went two of Lyonette’s biggest backers at once. In truth, she could not even fully blame Laken for that.
She’d heard about the Reinharts.
 
——
 
Lord Gorthes Reinhart had no clue what was going on with the Wall Lord some twit was yammering about, or House Terland being up in arms. Every Reinhart was doing their own damn thing.
He’d heard Cosoi had left. Cowardly bitch. She always knew where the wind was blowing.
But Gorthes was free. And he was a simple man. He sat on his new, six-wheel carriage with ugly metal cladding reinforcing the bumper and sides. Six wheels, six warhorses.
The interior had actually very little space aside from storage. After all, Gorthes drove himself. Thus, his carriages were made for one purpose.
Ensuring that whomever crossed him on the road regretted it. A lot of the inside of the carriage was just reinforcement struts and bracing that Vultine had installed. It wasn’t even hidden; an [Obsequious Servant] had to squeeze under one to speak to Gorthes.
A word on his hiring practices. Gorthes only hired cringing yes-men who could do what he wanted or big men who spoke with their fists, like him. No women. Women told tales and were distracting.
He was sitting in his reinforced driver’s seat as the spindly idiot whispered in his ear. They were waiting outside a village near House Reinhart’s manor.
“That him?”
Gorthes was staring at a man swaggering down the street, drunk in the day, but wearing a rather rich coat, soiled from a night out. The servant whispered.
“Yes, milord.”
“You’re sure?”
“Of course, mil—”
A hand reached back and grabbed the [Servant] by the scruff of the neck. And Gorthes had huge hands. He had a slab of a face with the classic Reinhart strong nose, but little else. He growled.
“If you’re not sure, I’ll feed you to the dogs.”
The servant paled and double-checked his notes.
“I-I’m sure, Lord Gorthes.”
“Good.”
Without a word, the [Lord] snapped his reins, and the horses—warhorses all, angry as he was—jerked the wagon forwards. A few of his bodyguards, little more than [Thugs] armed well, rode after him, but only to keep up. No one got in front of Gorthes.
He was a simple man. But a Reinhart. He’d been driving around, literally running into shops, people he didn’t like, trees—once because it was an accident, once because he’d objected to the damn thing.
He did what he pleased, but Gorthes was also a product of his house. He understood one thing.
No one gets away with it forever. He ascribed to the Reinhart values, which weren’t what people thought. Snakes, they were called, but snakes who were loyal to their own, which was why Magnolia was such a traitor. You stabbed each other in the back, but you never murdered another Reinhart. Watched them sit in ruin, but never executed them.
That was her biggest sin, actually. Putting all of them in a Skill-bind for a decade? They’d take back their due, make her life hell, then get back to business as usual. But the fact she’d killed them—that made it far more personal.
Reinharts had killed each other in the past, but always it was the final act, the ultimate one. You did it when it was you or them. And that might be one thing, even, but she’d been more than that. She’d executed dozens of nobles. Maybe over a hundred, Gorthes didn’t know.
Damn her. And the other thing Gorthes knew was this. He rode faster, teeth bared, and the people in the village heard the rumble and glanced up. They scattered. The drunk man ambling along cast around, saw the carriage racing at him, and stumbled. Then did what any man would and leapt smartly to one side. Gorthes saw him turning, face outraged.
You maniac! Who drives like this in the middle of the vill—
Gorthes pulled on his reins. The horses turned right. He saw the fellow’s eyes go round with horror, saw him twist to leap away, heard a shout.
“N—”
The thump and crunching sounds made everyone in the carriage but Gorthes go still. He just slowed the carriage, took it around as someone screamed. Inspected the body on the road. Twitching.
Gorthes clicked his tongue, moved the reins, and ran the fellow over again. Slowly. Then he drove off.
You might recover from that kind of thing with only a broken something, crushed legs, or whatnot. Well, before healing potions had gone out of circulation. Unless you hit the spine.
Gorthes whistled as he rode off.
“Get me another bastard.”
He commented to the servants inside, and they scrambled to find one. Because this was Gorthes’ genius, of a kind.
He knew people hated him. You only got two shops or places people loved before they started laying out ropes and spikes. Or hiring their own [Assassins]. To enable his lifestyle of vehicular homicide, Gorthes had come up with his cleverest idea.
To be a bastard they tolerated, all you had to do was run over a bigger bastard every now and then. Hence, him telling his servants to find someone who had raped a girl and gotten away with it. Or a [Merchant] who took money out of houses being built so they collapsed and killed a family. Men who fancied they were untouchable because they’d bought the law.
He enjoyed seeing them coming face-to-face with the front of his carriage and realizing that there were things they couldn’t buy. Small men who left divots on his bumpers until he had them refurbished.
“It’s good to be free again. Drink.”
Someone passed him one, and Gorthes drank greedily. Then drove off. Two more men and he’d probably ‘equalize’ his reputation around here for a month or two, he calculated. It was all…what was the word?
“Pragmawhatsit.”
“Lord Gorthes?”
“Shut up.”
Silence. Gorthes drove. He was in a hurry, anyways. As soon as he finished running people over, he was headed straight south.
That was where that bitch with the black carriage had gone. Apparently, it was some new, fancy vehicle. ‘The Unmarked Carriage’. Pah. He’d beaten the nastiest [Drivers] in the Driver’s Guild.
“Get me three more carriages from the mansion. Load ‘em up with all the bullyboys we got. Then find me that woman.”
No one ran Gorthes off the road. It was payback time. He cracked his neck, and there was a Reinhart true to his name and nature.
A [Brute of a Lord].
 
——
 
[Level 10 Incestuous Lady!]
[Class Change: Incestuous Lady → Sharp Dame Class!]
[Level 10 Sharp Dame!]
[Skill – Lesser Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Underworld Niceties: Preferred Bribe Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Leadership Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Mathematics Obtained!]
 
