“Right. The moment I see trouble, I’m turning off the door, peeing my pants, and running like a coward.”
She saluted him, and the Thronebearer glanced at Liska and nodded.
“We’re counting on you.”
He vanished, and Liska sat back down on her couch, rattled.
“Wait, no. You’re not supposed to say that. Don’t count on me.”
After a moment, she peered around.
“So who’s Ulva Terland again? Inkpaper? Can you bring me a book?”
 
——
 
If Ulva Terland was dead…
If Ulva had died, aggressor or not…
In moments like these, you didn’t need an Erin. You needed someone who had political influence, clout, supreme magic, and an understanding of the world to reverse the wheel of causality. You needed, in short, a Super Nerul.
He was doing his best, but Lyonette needed help. She needed—
“Calling Magnolia Reinhart. Calling Magnolia Reinhart, hello? Lovely Magnolia? Okay, Teriarch. Demsleth? …Taletevirion?”
No one was picking up in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. All her attempts to rouse the powerful people she knew? Absolutely failed. Because they were warded.
“Fucking Creler eggs in my salad. Someone help! Quarass! Quarass of Germina—”
Lyonette was swearing in terror as she tried to raise anyone for help. This was not usual inn-chaos. This was her fault, not Erin’s for once, and Lyonette had always thought she might make gaffes, but never commit a real Solstice Event like Erin always got into.
More egg on her face. Dead Ulva-egg. She had helped kill a Terland. It had been an accident! She’d just been there when Ilvriss had—but she’d thrown her aura at Ulva with him and—
This is so bad. I’m dead.
It was probably…three in the morning. Lyonette had rushed back when the incident had occurred; Ilvriss was strengthening his guard on the dig site. The mad-Drake hadn’t even wanted to start running south. He’d just said he’d try to negotiate, that they had to keep digging.
Lyonette might have screamed at him that when a Golem reached into his mouth and pulled his tail out, he’d not be so confident. The Terlands would never let this lie, but the damn idiot had said he couldn’t retreat in the night, not with so many people. Which—fair, but someone had to—
When the Quarass of Germina appeared, she had on pajamas made of silk with little daggers embroidered on the pale cotton and a nightcap on her head, complete with a little pointed tip, only instead of a piece of cotton on the end, there was an actual dagger.
It was both cute and highly disturbing. She glared at Lyonette.
“Lyonette du Marquin, that I have agreed to tutor you is not a sign of my infinite patience. Does this crisis merit my interrupted sleep, or e—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss may have given Ulva Terland a heart-attack while defending himself from a Hunter-Killer Golem. I helped.”
The Quarass paused. She opened her mouth, massaged her eyes, then, gratifyingly, focused. She didn’t ask ‘how’ or ‘why’—it was a sign she was the Quarass of Germina that she just sighed.
“What was the nature of your involvement in this?”
“I—I was throwing my aura because Ulva was controlling the Golem—it was a Hunter-Killer, you see, and—”
“I am aware. What did it look like?”
“I—uh—uh—”
It was Xinthe who took over, bowing and reporting in a clipped, precise tone of voice befitting a Calanferian spy.
“Minotaur head, magical steel, emerald eyes, knife-fingers, and odd, bounding legs, Your Majesty.”
“If it didn’t kill him, it was…one of their hybrid models. Four thousand years old, post Creler-wars. Not high-grade. Overconfident. She was controlling it personally. Overconfident. Her heart cannot be that weak, though. How else?”
“It was Xesci, um—”
Lyonette related a few more details, and the Quarass’ eyes sharpened. She held up a hand.
“Of course. Clever. I’ve slain a few enemies like that. Without even a sympathetic heartbreaker Skill? Level 50, then. Your involvement in the aura clash—I see.”
She tapped at her lips, and Lyonette waited, begging for a bail-out, a do-over. The Quarass thought, then nodded.
“I will contact House Terland and ascertain if my knowledge can aid in keeping Ulva Terland from dying.”
“But if her heart stopped—”
The Quarass shot Lyonette a withering glance.
“She rests upon a Throne of Health. House Terland is far more adept than your inn at preserving life. A [Stasis] spell would occur to them—or it should. If she is dead, tell your Wall Lord to flee or he dies. If she lives…they will still try to kill him. I doubt they shall blame you; you are a [Princess], and he is the Drake.”
The Quarass yawned as she waved for a servant. Lyonette’s stomach dropped.
“What can we do to stop that?”
The annoyed ruler of Germina shot her a look.
“I am a consultant, not your problem-solver. Ask the sock puppet. Perhaps he can magic a solution or at least send bodyguards capable of warding off multiple Hunter-Killer Golems. I shall try to save Ulva Terland. Goodnight.”
“But—”
“Goodnight. My advice, incidentally, pupil, is this: don’t send a damn Drake up north with no excuses for his presence!”
“But how should I—it was important and—”
The Quarass snapped as she accepted a glass of water.
“Marry him, take over the venture, obfuscate his reason for digging up a damned Walled City—anything but how the [Innkeeper] did it!”
She vanished, and Lyonette took a breath. Then another. Marry Ilvriss? The things the Quarass—just because she did everything in Germina’s name, it didn’t mean Lyonette was capable of it, for all she was a very progressive, worldly [Princess]. She shook her head.
“Let’s hope that helps. In the meantime—call Duke Rhisveri!”
Then she realized he was warded, and she glared.
“Dame Ushar, send a [Message] to our contacts in Ailendamus. Get me Rhisveri.”
She paced around frantically, waiting for her last great ally in the wings to come. As he had sworn he would. Plus, he owed her. She’d danced with him, and she and he…they were allies. Not just two people with gambling debts.
Best friends, really. She fondly thought of the time he had teleported her to his nation to have a plus one for a dance. Rhisveri, her chum, her obliging Wyrm! She put on her best smile to welcome her buddy. So he knew how valued he was.
She ended up waiting thirty-five minutes, the same pained smile on her face, until an apologetic Dame Chorisa informed her the Duke was delayed, but would be with her shortly. Lyonette’s face hurt.
 
——
 
In the [Garden of Sanctuary], Mrsha and Nanette were poking each other, waiting to see what went down.
If Ulva Terland’s dead, it’s bad, Nanette. How could you let this happen? You were supposed to keep Mom in check!
“I was! Those bastards sent the Hunter-Killer, Mrsha! Also, the Lischelles were super-rude at their cookout.”
No kidding? Rude Humans? I trusted you to be the responsible adult because you know those two weren’t going to be ones! I have half a mind to give Nerul a smack too!
The two nervous girls escalated into a slap-fight, then calmed. Nanette sat there, worried.
“Mrsha? Did your Roots-futures show you what happens here too?”
Not everything was in the futures I saw, Nanette.
Mrsha wore a pained expression on her face. She sat heavily, and Nanette leaned against her in the garden.
“So we’re in uncharted waters.”
Pretty much. Did Xesci really take out Ulva by looking like her dead twin sister?
“Yep.”
Hardcore.
“Can Rhisveri help? He is a super-important Wyrm, right?”
Mrsha hesitated. She sat there, head bowed, then scribbled on a card. Held it up.
I wish I could tell you he’s the best aside from Teriarch, Nanette. But neither one’s invincible. And something…around now takes Rhisveri out in most futures. I don’t know what, but—
Nanette turned, and Mrsha observed it all, fur blowing, a dreadfully analytical look on her face. For she had seen the same thing the present held.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus…
Was not well.
 
——
 
It had hit him fast and suddenly shortly after the banquet incident with the [Princess]. He hadn’t seen it coming.
He should have.
Avoidable, really. But the Wyrm had just thought…
No, hoped.
He’d just hoped he’d make it, you know? When he’d buried his mother, his real mother, he’d felt the hand of death on him. Just like when he’d seen so many little servants go, like Dioname. He’d sworn to bring them back with the power he’d killed his brother for. But he’d always thought—
Me, I’ll make it. I’ll be the one. I’ll be the Wyrm who goes the distance. Who lives as long as Dragonlords. He had his empire. He had his allies. He had time…in this waning world.
But no. It turned out this was it. They’d got him. She’d got him. He never saw it coming.
His allies didn’t know he was…incapacitated, of course. He’d sequestered himself in his chambers in the palace, pretended to be grumpy, indisposed. To his annoyance, no one, not even Eclizza, had detected anything wrong with him.
His stupid bodyguard, Chorisa and the others, kept watch. No one noticed his curt [Messages] revealed the suffering Wyrm within. No one came by to say hello. It was like…they didn’t notice. As if he’d put himself up as the strongest, most fearsome being and they’d accepted him at his word.
Rhisveri was too prideful to ask for help, anyways. He lay, curled up on himself, a snake meant to devour the world, all tangled together. Sweating greenish fluids that ran like muck on the beautiful floor no matter how much he cleaned it. Clenching his teeth. Fighting his weakness.
“Ryoka Griffin. In the end, you’ve killed me. Thief. Thief of miracles. Thief of mothers. Thief of lives.”
He bore her…less ill will since it wasn’t her fault. She wasn’t aware of what she’d done. She really was the Windy Girl, the carrier of plagues, the unwitting dupe bearing poisoned knives and hurling them into well-meaning tyrant’s bosoms.
He’d have to tell her that. Write it in his will. ‘I forgive you for killing me, Ryoka Griffin’, so when the Kingdom of Glass and Glory fell to pieces without its leader, when it all came crashing down, they knew who not to blame.
…He was just being petty. The Wyrm lay there, suffering. Using his willpower as he could, fighting his malady until someone called his name.
“Duke. Duke—Princess Lyonette is requesting your presence. It is urgent, Duke.”
“Go ‘way.”
“Duke Rhisveri. Er, Great Wyrm!”
Chorisa walked forwards hesitantly, eying the huge mass of Wyrm coiled inwards on one section of his chambers. He seemed…off. Steam was rising from his green scales, and there was green liquid oozing onto the ground. She glanced at the other Thirsting Veil [Knights] in genuine concern.
But they didn’t know what to do, so Chorisa tried again.
“Duke, she claims she’s in danger.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus uncurled. Just a bit. He opened his eyes he’d been squeezing shut.
“Again?”
Of course she was. With supreme effort, he conjured his alter-ego, the Human Duke. He had to…there were children at that inn. Wyrmesse oblige and all that. He made the Duke appear, and Eclizza jumped, then scowled.
“Duke, your clothing!”
Duke Rhisveri looked…about as bad as the Wyrm felt. His eyes were bloodshot, and he appeared distinctly off. He was also naked. He’d forgotten the clothing.
“Whuzzat? Damn clothing. How do you filthy apes deal with it? Let me just—”
He pointed a finger at himself and zapped on some clothing. It constricted against his body, on backwards, and he yelped. Swivelled around firing clothing spells—Chorisa ducked, brought up a shield—
A pair of underpants appeared on the top of her crescent shield, and she snapped.
“Duke!”
She thought he was just being silly. Chorisa strode over, grabbed his arms as he got the pants on around the right way, yelled, and let go.
Her enchanted gauntlets had just turned bright red. With heat. The enchantments saved Chorisa from literally frying her own hand, but she put a hand out and backed away.
“Duke, you’re burning up! Are you sick?”
Then the bodyguards realized he was ill and approached. Duke Rhisveri was sweating so hard it looked like it was raining on him. The skin of his magical body had long since passed any temperature a living body would be able to maintain.
“Just a bit ill. Don’t worry. It’s not contagious. But you should, uh, get out of here. Right now. Don’t come in. I’ll contact Lyonette. Just you—bleg.”
He turned, tried to cast a [Gateway] spell to project himself into The Wandering Inn, and fell flat on his face. The Thirsting Veil Knights eyed him as they backed up.
“How dangerous is it, Duke?”
“For you? Potentially fatal. Out. Out. Tell…tell the others I’m under the weather. And, uh, that Lyonette should send her Skill-thing to me.”
He was lying about the fatal part, but it got the [Knights] out of his scales. The worst that would happen was—no, he was more than that. More than…he lay there, trying to inchworm his way vertical, until someone finally appeared in front of him.
“Thank goodness, Duke Rhisv—what are you doing?”
There was something bracing about Lyonette’s annoyed tone, even worried. Rhisveri rolled over.
“Oh it’s you. Don’t worry, I’m just figuring out how to stand. I can’t figure out how you bipeds do it.”
That flummoxed her enough that she didn’t notice the tone of his voice. He’d managed to lower his fake body’s temperature and adopt a posture of superiority, crossing one leg as he lay flat on his back. She stared at him and clearly decided she didn’t have time to deal with whatever this was.
“Rhisveri, I have an—emergency. You see, there was an incident with Ilvriss. You know Ilvriss?”
Rhisveri had trouble thinking, which meant he was probably still smarter than she was, so it took him only a moment to recollect what this was about.
“Wall Lord? Purple scales? Salazsar? Digging for definitely a Walled City in the north?”
He had the reward of seeing her stiffen and snorted.
“It’s beyond banal figuring out your people’s schemes. I recall you helped the fellow out. Can’t you go one week without incident?”
“It’s been more than a week!”
She defended herself, blushing, and he conjured a calendar, stared at it, and put his head back down.
“…So it has. Well done. [Fawning Applause].”
He conjured clapping and cheering as she spoke over him.
“This is no laughing matter, Duke. We were attacked by a Hunter-Killer Golem. The Terlands wanted Ilvriss dead. I helped defend him, and we…mayhavekilledUlvaTerland.”
Sick as he was, struggling as he was, even the Wyrm of Ailendamus had to take a second to process that one. He covered his face with one hand, and Lyonette had to explain.
