She couldn’t even tell where The Wandering Inn was. Everyone had backers or—or had established themselves! Even the [Innkeeper], Timbor, had said he was in a profitable relationship with Miss Imani, whom Damia hadn’t even gotten a meeting with, and he was well set, thank you, your ladyship.
How do I get ahead? Binevy was trying to brainstorm.
“You just need to get on top of something here, milady. I see what you’re doing. Your aunt did that too, you know. She travelled as a young woman, backed projects she saw that were good. It just takes time!”
“I don’t have time, Binevy. Nor do I have enough gold or favor with the family to bully my way into something. There’s only a few ways for me to get ahead. One’s being lucky or spotting something, but I’m here too late! Damn Aunt Magnolia, if I’d only been here two years ago or one—! The only other way is sleeping my way ahead. Do you have a list of Liscor’s eligible bachelors?”
Timbor dropped his mug as he listened in on their conversation. Binevy hesitated.
“Er…I could get a list?”
She hurried off and, after some gossip, presented Damia with a list that included Menolit of Liscor Hunted, a Lord Raithland, Councilmember Elirr who looked like he was going to win his election…Damia sighed.
Lord Mireden’s an option, but rumor is every brave bachelorette is throwing themselves at him. Small chance of me beating the pack. As for the others… I can probably do better in time even if I want to use myself in that manner. I wonder if I can find that Goblin tribe around here? She heard chatter from patrons and listened, eavesdropping in the vain hope for a clue, something big.
But sadly, a lot of the people in the Drunken Gnoll were, well, Gnolls and Humans. Some Drakes, but a lot were just passing through.
“Hrr. Brother. How are you doing?”
A Gnoll with distinctly un-citylike dress was greeting a Gnoll in a [Shopkeeper]’s outfit, who stood to hug him.
“Kert! Was the trip north long? How’s the…tribe? Can I get you a drink? A Velrusk Claw? This inn does excellent food.”
The Plains Gnoll sniffed the air, then dropped what looked like his life’s burdens next to the table. He sat, and Damia stared at him.
“I won’t be long, yes? I wish I could stay, but I’m going with more of us north.”
“Oh? Not even for a day?”
“Hrr. No. We have to get our group established. We haven’t found a good mining and grazing site, or so it seems. Chieftain Akrisa sent us as fast as we could. She’d have come herself given the Silverfangs are mostly staying with the Meeting of Tribes camp, but, eh. She’s with child.”
The [Shopkeeper] blinked.
“Didn’t her husband, er, partner die at the Meeting of Tribes?”
Kert shrugged.
“Lots of babies being made. The tribes are empty. Everyone’s doing what they can in some way or another. Is this your wife? Hello, I apologize. Kert of the Silverfangs.”
“Er, hello. Jallis Ascale. I’m, uh, Thonal’s girlfriend. We’re dating. Not ready to, um, do my part.”
Fascinating. Damia hadn’t realized Gnolls were already in the north, though of course, it made sense. They’d talked about it, and there was a lot of pro-Gnoll sentiment of late. It made sense from a species perspective too. Getting away from the Drakes would really help. Assuming the north went well, and to hear Kert begin complaining, it wasn’t.
Not much gold in Gnolls, at least as far as I can tell. Damia turned to Binevy.
“Isn’t there some stellar group of Gnolls known as Ekhtouch? Find out where they are.”
She’d been ravenously devouring the news and finding what she’d missed. Sadly…no dice. The Ekhtouch had gone to the New Lands. Damia began gossiping with Timbor and the other patrons, trying to buy drinks and be friendly.
It…sort of worked. Timbor was all-too-happy to talk to her about Liscor and the area and point her to the different Guilds where she might hire people for…a job if she had one. Not that she had one. And he himself managed to slip in there that he, a Level 33 [Innkeeper], was very single.
She sighed and rented a room at his inn, at least for a night. It didn’t seem like it could get much worse until a Drake walked around the inn.
“Excuse me, Miss? Might I have a word?”
He finally came to her table, and she blinked at him. All Damia needed was a chance. A spark! She smiled at him, being as charming and friendly as she could be, and saw him relax. He gave her a friendly smile in return.
“Yes, can I help you?”
“You seemed a bit down on your luck; apologies. I saw a few [Guardsmen] keeping tabs on you. I know it can be—hard in situations like these.”
Her heart began beating faster, and she glanced around, but the Watch had vanished or gone on break, perhaps busy or contented she wasn’t doing much. She lowered her voice.
“I, um, am in a bit of a strait, but I hope to rally. Did you want a word?”
He gave her a very polite smile, without any leer, and Binevy eyed him. She had a Pepperspray potion she claimed worked on troublesome assailants, and Damia had an emergency wand in her bag of holding, and Timbor’s inn was safe. If he wanted her to go somewhere…
An in with the underworld. The Drake fished something out of his belt pouch, handed it to her.
“I just wanted to give you a way out of any bad situations, Miss. It might be difficult, but I believe a woman like you can level and adapt.”
She stared down at what he’d given her.
A card. It said…
 
House Gemscale is recruiting [Miners] and [Diggers] now! All hands wanted; inquire at the local Builder’s Guild or with representatives in any major, Liscor-connected city! Lodging and food paid for, including transport! Excellent levelling potential; even more pay!
 
Her face went slack. The [Recruiter] went on.
“Don’t worry about the labor, just stick it out a month and you’ll be Level 10! Now, if either of you ladies had any friends who might want the job, there’s a small bonus fee I can offer for referrals…”
That pretty much knocked out Damia for the night.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin felt pretty damn defeated after running around trying to get Ilvriss help and failing. Mrsha was right about the Order of Solstice.
“It’s not that they don’t want to be political, it’s that they don’t want to be…Walled Cities political, Ilvriss. I know they respect you—”
“I understand. Frankly, five hundred workers is worth the trip.”
…But he’d hoped for a miracle. She was having him served a very classy, very modern dish courtesy of Calescent. Couscous, which turned out to be from Imani.
You couldn’t beat her. The Wall Lord was happy, though, and putting a brave face on it.
“I’ll inquire with Mrsha the Intellectual for help. And maybe watch a movie or two, then head back tomorrow morning. That will raise my spirits, truly.”
Mrsha the Intellectual glanced up from her homework.
Wall Lord Ilvriss, with respect, my advice is not one I would take. But speaking of which, hypothetically, if you had fifteen apples in a bucket, and you had seven point six such buckets, how many apples would you have? I’m in advanced mathematics and I wish to leave.
He stared at her, and Mrsha held up her homework in case he needed a visual aid.
“…Ninety-five apples.”
He turned away and winked at Lyonette. She hid a smile as Mrsha wrote down the answer. That’d teach her. Lyonette wistfully sat there.
“I just wish I could call on more, Ilvriss. I could speak to Valeterisa…”
“She might be more hindrance than help, with due respect.”
“Fair.”
Ilvriss just sat there before putting a claw out. He hesitated, then touched her hand, and she blinked at him. He withdrew his hand.
“You know, it’s fine, Lyonette. We can’t always rely on Erin’s power. Sometimes, we have to provide what we’re missing. Like the Horns. They’re a good example of rising to the occasion. It’s my turn now. I just wish I were more like my father. He’s a Swordmaster of Salazsar.”
“Really? A real, genuine—?”
Even Ser Dalimont seemed impressed, and Ilvriss hunched up a bit.
“I forgot, but he really was a war hero. I’m…in his shadow, I guess. Funny, Zel’s is easier to be in at times. He could have beaten that Hunter-Killer himself. It was ‘only’…well, I forget what class it was, and he was good enough not to say that out loud.”
“Ilvriss…I’m not my mother. And you’re plenty talented! Your holdings in Liscor are huge!”
He hadn’t even used the entire space. Ilvriss exhaled.
“That’s just business. I need to be a warrior, a leader, a diplomat…but I’d rather be good at one thing than average in all! I’m not, and this venture proves it.”
She shook her head rapidly.
“Ilvriss, I let you down. And Colfa, and Nanette!”
“Hey!”
“Hey! Vhatch your mouth. I dealt with family for you!”
Lyonette ignored them. She gestured at her skin, which she’d put makeup on, but still…hurt. Oh, Erin. And her legs.
“I can’t even—I can’t even dance right, Ilvriss. I know it’s petty, but I used to have that! Erin is not a better [Dancer] than me, for all she got the class!”
He smiled at her.
“That was entertaining.”
“It was, wasn’t it? I know it wasn’t much, but…”
Lyonette trailed off thoughtfully. Then she pushed herself up, or tried to. Ser Dalimont had to help her, and she glared at her shaking arms.
“Ilvriss? If you have time tonight, would you entertain a bit of my fancy? It might not help, but…I have something I’d like assistance with. Something only you can do for me.”
“Such as?”
It ain’t math, that’s for sure. You sure your business is doing well?
Mrsha held up a card as she glared at Ilvriss; Yelroan was teaching her multiplication. Lyonette stuck her tongue out at Mrsha. And then she entered…the inn.
 
——
 
The new inn was still under construction, with Antinium laboring over the foundation even at night. Skeletons were hauling masonry around, and the foundations were so big that a section had dried under the [Bubble of Calm] spells that Hexel had demanded, then replaced with his own Skill.
[All Weather Worksite]. The Lamia [Architect] had gained levels himself, and he was actually here supervising the night’s work when Lyonette and Ilvriss stepped past the courtyard-in-progress.
“Miss Lyonette. I didn’t actually think you’d show up. Like the inn?”
Lyonette stared at the beautiful walls that had stunned her this morning. At the inn, which rose already, faster than Hexel’s timelines.
Or rather…the wall he’d put up and about three different rooms. She stared accusingly at the Lamia.
“It appeared rather more complete from one side.”
He laughed.
“One room at a time, Miss Lyonette. The way Drevish laid this out, I can build it in sections—most likely because even he thought the budget for this would be insane. I admit, having a breakfast nook struck my fancy. And I thought we’d better get a spot for those fish before the rains stop.”
The ‘fish room’ was fascinating, and he toured the two across the rooms that were done. You could walk into the room with a huge pool and cast a line and almost instantly catch a fish. In fact, Calescent and Elia were fishing for more ingredients at that moment.
Elia nearly hurled herself into the pool to grab a fish when she realized she had company. Calescent just grinned at Lyonette.
“You should see the breakfast nook. Is very classy. Inkpaper put books up there.”
Was his diction improving? She thought it was! The ‘breakfast nook’ was indeed the same bright room with a beautiful view of the landscape. Lyonette sighed.
“Oh, it’s so classy!”
“I enjoy a cup of coffee here, myself. The Goblins love it, and the Antinium put their ‘beanbags of fluff’ over there…I’m considering working on the garden next. I think those Bush Shambler things want more greenery and with all the undead around—well, I’d say they make me nervous, but Drakes still scare me at night.”
Hexel had scars from his first run-in with hostile Drakes in Izril, and Lyonette turned to him.
“Hexel, are you alright? Truly, you work so much for Liscor. No one’s given you trouble, have they?”
He slithered around the room, inspecting the walls, before replying.
“Truthfully? Not in Liscor beyond comments and a few idiots. But I’m worried if this new Council isn’t full of…pragmatic people. Elirr is very generous with his, ah, time. I think he’ll win his election, but it’s funny how much I care about this city’s future. I know you’re staying out of politics, but Krshia has been worried and wanting to talk with you.”
Guiltily, Lyonette sat on a swivel-chair and hung her head.
“I’ll speak to her. It’s just—”
“I know. Hard to love a city that tried to burn down your inn. I’m working hard to make sure whatever comes next, this inn won’t fall. But even if Drevish thinks it was made to be his finest inn…I don’t know if it can hold off a hundred thousand Draugr. Even so, I’m proud of this work.”
That was all Hexel said. He smiled at Lyonette and Ilvriss.
“Don’t let me interrupt you two young lovebirds. And feel free to use the three rooms I’ve got built. Just be careful around the construction site; I’ll put down some pathways.”
Lyonette and Ilvriss both began denying that they were doing anything like that, and Hexel chortled as he slithered off. Embarrassed, Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“To prevent rumors, what did you want me to do, Lyonette? Just tour the inn?”
She shook a fist at Hexel’s tail.
“Nothing untoward, Wall Lord! Just a bit of exertion!”
He hesitated.
“Er, I think I should retire early. It’s been a long day and—”
Her face flamed over, and she seized his arm, leaning on him and half-dragging, half being held up towards their destination.
“Argh, shut up! Follow me!”
 
——
 
The ballroom was everything Lyonette had wanted. It had that real Terandrian feel to it, from the gable arches to the huge, decorative fireplace that had an enchanted, blue magical fire in it. Not Erin’s flames or it would have frosted the beautiful, tiled dancefloor that just so happened to have Calanfer’s sigil etched on it.
It took all Ilvriss’ will not to make a comment about Terandrian excess, and he was a Wall Lord of Salazsar. But the [Princess] was happy, and she swept around in it.
“See?”
He…didn’t see. Until she struck a pose and began doing a familiar kick-step. Then Ilvriss blinked at her.
“Lyonette, what are you…?”
“The Highstepper, Ilvriss! We failed at it! I need a dance partner who can keep up! You’re the only trained dancer I know except for Ushar and Dalimont, and they have to do their jobs!”
Ser Dalimont shot Ilvriss a glance that spoke to the fact that the [Knight] also probably didn’t want to dance with his employer, which Ilvriss got. The Wall Lord hesitated.
