“Lyonette, is this to help with the Lischelles? Even if we mastered the dance, I really doubt it’d do that much—”
“What? Nonsense, it would impress them! We just need to—how does this step work? One, and two, and—ow—”
She winced, and he saw her wobble. Dalimont was there in a flash, and Ilvriss recalled what she’d said about her condition.
[Crippled Reflexes]. She was not well. That just added to his reluctance.
“Lyonette, I truly don’t think it’ll be the silver arrow to open them up.”
Plus, it seems like a hellish dance. He enjoyed dancing well enough, but the Highstepper was a showman’s dance. Designed to punish the arrogant and break all shins. Lyonette’s face fell.
“I…you don’t want to? I understand, Ilvriss. I know it’s not the most critical. I just thought—and I didn’t do well, even with [Flawless Attempt]. Funny, I’ve never failed a [Flawless Attempt] before. But of course, we can—”
Ser Dalimont was staring at Wall Lord Ilvriss with great entreaty. Ilvriss blinked at Lyonette’s truly crestfallen face, and he had a thought.
Oh. She just loves dancing. Like Erin. Only, Lyonette loved this kind of dancing, which was technical, hard. But she was hurt…he hesitated, then smiled.
“If it means that much to you, Lyonette, of course I have time. And you know, you’re right. We could demonstrate that Highstepper if we do another of those cookouts. I hate losing in anything.”
He made a show of tossing his coat off, and she brightened up.
“You’re sure? I’d hate to do it if you’re not willing—”
“Nonsense, it’s good exercise, and I do think it’s rather a challenge. Er, but maybe we should warm up.”
“Of course! And we had that splendid dance in Oteslia, remember?”
He did. He truly did. Wall Lord Ilvriss thought to himself as he walked forwards and joined her in some stretching, then conferred over the steps of this horrible dance which Ser Dalimont had found for them…this he did appreciate about Lyonette.
He remembered that dance and seeing her in Ailendamus. Her [Dance of Blessings] with that damn…actually, Ilvriss set his jaw.
If that damn Duke can dance with her, I can spare her at least a few jigs! He was all stiff without having much time to train at the dig sites, anyways. So he smiled as she took his hand and bowed.
“Wall Lord, will you do me the honor of the dance?”
He bowed over her hand.
“It would be my honor, [Princess].”
She beamed at him, and for a second, he thought of dancing with Periss in private. His face fell, but then he took a breath. Time…Periss would shake her head at him if she could see him now. But he wished she was with him, agonizing over damn Humans and trying to dig up a city of the past.
His heart hurt sometimes, but at least he had friends, true friends to fill it. Ser Dalimont produced a song crystal, and they began to dance slowly.
