When she was done, he just lay there, and his mind, adapted to the politics of mortal realms, understood just how much trouble she’d landed herself in.
This is not going to go well. I might have to intercede militarily, but bringing a force to Izril is no easy matter. It’d be war if I sent an army and—
The Wyrm cracked open both his eyes and spoke.
“Princess Lyonette du Marquin. One question.”
“Rhisveri, I really need your help, and I am calling on my favors to you. No jokes, no insults, please?”
“Perish the thought.”
He actually sat up slightly on the floor as she gave him a stressed gaze. The Wyrm cleared his throat, and she waited.
“Lyonette. In this incident with a Hunter-Killer Golem, from House Terland, who has the best Golem-assassins in the world, where a Wall Lord’s life was in imminent jeopardy…I wish to have the details accurate, so is this correct?”
“Yes? What’s the question, Rhisveri?”
He eyed her, noting her dishevelled red hair, her travel dress stained with dirt and sweat from the road, and he bet she smelled like it too. Delicious sweat and anxiety and—Rhisveri blinked, slapped his real body’s face with his tail, and spoke. Focus on what mattered.
“Lyonette. In this situation, and in the north where you were aware of hostile Humans, I am sure a good mother and [Princess] like yourself wouldn’t have had a child like, oh, say, Nanette and Mrsha anywhere within a mile of the danger, correct? You, naturally, didn’t bring them, or you had them well behind the danger zone with a full escort of bodyguards. Yes?”
Lyonette opened her mouth, then closed it. She hesitated, coughed, and glanced past Duke Rhisveri at the curled up Wyrm.
“Er—Rhisveri, Ulva Terland might be dying now! This is not the time for—Colfa and Ushar were in front of Nanette, and Mrsha was back at the—”
He began screaming at her, forgetting even his ailments for a moment.
“Lyonette. LYONETTE. You cannot keep doing this. Are you a mother or some kind of reckless, child-hating maniac trying to turn them into child soldiers or caskets?”
“Rhisveri, how dare—”
“No! No, shut up! I’m a Wyrm, and I’m more conscientious of child-mortality than you are! Lyonette, this is utterly unacceptable. STOP BRINGING CHILDREN INTO DANGER AREAS. I WILL SIC THE AGELUM ON YOU AND HAVE THEM TAKE CUSTODY OF THE CHILDREN. WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU?”
The throne room shook with his voice, and the [Princess] clapped her hands to her ears, face bright red. The doors opened, and Dame Chorisa and the others stared at the Wyrm upbraiding the [Princess]. She was trying to get a word in edgewise.
“I—we didn’t know it would be dangerous, and we had to help—”
He just stared at her. After a few moments, Lyonette closed her mouth, then nodded.
“…It was wrong to expose Nanette to danger. You’re…you’re right, Rhisveri. Dead gods, you’re right.”
She appeared vaguely concussed by the idea. Frankly, so was he. When Rhisveri, the Wyrm of Ailendamus, was the most conscientious person about child-safety in a room, something had gone terribly wrong.
He cleared his throat after a moment.
“Ahem. Well, let’s put that aside for the moment. I see the problem. If the Quarass is reaching out…I’ll do likewise, not that we have many contacts in House Terland. If it’s escalation, get that Drake to run or he’s dead, no matter what I send. I’ll try to help.”
She nodded, relieved, and he began marshalling what he had. He’d have to ask House Shoel about healing or the Agelum…damn, this would be tricky with the Golem-lovers. She turned.
“I have to call my mother. Thank you, Rhisveri. Anything you can do…are you well?”
She glanced back at him. The Wyrm blinked with both his bodies.
“Me? Why would I be anything less than stellar?”
Lyonette eyed him.
“You’ve been lying on your back the entire time we’ve been talking, and your real body is, um, curled up and leaking green.”
She pointed, and the door opened. Dame Chorisa and the definitely-eavesdropping Thirsting Veil Knights glanced at Rhisveri’s real body as if just putting together that this was not normal for any species. One began running, and Rhisveri just lay there.
She noticed. I love you. He exhaled gustily.
“Just a natural biological phenomenon. It will pass. Don’t presume you understand Wyrms, Miss Marquin. Don’t you have an international incident to head off?”
She jumped.
“I do—contact me when you have anything, Rhisveri! Will you be at the inn?”
“I may be slightly indisposed, but I shall attempt to be.”
He was truthful there. She nodded and vanished, and the Wyrm lay there. She’d noticed he wasn’t well.
Wow.
He wasn’t sure if the bar was high or low given that. But the Wyrm…he groaned as he tried to focus, but his willpower was being sapped. He’d thought he’d had a handle on it, but…
“Damn Ryoka Griffin. Damn you. And whomever that is. Who was it again?”
Oh, right. Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui. A female Wyrm, a Great Wyrm from the lands of the fae, apparently. Someone who had seemingly wormed—heh—her way into the gathering of the fae at the Summer Solstice last year and, in doing so, made contact with the Wind Runner, whom she had known would run into Rhisveri in the future.
Or just guessed. Laid her plans well in anticipation that the immortalphiliac Wind Runner would meet some Wyrm eventually. Was it genius or just good intuition? Either way, applaud the female Wyrm’s intellect.
Smart as I am, almost. A survivor from another world with biology like mine, or Wyrms are just some kind of constant in even multiverse realities. That’s rather flattering. He could almost imagine her. Vast as he was, cunning, mighty in both magic and fang, and probably…sinuous.
Like, super sinuous, able to triple-curl on herself despite being hundreds of feet long, and he wondered how she looked in person. He should have grabbed a memory from Ryoka’s head, but of course, the Wind Runner wouldn’t have smelled or tasted her presence fully. Was Sikeri poisonous? She had to be. He wanted to lick her scales clean with his tongue, piece by—
Another shudder passed through the Great Wyrm of Ailendamus, and as he lay there for a second, despite the heat in his body, he was cold. Because the intellectual part of him saw it.
Here it is.
Death.
The great poison that would end Duke Rhisveri, the blade the Wind Runner had brought was no Relic of old, no spell or sword of the future. It was just…a female Wyrm’s musk, which would run out…in three decades. Which, once scented, was like a poison of the mind and body.
It had put Rhisveri into…mating season.
‘Heat’ was the wrong word and referred to other mammalian instincts. It was also derogatory, if, sadly, accurate. Rhisveri was experiencing, for the first time in thousands of years, a base, carnal attraction to another member of his species.
He had never met another Wyrm who was female that wasn’t also born of his mother. Let alone a fully-grown one. Rhisveri had studied his own species’ biology. He knew everything, such as the fact that male Wyrms died after mating with a female.
Highly objectionable, but a biological phenomenon that meant that female Wyrms could sire broods of literal millions if two Great Wyrms mated. The older and more powerful the Wyrm, the more numerous and powerful the offspring.
But his kind was dead, and so he’d actually considered never having to die to mate one of the few benefits of being utterly, soul-crushingly alone in this world absent of his kind, with no family but the ones he had found and made. He did not want to die, you see.
The problem was…well, other worlds, eh? Rhisveri had thought when he’d first detected Sikeri’s pheromones that he could master it. He’d had some…attraction…but he’d used his great willpower to suppress the urges, thinking that was that. Any male Wyrm who didn’t resist was just some sucker who didn’t understand the catch.
…Now Rhisveri got it. The allure of a female Wyrm was biological, in his very cells. And it didn’t relent over time.
It got worse. He was literally steaming with a desire to throw himself into her coils and die in one final bang. Which really, really sucked because…his intellectual mind knew it was his end.
But dead gods damnit, I want to know what that’s like! Ten thousand years of isolation and the first she-Wyrm who’s not my sisters shows up and I have to die so she gets to lay a brood? Not happening! But I wish I knew…
There was a joke in this world that if you went thirty years without having sex you were accorded a [Wizard] class, which real [Wizards] really resented as jokes went. Plus, it wasn’t even accurate, because to Rhisveri’s understanding, Mages of Wistram were highly promiscuous.
But what did you get if you were over 11,000 years old and had never, you know…?
It wasn’t like he was insecure. He was a Great Wyrm! He could literally roll over and crush an army. It was just that Rhisveri had heard it was great. Wonderful. Was he not allowed to want to know? Was he not…
“Can I just know without dying for it?”
The Wyrm muttered. He lay there as Chorisa ran back in with Dame Paterghost, Sophridel, and one of the Merfolk. Whatever objections they might have had to the usually taciturn Wyrm were silenced in a moment.
“Rhisveri, we are calling for Agelum and every member who knows healing. Just hold—hold on.”
Even haughty Paterghost sounded unnerved. Rhisveri waved both his bodies’ appendages at them.
“Don’t worry, I’m just…under the weather. Plenty to do. What? What are you staring at me for?”
It was only when they glanced at each other that he produced a mirror. Then he groaned.
“Oh, come on.”
His normally luxurious, green scales with a hint of white, like the deadliest viper in the world? The redolent scales of armor beyond Adamantium’s toughness, the green-and-purple fins that spoke to the poison to slay a nest of vipers with a single drop?
Gone. Rhisveri Zessoprical’s scales were now a bright, rose-red in color. And glowing.
…He decided to send Lyonette a message saying he might be a bit indisposed on this particular problem of hers. Few things could take the Wyrm of Ailendamus out, but as Mrsha had observed across the many worlds—he might have a problem. And the cure was way worse than the disease.
 
——
 
“Did the [Healer] say whether or not she’s…dead?”
“Not yet. Hearts of stone—no one knows for certain. The family’s flooding back into the mansion. Someone told them.”
“Those idiots—who? I saw Lady Irs and her entire family riding in on Golems. It’s a madhouse out there.”
“There’s more faces in the courtyard than the annual gathering. It’s like a festival.”
“Or a funeral. The last time the mansion was this full was when Petria died.”
“…There’s another person contacting us. Not just the Quarass of Germina. Some Duke in Ailendamus. He wants to help.”
“Aren’t we at war with them? Or we were—how did he find out?”
“Who knows? Someone leaking information? Detection Skills? The Drakes told everyone?”
Silence, then, a longer one, and the conversation had already been full of pregnant pauses. But the conclusion might be stillborn. At last, the two Lords of Stone, senior members of House Terland, turned to regard their peers who sat in the inner sanctum and the empty high seat.
“If Ulva dies, is it war?”
“I…we have to do something. We elect a new leader, I suppose. Dead gods. Golems speak truth to mercy, who?”
“Nouzcrat’s the most senior. By rights—”
“Nouzcrat’s no leader. He’s no Petria or Aunt Ulva.”
“No one’s like the Twin Virtues. No one, Madrinal. The old days are gone. Maviola El has burnt her last. We lost Fulviolo, Gresaria, Linter and Inawi Veltras—Lord Hibrec Wellfar, you remember him?”
“Stones, that takes me back. They used to be tall as giants, even when I sat on a Golem’s shoulders. You remember how Hibrec would sail into harbor, run his ship onto the streets, and just stride off of it onto a rooftop? The old Harbormistress used to give him so much grief, but all the Five Families would be on his ship and come down like heroes. What happened to us?”
“The Sacrifice of Roses, the King of Destruction—the Antinium Wars? Take your pick. How d’you live up to them, anyways?”
“…Maviola El might still be alive. No one saw her die, and I’d expect a crater of everburning flames to mark her death.”
“She’s dead, Madrinal. She’s dead, and we’re alone. So, Nouzcrat or not?”
“He’s too cautious. We need the highest levels.”
“That would be Xitegen, then, but he’s young.”
“He’s pushing Level 40 at least. Who else can claim that among the Lords of Stone?”
“He’s a radical—”
“He kicked the Goblin King.”
“I still don’t think it was—”
“Who else?”
Another, longer pause, and then a [Lady] joined the duo and it became a trio.
“Are you talking about who to elect? For shame! Great Aunt Ulva’s not even dead and—”
“We have to do something, Minlera. We thought Xitegen?”
“Enough of who’s next! What about the Drakes? Do we call for an army in the morning? Muster a levy and just attack them?”
“Now? We don’t have the troops, Minlera.”
“What do you mean? You saw what they did to Great Aunt Ulva!.”
“Yes…and have you taken a look around Izril? Between the New Lands and the winter, it’s been damn hard. If we levy the cities now—”
“You want to do nothing, Izin?”
“I didn’t say that. I’m just telling you that this is not the time. I’d rather send twenty Golems south. Hunter-Killers, one way mission. Golem Hearts armed to detonate. Three per Walled City and two for other cities. Hit every Wall Lord and notable.”
“We’ll never get them back.”
“They killed Ulva. We have to do something.”
“She’s not dead yet!”
A fourth and fifth voice.
“If she dies, I will vote to unleash a Golem from the innermost vaults. She deserves nothing less. Wipe out all the Drakes digging there, then hit Salazsar.”
“Nouzcrat…they won’t stop at that.”
“So? The Drakes have lost more than we have. With the tribes against them, what are they going to do? I heard they lost a [General] and their Grand Strategist at the Winter Solstice.”
“Was that all real? I saw the scrying orb. I read the reports. But the casualties were low.”
“Low? We lost nearly thirty Golems and—!”
“And it was a hundred thousand Draugr, Minlera. It should have been like Pallass’ 2nd Army in the High Passes. It wasn’t. Oh, people died. I was ordering from Vaunt and they told me some hero of the city died. But it didn’t feel like a regular war.”
