Damia wondered whether it was her association with the criminal underworld that made her class go from [Lady] to [Dame]. She wasn’t sure she liked it.
[Dame] was still quasi-noble, and it was acknowledged as a formal noble class of a kind…but it sounded to her distinctly like she wasn’t even qualified by full [Lady] status, much like an esquire up north.
She really didn’t like the implication of that. Was it because her mother had all the power and she and her brother were largely ornamental?
At least she’d consolidated. That was something, and her new Skills seemed powerful. Not that she’d got them from more than surviving.
Damia jerked awake the day after their encounter with the half-Elf. She had a crick in her neck, and the Unmarked Coach had finally stopped at its destination.
“All out! We’re at Celum.”
“Took long enough.”
The two [Gang Leaders] were the only ones speaking. They were alive; the Unmarked Coach had sped off when the half-Elf had gotten distracted with the singing Goblin and driven erratically at full speed, trying to lose him in case he came back to finish the job. What a side-trip this had been.
Damia Reinhart survived her first close-call with death aside from the time she had nearly choked on that oversized grape. Her reward? Level 10, which she took. From Binevy, her new [Head Servant]’s smile, she’d levelled too.
No one else had gotten a levelup, clearly. The other three passengers. The member of the Sister of Chell’s leadership Haple, the fussy secretary; and the two gang leaders, male and female, were probably all over Level 30. The female gang leader scowled at Damia.
“Levelled, didja?”
“How’d you—?”
Damia jumped and admitted the truth after a second since the woman knew. The female leader spat as she fiddled with her daggers.
“Got an [Eye for Talent], don’t I? You just jumped up. Good for you. Always said you could level up to Level 10 by sneezing hard enough. Us? We just wasted time and maybe got on some bastard’s kill list. Wonderful day. At least we’re alive. Plus, looks like that really was a freak accident. I’ve never seen her freak out this bad.”
The crash made Damia flinch, and she drew back in the carriage. They were in a copse near Celum, within walking distance of the city. Only, the copse was getting smaller mostly because—
Karsaeu strode past Damia and the passengers disembarking, face like thunder. She swore an oath in a language Damia didn’t know and kicked another tree.
It went over, roots spraying upwards in a shower of dirt that rained down on the coach’s roof. The upset, scared Djinni was kicking down trees. She spun.
“Get out of my coach! No one’s riding. I’m going to ground, and any one of you’d be safer doing the same.”
“Fair advice.”
That was the member of Haple. She came out, adjusting her spectacles, and brushed at her scribe’s clothing. Then she nodded at Damia, Binevy, and the two [Gang Leaders].
“I’m pleased we survived. I’m sure we’ll all keep notes on whatever that was. One thing: we never met. You don’t know me. Try to use the knowledge of who I am and I will have your mouths filled with razors, then drown you in a bucket.”
The threat against a Reinhart and two powerful [Gang Leaders] should have been beyond the pale, but Damia just watched the two [Gang Leaders] nod. The male one actually saluted her.
“No trouble, miss.”
“Good.”
Those plain eyes found Damia, and she nodded rapidly.
“Absolutely. Lips sealed. What happens on the coach—”
Wham.
Another tree went down, and they decided to make tracks. That was how Damia parted with the two [Gang Leaders]; they strolled off as a group of [Riders] came galloping out of Celum.
“Boss, boss! We didn’t know where you went after—”
“Couple of the lads tried to have a word with that guy. He minced ‘em. Rotated all their limbs around, and their heads, and just—”
“You fucking idiots, we told you to stay put!”
The female leader exploded, and the male one glanced at Damia and the Haple member.
“Shut your yaps. We’re all friendly here. Don’t go alarmin’ the goodfolk.”
They still had to get into the city, but the [Guards] at the gates and the Golems barely glanced at the gang who literally just walked past the checkpoint. Damia whistled.
“That’s some anti-detection Skill.”
She had to wait in line, much to her annoyance. The member of Haple actually went through, answering the basic questions. When she confirmed she wasn’t entering the city to commit a crime, Damia almost laughed before realizing that might get her killed.
Also…it might be true. If she’s just here to manage the Sisters…how clever! In fact, the Sisters were waiting for this woman too, although her reception was fascinating.
A huge woman named Yeire, the local boss of Celum’s Sisters of Chell, was waiting with a group of six very bored women who all appeared fairly deadly. When the scribe-like woman walked over and waved a hand, Yeire blinked, then spat.
“You serious? They made us wait all this time…for a bean-flicker? Look at this, girls! One of the damn counters is here to complain about us wastin’ gold and inventory our stocks!”
So saying, she put the woman in a headlock and began mussing her hair up. Damia and Binevy were frozen with a kind of horror, but the smaller woman put up with the ridicule.
“Excuse me, let me go. I’m here on the business of you-know-who—”
“Yeah, yeah. Shut it, runt. Just give us our orders. You here to check on the group that went with that Drake? Word from Xesci is they got messed up—”
“That’s my j—”
“Okay, get moving.”
They shoved her forwards, harassing her, grabbing her clipboard, rather like schoolyard bullies. Damia kept her face controlled, and internally, she thought it was another bit of genius.
If Haple pretended to be the rank-and-file accountants like that, no wonder no one knew who they were! Then they got to see what each branch of their gang was really like. So long as they were fine being the abused underlings. Were all of them like…?
A prickle ran down Damia’s spine suddenly, like someone poking her with something sharp. The ‘bean-flicker’ never turned her head, but Damia quickly averted her gaze and stopped trying to think about Haple’s identity.
The sensation vanished.
Damia took a step forwards, drawing a breath as the bored Watch and Golems waved her forwards.
“And you are…?”
“Lady Damia of House Reinhart!”
Binevy introduced Damia, and the young woman smiled at their reactions. She’d come all this way to find a business opportunity. At least she had noble privilege on her s—
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland tossed Damia out of his city so fast she barely had a chance to argue with him. Heads turned as the red-faced Damia kicked and shouted while a Golem carried her under one arm. Primera, his repaired Golem, was striding down the street as Xitegen walked along.
“Lord Xitegen, you cannot lay a h—”
“I can and will, Lady Damia. Do remember me to your mother. Or don’t. I quite detest her. Don’t you sleep with your brother? Incest is banned in Celum. It should be. Seconda, make a note of that.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
The woman, who seemed even more animated than most Golems, dipped her head, and Damia reddened. Xitegen was not keeping his voice down.
“I am a [Lady] of—”
“You’re a child. You don’t have power here or your mother would have sent you with an escort. I’ve had enough of Reinharts in my city. Now, gate or magic door?”
“When my family hears of—”
For a moment, the Golem Lord’s eyes flashed, and Damia went still. Because she had just seen danger, and it was the same look. His voice was steady, brisk.
“They know better than to cross a Terland in Golem lands. Or they’ll re-learn. Door or gate? Last chance.”
“D-door! Please!”
Primera changed directions at Xitegen’s nod. He gave Damia a second look.
“A Reinhart who says please. You might survive longer than a year after all. Excellent to meet you, cousin. Don’t let it happen again. Excuse me. Miss Liska?”
He rapped on the door, and nothing happened. Xitegen sighed.
“Ten minute delay.”
He tapped his foot for eight minutes, speaking to his underlings as Damia hung there, and people in line stared at her. Then the door opened.
“All aboard to—huh, you don’t see that everyday.”
Liska stared at Damia, whose rear was dangling in the air. Xitegen Terland nodded.
“Good morning, Miss Liska. One for…anywhere but here.”
He produced eight silver coins, put them in a bowl, and nodded. Primera tossed Damia into the portal room, and they shut the door. Binevy hurried through after it reopened, and Liska peered at Damia Reinhart. Then she shrugged.
“Okay, where to?”
Damia stood, wanting to scream, faintly red-cheeked, people chuckling at her in line, but she kept her face controlled.
Do not make a scene. I must be allowed to work here. I will remember that.
“L-Liscor, please, Miss.”
“Okay, stand in that line. Next! Pallass!”
The door opened and closed, and Damia shuffled into line, grateful people stopped paying attention to her. Her breathing calmed, and she admired the door, the system in place here, the Gnoll.
If I had this, I’d be rich! Look at how powerful it is, how useful! This was why she’d come here. When the door to Liscor opened, revealing a rainy world past a little checkpoint with some members of the Watch ushering people through, Damia smiled.
A foreign city. Ripe for the intelligent and precocious. She stepped forwards—
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart’s head was flat on the table. Watch Captain Zevara exhaled some more smoke.
“…Are you listening, Lady Reinhart?”
She’d gotten eight steps before the Watch had asked for her name, and Binevy, the idiot, had given Damia’s last name to them. Now she was in the Watch House.
“I have done nothing wrong.”
“No, Ma’am. You have not. This is merely a friendly greeting from me. Say hello to your mother if you object. And just so you know, Miss, we will be watching you. If you break a law, we will hold you to the same standard as other guests of Liscor. Without bias. But we will be watching.”
Damia hated her mother more today than she had in her entire life. Cecille had utterly poisoned multiple cities against her. She protested.
“I have no plans on—”
“Do you want to swear on truth stone you have no intentions of working with a criminal in any capacity in Liscor? Because I’d love to have that on record, Lady Damia.”
The young woman’s lips compressed, and Zevara gave her a cool smile.
“Welcome to Liscor, Miss Damia. Do excuse me; I have crimes to solve. Don’t end up on my list. Get out of my office.”
Thus began a rather unfortunate time in Liscor, and the connected cities, for Damia Reinhart. Because, you see, the problem with being a Reinhart was reputation.
 
——
 
Banned from Pallass even though she didn’t give her name. She applied at the desk for a day-pass, and the Drake used a Skill, glanced up at her, and told her the Five Families were not allowed in Pallass.
She tried to tour Liscor, but there were some kind of elections going on, and some crowds chanted ‘no more Humans’ at her. When she went to find an Antinium, just to scope them out as potential hirelings or see about those healing scrolls, one took one look at her and ran screaming.
“Thief Lady! Thief lady! Heeeeeeeeelp!”
The Watch being there actually saved Damia; the panicked Worker had thought she was going to steal his doll or some nonsense. He’d apparently recognized her as similar to her mother. However, the Antinium were already on-guard after the Zevara incident; rumors quickly spread, and not a single one would talk to Damia Reinhart.
“That’s her! That’s the bad lady’s daughter. Don’t talk to her.”
A Worker was, in fact, running ahead of Damia wherever she went, pulling aside all the other Antinium—and their friends—and pointing Damia out to them. One of the [Guards] assigned to watch her was sniggering behind a hand. But that was…fine!
She didn’t have to make inroads with the underworld in Liscor. She didn’t need to capitalize on the Antinium and their damn new scrolls! She—she had plenty of people she’d been researching! For instance, what about—
 
——
 
It took a long time to hike out across the treacherous bridges to the village of Rheirgest. Let alone find someone in charge. They had some giant…barn of ivory that had peculiar noises coming from it, and when a [Necromancer] finally emerged to hear her out, he looked her up and down.
“Work for you, milady? I dunno. Can you raise your chin slightly? Give me a scowl?”
She stared at him. When she did so, reluctantly, the man pulled someone aside.
“Leiithe, whaddya think?”
The woman glanced over from wheeling a skeleton…affixed to a wheel…into the barn-structure. A young woman with a Solar Cycles uniform was walking out of the barn, wiping a greasy rag. Damia stared at the woman until the two [Necromancers] blocked her. Leiithe scratched her head.
“I’m not seeing it. Sure, they say the Reinharts were pretty villainous, but—”
“I’m not that kind of Reinhart! I’m very respectable, Miss Leiithe!”
Damia protested and, for once, misjudged her audience. Because the two [Necromancers] glanced at each other.
“See? And she’s got a good look. Nice scowl; I can see her going ‘off with her head!’, but I’m not feeling it. Now, our [Princess], there’s a woman with potential.”
“Oh, absolutely. She’s got a bit of that royal madness in her already. The cracks? Oh, it makes me feel bad, but the style. And give her a decade, two, and she’d be a real [Mad Queen]. Sorry, Lady Reinhart.”
They turned to Damia, and she wobbled in place. It turned out Rheirgest thought she wasn’t stylish enough. Plus, they had a project already.
 
——
 
She made it into Riverfarm and was chatting up the locals on prices and such for a good two hours before the [Lady] found her. Lady Rie Valerund smiled at Damia Reinhart, who glanced up from a conversation with Farmer Ram.
“Lady Damia Reinhart? I’m Lady Rie. May I greet—?”
Rather to Rie’s surprise, Damia’s shoulders sagged. The [Lady] raised a hand.
“Hello, Lady Rie. No need. I’ll see myself out, shall I?”
She wandered over to the door and waited to eject herself. Rie opened her mouth, then turned to Mister Ram.
“That was the easiest time I’ve ever had with a Reinhart. Do you know what that was about?”
He shrugged.
 
——
 
The Dwarf in Esthelm threw a hammer at Damia. She ran away.
 
——
 
By the end of the day, a rather defeated Damia was sitting at a bar in the Drunken Gnoll as Binevy tried to cheer her up. It turned out that even if this area was a hotspot of invention and progress…every obvious place had been claimed.
