‘Ulva Terland is Dead.’
 
Hobus Macreid, esquire, had never known the horrors of his new class or job until today. Esquire meant ‘young nobleman’ or shield-bearer to a [Knight]. It was a term for someone who wasn’t really a [Lord]…too distant to hold any power in his house. A nobleman in title alone.
First Landing was the only place in Izril which still had them. These days, there were so few nobles that most ‘esquires’ became full [Lords]. But not Hobus. He was actually a sign of better times, in a sense.
His father had sat him down to explain the issue when Hobus had been teased about his class. It was down to…capacity. Just like how armies had limits on how many officer classes they were allowed, or a kingdom couldn’t have infinite [Barons], an aristocratic house could only support so many, well, nobles. If they were bigger or had more influence, or had just wanted to, Hobus would have been made [Lord], but it hadn’t gone down that way. Nor did Hobus really want the class.
He still had six siblings ahead of him in his family, and so he’d taken to other classes to make a living.
Such as…[Newspaper Editor]. A quite prestigious job, and he had joined News From the North, the First Landing version of the many newspapers. It had been fun being important, breaking stories only First Landing cared about. He’d gotten in touch with other newspaper organizations too, even had Wistram News Network reach out; his job was not to review the wording of stories, but to put together the best headlines for the next day’s press. Then a Golem, Terland-made, would print it out, fast as could be, with quill and ink.
Someone had offered to sell a ‘printing press’ to his company twice. First, Gnolls in the Great Plains, then Golaen of all places. He’d politely declined, and when his [Newspaper Manager], Robbel, had heard the offer, the other man had agreed it was pointless.
Why bother? A Golem could do it faster, cheaper, and more beautifully. That was House Terland for you. For a bit of advertising in each paper glorifying them, they’d sent over this magnificent Golem who resembled a four-armed Naga, a male one with spectacles built onto his blank, calm face as his hands blurred, printing the rest of the test-run of the next day’s paper.
Hobus stared at the Terland Golem now. Watching as it moved with speed and precision not even a person with Skills could match. He waited for…something.
Anything. A reaction, perhaps an acknowledgement that its master of masters, the matriarch of House Terland, was dead. Or…Hobus glanced down at the second paper being printed.
 
‘Ulva Terland Survives Assassination Attempt!’
 
A second paper slid into the tray next to the first. This one with a different front-page story for a different world. Hobus picked it up, careful not to touch the ink or the illustration of Ulva Terland still drying. He held it up, as if willing it to be tomorrow’s headline.
He didn’t know. But the best practice of newspapers was, apparently, this. If you knew a story was going to break and you didn’t know which way it would go, prepare for either.
He hadn’t come up with that; it had come from Rémi Canada, who Hobus’ newspaper had hired to consult. A very friendly, knowledgeable young man that made Hobus feel like his job was more than just earning fame and a bit of fortune. The news mattered. But oh, dead gods.
“If she’s dead, what happens next?”
Robbel was in the room with Hobus, and the young esquire jumped. He half-turned; Robbel was a former [Trader], not a man who’d ever made it big selling things, but who’d jumped on the newspaper business. He had ink on his white sleeves that were rolled up so he could haul bundles of newspaper around. He worked hard; they didn’t have a Golem for loading, so the staff of fourteen could work like Demons some days to get everything organized for the Runners to pick up. They’d send the newspapers off to the Guilds and whoever else had a subscription.
Hobus sometimes felt like he was the odd one out. He was the only noble here, and as such, he didn’t do much lifting. He decided what was important and navigated the political waters he understood; he knew what not to print and what might attract trouble. He could also soothe ruffled feathers when someone complained about the stories being about them.
All well and proper, as Hobus had been raised to understand it. He was above the common man, but Robbel was his boss, and sometimes it felt like the common man was still better friends with the staff than Hobus. They went out drinking, laughed and joked, and Hobus was the nobleman who was the snooty, important fellow you couldn’t joke with.
But today…today no one wanted Hobus’ job. Because the news was going to be…
“Hobus? If Ulva Terland’s dead, what happens?”
Hobus realized he hadn’t replied. He turned and saw a [Gossip Reporter] eying him. Two [Rumor Journalists], a [Prominent Columnist]—you got classes like these in high society. Everyone waited. A [Typo Finder] was checking over the newspaper, but not really doing her job. Hobus swallowed.
“If she’s dead…it’s war.”
“With the Drakes? The article House Terland sent in said—I mean, if you read it closely, they sent a Hunter-Killer at that Wall Lord.”
Hobus nodded; he’d read it too, and they’d had to translate it into an ‘unbiased’ account, or as close as you could. Rémi’s instructions, that. Otherwise, they might have just printed the Terland account. But the nobles’ firsthand testimony was in there…and Hobus had to explain.
“It doesn’t matter, though, Nass. If she’s dead, it’s war.”
“But if they were defending—”
“It’s war because she’s the head of House Terland. It doesn’t matter why. If she’s dead, the Five Families will declare war. If we’re…lucky, it’ll just be a fight at the Bloodfields.”
“Lucky.”
Robbel spoke, the gray seeming to stand up as he brushed at the spiky, short-cropped hair edged with a hint of blue. He massaged his jowls, glanced around. At the newspaper.
“How…how many people would we send, Hobus? Give it to me straight, lad. We’ve had tons of colonists go down to the New Lands.”
“…For Ulva Terland? My guess is they’d have every city send at least a thousand troops. The Five Families would insist on—if it was restrained, they’d probably send twenty thousand. Each.”
So an army of a hundred thousand—on the low end—would go down to the Bloodfields to fight the Drakes. Which meant the Drakes would have to match those numbers. Hobus went on.
“The real issue is they wouldn’t fall back like the regular, yearly battles. And that’s if House Terland didn’t push for more. It could be double that number. When the Drakes killed a member of the Wellfar Admiralty at sea, I was told we sent four hundred thousand down south. Less than five thousand came back. It…it was over a thousand years ago, but they said it caused a huge impact in the north. We killed at least that many Drakes, though.”
Dead silence. No one said a word, and Hobus clarified after a moment.
“It’s not something I think would happen. But she’s…House Terland. They have to do something.”
“I haven’t even met my idol, Drassi, yet. We can’t go to war.”
The [Gossip Reporter], Nass, or Nassilendra, whispered. A while ago, that would have sounded insane. Liking a Drake? Not wanting to go to war with them? But Hobus agreed. His household hadn’t sent troops to the Bloodfields since he’d been a kid, before the Second Antinium War. He’d seen the news, watched Sir Relz and Noass and all the antics in the south. If there was a reason to go to war, it was to support the Gnolls after the Meeting of Tribes. The New Lands were waiting. This wasn’t what they should be doing.
“It’s how it is.”
He mumbled, seeing their eyes on him. Accusatorily, as if it was his fault. Hobus sat with the two newspapers in hand. Robbel murmured.
“If she lives…”
“They still have to do something. We print this and the Five Families will all want to send reprisals.”
“Which means escalation. Drakes never back down from that kind of thing.”
Chirbe, one of the older [Journalists], muttered. Silence again. Hobus sat there. And he spoke.
“If we’re lucky, it’ll be the Five Families targeting this ‘Wall Lord Ilvriss’. But if they kill him…I think Salazsar might go to war.”
“Dead gods. But they wouldn’t do that if Ulva Terland lives, right? They’re not that st—”
Someone nudged Nass, but Hobus just laughed. He chuckled as he held the newspapers in his shaking hands and smeared the fine work the Golem did. Just for a second, he thought the printing Golem glanced up, and the impassive eyes flashed, annoyed at the young man for ruining the hard work. But Hobus just laughed until tears sprang to his eyes.
“Reasonable, the Five Families? Reasonable…they say the Reinharts are back. When I was a kid, my mother told me never to cross a Reinhart or they’d run you over by ‘accident’. I thought she was joking. Then I realized she had two scars on the back of her legs she never talked about. Right at the level a carriage’s bumpers are…”
He tried to explain to them, slicing a hand across his legs. They just stared at him, and he realized they thought of nobles like him. Pampered, arrogant, powerful enough, and monied, but just that. He stood there.
“They’re mad. That’s what real nobility is. I’m sane because I’m not important, but the Five Families are true nobles. They’re all mad. For Golems, for power, for their weird lives like the Veltras or Wellfars…”
He sat down, two newspapers with two futures in hand. And Hobus saw the same outcome as he waited for dawn. He wished the Lord of House Terland hadn’t sent in the story. Maybe if they didn’t publish this, the news might spread slower, the anger might not turn to inevitable consequence. But he was the news, and he had to publish this. Didn’t he?
It was wrong. Who could stop this? Hobus’ hands shook as he searched the black and white print for a way out. Someone stop this. Someone…
 
——
 
It was late at night, and Liska was yawning. She should have clocked out of work ages ago, but she’d been helping some new friends, and she’d traded a morning shift with Xinthe to cover her bases.
She was also on-duty because Lyonette was still away from the inn, and Liska, as the door-manager, should be there to make sure the [Princess] got back safe and sound. Mrsha was here, so Liska reckoned it couldn’t be that bad, even if the girl just kept complaining about how horrible the Cowpat Plains were.
I’m telling you, Liska, it was like someone dipped a rag in the outhouses and wedged it up my nose, then gave me a swirlie in a Poo Slime before I swam a mile in Pallass’ sewers.
“Yuck, Mrsha. But it wasn’t that bad.”
Was so.
“Was not. I know you’ve got a good nose even for a kid, but c’mon. It’s just cow dung. I’ve smelled it, so have you.”
Mrsha wrote furiously, shaking her head.
It was worse, Liska! I swear to cake, it was horrible! Just gross! I’ve never smelled anything like it.
“Well, okay, fine. Maybe it was bad, but it sounded sort of fun hanging out with that Wall Lord guy. Why didn’t you get nose plugs? Also, d’you think he’ll find what he’s searching for?”
Mrsha hesitated. She scrunched her face up, and Liska realized she was doing her Roots Mrsha thing. She waved her paws.
“I don’t want to know if it’s like super destiny stuff!”
I don’t know. I just know that half the time he doesn’t even get down there. So long as Mother’s there, I think it helps. But it depends on nothing bad h—
Liska held up a paw absently as Mrsha wrote. She adjusted the door dial, anticipating someone wanting to come in.
“Looks like someone’s coming from the entrance to Cowpat Hell. Let’s just see if it’s a messenger. Lyonette said she wouldn’t b—”
The door opened, and Liska had one second of warning. She grabbed Mrsha, dove off the sofa, then there was a shout. Lyonette du Marquin rode her custom bicycle into the portal room. She screamed. Liska screamed. Mrsha screamed—silently. Nanette screamed.
“Lyonette, we’re going to—”
Wham. Lyonette hit the sofa, went off the bike, and Ser Dalimont threw himself in the path of the [Princess] and caught her before she hit a wall. Nanette went flying, and Ushar grabbed her before she could headbutt an open-mouthed Liska and Mrsha. The rest of Lyonette’s companions slammed into the Portal Room, and there was shouting.
“Everyone inside! Everyone in—”
Nerul Gemscale, several members of the Calanferian staff, and Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle hurtled into the Portal Room. The Vampiress was on foot, but sweating; she slammed the door shut. Lyonette adjusted the dial. Liska and Mrsha peeked up.
“Wha—wha—Miss Lyonette, what are you—?”
“Everyone in the [Garden of Sanctuary]! I—I need my mother, and you need Salazsar, Nerul. Use the [World’s Eye Theatre] if you have to. Mrsha, garden!”
The Gnoll girl turned to Nerul as the [Diplomat] straightened. Sweat had run through his purple coat, and some of the gemstone buttons had torn loose.
“I have to use security protocols. I’m on the way.”
“Miss Lyonette, what’s going—”
Lyonette began running as Nanette got up. The young witch’s face was pale, and she spoke as the Calanferians ran like someone had set them on fire.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette might have just murdered Lady Ulva Terland. She was trying to assassinate Ilvriss with a Golem, but Xesci was there, and we think she gave Ulva Terland a heart attack.”
Dead silence. Liska’s mouth worked.
“Who’s that…?”
Mrsha had gone pale. She straightened, held up a card.
Okay, in all the projections I saw of the future, I never saw that. What happens next?
“Besides a hundred Hunter-Killer Golems coming to kill you, me, and everything in Liscor and Ilvriss’ dig site? Hopefully we de-escalate. Inn! Move!”
Lyonette charged forwards as her daughters and staff ran after her. She ran for a door, yanked it open—slammed into a wall, and Liska winced. The [Princess] held her nose as it began to bleed.
“What the—?”
“Miss Lyonette? Inn’s that way.”
Liska stared at the [Princess]. Lyonette turned around. She’d tried to throw open the [Door of Portals]. She blinked.
“Right. Follow me!”
Everyone ran after her. Liska wondered how you made that mistake. She sat back down, then had a thought.
“Wait, so if I detect a Golem on the other end of the door, I don’t let it in, right? What do I do if it tries to get in? Am I in danger?”
Ser Dalimont hesitated at the door. He turned.
“No. Don’t let it in. Just change the dial and sound the alarm. And yes. We’ll post security with you.”
Liska swallowed. Then she squared her shoulders.
