“I’m just offering…I can’t be here long. We still have a war with Fissival, but if I took some soldiers, led a counter-raid on these [Ranchers], you could say it was just me—”
“No. How do you think they’d react?”
Poorly, but Zail had a desire to take some real fighters and punch his way through a few thousand Humans to show them what a real brawl was like. He bit his tongue. If he had that happen to him, he’d reply. So Ilvriss was right, but—
No good solution. He had to…trust his son. Or at least, let his son do what he wanted and be ready to bail him out. Zail grunted.
“If those Golems come for you, run. Don’t listen to what those idiots say. You did the right thing. If you’d tried to fight it, I’d be burying you.”
Ilvriss’ head rose. He nodded at Zail once.
“I hope not, but…if they come, they come. The reinforcements should help. As for your actual forces…”
Zail glanced at the mining teams going back and forth from the dig sites. He paused.
“I noticed what you brought. Good. They weren’t in position, though.”
“I’ve never had a Golem try to assassinate me. It’s far faster than we thought. And, ah, harder to stop.”
“Hah. We’d buy you drinks all night for that. First dance with a Terland, we called it.”
More awkward silence. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“How did you get here, Father? You flew in on Wyvern. Did you fly all the way from Pallass? You couldn’t have taken the door. You must have used more Wyverns than I thought they had, with the losses they took at the High Passes. Unless Salazsar has Wyverns I didn’t know about? It must have cost a fortune.”
Zail smiled crookedly.
“No, it was Eschowar’s doing. He has movement Skills that used to be the best in Izril. As for how…”
He casually twisted a ring, then spoke in the secrecy spells.
“We flew straight north. Through the High Passes. There are flight paths through the mountains if you can take the risk.”
Ilvriss’ head snapped up.
“There are?”
“Dangerous ones. I was scouting them out. We might have to clear them. But it’s how you strike at the Humans if…”
He fell silent. Ilvriss sat there, reminded of the wars they had used to fight. Then he murmured.
“Eschowar. I studied my history books, of course. I knew him when he retired and you were still—more mobile. But he was always small.”
“Age does that to you. He wasn’t the same after he was forced to retire.”
Now Eschowar was back, at least for a few minutes each day. Ilvriss bit into his hotdog.
“Tell me about him, Father.”
“Eschowar? Brilliant leader. Taught Wall Lord Aldonss. With him, the Cyclops, and General Garllor, we were a strong alliance—when Pallass wasn’t stabbing us in the back.”
Ilvriss squinted, like someone trying to recall a lesson.
“That was Oteslia, then? Garllor. We had an alliance, and we fought the other Walled Cities. And the north. And the tribes. Ancestors. Eschowar’s campaign of lightning strikes—I should be glad he’s back, I suppose. Fissival must be regretting it.”
They were, in spades. Zail was describing some of the offensives Salazsar had taken in the war, hitting cities under Fissival’s aegis of protection, but Ilvriss just sat there.
“We shouldn’t be fighting each other, Father.”
“They attacked you. Nearly killed you.”
What was with Ilvriss and ignoring the times he’d nearly died? Ilvriss just shrugged.
“I attacked them at the Meeting of Tribes.”
To protect Gnolls. Not what Zail would have done. Again, there was that rift, and Zail just…
“I’m doing what I think is best for Salazsar, Son. Making our military stronger before I die.”
“Don’t talk like that. I think we need a stronger army too, but—what’s the end goal, Father? For the Last Defenders of the Wall?”
“Leaving Salazsar ready for what comes next. What’s your goal here? With this [Innkeeper] who seems to cost you so much?”
Zail challenged Ilvriss hotly, and the Wall Lord just glanced at him.
“Leaving Izril, leaving the world ready for what comes next, Father.”
Zail blinked.
“Enemies and allies? The north and south and Terandria and other nations?”
“They’re not my enemies, Father.”
“These [Ranchers] seem to be.”
“Then they’re temporarily enemies. It doesn’t have to be that way forever. I’m trying to negotiate a ceasefire, a truce.”
“They’ll always be…”
Zail closed his mouth, and Ilvriss looked at him. Just looked, then glanced around.
“That’s what I would have said about the Antinium two years ago, Father. Or Humans. Just…think about it.”
Zail glanced at Ilvriss when he brought up the Antinium, but Ilvriss just shrugged. He couldn’t push his father that far, and Zail let it drop. They sat there, and Zail ate another hotdog. And another. He ate four hotdogs; Ilvriss managed one and a half. They really weren’t the same. Zail turned to Ilvriss as the Wall Lord produced a handkerchief to wipe his mouth. Zail had just used his sleeve.
“The Winter Solstice.”
Ilvriss froze. Zail studied him.
“I saw the reports. Some of the scrying spells before they went down. You know, plenty of your fellow Wall Lords think it was an illusion or Skill that looked worse than it was?”
“It was on scrying spells. How do they…? No, I had Brilm asking me about it. I guess if you’ve never met a Draugr, you can believe they were just big Ghouls.”
Ilvriss’ mouth twisted. Zail cleared his throat.
“I’ve fought Draugr. I know how fast they move. I believe.”
Ilvriss glanced up, and his eyes filled with gratification. Zail paced around in a circle, hand on his sword’s hilt.
“It’s just…if the threat were still out there, I’d have that woman hunted down. Eschowar would be sending out kill-teams. But they were killed, right?”
“Essentially.”
“And there are more such threats out there?”
“…Five. Possibly four or three.”
Ilvriss seemed like he was counting. Zail’s scales tingled, but he gestured to the camp.
“So this is what that’s about. I can see that. My actions seem like they counter that. But if you had a location, even a lead, Son…”
“I don’t. I just know what I was told.”
“By the [Innkeeper].”
“Yes. I’m taking it on faith. And the fact that she’s always been right before. But that’s why I’m here, Father. That’s why the old fights feel pointless.”
“I see. So it’s going to be worse than a hundred thousand Draugr.”
Ilvriss peered up, and he met his father’s eyes with that simple earnestness.
“Yes.”
Wall Lord Zail had fought across Izril. He’d battled Archmages, renegade Zelkyr Golems, Nagas, and Humans of Izril and Terandria, and even then…a hundred thousand Draugr. He sat next to Ilvriss.
“I’m trying to believe, Son. I am. When you find one of these…things. Tell me. If I see the enemy, I’ll be right there. And I’ll make sure the others believe. Some of them saw ghosts and yours—they’ll listen.”
They were all on the same side, that of Salazsar, weren’t they? But for some reason, he seemed to feel like he was at cross-purposes with Ilvriss, and his son seemed to sense that too. But he just nodded.
“I’m counting on that. This is me doing my part, Father. I still think I have a chance, Terlands and Lischelles or not. Thank you for the help.”
After a while, Zail got up. He had to fly home soon.
“I’ll do a few more tours of the dig sites, just to make sure things are going well. Check in with your subordinates. It was good to see you, Ilvriss.”
“Yeah.”
Zail strode away, not wondering if his son was a traitor or addled by love, because it hadn’t appeared that way. But just…thinking. Disturbed.
Hoping he didn’t have to fly back north to bury his son and avenge him.
 
——
 
Days passed. After the Golem Incident, the work at the dig sites resumed, more or less according to ‘normal’.
But what was normal? You had to wake up in your tents each day, trudge past the fly-infested cattle dunglands, through mud sometimes if some idiot Wall Lord’s son walked in it and made everyone copy him, then get to work.
Mining. Digging up tons of dirt, which was more of a pain than stone at times, and hauling out rocks as you dug down and down…
Worse than Salazsar’s mines? Definitely. Any real [Miner] would tell you that. Oh, sure, you could work for a bad company in Salazsar and there’d be angry [Miners] ready to brawl, bad safety-standards, lousy pay, and mandatory overtime.
But in Salazsar, they still had minecarts that carried you down to the right shaft. You still could go back into the city after work and spend your gold. They still had…infrastructure.
Backup mining teams. Gear. [Healers] and adventurers. When you were off your shift, the worst thing that happened was that there was a traffic accident or brawl, and the Watch would be there. You didn’t troop back to your tents, sweating and exhausted, only to have a huge line for the damn outhouses, then for a Human to run up and belt you in the face and try to steal all the cows.
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ expedition sucked. A fact he would readily agree with—before the Golem Incident. It was unpleasant and hard because the deeper the [Miners] and [Diggers] went, the further they had to haul things up. The more they had to reinforce the shafts. And the more monsters they risked running into.
You know what liked to live deep down in the dark of the earth? Big monsters. Nests. Crelers. It was a known fact that the deeper you went in the ground, the worse things got. Think about it: normal, cute monsters like a Fuzzyworm Intestinescrambler or some shit was a Silver-rank threat. It had to eat. It might get big and nasty and evolve into a, uh, a Killertitanfly Intestineblowerupper in time, but it operated like most creatures.
But the deeper you went, the less food there was. Which, you’d say, meant fewer creatures, right? Wrong.
The big things liked the dark. The big things lived on the mana that compressed down there. Mana compressed; every [Miner] knew that. That’s why magical gemstones were deeper down. And guess what thrived on magic?
The really powerful monsters. Things went down there to hide and gather strength, and then some idiots started swinging a hammer while they’re napping, and guess what they decided to do?
Mining was all horror stories. That’s why you always had a team ready to fight what came out of a mine. Salazsar, now, Salazsar was fairly safe despite the gemstone deposits because you had adventurers ready to go; they had standards of safety in place.
This was the wild. This was frightening, and so the worst job you could have in Ilvriss’ entire expedition was one specific title:
Advance Miner. That was a job for someone who, well, mined at the head of the pack. They were in the deepest area, the ones widening a vein. They were the ones who woke whatever was down there and ran for it or got eaten.
Proportionally, they were the ones who got paid the most. Which was why young bucks signed up for the job. No one smart or with a family or who’d seen what happened to an Advance Team wanted the job.
So, for context, that was why [Advance Miner] Georgie was tolerated.
Not liked.
He had fourteen incident reports on his record from this dig alone. Drinking while working. Brawling with other miners. Insubordination to [Foremen]. Lecherousness to female employees. Urination in non-latrine areas. Pocketing minerals.
He would have been drummed out of any normal mining team by their [Foreman] in the first week. He was sarcastic when he wasn’t ill-tempered. He was first to throw a punch if there was a fight. He was also…well, important.
“Georgie, get your claws out of your ass and get to work!”
A [Foreman] with dust all over his fur and nose plugs in roared on yet another day of work, and Georgie stopped trying to flirt with a pair of very annoyed Drakes and threw a salute.
“Yessir, Foreman Dirr, can’t wait to dig up more dirt for the Gemscale company! Whole lotta shit. All fifteen gems we’ve got sure are lining the big Drakes’ pockets in their towers.”
“Shut it, Georgie!”
That came from half a dozen voices, and Georgie ambled his way down the mining shaft, past teams digging out branches in the earth.
Branches, yes. It was all exploratory mining. No exploiting veins—not that they’d found shit here besides some vaguely precious rock. It was all earth, so the [Miners] dug out, each branch spaced well out from the other.
Looking for something. Georgie would have called it prospecting, but for what? This was not good earth. He could tell that, and he knew the [Prospectors] claimed the Cowpat Plains were worth less than the cowpats.
But they dug down in multiple sites, searching for what only the Wall Lord knew. All Georgie was aware of was that any time he found a shitty piece of ceramic pottery, all the bigwigs would run over and make them dig in the spot they found.
Pottery. Or ceramics. Something that was orange-white, that had an inner color of the same make. A few had faded designs on them…some kind of vases or something?
Georgie had found six pieces in Dig Site 2, which was why they had an entire dig site here instead of a single exploratory shaft. Well, six pieces he’d reported.
He had two more hidden in his spare boots in case he could sell them.
Georgie had no company loyalty, unlike other Drakes and Gnolls. He knew House Gemscale was the ‘best’ company to work for. Well, it felt like shit here. Besides, no company had any loyalty towards him. So why play the nice Drake?
They’d kick him out sooner or later, so he’d milk this contract for all it was worth. He grumbled as the heat baked into the ground made him sweat through his overalls. He didn’t take his shirt off like some Drakes and Gnolls, but he swore a blue streak.
“Ancestors damned heat. Stinks like hell. Foreman on my tail all the time.”
Dirr, who was following Georgie literally three paces behind to make sure he was working, glared.
“Less talking, more walking, Advance Miner! You want to get paid?”
Georgie sauntered down the dirt steps, refusing to go faster. Dirr appeared ready to explode, but he didn’t tell Georgie to get off the dig site. He didn’t even write him up. Because again—
Advance Miner.
There were six in the bottom of the shaft, a hundred foot radius between them and any other team. Six, each one over Level 20. They all had bags of holding. One person was shovelling dirt into a Chest of Holding, the rest yanking stones out.
“Hit another rock vein. Georgie, come and h—”
One of the Drakes was swearing and actually using a pick on a stubborn section of rock they had to go through when a pickaxe took a huge chunk out of the stone. She shouted, ducked—every Advance Miner was on their feet, ready to run, when they turned.
Georgie had tossed his pick.
“[Gouge Throw]. Hey, I’m working.”
