“Ulva, you always were the smarter one. You always led. And nothing to do? In this age? I tell you, there are six—possibly five foes now—that deserve to die! House Terland needs you! And if I cannot be there, you cannot follow me. Do it and I will scorn you, Sister. You’re needed.”
“But—”
Ulva was gasping. She felt herself dissolving, and Petria’s face twisted. She came forwards and held Ulva’s hands, and they were aging, now. But Petria stopped…and Ulva’s hands grew more wrinkled. She aged past her twin sister, and then they were different. Petria gazed into Ulva’s eyes and averted hers.
“I’m so sorry, Ulva. I’m sorry I left you behind. I…listen to me. You need to guide House Terland. I don’t know what happened, not exactly. I just know I was freed. And that [Princess]? She was there, and the Goblin King, I think. She beat them.”
“The—the [Princess]? The Goblin King?”
Ulva’s heart constricted with fear, but Petria held her hands harder, speaking urgently, gazing into her eyes.
“Ulva Terland, Virtue of House Terland, you must live! I don’t know the right course; I never have! But you must live, and do not dare join me a second too early! Save our House! Save our Golems! Save our very souls, for the foes who come against us would eat it all!”
“It is too hard.”
Ulva was begging. But Petria just smiled guiltily.
“I know. But I will wait for you here, Ulva. As long as it takes. When we meet again, we’ll go and see what else is out there. Until then, here I stand. Go back to that cruel world, and set those Golems’ hearts to beating as we once did. Be kind to that [Princess]. I think we must be on the same side. And…more than the [Princess], there’s a child. A little Gnoll child with white fur. If you should meet her, sister, then thank her on behalf of us all. And all those who will die. It was far from perfect. But she did it.”
Petria stared past Ulva, and now the ghost was receding. Two worlds drifting apart. Ulva was shouting.
“Petria, I don’t understand! What Gnoll? The Drake! How did she know you? The New Lands! What do I do?”
“I don’t know!”
Petria cupped her hands to shout back, and Ulva could have killed her sister. Because that—that was the most quintessential Petria answer. She had no clue. No idea. But the [Twin Virtue of House Terland] caught her breath, then gazed down.
“I’ll tell you this—I do remember that Drake who took my face! Ask her about how we met, if you’d care to know me entirely, sister! Just know I was too ashamed to tell you. Now, it feels so—silly.”
“What? What does that mean?”
Petria just laughed. And Ulva Terland reached out, for the lands of the dead, which she had never thought could have a continuation. Now she understood what Lady Bethal had been talking about, but this was more than even miracles or strange beings called ‘Goddesses’. This was beautiful. She yearned for it, this kindly vision of a place after death. But then Ulva saw Petria lift her hand.
“Ulva Terland, the Golems call your name. You have work to do. Stand. For House Terland, stand—”
 
——
 
Her damaged heart knit. The healing magics caught hold, and the Golem’s glowing eyes flashed as the [Lady]’s grey face shifted. It moved backwards, and Ulva Terland gasped.
The [Healer], the image of the Quarass, the nobles of House Terland being held back, tears staining their cheeks, their torn clothing as they wept, trying to touch their dying matriarch, all froze.
Ulva Terland breathed. Then stood. In one motion, not gracefully, not easily, but rising. With sheer force of will. With the aura of the twin virtues pushing her upwards. Like a corpse coming to life, cheeks flooding with ruddy blood, eyes focused on the far country coming to life.
She stood on the healing dais, shedding the healing crystals, the spent scrolls, and cried out.
“PETRIA!”
The single word threw her House on their butts. Even the Golems recoiled. The [Healer] turned dead white, threw his hands up, screamed, and fainted. The Terlands who didn’t pass out turned and ran, screaming.
Even the Quarass recoiled. Then pretended like she’d seen this a hundred times instead of barely a dozen. Ulva Terland reached a hand out, and her heart ached. Her body was beyond stiff. She had a foul taste in her mouth, and she was older, leaden, in agony.
But she lived.
She turned her head, and Lord Xitegen Terland gazed up at her from the shining scrying orbs. Then he knelt. Terlands bowed, those not running and screaming, and Ulva Terland stood there. Swaying.
“Aunt Ulva. You made it.”
That was all he said. Ulva gazed at Xitegen, and her weary eyes were glittering with tears. She wiped at them with one hand.
“I wish I had not, boy. But I have duties. When I die, you shall lead House Terland. Golems, witness me.”
There was only one Golem in this room, the bodyguards standing outside. But the healing Golem’s eyes flashed, and it spoke, though it had no mouth.
“ɪᴛ ɪꜱ ᴡɪᴛɴᴇꜱꜱᴇᴅ.”
Ulva Terland stood there a moment. Then Xitegen coughed.
“Aunt, there’s an announcement in the newspapers heralding your untimely death or survival. Either way, it might cause a war if it were to be announced. I realize you might wish to war with the Drakes, but—”
Dead gods, he could not give her a rest. She’d been alive again for a second and he spoke sense. Damn him. Ulva closed her eyes, then turned her head. When she opened her eyes again, he hesitated.
“I shall enjoy you leading this sorry house of stone, Xitegen. Cancel that. I shall dictate the news of my survival.”
He bowed his head, and Ulva sat down on the healing dais. Then she lay back down.
“I’m tired, however. Golem?”
“Yes, Lady Ulva Terland?”
“Fetch me my clothing. My old clothing. Adjust it for my size and dust it off. Then find Petria’s old companion-Golems and activate them. Then prepare me a list of every Golem in our 9th Vaults. Ready them for activation.”
She had the satisfaction of seeing Xitegen swallow hard and open his mouth, then cough. Ulva sat there dreamily.
“If I must, I will reduce that Wall Lord’s entire dig site to ash and blood, and Salazsar with it. For House Terland, and in honor of Petria Terland, I judge thee.”
Her head turned.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Hearts of Golems, beat.”
The healing Golem went still, and its gemstone eyes flashed. It pulsed, once, twice, and Ulva Terland sat there as the Mansion of Stone trembled. She sat there a while, then arose. She had work to do.
 
——
 
The day dawned like a dead man. Lying against a heap of dirt in the trenches, blood drying amidst his open guts. A fly crawling across one staring eye. Neck spines snapped, and his clenched teeth parted, revealing an empty hole through which his soul had fled.
Nerul Gemscale had known such days before, when sleep was impossible, however much you wanted to skip time and just pass this horrible ‘now’. But he spent it, snapping into speaking stones, communicating with Salazsar, Manus, trying to get in touch with the Terlands, anyone, to avert a war.
Only one thing would avert that war, and that was Ulva Terland living. But the [Diplomat] fought with all his tricks because he had seen war. And he wouldn’t have that again. Not the true war that this could lead to.
When he finally did sit back and someone sent him a [Magic Picture] of the day’s newspaper in First Landing, Nerul Gemscale exhaled.
 
ᴛᴀɪᴍᴀɢᴜʀᴏꜱ ɪɴ ɪᴢʀɪʟ. ᴀ ꜱʟᴀᴘ ᴛᴏ ᴛʜᴇ ꜰᴀᴄᴇ?
 
It was not the headline he feared. Which was one that referenced Ulva’s near-death, let alone the one that told the world she was dead. Nerul drank some coffee, scanning down the headlines.
 
ᴡᴀʀ ʙᴇᴛᴡᴇᴇɴ ᴛʜᴇ ɴᴀᴛɪᴏɴꜱ ᴏꜰ ᴏᴢᴛᴇʀᴀ ᴀɴᴅ ᴄᴜʀꜱʜɪʟ. ᴍᴏʀᴇ ᴏɴ ᴘᴀɢᴇ 𝟦!
 
Just…news. Nothing groundbreaking. But what struck his eye was the way the newspaper was formatted. It had a bit of dead space on the final page, almost as if someone had rearranged it and hadn’t had enough articles to fill it at the last moment.
“Hmm. Nerul to Salazsar.”
“Zail. Speak to me.”
The curt voice came from Ilvriss’ father. Nerul spoke quietly, grimacing. If Zail was in the command room, the ‘Last Sons of the Wall’—or whatever they were called—really were gaining in power.
“It’s not war. Ulva Terland’s not dead.”
“We just received the newspaper as well. How are you sure they’re not covering it up?”
Nerul grunted.
“[State of Nations]. I can tell when Salazsar’s at war with someone even if it’s not public, Zail.”
“Interesting Skill. The arrows are a bigger clue.”
That was Zail for you. Nerul didn’t dignify that with a response. He rasped as he felt the adrenaline leaving his body and realized he needed sleep, to de-scale his face, and a bath. He still ached from that idiot punching him. But he had work to do.
“I need a Wyvern or Pegasus flight back to Salazsar waiting for me at…let’s call it 9 AM, from Pallass. I won’t be long; I need one on standby, and I’ll likely need a heavy-duty flight.”
“You don’t weigh that much.”
That was enough. Nerul barked into the speaking stone.
“Zail, this is a crisis! As we speak, there are multiple threats on Ilvriss’ life coming his way! I can’t see them, but I’ll bet my tail the Terlands are sending more of their Hunter-Killers! He is a dead Drake walking, even if Princess Lyonette does her best. And the [Ranchers] are still angry at us.”
Silence a moment, then Zail’s voice ameliorated slightly.
“Ranchers. Has he not put them to flight? I’m heading north myself with reinforcements.” 
Nerul shook his head.
“It’ll take you months to get there, and we don’t have that many Wyverns. If we weren’t at war with Fissival—”
“Eschowar’s sending me. It’ll happen.”
…Lightning Lord Eschowar. Nerul recalled how damn fast that Drake could deploy units. He felt a crawl down his scales, but one battle at a time.
“Very well. Don’t escalate. That’s a damn order. I’m going to try to deal with the Terlands and the other issues, but I don’t have any prep-work. Just keep Ilvriss alive, and don’t kill anyone.”
“Very well.”
They hung up, and Nerul stood there, then rang a bell to ask for one of the staff to draw a bath, get him a go-bag, and some food. He had to fly. War had been averted, but as he saw it, that was only a mercy for Izril.
Ilvriss was in no better state than before after last night. The Lischelles hated his guts, and the [Ranchers] might be more coordinated in attacks. And the Terlands…
The Terlands were going to try and kill him again. Nerul had to hope Captain Osthia and his nephew’s own reflexes would keep him alive. He wasn’t helpless, but he’d gotten trounced in the last engagement. He had to set up properly; this was way harder than the Trisstral Alliance. At least the old Drakes being in charge might help. Nerul was about to break a few rules. He just hoped there weren’t any other complications floating around.
Ah, who was he kidding? There was always another complication. The Drake hissed to himself. To do what was necessary, he had to leave. He went to bathe and find something to eat before his chartered flight.
Back home, to Salazsar. Backwards as that seemed, that was where he needed to be to save Ilvriss’ life. He just hoped he could do what needed to be done in time, there.
 
——
 
In the morning, Lyonette was relieved to be given a brief [Message] via the Quarass of Germina.
 
Ulva Terland lives. She will not relent. You appear to have galvanized her. The Wall Lord is best served by flight, but he may level if he survives the next attempt on his life. It will be far more intensive. I regard this as a favor despite our arrangement.
 
A favor to the Quarass. Wonderful. But Lyonette had to believe it had helped avert total disaster, so she gave orders as she guzzled a cup of coffee.
“Mrsha, Nanette, you are staying in the inn this time.”
“No way! I’m coming with—”
“Absolutely not while we have Terland Golems running around. Rhisveri’s right. Dead gods. Did he ever get back to us, Ushar? Well, assume he helped with Ulva Terland. I’m not heading back instantly myself. I’d much rather Ilvriss come here. The Hunter-Killers won’t find him here.”
If he stayed at the inn, he’d be safe. That was her big idea. Lyonette sent a message to Ilvriss advising him to come to the inn, and then she paced around.
“We must speak to the Terlands! Is Nerul—”
“Leave them to me.”
He actually was in the inn, eating breakfast and holding a briefcase by his side. He appeared as bad as she felt, but he glanced up between popping fried eggs into his mouth and eating them in single bites.
“I have a plan with the Terlands. Even a way to mitigate the Lischelles. But it will take…weeks. I need you to stall. Keep Ilvriss here if it won’t endanger the inn.”
Lyonette cursed.
“The Lischelles…they’re not as bad as the Terlands, surely?”
Nerul grunted.
“One kills Ilvriss. The other raids and starves and punches down his workforce—which he doesn’t have enough of. The longer he’s in the north, the worse it gets.”
So both problems…Lyonette closed her eyes.
“Colfa’s at her farm. Someone get her? Ilvriss here, we strategize. Agreed? I’ll ask if Normen’s Order of Solstice can act as bodyguards. His [Soldiers] might be good, but they’re not able to fight—whoa!”
That was her nearly falling flat on her face as her legs gave way. Xinthe, Dalimont, and Ishkr all virtually teleported forwards to grab her. Lyonette felt woozy and stumbled as they helped her right herself.
“I’m fine. I’m just—”
She winced. Her legs were afire, and she felt weak. Ser Dalimont gave her a stern look.
“The dancing overtaxed you, Lyonette. Sit and give us orders.”
“I’m fine. I really am. I just—”
Mrsha and Nanette pulled out a chair, and Lyonette sat. And she wasn’t doing well herself. She sat back in her chair, groaning.
“Wonderful. My first real Erin-style crisis.”
If we live, you get a free cake, Mother.
Mrsha remarked, and Lyonette groaned. The girl scribbled.
I hafta go to school.
“School? Now? But I n—what a wonderful idea, Mrsha, dear.”
Lyonette realized that was the best place for Mrsha to be. The Gnoll girl got an elbow from Nanette, but she refused to budge. She was staying out of it. She wrote only one more note.
