Lyonette was at a loss for words. She turned to Nanette; the girl was already running out the door to explore the new inn. And Liscor, which she had thought was quiet? Lyonette looked up, and the clouds parted a moment to reveal blue skies beyond.
“Summer’s coming.”
Then she heard shouting and cheering from the hallway as Mrsha left for school. A roar of people.
“Silverfangs for the Council! Kr-shi-a! Kr-shi-a!”
“Vote for the old Council! Vote for a return to decency!”
Someone poked her head into the inn. Xinthe seemed nervous.
“Miss Lyonette? A Krshia Silverfang is trying to find her way to the inn. Should I admit her? She’s looking for you regarding those elections.”
Lyonette passed a hand over her head. Yelroan cleared his throat.
“I’ve prepared a budget for how much we can financially support Wall Lord Ilvriss’ enterprise, seeing as he might need it, Lyonette. I can go over that with you whenever. But don’t forget about the Golems. I’d put those higher than the digging.”
Lyonette didn’t respond. Oh, she had so much to do.
 
——
 
The day Ulva Terland nearly died came and went. While events had been set in motion, no one tried to kill Wall Lord Ilvriss the next day or the day after that.
Travelling took time. Vengeance took time. He got his people back to digging the day after they’d disposed of the Hunter-Killer Golem, and then he was just working.
Busy. Ilvriss certainly had his hands full.
“I want security tripled—everywhere, Asrira. The Rubirel Guard will be spread thin, but draw up more [Soldiers], and put our [Miners] on alert. Treat this like a dig with the possibility of monster attacks on any given day.”
He snapped at Osthia as she and his adjutants raced around. She was grimacing.
“I’m going to be spread thin, Wall Lord. And I can put our [Soldiers] on guard-duty, but the Sisters of Chell…”
He halted.
“They fought bravely.”
They hadn’t lasted more than a few seconds against the Hunter-Killer, but they’d saved his life. Osthia nodded slowly.
“They are not—happy with the casualties. I don’t understand their chain of command, but reinforcements should be coming. What should I do with them?”
He didn’t know. They weren’t helpful with the [Ranchers], but they were apparently good preventatives against underworld sabotage or [Assassins] that weren’t the Golem-variety. He rubbed at his temples.
“I need you to take command of them, Asrira.”
“Me? But sir, I’m a [Soldier]—”
“Xesci’s busy with her…brothel. And she doesn’t like command. You’re the only person with the flexibility to do it.”
One glance at Welsca revealed how reluctant she and his other ‘traditional’ aides would be to work with Humans, let alone criminals. He respected them of course, but they hadn’t been changed by their time among non-Drakes like he and Osthia had. She had to manage the Sisters. Reluctantly, Osthia nodded.
“I’ll try, sir.”
“Good. And, um, see to pensions for the dead, please.”
That was all he could devote to them. Of course, Ilvriss tried to seek them out to personally thank the survivors—and he had to talk to the local townsfolk.
Thirthoof was a small town, and the [Mayor] was a woman named Bootsy Barlie. A character—who wasn’t around here? But she was clearly overwhelmed by the Terland Golem attack.
“Dead gods. I never thought I’d see one of them here. Most we ever did see was a Clay Golem. This is real Terland work.”
The ruined, half-melted carcass of the Golem and the slagged Minotaur head shook her. She glanced at Ilvriss.
“Seems t’me that this is more trouble than you told me, Wall Lord. When you asked to dig—”
“Legally, I have a right to dig. No one owns these lands, Mayor…Bootsy. If your town objects to my company using its services, we will, of course, accede to that request. But I think the business we bring is welcome, is it not?”
She hesitated.
“Sure does bring in gold, and I heard one of your people started up a brothel.”
“Er…yes. I do apologize, it’s not something I personally sanction—”
“No, no. I think it’s good. Beats having [Streetwalkers] getting attacked. Far more respectable than two folks shacking up in an alleyway. But the, uh, Golems. And I heard the [Rancher] clans’ve been raiding you something fierce.”
He nodded at that, eying the woman who did have magnificent boots.
“They are. It is not an enviable experience, but I don’t believe the danger will come to your town, Miss Bootsy.”
“And if it does, Wall Lord?”
He bared his teeth at her before realizing that wasn’t a friendly smile to Humans. Ilvriss closed his mouth tightly.
“To my knowledge, my only offense has been digging in the north. I’m not the one launching raids or sending kill-Golems, Mayor. Perhaps you should direct your complaints at those responsible?”
He hoped she’d take that point, but the woman was, sadly, like most Humans. She peered at him and scuffed her bright gold boots against the floor of his command…tent. It wasn’t much, but she treated it like it was a high office in Salazsar. He’d seen her ‘office’; not a book in sight save for a ledger she used for the city’s finances.
Poor. The entire town was poor. It had a septic pond, and the streets were unpaved, and still—she eyed him and stood straight, for all she was a head shorter than he was.
“Since I reckon you’re not the slice-at-the-neck sort, Wall Lord, us knowing each other a few months, I daresay I’ll speak my mind which I wasn’t minded to when we first met.”
“…Of course. Go ahead.”
He sighed as she glanced around.
“Some might say you Drakes and Gnolls coming north is an invasion in itself. Y’know, since this is our land and in the past—”
“…We’ve been at war and murdered each other for generations. Yes, yes. Thank you, Mayor. No one’s brought it up.”
“Just speaking my mind. I realize you probably heard it from most folks, but you can’t blame me for saying what we’re all thinking. Plus, it’s hard enough for us to see you lot walking around flaunting what we don’t have.”
The woman’s voice was a shade cooler than before, and Ilvriss glanced at her, annoyed.
“I could argue with you for ages about Human aggression starting with Tyrion Veltras, but it’s a gemless endeavor, Mayor. As for flaunting, what flaunting? We have [Miners] and [Soldiers]!”
He was living in a military camp! But Bootsy just eyed the books on the walls, mostly about mining, then glanced around.
“Looks rich to me. All you Drakes with your gems—and I saw them outhouses you have. Very fancy.”
“…The temporary outhouses?”
They were just pieces of wood slapped up with adequate toilets for use en masse. Bootsy frowned at him.
“Very fancy. Not like ours. All magic runes and spells. You got some piping or stuff so it all drains natural, right?”
“That? That’s just a drainage ditch. We do have water spells, but the runoff isn’t contained. It runs into a septic pit, just like your lovely pond. It’s hardly…”
He trailed off because his instincts told him he was making a faux pas here. Bootsy shrugged, trying to remain impassive.
“Magic water spells? Very fancy. We don’t have any of that here. No gems, nor the [Enchanters] to have that. Just well water for us. Some of the [Rancher] families might have those, but that’s the City of Gems for you, ain’t it?”
He was reminded how wealthy her town was. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Plumbing would be cheaper, actually, but we didn’t bring the infrastructure—I see your point, Bootsy. But we are paying a fair price for goods. Beyond a fair price, I believe.”
She nodded amiably, but still with that slight edge that told him she wasn’t on his side.
“Oh, sure. That’s just us gouging anyone we can. Gotta make a living. Maybe it’s too much gouge, but well, Drakes and Gnolls and Humans. Not that I have a problem with Gnolls, mind!”
“No one seems to after the Meeting of Tribes.”
She didn’t respond to that, and Ilvriss sighed.
“…But there’s also a bit of economic envy involved here.”
“Just so you know. Your lot won’t leave anything so we have to grab all we can right now. Nor’s it fun working with you Drakes, according to the people who’ve hired on.”
Given how Drake hierarchies worked, and how friendly Salazsar’s people were feeling to Humans after all these raids and so on, Ilvriss believed it. He sighed.
“I understand, Mayor. We have our faults. But unless we’re banned from Thirthoof?”
They were not. So he crossed the meeting off his list, then glumly ordered fifty more head of cattle he just knew that the Lischelles were going to steal back next week. Ilvriss wished he could just slaughter the damn cows, but that much meat required more Chests of Holding than he had—especially after some [Thieves] had stolen two in the night. Heads of cattle were cheaper. When Lyonette invited him to Liscor, he almost went then and there.
But he couldn’t run. Drakes didn’t run.
Except when a Hunter-Killer Golem was chasing him.
…Ilvriss scheduled it for next week. He needed to see about hiring more [Miners], anyways. He instructed a few representatives in Liscor to try to hire more workers en masse, but the problem was competition. Alrric laid it out frankly over a meeting on budgets.
“The problem is, despite the door, you’re trying to outbid a lot of other good jobs, Wall Lord. [Miners] are considered bottom-tier work outside of Salazsar. It doesn’t exactly transfer to a lot of other jobs.”
“I know, I know. Liscor’s actually livable, so fewer workers from there, but we can get some workers, surely?”
Alrric growled as he worked, shuffling some papers around.
“Your reputation’s not good for the job quality, Ilvriss, and that’s before the rumors of these cattle raids spread. Now, traditionally, you’d have Esthelm and Celum and even Riverfarm to draw from; Invrisil would require higher pay to incentivize them, but they’re a huge pool as well. Celum normally as well. However…Lord Xitegen is in Celum, and his anti-Drake stance means few there want to work for you.”
“He’s not enforcing that, surely. I heard he was rather open-minded…”
“His attitude still makes citizens wary, even if no, he’s not putting any rules into place. Esthelm’s another problem. They’re traditionally [Miners]. However…Master Pelt’s in Esthelm.”
“And? He’s revitalized their smithing economy.”
“Right. So more [Miners] like to work around their home, not hundreds of miles away, even if it’s via door. Trust, again, Ilvriss. Riverfarm? Also out. Emperor Laken doesn’t like Drakes at all, given what Manus did. Plus, his lands are providing ample job security.”
Ilvriss’ head thunked down.
“And the solution is to do what Salazsar does best: outbid the competition. Only, you’re going to tell me that’s not an option.”
Silence. Alrric coughed delicately.
“It’s not that House Gemscales’ fortunes are gone, Wall Lord. On the contrary. Despite, uh, the Adamantium mine selloff, we found good prospects.”
Ilvriss had done that. Sold a fortune for Erin. He didn’t say a word, and neither did Alrric. He’d compromised Alrric’s job and his company for his friend. But now…Alrric went on.
“However, Wall Lord Zail is in charge now. Which means your shares are, uh—”
Reduced. Zail had begun demanding his share of the company’s finances, which meant Ilvriss no longer had the fortunes of the Gemscale Company’s profits to call on. Alrric hurried on.
“You have enough to keep financing the expedition!”
“I don’t see how. If Father’s not willing to back me—how many months do I have before I’m personally bankrupt?”
It was a word Ilvriss had never applied to his own fortunes. It was mostly a joke. Mostly. But he’d paid a lot for the Village of the Dead raid and financed quite a number of things out of his personal funds. He’d never run out entirely, but the Merchant’s Guild downgrading his account or being told he had to scale back or sell assets was a distinct possibility, surely. To Ilvriss’ relief, Alrric laughed.
“I’m not going to let you run out of gold, Ilvriss. You made two investments that are keeping you in the black. Remember your investment into Liscor?”
“Oh, right. I bought a lot of land. What happened with that?”
Alrric’s voice was too patient.
“You told me to develop it. Well, I did. We have plenty of housing. Rather lovely housing, not just mass-apartments. Shops, other buildings we’ve leased out—it’s an income. Check your spreadsheets.”
Ilvriss did and brightened up.
“That’s rather considerable. Bet on Liscor, heh. But that’s not enough t—what’s this number?”
His eyes bulged at another figure that dwarfed even the Liscor revenues. Alrric chuckled.
“Forgot your own genius, Wall Lord?”
“It says…High Grade Quartz and Enchanting? For what? Oh—!”
The Singer of Terandria. Ilvriss recalled when Brilm had put him onto the song crystals last year. He’d told Alrric to look into sourcing the materials to make more. Alrric’s voice was smug.
“We’re providing 36% of all materials that go into making the Singer of Terandria’s insanely profitable song crystals, Wall Lord. That’s your income. With all that said, you’re spending fortunes out here. I’ll raise the bounty on workers, and hopefully they’ll bite, but expect a trickle and plenty of turnovers occurring given conditions in your dig site. You might just break even at this rate.”
“Well, considering we’re experiencing Golem-Assassins and almost-daily brawls, I’ll take it. Thank you, Alrric.”
Ilvriss sagged. Then he had one more thought.
“Can you…can you buy some cheap but high-quality piping and get a few more experts, Alrric? Plumbing is a concern here.”
Bootsy had reminded him of that, and it wouldn’t hurt. Alrric chuckled.
“Dead gods, I don’t think I want to live there. I’ll have it rush-delivered and sent with your father when he arrives. Glad you asked.”
“Excellent, thank you. Wait, what was that about my father?”
Then Ilvriss’ headaches got worse.
 
——
 
The Last Defenders of the Wall were a rapidly rising faction in Salazsar. Old [Generals], leaders, [Mages] who’d had enough of dying in obscurity and wanted to do something with their lives.
It was more than just a fad; it literally seemed to rejuvenate many of them like old Eschowar. And in the way of the world, levels and Skills had rewarded that determination.
The problem was…it meant that the current leaders of the City of Gems were now fighting with their parents and elders for control. Said elders knew all the levers to pull and were taking back authority, doing things the ways they thought were best.
