Ren had waited for all 11 of the quest runners to return before saying anything. He still wore his gold colored armor, and Selene's eyes had nearly bulged out of her head when she had seen it. Ren regretted that he hadn't taken it off; but since he had forgotten he was wearing it, there was nothing he could do about it now. He concentrated on his Command Aura, and paced back and forth in front of the workbench.

“Congratulations to all of you!” He said to the people standing before him. “You successfully held off the looters, so that I and the soldiers could contain the fire, and save the townspeople.”

Several of the players grinned.

“I'm glad that none of you actually had to take me up on the offer to use the spawn point.”

“It wasn't for lack of trying!” One of the guys said, and Ren chuckled.

“Don't worry, I'll heal you after the quest is resolved.”

“Sweet!”

“You're a healer?” Another one asked. “Is that why you didn't go and fight?”

Ren shook his head. “No, I'm not a healer; and I didn't fight with you because I was busy fighting the fire.”

“He's probably too short to swing a sword anyways.” One of them whispered, but Ren had heard him and looked right at him.

“You're half-right.” Ren said to him. “I'll let you think about which half is actually true.”

Everyone looked at the guy Ren was looking at.

“What did you say?” Someone asked.

“Geez, man. Don't piss the guy off before he gives out the rewards.”

“QUIET!” Elerlyth shouted, and let her fear ability loose.

“Sorry.” Several people said, and Ren continued to pace.

“You all did well in hunting down the looters, and I commend you all.” Ren said. “I declare this Quest... complete.”

The players stared straight ahead, and most grinned as they saw the XP they received.

“You've been granted XP for each looter that you dispatched, extra XP for multiple kills, and...” Ren looked at Selene. “...for the most kills.”

She smiled sweetly at him and he continued to pace back and forth.

“I even granted XP for surviving, for the first kill... and for the last kill.” Ren said. “I honestly didn't expect that one to pay off right away.”

Someone chuckled and Ren smiled.

“I figured a day or 2 at least.” He looked at the guy who laughed. “I'm glad I didn't have to wait. Good job.”

The guy nodded, and Ren walked over to the workbench to pick up some of the sacks of money.

“In these sacks is an amount of money, commensurate to your contribution to the Quest. I hope you enjoy the spoils of your hard work.”

He turned around and presented it to each person in turn, then went back and picked up most of the rest and gave them to the others, leaving Selene for last. He went to the bench and picked up the largest sack and gave it to her.

“You didn't have to wait for everyone to get theirs.” Ren said and laughed. “You can open them.”

The players opened them and were surprised as the amounts ranged from 20 gold to 100 gold. He wasn't counting Selene, as she had made much more than that.

“Good god, man! Are you crazy?” One of the players asked, and Ren laughed.

“I've been told that on occasion.”

“20 gold.” The guy said. “I didn't even kill anyone!”

“Everyone got 20 gold for staying alive...” Ren said. “...and 10 gold for every looter.”

Selene hadn't opened her sack, and she stared at him. He... he gave me...

“Now, before you go.” Ren said. “There's something I want to ask you.”

The group looked at him, and he slid a shadow coin from his coin vault into his inventory, and held it up.

“Did anyone find any of these?” Ren asked, and Elerlyth took in a sharp breath. He didn't look at her, however; as he saw three of the players raise their hands.

“What are they?” One of them asked.

“It's a marker.” Ren said. “Bad people use them to hire players to do bad things.” He explained. “When the job is finished, they bring the marker back and get paid for the job.”

“No way!” They said. “We... we've got... evil markers.”

“The markers themselves aren't evil.” Ren chuckled. “They just pass hands after something bad happens.”

“Oh, that's a relief.” He said. “What do we do with them?”

“You can give them to me.”

“You want to cash in the markers?”

Ren laughed. “Even if I knew where to do that, and I don't, they know who they were given to. No one can 'cash them in' now.”

“That sucks.” One of the others said. “So it's dead loot.”

Ren shook his head. “No, it's not.” He said. “I'll buy them from you.”

“Really?” The guy asked. “How much?”

“I'd offer 10 gold, but that's less than what you got for participating.” Ren turned to Elerlyth. “If I found, say, a nice pair of boots on someone. What would they be worth?”

“About 25 gold, if they boosted stats.”

“I got those!” Kenny said, and held out a foot. A few people laughed, including Ren.

“How about 30 gold then? As if you found a really nice pair of boots like Kenny did.”

“I guess that's fair.” The three players stepped forward and Ren paid them for the shadow coins. He stored them in inventory and grinned.

“Thank you all for everything.” Ren said, then used his Major Healing Wand on them. They all stared in wonder at the diamond tipped metal bar. “Have a good night.” He chuckled. “Well... what's left of it, anyways.”

The players started to leave, and one turned around. “When's the next quest?”

Ren laughed. “I'll see if I can come up with something in a few days.”

“Great!” He said and filed out the door with the others. Selene still stood there holding her large sack of coins.

“You could have just given me a couple of platinum.” Selene said.

“Yeah, that would look great.” Ren said. “You with the smallest sack of coins.”

She chuckled. “Okay, yes. I agree. A large sack of gold coins looks a lot better.”

Ren nodded. “Now that the quest is done, why are you still here?”

“I wanted to thank you.” She purred and tried to step close. Ren stepped back and smiled.

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Is there anything else?”

Selene frowned mentally, but she didn't let it show on her face. Why isn't he fawning over me like everyone else does? She thought. I even used my sexy voice!

“Yes, I have a marker, too.” She took it out and held it up. “I won't take 30 gold for it, though.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she didn't react in the least.

“I know it's worth a lot more to you than that.” Selene said and smiled.

Ren snorted a laugh. “Really? That's your argument for more money?” Ren opened his inventory and transferred a pile of shadow coins to it and took them out. “I've got tons of them.”

Selene stared open-mouthed at the enormous pile of them that he had. I... I completely misread his expressions!

“I really do feel sorry that they found the markers instead of an item or loot drop.” Ren stored the coins and looked at Selene. “You can keep it if you want.”

Selene sighed. “No, you're right. 30 gold is better than that thing taking up a whole inventory slot by itself.” She handed it over to him and he paid her the 30 gold.

“Thanks for doing a great job tonight.” Ren said and walked over to open the door. “I have to get to bed, though.”

Selene nodded and walked outside. “I'll contact you later about an armor commission.” She said, looking him up and down. Ren smiled.

“I'll consider it if I ever get around to opening my business.” He said, and shut the door gently, but firmly.
