The system showed a strange ‘tilt,’ indicating an imbalance between the two arms. The world was slowly shifting toward the right limb as its dungeons gained more weight, leaving the left arm’s dungeons in a weakened state. If left unchecked, the imbalance could grow worse.

 

“We’ll go, in essence, to this dungeon,” Delta declared.

 

“That’s cool, but I have a question!” Gamma said, flashing once more to get her attention.

 

“Hm?” Delta looked at the sword with a smile.

 

“Why haven’t you all interrogated me about your pasts and what your names are?” Gamma asked sweetly and the atmosphere turned suddenly tense as everyone shared a silence where no one wanted to make the first move.

 

“I’ll remember,” Delta said, feeling confident enough.

 

“I want to be Alpha for now,” Alpha said quietly.

 

“I am doom and destruction, daughter of death,” Beta whispered, eyes flashing.

 

“My god, I’ve missed you all.”

 

---

 

‘It’ knew only struggle and confusion. Since it awoke with a ravenous hunger and a desire to protect itself, it has done its best to do that, but it could not consume. It could not end this hunger. It shifted as beams of flashing light emerged from four set scepters, keeping the tiny core afloat and off any surface. The immediate surface around it was akin to a metal box, but below that was mana-stripped water to catch the orb if it tried to escape.

 

It looked across the small lake of water, through the bars of its box to see the ancient figure creating complex drawings with chalk on black stone. As the figure worked, their mana dipped constantly only for the human to turn and pull on ‘its’ mana to replenish itself.

 

The drain was like fire searing the core from the inside, but it had no mouth and it had no voice.

 

It could not grow, even if it learned how to make a dungeon in the air, floating somehow, the wizard drained it of mana, its precious resource.

 

Its odd screen that made no sense, with flowing words, had cracked in one corner, reflecting its mental state breaking down over time. Something dark waited for the core in space between the cracks.

 

A fate it had no desire to seek.

 

Then it was no longer alone. Beings with vastly more complex essences emerged from the air, no, they emerged from the core itself like its surface was a door. Ghosts of mana, so thin the wizard’s security wards didn’t even detect them.

 

“Oh, this is a new kind of dungeon for me,” a ghostly humanoid said before they looked down at themselves and began to scream.

 

“LEGS! I HAVE LEGS! GHOSTLY AND SHAPELY… oh my, so shapely,” they said, prancing about with dramatic steps. The core noticed that they didn’t have feet per se, but dramatically pointy edges, like they walked on sword blades.

 

“It’s an avatar, Delta is letting us exist in default model mode basically,” a gruffer and more muscular form said, her skin covered in dozens of calm images of monster faces. The third form was quiet, looking like they were wearing clothes far too big for them, as beneath the surface, something pulsed at their core.

 

The last figure was-

 

“Hello!” the other dungeon said and the core felt relief, terror, anger, fear, and more all at once, unable to answer in its current state due to how starved it was…

 

It was too devoid of any mana to even reach out and greet the new core.

 

“Looks a little empty on gas, I’ll give it 1%, no maybe less. Like 10% of my 1%!” the figure mused and she tapped the core so gently.

 

It felt… everything.

 

--

 

Yorgot Sly-Whistle was a wizard of many talents. Lying, stealing, lying about stealing, stealing liars, and creating complete seals to bind demons to his will.

 

He never graduated from the Wizard School, having his final year project set on fire by some punk on the day of the exam, but now? Now he was growing massively in power as each demon he destroyed improved his magic, making him feel incredible.

 

Sure, it only worked because he lied about his deals, making them in dungeon mana which was basically counterfeit currency to Demons, but they should have been more careful and the core he stole from its fledgling nest should have been more lucky to land elsewhere than in his lair.

 

Cackling, he reached around without looking, not really needing the mana but enjoying how it made everything feel… soft. It was like a drink for his magic. Oddly, it came to him in a robust manner compared to the sluggish flow from before but Yorgot was not complaining if the stupid orb finally obeyed him.

 

Only, the mana didn’t stop.

 

He turned in confusion as the funnel spell he um… ‘found’ never came with instructions of turning itself off. Nothing should have so much mana as to sustain the spell on the other side, nothing Yorgot shouldn’t have detected sneaking into his lair.

 

The dungeon core in its case was overflowing with mana, most of it going to waste and forming mana crystals on the wall or below it.

 

Surprised, Yorgot raised a shield to cut the stream off, but the mana flow smashed through it like an eager river and Yogot was lifted off his feet and slammed into a wall as the beam focused on his chest, making his skin bulge and the taste of mana to be so thick Yorgot tasted…

 

-warm dusty books, the smell of a classroom after everyone’s gone home, the simple pleasure of buttered toast-

 

Mushrooms?

 

Yorgot Sly-Whistle blinked once then exploded in orange shards as he was converted to mana, his own devoured and beaten down by an orange flood.

 

‘WE ARE THE SCREAM! WE ARE THE VOICE! WE ARE THE BEST CHOICE!”

 

---

 

“...I feel like I should say-”

 

“Don’t. Just… don’t,” Delta whispered, feeling haggard and old as she stared at 10% of her 1% power focused on a single person.

 

The core fell to the ground and rolled across the water, buoyant with Delta’s mana before it came to rest on the man’s dropped staff.

 

Then the core consumed the staff as its first item.

 

“Look, Alpha, a nerd dungeon,” Beta said as the mana crystals began to swirl around it.

 

This was fine. Delta had this under control.

 

The core rose up on a fancy golden staff and seemed to make its first monster. A small poof of smoke followed by mana flowing revealed a tiny toad at the base of the staff.

 

The toad had a tiny blue hat on it with red stars.

 

‘Core’ has made a ‘Woad’.

 

Woads are wizard toads that are magical because they have a hat that proves they’re magical. Clearly.

 

“I will…” the core said, talking to Delta via the mana in the air.

 

“Yes?” Delta said, smiling at the core being able to finally grow.

 

“I will destroy all wizards.” the core promised, a crackle of lightning filling the chamber.

 

Her smile slipped.

 

“For I am the first dungeon core to absorb the essence of a wizard and his staff. I am Tim Tim-Tim-Tim!” it cried and Alpha tilted his head.

 

“Triple name, most impressive,” he praised politely.

 

“Lame names, why not do cool ones?” Beta asked. “Tim means nothing. His wizard name has no limits nor bonuses,” Alpha said with a calm tone as Delta tried not to panic.

 

She had this under control!
