Now, finally alone, she released her rock formation disguise and carefully slithered up the walls, high enough to avoid the flames that crackled below, sending continuous vibration through the stone and making her membrane quiver. She was much higher-level than the kobold below her, but she was not here to eat it. Not directly.

Collect. That is what the big dragon had told her. She could feel his mana nestled deep within her, just like Ali-friend.

Collect fire, she thought, pausing at the top of the chamber. Quickly, she summoned a Lava Lurker and dropped it into the chamber from above. Immediately, she resumed her rock-form disguise and observed.

Explosions shook the walls as the kobold tried to kill her lava ooze. She waited. Fire crackled, sending more vibrations running through the rocks, while the air heated up around her. The tang of soot and smoke impacted her membrane, and Naia checked her notifications, but there was nothing yet. She waited some more.

She clung to the rocky roof with the patience of a rock. But after a while, a thought crossed her mind.

Something is wrong.

She checked on her Lava Lurker, but it was still fine. It was simply sitting there as she wanted, while the kobold’s fireballs blasted it.

A wrinkle rippled across her rocky surface as she struggled with the difficult challenge. Her Lava Lurker could sit there all day, and it would be fine. It wasn’t even taking damage from the fireballs…

Damage?

It needs damage? She wondered about that for a while, her shape morphing into a rock riddled with furrows as she concentrated. I don’t know? She wanted to ask Ali-friend, but she was not here.

Maybe I should try something else? she decided. In the throes of inspiration, Naia summoned a Brine Ooze and dropped it down on top of the kobold instead. A screech filled the chamber, echoing through the rock she was clinging to, and more fire magic rippled below her.

Better idea. Satisfied, she returned to her vigil, waiting.

Your Brine Ooze has died.

Hmm. That didn’t work. The dragon had told her to collect, but why was it so hard? She considered the problem again, but this time, she knew the answer. So, she summoned new oozes. This time, a Sacred Ooze and another Brine Ooze. When she dropped the Brine Ooze into the fire, hitting the kobold on the head a second time, she also made the Sacred Ooze drip oozelings down on top of it, making sure it would stay alive.

Clever! she thought, congratulating herself on knowing the answer to the difficult problem. She settled in to wait yet again. Fire blossomed, vibrating the rock, heating the air, and releasing all kinds of pretty mana patterns. Her Brine Ooze burnt, but the dripping of the Sacred Ooze on top of it kept healing the damage. She waited patiently. And eventually, the happy sound vibrated across her membrane.

Slime Mutation has altered your Brine Ooze.

Yay! She wobbled a little to celebrate, but then she studied her new ooze, realizing something was still wrong.

Scalding Slime – Ooze – level 51 (Steam).

Way back, before she had even met Ali-friend, in her little old cavern, she had made a Scalding Slime from the hot vents at the bottom of the cavern. This mutation was not going to help her; she already had it.

She shifted around on the roof, searching for a solution, and, bit by bit, she pieced it together. She had used a Brine Ooze the first time – she hadn’t had much else back then. The heat vents had mana patterns that looked the same as the room below her.

Fire and Brine Ooze… always makes a Scalding Slime?

She didn’t know. But it sounded right to her. What did Ali-friend call it? Logical? She puzzled over it for a few moments longer before she realized she could try something else. But not Lava. Or Brine. Or Scalding. So many problems. Does Ali-friend have to think this much?

Carefully, she considered her options, but she finally settled on a strange slime she had had since the beginning – the one which had helped purify the water. She swelled as she produced the little slime and dropped it into the fires, scoring yet another hit on the annoyed kobold below.

Aetheric Slime – Ooze – level 15 (Arcane)

She studied it carefully as the angry kobold unleashed his fire, quickly increasing the flow of holy droplets as its health began to fall. This time, she didn’t wait patiently; instead, she kept her focus, hoping for a change. Nothing she had ever done had required so much problem-solving.

The one-sided fight drew on and on, and Naia began to twist and fidget, even ruining the illusion of her rock. But then, the happy sound came again.

Slime Mutation has altered your Aetheric Slime. Imprint: Blaze completed.Blaze – Ooze – level 14 (Fire)

Suddenly, something surged within her. Her mana grew dramatically larger, and her mind cleared, like the Aetheric Slime purifying water. And with it, the struggles of the last couple of hours became far clearer to her.

Am I stupid?

No. I was, she realized, as the words of the big dragon came back to her. He had said this would happen – he had told her, if she worked on her skills, she would get smarter.

She clung to the roof for a long time as the implications of what had just happened sank in. Then, stilling her membrane, she deliberately crossed the chamber and entered the dark ruins beyond, her success lending new purpose and uncharacteristic speed to her pseudopods.

More… what else does Ali-friend have for me to learn? This is fun!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
