Velika was still making the unawakened fight the Slimes, as well as a lone level-4 lizard thing that they’d run into called a Gill Monitor. It was fast, but only around the size of a Doberman. Compared to the Fungiforms, the thing was a joke. The party picked it apart easily, Force Ward shielding them from its sharp claws and teeth.

Rain was starting to see what Mel had meant when she’d said that the Fells wasn’t that bad. A well-prepared party would have had no trouble. It was only difficult because he had six unawakened to babysit. He was pretty sure that he’d even have been able to make it this far on his own. Thanks to Detection and his ridiculous mana regeneration, he could have slowly ground the lair down without ever having to put himself in real danger. That said, it wasn’t something he planned on trying any time soon. All it would take would be one slip-up, one missed sink pit, one unexpectedly strong monster, and that would be it.

Also, there was the issue of the Fungiform Stranglers. He had Detected one in a tree, the signal oily and indistinct, signifying that it had some resistance to the spell. Velika noticed it on her own before he could point it out to her.

With no warning, she’d chopped the whole tree down from twenty meters away, sending the tentacled horror crashing to the ground. It had been an astonishing level nineteen, almost double the lair’s rank.

Velika had handled it. She had even gone as far as to do one of those cool moves where you vanish and appear on the other side of the target in an instant, resheathing your sword while the unfortunate victim slides apart into two, neatly-severed pieces. The fact that she didn’t use a shockwave implied that it wouldn’t have done enough damage, or that she had just wanted to show off. Either way, the presence of the Stranglers had served as a wakeup call against complacency. Rain wasn’t confident of his chances against something of his own level.

After a few hours and several more Stranglers, Rain and the party found themselves wading through chest-deep water, holding their packs over their heads. Velika was walking over the water’s surface as she’d been doing since the first crossing, seeming less unsteady than she had been initially. It didn’t look like she was walking on the water itself, more like an invisible surface just above it. Her stamina was dropping slowly, so Rain figured it was the same skill she’d used to hover over the city before.

“Wait,” Velika said suddenly, turning her head to look at a small island to their left. Rain followed her gaze, seeing nothing but trees, though it was difficult to make out details through the fog. A pulse of Detection came up with nothing.

“A monster?” he asked, looking up at her.

She shook her head. “No. The intruder. He’s there.”

Oh. Rain kicked himself and pinged again, this time using a less-specific filter. The signal came back, clear as day. There was a person on that island.

“Come on,” Velika said, starting to walk in that direction. “I can’t leave you lot alone in here, so you’re coming with me while I go murder a bitch.”

“Wait,” Rain said, sloshing after her. He cursed as Rina passed him, the noblewoman swimming easily with the Crystal Slime perched on her head. His own armor was far too heavy for that kind of thing. Besides, he was forced to hold his bulging pack up out of the water. Damn Osaran tax code. I should have left the books outside, at least. I need a waterproof bag.

Mercifully, Velika slowed when it was clear that the others couldn’t keep up. She fell back to walk in the air to the left of his head. The height difference became less pronounced as the water grew shallower until he tossed his pack up onto the bank and climbed out. He looked at the Citizen, out of breath from fighting the water. “Can we maybe not kill a random person today?”

Velika shrugged. “That depends on him and whether he killed the blue. I swear, the audacity of coming in here… He’s got balls, that’s for sure. The fact he made it this far without dying says a lot. He didn’t leave a trail of bodies, either. He’s got to be a master of stealth. That’s someone I could use. But if he killed the blue, well… I’ve always wanted to try peeling a man alive.”

Rain gulped. “I can’t tell if you’re being serious, or…”

Velika laughed. “Of course I’m not being serious. That would be way too annoying. Do I look like I have time for that kind of hobby? Besides, if he killed it, he’s dead, and that’s that. It hardly matters if he suffers before he goes.” She turned to yell at Bosco and Breggeh, who were lagging behind, not even at the bank yet. “Would you two hurry up!? If one of those fish comes after you, I’m just going to let it eat you.”

Rain shook his head, returning his attention to the sickly-looking trees. Who could it be? He pinged with Detection multiple times in rapid succession, playing an impromptu game of Guess Who.

While Detection never told him any details about what he’d detected other than its size, he’d gotten a pretty good sense for the types of things that it would allow him to set as a filter. IFF made it even more flexible when it came to entities. In essence, it let him isolate groups of people that he knew.

Human? Check.

Human male? Confirmed.

Someone in the Watch? No.

Someone in the Guild? Shit.

…

One of the silverplates? No.

A bronzeplate? Yes.

Someone I’ve interacted with? Yes…

Val?

…

“Shiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit,” Rain said, facepalming as the pulse of Detection returned.

“What?” Velika said, turning to look at him.

Rain sighed, lowering his hand. “I know who it is.”

Velika’s eyes narrowed as she walked over to him. “How could you know that?” she asked, a dangerous expression on her face.

“Um…skill?” Rain said, resisting the urge to step back. Velika was standing uncomfortably close for his liking.

Velika’s expression darkened even further, a suspicious glint in her eyes. “You don’t just know who it is. You know him well. A friend? If I find out that you had anything to do with this, I will take back what I said about peeling being too annoying. You can be the test subject.”

Rain did take a step back this time, raising his hands to ward her off. “Wait! That’s not…I only just found out. It’s the same spell I’ve been using to check for monsters. It works on people, too. Now that we’re in range, I was able to figure out who it was.” He glanced over his shoulder, conscious of the water behind him. He lowered his hands slowly, trying to look as harmless as possible.

Velika moved even closer, getting right in his face. “Oh? Well, isn’t that convenient? Here is my theory. You knew your friend was in here the whole time. You knew where he was hiding and tried to lead me away. Don’t think I didn’t notice that you kept us as far from that island as possible.”

“What?” Rain said. “No, I was just sticking to the shallowest path.” He glanced at the water again and gulped.

Velika stared into his eyes through his visor for what felt like hours, then mercifully took a step back. “Fine. It occurs to me that if this was some plot, telling me that you knew who the intruder was would be about the stupidest thing you could do. The smart move would be to play dumb.” She turned away and started walking toward the trees.

Rain sighed in relief. Damn, she’s unstable. One minute she’s fine, but when anything pisses her off, she just snaps. Paranoid, too. I think Val’s boned.

“Well, who is it? This friend of yours,” Velika asked, not looking back.

Rain swore softly and hurried to follow her, the unawakened trailing behind him. “His name is Val. He was in my party when we ran into you on the road.”

“Humm,” Velika said as they reached the trees. “Which way?”

Rain pointed. There was no point in trying to mislead her. Plus, it would have been suicidal. “He’s not far in. Just on the other side of that thorny bush there.” He raised his voice. “Val! It’s Rain. Citizen Sadanis is with me. Don’t do anything stupid.”

There was no response, but Velika didn’t wait. She moved in the indicated direction, and Rain hurried to keep pace. He gasped as he rounded the bush and saw Val lying on the ground, half inside the mouth of a gigantic snake.

“Shit!” he yelled, reflexively activating Force Ward.

“Well,” Velika laughed. “Seems like we’re too late. What a shame.”

Rain rushed forward as soon as he got over his shock, switching from Force Ward to Detection. The snake was dead, that much was clear. Its massive purple body was streaked with scorch marks, and there was blood everywhere. Detection confirmed it. The spell would work on dead bodies, but only if he was searching for them. Val showed up as an entity, so for all that he looked dead, he wasn’t, at least, not yet.

“He’s still alive!” Rain shouted, fumbling for a healing potion as he knelt near Val’s head. He poured it into the man’s mouth, trying to spill as little as possible. “Damn it, swallow, idiot.”

“He’s unconscious,” said Samson, kneeling on the other side. “Still breathing, though. Tilt his head. Try to get some of it to go down his throat.”

Rain did as ordered, hoping against hope that Val didn’t have any spinal injuries on top of being half-eaten by a giant snake. As the potion sloshed into Val’s throat, he coughed weakly, spluttering and sending most of it flying out of his mouth.

“Here, give me another one of those,” Samson said, gesturing to Rain’s bandoleer. “I’ve had to do this before.”

Rain nodded, passing him the potion. Val looked horrible, his flesh was swollen and inflamed, worst near the massive fang that was plunged into his torso, locking the snake’s head in place. Venom? Fuck. How is he still alive? The fang alone should have done it. We’re never going to be able to get that out without tearing him up even more. How are we going to…oh. Purify.

Rain held nothing back, using a full Nova compressed down to just a few meters. When he dropped it, Velika was kneeling next to him, pressing her hands against a gaping hole in Val’s side in an attempt to stop the flow of blood.

“Idiot,” she said, looking at Rain. “How am I going to kill him if he’s already dead? Think before you do things.”

Rain blinked, staring at the blood. There was a lot, and all of it must have come out of the wound after he’d stopped using Purify; otherwise, it would have been cleaned away. “Shit!”

“Another potion,” Samson said, holding out his hand, blinking as if he was having trouble seeing. Shit, I didn’t even think about the light. Rain quickly handed him another potion and watched as he poured it down Val’s throat.

Val choked and spluttered, then started screaming.

Velika laughed as she restrained him, pressing hard on the wound. “Well, if he can scream like that, he’ll probably be fine. Hey, Bosco, take over. Make sure you don’t let any of his guts pop out.”

Bosco shook his head, looking sick. “I…I…the blood…”

“Ah, move, ye git,” said Kettel, shoving him out of the way. He placed his hands over Velika’s, taking her place and applying pressure to the wound.

“Another,” said Samson, holding out his hand. Val had stopped screaming. He’d passed out again.

Rain hurriedly passed Samson another potion. “How many can he have?”

Samson shrugged. “He’s dead without it. It would be better if we had a greater healing scroll. If you bought these from Myth and Reason, he’s going to need as many as you’ve got.”

“Rain,” Velika said, her tone annoyed. “I’m covered in idiot blood. If you’d please?”

Rain growled, but activated Purify anyway, keeping the intensity at a reasonable level this time to avoid blinding everyone again. He passed Samson his last two health potions and watched anxiously as the man poured them down Val’s throat.

“Well, that’s that,” Samson said, sitting back and tossing aside the empty bottles. “All we can do now is hope it was enough.” He looked at Arlo, “Unless someone has any stronger potions?”

Arlo shook his head. Rain looked down at Val, then lurched to his feet, heading for Arlo. He’d used Detection early on to check everyone’s supplies, and he knew for a fact that the puffed-up noble had two left. “Arlo, cough them up. I know you have them.”

“No,” Arlo said, shaking his head. “I will not.”

“Velika,” Rain said, turning to her imploringly.

Velika laughed. “Oh, relax. Another potion isn’t going to make any difference at this point. Look.” She pointed at Kettel’s hands.

Rain looked. Purify was still active, erasing the blood as soon as it left Val’s body, so he got a good view. The wound was sealing itself.

“Now that, that’s the oddest thing I’ve ever felt, and no mistake,” said Kettel, shifting his fingers to keep them from getting stuck in the rapidly closing wound.

Rain breathed a sigh of relief at the sight of smooth, healthy skin, visible through the ragged hole in Val’s jacket. The last of the blood evaporated away, and he deactivated Purify, the foul-smelling fog of the swamp rushing back in to replace it.

“Damn it, Val,” he said, shaking his head. “What the hell happened? Why would you try to fight something like that?”

Val didn’t respond. He was still unconscious, with only the shallow rise-and-fall of his chest to show that he was alive.

“What was that snake thing? Are there more?” Breggeh asked. She, Kettel, Velika, and Samson were the only ones who didn’t look sick.

Rain shook his head. Mel hadn’t said anything about snakes.

“Was it the essence monster?” asked Rina, clutching at her Slime. “Is there some way to tell?”

“It wasn’t,” said Velika.

“How do you know?” Arlo asked, laying his hand on his rapier. “Perhaps we should kill him, just to be sure. You said the essence would transfer, did you not?”

Velika laughed. “I know because the blue is right behind you, idiot. It seems we were making quite a bit of noise.”

Arlo whirled, drawing his sword. Rain jumped to his feet, using Detection. The spell spotted the monster just before his eyes did. It was another of the lizard things, its health bar and name appearing as it emerged from the bushes.

Corpulent Gill Monitor, Level 6

It was larger than the last Gill Monitor had been, around the size of a donkey. However, it hadn’t just been scaled-up proportionally. It was massively fat, as if someone had inflated it like a balloon. It didn’t look like that was slowing it down, however. It was running toward them at great speed, its stomach dragging along the ground. An arrow plinked off of its head, and it roared, showing at least three rows of vicious teeth.

