Sentinel Talasa sat in her office, fuming.

I can’t believe the stupidity. Don’t they see what will happen? Even if their idiotic plan goes off without a hitch, the depths will claim us all.

She slumped down in her chair and sighed, rubbing at her temples as the anger slowly faded, replaced by resignation. This was the path that the Watch had chosen. She had made her case and been overruled. All she could do now was try to mitigate the damage.

She reached toward the small bell sitting on her desk, hesitated, then rang it. Her assistant appeared after a few moments, entering after knocking politely on the door. “Yes, Sentinel Talasa?”

“Bartum, has Tanner made any progress on the communications issue since last night?” Talasa asked, trying to keep the fatigue and exasperation from showing in her voice.

“No, Sentinel,” said the wiry officer who served as her adjutant. “There has been no change. We still cannot pierce the barrier. Tanner says he is close, but he has been saying that for days. There has been no indication that any of our messages have reached Vigilance.”

Talasa frowned. She’d expected as much, but it was still disappointing. “And Sentinel Tabot?”

“He is off rotation today, I believe. Sentinel Hallimer is the alternate. His report came through an hour ago. The party that was sent to the Vestvall outpost to retrieve the mindcaster has yet to return.”

“Damn,” Talasa said, hitting the table with her fist.

Bartum raised an eyebrow. “It is not like you to curse when you’re not doing that act you do.”

She sighed, shaking her head slowly. “Bartum, sometimes, I just…” She rubbed at her eyes. “I just don’t know. Send a runner to the barrier. They need to know about this stupidity.”

“Already done.”

Talasa looked up at him and smiled. “Bartum, have I told you that you’re wonderful?”

Bartum chuckled. “Many times, Sentinel.”

Talasa got to her feet. “Okay. I suppose if we’re doing this, I’d better do my part. I’m going to the Guild to have a little talk with that rat…what was his name again? The one in charge now?”

“Rankin.”

“Yes, him. Anyway, round up the rest of my officers and get them ready. Hopefully, I’ll come back with a little extra support. We’re going to need all the help we can get. Oh, and make sure to refresh the enchantments on my equipment. If Pell makes a fuss, remind him that I’m our only frontline healer. Phoss isn’t going to save us with that spear of his when this thing turns sour. I should have priority, and that is that.”

“Yes, Sentinel.” Bartum made an elaborate bow.

Talasa rolled her eyes and walked past him. “For the last time, Bartum, no bowing. I’m your commander, not the queen of Wix.”

Bartum spun smoothly, prostrating himself with one knee and both fists pressed against the floor. “Yes, commander. Please forgive me for the transgression. I will strive to observe proper discipline in the future.”

Talasa snorted as she glanced back at him, then shook her head. Bartum wasn’t nearly as funny as he thought he was, but he always had a way of cheering her up. She needed it on a day like today.

Rain pulled himself up out of the Tunnel and looked around at the stinking marsh. He breathed deeply, inhaling the pungent scent of decay, then sighed in relief.

Finally!

This was the Fetid Bog, the final zone of the lair, other than the Shrine.

It was true to its name. The ground was slimy mud, where there was ground at all, only held together by the roots of a few sickly-looking trees. Stagnant water surrounded them, choked with grasses and weeds for as far as the eye could see. And that wasn’t far. The entire place was shrouded in a swirling fog that reeked of corruption. There was light, but not much, a gloomy twilight that filtered through the fog. His HUD said that it was nearing sunset on the surface, but there was no sign of a sun in here, real or otherwise. The only possible path forward was a strip of marsh winding through the stinking water to an island, barely visible in the distance.

It was honestly and unequivocally awful.

It was still better than the Tunnel.

Rain didn’t want to talk about the Tunnel.

“Oh thank the heavens!” Arlo said, dragging himself out of the hole. He was the last, the other members of the party already having clambered out one by one.

“Come on, it wasn’t that bad,” said Velika, laughing. “Rain dealt with the…substance. I’ve seen much worse, and worn it for longer, too. I think he’s spoiling me.”

Rain stared at her. “What could you have possibly seen that would allow you to say that?” Rain himself had seen his fair share of disgusting things—he’d had the internet, after all—but there was a difference between seeing a thing and walking through it. No. Being squeezed through it. He shuddered.

Velika laughed. “This one time, I was in a lair that had walls made from rotting meat. There was an ocean of pus that—”

“Please stop,” said Rina, clutching the Crystal Slime to her chest. “I don’t want to know. I can’t imagine anything worse, and I’d like to keep it that way. Dear gods, the smell…”

“I’ll never be clean again,” said Samson, easing Bosco down, then collapsing into the mud.

Bosco rolled over, retching, but there was nothing left to come up. He spat weakly. “I wish you’d just let me die. I could have passed on happy, but now this will haunt me for the rest of my days.”

“Oh gods, the chunks,” Arlo said, falling to his knees, heedless of the mud.

“I don’t see what the big deal is,” said Kettel. “I mean, it were disgustin’, sure, but yer all makin’ out like it was the most awful thing ever. I can imagine way worse.”

“Kettel, the inside of your head must be a terrifying place,” Breggeh said, walking over to Bosco and kneeling down to rub his back.

Rain decided that he didn’t care about the mud either, so he followed Arlo’s example and flopped down onto the ground. It looked like they weren’t going anywhere for at least a few minutes. He was fine with that.

Far to the northwest of Fel Sadanis, there was a sudden flash of purple light. Two figures popped into existence, standing on a hill. One of them immediately crumpled, falling to the ground with a whimper. The man clutched his head, then spoke, panting. “Please…tell me…this is…close…enough.”

Lavarro sighed. “It will do. You may go.”

“Oh, thank Dystees,” the man said, rolling onto his back.

“Don’t thank your god, thank me,” growled Lavarro.

The Translocationist didn’t reply, looking like he was seconds from passing out. Lavarro shook her head and walked away. The Guild mages in Xiugaaraa were pathetic. They sat around on their asses, eating cake and letting their skills atrophy. She didn’t know how much mana had been required for each of the jumps it had taken to get here, but it didn’t matter. They had no drive, any of them. If she were a Translocationist, she would settle for nothing less than being able to circle the entire globe in less than a day, no, less than an hour. Otherwise, what was the point?

She looked at the city in the distance. Westbridge. One of the largest cities in the DKE, situated on the unoriginally-titled West River. The home of the man who had attacked and imprisoned her daughter.

Idly, she snapped the neck of a rat-like creature as it ran toward them, probably attracted by the teleportation. Both it and the man beside her were no longer of any concern. Her brow darkened as she stared at the city, its walls casting a long shadow in the sunset. It had been fully dark in Xiugaaraa when they’d left, meaning that the Translocationist, weak as he was, had managed to catch up to the sun.

Lavarro smiled. Appropriate. The sun sets for you, Westbridge.

She started walking toward the city, then broke into a run. Her ex-husband was probably still on the other side of the world talking. Always talking. Talking about how the Guild should be run. Talking about how an adventurer should behave. Talking about how to free their daughter with politics.

Lavarro’s feet pounded against the earth as she ran, then left it completely. She’d switched to pillars of force, hurling herself forward faster and faster. Talking was a waste of time. The solution was simple. Westbridge would let Mahria out, or he would die.

Halgrave had fought him. From her eavesdropping, her ex had almost managed to win against the ancient Citizen—would have won, if not for trickery. That meant that the puffed-up bureaucrat was just as pathetic and lazy as the mages of Xiugaaraa. She would show him that levels weren’t everything. She would show him what a true mage was like.

Her smile widened into a vicious grin as the walls rushed to fill her vision. I am going to enjoy this.

She and Halgrave had fought many times; before, during, and after their marriage. One thing had stayed the same. She had never lost. Not even once. Westbridge was going to regret raising his hand against her family.

“Slow down there, Leeroy,” Rain said.

“Huh?” Arlo looked back at him. “Are you talking to me?”

“Yes,” Rain said.

Arlo looked a bit offended. “That is not my name. I would think that you of all people would know that nicknames are not something to be trifled with.”

Rain chuckled. I suppose he’s right about that. “Fine, Arlo. You’re rushing in, even after I just finished explaining the fifteen different kinds of death that are waiting for you in this marsh. Were you paying attention?”

“I was listening,” Arlo said, annoyed. “I am simply ready to be done with this place. These creatures are no match for us, now that we have learned their tricks.” He struck a pose, hands on hips. “The blue is here. I can smell it.”

“That’s the Tunnel,” Breggeh said, laughing. “I think I’ve still got some of that…stuff…stuck under my fingernails.”

“You don’t,” Rain said, looking at her. “Purify is quite thorough.” He sighed and shook his head. “Just be careful, all of you. Don’t walk through any water deeper than your ankles. Don’t walk under trees. And stay together.”

“Yes, yes,” said Bosco. “You’ve said all that. I’m with Leeroy.”

Kettel burst out laughing as Arlo whirled on Bosco. “I am betrayed!” He didn’t look mad; in fact, he was grinning.

Rain smiled and shook his head. Look at us, all friendly and bonded. It only took a full day of constant peril, then being squeezed through…that. Man, Mel said it was bad, but I had no idea…

“Let’s just go,” said Samson, clapping a hand on Rain’s back. “Don’t worry. I was listening, even if they weren’t.”

“Thank you,” said Rain, nodding to the shorter man. “Look after Bosco, will you? He says he’s fine, but he still looks a bit wonky to me.”

“You got it, Death Zone,” Samson said, wearing a serious expression on his face like a mask.

“Wait, what…?” Rain’s eyes narrowed. “Kettel?”

Samson’s mask broke, then he laughed. “Kettel.”

Rain sighed. “Damn it.”

“What? No good?” asked Kettel, grinning at him.

Rain shook his head. “It makes me sound like a villain.”

Velika laughed. “Maybe you shouldn’t dress like one, then.”

“A valid point,” Rain said, adjusting his cloak.

The Citizen stepped up next to him, staring out at the Fetid Bog. “The intruder is in here somewhere. I can smell him. He’s close.”

Rain raised an eyebrow. “I thought you said it was a her.”

“That was just a guess, but now…” She breathed in deeply through her nose. “Yeah, it’s a guy.”

“Hold up,” Rain said, “You can SMELL men?”

Velika laughed, then, to his horror, winked at him.

Oh no…

Rain hurriedly cleared his throat. “Uh, let’s go, everyone. Form on me.”

The party moved out, Rain and Kettel in front, probing the marshy ground. Kettel was still using the Quickstaff, and Rain had a branch that he’d broken off one of the scraggly trees. Detection wasn’t that much of a help, as there was no clean line between safety and danger as there had been in the Forest of the Drowned. The entire place was mud, just of varying firmness.

The going was slow. They frequently needed to wade through water, and monster attacks were a constant threat. There were slimes, of course, but they only seemed to hang out on land. The party was well-used to dealing with them by this point, having gotten plenty of experience in the Shroom Cave. Rain had to keep reminding them of the danger, partly to prevent himself from feeling overconfident as well.

The water held other threats. Devil Fish were like roided-up murder piranhas, and Swamp Kin were smaller, aquatic versions of Chem Kin. Both were numerous, fast, and dangerous, but they had low health and were easily spotted with Detection. Thankfully, Velika seemed to be growing weary of the lair and didn’t force the unawakened to fight them.

It would have been a walk in the park if not for the fact that he needed to check for blue names before killing them. Detection wouldn’t tell him that; he needed to use his eyes. Even so, it wasn’t that much of an issue. The monsters would happily swim over to investigate any disturbance to the water.

Before they made any crossing between the muddy islands, Rain would splash around with his stick to attract everything nearby. The Swamp Kin would climb up onto the land to be identified and subsequently detonated by Immolate.

The Devil Fish were a bit more problematic because the murky water hid their names, but Purify took care of that easily enough. The monsters themselves were unaffected, but the spell temporarily turned the water crystal clear. Then, once he was sure that there were no blues, it was time for Immolate again.

It was like microwaving a bowl of fish soup, right down to the smell. The water slowed the spell’s progress, but a low channel with a long range proved to be very effective. The water itself never got anywhere near hot enough to do damage, but the magic took care of that directly. The Devil Fish appeared to have little to no resistance to it.

After the first few times, Rain had even started wading into the hot-tub temperature water to speed things up. He’d found that the spell spread faster the deeper he submerged himself. The only downside was that this put him right in the middle of the nasty chowder of dying fish. After the Tunnel, it was hardly worth mentioning. Plus, it wasn’t like the fish had any way of hurting him, being unable to even scratch his armor with their teeth.

All told, he was racking up quite the kill count. He made sure to keep spending the experience on skill trees to prevent himself from hitting the cap. There was no sense letting it go to waste.

