“Shit,” Rain swore. Rina had the right idea. “Form up! Breggeh, Bosco, with me. Those claws look nasty. We need to keep it away from the others.”

“Right,” Breggeh said, shifting her grip on her shield. The three of them rushed out to meet the charging lizard.

“Rain,” Velika called after them, warningly. “Stay out of it. They need to do the damage, not you.”

“I know!” he snapped, staring down the fat lizard as it barreled toward him. “Get Val out of here! I’ll make sure they get credit.”

“They’d better,” Velika said. Rain didn’t have time to check if she’d gotten Val to safety. The lizard was already upon them.

Breggeh stepped forward, swinging her mace at the monster’s head as it came into range. It skidded to a halt, rolling away from the strike like a beach ball filled with jello. Breggeh still managed to hit it in the shoulder, but her mace bounced off of the lizard’s blubbery skin without doing any visible damage.

“Crap,” she said, dodging back. “It’s a tough one. Like the Stumpers.”

“Not too tough for Mercy!” Bosco shouted, flourishing his spear. “I will kill it in one strike.” He dashed forward, spear extended. The monster tumbled away even faster this time. “Damn!” Bosco swore as his spear hit nothing but mud.

Arlo jabbed at it as it rolled past, landing a hit that bent his sword almost in half. The strike did no visible damage, but it did knock off a few points from the creature’s health bar.

Rain nodded. Arlo did damage, so that’s a check. 1 out of 6.

“Ha!” Arlo said, swishing his rapier in triumph. “Always boast after you strike, Bosco, not before. That is the way to—Shit!” Arlo staggered back as the lizard lunged. Just before it crashed into him, the monster tumbled forward intentionally, rolling ass-over-teakettle to strike at him with its tail.

Fortunately, Rain had been ready with Force Ward. Arlo was still hammered down into the muck, but the damage was more to his pride than his health.

Despite himself, Rain smiled. That’s what you get, fool. Next time, don’t boast at all. He was feeling a lot more confident than he’d been in the first fight with a Stumper. This thing was faster than the Fungiforms had been, but nowhere near as strong. Its claws wouldn’t be able to do any serious damage, thanks to Force Ward. They should be able to deal with it without any problems.

Honestly, it’s a bit of a joke. I never thought I’d see a lizard chonker.

He shook his head. Overconfidence was to be avoided. He needed to take this seriously, or he was making the same mistake as the nobles. “Kettel, Breggeh, boost in three,” he said, readying Velocity.

“Fuck Yeah!” Kettel said, falling into a crouch. Both he and Breggeh launched themselves at the lizard from opposite sides as Rain activated the spell. He kept the boost modest, only around 300%. Through several fights with Stumpers, he’d learned that that was about as much as they could handle, and even then, only for a few seconds. He canceled it and switched to Force Ward as both of them struck at the surprised lizard, landing devastating-looking hits from staff and mace. The actual damage was real, but much less impressive.

The monster hissed angrily, tumbling away from the impact as Breggeh and Kettel crashed into each other. The two scrambled back to their feet, muddy, but unharmed. Kettel pumped his fist in the air, holding the staff. Rain had lost a few hundred mana from absorbing the impacts.

“Yaaaaah!” Kettel yelled, laughing. “I’ll never get tired o that!”

Breggeh shoved him out of the way, just in time to save him from the lizard’s retaliatory charge. She dropped to her knees, caught the strike from the tail on her shield, and lashed out with her mace. Unfortunately, the lizard had already bounced away, crashing into a tree in its haste to escape. Another arrow hit its hide but glanced off without doing any damage.

“This thing’s fast, fer a fat-ass,” Kettel shouted as he chased after it through the mud. “Did I get a hit on it, Rain?”

“Not sure!” Rain replied. He and Breggeh both hit it at once. I don’t know if one got credit, or both.

Any further discussion was cut off as Rina shouted in alarm. The monster had switched its focus to her, and she was forced to lower her bow and run. The Crystal Slime was still sitting on her head, clinging desperately to her hair as she dodged between the trees with the lizard ricocheting after her.

Samson came out of nowhere, slashing at the lizard with a vicious slice from his sword. A line of red appeared on its side, and it lost a full third of its health. It roared in pain, crashing into another tree with a heavy thunk of impact.

Rain blinked. Wow, go Samson. That’s an extra-large checkmark for you. 2 out of 6.

The lizard didn’t have time to recover before Bosco was on it. He skewered it with his spear, shaving off another significant chunk of health. Unfortunately for Bosco, the spear got lodged in the monster’s leg and was jerked out of his hands as it scrambled away.

“Wait!” Rain shouted as Samson closed in for another strike. Bosco’s good, so that’s 3 out of 6. “It’s getting low. Everyone back! Rina, shoot it!”

Rina shot. The arrow sunk into the lizard’s flesh this time, instead of bouncing off like the others. It only dealt the tiniest sliver of damage, but that was enough. Rina, check. I was worried I’d have to have her do a body slam. It’s a shame Velocity doesn’t work on bows. 4 out of 6.

Rain raised a hand. “That’s good, Rina. Stand down. Kettel, go rip out that spear.”

Kettel nodded, dropping the Quickstaff and running for the lizard. It roared and tried to face him, but the spear was slowing it down. Kettel grabbed the shaft of the weapon and tore it free, sending blood and skin flying. The lizard’s health bar dropped slightly. The enchantment of the spear only worked for Bosco, but the sharp blade appeared to be enough on its own.

Rain nodded. 5 of 6. “Good. Kettel, get back. Breggeh, smash.”

Wordlessly, Breggeh moved in. She blocked the lizard’s feeble attempt at a bite and smashed at it with her mace. The first two hits bounced off, but the third connected to its skull with a mighty thunk, knocking off another sliver of health.

“Good,” Rain said. “You got it. That’s enough.”

Breggeh backed away warily as Rain inspected the lizard. That’s 6 of 6. Looks like the thing has about had it. Its health is even dropping slowly, probably from the bleeding. It will die on its own, but… Hell, I’ll throw him a bone. “Arlo, if you would do the honors.”

“It would be my pleasure,” Arlo said, squaring off against the lizard. He ended it quickly, stabbing his blade through its eye and into its brain.

Your party has defeated [Corpulent Gill Monitor], Level 6

Your Contribution: 0%

“Aaaah!” Kettel shouted, falling backward and landing in the mud with a splash. “What the fuck is that!?”

Rain smiled. “That’s your interface. Don’t touch anything. That goes for all of you. No putting points in anything until I get a chance to explain. There’s no taking them back, and I want to make sure you know some things first.”

“Right,” said Breggeh, looking at him. Belatedly, Rain remembered to activate Purify, cleaning off the mud and gore from the party and starting to dissolve the lizard’s corpse.

“Well done,” said Velika, walking over to them. Rain frowned. She was dragging Val through the mud by his ankle. “Hands up if you’re awakened.”

She raised her own hand to demonstrate. Everyone except Rain raised theirs as well, after a few moments of confusion.

Velika laughed, looking at Rain. “Impressive, for a dull. Good work, Rain, you fooled us all.”

Rain sighed, raising his hand as he moved toward her. His attention was back on Val’s condition, now that the excitement was over.

“Here you go, he’s your problem now,” Velika said, dropping Val’s leg unceremoniously. She walked past Rain to address the newly awakened members of her guard. “Good job, all of you. Now let’s get out of this nasty place and get something to eat.”

The man in chains watched as the sun slowly set over Fel Sadanis. He felt its light strengthening him even as it faded, a comforting warmth on his skin. Beloved of the Sun was one of his oldest skills. It reminded him of home.

“Reporting,” a female voice came from his right. The man in chains ignored it, closing his eyes and drinking in the last of the sun’s rays. It was likely the only peace that he would find this day.

“Are the knives back?” came the grating voice of the dominus. A most detestable man, but one with the ear of the potentate. This was his operation. His command.

“Yes, Dominus. There were no incidents. All of the enemy scouts have been eliminated. The camp has not been alerted.”

The dominus chuckled. “It is time we alert them, then. Ready the archers. Full barrage from both contingents on my command.” The dominus paused. “No augmentation. And no artillery. Let’s give the Watch their chance at glory. There will be no need for the mages yet. I want to save them for that barrier of theirs.”

“Yes, Dominus,” The aide said, with the sound of a fist slammed against a breastplate. “Adamant Unbending!”

“Adamant Unbending!” replied the dominus, speaking the words with ardent reverence as he returned the noisy salute.

The aide’s footsteps vanished abruptly as she walked away, smothered by Muffle. The skill was being maintained over the entire detachment, with only a tiny pocket left atop the low hill where they were standing. The orders of the dominus would be transmitted to the rest of the army by the other aides surrounding them using coded signal cards.

“Well?” said the dominus. The man in chains did not respond.

“Lower it,” the dominus commanded, laying a hand on his shoulder.

Finally, the taller man opened his eyes, looking down at the hand with irritation. “It is not necessary. Mirage will not prevent the archers from doing their work.”

The dominus laughed, taking his hand away. “I want them to see us before they die. They will know the futility of resistance before the might of the Adamant Empire!”

The man shook his head, rubbing at his wrists, as was his habit. There were no chains there. Not anymore. The chains were in his mind. “It is an unnecessary risk. We could face retaliation. For all we know, the DKE has hidden a Citizen or two in their midst.”

The dominus snorted. “You are too cautious, old friend. There is only one Citizen here, and she is of no concern. Even two or three of the bastards would be manageable. Lower it. That is an order.”

“I am not your friend,” said the man. “And I do not take orders from you.”

“And yet, you will obey,” said the dominus with a sneer.

It took everything that the man in chains had to stop himself from searing the man’s eyes from his skull. He could have killed him easily, but he would not. The dominus was right. He would obey.

He raised his right hand, waving it through the air. As he did, his Mirage dissolved, the shimmering distortion falling apart. From within, there was little other change, but the Watch camp would suddenly find themselves staring at the unveiled might of the Empire of Adamant. A full legion, five thousand strong, where the Watch’s numbers could be counted in the hundreds.

The dominus signaled to another aide, who held up a green pennant marked with a star. The sounds of the world returned to his ears, Muffle fading away as the mages maintaining it stopped channeling.

“More foolishness,” said the man in chains.

“I want to hear the screams,” the dominus said, a wicked grin on his face. He turned to the aide. “The archers may begin.”

Cries of alarm sounded from the Watch camp as the two contingents of archers raised their bows, but it was too little and too late. The first wave of arrows arced through the air to rain down upon the unfortunates cowering outside the barrier. The archers were well-trained, despite their low levels, and they were not firing blindly. They had the skills to ensure that they never missed. They would be picking their targets, even at this distance. With multiple archers for each member of the Watch, the result would be devastating.

“Again,” said the dominus as the cries of alarm were replaced with those of death and terror.

Another volley of arrows flew through the air. Scattered magical barriers had appeared in the Watch’s camp, and bolts of magic and arrows of their own started flying in the direction of the army.

The man in chains smiled, sadly. Their defiance was admirable. Futile, but admirable all the same. The Empire could not be defeated, and yet they tried, knowing full-well of their own impending death. He’d been like them, once. He’d believed that by fighting back, he could make some sort of difference. Now, even that forlorn hope had died.

Not a single spell or projectile reached the army. They were destroyed in midair, countered by the artillery detachment. The zealous fools were showing off, sniping the enemy missiles from the sky with Firebolts instead of letting them bounce harmlessly from the barriers.

The archers loosed once more, the arrows colliding with each other in the air as they converged on the scattered pockets of survivors. The Watch was doing surprisingly well. They were rallying around the few remaining sentinels, cowering behind shields, both magical and mundane.

It would not save them. It was only a matter of time.

“Enough of this,” said the man in chains, raising his hand. “They have earned a clean end.”

The dominus chuckled. “Fine, go ahead.” He slammed his fist to his chest. “Adamant Unbending!”

The man in chains nodded. He spoke in a somber voice. “Adamant Unbending.”

A blinding beam of light shot from his hand, spreading until it was wider than a man was tall. It instantaneously drew a line between his palm and the Watch’s camp, turning twilight into day. He moved his hand slowly, sliding the other end of the beam across the arrow-strewn remains of the Watch’s defenses. When he lowered it, there was nothing left but ashes and a gigantic furrow carved into the ground.

“Marvelous,” said the dominus. “I love it when you do that.”

The man’s mouth hardened into a line. He turned away from the devastation and walked slowly down the hill. Unfortunately, even his power was not enough. Not against Fecht. Some things were absolute.
