Erick sat down on his dragon ass on the mountain he had made at the north pole. The Worldsaver floated above him inside an invisible space, and Erick himself was invisible, intangible, and not really a part of the world; of this world, or any other right now. The grassy plains of Ganymede stretched out in every direction, and the towers and trees that Erick had built covered all the land beyond that space. His Status and Lightning Path had not changed much in all his quick years as a fighter of corruption out in the universe, because no one knew he had done all that… or at least the masses didn’t.

Erick wondered if Lionshard had ever made a ‘Wizard’s Clarity’ like Erick had, to save himself from the Curse of Power. Probably not; Lionshard was still in Margleknot, and would not venture outside. Or at least that was what Erick had heard after showing up to job #23, to act as Lionshard’s invisible hand and to fix the corruption plaguing several worlds to begin the cleansing of an entire galaxy; to help those people there help themselves.

That had been a fun job.

Erick basically just followed his Lightning Path and tipped over a few castles here and there on several different worlds. The biggest thing he had done was to erase an autonomous drone system that was running amok and killing people because the corruption had gotten at its systems. That had taken half an hour. And that was the whole job! With just a little bit of help, done in the time span of 27 years, of which Erick had only spent 3 days actually doing work, had set that entire galaxy to rights.

Erick had learned a lot in his years out there, working with people who were so much more capable than him.

Mainly, he had learned that the universe was wider and simpler than it appeared.

Corruption started at individual locations, for any thousands of reasons. There were people that tried to revive the dead, who used inferior magics to do so, and who made deals with entities that did not fully exist, except in their minds. There were revenge-seekers, who tried to annihilate problems through terrible reson-based desires. Those were usual starts for corruption. But then again, corruption started on job #30, just because a system of government failed on one world, and then the problem propagated to civil war and somehow corruption came about.

The main problems with corruption were not the corruption itself.

Erick had seen, that in every case of corruption, that it had all started on one slice of Infinity, in one Layer of Infinity, and thus that entire area of spacetime began to degrade. Corruption started at a source, and then leaked out into Infinity, replicating itself in inferior ways. Every version of Abarial did not fall to the same several corruption monsters. The corruption spread from those central slices of infinity into every other nearby Layer. Erick had just needed to burn out that corruption at the source to save everyone else.

All of life was like that.

All of Life was like that.

Every world had an infinite variation surrounding that world in the nearby multiverse, and all of them were visible when you were there, but it took a level hand to navigate that infinity, to go to the center of the major problems, where the major actors were causing major problems, to find them and to change everything. Not all of those major actors were even on the same slice of infinity, either, which was fun to find out—

Erick breathed out.

He didn’t need to think anymore.

He was ready.

Erick opened his maw, and ate his own heart—

Reality collapsed inward.

- - - -

Shadow watched from the backside of an illuminated tower as Erick ate his own heart, and then he spun inward, into himself, dying in that action.

Nothanganathor watched with her. He had been ready to intervene, to kill, to annihilate. That had been his original plan in coming here. But he held back, and it was just his avatar here, anyway. He held back, because others were present. Others that he actually respected… Or that he at least acknowledged.

Also, if he tried shit, then he’d get shit on, and that was that. He had already been trounced once.

Shadow kinda wanted him to try again… But no.

Lady Aelorika, Lady Seraphaka, and Lord Dakka were there with Shadow, all of them fitting into the same wide gloom behind the light of a tower of a [Seed of Atunir]. Yggdrasil was a bit larger of a presence, so he couldn’t fit very well, but he had his own leaf present, growing on the tower, in the light, like a little air plant; just a simple single flaming green leaf and some white roots and a tiny crown of rainbows. All of them were as hidden as they could possibly be, and though Yggdrasil was less adept at it, he hid just fine, thanks to the Fae Council helping him hide. Technically he shouldn’t even be here, but Erick was his father, and so the Council had allowed it.

Nothanganathor shouldn’t have been here at all, but he was an asshole who spent a thousand favors to watch, thinking he could actually kill Erick while he watched, and now he was down a thousand favors and that was that. Shadow had thoroughly enjoyed it when all the Fae Council fought him back from interrupting Erick’s moment; it was the only time she had ever won against the bastard—

Lord Eldraki showed up with a tub of popcorn, smiling— Until he saw that Erick was gone. “Dammit! I missed him killing himself!”

Dakka said, “Told you not to venture to Earth. He had sat down for a think; not to not do it.”

“Well I’m just glad he took my advice to learn how to hide his mana and stuff, and now he can be responsible for hiding us all in the future, instead of me having to do it all the time,” Eldraki said, eyeing everyone in the group. “That means he’s closer to me than the rest of you.”

Everyone scoffed at the absurdity of Eldraki trying to claim Erick as Of Him.

Eldraki grinned at his own joke.

Nothanganathor grumbled and vanished, but not before splitting Ganymede into ten pieces, casting the gathering and the moon into a drifting, broken orbit around Jupiter. No one really minded the attack; not like he had hit them. Seraphaka managed to cup Yggdrasil’s tiny leaf into a hand, so he was perfectly fine, too.

Shadow tumbled unconcerned, floating in the void along with the others, saying, “Any of you want to put that planet back?”

“It’s a moon,” Eldraki said, just to be a pedant.

Shadow didn’t argue. It was a planet now, dammit.

Aelorika was currently upside-down as compared to Shadow, and she was also drinking tea. She shrugged. The others were all angled weird, too, gently spinning as they drifted, but the group remained somewhat together.

Dakka moved first. He waved a rusted wing and the planet crashed together, though it had certainly seen better days. Everything grew at a weird angle now, and the careful balances that Erick had set up so that the planet wouldn’t pull in the other moons, or fall into the gas giant below, had been disrupted. But the planet looked like a proper warzone, and that made Lord Dakka happy.

“There!” Dakka said, smiling. “Much better.”

Seraphaka rolled her eyes and then waved her hand and the desecration of War… lessened. The planet also moved into a new, stable orbit and then stayed there. “Now it’s better.”

“I liked the red lines I put on it! Like those Blasted Lands of Shar.” Dakka said, as he waved his hand. The planet buckled a little and some big cracks appeared, as though the fae had carved into the surface with giant claws. Those claw marks crystallized and sent out citadels of war, like towers made of metallic ice to pierce the sky. The planet had been turned into a war fortress, made for beings that were between 3 and 5 meters tall, on average, though it was completely empty at the moment. “A home base for the Valkyries he wishes to gather. He didn’t make one yet, you know.”

Aelorika sighed, tumbled until she reoriented, and then she pointed at the planet. The disturbed atmosphere and boiling red clouds and broken bamboo towers all shifted a little. The atmosphere evened out. Boiling red clouds became illuminated things, bringing natural light to the world. Broken bamboo towers grew taller and thicker, to become the makers of those illuminated clouds. “This part of this system is way too dark. It needs more light for all the plants, and your citadels disturbed that light.”

Dakka shrugged.

Margleknot’s Yggdrasil avatar fluttered down to the planet and planted itself at the northern pole.

Things evened out even more as a giant Yggdrasil grew taller than all the rest of the plants on the world, which were all multiple kilometers tall at that point.

Eldraki frowned at all of them, and then he pointed at the planet.

Shadow didn’t see what he did. It was, quite possible, that he did nothing at all. But his action demanded a response, and Shadow was the odd-fae-out, so she asked him, “What did you do?”

Aelorika also asked him, “What did you do?”

Shadow was a little surprised at that. It felt good to have backup, though.

Eldraki smiled as he pointed at his own cheek, saying, “Give me a kiss and I’ll tell you.”

Aelorika shrugged, and then she turned to Shadow, saying, “Good luck with your betrothed.” She vanished, back to Margleknot or wherever.

Seraphaka said, “Good luck!” And then she also vanished.

Eldraki said, “I hope he dies for real.” The bastard vanished.

Dakka said to Shadow, “Good luck with the guy. Are you going to stick around here?”

“For a little while,” Shadow said. “I’ll leave Eldraki’s present for Erick to find, but I do want to stick around.”

“If Erick succeeds, he’ll probably come back to you on that Earth Moon.”

“I’ll head that way soon enough.”

Dakka nodded, and then he vanished.

Shadow floated above Ganymede for a little while longer.

Erick was on his own.

- - - -

Erick woke up feeling a specific kinda shit that he hadn’t felt in forever, and also rather slowly. His mind was groggy and his mouth was dry as sand, and everything smelled… Not good? Smelled like sex, which was good sometimes, but not right now. Erick was pretty sure that his hand was gripping some sort of boob on some sort of woman —male boobs and female boobs were very different, after all— and it was squishy and warm, and his chest was warm and pressed against some sort of slender back, and someone moved around behind him, grumbling and muttering about needing a drink. It was a man’s voice.

Erick cracked open a crusty eye and all he saw was dark brown hair that smelled of jasmine.

He tried to sense the world…

And his mana was tired, or something, because nothing happened.

He did not panic, though his heart certainly raced hard. Rapidly, Erick woke all the way, and found himself in a bed with a woman and a man, both of them maybe 19 or 20, and a cheap mirror hung on the wall. Erick was 20 as well—

He recognized the apartment.

And then the man sitting behind him got off the bed and tugged at the covers, unceremoniously ripping them away from Erick and the woman, as he said, “Come on, you dweebs! It’s time for you to bounce. I had fun and I hope you had fun, too, but there’s some english homework I gotta bullshit, and I can’t bullshit it with you two bomb booties in my room.”

Erick sat on the bed for a moment longer, to look up at Erick Flatt, circa 1997.

Younger Erick was nude, of course. Erick always slept nude with people back in college. He teased the guys who he fucked, too, when they ended up looking at him like Erick was looking right now, in complete disbelief. Young Erick smiled, saying, “Don’t have a gay crisis on account of me! Or do, if you want. I’m pretty fucking hot.”

Ah.

Well then.
