The eye seemed to approve.

That’s when the door muncher died completely, the parts of its body faltering hard as it got sucked back into the Fractal Universe, and Erick went with it. The last thing he saw of the Hair Universe was water cascading down dry hair, and into the drain.

Erick soon floated in the Fractal Universe, around the door to ‘Blaghargabap’, and the black hole went from being a dead thing, to a spinning thing of brilliance around absolute black, and with two streamers of power shooting off from the top and bottom of the hole. Erick went to investigate one of those streamers, but not too close; that was a lot of water pressure right there.

Erick wasn’t sure what he had done, exactly, but it seemed like a good thing, so he decided to go back into the Hair universe to find out exactly what he had done; what happened. He touched the black hole—

And his claw tips broke away, sheared off from the water pressure.

Erick flexed his Authority… and still got his claws sheared short. Looking at the damage to his claws, Erick tried a different approach. He blunted his claws with an old spell of [Conjure Armor] mixed with anti-Elemental Water properties, along with some resons to make that sort of combination actually work on stuff that obviously wasn’t ‘water’ at all.

He knocked on the door.

The white glows and water pressure around the ‘door’ vanished, leaving a hole to travel through.

Erick went inside—

Suddenly, Erick was sitting in a kitchen from the 80s on Earth. He was still a dragon, but he was human-sized. The sun shone in the window and nice curtains framed a blue sky. Tea steamed in mugs on the kitchen table. The refrigerator was roundish and green… so maybe the 60’s, not the 80’s. And yet there was a flat color television hovering on the wall. So the style was really ‘anachronistic’—

A woman sat across from Erick and her hair was gorgeous and long and every color of the rainbow, but mostly brown. It draped from her head to the floor in rivulets, twisting and draping, and it flowed across the floor, to the edges of the room, where it vanished into the cracks in the floorboards.

The woman was about to say something, but then she paused as she looked at her body, and then at Erick’s body, and said, “You have a very sexually dimorphic species.”

Erick transformed back into a person. “Apologies for the miscommunication.”

“Ah!” The woman’s face lit up. “That makes more sense. Very good. I thought only your women had hair, but it’s good you have hair, too. You want something? Glad you decided to knock instead of trying to push your way in again. Coming in through the floor was bad enough. Gave me quite a scare!”

“… Ah. Apologies. I just wanted to come back in to make sure the problem of the door muncher was resolved. I didn’t see any pieces over there, and I wasn’t sure what was happening over here.”

“Oh yeah. It’s gone. Amazing what a little cleaning can do for the consciousness. You can tell Fractal that we can have tea again if they want, but all they want to do is fight, so I try not to bother with them too much. Their agents are much more pleasant. You want sex?”

“… Ah. No thank you. I am already practically-married twice over.”

“Hmm! Fair enough.” She set a trinket of silver and gold and water onto the table between them, saying, “I was eventually going to raise up one of my own to clear away that plug and I was going to gift them this, but now I guess I gotta talk to the Fractal again. Way before I was ready, too… But I guess this is what is happening now. You can have the thing.”

Erick took the gift though he wasn’t sure what it was even as he held it. “Glad to help. I’ll be on my way, now.”

The woman nodded—

Erick was a dragon again, floating beyond the illuminated black hole that was the door into the Hair Universe. Tendrils of light and dark were wrapped around his body for a brief moment, but they were already letting go.

Erick floated backward with something gold/silver/water in his right, clawed hand.

With a quick push through into Benevolence Itself, Erick settled down into his gate space.

The trinket turned into a torc that could go around one of Erick’s arms.

… It didn’t seem dangerous. It wasn’t mana-based magic, though.

It was probably fine.

Erick put it on, and felt out the magic it was trying to do as it touched him. As soon as he realized what was happening, he let it, and then he conjured up a big mirror. Thanks to the torc, Erick now sported a massive black beard and hair that came down to mid-back. With a flick of power, Erick tied the hair into braids and then brushed out the beard. He looked at himself in the mirror and smiled.

“Not a bad look.” He took off the torc, and his hair melted away. “Not for me, though.”

And then Erick looked around at the floating stone platform, and saw he needed to make some improvements to the place.

“A steering wheel and a desk is not enough.”

Erick considered—

“Ah ha! I need a ship.”

- - - -

Ten-thousand years later, and not that long at all, Erick set down the paperwork for mission number 37 into the outgoing box of his new office and smiled as that paperwork vanished through the port he had installed between mission #3 and #4.

That paperwork zipped off to Margleknot, to the archives, where no one would ever see it at all except for those who wanted to get their brains scrambled via time-twisting memetic threats—

A receipt came through the port—

Another piece of paper came through, and this one was a personal note ‘From the desk of Lady Aelorika of the Fae Council’, scribbled in flowing ink that mimicked vines that had met a weed wacker. Erick had gotten several letters from Aelorika so far, but he had been a ‘hidden agent’ until now, apparently. Usually the Lady was rather thankful without actually saying ‘thank you’. Now, she was all perturbed.

Erick laughed as he read it.

‘Fractals and Fate! I cannot believe I did not put it together sooner, but you’re the one doing this job now, Erick?! ERICK FLATT. Who is supposed to be having a war with Nothanganathor right now!’

There was a break in the script and some splattered ink stains that had transformed into ink flowers upon the page. The Lady had been interrupted while writing. She was obviously distraught.

Erick smiled.

‘I suppose, though, that according to this memo that I have just been handed, as I have been reviewing this case and putting together all that has transpired, that I am to ignore that breach of protocol because the war has spiraled far out of its initial bounds. It’s also still happening, apparently. I am not to do a thing except congratulate you on this work and tell you that your initial volley of requests are done.

‘Congratulations! You have earned a total of 5 favors; 2 from me, 2 from Lady Seraphaka, and 1 from Lord Dakka. Should you choose to use these favors against someone who has their own favors, they will be counted against each other on a 1-for-1 basis. Whoever has favors left over in such a conflict will find the Council on their side.

‘Nothanganathor currently has several thousand favors.

‘Luckily, we have already decided to forgo the usual favor-trading which would usually happen in such a scenario. You two are at war. Good luck, Erick; I hope you win.

‘You’re free to return to doing whatever you were doing before you accepted this assignment.

‘The Fae Council of Margleknot appreciates your efforts to cleanse this universe from corruption.’

Erick read the letter a few times, smiling wider as he finished.

And then he duplicated the letter three times and set one copy into each of his filing cabinets. The first cabinet was organized chronologically, the second was organized on Erick’s timeline, and the third was organized by Layer number. Erick only had a few hundred Layers visited so far, all of the boxes were small, but they could get bigger.

Erick was grinning as he shut the cabinets back up, and then he strolled out of his captain’s quarters, onto the deck of his ship. The great ship Worldsaver stretched out before him, like an old timey pirate’s galleon, and Erick stood at the wheel in front of the aftcastle. The ship was brilliant white and black and made of solid crystal Benevolence, while the sails were completely decorative and mostly invisible, to give Erick an unobstructed view of the cosmos. The whole thing was only a fraction of the size of Erick’s true draconic self, but it was comfortably grand.

The storage was filled with treasure, and Erick was filled with new experiences about how to win a Wizard’s time war.

Now that he had gotten true clearance to get on with his own life, though, it was time to do that.

Erick was ready.

Erick grabbed the steering wheel and spun it hard to the left. The readout floating to the side of the wheel rapidly flipped through Layers and Time, while the spots of light in the void beyond the gate space all rapidly turned to blurred lines of light, some fading, some growing, some turning into nebulae that spanned whole galaxies.

Erick navigated through it all, Worldsaver plowing through time and space to arrive exactly where it needed to be.

Hovering over the dark side of the moon, invisible to all, but with enough visibility for Erick to see everything happening down there, Erick and Worldsaver floated, and Erick glanced through the Fractal.

With his sight spanning a thousand little fractal splashes, Erick Saw everything big happening in his neighborhood. It was mostly a bunch of slimes, playing in the water. Big events! Erick smiled to see the ease of it all. The simplicity. The simple good, of slimes eating plants and playing in water and the light towers growing taller and the rivers rushing water out across the lunar surface.

According to the timeline it had been exactly 19 days since Erick was here with Shadow, sending him on a Quest to become fae. Erick had certainly done a lot in that amount of time. But had he become fae? Probably not, though he knew what he needed to do.

He needed to eat his ship, and become one with it.

This Worldsaver was the ‘environment’ he had created. Everything here, from the treasures of the Itiki-ki Islands, with their long histories of Counting Good, to the Blasted Lands of Shar, where the Valkyries had a major home base, and even to a land overseen by the God Cascadio, whom Erick had yet to actually get to Veird… All of it was who Erick was, and who he wanted to be. It was all just a mirror to all his time on Veird, though. Veird was his home, and his people.

And he needed to get back to it.

For right now, though, Erick expanded the scope of his spying on his own home-away-from-home, to see if there were— Ah ha! There was a satellite looking down at the moon. It was far away, but it had some good imaging stuff going on with it, but it bounced a signal off of a separate satellite in order to transmit its imagery to Earth.

Erick expanded his Fractal Sight, diving down into the ‘scrying’ ‘magic’ that the satellite was using, to spy on whoever was checking out the place. Sure, it was all tech out there, but with a twist of perspective and some resons to back up that perspective, and tech started to work like magic when Erick decided it should work like magic.

Erick spied on a control room at NASA in Florida filled with Americans and Chinese and all sorts of other people, all of them staring at the images on the big screen. Empty coffee cups filled trash cans that overflowed. Break rooms were filled with people yelling at each other. The military had come and gone and were now present in full force, and the diplomats were four buildings over, talking about what was on the screen.

The big initial panic was just beginning, but the news of the stuff on the moon had broken across Earth 10 days ago.

There was some talk of the ‘Black Dragon and Shadow’ in Japan, but no one had connected any dots yet. A lot of people were making a lot of theories, though!

… Erick decided he didn’t want to do this Fae-thing here on the Moon.

He turned his ship around, and went to one of the bigger moons of Jupiter. Ganymede. It was a pretty big moon, maybe a third the size of Earth, and it was dark. The sun was a cold dot far, far away, and Jupiter was large and brown, tan, and red. This was a good, desolate place to make another Ascension.

An Ascension of the Cultivation of Life Itself.

Erick left his ship in park around the northern pole of the planet, and then he got to work terraforming. The interior of Ganymede was actually liquid water, which was interesting to find out, but it was ice, too, and so the whole thing was both unstable for big dragons on the surface and kinda weak on gravity, anyway.

A day later, Ganymede was twice the size but it retained the same weight, so as not to mess with its orbit, and the gravity was now Earth-normal. A forest of towers grew upon the entire surface, illuminating the planet like a spot of light upon the dark. The sky here was black as a star-filled void, with the Sun not providing much illumination and warmth at all, so Erick made the planet provide its own warmth.

Upon a prominence of stone, on the newly-terraformed moon of Jupiter, Erick turned into a full dragon and stared up at the invisible ship, Worldsaver, hidden inside Benevolence Itself...

A dread settled upon Erick, as he contemplated eating that entire ship.

That dread had been growing, but now it was here.

All Erick had to do was eat the ship of his memories and future and life, taking it into himself...

Erick recoiled from the idea of becoming a fae in a way he hadn’t recoiled in years. Not since he saw the orgy pits of that job at the undying-life world, at job #17, over on Layer 19,270. During that job, Erick had needed to take a moment to understand just how he was going to untangle all the souls from each other in that world, and erase that corruption, and now he was taking a moment to understand how he was going to be a dragon, eating himself.

This… This was like eating his own heart.

In fact, it was exactly like that. It was metaphorical just as much as it was literal. In this action, he would remake himself, he would die in the process, and be reborn. Erick had been thinking about this task for the last few… years? Maybe? It was all a recursive function, basically.

Erick created Benevolence, and now Benevolence needed to create Erick, so that both of them would forever create each other; so that Erick would always create Erick.

He knew he needed to do it, but it was only in looking at everything that he knew, that he knew he needed to do this. Even the [Renew] symbol was an ouroboros. His Benevolence and even Fate had been leading him here since forever! How much more obvious could you get, Erick!

… And yet…

