Snarling in wordless rage, Yo Ling stepped across the room and grabbed the traitorous dog by the throat, slamming him against the wall. Caught off guard by the attack, Jianghong moved to draw his saber only to stop as his bones creaked beneath Yo Ling’s steely grip. Trembling with indignant fury, Yo Ling imagined crippling Jianghong and skinning him alive, roasting him over a bed of coals and eating him piece by piece. Why not? This traitor’s job was finished, there was no need for him anymore.

Composing himself, Yo Ling closed his eyes and listened to Jianghong gurgle for breath, his useless struggling growing feeble as he drew closer to death. Releasing the traitor, Yo Ling flicked his sleeves and turned away, still struggling for control. “Did my guards not tell you,” he said, through gritted teeth, “I asked not to be disturbed?”

Coughing and gasping, Jianghong took almost half a minute to respond. “They did, but I felt the intrusion necessary.” He hid his anger well, his voice raspy but calm. “I’ll not make the same mistake again.”

No, the next time Jianghong intruded on Yo Ling, it would be to kill him. No matter, even a warrior like Jianghong was no match, but Yo Ling needed the traitor Guard Captain for a few days yet. “So? What is so important that you saw fit to bother me?”

With a few more coughs, Jianghong answered, “We’ve been beaten back at all three bridges. We’re stuck here in the South-West district, trapped like rats. The Bekhai, the Crossbone Corsairs, the Azure Ascendants, even the Golden Highlands Coalition has joined the defence.”

Gesturing for Jianghong to hurry things along, Yo Ling said, “Yes, all this is known. Your point?”

Eyes wide with shock, Jianghong froze for a moment before continuing. “Are you mad? We’ve lost! Your ‘Venerated Ones’ cannot win us the day and your ‘Transcendents’ are no better than fodder before so many experts. Within the hour, Major Yuzhen will arrive to cut off our only retreat, yet here you are throwing tantrums and breaking furniture!”

Barely keeping his rage in check, Yo Ling took a deep breath and counted backwards from ten. Twice. Finally trusting himself to speak, he turned to Jianghong and shrugged. “You wish to flee? Then go. The gates are wide open, I’ll not stop you or your guards from leaving. Take horses, supplies, whatever you need, and run as far as you can.” Stepping forward, he smiled as the traitorous dog instinctively stepped away, keeping hands well away from his weapons. Good, Jianghong knew his place now and wouldn’t dare openly show signs of defiance. “But know this,” Yo Ling said with a dark smile. “Once I’ve finished with Sanshu, I’ll have no choice but to hunt you down and make an example of you. Politics you know, can’t have my Butchers thinking I’ve gone soft now, can I?”

Returning to the balcony, Yo Ling reached out with his mind and reported to the Venerated Ones. They were less than pleased with the delay, but they were well versed with patience. Looking over his Butchers, he haphazardly chose new captains to lead his men, picking out the few faces he still recognized. It didn’t matter, everything was coming to an end, his long years of planning finally coming to fruition. As soon as his people were in place, Sanshu would fall and his true work would begin. With the city’s wealth and industry to supply him, he would raise an army like no other and march across the Empire, conquering all within his path. Feeling calmer now, he turned to find Jianghong still waiting in place. Smiling, Yo Ling asked, “You stayed? How surprising.” Not really.

“Yes.” A pause. “I’m no fool, you’ve been hiding something this entire time.” Jianghong watched expectantly, hoping for an explanation. With none forthcoming, he sighed. “Better to see this through to the end than spend the rest of my life in hiding.”

“Good.” Yo Ling patted the traitor on the shoulder. “You think us defeated, but far from it. We are on the cusp of victory my friend. Go find the boy, he and his wife should be all patched up by now, but hurry. None of you will want to miss this.” Whistling a merry tune, he marched down the stairs slowly, pausing every now and then to appreciate the paintings on the walls. So what if he had no friends and incompetent underlings? Regardless, in a few hours, he would be the new Magistrate of Sanshu, the first step on his road to becoming Emperor.

A shame about Gen losing to some no name wench. The boy was something of a disgrace, but he was new to his powers. At least there were plenty of other options for a successor. The Devourer here in the city was one, defeating Black Heart Nazier in single combat, a most impressive display of skill. Then there was the brat raised by his compatriots in the city, also nearby, but the Spirits were less enamoured of that one.

No matter. One thing at a time.

Today Sanshu, tomorrow, the world.

Chapter Meme
