But talking wasn’t looking good, either. He glanced over his shoulder. Grave and Mirai had vanished somewhere. Extending his mana, he found Lira and Sable, then gave the two of them a little push. They got the message, and he sensed them running off. He didn’t sense Mouse at all, which was probably—actually, it was starting to worry him. Where was Mouse? What had happened to her?

“Laurent, get out of here,” he whispered.

“What? No, I’ll stay with you until the end,” Laurent pledged.

“Idiot. I’m going to run,” Rhys murmured.

Laurent raised his brows, surprised, then slowly backed away. As he retreated less subtly than Rhys would have liked, Rhys stepped forward. He pointed at the purple-robed man. “What have you done to the Sword Saint?”

The purple-robed man stared, taken aback. “You dare accuse the Alliance’s Grandmaster of using some foul control technique on the Sword Saint?”

“The Alliance’s Grandmaster…” Rhys raised his brows and gestured, waiting for the man to fill in the gap.

“You don’t know my name? I’m Virgil Noicome, the most powerful mage in the Alliance,” the man declared.

“Not another virgin. We’ve got too many in this room already,” Rhys complained.

To his surprise, the Sword Saint twitched. Rhys raised his brows and looked the man over again. He had that long dark hair that was so popular in this world, and of course the fit body that came with being the Sword Saint, so he’d assumed the man was rolling in women, but… wait, hold on, is this the kind of world where the ‘ultimate sword technique’ requires ‘bodily purity’ or something stupid like that? In other words, requires you to never hold a woman?

Holy shit, does that mean Bast’s in the same boat as me? Hold on! I need confirmation on this, confirmation stat!

The man in purple spluttered, then jabbed his finger at Rhys. “Take such filthy thoughts out of your mind. No—I’ll have the Sword Saint remove them for you. Luc!”

Once more, the Sword Saint retreated.

Rhys pursed his lips. So much for my short attempt to talk it out. He glanced over his shoulder at Laurent, to find the man almost fully out of the room. Just another few seconds.

“Hey, hey, hey, wait, hold on. Sword Saint, do you really want to do this? You don’t have to listen to that guy!” Rhys tried, just throwing spaghetti at the wall. The man didn’t react.

Uh oh. He wracked his brains, trying to come up with something, anything to throw at the Sword Saint. Just another second—!
