He was sure they had been put together in the hopes their abilities would form a greater whole than the sum of its parts but even in their first rift, a rift they had all already run before, they had proven that theory to be false. Now that they had been put together over a dozen times with things deteriorating each time, it should be time to call it what it was: a failure.

It was so bad at this point their mage had run off the minute the rift started and Randy singled Tim out to fuck with. All while their tank and healer simply kept their heads down instead of helping Tim put the asshole in his place.

“Let's go.” Halley’s voice was clipped, and Tim fell in behind Argo as she dispelled the reward distortion.

A weird looking armband fell out of the rift.

It was clearly magical but it, like all rift rewards, would have to be turned over to the guild to be analyzed. It would be returned and they could sell it or do whatever they agreed on but it was ultimately a minor affair being a single magical item.

They left the rift silently without the usual banter that accompanied a successful delve. Or they tried. Randy attempted to kindle a conversation with Brandi, who pretended he didn’t exist.

When they exited the rift, there was a scientist who happily took their data dumps and thanked them for their efforts.

Tim hardly heard him as he split off from the group to go to his personal room. Or what he thought of as his personal room. It was the same lab he had first been brought to but with only two machines that best measured his spirit instead of dozens.

Awda smiled as he entered. “Good morning, Tim. Anything to report.”

Tim sighed. “Awda, it's early evening. You really need to get out more. And coming from me, that's saying something.”

Awda laughed. “Morning, day, night, it's all relative. Now, what about you? You look bloody. Rift day I assume? Or did you pick a fight with someone?”

Tim looked at the Tier 30 and wondered just how much was an act. Awda was nothing like he expected a Tier 30 to be and instead more in line with how a movie might portray a quirky but eccentric scientist.

She was, however, nice. She merely seemed to be the type who needed to be reminded to eat.

It almost reminded him of a more driven and functional version of his mother, but he had never even thought such things too loudly near the other woman, afraid she might hear or know his thoughts and think less of him for them.

Tim instead had good news to report.

“I got my shield entry to apprentice level, I’m also only a few proficiency away from journeyman with my sword but managed to not advance in the rift, and I reached the peak of Tier 4. All in all, it was a good delve. Besides the who I was delving with part.”

Awda froze for a moment before she smiled.

“Now that's fantastic news. Let's start with the shield entry’s information. We’ll record your increase of swordsmanship tomorrow, as well as start the lessons with Concepts then or the day after depending how your spirit looks. Sound good?”

They had tried before when he reached Tier 4 but his Talent refused to create an entry for a Concept and the general agreement was he wouldn’t be able to do such things until he properly opened his cultivation core and was able to actually create a Concept.

Tim sighed in relief, knowing he wouldn’t need to push harder to reach his bed today.

And after both the annoying rift and still needing to both be analyzed and record all of the added information about shields he could, he really wanted to pass out.

He didn’t let himself do that because the information was useful. The breakpoint check-ins were how they had learned about the way his Talent filled in the amount of information he got as he trained, which had really shaped how he progressed. To that end, he had even taken to creating a diary to document any minor changes he thought he might be experiencing.

Awda looked over it and had a few questions Tim couldn’t quite answer and, after a little discussion, they left them for later as deeper dives.

Finally, she put him in the machine where they measured his bracing simplification’s effect on his spirit now that he had advanced a rank.

When there weren’t any noticeable changes in a hundred repetitions, he was finally freed and rushed out of the lab.

He only paused long enough to check on Stew’s lab which was only a few doors down but, when he saw his roommate wasn’t on the moon, Tim headed to the teleporter and found himself back in the academy after a brief dizzying sensation.

People streamed by the teleporter room and Tim was once more taken aback at how varied the crowd was.

Young or old, Tier 1 or Tier 14, all were mixed in together, though the majority tended to the younger and lower-Tier side. It wasn’t so tilted that Tim didn’t see several people with wrinkles happily walking to or from a room anywhere he looked.

Tim wasn’t even that out of place, still in his damaged and bloodied armor.

Instead of ogling any longer, he grabbed his mana recharging slab and started refilling his mana as he made it to his room.

Seeing that no one else was back yet, he ordered a heaping plate of food and threw his armor in the spatial bag by the door while he showered a delve’s worth of grime off.

Before coming to the Ascenders’ academy, he never would have considered using a spatial item to store something like dirty armor, but every suite had one and that somehow felt more impressive than the endless mana they were able to tap into.

After eating until he was stuffed, Tim went to his room and flopped on his bed, sending a message to his roommates that he wouldn’t be joining them tonight. The four of them got together most evenings and spent an hour or so hanging out, but he was bone tired.

Despite all of his workouts, as well as his proficiencies for physical fitness, Tim was exhausted and, even as he lay there in the dark of his room, he could feel his muscles tremble as his body entry slowly made him stronger. He didn’t understand how others enjoyed such feelings and instead just wished he could fall asleep.

He still hadn’t been able to afford the new skill that would help him create [Lullaby]. Or, he could have afforded it but that would have meant not getting something more immediately useful, like his body strengthening entry or his fighting entries. It was when he complained about that fact that the scientists he worked with had the bright idea to use [Lullaby] as the skill he was trying to create himself.

Despite his Talent making it magically easy to create the skills he did have the entries for, it was taking him over a year to create [Lullaby].

It didn’t matter how many times the researchers told him such a control group was invaluable, how many times they told him his skill creation was making incredible progress, or even how many times they showed him the improvements they were making for general Tier 0 skill creation methods based on what he told and showed them, Tim couldn’t help but wish he could just buy the damn entry and create the skill in a single month like he had with the others.

As he was complaining to himself, he finally fell asleep.

The next morning, he was sore all over and had to drag himself into a steaming hot shower that he stood under for almost twenty minutes before Stew started banging on his door to get him moving.

Tim wanted to complain but finished showering and brushed his teeth as fast as he could, before getting dressed in loose and comfortable clothes instead of his armor.

Stew, Yenn, and Jill were already sitting there with a plate ordered and delivered in Tim’s normal spot.

Seeing a large stack of anything was more than enough to put a pep in Tim’s step, but rice pancakes were his favorite.

“Damn, you look rough.”

“Thanks, Jill. For your information, Argo’s healing may be good but he leaves me exhausted. Thankfully that is done.”

That comment got the others to start looking at him deeper, which let him deflect the next few questions by shoveling food into his mouth.

“Peak Tier 4. Congratulations, man. What is your Concept potion plan?”

Tim knew his history well enough and that people used to use Bottled Concept potions to advance past Tier 4 but with the inception of aura potions, most people simply used one of them even before they ever knew of the existence of a normal Concept. The information, for the same reason as before, was considered more of a hindrance before one reached Tier 15 when they could take all the time they wanted to break and remake a new, more fitting Concept.

He was a bit of an exception in that he had been told early in the hopes his Talent might make an entry for creating a Concept.

All of his roommates had gone the aura potion route. Yenn and Jill were elemental fighters, wind and earth respectively, so for them getting the appropriate potion had been as easy as putting in an order for it.

Stew, being the standout that he was in all things physical but not so much anything else, had struggled to find something he liked that also worked with his Talent. He spent quite a lot of money trying several types of aura potions before he eventually got a nurturing fire Concept that he turned in on itself to be a flame of gentle energy. He hadn’t developed any cool effects for his Concept quite yet but, as he personalized his Concept through use and meditation, things were slowly starting to take shape.

Tim knew Stew was hoping he could either have his Concept generate energy, which might link his Concept to his Talent, or that his Concept might be able to improve his healing abilities, which was his main weakness.

Only time wou—

Tim froze as he considered that he might be able to help Stew. Or the scientists who were going to look at him today might be able to take when they learned from him and help Stew.

That thought kept him distracted even as the others congratulated him for reaching the peak of Tier 4 but it revitalized him quite a bit from the draining efforts of yesterday.

Shaking himself free of his burdensome thoughts, Tim enjoyed their company before he and Stew needed to leave to catch the morning novice alchemy lesson.

Both were slightly beyond the class’s intended level but the instructor, Dylan, didn’t mind helping them with slightly more advanced potions as it was the only time slot the two of them could reliably hit each day. It was those little things, as well as the afternoon lessons of melee fighting he had with Yenn and Jill, that kept the four of them so close. They had an unspoken agreement to keep those things going as long as possible.

Which meant Tim had an hour and a half block free, and so he went to his usual spot in one of the massive spatially expanded gardens. The place was almost three miles long and one wide. Most parts of it were heavily forested with hidden alcoves and seating arrangements scattered about, making it feel even bigger than it already was, which made it feel even more private.

Tim had long since found a private corner and spent most of his mornings there.

Not that he was truly alone, and so he stopped by the kitchen to grab a small snack for his companion.

When he arrived, he found a small black cat sitting in a sun beam and reached out and rubbed a knuckle into the cat's ear.

“Hey there, pretty kitty. How’s that sun beam?”

Without opening its eyes, the cat leaned deeper into the scratch even while its dexterous paws reached out and unerringly found the small ball of unsalted lunch meat he had grabbed for it.

As far as he could tell, the cat was one of the many, many therapy animals that littered the academy, or a stray. He was leaning towards it being a stray, as the cat didn’t act like any of the therapy animals who, despite looking and sometimes acting like animals, were fully sentient beings and perfectly able to speak through their AI.

Instead, the cat just seemed like any other cat: lazy and indolent.

Slumping next to the bench and enjoying the soft grass prickling his exposed legs, Tim started venting about his last few stressful days.

Randy might have appeared more in his gripes than his actions truly warranted, but Tim needed to get it off his chest and the cat was a great listener.

“I think I’m just tired. I need a break. To take like a month off and to be like you and lay in the sunlight. Let it seep into my bones. Recharge myself.”

Whenever he said something revealing like that, he half expected the cat to speak or make a gesture that indicated it was listening and encouraging or discouraging a behavior. That was how the normal therapy animals reacted, using subtle gestures to guide behaviors, but the cat simply lay there soaking in the sun beams most of the time.

Tim chuckled. “Maybe I can get an entry to become a cat. Then I can laze about without anyone feeling the need to comment. At least a little. I don’t know, sleepy kitty. Is the process of changing myself destroying who I really am? I almost attacked that idiot Randy yesterday. I even almost considered deliberately taking an arrow so that I could have an excuse to hurt him. I didn’t, but I had the thought. I’m not sure that I would have had the thought before I arrived here. But if I left, how would I ever explain things to Garrett or anyone else back home? That I gave up just a few years in? That I couldn’t make it? That I’m like my mother? I can’t do that, or rather I refuse to do that, but I don’t know how much longer I can go on before I’m no longer me. Or the me I want to be? Or that I’m different. Does that even matter? Is the me that goes to bed the same me who wakes up? If yes, does that make changing myself murder? If not, does that make me a murderer every time I fall asleep? Or am I just trying to come up with excuses to be lazy?”

