In the Green Zone, an ancient fortress on the edge of the zone begins to activate glyphs that haven't been used in over a billion years.

Primordial Aura that has been stored within dormant glyphs pulses outward.

This is in response to the three intense waves of Primordial Aura that pour out of the generals, bypassing all of the defenses in the other citadels with zero resistance.

Three Green True Cored fighters erupt with power.

Each one of them expands in size by tens of times, fully saturated with Celestial Energy from their ranked-up battle forms.

Ava's Goblin Queen Form finally receives a true energy form rank-up, creating a jade green armor made from pure Celestial Energy, and intense tethering from an extreme amount of divine threads.

It expands in size with no limit, similar to an astral form, but dictated by the amount of Celestial Energy that can be pooled into it.

Arie's battle form erupts with a pristine white power. All of his spirit hands glow extremely bright with a far more refined energy source. However, this is just a side effect of the evolution, it has nothing to do with his actual new ranked-up form.

Arie's actual body grows in size, as though his actual muscles and bones are expanding. From the outside looking in, it's extremely similar to a Noble Bloodline transformation, where the human body grows into a new superior form.

His skin, muscles, blood, and bones all begin to harden and strengthen with a glossy, obsidian-like finish, and his Vibrations all tighten and mutate with it. The archer's eyes grow sharper, and the structure of his pupils change. His focus and sight increase by hundreds of times, picking up details and shifts in energy and movements no normal human eye can.

When he grabs his main soul bow, any arrow pulled back directly from it becomes glossy black just like his skin, unlike all tens of thousands of other white spirit arrows drawn back in his spirit hands.

Raven receives a new energy form too, allowing her old mana-based one to become obsolete in comparison.

It is similar to Ava's in that its size and strength are dependent on the Celestial Energy channeled into it, and its root in reality ties to the divine threads making it grow. The form is sleek and looks crimson from some angles, but also hazel, similar to the color of her eyes, from others.

It's extremely hard to see, even when it's not activating its special perk, allowing it to slip away into the stealth dimension she has access to from her true core's ability. It is hard to tell in this moment if it acts so differently, making her stealth dimension so much more secure because of the rank-up, or if it's because of the invisible aura that floods out from her chest during the change.

Primordial Aura flows into every cell of her body, saturates every energy wave in her greater forms, and even floods into her stealth dimension.

Raven has no clue what this power is. She knows the Demons that are out to kill her wield the same thing, and she's aware it's a gift from the Rising Emperor to help her with her rank-up.

The only thing she knows is that it makes her feel extremely strong and energized. All of her thoughts and actions feel more potent, and it's like second nature to wield this strange invisible force.

She knows every action she makes now is being amplified by thousands of times without any excess energy input on her end, but does not know how.

It's clear her rank-up's efficiency and reward potential were also heavily increased, like the strings of fate were just artificially bent upward in her favor.

This invisible force flows through Arie and Ava in this moment too, fully saturating their minds, bodies, souls, and vibrations.

It floods outward to the far corners of the Green Zone, as it's less than a hundred million kilometers wide, virtually nothing compared to the raw power of this Primordial Aura.

All three of these generals turn and let their strongest attacks loose on the closest Demon to them.

Before falling into their mind palaces, the strongest elites that come from the same generation as the outer guards all begin taking control of the battlefield. They are more intelligent and powerful than any of the mindless drones that were killed by faulty armor before.

None of the Demons have a fast enough reaction time to see this coming.

Three Elite Demons are hit by invisible dual swords, an obsidian arrow, and a massive green hammer.

Each of them super-saturated in Primordial Aura, and slammed against overconfident Elites that were ready for an easy kill.

Soul weapons shatter, and the seams of their High-Quality armor shatter apart.

The pressure of the force from each of these attacks is too absurd for any of the Demons to block.

It is the equivalent of using a devastating tsunami to get rid of a single ant walking along the sand of a beach.

Explosions of High-Quality Ether glyphs malfunctioning fill the air.

The wave of these attacks begins to hit the ranks of hundreds more demons far off behind them, and many are killed in the same fashion, as their armor can't withstand the pressure.

The automatic marching demons do not deviate from their paths, but the remaining elites near the back line that were expecting an instant kill of their enemies send warning pings to every major contact they can. This includes all of the Elites in the Lower Realm, and to all emergency channels above.

It has already been established that the Imperial Family Head has shut off all contact in preparation for the sealing, so these pleas for help may be falling on deaf ears. The Lower Realm's elites all begin to frenzy at the visuals transmitted to them, but it may be too late for them as well.

Fisher's eyes glow a bright blue that looks extremely unnatural in deep space.

Celestial Energy-infused water magic floods out from his pores and creates an enormous energy form that looks like an ancient suit of armor. It covers every bit of his body head to toe, and even adapts to his soul sword.

It looks like ocean waves are crashing constantly when he moves.

Lydia explodes with a pure white icy Celestial Energy blast that sends waves of blizzard-like winds all throughout the solar system she's currently floating in. Her ranked-up buff creates enormous gusts of icy wind, but does not give her a larger energy form.

Her body has been upgraded in a similar way that Arie's has, but she does not grow much. Her skin, eyes, and muscles all turn icy white, just like her curved soul sword.

She's able to disappear into the waves of snow that follow her presence, and can practically teleport anywhere her aura can touch, becoming one with the chaotic snow around her.

Both of them release an invisible wave of Primordial Aura just like the generals, and it has an even more profound effect on the Lower Realm.

Even though they're on the edge of solar systems, their mere presence flows through the stars at their centers, and destabilizes them in an instant. It is an unstoppable natural gravity attack, and neither of them knows how to wield it safely yet.

Though, safety is not the main concern. Both Fisher and Lydia, in separate star systems, send their strongest attacks at the Elite Demons that were chasing them down across the galaxy moments earlier.

Neither of them saw it coming. They thought they were just chasing their prey, and would have to until these humans got tired, but both Demons that survived from the ancient era are instantly killed on the spot.

Dozens of Knights explode with Celestial energy forms of their own, and immense amounts of Primordial Aura. Some of them face elites, while others are only battling with armies of mindless Demons using the High Quality white armor. It doesn't matter who they face, the result is the same, instantly killing these Demonic Forces the moment they awaken from their Mind Palaces.

Pluto and his Earth Dragon both come out of their connected mind palace, and a very dark demonic aura explodes out of them. It's infused with a massive amount of Primordial Aura, and no matter how strong the celestial-grade stealth skill they were using was, there is no hiding their location anymore.

All of the Elites in the Demonic Realm look to the sky and see an unknown enemy looking down on all of them with killing intent.

—

I watch this take place through my many spectate feeds with a satisfied smile on my face.

White streams of High-Quality Ether are still being funneled from all of the far edges of this Ritual Domain into mine and Maria's ether pools.

While the nourishment is very welcoming, I bounce many ideas off the mind of the Arch Angel I float next to.

Not only can we feel every spec of energy in this domain, we can also feel its edges, and its subtle connections to the other ritual domains in the Primordial Garden. They're like small soul bonds, we cannot feel the exact location or distance, but the direction is clear.

Quickly, a plan forms in our minds to hit as many of these Ritual sites as possible before the Imperial Family Head finds us first.
