The Red Tribe army moved east. Through valleys and plains, they progressed with slow purpose, gathering around the hulking form of the reinforced landship. Nervousness returned as the old heads among them remembered landmarks that their kind hadn’t seen in years, as well as the memories they carried. Most of those memories were tragic: retreats in the dead of night, carrying wounded friends and brothers who would die before the day’s break, starvation, shattered hopes. As armed as they were now, the wood and steel in their hands did little to ward off those old ghosts.

For the occasion, the Red Tribe civilians had woven grass gambeson for everyone, and inlaid them with small bone charms blessed by the ancestors. The gambesons were hard to make and they wouldn’t last long, yet they were effective and a constant reminder that the people were behind their soldiers. Now the gear of clan warriors had gained a pleasing uniformity. Then there were Marruk’s fighters, of course, all armored in dull gray, forming a core of power and experience.

The clan advanced in disciplined columns with the pakar riders dismounted. Speed wasn’t important. Stealth was, and so the steppe warriors treaded lightly to avoid raising a cloud of dust.

Now, the results of intensive farming were obvious. Entire copses of trees, entire fields of tall grass had been cut to harvest cereals, but the wind and the poor earth had turned that dream to ashes. The column walked by abandoned farmsteads, empty barns, sometimes burnt structures and derelict mills. A few enduring places were recently shuttered, their inhabitants evacuated in anticipation for the attack. Discipline let Marruk prevent looting as was, apparently, kark tradition. Nothing could be allowed to slow them down.

To avoid being spotted, the expedition followed a low trail that snaked among higher elevations. It wasn’t because the balloon was disabled that archers on the Border Fortress’ walls suddenly had no eyes. To avoid scouts, Tylek the Shadow Hunter and Irao’s hadals spread out to provide cover though so far, there had been no patrols to be found.

“It could be a trap,” Marruk grumbled.

Viv couldn’t blame her for being paranoid. Not after everything she’d been through.

“If there is one, the hadals will find it. I suspect that they merely rely too much on the balloon.”

“To the extent of not fielding any patrols?” Marruk asked.

“Remember, they know the hadals are here and that they’re capable of wiping out an entire generation of dark blades in a single ambush. Who would want to go out on patrol against that?”

Marruk grunted.

“And there is you, and She-Who-Feasts-on-Many-and-Collects-Much as well. Hmmm, you are right. Who would want to be outside the walls right now?”

Viv was sure they didn’t very much fancy being inside the walls either. Or at least, they wouldn’t after she was done.

The kark army camped without fires barely five kilometers away from the walls. By then, Viv could have seen them if she wanted. The temptation was strong, but there would be no risks taken. The next morning, everyone assembled after a breakfast of cold rations. The mood was serious, yet not as somber as it had been when Marruk arrived. The stout woman had everybody’s undivided attention. It was a pleasure to see that, finally, they had some hope. Not much, but it was there.

Marruk’s voice was heavy with grief when she finally spoke. It wasn’t just the losses over all those years. The state of the Red Tribe ancestral lands was enough to make anyone horrified.

Once again, Sala translated with the occasional sob.

“My kin, hear me. Today, we end the nightmare. Think not of the dead that led us here, or the previous bloody attempts, or the fear in your belly, or your family back at the camp. Do not lose your focus. Grab your spear. Grab your shield. Protect your neighbors, for today, we end the nightmare. Do not scream of glory or hatred. Do not posture. Do not provoke. Strike and block, and advance. Kill when you can. Rest when you must. Watch out for the others. Today, we end the nightmare. It had been for too long and cost us far too much but we are here, finally, at the gates of their castle, with all we need to triumph. They are scared and they should be, because today, we are coming for them one last time. Today, we finish this. Today, we end the nightmare! Forward!”

It was a testament to the Red Tribe’s newfound discipline that barely a growl escaped from their throats. Marruk’s men climbed aboard the Beacon, strapping themselves in in preparation of the siege. The columns advanced with grim resolve, and Viv went with them.

Arthur snuck in behind her. She’d been hiding from the fortress as well.

They will be ready for you, mother.

“No one is ever ready for me.”

Arthur rolled her eyes, something she must have learned from one smug bastard or another.

Please. Don’t try to impress me. I’m a dragon.

You can ride on my back anyway.

Just to scare them!

And if they don’t do well enough, we can always split later.

“I will never say no to this, daughter of mine. Let’s just wait until we’re through the gates because I think I can supercharge the landship.”

I like when we break things!

Viv couldn’t argue with that.

***

The border fortress just happened upon Viv, or at least that was the way she saw it. One moment they were climbing a small hill, the next, they had fields and the keep itself extending in front of them. The early morning light shone on the new battlement, clean and restored, on the towers, and on the monumental gate shimmering with arcane energies. Viv could barely believe her eyes. The shield used life magic. Life! How much effort could it have taken to enchant that? And just for her too.

It was kind of gratifying when enemies built entire strategies around your existence.

The sight of the imposing citadel was enough to give the kark pause, but only for a second. Viv wasn’t that impressed. It was barely larger than a village, and a little less imposing than Green Edge where Constable Tarano had made his last stand. A drying river protected the left approach while a steep hill protected the right, preventing an easy surround. The ground between them was completely devoid of cover to help the Lutenese archers, a strategy that had worked in the past but now would bite them in the ass, for the Beacon was here, and the Beacon loved flat ground. Sounds of alarm from the city emerged with the coming of the landship but from the small number of soldiers on the walls, Viv could tell they’d been caught off guard. Perfect.

She jumped onto the deck. Frosthawk was at the helm, wearing his battle robe and a manic grin.

“Your Majesty? Would you like to take over?” he asked in a tight voice.

“No, that ship is your baby, but I’ll connect to the core and add my mana to the enchantments, if you don’t mind.”

“I will not refuse an elemental archmage acting as my battery. No offense. We’re just waiting for the kark to be ready.”

The columns quickly spread into shield rings while the pakar riders mounted behind the ship. They were quick and efficient. Meanwhile, the first archers of the garrison were rushing to the battlements, carrying buckets of arrows. There was an air of frantic panic to them.

Viv couldn’t see any mages yet. She trusted Arthur and her own instincts to cover her if they tried any weird shit. Now, it was time to do what Marruk said. The warchief strapped herself to the railings next to her father.

Viv moved to the circle in the middle of the ship. Everyone was ready. There was an air of electric anticipation.

“Ready to end it?” she asked.

“I was ready before my mother died. Go.”

Matar gave his daughter one last fond look. He brandished the spear. A plume of dragon fire lit up the sky above the landship. There was nothing left to say, because all that mattered had already been said. He roared, and the Red Tribe roared with him.

It was incredibly loud. This time, Viv didn’t mind.

“Full speed. Go!”

Frosthawk released the landship’s brakes. Wind, both natural and born of magic, snapped the sails. The Beacon lurched forward with a groan of stressed metal, then it picked up speed as it went down the slope. The massive steel beast rushed over fields and dusty roads, past deserted sheds. After five seconds, they’d left the pakar charge in the dust. After ten, the wind made Viv’s hair whip her cheeks. The rumble of the wheels covered everything but Frosthawk’s screams.

“More power! More!”

Viv poured mana into the core until the enchantments glowed like magma. The landship hit a tiny bump in the road. They were airborne for a full second before smashing back down and still, they accelerated. Viv glanced up to see the walls coming towards them at a daunting speed. The animal part of her brain yelled that she was going to get smushed. It was getting increasingly hard to silence it. Panicked people scrambled all over the crenelations. Ahead, the gate’s shield vibrated with power.

“Hahahahaha!” Frosthawk roared. “Now, power to the prow!”

He said that but he was in charge of the enchantments! Viv gritted her teeth as all the available magic was redirected from the sails to the spur and the shield ahead of it. Some idiots tried to shoot them with arrows but the wind was still so strong that they bounced away.

She saw the gates were very close.

“Brace!”

With a cataclysmic explosion, the Beacon rammed through the gate in a deluge of splinters and collapsing masonry. Viv lurched and only being strapped to the deck saved her from being catapulted into a nearby balcony. The landship rolled over a cordon of amassed troops, tossing them like pinwheels, through a nice street, over a gentle set of stairs that sent it flying for another couple second of animalistic fear, and then into the manor of the city’s governor where Viv had delivered her ultimatum. The landship still managed to demolish another set of gates, and half of a garden before planting itself in the main wing with one last, glorious crash.

“Oooooow.”

The posters were right. It wasn't the speed that killed you. It was the stop at the end.

It took a moment for Viv to reorient herself in the cloud of debris. The entire fortress fell silent as both assailant and defender recovered from their ordeal. A few seconds later, all hell broke loose.

Marruk’s, well, ‘marines’, she guessed, dropped from the damaged Beacon with bellows of unbridled fury. Lutenese troops rallied behind them to cover what was left of the gates against the incoming pakar charge and the thousands of infantrymen sprinting behind them. On the walls, archers were recovering to redeem themselves.

Of the mages, there was no sign.

“Let’s fucking gooooo!” Frosthawk exulted as he emerged from the burning manor.

“Frosthawk?”

“Yes,” he replied, quickly regaining his scholarly gravitas. “I shall stay with the warchief and provide support.”

“Thank you. Now, to see what they have in store.”

Let’s gooooo!

“Not you too,” Viv whispered. “Right.”

Viv took off on Arthur’s back. From above, the fortress felt much less daunting. She could see the terror in the eyes of the overwhelmed defenders, and the determination in the face of those who had not engaged the kark. The castle’s keep remained fully closed for now. Marruk had her work cut out for her.

Still no mages. There were mana concentrations across the city but she didn’t feel like hunting them down. Maybe she could lure them out?

Wait, of course she could lure them out.

[Aspect of the Paragon]

“HOW LONG DO YOU INTEND TO HIDE, LUTENESE? MUST I SCOUR THE CITY FOR MICE, OR WILL YOU AT LEAST TRY TO STOP ME?”

“You kark fucker!”

Hey, it worked!

***

Min watched her fellow Lutenese fall into the girl’s trap like spring babies, the idiots. They’d left their array inactive as well. An entire cadre losing it just because of a small provocation.

It was already going to shit.

The Black Witch had entered the city through the gate specifically designed to stop her with the help of a war machine. Gods, but did the woman love her yries contraptions. She’d finally taken flight though, as expected, and just above the city as well. She was in perfect range of the three tactical arrays. Two now, since that vainglorious idiot Kel had just broken cover.

Min had to make it count.

What an idiot. He didn’t stand a chance. She could still feel it, that hollow terror, the feeling of having claws around her throat. The flame that ends everything. Someone so young shouldn’t have this mark on their soul. It wasn’t right. They didn’t have the maturity to not use it.

Sweat pearled on her brow. An old wound on her back ached after the intense work and rude awakening. She was too old for this shit.

“Archmage?” young San asked.

“On my mark. Three. Two. One. Now!”

Massive power flooded from her cadre to her. With expert control backed by her hard-earned [mana mastery], she wrestled the rebellious flood into the array at her feet, triggering the final sigils. The walls of the tower fell around her. She saw the sky, again. She saw the black witch too. And the dragon.

A wave of fresh fear washed over her, mixed with a sense of standing on the wrong side of the war. Min recognized a mix of leadership and intimidation. She wouldn’t let it cow her. With a flick of her hand, a massive thunderbolt erupted between herself and the witch. An instant later, the second bolt stopped a few handspans away from the dragon. The intensity of the attack made the sky over the fortress light up. Two grand spells ought to be enough. The intimidation lessened, but it didn’t fade away.

Even before she could see again, Min knew the attack hadn’t killed the witch.

“Take flight! Now!”

