Her cadre took off, mirrored by the other. She couldn’t see the third cadre who’d attacked early. Dust covered the form of the witch. It came from a cracked sphere of conjured stone hovering in the air. An earth shield? This large?

Damn dragons.

Min’s cadre scattered up while she looked back. The witch was unhurt. A massive black shield built like a hive surrounded her form, obscuring it from view. Only the tip of wing-like blades burrowing in the mana weave emerged from this sanctum. It exploded out an instant later. Min deftly flew away from the expanding shrapnel, followed by her cadre, but the third one wasn’t so lucky. Men and women she’d known for years fell as they were cut to pieces. The fools. Why didn’t they listen? Why did people never listen to her?

A hell of black tendrils and spells finished off the third cadre before they could do anything. Lazily, the dragon flew after her. Min felt a cold and amused attention on her. She was right. They couldn’t defeat that monster.

“Alright, stick to the plan! Scatter and cast!”

She made sure to lag behind to offer the most convenient target. Her instincts screamed. She grabbed her custom focus.

“Life shield!”

A ray of black light hit her with unerring accuracy. Mana drained from the monster core with alarming speed but the shield held. The attention on her redoubled. Other members of the cadre made the air around the witch unbreathable, but the dragon contemptuously waved the spell away. A few air blades and lesser bolts bounced uselessly against the combined shields.

The dragon accelerated. A frustrated part of her whispered that the dragon had merely waited to give them some time. It was so damn fast. She felt the way it pulled at the gray mana around it, displaying a control Min had worked her entire life to approach. She fought the dragon for it by pulling at the air herself. Maybe that would slow it down.

“Contest it!”

A few of her cadre members understood her. Still scattered, they fought the dragon for control. To Min’s surprise, the dragon relinquished it. Or rather, suddenly, it wasn’t there anymore.

The dragon and the witch reappeared right in front of her. The dragon could teleport?

She was so dead.

She was absolutely dead. She just hoped young San and the others would get out. Flee and forget this ridiculous affair. Min raised a shield knowing it wouldn’t matter.

Death didn’t come. The dragon and the witch had separated.

Boring.

The dragon spoke in her mind. It was the voice of a petulant young woman, but lower somehow. It was just so strange.

Min watched it leave. The creature flew to the other Harrakan archmage who was covering the kark invaders. Fire roared on a squad of archers.

Min still had the witch next to her.

It kind of stung to be dismissed like that.

“I’m going to assume your plan was to scatter and waste my time by forcing me to come after you?” the woman asked Min in the northerner tongue.

It was frustrating that she had a Helockian accent, along with a strange singsong pronunciation that might be due to her Outlander origins. The Helockian inflections made Min feel like she was scolded by her old professor, and no matter it had happened over a hundred years before.

“Yes,” she reluctantly admitted, “although I expected the gate and ambush to slow you down, perhaps even stop you.”

If the witch wanted to talk, Min was fine with talking.

“Very well. I need some training anyway. I believe you will attack my allies if I do not handle you, so let’s play a game. So long as you only target me, I won’t kill you. Let’s dance.”

“What?”

A telekinesis spell smashed into Min’s mid-section, sending her away, then the ‘game’ was up. The witch teleported to the other cadre and used a telekinesis spell to hit one of its members , but gave him enough time to resume flight before hitting the steep hill below. He immediately cast another spell.

“You are ‘tagged’. Either you land, or I kill you,” the witch said.

Her intimidation once again filled the air. It was cold and uncaring.

“Do as she says,” Min ordered.

“But—”

“Do it! You’re out. The others, her teleportation is short range. Keep your distance!”

And it worked. The witch did teleport. It was easy to predict in the way shadows shimmered around her before she did. The jump was also short range, a bit like the abilities famed assassins were rumored to have. When the witch did, her cadre members would fly away with all their defenses active which would really help stop her spells, even some small beam she did that could catch them. She was too slow to follow them as well. It was a miracle she could fly without gray mana, and Min had to commend her, yet telekinesis was not a replacement to mastery of the air. She was an awkward swimmer competing with fishes. The cadres moved around her with ease, peppering her with spells. It seemed that they had reached a stalemate, but then she learned. The telekinesis spell gave her an agility in every direction, her body somehow tolerating the absurd decelerations and wild direction changes. Somehow, she also figured out her tell and started to use it as a feint, allowing the mages to scatter before teleporting by surprise into blind spots. More of the cadre had to land, then even more as they started to grow tired from the constant casting.

They reached low clouds and she… disappeared.

“Shadow magic! Watch out! Dive!”

Fighting her in the clouds was futile. Min still managed a few ice spells that covered the shield with hoarfrost but they did little. The witch’s defenses were just too strong.

Once she figured out the mages lacked a way to detect her easily, the witch used it in conjunction with her teleport to lose them for precious seconds. She was still slow but now she could come from high and low.

“First cadre, look up, the other look down. The first one who spots her warns the others!” Min screamed.

The countermeasure worked until she realized some people were better spotters than others, and used the weakness of the latter to close in on the former. Between the strain of the constant battle and the ambushes, the last of her teams were eliminated until only she remained, core exhausted and with no more tricks to play.

“I will ask you to surrender now,” the witch said after failing to catch her. “Otherwise I will attempt more lethal spells until your life shield runs out.”

“I accept,” Min said.

She was on her last leg anyway.

“This is it then. Let’s go back to town. And no shenanigans or I’ll get serious.”

Most of the cadres were too tired to put up a good fight anyway. Min accepted. Between two ragged breaths, she gathered the courage to ask what she wanted to know.

“I want to ask, why did you spare us? Your reputation is not one of mercy.”

She shrugged, and the gesture was so annoyingly human. Most sovereigns made themselves superhuman by behavior rather than nature to help their rule. For her, it felt like the contrary.

“You didn’t take part in the genocide. You’re also more valuable to me as prisoners than as corpses, so I thought I’d give you a chance.”

Min could accept that.

***

Viv was done handling the mages and this time, no one had died! She was truly growing as a person.

Mother!

Mother, is this some human treachery?

Come see!

Frowning, Viv hurried back, with the captive mages following at a respectable distance. In the distance, the border fortress was silent, with plumes of fire coming from a few buildings. The Pure League flags on the keep had been lowered, though none had been raised to replace them yet. As she approached. She saw that Marruk’s soldiers manned (or karked?) the battlements while the distinct shape of her daughter clung to the highest spire, wings extended over the stone like an exquisite gargoyle. Her muzzle aimed east.

Viv landed next to Matar a moment later. Behind, the pakar riders and Red Tribe infantry reformed, many of them lightly wounded. There were no more pure league soldiers in the open, but she could see eyes glinting through the murderholes. The battle was won, yet it was not fully over.

What had caught Arthur’s attention was a small group, well, only about a thousand warriors moving towards the fortress, yet the flags displayed gave her a shock. Ducal forces from northern Baran were led by blade masters in shining armor. Knight groups from prestigious orders were there as well, and above them floated cadres of elite Baranese war mages — the kind of which could actually kill her if they tried hard enough. At the center of this unlikely formation was the royal flag of Baran, next to that of the Lutenese prince’s personal guard. Those troops were outnumbered by the kark almost three to one, yet Viv knew that if it came to war, her side didn’t stand a chance. If they really fought, all she could do was hold the back line with the help of the hadals. Even Arthur might get picked off by elite archers here.

She could get an inkling as to what was going on, but she still seethed when King Erezak the Third of Baran addressed her once his troops approached her walls. As usual, it sounded as if the king were much closer.

“Greetings to you, Empress Viviane of Harrak, our dear friend!”

Dear friend my ass, yet protocol dictated a polite response and Viv obliged.

“And greetings to you, King Erezal the Third of Baran. What brought you here, so far from your domain?”

“What else but the best interests of the continent? When two of my dear allies cross blade, it is my solemn duty to intervene, so that pain may be lessened, and mankind soar above our differences for the future of our civilization. Such is my duty.”

Viv gripped the stone with all the patience she could muster. What had the fucking Pure League promised him so he would save their damn bacon? Baran had been up her ass since she’d allied with Enoria, but seriously, that was too much. By now she could see the old twat very well as he looked all regal with his long white beard on a nice white horse in his nice white armor like a fairy tale good king, before the evil emperor put his head on a spike anyway. But Viv still had a few cards to play.

“I fear I am not the person you should address. This is a conflict between the Red Tribe of the kark and the Pure League.”

“And yet I fear you must speak in their name, because the casus belli concerns your empire with the kark as your auxiliary. Otherwise, this war is one of aggression of a non-human species against a member of the Paramese alliance…”

That asshole smiled, and the rest left unsaid.

“War of aggression?” Marruk choked, “He dares?”

Yeah he fucking did, and he could because as much as Viv had every right to wreck the league, the league had every right to go cry to mommy to the king of a foreign nation with the strongest army on the continent.

Erezak had her, and he had the kark, and from his beatific smile, he knew it. And he knew Viv knew it.

It was all very frustrating.

“What do we do?” Marruk whispered, suddenly out of her depth.

“We negotiate.”

***

The negotiations took place in a large tent erected some distance away from the walls under the oath-bound promise of truce of everyone. Even with bringing Frosthawk, Matar, Marruk, Tylek the Shadow Hunter, and Odon the Bellicose, Viv would still have been outnumbered by the other side’s ‘Important People’, had Arthur not decided to attend.

The Baranese and Lutenese delegation were learning that numbers failed to produce much of an effect when a dragon was in attendance. To represent the empire and herself, Arthur had donned ribbons and chimes to decorate her beautiful horns. The arrangement was aesthetically pleasing and that seemed to scare the shit out of the Baranese nobles for some reason. In order to be clear where she stood, Viv still had her anchors out.

The two sides sat, and introductions started. The Prince of Luten and nominal head of the Pure League happened to be a handsome northerner with a long and graying beard. He looked every part the sad yet still noble sovereign which didn’t fail to annoy Viv. What made things worse was that he had never even been near the frontlines to the point that none of the kark had any idea who he was until he was introduced, as was clear from their curious expressions.

The negotiations started with Erezak the Third explaining that the goal of the discussion was ‘a compromise that would soothe both parties’, thus enshrining himself as the arbiter for the duration of the peace talks. Viv had to admit he was.

The word compromise had been carefully dropped for clarity. A compromise didn’t make people happy, it merely solved an issue without descending to violence. That was King Erezak’s goal, in any case. He started with something both sides could agree on: a prisoner exchange. The Lutenese were surprised to learn that some soldiers of the expedition were still alive. Between them and the captured soldiers of the Border Fortress, the kark easily had five hundred prisoners to swap, some of them being quite important. A large part of the border fortress’ soldiers were still free and in control of parts of the wall which would undoubtedly make the negotiations harder. Eventually, Marruk agreed to return the prisoners at a rate of one kark slave per foot soldier, two for officers, and ten for important people like the archmage.

“For the benefit of all and to guarantee their wellbeing, I propose that the prisoners be delivered to my custody so that I may enforce compliance during the exchange,” Erezak said.

“As was already agreed with the Red Tribe, prisoners will be treated in accordance with the rule of Neriad,” Viv replied.

