If she gave the prisoners to Erezak, that sly asshole was guaranteed to ‘lose’ them or something, and the kark slaves would never be returned. They would just delay until the matter was buried by time and the opportunity cost of pressuring the continent’s strongest nation.

“Viviane of Harrak, as you said yourself, the Red Tribe has been under tremendous pressure for the past years. Can we really ask them to take care of so many prisoners, including by feeding them? It would not just be cruel to ask, but the health of the captives may not be guaranteed.”

“Then I suppose you’d better hurry with gathering those slaves,” Viv replied without appeal.

Marruk translated for Matar in a low voice. For the sake of clarity, the discussions were being conducted in the northern tongue. That was another low humiliation that made Viv’s blood boil.

Then came the issue of land.

“In order to safeguard the Pure League and its cities against retaliation, we would like the border fortress returned,” Erezak said.

Shock and horror spread through the kark. The fortress was theirs for now, though holding it would be a more direct issue. Marruk believed, they all believed they would finally remove that symbol of oppression from their lives.

Viv knew they would accept a compromise for a promise of peace. They had no choice.

But she did.

“This fortress has been built for the express purpose of conquering and controlling ancestral kark land. It will not be returned.”

“I’m afraid I must insist,” Erezak said, his smile thinning.

Arthur tilted her head, and the smile faded entirely.

“Let me be blunt. You cannot hold this fortress,” Erezak continued. “The Paramese alliance will cover its flanks. That means this castle too. I can offer guarantees that it will not be used as a staging ground for the next thirty years, on my authority.”

He was implying he would fight her for it.

Viv knew he could, but she also knew he really didn’t want to. The people he had brought were honor guards taken from the nearest duchy, and his own elite guard. He could definitely take Viv out, but she wouldn’t go down without a fight, and she was reasonably certain she would manage to escape. Erezak had his victory guaranteed, but he absolutely didn’t want to pay the price to get it.

Viv needed to make one thing clear, and that was that the raw pain and despair she saw on Marruk’s features was now a thing of the past.

“Maybe I can be forced out and maybe you can take this fortress back. Maybe you even bring reinforcement from Baran, but I will be perfectly clear. If I am made to leave, I shall return, and at that point… I’m bringing everyone.”

“Your casus belli expires this year, Empress.”

“A casus belli is still valid while operations are ongoing,” Viv corrected.

She had read the fucking manual. Nobody here was going to outlawwyer her.

“I have six months or more. Believe me, I will only need three.”

Erezak merely shook his head.

“The kark cannot hold this place.”

They were going to fight.

Unless…

“I think we can accept it if it’s razed to the ground.”

She turned to Matar and Marruk, who slowly nodded. They could live with that.

The carefully neutral face of the Lutenese told her they intended to rebuild soon enough, but that was ok. She had a plan.

Eventually, the compromise was that the Lutenese would keep anything east of here, and also that their citizens would have the right to recover the food and belongings they’d left behind within the next two weeks. The border fortress would also be evacuated by both parties, and the local civilians given one day to empty everything. Baranese troops would, under oath, make sure the agreement would be respected. The kark triumph was not perfect, though it would never have been in reality. The Pure League was running out of manpower and willpower for their futile expansion. Resisting a foreign attack was another question entirely.

Viv stayed with the tense kark during the whole process. Both sides stopped at a good distance from the walls after the city was evacuated. Viv and Arthur rose above the city, held aloft by kinesis rather than true flight. It was her time to shine. She needed to cast. Even though her mana mastery meant she could use her aspects on the move, it was still easier to cast large workings while stationary.

Marruk was worried. Worried and disgusted that the fortress was still there. It was not just the stones that made this place important. The strategic location made it important. So long as this gap between the two territories existed, it would be valuable to build defenses on it.

That was fine. Viv had the solution.

Erezak and the prince were not exactly smug, but expectant. They’d managed to turn a military disaster into a diplomatic stalemate. She was pretty sure they were happy with themselves, especially because they intended to return here. It wouldn’t be in a year or two, but they would.

The fortress awaited, wounded but still standing.

Viv called upon her power. Black mana flooded in a circle around her. Silverite symbols flew to their positions, amplifying the spell. Patiently, she gathered them. It wasn’t a very complex spell, but it was going to be a big one. Circle after circle of repeated sigils reinforcing each other blinked into existence. The concentration of black mana suffused the air with a colorless aura. Above her, clouds darkened. The light changed to the drab radiance of a deadland morning, and still, Viv poured more power into the hex. Layer by layer, it powered up until it was as complex as her Storm of Zamhareer. Storm wouldn’t do, though. She wasn’t here to destroy what could be rebuilt. She wasn’t here to blight the land either, though it could have worked. It was much harder to do on an open ground.

No, she had a better tool for that.

“I bring change.”

[Aspect of the Guardian]

[Sequence: Eldritch Walls]

Tentacles, tendrils, limbs and roots surged from the blood-soaked ground, grasping to the skies in ominous columns. Up they went, then up again. The streets were first, then the walls and roofs of empty roads, statues, fountains, then the fortifications. Many trees bearing mutating flowers merged into mighty pillars, reaching horrors of chthonian architecture that meshed and divided without reason, Viv leaving her magic to work itself. Then Arthur took control of the spell, and Viv let her. Scales grew now, eyes, fragments of anatomy of the deep sea creatures she had hunted at night when they rose, certain of their invincibility. The titanic tree expanded its boughs until they darkened the land where the fortress used to stand, and after almost two hours of work, it was done. The result was a grotesque parody of the tree of Kazar, but just as it had stopped the advance of the deadlands, this one would prevent Luten from rebuilding anything for a very, very long time.

Viv and Arthur landed in front of the horrified Baranese delegation. Fearful eyes followed her when she approached, and even their archmages huddled together with muttered curses.

Champion’s Leadership: Expert 2

“Right! That’s the castle done with. We’re done here. A good day to you!”

Let those fuckers try and fix that.
