He chuckled, a condescending sound. Viv spoke again before he could say more.

“You will not find a motivated leader that doesn’t believe in some cause because the investment and sacrifices are too great. Whether they’re right or wrong is irrelevant. I don’t see why you would want to work with someone who will not give it their all.”

“Let me rephrase, then. Do you believe it to be an honor for me to serve you? Do you believe that I should be abjectly grateful for the chance of furthering your own agenda?”

It was Viv’s turn to wince.

“Well, how should I put it?”

She slapped her hands together.

It was always sad to admit it.

“I have gathered some of the most diverse and colorful collection of elites in history because I don’t tell people they should fall on their knees in my august presence. Mostly I leave everyone alone to find their own sources of happiness, and they gather to my banner when we have to fight. Sometimes I feel as if I were herding cats. So no, I’ll not pretend that you, a northerner I’ve never met, should cry tears of joy in my presence. We’re negotiating. I’m aware of that. You’ve still not told me what you want, by the way.”

“I was leading to it,” Sahin replied. “Tea?”

Viv accepted. It was the tea she’d offered him anyway, and she’d not gotten to try it.

It tasted bitter and pretentious.

“Thank you,” she said anyway.

“When discussing with foreign dignitaries, it sometimes pays to make them realize that some people do not see the world as they do, with them at the top. I see I will not have to go through this dance with you. We have now determined that I have no reason to follow your banner, now, I will also tell you why I refuse to be general. It is simply that I will not be allowed to take command.”

He waited for her to react.

“Are you referring to the political aspect of leading?” she finally asked.

“I am a strategist. I felt your inspection. You know I lack practice but I will still confirm what the old man told you: I am the best. I am not a chancellor or a prime minister or whatever title is given to a man who juggles personalities. I am not the one who will coordinate the warlords jealously controlling fighters who should be yours to obey without question. If I give orders to knights to hold, they should hold. And wait. But they do not, because their honor is at stake, and they cannot afford the other order of knight to tally more kills or their position will be endangered. I cannot abide this. I understand I am not moving pieces across a board, but if I am to fail, it must be on my own merits.”

Viv hesitated there. She wasn’t sure if she was missing something or…

“You have led an army before?”

“Only during training.”

“But people make mistakes, misunderstand orders and so on. They attack the wrong hills. They extend the lines too far, or miss a spot, or a tunnel, or they spot enemies and believe they are allies. This is inevitable.”

“Not when you have a strategist,” he replied, placing his hands on the table.

Well, that was why she was trying to recruit him anyway.

“Fair. So, New Harrak is in a relatively unique position because there are no entrenched elites yet. Well, except for me. Everyone is new. There are no ancient grudges or deep conflicts of interest, although I assume it’s only a matter of time, especially because I am going to implement some changes. What matters is that I accept objections and discussions during the planning phase, but when we fight, we fight. And one more thing. The men and women under my command do not fight for one commander or a barony: they fight for Harrak, and for themselves. Their own future.”

“I find that hard to believe.”

“I give my people newly cleared land and the right to elect their local leaders. New Harrakans have the most freedom and responsibilities of all people on this continent. That’s why when they go to war, they do it for an idea, not for a person. You’ll see that it makes a world of difference.”

The general remained quiet.

“We have war golems, mage cadres, Harrakan heavies…”

Oh, she was getting to him now.

“Hadal scouts, armored carts that spit non-magical fire…”

“You jest?”

“Nope. Oh, and a dragon. But she won’t listen to orders, only to suggestions.”

The man tittered on the fence. Viv could see he was intrigued if nothing else.

“You would answer to me and to me only, and I only have one requirement: lead us to success with as few casualties as possible. That’s it. That’s your one duty. So long as you do this, you will have my full support. The others can complain all they want but we’re here for New Harrak, not for pride.”

She almost had him.

“Three months. Serve me three months. I will test you just as you test us and should you not be convinced, I will personally escort you back, and you will never hear from me again.”

Sahin nodded, very slowly.

“This chess player you mentioned better be amazing.”

***

Three days later.

Viv flew in to see her new general in his fancy uniform walk from the giant chess board with a full-throated laugh. He did not even acknowledge her as he strutted, happy as a clam.

Viv looked at the board. It was a nice golem construction with human-sized pieces that were easier and more entertaining to push around. The game was already over, with the eliminated pieces standing at the edge.

“Who won?” she asked Solfis.

//Your Majesty, please.

//I was playing Irlefen centuries before this whelp’s birth.

//He has some skills, of course.

//But he still has much to learn.

//I hope you were not expecting me to roll over.

“Of course not. It will be much easier to keep him entertained if you crush him every time.”

//I find your minions endlessly confusing.

//However, I will never say no to crushing humans.

“I can always count on you, Solfis dear.”

***

It might have looked like a hovel, but Poacher’s den was actually a carefully built warren with several exits, just the way she liked it. It was safe. It was hers. There was meat in the larder.

The sound of hooves distracted her from her mushroom infusion. Curses! Who was it this time? She crawled to her lookout to take a gander, finding the familiar sight of black plate splattered with pretty blue flowers.

“The fuck he wants?” she mumbled for herself.

“Poacher, come out, I know you’re here you old fox.”

“This ain’t no place for you, Rollo! It’s my rest day. Fuck off!”

“I bring you the deed to your land as well as your new title, courtesy of the Empress.”

“It’s already my land,” she grumbled.

And then it hit her.

“What do you mean, title?”

“The Empress is giving her elites proper titles and land. They’re on loan with the job though. You’re Viscountess of the bog.”

The man’s face split into a nasty grin.

“Congratulations!”

Poacher’s world was collapsing around her.

“Wait, wait, viscountess? Does that mean I gotsa take baths now?!”

“Hahaha! And you will also have to MARRY!”

“Nooooooooooooo!”
