“They cannot be bought. Very impressive. We ran out three years ago. It was my dear master’s father’s favorite.”

“I was led to believe he would appreciate it. I hope he does. They were not easy to obtain.”

“I will certainly let him know. Thank you madam, thank you. Will we… see you tomorrow?”

“In the morning, if that is alright.”

“Of course! I shall be ready. I only hope my master will be as well. Still terribly sorry about this whole affair.”

Viv nodded. They left by the bridge again, this time with Ban Junior shutting it after them and then jumping from the high wall as if it was a slightly high bench. Truly, a superhero moment. Rollo rode to Viv before they were a quarter of the way down the short slope.

“Are we going to return tomorrow? AGAIN? What if he does the same thing!”

Viv gave him a calming look, patting his shoulder with benevolent patience.

“My dear Rollo, this is a competition that I am not willing to lose. Not after having spent a whole week on a damp saddle.”

“Then what?”

“Right now, our dear host wishes to see how obnoxious he can get without overtly breaking the rules of hospitality, yes?”

“So?”

“So nobody said he was the only player in that game. Rollo, would you say I can be a pain in the ass, sometimes?”

“To your foes? That would be a major understatement.”

“Thank you. By the way, I was recently wondering if I could still get drunk.”

Rollo’s frown turned into a smile of pure malice.

“Despite your strange constitution?”

“Indeed. Let’s find out.”

***

“I will require servants tomorrow. They will be properly compensated. A silver talent a day.”

“A silver! Milady, why, my niece is at your disposal.”

“I need four comely youngsters who know how to clean and cook, and two musicians.”

“Milady, young Kariss works as a traveling minstrel during the warm months — for weddings and such. Would he satisfy you?”

“That should do. A dancer as well then?”

“... Irlet is recently wedded, but she has always been a very lively dancer. Perhaps she will agree.”

“I will also require cold cuts, fruits, braised vegetables, fresh bread, desserts…”

“Naturally!”

“And your best alcohol.”

“We have root beer, some wine from Zazas… Perhaps milady would be interested in hard liquor as well?”

“I’ll take a bit of everything.”

By then, the innkeeper was rubbing his hands so fast they were on the verge of catching fire.

“Not to worry, milady, I will make sure you are kept in the best state to deal with our lord — no insult intended, of course.”

***

By next morning, it was clear everyone in the village knew that Viv was here to recruit Sahin. It was also abundantly obvious he sent irate guests to fuck off with enough regularity that the villagers were looking forward to it every time. Viv still refused to get annoyed. It wasn’t that she couldn’t display humility. It was that it was not her humility being tested right now, but her patience. Sahin was deliberately fucking with her and she wouldn’t give him the satisfaction.

This time, the majordomo slammed the drawbridge down before Viv could even ring the horn. He bowed again while Ban Junior made his way over to lift it back up.

“Welcome, Your Imperial Majesty, welcome!”

The hired servants whispered between themselves, causing the majordomo to express confusion.

“Ah, I see you have brought company?”

“My dear Majordomo.”

“Yes Ma’am!”

“I realize that your master must be feeling indisposed right now?”

This wasn’t a question but an out, one the poor man took with eagerness.

“Yes. He has — Yes, thank you for understanding.”

“Surely as a good host, he wouldn’t deny us our creature comforts?”

The majordomo frowned, but he couldn’t see fault with her logic.

“I don’t see why not? We are sorely lacking in our ability to welcome guests, to my eternal dismay.”

“Then I’m sure there won’t be any issue. Same place?”

The majordomo followed Viv as she strode back to the common room. The young servants hastened themselves to turn the place cozy with tablecloths, bowls of fruits ,and meats before disappearing into the kitchen. A blushing lad poured sweet wine into goblets for all four guests, then also for the majordomo at Viv’s insistence.

“Perhaps your Tilly could take a break as well?”

“She must send our master’s lunch to his chamber, later,” the man muttered with ever-increasing shame.

“No matter. Right. Some music!”

Viv settled to wait, now missing a book or two. That was solved when the majordomo agreed to share his master’s extensive collection. Lana then started a discussion on the nature of cold — an attack staple of both the blue and gray schools — and how Viv’s tactical spell recreated the effects.

By mid-morning, the dancer and musician were granted a pause so a tipsy pair of warriors could practice some wrestling movements, very slowly at first, then a bit faster since they were wearing armor. To Viv’s mixed reaction, she realized she could not, in fact, really get drunk. As soon as she recognized that she was getting a bit mellow, the black mana in her body purged her blood stream and a cool feeling spread throughout her body, leaving her cold and a little weakened. It was weird how she had to be aware of it for the effect to start but in any case, it made the inebriation process just unpleasant — like a hangover without the fun part.

The others were not having qualms. As noon approached, the servants had been invited to join the drinking party and their dancer was trying to make out with one of the servant girls. The noise was soon joined with the scent of some large animal being roasted in the kitchen.

“My master does not really enjoy meat, or the smell of its cooking,” the majordomo explained with a pained smile.

“Is that so? But he’s not here right now. Surely, as a good host, he would not deny us the pleasure?”

Viv gave the majordomo a pointed look. It was at this moment, she believed, that he realized she was fighting back.

“It is only fair,” the old man replied, defeated.

The roast came with a side of baked tubers, and the braised greens Viv had requested. Lana was singing and dancing by then and no efforts to stop her succeeded on account of her using blue mana to zip around the pavement.

“Oh, I almost forgot!” Viv told the majordomo over a rowdy song. “I have the second gift for your master.”

She looked up. The lord of the house was currently pacing in his room, the first signs of agitation since she’d come.

“It’s a thin dueling sword forged in the fires of our factories, then enchanted by Neriad’s servants. I believe this is your master’s weapon of choice?”

“It is so, yes.”

“Every aspect of this blade, from the design to the raw materials, were developed and processed in New Harrak. I hope it will suit him.”

“I shall convey your gift, Your Imperial Majesty. Right away.”

“My good man.”

After he was gone, a lull in the songs led to more drinking since the dancers and improvised dancers were all tired.

“Milady, you have an artifact that sings Earth music, yes?” Rollo asked.

He was finally smiling. It was probably a combination of alcohol and the general festive mess the Harrakans were spreading throughout the secluded castle.

“Absolutely.”

“I have to ask,” he continued, patting one of the serving lads on the head, “do you happen to have famous artists who were, shall we say…”

“Who preferred male companionship when it came to love?”

“Gay, yes.”

“Why of course, plenty. We can start with the classics. Maybe some Freddy Mercury.”

“You have my interest.”

***

One hour later.

“HEEEEEERE WE AAAAARE. BOOORN TO BE KINGS!”

Viv resisted the urge to block her ears. Damn. Rollo had an insane pair of lungs on him. Maybe a skill? Also, he was completely bare chested and she had to admit it was a nice view. It was Conan the musical.

“WE’RE THE PRINCES OF THE UNIVEEEEEERSE!”

The sound enchantment made the windows shake with the dududun of an angry piano.

“HERE WE BELONG, FIGHTING TO SURVIIIIIVE!”

Rollo grabbed the nearest chair, swinging it around like a claymore. The improvised weapon groaned under his massive strength. The servant who’d been obviously reconsidering his sexual orientations since this morning followed with the movements with a look of terrible longing that made Viv wonder if they’d be returning with one more recruit than she’d accounted for. Maybe the Order Master was contagious?

“WOOSH WOOSH!”

Now having exhausted the integrality of his English vocabulary, Rollo roared in tune with the song. The chair clipped an empty bottle of booze. It flew out of the nearest window.

“Did I tell you I tink you’re kind of naish?” Lana asked as she did her best to climb on a much taller Viv.

“Alwaysh thought you might turn into a bad person but you’re not and you’re naish and I was a bad person for doubting you. Uuuuuuuuh. Sorryyyyy,” Lana finished, tears of gratitude dropping from her eyes.

“I’m happy you’re feeling better Lana. You’ve healed so much since coming here.”

“Yesh. And now I sleep.”

“PRINCES OF THE UNIVEEEEEERSE!”

The revels lasted until nightfall. When Viv left, satisfied, the master of the place was still pacing.

***

The next morning, Viv showed up at the castle with enough alcohol to knock out a squad, twice as many singers, greasy food, and a large white cloth she intended to hang on a wall so she could expose Nyil to the wonders of Audrey Hepburn. She’d also brought her third and last gift: a rare tea plant Arthur had torn off from some remote valley.

“My master will receive you now,” the majordomo said with a knowing smile.

She’d won the battle of attrition.

“Aw. I sort of wanted to watch Roman Holidays again. Oh well.”

***

The majordomo left Viv alone in a small bedroom covered wall to wall in packed bookshelves. Exquisitely carved board games lay on a large table, their pieces carefully labeled. Several showed ongoing games, with letters piled on the side. It smelled faintly of old paper.

The master of the house himself stood by a small balcony with his hands behind his back.

Sahin was a slight man, with painfully thin limbs and an androgynous figure made more obvious by close-fitting clothes. His hair was completely shaved, leaving only dark skin visible. He turned to study Viv in turn.

He inspected her so she did the same. Strategist. Second step of the path.

It really wasn’t much to speak of at first sight. Aristocratic features twisted into a crooked smile. Sahin was amused. Viv, much less so.

“I suppose we can bring our little game to a stop. I would be offended if I had not started it.”

“I thought you might appreciate some turnaround, a bit of spine and a bit of smile. Northern nobles are not known for their patience, or for their sense of humor.”

“Indeed not. Now that we have gotten this out of the way, would you care for a game of ‘chess’?”

Viv joined him across a clean board. It wasn’t chess per se but an equivalent that Varska had been fond of and that Viv really didn’t enjoy. She much preferred asymmetrical games with a fog of war, and even then she wasn’t good at them.

Sahin absolutely demolished her in less than twenty moves three times in a row.

“You can learn much about someone by playing them,” he commented.

“So I have been told. And what did you learn about me?” Viv replied without annoyance. There had been no doubts in her mind she would get stomped.

“That you are bad at it and do not expect to sway me to your cause by impressing me with your own acumen.”

“Very astute. And no, I don’t have the mind of a strategist. That’s why I would like to have you lead our army.”

Sahin slowly replaced the pieces on the board.

“And yet, I seem to recall you were victorious on many occasions. To what do you attribute such success?”

“Competent underlings, good training, good gear, simple plans.”

Sahin nodded as he finished his task. All of his gestures were slow and deliberate, purposeful, as if he were a pure soul piloting a body rather than a person. Even Abe felt more natural.

“I see. Would you say that you forged a mighty sword only to realize you didn’t know how to wield it?”

“Of course I know how to use a sword: stick the pointy end in your opponent.”

That got her a chuckle.

“I accept your argument. Ah, but tell me at least, is there anyone among your men who enjoys chess?”

“He’s not exactly a man but I believe you could play Solfis. Maybe you could even challenge him a little.”

Sahin searched Viv’s expression.

“You are serious. Well, consider me interested.”

He leaned forward on the table.

“I will be direct. There is a reason why I have so far rejected all the offers I received, the more insistent ones forcing me to resort to vulgarity. I will not apologize but I will admit that I treated you unfairly in the hope that you would leave. Now, I’d like to know what makes you believe I should serve you.”

Viv leaned back into her seat, rather more comfortable now that they were talking.

“I think it would be better if we started with what you want. General Jaratalassi recommended you. He said that you were his most promising student, yet now you are a strategist without an army.”

She spread her arms across the room.

“Strategy games, battle reports, essays on tactics, memoirs of great leaders… Your office is filled with clear signs of interest, and yet you have refused all offers to serve. I would like to know why so we can proceed from there.”

Sahin chuckled.

“Tell me, do you believe your cause is just? That your nation is the superior one?”

“Yes,” Viv replied without a single second of hesitation.

