Pause. I enjoy the look on his face for a few seconds before he gives me a flat-lidded stare. Well, if I die at least I died doing what I do best. You can put that on my gravestone*.
 
*Ryoka Griffin, 1995 – 2016. “Never knew when to shut up.”
 
“Ah. I see that you are marginally more intelligent than the others I have met. Very well then, perhaps you will be able to answer my next question as well.”
He gestures, and from out of nowhere a map flies over and unfurls itself in the air. It’s a real map, old and dusty. I really want to sneeze, but I can’t. It stays motionless in the air as the mage shows me a map of the continent. Damn. I really wanted to see the world map.
Mr. Mage taps the old parchment with one finger.
“I wish to know of any ongoing major wars between multiple nations, new technologies or spells developed, legendary monsters sighted or slain—import of that nature. Tell me all the news you have heard of in the past several years or so. What has transpired while I have been…secluded here?”
Oh boy, I’m going to love this. I give him the most casual shrug possible and spread my arms out.
“Dunno.”
“Excuse me?”
“I don’t pay attention to world news. You probably know more about what’s going on than I do.”
Blink, blink. Oh yes, score one for Ryoka Griffin*.
 
*He’s still up by a few hundred thousand points, though.
 
Again, the mage harrumphs and glares at me, but his truthiness spell on me is working, and both he and I know it. He sighs, tugs at his beard again, and tries a different tack.
“Do you at least know if Magnolia Reinhart still lives?”
“…Yes.”
“Indeed, indeed. That is good. Well then, have you heard of a strange child known as Ryoka Griffin? She is a Runner, like you, although presumably high-level in the [Runner] class, unlike you. I am told her leg is currently injured or she may have been recently healed. Do you know of her?”
Oh gods. Poker face. There is so much I want to ask in those last few sentences, but—stick to the truth!
“I know of a Ryoka Griffin, yes.”
“Indeed? Do you know her address, a location where she stays at night? I have tried scrying her with magic, but either the name I was given was wrong or she is protected by powerful magic.”
Now why the hell would Magnolia…? No, that’s a stupid question. I know the answer to that. But why wouldn’t he be able to find me? I don’t have any magical protections on me, not any that I’m aware of*. And how the hell am I going to answer? Ah, got it. Again, with the truth.
 
*Note to self: have this checked out and buy something soon.
 
“Ryoka Griffin—Ryoka doesn’t have a permanent place of residence. She moves around a lot, and she doesn’t stay in one city or inn for very long if she can help it.”
The old man sighs at me and shakes his head.
“Very well, very well. I shall have to ask again for her true name, if that is the case. Although why Reinhart would have failed to extract her full name astounds me.”
Aha! I’ve got it. I know why he can’t find me with magic. He might be able to cast the highest-level scrying spell or whatever, but it’s no use if he can’t spell my name. Turns out having a dad who gives you a traditional Japanese name comes in handy once in a while. Ryoka. Trying spelling the kanji on that one, sucker*.
 
*Kanji, the written language of Japan. My name is Japanese, and although my U.S. birth certificate shows the English reading of it—Ryoka—my real name as given to me is 涼香. I’m willing to bet that he’d need to know that in order to find me.
 
Being stumped at anything seems to be a unique experience for this guy. He looks put out, at any rate, but then he turns his attention back to me, and I get the full intensity of his stare again.
“Well, as interesting as this has been, I have no further questions for you. Runner, tell me, are you one of the better Runners in your guild, despite your lack of levels?”
“Yes.”
No exaggeration or deceit needed there. The old guy looks unconvinced, but he nods reluctantly.
“Very well. In that case, hear my request. You have come here seeking payment and a delivery. I will offer you your paltry sum, but you will complete my request, sparing no effort to fulfill it, either by your own hands or ones more qualified. Is that understood?”
“…Yes.”
I really don’t like the sound of that. And I’ve got a bad feeling that whatever he’s going to ask of me, I’m going to be bound to do. A geas*. Damn.
 
*A geas, or geis if you prefer the Irish spelling, is a type of quest. Or…an oath bound by fate and magic. Look it up if you don’t know. Old myths and stories were full of them, and they never ended well for the people who took them on. Here’s hoping this one’s a simple task.
 
He points at me. I can already hear the silent orchestra in the background playing. Great. Why not add some wind and special effects to make it even more dramatic, old man?
“You will go to the area known as the Blood Fields and locate the individual known as Az’kerash. Or—perhaps he uses his former, Human name. Perril. Perril Chandler, I believe.”
Perril Chandler? That’s a far cry from Az’kerash. But since I can still talk, I guess it’s time to ask as much as I can.
“Who is this guy?”
The man eyes me again, as if I should know. I shrug, and he sniffs and shakes his head.
“He is a powerful mage. A [Necromancer], to be exact. But I believe he would be most easily identifiable by appearance. His hair is pale white, as is his skin. His eyes are violet. Although—he may use illusion spells to conceal such features when moving about. You may have heard of him as the Necromancer of Terandria and that he had passed away—he has not. Hence the geas—the rest of the world thinks him dead, and I would not wish to start another continental war, possibly intercontinental, by making a mess of things.”
Oh fuck. Isn’t he supposed to be dead, according to the Horns? But all I can do is listen.
Silver-beard strokes said beard again and pauses. He seems to think for a moment and then nods.
“I suppose the easiest way would be to go wherever the undead are most prevalent. He has an army. A fortress of the dead, to be exact. If you can make it here…well, you are the only Runner to reach even my humble abode, so I must take the chance.”
Oh fuck. Oh geez. Oh gods almighty and deceased tap-dancing on my unmarked grave. That does not sound like a survivable request.
The old mage is already turning away, but I can’t just take that and run off. I clear my throat, and he turns and reluctantly looks back towards me.
“Speak.”
“Ah. If this guy—Az’kerash is surrounded by the dead, how am I supposed to get to him without being killed?”
He looks annoyed at the question or perhaps my stupidity.
“Naturally, his bodyguards will attempt to slay you. No doubt they regard all living beings as a threat. You must simply make your way to him, regardless of the peril. Besides, most of the animated dead are slow and easy to outrun.”
“Yeah, but they have arrows. How am I supposed to dodge those?”
“You are a Runner, are you not? Can you not simply outrun arrows?”
“…No. I can’t outrun spells either, and I’ve seen undead mages. I won’t survive more than a few seconds if I run into a Lich by myself.”
Silver-beard looks put out. He tugs at his beard again, almost as if he wants to rip it off.
“Confounded hair—I suppose I should have expected as much from a Human Runner. Without levels. Very well. If that is the case…”
He trails off. Looks like he’s deep in thought, but I still have more questions. I clear my throat again, and his brows snap together as he glares at me.
“Why can’t you just send the package or whatever it is with magic or something? Is it too heavy to transport? Because if it is—”
“Magic is not the solution here. The one I wish to deliver a letter and small item to—he is shielded from location or communication from any form of spell, either malign or beneficial. As am I. I cannot discern his location nor speak with him save through the slowest of methods, which is why I requested a Runner. Also, it is the principle of the thing. I am not doing this out of pleasure, but obligation. Damned obligation…ahem. Thus, I will also require your return to report success.”
Even better. I really should not open my big mouth.
“I barely survived getting here. I probably won’t a second time. And if finding this [Necromancer] is as dangerous as it sounds—”
“I heard you. Be silent.”
Well, there goes speech. I helplessly stand and watch as the old man talks to himself.
“This is why…Humans…it cannot be helped. Hm. A Courier would have been far more preferable. But if the issue is simply a matter of survival and speed, I suppose…”
He looks around. Then he points and beckons. From a corner of the cavern I can’t see, a bottle flies into his hand. Mages can use the Force. Who knew?
Silver-beard holds the bottle out to me. I stare at it. It’s an orange—no, a glowing orange-pink mixture contained in a glass bottle. It looks like nothing I’d want to put in my body, but my hand reaches up to take it anyways.
“Here. Take this as your fee for delivery. As to your fee for arriving here, albeit injured—”
Another gesture, and a shower of gold swirls up into the air and down into a bag he holds out in his hand. Despite the amount of money, the bag doesn’t even ripple as the coins flow into it.
The mage hands me the bag, and I find myself placing it at my hip.
“The potion is a concoction that will enhance your speed greatly. Do not drink it all at once. A single dose should suffice for any monster, undead or otherwise, that you encounter. With it, you should be able to reach Perril Chandler more or less intact. Be sure not to confuse mana potions with health potions either. Your mana poisoning was most inconvenient to deal with.”
Oh. Was that what it was? Damn. It all makes sense now. No wonder I wasn’t healing. But I could have sworn Ceria gave me the right potions.
“Was the mana poisoning bad? If so—thank you, I guess.”
Silver-hair raises his eyebrows as if surprised.
“Mana poisoning? You would certainly not have died from the amount of mana you imbibed. Violent illness, fever, and uncontrollable bodily excretion would have been the worst you would have suffered over the next few days if I had left it alone.”
Wow. Suddenly, I’m really glad he took the time to heal that.
“Was it intentional? If you were attempting to augment your body, I must tell you it was done poorly. A minuscule increase to your diet is the only way to properly acclimatize the Human body to magic. Not that I would expect modern mages to know how to naturalize magic within themselves.”
Okay, if my ears could move, they would definitely perk up at that. And I’d love to ask more questions, but suddenly, my employer seems eager to have me gone. He shakes his head and flicks his fingers at me.
“Regardless, do not injure yourself unnecessarily while fulfilling my task. Take this letter and this ring.”
Two more objects fly out of nowhere, and the mage hands them to me. The first is a scroll, tightly sealed with wax. The second is a small ring made of what looks like silver and an onyx gem. I say ‘looks like’, because when my hand closes over the metal it feels warm, and both gem and metal seem to be shining from within. Magic. It looks amazing, though.
The old man eyes me sternly and points to both items.
“Do not wear the ring or you will suffer excruciatingly. The same goes for opening the letter, is that clear?”
“Crystal.”
He eyes me again and shakes his head. Then he seems to waver, bits his lip, and grumbling, flicks his hand.
“The Bloodfields should be empty, but—just in case, and in addition to my generous remunerations, I shall present you with this wand. It is a powerful flame wand for self-defense.”
A crystal wand with what looks like red magma joins the other objects. He hands it to me—but holds on as if reluctant to give it away.
“Do not use it unless you are removed from your target. You understand? If you have no need of it on this trip—it will doubtless sell for some good coin. I trust you will do your best to survive. Retrieving my gift and message would be inconvenient.”
“Nice to know you care. I guess I should just see myself out then?”
“And waste time? No. I will expedite the first leg of your journey. Regardless of my healing, you will need several days no doubt to fully recover from the magic used and prepare for the journey ahead of you. Do not delay.”
He points at the ground at my feet. I nearly jump out of my skin as an intricate circle of countless interconnected shapes and runes appears at my feet.
Oh, apparently I can move now. But Silver-mane scowls at me, and my feet immediately shuffle back into the center of the circle.
“What—what is this?”
“A teleportation spell. Have you not—but of course, I suppose your mages are too weak for that. Now, where do you live?”
“Celum. But hey, I can run back. The potion you gave me—”
“Do not waste its effects. It is worth far more than the gold I gave you. Now, this city Celum—it is not too far from here, yes?”
“Less than a hundred miles. Not too far, yeah.”
He seems immune to sarcasm. The mage strokes at his beard as he talks to himself.
“Celum? Celum…ah. I believe I remember the general vicinity.”
He points again, and the circle glows. I wonder if he needs to chant spells like some of the mages I’ve seen. But then—this guy seems to be head and shoulders above every other mage, so I guess words are optional.
At last, the mage nods. The magic runes at my feet begin to glow brightly.
“The spell will take you to the heart of the city. Go, and carry out my request as soon as you are able.”
“Thanks for the encouragement.”
He waves his hand at me and then pauses. Reluctantly, he looks at me as the glowing magic circle at my feet begins to shine with multiple gradients of light.
“I suppose it would violate the basic rules of hospitality not to inquire. So tell me Runner—what is your name? I am Teriarch. Speak it not but remember it, for what it is worth.”
For a moment, he looks sad, then dignified, as if he’s some fount of great wisdom and dignity in his hideaway. And I? I grin at him. Well, I guess I can go for one parting shot. The runes at my feet glow—and I feel myself being dragged away by something massive. I open my mouth and say two words.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
Then I’m gone.
 
——
 
