Teriarch stopped and stared at the place where the Human known as Ryoka Griffin had just been. Desperately, he reached out, but even with magic, she was already out of his grasp. Short of casting multiple undirected spells that would teleport quite a bit of the city back here, she was gone.
Cursing silently in his own language, Teriarch berated himself for not observing basic etiquette. True, it was with a Human, but—how was he supposed to know it was that exact Runner who would show up on his doorstep?
Ah, well. He knew her face, and that would make her marginally easier to locate. Teriarch was still unclear what strange power shielded her from his scrying spells, especially since Ryoka had no magical power or even classes of her own. She was a strange Human, but now he understood part of Reinhart’s fascination with her.
It would be a truly problematic occurrence if she were to die delivering his message. If he’d known it was her, he would have given her another item of far greater ability. If she died, Magnolia would have his hide.
That was one of his concerns. The other was that either the earth had lowered again in the last few years or he’d miscalculated the exact coordinates of the city of Celum. To be more accurate, he’d been spot on in every geographical specification except one—
Altitude.
Teriarch winced as in his magical view of the city of Celum he saw Ryoka appear. She was more or less in the center of the city as he’d claimed, but she was definitely too high up. He watched her plummet down out of the sky from roof-height.
“Oops. Ah, well. This is why Humans use healing potions after all.”
He turned. Ryoka would live, and he was busy. Busy and annoyed at having to do work after so soon. He didn’t think long on Ryoka. Magnolia could have what she wanted, but he—
He was aloof. Separate. He didn’t think to ask what had driven her to run almost to her death here. Because he didn’t care. He had done his duty in regards to Perril Chandler, distasteful as such things were. Duty, obligation—and a bit of work before he could rest once more. The old man strode off to take care of the work that had built up.
Teriarch made it a few steps and then tripped again. This time, it was over his robes. He growled.
“Flayed scales and hoard blight!”
