“Awaken, Human.”
I’ve listened to my share of alarm clocks over the years. When I was a kid, my parents gave me an old-fashioned one* that I had to wind up constantly or it wouldn’t go off. First chance I got, I switched it out for a digital alarm and then my iPhone.
 
*Vintage, which matters to no one unless you’re a hipster. And if you are, don’t talk to me.
 
I like to wake up early to run—thus as I got older, my alarm clocks got louder. The one in my room I bought because my iPhone wasn’t powerful enough. It could wake up the house if I left for my morning run and forgot to turn it off. And my folks have a big house.
But no alarm clock or blaring fire alarm has ever gotten me into the waking world so quickly. The instant I heard those two words, I woke up. It was like magic*.
 
*Probably because it was magic.
 
I raise my head and instinctively brace for agonizing pain. I don’t feel any, which is alarming in itself. I should be in incredible pain—or dead. And if I am dead, who woke me up?
Please let it not be an old white guy who calls himself God.
“Sit up.”
Again, the voice of whomever-this-is does exactly what it says on the tin. I get up without even realizing I’m doing it. I was lying on the ground, but now the world tilts the right way up for me. What’s going on?
I remember collapsing onto the floor. On paved marble tiles to be exact. Paved marble tiles in the middle of a vast cavern, surrounded by a treasury/armory/mage’s laboratory/library of some kind.
I’d like to look around, but my body is frozen. I sit completely still, unable to look around. I can see rows of dark bookshelves ahead of me, and then someone walks into view.
There’s a man—yes, a man standing in front of me. The strangest, most attractive—
Attractive? Him? He’s an old guy with a beard. I hate older men, mainly because they remind me of my dad. But this man—he’s different. Different from anyone I’ve met.
For one thing, he looks amazing in multiple senses of the word. His hair is a pale white, but not gray. Rather—silvery? It has a luster about it that makes me wonder if he uses this world’s equivalent of hair gel. But even the greatest beauty pageant contestants and supermodels of my world don’t have hair like that.
And he looks like a model. An Olympian athlete past his prime but with the same body. He looks like the kind of person Renaissance sculptors would make statues of, but even David wasn’t this in shape.
Plus, he’s wearing robes that look like they’re kin to the ones Ceria bought. Magical robes that look like silk and shine—except that his clothing is even shinier*.
 
*I think my brain’s literally shutting down. This is wrong. People…a person shouldn’t be this perfect.
 
And then I look up and meet a pair of eyes that are blue in one orb and violet in the other.
No. Blue and violet? What, am I in elementary school? The colors I see are far deeper than that. I look into this man’s eyes—
And I see a tiny bit of magic caught forever.
It should be impossible, but it’s like staring into one of those nebulas in outer space. The amethyst and azure—no, even those words aren’t good enough. When I see the celestial colors in his eyes, the words heliotrope and cerulean spring to mind. Fancy words to describe a wordless sight.
The colors shift together in his irises, exactly like the ever-changing colors of the solar clouds. Nebulae. The pupils shift towards me, and I feel like someone’s tagged me with a cattle prod*. I still don’t know how I’m uninjured or what this place is, but I can guess by assuming what he is.
 
*I don’t know what that actually feels like firsthand but—it’s like my entire body is being shocked, and not just in a bad way.
 
A mage. Or maybe the word sorcerer or wizard applies here. Because if this guy is a mage, he’s an archmage or a magus.
The mysterious old mage-guy crooks one finger upwards at me.
“Stand, please.”
I push myself up and onto my feet easily, again sans pain or the gaping holes in my body I know should be there. Why?
Now that I’m on my feet, I see I’m also shorter than this man by at least a few inches. And I’m six foot one. He’s tall, handsome, and even if his skin isn’t dark it’s—
I blink for a second. Odd, I could have sworn his skin was white, but it’s darker than that. He looks…middle eastern? Yeah, a moderate olive brown whitened by a long time out of the sun maybe. But I could have sworn he had white skin when I first saw him.
 
(His scales glow in the light. The golden Dragon looks at me and—)
 
No—it’s the light. I want to look up, but the light is changing in the room somehow. It’s as if there’s a massive color filter over the room making everything appear different. Is there a massive mirror or something…?
But then the mage looks me up and down, and I realize something else is wrong. Namely, something is wrong with my clothes.
My flesh is healed, but the fabric is weak. And when a bunch of pterodactyl-type birds start trying to shred you from above and Gargoyles are spitting stone chunks at you, a wardrobe malfunction is sort of inevitable.
One of the stone shards must have cut me on the right shoulder, because my bra strap’s been sliced in two. That wouldn’t be so bad—except that an important part of my shirt is missing too. Right around the chest area.
It’s cold in the cavern. But the old guy gives my breast one dismissive look and sighs. He doesn’t even seem vaguely interested, which annoys me more than I feel relieved he’s not some pervert-sorcerer*.
 
*Look, obviously I care about the dignity of women. Anyone whistling at me on the street I have an urge to throw into a trashcan. But when nakedness occurs, you expect at least some kind of reaction out of any male, gay or straight or asexual. Even if it’s covering their eyes and turning away politely or staring like a monkey. But this guy doesn’t even blink. Even a blind guy would be happier to be told there was a naked woman in front of him. Respect is very important, but I’d like some acknowledgment I’m more important than a rock.
 
“Ah, of course. Clothing.”
He tsks and raises a finger. I’d really love to dodge or ask what he’s doing, but I’m helpless.
“[Repair].”
His finger doesn’t even glow. Unlike when Sostrom repaired my iPhone, I can see no flash of magic. But magic does happen.
In an instant, my bra strap slithers back over my shoulder and reconnects itself. I feel, without being able to turn my head, my clothing growing to cover the missing spots, sealing over in a matter of seconds.
That felt…incredibly creepy. But I’m happier not to be catching a cold, and the old mage seems happy too. He nods, once. Then he looks at me again.
“Human, be silent and still. Do not speak or move save that I require a response. I will ask you questions, and you will answer to the best of your abilities, promptly and audibly. You will perform no magic and act in no violent ways while you are in my home.”
He pauses. Wow. Most people just say hello when they meet me or ask me if I want a pair of shoes.
“Also, do not defecate, befoul, or otherwise sully this place in any way, shape, or form. And stand up straight.”
Okay, I’m not sure what Humans he’s used to dealing with, but—my spine is already straightening. I can’t even glare at him. Crap. Is this some kind of magical hypnosis spell? But now he’s walking around me slowly. Eying me like a piece of fish on sale at a supermarket.
“I care not about your name, but you are a Runner, a messenger, yes?”
“Yes.”
I tried to say, ‘yes, asshole’, but apparently no violence means no backchat either. He nods like he expected that reply.
“Very well. But then tell me—why did you risk such a dangerous request? Three of your kind have perished already attempting to reach my home. What drove you to risk death for this delivery?”
Again, the response comes out of me instantly before I even have time to really think about my reply.
“For the reward. Eighty gold pieces.”
Now he looks disappointed.
“Simply for that? No other reason?”
Huh. Was this all some sort of test? Well, motor mouth, do your thing.
“I took the request for the money, but also because I wanted to challenge myself. There are no other requests in the Runner’s Guild I could have taken, either. I am being blocked from other deliveries by fellow Runners, and this is the only request I could take.”
“Hm. I see. How very mundane.”
He shakes his head. In my head, I’m sort of annoyed. It’s nice to know even an archmage former athlete can be an arrogant jerk.
“Very well, then tell me: where do you come from? I have not seen features nor skin color such as yours on this continent for…a long time. Where were you born?”
Ah, now the hard questions come. But I’m ready for this. Well, not this obviously, but after meeting Lady Magnolia, I thought of the best way to deal with someone who can tell whether you’re lying or compel you to tell the truth. Either way, the only deception is in part of the truth.
“I was born in Oakland, California.”
He pauses. A brief frown creases the mage’s face.
“I am not familiar with either name. What nation does this Oakland California hail from?”
“America.”
“Hm. Another new nation. How troubling. The name feels more Chandrarian, but I suppose…well, a map should sort this out.”
The man strokes his silvery beard. Then he shakes his head.
“I suppose it doesn’t matter. Now, I wish for you to answer this question freely, but also honestly.”
He points at me.
“My spells of appraisal and identification told me nothing of your class or level when I cast them. And yet you are neither undead nor construct, and you are entirely Human. Why can I not see your class?”
At last, it seems like I can say what’s on my mind. I work my jaw and open my mouth for a few nice obscenities.
“—”
…Well damn. It looks like I still can’t just insult him, and I need to tell the truth. Fine. I look the mage in the eye and talk.
“I stopped myself from leveling. You can’t see my class because I don’t have one.”
For the first time since I’ve laid eyes on his face, the man looks genuinely startled. He tilts his head to peer more closely at me, and I notice that he has pointed ears. Oh. Of course.
“You have no level? And you refuse to accept a class? Why? Fascinating. Are we back to this again? You don’t hail from Zeres, do you? No?”
I have no idea what he means. I shake my head and, again, answer truthfully.
“I don’t like being controlled. And I think—yeah, I think that classes and levels are a way for the world or some system to control people. I want no part of it. And—it feels like cheating.”
Again, I’m treated to an expression of frank incredulity. It’s the first time I’ve ever articulated my feelings as well, and even I’m surprised by my answer. Cheating. I guess that’s really one of the big reasons why I don’t like the entire basis of this world. But people level or die, which is probably why I’m getting the fish-eye from him.
“You refused to level up out of principle. Because you think…it empowers you too much?”
“Yeah, more than other people.”
He looks fascinated by this. Suddenly, the man sits, and I see a shimmering chair made out of light appear, an armchair, which materializes in the blink of an eye. As if sitting on light is normal, the man puts his fingers together like some kind of pretentious academic. Which he now sounds like.
“But everyone is capable of levelling. The purest form of meritocracy, some call it. A few have considered there are benefits to doing without, but I have never met someone who denies levelling purely based on a disdain for its merits. You do not crave the power of Skills? At all?”
“Well, I think I’m doing pretty good on my own. I’m in good shape, I’m smart enough, and I’m faster than Runners with Skills—”
A guffaw escapes the old man’s lips so fast he catches himself. He laughs in my face—then stops.
“Oh. You are serious. Incredible. Well, one supposes extraordinarily misguided egos do appear rarely. You have not seen what levels can do then, young woman. How very narrow your worldview is.”
He smirks at me. I stare blandly back because my face won’t work…but with inner spite in my soul.
“Big talk for someone who doesn’t know where America is. Or Oakland or California.”
Cheap shots, I know, but it hits alright as his cheeks turn pink. That little bit of sass makes me feel better. He shoots me a frosty look.
“Young nations rising and falling is hardly something to keep note of for someone of my lifespan…” 
His hands go up, and he checks his ears quickly as if making sure they’re there?
“…As a half-Elf. Yes. Philosophical inquiry into the function of classes and levels is far more pertinent to any discussion. Although—you probably don’t even know what I’m talking about, do you? That’s a rhetorical question. Don’t answer it. Of course, you don’t know what a rhetorical question is, either. Human education being what it is—”
For a moment, the mage’s eyes trail off. So he’s a haughty half-Elf recluse. From being the imperious mage he becomes something like what I’d expect an old, lecture-style college professor to be like. He gets out of his armchair and walks around me, talking half to me, half to the air.
“You see, the rhetorical question was first invented by the Dragons. Only naturally. Of course, Elves and Dwarves adopted the practice, but it was Dragon-kind that first thought of a question that had no need for an answer. Elves were too in tune with nature; they expected answers to pop up, possibly from the rocks and trees they talked to. Dwarves on the other hand are literal creatures. If they ask you a question, they demand an answer. Humans on the other cl—hand…”
He broke off, shaking his head and sighing.
“But I forget my audience. You don’t even know what I’m talking about, do you?”
He’s still an arrogant ass. But I get the distinct impression he’s also starved for company. Well, I can still answer back, so let’s see if I can’t continue this. Even if swearing is out of the question, I’m great at getting under people’s skin. It’s practically one of my Skills – [Being a Smart-mouthed Jerk].
“I know what a rhetorical question is.”
He waves a hand at me and shakes his head pityingly.
“Yes, yes. I’m sure you do. Ah, I’d forgotten how Humans exaggerate and lie.”
Does he forget I can’t lie at the moment? I try to glare, but my facial muscles still aren’t working.
“Would I really be that much of an idiot that I’d lie about knowing what a rhetorical question is?”
“Well of course, I would assume—”
