"Show them?" Hymn echoed. "Really? You're just going to tell me to do that? Like I'm some sort of peon?

“Hymn…” the dragon growled.

“No, no, I'm kinda sick of this.” Hymn rubbed his nose. "Look, we've been working together for how long? Fifty years?"

Yellowbelly placed a hand over his eyes. "Please, Hymn, not right now."

"No, you're getting the speech right now, right, Yellowbelly! You have a problem! You have a personality problem! You want to know what kind of personality problem you have?" The dragon, instead of responding with outrage, simply lowered his head and groaned like an exhausted parent. "Your problem is that you keep thinking that you're the boss of everyone. Well, here's the deal: I am a stakeholder. I own part of the Neath. Please don’t treat me like the Stranger does. We, right now, need my expertise to reach into the Outside, and so I would like a little bit more courtesy than 'show him'."

The Headmaster crossed his arms petulantly and looked at the fireplace, refusing to meet the dragon’s eyes.

"It's bad to be disrespectful, Yellowbelly," Poverty said, pretending to be concerned.

"Very, very rude. This is no way to run a proper business," Know-Nothing added.

Garrulous, the last among the dragons and the one who hadn't spoken yet, let out a grumbling breath. As he uttered his words for the first time, it sounded like nails being dragged across chalkboards within the inner tissue of Shiv's brain: "Please show him. Thank you, Hymn."

Shiv clutched his head and grunted. Nearby, Kura and Gone collapsed to their knees and puked. Adam collapsed outright, and Shiv barely caught him. A few of the orcs bled from their eyes and ears and struggled to stay standing. Hymn merely shook his head, but he suffered a nosebleed as well, and the other dragons let out groans of pain.

"Of course," Hymn said, barely holding back his own suffering. "Let's take a look at what I got."

Then the Headmaster turned and faced the fireplace. His eyes flashed bright, but instead of casting out Psychomancy or Divination, he unleashed a torrent of color from his mouth, a torrent of color that splashed into the flames, spreading it along the Outsider-claimed walls.

"Didn't he just piss in that?" Adam groaned as he came back to his senses.

Shiv nodded wordlessly, but he was too enraptured by the unfolding scene. Bits of the surrounding tissue pulled away, opening into large furrows. The walls of the room went from being covered by cancerous Outsider tissue to opening up, forming a vast portal to somewhere else.

A scene unfolded. The world moved.

Shiv found himself looking out into a... jungle.

Titanic trees molded from shifting sinews of ebony and covered in blinking red eyes grew higher than the sky all around, and the scene shifted. The creature he viewed the world from snaked around the tree, and as it turned the corner, he saw something in the distance. Something burning, something being besieged by massive creatures that resembled many-fingered hands.

And then, the flames cast the shape of a city cocooned in a nest of incandescent threads. Shiv knew those threads, had seen them when Uva—

“That’s…” Adam breathed.

And a piece of burning town was ripped out from within the protective cocoon made from Psychomanctic strings.

“Blackedge,” Shiv finished.
