Focusing on protection rather than assaults, I borrowed sigils from my guardian golems. From my experiences on L-7, the guardians worked well long-term. However, instead of protecting an area, they would guard a specific individual long-term. This would happen through a bonding process.

Quintessant golems matched well for that since the mana focused on the external, lining up with my goals. I put psionic defenses and two hovering plates over the golem's shoulders to prevent any of my guild members from being infested by Elysium or an eldritch. These shoulder pauldrons clicked on and off based on gravitation.

The golem could lob the shoulder plates out in a pinch to stop something from attacking a guild member. They could also be used for protection from the elements by locking them together. People could camp or sleep under them when they were like that.

Thinking more about it, most of the time spent on this mission would be traveling. The guild members would also be alone for extended periods. Remembering the loneliness of L-7, I brainstormed a few solutions. After a while, I came up with a few ideas worthy of implementation.

The most important tool was simple mental support. I made the golems offer encouragement about three times a day, and they would also ask simple questions. While nothing too personal, the golem provided a modicum of company.

From my experience, even small conversations made an enormous difference when away from home.

Having finished my carving, I checked the time. A few hours before the morning, I ramped up the industrial process. I pulled the elemental furnaces from my body into a small section of dimensional fabric. It connected to my main body, letting me use them still.

Before pulling my mind out of my body, I generated a short-range gravitational plate above. It hovered me a few feet off the ground. At the same time, I compressed my body to the utmost with Temporal Compression. This shrunk my golems, preventing thirty-foot monsters from running around.

The last step involved peering at my golem runes and etching them into myself. Instead of working on a blank slate, I put as many runes onto my skin as possible before I even began. This stopped me from having to carve in commonplace runes that all the golems and I shared.

I couldn't etch in personality-based runes or formative sigils since they may change my personality. Unfortunately, personality and mind creation runes included most of the runic work, but I saved plenty of time over the long term with even a few generic markings.

Once made, I pulled my mind out. To speed the process up, I created an extended panel of gravitation that could hold up many frames. Keeping my furnaces with me, I remade body after body, hovering them forward with gravity wells. This manufacturing line kept everything organized and put the wheels of production in motion.

Within hours, I amassed hundreds of empty frames. They filled the entire golem construction facility in organized rows, golem after golem floating in nothing. Before carving, I made dimensional fabric girders above each golem line. I put quintessence crystals and runes on each side of the metal beams to keep the golems afloat.

This gave me leeway to leave without worrying about absolute devastation should a golem fall. The quintessence powered the gravitation, keeping it consistent, so I breathed that freedom in.

My alarm for visiting the Eltari popped up in my status. Having the allowance for it, I left the hundreds of golem bodies in place before flying over Mt. Verner. Reaching a lower peak of stones, I landed amidst one of the many Eltari encampments. It was a hut village with several mansions built beneath. If I had to guess, the Executive was responsible for the manors below.

The Eltari took no heed of them. Being rugged and adapted to the desert, the Eltari preferred the sunbaked stones near the bottom of the mountain. Still high enough for a view, the hilltop had sheer cliff faces, and the breeze carried the smell of rock, earth, and pine, making it feel homey.

Here, the Eltari constructed wide tents from various types of leather. They mixed several monster skins into the patchwork ensemble, but they tied it together symmetrically. This pattern gave the pandemonium purpose. It reminded me of staring at a collage.

Adding to the effect, dozens of teeth, bones, and other organic stuff hung in well-preserved bundles. The Eltari relished in these different art pieces, every hut having its personalized flare. From menacing to gentle, they never mirrored one another. That fierce distinction gave way at the ground, where the Eltari constructed a vast mosaic across the entire village.

A dozen huts all shared the same pattern, the reflective and glossy stones sheening in the sun. I walked down the paths, appreciating the Eltari above and their aerodynamic displays. Each person I passed landed before lunging to one knee, their reverence almost overbearing. Some bowed further, even murmuring prayers under their breath.

I raised my hands.

"Alright, at ease, everybody. I'm just here to see a few of Hod's friends, not fulfill a prophecy."

As I reached the largest tent in the area, I stared at a ten-foot-tall entrance. It was tiny. Wanting to move in, I left another mass of dimensional fabric outside. Walking nine feet tall, I found many deformed Eltari resting within. They hid from the beams of light peaking through their shaded space and covered themselves in the leathers of dark eldritch.

I snapped my fingers.

"Ah yeah, I remember you guys. You were, hm, er, the village elders from when I walked into Hod's village, right?"

One of the least deformed elders hacked out a cough. It raised a mangled wing.

"We are. Your reflection told us to be ready for your coming. We brought a feast and gifts, but you missed the ceremony."

I winced.

"Ah, sorry about that. You see, I got caught up making these amulets-"

A second elder waved his wings.

"No, please, don't apologize. We understand that our savior is called to action often, and sometimes, you cannot control it."

Unnerved by the term savior, I scratched the back of my head.

"Huh. Well, thanks for your understanding. I'm guessing the executive gave you guys those buildings below?"

The first elder nodded.

"It is a generous being. Please, sit."

It gestured to a circle made with mosaic stones on the ground. Everywhere else was beaten and bare earth. I sat cross-legged in the ring.

"Thanks. So, about Hod, what was he like before being eldritchified?"

The elders peered at one another, murmuring with guttural tones and noises. Making out what the others meant, the second elder raised dark wings.

"There was never a time before Hod was taken by the monster within him."

The white eyes under his hood narrowed.

"He has always been lost in his shadow."
