“...an unstoppable juggernaut.” The man at the head of the table finished the sentence and sighed.

*

Denise let Ren sleep and stayed at his bedside almost right up until lunchtime, then she left the bedroom to make lunch for everyone. She was surprised that she wasn't annoyed at all because she had to make much bigger meals so that everyone could eat. She knew she didn't have to, since everyone was a grown adult and could feed themselves when they wanted to; but, she also knew it saved them from having to do it themselves and they appreciated it.

Denise had just finished the food when Donald came in through the back door. “Just in time.” She said and pointed to a plate of food that she had made for him.

“You're spoiling me.” Donald said and sat down at the kitchen counter. “You've always got something for me when I come over.”

Denise chuckled and put the food on the serving cart and added juice, coffee, soda pop, and several small bowls of sliced peaches and cream for dessert. “I think that's why you come over so much.”

Donald barked a laugh. “Damn, you caught me.”

Denise laughed and pushed the cart to the elevator and went inside, took it up to the second floor, and pushed the cart into Ren's bedroom. Almost as if he could smell the food, Ren started to stir. Denise went over to the bed and put a hand on each of his hands to stop him from moving too much, and he opened his eyes.

“Shh.” Denise whispered and she nodded to Barbi and Elise on either side of him.

Ren looked at both women and saw they were still asleep, then noticed Denise held his hands still. He smiled at her and nodded slightly, so she let his hands go and picked up a plate of food. He widened his eyes as Denise leaned over Barbi and used a spoon to feed him. He ate the whole plate of food that way, with Denise giving him a drink of his supplement occasionally, and then she picked up a bowl of dessert.

Ren shook his head no, and she used a fork to spear a slice of peach, then she held it up. He shook his head again, and she very slowly slid the end of it into her mouth. The symbolism was not lost on Ren, and he grew excited as Denise sucked the slice of peach in and swallowed, then some of the cream rolled down the side of her mouth to her chin. She tried to lick it with her tongue, then used a finger to wipe at it and sucked on her finger.

“Good god.” Ren whispered softly, and Denise speared another slice of peach.

“Mmm.” Barbi moaned and took a deep breath, and smelled the food. “Hm?” She opened her eyes and looked at Ren.

“What time is it?” Barbi asked.

“Shh. It's almost noon.” Denise whispered and put down the dish of peaches and cream.

“Already?” Barbi asked and wiped her eyes with a hand. “I just closed my eyes.”

“Go back to sleep.” Ren whispered. “You can eat later.”

“M'kay.” Barbi said and kissed him on the lips, closed her eyes and sighed, then was back to sleep like she hadn't woken up at all. Ren and Denise exchanged glances and smiled at each other, then Ren nodded at the VR headset. She picked it up and helped him put it on, then he spoke the login command in as low of a voice as he could.

“Flow Login Start.” Ren whispered, only slightly more than an exhale, and it worked because the game started and his body went limp.
