He tried to think. The only way to put real distance between them would perhaps be to bury himself deep in layers of pseudo-labyrinths. He could draw complex paths into the walls like he was setting up a ward, enough to draw in and obfuscate his echo's navigational senses. That might mask his presence long enough to focus.

But his echo was aware of the same thing, and it refused to let him. Every time he tried, it found something new to distract him and did its level best to close the distance, bashing through walls and growing new paths through their shared domain. The damn thing had not only picked up on what he was trying to do, it was countering his strategy and coming up with new spells in the process.

Leo was...

Well, all the screaming aside, now that he thought about it? He was kind of pissed about that, actually.

It was an echo. It was using his mind against him—using its knowledge of his strengths and weaknesses, what it knew he would and wouldn't do, and it was using his own anxieties and fears to corner him. Whatever kind of copy it was, it didn't seem to carry weight of the same doubts Leo did, and that made it a terrifying, unstoppable force on the battlefield.

Why couldn't he do the same? Was this an example of what he was actually capable of, if he didn't hold himself down? If he fought like this in the dungeons, he wouldn't have needed to worry about holding his friends back at all. His echo didn't have access to anything he didn't have, and yet it had somehow turned itself into a ruthless hunter even his friends would have been hard-pressed to go up against.

Leo was used to being outdone. He was the most mortal creature in a group of immortal, elemental beings. His magic was strange and wonderful, but it was the weakest of them all. He was so used to it, in fact, that he had chalked it up to being something intrinsic.

But this was a copy, and he was sick of being outdone. Something inside him burned at the mere thought of it.

Leo snarled, then began reshaping the labyrinth once more, this time for a different purpose entirely. He no longer cared about putting distance between himself and his echo. Instead, he forcibly re-shaped the walls closest to him, forcing the path into a familiar pattern.

If his echo wouldn't let him focus internally, then he'd just have to find a way around that.

That mana circulation pattern had spoken to him so deeply because its path, circuitous and complex, was essentially a labyrinth. He needed to focus internally to be able to follow it, in theory... unless he built it into the walls and stone around him.

Unless he turned the labyrinth itself into the pattern.

He wouldn't need to do it all at once. All he needed was for the next twist and turn to match the circuit. It would be exactly like navigating the Haelforge Library—his goal was not to make the pattern flow as a whole, because something about that seemed to make the intent within his mana rebel against him.

So instead he would make his mana move one step at a time until it formed the whole.

Adapt. Adjust. If his echo could do it, then so could he.

Right on cue, it burst out of the wall in front of him. Leo could tell, from its expression, that it expected him to shape the labyrinth around him to escape. It had prepared itself for a chase.

Leo punched it in the face, then raced down the corridors he had reshaped, feeling his mana move along with him.
