Alan scrambled to get the bandana back out of his pocket, tying it around the body’s neck. He then propped Troy’s arms over his shoulders and started trudging towards the portable toilets.

Alan went as fast as he could, but the body was heavy. Adrenaline was rushing through his system though, and he managed to enter the small enclosed space before anyone came onto the path.

Alan removed the guard’s uniform and put it on, wiping away any spots of blood he found. Everything, including the military boots, was half a size too big.

There were so many, many ways that could’ve gone wrong and a multitude of reasons that was a dumb move, Nu sent.

Well it worked out, and we were undetected, Alan replied.

I wouldn’t be so sure about that. Nu highlighted the guard’s communication device, now on Alan’s wrist. A message flashed on it: Status report.

Alan paused, and then typed out a reply after unlocking the device with Troy’s finger: Taking a shit.

Alan examined the communications device, looking for additional information. He scanned through the message history, as well as all the names and contacts, scrolling through page after page as fast as he could. There was a map, providing a layout of the base, but nothing else was useful. The device wasn’t even able to connect to the internet. After a moment of indecision, Alan decided to leave it with the body. It likely had a tracker on it since the map showed a pin with his exact location.

Quickly organizing his new loot, Alan found he’d gained a combat knife, a ballistic vest, a helmet with a flashlight attachment, seven 30-round magazines in various pouches, a keycard, and a basic first aid kit.

Stepping out of the portable toilet, Alan used the multi-tool to lock the door behind him.

That might buy us a few minutes, but someone will discover something is wrong, Nu sent.

Let me do the worrying, Alan sent as he checked the M4’s magazine. He turned the safety off and set it to semi-automatic. Think we can make it to an auditorium without detection?

Possibly, Nu sent. Patrols are supposed to happen semi-randomly, and no one should be too suspicious of another guard, but if those drones or whatever system is in charge of defense is constantly tracking all on-base personnel and you show up on a camera with no tracker, it might arouse suspicion. Maybe we could try to pass off as a military recruit, though we’d have to ditch the weapon. Maybe a 50% chance of reaching an auditorium undetected? Then we’d need to get by the guards in front.

I want better odds. Did you not hear the part about random, dangerous events? Alan asked. I’m keeping this gun.

Alan thought for a second. Let’s get to a capsule room. According to the map, Troy’s barracks is about a kilometer away. I also have a keycard that should work for the building.

Oh, and the presentations will be streamed to the common room according to the old messages. Good idea, Nu sent. Rerouting now.

A blue line appeared in front of Alan, providing him with a path that avoided high traffic areas and most of the cameras. Whenever Alan did pass by a camera, he made sure to angle his face away from it.

An occasional guard patrol did pass by, but Alan’s disguise was good enough that no one paid him a second glance. Instead, everyone seemed to be looking outwards for threats.

With a sigh of relief, Alan finally made it to the barracks, a plain two-story concrete and brick building. Two keycard swipes later, and Alan was in the common room just as the presentation was starting.

Three male soldiers were watching the television at the front of the room, sitting in plain armchairs. One guy looked back but seemed to think nothing of Alan’s entrance. Due to the nature of the Game, two had rifles slung across their shoulders, while the third nearest the television had a pistol strapped to his leg. None of them had body armor or helmets on, however.

Alan took a seat near the back of the room, in front of a pool table. On screen a man in a blue suit had stepped up to a podium. It looked like he was in the green auditorium based on the shots of the crowd, standing behind a shimmering field of faint blue light. Alan didn’t recognize the politician. He had dark skin, and looked to be of Indian descent, but spoke with an American accent.

“Today marks a year since humanity was first introduced to the Game. And what a year it has been. The discovery that aliens are real, the massive collapse of financial markets and governments, two different worldwide elections, an onslaught of regime changes, countless hopeless rebellions against the Enforcers, a frenzy of new technological advancements, and all that is only the tip of the surface.”

The man spread his hands. “You have seen the Enforcers in real life—unstoppable autonomous fleets, halting the development and control of any weapon systems apart from their own. Did you think they were controlled by the government? No! They are controlled by the Game. Whoever conquers the Game rules in reality!

"While a year passed in the real world four years have happened in the Game. Six virtual wars have been fought. Twice the United World Government has almost disbanded, only to reform stronger than ever. An extinction event occurred, killing every last human being within the Game. The Game itself had its rules rewritten. Weapons of mass destruction were unleashed. And that was only in our little corner of space.

“It all proves one thing,” the man said holding up a single finger, “we cannot stand alone. In three months' time, one year in-game, outside forces will be allowed to attack our solar system, our home. Information will be allowed to freely pass between the Game and reality. Allying with the Haxlards is the only clear option. Yes, the price is steep, but we will maintain control of one-third of the planet’s control points, its resources, its landmass. And a third is better than nothing.”

“Is a third of our world, our home planet, enough?” The politician paused, gauging the crowd's alarmed reactions. “No, it is not! It doesn’t even allow us to fully set our own laws. My freedom. Your freedom. All of it will be taken away in a year in-game. Adapt, grow, and level up. Surpass the gods themselves. Buy out the Haxlard’s share of Earth. Discover new planets for humanity to colonize. Research new technological paths. Fight over existing control points, capture them so that humanity may grow, and prosper, and thrive! Do not allow humanity to be enslaved by alien overlords!”

“Today marks five hundred million capsules coming online. And yet we are still outnumbered by the Haxlards over one hundred thousand to one, and they are but one faction in the Game. If we are to survive the coming years we must have strong, dependable allies.” The man gestured in the direction of another auditorium, one where the Haxlard delegation had gathered.

“They are alien, but I have found Haxlards to be honorable, hard-working folk. Yes, they follow alien gods, and that may be upsetting, but standing with us today is a priest of the Three, Envoy Ubaid. I hope his words may allay your fears and even inspire you to greatness.”

The camera shifted to a new auditorium, this time on stage was a tall, blue skinned-alien in dark robes. Covering his face was a white faceplate that had a single gold strike through it. Two Haxlard guards with monochrome light silver faceplates stood behind him. Each held a blade that glowed blue with energy and wore armor that blended in with the auditorium’s background.

An Ultihaxlard, and a priest at that. Watch out, this guy’s dangerous, Nu sent.

The soldier that had looked back at Alan when he’d arrived glanced back once more. “Hey kid, relax, take off your helmet. The blues can’t stab us through the screen.”

“I died early on during the last presentation, that isn’t happening this time around,” Alan replied, keeping his eyes on the screen but focusing on the soldier with his peripheral vision.

The soldier shrugged and went back to watching the presentation.

Envoy Ubaid spoke.

“Blessed be the Three. I greet you earthlings, embers of humanity, and bring to you this message: We Haxlards are not conquerors or imperialists, but supplicants. This disastrous infighting and willful ignorance must be stopped. The Three can fix all, but only if you are willing to save yourselves. Through mechanical brilliance and digital machinations, with evolutionary biology and advanced technology, the Three have blessed us, and so we must in turn bless them. They are gods, while we are mortal.”

The words seemed to resonate in Alan’s mind—they were clearer than they should have been. It was like when he had downloaded information into his brain, the words went straight into his head.

What is this? Alan asked.

A psionic communication ability. A powerful tool, in the right hands. It makes it much easier for people to understand your truth, Nu sent.

“The Three offer salvation,” the Ultihaxlard continued. “Not a promise of an afterlife, but never-ending heaven here and now. By their very existence, they have proven three paths to heaven—to immortality. I beg you not to help us, but to help yourselves. Let one of humanity rise in power to godhood, to join the Three and support others in turn.

“You stand before me on this planet, and you see all that you have ever known. A single world: wide and wonderful, but small.”

A planet appeared in Alan’s mind. Earth.

“You must dream bigger,” Envoy Ubaid said. “Of the stars, of the vast infinities and edges of the universe.” Earth expanded outwards, and Alan saw space in his mind’s eye. How small he was. Earth was but a part of the Solar System, in the Milky Way Galaxy, in the Local Group, in the Virgo Supercluster, all of which was only a fraction of the universe. But it was all the space the Game contained. It would take millions of years for light to travel from one side to the next.

How was such a thing possible? The Game couldn’t possibly contain—Alan hit a wall. He couldn’t continue the thought.

Envoy Ubaid resumed his speech, “We constrain new planets not out of greed or malice, but to help you grow. It is far too easy to succumb to bestial instincts and hedonism. To care about others’ paths when all that matters is your own. Humans of Earth, I beg of you. Rise above all else, so that you may one day bless the Three.”

That doesn’t sound too bad, Alan thought.

Trust me, you don’t want Haxlards ruling your planet, Nu replied. They’d consider an hour-long lunch break hedonistic and sinful. Hell, to them a half-hour lunch would probably be worth a punishment. They go old school too, whippings, public decapitations, and the like. I have no idea what the UWG is thinking.

“Ascend past your simple forms, find hope once more.” Envoy Ubaid stepped off the platform and kneeled before the crowd. “Blessed be the Three. For in their advancement, we shall all rise.”

A wave formed within Alan’s mind: a rising tide of light that lifted spaceships off the ground, advancing the boundaries of the known universe in a growing sphere, an advancement of the cumulative knowledge of all sentient beings.

The camera shifted again, to one of the military recruit’s auditoriums, and this time Alan recognized the speaker. It was Icewolf, but his hair had turned white, and a scar marked an eye that whirred about with mechanical precision.

Icewolf stood not in an official uniform, but in sleek power armor. Smooth black cloth interweaved with dark metal that seemed to both absorb the light and emit a shadowy miasma. It was of Revenant design, but Alan couldn’t identify the model.

The soldiers in the room sat up straight. One glanced back at Alan for the third time and then focused on the screen.

Huh, looks like they’re worried that something might happen, Alan thought. Nothing seems to have changed.

No, something is different, Nu sent. Keep watching.

“Before we begin I’d like to remind everyone listening that all humans are equal and this is just a game,” Icewolf said. “Yes, the Game is a virtual reality massively multiplayer online role-playing simulation that was designed to replace all war, but it's still a game. You will discover newfound powers, technologies that will augment your biology, mechanical implants that will shape your world view, but at the end of the day we’re still human.”

“We all have friends, families to fight for.” Icewolf frowned. “Or at the very least we should. Do not pursue power for the sake of power alone. Find a cause, something worth fighting for. I happen to believe Earth is a pretty good one.”

Wow, it’s almost like his words are meant for you, Nu sent. What’re we fighting for again?

Quiet, Alan replied. The soldier that had set him on edge had a rather firm grip on his rifle.

“Ignore me. I’m simply a soldier that feels like he’s spent several lifetimes fighting virtual wars, reminiscing about times barely a year old,” Icewolf said. “If the Haxlard Crusade proved anything, it proved that they are the strongest singular fighting force within our cluster of space. To fight against them would be folly, we’d be crushed like an ant. At least that’s what the politicians say.”

Icewolf stepped down off the platform and brought out a communication device.

“If my time in the Game has taught me anything, it is this: adapt or die,” Icewolf said. “Evolve. Die. Repeat. Do not fear failure in the Game, for each day you will grow a little stronger. Death is not the end here. Stagnation, the moment you stop moving forwards, that is what kills civilizations.”

“Let hunger grow in your belly. See all that humanity might have, but does not.” Icewolf smiled, but it was cold. “Let the world burn so that we might rise from the ashes. Begin Operation Phoenix.”
