The response was almost immediate as Rain’s eyes fluttered and blinked, peacefully coming awake with a smile, one that contrasted harshly with the wave of enmity assaulting Baatar’s senses. One that did not originate from his son, as he was soon relieved to discover, only for his relief to turn to cold terror as he identified the Unconcealed Pong Pong as the source of antipathy. “Pong Pong,” the boy began, his tone sharp and displeased, and the Aura turned to one of guilt and repentance as the turtle retreated back into the boy’s hair. “Sorry Dad,” the boy said, sheepishly grinning as he switched to Sending, “Pong Pong and Buddy were having a grand old time swimming around the lake, so he’s a little peeved we had to leave early.”

Ah yes. Buddy. It was one thing to accept that the Divine Turtle visited Rain’s Natal Palace every night, which was absurd enough, but the boy’s Natal Guardian was another thing altogether. Why did he need a guardian, and why was it a dog? The boy explained his reasoning many a time, that he could not always be trusted to make the right decisions when it came to his emotional well being, and the dog was man’s best friend and thus worthy of his trust, but to Baatar’s ears, this logic was so twisted he didn’t know where to start with unravelling it. Putting the matter aside for the sake of his sanity, he patted his son’s shoulder and offered the Divine Turtle a handful of dried berries, a tribute the reticent creature magnanimously accepted. Sitting up to stretch, the boy turned to coo at the tiger who still lay prone and wary, having slept not a wink, but seemed well-rested enough to resume travelling again. “Poor Rakky, so worn out from Cloud-Stepping so much. Maybe we’ll take a boat back instead, or I’ll figure out Domain Plating and use it to carry you comfortably, okay?”

A skill which even Mother had not mastered, much less Baatar, yet Rain spoke of it as if he could pick it up with a few days practice. Monk Happy was the one who offered the name, after the boy would not stop pestering him for answers, and though it sounded simple enough in theory, not a single person in the household had yet to find success. Sarnai’s Mentor was the only one capable of using Domain Plating, and she’d known how to do so before even hearing the name, utilizing this superlative skill to carry a wagon without breaking it by putting all the weight on a single point, namely her hand supporting it in the air. When asked to explain how, the admittedly foolish woman had no words of advice, only an infuriating expression of confusion as if wondering why no one else could understand so simple a concept.

After a quick breakfast, their party Cloud-Stepped away again, and again, the boy travelled in relative silence while engrossed in his thoughts. Being the concerned father he was, Baatar tried to come up with a way to show his son how to appreciate the little things in life, and though he came up short of an answer, he was also the first to notice the change in little Rain’s demeanour. As soon as the Azure Sea came into sight, the boy’s expression visibly brightened and he even let out a tiny burst of anticipation and excitement, happy to be back despite the circumstances. Then, when they landed on the shore some time later, the boy even broke out into a smile as he stood and watched the waves. No, not the waves, but rather the Concealed Divine Turtle, darting back and forth through the water if Rain’s eyes were any indication. Taking a quick glance around, the boy’s eyes stopped to meet Baatar’s, silently asking if he could go play. Unable to refuse, he nodded and waved the boy away, to which he responded with a literal jump of joy and a smile filled with child-like glee as he stripped down and dove into the waters to go swimming with the Divine Turtle.

A sight which warmed Baatar’s heart, despite the grim circumstances surrounding their arrival.

Contrary to the tales he told of his adventures in his Natal Palace, Rain was an adequate swimmer at best, moving his arms in a strange, wind-mill like motion to propel himself through the waters rather than any working of Chi. Others might think he was saving his reserves for the battle ahead, but considering his ability to Devour Heavenly Energy and restore his Core to full in a heartbeat, there must’ve been other reasons he chose to swim mechanically as opposed to utilizing his Insights in the real world.

Unless...

“Boy,” Baatar Sent, praying his guess was wrong but worried he was absolutely on the mark. “Have you tried moving through the water with Chi?”

“Nope,” came the reply, immediately followed by, “How would I do that? Amplified kicks?”

“No.” Suppressing a sigh and telling himself that sometimes, an outsider saw things more clearly than those involved, he explained, “But you yourself should know how, given your stories of chasing the Divine Turtle through the water inside your Natal Palace.”

Even from such a great distance, Baatar could see the shock on the boy’s face, followed by shame and embarrassment for not seeing this sooner. It took a few minutes for him to work everything out, but soon he was zipping through the waters faster than he could run, without need to move his arms or kick his feet, a sight which was impressive to say the least. More importantly, he was laughing up a storm and taking great delight in the game as he chased the turtle about, a memory which more than made up for his lacklustre reaction to Cloud-Stepping through the skies. His laughter redoubled when the tiger joined in soon after, paddling away from shore for a minute before diving under the waters and emerging with a fish clamped between his jaws. A blind fool could see the pride in the tiger’s gait as he sauntered back up the beach, carrying his catch away to eat in smug satisfaction of his successful hunt.

Given how much the boy, the Divine Turtle, and the tiger loved the Azure Sea, perhaps Baatar would look into building a summer home for them on the shore back home in the Northern Province. Something to keep in mind for the future, because it was important to cling to hope, even if the odds seemed stacked against them. While this concerned the boy greatly and he almost seemed resigned to failure, Baatar believed the Imperial Army would undoubtedly emerge victorious, though perhaps not as quickly as Rain would like. No matter though, for whether it took a year, a decade, or even a century to secure victory, Baatar would be here to fight the good fight for as long as it took, and he had no doubt his son intended to do the same.

Leaving the boy to play, Baatar made contact with Gao Changgong and his scouts to take stock of the situation. According to the Western Major General, the trap was set and dangling in the waters, a ship laden with gold headed towards SuiHua habour to the south and west, one disguised as a fishing trawler which had been slowly making it’s way down from the Society Headquarters the last few days. Marshal Yuzhen assured them that word would leak of this delivery, but whether the information would reach Huanhuzi in time was another thing altogether. If the self-proclaimed Bandit King chose to attack, his ships would likely strike somewhere along this stretch of coastline, where Baatar, the boy, and the Azure Ascendants were all ready and waiting to Cloud-Step over and sink the enemy fleet with cannon-fire and possibly even execute the half-badger himself, with help from Gao Changgong’s nearby forces of course.

There were many things that could go wrong with this plan, but there was little to no cost except time and effort. Even if Huanhuzi saw through this trap, it would only be a matter of time before he emerged from hiding to raid another Imperial shipment, at which point the boy would strike without mercy. As luck would have it however, the Bandit King’s fleet was soon sighted and the scouts were even able to confirm Huanhuzi’s presence aboard his flagship, a most fortunate coincidence which had the boy frowning in suspicion, never one to be happy with good luck and always assuming the worst. Regardless of Huanhuzi’s intentions, Baatar saw no reason to change tack, because even if this was a counter-trap to lure Rain in, this was the first time the pirate had been sighted in weeks and Baatar was not about to let this chance pass by without a try.

“Remember,” he Sent, as they Cloud-Stepped out into the Azure Sea in pursuit of Huanhuzi, “I will be nearby, so if you cannot hold out against him, then you only need to call out and survive.”

“Understood,” Rain replied, flashing a tentative grin as he Sent, “I beat Goujian already, and he was something else, so I think I can handle one Bandit King in single combat. Probably. Maybe.”

Taking a deep breath, Baatar convinced himself of the necessity once more, even though he was the one who suggested it and Mother and Rain both agreed. Sparring was a good measure of a Warrior’s strength, but Rain’s true potential always surpassed what he could bring out in a spar, because much of his strength could only be displayed when his life was on the line. Huanhuzi would make for a good whetstone, a middling Peak Expert who survived so long mostly through foresight and cunning. Should the boy stumble and falter, then Baatar was wholly confident he and the various other Peak Experts could easily intervene before too much damage was done.

Such was life, trials and tribulations aplenty, but only little Rain would actively go looking for more instead of saving his strength and waiting for the calamities to come to him. Proud as he was of his diligent son, Baatar prayed the Enemy had no surprises laying in wait, and for this plan to go off without a hitch, a prayer he regretted as soon as he sent it.

For it was widely known that the Mother was a fickle woman indeed, one who did so love to test her favoured sons, of whom none were more favoured than Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
