Lack of balance was largely the reason why Zhen Shi’s methods were so effective against him, for Rain had always been sombre and gloomy in mood. The pets and his wives did much to mitigate his melancholic disposition, but now that he was no longer able to control his expression of Aura, Baatar and the rest of the family were shocked to discover just how oppressive Rain’s inner thoughts truly were. The boy could wake from a mid-day nap cheery and contented, only for his mood to turn foul seconds later when he realized how much time he’d ‘wasted’ with sleep, and that was but one example, of which there were still many more. Any casual remark about casualties incurred would send him spiralling into self-castigation, only for a hug to deflect him back in the other direction as his spirits soared high into the skies, a back and forth that Baatar found utterly exhausting to navigate, even experiencing it second hand as he did.

Then again, this extreme back and forth could also be considered a form of Balance, albeit hardly a healthy approach to the Dao by any measure, and one made all the more disturbing considering Rain was the one who brought the matter up. While it was possible his fluctuating moods helped propel him to never before seen heights, Baatar forbade the boy from sharing this theory with anyone, especially his wives and friends. The last thing anyone wanted was for some promising youth to be ruined by reckless experimentation, or worse, lost to the Father’s foul lies, as few could deal with the highs and lows of emotion without the assistance of an Elemental Spirit.

One which had apparently merged with Rain during his second Awakening, which explained why he experienced a second one in the first place, though the benefits from doing so were difficult to quantify. This went beyond Baatar’s understanding however, so even though he had his doubts as to whether this was correct, he kept them to himself for fear of leading the boy astray. That being said, no one would dare call Rain a mere ‘young talent’ anymore, not after so many soldiers witnessed him exchange blows with the formidable Bai Qi and emerge utterly unscathed save for a few minor injuries which were barely visible from the outside. This was a foe who almost defeated Commander General Shuai Jiao in a single blow, which made the boy’s accomplishment that much more impressive, but now the people and soldiers were talking as if their Legate would defeat the traitorous Colonel General in single combat during their next exchange, a feat Baatar knew would prove impossible.

Those who didn’t understand the intricacies of combat would look only at the results and make their judgments from there. Both Rain and Shuai Jiao exchanged blows with Bai Qi, but the boy came out better than the esteemed Commander General, suffering only a few fractures whereas the older, more experienced, and undoubtedly more powerful Shuai Jiao had his arm broken in the first exchange. This led others to claim Rain was now on the level of a Colonel General, a conclusion which was both ludicrous and erroneous of course, because Rain did everything he could to survive against Bai Qi, whereas Commander General Shuai Jiao rose up to the challenge and tried to defeat him. What’s more, Rain fought alone and was free to avoid Bai Qi’s attacks, an opportunity he took full advantage of, whereas Commander General Shuai Jiao was forced to meet Bai Qi head on lest the traitor aim his attacks at another Peak Expert along the wall.

In the same circumstances, even Mother wasn’t confident she could’ve done better than Shuai Jiao, since she understood the traitor general’s strength better than anyone else. During their exchange, Mother had utilized the freedom of the battlefield to strike at Bai Qi from range, utilizing her favoured Ground-Shrinking Strike to full effect before retreating in the face of his full might. How the Lord of Martial Peace was able to unleash so much power was a secret none were privy to, none besides Bai Qi himself, and even Rain was at a loss to explain it.

This didn’t mean Bai Qi was unparalleled however, as depending on the circumstances, there were a handful of Warriors who might emerge victorious against the troublesome traitor. Mother, the Commander General, Colonel General Nian Zu, and even Baatar himself belonged on that admittedly short list, and even Rain might manage to defeat Bai Qi if given the perfect opportunity. It was much easier to deliver a killing blow than it was to defend against one, and a timely throw of the sword or well-aimed bullet from his rifle would be all it took to kill a man, no matter how strong or skilled they might be. Granted, Rain’s chances against Bai Qi in close combat were slim to nil, unless he had external help of course, in the form of the menacing and all-powerful Divine Turtle, Pong Pong.

Were it up to Baatar, the boy would never again bring the creature into battle, for they risked much in doing so. Thus far, it appeared as if the Enemy was unaware of the existence of these Divine Beasts, ones on par with Ancestral Beasts and Human Divinities, but if this secret were to be revealed, the Enemy Divinities would likely view any interference from Pong Pong as an excuse to break the Treaty and unleash widespread devastation on a scale few could comprehend. A single exchange between Rain’s Dharmapala and the Bristleboar Divinity resulted in the destruction of a border city and the deaths of all its inhabitants, tens of thousands of lives wiped out in an instant. Were the population any larger, the casualties would still match it, so easy to imagine what would happen if two or more Divinities were to clash over the Citadel proper.

Alas, Baatar had little say about what the Divine Turtle did or didn’t do. Even Rain didn’t have much choice, as he tried to leave Pong Pong behind but the loyal little beast would have none of it, directing his tiger mount to follow Rain wherever he went. At least Ping Ping was easily dealt with, happy to obey and stay with the rest of the family, but Pong Pong only cared about Rain, and thus refused to leave his side for long. Even now, as they rested to gather Chi before resuming their journey, the Divine Turtle stuck close to the boy’s side, a fact Baatar only knew because Rain had fallen fast asleep next to the nervous and miserable tiger, Rakshasa.

Now there was a mount worthy of a hero, though the boy had thus far ignored all suggestions to acclimate the tiger with a saddle. “Rakky is a friend, and not even my pet,” he said, with a wistful expression that made it clear he wished it were otherwise. “I don’t mind if Pong Pong wants to ride on his head, but I don’t want to force them into battle alongside me. I’ll stick to riding Zabu and Mafu thank you very much, and Rakky can do whatever he likes.”

Another lie, for the tiger was clearly at the mercy of the Divine Turtle’s whims, and Baatar had only the deepest sympathies for this powerful and majestic predator. Though tired and resting, the tiger was not one to let his guard down in unfamiliar territory, laying belly down in a field of grass with chest heaving and eyes scanning his surroundings without letting little Rain out of his sight, even though the boy was fast asleep at his side. Only Pong Pong’s Concealed presence kept the tiger from trying to kill any one of them, a fierce, man-eating beast even the monks of the Brotherhood couldn’t wholly control, but the boy was determined to tame the beast the same way he tamed his precious pets, with food and love. Another mistake, in Baatar’s opinion, for most of his pets were caught young, save for Mama Bun and possibly the laughing birds, though the latter might well have all been hatched in captivity as well. Rakshasa, on the other hand, was a wild beast accustomed to dining on human flesh, a formidable predator whose idea of rousing sport was hunting Defiled Champions and stealing away with their corpses to feast. How could such a powerful and majestic creature be content eating dried jerky and chasing feathers for fun? No, better to treat it like a quin and conscript the tiger into service as mount and beast of war. Oh how wondrous it would be to ride into battle atop this massive tiger, one which surpassed even Baatar’s massive warhorse in size and agility, a true Spiritual Beast with decades of experience hunting in one of the most dangerous environments within the borders of the Empire. Were Rain to train the tiger in such a manner, he would truly be a sight to behold, especially if he were to ride into battle along side his lion-mounted Royal Guardians. Alas, the boy refused to even consider the idea, even though he agreed it would be good to give the tiger clear rules to follow and goals to accomplish. Despite having lived with the family for the better part of a month, Rakshasa had yet to truly accept anyone besides little Mei Lin, whose bed he slept beside each and every night. Rain and Song’s best efforts were not enough to win his approval, nor did Alsantset’s shared heritage earn her any favours, and in fact almost set Rakshasa off into a murderous frenzy when the foolish girl tried to assert her dominance over the fearsome, independent predator.

For like the idiom said, one mountain cannot hold two tigers, and Rakshasa would not have gone down without a fight if not for Pong Pong’s overbearing presence.

Fast asleep beside the panting tiger and oblivious to the waking world, the boy slept deeply despite the lack of a tent or bedroll. It wasn’t the journey or Chi expenditure which exhausted him so, nor was it any underlying health issues as far as Taduk could tell, but Rain had been sleeping a lot more of late, rivalling the lethargic Mei Lin for hours spent in bed even after accounting for the extra time accumulated during... recreation. The extra sleep might well be a side-effect of refining his body into a Spiritual Heart, a feat which even now Baatar could not understand. To hear the boy tell it, he cultivated his soul until it was too large to fit inside his Core, which made no sense given how the Core was supposed to be part and parcel of the soul. Better to say that he could not fit his entire Core inside his physical body, though the boy had issues with that interpretation that he could not put into words, or at least not enough words to make sense besides going on about the physical and metaphysical existing side by side. Or rather, occupying the same space without overlapping or interfering with one another, as he most recently theorized, though how that was possible remained a complete mystery, not to mention why interweaving the two was pivotal to the process of refining a Spiritual Heart, the benefits of which were still difficult to quantify.

To call the boy’s Martial Path convoluted was an understatement at best, and Baatar sorely wished he was wise enough to help his son untangle his perplexing trail of steps and be worthy of the title of Mentor.

After a few hours rest, Naaran informed Baatar that they were ready to leave again, but he hesitated to set out as Rain was still sleeping. “The boy himself stressed that speed was of the utmost importance,” Naaran Sent, seeing through Baatar’s thoughts as only an old friend could. “And the sooner we deal with this pirate, the sooner the boy can return to the Citadel for a longer rest.”

For the briefest of moments, Baatar experienced a deep-seated flash of resentment towards his old friend and comrade. Falling Rain was Baatar’s son, and Naaran a mere stranger, so who was he to say what was best for the boy? Where did this newfangled concern even come from? A few weeks back, Naaran was ready to kill the boy for fear of Defilement, so how dare he pretend to have Rain’s best interests in mind?

A sentiment Baatar immediately quashed upon recognizing where it stemmed from.

Not content to weave his lies for little Rain to hear, the hateful Zhen Shi was exerting his subtle influence not only on the people around the boy like Baatar himself, but seemingly on the entirety of the Imperial Army itself. How such a feat could even be possible was a mystery to be sure, but it was clear this eight-hundred year old madman possessed skills beyond all their comprehension. The boy thought their foe might well be using his ‘patented’ Natal Soul technique, though Mother pointed out that Zhen Shi lacked Rain’s ability to replenish his spent soul through Devouring and cleansing Spectres. Regardless of the how, it was clear Zhen Shi was finally taking a personal hand in the war, though his actions were subtle and insidious to the extreme. How were they to counter a foe who could whisper in a Warrior’s ear from thousands of kilometres away? All they could do was hope for the best and prepare for the worst, while doing whatever they could to raise morale and make the people believe that victory was not only possible, but probable.

Which was why they were here on this journey in the first place, so Baatar gave his old friend a grateful nod and marvelled at his resilience. Naaran had gone through much and lost almost everything, yet still he was strong enough to be here and help not only Baatar, but Rain as well, which showed the depths of his character. Leaning forward to gently brush the boy’s head, Baatar Sent, “Time to wake son. We are ready to travel again.”

