Ask any budding Martial Warrior which Chi skill they looked forward to learning most, and the vast majority would answer, “Cloud Stepping.”

At least, that’s what Baatar had found from experience, and he understood why well enough, for there was much value to be gained from the skill beyond the battlefield. Outside of combat, Reinforcement and Amplification were a boon for manual labourers, but no Expert worth their salt would debase themselves in such a manner. Soldiers dug ditches and built fortifications when necessary, but to make a career in construction or as a porter would be shameful indeed, not to mention far undervaluing the worth of a Martial Warrior to begin with. Most other skills didn’t even have a use outside of combat, like how Guiding and Honing were limited to Spiritual Weapons, and while familiarity with Lightening was pivotal to the process of Cloud-Stepping, few cared to master this singular skill to the level of Taduk or even Mei Lin, for it offered minimal value in or out of combat.

But Cloud-Stepping was something else entirely, a Martial skill which many argued was most effective outside of combat. While it could most certainly be used to reposition around the battlefield, Cloud-Stepping left one vulnerable to ambush from Wraiths or Peak Experts, since one was moving too quickly to react in any reasonable amount of time. Outside of battle though, it had a variety of uses, but this bland statement failed to capture the true charm of the skill. There was something so liberating about travelling as the bird flies and seeing things from a new perspective. The world seemed to shrink when high up in the clouds, with nothing but empty air beneath you and the vast horizon stretching out in all other directions, a view which never failed to fill him with a sense of awe and appreciation. So many of life’s problems appeared to fade and disappear whenever he took the time to appreciate the beauty of what the Mother created, a natural wonder few could behold from the perspective of a Cloud-Stepping Expert.

He himself possessed many cherished memories related to the skill, like the day he learned Sarnai had successfully Cloud-Stepped through the skies, and so he wilfully leaped off a cliff so as not to be left behind. A small cliff, but the landing broke his ankle nonetheless, though thankfully he’d had the presence of mind to choose somewhere reasonably close to Taduk’s cottage for this very reason. His beloved rose had been more rival than lover back in those days, and she’d teased him mercilessly about it for days after the loose-lipped Healer complained about Baatar waking him up in the middle of the night after trudging for hours through difficult terrain just to Heal a simple break. It wasn’t until recently that Baatar had to wonder if Taduk had shared this information on purpose so others would not be so quick to seek aid at late hours of the night. That wasn’t the first time the hare-brained Medical Saint ‘accidentally’ let slip about some humiliating experience, but he never made the same mistake when it came to Rain’s most embarrassing episodes, of which there were many.

Carrying his daughter while Cloud-Stepping through the mountains was another of Baatar’s cherished memories, and he smiled at the mere thought of the girl’s bright and cheery smile. Much like himself, Alsantset yearned for freedom and adventure, never content to remain in one place for too long. She was a hunter and Warrior born, but as a child, she was difficult to say the least. Even two Peak Experts parents weren’t enough to wear Alsantset down, her boundless energy a Heaven-sent curse when it came time to put her to bed. As a toddler, bringing her around on a quin ride was exciting enough, though Sarnai threw a fit the first time she saw him toss the girl off a cliff and catch her on the way down. Sure, it seemed dangerous, but he and Balor were well-equipped to preserve her life no matter the circumstances, and two or three throws was usually enough to tire little Alsantset out, falling fast asleep in his arms as they rode back home. Then, as she turned five or six and her tiger heritage showed true, Baatar took to Cloud-Stepping through the skies to satisfy his thrill-seeking, death defying daughter.

Supervised trips of course, since his rose no longer trusted him not to drop the girl, even though she’d never once come to harm in all their days together. The time she dislocated her arm didn’t count, as she’d twisted unexpectedly just as he caught her, but harrowing as the experience might have been, at least it taught her not to move about unnecessarily when hurtling through the air, a lesson which served her well once she learned to Cloud-Step herself. That was another cherished memory, holding hands with his beloved wife while watching their grown daughter take to the skies, one which brought a tear to his eye. It seemed like just yesterday when he carried his squirming, shrieking daughter and leapt high into the skies, his heart warmed by her wide-eyed glee and euphoric, gap-toothed smile. Now she was a mother herself, married to a good man with two children of their own and on track to become a young Peak Expert, one who incorporated the best of both her parent’s styles and a daughter to be proud of.

As for Rain, Baatar knew he’d missed out on most of his son’s childhood years, so he’d been looking forward to making some of those same memories later in life, of guiding him through the Cloud-Stepping process and seeing the smile on his face when he finally succeeded, but alas, the Heavens were cruel and blessed little Rain with too much talent. Lost in a fugue of what might well have been Insight, the boy spent weeks in a wooden, half-conscious state, behaving oddly and unable to speak properly after waking from his latest coma. For this and other reasons, when it became clear the boy was capable of Cloud-Stepping and unleashing the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, Baatar’s joy had been muted and overshadowed by fear and concern, for Naaran raised the possibility that the Rain they knew and loved had been replaced by an ancient, eight-hundred year old monster of myth.

Then Rain left for the monastery and Baatar put the boy out of mind, for to do otherwise would hinder his efforts to effectively manage and defend the Western Wall. Baatar’s son would return when he was ready and able, but not a moment before, so there was no point worrying about how he fared or how his condition was progressing. Taduk visited often to reassure himself that the boy was in good hands, but Baatar had faith in his son’s abilities, for he always knew what to do next. A blessing and a curse that, for Rain to be so competent, because it meant he believed it was his fault when matters inevitably didn’t go as planned. All his life, Rain had struggled with depression, and this mindset was largely to blame for it, a burden he bore of his own choosing, for he refused to let go of his pride and arrogance.

Small wonder he blamed himself for falling prey to Zhen Shi’s illusions, because he’d seen through them before and thus believed he should have seen through them again, as if a single victory was all it took to claim superiority over a defeated foe. Most people certainly saw things in the same manner, but in battles between Peak Experts, victory was never guaranteed. Even Mother, powerful as she was, could not defeat Baatar in every single one of their sparring matches, and while she won far more often than she lost, in a true battle to the death, none of those past victories or defeats mattered. Much like gambling, there was no sense speaking about the odds when the dice had already been rolled, because by then, the odds no longer mattered since the outcome had already been decided.

Regardless of the odds however, Rain had returned whole and healthy as could be, and Baatar had been looking forward to a leisurely trip with his son, where they could Cloud-Step together and he would see the look of joy and excitement upon the boy’s youthful features, but alas, reality left him sorely disappointed. After checking to make sure the tiger Rakshasa was following beside him, Rain paid no mind to his surroundings and retreated into his thoughts as he bound through the air like a jaded old man who’d been Cloud-Stepping for decades. There was no sense of child-like wonder or pride of accomplishment in his eyes, no bright smile or exhilarated expression, not even a focused squint or diligent furrow of the brow as he matched pace with Baatar and the other Peak Experts around him, all without breaking a sweat. At most, one could say he appeared neutrally bored, though his Aura showed that he was in fact deep in thought and concerned about what would come next. A shame, but hardly surprising once Baatar thought about it, as the boy was never one to celebrate his accomplishments or take time to enjoy the minor joys in life. In his eyes, the rising moon was no Heavenly object of beauty, but a stark reminder of yet another precious day slipping away. The endless plains were not breathtaking in scope, the blooming flowers not pleasing to the eye, nor were the shifting shadows an enjoyable experience to behold, just passing things to watch out for in case of hidden ambush, but beyond that, mere scenery to be ignored.

It pained Baatar to see his son derive so little joy from life, his happiness always stemming from outside sources rather than from within. Family, wives, friends, and pets, those were the only things Rain held dear, and without them, he would have nothing left. Perhaps he would come to love the world in time, but it was clear he held his life in low esteem. The mere illusion of losing his loved ones was enough to drive him to seek oblivion, not so different from taking his own life, and being the failure of a father and Mentor that he was, Baatar had no idea how to help his troubled son. Others might think Rain needed no help, having come so far on his own, escaping from Zhen Shi’s machinations more than once and progressing so far along the Martial Path that it was difficult to gauge his strength. On the surface, all seemed well, but Baatar knew that these experiences had left a plethora of visible scars on the boy’s psyche, ones he would be long in mending, assuming he ever did.

There were times when nothing seemed amiss as the boy played the part of Legate and young genius with remarkable aplomb, so well-suited to command Baatar found himself falling in line behind his young and talented son and carrying out his orders without question. When the boy first brought up the matter of hunting Huanhuzi and ending his reign of terror out on the Azure Sea, Baatar didn’t even think to ask why before passing along all the information he had on hand, and upon reflection, he realized this was because he’d known that the boy had made the right choice. In order for a counter-offensive to bear fruit, the crusading Imperial Armies would need to be reinforced and resupplied, and the easiest way to do so would be by ship. Caravans travelling by land would not only move slower, but would also require a considerably large escort to protect them from raiding Defiled riders. In contrast, so long as they were able to capture a Western harbour and fortify it accordingly, then the Imperial forces would have a forward base to fall back to and resupply from with relative ease. A fact Baatar understood once he thought about it, but in the moment, the nuances behind little Rain’s decisions had escaped him, and yet he still followed the boy’s lead without question, in this and in so many other endeavours.

Baatar could not be any prouder of his son’s accomplishments in the Martial Path and military command, but he knew these attainments were not without cost. With each subsequent success or victory, the people of the Empire expected more from their miracle child and Legate Falling Rain, except no one cared to remember that he was merely a boy of twenty-two years and still considered a youth by the standards of Martial Warriors. There was too much pressure on the boy now, and when combined with the high standards he held himself to, Baatar feared his son would soon crumble and fall apart at the most inopportune time. After helping to secure a victory here in the Central Citadel, Rain rested for all of five days, during which he carried out his duties as Legate, sparred with Gerel, and discussed the Dao with anyone and everyone who cared to listen, on top of indulging with his two wives until they were all too tired to stand. That was what the boy considered downtime, to merely work two or three times as hard as the average person, but after five days, he declared he was no longer plagued by headaches and would return to training full time.

Were it up to Baatar, he would have forced his son to rest and recuperate for another month, if not an entire year, but alas, time would not permit it, much less Rain himself. A troubling issue, the boy’s mental health, one which needed to be dealt with soon, for it was clear his consistently tenuous grasp of Balance was slipping beyond his control. To hear him tell it, Balance was not necessary for his Dao, but try as he might, Baatar could not be convinced. Balance was more than a mere requirement to access the Energy of the Heavens, it was a mindset to be cultivated in order to weather the trials and tribulations delivered by the Mother Above. Balance in all things would lead to rewards beyond measure, but little Rain was a stubborn and head strong child who preferred to learn things the hard way. The worst part was, the boy found great success with his unique methods and mindset, but Baatar feared the consequences would be harsh and difficult to bear on top of being unnecessary if Rain would just pursue Balance like everyone else.

