Technically, time shouldn’t have anything to do with the Natal Soul becoming self aware and developing a personality. It’s more to do with me and my own perceptions, subconscious though they might be. In expecting the Natal Soul to gain sentience and independence, I pretty much set it on the path of a self-fulfilling prophecy in that it will become a split personality, all because I expect it to and the Energy of Heavens makes it so. I still don’t entirely get how it works, because even with limited omniscience, I couldn’t render the information down into understandable concepts. It’s like trying to teach a monkey quantum physics. A really smart monkey might learn how to count and speak in sign language, but you can’t really teach it abstract numbers or whatever else you might need for higher level math.

And me? I’m the monkey. Or worse. I mean, I used to work in a call centre. What do I know about higher level physics?

The monitor’s dark screen remains blank and unresponsive, while my phone sits silent for once. I’ve filtered out all temptation from reaching me, and I’ve even managed to keep from checking it for a good amount of time. At least it feels like it’s been a good amount of time, but I’ll never be sure until I check. The fact that I am aware of all this already means I’m failing to proceed along the Noble Eight-fold Path and find oblivion, but what else is new? I never was very good at doing things right, so why would I expect things to be any different in here?

Don’t get so heated. Out with the bad emotions. Out with the good.

Don’t check the phone. Stay true to your goal.

Don’t check the phone. All it brings is pain and misery.

Don’t check the phone. Emptiness within. Emptiness without.

Don’t check the phone.

I check the phone. More snoot selfies, which I absolutely adore. You’d think I’d gain an immunity to cuteness after scrolling through hundreds of pictures of Mama Bun from the same awkward angle, but it hits me as hard as it ever did, if not harder. The more I see her, the stronger the urge to hold her grows, but I must stay strong and reject her requests for a face to snoot meeting. I’d feel like the biggest idiot in the world if I let Zhen Shi lure me out with snoot selfies. I might go full Demon just from the shame alone, though something tells me the old monster does not want that. He wants my body, and not in the happy fun times way, which would be bad enough. No, he wants Falling Rain as his meat puppet, and all the power and influence that comes with it, though personally, I feel like he’d be wasting his time. I was never vital to any plans or anything, and I’m sure the Empire is doing fine without me. I left Luo-Luo in charge and she has all the right people around her, not to mention all the competent Marshals and Colonel Generals ready to pick up the slack.

Judging by her messages, Luo-Luo’s doing alright. Yan, Mila, Song, and Lin-Lin too, though they could be better and all miss me very much. Yea, even Song, which is weird, because I thought she only tolerated me, but apparently she appreciated the little things I tried to do for her, even though she should rightly detest me for my power over her. The strange thing is, none of them are concerned I’ll never recover, even after ‘I’ woke up as a blank slate. They just think it’s only a matter of time before I regain full control of all my faculties, and even quarrel amongst themselves for the right to tend to my needs. Well, not Song, but she does more than her fair share, since Luo-Luo is busy elsewhere, Yan and Mila take daily trips to the bamboo grove, and Lin-Lin is Lin-Lin, as flighty and easily distracted as always.

Their hopes and expectations are like a dagger through my chest, because I will ultimately end up disappointing them. It doesn’t help that my Core has been mended and I am a Martial Warrior once more, not quite where I was moments before I shattered my Core, but on the Path towards a full recovery. It’s fascinating to watch the mending process in action, because it answers so many questions I never even thought to ask. As my Core mended, I noticed flaws in the process, flaws in my soul which, if left unfixed, would have left me stuck at Core Formation for years to come, if not decades. Flawed as it was, my Core would have been left unable to withstand the... increased pressure, for lack of a better word, or perhaps the metaphysical weight that comes with each successive milestone along the Martial Path. That’s how other Martial Warriors get stuck, because their Cores and souls are lacking. How would someone even fix that though? Mine was flawed because I’ve been chopping pieces off willy nilly, though to be fair, my soul is much stronger than your average soul on account of my Devouring. That’s all Spectres really are, after all, bits and pieces of severed souls given agency by the Energy of the Heavens. All the Natal Souls I cast off are also Spectres of a sort, though conceived for a different purpose and devoid of ill-intent, intent given to them by their creator.

Not always on purpose, though I suspect Zhen Shi provides more than a little ill-intent himself. I should’ve made better use of my limited omniscience when I had it, but I’m not really tempted to use it more either, because... I dunno. When connected to the Heavens, I feel less like me, less like a person, and more... detached. I don’t like that.

As I go through all the messages, I discover it’s been less than a day since I last checked in, which is actually a new record. Woo. I suck at this. My family and loved ones are in the midst of a new year’s banquet, one held to celebrate my recovery. ‘I’ woke up a few days ago, but this is the first time I’ve been out in public for weeks now, and everyone is beside themselves with joy. Luo-Luo is also hard at work crafting rumours for our political rivals to hear, things like how I might actually be wholly recovered and stronger than ever, but hiding it to bait my opponents into acting rashly. She’s a brilliant woman, and Noodle is longer and thinner than when I last saw him, so things are going great. Mom and Akanai have taken her under their wings and treat her like a daughter, just as I knew they would. They’ll all be fine. I’m not really needed.

Which of course is the perfect time for Nian Zu to chime in otherwise.

Seeing a message I left for him, I idly wonder when I sent it. I must be helping without even noticing now, so used to creating new Natal Souls to do whatever it is that needs to be done. I see this potentially coming back to bite me in the ass, so maybe I should be more careful about what I do, but Nian Zu’s concerns leave me more conflicted than ever. Am I really needed? Is my presence as a figurehead really so vital? Why isn’t the Imperial Clan doing anything about this crisis? Should I send a Natal Soul to check? Bad idea probably. Better to focus my efforts on delaying the Defiled offensive some more.

As I set my mind to this work, I stumble across the answer to a question I have yet to ask. After so many weeks of self-mutilating my soul, how is it I still have soul left to sever?

Because love is good for the soul, and my family, floofs, and friends have been providing plenty of it.

A sentiment which makes me simultaneously feel both better and worse. Better for knowing I have their love, or at least, the illusion of it which is almost as good, and worse for abandoning them without even saying goodbye. I wish I had the courage and determination needed to risk finding out if they are real or imagined, but I fought the good fight for as long as I could, and I can’t do it anymore. Trials and tribulations without end? Wrong. Can’t lose if you don’t play, and I already quit. It’s gg no re, so I might as well just close the phone and get back to my journey towards oblivion.

Right after the new year’s celebration comes to an end. Everyone looks so happy and relieved, it won’t hurt to watch just a little more...

Chapter Meme
