Damn it. Sarnai had noticed him too, which meant he would have to go over and apologize. Polishing off another cup of wine to feed his courage, Nian Zu got up and headed over to placate the prickly woman. “The boy is looking well,” he began, patting young Rain’s shoulder ever so gently so as not to break him. “Surprisingly well,” he added, studying the boy a little closer and noting how hale and healthy he appeared. Though still a long ways from being considered strapping, Rain’s frame wasn’t as scrawny as Nian Zu would have expected, his firmly toned muscles evident beneath his loose silk robes, yet not stretched to the limits as he’d once been. For the first time since shattering his Core, the boy’s face bore no signs of acne either, because even after he got it under control, he still had a handful of outbreaks here and there. Supposedly a common dilemma among youths without Cores, often going hand in hand with unpleasant body odour which the boy also struggled with in the past, but now, it seemed he’d been cured of that which ailed him. “Is his...? Is he...?”

Though he left the question unasked, Baatar understood Nian Zu’s meaning and nodded. “He suspects the boy’s Core has been mended,” he Sent, gesturing towards the Medical Saint. “How, I do not understand, but it has something to do with the Medicinal Baths helping to refine his physical body, which then mended his metaphysical wounds. The Core affects the physical body, so why not the other way around? That is as far as I understand it, but aside from his consciousness, I’ve not noticed any difference which would indicate a refined physical body, aside from the ability to lightly run a mundane knife over his skin without leaving a mark. Push down hard enough to mark wood and he’ll still bleed, so hardly worthy of note.” Grinning as he shrugged, Baatar added, “It matters not. I know not the why or how, and only care that my son is alive and well.”

Physical body refinement, a dream or a joke depending on who one asked, but it seemed Taiyi ZhuShen’s lifelong ambitions had finally been realized today. “Is there a way I could procure one of these medicinal baths for myself?” Resisting the urge to rub his wrists which always ached of late, Nian Zu added, “Whatever the cost, I will bear it.”

“Already being worked on.” Winking handsomely, Baatar Sent, “At the moment, only Taiyi ZhuShen possesses the required expertise to manage the heat and dosages, though to my eyes, it looked like they simply stewed my son in a hot spiced bath for an hour every day for the last three weeks. If you desire further explanation, you will need to speak with the Healers yourself, but once they have worked out the proper dosages and timings, you will be among the first to partake.” Half smiling in poorly concealed amusement, Baatar added, “We thought it best not to use the esteemed Colonel General as one of our test subjects for the less experienced Healers, but if you are amenable to the idea...”

Test subjects? As in multiple? Were the Bekhai sitting atop a hidden field of Spiritual Plants as well? How else to explain their ability to create so many medicinal baths? After exchanging a few more pleasantries with Baatar while studying Rain and avoiding Sarnai’s ire, Nian Zu excused himself to go speak with Taiyi ZhuShen. Though the obscenely wealthy Healer ignored him, his discussion with his fellow Healers centred on the exact topic Nian Zu was interested in, and while he was woefully unequipped to take part in the discussion, he knew enough to follow along with most of what was being said. All in all, Rain had gone through thirty-two hour-long baths at great expense and now possessed a body slightly more durable than your average Martial Warrior, though the Medical Saint posited that this was due to either Rain’s lower starting point or the need for more baths, which were sure to continue. The fetching Healer Lishan Suzhen argued that as beneficial as these baths might be, they were hardly cost-effective and it was unreasonable for widespread usage considering the lacking supply. What’s more, she cited research which showed Spiritual Plants lost efficacy over time after they were uprooted, so without access to the still living plant itself, it would be nigh impossible to provide anyone with the necessary dosages upfront, or guarantee the availability of future ingredients to see the process through to completion.

As for Taiyi ZhuShen, he acknowledged all of Taduk’s theories and Suzhen’s arguments without ever addressing them, more excited that it could be done as opposed to worrying about the ‘paltry details’ of expenditures, effectiveness, and efficacy, details which were most relevant to Nian Zu. Even if it couldn’t give him a body of steel, he was at the age where he would do anything to slow the steady decline of his physical body for just a few years longer. Du Min Gyu also exhibited keen interest in the process, though oddly enough, the western Healer Taokang Geyan had little to add to the conversation. After a moment of study, Nian Zu saw why, as he noticed the Healer casting furtive glances towards the door where a familiar face stood waiting to come in.

Gao Liang was the name he used now, and if his complexion wasn’t enough of a giveaway, the massive weighted staff in his hands all but screamed his origins. Nian Zu was one of a few who knew his actual name was Gao Changgong, fugitive Major General of the West, and now he suspected Taokang Geyan knew it too. Except the Healer didn’t look surprised or worried to see his old countryman, one who was presumed dead or Defiled by the general public, but had in fact escaped from the West using a stolen submersible fleet, one the Enemy had been using to smuggle goods in and out of the North. When their presence was discovered, Rain granted Gao Changgong and every soldier and citizen who escaped with him clemency from the Imperial Mandate, clemency the boy had no authority to grant as either Minister of Finance or Legate of the outer provinces. An Imperial Mandate could only be countered by another Imperial Mandate, and Shen ZhenWu had not seen fit to leave his Imperial Seal with Rain.

At least now, Nian Zu understood how Gao Changgong got in touch with Rain and the Bekhai, through the portly Healer Geyan. Baatar had been understandably reticent to discuss Changgong’s circumstances, since others could not betray what they did not know, and while Nian Zu was Baatar’s most stalwart supporter, the Imperial Clan was nothing if not persuasive. As welcome as Changgong’s forces might have been, it was a great risk to take for not much gain, and if his true identity were to be revealed, it might bring the wrath of the Imperial Clan down upon Rain and the Bekhai, if not all of the outer provinces as well. Though the East had gone quiet of late, their shipments of coin and supplies arrived each month like clockwork, and while they provided no replacements for the Death Corps Guards and Royal Guardians who died in action, the monetary support showed they had yet to abandon the outer province for good.

A stance which might change if it became known that Falling Rain accepted tens of thousands of refugees from the West, almost a year after the Wall fell.

Gao Changgong – no, it would not do to accidentally call the man by the wrong name. Gao Liang’s arrival put a damper on the banquet affairs, as Baatar took notice and none-too-subtly left to meet him. Better if they used Sending to communicate, but the Domain set up to block Scrying and Concealed presences would also block Sendings originating outside the room from reaching inside and vice versa, so the Western refugee had no choice but to appear in person. Moving about the room for a better look, Nian Zu spotted another familiar face hiding behind Gao Liang, that of the hidden Expert, MuYang. A frightening man, not for his Martial Prowess which was still a complete mystery, or for the killing power he exhibited by shooting down the crazed Confessor using his unique Spiritual Weapon. According to Yuzhen, this unremarkable man was Falling Rain’s spymaster, and a frighteningly competent one at that, managing to evade her notice until he took action against the Confessor. Thus far, she’d been unable to uncover his history, though she had yet to go to Marshal Yo Jeung-Hun for assistance since doing so meant revealing one of Rain’s hidden weapons. What Yuzhen did know was that MuYang was responsible for the removal of Mother knows how many of Rain’s political opponents, and she suspected the man once worked with the Confessor himself, on account of the assumed grudge between them. Whether by hook or by crook, MuYang kept abreast of any and all news across the outer provinces, and if there was something he didn’t personally know about, it wouldn’t take him long to learn if needed. The man had more secrets squirrelled away than Du Yi had passed over to Yuzhen, and MuYang’s list covered North, South, and Central. If he were of a mind to use his contacts for personal gain, Yuzhen believed he could take the coveted Office of Marshal from any province of his choosing, all without any support besides that which he compelled. Only his own faith and conscience kept him from acting in so selfish a manner, and his fervent dedication to Falling Rain made young BoShui seem aloof and disinterested in comparison.

“Colonel General.” Baatar’s Sending shook him from his thoughts, and the tone boded poorly for the future. “You should come hear this.”

MuYang and Gao Liang had followed Baatar back inside the banquet hall, though both stayed near the doors and out of the way in case anyone should have need to speedily enter or exit. As Nian Zu arrived, he felt a Sound Barrier reform around him and added one of his own, just to be sure. “What is the problem?”

“The West stirs.” Gao Liang was the one who replied, but even Nian Zu could see that he only spoke with MuYang’s prompting. “Defiled be gathering in numbers greater than ever before, with supplies enough to see them through a long campaign. Whatever compelled the Enemy to fall silent has been dealt with, and now they turn their attentions East once more.”

Pleasant as the man’s lyrical lilt might be, Nian Zu’s stomach dropped at this news. The days of peace had been filled with anything but as he dealt with internal conflicts and avoided anything to do with the Society, but now, all those issues might be put on hold once more. “How long?” he asked, wishing they’d made better use of this short respite. “How much time do we have before they attack.”

“Could be days, could be weeks.” Shrugging, Gao Liang looked to MuYang for help and then quickly looked away, the novice mouthpiece giving away the spymaster’s influence. Even a storied Major General like Gao Changgong had been cowed by MuYang, which meant there was far more to the man than even Nian Zu had suspected. “However, this Gao believes the Enemy will attack sooner rather than later, and when they do come, signs point towards their efforts being directed towards a single, concentrated attack.”

So the Enemy was done playing around and finally making a push into Central proper. With luck, the Defiled would attack a contested portion of the Wall and force two provinces to respond and defend, but Nian Zu feared for the worst. Even if the Enemy attacked a single Citadel, the forces from one province alone might not be enough to hold out against them, but would the other provinces respond to a call for assistance? Would Nian Zu? Should he cut his losses now, and just simply retreat?

When did Nian Zu become a man who stood idly by and waited for others to do what needed to be done?

Yes. When did he become so timid and scared? If the outer provinces need uniting, then he would unite them or die trying. He was a Martial Warrior, a Chosen son of Heaven, one whose holy purpose was to stand against the Enemy. It mattered not if others would not stand with him, because he would not run and consign others to a fate worse than death. “It appears the banquet must proceed without us,” he said, Sending word to Yuzhen, BoHai, and Jia Yang to join him. “For there is much work to be done.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When in doubt, a Natal Soul is always the right answer.

Well, perhaps not the right answer, but a right answer, in that it buys me time to figure out what the real right answer is. Thanks to my Teacher’s efforts, my physical body is hale and healthy as can be and I can no longer remain comatose, but I’ve been left free to subsist within the call centre of the Void because I ceded control of my body over to a blank Natal Soul. Yea, I know, I should try new things, but if it ain’t broke, why fix it? With autopilot on, I don’t have to worry about tending to my physical needs, and as an added bonus, I can test the waters and maybe find out if the world is real or imagined. There’s no chance of Zhen Shi or his soul puppets getting in, not as long as I keep isolating myself in the Void, and as long as I remember to expel the Natal Soul and replace it with a new one every now and then, I won’t develop a split personality either.

Probably. Maybe. I dunno. If the world isn’t real, who knows what all the rules really are...

