“To good food, good wine, and good company!”

Draining his cup dry in a single gulp, Nian Zu savoured the warmth as it spread through his belly, thoroughly enjoying the new year festivities. At first glance, the Bekhai seemed a cold, taciturn lot, humourless isolationists who were deeply suspicious of strangers, but once you made it through their prickly, guarded shells and into their good graces, they were warm and hospitable to the extreme. Generous with friends and difficult with strangers, that summed up the Bekhai in a nutshell, but after more than a year of working together through weal and woe, he was gratified to finally be brought into their inner circle.

No, perhaps he’d been brought in much earlier, now that he thought about it. During last year’s new year’s celebrations, Baatar had invited him to enjoy Zheng Luo’s concert at an outdoor venue, but Nian Zu took it for a political ploy. Difficult not to considering how matters unfolded, beginning with the Imperial Consort revealing her stunning musical talents, followed by the Bekhai youths taking the stage to demonstrate their martial prowess, all culminating in with Gerel revealing himself as a Peak Expert and rising dragon, a young Lu An Jing or Dugu Tian Sha in the making. Everyone there saw the concert as a declaration of strength, the Bekhai showcasing their hidden talents to better support the recently crippled Falling Rain, but Nian Zu now knew better. That concert had not been arranged for their enemies, but for their friends, the allies they invited up to the top floor of the tea-house to enjoy the show alongside them, such as Yuzhen, BoHai, and Nian Zu himself.

This was more in line with their way of thinking, he realized this now. As recent events had shown, Akanai was a powerhouse comparable to the Colonel Generals of the Empire, and Baatar himself was not too far behind. If they really wanted to warn off their enemies, either one of them could’ve called Rang Min out to duel, instead of allowing a young Warrior fight their battles for them. No, the challenge was all Gerel’s idea, for the hungry young dragon was always eager to test his blade against Warriors of renown. Though Nian Zu was objectively stronger than the young man by no small margin, strength did not always guarantee victory in combat, it only made victory more likely. Despite sparring with young Gerel some hundreds of times now and handily winning every single match, there was never a single match in which Nian Zu’s victory had been assured, and several times when he might well have lost if luck had turned against him.

Such was the way of battle. Though statistically, he would win 999 battles out of 1000 times, it wouldn’t matter if they fought a single time and Gerel ‘lucked’ out to emerge victorious, not in a real life and death match.

Lounging in his chair on Nian Zu’s left, Yuzhen’s young husband made for an impressive sight, and not just due to his handsome looks or fashionable clothes. With his long hair tied in a topknot and held in place by an elaborate silver band, he looked the perfect part of Imperial Hero, and the loving gaze reserved for his wife made him seem all the more relatable. They were often the talk of the Empire, the brilliant half-beast Marshal and her devoted young Dragon of a husband, two powerful individuals who were clearly head over heels for one another. Jaded as it might sound, true love was a rarity among noble elites, but the people did so love to see it happen. Already a number of stylized dramas featuring Yuzhen and Gerel were on display in the Citadel theatres, most of which were wildly popular but had no basis is truth. Nian Zu had watched most, if not all of them, and his only complaint was that all too many of them ended in tragedy, as if the playwrights couldn’t even imagine their relationship ending well.

Turning his gaze to another loving human/half-beast couple in the room, Nian Zu admitted that the playwrights might have been onto something. Baatar and Sarnai were every bit as much in love as Gerel and Yuuzhen, if not more, but where the latter appeared perfect for one another, seeing the former side by side made for a bittersweet sight. Though still a handsome woman, Sarnai was a woman of almost eighty years and showed it, but Baatar’s features seemed untouched by time. Were it not for the love and passion in their eyes, one might think them mother and son, with Falling Rain being Sarnai’s grandson to boot. They were a beautiful couple who were clearly still in love after a lifetime together, but seeing the stark contrast between their perceived ages brought about a sense of melancholy Nian Zu couldn’t shake, because the more loving the couple, the more painful the eventual parting would be.

At least Baatar and Sarnai were smarter than he’d ever been, cherishing what they had together instead of waiting for ‘another day’. Du Yi hadn’t even taken the time to bid him farewell, only leaving a letter he cautioned Nian Zu to burn after reading, which he never did. The letter was all he had left of the man he loved, the man he wish he’d married. Why would he burn it? Who was left to even care?

Those who might care don’t matter, and those who matter don’t care.

Buoyed by the thought, Nian Zu moved on to a happier topic. Having seen what a wonderful job Yuzhen had done with her husband, he had hoped she could work her magic with Baatar, but the man was not amenable to change. Easy to forget he was also an old curmudgeon, since he hardly looked older than Gerel himself, but the half-wolf hero was set in his ways and stubborn to boot. Dying his silver hair black and letting it grow long would have done much to help the people of the Empire accept him, but the intractable man would not have it, to say nothing of convincing him to take a second, younger wife, if only for show. Even getting him to trade his roosequin in for a horse had him grumbling for weeks now, and upon learning Baatar’s mount was a Spiritual Beast, Nian Zu at least understood why.

Despite fighting alongside them for so long, the Bekhai still managed to hold back a handful of surprises, and he suspected they still had more to share.

No matter. Although the common people had little love for Baatar, the same could not be said of the soldiers under his command, even those he disciplined and publicly humiliated. Why, Nian Zu could only speculate, but he believed it had to do with Baatar’s particular brand of disproportional justice. Normally, this meant the wealthy, well-connected soldiers and Officers were given free rein to do as they pleased, while those without powerful backers were punished for even minor infractions, but in Baatar’s eyes, the higher ranked an individual was, the more responsibility they must bear for whatever went wrong. While an individual soldier might be given extra training or physical exertion for a lapse in discipline, their commanding officers usually suffered worse since Baatar considered a lack of discipline as a failure in leadership. If too many soldiers in a single unit were found lacking, their commanding officer would be punished as well, and the correlation held as true for junior officers and their higher-ranked commanders. Several Officers had been booted out of the army and even more had been stripped of rank, and while his actions made him many enemies, Baatar paid no heed to the bribes and threats that came his way, because his goal was not to rise through the ranks and accumulate money and power, but solely to defend the Empire from the Enemy.

For almost sixty years, Nian Zu had searched for someone with such dedication to groom as his successor, and it pained him to discover just how rare this sentiment truly was. Baatar might see himself as one of the Bekhai and show prejudice against strangers in his personal life, but when it came to soldiering, he didn’t see family or affiliation, only comrades and complications. Getting rid of the complications did him no favours politically, but the career soldiers under his command thoroughly appreciated his actions, because Mother knows the higher ranks held more dead-weight than most cared to admit. Many of the decorated Officers serving under Nian Zu were worth less than the carved jade tokens denoting their rank and were about as bright to boot, but politics made for strange bedfellows, or so the saying went. Now that Baatar, and Nian Zu by extension, had demonstrated their willingness to place more emphasis on discipline than face, the only people who had reason to criticize them were those already in the wrong, and the Imperial Army was better for it.

Or at least, the Northern Imperial Army was better for it. Nothing Nian Zu said or did would affect the other provinces, and in truth, he preferred it this way.

Smiling as Yuzhen dutifully filled his cup for the umpteenth time, Nian Zu inwardly shook his head and chuckled. When did he grow so old and jaded that he couldn’t take his mind off work for even a single night? Here, at this new year’s banquet amongst friends, was a rare opportunity to relax and ease his worries, if only for a few hours, and he’d spent most of it lamenting about how things were not as they should be. Du Yi would be laughing if he was watching from on high, and he would be right to. Work as hard as needed, sleep as often as possible, and play the rest of the time, that was Du Yi’s mantra, even if his schedule didn’t allow for much sleep or play. Still, if ever there were a time for Nian Zu to enjoy himself, it was here and now, on the dawn of a new year alongside all the people he cared for.

Hosted by Baatar and Sarnai, they spared no expense for the festivities and kept it reasonably intimate despite the long list of attendees. Aside from family, which included Akanai, Du Min Gyu, and Medical Saint Taduk, only the closest of friends had been invited, but the Bekhai had made many since coming to Central. Taokang Geyan, Lishan Suzhen, Taiyi ZhuShen, and his Disciple Li TieGuai were the guests of honour, while Nian Zu sat at a seat of honour due to his rank. Other notable attendees included Magistrate Tong Da Hai and his son Tong Da Fung, BoHai and BoShui, Jia Yang and his nephew Jia Zian, as well as a bevy of other trusted individuals here to share in Baatar and Sarnai’s good news, for Falling Rain was once again in good health, and ambulatory once again.

Gazing into the empty stare of the young Legate himself, Nian Zu choked back a sigh of regret and wondered if they’d erred in revealing young Rain in his current state. Though no longer comatose and now capable of standing, walking, and even eating if given enough time, Falling Rain’s recovery was less than complete. Physically, he was in fine health, better than he’d been in months, but the poor boy’s mind had yet to return. There was nothing hiding behind his amber eyes, nothing remotely resembling awareness, just an empty mind to match his vacant expression as he sat and stared at nothing. It took several weeks of treatment to get him this far, treatment Nian Zu suspected cost several vast fortunes in Spiritual Plants, but at least young Rain wasn’t dead to the world anymore. Hence Yuzhen’s reasoning for suggesting this banquet, to let the world know their Legate was up and about once again, a goal they accomplished by having his carriage parade through this streets with the windows wide open to show him in good health, then making a big show of having him exit the carriage and walk upstairs unaided, save for sweet Mei Lin clinging to his arm.

Sadly, that was about the full extent of Falling Rain’s recovery, and the problems were worrisome to the extreme. Thus, only trusted friends and allies had been invited and the venue, one surrounded by Death Corps, Imperial soldiers, Bekhai Experts, and more, all with Domains deployed to block Scrying and standing orders to kill anyone and everyone who might happen to spot the Legate’s infirmity. A risk bringing him out like this, but a risk they needed to take, because the outer provinces were fast falling apart without his presence to unite them. A silly thing to squabble over, whose opinion should matter most, but Nian Zu was unable to get his Central counterparts to see sense, while Yuzhen and Central Marshal Yo Jeung-Hun lacked the ability to sway Southern Marshal Quyen Huong, who had his hands full dealing with the issue of the recently deceased Colonel General Tran Hoang’s replacement. From the outside looking in, Nian Zu would have thought the steely Marshal in firm control of his entire province, but much like the Society of Heaven and Earth, the South only stood together against outside pressure, which meant they were likely far less united than he’d previously believed. A shame that, because if the South had remained undivided, then he could have worked with them to exert pressure on Central to keep Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung from running amok.

Turning back to the young Legate, Nian Zu watched the boy mechanically eat the food before him and stifled back yet another sigh. Rumours of an ambulatory Falling Rain might keep Central and South in line for another month, but nothing short of his direct intervention would tear down the metaphorical walls between the outer provinces. Had he known this might happen, Nian Zu would’ve never let Rain lead the reinforcements to Castle Jianghu and kept him back in the Citadel where it was safe, but it was difficult to argue against him when his mere presence added tens of thousands of Death Corps Guards and three thousand lion-mounted Royal Guardians to the field.

Elbowed in the side by young Yuzhen, Nian Zu came to his senses as she Sent, “Stop staring. Your thoughts are laid bare for all to see.”

