“Come on, man,” Alden groaned. “I know I don’t want the class for myself. I’ll give it to you for Chainer. I just—”

The Polish boy raised his eyebrows at Alden. <<If you’re sure you don’t want it, then trade first.>>

Alden’s heart rate picked up. He tightened his grip on the milky crystal surface of the table. Be smart, he ordered himself. Is there some trick here I’m not seeing?

Only it was hard to be smart with just three hours of sleep under his belt and not enough information about one of the classes involved. And he couldn’t just ask for more time to think. Andrzej might give Chainer to someone else.

Of course he won’t tell me what he wants Meister of Cudgel for. He doesn’t want me to decide his ideal superhero build is better than mine and snatch it away from him.

That doesn’t mean his ideal is better than mine. Only that it’s different. It’s fine. There’s no nasty trick here. Most likely. The fact that it’s happening so quickly and easily doesn’t mean I’m being an idiot.

Probably.

One of Alden’s hands slipped a little against the table. He was actually sweating.

“Yeah, let’s trade,” he said, hoping he didn’t sound as nervous as he felt.

Across the table, Andrzej had finished his doughnut, and he was peeling the white off his boiled egg.

<<Good.>>

On the bottom right corner of Alden’s System overlay were the words Confirm Class Trade.

“Confirm class trade,” he said.

At exactly the same time, Andrzej was prodding at the air in front of his own face.

A second later, new words appeared.

[TRADE MEISTER OF CUDGEL CLASS FOR CHAINER CLASS?]

YES/NO

“Yes,” Alden said.

[B22 has requested a trade. You have requested a trade. Both selectees have been vouched for by authorized witnesses. Please wait. Your class is being re-assigned.]

Alden held his breath.

And then he had to stop doing that so he wouldn’t pass out.

<<It’s taking a longer time than I thought it would,>> Andrzej noted.

“Right? Does some kind of signal have to travel from here to another dimension and back again?”

<<It’s magic, and magic is hard to figure out. Some things seem instantaneous.>>

“Yeah. I take classes here at the consulate with an instructor teaching from Artona I, and there’s no lag. As far as I can tell.”

Andrzej brightened. <<Are you taking wordchain classes?>>

“Yes.”

<<That’s great. Maybe you can actually use Chainer yourself instead of…well, that’s up to you now. I’ve never liked wordchains, and I haven’t studied the Artonan language. I would have to start from scratch. In addition to learning English and Spanish.>>

Oh, so he definitely wanted to do superhero work. From what Alden had heard, you couldn’t graduate from any of the advanced training programs on Anesidora without being fluent in at least one of the world’s five most-spoken languages.

As a B-rank it would be even more important to be multilingual, to increase your odds of getting job offers.

“I need to learn Mandarin,” Alden mused. He was just thinking out loud, but Andrzej’s smile grew even more excited.

<<Are you planning to qualify as a hero, too?>>

“Yes. If I can get the right class, I want to go into—”

He was interrupted by a flare of light as his interface shifted.

[CLASS TRADE APPROVED]

Pre-affixed Selectee: Samuel Alden Thorn

Divergence Rank: B

Assigned Class: Chainer

…

Samuel Alden Thorn, do you willingly accept your duties as one of Earth’s Avowed, thereby satisfying a portion of your planet’s debt to Artona?

YES/NO

2145 h: 20 m: 08 s

<<It’s done!>>

“Mine’s finished, too. Congrats on your new class.”

<<Thank you! I’m going to affix it this afternoon. Or maybe in a few days. My family thinks there should be a party to celebrate this kind of thing. I guess I should give them time to plan it.>>

“Wow. You really are sure about what you want.”

<<I am. My uncle is a Meister of Knuckles working in Warsaw. By the way, you’re a bad salesman, Alden.>>

“Ouch, dude. Don’t pull your punches or anything.”

Andrzej laughed.

“Anyway, before we were interrupted, I was trying to say that what I really want to do is get a class I can turn into decent battlefield support.”

<<Support? Like a dedicated sidekick? Do people still do that?>> He looked bemused. <<It’s usually military or special police forces supporting heroes for local work, and formal strike crews from Anesidora handle any serious problems. And that’s… are you hoping to join one of the permanent battle squads?>>

“Well, not necessarily.”

<<Good. Because none of them take anyone below A-rank.>>

“I do want to do team-ups, though,” Alden said. “I’d work closely with one or two other Avowed so that we all become way more effective than we would be on our own. A pair of B-ranks with complementary specs could be as good as an A-rank, for sure. Maybe as good as an S in some situations.”

Andrzej clearly didn’t agree with that last bit.

His lips pursed. But he only said, <<I see what you’re talking about. You want to be like Fairy. From Fairy and Flarey.>>

Alden stared at the subtitles. “Fairy and Flarey” had been said in English, so he’d understood the words just fine. But he had no clue what they meant.

“Are those superhero names?”

<<You don’t know it? It’s a show.>>

And that was how Alden ended up spending the next fifteen minutes of his life watching clips from an animated Australian children’s program while a Polish guy discussed the finer points of the main characters’ tactical decisions.

Fairy and Flarey were both S-ranks with unique classes. Of course. Because why have a fantasy show if you weren’t going to make it totally over the top?

Fairy could sparkle like a diamond, and her disco ball routine had the power to hypnotize evildoers into chasing after her.

These distracted villains became easy fodder for Flarey, whose primary skill was being a fire-breathing pink hippo-grizzly.

Flarey was the heavy hitter of the team who did the actual fighting, but his giant hippo-grizzly body was too slow to catch bad guys. Before he’d met Fairy, he’d been a laughingstock. And before she’d met him, she hadn’t had the firepower she needed to take down villains on her own.

To Alden’s chagrin, it wasn’t a terrible analogy for what he wanted to do. It was just so…cute. And Fairy wasn’t very smart.

“Yeah, sort of like Fairy,” he confessed. “But with more nuance and less getting kidnapped? I hope?”

<<In real life, Fairy would not be a good sidekick for Flarey. Her inability to remove herself from combat puts too much pressure on him. She needs a skill or spell impression that lets her escape after she’s hypnotized the enemy. Without it, she’s not a proper superhero.>>

Andrzej sounded dead serious.

“I’ll keep that in mind.” Alden cleared his throat. “Enough about me, though, what are you going to do with Meister of Cudgel?”

<<I will focus heavily on increasing my physical stats. Many hero teams have mentorship program for promising students. You can participate during the latter half of your schooling on Anesidora, but most B-ranks never achieve the required stat minimums until they’ve aged out of such programs. I should be able to do it with this class, though, if I aim for it from the start.>>

“That sounds like a solid plan. I hope you have good luck with it.”

<<Given your goals, you intend to trade Chainer for something else, don’t you?>>

“I really want Adjuster.”

Maybe, Alden added mentally.

He still had no idea what Gorgon’s hint about luggage meant. He’d read lists of every obscure class he could find, and there was nothing bag-related or travel-related as far as he could see. He hoped clarity would strike soon, because by the end of his search last night he was only finding thread-thin connections.

And if that was all he had to work with, he would never have the confidence to actually choose a class that merely might be the one the alien had intended to point him toward.

<<That’s hard. Adjuster is popular. Chainer will be an easy trade for it, though. You should research the history of the class carefully before you do anything. Don’t just give it away.>>

“Its history?”

Andrzej suddenly looked a little guilty. <<I’m glad you were online to take it. My uncle would not like the idea of me selling it to…a certain kind of person. I was going to do it anyway if I had to, but then you were here. It takes off a lot of pressure, and you won’t have to worry about what my relative thinks. So it’s a victory for both of us.>>

“You’re making me a little nervous.”

<<It’s fine. You’ll see. You don’t know much about the important families on Anesidora, do you?>>

“No?” Alden was interested in prominent superheroes. Not the society of Avowed who lived on the island.

<<Then it’s fine. Just research it. But don’t let anyone know you did. Nobody can be mad at you if they think you’re an ignorant outsider. It’s perfect really.>>

This last bit was said with a smile that was a little too encouraging for Alden’s liking.

Nobody will be mad at me for trading the class because I’m an outsider? What does that mean?

He asked a couple more questions, but Andrzej was apparently unwilling to be any more specific, because he hastily made an excuse, reassured Alden that the class wasn’t bad for his needs, and signed off.

Huh…that’s not concerning at all, Alden thought as the other teen disappeared.

He stretched and checked his listing. It was greyed-out. He updated it with his new class, then re-activated it.

He couldn’t immediately think of anything clever to say about Chainer in his “notes” section, so he just pointed out that it was an ultra rare class that was successfully being used for hero work by at least one other person.

He’d come up with something better after he’d done the research and figured out what Andrzej had meant by his cryptic warning. He wanted a break anyway. He needed to brush his teeth.

He was about to log out when he received a new notice

[B74 HAS REQUESTED NEGOTIATION. DO YOU WISH TO ACCEPT?]

Alden stared at it in surprise. Really? After that insane monologue he gave me twelve hours ago?

Maybe Chainer was a shinier new toy than he’d realized.

Alden tried to think of what the proper payback for 74 was. Nothing too mean. He did have a tiny, wretched fragment of sympathy for his fellow selectee. The guy had barely been sleeping for two straight months. Maybe he’d actually had normal human manners before all of this started.

Still. He needed to chill.

“Sure, I’ll talk to him.”

B74 flashed into the room. He was standing at his trashed table, and his mouth was already open to say something, but Alden held up his free hand.

“Hey, man! Good to see you again, but I can’t talk right now. I have to go brush my teeth. It shouldn’t take too long. Unless I decide to head to school for the day. I’ve got a biology exam. Maybe I shouldn’t miss it? I’ll think about it over breakfast. Anyway, I’ll be back in a few minutes. Or sometime tonight. Sunday at the absolute latest. See you then!”

Before his opponent could respond, Alden lifted his other hand and let the connection drop.

Patience was a virtue. Maybe B74 could acquire it while staring at the System interface, waiting for someone who might or might not reappear in the next two days.
