The Headmaster’s blasé expression cracked ever so briefly. "Not quite such a good idea. You're courting a lot more trouble than you can handle, boy. You might have expendable bodies now, but if the Ascendants captured you, know that they will inflict upon you pain the likes of which you can't imagine."

"You know I ripped off my own penis and threw it at the Culturist as a distraction, right?" Shiv replied flatly.

Uva fell back on the bench and limply bounced her head off the table again.

"What?" Ikki’s face contorted in raw horror. Suddenly, there was a fear chain extending from her.

Whoops, Shiv thought.

A chorus of disbelieving coughs and awkward stares stabbed at Shiv from all directions. Each member of Uva's team grew even paler. Their complexions made the already pale Umbrals seem deathly ill.

Hymn nodded slowly. "I see. Forgive me, I didn't inquire about that fight. Now I understand why the Culturist was reluctant to speak of it as well." Hymn swallowed and looked away from Shiv. A faint rope of fear led out from him and nourished Shiv as well.

His link was thicker than Ikki’s.

The Headmaster’s gaze turned back on Shiv after a moment. "But, can I ask why?"

"Seemed random and unpredictable. So I did it. Culturist didn’t see it coming. Didn’t manage to put him down this time, but it was worth a try. I’ll gut him next time."

"I would profess my doubt to almost anyone else for such a claim, but since it's you… Let's say you're nothing but surprises so far. I would request that you keep two separate bodies. One that wears that mask of yours that allows you to maintain the false guise that is Marcus Unblood, and the others… Well, do what you will with the other bodies. I just have one simple request: Please keep your expendable bodies away from the Academy. If you intend to make a mess with them, do that far away from the children."

Shiv smirked. "I am technically a children. "

"You are a walking fight magnet shaped like an ogre on a diet. And you strike me as someone who knows what raw rat tastes like."

Shiv would have been offended if Hymn hadn't read him like he was transparent. "I didn't eat that many. It was kind of a desperation meal. And if you find a healthy one, you can bite from the bottom."

"That is absolutely wonderful to know and incredibly useful information for me," Hymn replied. "But I'm sure you get the point now."

"Yeah, fine. I'll try to keep my terrorism away from your school. I'm thinking about conducting my raids through a random Gate every time anyway. Keep them guessing. With how many people will be spotting me all over Integrated Earth and probably beyond, I think that'll keep them unbalanced."

"The chaos suits you. So. Where exactly are you planning to go first on your world tour?"
