Clustered about the Forest Guardian was a group of Luminous Slimes, firing their painfully bright dazzle attacks nearly continuously. At this distance, it was merely uncomfortable, and not debilitating to watch. The guardian seemed to be blinded, lashing out wildly, occasionally connecting to send one of the slimes flying. The aggressive roots and vines filling the area around the guardian twisted and grasped, but against the infinitely malleable slime anatomy, they proved to be completely ineffective.

Along the crest of a far ridge, several Sparkling Oozes lurked, occasionally lobbing their blobs of incandescence into the center of the fray. The brilliant balls of light exploded on impact, far brighter and with less burning than their fire-affinity cousins. But it was the flight of Coruscant Rays that were dealing the bulk of the damage. Each intense beam cut swathes of destruction across the roots and vines, burning smoking holes through the guardian’s tough wood and bark armor.

“The slimes seem immune to the beams,” Calen observed.

“They’re also immune to the plants,” Ali offered. “But the guardian is the only one regenerating health.” While it looked like the light monsters had the upper hand in the damage department – and also being immune to the roots and some of them flying when the guardian was stuck on the ground, Ali knew firsthand just how potent the guardian’s regeneration was. “I think the guardian will outlast them.”

“You might be right,” Calen admitted, squinting his eyes as he studied the flight of aerial rays.

“Let’s take them out,” Mato said, his eyes sparkling with excitement.

“How do we do it?” Malika asked. “We are far away from the library, so we can’t avoid the roots.”

“I can make some more Scalding Slimes and use firebolts to attack the guardian,” Ali suggested. Her slimes were just as good at avoiding the entangling roots, and the last time they had fought the guardian, her fire had been the clincher.

“How about Mato tanks the guardian, me and Ali’s wyverns on the rays, and Malika, you tank the Sparkling Oozes on the ridge? Kill order is rays, slimes, and then the guardian,” Calen said, quickly proposing a strategy.

“Sounds good to me,” Ali answered. It made sense, given their strengths and weaknesses. Keeping Malika away from the roots for as long as possible would allow her to retain her mobility and wiping out the slimes and rays first seemed smart.

Malika and Mato both nodded in agreement, and she added, “Best warm up your minions, Ali.”

As quickly as her Grimoire allowed, Ali summoned several Scalding Slimes and another Fire Mage, using the ridge as cover to not give away their position.

“Ready,” she told them, waiting for Mato’s familiar transformation before she moved over the ridge to follow.

“Kill the rays,” she sent to her wyverns circling above, while visualizing the distant cluster of Coruscant Rays and their unceasing long-range assault on the Forest Guardian. The buzzing hum of their beam attacks was putting her teeth on edge. While not strictly necessary, she found that thinking in draconic helped her to convey the more subtle aspects of her commands. She sensed the immediate understanding of even the nuances behind her intent as the two wyverns shot off, excited for their hunt.

With her uncanny speed, Malika was already among the Sparkling Oozes, punching and kicking up a storm. “Go,” Ali commanded, sending her Storm Shamans chasing after Malika, and then, deciding they had the monsters properly controlled, Ali began her assault, splitting her Arcane Bolt streams among three of the Sparkling Oozes while her Fire Mages responded with a volley of firebolts. While she had specifically made the Scalding Slimes to kill the Forest Guardian, there was no point in sending them to attack it until the full force of their firepower could be brought to bear – it would just regenerate.

That was her plan, at least. She summoned a barrier because it would at least work as a defense against the explosions and directed her Arcane Bolts around it as her shamans closed the distance. Without her say-so, the shamans dropped their Lightning Nova totems at the Forest Guardian’s feet, catching both it and the Luminous Slimes in the pulsing rings of sparks. The loud crack of their Lightning Bolts cut through even the din of a full-on battle, ripping through the Sparkling Oozes with ease. They reacted by lobbing a volley of incandescent balls in all directions, and Ali had to hunker down behind her barrier, even blocking a few of the explosive attacks from landing on her mages and Acolytes. The detonations left her blinking and slightly off balance, but she maintained her focus, keeping her continuous stream of arcane magic flying across the grassy clearing.

She checked in with her wyverns, but they seemed to be able to outmaneuver the Coruscant Rays in the air and didn’t require her direct attention. One by one, the Sparkling Oozes fell to the onslaught of her minions. As she focused her Arcane Bolts on the single last remaining Sparkling Ooze, Calen’s arrows joined her attacks and within a few moments, it collapsed in a wet puddle.

“Let me pull some of the Luminous Slimes out of the roots,” Calen said.

The slimes looked quite a bit worse for wear, caught in the lightning novas and the collateral damage resulting from Mato and the Forest Guardian trading ground-shivering blows.

Ali let Malika intercept the slimes as Calen pulled them out of the growth, assessing the changed battlefield. All the ranged monsters were down, so she redirected her wyverns and Scalding Slimes to join Mato in the assault on the Forest Guardian, keeping her shamans out of range of the roots to help Malika. Their weapons and shields sparked and crackled, and in response, the slimes filled the battlefield with their dazzling sparkles of light.

“Something is coming,” Calen shouted suddenly, his voice urgent and his eyes raised to the skies.

“What?” Ali raised her eyes, blinking against the afterimages from all the intense bright magic. But it was her ears that warned her of danger first; a low hissing sound that slowly built in volume and strength, as if something were drawing inexorably closer. Next, her mana sight made out a waterfall of brilliant droplets falling from the sky in a rain of intense light mana – a magical stormfront on a scale she could scarcely believe.

Then, her eyes recovered, and she started to make out the details. Above the sheeting rain was a cloud-like formation that moved like no cloud she had ever seen, billowing and churning almost as if it was breathing – in fact, she realized belatedly, it might be. Her eyes dropped rapidly, assessing the damage below the phenomenon. The trees were hissing and smoking, leaves and small branches torn from their boughs, vines and moss stripped as they burned and melted away.

That looks nasty. Acting on instinct, she Identified the glowing cloud.

Lux Drifter – Ooze – level 12-25 (Light) Swarm x36Lux Drifter – Ooze – level 11-26 (Light) Swarm x43…Lux Drifter – Ooze – level 13-20 (Light) Swarm x19

Oh! Swarm creatures! There were thousands of them, a swarm beyond counting, each monster a small glowing disk that floated through the sky. So many were they, that the swarm seemed to mimic the clouds she had first mistaken them for. Whatever was raining down on the forest was either toxic or acidic, for it left a broad swathe of sizzling, blackened, and burnt vegetation in its wake.

“Barrier! Take cover – uh, underneath!” Ali yelled, stumbling over her words as she summoned the largest barrier she could make to shield them from above. Calen dodged under the magical umbrella quickly, and Malika sprinted to make up the distance. She had barely reached the barrier when the leading stormfront of acid rain swept across the clearing, blackening and shriveling the grass, leaving only a smoking ruin behind. An acrid stench filled Ali’s nostrils, causing her to cough and gasp for breath.

“Mato!” Ali yelled, but he was trapped, struggling to shed the guardian’s roots and vines that bound him to the battle. As the rain swept over them, the growth began to sizzle and smoke, along with the two ferocious combatants still locked in mortal combat.

“He can’t move,” Calen gasped in sudden realization. “He’s pinned down.”

“Heal Mato,” Ali yelled, suddenly realizing the extreme danger her friend was in, exposed under the destructive rain while simultaneously battling the Forest Guardian. Several of Ali’s minions collapsed, unable to reach the safety of her barrier in time. She lost all her Scalding Slimes, and only two of her Fire Mages and a single shaman made it to safety.

I’m lucky I kept the Acolytes nearby. She glanced up nervously at her barrier, but it seemed to be holding up, brilliant yellow viscous fluid draining from it in rivulets and small waterfalls, searing the ground as it landed.

“It’s damaging the guardian,” Calen said. “Don’t stop shooting.”

Indeed, Ali suddenly saw the smoking holes burned through the bark armor and wooden plates protecting the monster. It was still regenerating furiously, but the onslaught of luminous yellow acid rain was relentless. “Firebolts,” she called out, demonstrating her intent with her triple stream of Arcane Bolts. Her mages eagerly complied, firing bolt after bolt out into the storm, each one leaving blackened burns that tore into the monster of gnarled and animated wood.

“Mato, come!” Ali yelled, seeing that the rain had destroyed the roots and vines binding him.

“He can’t,” Malika answered. “If he brings it over here, we will die to the monster’s root magic.”

“Oh…” Mato must have realized that he was freed from the entangling roots long before she had. But that meant he had chosen to stay out in the searing rain. To keep us safe. Ali redoubled her efforts, trying to kill the guardian as quickly as possible so that Mato would be able to flee from the agony of having his flesh melted and restored continuously.

Her notification chime sounded and the Forest Guardian dropped, its body reduced to a smoking heap. Mato instantly turned and charged for their little huddle, joining them under the cover of her broad barrier. But there seemed to be no end to the swarm of jellyfish-like Lux Drifters passing slowly overhead.

Mato and Malika stood there staring open-mouthed at the sky, helpless in the face of the aerial swarm. Even Calen had lowered his bow, not willing to waste arrows on an endeavor as useful as shooting a thunderstorm. But Ali was far from helpless.

“Fireballs,” she called, and her mages grinned wickedly, summoning their magic.

The explosions detonated repeatedly in the skies, and burning monsters fell to the ground in a disgusting rain of splattering jellyfish corpses. But the swarm kept coming, oblivious to all her efforts. None of her minions could make the slightest impact as the swarm floated inexorably by; not the wyverns flying above, not the bolts of lightning, nor even the powerful fireballs that destroyed them by the dozens.

“There’s too much of it…” Even in her mind, she had switched to thinking of the swarm as a quantity, not a host of individuals. It behaved like a natural disaster, and when it finally passed, taking the acid rain with it, all that remained was a broad, blackened path through the jungle, and a tiny spot of glowing golden barrier magic in the center, under which they had taken refuge. As the hissing and smoke faded into the distance, all that remained was the screeching of terrified monsters fleeing from the flying devastation, and the screams of pain of those unlucky ones caught in its path.

“I’ve never seen a flying ooze before,” Calen observed, as all four of them stared at the receding swarm.

“I felt so helpless facing those,” Malika said as the cloud vanished in the distance. She sat on the lone patch of grass in the sea of destruction that Ali’s barrier umbrella had protected to begin her meditation.

“They were like a force of nature, nothing I did made the slightest bit of difference. Not even fireballs.” Ali had felt the same helplessness Malika described.

It’s a little like Naia’s Stinging Jellies, Ali thought, recalling the swarm creatures she had fought in the underwater caverns of Naia’s dungeon. Only there were a whole lot more of these ones, and the damage was incomparable.

Ali pushed her barrier off to the side before dismissing it, and the acidic goop still pooled on it splattered safely to the ground some distance away. She walked over to a splattered, half-burnt jellyfish and examined it. It was a circular disk of jelly-like substance, mostly translucent and yellowish, almost the size of a human head. She glanced over at her friends for reference. Closer to Malika than Mato’s head, she decided. Mato had a big head. The light-affinity mana imbued into the rim of the creature and surrounding the central circular ‘mouth’ was beginning to fade as the creature dimmed. On the underside of the monster were six sets of small gills that still leaked the yellowish mana-imbued acid.

Careful not to splash acid on her fingers, Ali reached down to deconstruct it. Naia is going to love these! She was excited to see how Naia reacted when she shared this new ooze, so she scoured the battlefield for more of them – not that they were particularly difficult to find after her barrage of fireballs. Naia clearly loved her slimes and oozes, and even sharing just two new ones with her had very obviously boosted her intelligence.

Variant: Lux Drifter added to Imprint: Ooze.

Should I be sharing this with Naia? The thought suddenly stopped her cold. Was she happily contemplating giving a dungeon a monster that had just devastated an enormous section of an entire jungle? But her mind conjured Naia’s happy bouncing form and her pure and simple excitement at learning the new slimes Ali had offered. Maybe I can convince her to keep them restricted to the cave we found? I should check on her again.

Trying to sort through her conflicting feelings about her new friend, and what she should or shouldn’t do, Ali systematically deconstructed everything she found on the battlefield.

Variant: Sparkling Ooze added to Imprint: Ooze.

By comparison, the Sparkling Ooze seemed rather tame, and Ali felt less conflict as she considered sharing this one with the little blue Mimic Slime she had befriended.

