They pressed on through the dense overgrown jungle, and the further they went, the more oppressive the roiling chaos of wild mana became. Before experiencing this jungle, Ali would have found it hard to imagine light affinity mana being oppressive, but it was certainly the best description she could come up with. It was thick, swirling in vortices around the trees, through the branches, and dense enough to cause the very air to glow softly with light.

It was slow going, every few minutes they would encounter some or other monster and have to stop to fight it, but encountering a single wandering slime or elemental was usually fairly easy for their group to overcome. Even the Radiant Brawlers were becoming a little easier to manage now.

But it was the Coruscant Rays that truly terrified her – almost always announcing their presence with an attack that came from so far off that Ali seldom saw them before the beam of light struck her, passing clean through her barrier as if it were not even there. Her friends were quick to jump to her aid, of course, Malika healing the burns, and Calen shooting the monsters out of the air, but Ali hated being surprised, especially by unseen attacks that could easily take off a leg or an arm.

“This place is unnatural,” Mato grumbled, scratching the back of his neck uncomfortably.

“It feels better here,” Calen observed.

Ali studied the mana as they went. It was no domain, but it was certainly becoming denser and denser, and even the balance of mana was changing. Progressively less nature-affinity mana boiled up around them, leading to less chaotic flow as the light-affinity mana began to dominate – as if the two mana affinities represented antagonistic forces vying for control, a vast strategic conflict of territory and conquest.

“I think that’s because of your affinity, Calen,” Ali said. “There’s a lot of light-affinity ambient mana around here. It’s still very chaotic though.”

Even the creatures she saw seemed to be affected, warped, or mutated by constant exposure to the excessive mana. She had seen at least three different species of spider with an abdomen that glowed with white or yellow light, like a firefly. There were slugs that emitted soft blue light patterns, butterflies that trailed golden glitter as they flew past, and even wisps – creatures of pure light affinity mana. In an ordinary jungle, these adaptations would have gotten these creatures a quick ticket to some predator’s stomach – but here, where even the air was glowing, it seemed that being able to glow or shine served as functional camouflage.

“Over here, Ali,” Mato said, drawing Ali’s attention to a new variety of vine growing on a tree. It adhered to the tree bark, climbing up to the highest branches with tiny green leaves. Every half a meter or so, a bud had formed, some of which were open, displaying flowers that glowed with a bright yellow-white light.

“That’s pretty!” Happily, Ali added it to her creeper imprint, along with a variety of new mosses and mushrooms, and even the occasional tree that Mato had found for her. While light-affinity plants may not necessarily help her with her domain, most of her cavern was dark, and the opportunity to learn a few glowing plants would certainly help with that. It seemed like a worthwhile tradeoff.

A sudden flash of intense golden light caught her attention and as she snapped her eyes upward, she was treated to a beautiful display of aerobatic dance. Tiny golden-winged creatures were soaring and swooping through a swarm of glowing insects, their agile movement causing their tiny golden scales to gleam and flash in a mesmerizing, ever-changing display.

Luminous Dragonet – Dragon – level 1-3 (Light) Swarm x26.

“Look!” Ali called out, pointing out the pretty monsters soaring among the branches above. There must have been over two dozen of them, but the swarm of insects was so large that they were barely making a dent in it.

One of the tiny dragonets opened its mouth revealing tiny fangs and a dense, condensing ball of light-affinity mana – a spell that reminded Ali of the Bone Spear breath attack of the Skeletal Wyvern – only on a vastly smaller scale. But instead of spears, a dazzling cone of intense sparks of light flew out from its mouth. Dazzle, she thought, identifying the spell as one virtually identical to the primary attack of her Luminous Slime. Fortunately, it was small enough that it only left afterimages on her retinas, rather than blinding her entirely.

But for the moth caught in the dragon’s breath, it was all over. Stunned by the brilliant light, it failed to evade the hungry mouth, and with a snap and a crunch, the moth was dinner.

“True dragons,” Mato breathed, staring upward at the scene Ali had pointed out. She looked again, noticing the detail he was pointing out. The main outward difference between wyverns and the so-called ‘true’ dragons was in the number of limbs; dragons had four legs and a pair of wings, while wyverns had only hind legs and wings. Now that her attention had been called to it, Ali noticed the tiny dragonets had their front pair of legs tucked in alongside their bodies for more efficient flight.

A shadow briefly darkened the aerial feeding display followed by a roar and a powerful jet of toxic green that drenched everything in its path as a large Poison Wyvern swooped in, fangs bared. One unlucky dragonet ended up in the wyvern’s maw, its screech abruptly cut off by a brutal crunch and a spray of blood. Ali barely got her barrier up in time to protect herself from the jet of poison.

“Get it!” Mato exclaimed, his voice warped by the process of his body transformation.

Calen’s arrow was already flying toward the wyvern, his telltale glowing chain of light trailing behind. The wyvern screeched and thrashed as suddenly the hunter became the hunted, and Calen’s magic sent it crashing to the ground in a furious thrashing of poison, fangs, and claws.

But Mato was already there, roaring and slashing with his powerful forepaws.

Ali checked on her healers quickly. Most of her minions had been caught in the initial blast of poison, and so her Acolytes were working hard, but they seemed to have the sudden glut of poison damage under control.

A loud thump startled her as something splatted against her still-raised barrier, and slowly slid off. Something small with golden scales, leaving a trail of blood. Her stomach twisted as she recognized what it was. Another thump sounded behind her, and then more as it started raining dead dragonets – those caught in the poison were simply too low-level to survive for long.

“Attack.” Ali’s minions obeyed her angry command instantly. She knew it was irrational to be angry. Especially considering that the monsters down here mixed just about as well as the mana affinities – which could be equally characterized as aggressive rejection. But she had been enjoying watching the bright dragonets before the display had been so gruesomely interrupted. That she recognized the irony of enjoying watching the golden dragonets feeding on the insects, while simultaneously despising the Poison Wyvern for essentially doing the same thing was not lost on her. She grimaced. That observation didn’t help one bit.

She struggled with how she felt, and how she should feel, all the while shooting her triple stream of Arcane Bolts at the downed wyvern.

When the wyvern finally collapsed, she finally admitted it to herself.

It’s because they were cute. And pretty.

She twisted her mouth in an expression of wry discontent. She hadn’t thought of herself as shallow, but what else could it mean? Now everything was dead, and she just felt sad for the little creatures.

“What’s the matter?” Malika asked, coming up behind her as she stared at the corpses of the dragonets on the ground.

“Just sad. They were so pretty.”

“Maybe you can learn them and then make some? I think they might like the forest you made.”

“Oh. Hmm…” She hadn’t considered learning them, much too focused on collecting things that might have practical value in her Grimoire. These little dragonets had mostly been below level three, something that would have little value in combat. But they were dragons, and she already had a dragon as an imprint – the Poison Wyvern. There was at least a decent chance she wouldn’t need to spend a new chapter to learn this. She pursed her lips in thought. Can’t hurt to try.

Reaching out, she began to deconstruct the fresh corpses, biting her lip as she concentrated and hoped.

Imprint: Poison Wyvern updated to Imprint: Dragon.Variant: Luminous Dragonet added to Imprint: Dragon.

“Got it!” Her heart leapt with excitement as soon as she saw her Grimoire react, and she immediately tried summoning one. To her surprise, as soon as her Grimoire’s magic finished, nine of the tiny dragonets appeared fanning out in a riot of darting and swooping golden scales above her head. The little creatures cocked their tiny dragon heads to the side as she told them to follow, and they took to the air in a graceful formation.

“Wow, you have a whole flight of them!” Malika exclaimed, grinning.

“Looks like another swarm monster,” Ali said. She had a couple of them now, she just wished there was a manual on summoners and their skills so she could understand it better. They were delightful though, cavorting through the air like a school of golden flying fish.

A certain rascal however, batted her eyelashes and cooed, “And it helps that they’re so pretty, right Ali?”

“Malika!”

That was how she discovered that Bear Form Mato had a bear-worthy belly-laugh that threatened to shake the leaves off the trees around her.

***

“Please be more careful, Ali,” Malika said.

Ali sat on the ground, crushing the hem of her shirt in her fists and gritting her teeth against the pain while Malika healed her. Fortunately, Malika’s magic was near instant, and it banished the pain just as quickly as her injuries. It had been a wandering Coruscant Ray again, and the surprise beam of light had nearly taken her arm off, burning clean down to the bone.

“Why is it always me?” she complained. She hadn’t been keeping track, but it certainly felt like she was drawing a disproportionate number of their attacks. “I’m the smallest in this group. Shouldn’t they shoot Mato some of the time? He’s a much bigger target.”

“Oi,” Mato said.

“Maybe they can see your magic?” Calen suggested, stowing his bow as the notification chime signaled the death of the flying menace.

“I didn’t think of that,” she said. It was an angle she hadn’t considered. She had taken to walking through the jungle with her barrier out and ready for any attack. It had come in handy a few times, but against the flying Coruscant Rays and their light beam attack, it was useless. Maybe worse than useless? Her only defense was Lydia’s work, which provided a substantial and welcome resistance to magical damage. It was entirely plausible that the elementals ‘saw’ magic directly – they seemed to have no eyes, much like every other light-affinity monster they had encountered, other than the dragonets. The slimes had alternative senses – talking with Naia had made that very clear, even if the lack of actual eyes didn’t give it away. She didn’t know how exactly they perceived the world, but it was unusual. Neither the Glimmer Shards nor the Coruscant Rays had any organs that could remotely be considered similar to eyes. Nor, for that matter, did the Radiant Brawlers.

“That might be it,” Malika mused.

“If I can see magic. I guess it’s probably quite a common perception skill, especially among magical monsters,” Ali admitted. If that was the case, she had probably been painting a large target on herself visible from the skies.

“Maybe you can test it by putting your barrier ten feet to the side and see if they shoot that instead of you?” Calen suggested. “It’s not like your barrier is helping you right now.”

“True,” Ali grumbled. “And I think I’m going to start hiding behind trees when we fight.”

Ali got back to her feet, thanking Malika for healing her, and went to examine some strange moss Mato had found, while Calen vanished into the trees presumably to scout.

Considering the problem of the Coruscant Rays, Ali decided to spend the relatively steep mana cost to summon a pair of Poison Wyverns. Not because the wyverns were particularly suited to killing the rays, but because they were her only creature even remotely capable of reaching them. None of her ground-based monsters had enough range to hit them, and the wyvern was her only flying monster. At least the only one capable of doing any real damage – her gorgeous new Luminous Dragonets didn’t count.

She sent her two sleek, powerful wyverns up into the sky above the canopy to keep an eye out for flying threats.

“There’s a fight up ahead,” Calen said, appearing out of nowhere as he let his stealth skill drop. “Some slimes are attacking a Forest Guardian. They look about evenly matched.”

“Let’s go check it out,” Mato suggested, his face immediately lighting up at the prospect of combat.

“I’d like to see it too,” Ali said. Of course, Mato would be the one suggesting they investigate a fight, but Ali found she was also curious – though for a different reason. If there was a chance to deconstruct her second Forest Guardian, that would be one closer to being able to make them herself.

The first thing Ali noticed as they approached the clearing Calen had found was a small flight of Coruscant Rays hovering well beyond reach. Their potent beam attacks drew a continuous stream of sizzling bright lines between them and something unseen over the ridge. Even from this distance, the stench of burnt forest assailed her nose. They crept carefully up the ridge, all the more vulnerable because she had decided to forgo her protective barrier in case Calen’s thought about magic perception was true.

Cresting the rise, Ali gazed down upon a scene of violent clashing magic, unbridled mana-fueled plant growth, and terrifyingly powerful smashing attacks that shook the ground and nearby trees.

The Forest Guardian might have been a little bigger than the first one, and it tugged at her emotions still, in complex ways. But instead of letting the feelings run rampant, she studied the combat, trying to learn as much as she could, even activating her Sage of Learning to try and gain a better understanding of the magic at play.

