“That's good.” Lara sighed. “Not only is she a horrible person, she'll destroy your reputation; and then you if she gets her claws in you.”

“You don't have to keep convincing me.” Ren took her hand, and smiled. “I don't doubt your word in the least.”

Lara looked down at their clasped hands, her eyes widened and she stepped close. “By the way, I never did thank you for all the XP from destroying that Battalion.” She leaned in to whisper. “I leveled up so many times, that it unlocked a bunch of my abilities.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “Tee-one was-.”

Lara let his hand go, then grabbed the sides of his face, and kissed him square on the lips. Little Ren reacted from the passion Lara was stirring in Ren, and a minute later, she broke the kiss.

“You should know that nothing can happen between us for a while.” Lara said and glanced down. “Despite knowing exactly what's waiting for me, it's not our time yet.”

Ren stared at her with his mouth open in surprise, and she chuckled.

“No, I won't tell you when it will be our time.” Lara said. “You need to experience several other things before I can even fit in the picture you've drawn for yourself.” She reached a hand to his face and closed his mouth. “You need to go. Elerlyth's waiting for you.”

Ren nodded and started to walk away, then turned back to look at her again. Lara gave him a little wave, and he gave her a little wave back, then he turned and ran down the street.

*

Lara walked calmly through the crowd, and down the street to the Library. She went inside, down the hallway, and into the back storage room. She walked to her closet, went inside, and sat down in the chair Ren had made.

Oh, my god! Lara thought as she wrapped her arms around herself. She started to shiver at remembering Ren taking her hand. She'd seen they had a relationship in that brief moment, and she had surprised herself when she'd kissed him like that; but, then she saw it all. From the start to the finish, she remembered everything that they went through. Every kiss, every love-making session, every fight. Tears came to her eyes as she felt all of the love she had for him, for the entire two years they would be together.

*

Ren picked up and repaired the bolts from the two spots, and Elerlyth gave him the loot she had gathered on his behalf.

“Now what?” Elerlyth asked.

“We could go and hunt some looters.” Ren suggested. “But Lara said the Quest was going well.”

“I felt what you were like when you came down the street.” Elerlyth smiled. “What did the Sage of Ages tell you?”

“She told me to stay away from Selene, because she was bad news.”

“That was blatantly obvious.”

“Then Lara kissed me, and said that it wasn't time for us to be together yet.”

“No way!” Elerlyth exclaimed. “That little vixen!”

“Don't worry about it.” Ren chuckled and took her hand. “She said there wasn't room for her in the 'picture I'd drawn for myself'.”

“What does that mean?”

“It means, there's only so much room in my heart for the people I care about.” Ren said. “It's kind of full right now.”

Elerlyth felt how much he cared about her flood into her, and she smiled as she gorged on the amount. “Let's get back to your place.” She said. “We can take the townspeople to the town square where the soldiers are guarding them.”

“That's a great idea.” Ren said, and they ran the 4 blocks to the business, then escorted the townspeople to the town square to meet friends and family. Elerlyth fed on all the strong feelings of happiness from Ren. The soldiers started to pester Ren about the Ballista, so she pulled him away and they ran down a side street.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “It's hard to break away from a conversation like that.”

Elerlyth smiled. “You could just say, 'I have to go'.”

Ren looked at her with surprise on his face, then smiled. “See? I told you that you were brilliant.”

She chuckled. “Let's go and see if we can find any more fires to put out.”

“You're just full of great ideas today!” Ren said. Teepo? Any smoke pillars?

“Three streets ahead of you, towards the North Gate, and on the right.” Teepo said, from about 150 feet up. “It's a small park, and the buildings around it.”

Ren took Elerlyth's hand. “I've got a hot one!”

She looked at him, and he grinned.

“And a fire, too!” Ren said, and Elerlyth laughed as they ran up the street and into the night.
