“It’s true, as far as I have the Sight to see.” Erick said, “Melemizargo and Rozeta and others have said as much, and used my Benevolence to see an easier path forward for themselves, too. Still a lot of experimenting to do, however.”

For a long minute Mox sat there, in thought. And then a tear fell from her real eye. She wiped it away quickly, but said nothing.

So Erick said, “Zolan has taken Castellan of House Benevolence, with all its assorted diplomacy and overseeing of financing regarding the people who will work here in the House, directly.” Erick summed up available positions, “But there’s still Mayor of the Gate District… Which will probably just be Zolan, actually. Yes. He can take care of that, too. Then there's the Overseer of the Exterior. Overseer of Law. Overseer of Enforcement. Overseer of Education. Overseer of Magic.” Erick said, “Five options. Five seats of power in five very different arenas.”

“Overseer of the Exterior,” Mox said, sitting strong. “That’s my choice. I disagree with your idea of how exterior lands should be run, though. In my eye, I see you leasing the land you transform to others, in all locations, including next to the lake. I see your structures and resources here in Candlepoint and the Gate District allowing those villages to grow into workable city states, which you simply tax, in order to manifest a physical accounting of their loyalty.

“Each such land of your growing republic will need to agree to your laws, of course. When they get large enough, you have them make a choice of fully incorporating into Candlepoint, or into a large system of city states which falls under a different name. Tax incentives can make this choice easy. I don’t think that anyone would rebel, for that would mean they lose access to the Gates and angering you, which would be a disaster, but if need be, punishment should be easy for you, with all your power, since you should be able to simply remove from power those who cause problems. But, as you say, this is a long term plan. Therefore, if there is no actual work to be done right now, I can make some elemental dungeons. They will be able to create a steady source of income while we wait for growth to naturally occur.” Mox added, “And perhaps you can even make a Benevolence Dungeon, to help others to understand your Benevolence.”

Erick found himself really happy that Mox was here, because Mox knew her shit, and all of it was good. He was also just struck by how much more complicated this was going to be than how he had envisioned.

“I like it.” Erick said, “We can set population sizes as required for seats on various levels of councils, too... If such an organization is needed. We can talk more about that at a later date.”

Mox nodded, saying. “As long as we Shape a proper plan of how everything will work within a year or two, we will be able to solve many problems before they even become problems.”

Erick had another think.

There was not a single person in his application pile more well-rounded and capable of success in any endeavor, than Mox Dawnsider. And yet, she wasn’t brash, or overly confident. She was simply experienced. The only thing she wasn’t great at was large-scale magics, but she did have some good Stone spells, which would make her useful for turning the Crystal Forest to real forest… Which was probably her reasoning for choosing the ‘Overseer of the Exterior’ position. Erick had glanced over the part of her application that dealt with dungeoneering, but with a casual glance at that part again, he could tell that she really liked that profession.

Erick got the distinct impression that Mox was an organized woman of uncommon competence, and he really liked that about her. It made his own flailing around with the naming of offices and the delineation of roles seem amateur by comparison, but they all felt correct.

And Mox felt correct for that job, too.

Erick said, “I require you to swear a Mind Mage overseen oath of fealty to me, then we will have deeper discussions on what you want from [Reincarnation]. The actual transformation will be the last thing that happens for the day, as you will be recovering for 12 hours afterward. Do you accept the appointment of Overseer of the Exterior of House Benevolence?”

Mox sat tall, saying, “I accept this appointment.”

Erick allowed himself a small smile, then said, “As for [Reincarnation], there are a few side effects. Complete Status reset to level 0. No blessings, no curses, no boons. I’m not sure if godly magic persists through the process, but I’m reasonably sure that it will not persist. You will no longer be a Stone Mage. I'm rather sure that while you will retain your memories, your self, and some personal abilities, like mana sense and aura control, your magic will be gone. Fully gone. You will have to remake it all. You might even lose your mana sense and aura control, but gaining it all back will surely be easier the second time.”

Mox’s breath hitched. “I still want it, but this is new information for me. I need half a day to organize some things. I was not aware the transition would be that deep.”

“Fair enough. There’s also this.” Erick opened the drawer at his side and took out the expanded ten page [Reincarnation] sheet. He slid it across the desk to Mox. She took it and began leafing through, both eyes widening, though only her real eye dilated. Erick explained, “[Reincarnation] is a very powerful spell. It can do a lot. If you require an artist or doctor to fill out some of the later pages—” He stopped.

For Mox had laid the paperwork down and stared at it.

Erick calmly waited.

Mox picked the paperwork back up, saying, “I will need time to think. I had expected… I was going to say ‘me, but healed and 25’ and hope for the best. Furthermore, I wish to trust you, but as we are at the beginning of a very long relationship I will be verifying the outcome of the [Reincarnation] you have done for Zolan… Before I accept this spell upon myself.”

Mox already believed Erick’s [Reincarnation] was real, otherwise she wouldn’t be here at all, but she was testing him, to see how he reacted, and to see if he was worthy of her loyalty. A lot of people would be incensed at what was obviously a slam against one’s honor, after all; to call into question the validity of one’s magic.

But Erick was happy to prove that he was worthy of her loyalty.

“Take the time you need. As for your obvious reluctance with that ten page option…” Erick reached back into his desk and pulled out the single sheet [Reincarnation] paperwork. He slid it to her, saying, “Maybe this one is easier.”

Mox glanced over her paperwork options, then instantly abandoned the packet and grabbed the single sheet. She held it to her chest, then looked at Erick, saying, “I wish to make the oath now, and to do this [Reincarnation] tomorrow when I am better prepared for such a change. I will also need to make arrangements for a convalescence and a boost to higher levels so that I can function in an environment such as this one here at House Benevolence. Such actions will cut into the time before I can start working. I expect no more than three days delay. Including the delay from [Reincarnation], I would like to return to work four days from now.”

Mox was a precise woman.

Erick approved.

“Acceptable. If you desire, I can help you reach at least level 30 through assistance in finding and killing crystal mimics. You could convalesce here, under my watch.”

Mox said, “Your benevolence knows no bounds, and so I must impose my own. I would like to make that oath, though. I want this. Please do not interpret my measured responses as reluctance.”

Erick smiled a little. “I wasn’t interpreting it that way at all. But yes.” Erick briefly glanced to the side, and Poi walked forward. Erick asked Mox, “Do you consent to a Mind Mage truth telling?”

Mox held her head high, and said, “I consent.”

Tendrils of thought stretched from Poi and connected the three of them, as Poi said, “Then may your words and intentions be known as false, if they are false.”

Erick recalled many of the same words he had said to Zolan, then said, “I, Erick Flatt, Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, demand your fealty, Mox Dawnsider, for the power I shall invest in you is a privilege that you will not forsake. You will oversee my lands, my interests, and my people, as much as I shall appoint to you, growing and nurturing all under your granted purview as much as you are able, in good faith and without deceit. Should you fail, you will be punished based on the severity of your failure, but should you succeed, then you will be rewarded commensurately.”

Mox stared forward, her eye alight with life, as she said, “I, Mox Dawnsider, do so solemnly swear my fealty to you, my Apparent King and our Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt. Your interests are my interests. Your goals are my goals. Your House is my House. I solemnly swear.”

Mox’s words had been different from what Zolan had sworn, but it was still well said. Erick could tell that Mox would be a great addition to House Benevolence. Just by talking to her, Erick had sorted out the necessary positions of his future small council.

“Welcome to House Benevolence, Mox.”

“Thank you, my king.”

Erick asked, “Do you want a [Gate] to Oceanside? Zolan should be sleeping in the hospital, though Kirginatharp is likely running tests on him already.”

Mox said, “I accept your offer, my king.”

And since Ophiel was still at the hospital in Oceanside, and approved for more [Gate]s, Erick gestured to the right side of the room. Silent lightning flickered and flashed open, revealing the same hospital drop room that Erick had seen not an hour ago. An orderly and a doctor stood on the other side of the room, staring at Ophiel. Both of them had great big panicked looks on their faces as they stared through the sudden portal, and saw Erick’s office room.

Erick waved.

The other people panicked, two of them running away, but a third just gave a small wave of their own back.

Mox was not panicked at all. She got up from her chair, bowed to Erick, saying, “My king,” and then she stepped through, rapidly moving on with her day. She was still clutching the single-page [Reincarnation] form to her chest as she rounded the corner of the hospital receiving room, headed toward the front desk, out of sight.

Erick closed the portal behind her.

Erick breathed out, and said to Poi, “Professional is good.”

Poi nodded, saying, “Professional is good. I think she’ll be great.”

Erick smiled wide at that. “Good. Glad you approve.”

“All the people vetted by the Headmaster will be fantastic fits for House Benevolence.” Poi laid down the folder of the next applicant. It was a thin folder. “But the people from Ar’Cosmos are more iffy.”

“Ahhh… Yeah.” Erick opened up the folder of the first applicant from Ar’Cosmos and began reading. His eyebrows went up, and then he hummed. There wasn’t much there to read… And yet? “This could be good, right?”

Poi was less sure.

Erick said, “They’re from House Death, and I already knew they were going to apply for an exterior guard-type position. This might be great.”

Poi decided to suspend what he knew to be true about the evils of necromancers, and let the incoming man speak for himself. And then he rolled his eyes at Erick, adding, “It’s still unknown how everyone will react once they see Ar’Cosmos people walking around the Gate District, so putting these people in charge of defense might cause a problem that you’re asking these people to also solve. And they’re going to be doing that defense with necromancy.”

“Well... Yes.” Erick said, “It’ll be exterior defense. Exactly as they do for Ar’Cosmos. The necromancy… it’s not actually any worse than taking a monster’s rad and turning into an enchanted item, is it? It’s all just soul power— Ah. I will have to ask about the Slave Protocols to see if they trip those or not. But if they’re just temporary summons… All things to ask, I suppose.”

Poi shrugged, saying, “All things to—”

Poi went silent as he suddenly gazed off to the east and a tendril of thought connected him to someone else.

Erick eyed that connection. He waited.

He tried not to worry.

Poi was rigid for two seconds, then he furrowed his brows, and relaxed. After a moment, he said, “Good news with regard to Zolan. The Headmaster has cleared Zolan as being Zolan, even though every single bit of his spellwork and Status is gone.”

“Ha!” Erick laughed, then said, “Fuck! Poi. Don’t scare me like— Wait a second.” Erick narrowed his eyes. “They woke him up, didn’t they.”

“Correct.”

“… Bah! Whatever. Where’s this next guy...?” Erick looked at the folder again, taking a moment to pronounce, “… Burhendurur? Where’s he at?”

- - - -

Erick sat across his desk from the next applicant, his mind whirring. He could not place where he had seen the man before and that was eating at him. Pleasantries had already been exchanged, though they were rather short and cold, for this man was extremely wary and trying not to show it by keeping his answers short and noncommittal. Which was fair, sort of.

His application had been rather short and noncommittal, too.

That wasn’t going to fly long term, of course. But for now, this much reluctance was understandable.

Burhendurur looked like a pale incani man in his 40’s, and though he wore grey robes with white edges, he looked like he would be more comfortable in armor and with a sword in his hand. His horns were as white as bleached bone, while his hair was slightly darker than his skin.

But his horns were not really like an incani’s at all, for Burhendurur was a Death Dragon.

And Erick finally realized where he had seen the man before.

“Oh.” Erick said, “You’re Light Blight, from the Rotunda.”

With a sudden stillness, and then a relaxation, Burhendurur said, “That is correct, Wizard Flatt. That is my Ar’Cosmos name, though, and we try to keep those separate from here in this land… Many things are odd, I suppose. I’m even still wearing my horns like I usually would not…” Burhendurur paused, then said, “Should you accept me into House Benevolence, then I will be abandoning that name entirely. If you should not accept me, then I am to return with word of what has transpired here, and they will begin deliberations to send the next applicant. I will, of course, be unable to participate in those deliberations, for they will assume that I have been compromised. I am taking a risk coming here, so I would appreciate if you accept my reluctance to expose all of my true history, for now.”

That was worrying.

