Erick asked, “Do they think I would not protect you? That I would allow you to come to harm without trying to stop that harm?”

“We believe that such tampering will likely happen outside of your sight, if at all. Should such an event happen and you gain notice of it, we would expect you to respond with wrath and power. Our people are watching this to see if this occurs.” Burhendurur said, “Should such a thing happen, and you do nothing, then that also answers our questions of if this alliance is a viable option, or not. Or if, perhaps, you have been mind-slaved yourself, and if you are in need of a rescue, then we will also know that.” He did not need to look at Poi, standing behind Erick, for the full measure of his worries to be known.

Erick let that information percolate for a minute.

Then he asked, “What are your orders should something happen?”

“Absolute defense and extraction of myself. I am to leave all others alone as I flee, but if I can determine exactly why such a betrayal has happened then I must accomplish this as well.”

“… Prudent.” Erick said, “So here’s the thing:

“This conversation right here is the most tense thing that’s happened to me in the last 20 days since I landed here in Candlepoint and announced myself as a Wizard and everything started exploding all over the place. I can handle tense, of course, but I would like less tension in my life.”

To his credit, and though Erick knew his own words were worrying, Burhendurur did not tense any more than he already was.

Erick continued, “Anyway. Since that day, it’s been rather nice. Calm and constructive. I have a nice new House, and I’m sleeping well enough each night. I’ve even hired two people that you probably know, and maybe you’ve even fought with them before. Zolan Goldbranch and Mox Dawnsider.”

Burhendurur went, “Ah…” his voice trailing off. He knew those two rather well, and not just by name, either.

Erick barreled on. “They are my Castellan and Overseer of the Exterior, respectively. I’m planning 4 more seats. Overseer of Law, to organize judges and matters of courtrooms and such. Overseer of Enforcement, to organize defense all throughout my lands. Overseer of Wellbeing, for education and health and stuff like that. And Overseer of Magic, for Elemental Benevolence testing and other magical matters. I imagine the Overseer of Wellbeing will see to a generalized education for all people in my lands, while the Overseer of Magic will see to magical education.

“I have way too many applications for the 6 seats available.

“So a lot of these applicants are going to be relegated to lesser positions than those 6 on my small council.” Erick said, “I’ve decided that Oceanside is getting the two seats they have, since the two people I invited into those positions are two of the absolute best I could have asked for. I’m still taking the other 14 applicants, though, since they’re all dying and I can [Reincarnation] them into new lives. Adding to this, Kirginatharp just cleared my magic as real, so that’s opening a floodgate that I am going to take advantage of while I can.

“I have a weakness for helping people, so what.

“Probably won’t start healing everyone, though. Still have to think about that.

“That’s what has happened recently, and most of that doesn’t affect Ar’Cosmos, or at least not directly.

“This construction I have begun is a problem for you for a different reason, for Ar’Cosmos has only given me 3 applications, and I’m going to accept all three. And so, Oceanside’s forces are going to outweigh you by a very, very large number. Not to mention all the other applicants I have yet to hire from the wrought, and other peoples. Ar’Cosmos is minimizing their exposure to House Benevolence at their peril.” Erick said, “Now; with all that known to you, tell me if I have made a mistake somewhere, and that I am not seeing exactly the problems as they exist.”

Burhendurur said, “Inform me if I am wrong, but you speak as though the positions you give to us, your true allies, would be on the same level as Oceanside and the wrought?”

“This is never going to work if I give preferential treatment to any side, for all sides, right now, are trying their best to come to the table with open arms. Oceanside’s people are gearing up to move here. Stratagold’s four Gate set-up is up and running, and they’ve got at least 300 people stationed there.” Erick said, “The only ally I have who hasn’t shown up or participated is Ar’Cosmos. This is, of course, my fault. I probably should have reached out before now, and in some heavily substantial way. My excuse is that I have been exceedingly busy, so I would like to rectify whatever lack Ar’Cosmos sees in me right now, or as soon as possible.”

Burhendurur took a moment to lightly stare at Erick, judging if things were going sideways or not. He was unsure. He was actually unsure of everything he had been prepared to face.

Erick wondered how much of their lack of participation had been paranoia. How much was real worry?

Erick let the man think, as his own thoughts spiraled here and there—

Burhendurur said, “Perhaps we have erred in reaching out as well. We thought this an elaborate trap of some sort, but to be honest, we have simply not put forth as much effort as we could have put forth in contacting you and remaining in touch, as proper allies would.” He said, “Most of us assumed you would be making your House inside Ar’Cosmos, since you have the space for it, even though you have repeatedly said that you would be making it down here.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I have a plot of land in Ar’Cosmos for the taking, according to Fairy Moon, but I’m focused here, for now. I am building something for the entire world to see and realize as objectively good, therefore, it needs to be out in the open.”

Fairy Moon said, “Honorable to hear.”

The pink, green, white fae stood beside Burhendurur’s chair, her arm gently laying on his headrest.

Poi flinched at the sudden appearance of the fae, even though Erick had been expecting her to appear the second he purposefully said her name. Burhendurur breathed deep a fraction, then relaxed. The dragon actually relaxed, too, as though everything would be fine with Fairy Moon here.

Fairy Moon continued, “I was becoming bothered by your lack of letters or otherwise, our wonderful Wizard and Apparent King.”

Erick simply said, “I’ve been busy. Hopefully, with some proper delegation, I will be less busy soon enough.”

Fairy Moon waved a hand. “You’re enacting an empire so some small seasons passing without pause is fine and fruitful, but allies are not for forsaking. If you are giving gains to Oceanside outcasts then I claim comparable chairs for our Ar’Cosmos. This will require us to field a fortune more of men and women willing to expose their existences to this land of Wizard wishes, but we will begin doing this today.” She frowned a little, adding, “I will have proper paperwork drawn and delivered in a day.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll pick the best two and put them on proper chairs, on my small council of 6. Oceanside will have 2 chairs. Ar’Cosmos will have 2 chairs. And then 2 more chairs for the wrought. That’s going to be my small council. Royal courts and such will come later, and probably be a mayor from every allied city state here in these lands, who will swear fealty to me.” Erick shrugged. “Not sure right now, but that is the way I am going at the moment.”

Fairy Moon stood a bit straighter at the mention of ‘royal court’.

And that was worrying, actually.

Erick waited for her to speak.

Slowly, and methodically, Fairy Moon said, “I am in your Royal Court.”

… It was not a question. It was a statement of surprise, and a little bit of worry. Erick was a bit worried about that, too, but… He wasn’t sure what to do about that right now, either.

Trying to be solid, Erick said, “I suppose you might be a member of my ‘royal court’, from a certain perspective, since Ar’Cosmos is allied with me. But counterpoint: you run Ar’Cosmos, and you are an ally. Not a mayor for a city state under me. Mephistopheles is a member of that court by default, and I think Zolan will be, too, since he’ll be like my mayor of the Gate District. Those two have sworn fealty. You, however, cannot swear fealty to me, and I would not accept that fealty even if you did. It would be like the royalty of Stratagold becoming a part of my… Empire, if you want to call it that.” Erick shook his head. “Nope. Not doing that, either.”

Fairy Moon frowned, both sad and happy and still worried for some reason. She muttered, “I am… Not in your Royal Court.”

Erick slowly nodded. He was having difficulty getting a read on what she—

Fairy Moon’s entire countenance shifted in a split second.

“Oh joy of joys!” Fairy Moon said, happy as can be. Her pink and green eyes suddenly sparkled as she breathed deep, in full joy, saying, “I am a guest royal! Ahha! Grand, great, and glorious! Immensely more entertaining in this shorter season before the true rise of royalty.” She turned to Erick with a smirk, saying, “Eventually, your empire will encompass a world, and maybe two! One can only hope! Know this, Benevolent baron, Wishful Wizard, Apparent King: Grow and grow and grow, or else maybe my court will grow too great and you will become a beneficiary in my royal retinue.”

Erick deadpanned a look at the deceptively-innocent, million-year-old woman standing in his office, and said, “I’d like those 16 resumes by tomorrow, and they better have more to them than Burhendurur’s. I got 25 pages of accomplishments from Mox. That’s what I expect to see from your people as well.”

Fairy Moon gave a shining smile and a small twirl, and she was gone.

Erick sighed, then said to Burhendurur, “Do you actually want the job? Or was this just prodding to see if I was an enemy?”

“I want the job. Overseer of Enforcement.” Burhendurur said, “To undertake the enforcement of laws and the protection of the peace throughout all your lands. That is who I am, and I would be honored to undertake this power under your aegis.”

“If you can tell me everything you hope to achieve by taking that position, if you can verbally fill out your resume to something better than three pages, I will consider it.”

Burhendurur did not expect that level of acceptance at all, so it took him a little bit to actually start talking, “As your staunchest allies against the degradations of many, including the wrought, the Mind Mages, the Dragon Stalkers, Kirginatharp, and Melemizargo, Ar’Cosmos deserves to know about and thus to support your actions, as they happen. My hope is that, through a closeness with Ar’Cosmos, that I and the people who I bring with me, will be able to protect what you are building here, and to ensure that this land is free of all untoward influences.”

Erick wanted to sigh, but he did not. “So there was a lot of good in your stated position, and your fears. The role of Overseer of Enforcement is mostly a political, paper shaper role, so from what I saw in the Rotunda you are qualified for that. As for your resume, claiming that you have overseen enforcement of all kinds, all across the world, that also qualifies you for this position. Your worries over what might be happening in this land are well-founded, based on historical precedent. Based on historical precedent, a lot of people are going to try and fuck me over, and I expect the Overseer of Enforcement to see these happenings before they happen, and prevent them from happening. I expect you to use enough violence to stop the other violence before it happens, but mostly, you’re going to be a glorified Guard. Mostly, it will be boring, like all other guard duty.

“But here is my problem. Even more than your stated goals, here’s the thing: You’re going to be working for me. You will be making an oath of fealty to me. Not to Ar’Cosmos. To me. To House Benevolence. To what I am trying to build here. To a better future. I don’t care if you’re a bit of a spy for the people of Ar’Cosmos, but if I pick you for this role, you will be among the only people in this land which I allow to wield violence at all.” Erick said, “That level of trust requires a certain amount of absolute assurance that you won’t turn on me, or go against my rule in any way, or try to undercut my desires. I need to be absolutely sure that my Overseer of Enforcement is completely in line with my own thoughts more than any of my other council seats. I am not asking you to forsake Ar’Cosmos, but I am demanding that you put House Benevolence’s needs above all others.

“Are you able to do that?” Erick asked, “Can I actually trust you to provide a guard for me, for example? To have my back? To give me personal bodyguards along the lines of my man Poi, here?

“But more than personal defense, can I trust you to cull all monster threats, and ensure that all sides remain protected from the vagaries of threats? To peacefully take down interior threats, with as little collateral damage as possible? Can I trust you to allow me to play political games with Ar’Cosmos, as I am sure they will play games with me, once we’re out of this initial distress? Or are you an information leak, who will always be working at cross purposes to the goals here at House Benevolence?”

Burhendurur steeled himself under Erick’s onslaught on his honor, like iron tempering in a forge. When Erick was done, Burhendurur said, “You will be my king, and I will be your sword, your pen, and your voice. I will suffer no other rulers.”

“Good.” Erick relaxed. He breathed. He said, “Now then. Let us start halfway over.

“This will be a very long conversation, for I will begin at the top, and we will discuss necromancy and all that you bring to the table, as well as all that I demand of you. One of the things I will demand of you is the enactment of monster kills around the world, and close working with myself in order to cause those kills. This requires a great deal of trust. I will be working closely with you, perhaps most of all. You, and my Castellan, and my Overseer of Magic. My Overseers of Wellbeing, Law, and the Exterior, will likely be doing a lot of stuff on their own.” Erick offered, “Would you like tea?”

Burhendurur nodded. “I would enjoy a cup of tea, please.”

Erick reached through a small portal and grabbed a tea set from home. A few more portals later, and there were some pastries there on the table between them. Poi prepared the tea, and soon, Erick restarted the conversation.

They spoke for an hour.

