At the end of it, Erick felt much better about Burhendurur, and Burhendurur felt much better about Erick and what he wanted to build. Toward the end, the topic moved away from talk of organization and monster hunts, to talk of Ar’Cosmos, but Burhendurur didn’t actually know much, since he was under a fae seal regarding a lot of recent events going on inside Fairy.

Erick was instantly on edge at the mention of a ‘fae seal’, and so he kept his voice calm as he asked more questions. Of current events, Burhendurur mostly knew that [Reincarnation] was going well, since they had expected Erick to ask after that particular magic and so it remained unsealed, but other than that, he knew himself and his magic very well, though a lot of his life was missing.

“I mostly remember the colors.” Burhendurur said, “A sealed memory is nothing too terrible, for it is simply… Sort of washed out and yet vibrant. Like a dream vanished upon waking. This is nothing to be worried over, though. This is simply standard protocol for every high-ranking dragon leaving Ar’Cosmos, who ventures this far into known-enemy territory. It won’t affect my work.”

Erick was still frowning though. He said, “I do not like this fae seal shit. That needs to change.”

Burhendurur got a little less comfortable at Erick’s casual cursing. He said, “As Ar’Cosmos grows due to [Renew], and to taking an open position in this world, we expect these fae seal protocols to change.” Burhendurur said, “There are already talks to that effect, but it won’t happen this year. Maybe not for five more years.”

The man didn’t seem to be understanding Erick’s problem. Or maybe he was deflecting?

He was deflecting.

Erick directly asked, “Can you even do an oath of fealty if you don’t know if you’re actually lying?”

“Of… Of course I can.” Burhendurur furrowed his eyes a little, saying, “This is not an issue.”

Maybe he wasn’t actually deflecting.

“I don’t think you understand my issue, here.” Erick looked to Poi. “Can you remove that seal, or block, or whatever?”

Burhendurur answered, “He cannot.”

Poi said, “It’s not a block. Those memories have been excised and put in storage inside Ar’Cosmos. Calling it a ‘seal’ is misdirection.”

Burhendurur said, “The removal of those memories doesn’t change who I am.”

“Of course you think that,” Erick said.

Poi simply nodded.

“I do not see the issue.” Burhendurur added, “After I swear my oaths, those memories will be destroyed, and I will have lost my place on the Rotunda. It is standard operating procedure for anyone going out and revealing themselves—”

Erick called out, “Fairy Moon!”

“What!” Fairy Moon said, appearing at the side of the room. “The paperwork isn’t prepared!”

Erick glared.

“… What, our Wizard?” Fairy Moon asked, suddenly contrite and unsure of the anger in Erick’s eyes.

“You sent me a man without his memories?” Erick tried to calm his anger, but that anger came out anyway, “How the fuck can I trust anyone to make a lifelong commitment and oath with their memories modified!”

Fairy Moon frowned, then looked at Burhendurur. “… Oh! A true telling.” She frowned. “I told them not to try that tactic, it would be seen as slinging strife against what we hope to harvest from this House.” She shrugged. “Send him back to Fairy and he will saunter forthwith with all his memories unsealed, and he can contract without cause for concern. I will ensure all the rest of the resume’d receive the same non-seals as well.”

Erick looked at the fae. “… You will, huh. Can I even trust you to do as you say, in word and in intention, just like how you agreed to bring the Red Dot Dragon in for questioning?”

Fairy Moon opened her mouth to give reasons—

“I don’t want to hear your reasoning for that, for it doesn’t matter. You pissed me off there, too. You broke trust, Fairy Moon, just as you broke trust when you kidnapped me.” Erick said, “I need to know my ally is not going to fuck over my goals or how I choose to achieve those goals, for how goals are achieved is sometimes just as important in that they are achieved at all.”

Fairy Moon pulled back a fraction. Then she said, “It’s a time of turmoil. Forgive me for my foibles; I’m working on them. But besides that, these seals shouldn’t have happened anyway, for Ar’Cosmos is arranging itself in a revolution of real estate. The rune of [Renew] and power of [Reincarnation] is enabling so much more property and people that there is absolutely no slipping of secrecy that we cannot contain.” She stressed, “This really shouldn’t have happened, Erick. Apologies, and all that.”

Erick forced himself to move on, saying, “Fine. Apology accepted. When you send me your people once again, send them without seals and able to make actual oaths.” He turned to Burhendurur. “I cannot accept your oath today. We will have another talk when I see you again.”

Burhendurur frowned a little, saying, “I do not understand your reluctance. I am right now the same person I will be with all my memories intact, but I accept your ruling regardless, as a soldier does. I will make another appointment another day.”

Fairy Moon opened a pink and green [Gate] in the side of the room, swirling pastel colors into the air all around. “Come now, Burhendurur! We shall unseal your memories and make of you a true bearer of Benevolence’s benefaction!”

Burhendurur got up from his seat and went into the tunnel, briefly turning to Erick and bowing before he vanished into Springtime. Fairy Moon followed, happily waving as the [Gate] shut closed.

Erick frowned at everything.

He spat, “FUCK.”

“That was a rough one,” Poi said, mirroring Erick’s thoughts. He added, “I just received a message that the other applicants from Ar’Cosmos have also canceled. They’ll come back tomorrow.”

“Gods dammit.” Erick said, “And he didn’t even tell me until I actually pushed in and asked about it, either. He honestly did not see it as a problem. I know memory shit is a part of their survival protocols and it works for them but…” Erick paused in thought. “Am I overreacting, Poi?”

“Yes, but it is within your right to decide how your kingdom will be.”

Erick looked to Poi, with all new concerns floating around in his mind.

Poi said, “The tactical removal of non-personality-dependent information is a useful way to combat unintentional, crucial information leakage. When undertaken in a consenting manner, this is a perfectly fine way to maintain security in certain situations. But. We Mind Mages feel that Ar’Cosmos goes way too far with their seals. Their memory removals bleed into the removal of personality dependent information. I do not believe that Burhendurur’s situation was like this, for he was able to talk all about his various spellwork and how he would implement undead protections against monsters all around this land, but any removals at all do make the process of oath-taking rather suspect. In that oath-taking aspect, I do not feel you were overreacting at all.”

Erick sat there for a moment, organizing his thoughts. “Maybe I did overreact.” He frowned as he looked toward where the Springtime portal had been; where Fairy Moon had gone. “You know… I expected her to say something about [Reincarnation]. It is soulwork, after all.”

Poi shrugged. “They’re accepting [Reincarnation] in their lands to help the half dragons. They also do necromancy and soul summoning to protect those lands. I don’t feel that her problem was with Soul Magic, itself, but rather with you, a Wizard, using Soul Magic.”

“… Ah. Yes. I can see that.”

Erick fell to silent thoughts.

Poi waited.

After a minute, Poi said, “We have time in the day for one more meeting. Want to call up the first meeting of tomorrow? Most of the wrought options are still at the embassy at Stratagold. They could be here within an hour, or mere minutes.”

Erick said, “Actually, I need a break… And I think I need to see Mage Bank about my finances. 16 people from 3 factions at 2,500 average salary per month means 40,000 per month on personnel expenses alone. I’m expecting, I think, 100,000 to 150,000 gold per month to run this House.” Erick said, “Perhaps Mox’s suggestion of getting some dungeons was rather prescient.”

Poi looked at Erick like he was an idiot, then said, “You have millions in the bank.”

“What! It’s going to go fast! I can already see it.”

“Doubtful.” Poi said, “All of the larger forces who open a plot of land on Gate Road will be paying taxes. Your income will [Grow] like weeds.”

“I’m going to be investing everywhere, though. That money is going to vanish fast.”

Poi shrugged.

- - - -

Tonide, the branch manager at Mage Bank in the Gate District, pretty much confirmed what Poi had already said, though Tonide did have to repeat the overview of Erick’s finances twice. That was mostly for the man’s own benefit, though; the man was still highly worried at being anywhere near Erick. He wasn’t as bad as his staff, though, for everyone else had to control themselves not to run when they saw Erick.

Some people ran away anyway. Or at least they walked quickly.

Erick let Tonide talk, though, since it was obviously the only way to make him more comfortable.

Eventually, Erick accepted the fact that he was fucking loaded. Even after all his expenses…

Eh. He didn’t have many expenses, did he? Not yet, anyway.

At least he got to get out of the House for an hour. He got to see the Mage Guild and Bank up close, and the place looked great; defensible and yet fit for existence in the middle of a city, with a dozen towers of varying size and a certain aesthetic that made Erick think ‘futuristic stone castle’. But...

Erick said, “I get that you’re planning to be in the heart of the eventual finance district and public lands, but you’re a long walk away from the House. That’s prime real estate down there.”

Tonide nervously brushed off Erick’s concern, saying, “We’re close enough!”

Erick let it be.

- - - -

Fresh morning light and wind poured into the hallway at a shallow angle, while Erick, Teressa, Jane, and Sitnakov walked below, through the deep bowels of House Benevolence. Ophiels darted here and there, moving freshly-made glass panels into those windows, shutting out the wind while maintaining the light. It was a good morning for sprucing up the place and fixing small problems here and there, for there were a lot of small problems. Erick could probably spend another three days walking these halls, putting doors on rooms and glass in windows, and leveling the floor. When taking into account all of his other duties and goals, he could probably only spend a few hours each day doing this, though, so truly fixing up his House might take two weeks.

Might take even longer than that, due to another problem he had first noticed this morning.

Here and there, the manasphere of his House had been blanked. Erick wasn’t 100% sure what was happening, but his best guess was that some intruders had come in, tried something, and then blanked those spaces after they left.

Teressa seemed to think the same.

The fact that someone was trying something was more angering than Erick had expected it to be. Sure, people were trying shit all the time. But to actually see ‘evidence’ of those attempts? Erick found himself more furious than worried.

Erick was almost tempted to fill all of these hallways with stone to prevent anyone from coming in and doing any more of whatever it was they had done. Putting blockades of stone would serve to block off parts of the House that weren’t getting used yet, too. But. No. Erick moved on, dispersing his anger as he continued to Shape the building. He added a tiled look to the floors and arches to the ceilings. He put windows where they should go. He placed lights absolutely everywhere.

Whatever was going on with these blank spaces was not a concern that he could fix, and either way, he would foist security onto someone else soon enough, and they’d solve that problem for him.

For now, though, there were no actual security concerns.

Just… things to keep an eye on.

Sitnakov decided to speak up when they came across the fourth blank spot, “I can call in a specialist to view that spot, if you want.”

“Eh!” Erick waved a hand at the room that was completely blank, moving on, saying, “If Teressa can’t see it, then they’re too careful to be seen.”

“Sorry, Boss,” Teressa said, frowning.

Jane simply watched her flanks, waiting for something to happen.

“Don’t worry about it. I know you’ve been expanding your range and your skill, so it’s just a matter of time before you can see these spots.” Erick said, “The only way to actually solve this problem is with personnel.”

Sitnakov said, “We’ve got people ready to be hired. You have their resumes.”

And that was another conversation he had to have, wasn’t it.

Now was as good a time as any, so Erick said, “I’m sure every single person of the 45 resumes you’ve sent are great, but I’ve decided to hire 16 of them, and that’s it. I’m hiring 16 from Oceanside and giving them all [Reincarnation], 16 from Ar’Cosmos and at least two of them are going to be Paradox’d dragons, while the rest are hopefully not, and 16 from you guys. Oceanside got my Castellan and Overseer of Exterior interests. Ar’Cosmos is probably going to get my Overseer of Enforcement and one of the others. And your side can have your pick of two of the last three, which are Overseer of Wellbeing, Overseer of Magic, and Overseer of Law. Ar’Cosmos can get the leftover position.

“So that’s 2 of your 45 hired for roles of actual power, with another 14 out of 45 scattered among the smaller positions under those major 6.” Erick cast three more lights into the ceiling as they walked. He glanced back at Sitnakov, following behind, and asked, “How does that sound?”

Sitnakov had a frown, for he was not prepared to hear such an offer, and he was also angry at Ar’Cosmos getting Overseer of Enforcement…

If Erick was reading that right.

Meanwhile, Teressa looked down at Erick, worried, and then over to Sitnakov, wondering. Jane just kept quiet, though she listened well. Erick had already gone over a lot of this stuff at breakfast, but this was the first time he was telling this stuff to Sitnakov, and through him, Stratagold. Right now it was just the four of them, for Poi and Kiri were on the later shifts, and Erick was just fixing up his House, anyway.

“I don’t...” Sitnakov frowned deeply, then huffed, “Gods. A dragon in charge of Enforcement? That’s just… That’s just bad, Erick.”

