Erick nodded. “It was bad already. Their applicant showed up with memories missing. This caused me to send them back to Ar’Cosmos and for me to have words with the fae. I probably overreacted there, but I think they were testing me and I don’t appreciate that. Therefore, I’ve decided to decide a few things, and adjust the schedule to my appointments.

“Originally, the plan was to see two applicants from Oceanside, then two from Ar’Cosmos, then two from Stratagold, in a revolving manner, until I got through all applicants.

“Now, though, the first two people from Oceanside proved to be very qualified for what I want, and as I went over all the other applications a second and third time last night, I realized all the wrought applicants are similarly strong. The only outlier is Ar’Cosmos, with only three applications and one of them was only three pages long.

“So I’m letting them put their best foot forward and taking the most violent Overseer position, as the Overseer of Enforcement. Unless they come back this afternoon and completely fuck it up…” Erick frowned. “They won’t do that.

“Anyway.

“Oceanside got my most politically crucial positions.

“And now Stratagold gets their pick of the next two council seats.

“And then Ar’Cosmos will get the leftover position.

“It seems politically expedient and correct to do it that way, so that is what I have decided.

“Just so you know, I plan on working most closely with my castellan, the Overseer of Enforcement, and the Overseer of Magic. Enforcement will likely be through former people from House Death, and made possible through the control of summoned creatures and necromantic monsters. They’ll be my go-to solution to monster problems outside the borders and other solutions which require violence. As for interior Enforcement, I expect them to use living people to police the Gate District, and to work with the Guard of whatever cities happen to grow up under the aegis of House Benevolence.

“The individual districts will remain embassies of whatever foreign powers come to this land, so my enforcers will remain limited in power, in that respect.

“But they’ll be the only ones I will allow to use force to solve problems. In addition, there will likely be a bunch of anti-magics blanketing this land, like they have over in Songli.” Erick said, “The Overseer of Magic will be expected to maintain those anti-magics and also run a school of magic and field a Benevolence research office, all of which I will be heavily involved in once they finally get going. And so you know: All applicants will be swearing an oath of fealty before I actually allow them to work under me.”

The four of them continued to walk forward this entire time, while Erick and Ophiel fixed small problems with the décor all the while that Erick spoke of his plans.

“… I will give you Stratagold’s response after I relay this information back home.” Sitnakov asked, “But, to clarify, it’s 16 people? Any 16 we choose, for the positions we choose?”

“You get 2 of Magic, Wellbeing, or Law; overseeing magical concerns and an eventual college, overseeing mundane education and healthcare, and overseeing justices and juries and courts. The position you don’t choose will go to Ar’Cosmos. Everyone outside of those two appointments will be shuffled around as deemed fit by my castellan, Zolan Goldbranch.” Erick said, “He will be hiring more people, of course, as he deems necessary. But for now, 48 people seems like a very good start to House Benevolence. More than enough.”

Sitnakov fell to silence as he sent off a telepathic tendril into the air. Erick continued to place lights and fill in window spaces. Now that that major conversation had passed, Teressa turned her attentions back to the world around them, watching out for danger that was likely already long gone and with tracks fully hidden. Jane glanced at Sitnakov, looking at the tall metal man, but she turned her attentions outward soon enough.

The four of them walked on, down the empty hallways of House Benevolence.
