“A pleasure to meet you,” Erick said, welcoming Mox Dawnsider into his office at the top of House Benevolence. “The furniture is [Fairy Item], for now, but I’ll get real stuff soon enough. Please have a seat.”

Mox scowled a little at the mention of ‘Fairy’, but she took a chair in front of Erick’s desk. “Pleasure to meet you as well, Wizard.” At her own mention of the word ‘Wizard’, she gave a little laugh to herself. “The last Wizard I met would have killed me if I were a lesser Stone Mage.”

Erick took his own seat and regarded the woman, though he had been doing so already for a while. Mox was a woman of unfortunate looks, with many scars and missing her right eye. She had replaced her right eye with a fake one made of glass so it was hard to tell this truth, but the fact that she was missing an eye at all is what caused Erick to go looking deeper with his mana sense.

Mox Dawnsider was a physically broken woman. Visually, she was fine. But in her soul, she was not. It looked like someone had splashed acid across her entire torso, the damage going from her upper left leg, inside of her bowels, and then catching her right arm in the effect. It looked like very, very old soul damage, though, which had been healed who knew how many times. And yet, it still wasn’t actually healed at all.

Other than that, Mox was a perfectly presentable human woman of dark brown skin and wiry hair. She was 105, but she looked and got around like she was 60. She had come to Candlepoint and then to House Benevolence completely unassisted save for the final [Gate] directly up to the top of Erick’s tower, and she had even stayed in Candlepoint all day long, looking around and getting a feel for the place.

Erick said, “Times change, indeed.” He moved on, “So I just hired my castellan, not half an hour ago. You should know him, Zolan Goldbranch. I’m still hiring, though the position of castellan is no longer available.”

Mox scowled a little, then she realized something deeply important, her dark eyes widening as she breathed deep. Maybe, just maybe, Erick was offering her a blank check to write what she wanted. She took the chance, asking, “What’s still open?”

“Practically anything you want.” Erick added, “If that’s acceptable, then I can continue on with the spiel.”

“Yes, I would continue—” She scowled again, her thoughts turning to somewhere else. She was mad at someone for not telling her something, and said as much as she muttered, “I asked those people at Oceanside to tell me if—” Mox cut herself off and stared at Erick. There was a need in her dark sight. “Yes. I will continue.”

… Erick would find out what that was about soon enough, but instead of asking after that, he continued on with the interview.

He laid out his general plans for the Gate District and his diplomatic goals for the future. He spoke of Ar’Cosmos and Stratagold and other geodes and Oceanside all getting along, as much as he was able to support such non-aggression and eventual cooperation. He spoke of the city he would eventually create all around Yggdrasil, joining the Gate District and Candlepoint together, along with anyone else who would show up and pledge fealty. Fealty was not expected from those nations who signed on for a four-piece Gate set, but adherence to the law and to peace was demanded while within these lands.

Longer term goals included turning the Crystal Forest green, eventually, with the subsequent goal of supporting a much larger Candlepoint and the creation of friendly cities outside the immediate area. He would likely link those areas to Candlepoint through [Gate]s, as well, and in ten years or something similar to that, Erick would be teaching others to create [Gate].

With all that said, Erick began explaining to Mox, as he had with Zolan, “Which is why you are here. You came highly recommended by Kirginatharp for many different positions, from administrator of household, to landshaping and city planning, to education, to dungeoneering, to guarding. You even have Adventurer’s Guildmaster certification, which is above and beyond almost all my other applicants. You have so many qualifications, even without Kirginatharp’s radiant recommendation, you have the job… After some magics of mine, which you have already requested of me. I must comment, though, that you likely still have another 10 years in you before you truly need to accept a [Reincarnation], or plan for retirement.

“So why have you chosen to ask for [Reincarnation] now? Why have you chosen this path?”

Mox had been tense at the start of the meeting, for she was meeting a Wizard, and the man who would either allow her to have another life, or not. Mentioning that Zolan had already gotten the job she wanted hadn’t helped matters for her, either. But now, after Erick’s spiel, she was relaxed. She was happy. She knew she had this in the bag. She would finally get what she wanted.

Erick was pretty sure Mox had this in the bag, too. She was vastly overqualified for practically every position available. He hoped she would ask for one of the more difficult positions… Though Erick himself wasn’t exactly sure what those positions should look like.

Everything was still up in the air.

Mox said, “The Headmaster cleared your [Reincarnation] as real and true because of those dogs you made out of shadowolves. I would have thought that someone would have informed me if you had actually cast it on a person, though, since that is exactly what I am here to gain. I had asked them to tell me if such an event had occurred— Doesn’t matter.” She waved a hand. “The reason I want this is manifold, but a few stand out.

“These scars in my body are very old, from when I was a child in Greendale and my Alchemist mother was working on a new way to battle the incani threat. She created a soul-destroying acid brew, meant to be cheaper than the soul destroying weapons commonly used in the Quiet War. It worked. She made more. A nefarious internal plot unfolded once my mother’s acid came to light, and she was able to brew large batches of the stuff. In the end, though, I was a foolish child while all the rest of my family was much more unlucky.

“The Viridian Throne and Oceanside worked together to stomp out those fights among the nobility. When it was over, a kind woman offered me an option of which way I wanted to go; to Oceanside, or back to Greendale. I chose Oceanside. It was there at Oceanside that I learned there was another way to live, outside the Quiet War, and so that is what I did.

“The doctors there did as much as they could for my body and my soul, but there was only so much that could be done. Their magics were enough to keep me alive, and let me grow, but at the same time that acid stripped me of my ability to have children, and it took my eye. For years I healed my eye back, keeping it around as long as I could, but it always rotted out. Never could fix my organs down there, though. Not enough to have a kid.” Mox smiled faintly. “Never stopped me from adopting, which is what I did when I was old enough and found a husband who accepted I could never have children of my own. I adopted, and in abundance, for there were always orphans from the Quiet War. How could I not? For I was one of those orphans myself at one point in time.

“All my kids are grown now, and they’re off having kids and grandkids of their own. I gave them all the best lives I could give them, but I yearn for those times again. And now, with you here and the offer of [Reincarnation] on the table…

“I am here.

“The problems of my childhood have never gone away, no matter which Soul Mage I hire to try and solve the problem. Mostly it's cancers. Every week there is a new one. Soul cancers, too, though those are less common. Curses in tiny little bits that grow as they can into something that destroys from within.” Mox looked to Erick, saying, “So that is why I am here. I am dying, Wizard Flatt. I have been dying for 95 years. I would like to not be dying anymore, and if you can [Strike] it, I think I’d like to have some kids again. If you can’t manage to make my own plumbing work, though, I can always adopt again.”

Erick took a moment to think, but he already knew he was going to accept Mox on his team.

And then he said, “[Reincarnation] is very versatile. I can easily hit your targets.”

Mox steeled herself. She nodded; waiting.

Erick continued, “But you’re going to have to work with incani, and humans. Wrought and shadelings. Dragons, too, along with many other historically dangerous people. Ar’Cosmos is a big one. It seems you have already gotten past the Quiet War, so that is good, but I must iterate for completion’s sake that the Quiet War is not tolerated here. At all.”

Mox gave a tiny grin. “The only forces you touch upon which cause me worry are the Shades I expect to encounter eventually, but I’ve plunged into Ar’Kendrithyst and come out the other side with treasure galore and with Shades fighting each other instead of me. I work around them. If I absolutely have to, I might even be able to work with them.”

“You seem to have no problem with me being a Wizard, either.”

“I’m counting on it.” Mox said, “This world is too full of old hate and dangers spawned by that hate. I’ve seen a lot of people try to stop the evil out there, but you’re the only one to ever get this far. Of course it would take a Wizard to break this world into a better shape. Hullbreaker was a right arsehole, though; he never could have done it.”

“Your file says you were on the take-down team against Hullbreaker. How did that work? What was his final fate?”

Mox nodded. “I was on that team. Finally got the bastard by inserting gold tracking magics into every single juicy target across the entire Letri Ocean. Eventually, one of his crew got sloppy and we found his island, located beyond a ton of Pirate Magic. From there he had nowhere to run, and we grabbed him. He stood trial for his crimes and then the Headmaster sundered his soul, as was befitting for what he had done.” She added, “A lot of myths have popped up about what really happened in those final months because people don’t want to believe it was a lot of hard work that finally caught the guy, or they don’t want to believe that we actually sundered him, but that’s the truth. I was there for all of it, even the end. And sure, luck got us in the door, which is the other thing that people don’t usually believe, but it was all the groundwork we laid beforehand which actually opened that door in the first place. I expect what you’re trying to build here will require a lot of hard work, too.”

“It will.” Erick said, “I appreciate that you already recognize that need.”

Erick decided to test Mox a little.

Erick said, “You’re qualified for absolutely anything I could ask of you, but is there any job you would prefer? I’ve got all the usual ones, and I’m probably going to end up making something like a small council and I would have you on that council, on a seat equal but just below Zolan. There might be a royal court eventually, but I’m not going to call it that.”

“Since the castellan of your House is set, then which is the next most important position?”

She was testing him right back. Good of her.

“Duties can get shifted around as this place gets built up, for I’m not actually sure what is needed. But I know what I need right now is an administrator of the Gate District, or essentially a mayor overseeing international affairs. They will also need to oversee the further urban planning and development of the Gate District, and to run a large office to handle all of that in an organized manner, though all of these positions will likely need to run a large office full of people. Not many people want to come here now, but they will, eventually.

“It is quite possible that all of that will be Zolan’s job; I haven’t decided.

“This place is going to be a metropolis spanning the entire lakeside and spilling tens of kilometers out into the surrounding desert, which will be green by that time. Smaller cities will rise up outside of this particular land.

“A smaller, but no less important job is virtually the same as a Mayor for the Gate District, but for all the lands that have yet to exist outside of this land; the places I’m going to reclaim from the Crystal Forest, to turn back into prairie and actual forest. An Exterior Mayor, if you will, or perhaps more an ‘Overseer of the Exterior’. They’ll probably get to oversee the actual royal court that eventually arises out of… Some forces that have yet to exist, though I won’t call it a royal court. And that won’t happen for a while, either.

“By ‘Exterior’ I mean every city outside of the coast of Yggdrasil’s Lake.

“The mayor of Candlepoint will eventually get a seat on this council I’m building, but I haven’t told him yet, or decided how that will work, either. The man currently in that position is Mephistopheles, a Cultist of Melemizargo, and a shadeling.”

Mox took news of working with a Cultist shadeling in stride.

“All of those appointments are highly political.” Erick moved on, saying, “Less politically, and more enforcement laden: I’m also going to need an administrator of laws, for codifying the rules that we will eventually adopt, and which people will be expected to follow; an overseer of judges and such.

“An overseer of enforcement, to ensure no one breaks any laws, and stuff like that. They will essentially be the guard.

“I don’t plan on having an army.

“I’ll need an administrator of education, to ensure that all children in these lands get an education. I’ll also want to enact some education reforms, which may or may not work out well; I will need to speak with that administrator and suss out what I don’t like about arcanaeum teaching, or not. That’s a long term goal, though.

“And I’ll need an administrator of magic, with a focus on learning about Benevolence. I’ll probably be spending a lot of time there, because I have promised Rozeta that I would do some Benevolence work with her in order to better understand how Benevolence will prevent all future Sundering scenarios…” Erick almost stopped, because mentioning the Sundering got a reaction out of Mox, but he finished, saying, “That administrator will likely get a lot of my attention.”

For a long moment, no one spoke, for Mox was absorbing all that Erick had said.

With a voice almost too hopeful for a woman her age, Mox asked, “It’s true, then? You really can ensure there’s no more threat of a Sundering?”

