The next morning, we cleared camp. Well, mostly cleared.

We packed everything worth taking, dismantled the tents, sorted the remaining supplies, and I had Shingo help me store the bathtub.

The sanctified perimeter itself, however, we left intact.

The wooden spikes remained embedded in the earth, forming a defensive heptagon around the former campsite. The blessed ropes still hung between them, faintly marked with traces of Holy energy.

We gained nothing from dismantling it. Besides, it could help someone else.

“As long as nothing too evil deliberately targets it,” Vena had said while packing, “it should stand for another year or two.”

“Another adventuring group might find use for it,” I said.

“That assumes they are lucky enough to find it,” Kan added.

“We should report the existence of this campsite to the guild and have them decide if they want to use it or not,” Raik said, and that settled the matter.

So we left it behind. A tiny safe haven in the middle of an otherwise deadly zone.

Traveling back turned out to be entirely uneventful. Ja’a detected a few aberrations, but nothing worth making a detour for us to kill.

Eleven straight hours of relative peace, interrupted only by the occasional mindless undead, but mostly just fog, tall grass, and a lot of walking.

By the time Ectamel came into view, the sun was already beginning to sink, and the city was preparing for its nightly ritual. The walls were manned, braziers were being lit, and freelancers were preparing to fight undead in the killing field arenas.

People were already gathering to watch the superhuman feat of strength and magic.

Today, a yellow flag flew over the gatehouses of Ectamel, promising a good spectacle. A city that had somehow turned an endless war against the undead into both industry and entertainment.

Apparently, civilization could find a way to profit from everything, even calamities.

Raik sent a messenger boy to the guild informing them of our return, but we were all too tired to do anything meaningful that evening, so we rented rooms at an inn and decided to delay the report until the following morning.

After a proper night’s sleep and a breakfast of tea and pastries, we decided to split up.

Ja’a, Shingo, Katar, Vena, and Kan volunteered to handle loot disposal.

It was mostly Ja’a’s mission. The rest were there to keep her safe and out of trouble.

“The Ectamel market is ideal for several of these materials,” she explained over breakfast. “Selling everything in Hano would be inefficient.”

“Don’t fleece them too much,” I said.

“I am always fair in my dealings,” She looked offended.

That is technically true. The girl knows how to make deals where everyone ends up happy, with her being the happiest of course, which is an unimportant detail she always forgets to mention.

Meanwhile, Raik, Calr, and I headed toward the freelancer guild branch. Calr was there because of his perfect memory, and as for me, I just tagged along because I wanted to.

Captain Osar of the Lore Clan was already waiting for us. One of the receptionists led us to his office, and we were seated in front of him before she served us tea.

He looked exactly as I remembered. Handsome face, early to mid-thirties, white hair cut short, and a relaxed posture. The salt mage was Ectamel’s trump card when it came to fighting ghosts.

After finishing with the tea, the receptionist sat to the side of the table between the captain and us. She had several sheets of parchment prepared to act as a scribe for the meeting.

Once everyone was situated, the captain gave us a grin.

“So, I am safe to assume that your little expedition was a success.”

“It was, sir,” said Raik with a nod.

“It has been a few years since someone spent a night in the dead zone, let alone a week.”

“The sanctified miracle worked like a charm,” nodded Raik. “The undead completely ignored us.”

“If only we had a cleric here in Ectamel,” the captain sighed.

His wish might be granted sooner than expected. I thought about the rift gate to the Mythic Realm. Ectamel might soon become closer to the Veil Holy Kingdom than to Hano.

Of course, I said none of that aloud.

“We are here to submit our expedition report,” Raik leaned slightly forward as he spoke.

Despite Osar’s relaxed attitude, Raik always seemed to defer to authority.

“Okay, let’s hear it.”

And so we started our reports. Raik handled most of it while the rest of us filled in the details.

“We successfully investigated six locations of interest,” Raik began, placing a map of the area on the table with the locations marked.

“The camping ground, three ruined villages, the lake, and the mine.”

That immediately got Osar’s attention.

“Six?”

His receptionist visibly perked up as if preparing for a long writing session.

“Yes,” Raik confirmed. “We began by securing the hill with the sequoia tree. That is where we sanctified the ground.”

Then we talked about the first village we explored.

“The village was occupied by ghosts that kept reconstituting after being killed,” Raik explained.

“Reconstituting?” Osar asked.

“They kept coming back as the same ghosts over and over again,” I clarified.

“We think they were remnants of telepaths. They acted as one, with some of them fighting while others did the thinking,” Calr added.

Osar looked especially interested in that, so we explained how killing the thinker destabilized them long enough for us to retreat.

“So you were unable to clear the place,” he asked.

“That is what would have happened until she showed up,” I said dramatically.

That earned an eyebrow raise from Osar.

“A banshee showed up and somehow stopped them from returning,” Raik took over reporting, spoiling my fun.

“A what?”

“A banshee, a fragment of the goddess of compassion,” Calr explained. “A mythic creature that looks like a crying woman.”

“Ah, a screamer.” Osar pinched the bridge of his nose. “Those are very dangerous. There is a large bounty on them.”

“What? Why?” I gasped. “They are helpful creatures.”

“Their screams have killed many freelancers,” Osar frowned. “They do not attack Ectamel like other undead, but they are very dangerous when encountered in the dead zone.”

“They are not undead, sir,” corrected Calr. “They are divine creatures from the Mythic Realm. They take the resentment from cursed places into themselves and cleanse it. They can be dangerous when provoked, but they rarely attack first. Only when lost to corruption.”

His receptionist was writing furiously, she didn't have Nada's ink magic so she was struggling to keep up, I looked at the quill and frowned, how hard would it be to create a Fountain Pen or even a Ballpoint Pen.

“There is a ruined temple of compassion here,” Raik continued, pointing at the map. “That is probably where they come from. Once they absorb enough resentment, they likely return there to cleanse themselves. I recommend leaving them alone, sir.”

“I will have my best scout investigate it,” the leader of this branch said, looking at the map.

The next point of discussion was the lake.

“The salt water seems to repel undead,” said Raik. “Although there is a herd of adult giant sauropods living there.”

“Interesting. We are aware of the undead aversion to the lake,” the Salt mage muttered. “We camped there once for a day when I was just a sergeant, although the sauropods seem to be a new addition.”

Then came the cult report. That immediately changed the room’s atmosphere.

“While we were there, we were attacked by the Old Realm cult,” Raik’s tone became noticeably more serious.

He explained how they had tried to ambush us with dreamer magic and how, when it failed, we ended up fighting them. We gave descriptions of all four. Names, abilities, combat styles, and even behavior. We were careful not to discuss Kitame’s power in detail so we would not expose Calr.

“They called themselves Donas’ Daughters,” Raik said, his voice unable to hide the bitterness at that name. “One of them, the one called NoName, can steal powers.”

Having fought her directly, Raik went into detail about how the girl’s powers worked and what it felt like to lose his own bloodline magic.

“They had also been gathering information in Ectamel before deciding to follow us into the dead zone on a whim,” Raik added.

Captain Osar reacted visibly to that information. The thought of the cult operating in his city was clearly unpleasant.

We talked about the other villages we explored as well as combing the surrounding area and killing aberrations before reporting on the mine.

Raik explained how we had discovered undead skeletons strip-mining ore, the strange tunnel network, and eventually the hidden forge chamber.

“The primary threat was a construct-producing entity.” Calr added technical details.

“A what?” Osar frowned.

“They are called spawners. I have read reports about similar monsters up north,” Calr clarified.

That still earned him a blank stare.

That’s the problem with the absence of a centralized adventurer guild. Even captains like Osar only have detailed information about the monsters in their own region. The freelancer guild operates only in Hano and its allied cities after all, and information about monsters gathered by High Rock or other rival cities is not shared openly. Calr knowledge about the creatures was from the temple library, as holy people are welcome in both cities, but even then, they don’t have extensive knowledge about monsters, just what they get in reports by traveling Knights.

“Think of a magical forge-shaped golem that creates golems.” I stepped in.

That made more sense to him.

We described the Doom Balls in detail: the metal ring framework, central skull, rolling movement, and rapid acceleration.

The receptionist scribbled furiously. she even attempted a drawing of our description.

“These constructs should be added to the guild archive,” Raik said. “Future adventurers may encounter similar dangers.”

“Were any samples recovered?” Osar asked.

Raik extracted half a ring from his bag of holding.

“Eight connected rings, like this one.”

The captain examined it with a frown.

When we finally finished, the room was silent for a moment.

“That is..." He exhaled, "... Considerably more eventful than the average expedition.”

We nodded at that.

Finally, we concluded the meeting with the formal bounty submissions.

Raik placed ten aberration monster cores on the desk, each the size of a fist.

Then came one final item. A dead freelancer badge recovered from a revenant corpse.

Osar picked it up carefully, “Where did you find this?” his expression shifting slightly as he saw the sergeant rank.

“On one of the undead,” Raik said.

Osar stared at it for several seconds before handing it to the receptionist.

“We will identify the owner and report it to his next of kin.”

No one spoke for a moment, then Osar leaned back in his chair.

“Well,” he said. “Congratulations are in order.”

“with this, you have completed Elder Haro Okar’s challenge,” he finally said with a grin.

Raik could not help but smile, too.

“I will draft a report with twenty completed missions in Ectamel, three nights of wall defense, six points of interest scouted and cleared, and eleven bounties. That with the rest of the monster bounties you cleared on the roads here, when you return to Hano, you can formally submit everything, and you will earn your promotion to Sergeant.”

“That is good to hear,” Raik visibly relaxed.

Osar glanced at the rest of us.

“You also brought back more useful field intelligence in one expedition than some teams manage in an entire season," he smiled, "Good job.”

With that, the meeting was concluded.

We left the guild branch and met up with the rest of the team at our predetermined meeting spot, a shaded plaza near the central market where a few food stalls served a variety of meals.

The team was already there, claiming a couple of tables. Ja’a was at the center, sitting on a bench with her legs crossed, openly counting silver coins. Her cyan hair was tied into a ponytail, and the satisfied smile on her face told me everything I needed to know.

“You look extra happy,” I observed.

“I am,” Ja’a replied without looking up. She flicked another coin into a growing stack.

“The silver sold at nearly double the going rate in Hano,” she announced proudly. “Copper and tin were also inflated due to local demand.”

She paused dramatically before continuing.

“I also sold a few pearls at a premium.”

“A few?” asked Raik.

“There is not too much demand for them,” Ja’a explained. “But the few who can afford them really wanted them.”

“Anything death-mana related I kept for Hano’s market,” she continued. “There is significantly more demand there, and unlike here, the market actually understands such materials. I even made a few opportunistic purchases to trade in hano.”

“I still cannot believe people are comfortable trading in human remains,” Vena muttered.

She still looked vaguely uncomfortable every time death-aspected loot was discussed too casually.

“Most of it has never been alive in the first place,” shrugged Ja’a.

“Did you at least get supplies for the trip back?” asked Raik.

“Yes,” Ja’a nodded. “Food, dried fruit, tea, replacement rope, feed for the animals, and some cake.”

“That last one was unnecessary.” I gave her a look.

“If you do not want it, do not eat it.” She stuck her tongue out at me.

“I did not say that,” I immediately backpedaled.

We laughed at that, even vena joining in, but sadly, it didn't take much for the conversation to get serious again.

“Though there is talk of trouble in the east,” Ja'a expression shifted slightly.

Everyone who was with her visibly shifted. This must be serious.

“What kind of trouble?” Raik frowned.

Ja’a pocketed the coins and leaned back.

“The rumors are inconsistent,” she said. “Some merchants are talking about armed conflict on the road to Hano.”

“Seriously? A war?” I asked.

“Depends who you ask,” Ja’a sighed. “One merchant said there is an army marching on the road.”

“An army?” Calr blinked. “That sounds improbable.”

“I agree,” Ja’a nodded. “Others claimed it was bandits.”

“Bandits sound much more believable,” said Katar.

“There is disagreement about the location, too,” Ja’a continued. “Some say it is near Veraden. Others claim it is closer to here.”

That jolted a memory loose.

“Wait,” I said.

Everyone turned toward me.

“When I teleported to Veraden to get Katar a silver sword,” I recounted, “I met some suspicious mercenaries there.”

“Oh, really?” Raik raised an eyebrow.

I nodded, slightly ashamed that I had completely forgotten to inform him. He was our team leader and the one with the most experience dealing with politics, but in my defense, I was new at this, and with the Mythic Rift revelation, it had completely slipped my mind.

“They were very rude,” I continued. “Loud, obnoxious, and incredibly pushy with women.”

“A few of them even tried to hit on me,” I added.

“What happened?” Kan frowned more deeply.

“When they refused to take no for an answer, I zapped them with lightning.”

“You beat them up?” laughed Ja’a. “That sounds unlike you.”

“How many did you fight at once?” Katar asked.

“It was three versus one,” I said. “Although they were somehow terribly weak.”

“Nice.” Katar gave me a proud smile. The boy looked genuinely happy that I had beaten up some thugs on my own.

“Mercenaries.” Raik snorted. He said the word like a racial slur. That seemed to be a shared sentiment in the Seven Realms.

Freelancers, despite being functionally sellswords, were treated like celebrities. They had fan clubs, bard songs, and even news of their exploits was actively sought out and shared around.

Which, to be fair, kind of made sense. Most freelancers fought monsters, defended settlements, and explored dangerous areas, but most importantly, they threw around gold like copper, keeping the economy healthy.

Mercenaries, on the other hand, specialized in fighting humans for money. That was considered significantly less honorable.

“Most mercenary companies are parasites,” Raik said. “Very few take legitimate military contracts.”

“They usually accept work intimidating merchants, breaking strikes, harassing weaker nobles, or serving as private muscle,” Calr added.

“So basically fantasy union busters,” I muttered.

No one understood that reference. Should I introduce work unions to this world, or would that get me crucified by the nobility?

“Should we investigate it?” Kan tilted her head.

“I do not know,” Raik sighed. “Most likely, it is a conflict between two noble houses, and interference is above our pay grade.”

Calr looked thoughtful.

“I could check the Ectamel information network for more details.”

Ja’a narrowed her eyes at him.

“Do not get involved with smugglers.”

“No, not smugglers.” Calr shook his head. “This is not a Rift city. There are barely any here.”

“Then who?” she asked.

“I know a place.”

He did not explain further. But I knew exactly where he was going.

“I am coming too,” I grinned at him.

“I would rather you did not,” he grimaced.

“Come on. The cult had a presence here,” I insisted. “You would need backup.”

Ten minutes later, I found myself standing in front of the same brothel from last time.

“I knew you would be back here.” I gave him a teasing look.

“It's a good information hub,” he hissed, trying not to attract attention.

Inside, the atmosphere was exactly as I remembered. Dim lighting, heavy perfume, and the feeling of a cheap tavern that offer "extra services".

Despite the place being full of freelancers of both genders drinking and being merry, I still felt like I did not belong. Still, I tried my best to look outwardly comfortable.

Calr, meanwhile, looked entirely at home.

He found the same mousy-looking girl from before and gave her a wink.

She visibly brightened when she saw him. Whether she found him charming or whether it was because we had overpaid last time was anyone’s guess.

“Well, if it is not my favorite customer.”

Calr gave her a small smile.

“My friend and I want a drink companion.”

“Of course you do.”She giggled suggestively.

She then turned to the bartender and called for some ale, a few coins changed hands, and we were able to secure a corner table.

To maintain appearances, Calr and I sipped our drinks. I was not much for alcohol, even though this was one of the sweetest drink I tried, more honey than alcohol honesty.

The girl sat closer to him than strictly necessary, practically clinging to his arm while they talked.

They exchanged general information through what appeared to be casual conversation. The girl sounded like she was flirting when, in fact, she was reporting on the state of the city and its nobles, as well as gossip about local freelancer teams.

I watched this happen with fascination.

“You know,” I muttered, “you are weirdly good at this.”

“At gathering information?” Calr blinked.

“At looking like you belong in a brothel,” I teased him.

He blushed at that, and the informant girl giggled.

“He is cute,” she smiled.

Calr looked mildly uncomfortable. I just laughed.

After some initial small talk and coded conversational nonsense I could barely follow, the girl leaned in.

“So,” she asked, “what happened to that red-haired girl you asked about last time?”

That got my attention.

“What do you mean?”

“She disappeared,” the girl said. “Not long after you two came asking questions.”

Ah. Right. That's awkward.

She narrowed her eyes slightly.

“You would not happen to know anything about that, would you?”

I exchanged a glance with Calr. Then I sighed.

“You know what? I will give you this information for free.”

The girl blinked. “That sounds ominous.”

“The redhead and her brown-winged Valkyrian friend,” I said, lowering my voice, “were both members of the Old Realm cult.”

The girl froze.

“Oh.” She slowly leaned back.

“Yes.”

“That is significantly above my pay grade.”

“Agreed.”

“Is she dead?” the informant asked.

“Not to my knowledge,” said Calr. “Her cover was compromised, so she likely relocated.”

The girl visibly shivered.

“Well. I suddenly feel much better about never interacting with her.”

“Good instincts,” I said.

“So what do you want this time?” She tapped her fingers on the table.

“We heard rumors of trouble on the Veraden road.” Calr leaned forward slightly.

That immediately got a reaction.

“Ah,” she said. “That.”

“So it is real?”

“Oh yes.”

She lowered her voice.

“The Fearless March Company is currently laying siege to the new Metal Slime village.”

“They are doing what?” I blinked.

She shrugged.

“Apparently, there is some kind of dispute over ownership rights of the village.”

“Ownership rights?” I repeated.

“That is the official excuse. The lord of Veraden wants them as his vassals,” she elaborated.

“And under what justification?” asked Calr.

She smiled thinly.

“A few of his serfs have relocated to the new village,” she explained, “and he claims them as his own under old bloodline rules.”

“But there is no serfdom in the Contested Realm,” the red-haired boy protested. “Everyone has the right to free travel.”

“Tell that to Lord Lain Verra,” she grimaced.

“The village has been profitable,” she continued. “Very profitable.”

“The metal slime cores,” I realized.

“Exactly,” She nodded.

That is bad… I like Loumpa, and his wife was super welcoming when we met her.

“That village was built without support from any nobles,” I frowned. “They do not really have a claim to it.”

“Possession is half the battle,” she replied. “That is why they went on the offensive before the political route could be pursued.”

“Raik is going to love this,” I said sarcastically.

I leaned back in my chair.

“Well,” I sighed. “It appears our peaceful return trip may have been slightly over-optimistic.”

Calr shook his head.

“That does not concern us.”

I blinked.

“What about Loumpa?”

“He can handle himself,” Calr said. “Plus, he is not without friends.”

He placed a few bronze coins on the table before standing up. I added a few of my own before following him.

It appeared our return trip back to Hano was going to have some complications.