“You can't go into the city through these gates.” One of the guards holding the traffic back said. “You'll have to go around.”

“I'd rather help clean up, if that's okay.” Ren said and climbed off of Princess, and the people cleaning up looked at him like he was crazy.

“If you want to help clean this up, go ahead.” The guard said.

“Thanks.” Ren said and walked over to the large extended cart.

“We've got a team of horses coming to help put that upright, but they can't get here with everything in the way.” One of the cleaners said.

“Is there anything wrong... oh, I see.” Ren said as he examined it. “Shattered wheel.”

“Yeah.” The driver of the cart said. “I don't know what happened. All I heard was the crunch of wood and twisting metal, then I was looking up at the sky.”

“You were lucky, you mean.” One of the other cart driver's said and pointed. “Not like that guy.”

Ren turned to look and saw several healers working on a man with two broken legs and a broken arm. His face had a massive bruise blossoming on it, and it looked like they were trying to feed him some kind of potion.

“Actually, he was lucky, too.” Ren said, and the two drivers looked at him. “He could be dead.”

The two driver's didn't say anything as Ren got the plans for the extended cart and realized he would need some molten metal.

“I'll be back to replace the wheel.” Ren said, and they stared at him as he ran over to the city wall, then their mouths dropped open as he crawled up it like a spider. He jumped down the other side and ran to Donan's shop. There was no one waiting to be served, so Ren went right inside.

“Ren!” Donan said and hugged him. “I haven't seen you in a long time!”

“I'm sorry, but it's going to be a bit longer.” Ren chuckled. “I just need a bit of molten metal.”

Donan chuckled. “Help yourself to the smelter, my boy.”

“Thanks!” Ren said and took out the wood to make a reinforced cart wheel, then dipped his hand into the smelter.

“REN! WHAT ARE You... oh, you're okay.” Donan said as Ren spread the metal over the wheel's center for the axle to hold it better, then took more metal to spread over the outside of the wheel.

“There was an accident at the West Gate.” Ren said and stored the new wheel, then grabbed another handful of molten metal and added it to the crucible he had in inventory. “I'll be back soon to visit, I promise!”

“I look forward...” Donan started to say, then Ren disappeared from his shop and he laughed. “Boy, he sure can run now.”

Ren ran back to the West Gate and climbed the wall.

“My Lord, you really shouldn't be...” One of the guards on top of the wall started to say, but Ren ignored him and jumped off the wall to land on the ground outside. “...doing that.”

Ren ran over to the large extended cart and took out the wheel.

“Where did you get that?” The stunned driver asked.

“I made it.” Ren said. “Hold it for a second.”

The driver took the wheel and Ren looked at the large cart.

“I think just storing it should work, rather than trying to flip it back.” Ren said. “Less strain on the other wheels that way.”

“Did... did you say store it?”

Ren nodded and stored it, then took it back out and put it on the ground upright. “There, see? It's upright.” He said and looked at the axle. It was a little warped and deformed, probably because it turned while the old wheel broke up, and he took out the crucible of molten metal.

“Hey, you can't fix that just by pouring metal on it.” The driver said.

Ren smiled at him, then stepped between him and the axle, and poured some of the molten metal out onto the axle. He used his hand to spread it out and used his Fire Manipulation ability to put a lot of the heat into the axle, then used his Iron Grip to bend it back straight with the system's help. He was tempted to use his Repair skill, but he wasn't sure how fixing a metal axle attached to a wooden cart would work.

The driver heard the metal groan, and stood up. “Hey! HEY! What are you doing?”

“Fixing it.” Ren said and stepped back.

The driver stared at the straightened axle and didn't know what to say.

“Wheel.” Ren said, and the driver rolled it over to him. He lifted the side of the large extended cart off the ground, slipped the wheel onto the axle, and eased the cart back to the ground. Ren used the crucible to add enough metal to the end of the axle to hold the wheel on, then examined it. He smiled at the great repair, and looked at the driver.

“Now that the cart is fixed, I'll put the logs back.” Ren said.

“We tried rolling them, but they're too heavy.” The driver said, then stopped talking when Ren stored the three logs closest to them and put them in the extended cart. The other people that were trying to clean up the ore around the logs stopped working and watched as Ren ran around, stored logs, and dropped them into the repaired cart.

By this point, even the people waiting in traffic had taken notice of him and what he was doing, and had left their carts and horses to watch. Ren, completely oblivious to the scrutiny kept working, and finished loading the logs.

“I guess you lost the straps holding the logs.” Ren said to the driver of the cart, and he didn't respond. “I'll just make new ones, then.”

Ren used some Spider Silk cloth to sew up half a dozen long straps, and tied them to each side of the cart to hold the logs inside.

“That's got it.” Ren said. “Where are the horses?”

The driver pointed and Ren saw the horses were grazing in the field between the North and West gates, so he walked calmly over to them and took out a plate of food. He picked two nice pieces of meat and stored the plate, then held out a piece of meat in each hand.

“Hey, you two.” Ren said and slowed his walk so that he wouldn't spook them. “You'd both like a piece of tasty meat, right?”

The horses stopped eating the grass and looked at Ren, who moved his hands lower to show the nice pieces of meat.

“Mmm, delicious.” Ren said and walked closer. The horses lifted their heads and he saw their noses twitch. “That's right.” He said and stopped a couple of feet away. “You can have it.”

One of the horses was bolder than the other and turned to take a piece of meat. When it started to chew and neighed a little bit, the other horse couldn't resist and took the piece Ren had for it.

“There you go.” Ren said as they chewed, and then rubbed their noses. “Take your time with it, it's really good.” He slid his hand along their faces and very carefully took a hold of the reins attached to them. “Come on. You've got work to do when you're done of your snack.”

The driver watched in astonishment as Ren led the horses back over to the large extended cart and reattached them properly.

“Who are you?” The driver finally managed to ask.

“Just someone who wants to help.” Ren said. “You should get a healer to check you over completely, or at least rest for a bit more before driving.”

The driver nodded and watched as Ren went over to the now almost cleared road and started to gather up all of the ore that was there. The other people who had stopped cleaning it up to watch Ren, started working again.

Unlike them, Ren just piled it all into inventory and didn't have to carry it to the carts at all. When he had gathered up everything that he could see, he went to the carts where it was to be stored. He saw the damage they had taken, and since there wasn't anywhere else to put the ore, that was where everyone was putting it.

Unable to take someone using a broken cart to haul things, he made replacement carts for the damaged ones and filled them with the ore in the other carts first, then emptied his own inventory into them and topped them all off. The horses for those carts had already been caught by their drivers before they had escaped, except for the driver who had been seriously hurt. His horse didn't make it.

“I'm so sorry.” Ren said to the driver.

“I won't be driving the cart until I can get a replacement horse.” The driver said. “I have no idea how I'm going to make this delivery, though.”

“Is it going to Donan?” Ren asked, and the driver nodded.

“Then I'll take it.” Ren said. “I'm going there anyways.”

“Are you sure?” The driver asked as the healers kept working on him. “That's a lot for you to...”

Ren chuckled and stored the entire cart.

“...ah, never mind.” The driver said and several people chuckled.

“You can pick the cart up from Donan's later.” Ren said and the driver nodded.

“Okay, people!” The guard holding traffic back said. “Thanks to Lord Ren, the way is clear! Please return to your carts and horses, and be careful of the pits and divots the accident left in the road!”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said and took out the Staff Of Earth. “I'll fix them.”

“You'll fix... wow.” The guard said and watched as the road filled out to be nice and flat again. “That was amazing.”

Ren stored the staff and walked over to Princess, climbed into the saddle, and then heard a smattering of applause. He turned and looked to see the cart drivers, several guards, and some of the spectators were clapping their hands.

“Hey, I had to clean it up.” Ren said. “It was blocking my way in.”

A few of them chuckled, and Ren rode Princess in through the now cleared West Gate.
