“As I said, I’ll give you a proper written report,” Casper reiterated. “But for now, I really need to go rest.”

The Risen had forced himself to appear strong, but it was evident he was close to peeling over simply by standing.

“Understandable, you do look like shit,” Minaga nodded before looking at Jake. “Meanwhile, you look totally fine.”

“Life is a lot easier when you don’t have a crazy, lightning-ridden golem chasing after you,” Jake shrugged. “Oh, one question, though. Did you take inspiration from the Altmar Empire with that golem?”

“Yeah, a little,” Minaga nodded. “Took inspiration from many kinds of golems, but the Altmar were one of them.”

Jake slowly nodded, wondering if Minaga knew about the Neurotar – the race that had created Rigoria – and if he did, if those had also been part of the inspiration for this dungeon.

“I’m leaving now,” Casper said with a sigh as he started walking off. “See you two around.”

“Have a nice recovery,” Jake waved at him, not even going to question that the Risen just wanted to go recuperate in peace. He’d earned it.

“Bye! Remember that report when the experience is still fresh on your mind!” Minaga yelled after him, waving enthusiastically before turning back to Jake. “You know, I would also totally accept an in-depth report about your experience from you, that way, you can really outline-“

“Yeah, I’m off to do alchemy,” Jake waved off the Unique Lifeform as he also turned to leave. “Keep working on the dungeon! It had some fun ideas, and with polish, it could become pretty good.”

Minaga nodded with a big smile before the projection disappeared. Jake also flashed a smile as he walked toward the teleporter that could help take him back toward Haven. He planned on checking in with a few people, checking out some other things he’d neglected, and then finally, as he’d told Minaga, it was alchemy time!

Yeah, Jake really wanted to see that Profession Evolution Quest, and being so close to B-grade, he prepared to make the final push.
