His explanation made sense, so Ali marshaled her forces to attack the powerful, though somewhat battered-looking drake. With both drakes solidly locked down, the fight was quite straightforward, all she had to do was make sure her minions avoided the tail and avoided the front where the breath and cleave attacks would eviscerate and char anything that wasn’t being healed by an army of Kobolds.

As soon as the first drake fell, Mato charged his neighbor, striking with claws that ripped and rended the scales in great swathes. Ali had spent much of the remainder of the fight studying the combat of her Abyssal Stalkers and watching the health of her drake tank, but the difficult part was already over. The final drake collapsed with an echoing crash soon after, and Ali’s chime rang out in her mind once more. She was easily in the habit of ignoring them during battle now, merely using the sound as an indicator to shift her attention to the next foe.

“That worked surprisingly well,” Malika said, clasping her hands behind her back and reaching outward to stretch her shoulder.

“Difficult, but not scary,” Calen agreed.

Difficult, but not scary, Ali thought. It was a good thing to strive for, almost like a motto. She didn’t mind difficult so much, but scary was… well, scary.

“I think we’re quite close to the forge and Thovir Emberforge’s anvil,” she said. “I remember that room in there. I think it was the antechamber.”

They all trooped through into the room, and Ali saw that she had remembered correctly. It was a round room, crafted entirely with ornate dwarven stonework with thick arches and supports for the ceiling. Most of the wall surfaces were decorated with carefully sculpted reliefs depicting various crafters at work. She recalled being surprised that it wasn’t smith- or forge-themed, rather than the broad coverage of all kinds of crafting. Seeing it now reminded her of the curiosity and fascination she had experienced in her youth.

“It should be through that door,” Ali pointed at an enormous archway at the far side of the room.

“Careful,” Malika cautioned. “We still haven’t found the last boss.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
