“Yup.” Kiri said, “And the one in the Script doesn’t allow you to [Teleport] something to yourself, or something from some other place, to some other place. I’m still working on my [Teleport Object]. It’s only tier 2, so I try every day. Never turns out well.”

Erick nodded, then glanced at a different blue box he had open.

Prismatic Ward, instant, close range, 12 hours, Solid Ward, 100 MP + Variable

Create a small, solid area that absorbs Variable damage before breaking.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Purchase Prismatic Ward for 1 point? Yes/No

‘No.’

Not only was [Prismatic Ward] just a spot of solid air, that Erick doubted he could walk around inside, but it was limited to size Small. The [Prismatic Ward] in the Script was a house locked tight; a fortress. Not a home, at all.

Erick dismissed the box, asking, “What happens when I have two Solid Wards?”

“You’re asked which one you want to keep.” Kiri said, “The other is destroyed.”

“I don’t have to tear apart [Crystalline Air] before I try?”

“No?” Kiri asked, “Why would you think that?”

Erick waved her off, saying, “Overthinking.” He looked over Kiri’s [Death Spiral Fire], and asked, “So… What is this spell supposed to look like?”

Kiri stared at her blackboard, and said, “Like a rippling red [Personal Ward], with fire burning through the surface to the core, leaving behind nothing but the grand-rad at the center.” She got a far off look in her eyes, as she said, “I saw a Tower Mage use it when I was a child. Looking back, she probably cast the spell more than once…

“A [Shadowshape] wyrm had just left the treeline. It evaded detection until it made it all the way to my home village. Hunger must have gotten to it by then, because it came over the walls like a shadow. Everything went dark, as it pulled shadows around itself, and began devouring people. It tore through our house…” Kiri breathed. She said, “Then she showed up. Flying in the sky, glowing like a torch. The wyrm instantly went for her. She dodged. She cast. One spell. One second. And that was all it took. The fight was decided. The wyrm burned too brightly to hide in the shadows. But it wasn’t a flickering flame. It was steady, solid fire, that wrapped around the monster; layers of orange and yellow. The wyrm chased her, and she evaded. The wyrm died atop the walls. Nothing else burned; just the wyrm. It was… it was a fantastic fire spell. Control and destruction, all together.”

Erick felt Kiri’s words in his soul, for she had seen the jaws of death, and she had seen the flame of hope burn away those jaws. It was a powerful image.

Kiri looked up at the blackboard, saying, “It was…” She said, “That’s who I hope to be. Someday.”

Erick said, “You will!”

Kiri chuckled.

Erick said, “I don’t have [Conjure Weapon], though. So I can’t do this.”

“You can use [Conjure Armor], but you have to make the offensive version of that spell, first.” Kiri said, “It’s called [Bind]. Many consider this version of [Death Spiral Fire] to be a better version, because this drops the spell a whole tier. If you make it right, you can skip the part where you transform the whip into the wrap.”

Bind, instant, touch, 100 MP

Conjure restrictive binds upon a target. Lasts until the target can free itself.

Kiri added, “But this version of the spell allows the target the ability to free itself by thrashing around enough, which is the opposite of what you want. So.”

Erick nodded. “So I need [Conjure Weapon].”

“It’ll also allow us to spar without your weapon breaking all the time. [Conjure Item] for a staff just doesn’t compare to [Conjure Weapon] for a staff.”

Erick went ahead and bought [Conjure Weapon]. He said, “You sold me.” He looked over Kiri’s spell again, asking, “Do you mind if I try for this, using your method? It seems like a spell that’s close to your heart.”

Kiri smiled softly, saying, “I would love for you to successfully craft this spell.” She looked at the blackboard again, saying, “I’ve got 27 years to go before I can try again.” She added, “I might try for an inferior version before that, though.”

Erick’s eyes widened slightly. 27 years was a long time to try to remake a spell.

… Erick couldn’t help but be reminded of his own mortality. He was already 48. He could live to be 120, on Veird. There was something to HP and [Cleanse] and the constant struggle that ensured long lives on this planet, or at least that’s what people said. Erick was happy for that. These days, he was feeling his age less and less. He was practically a young man, according to the idea of 120 being ‘old’. But still...

Mortality was a part of reality, but hardly anyone ever made it the full run. Monsters took their fair toll. Other people took the vast majority of the rest.

Erick flashed a [Conjure Weapon] sword into his hand, then dismissed it, then summoned another, saying, “I guess I have more skills to level.” He dismissed the sword, and summoned another, getting a feel for the magic as he created a whip, this time. The length of white Force curled to the ground. Erick asked, “Want me to tell you when I try for this spell? It’s going to be today.”

Kiri breathed. She stared at the blackboard. She said, “Thank you. But no.”

Erick said, “Very well.”

- - - -

The morning rains came and went, and so did lunch. Inside of his mage tower, Erick summoned countless weapon variations, from daggers to swords, from maces to spears. And then he summoned a bow. It was a fantasy staple, was it not? Elven archers, or rogues, or what-have-you. Erick only knew the vaguest sort of information about all of that, but only because Jane loved it, and he had to purchase so much of it in the form of presents or gifts. When they could afford the extra expenses, anyway. They weren’t rich, back on Earth. But they had enough.

They were filthy rich on Veird, though. It was a nice change, but Erick could do without the monsters and assassins and hunters and worldwide politics.

Erick ignored all of that train of thought, for a moment, as he held his bow. It was white and completely typical, in the way that Erick thought a typical bow should be.

Erick sent, ‘Hey, Jane? Busy?’

Erick turned the bow over in his hands, and plucked the string. With another summon of [Conjure Weapon], he had an arrow. The bow did not bend well, or Erick wasn’t strong enough. So he remade the bow, and this time, it bent, as he slotted the arrow on the string, and pulled back.

Jane’s reply came, ‘Not really. What’s up?’

He sent her an image of looking down the sights of the bow, his left eye closed, his right eye just above the notch in the back of the arrow, sending, ‘They don’t have bows on Veird, do they?’

Erick loosed the arrow at the wall. The bow cracked, the string broke, the arrow flopped over and tumbled to the ground, where it disintegrated into so much ambient mana. He chuckled.

‘Don’t close your eyes when you shoot.’ Jane sent, ‘And nope, no bows on Veird. They have [Force Bolt]. And I think the process of making a bow is too involved. If they couldn’t do it in hours, then I don’t think it got done. It’s like metal working. Not many metal workers on Veird, either. Or at least not many on Glaquin.’ Jane asked, ‘So you got [Conjure Weapon]?’

Erick remade the bow, focusing on flexible strength, sending, ‘Yup. It’s a large component of [Death Spiral Fire].’

‘You know… All these big spells you’re looking at… They’re vastly illegal in most of the world. But since you’ve been declared an archmage by the Headmaster and you’re already famous, people expect you to have these spells already.’ Jane said, ‘I hope you’re taking this seriously, Dad.’

Erick nocked a new arrow on his new and improved bow. The string broke as he pulled it back. He remade the weapon, and re-nocked the arrow, sending, ‘I am, Jane. Very seriously.’

He loosed the arrow. The white arrow cracked against the stone walls of his tower, shattering into ambient mana. He nocked another arrow, better made this time.

‘I hope so, Dad.’

Erick loosed the arrow. It sunk into the stone, two inches, sending a wild crack two foot up through the stone. He smiled. He dismissed the bow, and [Stoneshape]d the wall back together, sending, ‘See you tonight?’

‘Yeah. I’ll be back for dinner. I’ll head to Firemaw Mountain in the morning.’

‘I will have to make a special dinner, tonight!’

‘I’d be more impressed seeing a [Death Spiral Fire], Dad.’

‘… I’ll have to make that, too.’

- - - -

Erick stood under the afternoon sun, in a desolate stretch of the Crystal Forest, different than the one from yesterday. Except for Poi and a trio of Ophiels he was alone; Erick and Poi had both become much more diligent about checking for hunters and people in the area ever since the incident the other day.

Erick pulled out a piece of paper from his pocket, and read it over again. He put the paper away.

He channeled mana through Mana Altering, feeling the heat of Fire wash across his skin, like being in the center of a non-existent bonfire, as flickering white light rolled up from his hand, like a plasma. [Force Beam] produced an even, cutting light; this was also a plasma, but something deeper. The sounds were close. Very close.

Ophiel took those sounds, and all three of him began to sing a chorus of plasma and heat.

Erick started the cast, and a blue box appeared the very moment a radiant line of red fire erupted from his pointed finger, to strike the sands. The spell practically came together, all on its own.

Pure Fire Beam, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A burning beam of fire deals 3x WIL damage per second for 10 seconds, and WIL damage for 10 more seconds.

Erick moved the beam across the sand, leaving a trail of clinging fire where the line of radiance touched.

The spell ended. Ophiel stopped singing.

Erick channeled mana through [Conjure Weapon], producing a spike of light that laid in his hand, ready to be gripped and wielded against the world. It was the empowerment of self. The ability to carve a bloody hole in this monstrous world, and then to make a home from the carcass. It was the sword on the mantle. The triumph of intellect to create weapons to match the claws and maws of the beasts roaming the land.

[Conjure Weapon] was the most powerful tool in the world, in the right hands.

Ophiel took up that song, and married it to [Pure Fire Beam].

It was a song of cutting. Of the edge of a primal fire, slicing through worries and fears with bright flame, disintegrating enemies into pieces, and warming oneself with those burning remains. It was a violent song, for a violent time in a violent world.

It was a hair-thin line, weaving between destruction and safety; a line that moved based on the flow of battle, but that would come back to lop his own head off if he wasn’t careful.

Erick was totally going to lop off a limb if he tried to make a [Fire Whip].

This was a bad idea.

Erick had Ophiel halt his song, and strung magic through [Telekinesis]. It was control at a distance; a faint white light on his palm, but an intent that spread far, meters, even, out from Erick’s glowing hand.

Ophiel took up the song of [Telekinesis] and [Conjure Weapon]. It was ranged destruction. A song of someone calling the shots from afar. Of sending swords to distant shores to guard the vulnerable homeland.

Erick cast.

A meter long sword, sharp and white, hovered in front of Erick, along with a blue box.

Flying Weapon, instant, close range, 100 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that flies at your command. Lasts until dismissed.

With a mental push, Ophiel took up this new song and joined it to [Pure Fire Beam]. The resultant harmony sounded like a degree of resigned separation; a divorce of power from intent, that would allow that power to run rampant, to do what it must, while the center controlled the fight from the outside.

Erick focused on that idea, on a song fulfilled, on the perfect harmony of wanton destruction wielded at a distance.

The flying sword vanished. In its place, appeared a dagger made of white flame.

Plasma Cutter, instant, medium range, 133 MP + Variable

Create a controlled, flying weapon of flame that deals weapon damage, and leaves burns for 3x WIL damage per second, for 10 seconds. Weapon lasts until dismissed.

Erick dismissed the dagger, then recast [Plasma Cutter], creating a line of white fire in the air. Erick controlled the thread-like weapon to dance like a snake, and it did; perfectly. Erick moved the line of fire til one end held the other. He set it spinning. Motes of white plasma laced from the burning ring; a buzzsaw blade of flame.

Erick thought about Allan, of Yetta’s former team, and was conflicted. He tried to kill Jane, but he didn’t really. He would have known that Jane would have felt that invisible buzzsaw coming for her, right? It was all just an act? Whatever the case, it was hard to feel mad at a guy who knowingly sacrificed himself to kill Planter.

… Erick wasn’t strong enough to kill any Shade. Not like this.

He dismissed the thread-weapon, then pulsed another burst of sword-like [Plasma Cutter] into the air, twice, three times. Soon, seven white blades, each five foot long and flaming, hovered in front of Erick, like the bars of a jail cell. White flame transformed to yellow and orange as plasma flowed away from the blades, into the air. But the air was not overly hot; the force of the fire was constrained to the flying weapons. Erick looked back to Poi, who was suddenly standing another twenty yards away. Erick smiled.

Erick called out, “I was just about to ask you to stand back!”

Poi replied, “I could tell!”

Erick set the flaming swords around himself, handle pointed toward him, blades pointed outward, equidistant from each other. With a push, he sent the blades spinning, like the world’s most scary hula hoop. Waves of heat rolled up from the spinning, circled blades, as they spun faster and faster, whirring in the air like the sounds of a helicopter. Erick held the reins of this power, and knew that this was not his way. He would not use this weapon like this; it was too foreign.

Adding to that, the constant drain of that ‘Variable’ part of the spell had eaten away a thousand mana in under thirty seconds, even with his regeneration being as high as it was.

