Calen flew steadily southward, studying the endless miles of dead, blighted forest. Lira had been asking if he knew anything about the blight and if it was fading at all, but sadly, apart from the first couple of miles where the bronze adventurers had been clearing the undead and explicitly purifying the blight with expensive elixirs, the miasma seemed stronger than ever.

About ten miles from the ruined town of Lyton, he saw a dark cloud rising from where the small town had once stood. A cloud that to his eyes looked nothing like a natural rain cloud or pillar of smoke. On a hunch, he used Eclipse to cloak his presence from any eyes that might be watching and pressed on. Eclipse was harder to use with his glowing wings, but it still made him much more difficult to see. He drew closer and his eyes began to make out shadowy figures wheeling in the cloud.

Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level 43 x5

The skin on the nape of his neck prickled as he recalled facing one of these in the grand library, but that had been a dungeon boss, and these seemed to be just undead.

Random high-level undead dragons flying in a black ominous cloud. Not at all suspicious.

He added his stealth skill from Explorer, cloaking the sound of his passage, and continued.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.Ruins of Lyton – level 84Affinity: Death.Age: New.Known Creatures: UndeadKnown Bosses: --Dungeon

A new dungeon? His caution ratcheted up several notches and he continued to scan the ground carefully as he flew onward. A dungeon that was at the extreme range of his ability to identify – in fact, without his blessing of the wanderer, he wouldn’t have been able to see the level. How a new dungeon had gotten to such a high level so quickly was only one of the unexplained questions running through his mind.

Carefully, he skirted Lyton itself, not wanting to tangle with the skeletal wyverns and whatever the black cloud was, but now that he knew a death affinity dungeon was involved, he had a few guesses as to what the cloud might be. An undead blight was perhaps the least terrifying.

He flew further and further south, discovering two raid bosses – a skeletal wyvern, higher level than they had fought in the library, and a death affinity wight which was flying around above the trees with a horde of skeletons and zombie minions lurking below it. When he finally reached the ruins of the first town, he still had not left the domain of the dungeon, and he had counted several more bosses and looming clouds of whatever death magic it was creating.

The first town he was searching for was simply missing. In its place, he found only a broad patch of treeless dirt inhabited by some kind of oversized ghoul he wasn’t inclined to tangle with. The second two towns were ruins, scoured bare of anything that seemed to indicate life. Of the merchant caravan, he found no signs, which, given he was in a dungeon, was hardly a surprise. Dungeons could consume almost anything to make themselves stronger, for a dungeon of this size and extent, a caravan or a town hardly presented a challenge. He found himself a relatively safe spot and began to take detailed notes – likely it would take longer than he had expected to scout the full extent of this new rogue dungeon.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
