“Well.” Vanya hemmed, “Not ‘easy’. Not something I would want to actually make, either.” She changed the subject, “What are you two doing in town, if you’re not delving today? What’s there to see in the city?”

Nero easily took to the change in subject, “Storm’s Edge is wonderful. You must try the bakeries…”

They spoke for a while, long after the breakfast hour was up and done. Eventually, though, they separated. Breakfast had been great, and so had the people.

It had allowed Soltic to put off his talk with Vanya, but the tension remained, and soon… They’d talk about it.

- - - -

Soltic waited till they were back in their room and the door was shut, to say, “I thought about what happened last night and I cannot do ‘no contact’. I want another way.”

Quilatalap took one look at Erick, and said, “We’ll both be alive five years from now, and then for many more years after that. I ask you not to make this emotional and difficult. I still love you. You still love me, right? Could we simply enjoy our time here? Instead of worrying about the future?”

Erick paused, wondering if he should say what he really wanted to say. If it was smart, or good, or whatever you wanted to call the tangle of emotions that were crushing his heart right now.

He decided he did want to continue.

“I love you, too, but I am not sure you actually love me, or if you were just using me for the protection I could provide, and if that difference even matters.”

Okay.

Shit.

He had said it.

Fuck.

Quilatalap froze. And then he thawed in small parts. In the shoulders of his current body, and then in his breath, and then in his eyes. A deep sadness seemed to envelop the room, centered on Quilatalap.

Erick waited.

In a slow, perfect sort of way, Quilatalap cast a spell that enveloped the room, tendrils of power slowly taking over the space, as he said, “This is a spell that will fool all onlookers into seeing us talk about things that don’t matter.”

To distract himself, Erick wondered why he didn’t have that spell yet. Perhaps he would have that spell if he had bothered to keep up with his magic as much as he should have, but he had had a nation to run…

And silence was stretching, because Quilatalap didn’t know what to say, either.

And then Quilatalap looked directly at Erick, and spoke softly, “I don’t love like normal people. My emotions are not natural. I am a lich. My emotions are the product of inscribing those emotions into my being, and creating a body to house and more easily enable those emotions. Nothing about me is natural. I do a decent job faking most of the time, and relations of all sorts help to solidify those emotions as real, for if I don’t have any normal relationships then I start to get weird. It’s a problem that all liches suffer from.

“About ten days into our relationship, back at the overtaking of the Sovereign Cities, I decided to make myself love you. And so I did.

“I have not regretted this decision. I still love you, in all the ways I can.

“And I have chosen to keep loving you, because I have decided that I enjoy you, as a person. And yes, you have given me an opportunity… Safety. All of that. But if I did not like you, then I would have simply left. You are not the only person in this world who I can ally myself with, but you are the one I choose to continue with, into this great big future that The Wizard of Benevolence is creating for us all. I’m very glad that you’re still just Erick to me, though.

“Are you okay with that? With how I am? If you are not… then…” His voice trailed away.

Erick had a minor whirlwind of thoughts.

Erick had tried a phylactery experiment with Quilatalap years ago, back when he was still going for Full Wizard accretion, and there had been a lot of focus on creating the brain properly, and using various bits of Book Magic and Mind Magic and the study of living subjects and quite a lot of pure artistry. Erick hadn’t been able to do the Mind Magic, though, so the project was mostly halted there.

“I thought that liches created bodies and the bodies held emotions, because that is what biology does, with serotonin and other chemicals and pathways in the brain.” Erick looked to Quilatalap. “But you changed yourself in your soul.”

An accusation. A change that Erick had not known.

A self-made soul-mutilation, in order to make all the rest of what was to come easier?

“I did,” Quilatalap said, without remorse. “And I kept that love strong because of many different reasons. Primarily that I like who you are, and you fit well with every part of me. Your love of magic, your ability to stand on your own. Your power.”

They hadn’t ever had this conversation before, but they had had shades of this conversation. Glimpses in the dark. But now, the truth of Quilatalap stood out there. He was a self-constructed person, who chose who to love, and then made that love happen.

Erick had known that Quilatalap made himself, but the depth of that creation had been talked around; obfuscated until now.

Was he any better, though, for his own reasons for loving Quilatalap? No. What a weird thought. ‘Better than’. Bah! Power was a perfectly reasonable reason to love someone—

Oh.

Holy shit.

Why had Erick even brought this up.

He loved Quilatalap because Quilatalap was capable of defending himself from anything and everything. He had survived an attack by Melemizargo’s Champion. He had survived the Sundering. He was powerful, and that was the only real thing that made this relationship work between them.

So what if he made himself love Erick after only… A couple of weeks, most spent in a [Hasted Shelter].

Erick’s face flushed red in embarrassment. “I did not know you changed yourself that early in our relationship. I love you, too. I’m… Sorry that I brought it up.”

Quilatalap grinned a little, in a sad sort of way. “I’m sorry that this is happening, Erick. That we’re being separated like this. But I want to walk openly, all around the world. I don’t want to upset the offer on the table, either.”

“Of course. Of course. I’m an idiot. Sorry. Yes, you want this… I know that— I’m just worried. Worried about a lot. Worried… Just worried.” He strongly added, “And I don’t like that Sininindi simply doesn’t want me around Everbless, so that’s why I can’t be around here. That particular fact has always been annoying, but acceptable.” He looked at Quilatalap, at ‘Vanya’. “It’s not really acceptable anymore, and I’m not sure how to fight that without ruining this for you… or for Yggdrasil.”

Quilatalap said, “It’s only 5 years. I’m not going to change myself in that much time.” And then, scared yet hiding it, he asked, “Are you?”

“I might!” Erick blurted.

Quilatalap just stood there.

“I’m supposed to become a Full Wizard at the end of this and there’s surely going to be some big shit happening when I free Yggdrasil, and I want you there by my side, Quilatalap. Not just because you’re you, but because I want you there.”

Quilatalap straightened. “Ah.”

“Yes! ‘Ah’.” Erick relaxed. “So I’m worried.”

Quilatalap instantly said, “Tell Sininindi that you’re not going to do this without being allowed to visit.”

Ah.

He reversed that…

That quick?

“… You’re okay with potentially ruining this? Or having her request even more from you than she already has? Because that’s the impression I got from her when we spoke.” And you have that impression, too.

“I am not okay with ruining this, but… Maybe it won’t be ruined if you ask to change some small things. Maybe letters?” Quilatalap decided, “Letters would be good. What did she say to you? Exactly?”

“To stay away. No contact, 5 years. Bare contact through [Telepathy]. It was rather sparse, but repeated a few different ways; she made herself clear. What did she tell you?”

Quilatalap wasn’t sure where to begin, so he started with, “I must embody ‘Vanya’ for 5 years, or until my cover is blown by someone else, and if that should happen then I should continue my work anyway, and the problem will be resolved through… Well. She wants you to solve that political issue if politics should happen.”

“And I will. Gladly.”

Quilatalap smiled a little. “She wants me to become a part of the community here; hopefully as Vanya, but if my cover is blown, then I will be a part of the community as Quilatalap, and she will protect me as long as I operate within her requirements. I don’t foresee that being a problem. But until my cover is blown, even inside the dungeon I cannot be myself until I can create a Grand Dungeon space. According to what she wants, I expect it will likely take me and a repro about a year of work to get the dungeon operational and the Second Script worked out properly. The dungeon she wants is extensive and I’m looking forward to it, because she wants to make extensive use of the False Society option, so I know I’m going to miss any sort of weekly checkup though [Telepathy].” He added, “But… You should be able to visit. Maybe not every night, but… More than a 5 year wait. Letters, at least.”

Erick realized a current truth.

Even if contact was allowed, Quilatalap would want to call off 9 out of every 10 dates, and he’d be working overtime. He’d barely be a part of anyone’s lives, except for the life of the dungeon he wanted to create.

“You’re really interested in the project.”

“Yes. A lot.” Quilatalap grinned. And then his grin faltered. “It’s. Uh. A big project. I’m pretty sure that you’d have to personally barge into my life to bring me out of working-mode like you have a few times before.” He rapidly added, “Nothing is going to happen to my love for you, but I understand that you’re going to be going through a lot, so if something should happen, and if you need me, I’ll be there for you. But also… I know how pure-biologic emotions work, and last night when I asked if you wanted to talk about our relationship, I was worried that maybe you'd think that you were going to fall out of love with me… If you were away for 5 years, or more like 10 or even 20, with Time Magic and becoming a pure Paradox Wizard.” Quilatalap stated, “You’re the one much more likely to fall out of love here.”

Erick’s heart skipped several beats. He wanted to decry Quilatalap’s theory. But…

Quilatalap was the 3000 year old immortal. He had been through this sort of thing several times before.

Quilatalap breathed deep, then looked straight at Erick, and said, “We’ve never really talked about that, but I think it’s time.”

Neither of them had sat down yet. They were both standing in the center of the room, both of them moving around a little as they spoke. Both of them were still looking like Soltic and Vanya. But now, Quilatalap sat down in one of two chairs by the wall. He gestured to the other.

Erick sat down across from Quilatalap.

Quilatalap said, “I’ve known Paradox Wizards before. I am a follower of Phagar, and I have known a lot of Paradox Wizards. I think you’ll make a good one when it finally happens. But there’s something about all that which you don’t realize. Something that maybe only I or Melemizargo or Phagar could ever really talk about with you.

“You’re going to live forever, Erick.

“But more than that: You’re going to travel through time and back again. You probably already have, and you don’t know it yet, and I mean more than a [Return] or whatever. Much more. From one chronologically-connected day to the next, you might have lived a thousand years in another time. Another place. And then you will have come back to wherever you were before, and you will be changed in ways that no one else has been changed.

“It’s going to be lonely. You’re going to have to ensure you remain sane, all on your own. You will see worlds crumble and rise, and civilizations fall and be born again from books left over and then found in an excavation, a hundred years later. More than an immortal, you will become unbound by causality.

“And I’ll be here.

“Just being myself, living through life at a normal pace, accidentally teaching someone something they shouldn’t know, probably trying to clean up a mess or ten. People think that as an archlich I’m some amazing person, or some horror from beyond the Dark, but the truth is I’m just a guy who chooses how he wants to be, and my life is much, much smaller than everyone thinks. I’ll be here, and you’ll be elsewhere, and that’s okay.

“I’m okay with not seeing you for a hundred years, and then picking up right where we left off. I can do that. I have done that. There have been others before you, that I have loved, and been loved in return.” With dry eyes, because he wouldn’t allow himself to shed a tear, he said, “If one of them should show up miraculously then I’d hope we could all get along together. But they won’t...

“I don’t want to say their names because that hurts, but I have done the disjointed relationship thing with others. Sometimes out of necessity, sometimes because we go our separate ways and then meet later and take up where we left off because we want to.

“But time makes a mockery of relationships, and the need for comfort causes all sorts of problems that are best headed off before they happen. To that end, most people like me, like you, have had relations outside of each other, because sometimes that’s just what happens.

“I haven’t done that with you, though, because we had that talk early on, and we agreed on a closed relationship.” Quilatalap said, “But once you become a Full Paradox Wizard, things are going to change. If you should find yourself stranded a thousand years in the future, and you can’t come back, but I’m still there? In that future? I’ll pick up right where I left with you, or I might have moved on, and we’ll make some decisions at that time. But it’s good to know, now, the shape of what might happen there in the future. Or even in the past.

“Paradox Wizards often go both ways, and sometimes even sideways, and there’s no telling what sort of people you will meet, or where Time will take you.

“This five year thing happening right now is not a big deal to me, except that it is a big deal to you.” Quilatalap said, “How big of a deal it is, is completely dependent on your feelings and what you want, Erick. I’m not going to stop loving you; that part of me will always be part of my soul.”

Too many thoughts. Too many spiraling futures.

All that really mattered, though, was that Quilatalap loved Erick, and Erick loved Quilatalap. The exact nature of that love was barely a concern.

