Erick rose from his chair, took Quilatalap’s hands into his own, and felt the quickening pulse of their beating hearts in his hands. “I love you. Change back to Quilatalap please.” Erick changed back, too, turning his full height as his crown of black horns came out.

Quilatalap smiled, chuckled, changed, and stood eye-level with Erick, his green skin radiant as the rest of him. His soul revealed itself next. That tooth-lined maw might be the last time Erick got to see him, as he truly was, for a while. Because Quilatalap wasn’t really his body. Quilatalap was his soul.

Erick wasn’t at that stage quite yet, but eventually, he would be a crystal pretending to be a person. It wasn’t quite the same, but it was similar. In the coming centuries… Well. Those would happen as they happened, and all that time was far, far away.

Five years was nothing.

But five years was still five years.

“Ophiel is going to miss you, too,” Erick said.

The little guy dropped down from overhead, unfurling into a ball of wings and eyes, to land atop Erick’s head. He held onto Erick’s black horns as he twittered in happy notes. He wasn’t quite sure what was going on, but he knew enough to ask, “Quilatalap hiding?”

“For a little while,” Quilatalap said.

“Okay!” Ophiel said, and then he hopped off of Erick’s head, and went back to hiding in the mana. “I hide, too!”

“You’re very good at hiding, Ophiel,” Quilatalap said, holding Erick’s hands. “But could you give your father and I a little while alone?”

Ophiel turned his many eyes away, and that was enough.

Erick asked Quilatalap a quiet question about the strength of the hiding magics. Quilatalap said they were strong enough for the next hour, for whatever they wanted to do, for all intruding sounds and sights and mana sense would all be fooled while this magic held well, and it was holding very well.

They made that hour count.

Afterward, Erick said, “Let me know when you want me to step in and help with all of this. Or when the time for hiding is over.”

“I will,” Quilatalap said, softly.

- - - -

Soltic stepped to the edge of the kilometers-wide, open air Pit.

Storm’s Edge’s dungeons rested like black holes-in-the-world, hovering above channels Shaped into what had been a natural, central valley 15 years ago. Before that, it had been a land of rainforest, dense with whatever monsters Storm’s Edge couldn’t clear from the trees fast enough. Now it was a place of bare rock, craters, landshaping, and yes, monsters. Right now some monsters were even floating up the southern monster road, headed up from the southeastern side of the island. They had been flying for a while, probably, guided by the thick mana that held upon the Shaped road, a hundred meters down from where Soltic stood, with Vanya.

These particular monsters were floating whales, 5 of them. Small ones, too. Streamlined and about 4 meters long, they were bright black and the air around them seemed saturated with some sort of unknown power. They floated in perfect formation, too, which was another oddity.

Soltic pointed to the ‘whales’ hovering atop the road, so far below. “Don’t think I’ve seen that type before.” He looked back to Vanya, and felt his heart buoy with a small surety of joy. “Any idea what they are?”

With bright eyes, Vanya said, “The common name is shadow whales. Rather rare, actually! They’re a hive-type, all one monster, which starts from a single whale which soaks in the shadows long enough to produce a second whale. They have a whole life cycle of making many of themselves and then making one large enough to produce live births. That one looks like an adult which has lost its birther.” She said to Erick, “Five whales is about as large as a normal pod gets.”

“Dangerous?”

“I’d rate it at about a 5 star threat; any veteran adventurer could handle a smaller group like that. The non-flying version is much more common, and that’s only a 4 star threat. A pod with a birther in it is a 6 star threat. They were made by the Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst about 800 years ago in an effort to produce a smart predator into the oceans. The non-monster variant is grey dolphin, which came about later due to some necromancers of Quintlan messing with the base monster.”

Soltic smiled as he listened to Vanya. “You’re amazing.”

“Ehhh! You know all of this stuff, too.”

Soltic laughed. “I most certainly do not!”

“Well... Maybe not the deeper history.” Vanya demurred, “Let’s suit up.”

Both of them were in their adventuring clothes; comfortable pants, long sleeve shirts, small backpacks filled with a few essentials but not much at all. No gloves. Decent boots, but not solid boots, made to take real abuse. It was a standard delver’s outfit, all the better to wrap themselves in [Conjure Armor] and to grasp [Conjure Weapon]s with, for those would provide the actual defenses; the clothes were just for comfort.

They cast those defensive spells now.

Soltic swirled with shadows, wrapping himself in metallic black armor; the same color as his magic. It was utilitarian and smooth, able to provide some protection from glancing blows, without providing places for claws to find purchase. The helmet fully covered his head and would provide safe air for breathing for as long as they didn’t piss off the dungeon. If they did that, then the controlling force behind the dungeon might just [Dispel] his armor, and he’d be back to simply wearing his adventuring outfit.

The dungeon should play nice with them, though, since their plan was to play nice with it.

Vanya covered herself with the same shape of armor, but hers was purple.

They were each a 7-Star rated adventurer, and both of them could be relied upon to kill a rampaging wyrm or two on their own, and they certainly looked the part. Mostly. But even fully kitted out, they were still considered naked in some circles. Years ago, before the dungeons had come about, a standard adventuring team of Soltic and Vanya’s star rating would have each worn a bandolier of wands of various flavor, from [Force Bolt] to [Treat Wounds] if they were really rich; magic to test out various dangerous looking things without needing to expend their own mana, and magic to heal, when they got fucked up.

But now, with the dungeons, things had changed.

Because most Script spellwork didn’t work on the other side of those [Gate]s to Darkness (unless someone knew the trick and had a core to utilize the trick) wands and other Script-supported magic items were useless. Some dungeons allowed for some Script magics, but not here, not at the Pit of Storm’s Edge. Healing Magic was almost universally disallowed inside every dungeon, with few exceptions, but Healing Magic wasn’t truly necessary inside a dungeon like it was out here in the real world. When people died in a dungeon, as they often did, they were brought back through a [True Resurrection], and either thrown outside or deposited in a safe area. For the Pit, they were deposited near the entrance.

Erick hoped he wouldn’t need to experience that phenomenon. He hadn’t been in many dungeons except for Quilatalap’s, and that was on purpose. These places were very capable of killing a person. Quilatalap died regularly when he went inside unknown dungeons and poked around.

If necessary, Erick still had all of his power to draw upon, if he wished, but a manual [Witness] was still possible inside a dungeon space; a dungeon couldn’t stop normal magic from working. It couldn’t stop aura control, and elemental bodies, and various baser, more personal magics, like one’s draconic nature. So, if necessary, Erick could [Luminous Beam] whatever lay inside, but that would give away the game to whoever might be inside, watching, be they dungeon master or someone else...

“What’s the dungeon master look like again?” Soltic asked. “I know almost nothing about this dungeon and I know you don’t either, but... What are we not supposed to kill?”

Vanya hopped into the air, the world fracturing under her purple Force boots and along her edges as she held herself aloft on basic Force Magic, to float past the lip of the Pit. “I’m sure it’ll be obvious!” she said, perhaps a bit too happy about the unknown awaiting them. “Let’s just tackle it like any old unknown dungeon!”

Soltic held himself back from complaining about that.

Vanya seemed happy.

So Soltic stepped into the air, like he was stepping upon stone; the wind turning solid underfoot, and that patch of [Stone Air] turning controllable at his whim. He was a Stone Warrior, and so that all made sense. Not as versatile as a Stone Mage, but he got by with the few tricks he was capable of casting himself. He allowed one of those tricks to show now; With a flick of his hand, he summoned a standard-shaped longsword in his right hand, but that sword shimmered with Force and Metal Magic. Soltic dabbled in Metalwork, too.

Erick had chosen this ‘Stone Warrior’ facade because almost everything about his natural durability was explained by the durability of properly cast Stone Magic. Erick, of course, still had access to every single Elemental Body, but for now, as Soltic, the only ones he would be using were [Stone Body], and some aura control. Primarily aura control, though, because [Stone Body]… Well. Stone Magic might fail altogether inside the dungeon.

And sometimes diving into the stone was like diving into an open maw.

Soltic and Vanya descended from the lip of the Pit, down onto the walkway that led to Dungeon 5 about 500 meters away.

Soltic asked, “How much of our kits can we expect to have access to?”

“A good amount!” Vanya said, smiling as she stepped down onto the ground of the Pit. She led the way forward, a conjured shield of Force appearing at her right, hovering at her command. She looked around as she walked, saying, “Now when is that Gold Taker going to show… Or has it already. Hmm.”

The ‘Gold Taker’ had already touched them and acknowledged them as they were descending; the invisible, ethereal, kilometers-wide tentacle monster tapped them with the very tips of its tendrils, paying special attention to the rings and badges that identified them, before moving on. Neither of them had felt the touch at all, and the Gold Taker hadn’t felt out Ophiel, either, who hung out in the air around Soltic and Vanya. Ophiel kept back on purpose, though, so there was no chance of him being found.

Probably.

He wouldn’t be going in the dungeon, either.

Everything was going well, really. Both of them knew that they would be scrutinized by people with [Witness] once it became clear that Vanya was here to change the dungeons, so it was best to pretend for a longer con.

Soltic waved his sword back and forth as he walked, as though he was fending away some invisible thing— And then he stopped that, and said, “Ah. We’re not supposed to engage with the Gold Taker, are we?”

Vanya smiled as she briefly turned back toward Soltic. “Best not.”

Soltic held his sword at the ready, but not actively.

They encountered nothing untoward as they made it all the way to the dungeon entrance, where a black ring hung in the air like a gaping hole in the world. Beyond that space was a land of open air and stone roads.

Vanya went first. Soltic went second.

Ophiel flitted away, off to have an adventure of his own, no doubt, while his father was busy inside the Domain of the Dark.
