Erick almost woke naturally, with twilight filling the world beyond the windows, sunrise not too far away. It was the sort of morning that he had not experienced in a long time. Usually there was some twitter from Ophiel, signaling a new day, or a message from Poi, signaling some disaster. Today was different, though. Today, Erick had woken to the sounds of people moving around outside the room.

It was almost panic-inducing, for the sounds of unknown people outside of his room usually presaged assassination. But. No. No one was coming to kill him. Some guys next door were getting their armor on and getting ready to go out to the dungeons, or something; that’s all the noise was. Most other people in the hotel were asleep—

Erick’s stomach dropped as he remembered last night’s disaster, and realized the other half of the bed was empty; a lingering warmth already fading in the gentle purple light of morning. Quilatalap was gone.

But not really.

Erick glanced further through the mana, down the wooden hallways, through the guildhouse hotel, to the main room. People milled around, noisily and pushy, at least 50 of them, all standing around the chalkboard and the people working that chalkboard. An assistant telekinetically flicked chalk across the big board, while a teller called out names he had drawn from a box, and groups either cheered or moaned that they weren’t the ones put up there first. Every slot that was claimed was one less that they could claim for themselves.

There were not enough slots for everyone there, and all the people waiting in the wings, waiting for their turn. There were 7 dungeons, and each of them were being run every 2 hours, but since the day started at 7 and ended at 4, it meant there were only 35 slots per day.

And some groups had signed up multiple times; the slots were filling up fast.

Erick spotted Quilatalap, as Vanya, next to Barda, both of them hanging far, far back from the group, near hundreds of others, all of them there for the morning rush. Most of them looked like soldiers, but there were a few clearly-adventurers among the crowd, like Vanya and Barda. Nero was inside the crowd of people holding up his adventuring badge and another, local-made badge that indicated he was a local—

The teller called out his name, and he got dungeon 5, 11:30. Nero cheered.

… And Erick thought back to what they had said yesterday. He had thought that Barda and Nero were going for a later time slot. They had told Vanya and Soltic not to bother waking up before noon. Erick had assumed that Barda and Nero wouldn’t be waking up this early, either.

For a long moment, Erick simply lay in bed, thinking about everything.

He went over last night’s revelation from Sininindi. Five years away from Quilatalap; no contact.

He did not like that.

‘Soltic’ got out of bed, and decided on a few things. The only real decision he could make, himself, was that this ‘no-contact’ shit simply was not going to happen. Maybe they’d do letters, or something. But then there was the other realization. He would probably be splitting from Quilatalap, since that is what Quilatalap seemed to want.

Erick was finally confronting some uncomfortable truths about his relationship with the Archlich of Necromancy Itself.

Chief among those truths was that Quilatalap was perfectly fine with being whoever he needed to be to ensure his own safety in the world. Erick was pretty sure that ‘whoever he needed to be’ had been, for a while, ‘Erick’s Boyfriend’. Erick had almost spoken to Quilatalap about getting married years ago, but then…

Well. A lot had happened, and Quilatalap had sort of…

He’d not been interested in having that conversation, or having any sort of conversation anywhere near that sort of commitment. He didn’t even want to move in with Erick to the cloud castle. He preferred being alone in his dungeon, but not really alone; he loved when Erick was there every few days. Quilatalap had said that he loved Erick, but he just didn’t like being around anyone that much, and so, Erick had respected that… Strangeness.

Or at least it was strange to him.

Mortals, when the stars aligned and circumstances were favorable, lived and died together.

Immortals moved in and out of relationships like the tides coming and going from harbor.

According to Quilatalap, in an abandoned conversation they had had a long time ago, sometimes immortal relationships were like mortal relationships, but even the long ones usually broke up for whatever reason, because people grew, even when they did not age. And so, Erick had accepted that their relationship was one of the ocean meeting the land when the moons were overhead…

The moons had been overhead for a while, but they looked to be heading out.

But Erick wasn’t ready to give up without a fight. Some conversations needed to be had.

Soltic went to the bathroom, did his morning routine, took a really nice hot shower, and he came out with his beard shaved and his braids freshly woven, and not a hair out of place. Erick never was one for beards, anyway; they hid the face, and ‘Soltic’ did not want his face hidden at all for the conversations that were to come.

As he stepped out of his room, ready for what may come, the sun was rising, and the hubbub in the front room had died down to people waiting for their turn at lines for food inside the cafeteria. Breakfast was in full swing, and Soltic’s stomach grumbled at him.

He was glad that he had waited several hours to talk to Quilatalap about whatever was to happen next, for if he had spoken about everything right after it had happened, he likely would have said something he did not wish to say. Quilatalap might have done the same.

- - - -

Soltic walked into the cafeteria, grabbed some food, and headed over to the four-top table where Vanya, Barda, and Nero sat, eating breakfast together.

There was a space reserved for him, and so, Soltic sat down, saying, “Good morning!”

Barda and Nero were surprised at seeing new-mood Soltic, for the Soltic of yesterday had been a dour sort of guy. Now he was freshly shaved and looking a bit pretty, with a small sort of happiness on his face. It was mostly a facade, though.

Vanya looked at Soltic and saw the facade. She eyed him a little, going quiet in that moment; she had been the one talking about something or other, and now she was not. She did manage to say, “I wasn’t sure if you wanted to sleep in, or not.”

Quilatalap was worried. A lot.

And that broke Erick’s heart all over again.

“I was more exhausted than I thought I was,” Soltic said, “But now I’m not.”

Barda and Nero noticed the tension—

And Nero spoke first, “We got you two a morning delve on our timecard.” He smiled, forcing some happiness into the moment, trying to stop whatever social disaster he imagined happening before him. “Barda and I are going into the city for the day anyway, so we cleared it with the guild and there shouldn’t be any trouble.”

Well that neatly explained what Soltic had seen earlier. Vanya must have spoken to them between then and now… or something. He was pretty sure that what he had seen was Nero and Barda getting a timeslot for themselves. Admittedly, though, he did not look too closely at whatever conversations had passed around before or after the signup, for he didn’t want to spy on Vanya like that; not before he was actually ready to come out here.

Soltic smiled. “That’s great! Thank you.”

“You’re a lot different than you were yesterday,” Barda said, unsure, but liking Soltic’s sunshine.

Soltic said, “Had a good dream last night—”

Vanya whipped a glare at Soltic.

Soltic gave a light glare in response. Did she really think that he was going to blurt out godly business here before she was ready for all that avalanche of events? Of course not. Soltic shrugged. “And I decided to shave the beard. It was getting scraggly.”

Nero and Barda glanced between them. Neither wanted to step into whatever was happening there.

So Nero said, “You two will enjoy the dungeon, but it’s no doubt simpler than what you’re used to delving. Should only take an hour for any decent pair to clear the place. Larger personal take that way, too, than if you’re going in as a full group.”

Barda said, “Still gotta give up 80% of that take to the Regency, and they’re very good about taking their cut.”

Nero let a little bit of disgust show. “They really could lower the taxes on that, but they won’t.”

At the mention of current Storm’s Edge policy again, Soltic almost directly asked them what their deal was. They didn’t seem like a plant from the Regency. In fact, they seemed like a part of an outreach program to assist people coming in looking for some dungeon delving, but who would find nothing available for them due to the way the system here was set up. Perhaps they were a direct counterpoint to the established system—

Ah.

If people weren’t allowed in the local dungeons then the Dark sometimes spawned dungeons for those people. Wild dungeons, filled with random assortments of challenge-appropriate problems. Sometimes a black [Gate] opened up that led to a dungeon that was much, much further away than the local dungeons. That was pretty rare, though. Certainly wouldn’t happen here; not so close to open, public dungeons.

The Dark didn’t give a shit about how much governments took from the dungeons, as long as people got to experience dungeons if they wanted to.

Soltic went back to Barda’s words, saying, “Vanya and I passed by the Pit on the way here, and we didn’t see any spotters at all. Are they hidden, or something?”

“Very well hidden.” Nero stuck a fork into his pancake, saying, “You enter the dungeons with whatever you have, and then when you come out, but before you’ve taken a few steps, 80% of what you’ve gained is gone. Some people call it the Gold Taker, and we still don’t know how the Regency does it. They might have a tamed reacher monster, but that’s… Probably not what is happening here.”

“Probably just [Sneak]ing veteran mages or whatever,” Barda said.

Soltic suddenly knew the purpose of those long-tendril creatures in the sky. He also realized that Nero and Barda didn’t know about the creatures in the air, and that all but confirmed that he was not a Regency plant, here to spy on any newcomers to the Dungeon Guild.

He allowed a bit of surprise to show on his face.

Nero misattributed Soltic’s surprise, saying, “Yup! They just take your gold, without you being able to stop them.”

Barda smirked. “At least it’s good that you don’t have to spend all the time counting everything, right?”

Vanya ventured, “Has to be some sort of monster plucking the things off of you as you leave.”

Nero might have offered the moon reacher variant option, but even he didn’t believe that a monster could actually do what the Gold Taker did. All he said, though, was, “Doubtful.”

Barda scrunched her face. “A group of people with special spellwork, or something. Elemental Bodies and such, no doubt.”

Nero ventured, “Maybe even that Fae Magic.”

Vanya shivered, and it was mostly an act.

“Might be a summoned thing,” Soltic asked, “Those things are pretty autonomous, right? Some sort of summoned [Familiar], like the Wizard’s.”

Ophiel almost popped up, but Erick had good control on that. As it was, he just fluffed himself up on the rafters overhead and continued his silent, unknowable and unseen watch.

“Whatever it is, it’s one of the things I don’t like about delving here. If something is that close and able to do that sort of stuff without you knowing?” With a bit of anger, Nero said, “I don’t like it.”

“Bah. Nero.” Barda said, “It’s not that bad. It’s less to carry!” She looked to Soltic and Vanya, adding, “And if you want, you can just have the Gold Taker take everything, and leave you with a little note saying how much has been added to your bank.”

“Ah!” Soltic chuckled. “I was wondering where the outprocessing was, or whatever you call it around here. We had a branch of Geode Bank located at the entrance to town; we’d leave for the depths and then come back and drop stuff off there.”

Nero’s eyes widened.

“Ahh! Holy shit.” Barda laughed a little. “ ‘The Depths’. You two really are big leagues.”

“What sort of dungeons did you guys do?” Nero asked.

Soltic looked to Vanya. He wondered if it was time to reveal the ‘Dungeon Master’ thing. This seemed like a good time to get that information out there. He said nothing, though.

Vanya decided to go for it. “I’m sort of a dungeon master for a few dungeons. So… We’ve done all kinds of dungeons, actually. Mostly very involved ones with a great deal of exports, but… Also hidden ones. I’m looking to go legit, though, in an expansive sort of way.”

Nero and Barda both went wide-eyed, then the two of them gave each other a quick look. They didn’t speak anymore on the subject, though, for it was obvious that Vanya had some secrets, and Nero and Barda had some secrets, and what had been said was enough for now.

The spy guy in the hut, 250 meters away from the guildhouse and taking notes through his mana sense, suddenly started writing down more things about Vanya, noting that she and Soltic were both necessary to investigate. Not all dungeon masters were listed on the Dungeon Guild rosters, for not every dungeon in the world was cataloged, and nor would such a thing even be possible. Quilatalap was listed on that roster, but Vanya probably had at least one or two dungeons to her fake Guild accounts. If people went searching, they might even find them… On paper, anyway.

Vanya’s words were enough to set off the appropriate alarm bells over in that hidden hut, as planned.

“Well you probably don’t want to move here,” Barda said, “It’s a wonderful town and the people are wonderful in most ways, but the dungeons are pitiful. And forget trying to change them. This whole place is stopped up more than me when I eat too much cheese.”

Soltic burst a laugh at the unexpected toilet humor. Vanya smirked. Nero smiled briefly, and so did Barda.

“Anyway,” Nero said, “The Gold Taker is not real outprocessing; that’s at ‘The Exit’, which is on the right hand side as you’re walking into this little delver’s city. Whoever the Gold Taker is, they’re good at their job, but if you don’t make their job easy then the guard comes out to find you. So it’s suggested you let the Taking happen.”

Barda asked, “Why do you say it’s a monster, Vanya?”

“Because it seems like it would be easy to make a monster that could do that,” Vanya said.

Barda’s eyes went a bit wide again.

Nero seriously asked, “Would it be easy?”

