“Is it really that bad?”

I handed Cora the small booklet that the Porter Guild provided to every new traveler heading to Goldwood. Because of the issues that differing laws caused, the Porter Guild had started providing such information to new travelers to mitigate some of the issues that might come up.

“Read through it and decide for yourself,” I replied. “I will say that the smaller town, Arkenton, had a much better feeling to it. Just judging based on the appearance of the citizens, I think Arkenton would be a better fit if you’re wanting to start a family any time soon.”

I waited as Cora scanned through the summary provided at the front of the booklet. It covered the most important rules that governed visitors and the punishments for violating the laws.

There was more detailed information within, including the requirements for residency and the laws that governed residents of the city. But for those just visiting, it was the first few pages that were the most important.

“You’ve got to be kidding me,” Cora said with an uncharacteristic frown on her face. “Does the goddess really allow such rules?”

“Apparently.”

“And the clergy cooperates?”

“It seems that way,” I agreed with a sigh.

If she were like me, the law she was probably most bothered by was the one that basically allowed the city to force people into slavery for even minor offenses.

Because of an agreement with the Porter Guild, Porters were pretty much immune to such laws. However, the people we transported were not.

There were quite a few other questionable policies in place as well, though most of them pertained to residents instead of visitors. In truth, I didn’t think much tourism happened in Goldwood.

“It seems strange that she’d allow something like this to exist.”

“Apparently, it wasn’t always like this,” I said. “The Porter Guild Leader told me a bit about the history of the place. According to him, the laws changed when the new City Lord took over about seventy-five years ago.”

With a regretful sigh, Cora said, “I really don’t want to visit somewhere that treats people like this, much less settle there. Why was there nothing about this on the network?”

“I imagine they don’t want to publicize such things,” I answered. “Solan said the Porter Guild started making these information booklets for travelers because information about troublesome laws was being suppressed. It wasn’t just in Goldwood, either.

“He felt it was dishonest not to inform travelers of such laws, so the guild prepared booklets on the cities with unusual or potentially problematic laws. That way, travelers at least know what they’re walking into.”

The booklet also explained why Solan was particularly careful not to say anything that might be construed as criticism of the city or its leadership. There was a vague law that could be applied to nearly any such criticism – and the punishment was servitude.

While it wasn’t something that Solan should have needed to worry about due to his strength and status with the guild, it seemed even he was wary of violating the rules there.

That was worrisome.

“It isn’t all bad news, though,” I said. “Solan took me to another city inspired by Arkenesis after learning that I’d wanted to set the waypoint so you and Mike could visit. It’s a smaller town with only a silver-ranked dungeon, which means we’d have to pay full taxes if we delved the dungeon there.

“The city looked a lot like Goldwood, but it had none of the oppressive laws or atmosphere. I actually think you and Mike might like it there, especially if you’re still wanting to start a family soon.”

The couple hadn’t brought up the topic since the first time they’d mentioned it, but I didn’t think their plans had changed all that much.

It would still be some time before Mike was finished with his projects with the Builder Guild, but that would give them time to save up for the move.

“Oh yeah?” Cora asked, her voice perking in interest. “That’s great news! Do you think you could take us there to visit during our next rest day?”

“Sure. I wouldn’t mind looking around the town a bit more. And it might be worth looking into the dungeon there as well, especially if we might be delving it eventually.”

While general information about dungeons was often available on the wider network, details about dungeon floors, loot, and resources were usually pretty limited. The exceptions were for Ascender Dungeons and ‘special’ dungeons like the one at Saint’s Hollow.

However, even then, specific information like floor plans and detailed reports on resources was generally kept on local networks instead of being shared on the wider Delver Association network.

“That’s a good idea,” Cora said excitedly.

“Yeah, I was thinking if Stephen likes the town, maybe we’d end up staying there as well. It would make delving together a lot easier. And we can also teleport back to Sorenguard occasionally when we feel like a change.”

“And maybe to other dungeons as well?” Cora asked with bright eyes.

“I don’t see why not. We do have two Porters in the party, after all.”

“Did you level up?” Stephen asked when I opened my eyes at the end of our third subjective day in the dungeon.

Though I’d put aside about ten percent of the cores I earned, what I’d absorbed had been enough to push me across the threshold to the next level.

“I did,” I said, pulling up my status.

***

Name: Emie NeohimTitles: Ascender (hidden), Contender (hidden)Level: 204Evolution: First

Core Skills: Demesne (Epic)Temporal Aura (Unique/Rare)Restorative Healing (Epic)Lightning Bolt (Epic)

Skill Slots (16/20):Dimensional Anchor (Epic)Teleportation (Epic)Herbalism (Uncommon)Repulsion Aura (Rare)Telekinesis (Rare)Identify (Uncommon)Enchanting (Rare)Ice Blade (Rare)Eruption (Uncommon)Shrapnel (Uncommon)Cooking (Uncommon)Minor Illusion (Common)Gust (Common)Void Strike (Uncommon)Beast Companion (Common)Portal (Uncommon)

***

Void Strike was the only skill that had improved since my evolution. Otherwise, aside from the increase in level and the new skill slot I’d been awarded with the level, nothing had really changed in my status.

“Hey, what do you think about me slotting a combat skill or two?” I asked the shapeshifting archer after noting I had four unused skill slots.

“It probably wouldn’t be a bad idea. Your capabilities as an unskilled fighter will always be limited otherwise,” he replied. “But I thought you wanted to save your slots for more elemental skills.”

“I did, but they’re just being wasted sitting empty like that. Besides, it’s not like I won’t get more eventually,” I replied.

It had taken 35 levels each for the first two additional slots, then 34 levels each for the third and fourth, and 33 levels each for the fifth and sixth new slots. If the trend continued, that meant I’d likely gain the next free slot in 32 levels.

“In hindsight, I probably should have just slotted a combat skill from the beginning instead of refusing to save the slots for skills I might never slot,” I added.

“What skill were you considering?”

“I don’t know,” I said with a sigh. “I’ve always liked staves and batons, but I almost always incorporate elemental blades of some sort when I do use them.”

The end result typically resembled a naginata more than an actual spear, though I used a more traditional-looking spear variant as well.

“If you like staves and batons the best, then pick one of those,” Stephen suggested. “You might even be able to use the skill with the elemental skills since the weapon itself won’t have changed. The blades are nothing more than solidified essence, after all.”

“You think so?”

“I don’t see why not. And if I’m wrong, then at least the skill will work anytime you don’t add a blade to your weapons.”

I nodded slowly and looked over to where Cora and Mike were still absorbing their cores.

“Thanks for the advice. Are you already done absorbing your cores?”

“Yes. I’m following your lead and putting some aside for Lana and any future bonds I might get,” Stephen replied.

“That’s smart. Speaking of, do you want to come with me to the garden to check on them?”

Since we’d gotten Lana, Aerie had been much more willing to use the small pet door leading to the garden. And after we got the arbor squirrels, it seemed like the two spent more time in the garden than they did in the sanctuary, even when we were all home.

I didn’t keep them in stasis the whole time anymore, either, though I did slow time a bit so they wouldn’t spend too much time away from us.

“Sure. Mario and Luigi seem to be doing well out there,” Stephen replied, heading to the door.

He’d asked about the names I’d chosen, but hadn’t really understood when I’d explained the names had come from a video game. That had led to a longer explanation, but without any real reference, it was hard for him to really understand what I meant.

I was able to show him the characters with Minor Illusion, but the context was harder to demonstrate.

When we got to the garden, Stephen asked, “Is something wrong?”

“No. I’m just trying to prepare for the eventual split.”

“From Cora and Mike?”

I nodded. “It feels inevitable at this point.”

“It was always inevitable unless you wanted to plan our lives around theirs. And while I’m coming around to the idea of starting a family of my own, I’m not quite ready to take that step just yet.”

“Me either,” I said, squeezing his hand.

We had discussed the topic a few times since Mike and Cora had dropped their bombshell, but we’d both been in agreement that neither of us was ready for such a huge step.

We both wanted a family eventually, but we hadn’t even been in this realm for two years. It felt far too soon to be thinking of such things.

“Did you like Arkenton?” Stephen asked curiously.

“I did. It had a good vibe to it, and the steampunk ambiance was pretty neat,” I replied. “I’m not going to say I’d want to settle there indefinitely, but I wouldn’t mind relocating there for now.”

“I don’t have any problem with that if it’s what everyone else wants. One city is pretty much the same as any other.”

“Are you sure? You haven’t even visited yet.”

“I trust your judgment,” he said simply.

“Hmmm,” I hummed. “Well, thanks for that.”

“No problem. Besides, we’re going to visit after we leave the dungeon, right? If I really hate it, I’ll let you know,” he added with a grin.

We sat together for a while just enjoying the silence. I’d made the false sky above the garden look like the auroras in the outside world, and the soft illumination made the garden appear a bit surreal.

Aerie and Lana were nowhere to be seen, nor were Mario or Luigi. I figured the kits were probably in the little asolade house Stephen had gotten them, while the squirrels were probably sleeping wherever squirrels slept.

Any moment, Cora would finish absorbing her cores and likely come searching for us so we could have dinner. Mike rarely entered the garden since he said the shallow earth made him feel uncomfortable.

“I really do trust you, you know,” Stephen said quietly, pulling me a bit closer. “I’m glad you convinced me to join the party. I imagine my life wouldn’t be nearly as fulfilling if I’d kept to myself all this time.”

“I’m glad you joined us, too,” I said, reaching for his hand. “Even if the party ultimately splits up, it’s comforting to know that you’ll still be with me.”

“I will. Always.”