1/2

PoA The Concept of Death 4

Melinda cursed under her breath as Matt’s question came through. He had joined the Kingdom and not the Queendom.

Her husband noticed her distress and wrapped one of his large arms around her. It was just what she needed.

“Yeah, it’s unfortunate. But nothing we can’t work around. This is a neutral city.”

“But-”

He cut her off with another gentle squeeze and moved forward to the front of the group, where their guide was leading them forward.

“Hey, quick question.”

When the woman turned around, he flashed his charming smile, and when the woman gestured for him to continue, he asked, “We have a friend who’s fighting for the other side. Is that going to be a problem?”

The woman looked startled, but answered loudly enough for all of the groups following to hear. “No, the Empire made their stance on that very clear. This is a neutral city, and here no one is subject to our rules. We would prefer that you not fraternize with the enemy, but we can’t stop you, or punish you for it.”

Someone in the crowd called out, “What if we’re spies? Isn’t that dangerous?”

The guide still seemed unconcerned. “We both have spies and various countermeasures for that. In the end, neither side really trusts you Pathers. We’re both treating you like mercs. You’ll get your orders with minimum time to give out the information, and for the most part, you won’t know the full picture.”

Melinda wanted to be hurt, but she didn’t blame them for their caution. The gossip on the ship had revealed that the vassals were getting reimbursed for the war to encourage them to actually put a sizable effort into it. If the rewards were enough to get Tier 35’s to move, they had to be substantial.

They were escorted to a suite, and were told that they would have the rooms available while they were in the city. But, an auction was being held next evening, so there wouldn’t be much action in the coming days. Both sides were far more interested in the auction than continuing the hostilities, so they had free time to explore the city.

With that in mind, they sent a message to Matt, saying that they could meet up whenever.

He replied that they needed another hour or so for Liz to get ready. That reminded Melinda to talk to her team about the woman.

“Guys, we don’t know her. So be on your best behavior.”

Vinnie chimed in from beside her, “We know that she’s related to Aunt Helen.”

Sam corrected him, “She’s a phoenix like her, there isn’t any blood relation.”

“Good point. What else do we know?”

Tara added, “They’re dating, sort of.”

Melinda thought that over before she added, “I was pretty confused about what their situation is. They weren’t dating, then they were dating but with no sex. Now, I’m not really sure.”

The rest of her team could only shrug with her. None of them were entirely sure of the status of Matt’s relationship with his teammate, except that her presence was always felt in their messages back and forth.

Their friend obviously cared for the woman, which was more than enough for them.

“Look everyone, be on your best behavior. That’s all I ask. We need a good first impression no matter the details of their relationship. She’s officially a part of his team, so they’ll be together for the long haul.”

They lounged in their common room while they still had free time. Mathew was kneading a knot out of her foot while he chatted with Vinnie and Sam about a few of their battle strategies for the war.

While she didn’t actively participate, she listened carefully to their thought processes. They were Tier 6, which meant that they would be among the stronger Pathers fighting in the war, but weaker than the people from the vassal states. Those combatants could be up to Tier 7.

As the team’s shot-caller, she had been putting in a lot of time with an expensive AI trainer that she had gotten. But while she was learning, she also became aware of her flaws.

She wasn’t that bad with her simulated team, but as soon as the program threw her with an unfamiliar team, she failed repeatedly. When she didn’t have a healer, her made-up teams were always killed before the fifth encounter.

It was sobering. She thought she was a good strategist, but in reality, she was proving Baxter right with each new simulation. It might have been more irksome than the actual losses. As much as she hated the idea, she intended to ask him for advice if their first battle went poorly. This war was a game, but if she treated it as if it was real, and got her family to as well, they could grow a lot.

After a quick search with her AI, Melinda found that the war was expected to last at least a year, which was perfect. If she had her way, it would go on even longer, so they could milk out more experience. Their team's oldest member, Tara, was twenty-one and a half, which meant that they had plenty of time to progress. Thankfully, their team was all within four months of each other age-wise, so they had a little over five years before they had to reach Tier 7 to stay on The Path.

It would be hard if they waited that long to Tier up, but Melinda had a plan for that. Their guide had given them all one war contribution point for joining the Queendom. It let them access the War Contribution Market, and it ensured that they could come back into the fight if they got killed.

The single point was what let her plan out her family’s next steps. They would take a mission and earn at least a dozen points each. With those, they would each buy essence stones. They were limited to buying one every three days, but the stones only cost 5 points apiece. Her team could advance and increase their powers in the short term, then leverage that to gain further rewards. All the while, they would be increasing their combat prowess by honing the skills and abilities that they already had.

Before she gave in to the craving and checked the more tangible rewards, the timer she had set went off, and everyone started moving to meet with Matt.

She was nervous. It had been so long since they had seen each other, and she felt like she owed him so much. Without the shard of reality, she didn’t know how long it would have taken her friends to start growing their own Concepts. A dark and pessimistic side of her whispered that with how long it had taken her husband to get his phrase, he might not have ever gotten it.

In the end, he had, and his phrase suited him. “I am solid.” It fit him, though he pretended to dislike it. He was and had always been her rock. He was more than their team’s front liner, but their very foundation.

When things got tough, his carefree and jovial attitude slipped away, to show the firm and steady core of their team. She made sure to try and take care of his emotional needs, but he rarely needed anything more than a hug or warm presence. It had taken her time with her own therapist to understand that he didn’t need to verbalize things as she did, and he processed things on his own internally.

He was her anchor and their team’s rock. His Concept only reinforced that. She had more than enough fun teasing him about it when they happened to be horizontal.

They came outside and were waiting outside their building, when a white blur shot into her arms, causing her to stumble back. She was given long, cold licks accompanied with an AI message saying, “Friend! Pet.”

The fact that Aster could now talk, or at least communicate, completely slipped her mind when she finally saw Matt for the first time in almost three years.

He was tall. Nearly as tall as her husband, but with a slightly slimmer build and a more golden tint to his hair. His eyes also looked more green than she remembered, but none of that really grabbed her attention. No, it was what her Concept showed her that blew her away.

Her old friend looked more like a Tier 15 than the Tier 6. Her spirit told her much more than everyone else’s eyes could see, as he moved in to hug them all.

Even perfectly healthy people had slight darkness around them, in the form of a mist of shadow, as aging took its toll. But no, Matt was near perfect. The only blemish was a reflection of a shadow that lingered over him out of the corner of her eye. It was a weird amalgamation of a Tier 15 and someone clearly under. Even a Tier 14 didn’t look like this. She had seen and treated more than one.

She was unable to figure out exactly how exactly Matt had gotten that way, before her attention was drawn to the woman standing next to him.

The woman, Liz, was pretty in a sharp way. It reminded her of Aunt Helen. It wasn’t just the red hair that was a mix of ginger and a deeper flame red,, or the same yellow eyes. It was something about her face. It almost had a... sharpness to it.

The hard angles of her face reminded her of a hawk.

The hard edges were softened by the clear nervousness that lingered on the woman’s face, along with the wringing of her fingers. She looked similar to Matt in that she had less darkness around her but it wasn't as noticeable as Matt’s.

As she tried to pay attention to the introductions Matt was making, she internally smiled at Sam mentioning potions. It clearly put the other woman at ease, though Melinda didn’t smell anything over the freshly bathed fox still in her arms, demanding rubs with a string of messages.

Aster was adorable, and she whispered sweet things into her ear, which, when responded to, caused her to lose track of the conversation again.

When they were seated in a flying car, Matt called to the driver to take them to the restaurant. Melinda couldn’t hold it in anymore and said, “Matt, you look really good. Too good, really.”

At his raised eyebrow, she realized he didn’t know about her Concept and explained, “I can see flaws in a person’s spirit with my Concept. It’s like monsters made of dark mist. The only people who don’t have it are those who are Tier 15 or higher. You look like you’re halfway broken through. It’s weird. I can’t really explain it.”

It was hard to put into words, but he seemed to understand and laughed it off. “We met up with a seeker who pointed us to a Tree of Perfection, after we helped him out a little. It brings a single aspect of your body to Tier 15, or nearly so. I ate the body root. I guess you’re seeing that.”

She queried her AI, and found that the plant and its effects were as he said, which put her at ease. Both Liz and Aster looked fine, but she still wanted to ensure that they were ok, as she did with her own family. To that effect, she moved to heal them, saying, “That makes sense. Let me heal all of you, though.”

Liz protested, “Oh, there’s no reason to waste your mana like that.”

Melinda shrugged, not wanting to explain her Talent in the cab. There could be people listening. With a thought, she cast [Ranged Heal] twice at the humans, and then onto Aster, who was sprawled over her, Sam, and Tara’s laps.

The fox was liberal in her thanks and warm thoughts of love. Her messages were a constant stream of: ‘ahh’ and ‘scratch higher’. Melinda’s ‘you’re welcome’s back were returned with a heart. She dug her fingers deeper into the snow-white fur in response which was returned with a rumbling purr.

Distractedly, she said, “I’m happy to help. It’ll make sure you don’t have anything wrong lingering with you. I don’t see anything, but a heal a day will keep sickness away.”

The rest of the ride was filled with idle chatter, and she had to smile at how her team made sure to include Liz in their conversation. Meanwhile, she worked on the indolent fox, who was in a bliss all her own.

Their conversation died out as they reached the restaurant, and Melinda immediately protested the place after looking it up. It was an expensive restaurant meant for Tier 10’s.

“Matt, we can’t afford this place.”

He shrugged her concern away like it was no big deal, causing her to feel even worse until he elaborated. “I’m paying. And it’s only one dinner. We made more in the last few months here than you can imagine.”

When Sam looked to reinforce Melinda’s protest, Liz said, “We sold more than one growth item while we were at Tier 5. Let us treat you to a nice dinner. Shame my Aunt isn’t here. Now that would be a good dinner.”

Tara seemingly teleported next to Liz and nearly shouted, “I’m gonna marry her!”

While Matt and Liz looked at her in confusion, Melinda grabbed the archer’s arm and started to drag her along, debating if she should strangle the woman now or later. She had told them not to be weird. And what was weirder than hitting on someone’s million-year-old Aunt?

“Ignore her. She’s delusional.” It took all her effort not to growl the words out.

Tara protested as she was dragged to the door. “I’m not! Really, I’m not. She’s amazing and I’ll marry her one day!”

Thankfully, in the reflection of the approaching door, Melinda could see Liz looked more amused than offended. “You’re going to have your work cut out for you. Aunt Helen’s list of suitors probably spans the known… well, everywhere. She’s broken a lot of hearts over the ages with unreciprocated feelings, and I’m pretty sure she’s accidentally started a war at least once.”

Hearing Liz’s comment, Tara looked even more determined, so Melinda tried to crush her arm with her own, to little effect. Liz continued, “But go ahead and try. Maybe you’ll be the one. How did you guys meet her though?”

That caused their procession to stop again halfway through the door, as Tara tried to turn and chat about her crush, but Kyle thankfully saw and grabbed Melinda, dragging them all forward.

