Melinda cringed at the pair. It wasn’t like Baxter would hurt them, but it felt risky to speak to someone with the power to send the official ref away.

Baxter, as usual, didn’t seem to mind, and calmly answered, “I’m Baxter. Over Tier 40 and a personal healer to the Emperor. I can keep any secrets you might reveal in a fight just that. A secret.”

Matt looked satisfied at that but Liz, Melinda noticed, seemed even more skeptical until a smile crossed her face.

She said, “Oh, okay. That’s fine.” Her grin turned positively wicked, and Baxter’s eye twitched, causing Melinda to wonder just what message the woman had sent. If she had to guess, she had threatened the man with her Aunt, which was the only other time she had seen him so agitated.

Melinda readied up with her team as their platform rose up and turned opaque.

Seeing only Matt on the field, and Baxter landing in a neutral area opposite from where Liz and Aster stood, she questioned, “Wait, you want to fight us alone?”

With a sly grin, Matt responded, “At least once, for old times sake.”

He then paused and looked at Baxter with a raised eyebrow. It was a long moment later when he seemed to reluctantly nod after glancing at Liz.

Baxter called out, “Fight starts when I reach zero. Full killing blows are allowed, as I’ll intercept them. This match is not considered a part of the ongoing war, and death here won’t mean death outside.”

“Three.”

She was given the three-second countdown to look at the only skill she had seen Matt use before. Melinda expected to see the same fairly standard armor that was a perfect replica of normal armor, just with all the joints filled in with a lower layer. They always gave the appearance of eye and breathing holes, along with joints where the armor skill had one.

Where her older and taller friend was a moment ago, there now stood a white-blue armored form in ghostly plate.

No, this Matt was different. It was like someone had taken all of those little details and smoothed them over. His helmet was still shaped like a helmet, but it was now smooth and seemingly in one solid piece. Where the translucent armor had once appeared rough around the edges, and seemed shoddily made, it was now smooth and steely. It was now the armor of a truly fearsome warrior.

“Two.”

She considered her friend with what felt like awe mixed with pride. The child that she had met on the PlayPen was gone, replaced by this intimidating example of the best the Empire had to offer. A small part of her was anxious to see what Matt had become.

“One.”

“Zero.”

When Baxter said zero, Matt seemed to explode forward. She was totally unprepared for his speed.

He was even faster than Kyle, who was getting twice the effect of essence cultivated into strength. Matt moved like a peak Tier 7.

A sinking dread came over her as she called out to Tara to end this as soon as possible. This Matt truly was different.

Her call came too late as Matt closed the distance between them. A rain of ice centered on Tara poured down and pelted them painfully. It also knocked her arrow off course.

She looked to Vinnie to get him to immobilize Matt as he arrived at Mathew, and instead of him diving into the earth, she saw Baxter holding a crossbow bolt in front of his face. In the time it took to blink, they were both gone.

The panic started as Melinda tried to think, but she had no time before Matt was in front of her husband. She expected him to stop their friend in his tracks, but Matt ducked slightly, then lifted Mathew off his feet. He ran forward with her husband over his shoulder, as if he was a shield.

Tara’s arrow was snatched out of the air by Baxter, who took Mathew with him. Their archer had moved out of the still raining ice and launched an arrow, only for it to hit her teammate.

Did Matt plan to block Tara’s arrow with Mathew? How could someone plan that in the middle of a fight?

Melinda didn’t have time to process her shock. With an explosive leap, Matt was immediately on her. She only had a moment to stare into the white-blue of neutral mana that made up his armored helmet. Idly, she thought she saw swirls and lines hidden in the mana.

She saw the shock and pain in her reflection, and the first swipe of a sword that appeared from nowhere took both her legs and sent her tumbling. She watched the sword arc around, covered in her blood and moving to finish her off, only to be pulled from the field of battle. She looked down and found Baxter already reattaching her legs.

She took over and sighed as her overhealth dealt with the wound perfectly.

With her heart still racing, she stood and watched on in shock.

Matt was rushing Kyle and Sam.

Melinda looked to Baxter, who smiled at her.

“What the fuck?”

He ignored her and watched as Sam threw a poison vial down on the ground. A noxious green gas quickly spread and covered the surroundings as it broke.

Kyle would be fine, as Sam had practiced long and hard to not hurt her teammates, but Matt seemed to ignore it, and instead started to duel Kyle.

How does poison gas not affect him?

She’d seen that gas take down Tier 6 monsters with ease, which made the contrasting result all the more jarring.

Where Kyle’s sword was almost as tall as he was, had a thick blade, and was as wide as his thigh, Matt’s sword was slimmer. She figured that Kyle would win the fight through sheer weight alone, but his first blow was deflected, and Matt stepped around him. He was quickly intercepted by Sam and her dagger.

Melinda looked to Tara, who was trying to escape another ice field that was ruining her shots.

Matt punched out at Kyle as he slid under a blow, and Baxter said, “That’s what a true Pather looks like. I don’t know your friend, but he’s good enough that he has a management team at Tier 6, when most don’t even get considered until Tier 10. He’s strong and fast. Look at how he steps. It’s still a little sloppy, but with each step, he’s anchoring himself with a bit of his Concept, letting him turn just that little bit faster, and brace for a little more power in his blows. I can see him refining it each step he takes. Magnificent.”

Melinda tried to watch, but could only focus on her team being decimated. Kyle took a blow that severed his leg and caused him to stumble. She expected Baxter to step in, but he didn’t. Just waiting.

“If I were to give you fifty fifty odds against Matt in a one vs six, which I wouldn't, by the way. It's far too generous. But if I did, I’d give you sixty forty for Liz, only because all of you can actually hurt her. But she would shred you like fresh beef. And I'd give you ninety ten for Aster. Congratulations,” he said sardonically.“You have good odds at beating a barely sapient fox. And she’s still a child.”

As Kyle fell, Sam drove her dagger into Matt’s lower back, with its tip glowing the sickly green of [Venom Strike].

To her mounting horror, it skittered down Matt’s side as he turned and grabbed her arm. He tossed Sam onto Kyle and thrust through both of them. Or he would have, if Baxter hadn’t moved them to her side.

Melinda dropped to their side and re-attached Kyle’s leg, while Sam shouted, “Fuck!”

Looking up as Kyle stood on his now healed leg, she saw Matt chasing a retreating Tara through the stone columns.

She checked on her husband, who had a faraway look on his face, and a hole in his armor near the middle of his gut. She checked him over, only to find that Baxter had already healed him perfectly.

With a still blank stare on his face, he asked, “What happened?”

“We got our asses handed to us.”

“No. I mean, how did we slip so far? We were good. But Matt. He got better. He kept pushing himself. I... I don’t know where we went wrong.”

Her attention was drawn by the cry from her teammate. She expected to see Tara down, but saw Matt standing there with an arm raised and an arrow through his forearm.

With a lighthearted laugh, Matt called out, “Well done, Tara! I’ve taken blows from Tier 7’s at Tier 5 that didn’t punch through my armor like this.”

His laugh and words caused Melinda to blanch even more. What Tier 5 fought Tier 7’s? That was madness.

He reached up and broke the arrowhead off and pulled the shaft through his arm, dropping the bloodied piece of wood to the ground.

With a battlecry that screamed that he was having fun, Matt launched himself forward into a newly appeared storm of ice and with even his sword now glowing.

Tara tried to escape the onslaught of thumb-sized shards of ice, but they fell like a solid wall more than individual pieces of ice.

As Tara tried to hide behind stone pillars, Matt shot forward and sent a crescent of mana at her cover, destroying it and sending rock spraying everywhere.

Melinda knew the end was decided when Tara slipped on some of the accumulated ice, loosing her arrow early.

To her credit, she didn’t surrender, and lashed out ineffectually with her ankle dagger, only to get her hand stepped on.

Baxter called it. “Good job and well fought. Thank you, Matt.”

Matt helped Tara up as the ice stopped. Her face read as a mixture of grumpy and sad, a reflection of Melinda’s own feelings as well.

They had been demolished by someone younger and weaker than them. Matt was only an early Tier 6, after all.

Liz came over and kicked Matt hard. “What the fuck? You seriously injured them!” The redhead turned to Baxter and kicked him in the shin as well. “And you! What the fuck as well!? You shouldn’t have let them get limbs cut off. They’ll be out of commission for weeks with that healing downtime. How amateurish are you? You should know better! Idiot.”

Melinda warmed up to the girl even more as she stood up to an immortal for them. To head off any more outbursts, she told Liz her Talent. “Don’t worry, my Talent is one that gives all healing spells I cast overhealth. We’ll be fine.”

Liz looked shocked at that, but she was cut off by Matt before she could respond. He said, “Speaking of that, let me use my Concept to top everyone up.”

With that, Melinda felt her mana pool being rapidly filled from the three spells she had cast after the fight.

Once again, a feeling of inadequacy overcame her. Matt had a Concept that could give others mana? That was absurd.

How are we ever going to keep up?
