When they were seated, Melinda thanked them. “As I was trying to say, thank you for the shard. It got everyone else on the right track to discovering their Concepts. I don’t know how to repay you.”

Mentally, she knew that they were friends, but the gift was too big and too important to her family. She wanted to do something for them, but didn’t know what. It wasn’t a debt that had to be paid off, and it was really one that couldn’t be paid. Her family reaching Tier 15 and immortality was her most important goal. She hadn’t learned how to heal old age yet, and didn’t want to count on something so chancy.

When Matt and Liz looked like they wanted to protest, she held up a hand and stopped them. “This is massive for us. It’s not a small trinket, but my family’s ticket to immortality. Not everyone can take that first step, and they eventually die. I just fell into mine without knowing what I was doing, and how much it would separate myself from them. Just... Thanks.”

Vinnie smiled and lightened the mood as he bragged, “I was the first to get my phrase. These dummies took a lot longer.”

“It was a day before the rest of us, which was over a year behind Melinda, you rube.” Sam’s comment cut Vinnie down, and in retaliation, he fell over on her and tried to smother her.

Their waiter came over, her team followed her lead in ordering smaller and therefore cheaper entrees. But when Matt saw that, he just ordered what seemed like the largest and most expensive platters in addition to their meals.

When all of them tried to protest, he repeated his earlier statement about making a lot of money recently. Melinda still struggled with that. He was spending at least a Tier 10 mana stone on all of this food, at the very least. She remembered when Matt had complained about spending his hard-earned credits on a new pair of boots when he grew out of them. This seemed in stark contrast.

Liz did something with her earring, which caused a bubble of air to harden around their table. As Melinda listened to the odd echo of their breathing, Matt reached into his bag and withdrew the two items, a bracelet, and a quiver. The second one was obviously a gift for Tara, but the first was a mystery.

As the guilt of taking more from her friend bubbled up, he said, “I’m glad I didn’t send these to you the slow way. Otherwise, they might have missed you.”

Tara looked at the quiver and asked, “I can always use a new quiver, but this feels weird. What does it do? Also, thank you.”

Matt was prouder than a mother hen as he said, “I’m proud to give you both growth items that are perfectly suited to each of you.”

Vinnie nearly dropped his bracelet as Matt said that, but caught it at the last second. “Man, this is too much. I can’t afford this.”

“It’s no big deal. I wasn’t joking when I said we pulled more than one growth item.” The casual statement only caused Melinda’s guilt to increase.

Thankfully, Vinnie and Tara seemed to agree with her assessment, and pushed the items back across the table in unison.

Tara, with obvious strain in her voice, said, “It’s too much, really. You should sell them and propel your team to greater power. Buy some more skills or something.”

Matt rolled his eyes like they were being purposefully oblivious, “Guys, at least hear what they do first.”

Tara looked longingly at the quiver, but Melinda was proud of her teammate as she said, “No, don’t do that! It will hurt even more knowing.”

Matt seemed exasperated as he said, “Ok. Think about it for a minute. You guys know what my Tier 1 Talent does. Have you ever checked my Tier 3 Talent?”

Everyone on her side murmured yes, but Melinda was confused as she reread it. Finding nothing new, she checked Matt, Liz, and Aster's faces. Matt looked like it should be obvious, while Liz looked amused, but not in a mean way. Aster just watched everything with her paws on the table as she sat in between the two.

A quick glance at her own team showed that they seemed to be just as confused. Taking the chance to look dumb for them all, Mathew whistled, saying, “Same as last time. It’s impressive as all hell, but I don’t get it.”

“How are rifts made and powered?”

Melinda paused and remembered the mnemonic from her childhood, ‘Life makes mana. Mana makes essence. Essence creates rifts. Rifts convert all three.’

It took a moment as she put the pieces together. Suddenly, it clicked, and she was in shock and awe, while Matt looked like a child getting presents on his birthday.

“So you can just...” Sam waved a hand around, pointing at the pair of growth items.

“Yup!”

“And it’s just that easy?” Kyle’s disbelief was obvious as he asked the question. It mirrored her own.

“Yup!”

“That’s amazing...” Melinda trailed off when she was interrupted by Tara and Vinnie lunged for their items in unison, scrambling to take them.

She couldn’t blame them. Apparently, for Matt, they were worth nothing. Ascenders knew how many he had pulled out of his rifts before Tiering up. It must have been enough that they didn’t feel the need to stay at Tier 5, which implied a shocking amount.

“Okay, what do they do? I need to know!” Melinda was curious as well, especially considering Matt’s claims of how perfect the items were for her teammates. Mathew patted her leg under the table, and she intertwined their fingers, taking comfort in his presence.

Matt laughed, clearly enjoying the sight of them cuddling their new items.

He pointed at Vinnie’s hand and said, “That bracelet increases the range of all earth skills cast while wearing it.”

Vinnie nearly dropped the metal and rope band as he tried to get his hand in it. It cinched down, and her spiritual sense noticed that the bond was now active. It really was perfect for him. The greatest weakness of any low Tier earth manipulator was their lack of range. He couldn’t affect anything that was more than five feet away from himself. She didn’t know how much the item would extend that range, but she was confident that any amount would help.

Tara was hugging her quiver and giving Matt puppy dog eyes, silently begging their friend not to make her wait any longer.

“That...” he paused as he pointed to Tara and as she nodded rapidly, almost quivering in anticipation. He drew out his silence. As her friend looked ready to explode, he finally continued, “...Is a quiver that acts like a spatial item, and it can create arrows over time. It also enchants them if the arrows remain in the quiver while it gets fed mana. I thought it was perfect for your style.”

Tara’s bouncing turned into a lunge as she tried to reach Matt over the table, knocking over two empty cups in the process.

“Oh, thank you! Thank you! It is perfect! I love it.”

The same process repeated itself as Tara bound the item and started stuffing arrows into the quiver and pulling them out. Oddly enough, she didn’t seem to have to reach inside the quiver, and they appeared far enough away. Melinda was pretty sure that her friend could summon them already notched on her bowstring.

Melinda thought the excitement was over, when Matt brought out a bucket. It was underwhelming after his shockingly expensive presents, until he added, “We also got a ton of skills if you want something. It’s mostly the ordinary ones, but a few might help. Take and trade anything if you want. We already kept what we wanted.”

Mathew smiled and clapped Matt on his shoulder. “You sure know how to give wedding presents!”

“Wait, you guys got married?”

Melinda just nodded as she looked at the pile of skill shards.

Finally, she broke herself out of it and said, “Matt, this is too much. It’s... It’s...” Her voice trailed off as he shrugged.

“Guys, take what you want. We already sold a bunch to the auction house. We don’t really need them. Also, these are the more basic ones that we kept around to perform more rift experiments on when we get more time and privacy.”

Seeing their confusion, he clarified, “Rift making isn’t just throwing mana into an area. Well, it is, but we learned that you can put stuff inside and use aspected mana to influence the rift and its rewards.”

He pointed at Tara’s quiver. “We made that by using wind mana and putting a bow and arrow set into the area where we created the rift.”

Melinda was thankful for the barrier that kept Matt’s voice contained, because the man seemed too excited to share. She was happy for him, but she was scared of what someone would do if they figured out that he could create rifts that made specific growth items.

Liz seemed to be thinking the same thing as she said, “You’re getting a bit loud, Matt.”

He looked sheepish, and said in a much quieter voice, “But yeah, we learned a lot as we were able to experiment. Got a lot of items and money from it. Even skills.”

Liz added with a rye smile, “And investigated for cheating.”

Melinda’s heart nearly stopped, and she felt a bone shift in her husband’s hand as she tightened her grip. But after seeing their grins, she relaxed slightly.

Kyle asked what she was thinking, “Wait, what?”

Matt waved it off. “Oh, it was scary as hell at the time, but we got access to the Empire Market out of the ordeal. It’s like the contribution point market for the war, but with a seemingly more universal currency. You can buy some amazing things. The investigator was reasonable and heard us out before making any decisions.”

They were interrupted when the air bubble popped as their waiter came in with two massive trays of food. Melinda thought that would be all of it, but server after server came and dropped more food off, until there was no clear space left.

Melinda was mortified at the amount of food, but seeing how proud Matt looked, she held her tongue and enjoyed the meal as they each shared their own adventures. They had a lacking amount of stories compared to Matt and Liz, but she comforted herself with the knowledge that her friend-

She corrected herself, friends. After seeing how Liz and Matt looked at each other, she knew they were in love. She saw herself and Mathew in the shared looks and glancing touches. It was just like when they were forced to wait per their Sponsor, Harper’s instructions.

Liz was a friend. Just one she didn’t know very well yet.

Melinda took comfort that her friends were ok.

As their meal wound down, with most of the plates only half-cleared, Aster lapped at a bowl of strawberry ice cream despite her now extended belly. Matt had ordered it for her after she questioned the lack of cold food at the table.

Hearing stories about how Aster fell in love with the cold treat made Melinda laugh until her sides hurt.

They moved to a park and talked into the night as they continued to swap stories. Melinda smiled as Sam and Liz talked about various aspects of alchemy that went over her head, but they seemed engrossed.

She sat with her husband and listened to him, Kyle, and Matt, talk about their favorite exercises. Why they all complained about their calves was more than she cared to understand, but she enjoyed the sounds of chatter as she held a napping Aster and looked to the stars.

As she sat there, the skill in her pocket spoke of future power. Matt only had Tier 8 skills. There wasn’t anything really rare, but he had a [Bolt] shard. She finally took it after he threw it at her when he saw her put it back in the bucket.

She knew she needed a damaging spell as a healer. It wasn’t as if she never fought, but they always prioritized giving the actual damage dealers in their party skills, so it was a first for her. A small part of her liked the idea of throwing lighting around, which is why she took [Bolt] over the more common [Fireball].

Vinnie took [Earth Spear], which would increase his range yet again. One of his most glaring weaknesses would essentially become a strength, especially among earth mages..

At Matt’s insistence, everyone else took two skills a piece, to trade for something better suited to them at tomorrow’s auction.

As the moon crept over the buildings, Melinda stretched with a satisfied sigh. They had a long day, and the amazing food was taking its toll on her. Everyone else seemed to take that as their cue, and they started getting ready to go.

Matt stretched and said, “We should spar tomorrow morning. Like old times. It would be great to see how you have all grown.”

Melinda smiled and said, “We'll spank you around like we did at Tier 3.”

He waggled his eyebrows and said, “Ah, but I was only Tier 2 then.” In an exaggerated voice, he said, “We are now the same Tier! Now I have the power to defeat you!”

***

The next morning, they were at a training field after a light breakfast together. They decided to simply call the nearest floating platform and let chance decide the terrain type they got.

To her chagrin, they got a rocky area with pillars of stone standing like faux trees. It was perfect for Vinnie, which made her feel a little bad and when she suggested a more neutral ground. Matt just laughed, saying, “Neither of you were able to absorb the new skill into your inner spirit yet. It will be fine.”

Not knowing where his confidence came from, she shrugged and stepped onto the platform. There was an immortal man standing in the air above the field who asked, “What type of match do you want?”

He paused as he looked to his side, and as she followed his gaze, she found Baxter standing next to him.

After a brief exchange, Baxter said, “I’ll be refereeing this match.”

Matt looked nonplussed when he asked, “And you are?”

Liz asked at the same time, “What authority do you have to do that?”

