 to deflect but Amenstar was an expert at making his father engage people honestly."A saint is someone who has over a conceptual 10% of their god or god's power. So Dad has a lot of actual divine power in him but it comes with some issues like being sensitive to other such beings and new religions. Churches are territorial," Amenstar said brightly."I'm very rusty. I thought you were a saint when you walked in," Wollow laughed with a good-natured smile to Alpha."Did your god like you that much?" Alpha blinked at Wollom, surprised at the information as if he expected all gods to be capricious selfish jerks.Like Amenstar did."Oh no, I couldn't get it to pay attention to me at all. When I summoned it, it didn't even want to stick around, let alone be my god," Wollom admitted as he grabbed his glass of water, the glass a pale green as it sparkled in the orange light of dawn."But I followed it as it looked around, always looking around. I told it I wanted to be a hero and I wasn't giving up any time soon so it kicked me off a mountain and I lost it for a week," Wollom laughed again."I found it in a bookstore, eating books like a meal," he said, "and when it saw me again, it gave me a tiny bit of power. I could make coin flips truly unpredictable, even if they were fixed," he snorted."Then I just did good deeds and sometimes it would cross my path and I'd get a bit stronger. It seems to feel sorry for me but I didn't mind. I was up against this evil necromancer who had me bound to a table with bones and talking about ruling over the land with her iron fist. I managed to knock her off balance when she dropped some melted candle wax on me and I screamed like a girl. So, Amenstar's mother let me go, unable to take me seriously," Wollom went on and Amenstar groaned as he told this story but inside... he loved it.His dad was just being a goofy dad."I wore her down and after winning the hand of the dark of my life, it was no trouble convincing a god to make me a saint," Wollom grinned and Alpha was smiling a little too."What's it like being a saint?" Alpha asked."Long hours with no thanks," Amenstar answered to his father's chagrin."Nothing really major unless I'm called down to end Abomination Dungeons. Made myself a name for that once or twice," the man admitted."Do abomination dungeons upset gods?" Alpha asked, carefully."Of course, Dungeons who break out of their confines and reach a god, and consume them, can create Abyssal Beings. Fallen angels and choirs with eyes of evil and unnatural dispositions. Gods value their self, their total sense. Other gods don't take that but Dungeons do," Wollom said firmly."What if they go abomination and eat a god, but don't mean harm?" Alpha pressed and the man humored his question but Amenstar was giving Alpha an odd look."Well, even so, a Dungeon that consumes a god will eventually bring their star closer. Drawing in the tear in the night sky until it ravages the land. The dungeon who consumes the god literally grows a massive spotlight on themselves and puts the land in danger," Wollom said, sipping his water."A famous case is the blasted lands of an ancient kingdom called Turtog; a dungeon must have consumed a new god because its star collapsed on that fetid place and left very little behind," the priest said and Amenstar hadn't heard this tale before."So, the god cannot go back, if it survived?" Alpha asked, his eyes alert."I'm not a summoner but I presume it can go 'somewhere' if it is rejected back into the Abyss. Not home, but somewhere." Wollom guessed."How did you know a star collapsed? Does it give off a unique energy?" Alpha pressed for more details, even taking Amenstar's father back."Yes, a god's star fell on that land. A thing of life and growth. It was a real shame," Wollom said sadly."But there are other things that eat gods, right? Other gods, for power?" Alpha looked nervous, bouncing his knee now."No, all gods must bend to the accord upon being summoned. The Shattering War made gods limited, even new ones," Wollom explained gently as if sensing Alpha was getting distressed."What's wrong?" Wollom asked and Alpha looked at him and there was clear distrust on his face. There was a pause."I'm going to do dishes. Amenstar, why don't you walk Alpha back to the inn. Enjoy the cool evening air together," the man said and collected plates and bowlsAlpha let Amenstar guide him out of the house and down the road before he sighed."I'm worried about Delta. She's dealing with... gods," he admitted and Alpha looked highly uncomfortable about admitting it."Listen," Amenstar began but he didn't know how to begin to assure Alpha that while gods were terrifying beings of power... they were muzzled, disarmed, and only able to get to you if you let them, but he knew that wasn't exactly true.Alpha looked puzzled but tilted his head as if to listen for something.Amenstar fought off a smile."I hear it, a whirring noise," Alpha said after a moment. Amenstar heard it a moment later, a whump of superheated hair and a strange chopping noise.A girl suddenly crashed into the ground, creating a small trench which settled a second with splattering mud and water."The gods attack with feminine charms," Alpha said, drawing his own sword in sudden aggression."Ow..." the girl groaned, not sitting up.At her side, a strange sword gurgled and then it began to speak."Please take... all baggage when you depart Gamma flights," the sword said in a daze."You said... this suit had... landing gear," the girl moaned as she shuddered."I didn't say it was 'good' landing gear," the sword muttered to itself. Alpha walked over and nudged the girl over, the sword still in her hand."Oh it's a boy," the girl muttered with enough mud on her face that it was impossible to make her features out."Another one, you and your cute boys... wait, I know this one!" the sword said and the girl winced as she stood up and Amenstar eyed the heavens to see if any more weirdos would drop out of the sky."Apple!" the sword seemed to call and Alpha frowned."That's not my name," Alpha warned and the sword laughed with sheer delight."Of course not, remember? I call you Apple because your name is-" the sword began before the girl twisted and tossed the sword into a nearby pond."Screw you!" the girl screamed, her face swelling from the impact.The pond bubbled a few times before it began to steam uselessly but the girl was limping down into town, looking like her body was still shaking from the fall and perhaps the flight."Do you want the sword or the girl?" Amenstar offered."Girl. I do not trust swords that might be thrown at me by bodies of water without provocation," Alpha said with a frown.Amenstar chose a rotten time to not ask for fish for dinner. Those bones would have saved him the effort of getting wet...He sighed and began to wade into the water.---"Quack.""I get that. Thanks, your Majesty," Beta muttered, looking at the ground."Quack.""I'll tell him when I visit," Beta nodded as the Duke of Wrath continued to give her words of encouragement. He gestured past the massive pulsing tower of Delta to the horizon where a portal out of the Abyss would open soon. Beta's chance to get back to the world she was taken from by the ducks.She flexed a muscle and from her back, elegant black wings formed like liquid.Dark Drake Wings level 3: Progress gained. The presence of a majestic specimen has increased this progress greatly.Turning, she moved with some speed, stopping before the tower as she put a hand on it and focused, causing the spongy flesh to collapse inwards into her own flesh until it became a second heart of sorts.It beat like a peel of laughter.She stared as a dozen eyes appeared on her flesh, more symbolic than functional..."Weird," she admitted but didn't bother making them go away. She didn't even use her own eyes now.She sniffed her arm and sighed as her entire body radiated the sulfurous air of the Abyss. A dozen baths weren't fixing this anytime soon.All she had to do was roll up to Miss D, give regards from a Duke of Hell, pass on the Abyss tainted tower, and bail before she got emotional and punched someone.Beta would then eat a tree as it was barbecued!Beta just couldn't wait until----Until they got their hands into the thick of it and showed these boonie folks and maybe that familiar aura... their many weapons. Gamma had evil necromantic sticks, and some demonic swords, oh they would love the spear of the saint killer they absorbed once, and while he was around try to find out whom they had to kick really hard for abusing their knockoffs for cheap labour.Gamma couldn't wait----Until he got back to Delta and figured out how to fight a god.Alpha was mostly worried about that but something about the air was charged.He knew that charge from the time before Delta. Unescapable questing. A touch of destiny.Alpha had to figure out a plan! He just needed to figure out to----"I bless thy leg!" Delta declared and the rabbit's feet grew fuzzy socks.Something tugged at the back of mind as if she had something to do but getting Giant some magic for his growth was all she could focus on.Nothing else could be that important right now.Right?She should really find that memo folder.Something said it was important.
