She hadn’t lost on purpose, and she had barely been holding back. She didn’t use her more dangerous Skills, of course, but she still went all out with her mana and {Suggest}. The {Suggest} trick had worked twice, making Attalaya miss her attacks, but the third time, she closed her eyes, and although Elise tried her best to divert her, it quickly became apparent that her little trick didn’t work as well when her opponent wasn’t using their eyes to track her. She still managed to dodge two more strikes, and fired a couple volleys of {Magic Missile}, but Attalaya was just too fast, and the square was small enough that Elise didn’t have much room to dodge.

“Good fight,” said Attalaya, reaching out her hand out.

“You’re really strong,” said Elise, accepting the handshake.

“Perhaps. I understand now why you cannot reveal your strength, but one day, I hope that we can have a true spar without holding back.”

“...Maybe,” said Elise.

Elise didn’t feel comfortable not holding back against another person when her most powerful Skill just caused instant death, but she was also curious. Attalaya was clearly not completely resistant to mental Skills. Elise had to supercharge {Suggest} to get through the giantess’ mental barrier, but she had done it, and the fact that she had done it with {Suggest} meant that she could do it with other Skills too. Or, she could just use Suggest differently. She had a few different ways she could have fought differently, but Attalaya’s stunt with closing her eyes had left Elise so bewildered that she didn’t think of it until afterward. She would be absolutely willing to at least have a less restrained spar so she could test a few things.

Beside that, Attalaya’s words had made her seem slightly more trustworthy. Elise had displayed clear signs of mental magic, and it didn’t take a genius to guess that she would have more. Maybe other students would overlook it, but since Attalaya already knew how dangerous Elise was, it wasn’t much of a logical leap at all. And the fact that she didn’t seem bothered by it, and in fact seemed eager to see more, meant she at least wasn’t completely untrustworthy.

Still, it was too early for that much trust, so she didn’t say any more.

The spar with Sophie went similarly, with Attalaya crushing her in less than ten seconds. Sophie tried a few flashier spells, but Attalaya just dodged or burst through them all and activated Sophie’s artifact all the same. Elise and Sophie’s spar was a bit different. Elise could have won easily if she used her aether Skills, but she decided to handicap herself a bit and try to fight only with mana. Sophie was superior to her in terms of mana and mana control, but Elise had the edge in terms of combat experience, so it turned out to be a rather competitive spar.

In the end, their two minutes were up before a winner could be decided, but Elise knew that she was well on her way to losing. Sophie had started out using nature magic and unattributed magic like Elise, but gave up and switched to fire after a minute or so, and between her larger mana pool and the effectiveness of fire against nature, Elise was going to run out of tricks before Sophie ran out of mana.

Elise was tempted to pull out her own trump card of {Suggest}, but decided against it. Sophie had been disheartened by losing so quickly to Attalaya, so giving her the win there was good for her morale, and it didn’t bother Elise, since mana wasn’t her specialty anyway.

After class ended, Sophie tried to take the lead in inviting Attalaya to the Dungeon with them, which the giantess readily accepted. She seemed a little disappointed at the mention that a fourth person would be joining them, but it didn’t otherwise bother her, and she said it was fine.

“Tomorrow night at seven, then,” said Sophie cheerfully.

“Yes,” said Attalaya. “I will look forward to it.”
