We were about three days into our journey, the aircraft flying at tens of kilometers per hour without stopping. At some point, I had to ask myself just how far away was that damned secret realm. I thought it was in their backyard!

They were powered by Spirit Stones, which was pretty interesting.

The cost of running these ships was insane, eating about four hundred Medium Grade Spirit Stones every two hours.

I didn’t believe the Reaper Sect was this wealthy. Could the cost of powering these ships come out of the collective fund, or whatever it was that they were talking about?

Either way, not having to use my own Qi to fly was nice, not that I could as a Qi Condensation disciple anyway.

Currently, we were flying above a giant sea, its beginning and end unable to be seen, even with my huge stats.

Our boat only had twenty-five people, staff, disciples, and elders included. The Patriarch joined us, unfortunately, and he was on my boat, unfortunately.

As if that was a coincidence.

He probably wanted to keep an eye on me, or maybe make sure that I didn’t cause any trouble, or wait for me to reveal my secrets.

None of that was going to happen, though. I was just going to sit there, on the deck, and do nothing!

Again!

I’ve been doing a lot of nothing these past few days; that doesn’t give me a good feeling.

In fact, there was a certain… premonition feeling.

Must have been my imagination, though my gut was never wrong.

However, what could happen on an aircraft in the middle of the ocean?

The weather began to change, not that I found that weird, but it was pretty sunny, and the sun was good.

Clouds gathered around both aircraft, filled to the brim with lightning.

Many people turned their gazes toward me in that moment, but I could only raise my hands in defense.

“It’s not my fault this time!”

How rude of them to think that I was going to summon a second lightning storm! Like… I would have, definitely, but not with them present.

Although now that I thought about it, having the ability to summon lightning clouds at will was pretty nice.

Well, it wasn’t my will, but it was a will!

Anyway, the gathering clouds were so dense that the aircraft had to actually slow down. That could never be a good sign…

“Halt!” Peng Long yelled, his voice echoing over both ships. The two stopped rather abruptly, causing everyone on them to shake a little.

I sniffed the air; it was very salty. I suppose that made sense; we were above the sea, but still.

Something else happened that I’d found strange.

My bloodline flared. Not literally, but it was detecting something, and my instincts as a newly born Spirit Beast… sort of yearned for it.

Looking around and spreading out my Divine Sense, I couldn’t detect anything, no matter how much I tried.

My senses were probably not sharp enough in this situation.

That was… annoying.

Peng Long did spread out his aura, though, and I could feel it in my bones. His cultivation base was far too strong compared to the current me.

But it wasn’t unattainable.

As soon as his presence was made known, though, the lightning clouds disappeared as if they were never there, and the sky cleared.

That was extremely suspicious.

“Nothing to worry about.” He said, his voice once again booming. “It was just a weak Spirit Beast trying to get some easy meals.”

Oh, so that’s how it was. Easy meals, was it? But then why did my bloodline flare? It was a Phoenix bloodline, so it couldn’t have done it without any reason.

Was the Spirit Beast powerful? Or did it have something that I yearned for?

Well, I would love to find out if it ever decided it wanted to come out and play again.

The next few hours passed by uneventfully, although I did get a little bored with just sitting around.

Walking around, I eavesdropped on some conversations, but nothing was interesting.

In the end, I went to the front of the ship and watched the sea pass by us.

The sea and… Serpents?

How many were there? Fifty, a hundred? There were so many Sea Serpents slithering right below the surface of the water, I could have sworn that the sea was made of them!

When did they get here?!

“Those are called Balastrious Sea Serpents.” Peng Long’s voice came from behind me. “They are native to this sea and travel in packs of up to five hundred. They are extremely dangerous…”

Why is he telling me this…?

“What are the odds that they attack us?”

“Pretty low after I send out my cultivation. Before? Very high. Their leaders are usually at the Golden Core Stage, so only a superior aura could make them back off. That doesn’t mean we’re one hundred percent safe, though.”

Wow, well, that was a lot to take in. Despite the danger, I could only stare at them with desire. So many Spirit Beasts in one place, what if I unleashed some insane skill and boiled them alive in the sea? Just how many cores were there? How much experience would they give me? It’d been so long since I last fought a Spirit Beast…

But if their leaders were at the Golden Core stage, then I feared to wonder what level they were at. I was simply too weak to fight them even one-on-one, let alone against a group of five hundred.

“Why are you drooling?” Peng Long asked, an amused expression on his face.

“I was?” Playing the fool was the best option in that scenario. “I didn’t realise.”

He raised an eyebrow but didn’t say anything else. Instead, he chuckled and walked away toward the deck, doing whatever it was he was doing.

Me personally, I was trying to think of ways to get my hands on some of that sweet, sweet, juicy serpent meat…

And core…

And experience…

Was I drooling again?

Just as I was about to walk away, my bloodline flared up again.

That time, I didn’t need to guess about why, as I now knew that I was ravenous.

And also, the clouds started gathering again, and on top of that, the head of a giant Sea Serpent came out of the sea.

Its body was huge, its fins already big enough to basically surround the aircraft. If it truly wanted to, it could swallow us in one gulp.

And it was probably going to do just that!

It let out a terrifying screech that shook the air, the sea foaming as it reached toward the sky with its mouth, and the rest of its kin running away as far as they could.

“What the hell?” I caught Peng Long’s surprised whisper before he shouted. “Full speed ahead, deploy all defensive formations!”

That time I’d felt like I was about to become deaf- just how loud did he need to shout?!

The air itself picked up the speed, though, and a bright, glowing orange gleam surrounded the two as their speed increased by a factor of ten.

However, even that wasn’t enough to escape the serpent. It hadn’t quite yet reached the ships, but its pressure alone was causing them to shake. It was utterly and absolutely insane.

I couldn’t even fully feel it, but I was amazed to see the power of a Golden Core Spirit Beast.

And more than that, I wanted to devour its core.

My bloodline agreed with me, as it flared.

However, the serpent’s expression turned a little bit crazy in that moment. It sped up and caught up with the ship in no time, a water-like thing gathering in front of its mouth.

Without wasting a second, a powerful jet of water hit the ship like a speeding carriage, shaking it.

“Why is it so aggressive?” Peng Long cursed under his breath and flared up his aura as well. He was indeed at the early stage of Golden Core, right after Core Formation.

He was strong.

However, the beast that was attacking us was… even stronger, fiercer. I couldn’t exactly tell at which rank its core was, but it should be the equivalent of a Golden Core.

That was exactly when it would get the juiciest.

Although I did absorb one Golden Core in my life, it didn’t do anything special.

Maybe it was because I was too low a level…? But did that insect guy really hunt a beast this powerful?

I hadn’t even thought about it, but that was insane.

Peng Long rushed to the control panel and injected his Qi into the airship, the barrier around us stabilising.

Almost everyone on the boat had a panicked expression, from the servants to the disciples. The only ones that didn’t have a reaction were Peng Li, trying to act edgy, and Hwei Badai, whose mist hid his expression.

I had a reaction, one of hunger, and possibly a lot of greed.

Taking a look at my skills, I was searching to see if there was something I could use, or maybe something that could give me an advantage.

Active Skills

[Peck: Intermediate]

[Nirvanic Flames: Expert]

[Iron Claws: Master]

[Strengthened Constitution: Expert]

[Stealth: Intermediate]

[Tail Whip: Intermediate]

[Lord's Call: Novice]

[Side Step: Expert]

[Myriad Qi Needle: Expert]

[Shadow Cloak: Intermediate]

[Heaven's Protection: Master]

[Dragon Flames: Master]

[Stamina Conversion: Novice]

[Perfect Disguise: Master]

[Lightning Dragon: Expert]

[Self-Shroud: Intermediate]

[Aerial Dive: Beginner]

[Last Stand: Novice]

[Mad Charge: Novice]

[Telepathy: Novice]

Passive Skills

[Evasion: Master]

[Poison Resistance[Greater]: Intermediate]

[Dragonbone Tempering: Expert]

[Pain Tolerance: Expert]

[Water Breathing: Novice]

[Overeater: Expert]

[Stamina Regeneration: Novice]

[Mental Fortitude: Intermediate]

[Lightning Resistance: Expert]

[Pack Leader: Novice]

[Split Focus: Novice]

[Assassination: Novice]

[Paralysis Resistance: Novice]

[Balancing: Expert]

[Paralysis Resistance: Intermediate]

[Lightning Proficiency: Novice]

[Meditation: Novice]

Bloodline Skills

[Phoenix Fire: Expert]

[Phoenix Reflex: Intermediate]

[Ember Step: Expert]

[Elemental Wave: Expert]

[Precise Flame Control: Intermediate]

[Paralyzing Screech: Expert]

[Burning Wind: Intermediate]

[Flaming Talons: Expert]

[Pyro Breath: Intermediate]

[Blade Wing: Master]

[Water Shot: Novice]

[Water Barrier: Novice]

[Order: Novice]

[Ruler's Order: Novice]

[Flaming Rebirth: Novice]

[Elemental Mixture: Novice]

Looking at it, there wasn’t anything in particular that could help me… I did have Flaming Rebirth, but never got a chance to use it.

Its rank was too low to do anything substantial as well… It was a shame, but it didn’t seem like I could hunt anything just yet. I was simply too weak, despite having all these skills.

I’d been neglecting them pretty badly, too. I was beginning to regret rushing into the human world so quickly…

But this secret realm would give me plenty of opportunities to level up my skills; I was sure of it.

Otherwise… Well, it was a new place to explore, more enemies to defeat, right?

Anyway, as Peng Long fed the barrier his Qi, it became sturdier, and the speed began to increase as well.

At some point, we’d even passed the other ship, yet the serpent kept insisting that it wanted our ship.

And as my bloodline flared again, it became increasingly obvious why.

Each time my desire for its resources caused my bloodline to flare, so did it become more aggressive.

The reason it was ignoring the other aircraft and going after us was because of me!

Well… wasn’t that interesting. It wanted me as much as I wanted it; how romantic.

Giving Peng Long a side-eye, I checked to make sure he was actually at the Golden Core stage and…

Flared my bloodline.