He rumbled, deep in his chest to show his concern. “Ameliah.”

“Yes?” she asked, looking at him.

“What is it that you fear?”

Ameliah froze, then turned to face him fully. “I’m not afraid. I’m just…concerned.“

“No,” Tallheart said, shaking his head slowly. “I am no expert on humans, but I know fear when it is before my eyes. You are afraid.”

Ameliah sighed after a long pause, then nodded. “Yes.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

The silence stretched, and eventually, Ameliah continued all on her own. “I like Rain how he is. I’m afraid that he’ll…change, and not in a good way. It’s happened before with people that I thought I knew. People that I trusted.”

Tallheart rumbled in understanding. “Power is dangerous.” He inclined his head toward Rain, who was busy salivating over the meat that was now sizzling in his magical pan. “Sometimes, it is as you see—hunger, recklessness, pride, wrath. The system…hmm, no. Our stats. Our skills. They will change us, but only if we let them. Whatever is wrong with Rain, it will pass. His will is strong. He will learn to control this hunger, just as he has learned to control the urges of the slime that has infiltrated his soul.”

“Yeah,” Ameliah said, sighing. “I know.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “You are worried about something greater. This incident has merely brought it to the front of your mind. What you fear has nothing to do with the system at all.” He tilted his head as he looked at her. “Tell me about…the Healer.”

Ameliah froze for the second time, then snorted softly to herself. She looked away. “You’re wrong, Tallheart. You are an expert on humans.”

“Mmm.”

A few hours later, Ameliah sat with Rain in the stone cubbyhole where they’d spent the night. She’d calmed down since Tallheart’s insightful probe into her past. She had told him nothing, though she’d wanted to. That part of her memory was locked away safely where it belonged. She would tell them about it someday, but not here. Not in the depths. They needed to focus.

Rain sighed, setting down the last piece of his armor atop the pile of plates next to him. He shifted awkwardly, looking self-conscious in nothing but his skin-tight Forceweave. His very skin-tight Forceweave.

“Well?” he asked, looking at her pleadingly.

Ameliah smiled, trying to hide her amusement at how vulnerable he looked. Rain was sensitive to a fault and had serious self-confidence issues. What she said next would be critical. Fortunately, she didn’t have to do anything other than tell the truth.

“You look amazing,” she said, smiling warmly. “I always thought you were cute, but then you grew the beard, and now…” She made a show of licking her lips. “Yum.”

As expected, this had the desired effect of turning Rain’s face entirely red. Ameliah laughed, rocking back and covering her mouth.

“Hey!” Rain protested. “I told you not to tease me!”

“I’m not teasing you,” Ameliah said, fighting back her laughter. She waved him away. “Okay, maybe a little. Really, though, I like what I see, and I’m not just saying that. Don’t worry. You’re still you, even if you are a bit…” she poked him in the chest exploratively, “…denser than you used to be.”

“Hey,” Rain said again, reaching up to cover the spot. “Don’t do that.”

“Don’t do what?” Ameliah said, poking him on the other side. “This?” She poked him again, then gasped and pulled back, pressing a hand to her breast. “Hey!”

Rain grinned at her. “You started it.”

Ameliah laughed, massaging the spot before dropping her hand. “I suppose I deserved that.” She scooted a bit closer to him. “You did it wrong, though. You’re supposed to be gentle.” She reached out for his hand, then placed it where she wanted it. “Like this. Here, try again.”

Rain smiled, then leaned in to kiss her, but a loud clearing of the throat from the other side of the door made him yelp, pulling his hand away as if burned.

Ameliah laughed. “Damn.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, pushing open the door and knocking over Rain’s piled armor with a clatter. “Do not mind me. You may do whatever you wish to each other after I have made some measurements.” He tilted his head, looking at Rain, who was trying and failing to hide behind Ameliah. “Hmm. Yes. Significant adjustments will be required. Stand up.”

“Tallheart!” Rain shouted.

Tallheart’s rumbling deepened, and Ameliah realized that he was laughing. That was all it took for her to break down completely.

Rain sighed as Tallheart departed, taking his armor with him. “Damn antlered mood-killer.”

Ameliah snorted, leaning her head against his shoulder. The two of them were sitting next to each other with their backs against the wall. “Ready to pick up where we left off?”

Rain sighed, wrapping his arm around her. “Not really. Not with him out there…listening.” A metallic clang sounded from beyond the tunnel, Tallheart’s hammer. It seemed he’d already begun working on the adjustments.

“That’s okay. This is fine too,” Ameliah said, nuzzling her cheek against Rain’s neck.

Rain smiled, resting his head atop hers. “I am so lucky I found you.”

“Yes, you are,” Ameliah said.

“Ameliah, honestly, you are the best thing that has happened to me since…forever, including my awakening.”

“Yuck, stop,” Ameliah said, crinkling up her nose. “You know I like sweet things, but depths, I’m going to puke if you keep that up.”

Rain laughed, suddenly nervous as he contemplated what he was about to say. He shook his head, then said it before he could get in his own way. “I still can’t believe I fell in love with someone who would put honey in her coffee.”

“Black coffee tastes terrible, and you know it,” Ameliah said. She paused. “I love you too.”

Rain felt himself melting, and it was all he could do to maintain his composure. Part of him wanted to jump up for the ceiling and run around in excited circles. Another part wanted to collapse bonelessly to the floor. Instead of doing either, he forced himself to be content with an affectionate squeeze, desperate to maintain some modicum of his dignity.

The word ‘love’ wasn’t quite as charged here as it was where he was from, as far as he could tell.

But still.

She’d said it back.

She loves me. Oh, fuck, she loves me. There must be something wrong with her. Some horrible mental disease or something.

“Rain?” Ameliah said.

He looked down at her, seeing that she had her eyes closed as she rested against his shoulder. “Yes?”

“Don’t change,” Ameliah said softly. “Stay like this, please.”

“What?” Rain asked, his thoughts not working properly as they searched around for what she might mean. “Like, the muscles? The hunger isn’t gone yet, so I don’t think I’m done, uh, growing. There’s not much I can do about that unless you know a way to lower synchronization.”

“No, pigeon-head,” Ameliah said, reaching up to flick him on the forehead. “I like the muscles. I’ll like you no matter what you look like. I mean keep being you.”

“Huh?” Rain asked, pulling away to rub at his forehead. What is she talking about?

Ameliah sighed, dragging him back closer so she could rest her head comfortably on his shoulder again. “Ask me later. Once we’re out of the depths. I need to tell you about…” She sighed again, squeezing him tighter still. “Later.”

“Okay…” Rain said, not understanding, but accepting it. Whatever it was, she would tell him when she was ready. He laid his head back against hers, searching for a safe topic. One that didn’t involve feelings. Coffee, yes. Coffee is safe. He chuckled. “Coffee grows in the jungle, did you know that? I didn’t sense any out there, but I did find something else. Something good. Can you guess?”

“Something edible, I expect,” Ameliah said. “Just tell me. I don’t feel like guessing.”

Rain smiled. “Cocoa beans. Tell me, do you like chocolate?”

“Of course, I like chocolate,” Ameliah said with a soft huff of amusement. “Everyone likes chocolate. It’s just rare.”

“Tell me about it,” Rain said with a sigh. “I looked everywhere in Fel Sadanis once I found out it existed in this world. No luck. It’s made from cocoa—in case you didn’t know. It’s a lot of work to make it, though. I was thinking we could harvest some beans on our way back and then have a try.”

“Mmhmm,” Ameliah said sleepily.

Rain smiled. She must be tired. She didn’t get much more sleep than I did. “So once we’re done here—not just the depths, I mean, but with Vestvall—what do you think will happen? Where will we go?”

“Hmm?”

“I was thinking that after we get everyone to safety, we can come back here with Ascension. I promised to help everyone else level, and I mean to. Apart from that, this place is amazing, just from the resources alone. We’re getting tons of Crysts down here, way more than on the surface, and who knows what else we’ll find…” Rain sighed. “I’d love to just stay here, but we can’t risk the townspeople like that. Coming back, though, that seems like a great idea. Even once I get to silver, I don’t think we’ll be ready for Xiugaaraa. Once people find out what we’re trying to do with Ascension, there’s going to be trouble. The Watch is cool with us, and the Guild will be too, I think, but the Bank… I just don’t know, Ameliah. We’re going to clash with them eventually. I can feel it. If not them, some noble house or something. We’re not ready for that. Coming back here…to someplace out of the way… That would let us get a good footing. The only problem is that the Empire is so close. What do you think? Would it be safe enough to come back? What happens if the Empire wins the war?”

There was a long pause, and Rain looked down. “Ameliah?”

Ameliah didn’t respond, other than to snuggle closer to him.

“Seriously?” Rain asked. “You fell asleep while I was talking?”

Again, she didn’t respond.

Rain smiled, reaching over to brush her hair out of her face. He had to resist the urge to close his eyes as well. He felt about as safe right now as he’d ever been, despite being without his armor, but this was still the depths. Tallheart wasn’t far away, but he was far enough that it mattered. In fact, with Hababas around, the smith was relying on them being close enough to help him in case something happened.

Detection went off as a part of its normal sequence, coming back clear of danger.

For now.

As nice as it would have been to join Ameliah in rest, Rain couldn’t do that. He had too much to lose.

He would keep watch.

He just wished that he’d remembered to grab a snack before Ameliah decided to use him as a pillow.
