“My trace of Karma faded when the mist dissipated. It’s like he ceased existing,” a Daoist wearing a crown said before turning to a Sealbearer nearby. “My friend, you should be familiar with Benciti. I happened to see you hand him something an hour ago. Could you enlighten us?”

A squirrely man withered under a hundred intense stares and reluctantly took out a small clay figurine. “I wouldn’t say I know him well. We shared the road for a few days. I asked Benciti to bring a paired Life Idol after hearing he planned on embarking early. As you can see, it’s still intact.”

“That means nothing,” a rough-looking warrior with a military aura scoffed, and most Sealbearers nodded in agreement. “Nothing can peer through the Peregrine Ocean’s secrets. I’m sure some of your elders have tried to divine the Fate of the nineteen who set out before.”

“It’s been over a week, and there’s still no updates,” another sealbearer sighed. “Perhaps the uncertainty is part of the trial. The longer we wait, the heavier the silence will weigh on us.”

“Only on the weak-willed,” the gruff man scoffed before walking away.

The gathering dispersed soon after. If anyone managed to glean valuable insights, they kept it to themselves. Only Zac gained something. He’d confirmed the mist really had dispersed the moment it touched the domain’s border, and the gondola was gone without a trace.

“I finally got it! I remember when I felt that sense of wrongness!” Esmeralda suddenly shouted within the shrine. She was so excited she actually used her real voice for once. “These ships are all made from materials of parallel timelines!”

“Wait, what? Didn’t you say there was no such thing?” Zac asked.

The topic of parallel dimensions and alternate timelines would inevitably pop up when spending months visiting the past and rewriting history. Zac had asked if there were infinite versions of himself like the theories he’d heard before the integration. According to Esmeralda, there were not. Spatial Dimensions in the Multiverse didn’t work that way. At best, there were large-scale dream realms or unusual formations that created a similar effect on a limited scale.

“You’re right. There technically isn’t such a thing. There is only one River of Time, and only the future is branched into infinite possibilities. When the future becomes the present, the other branches cease to exist,” Esmeralda confirmed.

“Technically?” Zac zeroed in on the critical word.

“You could reach back in time and alter the course of history to create a new trajectory. From there, you’d reach into the altered future to grab the materials you need. Finally, you return to the past, restore the original timeline, and take your loot into the present,” Esmeralda said.

“Wh—"

Esmeralda laughed at Zac’s vacant expression. “The word ‘technically’ is doing some heavy lifting in this scenario. You cannot interact with a future different than your own. It’s one of the established Temporal absolutes. Except, there is one place where the impossible becomes possible, where the fundamental rules hold no sway.

“The singularity atop the Peak of Continuum. I saw it once… For a brief moment,” Esmeralda sighed with longing. “It’s the core of Time and Space. There’s no distinction between past, present, and future. From the Era’s birth to its end, you can exist in all time and space, including all of time’s diverging paths. Moving some materials from one point to another would be effortless.”

“You’re saying someone inside the Mercurial Court has grasped this singularity to steal some boats from another timeline?” Zac asked, his voice ladled with a healthy scoop of skepticism.

Zac’s vision of Starclad had become a blur, but he was certain not even the Stellar Wanderers wielded that level of omnipotence. They possessed an innate ability to see the countless futures, but they couldn’t step outside the realm of Time and Space as Esmeralda described.

“No, such power cannot be grasped by man. Controlling the entirety of the Peak of Continuum is just the basic requirement. These boats are merely fantasies brought into reality, borrowing from the concepts I described. The result is extraordinarily close to the real thing,” Esmeralda explained. “Don’t underestimate what this means. Producing these boats requires a near-perfect grasp of Time, Space, and Fantasy.”

“But what’s the point?” Zac asked, still not understanding.

“This feat is directly linked to the memories we’ve visited and their ability to generate real Fate. Perhaps this is a prototype? An experiment using the sealbearers?” Esmeralda offered. “The Peregrine Ocean is a maze of pure possibility, a chaotic soup of countless artificial timelines. Even Supremacies would struggle to return to reality after entering, and I can’t imagine their Dao Hearts would be fine after a dip. That kind of experience can plant a seed of doubt in anyone’s heart.”

“Then, the gondolas?” Zac asked.

“They’re brought out of different artificial timelines. We saw the gondola tune its navigator to its reality, too. The boats should act like a compass, bringing you along a specific route,” Esmeralda said, looking exceptionally satisfied with herself after exposing the truth. Zac’s follow-up question ruined her mood.

“Does that mean you know which one we’re supposed to take?”

Esmeralda froze, then blinked with confusion. “Uh, that’s…”

Zac shook his head in resignation and turned toward the main gate. The central square waited on the other side. It was almost as wide as the docks despite being spatially folded. Its interiors could potentially exceed the size of his island back home. And yet, people were already gathering to secure a spot. Apart from the crowds on the ground, there were dozens of floating platforms where high-grade dignitaries waited.

“Looks like we’re joining the festivities.”
