130*******

After their dinner, the class broke up. Some people left to head back to the dorms, meet up with friends, or get an early start on weekend family time. Principal Saleh and most of the instructors took their leave, while Torsten Klein was stuck with the job of seeing the bus safely back to campus.

The vehicle drove itself, but the school required it to have a babysitter.

“The mall closes at midnight!” he called after the students as they scattered. “If you’re not on the bus five minutes later, you can find your own way!”

Haoyu wanted to throw coins into a particular fountain because he did it every time he came to the mall, so Lexi and Alden tagged along. Three people heading in the same direction with a goal, even such a small one, must have had some natural attraction to it because several other guys with no plans of their own ended up following them. Jeffy and Finlay weren’t that surprising; like Alden, they didn’t know their way around the giant shopping complex all that well. Reinhard came, too. And Mehdi seemed to have ended up with them accidentally.

He’d tried to go with Kon, only to have Everly Kim give him such a frosty look that he’d run to join the nearest available group.

“Why the fountain?” he groaned. “It’s for little kids.”

“Because throwing coins in the fountain is good luck,” Haoyu said. “If you leave Rosa Grove without throwing coins in, it’s bad luck. You guys can do the slide if you’d rather. It’s right next to it.”

Mehdi brightened. “I haven’t been on the slide in forever! There’s always a line when I go shopping with my mother and she never wants to wait.”

Reinhard gave him a superior look. “So you love the sliding board, but the fountain’s for little kids?”

They bickered just like the little kids they were both so insistent they weren’t until the group reached an atrium. You could see all four floors of the mall from here, and the panels that made up the roof could be opened to make it open air. They were closed now. The rain that had been promised by the thunder earlier had begun, and water streamed down the glass.

Alden patted his messenger bag. He had two disposable ponchos in there. He felt the smug satisfaction of the properly prepared. Never mind the fact that I could probably buy all kinds of rain repelling gear here in the mall.

With the roof closed, the atrium echoed with the voices of nighttime shoppers and the happy shrieks of a few children who were going down the slide with their parents. Wide enough for five people to ride it side-by-side on slippery mats, it ran from the fourth floor to the ground. As passengers zipped down it, colorful trails of light appeared in their wake then faded out to match the deep gray surface again.

“There’s no line!” Jeffy said excitedly. “Let’s go!”

Everyone but Alden and his roommates shot off toward a staircase that led up to the fourth floor.

“I hope they’re not disappointed,” said Haoyu, taking the same stairs down to the bottom level a few seconds later. “I used to love the slide.”

“Used to?” Alden asked. It looked fun to him. Definitely not just for “little kids” despite all the arguing about it.

Haoyu looked over at it. “I’ve been kind of worried since we started school that things like that were going to turn boring. I don’t know. I just don’t want to ride it and find out I don’t get the swoopy guts thing anymore. It’ll be sad if it’s not special now.”

“Because of the gym.” Lexi was nodding.

Alden suddenly realized what they were talking about, and he didn’t like it at all.

“No! Is the insane stuff we do in the MagiPhys gym going to ruin carnival rides?”

“The rooftop-to-rooftop coaster was still great,” said Haoyu. “But just think of everything we did today. And if you compare that to the slide…”

“I’m quitting school.”

“Switch to Arts or Sciences at least so we don’t have to find a new roommate,” Haoyu told him.

The “fountain” Haoyu liked was actually a huge, beautifully detailed scale model of Anesidora. It stood on the pavement at ground level. The interior of the knee-deep basin was a dark gray-blue, and the water inside it formed tiny waves that matched the ocean. At the center stood F-city and Apex, the circle and the crescent connected by the Span. There were no vehicles or tiny people, but lights glimmered in the windows of the buildings and skyscrapers, occasionally flicking on and off. A single purple beam shooting upwards served as a “You Are Here” indicator over the model of the mall.

A couple of kiosks placed on opposite sides of the fountain sold coins.

“You pick the project you want your donation to fund,” Lexi explained while Haoyu poked at the screen. “And you get the coin designed for it…or coins.”

Eight shining tokens about the size of silver dollars clattered into the kiosk’s tray.

Alden wondered if Haoyu had gotten so many to share, but that wasn’t the case. He took all of them for himself and walked about a quarter of the way around the fountain with the air of someone who had an established favorite coin tossing spot.

Lexi bought a single coin for himself, then Alden stepped up to read about the projects the fountain was funding right now. The one that was farthest from its goal was creating a permanently balmy custom climate for the second largest park on the island.

Do we build that kind of thing for ourselves or do we pay wizards to do it for us?

He donated to a plan that would beautify one of the streets near campus because he figured he’d get to enjoy it more often, and coins with images of buildings on one side and trees on the other fell into the tray.

Eight for eight Argold was a lot more expensive than tossing pennies, but he had more than enough wishes to justify it.

He flipped a coin through the air, trying to see if he could land it precisely on top of the spot Lexi had just hit with his own toss.

I wish for Kibby to be happy.

The coin hit the miniature sea with a satisfying plop. It didn’t land in exactly the spot he’d been aiming for. It might have if his wordchain hadn’t run out.

He threw the next one.

Boe stays safe and gets to live however he wants.

The silver disc sank beneath the surface.

His third coin was for himself.

I wish for more moments like this one.

His stomach was full of good food. His body was tired in a nice way from the course. People were laughing as they went down the slide. Calypso music poured out of one of the shops. And at the kiosk he’d just used, a small girl was patiently reading aloud the project descriptions to an even younger boy who was holding a NesiCard in both hands and staring up at the screen.

Nothing too fancy. Just more moments like this one. As many of them as I can have.

The coin hit the water. The ripples didn’t spread very far before they disappeared into the waves.

On Apex, a man wearing lounge pants tucked into the tops of a pair of galoshes stepped out of a brick townhouse. He chuckled as a golden retriever, tail wagging, shoved its way past him and bolted down the steps so fast it almost tripped over its own paws.

“Even in the rain?” a woman’s voice called out from the house.

“He’s a good boy,” he said. “And I promised.”

He closed the door. The dog waited on the sidewalk, standing on his hind feet and whining excitedly. His owner took the steps down, galoshes splashing in a puddle that had gathered in a dip in the concrete. A large drone over the man’s head kept him dry. It had no propellers, but it hovered quietly and easily above him as if the wind had little effect on the dark fabric sails it used to shield him.

The dog was chubby, and his fur was going silver around his muzzle. But he raced across the one-lane street with the energy of a puppy and bounded into the grassy square that the townhouse faced. Other, similar houses surrounded it. They were mostly quiet right now, curtains pulled tight against the night.

The man lifted his left hand as he reached the square and snapped his fingers twice. Street lamps and pathway lights turned on in an instant, illuminating the wet grass and the dog running in eager circles.

“All right. Fetch it is.” He pulled a tennis ball from his jacket pocket and threw it. The dog raced after it, barking joyfully, heedless of the rain.

They played for several minutes before a chirping sound called the man’s attention to his watch.

“What is it?” he asked.

“Elias, why won’t you answer your damn interface when the SkySea Guard is calling you?”

“Hello, Archibald. Why do government officials keep calling me on my interface when they know it’s not my preferred contact method for the information business?”

“You stubborn old—”

“You’re almost as old as I am. And I keep SkySea fully supplied with top of the line infogear.”

“Nobody wants to wear your spy equipment, Elias!”

“Many people do.”

While Elias tossed the soggy tennis ball again, the other man sighed. “We’re having some trouble with the runaways we queried you on earlier this evening. It’s been long enough that they might…might…have slipped past the bulk of our patrols. We’d like to find them before they hit the edge of our territory and run into less tolerant parties.”

As he finished speaking, notes appeared in front of Elias’s eyes, and a soothing, male voice whispered in his ear. Elias listened to its report for a few seconds, then said, “I see you requested intelligence on a seventeen-year-old boy, a couple who thought an escape attempt would spice up their love life, and that funny woman who enjoys the thrill of being plucked from the waves every couple of months.”

He also saw that the couple and the thrill seeker had already been brought back.

“The audio recording and video you purchased indicated the boy left in the company of five others. And it seems you haven’t found any sign of them, judging by the fact that most of the members of your day shift haven’t returned to their homes.”

Archibald grumbled something, then said more clearly, “Where are they?”

“I doubt my creation knows the precise answer to that. I can have it make guesses based on the captain’s personality profile and the capabilities of their vessel, but I don’t have recording devices out at sea.”

“We want anything you’ve got that will help. We’ll pay the fee.” Archibald Carisson said the word ‘fee’ like it was a curse.

“How uncharacteristically generous you’re being with the budget tonight. It’s because of the two high ranks traveling with them, I suppose?” Elias whistled, and his dog trotted toward him, head high and tail wagging.

“You ought to be required by law to help with matters like this if you ask me. Every time an Avowed makes it off the island and causes trouble for ordinary people it’s a setback for global relations and puts our efforts to function as an independent nation without interference in jeop—”

“If I was required by law to do any such thing, I would get on a boat myself. And you would not find me.” He bent to lay a hand on top of the dog’s soft, wet head. “Or I would run for election.”

He could practically hear the other man shuddering at the thought.

“You’ll just have to be content with the fact that I don’t hold myself to the same privacy standards as our System. If I did, I’d tell you nothing at all. Now…how much help do you want?”

Archibald didn’t hesitate. “No need to help your creation along with your power,” he said at once. “Just its own work will be sufficient.”

The Informant sighed. “You heard him. What do we know about the missing boat? Synthesize all relevant information and make predictions.”

Data began to pour in at once.

“You’re looking the wrong place,” he said mildly. “You need to look deeper.”

“Did they sink?” Archibald asked in surprise.

“They almost definitely did, but not in the way you mean. I hope you have a lot of manpower for tonight’s search. And that they’re strong swimmers.”

It was silent at the bottom of the sea. And black.

Jacob had been doing his best to ignore the nothingness beyond the windows of the submerged cruiser by browsing the internet and texting his mom. He’d told her he was out for the night with some new friends he’d made, so their chat back and forth was light. She didn’t need more worries.

He was on the settee, curled up in the corner to stay out of his companions’ way. He could hear them all breathing. With the engines off, the boat was that silent. No crashing waves or rushing wind. The lights came from a few battery powered lanterns and the Submerger, which was shining in the cockpit, the crystal dial that had become its new base occasionally flickering and calling the captain’s attention toward it.

Though he never touches it, Jacob noted.

He’d halted the engines, then set their course using the dial and a glass stick that might have been called either a stylus or a wand in Jacob’s opinion. There were logograms on the dial that controlled depth, direction, speed, and Jacob didn’t know what else.

After the captain had played around with the thing—pressing the stylus to one logogram and then another, timing himself with a stopwatch for some reason every time he made an adjustment—he’d flipped the whole Submerger over, so that the oily yellow liquid inside the tank was on the bottom instead of the top. When he’d placed the Submerger back on top of the dial, the silver bead in the middle of the liquid had sunk almost to the bottom.

And then so had the boat.

Magic encasing it, water crawling up the sides to pull it under...Jacob shuddered.

