“I know I’m an Avowed,” he said. “I don’t have a problem with them. Us. Don’t accuse me of stuff when you don’t even know me! I…people like my dad think superhumans are…I don’t think that way. I was just asking a question about the point you were making.”

Riley went quiet and Jacob tried not to let that make him uncomfortable. She hadn’t had many quiet spells at all since the boat set out.

I didn’t mean to let her wind me up. She just won’t shut up about all these things that I’m too tired to think about, and she acts like I should care about them but I don’t. I don’t want to. That’s not who I—

Finally, she said, “You know you’ll still be one of us, right? No matter where on Earth you end up. You can run away from the island, but you have to take yourself with you.”

He turned away. But the only place to go was back in the cabin with the others.

“Hey. Don’t be upset. I’ve just never met anyone like you before,” said Riley. A hand landed on Jacob’s shoulder, and he whirled to see her smiling at him. “Did your dad think magic was unnatural? Or that Avowed were an Artonan infection that needed to be quarantined?”

He took a step back from her.

“Or was it one of the even crazier ideas?” She shook her head. “Doesn’t matter. It’s good you’re coming with us, Jacob. You need to be around people who’ll show you how it really is.”

“How what really is?” he asked.

She leaned toward him. “We’re awesome,” she said softly. “Stronger, healthier, kinder and prettier if we want to be. Smarter. It’s harder to see on Anesidora, where everyone’s one of us. Why do you think they make us stay there?”

She sounded so sure of herself it was impossible not to listen.

“‘Oh, what if you hurt us ordinary people with your terrible alien magic? You’re like walking weapons,’” she scoffed. “That’s not why they want us all tucked away. Most people would welcome us with open arms, but the ones currently in power…?”

She looked up into the darkness. “They say that if the first generation of Avowed had been chosen at forty, instead of in their teens, they would’ve become Presidents and Prime Ministers. They would’ve ended monopolies and carved out kingdoms for themselves.”

Jacob had never heard anyone say that before.

“Some of them almost did things like that anyway. But they were kids who’d grown up in a world without magic, and the people in power saw what was coming before they did. And they decided to bottle the genie back up before it realized what it really was…”

She bent suddenly and picked up the electric lantern. She held it up high like a torch. “We’re not going to stay in the bottle for much longer. I’m going to be one of the first ones to break free.”

Everyone thinks something different about Avowed, Jacob thought. I miss not being confused.

“I—” he started to say, only to be interrupted by a second girl’s nervous voice.

“Um…um…you guys?”

She was standing right there on the stern of the boat with them. She was so thin that the pink and white polka-dotted sweatshirt she was wearing looked like it had swallowed her. Her pale eyes were wide.

“Something is reallyreallywrong.”

******
