“No touching this or casting spells at her,” the captain had warned in an ominous voice, shooing the man with the scabby hand away from the device when it was over. “She’s a powerful but sensitive piece of equipment, and she’s all that protects us from our enemies and the deep.”

Jacob had no desire at all to touch the Submerger.

He just wanted the magical, creepy part of their journey to be over. If possible, he would’ve moved their company’s thief away from the crate full of stolen medicine and looked around for one of those knockout drugs they’d given him the last time they’d hauled him back to intake. Being unconscious until they were back above the water sounded like a great idea.

Other people weren’t as anxious as he was.

“Well!” said the girl, Riley. She clapped her hands together and bounced onto her feet. “It turns out that traveling away from home gets boring after only a few hours. I’m going to go see what it’s like outside if that’s all right with you, Captain.”

He was lying on one of the bunks now, reading a paperback. “It’s fine to go out. You can even touch the envelope if you want to get a first hand look at the power of Jacob’s gift to us.”

Riley snatched up one of the lanterns and squeezed her way through all the supplies toward the door.

“You coming?” she asked, beckoning toward Jacob.

He shook his head. He didn’t see the appeal in getting even closer to the darkness.

She left, and he tried to relax. It wasn’t made any easier by the company. The thief kept laughing loudly at whatever he was watching or reading on his interface, and the other man was poking around the boat with an intensity that was only matched by his randomness. He stared at a nick in one of the cabinets, then at one of the weapon cases, then he peered at the tarp that covered the large object that sat where the dinette had once been. The edge of the tight canvas started to pull up at the bottom.

“Um,” said Jacob, alarmed. “Should you be doing that?”

“Get away from that, Will,” said the captain, looking over the top of his book. “It’s delicate. Dangerous.”

The man leaped back, muttered an apology, then went to stare at the label on a jar of peanut butter.

The captain had only introduced the strange man as a friend who needed a lift earlier. Seeing Jacob’s s expression, he seemed to decide further explanation was needed.

“Don’t worry about Will,” he said. “He only fidgets around like this because he’s nervous. Isn’t that right, pal?”

“I’m not nervous,” Will muttered, rocking back and forth. “It’s just very small in here.”

“Claustrophobic?” the thief asked in an unconcerned voice.

“What’s a boy your age doing cooped up in here with us?” the captain asked Jacob. “Go out and take a look. Not many times in your life you’ll get to see such a thing.”

Will opened a cabinet and yelped as dozens of large stickers slid out and fluttered around him. He scrambled backward, his socks slipping on some of the stickers as he fled.

Stickers seemed like a wasteful addition on a boat stuffed so full of necessities. Jacob stood up to get a better look at them.

Most of them were square or rectangular. A few were die-cut, horned monster faces. They said things like “SAL for True Peace” and “Who’s gonna save you from the demons?” Some were in English, others in Chinese. He even spotted one in French.

The captain shook his head. “I told Riley she could bring one box of those since she’s spent so long designing them. Should’ve specified the size of the box. She’s got them tucked in every nook and cranny.”

Will had picked up a sticker that looked like a holographic cube. He was staring at it now.

Guess it’s just as interesting as the peanut butter label.

Jacob tried to help clean up the stickers, but Will swatted him away.

Fine then.

He didn’t want to go outside and ‘take a look,’ but staying in here wasn’t much better after all.

“Excuse me,” he said when he was halfway to the door.

Wait, who was I apologizing…he needed to relax and focus on getting outside.

By the fountain, there was a home furnishings store that specialized in extraterrestrial imports.

Now this is not the kind of shopping experience you get in Chicago, Alden thought, sitting on a very short stool in one corner of the store, waiting for his body heat to make the stone-like material it was made of release a scent. The sign beside the stool had said it would happen, and nobody else had wanted to try it.

Where is their sense of adventure? How often do you get to experience a sit-and-sniff stool from Tmith?

There was plenty of other adventure to be had in this place, though. Finlay was trying to figure out how to read a device that said it was a clock even though it just looked like a jar full of differently colored gels. Mehdi was sinking deeper and deeper into a squishy blob-shaped massager; soon nothing would be left of him but his nose. And Haoyu and Lexi were browsing the shelves.

Jeffy and Reinhard had hung back to do the slide one more time, but it had been so long, Alden suspected they’d either gotten lost or forgotten they were supposed to be rejoining them.

A sickly sweet smell that vaguely reminded him of apples filled the air, and with his curiosity satisfied, he stood up to look for a new weird experience. He found Haoyu tapping on a two-foot-tall cylindrical lamp that was lit by a swarm of tiny luminescent bugs. Lexi was right beside him, examining all the supplies you would need to keep your bug lamp alive.

“You’re finally off the stool,” Haoyu said. “We were just talking about you.”

“Were you saying nice things?”

“We were wondering if you still wanted to come with us to Matadero. It’s a long trip out and it’s not much to see since we can’t get too close, but the boat’s fun.”

“Tomorrow?”

Haoyu nodded. “Or Sunday if the weather’s better for it then. We’re going to ask Vandy too. Her mom’s in residence there, and she’s so down about the way things went in class this week.”

Lexi wasn’t complaining about being a water taxi. Alden looked over at him.

“I’m selling the boat soon,” he said. “My parents were just trying to distract me with a new hobby and give me an escape so that I wouldn’t go crazy waiting for selection, but I don’t have time for it now. Having the money is more practical.”

“This is our last chance to farewell a noble vessel.” Haoyu saluted the lamp for some reason.

They don’t plan to get close. There’s no reason to be weirded out by the idea of viewing Matadero from a distance. “I’ll go,” he said. “Thanks for inviting me.”

He spent a few more minutes browsing with them, pausing to admire a case full of the same colorful rock creatures he’d enjoyed watching with the other Rabbits in intake. They were all in their hibernation mode right now. The store had the date of their next wake-up posted on a sign.

“We placed bets on these dudes in intake,” he told the others, pointing. “The guys in the apartment next door to mine had a whole table full of them.”

“Seriously? They’re kind of expensive.” Haoyu leaned toward the case, and his breath fogged the glass beside a mottled pinkish creature.

“All the apartments have unique fun features. For socializing. Some people just went from room to room, trying out everyone else’s games and furniture.”

“What did you have?” Lexi asked.

“A very dramatic coffee pot and a pinball machine.”

“Sounds like fun,” said Haoyu.

“It was. They make it as comfortable as they can. It’s supposed to be a soft landing.”

Not soft enough for everyone I guess. He wondered if Maricel’s friend had been caught yet.

“CNH has been even better believe it or not.” The rooms weren’t as luxurious, but the busyness and the good company were making him feel more settled in than intake had managed to.

“Well we have a polar bear,” said Haoyu. “It’s hard to compete with that.”

“True. Sunny is the main reason I stay with you all. Plus the spontaneous outbreaks of mooing.”

[WARNING: You are approaching a blockaded area. Turn back or request teleportation to Anesidora now.]

“Told you!” Riley’s soft curls were freed from their barrette, and they drifted in the magic the captain called ‘the envelope’. She had unfolded the boat’s stern boarding platform so that she could get even closer to the ocean that surrounded them. She leaned back, arms spread wide. Behind her there was nothing but blackness; any faint light from the night sky so far above them couldn’t penetrate this deep. The angle of the girl’s body made her look like she was about to fall into an endless void, but the Submerger’s magic held her in place.

Jacob had touched the magic himself just once, right after he came out here to join her an hour or so ago. The protective envelope was invisible, but it felt like the air itself grew denser and denser the farther he extended his arm from the edges of the boat, until he couldn’t push through anymore.

“Captain couldn’t resist kissing the edge of the forbidden zone. One last—” She lifted a middle finger covered in magenta polish to the sky. “—to all those Avowed who go along with playing captors to our own kind.”

Jacob was still staring at the blockade notice. “What if the System sends us back?”

Riley snorted. “It doesn’t do that unless you ask it to. Trust me. I’ve lived here my whole life. People who make it through to Matadero on dares say it just keeps flashing the warning. When you get close enough, your boat smashes into shielding. That’s the real restricted area. And we’re not headed that way anyway. We’re just sneaking along the perimeter, right below all those patrols.”

She smiled up at the silent blackness over their heads. “Hear that, assholes? There are superhumans soon to be at large under your noses and you don’t have a clue!”

Her voice disappeared into the envelope. She crossed her arms over her chest. After a little while, she said, “You know, you’re quiet for a hero.”

“I’m not a hero.”

“You sort of are,” Riley said. “The captain thinks so anyway. Apparently this thing you’ve brought us is rare on Earth. SAL only has one more, and the person who brought it back from the Triplanets years ago won’t let it be used for anything but helping runners hide or relocate. They’re not really caught up with the times. Those of us who don’t like the way things are done need to start pushing people to think, don’t we?”

Since meeting her for the first time this afternoon, Jacob had come to understand that Riley’s reasons for leaving Anesidora weren’t at all the same as his. She liked the island. She was just bored. She’d really wanted to be powerful, but she was a C-rank Stamina Brute who couldn’t pick a uni major because they all sounded pointless.

“On track for a do-nothing life like my do-nothing friends and family,” she’d said. “I’d rather be an activist.”

She’d been spending a lot of time System chatting with anonymous unregistered Avowed who were members of SAL, and she wanted to ‘join the fight for Avowed rights.’

“We’re Earth’s protectors, you know,” she told him a few minutes after they’d received the message. She was still pressing herself back into the envelope as far as she could. “Even if chaos stays away, you and I are protecting Earth right now. With our lives.”

“We’re not really—”

“Just think of how many people are benefiting from the Contract at this very moment. Billions of them. In all kinds of ways. And what did they have to give up for it?” She pointed at him. “Nothing. If there’s some kind of universal apocalypse, I guess they might have to make room for some alien refugees, but right now, they pay nothing. All they have to do is let the System make us. We’re what the Artonans care about here. I’m not a supremacist or anything, but every Avowed should be treated like we’re saving human lives just by breathing. Because we are.”

She’s so Anesidoran, Jacob thought.

She was no Hazel Velra by any means—bossing him around like he was a servant, blackmailing him into being her date, and then introducing him to everyone in her family as Jacob the C-rank like she was hoping someone would make comments about his unworthiness.

But there was a similar arrogance. A pride he couldn’t connect with. And a kind of blind lack of interest in the lives or feelings of people who hadn’t been born with a magical purpose.

Riley rattled on, explaining that Avowed should be allowed to walk across every border on Earth if they wanted and be welcomed with open arms. According to her, that was clearly how the Artonans had imagined it going based on how their own culture worked.

“What if they hurt people?”

Riley paused in the middle of a sentence. “They?”

Jacob was jarred for a moment. This wasn’t the first time he’d run into this feeling of disconnection, but no matter how many times it happened, it always made him feel lost. “We. I meant we.”

Riley’s nose wrinkled. “You’re a globie. You weren’t one of those lunatics who thought Avowed were disgusting or something before you were selected, were you?”

“No,” Jacob said in an annoyed voice.

“Then why would you default to thinking ‘What if they hurt people?’ It’s stupid. You’ve been living on an island entirely full of superhumans. Were we all murdering each other in the streets?”

“Avowed do use your powers on people when you think you can get away with it. This girl I know used her skill to mess with a guy’s wordchain. And there are other examples.”

“You did it again,” she said. “Do you seriously not think of yourself as an Avowed, too? ”

