“A good thing my younger brother is so influential and wealthy.” Grinning from ear to ear, she handed Papa her waterskin and kept his so that he would not be lacking water. “And his wife a Divine Blacksmith of no small skill.” That being said, she herself was not suited to keeping track of multiple weapons, whether they be thrown or flying, but her beloved husband would surely excel if given a knife or three. As for Tate, he was too much like her, easily fixated on target to the exclusion of all else, but sweet, capricious Tali might take a shine to this skill, assuming she was interested enough to practice.

Unable to glean her thoughts, Papa raised a single eyebrow and opened his mouth to speak, only to widen his eyes in alarm and disappear. When Alsantset found him again, he was slashing about with the Bloody Fang and fending off a Half-Demon assailant who’d come to claim little Rain’s head. A Peak Expert no doubt, as evidenced by how he still drew breath and kept Papa outside of his optimal range. Little Rain might have more luck with his flying sword and shield, but he was still reeling from blocking that same Half-Demon’s attack, his guard broken and hands bleeding as he stumbled back into the crowd. Though the Sentinels there stood ready to support him, he was utterly defenseless against the three Half-Demons materializing before him, their dark spears hurtling towards his head, heart, and stomach in what was no doubt a killing combination of blows.

She moved without even thinking, her spear lashing out to knock those weapons aside, but when her weapon glanced off an unseen barrier, she became conscious as to why she’d moved with such urgency. These were no nameless Half-Demons, but Mataram YuGan’s personal guards, Peak Experts here to kill little Rain while their traitor Patriarch kept Papa occupied. Her younger brother was strong, but still no match for even the weakest of Peak Experts, not from what she’d seen thus far, and while she was no match either, she could not stand idly by and watch him die. She was Alsantset the Tigress, a fierce and tyrannical Warrior, but also a warm and nurturing mother and sister, two seemingly opposing natures she embodied without any conflict, and her nature demanded she protect her younger brother no matter the cost.

Releasing her right hand from her spear, she forfeited control over the weapon in favour of letting its momentum play out, since she knew she could not bring it around in time to save her brother. Instead, she reached out with her bare hand towards the closest Half-Demon, who ignored her because he believed she could not stop him from driving his spear through little Rain’s guts. A mistake he realized all too late as Honed claws of Domain emerged from her fingers to pierce through his face and throat, cutting off a dying scream before it had a chance to even sound. Pulling on the weight of her dead foe, she lashed out with a forward kick that struck the second Half-Demon’s spear and sent him careening into the third, only to follow through by throwing their dead comrade into them to knock them off their feet. Still yet to recover from the initial Deflection, she released her grip entirely and reversed it as it slid through her fingers before grabbing her spear again, but now her hand was just under the haft. Bringing her weapon down like a dagger, she leaped forward and plunged the blade down at the closest Half Demon, only for the spear to glance off yet another invisible barrier. This time she expected it however, and had adjusted her aim accordingly. Instead of striking his chest, her spear skirted past the Half-Demon’s shoulder, whereupon she jerked her arm back and drew the edge of her spear across her dazed foe’s throat and all but decapitated him before he could react.

These were the first and second Peak Experts she’d ever killed, but while she hungered for a third, the element of surprise was no longer on her side. Leaping back to avoid a deadly thrust, she blocked the follow up strike with her forearm for lack of any better options and grit her teeth as her bones shattered like glass before the blow. Her spear flew out from her feeble grip and clattered across the concrete, but she refused to give way and moved to grab her foe’s weapon to at the very least hinder him a few seconds longer. As her fingers closed around the haft however, the Half-Demon drew his spear back and severed her digits as it passed before lining his weapon up for the killing thrust.

Too strong. Too fast. Too skilled. She was no Peak Expert and no match for this Half-Demon, nor was she a match for the two she already killed. They’d looked down on her and paid dearly for it, but this one did not make the same mistake. Even now, she was unable to understand just how the demarcating line between Expert and Peak Expert could be so wide, and why she had yet to cross it. She stood at the forefront of her peers and was supposedly close to becoming a Peak Expert herself, but it took two exchanges for this nameless Half-Demon to defeat her in so overwhelming a fashion.

Meaning all she could do was accept death and try to drag him along with her.

Leaping into the air, she grunted as the spear missed her heart and pierced through her abdomen instead. The pain was excruciating, worse than anything she’d ever suffered through before, but she fixated on the memory of that battered and beaten child staggering alongside the river and drew strength from his example. Her younger brother had come far in so short a time, and he’d go even farther given more, so she would see to it that this Half-Demon would trouble him no longer. Raising both her knees to her chest, she kicked with all her might and howled in agony as the spear tore her apart from inside, but she put her singular focus to work and Manifested her Domain into Honed claws on her feet as she raked her foe from chest to belly. Sickly yellow-green Ichor mingled with bright arterial blood as both sprayed out into the air, and Alsantset allowed herself a fierce grin as the world went dark around her, the tension spilling out of her muscles even as the blood flowed out from her body.

A heartbreaking scream tore through the din of the battlefield, one Alsantset recognized as little Rain’s, but even though she wanted to tell him so many things, to say that he should not grieve and to assure him that everything would be alright, she lacked the time and breath to do so. No matter though, for he would weather through this tribulation with help, and ensure that Charok, Tali, and Tate all weathered through it as well. To say that Alsantset had no regrets would be a lie, but trading her life for her precious younger brother’s?

That was a trade any good sister would take.

Chapter Meme
