Well then Alsantset would hold him to it, and tell him in no uncertain terms that he was to greet her with a hug and a peck on the cheek from here on out, and allow her to hold his arm just like Mama every now and then. That’s all it would take to bring her joy, for she had everything else she could ever need, everything save for the unrestrained affection of her sweet, silly little brother.

With love and hope aplenty, Alsantset fought to her heart’s content, pushing herself ever forward along the Martial Path. There were limits to what she could learn however, for her foes were too weak to prove a challenge, and she yearned for the Enemy Experts and Peak Experts to take the stage. The tribesmen counted many a Champion or Chieftain among their ranks, but anyone crazed enough to join in on this reckless assault of Shi Bei was hardly worth killing, not for Alsantset personally. Though no Peak Expert herself, little Rain’s gift of Insight had led her to discover the essence of Domain Plating which had plagued her for so long, and thus brought her yet another step closer to the Peak. Greedy as ever, she was not satisfied with just this little progress, but in order to continue advancing, she would need opponents of a higher calibre than crazed savages.

After two hours of non-stop fighting, Alsantset’s spirits had dampened a fair bit, for the rainclouds were no longer blocking the sun and their precious cleansing shower long since dried up. Burning hot and caked in blood and sand aplenty, she fought on regardless in the noted absence of booming cannons. Those weapons of war had once again fallen silent, their ammunition well spent to kill countless Defiled, but still more tribesmen continued to pour in and the Warriors of the Empire could not hold forever. Without cannons, crossbows, or catapults to thin the Enemy hordes, this job fell upon the Peak Experts now, namely those with wide-area attacks such as Exarch Gam, Grandpa Du, and the formidable Lei Gong. Awakened Peak Experts one and all, Alsantset thought the first two were impressive enough, but then the Lord of Thunder took the field and she understood just how he earned his name. The earth shook and the wind howled as Exarch Gam and Grandpa Du plied their bloody trade, but the din of their efforts paled in comparison to the cacophony Lei Gong raised with every sweep of his dazzling blade, a colossal sabre larger than any weapon a Martial Warrior could ever wield were it not crafted from dazzling lightning. Wherever his scintillating blade swept through the Defiled ranks, screams of the dead and dying sounded briefly before being drowned out by a succession of booming thunderclaps, so loud that even Luo-Luo’s music could not match it.

A flaw the talented woman made up for by not playing at all and allowing the deafening din to speak for itself, only to resume playing again once it all died down.

The Imperial Consort’s symphony was woven into the fabric of battle itself, and it spurred Alsantset on to greater heights in spite of her growing fatigue. For another hour, she fought and killed without rest, except now she spent her stamina as sparingly as possible. A single thrust of Plated and Honed Domain to impale three tribesmen was still not efficient enough, so she resorted to cutting down five or more with every sweep of her spear as if it were a halberd instead. An easy enough transition, for she’d seen Papa fight this way a thousand times if she’d ever seen it once, and it came as naturally as breathing to her once she set her mind to it. By now, even Nian Zu had taken the field, announcing his presence with his titular Shooting Star to kill hundreds of Defiled in a single blow, but still the Defiled advanced only now with the odd armoured Chosen scattered amongst their ranks.

Alsantset’s spirits soared when she spotted her first armoured foe, and her heart sang with glee when her Plated Domain flowed across the surface of his Runic helmet before biting deep into his exposed face and killing him before he could even reach her, a most thrilling accomplishment and fortuitous turn of events. Even seeing others accomplish the same feat did nothing to dampen her spirits, because the stronger her allies, the greater their chances of emerging from this battle victorious. Her old friend Maral had also uncovered the secret to Domain Plating, as did Altan, Kiril, and even Orgaal who had supposedly reached the end of his Path several years ago. There were similar achievements among the Imperials, which led Alsantset to suspect she was not the only recipient of little Rain’s gift, but that didn’t make it any less precious or timely.

So focused on the battle and making the most of her stamina, Alsantset was a hair too slow in recognizing her foe as he landed atop the battlements and sent his spear lancing out towards her, a mistake that could prove costly as she reacted to an all-too-obvious feint. Now, her spear was hurtling at an angle to intercept a thrust that would never come, leaving her unable to block or parry the true attack lagging a heartbeat behind. Were this four hours ago, she would’ve had no choice but to retreat and give up ground to her foe, perhaps even taking grievous injury in the process, but little Rain had given her all the help she would need to deal with the Half-Demon before her. Compressing her Domain down to the size of her palm, she Plated and Deflected for all she was worth while turning sharply to her left, avoiding the thrust by the narrowest of margins while redirecting her spear to strike her opponent’s knee. The blow glanced off the black-plated armour, but the force was enough to stop him in his tracks. A half-second was all it bought her, but it was all she needed to find her footing and bring her spear straight up in an ascending strike, whereupon her Domain Plated spear tip cleaved clean through the Half-Demon’s chin-guard to excavate a large portion of the man’s face.

If he could be called a man at all, having melded with his inhuman armour, but even this was not enough to preserve his worthless life.

A shame it wasn’t the amber-eyed Half-Demon who injured Grandpa Husolt so, but that one had yet to show his face again. Though she had many questions regarding their history, Alsantset was too afraid to give voice to them even inside her head, and she lacked the time to do so regardless as her next foe approached to die. Minutes passed as she continued to fight tribesmen, Chosen, and the odd Half-Demon as the Enemy continued their assault unabated, and though her morale remained high as she saw Peak Experts taking action all across Shi Bei, she was fast approaching her limits despite having benefitted so much from the cleansing and refreshing rains. Four hours of fighting was difficult enough, but it felt like ages since she’d last had a moment to breathe, but still she fought on with leaden arms, burning lungs, and a head so light she feared the wind might well carry her away on a breeze.

And yet the thought of retreat never once crossed her mind as she moved and fought mostly on instinct. Thrust. Strike. Circle. Square off. Thrust. Parry. Strike. Circle. Thrust. The movements came easily, and her foes fell one after the other, but then she felt her parry miss and knew she’d pushed herself too far. Death came hurtling towards her in the form of a bleached-bone spear tip, indicating that she didn’t even have the good fortune to die to a proper foe. No, Alsantset of the People was about to be sent into the Mother’s warm embrace by a lowly tribal Champion, and there was naught she could do to stop him.

Except death never came as the bone spear disappeared from before her eyes, and she was left standing face to face with the foe who almost killed her. Then, he toppled over, or rather his torso toppled over followed shortly by his lower body, having been bisected from hip to hip in one, clean swing. Following the trajectory of the attack, Alsantset saw eight more bodies falling over in similar fashion before she found her benefactor. There he was, her precious little brother, down on two knees as he slid across the rough concrete battlements as easily as one skated across ice, circling about in a graceful and elegant fashion while cutting down his foes with sword and shield both. None of them saw him coming, approaching as he did from below, and Alsantset’s smile could not grow any wider as she took it all in. His movements were so sublime she could scarcely believe her eyes, for there were Peak Experts fighting in battle today who would be unable to match him in this feat of poise and finesse, weaving this way and that unnoticed on two knees and killing with every pass before leaping back to his feet to continue coasting about without missing a beat.

“Drink, girl.” A waterskin found its way to her lips, and Alsantset didn’t even think twice as she opened her mouth and drank as deeply as she dared, unwilling to risk wasting even a single drop. All was well now, for not only had little Rain joined the fight, but Papa had also come to hold the Heavens up. “Then fall back to rest. Don’t argue,” Papa added, seeing the flash of objection in her eyes. “Your mother will tan my hide if I allow you come to harm, and I would let her, for I would not have the heart to face my sweet grandchildren.”

“How is he?” It took more effort than she cared to admit to get the words past her throat, and she didn’t even bother gesturing towards little Rain because she lacked the energy to spare.

“See for yourself.” Papa was brimming with pride as he took in little Rain’s work, and he was right to be, for little Rain did the work of ten Warriors as he darted back towards them along the battlements. Sword and shield scythed through flesh and bone with superlative ease as he wove through and around the still-toppling bodies left behind by his first pass to slaughter a fresh wave of Defiled. His style was reminiscent of Papa’s, an unstoppable force of violence who could set the pace of battle all on his own, but where Papa was brutal and tyrannical to the extreme, little Rain did not rely on overbearing power or unmatched speed to rampage unchecked. Instead, he dominated his foes through what appeared to be luck instead, somehow always able to attack at a favourable trajectory which inevitably bypassed his opponent’s defenses. Difficult to say how he was able to accomplish this, because from her perspective, it seemed as if the Defiled were offering themselves up for the slaughter as they focused wholly on the offensive at the expense of their lives. His attacks weren’t subtle, but straightforward and domineering, matching aggression with aggression as he struck to kill without fear or hesitation rather than defend as expected, and his foes died without understanding where they’d gone wrong.

A predicament Alsantset shared, for impressive as the results might be, she found it impossible to gauge her younger brother’s strength, except to say that he was strong enough to find no challenge against his tribal foes. This meant he was at a minimum comparable to herself, though no matter how she looked at it, she still felt as if she could defeat him in single combat. His smooth, flowing maneuvers aside, his actual technique wasn’t all that impressive compared to other Warriors his age, simple and effective, but nothing extraordinary, while the same could be said about his speed and power. There was a good chance he was actually stronger and merely holding back so as to conserve his stamina for a long, drawn-out fight, but thus far, she could not see anything which set him apart from the other phenomenal young talents his age.

A thought which had barely finished forming when a half-dozen Chosen emerged from Concealment all around him, only to be cut down before she could even gasp. There was no change in little Rain’s facial expression as he slaughtered his armoured ambushers as easily as he cut down naked tribesmen, his blades scything through Runic plate like paper faster than her eyes could follow. He made it look so easy it took her a full second to register what he’d done, overpowering the defensive Runes with a single pass of his weapons, a feat not even Alsantset could match. She’d seen it done before, but usually with an overbearing attack, like Grandma Akanai’s Ground Shrinking Strike or Nian Zu’s Shooting Star, but little Rain did so as easily as turning his hand.

“My younger brother, the hero and dragon,” Alsantset whispered, so full of pride and joy, and though she said nothing else, little Rain turned his gaze towards her and flashed his adorable smile. By the time he looked away, Wraiths were dropping dead all around him, killed before they’d even emerged from Concealment. Alsantset failed to see how they’d died until she realized his sword and shield were no longer in hand, but instead zipping about to pierce clean through his foes as if carried about on wings, while little Rain took up his glaive to continue his slaughter unabated.

“A useful skill,” Papa remarked, slowly nudging her away from the front lines as a subtle reminder to go rest. “You will need more Spiritual Weapons if you wish to learn.” An offer, or as much of one as he would give so as not to affect her Path, though Alsantset had a better idea in mind, a way for little Rain to be rid of his unfounded obligation.

