So the real question is: how do I create a Keystone that is not a Keystone, one I can whip out and use whenever needed?

…The same way I created a Core that is not a Core, I suppose, by having it exist when I need it, and not exist when I don’t. To this end, I begin working through what I can do with the Energy of the Heavens and memorizing the patterns of flow for future use, but this much is far from enough. As I noted earlier, even if I take a snapshot of all the various flow patterns needed for every variation of every Movement of the Forms, I can’t just bring them out fully formed as needed. There’s a step-by-step process to the flow and movement, a rhythm and timing not wholly unlike the tempo of a song, the cadence of a poem, or the transitions in a dance, stuff that doesn’t come naturally just because I memorized the steps. The only solution I can think of to speed the process up is practice and repetition, but that requires time I don’t have right now.

So… now would be a great time for Insight to fill in the blanks. That’s how this works right?

After long seconds of nothingness, an image of an older lady pops into my head as she stands up and says, “That’s not how this works. That’s not how any of this works.” Disheartening as my failure might be, the meme makes me chuckle all the same for reasons I’m not entirely sure of. The thing about memes is they’re like digital inside jokes, and while I might once have been totally in on the punchline, I’ve long since forgotten what made it funny in the first place. Memes require a certain amount of cultural knowledge to really understand and appreciate, but I’ve long since forgotten the knowledge associated with most memes, meaning they’re little more than funny pictures or videos that bear some form of nostalgic humour or meaning which I am only tangentially aware of. Like, why does a doge speak in broken English? Why does the glasses guy not know what a butterfly is? Why is it that every time I think of Mila’s Blessing, I have the urge to raise my arms and shout, ‘Praise the Sun’?

No idea, but it still makes me laugh regardless, not because the memes themselves are hilarious, but because of the emotions and memories associated with them. That being said, I would love it if I could dial the memes down a bit, especially in public and out loud, because I’m pretty sure I would shrivel up and die on the spot if someone asks me why I shouted ‘Suppressing Fire’ and ‘Parry this, you filthy casual’ at Vyakhya. I mean, it’s funny to me, but having seen my Natal Soul General cackling as he shouted, “Unlimited Power!” was cringe enough for two life-times, though I will say it was pretty awesome seeing him channel his inner Kenobi to make Zhen Shi actually flinch and hesitate.

…

Oh No.

It can’t be.

Why, Mother in Heaven? Why?

Am I a joke to you?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There was no power greater than hope, and in Alsantset’s eyes, there was no one who embodied this better than her dearest younger brother.

If she were ever to say this out loud, she expected she would be laughed out of the room, as most knew little Rain as an unrepentant cynic, a gloomy naysayer who always expected the worst and planned accordingly. Not entirely untrue, but life had beaten him down so many times, his behaviour was more pragmatic than cynical. Some people could spend their whole lives living in the forests and never once coming across any dangerous predators, but given how little Rain almost lost his life nearly every single time he went out for a stroll, he could hardly be considered cynical for carrying a spear and checking every shadow and crevice for danger while complaining all the while.

Alsantset remembered one particular week so many years ago when little Rain almost died on three separate occasions. First, he slipped and fell down a steep slope, surprising a foraging boar which then proceeded to gore him as it ran past. By the time he passed out from blood loss, Taduk had already arrived to Heal him, having been called over by Naaran who was watching over little Rain. Two days later, he went hunting for the boar and caught a deer instead, only to stumble across a giant python on his way back which then tried to swallow deer and boy both. That put an end to his wandering for all of five days, after which he went out for a ‘brief jaunt’ and ended up kicking a literal hornet’s nest while taking out his frustrations on a random tree. She still remembered it now, how he left and came back all of fifteen minutes later so riddled with stings that his face was almost unrecognizable and unable to do more than slur and stumble.

A memorable week, having come so close to death three times in quick succession, but there was hardly a month in which little Rain escaped his trials and tribulations unscathed. Part of it was due to his complete and utter lack of forest-craft, because despite having taught him as much as she could, there was just so much to learn that she couldn’t keep track of it all. However, despite his many close brushes with death, and somehow never realizing he had a guardian watching over him at all times, little Rain never stopped going out on his solitary walks. He learned his lessons and made more careful preparations, like bringing Pafu and Suret out with him sometimes, but even that wasn’t enough to keep him safe, like the time he ran into that Terror Bird and had to cut it down with his sword.

And then had the gall to leave its feathers unplucked. Honestly, what sort of hunter collects the inedible beak and talons while leaving the most valuable part of the Terror Bird behind?

Ignorance and foolishness aside, little Rain’s stubborn insistence on taking solitary trips was the definition of optimism, always hoping for the best whenever he set out for the day instead of asking someone to come along and openly protect him. At least now he’d learn to also plan for the worst, but for those first few years, Alsantset wasn’t sure if little Rain was preparing to leave the People or if he just had a death wish and lacked the determination to take his own life. Perhaps a combination of both, or perhaps she was entirely wrong altogether, but never let it be said that Rain wasn’t an optimist. Sure, he loved to complain about all the terrible things that might happen, but he still had the courage to go through with whatever mad schemes he had in mind, and more often than not, his efforts paid off, sometimes to staggering effect.

All because he clung to hope and refused to ever give in.

A lesson Alsantset would do well to learn. Difficult to say when she lost all hope during the siege of Shi Bei, but suffice it to say she’d made her peace with her coming end. In her brief moments of respite, she’d found time to write five letters to say goodbye, one for Tali, Tate, Rain, Charok, and Mama. Then, she’d taken the time to speak with Machali to make peace with the woman who birthed her, and though Alsantset still resented being given up as a child, she at least understood why it’d been necessary. That wasn’t the same as forgiveness however, and Alsantset had said as much, for she refused to die with a lie on her conscience while pretending to forgive the Ancestral Tigress for her irresponsible ways. Though Machali showed plenty of regret and contrition, she waited more than thirty years before revealing herself when she could have done so much sooner. The why didn’t matter, whether it be out of shame, regret, or indifference, but the fact remained that Machali had been absent from most of Alsantset’s life and even now was still a stranger.

Well, not entirely a stranger, as she trusted the Ancestral Tigress to bring the letters to Mama, but that was all. Alsantset had her family already, and if her birth mother wanted to be a part of it, then she would have to earn her place with time and effort.

Time neither of them expected to have, as the Enemy seemed intent on razing Shi Bei to the ground and killing everyone inside, but then little Rain arrived bearing miracles aplenty to restore hope and confidence to the beleaguered defenders. There’d been a time when she doted on him so and worried about his every decision, but she’d long since learned the folly of trying to influence his Path. Though his trials and tribulations were far more challenging than most, she now understood that this was to prepare him for the staggering heights he’d reached, with so much more room still left for him to grow. His accomplishments today were made possible because he never gave up hope, because if he’d had, he would not have survived to make it to this day. Hope saw him out of the mines and brought him into her arms that fateful day, and hope carried him along through all the pain and suffering to come, and now, he'd created another miracle and brought hope to the hopeless with his appearance here in Shi Bei.

As the cool rainfall washed away the sand and fatigue, Alsantset let loose with a resounding cheer that stemmed from her heart of hearts, for she saw a chance for victory now when before there was none. A sentiment she was not alone in having, as Sentinels and Imperials alike raised their voices in cheers to welcome her little brother to Meng Sha, and though those cheers died out as the fighting started up once more, they were no longer fighting to stave off inevitable defeat, but in a desperate effort to emerge victorious over the Enemy. All across Shi Bei, the Warriors of the Empire held fast to hope and it made all the difference in the world as they held firm against the Enemy’s overwhelming numbers.

Rain’s presence alone was not all that sustained their hopes, for the roar of cannon-fire filled them with courage and determination aplenty. Every time they sounded off, the Defiled died in droves, and the Imperials fought all the harder for knowing it. Mila’s domineering presence alone was enough to clear whole sections of the wall, buying precious seconds for her allies to reform their ranks and refocus their efforts on defense. Yan’s phenomenal mastery of Air put Tenjin’s skills to shame, or so Alsantset thought until the downpour came to an end and the quiet Sentinel manifested a massive fire-bird overhead, one bearing a wing-span of at least five-meters long and flew out to drop blazing pinions upon the Defiled which exploded amongst their ranks.

Yet even all their combined efforts were not enough to match Luo-Luo’s moving melody, one which stoked the flames of hope and confidence both as they fought and killed without any end in sight.

Thus far, the bulk of the effort was being borne by the rank and file accompanied by Junior Officers, but Alsantset had taken up her spear to stand on the front lines as soon as the fighting began. How could she not when her little brother had come so far to save them, wielding such power with his customary disdain for authority? That was little Rain, a child who always thought he knew best and usually did, but this was not the sole reason Alsantset saw fit to fight from the start. No, she fought because she knew it was best to strike while the iron was hot, for little Rain had gone above and beyond by providing her with a princely gift of Heavenly Energy to help further her along her Path.

Insight came so easily as she fought against the unwashed Defiled, even weakened and enervated as they were, but this was far from the best part of little Rain’s gift. No, that came in the form of his unbridled emotions as he opened up to her in a way she never thought possible, not for someone as unsociably aloof as him. When he first came into her care, he found every excuse he could to avoid her hugs, and he scowled something fierce when she tried to hold his hand or sit too close to him on the couch. Unless it was Lin-Lin, Tali, Tate, or the quins, he avoided any and all forms of physical intimacy and was leery of showing anyone any affection or receiving any in turn. This improved over time and these days, he was all too happy to hold Papa’s hand or link arms with Mama as they walked around the market, a dutiful and loving son few could match, to say nothing of his scandalous behaviour around his wives. But for his sister, he rarely had anything more than a smile, and she’d felt as if they’d grown distant in recent years, as if he no longer needed his older sister anymore, but now she knew that nothing could be further from the truth.

The love he bore for her was to be expected, and his admiration pleasant to find, but it was the gratitude which came as a surprise. Such a foolish child, as even after all these years, little Rain still felt beholden to her for being the one to take him in. It was merely luck and happenstance that brought them together, the clouds parting at just the right time for her to see him stumbling towards their camp, a child so battered and beaten it was a wonder he could still stand much less walk. In his eyes, he owed everything he had to her and did not know how he could ever repay her, and being the fool that he was, he did everything he could to avoid ‘burdening’ her even further. That’s why he wanted to buy them a house in the Citadel or always spoke about hiring servants and tutors for their household, because he wanted to pay back at least some of his debt even if he knew she would never try to collect. That was the way with family, where love and support were freely given and accepted without obligation, except little Rain wanted to go above and beyond what was expected and do anything and everything to make her happy.

