A moment later, they were in the forest outside the Chipmunk Forest Fire dungeon. The silence and peace of the forest was a shock all on its own.

Ashton took one look at the wavering dungeon entrance and planted his feet with a mutinous expression. "No. I'm not letting you take my brothers in until someone tells me what's happening."

That was... probably fair, actually.

"There are raids," Thomas said. "I don't know why. One of my teammates—I think she got taken. Your brother—" He paused for a moment and winced. According to the System, Ashton was nearly an adult. Maybe it was time to stop treating him like a child. "You see he needs healing, right? You can only get that if you've been in a dungeon first. Look, this dungeon is a level two. Zach and I have cleared way worse, but I need you to watch your brothers, keep your eyes open, and tell us if anything goes wrong. Can you do that?"

Ashton's expression shifted and he straightened up, standing taller. He nodded once, tight.

"Uncle Thomas," Kingston asked. "Is Braxton's arm going to fall off? Is he going to die?"

Braxton finally broke with a howl of misery, falling onto his butt and holding his arm out like it belonged to someone else.

Thomas shot Kingston a stern look. "You're not being helpful."

Ashton was a little more direct and punched Kingston sharply on the shoulder. "Dip shit."

Thomas went to Braxton. In the light of day, the burn was even worse than he thought. The thick burn across his palm was charred black and there was a flash of something gray and ashen inside. He would be screaming his head off if the nerves weren't surely dead.

No surprise. He got hit with energy that put a level three on the ground.

Thomas hated these people, whoever they were, and let that fury keep him clear-minded enough to keep his head. He scooped his sobbing nephew up, though Braxton was getting a little long in the leg for it.

Braxton burrowed in like he was a small child again, his working fist twisting into his shirt as he cried.

Patting his back, Thomas shushed him, murmuring. "It's going to be okay. We'll get you all fixed up in a moment." Luckily, he was getting a lot of experience rebuilding hands. Glancing up, he found Zach watching him. "You coming?"

There was a weighted pause where Thomas wondered if Zach had enough juice to try for that suicidal teleport after all.

Then Zach rolled his shoulders like he was shedding the last of the clinging fire away. "Yeah. Come on, troops, dungeon time. It'll be fun in there." He helped herd the older boys through the dungeon entrance.

Still carrying Braxton, Thomas followed.

He tried not to think about who he was leaving behind.
