As the mana passed through him, he stripped out the impurities. For two reasons: one, because he didn’t know how magical plants would fare with impurities, if they’d struggle to fruit or even die of disease. Two, because he still wanted to investigate impurities for himself, and find out if there wasn’t value to be found in the depths of the trash that was impurities, after all. The more impurities he had, the better. After all, sometimes value could only be found when one searched through large quantities, like panning through tons of river dirt to find gold.

The smallest plants stopped growing first. They put up blooms, which lived, withered, and died in the space of a few moments. In the next seconds, the buds atop the plants swelled, becoming heavy with fruit. The fruits ripened, then drooped, threatening to fall and rot away entirely.

Rhys went to pull his mana back, but found he couldn’t. In the next second, he shrugged to himself. He still had plenty of mana, and what did fruits contain, but seeds? Instead of two of those plants, he could have dozens. He kept pouring the mana in.

The fruits fell. They rotted away. The seeds within germinated and grew anew. The plants grew all over one another. They didn’t grow as thickly and verdantly as the first plants, but the sheer volume overweighed quality in Rhys’ heart. He wasn’t here to deliver high quality goods. He was here to deliver trash that just barely cleared the mark of sellable. If some of them were high quality, he certainly didn’t mind that, but while he was starting to get his business up and running, he needed quantity more.

The longer-lived plants sucked up more mana, taking longer before they reached their herb-relevant stage. Some, like the bushes, he could simply let grow in abundance. He only needed their leaves, so the more leaves and branches they put out, the better it was for him. Others, he needed the seeds or fruits of, and so he had to be more careful about delivering them mana. The flow from the trash grew weaker, and as it did, he gained more control over it. He cut back mana to those plants which had already fully grown, and pushed more into those that could infinitely grow, or which needed nourishment.

The mana petered out. It slowed to a trickle, then a drip, then a halt. Beside him, the fire died as well as the last of the trash burned out. Rhys lowered his hand and breathed out, exhausted. His vision wavered. His heart pounded in his head, and heat burned from his forehead. Just like when he’d first practiced with mana, he was mana-sick, but worse this time than ever before.

But what gains he’d made! A fresh pile of compost. A core more than double its original size. Five plots of herbs, ready to be harvested and sold. And a technique that allowed him to rapidly gather mana, expand his core, and obtain impurities to research. He let out a sigh, tired, but proud. He took a step back, meaning to retreat to his newly furnished cave, but stumbled and fell to the ground. Lying there on the dry earth, he let his eyes drift shut. He’d done it. Everything he’d imagined and more. Now, to capitalize on his gains.

But first, sleep. His eyes shut one last time, and he knew nothing but oblivion.

A figure stepped out from around the edge of the valley. Their eyes darted to Rhys’ plants, and they stepped forward.
