Melemizargo said, “She’s not responding to her Silenced names, either. Definitely shy— Oh.”

Melemizargo paused, and regarded Erick.

Erick was on the ground. Blood dripped from his eyes and ears, trickled out of his nose, and soaked into his pants. He had no idea when that had happened, only that the Silence had passed and left him on his knees, barely recovering.

Melemizargo bent down and stared at Erick, his eyes occupying the entire world as his voice vibrated Erick’s soul, “You should know that I didn’t do this to you. The Silencing of the Script affects everyone, with the deeper Silences forever stripped from the lips and the minds of all who exist under the auspices of the Script. But, to explain what I just did: I called out five different names for Fairy Moon—”

Another small shockwave blasted outward, like a warm wind.

“But the only name you heard was that one; the one closest to who she actually is at this moment in time.” Melemizargo drew back and his face no longer filled Erick’s vision. “I used to think that these Silen— These Bans were proof that this world was false. Now… I still think that, but in a different way. This world is curated; shaped into what my daughter and the wrought demand of it. It is a false shape…

“But it is the shape of a lifeboat.

“Work hard to make some new worlds in better shapes, won’t you?”

Darkness receded from the world, bit by bit, and then all at once.

As light returned to Yggdrasil’s cavern Erick briefly glanced toward the beach, in the direction of the embassy. If he wasn’t bleeding out and feeling hollowed by whatever had just happened, he probably would have reacted with more panic than he did, for the sky was crowded with wrought of every possible color. Old, green-white coppers. Brilliant silvers of every possible hue. Black adamantiums, and more than a few mixed adamantiums. Full blue cobalts. Irons and magical metals of all types. All of them glowed with spellwork far in excess of anything Erick had ever seen before. Half the world seemed filled with power, and more powerful wrought kept appearing with every passing second.

Erick tried to stabilize, to get to his feet, but he felt like a broken man with a body that barely responded to his will. Ophiel appeared out of nowhere, alighting upon his shoulder to heal—

Sudden clarity washed through his body. With a hitch in his side and his leg half numb, yet getting better, Erick stood tall, once again. Hopefully the wrought would wish to talk, first—

And just like that, as fast as they began to appear, the wrought began to leave. Erick stood mesmerized. There, upon Yggdrasil’s roots, he watched as the sky emptied of overt threat. Flames quieted. Lightning stilled. The wrought left, all except for three.

Tasar floated in the air, looking reserved as she flew toward Erick; reserved, yet hopeful. She gripped her black staff tight as she breathed a bit hard.

Kromolok floated to the side… Also looking strangely relieved, and… Vastly hopeful? At Erick’s thought the white wrought smiled a bit. So very hopeful, then. Why was he happy? The part about apocalypse being preventable through Fate Magic? Oh. Yup. That was exactly it.

Sitnakov hovered forward, taking center stage, looking smug and relieved as his adamantium swords vanished back into his body. Erick made no effort to move from his position on Yggdrasil’s roots, for he doubted he could move very fast at the moment, so Sitnakov arrived first, to hover in the air mere meters away from Erick.

The black orcol man called out upon arrival, “Probably the calmest attack of the Dark that we’ve ever had!” He asked, “You okay, there? When you mentioned the Sundering I expected you to die.”

Erick startled. That meant that— “I thought he had stopped time.”

Sitnakov smirked. “So did he.”

Tasar frowned. “Still insane, then. And yet…?”

Kromolok was the only one who actually provided an answer, saying, “Rozeta is allowed to take off certain limiters when dealing with Geode-level threats, and we had one ready to go ever since you planted Yggdrasil here.”

“The Dark had to know,” Tasar decided.

“Probably!” Sitnakov said, “All of this was probably some sort of ploy to prove himself as capable of speech, but that’s not for us to suss out right now. Right now, Erick, you need some 48 hour observation to be sure that the Letter Killer won’t come for you.” He glanced back. “Tasar; you’re up.”

Tasar stepped forward, saying, “I apologize for intruding on your life at this juncture, Erick. But I will be staying nearby, going forward.”

Erick felt a sinking sensation as he realized he would have to eat some [Renew] and cycle his core with Tasar nearby. Ah. Damn. But he already knew he was going to need to do that, eventually. No, what was actually distracting, aside from the godly visit, was that everyone seemed…

Happy?

“When I saw all the gathered people, I expected war,” Erick said. “When I accidentally called Melemizargo I expected war.”

Sitnakov laughed. “If all it took was meeting the Dark to tattoo someone as a threat, then we’d have to kill every single archmage the world over, and that would be a foolish thing indeed.”

“Okay. Yes. Obviously… That makes sense and I think I am more rattled than I knew.” Erick asked, “But you all seem happy about this, too?”

Kromolok said, “Since the Letter Killer is Fairy Moon it means that she broke covenant when she killed Kydyr. We can demand she act out the breaching terms of our non-aggression pact.”

He said her name like it didn’t even matter.

Maybe it didn’t? Not anymore?

“We never would have caught her as the Letter Killer otherwise.” Sitnakov happily said, “So this is actually a really good outcome.”

“So why do I still need Tasar to oversee me?”

Tasar said, “Because we can’t have her making a deal with you, and somehow twisting you against us. She’ll probably try it anyway with other people, but we can’t let it happen with you.”

Sitnakov and Kromolok nodded.

“… Oh,” Erick said, worried for whole new reasons.
