Tasar stared for a moment longer, then sadly nodded. She spoke like a person resigned, “If we get a chance to kill the fae then we should take it, because there is no way that we won’t meet her; not at this rate.”

“The whole Mirage Family should share her fate,” Sitnakov said. “So if you’re headed to Ar’Cosmos, I would be there to help end the continued injustice of their existence.”

Tasar briefly tensed, but then she nodded.

Erick stared at the tall man and decided that outright denial of his request to join his Worldly Path would not be the prudent response at this time. So he asked, “Can we talk about it later?”

Sitnakov did not smirk, but his body language said he believed he had already won. His actual words, though, were, “Of course. Later.”

And then Kromolok spoke, saying, “We will check all possibilities before we commit to another one of those disasters; this might not have been them, and it is important to get the correct enemy or else we leave behind problems for another day.”

No one had any problem with that.

Kormolok said to Erick, “Please check for spilled blood with an Imaging, catching the nearest ten kilometers if you can, for even if the assailant cleaned up their attack they could have missed something. If this is not the fae then it was an opportunistic strike of a different sort. The assailants might have been scoping out the area for months or years, for it’s also possible that this was a standard dragon hoard plundering. They could have been looking for a book, or for a collection of books, or for the runic web itself, for even with the erasing power of Illusion there is a distinct lack of platinum in the area, and it took 300 tons of the stuff to make the runic web inside Kydyr’s house.”

Erick was glad he asked for Kromolok’s participation. The man was good at this, because yes, there were many different possible explanations for what happened, and it was important not to jump to emotional conclusions. Tasar seemed to relax a bit while Sitnakov and Riivo set their sights on the destruction all around.

Riivo gestured to his people, saying, “Scout the perimeter.”

People started moving.

Kromolok said, “Erick. Please scan for platinum first. If it’s here then that cuts down on a lot of possible culprits. After that, please link with Aisha and scan for clues based on her ideas. She’s done things like this many times before.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Then it’s a platinum scan,” as an Ophiel high above cast a cascading star of light into the mist. The shadowed gloom all around took on a distinct shift toward light, as though it was suddenly day in Vibrant Falls. For kilometers around, Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] began to map the land in a 1-for-1 map. “Should take ten minutes to form a map and an image.”

The rubbled walls and several of the wrought were already beginning to shine blue.

Aisha, who was beginning to shimmer blue, said, “Then I will [Witness] again, trying to narrow down search zones.”

“Sitnakov, Riivo, Tasar. With me, please.” Kormolok stepped into the air, saying, “We will investigate the head and ensure there is no trap.”

Time passed faster as the investigation picked up steam.

The head remained a head until the [Force Cage] was broken, and the bismuth turned into a muddy rainbow liquid that Riivo caught in a bowl of Force. There was no explosion, or anything like that. Tasar picked through the books and named them as children’s stories, which seemed to point toward a fairy culprit. Erick’s Imaging eventually found an estimated 50% of the platinum that was in Kydyr’s runic web. Some platinum had melted into the crater walls and blackened beyond all recognition, but most of the platinum was scattered wide, like molten rain splashed away from the battlezone, to impact and lodge into the stone all around, like tiny silver stars barely noticed in the gloom. Much of the extra platinum could have gotten scattered to the underocean far below, but the current was too swift to make searching that space feasible for anyone without [Water Body].

Kromolok wasn’t 100% sure on the motivations for the attack, yet, but he was pretty sure it wasn’t greed related. This lowered the chance that this was dragon hunters going after a hoard by a fair amount.

Aisha found several locations to search for blood or other leavings from the battle, but grid searches and Erick’s Imaging failed to return any positive results for blood, or bone fragments, or any targeted biological material. Aisha revealed her ability to track based on mana signatures, but she had no way to impart this knowledge to Erick, and Imaging couldn’t find magic that Erick didn’t already personally know. Erick suggested that Kromolok could help bridge the gap in understanding, but that idea was shot down by both Kromolok and Aisha as infeasible.

Eventually, it was just the three of them standing beside the crater, trying new searches, but they had reached the end of the truly viable searches twenty minutes ago.

Erick said, “I can’t search for pure Elements, either; I've already tried that before.”

Aisha said, “You’re so good at finding people and tracking criminals, though. What makes this different?”

Erick had had a mind to ask for unfettered control of the investigation, but upon seeing how Riivo and a few others reacted to his presence at all, he had stopped himself from crossing that threshold; they did not want him involved, at all. Even this much was too much for many of the wrought all around.

Erick explained, “It’s about the physicality of it all. I can search for the markers in blood rather easily. We found all of Kydyr’s bismuth ‘blood’, after all, but… That’s more because it’s bismuth than because it’s blood.” The wrought name for ‘bismuth’ was actually ‘spectrasilver’, but Erick was calling it ‘bismuth’ in his head. “I know how fleshy biology works, but I honestly have no idea how wrought biology works on the deepest level. Or even the shallowest level, actually. But that’s just—” He asked both Kromolok and Aisha, “Do you want me to do this search like I normally would? I can certainly do this, but I was under the distinct impression that while killing monsters was fine, administering justice in wrought lands went against Stratagold’s desires.”

Aisha stood straighter. She was all for Erick’s involvement. She looked to Kromolok, saying, “I’ve gone as far as I can. The manasphere is too disturbed.”

Kromolok turned his gaze toward the crater. He stared for a moment. All around, various guards and soldiers and specialists were crawling all over the place, looking for any physical clues at all. Riivo led the search from the air, with Sitnakov hovering at his side like a silent monolith of a man, judging everything.

Kromolok gave a small sigh, then he said, “You are well and truly exonerated from Kydyr’s death, Erick, but you have reached the end of what we will allow you to do, so please return to Yggdrasil and leave the rest of the investigation to us.” To reiterate, he said, “Stratagold denies your request for full assistance with our justice system.”

Ah. So they went the other direction; kicking him out and away. Erick figured that this was a strong possibility, but at least they had let him help this far.

Aisha though, frowned. “You cannot be serious, Kromolok. Erick can do this much faster than—”

Kromolok said, “About two hours have passed since Kydyr’s murder. In this time, we have cleared two of the highest profile suspects of suspicion; Erick and Riivo were both kind enough to submit before they needed to be asked. We have already moved on to other methods of investigation, far outside of the area of the actual murder. As of ten minutes ago, and according to a letter sent to the White Palace, we now believe that this murder ties into the Amulet of Non-Presence that came out of Ar’Kendrithyst’s Armory this last year.”

So that was completely new information.

Erick felt left out of the loop, but this was by Stratagold’s design.

Aisha gasped. “The Letter Killer is a part of this!? Even more of a reason to keep Erick’s assistance! Catch that bastard, and quick!”

Erick had heard about that amulet, at least. It was an artifact that let the wearer move and live without obeying the laws of physical space, or being subject to any magic they might encounter. With sudden clarity, Erick remembered Quilatalap talking about how the amulet was used to kill some high ranking politicians here, in Stratagold. He hadn’t heard anything about those murders while he was here, though. He had assumed that the killer had been caught, but apparently not. Apparently, the killer had been upgraded from simple killer, to a named serial murderer, too. A name that Erick hadn’t heard before now, despite how much recon he had done in the Underworld near Stratagold.

They must be keeping these murders quiet for some reason…

Possibly because, with a name like ‘the Letter Killer’, they were rather high profile, and the wrought were all about hiding and ending dangerous things without telling people about those dangerous things. Perhaps the rulers didn’t want their facade of power to look like it was challenged by an outside force? Whatever the case, Erick could certainly help… If they let him.

Kromolok said, “The decision has come from King Alfonin himself. Erick is to be excluded from further involvement with the Letter Killer.”

At the mention of King Alfonin, Aisha went silent; contemplative.

Erick tried to help anyway, saying, “I could help search for the amulet, if you would have my assistance. I was forced to attend the Armory Presentation at Last Shadow’s Feast. I think I set down an image of that amulet in my missive to the Mind Mages, so I know what to look for.”

Kromolok said, “Knowledge of the shape of the amulet to be found does not help, for the Gemslicers have already tried this. No; you are restricted from further involvement, Erick. Please dismiss your Imaging and return to Yggdrasil.”

Aisha said, “This is a mistake.”

Erick attacked the problem from a different angle. “Aren’t you ranked higher in your society than practically every other governing body, Kromolok? You might be stationed by Stratagold, but the Church of Rozeta is much larger than that.”

Their voices had carried in the misty light all around; their conversation was not private at all. Most people chose to perk an ear to listen while saying nothing. But Riivo, Sitnakov, and Tasar were all moving toward them.

Tasar moved faster than the rest, coming forward, her voice loud enough for all to hear, “I agree with Aisha. This is a mistake to sideline Erick. He will be involved whether you want him involved or not, and especially if this truly is the Letter Killer, and not a misdirection from the fae.”

Sintakov stepped onto the air at the edge of the crater, hovering like Tasar and Riivo. He chose to speak next, asking, “The letter is confirmed? Not a copyist?”

Kromolok said, “Confirmed. Made with paper and ink from the same type of tree that all the rest were made with. The growing location was found by the Gemslicers not half an hour ago, and it is in line with all the other growing locations. The handwriting is the same, and it was made without the maker getting anywhere near the paper, thus preventing [Object Reading] from picking anything out of the letter. The contents were of the usual sort.”

Erick knew he was poking his head into where he wasn’t wanted, but he had to know, “What was on the actual letter?”

From their reactions, Tasar, Aisha, and Riivo all either knew or had good guesses as to what the letter actually said, but none of them were willing to speak on that (possibly) open secret. Sitnakov knew the larger overview of what the letter said, and the large man’s disgust and resignation told a certain story about what was on that letter, but not the whole story. Kromolok knew exactly what was on the letter, for sure, but he gave nothing away.

Sitnakov spoke first, but not with an answer. He stated, “The decision to exclude you has been finalized. Please take down your spellwork and vacate the area.”

Tasar and Aisha refocused away from the ‘Letter Killer’ secrets and lightly judged Sitnakov an asshole, but they did not speak against him. Riivo withheld all emotions; he was thinking some important thoughts and Erick’s situation was not among them. Sitnakov didn’t seem happy to exclude Erick, but he wasn’t willing to go against his father. All of that seemed normal enough. What actually made Erick a bit mad, though, was that Kromolok was not willing to go against King Alfonin, either. Erick was pretty sure that as Inquisitor, Kromolok ranked above any single king of any single Geode.

But…

Erick decided to acquiesce. He dismissed his Imaging. Like the sun shutting off, the lower reaches of Vibrant Falls fell back into deep shadow. Erick said, “I will return to Yggdrasil. If you change your mind then you know where to find me. I wish you luck with finding this Letter Killer.”

They might not want his help and he would not countermand their decree, but he was at least going to find out what they weren’t telling him about the Letter—

Kromolok sighed. “Erick. Stay away from this. I will come to you tomorrow to speak of various things, but you will strive to remain uninvolved. The hope is that your Worldly Path will pull the Letter Killer into your orbit, instead of the other way around. If you can remain at Yggdrasil then maybe the damage can be contained.”

“I don’t know about the Letter Killer, but that’s not how the Path works, Kromolok.” Tasar said, “Right now, King Alfonin is setting the stage for another disaster—”

Sitnakov said, “My father has spoken. We will abide. With any luck this Path nonsense will be contained to Yggdrasil’s cavern.”

No one else said a word.

After a moment, Erick said, “Then I depart.”

And then he lightstepped away.

Ophiel followed soon after.

- - - -

Erick stopped at the small garrison just outside of Yggdrasil’s tunnel.

Sergeant Kapra was on duty, like usual. She and three of her people stood at attention when Erick stepped onto the ground outside of the tunnel.

Kapra leaned over the stone railing, asking, “Is there something I can help you with, Archmage Flatt?”

Erick looked up at the iron woman. “Have you ever heard of the Letter Killer?”

Kapra frowned a little, unsure what Erick was asking. It was an odd reaction which she shared with all the rest of her people. They knew nothing. Erick found that a bit odd, but it was what it was.

Kapra answered honestly, “I am unaware of who that is. Should we be on alert?”

