Erick decided to be a little honest, saying, “I’m rather sure it’s some high ranking assassin who has been around here for almost a year. Probably best not to get involved if you can help it, but I think they made me involved. So if an assassin comes around, just let them through and warn me of their approach instead.”

Kapra stood straight. “Thank you for the warning.”

Erick departed to Yggdrasil.

- - - -

Back at Yggdrasil, Erick ran some tests regarding [Cascade Imaging] and all of the new spells that Kydyr had helped him to make; [Concealment] and [Intangibility], primarily, but also [Fairy Item]. For the Item, Erick instantiated a bracelet onto his wrist, like Kydyr suggested; if it broke, that meant someone had cast some Fae Magic nearby.

And since Erick had those spells in his soul, as he Imaged for them, all three spells showed.

But nothing else showed.

Erick had expected a ping, a blue marker, an assailant hiding out under Yggdrasil’s canopy, or something. Perhaps a well-hidden wrought watchpost in the walls of the cavern, to watch over Erick. And yet, nothing. So he set Ophiel to recasting that Imaging every hour, and got into bed.

… Sleep did not come easy, but after a few hours of sitting there, thinking of everything he could have done differently, wondering who the Letter Killer was, Erick almost fell asleep.

And then, suddenly, he was fully awake.

Nothing had awoken him.

He was just nervous.

So he lay there, unable to find any comfort from his thoughts, eyes wide and staring at Yggdrasil’s canopy above. Erick thought back to what had happened, and played the events of the day over and over and over again, trying to understand if he could have done anything different. Kydyr’s death had hit him with unexpected force.

But there was something else, too.

It was about that artifact from Ar’Kendrithyst. According to the Armory Presentation by Quilatalap, The Amulet of Non-Presence separated the user from their Mana and Health, making them untouchable, but also denying them the ability to interact with the world. So how could such a sequestered person kill anyone? Wouldn’t they have to drop the amulet’s effect beforehand? Wouldn’t that make them show up on a lot of different scans? And especially on [Witness]?

There were multiple solutions to this problem.

The first solution was that the amulet wasn’t the only artifact the Letter Killer had.

Erick’s second idea was that there was some unknown, yet easy way around the limitations of the amulet. Perhaps the killer conjured charms, or used spell wands, or had some other sort of pre-cast spell that they could drop out of the effect of their super-[Incorporeality]. And yet… The manasphere around Kydyr’s kill was cleaned too perfectly for Erick to see anything at all, but Aisha could, and she didn’t see any of that… Though she was only able to give the broadest strokes about the battle, and after a certain point she couldn’t see anything, either.

The most obvious solution was that the Amulet of Non-Presence didn’t work like advertised at the Armory Presentation. Or, that the user had made some adjustments to the artifact, though as to how such a thing could be possible, Erick had no idea. Erick didn’t know much about artifacts, but magical items didn’t grow over time, and if they did, they generally broke themselves once they outgrew their programming or physical housing.

But artifacts were different.

Artifacts could be made with a soul, and that soul could then grow.

Was the Amulet of Non-Presence a sentient artifact? Like the Black Star?

Very possible.

Erick’s mind went back to Songli.

In the war with Terror Peaks, that shitstorm had been brewing for years and more before Erick showed and helped out with chelation treatments, thus turning up the heat on their cold wars. In that conflict a mass-produced artifact, the soul spear, had almost killed him, and a dragon came out of nowhere to try the same.

Therefore, if one was to guess at the reasoning behind this Letter Killer assassinating Kydyr, it was possible that someone had tracked Erick, specifically, and found out where Kydyr was that way. But that meant that the Letter Killer or an accomplice was watching Erick all the time…

Which people usually did, actually.

But if this was a Terror Peaks situation: What sort of enemy was coming for Stratagold? Or, perhaps, was Stratagold the enemy, and Erick was the one defending himself from them? Erick supposed it all boiled down to a larger question that had yet to answer itself in any satisfactory way:

“What is the purpose of the Worldly Path?”

Erick spoke the words as he thought of them, and suddenly, he could not sleep. He was fully awake.

He swung the covers off of his body and moved to sit on the edge of the bed, his heart beating hard and his breath coming fast. It was such a simple question, and Erick had thought he already knew the answer. The Worldly Path was to make [Gate], right? But that was simply too simple. Erick got to his feet and stepped out of the Privacy surrounding his current sleeping location, activating his spells as needed to take the next step, through the light, to get out from under Yggdrasil’s fiery green canopy.

To feel exposed to the world.

With a quick step, Erick landed upon one of Yggdrasil’s serpentine roots that grew far beyond his body, far beyond the edge of his canopy and rainbow crown, to arc above the placid, clear waters of the lake. Erick had a good view of the cavern from here. The whole place, with its roof so high and shores so far, made him feel like he stood atop a white dragon in the middle of an ocean. Illuminated crystals the size of skyscrapers dotted the cavern roof, looking like LEDs at this distance, and yet they filled the land with light. Yggdrasil filled the land with his own colors, and though the white and the green were prominent, his kaleidoscopic crown of rainbow light outshone all of the rest of him. There were no shadows in this land, but that rainbow crown did paint the dimmer areas in pastel colors.

Erick took it all in, and found he loved it all. The color. The calm. The water and the growth.

But how did planting Yggdrasil here relate to the Worldly Path?

What was the true purpose of the Path?

The purposes other people used to start the Path were all rather random. Syllea wanted to make [Greater Prismatic Body], and failed to get far on the Path. Tenebrae wanted [Gate] itself, and also failed, though he got off near the beginning. Many normal, non-archmage people stepped onto the Path as a result of their life’s work with Spatial Magic, allowing them to just barely start the Path. Those people always spent the 10 points to get [Gate]; a gift from the gods, so that they didn’t need to make the spell themselves.

Erick now knew —with 95% certainty— that spending those 10 points was like imbuing a part of one’s self into the ‘[Gate Summon]’ that the gods used, thus gaining access to that system.

Walking the Path was to make one’s own [Gate Summon]; to deny the gods their curated power, and to try to make power for oneself.

Spatial Magic itself was likely a weaker form of Fate Magic.

In that way, Fate Magic was unto Spatial Magic…

Like Fae Magic was unto Illusion Magic.

It was possible to use Illusion Magic to displace a person, or an object, making it seem like they were in one area when they were actually in another.

Ancient Fae Magic made strangeness that only respected its own rules. Script-based Fae Magic made items that were Reality turned into reality, or as close to reality as magic could get.

Spatial Magic actually changed a person’s location. [Teleport] was like placing oneself in a different location that was based on choices the user could have made, but did not.

Fate Magic, though… Put someone where they needed to be?

Hmm. No. Erick had lost it.

… There was something there. Erick wasn’t sure what, but it was big.

But the larger concern of the purpose of the Worldly Path loomed large in his mind, and he had a thought. One that he hated, and that reminded Erick of what Quilatalap had said months ago: that the Worldly Path was the truest form of the Journey into Darkness. That thought collided with what Erick knew of the idea of the Welcoming Dark, and so much more. Syllea could never have finished the Path, for her goals were too small. Tenebrae was too greedy; his goals were too stagnant. The gods could circumvent the rules because they were gods, thus allowing people who bought into their Path to use their godly [Gate] for a small fee of points. Maybe the godly [Gate] was controlled solely by Rozeta, or it was a group [Gate Summon], but that didn’t matter, because Erick knew what the Worldly Path truly was.

Words came to him, begging to be released out into the world, to make real the Reality that now burrowed into his brain, demanding all of his attention. He spoke to the light, and to the pastel rainbow shadows hiding in the depths of the lake.

“The Worldly Path is both preparation and test, to see if the user is worthy of wielding the power that is the responsibility of [Gate], but more than that, there is the goal of the Walker of the Path: to step into the Dark, to bring the light with them, opening up new pathways into Forever so that all may follow in the wake of the Walker.”

A blue box briefly blinded Erick.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path.

Steps taken: 4 of ???

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

A breeze swept through the land, turning tiny waves into splashing mist. The light dimmed. Darkness swirled in the pastel shadows of the cavern and in the deeper blues of the lake, and then it spread like black ink, soaking into Yggdrasil’s lake from all sides.

Time stopped. The waves froze. The wind stilled.

And then the leviathan himself surfaced from the waters, black scales soaking in all the light, his white eyes shining even brighter because of it. His head was massive, and his curling horns even larger. His mouth curled in a small, large smile, revealing bright white fangs and a deeply hidden white inferno far down the back of his throat. The tips of his wings poked above the surface of the lake, but all the rest of him was one with the water; Darkness spread everywhere, plunging Yggdrasil’s cavern into deep shadows. The illuminated crystals above became points of dim light in the darkness, like cold stars. The crystals in the lake became ghostly lights on the horizon, while Yggdrasil himself was a distant, shadowed rainbow.

Melemizargo dipped his head like a languid swimmer, to level with Erick. The brilliant inferno deep inside his maw glittered as he happily chuckled.

Erick asked, “Are you sure you’re supposed to appear this early?”

Melemizargo laughed. “You have already done more than most on the Worldly Path. If we were in the Old Cosmology, this is where I would gladly welcome you into the Dark, to ask you to spread your wings and fly into the edges of the universe, to push back the edge of Forever just a bit further.” With a contained sadness, he added, “But that’s not how this New Cosmology works, does it?”

Erick’s heart beat hard. Melemizargo seemed rather sane at the moment.

Erick said, “It’s empty out there except for when it’s radically dangerous, or inhospitable to life.”

Melemizargo sighed. “Not that different from the Old Edge of Forever.” He strongly said, “This just means the new Edge of Forever is the Edge of the Script, and we are so very close to being lost to that tumbling destruction. I had lost the Sight to see, until now. I see the Truth. The new obstacles to overcome. And I see that you will lead the way, Fire of the Age.” Licks of white flame escaped from between Melemizargo’s fangs as he said, “So when that killing spell my daughter has installed in your heart begins to drag you down into mediocrity, to threaten everything you hope to build, know that help is only a request away.” He leaned forward a bit, his breath washing over Erick as he spoke, “Don’t expect the same help from Kings and Inquisitors.”

Erick took that all in, and then he moved the conversation to a productive end, saying, “The Inquisitor has a lot of salient points about how new worlds might be subject to apocalypse without warning, like what happened in the Sundering. It is a danger that needs to be solved before we go much further.”

Erick had wondered if he had fucked up by bringing up the Sundering. But he kept going because he had to, and Melemizargo surprised him.

Melemizargo just nodded, saying, “If the wrought looked toward the future instead of securing their holes in the ground, they might work on creating the necessary Fate Magic to prevent such disastrous ends. Such Fate Magic was an accepted practice in the Old Cosmology, though it was obviously not practiced on a large enough scale. I don’t know what happened there, but perhaps you can ensure it doesn’t happen again. Some new answers might need to be made, but you’re already headed toward that age-old solution.”

Erick gasped a little. He had been right? Fate Magic could be used to prevent apocalypse?

But how was he already headed toward the solu—

“The Letter Killer?” Erick asked.

Melemizargo smirked, as though he was privy to some great joke. “I really shouldn’t interfere this much for Rozeta is going to be angry about this, but Fate is coming together rather well and— Well. To cut a long intrigue down to size:

“Her name is Fairy Moon.”

He uttered the name and a shockwave cast out from the Dark Dragon’s throat like the chiming of a gong, rippling the surface of the lake and bringing back time for just a moment; the waves moved, and then they stilled yet again. This…

This might be bad.

And for about a hundred different reasons, too.

And yet, Fairy Moon did not show. Erick had expected her appearance to be rather sudden. Maybe that wasn’t the case? Or. No.

Melemizargo frowned a fraction, mumbling, “Or at least that’s her name here. Hmm. Perhaps she is shy for whatever reason. Come out, come out wherever you are, — , — , — , — , —.”

He hummed a transcendental, nothing song that would either haunt Erick for the rest of his days, or vanish like a dream. And then he kept speaking. More songs poured into the air like silent echoes, crashing against holes so deep in the mana that their removal had left canyons in existence. Four songs passed, and then a fifth came and went just as fast. And then they were gone. The songs vanished, extinguished forever, scraped out of Erick’s mind by some utter Silence that he could barely understand happened, let alone comprehend how fast it had occurred. He was pretty sure that Melemizargo had spoken names, but those names no longer existed.

