“We should have probably done this shit to begin with,” Shiv grunted with annoyance. “Get a bunch of people to help us. But I was kind of hoping for a fun adventure for three, a quick Curse-breaking, or us just running away if everything went wrong.”

“Can’t have a break,” Uva replied. “Of course, the System might have been setting up this punch for a while now.”

“Seems like it. Felling Harkness. Couldn’t just do us a favor and let herself get eaten by a cave biter or something.”

“Since when were we ever that lucky?”

Shiv chuckled. “Dunno. Ask me after I feed her to a cave biter.”

More of the mists drew back like a receding curtain, and Shiv found himself hanging from a distant ceiling, bound by dense links of raw iron. The chain that held him looked more suited for anchoring a ship, and as Shiv tried to break out using his Physicality, he ended up just wriggling like a worm on the end of a hook.

Not ten meters away, Adam shared a similar fate. The chains were far too big for him, and most of his body was squeezed tight. He tried drawing in moisture and shifting into his Hydrokinetic form, but something was repressing his magic just as much as his physical might. “Shiv… is that… Is that you?”

“Yep,” Shiv replied flatly. “So. That was kind of humiliating, wasn't it?”

“Quite,” Adam agreed, so annoyed that he even began biting at his binds. “Ascendants be damned, this… Shiv. I’ll make you a promise if you do the same for me: We tell no one that a group of wolfmen that look like they belong in a children’s storybook managed to bring both of us down in a single move each.”

Shiv winced. “Umm… I would totally agree to do that, but… Uh…” He didn’t want to betray Uva’s presence in his mind. That, and the fact that everyone else was watching.

“Oh,” Adam breathed. The fight went out of him after that. “You know, it’s rather freeing, feeling like a pitiful fool. No need to worry about your reputation anymore.”

“You really believe that?” Shiv asked.

“Absolutely not, but Cognitive Therapy is telling me that sometimes delusion is an important medicine when it comes to not developing crushing depression.”

Comedy 16 > 17

Harkness chuckled darkly as the mists expanded across the entire room. She brushed a strand of hair behind her ear. It was unchanged, black with a single white stripe in front and reaching down to her shoulders. “A self-soothing Psychology Skill. Quite the apt skill for a Young Lord to develop. But I fear there is no comfort that will be enough for what is to come. The only mercy and relief you can find lie in me. And I do not feel particularly generous after what happened last time.”

Slowly, the space around the two captured Pathbearers cleared, and they found themselves within a throneroom shaped from the palest, brightest ice. Chandeliers hung from high above, radiating with Cryomancy mana. Colossal pillars bore the weight of the cavernous chamber, and along the sides coiled top-hat-wearing serpents bearing dense, white fur, while on the ground laughed and sneered all manner of fae. Some of them were humanoids dressed like nobility, with frills and fluffy bits sticking out from their clothes. Others were armored guards, with the majority of their warriors being toons, while the more dignified of their race resembled the hyper-thin elves that were of a similar subspecies as Cullywier.

Toasty was nowhere to be seen—and something told Shiv he likely wouldn’t be seeing him again any time soon.

A twisting sensation made Shiv shudder. Both he and Adam were forced to turn as their chain shifted. A heavy sensation of cold, Divine mana flooded the chamber, warming Shiv’s very bones. It was a reprieve from the cold. One that didn’t last anywhere near long enough. The incandescence faded, revealing a great and towering throne that speared high up beyond the walls of the castle, up through the ceiling, puncturing through to bring down a crowning beam of moonlight upon the regent seated as Usurper Queen of the Winter Court.

Upon the throne, on the dais of the Winter Court’s castlehold, sat Lady Eileen Harkness. Once of Aviary, now a fairy queen—always a pain in the ass.

“Well, mastiff,” Harkness said, twirling a pale, frost-forged shortsword in her right hand while her long legs were crossed, “where did we leave off last time?”

“You snapped all my limbs and ran away like a bitch,” Shiv answered.

“Ah. Right. I incapacitated you and was forced into a retreat by the Composer. Correct. Well. Let’s get right back to that, shall we?”

Harkness made a yanking gesture, and the chains holding Shiv glided across his arms and legs before jerking tight in four different directions.

A sickening series of snaps ensued.
