Turning to Artemis, he smiled. “Say, we’re officially a couple, right?”

“Are you sure there aren’t any side effects to that skill before? Because you seem to be suffering from memory loss,” Artemis said sharply.

“Just wanted to confirm,” Jake said cheekily. “Seeing as it’s official, would you mind joining me for a couple’s thing?”

“Now you’ve gotten me curious,” the Godqueen said, raising an eyebrow.

“You see, I have a standing dinner invitation from this nice couple of hunters I met in the Hunting Grounds,” Jake said with a big smile. “I did them a favor, and they promised me a nice dinner in return. And I made sure to get a plus one.”

Artemis looked at Jake for several seconds before just smiling. “You know what? Sure. So, who are these nice hunters you encountered on your adventures?”

“They’re called Keerla and Solana, and trust me, you’re gonna love them,” Jake said. “In fact, I know you approve of at least one of them, considering you’ve blessed her.”

Jake’s date for the upcoming dinner was silent for a moment before shaking her head. “This is incredibly silly, and I feel a little sorry for those two, considering I’m sure they invited you over so casually before realizing you’re the Chosen of a Primordial, much less that you would bring me along.”

“Can’t see how that should disqualify me from getting a nice dinner,” Jake shrugged.

“No, no, it doesn’t,” Artemis chuckled. “And if you promised, I guess you did sow a karmic seed. Better to not leave such things untouched, no matter how minor they appear.”

“Yeah, exactly,” Jake nodded along, as if he’d totally considered that.

“Also, I should definitely disguise myself or something...” Artemis sighed as she looked a bit troubled for a moment. “Why am I suddenly feeling nervous about something this stupid?”

“Because it’ll be our first official date?” Jake said.

“I want to say that’s not the case, but it probably is,” Artemis sighed. “Either way, whatever happens, it’ll be a novel experience. So go ahead already and reach out to set up a time for us to come by.”

“It's a date,” Jake said gleefully and gave her a quick peck on the lips before he took out the wooden plaque he’d gotten from Keerla way back in the Hunting Ground, in case he wanted to reach out.

Artemis just shook her head in amusement before she teleported away to not keep Nature’s Attendant waiting longer than necessary.
