“Seems like we’re all throwing our hats in the ring,” the Demon Prince chuckled. “That being the case, how should we resolve this? What solution would everyone think is fair? I’m genuinely asking because I have a difficult time seeing how to resolve this in any peaceful way unless others are willing to back down and compromise.”

Truthfully, they all already knew the answer to that one: this wasn’t going to be solved peacefully. For the second time that day, the Chosen of the Heartsoul Daolord surprised Jake as she took the initiative and spoke.

“Repel.”

Jake suddenly felt an incredible force pushing away from the golden flower, and it not only affected him but also the Demon Prince and the Valkyrie. At the same time, the Dao Sect disciple stepped down and disappeared, reappearing again in front of the barrier immediately after, using a very familiar skill.

She reached for the flower, but before she could even touch the barrier, she had to retreat as a lightning bolt of blue energy struck the ground right where she’d been standing.

Not only that, but from the bolt of lightning, the Demon Prince appeared and immediately turned to claim the flower himself, only to have an arcane arrow strike him in the side, sending him sliding across the barren ground.

After shooting, Jake also sought to make his own move, but found himself forced to evade as the Valkyrie released a barrage of golden lances towards him. Jake clicked his tongue as the Chosen of the Heartsoul Daolord reached the barrier surrounding the flower again, but it appeared that she couldn’t simply reach through it. Instead, her hand slowly began to phase into the barrier, clearly demonstrating how it worked.

I see, Jake concluded with a smile. Second part of the trial... battle for the loot.

It appeared that it would take a while to get through the barrier, and no one present was going to let another spend that time just standing there, phasing through it. They all seemed to reach the same conclusion at the same time, and as one, four powerful boosting skills activated, a battle for the flower commenced, as-

A loud cracking sound interrupted everything as the sky suddenly split open, and from what seemed like outer space, a massive version of a very familiar creature fell, making them all look up as they realized...

It wasn’t dead.

However, that wasn’t the most shocking, as latching onto this massive creature was a cute little cat-like creature, clawing away angrily at the jellyfish.
