Redflame was already standing back, looking apprehensive, but also excited.

Erick was more than a little excited, too. For all the misuse that could come out of this machine, or a machine like it, it was going to help a lot of people finally get back out into the world. It was going to solve the wyrm problem, too, or at least the wyrm problem that everyone here was willing to talk about; the problem that stemmed from the half-dragons trying to turn into full dragons.

Erick had tried asking the question of eggs and new dragon births and how wyrms came from them, too, but he had been awkwardly non-answered. Now that they were here, though, Erick decided to ask again, and more directly. “So the wyrms that come from dragon eggs not having enough clean mana when they’re born? Is that going to remain a problem? Or will this sort of magic eliminate that problem, too? Will Wyrm Season mostly stop due to this invention? Or what?”

Redflame winced. He did not want to answer.

Inferno Maw scowled a little, but it was all deflection, for it was easy to tell that the man was embarrassed.

Fairy Moon watched. Erick waited.

Neither of the dragons were willing to speak, though, and Erick got the distinct impression that they would remain that way.

Fairy Moon sighed, then said, “Likely not. That particular problem is one that we solve with sword and spell. The Free Dragons are already the fourth faction of Ar’Cosmos, and they believe what they believe, and likely because they are dragons undiluted by Carnage, Fae, or Death.”

She was speaking of things far outside of Erick’s current sphere of knowledge, but that was fine. He could catch up soon enough.

Inferno Maw turned his scowl onto Fairy Moon, then said, “Some dragons believe that more is better, and that only whoever survives the birthing is worthy to rise to the top. Therefore, even if a hatching does manage to create two or more viable hatchlings, then the Dragon Curse does the rest, and forces them to fight anyway. I doubt those people would care about this sort of solution.”

Redflame frowned. “We will still tell them, though. But yes.” He said to Erick, “Their ways are barbaric—” He stopped himself. “Nope. Forget I said that, please. I must remain neutral, here.”

Inferno Maw said, “In simple terms this will not solve all the causes for Wyrm Season. It will solve 50% of the causes of Wyrm Season. Some people will always prefer to place their eggs out in the middle of nowhere, and if any of them survive, then they survive. Most do not, though, and those ones turn to wyrms when their Dragon Essence is ripped out by the champion of the hatching.”

Redflame scowled. “It’s barbaric— Nope. No.” He stopped himself. He breathed, and turned to the Renewal Tank. He asked, “Inferno Maw? The monster?” He said to Erick, “Channeling, please. Let’s get the tank ready for breathing.”

A 50% solution to Wyrm Season was still good, right?

Right.

Inferno Maw nodded, then went to the cages to the side and began extracting a sleeping, orcol-sized rat from its cage. It was a monstrous rat with a grand rad for a core, and with hair that was more like stone bristles than hair, but aside from its size and its Stone Essence and the largeness of its core marking it as a higher-level monster, it was basically just a big rat. Not even that dangerous of a monster. The other rats lined up in other cages were odder varieties. Before the night was through, and unless there were any unforeseen surprises, they would all become normal, massive rats.

Or maybe they would turn back into small rats, their core dissolving and their soul returning to their body, though that was an outside possibility. Erick was hoping for this outcome, though.

Erick had each of his Ophiel hanging on their perches begin to channel [Renew] into the machine. White magic flowed from each Ophiel’s perch, creating a counterclockwise stream inside the vertical platinum [Renew] rune. Within seconds the placid waters began to take on a lively sort of sheen as droplets of glowing white light gathered at the entrance to the tank, and then fell down inside, like milk falling into a pond; vanishing, and yet leaving a faint trace in their passing. Bubbles began to form streamers in the waters, like it was a tank full of champagne.

Erick cut Ophiel’s power. The white river inside the rune stopped. The white rain stopped, too,

The air seemed to turn weighty.

A dozen researchers from both House Carnage and House Death held to the sides of the room where they either watched from afar with [Scry] eyes, or they watched from closer, each of them with notepads in their hands. Erick hoped this worked, and so did everyone else in that room, too, along with people outside the room, as well; Erick spotted some [Scry] eyes that did not belong to anyone there. Inferno Maw looked excited. Redflame looked worried.

And then Redflame said, “Commence experiment.”

And so they did.

Inferno Maw slipped the monster rat into the tank. Erick had Ophiel begin a slow channel of undirected [Renew], since that was the whole point; they wanted the machine to do the heavy lifting of precise Soul Magic. It was certainly runed up enough to do everything itself…

And it seemed to be working.

The runes glowed brightly. White waters fell into the machine.

Streamers of magic flowed into the rat’s core. The rat breathed in aerated, cleaning waters. And little by little, the harsh, stony hairs of the monster began to soften, like dirt falling apart in the bath, leaving behind pure white fur.

The rat continued to sleep, unaware that it was being transformed.

Inferno Maw’s mouth dropped open. He whispered, “Oh my bright and bountiful gods. Look at its grand rad. This is working.”

Erick was looking at its rad. When the rat went into the machine, the rad was about the size of a human head and heavily faceted with a splash of sharp crystals poking out of one small part of it. Now, though, as Ophiel channeled, and the white magic flowed into the rat, it touched that rad, and the rad began to flex—

The rat flinched, jerking a bit. The [Sleep] spell held.

No one was worried of the rat waking up, though, and neither was Erick, but the rat continued to jerk and twitch as its core began to smooth over. It was like watching a jumble of ice floating in a [Gravity Ward], as that ice began to melt into water and naturally form a sphere in the zero-G gravity. The malformed grand rad inside the rat melted and flowed together. Much of it was lost in the process, but what remained turned solid and smooth.

All the rest of the rat was fully transformed. Its fur was white and soft, while its tail was pink and twice the length of its body. It blinked a little, as though dreaming and trying to wake up, but it failed to wake. The magic kept it under.

Five minutes after starting, the rat had a core that any accretor would be proud to have.

Erick cut the power. Slowly, the white glows in the water began to fade, though the water itself would remain breathable, self-cleaning, and sedative for hours still, now that the machine had been used once.

Redflame breathed out, “Well would you look at that.”

“It works like I hoped it would!” Inferno Maw smiled wide, saying, “Ohhh! This is wonderful! Ah ha! Haha!” He clapped twice in great, yet subdued joy. “This changes everything. All of my stude— No. Wait. No bloodline.” He shrugged away his annoyance at the lack of perfection, and said, “This is a great accomplishment. It can help everyone who has ever accreted incorrectly. It strips out the bloodline, but that is… Fine? Yes. That is fine. It should work on a wyrm… Or on any wyrm’s grand rad… Maybe?”

Redflame chuckled a little, then teased, “I was going to be mad at you if you weren’t happy with this.”

“Bah! I can have my sights on the horizon if I want.” Inferno Maw said, “But this is good. This is great! It might not be perfect but this works!”

Erick felt ten different kinda ways, but most of those ways were good. “This will heal a lot of people, so let’s get to it?”

“Let’s finish up the rats.” Inferno Maw telekinetically plucked the newly-white rat from the tank and brought him over to a new cage already charged with very, very strong [Ward]s; the man had come prepared for whatever sort of odd outcomes this medical marvel might have made. And then he plucked the next sedated, massive and monstrous rat out of its cage. This rat glowed with a faint red shimmer. “And now for the Carnage rat!”

The Carnage rat went into the water.

Erick had Ophiel begin channeling [Renew].

Five minutes later, the rat came out of the water with white fur with brown spots, and no Carnage to it at all.

Redflame still looked happy as he shrugged, saying, “An expected outcome.”

Inferno Maw frowned a little, having deep thoughts. He shared those thoughts, “We might not be able to cultivate for specific bloodlines at all.”

“This is miracle enough,” Erick said.

Inferno Maw nodded. “Quite right! This is miracle enough. Let’s do the rest of the rats and then move on to healing the people who need it.” He added, “Only ten for now, though. We need to observe them for at least five days before I will call this machine fit for all uses.”

Erick suddenly flinched. He asked, “Really?” Sudden doubt crept into his mind. “Does this machine not work perfectly, or something?”

Redflame seemed to share Erick’s sudden concern but he just waited for Inferno Maw to elaborate.

“I knew that would meet with resistance…” Inferno Maw sighed a little, then looked to both of them, saying, “This is a totally new sort of Soul Magic. There are bound to be uncertainties and odd outcomes. You both are simply too caught up in the miracle of it all to be objective. I was, too, for a while.” He added, “And those ten people to first use this machine need to be people we fully interview beforehand, so we can check for memory and soul anomalies after the fact. I doubt this machine harms the patient, but it does replace parts of the soul that do not work correctly, and thus there are bound to be some unforeseen issues. We need to know of these issues before large-scale deployment.”

Erick frowned, but it was mostly at himself. He had certainly pushed hard to get this done today because he knew he would never get another chance to help, here… But the machine was made, and it worked, so this was fine? He could move on.

Erick said, “Prudence is fine, but I’m getting the distinct feeling that my time here in Ar’Cosmos is up. Inferno Maw, Redflame. I won’t be able to help with this beyond today.” He wasn’t sure why, but he said, “I need to talk once more to Bright Smile, then I need to organize whatever needs to be done before I leave this land. You all distrust the Mind Mages a great deal, but I plan on getting them on my side before anyone else approaches. I am reasonably sure that going to them first will be the right call. Them, or perhaps the Church of Koyabez, and the Church of Rozeta. I might actually get to use that [Zone of Peace] I made last year, if only by proxy.” He rambled, “From there? I suppose I’ll either see if the wrought want to kill me, or what. But I’m guessing they don’t, because Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye is still with me.”

At the mention of his name, the big guy’s little eye bobbed up and down on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick added, “And since I’m not dead, that means Rozeta wants to talk, which means that the Inquisitors and the wrought likely want to talk, too. I have no idea about Kirginatharp, but I’m sure that he will also start with words, and not weapons. I need to give them that chance. I might be able to secure a world where we all live in peace, and so, I must try.”

No one spoke for a long moment.

And then Redflame said, “Our people are still debating on how to best proceed with an alliance and so that mess is likely to include you as soon as we can figure out our own stance, but we have never had any luck hashing out any long lasting treaties with the wrought or Kirginatharp or the Mind Mages, and the Dragon Stalkers are simply genocidal. Whatever the outcome, though, I want you to know that I desire to be a strong ally going forward. So if you can make peace happen, and if we need to adjust ourselves to give peace a chance, then I will support any rational actions proposed and backed up by your magic and presence.”

Erick said, “I have no idea if any of this will work without some sort of war, but I hope it does.”

As if coming to a decision he had been considering for a while, Inferno Maw said, “House Death wishes for a strong alliance as well.” He added, “My people are still at those debates, but from what they tell me the Free Dragons, House Fae, and House Carnage are each demanding their own provisions to include in whatever treaty we might decide to enact, though mostly that conversation has devolved into war preparations. Bright Smile is convinced that war is inevitable, and this is perfectly rational behavior, since war has always been the outcome of us stepping outside of Ar’Cosmos. Hopefully we can create some borders and secure them, and then the wrought will test us, and then we can push them back while you call on them to cease their war.” Inferno Maw said, “This is all contingent on whether or not they choose to try and control you or not. They have already come to Ar’Cosmos for talks, and in each one, they demanded we turn you over to them, for they won’t allow us to ‘control Benevolence’, whatever that means. Tyrants; all of them. You can’t really control a new Element once it is made, for now that it is out there it will naturally grow or die depending on who it resonates with, and I suspect that Benevolence will resonate with quite a few of the more paranoid wrought.”

“Ah?” Wide-eyed, Erick asked, “They’re already here?”

“Oh? You were not informed? Ah. I see. You weren’t informed.” Inferno Maw asked, “Do you wish to meet with them this next time? Should be tomorrow around noon.”

For a moment, Erick was paranoid. Had someone failed to inform him that the wrought were already here? Or had that information been purposefully kept from him?

Fairy Moon and Redflame just watched, both of them wondering what Erick would say. Fairy Moon looked impassive, while Redflame looked worried. Redflame did not want Erick to meet the wrought, but more because of his own bad experiences with the wrought, as opposed to any desire to control Erick. Seeing Redflame’s reaction, Erick imagined that, as the creator and thus lynchpin of Ar’Cosmos, Redflame had been targeted by wrought for assassination at least a hundred times already.

Erick said, “I want to meet with these wrought.”

