Erick flicked his mana through the machine again, and over the course of ten seconds, the sleepy grey rat transformed into a sleepy goldfish. He cut the magic. The lustrous waters around the fish turned from bright white, to something lesser, and then they lost their light altogether. The fish remained sleepy.

There were many parts of Redflame’s Renewal Tank system that Erick did not fully understand. [Baleful Polymorph] was one of those spells, but Erick was pretty sure that he was getting the hang of that magic. Once he got out of here, he could probably make that spell easy enough.

That spell was basically [Polymorph] but twisted into an attack, which made a great deal of difference. Primarily, the person casting the spell was choosing to mutate a person’s existence into something else, but since that was such a broad category of event, there were a lot of small, unsaid rules. Size played a big deal in such a transformation, as well as what the target’s current categorization in the Script. A human-sized target was generally transformed into another human-sized person, with orcol being a very, very rare option. If the target was an orcol, they were usually transformed into a different orcol, and usually one of the opposite sex, with all options usually being a smaller form than the target’s original form. With enough casts, an undirected [Baleful Polymorph] might transform an orcol all the way into a human, or an incani, or a harpy, or whatever. This sort of cast almost always gave the target a physically weaker form, for that was the basic, cheap, undirected version of that spell.

Directed [Baleful Polymorph] was what everyone usually thought of when they heard ‘[Baleful Polymorph]. This then was the full version of the spell, which transformed a target into another form specifically chosen by the caster. An orcol could become a frog. A frog could become an orcol. [Baleful Polymorph] did not change the soul or the mind, though.

[Baleful Polymorph] did not actually give the afflicted person the Familiar Form chosen by the caster, nor did it remove the original Familiar Form of the afflicted. If one were [Baleful Polymorph]ed, all one needed to do was to get [Polymorph] and then use that to transform back to their original Form.

[Baleful Polymorph] could not be [Dispel]ed, though. It was an instant effect; there was nothing to dispel once the magic was done.

If the afflicted wished to actually gain the Familiar Form that they were [Baleful Polymorph]ed into, then that was a whole lot more difficult. There was the slow process of a person just living out their new life and gradually defining their new form as a Familiar Form. Or, there was a quicker way. This quicker way was through Soul Magic. Horribly difficult Soul Magic, too, which usually mangled a person into a monster along the way.

Or rather…

That’s how it had been for a long time.

Until today.

Inferno Maw blinked and huffed for the fifth time since arriving in the enchanting hangar of Redflame’s castle. He gestured forward as he stared at the small Renewal Tank sitting on the sturdy wooden table. “Flip the switch and do it again, if you please.”

Erick complied, flipping a little switch on the side of the fish/rat tank to select for rat. And then he started channeling [Renew].

Ten seconds later, the sleepy gold fish was now a sleepy wet rat. Tiny bubbles of air escaped from his slack mouth, burbling upward to break on the surface of the water.

Erick waited. Redflame waited, too, standing to the side and barely able to contain his own small joy. With Inferno Maw’s increasingly incredulous and disbelieving attitude, it was easy for Erick to feel good about the outcome of this new form of soul surgery and Familiar Form granting.

Inferno Maw straightened up. The dour, tall man was rather skinny-seeming in his long grey and black robes; especially with his large grey horns which arced straight up and a little bit backward. He paused in thought, then turned to his own grey-robed subordinate, saying, “I need an assortment of monsters. Select the meanest, smaller subjects and bring them here.”

The subordinate bowed then turned his head and started a telepathic conversation with someone far away.

Erick frowned, though. Monsters? What was Inferno Maw trying to do? Heal monsters of some sort of essence problem? Monsters didn’t have essence problems. Redflame also gave Inferno Maw a critical eye, unsure of what was going on.

Inferno Maw looked down at Erick, for no other reason than he was rather tall. He turned slightly to take in Redflame, too, and then he spoke to both of them, “Your machine is a miracle. I urge you to create one large enough to take in a person and we start healing our people held in [Stasis], and soon. It is time to increase the rate of production. But more than that!” Inferno Maw’s countenance took on a smooth sort of joy, as though he was on the cusp of solving some of his own problems. “I wish to use this machine to try and clear out the ambient, uncontrolled mana that accumulates in the core of monsters, driving them to madness. I wish to attempt the creation of a true spirit beast; an enlightened animal. Moreover, this will prove whether or not it is possible to turn a wyrm back into a person. To bring back the voice of the voiceless, to restore sound to the silent!”

… Oh. That’s what he was trying to do.

Redflame balked. “Restore a wyrm to sapience? Impossible.”

Inferno Maw digressed, “We might not be able to restore a wyrm to their draconic self, since I think that the Null Ring might be the only true way for this magic to work, but we most certainly can try to bring back a wyrm from such an ignoble death. Or at least we can clear out their soul and allow them to pass on to whatever afterlife they desire. At the very least, and based on what I am seeing, I expect to be able to transform a wyrm into a human, or something along those lines.”

Erick had a few concerns, though.

“Aren’t wyrms dead?” Erick added, “Undead? You can’t [Baleful Polymorph] an object, can you? The spell does target the body, after all, and not the soul. And wyrms don’t have any Dragon Essence anyway?”

Inferno Maw smiled brightly, saying, “You are correct about the limitations of [Baleful Polymorph], but while [Baleful Polymorph] does not appear to work on undead, it still does. It works on anything with a soul. I may be wrong, but I suspect that if you were to put an undead rat with a rad into that tank there, you would be able to create a living fish, simultaneously disintegrating and creating a new fishy-body for the little no-longer-a-rat. I have no idea how the rad would fare through the transition, but I have certain hopes that I must see if they can be fulfilled.

“Wyrms are very complicated undead; completely unlike all other undead, and primarily because they take in and utilize ambient mana at an astonishing rate. They are still monsters, after all, which makes them fit into a category of ‘ambient mana collectors’, and I believe your machine can clear out the ambient mana in a core, replacing what was lost with properly accreted mana.

“I have no idea if such a thing will actually produce a spirit beast, or bring back the voice of a wyrm, but it’s an intriguing proposition and I must discover if it works, or not. What I suspect will happen is that the test subject regains life, but they are no longer who they were when they went into the process. This would be a problem— Eh! Something to figure out later.” He turned and waved a hand at the larger Renewal Tank, and all the scattered enchanting parts, saying, “But what’s more than that! This magic might allow us to accelerate the accretion-time of anyone, allowing the user to use ‘ambient mana’ in the form of Script-granted mana to turn [Renew] upon themselves, allowing one to reach Second and Third and higher Foundations in a matter of days instead of centuries!” Inferno Maw exclaimed, “Monsters rendered reasonable! Accretion accelerated ahead! Every student a genius, gaining—” He paused, frowned, and called out, “Where are you, Fairy Moon? I hear your presence.”

Huh.

Well. The Fairy Moon part aside, accelerated accretion was a great big thing, wasn’t it?

Could a dragon benefit from this, though? No.

Or at least… Not right now?

It was a question. Erick was not sure. The Null Ring stripped all essence from a person, and this very much included Dragon Essence, mutated or not. And there was another problem he needed to consider; the problem of the person-with-a-core versus the person-without-a-core.

While Erick was considering all that, Fairy Moon stepped out of the air.

“My influence inundates this tired, long lived land, Inferno Maw, so it is no wonder you witness my mien all over the everywhere.” Fairy Moon asked, “What do you want?”

“Just to know where you were,” Inferno Maw said, nodding. He turned back to Erick. “You seem concerned over what I just said. Elaborate?”

Redflame had been concerned, too, but his expression was rather inscrutable. He was somewhere between thrilled and concerned.

Erick was firmly concerned. “My problem is that I thought most mortal races could not handle having a core. The people and rats we’ve worked this magic on before did not have cores, but my original design was to include the possibility of a core in a person, and yet Redflame skipped around that possibility because none of the subjects had cores. I only realized then, that cores inside of a person could be bad.

“Most people with cores turn into cannibals. Dragons and half-dragons do not, apparently.

“But Redflame removed the core capability that I had put into my original ring so that this magic could be used on everyone.

“So, my question is this: can mortal races handle having cores? A half-dragon needs mutated Dragon Essence to allow them to hold a core and not go insane, right? This machine erases all Dragon Essence in a person, after all, and it does not work with a person with a core… Though it would be easy enough to go back to my original design if we’re going to be working with cores.”

Redflame inclined his head. Erick had laid out all of his concerns, too. Inferno Maw smiled a little bit, as though Erick had asked an interesting question, but he already knew the answer.

“Ah! Cannibals.” Inferno Maw nodded. “Not a problem.” Erick was not convinced, though, and Inferno Maw saw this, so he continued, “People turning cannibal because of a core is a widespread misconception. While Dragon Essence does have a centering effect, and it does increase the mana one naturally produces, Dragon Essence on its own does not actually enable a person to accrete without turning monster. In order to accrete without turning monster one must know what they are doing, and they must start from a place of one’s own power.

“Most people, be they human or incani or otherwise, when they allow a rad to coalesce inside themselves, they are allowing ambient mana to form the seed of their core. Such a person has automatically started off on the wrong path, and will inevitably become a monster. But! If they had started with a seed of their own creation, then they would have been fine. They likely wouldn’t have gotten anywhere and they would have rapidly devolved into a monster, because people, on their own, do not produce much mana. Dragon Essence increases the mana one self-produces from around 10 mana per day to anywhere between 500 and 5000, and it is at this breakpoint that one actually gains the ability to properly accrete. But theoretically a human with a core of their own make could remain themselves.” With a playful smirk, Inferno Maw said, “Those are just nuances to know for the future, though, because, if I am right, then this thing can even save cannibals, and all other monsters, pulling them out of their polluted-mana fugues. It might be able to reestablish the seed of a core!

“I have no idea what such a cannibal-turned-person would even look like! Most ‘cannibals’ are variant-races, with odd abilities based on what they do while they are monsters. Would they retain those odd abilities? Or would this [Renew Soul] you have carved into this machine actually [Renew] them back down to base person, but with a Second Foundation core, and all the added power thereof?

“But yes; a normal person with a core is a problem because they don’t have the natural mana production to keep their core stable. Such a person would need to use a tank like this every week, or so, I would assume.” Inferno Maw said, “So it is quite possible that we will need to make this thing dissolve the core of whoever is placed inside, too. That will be rather difficult. We might need to do that working in a separate way.”

Ah.

Well then.

… Shit?

Erick had a distressing series of thoughts that boiled down rather fast to a distressing conclusion, and question. Had he accidentally created a method to easily gain super soldiers? Super soldiers that needed to come back into base every so often, or else they would turn monster?

That seemed truly rife for abuse.

… But also: Had he created a way to save every cannibal out there from their monstrous nature? Rozeta had even spoken of how [Renew] should be able to turn a monster into a non-monster. Had she foreseen this specific event, right here?

She had.

Was this… Okay?

Redflame, thankfully, brought the concern back to the actual problem. “We might have created a monster ourselves, but the core-problem aside: This will work, won’t it? Erick’s new design? Will it save people from [Stasis], and from the Trial of the Wyrm?”

