“Oh yes. I would hesitate to call this [Renew Soul] a true transformation— a [Reincarnation], as you call it— but only because it’s a magic that has not been recognized by the Script. But that problem is easily solved when you get back to Veird, Erick. Just sing a little song to the mana and make a Blessing out of this magic.” Inferno Maw turned to Redflame, saying, “You and I might be able to extrapolate this effect into a Blessing, too. You, Redflame, might be able to create a Blessing of Carnage, and anyone so blessed might be able to accrete for a theoretical [Carnage Body]. It would still take an act of Wizardry to cause a person with both [Carnage Body] and [Dragon Body] to join them together, using Carnage to erase the Curse in the Dragon Essence, but it seems theoretically doable. It would be a lot more difficult than using [Renew] to simply cause Carnage Dragon, or Fae Dragon, or Death Dragon, but it should be doable.” He turned to Erick. “Similarly, you might not be able to create a Benevolence Dragon, but you could likely enable a person —through the use of a specific enough Blessing— to accrete toward a [Benevolence Body]. From there, the blessed person would need to accrete a [Dragon Body] on their own, but they should be able to then gain a Benevolence Dragon existence through the combination of those two abilities— with your assistance, of course.”

Redflame hesitated to be joyful, electing prudence instead, saying, “I desire to first heal our people. Anything else that comes about will have to happen on its own time.”

Erick stepped in, saying, “I want to heal people, too. Not make soldiers for war.”

Redflame flinched, and then nodded.

“… Ah.” Inferno Maw paused. “Hmm. I am not one for war, either, but I could see how most people would assume this would be for war… I was considering how much power it would take to tame the Crystal Forest. But this would be used for war, first and foremost, wouldn’t it.” He paused. He said, “Okay. New plan. All of what I just said about cores and accretion will remain theoretical, since Erick is the only one who can actually do this right now, since he has [Renew]. So we simply won’t experiment in that direction. Let us stick to healing the malformed.”

Erick felt a great relief. He also felt a lot better about who Inferno Maw was, as a person, too. The Death Dragon hadn’t said a single thing about Erick being a Wizard, or that all of Erick’s accomplishments were based on Wizardry. Erick had been worried about that, but that was probably just his self consciousness talking.

By Redflame’s expression he felt a great sort of relief at not making soldiers for war, too.

And then Inferno Maw brought back Erick’s anxiety, saying, “But I do want to test a properly made machine on a monster. I need to see if it can turn a monster into a spirit beast. I need to see if it can heal a wyrm.”

“… Okay.” Erick said, “I guess I need to know if it actually works that way, too.”

In the future, Erick expected this Renewal Tank system to be well studied. Many people would find out that the only real difference between the core-version of the Renewal Tank and the non-core version was a sub-runic-web which used [Identify] to check for a core, or for the absence of a core, and then adjust accordingly between a focused [Renew] or a larger scale [Renew]. The core-system was a lot simpler than a non-core system, too.

Ahh.

Super soldiers which required those soldiers to come in for weekly treatments.

Maybe that wouldn’t happen, though?

Erick could only think back to Rats, who left over a year ago, and his weekly healing treatments to deal with his lingering Necromancer-caused soul and body wounds. Had Rats been an attempt at a super soldier program?

Redflame breathed deep, worried, and yet resigned.

Fairy Moon nodded, also satisfied, then she said, “It’s past the dinner hour, anyway, so let’s pause this pursuit of knowledge and do more soul surgery when we have satiated stomachs.” She gestured toward the door. “Maid Maria and Redflame’s Chefs have manufactured a magnificent meal which awaits our presence in the small-persons solarium.”

Another realization struck Erick, and this time directly in his stomach. He hadn’t eaten in at least 18 hours. “I could eat.”

For a brief moment Inferno Maw looked like he was going to object to Fairy Moon’s proclamation, but he resigned himself to dinner.

Because Redflame was happy to hear the news of food. He grinned. “Yes! It is time for a break. We will speak more of specifics over a nice meal.” He began walking to the door, saying, “I know that some of our designs are less than perfect, Inferno Maw, so if you have any ideas there they would be most welcome.”

As a group, Erick, Inferno Maw, and Fairy Moon began walking alongside Redflame.

Inferno Maw began, “Well. There are some oddities I see in the design, but I would speak of larger philosophy-level design issues. For one, the [Sleep] magic included in the working could be better, or not included at all, and anesthetic magical herbs should be used instead. Sleepweed for orcol bodies. Drowsydip for human bodies. Rednumb weed as a general numbing agent would be good. Also, [Sleep] is not a good spell for this since it doesn’t actually numb the body.”

Erick offered, “What about a Particle Magic sleeping-like overlapping spell, that includes [Cleanse] to both keep the person under, while also numbing their body? That spell is highly flammable, though; just to caution you.”

Inferno Maw began, “Ah. A specific Particle Magic sleeping spell would be useful, though you would need to strip out the [Cleanse] effect and make multiple Particle-based spells; one for each race. This would highly complicate the whole structure. Possibly too much. My suggestion was made in order to simplify the whole thing.”

“Oh. Well. I can see how the [Cleanse] would be dangerous outside of Script-assistance on Veird, since the [Cleanse] effect in the Renewal Tank needs to be targeted—” Erick said, “But my Particle spell is just one spell. Works on everyone. It’s not a [Sleep], for too much will kill a person, but it works on everyone.”

Redflame and Inferno Maw both stared at Erick.

“You have a Particle Magic sleeping spell?” Inferno Maw asked. “That works on everyone?”

“Everyone tested so far. Monsters and animals and otherwise.” Erick said, “Normally, it should not work like that, but I think that many of the underlying aspects of life on Veird are rather uniform, and likely due to the Grand Translation.”

Redflame’s eyes were wide.

Inferno Maw stared for a single moment, then he threw his head back and laughed once. “I look forward to this alliance, Erick, for you are so much more than a Wizard.”

Flattery was nice, Erick supposed. He smiled a little.

Redflame asked, “It’s not a simple numbness particulate, is it? Because that would lead to soul trauma from a ‘locked-in’ person suffering through everything.”

Erick nodded, understanding the question, and then he started talking about the history of anesthesia back on Earth. It wasn’t long till Inferno Maw spoke of the various methods for [Sleep]-adjacent magics that could be used on the people of Veird, and how the Mind Mages had a lockdown on the actual [Sleep] spell. Erick smiled and talked of how his own [Sleep]-adjacent Particle Magic had already been vetted as ‘okay’.

From there, the conversation moved onto [Renew] as they entered the dining room.

Over a wonderful meal, Redflame began speaking of various different ailments that could be fixed with this new methodology. Anyone with withered-soul syndrome to parasite syndrome, to maybe even Curses, both large and small, could be healed by a reset-to-Null. Inferno Maw was a bit more reserved in his hopes than that, stating what Erick was already thinking.

“This new magic is both a blessing and a curse.” Inferno Maw rhetorically asked, “Does everyone want to be reset to Null? Absolutely not. I don’t want that, and neither do you, or Erick here, either. We all have our own powers inside of ourselves that would spell the End for us if we were to erase them. In this way, while you have created a wonder of modern medicine, you have also created a new weapon of unparalleled power. Healing Magic that can turn a person into a weakling.”

Redflame scowled. “You are being too dramatic, Inferno Maw. I admit the rate of change to a rat’s soul and shape was rather worryingly quick, but people are larger, and such a rate of change would naturally take longer, because the rate of change is based upon the size of the targeted soul. Such a magic is not instant, and that type of magic would be truly dangerous. Density likely plays a part in transformation times as well, and we don’t even know if this will work on a target that is able to defend itself through Health or other soul-defenses.” He added, “We’re here in Ar’Cosmos, where people don’t have Health, so that normal defense system is simply not present.”

Erick had felt a spike of worry at Inferno Maw’s words, but Redflame’s perspective brought some much needed calm. And besides that, “It’s just the removal of Elemental Essence influences and the healing of a soul to full, anyway. It won’t actually stop someone from still being dangerous. I imagine that outside of specific spellwork or hospital settings that this type of thing might not ever see a battlefield.”

Except in the case of super soldiers, but Erick didn’t voice that concern.

Inferno Maw shrugged, adding, “Capturing and containing a person is not difficult for one such as you or I, and once a target is captured, this magic would certainly make it easier to contain those particular malcontents. With enough research into this phenomenon one might even be able to make spellwork that can erase Script-implanted spells, taking for yourself the ability that only gods and House Fae possess.”

Fairy Moon spoke up, “I caution against claiming that particular power, or any other Wizardly ways that Ar’Cosmos already knows are not allowed in the wider world.”

Inferno Maw shrugged. “Rozeta doesn’t like unsanctioned Wizards; this is true. She’ll likely send paladins after you if you mucked around with those sorts of powers, or even for possessing such knowledge and theoretical capability.” He looked around the table, at Redflame, and at Fairy Moon, saying, “On another note: I’m not too sure how we’re going to settle a few particular long-term grievances, for I am loathe to have my mind stripped by inquisitors or anyone else.”

Erick frowned a little, asking, “Is that going to be an actual problem? Are they going to ask to mind wipe— Ah. They… They already did ask to mind wipe me when I left the Core.”

Redflame and Inferno Maw both nodded, knowingly.

Fairy Moon, however, just said, “Tell them to go wallow in deep water, for every Forgotten Campaign they ever enacted has been fulfilled first by Rozeta’s removal of Reality from the mana. We might know of some magics out there, but we cannot cast them, or touch them, or make the mana manifest as it could, or should, be able to act.”

Erick had no idea what to say to that, but he found some words anyway. “You mean… the Forgotten Campaigns were successful? Even here?”

Fairy Moon said, “Ar’Cosmos has been breached before. Never fully, but full death has come, and come again for this fae land.”

Redflame frowned a little, as he stared down at his half-eaten dinner. Inferno Maw took a bit too long to cut another bite off of his steak.

And then Inferno Maw sped back up, shrugging off his concerns, and saying, “The Mind Mages have taken much from us, but they have left us with our lives, which is more than what I can say for what the wrought would do to us, if they could. Tiny tyrants in the making, each and every one of them. At least the alliance of the Mind Mages and the wrought is not sheathed-sword perfect. We might have some leeway to avoid some of the Mind Mage problems… Not all of it, though.”

Redflame put on a falsely bright facade, moving along the discussion as he said to Erick, “If everything goes well with keeping you safe and ensuring this alliance of ours survives past stepping out our front door, I would like to see a new city in the Crystal Forest in about five months. I hope to have our people healed by then, and ready to actually take to the desert.”

Inferno Maw said, “I’m surprised that you don’t want to start a new city in the Forest, Redflame. You’ve spoken about that before.”

“I can help a new forest grow anywhere I wish.” Redflame smile a bit more, and this time it was real. “The forests south of the Wyrmridge were smaller than the ones here up north, so that is why I settled up here. But I could move south. Might be nice!”

The conversation moved on to other, nicer topics.

Dinner was rather good.

Eventually, Erick, Inferno Maw, and Redflame got back to the enchanting room. Fairy Moon came along, but she barely said anything, contenting herself to observe while everyone else drew up plans and secured materials. She did tell Erick that he could take Ophiel off of the node, though, when Redflame started talking about the hundreds of people already lined up and waiting for their success.

And so, Erick began resummoning Ophiel, and they began constructing prototype 4.

- - - -

The large tank was made of clear glass, thick as a hand and about four meters across. It was wrapped with a vertical band of platinum just as thick, forming a heavily-carved runic-web [Renew] rune that surrounded the glass enclosure. The only opening was at the top, where the gap in the rune allowed a test subject to be placed into the machine. There was no patient yet, for right now Inferno Maw was telekinetically guiding a small pool’s worth of water from the spigot in the wall, into that tank, like flowing a stream through the air.

They had used up a few cubic meters of platinum to make the runic part of the machine, along with some specialty glass that was technically crystal and would eventually turn into near-unbreakable crystal when enough of a single-source magic had passed nearby. The whole thing was set into a dense, steel housing, which supported the weight of it, but which did not actually touch the machine; special, magically-inert ironwood shims had been set between the Renewal Tank and the support structure.

Four Ophiel hung out on four different rungs built into the sides of the rune. They would be providing the mana, and soon.

With a telekinetic twist, Inferno Maw shut off the water spigot while he simultaneously deposited the last of the water into the tank with a near-silent plip of dropping water. And then he stood back, and smiled a little.

