“Of course.” Inferno Maw paused for a fraction of a moment, then said, “Pardon me for not bringing it up sooner. Ah! Would you accept an assistant? Someone to allow us to contact you without contacting you directly? I know how gauche it appears to offer you such assistance, but— Ah! We could send a request for someone else to come here and fulfill that niche. Someone you know and trust? Your own people?”

Erick did need some of his own people here. And maybe not just his own people? He considered, then said, “I’d like to have my whole team here, and a delegation from Stratagold involving Tasar, Sitnakov, and Kromolok. How about a delegation from Oceanside, too, if they’ll have it?”

Inferno Maw paused again, unsure how he had gotten here. He had not expected such a large request, and now he was trying to decide how to best tell Erick ‘no’, or to figure out the logistics of such a massive security breach.

Redflame suddenly held his breath.

“Thy desire shall be done.” Fairy Moon said, “Your guests shall be led to their own layer, which will come about by your continued casting of [Renew] into a node. If they shall choose not to chase you into this lovely land, then they will not be forced. Be warned now for I will warn them too, that they will be housed under hospitality rites, and all those oldest of ordinations. Break the peace and have pieces broken in turn.”

Erick turned his full attention to Fairy Moon, and then he pulled back the sudden vitriol threatening to come out of his mouth. He said, “If peace is to have a chance, then all sides must abide by a high level of professionalism. No tricks. If you trap them in sleep and they wake up enraged and rightfully lash out, don’t take their agency from them, Fairy Moon. That is a bad trick.”

Fairy Moon smirked, and said, “I’ll try.”

Erick almost sighed. ‘I’ll try’ could mean that she would try her worst.

“You will try to be diplomatic, and non-tricky?” Erick asked.

Fairy Moon chuckled a little, then said, “I’ll be as diplomatic as deeds demand and not a mote more, but mostly I will make myself a phantom of principles and power, and not much for actual politics. I will scare the scrupulous into shackles of a temporary time until they leave this land. This should suffice, shall it not?”

Erick…

Erick said, “Sure. Fine.”

Redflame gave a wan smile.

Inferno Maw gave a small, real smirk, trying not to show too much of his own surprise and joy at the moment, for he was truly happy that this thing was working out. With a half-sarcastic tone, because that’s the kind of person he was, he said, “If we get everyone to agree to such provisions, then maybe we won’t go to war!”

Those words jogged a memory.

Erick asked, “Have you ever interacted with the grass travelers north of Songli? You probably have, or at least you know what I’m talking about, but they have this thing where they debate in open forums over laws and such. ‘Polite War’, it’s called. They only actually go to war if they cannot solve their problems in open debate, first.”

“Ahh!” Redflame smiled wide, saying, “That brings me back. We used to have that around here. That was the original reason for the coliseum.”

Inferno Maw said, “These days we’re rather entrenched in our ways with a power structure that works. There’s little room for advancement for the younger generations, and that’s a problem, but we’ve been debating problems in the Rotunda for hundreds of years now.”

“Oh yes.” Redflame said, “We moved past Polite War because of limited space, but I imagine that something like that might come back, now that our environs might expand.” He smiled brighter—and then he realized his teeth were showing, so his joy took a bit of a tempering as he closed his lips. The momentary lapse of propriety, or whatever it was (Erick suspected Redflame’s aversion to open smiling had something to do with Bright Smile, but he did not know for sure), quickly passed, and Redflame began talking about his favorite subject; History. “Back in the Old Cosmology, it used to be said that there were a thousand and one ways to run a proper, growing society, but they all basically boiled down to a few tenets: Freedom of common movement, freedom of common commerce, freedom of basic education, protection against monsters and outsiders, protection against common violence which means both theft and murder and everything like that, and protection against uncommon magics. All the definitions of every category varied between societies and civilizations, but the basic ideas were the same.

“Now the most common form of stable government was usually enacted under an immortal Wizard King, which was a specific designation handed out by the various Wizard alliances across the Old Cosmology and did not always include a Wizard. Sometimes the Wizard King was actually a dragon. Such a system was mostly like a monarchy, but with extra steps, which included…” His voice trailed off. “Well. It was complicated. I’d love to have you over again tomorrow evening, and we can continue to discuss all that.”

“I’ll take you up on your offer, if I can,” Erick said, and he meant it. He felt a sort of relaxed joy as he listened to Redflame talk of what came before, and it was only now that he realized why. Redflame did not speak of what came before the Sundering like it was an impossible-to-reclaim dream. He spoke of history like he had lived it, experienced it, and then moved on, but those past glories were never truly gone. They could always be remade. It was rather refreshing, actually. “Whatever comes next will hopefully be good for all.”

“I do hope so!” Redflame said.

Inferno Maw nodded. Then he turned back to the machines, “A few more experiments, then.”

“Of course,” Erick agreed.

- - - -

With the moon high overhead and it being well into night, Erick, Fairy Moon, and Maid Maria eventually left Redflame’s castle, heading back out across the forest to return to Fairy Moon Manor.

Erick had left four Ophiel with Redflame for more tests. In the morning, in about 10 hours, Erick would join Fairy Moon, Inferno Maw, Redflame, Illustrious Moon, Bright Smile, and the current Speaker of the Free Dragons in the Rotunda, to discuss what shape a ‘House Benevolence’ would take, and the nature of the latest breakthrough with the Renewal Tank.

Hopefully the talk would be boring, with Erick laying out his plans and his hopes for ‘another city beside Candlepoint, where people could live however they wanted to live’. There would be more to it than that, of course, but that was the basic idea. Complications were sure to arise, though.

Thanks to Fairy Moon’s explanation of what would happen, Erick now knew of one of those complications before it occurred. The current Speaker of the Free Dragons was a woman named Redrubyflare, who normally went by the name ‘Red’ while out and about in the world. Erick had heard that name before, and Fairy Moon confirmed his suspicions. Red was the same ‘Red’ that oversaw all the lands of Songli, killing all dragons that showed themselves in the Highlands, quickly ending dragon fights before they threatened the populace.

Redrubyflare was actually distantly related to Redflame, as well as Bright Smile, by about four generations, according to Fairy Moon. She did not speak much on personal matters, but she did say that Red’s side of their family branched off of Carnage and moved out of Ar’Cosmos nearly a thousand years ago; they weren’t even truly family anymore.

“There are many families like that,” Fairy Moon said, as they strolled through the moonlit forest, on the way back to Fairy Moon Manor. The stars sparkled overhead and the night was bright with the light of a full moon. “House Fae has current claims in Continental Nergal. House Death has deep ties to Quintlan. House Carnage has family all over, but those ties are rather removed from current control. Redrubyflare does provide much providence to Ar’Cosmos, though she does not domain here, and it is through that payment of produce and products that we have elevated her to Speaker of the Free Dragons.”

Erick listened, and nodded. One thing about Fairy Moon’s words stood out to him, though. “Red isn’t actually a normal dragon then, is she? She’s a Carnage Dragon? Which means she’s speaking for people she’s not a part of?”

“Correctly calculated, but not wholly correct. Sometimes some scattered souls manage to make of themselves a true Paradox’d dragon.” Fairy Moon said, “Redrubyflare is one such soul. This is still a point of contention for the people of that community, for she is not singularly Dragon, but Redrubyflare does a decent job keeping herself in power.”

Another oddity stood out to Erick. “If she doesn’t need to kill dragons like all the rest… Does she actually kill the dragons she finds fighting in her lands?”

Fairy Moon nodded as she casually leapt over a small stream, twirling in the air, to land on the other side like a ballerina, arms lightly spread and hands held poised for the briefest of moments. Erick and Maid Maria just stepped over the stream, following along.

Fairy Moon said, “She kills and kills and kills to keep her claim on her harbors and her hearth. Least that’s how it was the last time I was temporarily there.”

“How long ago was that?”

“Two years ago. An ancient age in this ever changing world, to be sure!” Fairy Moon smiled wide at him, then she turned and continued to daintily hop down the forest path, saying, “As of the birthing of Benevolence we are now in a new age of ancient powers, freshly forged, awaiting the simple turning of the times in order to come into their own commands! All this talk and threats and working and wills clashing is but a chiming of the clock of infinity, hitting a new hour, sending hammer blows billowing wide, breaking and remaking the world in its passing.” Fairy Moon paused in a shaft of moonlight, staring up at the heavens, to say, “A time of power and purpose. I have seen it a thousand times before and I will see it a thousand times hence, but each time it is a thrill and a terror entwined.” She turned to Erick. “Don’t get yourself dead, Erick. Long as you can manage life, the mana will manifest magnificently.”

Erick frowned a little as he stepped over a rock. “I need to do more than simply survive. I need to make everyone else survive, too.”

“That’s one way to wiggle out of death’s dark designs.” Fairy Moon shrugged. “Do what you desire!”

And then the fae went skipping through the forest again.

Eventually, the three of them made it back to the manor.

Maid Maria said nothing the entire time.
