“I was a kid,” Val said with a laugh. “My father, though...” His voice became distant. “He doesn’t go by his real name these days, but I expect you know of him all the same. Not many famous Osaran Light Mages running around.”

“Lightbreaker,” Fechton whispered, feeling behind himself for support.

Val nodded, his face twisted by a sad smile, made all the more tragic by the teardrop scars on his cheek. “Hard to believe, isn’t it?” He stepped up onto the gangway, then sighed as he surveyed the city. After a long moment, he looked over his shoulder and beckoned with a jerk of his head. “Come on, then. I need that drink for sure now. You look like you need several.”

Ice Bolt

Where normally Staavo would have focused on casting the spell as cleanly and efficiently as possible, he did the opposite this time, encouraging the magic to destabilize under the influence of the metal tray that was his target. The saltwater and sawdust mixture filling it rippled, buffeted by the dissolving magic, but most of it froze before it could slop over the tray’s lip.

Ice Bolt

Blasting the tray again to ensure it was well and truly frozen, Staavo turned it over and dumped the sheet of ice out on the workbench with a clatter. Shoving it aside, he slid the next tray into position, this one’s mixture holding even less sawdust than the last, only one part in seven. Rain said that was the ratio used in his world, but to Staavo, it seemed much too low.

Ice Bolt

The tray rocked and freezing water splashed everywhere, the magic perhaps not as detuned as he’d intended.

It was irritating.

Rain was irritating.

Sure, the man was wrong sometimes, but more often than not, the things he simply knew made a lifetime of trying to understand the world seem irrelevant. If the hybrid material was as strong as he said it would be, they’d be able to thin Temerity’s shell and enlarge the interior volume of its superstructure. It was supposed to melt slower too. It would be an unmitigated win, but all the same...

Light bulbs are one thing, but this is just pulpy water! I could have thought of that! So could anyone!

“Hmm, so this is what the trays were for,” a deep voice rumbled in Staavo’s ear with no warning.

“Gah!” Staavo shouted, scrunching up his shoulders before angrily rounding on his attacker. “That’s it, come here, you! I’m getting the bells!”

Rain didn’t speak as he left the Bank, turning slightly as Detection informed him of Tarny waiting for him on a bench across the square. Atyl and Nails followed him, the latter probably busy Messaging the ship now that they were free from the wards.

“Rain,” Tarny said, rising in greeting as they approached. “How did it go?”

“Not well,” Rain said, noting that a bronze Guildplate now dangled from Tarny’s neck. “He deliberately kept us waiting for two hours while he spied on us, then made an offer so ridiculous I can’t imagine what he was thinking. I shot him down, gave him our terms, and walked out. If he’s actually willing to meet us in the middle, he’ll reach out. If he doesn’t, we can always cut a deal with one of his competitors at the next city.”

Rain had no real intention of doing that, but Luna, doubtless listening through some means or another, didn’t need to know that. Fear of his competitors might drive the greedy Banker to come up with a reasonable, mutually beneficial offer. Rain wasn’t going to hold his breath. He certainly wasn’t going to sit there and dicker with some fat cat when he had literally anything else to be doing.

“I see,” Tarny said. “Well, it is not as if we aim to become merchants. As long as we are not impeded, I suppose it hardly matters.”

“Mmm,” Rain said. “What are you doing here alone, anyway? Is there news? Trouble?”

“Not so much,” Tarny said with a shrug. “Vanna and Ameliah had things under control, so I left to check out the Guild.” He gestured to the plate around his neck, then reached into a pocket. “Joined so they’d let me take this.” He held out a neatly folded sheet of paper. “Here. It’s perfect for you.”

“A quest?” Rain asked, noting the ‘execution’ category symbol at the top, then reading the title. “Stop the Stench?”

“Perfect, like I said,” Tarny said with a smile. “Apparently, a Dunch moved into the Soggy Bottom midden a month ago. Everyone wants it gone, but nobody’s willing to deal with it.”

“I can’t imagine why,” Rain said, noting the ten-Tel reward, which certainly wasn’t helping matters. He grinned. “Fortunately for them, I’d do this for free.” He turned his head, weighing the benefits of trying to keep Nails’s abilities under wraps and deciding it wasn’t worth it. “Nails? Anything from the ship? Trouble? Drama?”

Nails nodded. “You could say that. Birdman showed up. He was upset about what the Warden did to the Citizens, more so that we knew about it and didn’t tell him. Things got tense. Halgrave intervened. He joined, Rain.”

“Come again?” Rain asked as Tarny choked, Atyl moving quickly to slap him on the back.

“Halgrave joined Ascension,” Nails repeated.

“Seriously?” Tarny managed, recovering. “That’s...unexpected.”

“That’s great news!” Rain said, the gears of his mind whirring back into motion. “Something must have changed his mind. Maybe Mahria got through to him?”

Nails shrugged. “Want me to ask?”

“No, no,” Rain said. “I’ll talk to him when I get back. I meant to explore the city and check on people once I was done here, and this quest is a good excuse to get started. Unless they need me for something, of course. Nails?”

Nails went silent for a moment, then shook his head. “Ameliah says to have fun.”

“I guess I have my orders then,” Rain said, unable to contain his grin.

This was a huge win. Halgrave wasn’t just strong; he also had clout. With him formally on their side, people like Luna would think twice before starting anything.

Tucking the quest posting into a pocket of his cloak, he threw the garment back to hang like a cape, bridging his fingers and stretching his arms over his head. “Okay, I’m off. Nails, with me, please, in case anything comes up. Oh, and Message Staavo. Ask him if he has any interest in revenge.” He let his arms fall and rolled his shoulders as he looked around. “Right. Who else wants to visit the Dunch?”

Tarny and Atyl looked at each other.

“Pass,” they said as one.

“MAGIC RESISTANT, MY ASS!” Rain yelled, ripping a rubbery chunk out of the fleshy, duck-footed tentacle wrapped around him. The pitter-patter slapping of hundreds of tiny webbed feet was drowned out by an ululating bleat of pain from one of the creature’s misshapen heads. It released him by way of hurling him through a dilapidated building.

Splintered wood flew as Rain shot back to his feet, snarling as he snatched up a broken board. A torrent of black sludge spewed from the Dunch’s gaping orifice, but it evaporated before a focused blast of Purify. Rain charged, fruitlessly trying one damaging aura after another. “NOBODY TOLD ME IT WAS FUCKING IMMUNE! ON WHAT PLANET IS THIS LEVEL FIVE?!”

Abandoning his spells, he plunged the jagged board into the creature’s cheese-like flesh, then twisted, ripping it free and releasing a spray of yellowish pus. The Dunch’s health bar barely moved. It snapped at him with its beak, trying to take his arm off at the elbow, but his armor put a stop to that, the creature’s chitin screeching harmlessly against the metal. It didn’t let go once it had him, though, and its fleshy tentacle was already tightening back around his waist, the duck feet it had in place of suckers fluttering uselessly away.

Throwing aside his makeshift weapon, Rain began hammering at the beak with his free hand.

To hell with this! Velocity!

His next strike landed with such force that he found his arm driven to the shoulder into the creature’s pulsating, spongy bulk. The explosion of gore was thick enough to make it past Purify, diluted as the spell was in his Ward rotation. The real damage, though, came from the smell.

Rain ripped his arm free, gagging in horror as Purify struggled to catch up. “BLEURGH!”
