"I know the feeling. I can't tell you how many doorways my shoulder spikes have taken down. Same with my head spines. I'm the bane of doorframes and chandeliers alike. Also, if you can get the new cipher division up and running, I'd really appreciate it. I want to have a few test runes to study and try out while we head over to the other world."

Amara hissed.

"Let's hope this isn't a death pit like Giess."

I frowned.

"Schema didn't direct us to this path, so I doubt it. That bloodthirsty AI always has a habit of pulling us into utter chaos."

From around a corner, Diesel walked up with a clipboard in his hand. The engineer had a thin sheen of sweat and grease streaks across him, and his compass flopped through the air by his side, the chain keeping it near him.

"Hey, guys. I've been talking with some of the albony, and they're giving us some useful information about systemization. I was going to send it in my field report, but I just saw you guys. I thought to myself, 'Hey, why not tell them in person.' So yeah, I'm here now."

Standard systemization. It was a topic of conversation I was always curious about yet never broached. In all honesty, my path for leveling diverged so much from the norm that galactic standards offered me little in the way of faster leveling or guidance. If anything, sticking to my own ideas helped me keep pace far better than taking a more standardized approach.

Still, understanding a normal sentient's perspective would let me create a better society for standard people. Otherwise, I may end up creating unnecessary bottlenecks out of ignorance or setting up trials that were really death traps. As I dwelled on those thoughts, another of my minds listened to Diesel. He swung a pen in his hands as he talked.

"We've taken a few of their leveling guides, and the albony have been willing to exchange their accrued training protocols in exchange for more resources in the future."

I frowned.

"More? They're unwilling to give that for free after we gave them a planet, gear, security, and cities?"

Diesel shrugged.

"I'm the idea and execution guy. I don't ask why. I ask how and when."

His words reminded me why I gave him such a high position in the first place. His focus was impressive. As industry hummed around us, I dove into thought. Torix didn't need that much time to say what we all thought.

"This is absurd. They're leveraging for further benefits even after receiving an enormous amount from us already. They are in debt, one that they will likely be unable to pay back. It's shameless and to an extent where I'm personally reconsidering helping them in the first place."

Torix threw out his hand in disgust.

"To think I offered them scholarships to my academy. Shameful."

I walked up to the eldritch cage.

"I think there's a bit of a culture clash here. I remember this same situation arising from my dealings with Obolis. He took advantage of my general ignorance of galactic standards. If anything, the albony could perceive our generosity as a sign of weakness or even stupidity. It's good that this issue is quite simple to rectify."

My guildmates turned to me. With a gravity well, I set the horned octopus into a vat of water, letting it heal from its wounds.

"I'll be arranging an exact price for the planet, the cities, the resources, and every other item I've given them. Alfonso has a record of those transactions, which is part of why I hired him. Until now, I've chosen not to cash in on these debts since I wanted to give them room to develop and breathe after what had befallen them."

I reorganized the sand, moved the acid, and pooled the acrid smoke in the desert exhibit with gravity wells.

"But they're still trying to worm their way into my pockets. It's unfortunate, but I've already learned my lesson from Obolis. My accepted goodwill has just become a loan with interest, and they'll have to pay me back as a collective faction. They'll need to generate that wealth under the laws and constraints of my guild as well."

Amara shivered.

"You understand that is similar to indentured servitude. You've told us you despise that policy, yet you enact it now. Has the wolf finally smelled blood?"

I stepped away from the cage.

"It's simple. We had an agreement based on goodwill. I would give them land, security, and wealth to begin the albony's new step forward. They tried to change that arrangement."

Torix's eyes flared green.

"How so?"

Without looking, I stopped a wave of sparks from smothering a worker in the distance. The lights spiraled in a gravity well.

"If I accepted this deal for their training arrangements, it implies that we're on equal terms already. That is an attempt to establish a precedent where everything I gave them was not only free but deserved. That's why they presented a bartering position. The audacity of it is almost inspiring, but being bold doesn't always work out."

Torix scoffed at me.

"Quite the tone you're taking on. You're using your primordial aura, aren't you?"

I smiled, dollops of the mana oozing from me.

"You could tell?"

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"It's as if I'm speaking with a different person entirely. I quite like it."

I gazed down at them.

"I don't often use this dimensional wake when near allies as I'm less agreeable. I save this for enemies or friends who are treading that border."

Diesel blinked.

"You sound more like Plazia."

I raised my brow.

"I'm not as sardonic as he is, though I carry a bit more of an edge to my words now than before. Regardless, it's a far better mindset when going into negotiations with people lacking shame, etiquette, or decency."

Torix scoffed.

"Or sanity. You've given them a hand up. They slackened their wrist and body, letting you pull them up like a corpse. Putting a more numerical set of terms to your relationship should prevent them from doing so once more in the future."

I nodded.

"And they'll understand how valuable a goodwill relationship can be since the other races still have it. That being said, I also think Alfonso will do all he can to prevent the situation from souring further."

Torix scoffed.

"And what makes you say that?"

I smiled.

"He's smarter than he looks."

I took a breath.

"Anyways, is there anything else you'd like to mention, Diesel?"

Diesel nodded.

"Whenever the system began, there was a time limit established based on the development of the planet. Other races weren't allowed to just come here whenever they wanted to, but that limiter is getting lifted soon."

Torix brushed off his chain robes.

"How are you so certain? That process shouldn't take place until after a decade has passed. I believe it's been a little over seven years since the beginning of Schematization, so we still have quite a while before other races begin plundering the planet."

I smiled, the expression sharp as a thorn.

"Before they try to."

Torix let out a cackle.

"Indeed. It will be quite the sight to see established empires and forces attempt to wrestle control of this planet only to meet a guild far outside the normal constraints of a backwater such as this."

I raised a brow, and Torix coughed into a hand. The lich mused.

"Backwater according to their standards, of course."

I turned to the others, shifting my dimensional wake.

"Alright. Is there anything else you need to say, Diesel?"

Diesel scratched his clipboard.

"We think that Schema is going to create a siege quest of our planet for several invading forces."

My eyes flared red as Event Horizon coursed over everyone, the aura as heavy as grief.

"Schema's doing what now?"
