“What the hell?” Adujan's indignant shout adds to my humiliation as she rushes towards me. “Are you alright?” Leading me away from the mess I've made, she brings me back to Shana, letting me rest against her curled up form as she pours water for me into a cup. Drinking slowly, I chuckle at myself, the indignity of it all just too much. I just got motion sick from watching myself through my own eyes, as if I were playing a game. C'mon son.

After my countless reassurances that I'm alright, blaming it on some bad meat, she relents and sits side by side with me, our legs and shoulders touching. The People are big on contact, but I prefer to have some personal space. It's not so bad with Yan though. Adujan. “When did you learn all of that? Did you have an Insight?” She looks both happy and annoyed as she shoves me lightly with her shoulder.

Just play dumb. All I do is shrug, sitting there with my one arm on my knees. “I'm not sure. I just moved and that happened.” Damn I need a breath mint. Better change the subject. “Shouldn't you be meditating? Isn't that your new obsession?”

Making a face, she slumps her shoulders and lets out a sigh. “Mila made me promise her that I wouldn't meditate today, she thinks I need a break.”

“So, you decided to spend your break watching me practice?”

“Someone has to make sure your crippled ass doesn't fall into the water. Besides,” she leans back, looking me up and down like a prize piece of meat, “I can't complain too much about the view. A shame you aren't taller, and you could use some more weight on your bones.” Pointedly looking at my shoulder stump, she adds, “And more bones for meat to go on.” Reaching out, she pinches my reddened cheek, smirking all the while, payback for my alter-ego's previous leer.

After a few minutes of ignoring her barbs and taunts, I feel well enough to return to practicing, although I am unable to recreate the magic that other me was able to do, my body feeling rigid and clumsy, my head still dizzy from my brief bout of motion sickness.

A whistle sounds out, the camp greeting and I return the countersign as a Sentinel emerges from the trees on the other side of the stream, one of the sentries, I assume. Following him is a stooped figure, along with a good 20-odd soldier types, looking ferocious and unhappy, as well as small group of people, dressed in the distinct robes of the Disciplinary Corps. “You there, this is Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu and his escorts, as well as a Justicar and his court staff. Guide them to the Senior Captain.”

A quick salute, and the Sentinel turns around and whistles, his quin emerging from the trees to take him back to his post. Quickly standing, I run down to the side of the stream and give a one handed salute, Adujan following suit, wondering all the while why someone so high ranked was here with a Justicar. I hope Akanai didn't piss anyone off lately. “There is a narrow path through the river, about half a kilometer down, I can lead you there.”

“No need.” The stooped figure, presumably Du Min Gyu, is an elderly man with a long, gray beard, unkempt and wild, wearing plain, dark-green robes, his wrinkled face half-hidden beneath his conical, straw hat. With an uneven gait, signs of a pained hip, he ambles down to the streams edge. Flicking his sleeves, he takes a single step at the streams edge, his body seeming to float as the single step moves him slowly across the 8 meters of the stream. From the moment he lifted his foot to placing it down on the other side of the stream, it seemed as if he were simply taking a normal step, nothing out of place at all, the world shifting beneath him so that he can reach the other side.

Now that is an entrance.

Disappointingly, his retinue are far more mundane in their crossing, a number of them leaping the distance, landing with a thud, but the majority of them simply jump into the stream and wade across, despite my warnings of carnivorous fish. The Justicar's enforcers go a step further, jumping into the stream and allowing the Justicar to stride across their shoulders like stepping stones, not allowing a single drop of water to reach the hem of his robes, his masked face looking rigid and imposing.

Leading the way up the hill, we advance slowly in silence, Du Min Gyu moving with difficulty once again, huffing as he slowly makes his way up the somewhat steep incline. Whistling to get Zabu's attention, I wave some fruit at him and he barrels over towards me, eager for the treat. Signaling him to crouch, I turn to the old man and motion for him to sit, a kind smile on my face. “Might I offer my mount to carry you up the hill? I'm sure your journey here was not easy.” This deep into the forest, they would have had to abandon their horses several days ago.

Ignoring my gesture with a proud harrumph, he continues his way up the hill as his retinue collectively try to murder me with their gazes. Even Adujan glares at me, leaning in to whisper, “Why would you insult a Lieutenant General, you idiot?”

“I wasn't insulting him!” My hushed reply is tinged with mild panic. “How was that an insult? He looks tired, I offered him some help. The man just floated across a river, why would I want to insult someone that can do that? I want to know how he does that!"

Shaking her head at me, she walks off, continuing to lead the way. I need to make things right. Hurrying over to walk beside the Lieutenant General, I give him my most winning smile and a small bow. Fuck, that shows weakness, I shouldn't have done that. “I hope that I have not caused offense, I meant no insult. I'm just an ill-mannered bumpkin, unwise in the ways of the world. Please accept my sincere apologies.” I cannot have more people angry at me, there are way too many people I have to avoid already.

Stopping in his tracks, he studies me closely with a surprisingly clear and sharp gaze, his countenance unreadable. His face is remarkably intimidating, despite the multitude of wrinkles and rough skin hanging from his chiseled jaw line. “How old are you, boy?”

Shit. It takes longer than I like to answer him as I count out the years I've been here. “Umm.... 17. Yea 17.” Well that was convincing.

Staring at me for a few seconds longer, just enough to make me start to squirm, he finally breaks the tension. “I will accept your offer to ride this... creature.” He doesn't look too thrilled, but in his defense, Zabu isn't the most... visually appealing roosequin around.

“Master...” One of his soldiers begins to speak, but stops short at a thick, raised eyebrow from Du Min Gyu, white and bushy, as if well combed and oiled. What's with these old people and their super long eyebrows? Why would he comb his eyebrows, but not his beard?

“There is no harm, the boy has offered and I give face in accepting.” His weathered face breaks into a smile. “Besides, I'm tired of walking.”

I like this guy. He can laugh at himself, doesn't take everything so seriously.

We make quick time up to the camp, the old man sitting side saddle on Zabu's back, and I lead them directly to Alsantset, where I let Adujan make the introductions, not sure of protocol and worried about accidentally insulting someone once again. Alsantset looks the old man up and down for only a moment before curtly asking, “And what, pray tell, is an esteemed Lieutenant General out here for? It isn't to take command, or else you would have more soldiers. This is a personal visit?”

“Indeed.” He strokes his beard with his twisted, aged fingers. “I am here to collect my disciple, Brigadier Cho Jin Kai.”

Ah...

… Fuck.

Poor old guy, he came all this way and his disciple is dead.

I hope he doesn't blame us for that.
