It was an incontrovertible truth – the dead were highly allergic to holy mana. Yet, standing before her very eyes was the exception to the rule. The massive hammer came down heavily upon Havok’s Holy Shield, and by contrast, the difference between their magic was stark.

Seth and most of Ali’s demonic minions identified the Dwarven King’s affinity as death, not holy. All of the formations of the spells he used matched the familiar shapes of holy magic, but there was a dark taint to the magic that couldn’t easily be explained. His holy affinity had been changed, twisted by the Blind Lich, and Ali was now convinced he possessed a unique affinity – a hitherto undocumented corruption of holy magic.

Fortunately, she had learned to take advantage of it. She directed Mirianth, and the diminutive kobold scampered into the aura and waved her claws to create several pools of holy consecration beneath the Dwarven Death Knight and his tank. Bragni did not curse himself with Holy Amplification, but her magic was strong against the undead. However, the amplification would benefit all of their group standing in her pools of white fire.

You have been afflicted with Holy Amplification.

Suddenly, Thaldorien’s shade rose into the air, bursting short-range lightning in spherical pulses around him before unleashing a potent chain lightning into the suddenly scrambling archers and mages. Ali chirped in alarm and darted back into the arcing lightning, heals flying, while she retrieved a mana potion from a storage ring and guzzled it. Fortunately, she’d been outside the aura of dark lightning long enough to reset her debuff, and when it struck again, it was back to a single count.

You have been afflicted with Lightning Amplification.

Ali frowned at the Thaldorien’s sudden flight, but there was nothing for it other than to pull her melee back from the epicenter before they were overwhelmed by the growing lightning amplification and novas. It was not even unexpected; he had demonstrated this maneuver in previous attempts, but it was just seemingly at random. It also made her pools of consecration worthless against him. Instead of having her melee minions stand around doing nothing, she sent them running off to attack Artur Dragonsworn. They would pick up fire amplification in his aura, but the time away from Thaldorien’s lightning would allow the lightning amplification to drop.

“Tank swap!” Sabri yelled, initiating another rotation of the three main tanks by rushing in to relieve Mato on Artur Dragonsworn before their amplification debuffs climbed into dangerous territory. In good order, Mato peeled off and relieved Havok, while the plucky Goblin darted across the increasingly scorched crimson carpets and settled in at the safe zone in the middle to allow his holy amplification to fade. Before it did, Ali channeled her domain skill, Zone of Destruction, refreshing the holy puddle in the safe zone so that Havok and his dedicated healers could take advantage of it while they waited.

At least Artur can’t heal like Bragni, Ali thought, glancing back at the towering form of Artur Dragonsworn bashing his massive rune-inscribed sword against Sabri’s burnished mithril shield. Of course, the tanks were keeping those two so far apart that they couldn’t assist each other – it was the first strategic element Calen had suggested. Following her lead, most of the assassins, rogues, and warriors in the guild rushed off to do some effective damage, which would allow their lightning amplification to drop – in exchange for fire.

As long as we keep rotating out, this should work, Ali thought, but as her eyes returned to Thaldorien, she noted they had a significant problem. Lyeneru was taking the brunt of Thaldorien’s lightning bolts, and, on top of the aura pulses, her amplification was already more than double what most people had. There was no way for her to duck out of range while he was focused primarily on her.

Ali focused more intently. Initially, healing the Night Elf hadn’t been much of an issue; Lyeneru sported a lightning affinity herself, and she had excellent resistances – one of the major factors in choosing her as the tank – but now, she was losing more than half her life every time a lightning bolt landed. A shattering bolt blasted through her, and Ali landed a Greater Heal, bringing her back to a safe level while many of the ranged damage dealers began rotating out of the aura in an effort to stem the escalating aura damage.

Your Lightning Amplification has increased to 2.

“We’re going to have to switch,” Ali said, as realization crystallized into certainty. The last attempt hadn’t gotten nearly this far, and they hadn’t properly understood the amount of time they would lose splitting damage across the other bosses while shedding amplification stacks, so they hadn’t made an effective plan for this contingency. To be honest, Ali had been hoping they would have Thaldorien down by now, but the intangible wraith was far more resilient to damage than she had expected.

“Count?” Calen asked.

“Sixty-five,” Lyeneru ground out through gritted teeth, firing off a great lance of flame from her bow. Ali had been clipped by that jangling lightning several times and had immense respect for the resilience the Pathfinder was displaying by taking bolt after bolt without faltering.

“Shit,” Calen said. “I could try to take him off you… maybe?”

“It’s that or bail in the next few minutes,” Lyeneru said.

Ali glanced at Thaldorien through Healer’s Sight. “Almost sixty percent health left,” she said. It was their best effort by far, but with that much left, there was no way Lyeneru could survive long enough to bring him down. They needed to swap tanks, but none of the archers had a Taunt. Not even her Soul Archon. Worse, Thaldorien was a mage, and his wisdom was so high that landing a Taunt was likely to be impossible.

Wait… Quickly, she checked her other minions. The Fractured Archon did not have the skill, but her Divine Archon had something that should work – and almost as importantly, she could fly.

“I can sort of taunt him off you,” Ali called, the syllables of the common speech twisting strangely across her reptilian tongue. “I think.”

“Do it,” Lyeneru gasped.

The Divine Archon’s taunt was not a single-use ability like some of the warriors, or even Mato with his distinctive Challenging Roar. Instead, it was more of a progressive ability on her Holy Smite ability – a way to drastically increase the perceived threat of any holy damage from the support skill. Something that should be even more effective against the undead. More importantly, she had other advantages to bring to bear.

With a thought, Ali recalled her Divine Archon from Artur Dragonsworn, shooting across the chamber on glowing holy wings. She rushed in at great speed, triggering her Holy Vulnerability aura, Holy Smite, and impaled Thaldorien with a dizzying rush that blasted the wraith with a bolt of pure holy flame. She swung her sword, imbuing it with the same Holy Smite, burning her mana aggressively to generate as much damage as possible, and then she unleashed her Heal offensively against the undead monster. A cleave and a pillar of consecrated holy flame, and she had made her presence known to the Wraith. More importantly, as Thaldorien howled with rage at the holy assault, Ali invaded his personal space with a Holy Avenger and broad shoulders. The thunderous bolt of lightning struck the Divine Archon squarely in the chest, but Ali was already casting her heal from the back.

More importantly, Lyeneru was spared from the damage.

“Got him,” Ali said, using her kobold’s voice. “Get rid of that amplification. Just keep on that line so I can block the lightning.”

“I’ll take him back after it drops,” Lyeneru declared, vanishing in a burst of lightning and flame as she teleported across the throne room to the safe zone in the center.

“Inspired thinking, Ali,” Calen called over. “Physically blocking the attacks and the boss. Nice.”

“I didn’t have any better ideas,” she said. Then she added, “Calen. We need to kill them soon.”

He glanced at her, his radiant eyes narrowing with concern. “The Lich?”

“He’s strong. I’m not sure how long I can hold him off.”

“Right,” Calen said. Then he raised his voice, “Alright, everyone! Put your backs into it!”

Ali scanned the chamber with her minions’ eyes. Where is it? Everyone was putting their lives on the line, executing a perfect dance that brooked no mistakes, and yet… she still had no idea where the Blind Lich had hidden his Phylactery. All they had was Calen’s assurance that it had been here when he and Devan had briefly snuck in so long ago.

Is it even here? Did he sniff us out and move it? Have we made a terrible mistake? No… it must be here!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
