"It's certainly simple to conceptualize, though not at all to handle in practice."

I hit my fists together.

"We fight monsters and blow up the bad guys. So far, it hasn't actually been that complicated outside of understanding the nuance of each situation."

Torix's eyes flared.

"I see it that way as well."

I remembered how large the Grand Canyon had become, along with the Shattered Spires. I dragged my fingertips along the ice.

"I actually think your estimates are off. I think Earth is probably many times larger than before. Even the Shattered Spires is large enough to be a country, and there are other places like it on Earth. I'd bet there are even different races that got spliced in based on how many new species we've found."

Torix ambled up to a large crag in the ice.

"That would depend on how eldritchified the new species are. On the lower end exists the gialgathens-"

We jumped down the abyss, miles of ice flowing past us as we fell. The wind howled in our ears until we landed nearly three minutes later. Even at this depth, swarms of creatures still fought to escape their perpetual stasis. Torix continued walking forward.

"And on the higher end of eldritchified species are the Vagni. The eltari are an excellent example of a moderately eldritchified species. I would imagine we'd find many more tormented kinds of sapients running about after fully colonizing the earth."

I raised my brow.

"Do you think the Ruhls are an extremely eldritchified species?"

"I'd imagine so. Plazia, despite his proclivities, demonstrates excellent self-control and awareness. To me, he seems truly and well into sentience."

"Wouldn't it be amazing if we could meet species we can uplift? For resources, of course."

Torix shook his head.

"Uplift? I doubt it. Help? Perhaps. Regardless, here is the center of the ritual."

We reached a colossal rift in the ocean bed. Thousands of the undead toiled and worked here, from draugr to revenants to wraiths. They each operated on different tasks to help the process along. The giants carried large pieces of metal or gemstones. The skeletons worked on chiseling the ice at certain spots, and the draugr helped to command the lesser undead.

As Torix walked by, they gave bows of reverence. The undead general stepped past them all, dominion soaked in his steps. As Torix reached the top of a central mound, he pulled out a set of diagrams and schematics. With a snap of his fingers, a pillar of light beamed down onto us from above like a spotlight.

I walked up to it, and Torix gestured to his blueprints.

"These are the designs I've toiled so endlessly on."

I leaned over. On several hovering pieces of parchment, a series of designs sheened from metallic ink. They exposed a similar design to Torix's current self - a large, caped figure with spiked pauldrons and a skeletal head. A spiked crown rested on his head, along with luxurious gold and platinum embedded within his robes.

Another image showed the exact figure with its arms spread wide. They showed a skeleton covered in dense, interlocking plates of armor. While my own armor carried an organic feel, Torix's design was that of a dark knight. The intricate runes, embroidery, and full-bodied plates left him mirroring some dark god walking out of the pits of Tartarus.

I put my hand on his shoulder.

"You'll look like a mix of Hades and Sauron. Royal, dignified, yet brutal. It suits you well, old friend."

I smiled.

"And edgy. Edgy as hell."

Torix waved a hand at me.

"Edgy? I'll have you know I'm not on the precipice of anything. There shall be no cliffside where I tread, as I'll be investing myself fully in this artistic direction. That is why I don't plan on leaving any doubt of who I am."

His eyes flared red.

"Edgy? I'll be the entire perimeter and then some if I have anything to say about it."

I laughed before cracking my neck, the sound echoing in the hall.

"If I'm honest, I like how authentic you are."

Torix swung his cape.

"But of course. Now, there is work to be done and blood left to be spilled."

He raised his hands. The supplies began amassing into the enormous underground dome under the frozen ocean. The undead peered towards their leader, and they began bowing. The bows spread until an entire army kneeled before their leader.

Torix spread his arms, and the light cast him in shadow as I gazed up. He mouthed.

"Let us begin my ascension."
