“RUN!” Groggot yelled, and the brothers stood up and took off running. It was pointless however; since the giant's legs were longer than they were tall. She stood about 20 feet tall, a little small for a giant; but she was faster than the larger ones, so she caught up to them only a few seconds later. She swung the tree and hooked Croggart in the back with it. The big bushy top of the tree's branches clanged against his armor, and the force of the blow picked him up and tossed him 30 feet into the air. He flew end over end and hit a nearby tree's top branches, went through them, then smashed down through another tree's branches towards the ground.

Croggart managed to keep his wits about him, and stuck out his arms to try and slow his fall. He managed to grab several branches on the way to the ground, and they slowed his fall somewhat. He hit the ground hard, and had the wind knocked out of him. After several minutes of pain and silence, Croggart managed to stand up. Thanks to the armor Ren had given him, he had survived the attack; but, was more beaten and bruised than he'd ever been before. He leaned against the tree he'd just crashed into, and took stock of the situation.

The armor was dented and cracked, both the back and chest pieces. The marking on the front had a large crack across it, and he'd lost one of the gauntlets and the helm. He still couldn't hear anything; but he didn't know if it was him, or if there wasn't any sound. As a test, he put his fingers to his ears, and snapped them. One ear worked fine, but the other one had nothing.

Dammit. Croggart thought. I'm going to be useless in a fight if I don't get my hearing back. He turned his head so that the one working ear could hear anything that might need to be heard, and there was nothing. No animals, no birds, and barely any wind to rattle the tree branches. He waited a few minutes, then moved around slowly. Croggart easily found the path of destruction the giant had left, and followed it. He didn't have to look long before he found Nershan. At least, what was left of him. His legs had been caught in one of the giant's footsteps, and were crushed into pulp. If Croggart had to guess, she must have stopped and grabbed Nershan, then pulled without lifting the foot. All that was there was hips and pulped legs. He walked on for another 20 feet, and found the rest of Nershan. The imprint of giant teeth on the chest almost made Croggart throw up; but, at least she hadn't eaten all of him.

Nershan's face had a surprised look on it, and the blank eyes stared up at the sky. Croggart knelt by him and closed them. He took out 2 silver coins and performed the funeral ritual for fallen warriors, the body was enveloped in a soft white glow for a moment, then disappeared.

“Safe journey.” Croggart said. He kept walking, and gathered his strength. He could only hope against all the odds, and the evidence, that his brother hadn't met the same terrible fate.

*

Jhulune, the worker from the lumber mill, cuddled under her blanket. Since her and Brian weren't an item anymore, she'd had several of the guys ask her out. She very politely declined each offer, and said that she was taking a break from being a couple for a while.

-S

Jhulune tried to keep herself quiet as she rubbed herself between her legs with one hand, and bit down on the other. She remembered how Ren had made her feel so good, and she bit her hand harder as she rubbed harder. She mumbled his name over and over as she pleased herself, and gasped as an orgasm caught her. After her muscles stopped twitching, she relaxed and curled in tighter and hugged herself.

-E

Oh, Ren! Jhulune thought. I can't wait until I see you again!

*

Barnar held the Queen in his arms. He thought it was presumptuous to do such a thing, but Narhilda had finally convinced him that what he did in the bedroom with her, wouldn't reflect on him as a man outside of the bedroom. He still wasn't sure that was true; but, Narhilda seemed to be genuinely happy that he cuddled her at night. He looked at her sleeping face, and saw happiness there.

I guess I am doing something right. Barnar thought, and drifted off to sleep.

*

Deresdra, the healer at House Neram Mines, lay awake in her very comfortable bed, and tried her best not to scream in frustration. She was surrounded by all of the things Ren had given her, had more money than she knew what to do with it, that he had also given her, and she should have been happier than she had ever been in her life.

All she could think about however, was how frustrating it was that Ren didn't want her as a woman; even though it was her that had made him into a proper-looking man.
