Then she turned and struck at Kasigna, bare-handed. The first [Necromancer], the first ruler of Khelt to ever look at sand and dust and envision a place to live in safety, had walked every land in the world.
Many had done the same. But few had ever been as respected as she. When she founded her nation, countless species had flocked to it, and in her days, her class had been one that walked along every kind of magic with head held high.
She had always loved the living and the dead equally, and the balance of the two filled Khelta’s eyes. A living woman who understood death in a way that the goddess couldn’t. A ghost who touched the living. She struck Kasigna barehanded, and her last blow was a slap that rebuked the pettiness of the divine. It could not touch a god’s body, but it struck Kasigna harder than Nerrhavia could have dreamed.
The Goddess of Death stared into the [Necromancer]’s gaze, and Khelt’s undead raised their heads and collapsed as Khelta fell. Fetohep clutched at his chest, and his golden gaze flickered. But he stood there, waiting for the end of it all.
 
——
 
The deadlands vanished. The last Harpy flew into the darkness, chasing the Seamwalkers, crying hope for the living.
A Dragon had returned. The Faerie King had struck his blow. The ghosts had given their blessing to the living.
Some ghosts had made it to safe harbor. Others had left secrets, weapons.
What they had fought for was time. Time…that was all that they could offer.
“Time.”
One last group of ghosts had avoided Kasigna’s notice. Empress Sheta of the Harpies had conspired with the wisdom of Gnolls. Sprigaena had drawn the ire of the dead gods.
But she was not the only Elf who had ever died, or her son. Most had been lost. But there were enough.
Elves stood side-by-side with Dwarves. The oldest species and ghosts from the last age had one last mission of their own.
It had taken them a long time to find their way down here. Much less to walk safely on this land of lands.
Rhir. Even ghosts were not able to walk here. Even Seamwalkers avoided this spot. Because the slumbering god…the child of gods infested this place like a nightmare.
Antinium fought it. They were so close to its heart that the ghosts could almost see the despairing people. The Elves and Dwarves and Halflings and oldest Humans and other species…what did they seem like to those desperate warriors?
“She is waking. All this fighting has empowered her like the others. But she is too strong. She has the flesh of god itself.”
The ghosts nodded at each other. A Dwarf, a true Dwarf, hefted a weapon he had made for a ghost to grasp. His eyes were like the earth itself, immovable.
“She will eat us, Zineryr claimed. Then we must do more damage. Are you all resolved?”
The Elves nodded. The other Dwarves sighed, for they had failed their charge and vigil. But they were resolved.
The last group of ghosts descended towards the slumbering figure. And it was [Priests] and [Clerics], the last until this era, who warded each step.
Rhir shook, and was it in fear? The Dwarf lifted his axe and spoke as the sleeping demigod trembled.
“Come, child of gods. Sleep another hundred years. We may be ghosts, but I drenched this axe in the blood of your kin.”
The oldest ghosts walked towards the sleeping figure and the Antinium fell back. The waking presence slumbered. The last ghost raised a hand and smiled.
“Victory to you, friends.”
They saluted the Antinium. Then they were gone.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice stood between the dead and the living, in the middle of the magic, as a Dragon and the Necromancer carried her towards her body. General Sserys passed her with a nod.
“I’ll give them a Liscorian welcome just for you.”
“Sserys…”
The [Spear of the Drakes] raised one brow.
“What’s there to say anymore? I never wanted your body anyways. Skin is disgusting. Just give me one last fight.”
He looked forwards, and Erin saw the last ghosts vanishing. The Deadlands were disappearing…but a handful of ghosts remained.
Rhir held on, the sleeping thing there defying Kasigna a moment. The Great Plains slowly vanished as Cauwine lowered her blade. There was nothing left to kill, and she looked at Sserys and extended a hand. The Drake bared his teeth.
“Do you want me? You’ll have to take my soul first.”
He picked up a sword—or maybe he’d carried one from the lands of the living. He did like to cheat. Cauwine laughed as Kasigna whispered to Erin.
“This is not over, girl. Even if you return home—it will never be the same. You may forget us, but we will never forget you. We will hunt you down and make the living world a reflection of your despair. Our time has come.”
Tamaroth and Norechl were walking towards Razia, who had the rope in hand. The Agelum was on her knees next to Xarkouth. The Dragonlord of the Void had survived everything, somehow, and the last Seamwalkers were falling into the blackness—perhaps all the way back down to the pit of the world.
Erin Solstice saw Tamaroth, Norechl, Kasigna, and Cauwine looking at her. Their promise echoed in her veins. For response, the [Innkeeper] just spat.
A glob of spit slid down the inside of Khelta’s ritual. Kasigna stared at it. The [Innkeeper] pointed at Kasigna.
“You better stay right where you are, Kasigna, Cauwine, Norechl, and Tammy.”
“Tammy?”
Erin shook a fist at them. She pointed at the Goddess of Death.
“Stay right there. Because if you come to the lands of the living, I’ll be waiting. And when I have a body, I’ll punch you straight back into being nothing! I’ll do anything to stop you. This isn’t your world, and I’ll call everyone in…everything to fight you!”
The dead gods laughed at her. They sneered at the young woman. Then Norechl and Tamaroth went for Razia.
“You know you cannot kill us, Agelum. Come, rest. The last Dragon falls.”
Xarkouth bared his teeth, and Razia lifted the noose. Erin waited for her to place it around her neck—but the Agelum just smiled.
Someone stepped around Xarkouth. A flickering ghost shook his head and winked at Erin. Tamaroth recoiled in horror as Zineryr whispered.
“They’re so arrogant. They think they’ve won, even now. Go. We’ve done all we can.”
“Zineryr! The Gn—”
Then Razia pounced. She swung the noose, and Erin realized what the Agelum had seen. Not a noose—not a hiding place. She’d seen…
A piece of rope. Unbreakable rope. She caught Tamaroth and hung it around his neck. Then she lashed the other end to Xarkouth’s tail.
“Fly, Dragonlord!”
“Erin Solstice—farewell! I will carry these wretches into nothingness for an eternity if I must!”
Kasigna whirled as a choking Tamaroth hung from the noose. Trying not to vanish. Norechl wavered—then Razia seized it. She hefted it overhead as the God of Nothing struggled, and Xarkouth took off as she raced up his back. The two struggling gods flew into the sky, carried by the last ghost of Dragons.
The last thing Erin Solstice saw was Razia standing, wrestling with the gods. Adding to her scars as she bled. But burning with all the mortal passion she had learned. Riding on the back of the Dragon who looked into the void and spread his wings for eternity.
Defiant. So proud, Agelum and Dragon, and never overly proud for they had no limit. She heard those wings beating and the laughter, like a call to arms. Like triumph and the ringing of horns of a thousand victories.
Then they were gone, flying into the void beyond the edge of even death’s land itself. Erin wept into the emptiness, and she saw the last two gods staring up uncertainly.
“He can’t fly forever. Tamaroth and Norechl will get free.”
Kasigna stared at Xarkouth, reaching out as if deciding to stop the Dragonlord, but her eyes flashed maliciously, and she turned away. Zineryr chuckled. Fearlessly, he came to stand in front of the Goddess of Death. Sserys fought his last battle against Cauwine as the world shrank and vanished.
The Drake was outmatched and losing, but he cheated. He dug his claws into his foe and refused to let go. Sserys breathed in, and he fought with treachery and like his city. The son of Liscor held the line until he was relieved of his long duty. He left, still grinning victory.
“Maybe not. But they fought you to the end, didn’t they?”
“Zineryr…”
The Gnome looked…torn. He flickered in and out of reality, but his wink was mischievous.
“Turns out that if you teleport a tree full of Fraerlings in a forest, you have magic left to spare.”
“What? What does that mean?”
Zineryr laughed at her.
“You’ll see. Now, go. We bought you time. Even this one won’t walk the living world again. Oh, they’ll plot and scheme, but they’re afraid we left traps for them. Which we did. God-destroying traps. Billions. Go live again.”
He waved at her. Kasigna hissed at Zineryr.
“I could destroy you, little Gnome. Your farewells are meaningless.”
Zineryr didn’t even look at her.
“No, you won’t. You’ll give me the honor of being the last ghost. Erin Solstice…goodbye. Now, after so long…”
The Gnome’s eyes twinkled sadly as the world of the dead vanished. Erin Solstice reached out, and she saw Sserys nod to her slightly, fighting to his last. The Gnome, the ghosts of Khelt…Erin felt herself being dragged down. Towards a familiar place. She wanted it so much, but she clung to that vision. The Gnome leaned down.
“Open your eyes.”
And then…
