Nathan narrowed his eyes at that. “We should probably assume there’s a higher intelligence guiding their actions. We’re not just cutting our way into an infested territory, but going to face something intelligent. Like the stone giants of the Grave of All Giants.”

“Probing attacks should not draw their attention,” Sarah noted. “Let us find a place to test our camping. There.” She lowered her rifle and pointed off into the distance.

“I can’t see what you’re pointing at,” he reminded her.

“It’s a lone mountain. The top is steep, beyond the reach of those who can climb.”

“Would a more exposed place be better?” Khachi asked. “We seek to camp within Blight, and it will not be a true trial if we are protected by terrain.”

But Nathan was in agreement with Sarah. “It’s a good stepwise test. We’ll see how bad the corruption is and see if there are any other problems. Besides, if we need to find hidden terrain features each night, that’s something we can do.”

Khachi hummed his agreement. “Lead us, then.”

They flew through the air for a while, the sky above growing heavy with leaden clouds. The Blight seemed to be a place of permanent overcast. The ground below also grew darker, a landscape of jagged and barren rocks stained black by the mana. It looked a bit like a fresh lava flow in gradients of grey and black. The main points of interest were the groups of undead that flowed over the terrain like pooling water.

The dead were of various kinds, mostly being bipedal corpses of various types. Nathan spotted humans, orcs, knulds, and various other species. Some were familiar from his time in Keihonia, but more were mysteries to him. Mixed in were various smaller monsters, most of which were things Nathan had never seen before. He couldn’t tell if the giant long-legged bugs were supposed to have only five legs, or if the couple of examples he’d seen had lost one somewhere between death and undeath.

With Khachi’s omnipresent glow, the Heirs weren’t precisely stealthy, and several groups of undead noticed them. But the ground-bound undead mostly lacked the tools to do much more, and it was trivial for Sarah to surgically take out the few enemies that had ranged attacks capable of reaching them. Mostly that meant long-range jets of acid, but there was also an insectoid monster that could hurl spikes of chitin with impressive force.

“Pardon my axe, but should we blast them all?” Aarl asked, shooting an inquisitive look towards Stella and gesturing down towards the crowds of zombies below.

“No,” she replied shortly. “It fills me with sadness, but there’s no need. If there is an intelligence behind them, we do not want to notify them of my power.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 9

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 8

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 8

Veracity 4

Whiplash 1

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
