Shiv didn't turn back again as he ferried the Inquisitors across the pathway. As he reached the other side, he found himself emerging over a sprawling green meadow, overshadowed by the Tidewall. He released the other inquisitors and looked to his left, searching for Margarita Point.

His gaze followed a mountain trail leading upward until finally, the glow of an active gateway lit the pre-dawn sky. With his position confirmed, he began herding the inquisitors along with him, moving them using his Biomancy field. They staggered forward, some of them toppling over, requiring Shiv to reset them several times. He adopted the posture of a starved, exhausted man.

"Come on!" he shouted. "Come on, just a little more! We're almost there, just a little more!"

And after a few minutes of loudly “fleeing,” something impacted the ground right in front of him.

Dirt splashed upwards. And as he looked down, he found an arrow embedded right beside his left foot. As he looked up, he saw no traces of the shooter, but sight was only one of his senses. He triggered his new armor's Pheromonic Cipher, and he followed a scent he tasted in the air, a scent that resembled his and his fellow Inquisitors’. It led four hundred meters away, up along the edge of a small hill.

As he activated his Compound Ocular Network thereafter, his sight zoomed in, and he saw a slight shimmer in the air. Six bodies stood there, nearly entirely transparent, aside from a few wispy threads of air painting their contours. They were using Aeromancy to bend light itself, making themselves invisible. Underneath his mask, Shiv smirked as he gained a new Awareness level.

Awareness 39 > 40

Bribery or not, Helix was pretty thoughtful, giving me this armor. Really makes up for some of my weakest skills.

"Keep your arms by your sides. Do not move," a voice echoed from the horizon. Shiv frowned as he realized that wasn't the direction the shooters were in, and then he realized there were probably several other groups all around him as well. Where there was one Shadow, there was probably another.
