“Can you imagine me as a Greater Fire elemental and trying to wear a frilly dress?!?” Zetaya exclaimed. “What a sight I would have been!”

Ren chuckled. “It would have been a sight, but not in the sense that you mean.” He said. “What if you have chosen to be male?”

Zetaya chuckled, too. “Ren, I was never going to be male.” She said, and then felt his surprise. “Don't be surprised by that. You have been completely surrounded by women for most of your life here, and I've only ever seen half a dozen males around you.”

Ren took a breath and let it out. “I tried my best not to influence your decision...”

“Ren, I would never choose something that might make you uncomfortable.” Zetaya said. “In your own words, you love women.” She smiled. “You are relaxed and open when around them, for the most part, and when you visited me each time, you never expected anything of me and you were relaxed and open. Why would I choose anything except that which you needed the most?”

Ren opened his mouth to say it was her own choice, then sighed. “I've been a fool, haven't I?”

“Not at all, Ren.” Zetaya said and hugged him again. “The Creator of Fire made me for you, so I chose the form that fits your needs the best.”

“A voluptuous redhead?” Ren asked, and she nodded.

“I've been your friend for a long time; but until now, I couldn't hold you like you wanted me to.” Zetaya said. “I can now, thanks to you, and I'm going to hold you as much as we both need to.”

Ren put his arms around her and nodded. “Thank you.”

“Friends don't need to thank friends for their help.” Zetaya said and let him go. “Now shrink us so the Deity of Fire can get to work.”

Ren chuckled. “Teepo?”

“I'll stay this size, if the Deity of Fire will let me perch on her shoulder.” Teepo said, and Fire Dancer nodded. Teepo flew over to land on her left shoulder and Ren cast the spell on himself and Zetaya to return them to normal size. Ren then cast Permanent Air Walk on Zetaya and they both ran up to sit themselves inside Fire Dancer's hair above her right shoulder, so they could talk to her unimpeded.

When they were settled and gave the okay signal, Fire Dancer left the bedroom to face the day with three friends around her.
