Additional notes: High end body modding typically replaces the blood creation function with a dedicated organ. Reversing this would be required for application. The cascade of other changes will result in the reduction in efficiency with other related modifications. While the enhancements the improved blood brings are likely to exceed this weakening, it is not guaranteed. Caution is advised.

Value: Estimated objective worth: T32, given that all-encompassing physical boosts are rare. Estimated sale price: T37, Ichor based natural treasures are basically non-existent and very prestigious due to association with Ascender Legion.

“You should use this honey. This way you’d also have Ichor blood, or something close to it. I even have some ideas how I can take it and enhance it using my new cauldron to make it even more potent before you implant it.

Matt pulled Liz closer in a small hug before pretending to be hurt, “You just got tired of having a clone hang out in a boring ole blood body and want me to renovate.”

Liz looked surprised at his initial reaction but she played along well enough. “You caught me. I might do a little dusting while I'm inside too.”

Perusing the rest of the ichor items they weren’t overly impressed by any of the Natural Treasures despite them being both valuable and individually powerful. Things they couldn’t directly use were only good for being used to buy things they needed but that didn’t mean they weren't interested or couldn’t be inspired so they took their time looking at each item as if it was an aquarium.

They even saw the phoenix lily they had assumed the effects of but hadn’t been able to fully identify.

Name: Ichor Phoenix Lifeblood Lily. Tier 27

Primary effect: Allows one to convert their bloodline into an ichor phoenix.

Secondary effect: Consume to strengthen existing ichor phoenix bloodline.

Warning: Due to Tier differential, suspected bloodline should be transformed from a standard fire phoenix to a ichor phoenix following the path Ascender Legion already blazed.

Value: Unknown. Estimated Tier 40 minimum.

It was a solid item but without special secondary effects it wasn’t one Liz particularly needed and they didn’t decide how they were going to handle it.

Their next stop wasn’t exactly far away as the guild had generally sorted things by mana types.

No less exciting than the sponge were the six Natural Treasures that all had ichor bolstering properties. The same properties needed when making a potion that could suppress ichor and its various effects. The appraisers couldn’t be sure but the items recorded high matches for the energy types needed to make potions to protect any children they might have before they awakened and could start advancing.

Bloodline children having side effects before awakening due to the parent’s bloodline or its respective mana type, was closer to the norm than the exception. While they were rarely truly dangerous outside of Void bloodlines, they could still be an inconvenience.

As such, potions to moderate those side effects was a very old and mature field of alchemy. Sadly they had known from day one that Ichor was projected to be a rough bloodline to pass on.

Not on the level of Void, but far closer than most bloodlines. There always was a chance the potions wouldn’t work thanks to some unique property of ichor they hadn’t discovered yet, but that was unlikely.

Matt didn’t care about that slim possibility in the slightest. Just having six options took a weight off his shoulders he hadn’t realized had been hanging over him and his concerns for having children. With the main ingredients secured they wouldn’t need to look at the less than ideal alternatives.

They didn’t get much further along their aisle before a hint from Aster directed them at another success they hadn’t realized the magnitude of at the time.

The odd elemental upgrade orbs they’d taken out of the strange realm actually managed to meet Matt’s wildest fantasies.

Primary effect: Upgrades a skill to the appropriate Tier similar to a normal upgrade orb, but will impart a guaranteed elemental effect instead of the random change an upgrade normally is.

Warning: Upgrades are likely still semi-random, but the additional elemental effect is believed to be guaranteed. Elemental conflicts are suspected if opposite elemental types are used together, but without actual tests, all speculation remains so. Several Talent based tests indicate results are more likely positive than negative but caution is advised.

Value: Research value could reach as high as Tier 42. Practical value: Buyer dependent, but estimated to be no lower than Tier 38 for the Tier 14 orbs.

Seeing the rows of various elemental skill upgrade orbs sitting in a protective rather than preservation box, Matt knew what he’d be spending at least some of his willpower recovery time doing at Titan’s Torch. If he could create a rift that dropped elemental upgrade orbs, he’d once more shake the skill industry, but he suspected it wouldn’t be as easy as creating aura rifts had been.

Upgrade orbs only started dropping as rewards at Tier 14, and making millions of such rifts in any kind of large-scale testing was still well beyond the guild’s current scale and knowledge. He could pay for a team or two to do such tests, but Matt had wanted to get his hands dirty in aperology for a while, and that seemed like an interesting enough topic to investigate.

That was, if the guild itself hadn’t made any interesting inventions that might grab his attention. He’d not gotten such non-vital updates thanks to Allie’s prohibition on such ‘boring’ information, but he was confident something had to have happened in the centuries they were out in chaotic space.

Despite all of the hardship the largest hurdle was already done, they knew such special upgrade orbs existed. Once the Empire’s various higher Tiers got their hands on the orbs' descriptions they would be fighting for the chance to expand their arsenal and willing to pay any price for such a limited supply.

That was if they sold them at all.

Matt doubted Manny would do it but he might want to monopolize them for the Empire. They’d be well paid if that happened but personally he wanted to see the splash they’d cause on an auction platform.

They’d need to sell at least half.

Pondering that Matt corrected himself.

They’d need to sell at least a few to establish interest.

Maybe one or two.

In fact… They’d need to use one the orbs to confirm its effects which would theoretically ‘waste’ one of the upgrades but he was still more than eager to get his hands on at least one after they did so.

They had over a dozen but suddenly that felt like far too few and Matt couldn’t wait to advance where he’d have more mana available making such higher Tier aperology realistic.

They were walking through some of the lower Tier items when one of the descriptions caught Matt's eye, as he struggled to remember where they’d gotten the twinkling mote of light. Fittingly enough, its primary effect was on a person's vision.

Primary effect: Lets you see what people are looking at so long as you are looking at the person's eyes.

Warning: limited control over the secondary vision should the other person catch on, as visual illusions are transmittable but other senses aren't.

Value: Tier 26-28. Tier 26 for the base value of the item’s Tier. While there are downsides, the item is still useful at all Tiers as a support item.

Matt didn’t want to use the item, but it was interesting and he understood why Susanne had flagged it as one she was interested in keeping for herself.

Right next to it was an item that caught his eye because of how much he’d hate it.

A colorless Tier 27 flame; the Natural Treasures flickered in a dimly illuminated box and Matt distinctly remembered the strange realm they’d gotten it out of. In and of itself it hadn’t been too memorable, its challenge revolved around elemental manipulation and hadn’t been too hard, but its reward got it seared in their memory.

They’d had good hopes for the reward, only to get a half dozen copies of the same Natural Treasure they hadn’t been able to identify the effect of.

Primary effect: Slightly reduces damage from users' primary mana aspect.

Secondary side effect: Lessens aggression from monsters of that aspect by a small to moderate amount. Makes disengaging from rift monsters far easier if they are of the specified element when combined with typical escape spells.

Warning: Rift monsters are still monsters driven by the rift rage, and this Natural Treasure only dampens it, amplifying the value of other methods; it does not remove it entirely.

Value: Tier 37-38. Allows one to confront the same elemental creatures with a greater degree of safety. With the ability to choose the element the value of the treasure has high variability but estimated value of ten additional Tiers.

Matt didn’t continue reading, knowing the item was one he’d never take but he knew that older immortals would pay dearly for ways to safeguard their less combat capable children. He didn’t so much disagree with the evaluation; rather he felt they were underestimating the value some people would pay to keep their children safe.

If anything, he’d love a controllable version of the opposite, but they hadn’t been so lucky.

Matt made a note to have Cato investigate any methods of inverting a portion of a Natural Treasures effect. It probably wasn’t possible but it was worth looking into.

In the next row, they stopped to join Aster at one of the ice treasures.

A Verglas Violas flower, the Natural Treasure was frozen through and as indestructible as they had been willing to test. Aster had been tempted to use it immediately and Matt understood why. He also started to question if she’d bribed the seekers given how good it was and reviewed how they found that strange realm.

Primary effect: Makes the physical body more resilient the colder it is.

Warning: Unknown effect with elemental bodies or similar type spells, though it looks generally positive.

Value: Tier 31 to Tier 33 due in large part to its life saving applications for most ice based mages. Flagged for as high value for Ascender Wraith.

Aster tapped the box, marking it to be sent to their Empire minders who reviewed any serious adjustments they wanted to make to their bodies. “Do you know how useful this is going to prove if it stacks with [Deathly Cold] and my sash. I might be harder to kill than both of you after that.”

Liz slyly grinned at both Matt and Aster. “We might be in contention for ‘hardest Ascender team to kill’ after this. I like the thought, I can’t lie. That’s a good title to usurp.”

So did Matt.

They were walking along in a small group together when Allie pulled herself off Aster's shoulder and smooshed her face against a Natural Treasure enclosure.

Peeping at the effect Allie tried to cover with her hands he understood her fascination. The Pocket Full of Starlight, was normally used to add an illusionary aspect to one's Domain but came with a secondary effect which made the body’s luminance more sparkly.

“I’m reserving this! I’m sure I can ditch the primary effect or find a way to turn it to my advantage. Hehehehe. If anyone fights me, I’ll start dropping you off a planet or three away from your destination just to be mildly annoying.”

Aster slapped the teleporter with her tail. “Hey!”

Allie didn’t even bother to whisper as she said, “I would never do that to you. Don’t think so little of me.”

“Better.” Mollified Aster skipped the two of them off in another direction leaving Matt and Liz to wander alone.

The next item that managed to catch their eye was because it identified Maya and Sien as possible buyers.

A ball of off-white, wet clay, the Natural Treasure might get visually lost in any craft store, though its effect was anything but conventional.

It even had a name, which meant it was rare instead of entirely new.

Name: Reality Putty. Tier 32.

Primary effect: Amorphous clay that can reshape itself at the absorber’s will, with few limitations beyond true permanence.

Warning: Ultimately limited by its size, even if its expansion abilities are legendary for a reason. Given the initial sample being fist sized it ranks among the larger examples of the Natural Treasure found. Its upper estimated size is a small moon in mass.

Comprehensive Value: Tier 44 based on the item’s Tier of 32 and previous markups. Specialized buyers might pay a premium. The Reality Warper has put out open bounties on similar items. Flagged for Ascender review before sale.

They weren’t the only Natural Treasures they’d found that the appraisers suspected the other Ascenders might be interested in.

Noted as being of possible interest to Wun, Matt’s expectations were high for the tarnished bronze coin whose form and appearance refused to stand still for longer than a heartbeat.

Name: Gamblers Unlucky Coin. Tier 27.

Primary effect: Gathers misfortune to the holder until reaching critical mass depending on the Tier of the Natural Treasure or the user whichever is reached first. Then for a brief moment one's luck surges before returning to normal.

Warning: Repeated back to back use of luck based Natural Treasures has bizarre consequences and is to be avoided. Please see provided warning guide for luck based items for more details.

Comprehensive Value: Tier 37 to Tier 40. Due to its lower Tier the normal upper limit of its value is Tier 34 or so but with Legend Golden Rod buying all luck based items and Natural Treasures has caused smuggling of such items to occur in such quantities that the price of all such things to rise. Flagged for Ascender review before sale.

