It was a little low in Tier but Matt was sure they could get the older Ascender to bet something excellent against this item just as Maya would for the earlier putty.

It wasn’t the only luck based treasure.

They even found a tree that produced items, seemingly at random, at the cost of essence stones, like some sort of demented slot machine. It wasn’t even the only Natural Treasure of the same type.

The ‘worst’ of such items was a raspberry bush whose berries gave extra skill slots. Sadly each berry had less than a one in a hundred chance of giving a core skill slot, a one in twenty chance of giving an inner, and the rest of the odds gave the eater an outer skill slot.

It wouldn’t have been too bad if people could eat more than one of the berries, but like most Natural Treasures, they were limited to one.

Still, the berries themselves would sell well for those who wanted to chase their luck. And there were always people with Luck based domains or Talents who thrived on using these, often cheaper, kinds of Natural Treasures.

Seeing if there were any other items useful for the other Ascenders, Matt was pleasantly surprised to see one of their attempts to make a sand based Natural Treasure had paid off with something Lila might find useful.

Name: Dawn’s First Dream. Tier 26.

Primary effect: Allows a person to relive their childhood in perfect clarity condensing the experiences into a skill.

Secondary effect when used by a dragon: Relive an ancestral dragon's journey to the item’s Tier possibly learning one of its skills.

Warning: A skill can only be condensed once even for dragons reliving another's memories. Mental contamination from the ‘memories’ make the item dangerous when used by dragons.

Value: Tier 30. Many, both with and without bloodlines, covet the item. Especially those who didn’t have early access to AI and weren’t able to preserve their earliest memories. Ascender Worldwalker has a standing order for all such items raising the value.

In fact they’d succeeded in making decent Natural Treasures for all of the Ascenders from that strange realm though the rarer the mana types the fewer successes as seen by Sien and Maya sharing more items then not.

Matt didn’t mind seeing the competition as a good way to leverage the prices higher.

Peaking at the erratically bouncing bolt of plasma Matt enjoyed the thought of getting some payback for Eclavorn’s earlier comments. While he might understand why the dragon was wary of him but that didn’t mean he wouldn’t take advantage of having something the dragon wouldn’t be able to pass up.

Primary effect: Imbue a Growth Item under Tier 6 with the power of plasma permanently altering its upgrade path.

Warning: Actual use carries uncountable variables given the uncertainties of growth items but similar Natural Treasures are rarely weak even if not what the bonder wanted. Best usage comes from true rift made growth items but adds another level of variability.

Value: Tier 35-39. While potentially powerful buyers are limited in the Empire preventing the price from rising too explosively. Flagged for review by Ascenders.

Eclavorn had more than enough resources at his disposal to both find and then Tier up a Growth Item in short order making the still unnamed Natural Treasure an irresistible bargaining chip.

Knowing the bond between bonds, Matt knew that meant he would also have the more affable Gideon’s full interest and while their Great Power was new, the two of them were incredibly wealthy.

They even found the honeydew-type plant that had been so attracted to Susanne it danced when she was close enough. Seeing the description he was even more envious of her luck knowing she’d never sell such a powerful item when she could use it herself.

Name: Dragon’s Tears (Variation unidentified).

Primary effect: Instead of giving an intent based on the relevant mana type, the Natural Treasure is believed to act like a Domain passive that gives the following benefit: Cultivators killed via the user's Domain directly will have their essence automatically purified into cultivable essence. Estimated final conversion rate ~15% of absorbable essence.

Warning: Purification of essence is a highly regulated ability for the perverse incentives it gives. Restricted item see more at Appendix A.

Value: Tier 45 minimum. Though all sales of such essence cleansing items must be sanctioned by the Empire. Suspected singular attachment may limit the value of the treasure but its higher than average purification rate ensures it will find a buyer should it be sold.

Aiden was the only person Matt knew who could purify another person’s essence of their Domain and part of him wished he’d gotten something similar. He didn’t intend to slaughter his way through battlefields but when he needed to do so it would be nice if Matt got something out of it.

Both he and Liz cast several looks behind them as they continued along but they managed it.

After congratulating Susanne on her prize, Matt and Liz happily continued along until they stopped in an area filled with poisonous and other rot-based treasures. There they found one that Matt lingered over, given his intentions to improve his body instead of neglecting one of his core advantages.

Name: Vampire’s Lament

Primary effect: Improve natural healing and the body's reaction to physical trauma.

Secondary effect: Minorly reduces draining effects.

Value: Tier 32, reflective of its own Tier and rarity.

It wasn’t too unusual of a power, but Matt thought it might work with his current Natural Treasures and marked it for further review given the obvious synergy with the ichor Natural Treasure.

They then found a section where the guild had placed the hundreds of weapon enhancing Natural Treasures and both of them got lost looking at their respective weapon types items.

Matt picked out several he hoped could be merged with his weapon when he got its material replaced. Now that he had all the materials the Talented crafter had required in payment, he was eager to merge his neutronium ingot into his weapon.

Together with his newly discovered mana crystallization technique, Matt’s weapon was in for a fundamental upgrade and he was eager to maximize any potential benefits via Natural Treasures.

When they were done Matt and Liz met back up with Aster and Allie as they stood in front of an oversized snowflake that burst into snow dust that then recrystallized into a new snowflake pattern every few minutes.

Primary effect: Bringing the snowflake together can boost the power of the next ice spell cast.

Secondary effect: By destroying the snowflake more thoroughly, one can avoid the disruption of an ice or cold based spell.

Warning: This particular variation of a matryoshka treasure has never been seen before and as such much is speculation, at least more so than usual. If, the common rules apply, once absorbed, the wielder will need to manually make and guide the transformations, making things less automated than they might seem. More serious destruction will take months to recover from but is never permanent. Used at an opportune time, it becomes a lifesaving measure.

Value: Tier 35 due to its rarity and potential for skill recovery. Flagged for Ascender Wraith for further review.

Aster frowned at the Natural Treasure seeing their arrival. “I’m not entirely sure I enjoy the idea of playing a minigame every few minutes to get a bonus, but I’m tempted.”

Putting it on a possible list for later, they kept looking for other things that caught their eye in the ice section.

Matt was personally partial to the aptly named Frost Bite though for Aster rather than himself, always happy to see his bond improve her physical combat capabilities.

Name: Frost Bite.

Primary effect: Infuses a canine tooth with ice drain effect.

Warning: Physical biting is usually required for the effect to work. Some skills have been successfully modified to work, but they are the exceptions rather than the rule. See Appendix 51u for more information.

Value: Tier 30 due to its being Tier 28 and its demand.

Susanne, however, found one of the more interesting unknown ones winning their internal contest.

An ordinary looking rock filled with an abundant life force, they’d thought it was a Wood or Life based Natural Treasure, but they couldn’t have been more wrong.

Primary effect: Once hatched, the bookworm will eat one thousand, one hundred and eleven books before turning into a butterfly, then transforming into a golem-esque creature capable of teaching any information it ate or information derived from the information.

Warning: the initial books set the baseline for the golem, but it may develop unexpectedly. Proceed with caution and any buyer will need to follow the Appendixed contingencies for new entities.

Value: unknown.

Matt was confident such an item would start a bidding war when put up for auction and couldn’t wait for everyone else who still had to fly back to return so they could start the auction.

Feeling slightly overwhelmed by incredible items they started skimming the items outside their desired types.

That didn’t mean they didn’t have items that caught their eye.

A Burning Potato was a more literal name than Matt would have called the Natural Treasure but he couldn’t argue its accuracy. Once planted, it would magically raise the temperature of an area until the average soil temperature reached the potato’s own temperature.

According to the reports any reasonable fire cultivator or anyone skilled in manipulating fire could reportedly adjust the potatoes temperature or transplant it. Looking around he found they'd collected several such terraforming Natural Treasures and Matt’s mind couldn’t help but start considering setting up a branch of the guild looking into celestial terraforming.

They’d even found some rarer variants that made small amounts of matter with the essence and mana they absorbed and cycled as part of their normal functions.

Such variants were incredibly valuable and Matt was happy to see them. No one interested in large scale terraforming could have enough matter producing Natural Treasures. Each one was the equivalent of a matter generating specialist that didn’t require pay, only guidance by a lower Tier.

While they were waiting for everyone else to finish up they even managed to find another green thumb Natural Treasure. Matt wasn’t sure how he’d missed it, given he’d already used one himself.

Bumping Liz, he offered, “You can take this and we can match, or I can take it and have two green thumbs.”

“You're joking, but I might do it.”

“Oh?”

Liz nodded. “I’ve got at least one new tree to take care of in the terrarium orb, if not more than that. I’m not going to pass the thumb up.”

Matt tried not to smile as they playfully wandered around until everyone else was ready to leave.

Not that they needed to wait long. They were all eager to return home and not needing to teleport too far, relatively speaking, Allie had no trouble getting everyone home after resting.
