Chapter 471

Allie groaned as she slumped in her chair, panting heavily. Sure, fanning herself with Aster's tail was pure theatrics but Matt still made a note to make her a nice basket of pastries in a few months when things died down. She deserved it after her efforts in teleporting them and their items around.

From their chats in recent days they’d long since planned their steps upon returning but they had one important thing to do as the location of their loot was revealed by Allie. Predictably she’d been dropping everything off at Lila’s guild too but that meant their previous unknown loot would be well documented with the mysteries revealed.

Not that they’d be selling any of it any time soon. He didn’t regret Allie skipping the decades-long return journey back to settled space, but by the very nature of the breach attracting the Empire's most affluent, most of the people they wanted to sell their items to were still in deep chaotic space.

As were the items they’d want to buy in exchange.

Matt did, however, want to learn about all of the Natural Treasures they had gotten but couldn’t distinguish at the moment. Especially the ones from the strange realm that had allowed them to customize the Natural Treasures. It had created a plethora of items they hadn’t been able to identify at all or hadn’t been certain of their effect.

In hindsight Matt was doubly thankfully to that strange realm putting him onto the idea of mana storage devices. The gem that was still hidden inside in his chest holding the strange realm’s energy in perfect stasis. The same gem he’d been toying with like a painful tooth since they exited the strange realm. He was almost desperate to get back to his own guild for further testing and investigations.

The energy was still perfectly stable and swirling around without a single fluctuation that might signify its deterioration. Every time he saw that, it only made him want to run experiments he was physically incapable of performing at the moment.

Given how close he’d come to bottoming out on willpower he wasn’t willing to risk using his Domain until he’d fully recovered his willpower. As such, he forced himself to relax and enjoy the process with the rest of the crew as their final activity together.

He was glad he did.

Their sudden arrival in Lila’s guild’s headquarters’ world was met with a rapid but brief mobilization, as every system shouted warnings thanks to their sudden arrival in a place where ships normally exited into chaotic space. Then, upon receiving their identification codes, everyone rushed over anyway, wanting to see why they’d returned so early.

Most of the hangers-on kept a respectful distance, but that was because they were mainly from the other exploration guilds that were also headquartered out of this system. They were only interested in updates both general and about their particular teams.

The Unsparing sent what information they had but otherwise ignored them, instead flying to the space station Lila’s guild used as its headquarters.

Clearly Corporations design with no attempt to blend it in, Matt had heard its origin story more than once. Lila had gotten wind of the Corporations moving a deployable naval dock to the frontlines and stole it, before slipping back into the Empire before the Corporations could respond.

That wouldn’t have been a problem, but the Empire hadn’t been at war with the Corporations at the time, and she’d nearly caused one with her stunt.

That was where the story always differed.

When Lila told the story, she swore that she volunteered to pay the Corporations for the space station to settle the dispute.

When someone like Luna told the story, the narrative was that Lila ran away from Georgios with her hoard for almost a week before he caught up with her, forcibly taking the payment from a temper tantrum-throwing dragon.

Matt knew who he believed, and it wasn’t the famously dragony dragon.

If Lila had wanted to buy a space station, she’d have done so from the outset. Even if she hadn’t wanted an Empire-built station, she, as an Ascender, would have had more than enough influence to get one from a Corporations manufacturer.

Captain Stenson let out a long sigh as he patted the armrest of his chair as they finished attaching themselves to the larger station signifying the true end to their journey. “Ah, it was a good journey, but time to say goodbye once again.”

His melancholy was quickly dispelled when his lieutenant quipped back, “Weird time to say that, given this is one of the few times this ship has returned from chaotic space intact.”

Stenson barked a laugh and brightened considerably.

Seeing the small rush of support staff, Matt swept the guild hall and laughed when he realized everyone remaining had already arrived. Appraisers, however, were far less likely to go into deep chaotic space than most other professions, and the guild’s four permanent appraisers were already waiting for them at the end of the dock.

One woman was even rubbing her hands together, unable to contain her excitement looking at the rear of The Unsparing.

Allie, who had slung herself over Aster's shoulder, garbled, “I wish I could feel ten percent of her enthusiasm.”

Liz raised an eyebrow at the waxy teleporter. “Are you sure you're okay? You look like a candle left out in the sun.”

Allie only seemed to have the energy to make a rude gesture, but that merely got Liz to laugh. “You're the one who insisted on returning as soon as possible. Everyone else was fine with flying for another month or so to let you recover more and shorten the distance. This is all on you and you won’t get any sympathy from us.”

Allie looked to Aster, clearly seeking aid, but Aster was even more heartless. “I will drop you.”

Unable to hide her smile, Allie shot right back as they waited for everyone else to finish the more time sensitive measures before getting off.

A man Matt recognized as one of the guild’s admins approached them the moment they walked inside.

“We set aside one of the ballrooms with your previous umm… delivery. Two of them actually, but one simply has the bulk goods we can sell off at any time you give the word. Everything else but most importantly, the more valuable Natural Treasures, are well preserved and should have no issues remaining until the Breach Exchanges when the deepest explorers return.”

Early explorers rarely sold their most valuable items, rather holding onto them until the deepest explorers returned with hopefully the best items. The event was almost as anticipated as the Breach itself as it inevitably attracted the Empire's most wealthy. More importantly they drew out the oldest Immortals most of whom were older than the current Dynasty.

While most of that type had been purged, either forcibly ascended or killed when Agatha took power, she hadn’t been a monster and those who were willing to follow her new laws and more importantly restrictions were allowed to remain.

Matt had no hard numbers but he knew from talking with Aunt Helen most people who lingered did so for two reasons. They either couldn’t ascend or they had too many attachments to leave. Both groups were interested in breaches, or more accurately the rare and exotic materials pulled out of them, though usually for different reasons.

According to Aunt Helen people who wanted to Ascend but couldn’t, typically fell into two categories. The first couldn’t form their Aspect and therefore couldn’t connect to the realm and pass through its barrier. The second group were those who had their Aspects but also had a growth item below Tier 45 that wouldn’t survive the process.

Both needed rare items often only found in breaches and would spend anything for the possibility of advancement as did those who were looking for items to strengthen their various organizations in a more general sense.

With their age came the accumulation of resources and with such people exiting their seclusion everyone not already involved with the exploration would flock to cater to them turning the exchange into a hyper action and bartering center.

Matt couldn’t wait though he’d have to as while lesser more common Natural Treasures would be sold for market value he wasn’t interested in such items having long since had access to them through the Empire.

Seeing the ballrooms that housed roughly half of what they’d pulled out of chaotic space Matt couldn’t help but be impressed at what they’d managed.

Rows upon rows of floor to ceiling shelves were stacked with preservation boxes all carefully labeled and organized. Each item that required it, which was most of the Natural Treasures showcased in the front, were stored in its own unique enclosure perfectly mimicking the habitat that spawned it. The system was similar to the ship, but far more robust, taking advantage of the looser space restrictions.

The Corporations built most of their space stations as monstrous hulks, and the storage rooms turned ballrooms that were once more being repurposed as storage, were no different.

And they’d managed to fill at least two of them.

Floating over to one of the biggest question marks of their journey, Matt and Liz stopped in front of the Tier 30 Ichor Bonsai Tree.

It was still a horrifying mimicry of a tree, made out of a wereboar’s magical circulatory system with three ‘apples’ that were actually floating light orbs. Worse yet its trunk and leaves still pulsed with the rhythm of a beating heart, its blood vessels carrying golden ichor through golden flesh.

Everyone followed them wanting to know as much as they did.

Skipping past what they knew, Matt found the official appraisal.

Primary effect: Apples appear to be filled with Ichor's full vitality and the ingestor, for an estimated duration of a day, is granted overhealth effects along with a rapid healing factor at little to no cost.

Suspected secondary effect: permanent enhancement in the body's healing ability, so long as the energy isn’t used, but rather allowed to settle naturally. See appendix 3 for full list of possible alternative secondary and tertiary features.

Additional notes: Natural Treasure is draining energy from the ‘soil’ it's planted in. It prefers flesh of high-Tier were-beasts or boars. Other meat types seem to be absorbed at a reduced rate, but no other adverse effects were noted. Ichor mana enriched meats also appeared to satisfy slightly more than untreated flesh but not as fully as boar meat.

Estimated longevity: Unknown. Natural Treasure shows limited and contradictory signs of conventional aging, seeming to grow more robust over time though unknown if such will continue post harvesting. Advancement in Tier is speculative, but unlikely. Rather it is supposed the treasure has an increased chance of the saplings surviving past the normal first few dozen generations that normally limit Bonsai Trees.

Value: Tier 34-38. Alchemical and medical research value is estimated at Tier 37. Direct application use value, Tier 34. Possible longevity speculation multiplies any potential value exceptionally. Synergy with Ascender Legion adds another variable that can’t be estimated leaving the above theoretical.

Liz licked her lips and Matt playfully covered Aster's eyes. “I’m not sure that's an appropriate expression, honey. There are children about.”

Aster flattened her fox ears and let her tail droop, going along without jostling Allie.

Liz waggled her eyebrows right back at him but sighed as she turned back to the tree. “I really want to eat one or maybe two. Okay I want to eat all three so badly. I can’t say that the secondary benefit is accurate, but my instincts tell me it's not wrong. In fact, I’d be willing to bet it's only scratching the surface of what I can get out of those apples.”

Matt too was somewhat interested in eating one, although he had to admit his upgraded [Regeneration] mostly made the effects redundant for him, so he had no interest in fighting over them.

Stepping back, Liz took a deep breath and then turned around. Phoenix Liz was more honest as she used her flexibility to watch the tree while still technically facing forward. Ecstatic for his wife, Matt plucked the raptor from Liz’s shoulder and held her to his chest and blocked the view. The betrayed look tickled him pink, but the bonsai tree was far from the only good reward they’d collected.

Besides, after reading the description he wanted to see how Melinda’s body guard Evelyn would respond to the Natural Treasure. She was the primary test subject of project Iron Vine, an attempt at making an organic growth item that unfortunately was still semi parasitic for now, and already had an incredible healing factor. The resulting combination could be interesting.

If the tree truly didn’t die and could continuously produce more Natural Treasures it would be shoved into Liz’s greenhouse terrarium to accelerate its growth fed by an ocean of conjured ichor and harvested monster meat. It might take decades but eventually they’d have enough for casual testing.

While everyone else split off to look at the Natural Treasures they’d tried to make for themselves, Matt and Liz continued to browse the Ichor treasures a bit more. That was until a very excited Liz pulled him over to what looked like some strange, softly pulsating, golden sponge.

Reading the description he understood her enthusiasm.

Primary effect: When implanted in a person’s bone marrow, it produces enhanced ichor-like blood that vitalizes and strengthens the body on an organic level.

