Hi! I have a lot of news about SCS, and I wanted to share it all in one place! It's all good news, so no stress~First, announcing the Hope//Punk Kickstarter! The pre-launch is up right now, and you can find it here: View: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/ravensdagger/200119392/The game is done! I actually had the opportunity to do a live playtest lately. (That's on top of the dozens of digital sessions across Patreon and Discord!) Just last week we had an incredible session with Rheagar, Hesketh, Void Herald—and Selkie dropped in too.Rheagar played a mechanic named Ranch who was told to fix a massive pumping station buried in the basement levels of a megabuilding. Void Herald brought a cannibal ex-soldier to the table, while Hesketh's character was a cigar-chomping, cash-obsessed bounty hunter. All three were members of the Sump Pump Rats, a gang living in the lower-levels of the megabuilding.Things started as a maintenance job. Then they discovered Antithesis in the basement, and it turned into a huge evacuation. Some people died, some were saved, they turned into samurai, and... things got a smidge messy! Then Selkie joined for the second session (obviously as a healer) and as a team, they managed to threaten the locals into helping a bit.It was a lot of fun! I really ought to record some of the playtests we run.Anyway! More news~There's a cool new Expanded Universe server for SCS. You can find it here: Join the SCS Extended Universe Discord Server!The server is mostly for SCS fanfic authors, but also just for fans in general. It's got lots of cool, nice folk <3 Hop on in!Oh, speaking of fanfics~ Look! These are the fanfics that have reached 1,000 followers so far!In no particular order...Teddy Bears on BrigadeLink: Teddy Bears on Brigade [A SCS Fanfiction] | Royal RoadEvelyn "Teddy" Claire is a street kid just trying to make ends meet. That's hard to do when you live in the undercity, a near slum found underneath the foundations of the megacity of Calgary.Usually, her only concerns are finding a good meal, and avoiding taking a bullet in a gang fight, but that all changes when an Antithesis incursion manages to find its way below.Empowered by a benevolent alien race, she becomes a Samurai, one of the protectors of humanity. Now, she must work to exterminate the Antithesis stuck below ground. Before the Antithesis exterminate her and everyone else.The Witch of the WestLink: Witch of the West (A SCS Fanfiction) | Royal RoadMorigana Luxanna, a well-educated woman, who has a degree in physics, Antithesis studies, and Vanguard technologies works daily on integrating technology sold to the corp she works for, by Samurai and modern Human Technologies.When the Antithesis decide to drop in on a school she's subbing in for. She has to make a choice, save the children, and fight the aliens, or save herself and run to the bunkers.Help support creative writers by finding and reading their stories on the original site.To make things more interesting, while she has no issues developing weapons for soldiers to use, she has a strong aversion to ever using a gun or weapon. So, she has to come up with different ideas how to fight off the invading hordes of plant monsters.A Joytoy's Journey to become a Hive-QueenLink: https://www.scribblehub.com/series/...come-a-hivequeen-a-scs-fanfic-vol--completed/In the not-so-glamorous outskirts of New Savannah, Seraphine Bloodfallen - part-time joytoy and full-time cynic - finds herself drafted into madness. When a particularly bad day at work ends in an alien invasion, Seraphine becomes a Samurai; Someone empowered by a benevolent alien race with the strength to oppose the alien invaders.Follow Seraphine as she navigates her new life with more power and problems than she ever wanted. As it turns out, battling alien invaders with a ragtag band of misfit Samurai might just be the craziest job she's ever had - and possibly the most fun. Who knew the apocalypse could be such a blast?A Spark of Sylvan FlameLink: https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1215027/a-spark-of-sylvan-flame/No one cares about the wastes.These are the words Spark has heard all life long.The masters of the world, despite dining on the 'natural foods' produced by Spark's people, would rather let them bleed than provide military support. Even the local samurai didn't give much of a shit beyond farming their points.So when an AI chip teleports itself into their head, Spark vows to fix things. One way or another.Tinea and LeahLink: Tinea and Leah [Cyberpunk, Alien Incursions, Murder and Mayhem, Girl's Love (WLW)] | Royal RoadAden...had an ugly childhood full of pain and abuse. It taught him how to fight and survive, how to run and hide and cut ties. It didn't teach him much else.So Aden ran.He crossed an ocean, grew up, and discovered the world. Made his life his own. Soul-deep pain notwithstanding, he fought to be happy. Aden made do.Until the aliens invaded his neighborhood.Smoking rifle in hand and still coming up short, Aden makes a life-ending choice...and is rewarded beyond his wildest dreams. Or, perhaps exactly to his wildest dreams...Tinea's dreams, come to life through DNA-changing Vanguard science.Okay, more news! (This is the last bit!)Kuroi, the insane artist that made that Kill and Buy song? He's been cooking up something cool~ We have an entire album dropping in two days!You should follow him on Youtube, to get to listen in the moment it launches: Kuroi RiquidOh, last-last thing! SCS Vol 6 is hitting the shelves on the 15th of July! If you want to pre-order the ebook, physical book, or Audiobook, then you can do so already!Link: Amazon.com: Stray Cat Strut 6: A Cyberpunk LitRPG eBook : RavensDagger: Kindle StoreI'll be at Dragoncon this year. Look for a very handsome man, and you'll know that that's not me! But yeah, if you happen to be heading over and want something signed, or just want a hug, let me know!
