Beside them were a pair of figures she dimly recognized, even under their broad-brimmed hats and heavy robes. The twin admirals of the Xuan had visited during the first tournament at the Argent Peak Sect.

Of the ducal clans, only the Sun and the Jin of the Alabaster Sands lacked a full member in attendance, a small slight but a notable one.

At the tables closer to the entrance sat the representatives of the comital clans, the Wang, the Luo, the Bao, the Meng, and the Jia. Only the Diao were in absence because they marched with their matriarch in the procession.

All of this paled compared to the presence of Cai Shenhua. Her radiance spilled through the columns, shown on the canopy, and nigh blinded Ling Qi's watering eyes. She wore a gown that was more red than white for once with a long sweeping train and a veil that might as well have been transparent for all that it hid the blaze of her eyes. It was thick, many-layered, surprisingly modest, and traditional. There were no odd cuts, no scandalously close fittings, only a wedding gown of the most careful make and resplendent beauty.

Ling Qi did not expect that. She'd almost expected the Duchess would wear something more akin to a man's robes for this wedding ceremony.

They, the ones leading the procession stepped aside, bowing their heads low and opening the path between the palanquin and the Duchess

Wood creaked, ever so gently, and the men bearing the palanquin sank to their knees as the Diao matriarch stepped out.

Her gown was the color of purest white, and a hood and scarf concealed her face in its entirety. She seemed almost small in it, stepping gracefully down the stairs of the palanquin, her hands hidden in voluminous sleeves embroidered with pale rose flowers and winding thorny vines. Despite her quiet presence, the air around her thrummed with a heartwrenching serenity, a pool of yin so deep that Ling Qi could feel her thoughts buckling, struggling to remain aware of anything at all beyond a hazy, passive serenity.

Shenhua held out her hand, and that stilling pressure fled like a shadow chased away by a torch, the clash of their less restrained power evening out into a faint, thrumming harmony.

All of them knelt, hands pressed to the marble floor.

Diao Linqin raised her hand and delicately placed it in Shenhua's, her small steps closing the distance between them.

This, too, Ling Qi understood, was irregular. Typically, the one marrying in would be inspected by the elders of the clan they were marrying into. These elders would then present the entrant to their bride or groom. Even in the case of the highest ranking and eldest members of a clan, at least there would be generational peers to take on the role.

But Cai Shenhua was alone, and so, she reached out, plucking at the tassels of the concealing wedding wrap that hid Diao Linqin's face.

"Diao Linqin, beauty of beauties, great lady and matriarch of the Diao, Cai Shenhua welcomes you here, unto the halls of Cai, unto the Throne of Seasons, where you will dwell for our remaining days. Your radiance is a dowry greater than even your clan's vaults or mine could pay. Come.  The altar awaits."
