She considered Arthur, now standing over the bloodied shape of her brother. It was… very weird seeing a dragon wounded like that. A part of her saw Arthur in his stead, which filled her with dread, but the major emotion was satisfaction.

Arthur’s brother was an asshole. A violent asshole. And a moron. She was glad to have taught him a lesson, and there was hope for him yet, but redeeming him wouldn’t bring back all the people he’d killed. Now, the country would heal, and perhaps Arthur would make things better. She’d done what she could. Ultimately, educating an adult feral dragon was outside of her expertise.

She’d have to trust her daughter.

“Are you sure? What happened to me felling him alone?”

You did.

Now I teach him.

Another kind of fear took hold over Viv’s heart.

“What if he—”

I am not stupid.

I will never let my guard down around him.

He is cunning.

A mix of shame and disbelief shook Arthur’s large frame. Her brother let out a piteous cough, eyes clouded by pain.

He is also embarrassingly dumb.

I will not underestimate how stupidly he can act.

Her brother lifted his head and roared, or tried to. Without looking, Arthur moved her hips. Her tail whacked her brother’s head with the deafening crack of a whip’s end. A few of the smaller scales flew alongside a few droplets of blood.

Her brother whined.

“Wow.”

He must understand defeat.

“Ok, well, you’re the better dragon here.”

I will feed him to help him heal.

Her brother sniffed the air. An enticing scent covered that of blood. Seared fresh fish. And something else.

Give.

Arthur’s claws clamped on her brother’s neck in response to the imperious demand. He whined again.

Sweet fish sauce is for dragons who behave.

Her brother considered his situation for the first time, apparently, in his life.

Give, please?

Viv decided that her daughter had the situation well in hand. In paw. Well, whatever. She turned to the assembly of mages now standing at a distance, whispering among themselves. Frosthawk was still processing the presence of Arthur and the dragon’s defeat. Viv approached him first.

“So, convinced?” she casually asked.

There was no response. Frosthawk just shook his head slowly, unable to process the recent events.

Well, she’d gotten worse responses. Viv was about to walk to the village and confirm the good news, but the nearby portal flashed again, and a person she’d never expected walked through. A plain northerner in lowly scribe robes, Lim the Fell-handed was one of the most unassuming persons Viv had ever met, but that meek appearance was a constant deception that hid one of the most twisted, unrepentantly evil minds Viv had ever encountered. Lim could not be redeemed. She could only be directed.

“What are you doing here?” Viv coldly asked in the northern tongue.

“Your golem sent for me. He said that you requested him to wait until your victory was secured, but you didn’t say he couldn’t send help,” the sinister woman replied with a ghastly smile. “Helock was getting a little tense. I’m happy to come here to lend my expertise.”

Viv considered sending the woman towards the Pure League, but if she was hired by Solfis, then she’d probably refuse. And besides… there was one aspect of her plan that demanded underhanded tactics. They were the kind the temple would sternly disapprove of.

“There is something you could help with.”

Viv explained her plan. Lim’s smile only grew wider.

“Aye, that will work nicely. Turn their strength against them. I’ll ask for some help from your boys since we’ll need to spread out. Alright. I’ll be off then. Carrying out your will… Hehehe.”

Viv watched her leave. She hoped the liberation of the Jewel would balance her karma a bit.

***

“Messenger birds report that a caravan came from the east. It carried metal tools, grandmother. Hoes and spades and saws. Hammers and nails. Axes. Chisels. All of them well made,” Marus said in a subdued tone.

“Then she has the backing of a powerful nation. Hmm.”

It did not come as a surprise considering the quality of the girl’s gear. Arana considered her options, but there really only was one.

“Have the Eye contact the soldiers. Find every infected village. Track down and destroy the caravan. Hang the servants. Confiscate the tools. Have the leaders of every family who accepted a gift from a foreigner executed for treason. If the entire village succumbed to temptation, have them cleanse it.”

“Understood.”

“There was something else,” Arana said, sensing further trouble ahead.

“The witch and her people. They defeated the dragon.”

Silence filled the room. It was raining outside, but the palace was a fortress. Thick walls blocked the pitter-patter but not the wet cold that came with it.

“Recall my best Eyes. We will need assassins, for they are the only ones that can slay a mage of that power. I will have a ship ready just in case…”

“Grandmother?”

“It should not come to that, however we may now deduce that she garnered the favor of both Guardian Cerus and Archmage Frosthawk. I shall let the border guards know they should… take a step back from Cerus’ village. Have Frosthawk’s children brought in from the Jewel. I believe their presence has suddenly become very valuable.”

“Very well.”

“Marus,” Arana said to her grandson’s worried back.

“What?”

“We still hold the cards because the tools of control are still in our hands. Our ancestors withstood centuries of aggression, and she’s just one woman. Remember that.”

“Yes.”

***

“Why is it I gotta dig when we got those fancy mages moving mud around with a wave of their stupid hands?” Nag asked.

By her side, Feather planted her spade in the wet soil and sighed. She turned her dark, rich folk eyes to Nag who knew she was gonna get another earful.

“Do you see any fancy mages around?”

“Nay.”

“Then dig!”

Nag shrugged. Felt stupid anyway. This village was a half-burnt wart on the ass of the southern plain. Who’d give a shit? There was naught to steal but unripe wheat and ugly women. Even Nag, of famous thirst, didn’t want to drag back one of those sad-eyed dogfaces to her tent.

Skittish things. Even dumber and meeker than Nag’s home folks. She turned to Feather, who’d resumed digging.

“Is there like, a bumpkin scale, ya reckon?”

“For the love of Neriad, Nag, I’ll shove that spade up your arse!”

“Oooh the bourgeois using bad, bad words. What will your mother—”

Nag expertly dodged a tossed lump of mud.

“Mom’s dead and you’ll join her,” Feather warned.

The older woman brushed a wet strand of hair behind her ear, feather charms clinking together. Nag knew she’d pushed a little too far so she patted the other lady’s back.

“Hey hey now. I’ll dig, promise. You wanna take a break? Tell that good-for-nothing Salt to replace you.”

“I can do it,” Feather grumbled. “I am not weak. I can dig like everyone else.”

“You’re new, aye? Take it easy. There'll be plenty of holes ta dig yet. Oi! Salt! You old fuck!”

Beyond the trench, the man was ignoring them, his back turned. He had his crossbow in his hands.

That wasn’t right.

“Salt?”

“Got something. There. Look”

He pointed away, towards the west. The road snaked away from their unnamed village where the empress herself — the gods bless her arse — had supposedly whipped a small dragon. Crossing fields, then patches of forest, it led to another village leagues down there, closer to the sea. A tool caravan had left for that place over a day ago.

“What? We can’t see it from here,” Feather complained.

“Nay, lady. Look up,” Nag said, pointing at the blue sky.

A trail of black smoke emerged from the edge of the woods. It was a bit diffuse, but it was gaining in intensity with every minute.

They stopped digging. Nag breathed the cold spring air. Tasted fresh here, nice, but there was something in there that woke up her old instincts. The lash scars on her back started to burn a bit.

“Trouble,” she said.

Salt nodded. The old head checked his quiver, then he turned around.

“Nag, mind going to tell the chief? I’ll go take a closer look. Be back in fifteen.”

“You’re going to the boulder?”

“Aye.”

“Aight. Be careful. You, girlie, come with me.”

Feather followed without complaints this time. Nag didn’t outrank her and the fallen bourgeois didn’t like taking orders from a yokel, but she could sense it was getting serious. Good instinct on that skittish mare. They’d make a Bitter Heart out of her yet.

Nag walked at a brisk pace, all official like. You didn’t run in front of the civilians unless you wanted them to run as well, or panic. Then everything was a mess and it would be Nag’s fault again.

A sad woman knitting a shawl watched her walk by, frowning with mild disapproval. One of those. Nag gave her her best smile.

“Hey there.”

The seamstress blushed and averted her eyes.

“I bet you cry when you climax,” Nag said as a parting barb.

The seamstress took her shawl and rushed home. Feather half-chuckled, half-groaned behind her. Nag had her fill of banter for the next thirty seconds so she hurried, and the Elder’s house was soon in view. Well, new house. Old one was still burnt to a husk with the elder’s grandson in it. Damn dragon.

She barged in.

Elder Esso stood at a nearby table,counting things and whatnot on a piece of New Harrakan paper. Auntie frowned when she saw Nag, which Nag had to say was the normal Nag reaction.

“Nag…”

“Smoke on the horizon, west side.”

Elder Esso paled. He prayed to Maranor under his breath while Auntie strutted towards Mag, her gray braids bouncing with every step. Nag soon found herself looking into the chief’s suspicious eyes. The scars remained pale but the boss’ face was turning red.

“And?”

“Definitely coming from the next village. Salt went to the boulder to scout. We ran here to tell ya.”

West meant the old empire, and from what Nag could tell from the little Harrakan she spoke, those weren't too nice.

Elder Esso said something in a melodious tone. That was why Nag would never want to be a chief. Had to learn foreign languages of the people you were trying to kill. Bother.

The chief replied. It was a bit brisk but Nag got the gist of it. ‘The village is burning, of course we’re getting ready to leave just in case’. Elder Esso stood up, all dignified like. Nag could tell he was scared as a Harrien though, but kudos to him for not turning tail.

“Feather, go east and tell squad two to grab everyone. We’ll meet at the west gate. Nag, you go find Salt and back him up. I’ll be here trying to get those fuckers to move.”

Nag was out of the door legging it before the chief started to scream. Force of habit. She jogged past the gate just as the alarm was ringing and the surviving villagers started running around like headless birds. Some of them broke down. Poor sods. Too many kicks in a row.

She fell into an easy run, her [poacher’s gait] kicking in. The fields extended right to the edge of the forest, right where the children would be foraging for berries and mushrooms. Right season, too. Nag regretfully left a nice plump harrien run away from her since she was in a rush. Her feet carried her through an overgrown path up a tiny slope with sure steps. Sure, the mages could disintegrate a mountain, but could they run fast in the woods? Fuck no. But Nag could.

She stopped before she reached the boulders. Footsteps, ahead. Three adults. One limping. She clicked her tongue, and the call of a bleak sparrow returned a moment later.

She swung her crossbow back over her shoulder. Salt appeared a moment later. He was helping a civvie move on, a sturdy man with a bandaged wound on his thigh she recognized from the tool caravan. A woman carrying a toddler came next. She was absolutely exhausted, so Nag moved in to help.

“We… we are—”

The woman said something in imperial that ended with ‘weh’, peppered with southerner. She didn’t get it.

“No talk. Wait village,” Nag replied.

They moved fast, or as fast as they could. Nag ended up carrying the crying toddler in her own scarred mitts wondering how it came down to this after doing everything in her power to dodge the little shits. The woman almost broke down when they arrived at the gates of the village, and a relative of hers rushed ahead to help.

Nag was happy to see the toddler go. She’d not even dropped him once! But she knew she wouldn’t like what came next.

“Report,” Auntie said.

Lots of villagers had already gathered, and the crying lady got busy hiccuping through her tale in their weird tongue. Nag saw the chief had people bring crates of supplies so she grabbed spare quivers and latched them on her belt. Got a feeling she would need those.

“The village was burnt by regulars,” the wounded man said while a couple of villagers patched him up.

“Come again?”

“Not by southern tribers. By old imperial regulars. They saw the tools and they, I don’t know, they went mad. Starting killing everyone in the village. We ran. My friend helped me, pushed one away with his spade. We got separated. I hope he’s alright…”

“Focus. How many? What are they doing now?”

“Maybe two hundred?”

The chief swallowed back a curse.

That was maybe half of the current village population. Talk about overkill.

The Bitter Hearts had two ‘sleeves’ here. Twenty-five warriors, total.

“What do we do?” Feather asked.

Around them, the two squads were gathering with a couple stragglers running across the field. Nag was one of the youngest around. Most others were older, having switched paths later in their life. Feather used to be a ‘castellan’ before her family got killed. Salt was a teacher. Blink was a prostitute.

