They all knew the score.

“At least they don’t get mages,” Nag grumbled. Small favors.

“What do we do? You know what we do!” Auntie roared. “We’re the Bitter Hearts!”

“Last out,” everyone replied with varying degrees of enthusiasm.

By their side, the surviving woman finished her tale. She was wailing now.

“In case you fine folks don’t get it, the regulars kill everyone they get to, no exceptions. They won’t do it here. We’re not the best or the brightest but we’re here for the people and we’ve never been found wanting. Today won’t be an exception. Elder Esso will lead his people west while we fight a delaying action.”

Nag nodded. The villagers would have a lot of kids with them. It would slow them down. Regulars would just catch up to them in under an hour from here.

“They were regrouping when we got into the forest,” the caravan hand groaned. “I’d say, fifteen minutes before they arrive. Maybe more.”

“You hear that, Esso? You folks need to leave NOW! Ergan, you go with ’em.”

The caravan hand nodded. He wasn’t a fighter.

Nag sighed. What was it with this outfit that they just kept getting into battles? She was sure no other fucking warband on Param got into as many scraps as they did. At least it wasn’t suicidally murderous lizard things this time. Neriad’s cock.

“Right. Move to the forest, loose formation around the road. Mug, you take the right flank. I take the left. Grab as many bolts as you can carry, cause I don’t think we’ll be recovering those. MOVE.”

Nag had already done it, but she pushed a hesitant Feather forward. The lady was pale and her fingers a bit shaky. This was her first real scrap. Pinning revenants wasn’t the same.

“You got this, princess.”

“For the last fucking time… Ugh.”

“Stay with me and we’ll get through this, alright? Your old pal Nag knows how to make it out of trouble.”

Feather nodded. Nag smiled. Twenty-five against two hundred?

Yeah, that was gonna be a tall order.

At least they had no mages and no riders. Or Nag would have been praying for a quick end by now.

The Bitter Heart squads merged into the forest. Nag forgot about the rest and focused on the woods in front of her. The inexperienced crossbowmen and women moved through the woods with mixed stealth. Nag was silent as a shadow, of course, but fat Nedys to the right could have passed as a stone hog. Maybe Nag could teach her to grunt and that would solve everything.

The two ‘sleeves’ fanned out. Nag was on the left flank, with Feather on one side and Salt on the other, slightly behind. They moved up until even Feather could hear the stomps of metal boots on the path ahead. Auntie signaled to stop and they did, the signal relayed across the line.

And then Nag heard it, to the side. She signaled quickly.

‘Two soldiers. Front. Heavy.”

The others stopped and lowered themselves, cloaks merging with the woods around. A moment later, Auntie’s reply came.

‘Kill’

Exactly as expected. Nag lifted her crossbow and focused. [Patient shot] wound up as the footsteps approached.

Two soldiers walked over the crest of the slope. Armored. Helmets off for a better view, maybe? Bored. Confident. Foolish.

A feathered quarrel bloomed on the back man’s face, right below the nose. Hers. Muffled twangs replied and other quarrels caught the lead man in the throat, eyes. Nag was already sprinting. She caught the back man before he fell, pushing him over her shoulder. Fucking heavy. Salt had the other. They retreated, then pushed the bodies against a trunk.

Nag now had some blood on her shoulder. Ugh. She checked the lead man, just in case.

Feather’s quarrel was the throat one.

She raced back to her position, gently patting Feather on the shoulder as she passed her by.

“Nice shot, girlie.”

Feather nodded, leaned forward, then vomited her lunch.

Waste of food. Bah. Though she didn't feel like it, Nag chuckled at the stuffy woman’s expense. She had a reputation to maintain.

Nag returned to her position. The column was getting closer. There should have been sentries looking at the sentries in case someone took them down — standard Witchpact operation protocol — but those regulars were awfully sloppy.

Another signal. The line climbed up to the crest, and now Nag could see much farther, including the road. There were a couple of flankers making their way up but they were discussing and laughing. After burning a village, no less, Nag thought with a note of annoyance. The road was down and to her right, and the column was fast approaching.

She kneeled and waited. Feather aimed, then stopped when she realized Nag kept down. Crossbows were heavy. No need to tire her arms just yet. They would be plenty tired before this was over.

The column arrived in full view, led by a powerfully built warrior on a horse. Rare things, those, at least down here. It must be important.

Too bad for him.

Bird call. Bleak sparrow again. Nag aimed.

Auntie’s bolt caught the leader in the head. Her enchanted bolt practically cut it in half, covering the vanguard in brains. Nag was one of the first to get a good clean hit on another guy, in the chest. He fell with a scream. At this range, crossbows went through mail like butter.

The Bitter Hearts silently unloaded into the screaming block, but they were fast to react. A bulky man screamed orders until a shield wall formed. It was slow though, and Nag scored a few more hits between clumps of skill-backed defenses. The bleak sparrow call came again. Two shorts, one long.

Time to leg it.

Nag fell back at a dead sprint, Feather and Salt on her heels. They stopped at the nearest slope and took position while the rest of the sleeve fell back in turn, and not a moment too soon. The first of the enemy regulars crested the incline in groups of five. Nag’s [Patient shot] caught one in the helmet but it failed to penetrate. Probably a defensive skill, dammit.

The second half of the sleeve covered the first while it raced out of the woods. Nag resisted the urge to turn tail while Mug sprinted by her. Her covering shots kept the regular at bay, but more and more small groups were appearing, moving forward carefully behind their skill-backed protection. Her next quarrel pinged against a steel shield, failing to penetrate.

Bleak sparrow call again. Time to run. Again, the regulars saw the Witchpact disengage and thought it meant they could run but the rest of the sleeve got a few heads, and they returned to hunkering behind shields. Like this, the Bitter Hearts reached the village gates with no casualties.

“They don’t have archers?” Feather asked with a fearful voice.

“Don’t jinx it, girlie.”

“For the last time, Nag, I’m older than you!”

No archers came to puncture Nag’s buttcheeks, by some miracle. The regulars were advancing slowly towards the gates, again in groups of seven or eight, forming half-circles. It would allow them to move around without losing their defensive posture.

Frustrating.

Nag realized she was on her second quiver. Auntie and the others were still taking potshots at the foe. Nag felt something was wrong. The lash marks on her back flared, telling her of danger.

“There,” she said.

Large groups of regulars were rushing along the flanks of the village. They were trying to surround them.

“Auntie?”

“I know, Nag. Saw them too.”

The rest was left unsaid.

The villagers needed more time.

“Sucks to be us,” Nag said.

Her scars told her to run. They’d never been wrong. Not once.

“What?” Feather asked.

“Nothing girlie.”

Salt didn’t speak. He got it too. Village wasn’t big neither. Thirty houses, half of them crispy. Yeah.

No place to hide.

It wasn’t too late to run.

“Fall in. Squad two, move to the other gate. Stand then city combat, groups of three.”

Yep.

Nag switched to patient shots. Hers were dangerous and she caught two greaves and an eye by the time the fuckers were too close to get more. Feather was breathing hard and missing every shot, but at least the loud pang on their shields taught them to advance carefully. Then the closest group of seven soldiers broke out and charged.

Nag was waiting for it. She turned and used [Witchpact parting], catching a fucker in the stomach. With his magical defenses down, the reg fell like a sack, slowing down the others. Her group retreated into the village at a brisk pace. Salt got a great shot on one of the sergeants too, then the rest of the reg squads charged and the Bitter Hearts legged it. Nag took the lead because she was the fastest and because her back scars burnt now, whispering what to do. She turned right in a spot between two houses, only one burnt. The next reg to appear somehow caught her bolt in the shield. Without a defensive skill, the bolt pierced right through but stopped against the fucker’s gorget. Still gave him a good scare though.

The race was on.

Nag guided the other two through a labyrinth of sheds and barns, her feet trampling gardens in their mad dash. She heard String die first, somewhere behind. Cornered probably. Another quickly cut scream might have been Nell. She had to stop thinking about her friends dying or she’d be next.

Her scars flared again.

“Up,” she said.

Jumping, she managed to catch onto a beam and then drag Feather up. The two of them got Salt halfway before the regs found them. They were too heavy to follow. One of them threw his spear, but it was clear he had no skill for it and the improvised javelin missed Salt by three handspans. Nag would have laughed if she had the spare breath to do so.

“Go.”

One more quarrel, this one catching the spear chucker in the ribs. He’d be down for a while. Another scream in the distance marked the death of another Bitter Heart. Nag urged the other three across the roofs, of which there were exactly two before they came across the main road crossing the village from end to end.

Mug and Auntie were at the edge of the road, blocking one of the side passages and battling a pair of soldiers. Mug was already bleeding. They didn’t have shields.

“Ah!”

Feather stumbled.

A stone. The regs had thrown a fucking stone. Salt tried to grab her, but in vain. Feather fell awkwardly, on her waist. There was a crack.

The regs caught up to them. Mug and Auntie’s backs were exposed. Nag’s scars flared again, more painful than usual.

That was it then.

Nag fell right behind Salt. Her [Witchpact parting] landed one last good hit before she had to draw her short sword. The reg facing her still had a quarrel lodged deep into his shoulder. She exchanged a few fast strikes with him, sweating, while Salt handled the other. Nag wasn’t used to this standing and fighting. She didn’t want to be here, facing that fucker who was trying to skewer her. Parry. Counter. This wasn’t her way of fighting!

By some miracle, she managed to deflect the guy’s blade into the wall. Her counter landed square on his chest, only to bounce off his chestplate. She ducked under the counter but it almost landed on Salt’s cheek. They were very close. She could smell the bastards.

Auntie grunted. Not good. A twang and a man’s yell told her Feather wasn’t staying down either.

The wounded man got pulled back by a massive hand belonging to a warrior in decorated armor. Tall fucker, calm despite everything.

“Finally,” the man simply said.

She recognized him. He’d given orders to keep his men calm after Auntie sniped their officer. Nag brandished her short sword like it was going to matter. She received the first blow just right, but the blade continued and cut into Salt’s flank. He fell. His opponent moved in for the kill.

The second strike smashed her against the wall. Her entire arms shook from the effort of just not dropping the blade.

The third blow fell down, and Nag’s mind went white. Her sword fell.

Her hand was— She stared in shock. it was missing half. Blood pumped from the gaping wound. Where were her damn fingers?

It hurt.

“Blame yourselves for being weak, weh” the officer said laconically.

Nag looked up and the last thought crossing her mind was that she’d died without getting laid first.

Then there was a horn. A ringing horn. Was it early or late? Nag couldn’t be sure. Behind her, the sounds of battle stopped as men swore and fell back. The officer frowned. His partner took a step back from Salt’s prone form.

Something rose from behind the officer as a man stepped in. He was tall, bearded, and wielded a massive two-hander that got to be a pain to use in an enclosed space. From the blood though, he’d just used it.

She recognized him from church. That was Lorn, the temple guard boss. Gold light shone from his eyes when he stepped forward. His sword blazed red, overloaded with fire mana. The heat blazed in the alley like a small sun. That man was angry. He opened his mouth, and out came a sentence that would stay with Nag forever.

“Right back at you.”

Lorn killed the officer in three swings, then he turned around and obliterated his way through another squad. A warcry filled the main street.

“The Rose.”

“AND THE THORNS!”

The regs ran, but not fast enough. Nag saw a pair of fleeing men pass Auntie and a heavily wounded Mug, then a wall of steel, blue roses, and black barding, and then just a lot of blood. She realized she was sitting on the ground next to a groaning Salt. Someone was bandaging her wound. It was Feather. The smirk warned her of what was coming.

“Hey.”

“Don’t you dare,” Nag said.

“Need a hand?”

“Fuck you.”

***
