“She’s a pain in the ass. Lady Magnolia gave us the freedom to go wherever we want, but Ressa keeps insisting we stay together in this part of the mansion.”
“Really? She didn’t seem that way to me.”
But Rose was nodding.
“She and Magnolia—well, they’re not bad—”
“Ressa is.”
“Right, but Magnolia’s generous. It’s just that she’s awkward, you know?”
“No?”
Erin had no idea, and Rose struggled to explain.
“Really awkward. It’s like she’s a countess out of Downton Abbey or something, you know?”
“Oh come on, she’s not that bad. She’s pretty outgoing!”
“Yeah, but watching everyone bow to her is kind of cringy, isn’t it? And she keeps laughing when we explain elections and democracy to her—”
“At least we’ve got proper toilets and they wash their hands here. I was really afraid they’d all be eating with crap on their hands or filthy and depressing like Game of Thrones.”
“I know, right? And the servants don’t seem to have any kind of education. You know they don’t have schools here? It’s as if—”
The girl that had been speaking broke off quickly. Erin turned in her seat, and saw the door at one end of the room was open. Ressa was standing there, quietly emanating…dissatisfaction.
Perhaps it was the look of the room. Food was scattered across the sofas, on plates or on the carpets. More drinks had been spilled, and half of the people within were lounging around or fiddling with the electronics they’d brought. Erin had been shocked to learn all of them were still able to use their devices thanks to near-daily [Repair] spells.
The [Head Maid] looked at Erin in the silence.
“Miss Solstice? Lady Magnolia will receive you at your convenience.”
Erin stood up.
“Looks like I’m going to meet her. Um, nice meeting you guys.”
She walked towards the door. Joseph stood up awkwardly as if to follow Erin.
“I’d—we’d like to go with Erin. To talk to Magnolia.”
The expression on Ressa’s face froze as she held the door open for Erin. She did not look quite at Joseph.
“Lady Magnolia will speak to you at a later date. For now she wishes to speak to Erin alone.”
“Yeah, but she’s one of us. Why does she have to be alone?”
“That is what Lady Magnolia wishes.”
Erin stepped past Ressa. She heard Joseph raised his voice.
“Could I—?”
“No.”
Ressa closed the door. And then she took a key from her pocket and locked the door from the outside. Erin wondered if that was overkill, but two seconds later she heard the door handle rattle slightly.
The maid turned and nodded to Erin again.
“My apologies. If you will follow me?”
Erin walked with the tall maid in the corridors in silence for a few minutes. It was hard to reestablish the conversation after all that. Erin cleared her throat silently, and then spoke up.
“Um, we were in there a long time. Was Lady Magnolia busy?”
Ressa shook her head as she walked Erin back through the corridors, and then up a long flight of stairs.
“Lady Magnolia felt it best that you mingle with the others for a while, given you had already met. She is now free from any business at the present time.”
“Oh. Good.”
More silence. Ressa was walking faster than normal again. Erin thought, and spoke to the maid’s back.
“I’m uh, sorry about the mess they made. I’m an [Innkeeper], so I know how it gets. I’ve got [Advanced Cleaning]. Maybe I could help…?”
“The [Maids] have the prerequisite skills. Do not worry.”
Ressa hesitated, and then looked at Erin.
“Thank you for offering, however. It is not often that we entertain such visitors.”
“Really? I thought she would have tons of guests.”
“She does, but they rarely stay for more than a few hours at a time.”
Joseph and the others had mentioned the servants weren’t too helpful with directing them or finding mages to cast [Repair]. Erin wondered how much of that was intentional.
“Do you uh, not like them? The people from my world, I mean? They don’t think you do.”
Silence from Ressa. She slowed as she passed by an open doorway. Erin caught a glimpse of a massive library filled with tomes being slowly dusted before she passed the entrance.
“We serve Lady Magnolia. We clean and cook, but we do far more than simply maintain her estate. We are there to help her.”
Not anyone else. Erin swallowed what she’d been about to say next.
“Here we are.”
Ressa stopped by a pair of double doors. She rested one hand on the golden knob and looked at Erin.
“I trust you will extend the same courtesies to Lady Reinhart as you have shown me. She is close to royalty as this land has to offer.”
Erin nodded seriously. She hesitated as Ressa pressed down on the handle.
“Um. Is there anything I should say? No one really told me why she wanted me here. What should I do?”
It was the mystery that not even the people from her world knew the answer to. Ressa paused, and looked at Erin.
“Be honest. Be truthful. Lady Reinhart has only your best interests in mind, and she has devoted quite a lot of money and time to gathering your companions here.”
Erin nodded.
“Thank you for the help.”
“You are welcome.”
Ressa smiled, just for a moment, and then the door opened. Slowly, Erin walked into the vast room and stopped.
It was pink. That was to say, someone had decided the theme for the room was elegant luxury, and the predominant color should be light pink. It wasn’t displeasing to the eye, but Erin felt that there was just too much of that color and not enough of anything else.
It was also a smaller room than Erin had expected; she’s almost believed she was entering an audience hall, but Ressa had led her to an intimate sitting room, the kind of place where you could chat and converse and gossip, but elegantly.
A large couch sat in the center of the room, across from its twin. A small table sat in the center, holding a tea pot, cups, and some light snacks.
And a woman was sitting at the couch. She wasn’t normal. Oh, she was no radiant beauty like Ressa, but neither was she ugly. She was quite attractive, but she wasn’t a young woman either. She was in her forties, a larger woman than Ressa, if shorter, and she was dressed in a shimmering gown of green that looked either magical or magically made. Her lips were lifted in a slight smile as she studied Erin, and Ressa stepped quietly behind her as another maid slowly closed the door behind the girl.
She was not normal. It wasn’t that she looked different, but that she held herself differently. From tip to toe, she was graceful, refined, and serene. When she moved or spoke or even laughed, it was still with a base of what could only be called class.
And she was looking at Erin. Her eyes were the only parts of her that weren’t veiled in politeness. They were like searchlights, sweeping Erin from top to toe, looking through her, at what she was, what she had done, what she would do. They were unsettling and mysterious and that, more than anything, made Erin stop where she stood.
Lady Magnolia was sitting, but Erin’s heartbeat grew faster as she stared down at this woman who owned so much. Erin thought of the Queen of the Antinium, sitting on her throne in the dark caverns. She swallowed once, and took a deep breath.
This was her. Ryoka’s pursuer, the one who’d pieced together the truth of Erin’s nature. A woman with wealth and power, a [Lady], and a living legend in her own right. The head of the Reinhart family, the heroine of the First Antinium War, and the woman who loved ice cream and blue fruit juice.
Lady Magnolia.
She smiled at Erin, and raised a cup of tea as she gestured to the couch in front of her.
“Good evening, Miss Solstice. Do take a seat. We have much to talk about.”
