A typical Elemental Bonsai was a miniature fruit-bearing apple tree, whose apples varied in type and element. The fruit each tree produced never changed but they could impart various effects depending on the fruit. The only downside of the tree, if it could be called that, was its lifespan was usually only a few dozen generations before it would wither and die.

This Ichor Bonsai Tree might or might not follow that rule. It was not normal.

Matt recognized it.

It was the heart of one wearboar which had given them such a hard time.

Except the wereboar’s circulatory system was now bent and twisted into the shape of a bonsai apple tree. The trunk of the tree, a massive fleshy pulsating vein, its branches, smaller capillaries, with a thin layer of golden flesh serving as leaves, almost similar to a bat's wing.

The apples were instead orbs of light floating beneath the vein branches.

Even as the harvesting team did their best to settle the Ichor Bonsai Tree in an environment that wouldn’t cause it to deteriorate, Matt, along with everyone else, tried to probe it and see if they could feel what it did.

Liz, being the resident ichor expert, spent a few extra moments inspecting the harvest but shrugged saying, “I don’t have the faintest clue what this does but I know it does something powerful. That's for sure. I wanna eat one so badly.”

Matt rolled his eyes but the official appraisers couldn’t tell them much more than that, so he had to give Liz the point. Anyone could tell the super unique Natural Treasure was powerful. The question ultimately depended on if it was powerful for them.

He suspected it wasn’t only valuable, but priceless. Once the tree was in a proper ichor environment, the tree pulsed with energy in a steady cadence, like a monster contented to stay in its new home.

Not that either of them were sad about not being able to tell what the item did. That generally meant the item was uniquely powerful, or at least unique in some capacity.

If the energy wasn’t ichor, Matt would almost have called it a regeneration type of Natural Treasure, but thanks to the fire and lighting aspects making ichor inherently volatile, eating one of the orbs raw like one normally ate the Elemental Bonsai Tree apples seemed like a particularly bad idea.

In the end, they couldn’t figure out what it did and could only preserve it and wait until better appraisers got their hands on the objects in settled space.

Liz shook Matt slightly, unable to contain her excitement as she leaned in for a kiss before saying, “We made out like bandits. We could turn back around to settled space right now and I wouldn't feel bad at all.”

Matt grinned back, knowing exactly how she felt, multiplied by his excitement for her to finally have some Natural Treasures of her own manat type to look over. Natural Treasures were, by their nature, mystical and sometimes people learned things from studying them. Sometimes it was as ‘simple’ as replicating its effect, but other times, it was as rare as creating new skills or bloodline abilities.

It wasn’t often, but Liz hadn’t even been able to try her luck before now, let alone actually have a Natural Treasure she might find personally useful.

Not that she was the only one to make out well in their excursion.

They all saw items they liked or wanted.

Best of all for Matt and Liz, they even found several ichor items they believed would protect any children they had from most of the worst effects of ichor. Or that was their observation based on the energies. Most likely that was a secondary or tertiary effect, but it was more than enough reason for them to be put aside carefully by the crew without Matt or Liz needing to say more than a word.

Another notable item they found was a Tier 20 Natural Treasure allowing anyone to enter a Legacy Obelisk another time, so long as they aren’t past the Treasure’s Tier. It was too low for them to use but the Imperial government would pay handily for it.

Matt’s personal vote for coolest item was the Dragon’s Tears Susanne pulled out of her personal project pocket spaces.

A honeydew-type Natural Treasure, Dragon’s Tears nectar was one of the original inspirations for the second set of Tier 10 bottled Concepts, allowing mass production of more complex artificial Concepts.

It, like a few other Natural Treasures, could grant whoever ate the single drop of nectar a Domain stage relative to its Tier. If Tier 25 or over, a Dragon's Tear would give an Intent. It was one of the few types of Natural Treasure that could be found with such vastly different effects given its Tier. Being able to compare the difference in the artificial Domains the Dragon’s Tears gave out as Concepts and Intents had been what allowed the original teams to create both variations of bottled Concepts.

Susanne didn’t particularly need an Intent of a mana type based entirely on her own energies, but the plant reacted to her.

So long as she was near the now-potted plant, the Dragon Tear would flourish and dance for hours on end even without a special environment; but if she didn’t visit often enough, the Dragon’s Tear would start to wilt. That ended the testing process as they didn’t want to harm the Dragon’s Tear and she put it in a pot and kept it with her, only placing it in long-term storage when they neared another ship or world.

That oddity made it Matt’s favorite item, hands down, and he wanted to know what a proper Talented appraiser would say about the item.

That was how Matt felt about most of their items. With the elemental ratios being in flux, the Natural Treasures produced were hard to identify but fun to speculate on.

Matt personally grabbed a Tier 30 ore that, when refined and properly treated, could be added to make bladed growth weapons sharper on a Tier up. It didn’t replace the items needed to evolve the growth item, instead absorbed alongside them.

That type of item was incredibly rare and valuable, to the degree they were normally used upon acquisition or shortly thereafter, not even making it to market, and better yet the variant he had was a neutral mana Natural Treasure, making it a perfect fit for him.

Every exploration group handled loot distribution and allocation differently.

Most smaller groups allowed crew members to take what they wanted for the item's estimated value so long as it was a known item, while others didn’t allow anyone to touch even the most common Natural Treasure without them going through an appraiser's hands.

Massive hauls from strange realms were one of the general exceptions where all but the closest teams would rather have the items inspected for oddities before use, hoping one of the items would be subtly different and hyper valuable.

It was rare but there were always teams popping up who made a fortune selling what looked like a normal Natural Treasure but was actually a rare variant.

Matt didn’t mind the resolution that everyone, crew and the seven of them alike, came up with. Once everything was inspected, anyone could take anything they wanted out of the bulk Natural Treasures below Tier 25, but everything over that, or anything that looked unique or special, was kept aside.

As the leaders of the expedition and the ones who hired the crew, as well as being the ones who had put in the hard work to get the Natural Treasures, the seven of them each got to take items within the estimated value they had. Following custom, one was entirely free, while the others would be paid for according to their estimated value.

They insisted the crew all take at least one item as well but most of the crew genuinely seemed to want to wait until after the appraisal so they could ensure they got the best item.

The seven of them had no such patience.

Matt’s first choice was obvious and he grabbed the Tier 30 ore. It was an easy pick and even going after Susanne, she didn’t need it and so didn’t take it. A strange realm might let him upgrade his sword out there and he didn’t want to miss that opportunity, which was why he was carrying his neutronium ingot with them.

Sadly, despite the plethora of arcane Natural Treasures, none of them were known mana-aspecting Natural Treasures. He didn’t give up hope entirely yet, as there’d be a flood of Natural Treasures entering the market, including from people going even deeper than them, but it was still unfortunate on an otherwise spectacular haul.

As his second choice, Matt picked up a Tier 30 Arcane Life Scale. They had never seen the exact Natural Treasures before but the energy signature was clear. Anyone who consumed it would have their spirit strengthened, more than fulfilling the requirements for all three crafters who could modify his sword to add the neutronium ingot should he not find a strange realm to do it in the breach.

Such strange realms weren’t exactly common but they weren't rare either.

Best of all, the seven of them retrieved several such spirit boosting treasures and Matt took the neutral mana one that he hoped would be synergistic with his existing Natural Treasures. Everyone else in their group followed suit and selected the spirit boosting Natural Treasures that best fit them, even if that meant lack of specialization.

That was in fact the first and last Natural Treasures all of them absorbed. As much as he and the others would love to just absorb all of the best Natural Treasures, over their lives and post--Path careers, they had absorbed a lot of precious items and Natural Treasures. If they absorbed the wrong item, they might find themselves weaker, even if they gained a new ability, so while they happily used what they immediately could, they didn’t go overboard quite yet.

Thankfully, there were ways around such complications most of the time, but they usually took additional potions or carefully balancing to pull off so they only had to be patient.

Not that they minded only taking so few items, but that seemed to surprise the crew more accustomed to Lila’s draconic tendencies.

Though that didn’t mean they held themselves back. Liz found a familiar looking ore that she felt would upgrade the Blood Iron she had absorbed so long ago when they were on the Path.

Her instincts had told her the ichor Natural Treasure would allow her to increase the varieties of metals her Blood Iron could create and there was no reason not to take it. Reality proved her slightly wrong but in an even better way, as the ore additionally gave the metals produced an ichor slant, allowing Liz to make, with great effort, small amounts of ichor variants of any metal her now upgraded Blood Iron could create. That in turn gave her a bit more control over the metal while it was in her blood, which was a nice tertiary benefit all things considered. Given enough time she would be able to convert all of the metal she stored in her blood but that would take a considerable amount of time as it was a biological process even she couldn't do more than nudge along.

Liz wasn’t the only one to get a little extra out of the more unique Natural Treasures but she did make out the best with that one.

Her second major item wasn’t ichor-related at all. In fact it was one Natural Treasure they pulled out of a neutral mana pocket space, and Matt was fairly sure it had come out of his gem, letting him claim credit. It was possibly in the top one hundred rarest items they had gotten all together, right next to his Life Scale, only waiting for the unknown items to be identified to claim its place.

It was the type of item crews boasted about for decades.

A Master’s Dominion was a two-part Natural Treasure, consisting of any two naturally connected, entwined items, one parasitic on the other. Most such treasures allowed a beast master cultivator to project their Domain through their monsters as extensions of themselves, somewhat similar to a bond like Matt and Aster shared.

Best of all, the variation they found was one of the variations that worked regardless of which ‘monster’ it was channeled through.

The instant two Lizzes took the miniature pine tree and clinging ivy and crushed them, Matt felt her Domain pulse.

A third Liz stepped out of her and she tried to project her Domain through the additional clone at the same time.

From the tentative fluxations it was clear it almost worked, the connection faltering at the last moment, but Matt was happy regardless. He knew this would let Liz remove one of her final few limitations of only being able to project her Domain from a single body at a time.

In another century, Matt was confident Liz would have expanded the power into a dozen or more bodies, making her all the more lethal.

Aster’s haul was a little less personally useful, as she was attempting to shift her bloodline and didn’t particularly need winter, ice, or aurora Natural Treasures, but they had made pocket spaces of each type just in case and a few paid off.

She took a Core of an Ice Mountain gem Natural Treasure that made ice spells channeled through it more robust. Once she merged the gem with her tiara, she’d empower her golem’s innate defense but she’d need to Tier up her tiara or find a strange realm that interacted with growth items if she wanted to get it improved before they returned to settled space.

Her most impactful upgrade was an uneventful Tier 25 space Natural Treasure stolen from Allie, at least according to the teleporter, that once absorbed into her Talent’s spirit space made it harder to escape from once inside.

She then reinforced it even more with a Winter Gaol seed.

When carefully nurtured in a sufficiently cold environment, it would grow into a large evergreen tree that strengthened the cold in its surrounding, letting it seep deeper into cultivators body and making it harder to resist, paradoxically growing stronger as you near the edges of its area of the tree's influence.

