It took pride of place at the center of her spirit space, and she hoped that its influence would grow to cover it in its entirety. To aid with that, she also grabbed a handful of plant boosting and Winter based natural treasures to hopefully nurture and strengthen it even further.

Allie wasn’t any less happy than Aster. The teleporter had ensured her and Zack made her pocket space perfectly, and their diligence had paid off. She got two Natural Treasures that would help her bypass spatial restrictions.

The lower Tier Natural Treasure, a Tier 26 Invisible Feather, would take a decade or so to fully absorb but it would allow her to slip through more elegant anti-teleportation wards. Her second Natural Treasure was a Tier 30 phantom that had come from the boss when it inverted, similar to Liz’s bonsai tree being a singular drop.

They had no idea what it would do but Allie was confident it was going to be good for her.

She additionally took a Void Stone as one of her rewards. Instead of being related to void mana, the Natural Treasure was a space-type natural treasure they weren’t sure where it came from, indicating it might have been one of the Natural Treasures the other teams created.

Its main purpose was to allow cultivators to add a space aspect to their Domains but Allie felt she could hone her Domain on the item and paid for it gleefully.

Not that Zack had been left bereft.

The two of them had made a travel mana pocket space but most of the items were beyond their crew’s ability to appraise. Zack however absorbed a Travel mana Natural Treasure that was little more than a single wisp of purple energy. Once absorbed, it let him sense fast moving objects around him independently of his other senses, which would certainly come in handy should they encounter Valentina or somebody like her in the future.

He then grabbed a lifesaving Natural Treasure. In fact it was meant to synergize with the first Natural Treasure. Spring’s Rebirth did exactly what its name implied and allowed a cultivator to recover from fatal damage.

It was a one-time-use item but it was so valuable because once absorbed, the Spring’s Rebirth would last forever, growing with Zack as he Tiered up instead of being rendered ineffective.

Susanne actually absorbed one of the travel mana treasures as well, taking the speed-enhancement effect of her existing Natural Treasures to the next level, as well as picking up one of the known divination items.

Unnamed but with a recognizable energy structure, the Natural Treasure allowed Susanne to hone all of her seeker abilities, her single eye Natural Treasure, onto one object, her sword. Doubling up on what her eye already did showed small improvements in her sparing ability as her now twice enhanced eyes adjusted to the upgrade, letting her see more with less effort. Once she settled in and adjusted to the additional information, Matt was curious to the level she would reach.

She intended to absorb a Domain clone enhancing Natural Treasure but they could only digest so many chances at once if they didn’t want to risk rejection.

Rah, on the other hand, initially struggled to pick any of the best items and only after they insisted did he pick a few things out, preferring, like the crew, to wait and make an informed choice for most of his share.

The few things he did take all grabbed Matt’s attention. A chunk of Tier 30 granite speckled with veins and spots of gold Rah intended to absorb feeling it would have a positive effect.

He was pleasantly surprised as his personally enchanted stone gained an innate suppression effect on other enchanted items near them. The effect wasn’t debilitating in its current form but it was a small passive reduction to anyone who got in close.

After much pressure he also absorbed a second known Natural Treasure. A Mote of Chaos looked exactly like its name implied but instead of killing the user it allowed them to modify a single aspect of a spell. Matt had considered taking the mote but it was notoriously unreliable when used on cracked spells and he was happy for Rah to take anything, feeling bad seeing him watching the rest of them absorb or grab Natural Treasures.

They even had lower Tier Natural Treasures Matt identified that their friends and family might find useful and they all blissfully settled in to adjust to the influx.

The high of the previous strange realm was followed up by three more Tier 15 or higher worlds that housed above average loot, but eventually they could progress no further and settled down on a Tier 31 world, intending to strip it bare.

They had reached the center of the Rasdale tidal breach and where there should have been energies of the second layer of chaotic space. Instead, they found a core of energies from the third layer, making it too dangerous to risk going in deeper.

Like everyone else they would settle down until the metaphorical gates opened up and try to hit as many strange realms near them until they could go deeper.

But first they needed to defend their conquest from everyone following.

***

Abbey Capple waited patiently in her brightly lit office for the countdown for the start of her work month. She loved her wife but as the shift officially started and her graphs, spreadsheets, cell growth reports, and live feeds of her herbs updated, she felt at ease.

This was her element. Not home where she just wished she could get back to her herbs. Her shift partner Vester’s work was passable, but Abbey knew she was able to do far better. She just hadn’t yet been able to impress the higher-ups enough to be trusted with full-time care of an herb growing station.

She was in fact one of the junior most Analysts at SunShine Herbs, the premier Tier 30 supplier of Alchemists in the Corporations’ Prime sector two Sub sector five from the innumerable Base sector worlds. If one day they could break into the Tier 45 market, they would be able to operate in all three Prime sectors.

It was in fact the elevation to a Tier 30 company that Abbey, a newly immortal Tier 15, had been able to join the grandiose mega corp as they bought up the empty space in star systems of her subsector and set up new orbital-scale greenhouses.

Anyone who was really into herbology had applied, and it was only through a dozen ruthless interviews and test rounds that Abbey had earned her job on the underside of the massive monoliths in a Tier 11 world.

In the space stations, SunShine Herbs grew millions of herbs for alchemists of Tier 9 or lower. Those who worked over there were the farmers. They dealt with massive quantities of low-level herbs where a bruised leaf or a slight discoloration might be acceptable.

Those fields took massive installations, but instead of letting that hard work go to waste, SunShine Herbs had used the existing infrastructure to grow as near perfect herbs as was possible.

Her herbs were sold only to privileged clients who paid for near perfection. It was her job to take living and breathing things and make them grow to a uniform yet perfect state.

The alchemists who used her herbs would eventually become the leading figures of alchemy companies, whether they be the SunShine Herbs internal alchemist or outsiders the mega corp sold to.

Looking over the previous month's information and inspecting each of the herbs thoroughly, Abbey went through each choice Vester made.

She made several corrections but overall it was an acceptable job, even if not as good as she could have done.

Before she knew it, a month had passed, and she returned to normal life for the next month. Delicate work like hers had its benefits, but it also had its downsides, and she caught up with her wife whom she hadn’t seen in all that time. As Tier 15s, that wasn’t the end of the world, but they genuinely enjoyed each other's company and Abbey was more than happy to spend her time hanging out quietly while Diana worked on whatever repair commissions she had between larger new forgings.

If their schedules clashed, they might only talk once or twice, but Abbey was pleasantly surprised when she was greeted with a prepared meal and a present.

The news that her wife had gotten a large commission to rework an adventuring company's training gear and she would be going head down for the next three months was mollified somewhat by her wife's gift, a new-to-her old book.

When she wasn’t able to tend to her herbs, Abbey loved nothing more than curling up with a good book in the loft above Diana’s workshop, listening to the quiet sounds that made it through the carefully-controlled sound dampening enchantments.

Thankfully, her wife's hobby to do when she had time off while Abbey was working was scouring old junk stores looking for things she could repair for a profit and she often found old books for Abbey.

Abbey didn’t particularly care what she read but she enjoyed the process of reading an old book. There was a history in that, and Diana had found her a storybook printed on a very rare paper that felt rough when new but baby smooth when handled.

The book was clearly well-read and each page had smudges and smears.

Abbey carefully checked the rearmost page and found the link carefully stamped onto the fiber where no one could see with normal vision but was obvious to spiritual sense. There she found other people chatting about the book.

Immortals needed hobbies and Abbey had chosen old books. The hobby gathered on private forums and talked about the single book using the links hidden in the fiber of the book as ways to ensure only people who had read the book talked in the right chats.

The story itself was simple and Abbey read something she meant to ask Diana about, but discarded it when she saw how busy her wife was.

After preparing meals for Diana to eat when she was gone in case Diana came up for air, Abbey went back to work and forgot all about the story. It wasn’t until three months later when she returned home was Diana able to ask how she liked the book, having finally finished her project and taking time off to make a custom-order for a new enchanted weapon.

In another few decades, they hoped she’d be able to open her own full-time shop instead of being an independent craftsman who had to pick up side jobs to fund her main craft. Tier 15 was a brutal career Tier for crafters with so many people stalling out, but between the two of them, their differences ensured they’d manage to muddle through eventually as they both improved their skills.

“I liked the book. It was very old, which is always a plus. It was a cute collection of stories. I think a family with a young child had it. A few stains but it was well maintained. Thank you for it.”

Diana was looking set to preen when Abbey asked, “It did make me have a question though. I forgot what the question was though. Give me a moment.”

Quickly scanning the copy of the book her [Assistive Intelligence ME26-MI] had made, Abbey found the spot in the story that had prompted the idea.

“Here it is. This story is about a train that falls through a hole in reality to a new world, but can’t return for some contrived reason that makes no sense, so the people create a new civilization. One of the things they found was a rift that had light aura in a world without a star.”

Diana snorted. “Ahh, so it's that type? I get where you’re going now. They are super lucky and the main character becomes a Tier 50 of their own Great Power. I’ve read the type. Who’s the author? Have we read them before?”

Abbey waved a hand. “Don’t distract me yet! I wanted to ask about this moment where they happen to have some enchantment master who knew of super old enchantments that used aura to make light enchantments wayyyy more mana-efficient and made plants grow at visible speeds. The reasoning given was ‘they are normally too expensive to be practical’. I think the guy was really just a way for the author to smudge the numbers without relying on Talents but it… caught my eye. I wanted to ask if you had heard of anything like that before. Usually when an author uses that kind of logic it's because something similar exists. I thought it was interesting and wanted to know if it was really a thing.”

Their small little ritual was one of the affectations they both happily continued even now that they weren’t mortals hardly scraping by. Back then, they would ask each other to look up information if the other person had more related database access instead of spending the credits to risk a single search cost.

Diana was more than happy to help her look and, being adjacent to the enchanting field as a smith who enchanted her own work, Abbey’s wife had better information sources than most.

Through the book, they were able to track down the real name of the magically powerful rune instead of the one the author used.

The Mendel Enchantment.

Abbey was just going to write the idea off as fantasy but Diana found an old repository of nonstandard, and generally useless, runes and enchantments that had the full information about the Mendel Enchantment. Being a collection of junk, it was cheap enough to be an easy buy.

Abbey poked at it with Diana to see what was so bad about the enchantment, but was aghast to see the enchantment was nowhere near what the book portrayed. She hadn’t expected much, but that much aura could make a dozen aura potions. In fact, the light enchantment was less than one percent more efficient when created with the aura than without, but the rumors of herbs growing faster was nothing more than rumors perpetrated by those who didn’t believe in the numerous reports proving otherwise.

The aura also had to be treated in an overly complicated alchemical bath that, as far as they could tell, only served to strip away what made the aura unique to make it easier to handle, which only added to the cost.

