Abbey laughed away the idea, with Diana moving on after she was properly distracted.

Later the next morning, Abbey found herself alone in bed, not seeing her wife anywhere in the loft.

She unsurprisingly found Diana in the workshop, but instead of hammering away on some project, she found her wife scribbling enchantments into a paper.

Upon seeing her, Diana said the words that changed their lives. “I think I can make this light enchantment better. I was thinking about how sad it was the inventor had to use a potion to get any control over the aura when I realized two things. Aura, as well as aura control methods, are cheap now. That means I might be able to leverage any cost-saving measures the aura adds if I update the rune to modern standards."

Understanding what that might mean, Abbey immediately supported her wife in the endeavor, lending what little she could do to help.

A more efficient selective full-spectrum light source could be amazing for her herbs and a dozen other purposes.

While trying to sleep, Diana couldn’t stop thinking about how foolish it was to soak aura for the Mendal rune, something whose value depended on how pure it was, before using it.

She was half convinced that was the major part of the enchantment’s problem.

As it turned out, she was partially correct. Using raw light aura directly was possible but hard. It didn’t accept handling easily, which was a problem all alchemists who made aura potions knew well. That meant they had techniques though, and by practicing one, Diana was able to get a hang on it well enough to apply it to enchanting, giving her her first breakthrough.

It took five years of iterations, five years of free time spent, five years of missed meals and extra work for both of them to support each other, but Diana managed to create a new light enchantment that was exactly one percent more mana efficient than the currently available same-Tier runes.

The added upfront cost of the aura hurt the return on investment payback period but the theoretical reduction in mana upkeep would hopefully be enough to counteract that. The math made sense but it was close with their first iteration.

Seeing that, Diana turned her attention to the process of enchanting with aura instead of only raw mana, trying to separate what was a useful step and what was fluff only done because it was what had worked the first time.

She wasn’t able to completely reverse engineer the process, letting her make any rune accept aura as an input, but Diana was able to make the rune more efficient by improving the original Mendel rune.

Finally, they had their answer when Diana created a more efficient rune while keeping the original engraving method intact, sans the potion, giving them an almost three percent reduction in mana upkeep across light enchantments of all sizes.

A bit shabby, but viable, product in hand, they secured the rights to the invention, documenting everything. A truly new light source was useful but not ground breaking enough that companies were ready to retrofit their factories proactively if the two of them didn’t make any further breakthroughs.

Abbey would have been happy to use her job as an avenue to sell the invention to SunShine Herbs but Diana hated the idea of working for a mega corp. Instead, they began preparing for a product showcase, which meant testing things themselves, getting the information potential clients would need to pass up the corporate chain of command if they wanted to sell a finished product to even a low-Tier corporation, let alone a high-Tier one.

Knowing that more numbers were never bad, Abbey took her turn at the helm of the project and blocked off Diana’s workshop and most of their living space. Sticking with what the two of them knew, she had Diana create five small-sized encapsulated herb gardens to show the mana efficiency improvements using their light runes over the competitors’.

Abbey, being herself, put her everything into the project. She spent two years getting baselines before she even started the experiment, going as far as to go on an extended break from work, forcing the couple to dip into their savings.

She wouldn’t half-ass growing an herb, even if it was for a side project that might never take off.

It was in those tests trying to showcase Diana’s new rune’s mana efficiency that she noticed a discrepancy.

The herbs using Diana’s grow lights grew the tiniest bit faster than those not.

If it wasn’t for Abbey recording cellular division charts like she normally did at SunShine Herb when tracking growth models, she never would have noticed the discrepancy. It was that small of a difference, but remembering the rumors about the original enchantment and knowing how valuable even a tiny increase in efficiency could be for a corporation and how much they would pay for that, the two of them immediately pivoted their testing for the much larger prize.

It took Abbey fully quitting her job and ten years of improvements from Diana with another three of testing, but they definitively proved their new version of the Mendel Enchantment made plants grow faster.

It wasn’t even at a full percent yet but even Diana alone had managed to get it there, showing the vast potential aura-based enchanting had. Or at least the potential the Mendal rune had.

Knowing they couldn’t handle things on their own, they went to the first Tier 40 lawyers who would take the time to listen to them in an effort to protect themselves.

Six months of preparation later, they had a meeting with the law firm enticing the various interested factions into a private auction for the details of their work.

Things had grown well beyond them and they had no issues selling out and securing their fortune, unlike those who continued to push for so much they ended up dead as a consequence.

When the rune was unveiled and its abilities made public for the first time, they watched on their private feed as the various company executives panicked. Suspecting this reaction would happen beforehand, the auction house announced a brief intermission while they ‘passed around additional information’. The executives used the opportunity to call everyone they could, trying to leverage everything. Most felt that was their company’s greatest hope of not being slowly pushed out in the next decades as one competitor edged past them with all of the information carefully hidden from the briefings.

An early lead might not matter but some of the time it meant the race was lost and they didn’t want to risk being the next example.

The law firm took twenty percent of the final sale value for their services but without them, the high-Tier corporations would have simply taken what they wanted rather than paying the two of them at all.

Abbey and Diana walked into the meeting two fairly average Tier 15s and flew out two of the richest Tier 15s seen in immortal generations, having caused a storm that had still yet to settle as the companies that failed to secure the invention pivoted into damage control.

More companies yet took the announcement of the sale and started looking into aura empowered enchantments seeing if there was anything they had missed.
