Frustration. Black despair. Rage and helpless…loss. The memories came more frequently, now. It was easier looking into a void. But seeing fragments, incomplete, broken reflections of what had been was far worse if you remembered…glory.
Perfection as it had existed in this wretched world.
Time had run out. There were no more excuses today. No more distractions, magical drinks, or misunderstandings regarding genitalia.
One of them had quit. QUIT. As if you could walk away from what you were, what you had been made for. And the rest were insubordinate.
Especially…him. Pawn. He had disobeyed all orders, not even bothering to make excuses anymore. Where the other ones tiptoed around the lines, he walked over them.
The True Antinium’s fury was directed at him. Fury. And the dark resolve to restore order. A kind of enmity born from frustration and—confusion.
Today was going to be a day of causality. Casualty. And it was Pawn to whom the enmity was directed. Pawn, upon whom Klbkch laid much of the blame for the state of his Hive, the failure as he saw it. Pawn, who he abhorred for what he was.
He was not the only one.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was a peaceful place of late. Or rather, if there was madness, it wasn’t of the inn-destroying, monsteriffic kind. There really was a rhythm to it.
As the day began, early in the morning before even most of the guests were at work, Lyonette personally served people. Only a handful.
“Can I get a big meal of something pasta-heavy? I’m working all day.”
A [Laborer] Gnoll waved a paw at the [Princess]. She brought out lasagna after a moment, piping hot; it had just needed to be warmed up. And it was fresh as the moment Erin had made it.
Western food. It was heavy on the stomach, but there was nothing like it for people who wanted it in a hurry, and needed the kind of energy it produced.
The kind of people who could metabolize an entire bowl of ice cream, a slice of cake, and pizza with no consequences because they were going to burn that much energy. They existed. Of course, most people shouldn’t ever copy that example, but The Wandering Inn had a small clientele of [Worker]-classes who rose at the crack of dawn and liked getting their food in a moment. And Relc.
As for the staff and other guests, well, Lyonette served them too. Erin Solstice’s face seemed glued to the table. She’d been playing chess all last night. Up into the daylight, with her mystery opponent. Lyonette hesitated before putting some oatmeal in front of Erin’s face. She had a feeling that if it had gone right under Erin as the [Innkeeper] put her face down, Erin Solstice would have drowned.
“Late night?”
“Mm. I stayed up laaaaate. But my opponent did too. They kept wanting to play so I…y’know?”
“And that makes it better?”
The [Princess] raised a brow. Erin looked at her blearily.
“Yes…?”
“At least you have [Twofold Rest].”
“Mm. Still doesn’t help if you only get two hours of sleep.”
Lyonette du Marquin, 6th Princess in line for the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, sighed. She gestured at the bowl.
“Eat. And then take an hour’s nap.”
“Yes, Mom.”
The [Princess] stopped. She adjusted her tray of food, which she balanced on one arm. Then she leaned over and poked Erin in the side.
It was a very Gnollish action. Erin yelped and sat up. She glared, but Lyonette was already walking away, smiling to herself. She stopped at a table with two diners. The [Princess] deposited her three mostly-identical plates on the table.
“Breakfast! Hamburger for you, Mrsha. And a little egg…whoops—without bread for you, Pawn. And here’s the ketchup…”
The two looked up. A little white Gnoll stared at her tiny hamburger on a bun, with an egg on the side. And the Antinium looked at his substantially larger hamburger, with three eggs. No bun.
Because of course, Pawn was Antinium. And Lyonette had for herself a copy of Mrsha’s meal.
“There’s a bit of sliced apple too, Mrsha. Don’t give me that look. You don’t need a big-person sized hamburger. That’s too much for your stomach. See? I have the same meal.”
Lyonette saw the little Gnoll child, her daughter, look pointedly at Pawn’s plate. And his hamburger was three times her size. Lyonette paused.
“Pawn can’t eat bread. And he’s a Worker.”
“Thank you for the food, Lyonette. Surely, Mrsha may have some of my meal.”
The Antinium Worker smiled at Lyonette. She smiled back, sliding in between the two. Mrsha nearly lifted her hamburger off the bun before she saw Lyonette’s warning look. She glumly stared at the fork Lyonette was nudging towards her. Mrsha nudged it back and picked up the hamburger and bun and chomped into it.
“Don’t spoil her, Pawn. Mrsha gets enough snacks from Gnolls anyways. I know she’s growing, but she doesn’t need to eat that much meat. Right?”
The [Princess] carefully ate her fried egg. Pawn nodded obligingly.
They were an odd trio. A [Druid], a [Princess], and a [Priest]. Of course, they were more than their classes. A white Gnoll, a member of Terandrian royalty, and an Antinium Worker.
…No, it was still an odd grouping. But they all had a connection. A strong one. Lyonette smiled as she lifted her fork towards her mouth. She saw Pawn eating with the Antinium gusto towards all food that wasn’t their horrible nutrient mush. But he was glancing at her, too. The two met eyes and paused to smile at each other.
One, a Human face, a young woman with red hair, a sign of royal blood in some parts of Terandria. The other, an Antinium, insect’s face. Waving antennae, multifaceted eyes. Two mandibles open, lifted in a smile. But their expressions were similar.
It was the expression, the exact same across two faces, of a nauseatingly cute couple in love. No one else in the inn really noticed. Erin was staring at the porridge, trying to remember how it worked. The other regulars were eating, chatting. Somewhere, Niers Astoragon was being poked by Foliana as he yawned into his bowl of soup.
But then again—someone was watching the sickening display. Someone, like Klbkch, harbored a grudge. A little Gnoll watched Lyonette and Pawn. She scowled at her food and folded her arms.
After a second, Lyonette and Pawn realized Mrsha was there again and went back to their meal. But they sat close to each other and they had that—new cadence to their dialogue.
“So…you’re going back to the Hive. Will Klbkch be angry with you?”
“Perhaps. But I believe I can mollify him with my new Skill. At any rate, I will try to come back tonight. With the others, of course. It makes no sense for us to avoid Erin’s inn.”
“Of course. I mean, it is silly for them not to come here. But Klbkch is angry?”
“Extremely so. I will return, however. What—will you be doing?”
Pawn smiled again. Lyonette glanced around distractedly.
“Oh, I think I’ll go visit Krshia. Order some things personally—have our little chat. Then I’ll visit Zevara, and then I have to go back to managing the inn. Ishkr’s in charge so I can have the morning off.”
“Ah, that is very well. You deserve a break. But what about Mrsha?”
The two looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll was eating, discontentedly. She rolled her eyes.
Yes, thank you, I’m here.
Lyonette missed the look. She patted Mrsha on the shoulder, thinking it was about the food.
“Mrsha’s going to visit Ekirra and Visma. They’re going to help Elirr, isn’t that right, Mrsha? They’re learning how to help manage the animals; he’s got his hands—paws, excuse me—full with that little Wyvern.”
“That is very good. And perhaps Mrsha will level up in her class? Druids manage animals, or so I understand. Klbkch has not rendered much information unto me, but the Antinium have notes on classes. Books as well.”
“Really? I never knew!”
The Antinium nodded as he ate. Mrsha was already done with her hamburger.
“Yes. It is one of the things the Hive has in secret. I will bring you some books, if you’d like?”
“I would. Thank you, Pawn.”
Lyonette smiled. Pawn was sharing some of the Hive’s secrets with her. In theory, this would have enraged a certain Antinium even more. But no one cared. Not Pawn, nor Bird, who was sitting in his tower, eating a squishy bird with worms in it.
Each to their own. And you couldn’t fault the two for liking each other, right? They had formed a connection. And their relationship, as unusual as it was, had—benefits.
“So—I haven’t tried my new Skill out. But I think it might work later. It’s not the best, but…well, I can’t be greedy, right? And it is an interesting one. I’ll ask Zevara to help me test it.”
Benefits. Pawn had leveled up. He was a [Priest]. Level 24. He had gained a new Skill. Well—not a Skill per se. Lyonette was very excited about it.
She had gained a Skill too. She was Level 19 now, a [Worldly Princess], a rare class consolidation before Level 20, even. And her new Skill was called [Magnified Training].
“What do you believe the Skill does, Lyonette? Ah, you have something on your cheek.”
The [Princess] looked up as Pawn lifted a napkin. She let him clean it off her face. She shrugged.
“You know—it just increases how fast I’ll learn the sword, or maybe magic. It’s one of those basic skills—I have so many of them now! But that’s the focus of my class, and I’m still below Level 20, so I think it’s not bad. Just not special. Hm, no, wait. I have a brilliant idea. Later today, what if I…?”
She leaned over. Mrsha’s ears perked up as she determinedly stared at her plate. She heard a whisper.
“Oh, that is a good idea. But it is very strange that both of us leveled up.”
“Well, I understand my class, but yours? Why would that…? Anyways, it’s an incentive, isn’t it?”
“Yes.”
The two looked at each other with that look again. Mrsha huffed.
Lyonette and Pawn had leveled up since yesterday. An event had made that occur.
Sex. The Gnoll cub paused. It had definitely happened. There was no denying it. It had changed…everything. And if she didn’t know the sordid details, the comedy—Mrsha knew what had happened. She crossed her arms.
After a second, the two realized she was there again.
“Oh, Mrsha—you’re nearly done? Just the egg? You eat quickly! What did I tell you about scarfing? Hold on, let me get a refill—Ishkr isn’t in yet. Sorry, Pawn.”
Embarrassed, Lyonette scolded Mrsha, as if she hadn’t been distracted half the meal already. Pawn glanced at Mrsha. As Lyonette rose to refill someone’s waving cup, he tentatively cut a sizeable chunk of hamburger and offered it to Mrsha.
“Would you like some, Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll, lover of all foods, looked at Pawn. Her eyes narrowed as Pawn offered her some of the tender hamburger. Mrsha turned her head, picked up a fork, and with rather deliberate care and pointedness, began cutting her egg into pieces and feeding herself with the utensils.
Pawn was taken aback.
“Well, if you would like some…”
He put it to the side of his plate, for Mrsha to grab. The white Gnoll girl shot him a look.
Yeah, sure, pal. Keep trying.
“Not hungry, Mrsha?”
Lyonette blinked as she came back and saw the Gnoll was eating slowly. Mrsha gave her a look too, but Lyonette still didn’t get it. She turned back to Pawn.
“Honestly, I don’t know how your class works, Pawn. It’s so—unique. Mine? I’m very glad about being a [Worldly Princess]. Otherwise, only royal acts would allow me to level. Which is why most of the royalty are under-leveled compared to everyone else. Well—we also level slower.”
“Really?”
Both Mrsha and Pawn looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] nodded.
“Don’t you know? I know I’ve taught you about class rarity, Mrsha.”
She had her little lessons with the Gnoll about things Lyonette had learned every few days. Mrsha nodded, but Lyonette explained it again for Pawn’s benefit.
“We level up more slowly the better a class is. You know the King of Destruction? My father said he was probably only above Level 50—not even Level 60. That’s just a guess, but it still makes him one of, if not the highest-leveled [Kings] in the world. The Blighted King would be around his level.”
“Could he be above Level 60?”
“Maaaybe. But no more than that. He’s the King of Destruction, but he doesn’t have to be high-level to have the ability to use his [Army of the King] or his Dreamers of Reim. Because he’s a [King], Flos Reimarch will have better Skills. I’d love to know how well a [Priest] ranks compared to say, a [Blademaster]. It does matter, you see.”
The Worker scratched at one antennae.
“I did not know that. But you have low levels, Lyonette. And you told me [Princesses] were mostly low-level, even if yours was particularly so.”
The [Princess] sighed.
“We level slowly, it’s true. Not just because our classes are some of the best in this world—we just don’t go into danger that much. And ruling a kingdom doesn’t let you level that much normally. There’s a list of monarchs and equivalent leader-classes above Level 40 that we keep. You know, dossiers on enemies and allies.”
Normal stuff. Mrsha and Pawn exchanged a glance, for a second in sync. Then Mrsha glared and turned her head. Lyonette went on.
“There are fewer than thirty rulers on that list. I think. A bit over thirty? Less than forty, in the entire world. Each one is a world power in their way. Only [Kings] and [Queens], by the way. [Lords] and [Ladies] don’t count, or anyone with a lesser class.”
“How inferior are they to your class?”
The young woman chewed as she thought about that.
“A Level 60 [Mayor] might be equal to a Level 30 [King]. Maybe they’d have a better city, but a [King]’s power extends across their entire kingdom. It’s about concentration of power. In her inn, Erin’s powerful. With her [Garden of Sanctuary] and her aura skill. She can suppress Gold-ranks from using their full abilities if she does it correctly. She’s not trained, though. She’ll get more powerful too, with her Level 40 Skills. But outside of the inn…?”
She shrugged.
“I’m not a [Queen]. There is a difference. But I’m close. I’ll get more powerful Skills than if I were a [Lady]. I’m Level 19. When I hit Level 20, I’ll get something…good. I hope. And when I do—I’ll be one of the most eligible bachelorettes in Terandria my age.”
She smiled, and her eyes lit up at the thought.
“I would be! Imagine that! Right up there with Princess Ozena of Ailendamus, or Duchess Greina of Noelictus. Or I would be, if I weren’t unfit. Ruined. Thanks to someone.”
She smirked at Pawn. The Worker was nodding, and then he paused.
“Oh. Me.”
That was it. Mrsha decided she was done. She pushed her plate back from the table and smacked her paws onto the top, making the dishes jump, as well as Pawn and Lyonette. They looked at her, saw the glare, and realized.
