She blew smoke straight at Jeiss. He coughed, swearing, backing up and slashing with the wooden sword. When his vision cleared, he leapt back, looking for Zevara.
She wasn’t advancing on him. Instead, the Drake had bent. She had a bit of the training yard’s grit in one claw. She threw it in his eyes.
“Ancestors damn it—”
Zevara poked Jeiss in the chest as he swore with the tip of her sword. She turned to the audience who was laughing at the sight. The Drake’s glower shut them up.
“That would be the end of Senior Guardsman Jeiss if I’d had a real blade. And yes, he was going easy on me, but be careful. Your enemies don’t fight fair. The fairest fight you’ll get is a monster. And even then, there are the Raskghar.”
The Watch sobered. Zevara turned.
“Sorry, Jeiss.”
“No, it’s a good demonstration. I have to watch my eyes around you, Watch Captain. Ancestors. Beilmark, pass me some water? The rest of you—we’re going to practice not getting blinded like I was!”
Lyonette heard groans from his trainees. Zevara, for her part, leaned on her blade. She was rapidly sobering, or she had a liver like a [Drunkard]’s. She looked up as Lyonette approached.
“Are you still practicing? Mind teaching me something?”
Zevara glanced at the practice sword the [Princess] was carrying.
“I never actually asked how good you were.”
“I learned from a good fighter. But it’s mostly stances. Yvlon taught me some tricks. But I could practice.”
“Then show me.”
The Drake didn’t even bother to move. Lyonette raised her brows. She lifted her sword, paused. She didn’t have [Flawless Attempt]. But Zevara was underestimating—
 
——
 
“…Ow.”
Thirty minutes later, Lyonette picked up her sword again. Her wrist ached from where Zevara had slapped it with her sword. It wasn’t the only ache; Lyonette had bruises.
Zevara had none. She leaned on her sword.
“Not bad. But don’t try that in a fight.”
“Can you at least lie to me?”
“Hm. You’re pretty good with a sword. How’s that?”
The [Princess] scowled. But she had to admit—Zevara had trounced her hard. She hadn’t even used a Skill.
“I thought I could at least make you use one Skill. And you’re a [Warrior] class. Is there really that much of a gap between [Warriors] and non-[Warriors]?”
“I did use a Skill. Just one. The only one I need for most fights against civilians or criminals.”
“Really? But I didn’t see…”
The Drake snorted. The Watch was sparring or training—and some were indeed using the weights that Grimalkin had given the Watch. The Watch Captain nodded at Lyonette.
“[Lawbreaker’s Enemy]. It gives me an advantage in all ways against criminals.”
“But I’m not…oh.”
Lyonette blushed. Zevara looked at her.
“It doesn’t take into account your status, just—whether you break laws. It would be even stronger on someone else, but I’m faster and stronger. Against you. It works poorly on Jeiss. But he did break a few rules.”
“Thanks, Watch Captain. But Miss Lyonette isn’t that bad. She could be a [Guardswoman] with only a month or two’s hard work.”
The Drake grunted at Zevara. He’d been watching the exchange. The Watch Captain nodded.
“She might make the cut, Jeiss. She’s got [Magnified Training].”
“What a waste on her.”
“Thank you, Guardsman Jeiss.”
The Drake blushed slightly.
“Apologies, but it’s such a useful Skill. It enhances your training. You could probably try to learn a Skill with it.”
Lyonette paused in drinking from some water flask.
“Learn a Skill?”
She’d heard about that. Jeiss nodded and explained as Zevara also drank.
“[Warriors] can learn a Skill. Like, say, [Power Strike]. Or a sword art, and so on. It doesn’t always manifest that way. But if you practice certain moves, it can happen.”
“Really? Then why doesn’t everyone…?”
The Drake laughed.
“Leveling is faster. It’s more like a…perk for hard work. You could expect to learn a Skill from years of hard work! I suppose you could…upgrade certain Skills from practice. That’s how my [Speed Slash] turned into [Double Cut]. But you could aim for a new Skill in a year.”
“True. Keep practicing, Lyonette. Come here and I’ll hit you with a sword. That cheers me up. Relc’s too slippery.”
Zevara nodded at Lyonette. The [Princess] bit her lip on the fact that Erin had learned her Skill in a day. But that was Erin. Normal rules were like butter to Erin. You could take it or leave it or put it on toast, but it wasn’t an impediment to her.
“…Maybe I’ll use [Flawless Attempt] to practice. In between learning magic.”
“Magic is also good. We could use more [Mages], Watch Captain.”
“I’m working on it, Jeiss. We don’t exactly have great teachers and the average recruit doesn’t have magical abilities or the time to learn. I’ve got options. Give me time.”
Zevara sighed. Jeiss nodded.
“Too bad we don’t have combination Skills either. That would be useful against a monster.”
“Oh. Combination Skills?”
Lyonette blinked. Zevara looked over; she’d been signing paperwork while watching trainees in the practice courts from her office windows
“It’s not something you learn. It’s more like—an accident. If four [Warriors] use [Speed Slash] in combat, for instance. They can trigger it. Like combination spells. Did you see those damn [Mages] during the battle with Belchan’s army, Jeiss?”
“Sure did, Watch Captain. That was a rainbow of combination spells of some kind. Damn, but I’d hate to fight them. Let alone any of the King of Destruction’s monsters.”
“We did fight one, remember? Wait—you weren’t there.”
“Gazi the Omniscient.”
The people around Zevara and Jeiss stopped. The Watch Captain nodded.
“And she took us—and the Gnolls—apart. Even Relc. Well—that’s an outside threat.”
“Not the only one. High-level bastards keep coming.”
The Senior Guardsman’s tone was dark. Zevara looked at him. And around at the other [Guards]. They went back to work, but they’d been listening. So, the Watch Captain raised her voice as Lyonette applied a bit of healing potion to her bruises. Otherwise Pawn would just worry and heal her.
“Gather around, everyone!”
The people in the training grounds looked up. They filed over, Gnolls, Drakes, and the Humans, standing in their little knot. Amusingly, around Lyonette; they seemed to think she was one of them. The [Princess] listened as Zevara raised her voice.
“Listen up. I want to tell you all something. Everyone here. The Watch is growing. We’re getting new people in. Humans. Maybe even Garuda or Dullahans. Dead gods, I’d take a Centaur if he offered, even with all those damn puffers.”
“What about a Minotaur, Watch Captain?”
There was a laugh, a bit nervous. Zevara turned her head.
“Anyone, Guardsman Jeiss. Anyone. Because Liscor is growing. You all heard the [Architect] is on the way?”
There were nods. Zevara gestured towards the distant walls.
“Well, that’s just the start. We’re going to be a bigger city. Which means money, more people—hopefully something we can say we built. Yes, with the Antinium’s help, but we made it. Together. But with that comes more people. More monsters. More crime. Some of it’s already come this way.”
Bearclaw. No one said it out loud. Zevara paused.
“We’re going to train harder. New recruits, Senior Guards—and everyone in between. No one dies on my Watch. Got it?”
There was a murmur.
“Yes, Watch Captain!”
Jeiss saluted. And Lyonette saw Zevara nodding to the other [Guards]. The [Princess] saw the Watch Captain speaking to new recruits. Stiffly, but—
There was leadership. Morale, of her own kind. Lyonette slipped away as Zevara got back to work. But—she looked at the Watch. And she saw it there.
Anger. Their city had been invaded. This wouldn’t stand. And she worried. And she should have been worrying.
Because today was the day Klbkch visited The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
The Watch knew. And their anger kept the streets quiet of crime. Casual [Thieves] were laying low. [Thugs] hid from the storm.
But among the kind of people close to Bearclaw, there was no cessation. They had heard. Senior Guardsmen died. And they laughed, and beheld the cracks in the system. The city.
And what slithered among the cracks, widening them? Bearclaw. She was being watched. Three Senior Guard pairings were keeping her under watch at all times.
Not this one. They walked down the streets on regular patrol. One was angry. The other?
Far beyond that. Klbkch’s body was still surprising to many who saw it. A slim Antinium, taller than all but a Soldier, and with two arms, a leaner body and compact frame compared to regular Antinium had replaced the affable Worker form.
Senior Guardsman Klbkch looked…better. More humanoid. And he was faster. Stronger. Not that many had seen him fight. Ever since his death, Klbkch had never been wounded. Not in any struggle. He had been Guardsman Klbkch.
And then, Revalantor Klbkch. Revalantor. One who had found the purpose of his Hive. Who ushered that purpose forwards. He had found it in the Individual Workers. And then—the Painted Antinium.
It seemed that Klbkch’s star had only risen from the day he had died. But…then why did he stride down the streets, hunched, tense? Why did even seasoned criminals flinch away as they walked through the shadowed streets?
Perhaps because their [Dangersense] screamed at them. If they crossed him today, they died. The Antinium, usually the calm, controlled half of the duo, walked as if he wanted a fight.
And you had to remember. Always remember what Manus remembered. What Zel Shivertail had known. It was easier to recall, these days, to look at Klbkch’s taller silhouette, the way his gaze moved, impassive, staring.
He was more than just Senior Guardsman Klbkch. More than Revalantor Klbkch. He was Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium. He had many names. And one was Klbkch the Slayer.
And angry? Who could remember seeing Klbkch in a fury? Few. That was why he had been partnered with the Drake who strode next to him. But they forgot, again. The other reason in those first days had been that Relc was the only one who could have stopped him.
“I just don’t get it. I wonder—why we weren’t put on watching Bearclaw? I asked Captain Z.”
The voice that echoed down the street was cheerful. Cheerful, deep—casual—but even Relc had an edge in his voice. He was angry. Klbkch turned his head. And his voice was flat.
“Because you would not have waited. You would engage Bearclaw without evidence.”
“Yeah. And?”
“And I would let you.”
Relc considered his longtime partner, Klbkch. And he paused as the two turned a corner. There was no need for either to particularly keep a lookout. Any criminality was making tracks away from them. And [Pickpockets] five streets away were hearing of the two on patrol and deciding to replace the coin pouches. On a day like today, anyone caught would be losing teeth.
“I’m sensing a bit of tension, Klbkch. You mad about Bearclaw too? Or is this the ‘sorry-you-don’t-have-a-thing-party?’ I said I stand by it.”
“No. You are a fool, Relc. This isn’t about Bearclaw. This is a matter which concerns my Hive.”
“Oh. Right. The other Antinium. You said. I still don’t get the problem. They’re fine, aren’t they?”
Klbkch looked at Relc. He shifted his grip on his sword.
“They are disobeying my orders. They are leaving the Hive. Not just one. First the inn—”
“That was hilarious. I told you, Klb, buddy, it was just—”
The burly Drake stopped. One of the Antinium’s swords had moved ever-so-slightly in its sheath. And Relc heard a slight bell ringing in his head.
[Dangersense]. The Drake hesitated. Something was off. Klbkch didn’t act like this. Relc hadn’t brought up the issue before. But it occurred to him it might be important. Someone could get cut, and he was pretty sure he didn’t want it to be him.
“Klb, talk to me. We’re partners. What’s the problem? Insubordination. You know that happens. Like, what if we were in the army? You know [Soldiers] break the rules. Sometimes some of them get drunk. Liscor’s army, hah, well, we have a lot of hard-tails, but it happens. And you discipline them—hard—but it happens. What’s the issue?”
Klbkch stopped in the street. He turned to Relc, and his mandibles opened.
“The issue is that Antinium do not break rules! We are not Drakes or Gnolls. They are disobeying my orders. They need—discipline. And I do not know how to manage them. Teach them. All of them have flaws. Belgrade, Anand, Yellow Splatters—Pawn. I do not want to manage them.”
He slammed the blades further into their sheathes. Relc paused. Klbkch was angry. This called for a pep talk. Normally, he got talks. But he had to do right by Klbkch. So, think. What would Klbkch say to…Klbkch?
“Look, maybe this is a new problem. But those Ant-guys, they’re new too, right? So they need a bit of teaching. You can do it. I believe in you.”
The Drake held up a thumb-claw and grinned. Klbkch stared at Relc. He went back to walking down the street. Relc strode to catch up.
“I am not their…instructor.”
“You’re a good leader, Klb. What’re you talking about? Zevara’s given you more commendations than anyone else. Guards love you. You’re better at this guarding thing than me.”
The Antinium shook his head. Not denying the truth. That was objectively true.
“That is different. They are not Antinium. The Antinium do not need training. They should not. But these are not True Antinium. They are…wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong.”
The muttering bothered Relc. So too did discussing the Antinium. It was one of those things they had never brought up. What happened if a Third Antinium War began. The Drake hesitated. Think, think…
“What’s wrong, Klbkch? The Antinium look pretty good to me. I saw them taking back Liscor during Skinner and during the Goblin Lord. Heck, Face-Eater moths too. The Black Tide! Go! Whoo!”
Some of the people were giving them very odd looks. Relc shifted, awkwardly. Klbkch looked at him.
“They are not True Antinium. Just copies.”
“…Riiiight. Because they’re…worse?”
Relc felt in his belt pouch for something to write on. What had Captain Z told him? If Klbkch ever talked about his Hive, write it down. Not that he had in a decade. This was the first time. But Klbkch was definitely off. The Antinium paused, and muttered.
“They’re all defective. But they were supposed to be restored. Reconnected. But they just broke differently. Even the ones you think of as Antinium are wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong…”
That was five wrongs. Might be a problem here. Relc cleared his throat.
