“Um. How? Soldiers look good. Nightmares on the battlefield, right? I fought some, well, you know how it is. No hard feelings, right?”
He debated another thumbs-up and decided not to. Klbkch looked at him.
“No. They are inferior to True Antinium. Even Soldiers. Soldiers can…break. Flee a battle or lose cohesion. Due to fear.”
Relc paused.
“Yeah. Imagine that. [Soldiers] running away because they don’t want to die? What’s the world coming to?”
“They would never break if they were True Antinium. They would march into hell a thousand times. They were born of it. As was I. These ones would never have survived the corruption.”
A whisper. Relc’s scales crawled. Ancestors, that sounded like an army of the King of Destruction’s best unit, the Dreamers of Reim. He looked at Klbkch.
The Antinium looked like he was breaking. But—his hands were so steady. He looked at Relc for a second, kept walking. The Drake took a second.
There was something dangerous there. Something close to the look Relc had seen in dying [Soldiers]’ eyes who wouldn’t stop even when you stabbed them through the heart. The kind of monsters he had met on the battlefield. The reason he had quit.
Not breaking, then. Murderous.
“Klbkch, maybe we need a drink. Why not? You and I have done it a few times. Let’s relax. Take a load off.”
“I have work. Now—and then a patrol tonight.”
“Right, double shift. You took over for Sehsi. Well—er—”
Relc was really trying. But what could you say to Klbkch? His Antinium were all wrong. What could Relc say? ‘Tough luck, buddy?’ ‘Hope they turn out better?’
Maybe Klbkch just needed to cool down. Normally, Relc would suggest a drink. Or a visit to a brothel. Neither really was working out, so he decided to drop it.
After some thought, Relc decided not to let Klbkch in on the big, amazing thing he was part of. Not that he didn’t want to do right by Klbkch. But making a bit of coin on the side didn’t seem to be the Antinium’s highest priority.
“Our break ends in ten minutes. We will return to the barracks now. I am going to visit The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice has invited me. I will listen to her. Perhaps she can allay my…reservations.”
That was all Klbkch said. He sounded more stable at that. But he liked Erin. They both did. Relc nodded, relieved.
“Hey, Klb, great idea. I’m going there myself. I’ll see you there, huh?”
“Perhaps.”
Klbkch marched off with Relc towards the barracks. The Drake exhaled. It was coming to evening. Problem solved! Klbkch would get to Erin, cool down, and maybe stop being so tense. Relc was trying, but it was hard being as considerate as he was.
The former [Sergeant] stretched as he signed off work. He didn’t have a night patrol. He looked at the [Guardswoman] on duty.
“Hey, Beilmark. You wanna hear how to make more coin?”
The Gnoll Senior Guardswoman looked up.
“Relc. You pitched your stupid thing to me yesterday on patrol. I’m not interested. It sounds like too much work.”
“What? Nah. You get returns! Hey, you were all with me on handing out copies of the Antinium sex story.”
Relc kept his voice low. Still, Klbkch twitched as he stowed his gear. Beilmark eyed Klbkch.
“That was different. This isn’t interesting.”
“Fine. I’ll go find some people before I visit the inn. Erin says there are peach tarts. Mm.”
“Hm. There are. Miss Lyonette brought some to Watch Captain Zevara. They smelled good.”
“Really? Damn. I’d better hurry up!”
Relc hurried out of the Watch House. Normally, he’d be already at the inn. Klbkch was certainly striding that way. But today—Relc had another mission. And he’d never have partaken of any extra-curricular work, but this was a special case. This was money.
“Hey, Kelli. Kelli! You’re off-duty, right? Give me a minute—no, five. I’ve gotta show you something.”
A Drake [Guardswoman] going off-duty sighed as she turned to face the Drake [Guardsman], resigned.
“Relc. If this is the Antinium sex thing, I laughed at that once. It gets old. What is it?”
“Not the sex thing, Kelli. This is actually good. For everyone! How would you like to make some coin?”
The [Guardswoman] raised her brows. She looked quickly at Relc. But he wasn’t the kind of [Guard] to pursue illegal activities. Not only did Zevara make her Watch swear on truth spells that they weren’t a criminal each month (a tradition among Drake City Watches), Relc just…wasn’t that kind of Drake. Lazy, rude, thoughtless, but never criminal.
“…Okay. You have me interested. This had better not be anything stupid, though.”
“Nothing like that. I’m serious, Kelli. Listen—this is…hold on. I have a brochure.”
Relc dug around in his belt pouch. He came out with a folded, colored bit of paper.
“Okay, so the way it works is—you give me money—”
“Hah!”
“No, wait! You give me money, and I send the money to this organization. They’re funding high-level adventurers.”
Relc waved his claws. Kelli paused.
“Wait, what? You don’t keep the money?”
“No. And the best part is—you get the money back.”
“You’re making no sense.”
“Darn, I always get this part wrong. Let me explain. Here, read this. It says what I’m saying.”
Relc scratched at his neck-spines. He handed the colorful brochure to Kelli. She read, intrigued, as he went on.
“It’s ‘high-investment yield’—no, wait—‘high-yield investment’ in adventuring teams, [Mage] research, and so on. On other continents, even! You give money to the fund, and whenever there’s a breakthrough—and there are, trust me—you get money back.”
“What? A fund for…adventurers? Why do they need gold?”
The Drake looked blank. Relc grinned.
“It’s the newest thing. I know you haven’t heard about it, but it’s spreading like wildfire. Someone from Pallass set me onto it. This Garuda chick I knew. Not a chick, but…anyways.”
He coughed, and went on.
“Okay, so the way it works is that a lotta high-level people are making amazing stuff. Sage’s Grass? An [Alchemist] made that. New spells? [Mages]. Adventurers go into dungeons and get loot. But they all need money, right?”
“Right. Actually…that makes sense. I never thought about it that way.”
Relc was grinning and nodding.
“See? Mostly, they have to work to get to that point. But what if they were funded? At least, the good ideas? That’s what someone’s doing. And it doesn’t have to be one rich person! So a bunch of people are pooling their coin—just a bit from each person, and giving it to this big fund. And it’s being managed. It’s called…investment.”
“…That word exists, Relc.”
“I know, but it’s this concept. Anyways—you get paid depending on how much you put in. I have contracts here…and it’s all recorded by [Scribes] and stuff. And you get money for signing other people up. It all adds up to your payout—and it’s monthly!”
“Wow. So—it pays?”
Relc was grinning, genuinely delighted to be putting people onto it.
“You give money, and you’ll get it back, especially if you help sign up more people. There’s actually an enlistment bonus—sign up eight people and your money’s back! And you get payouts from what you invested as well! Look! I’ve signed up thirty people and look how much I made!”
He reached for a money pouch and showed Kelli. Gold. She blinked at three, fat gold coins.
“Wait, you made that?”
“Sure did. It’s a gold coin per ten people, and that’s on top of the money I made back. And I’m getting a monthly payout of fifteen silver. I know, not a lot, but I’m going to add to the money I put in and get more back. So? Whaddya say? Sounds great, right?”
“It sounds amazing? But why isn’t everyone on top of it?”
Relc glanced around surreptitiously.
“To tell you the truth…I’ve only been sharing it with people I like. You know? Getting them a head start. Because the enlistment bonus is real. I mean, that gold? That was put in my claws by the Merchant’s Guild. They’re actually offering it. The Guildmaster was all over it.”
“Really?”
The burly Drake nodded. His tail was wagging with excitement.
“Believe it. I hear the Merchant’s Guilds around the world are getting on it, which is why I want to move fast. Get more gold, you know? But it’s gonna be great. Well, it’s a new concept. Brilliant stuff, you know? Imagine a Gold-rank team being…crowdfunded by people to buy the best gear available? Crowd funding, that’s what it is.”
The Drake woman was nodding with Relc. This was good. And—ironically, it was coming from Relc, so she believed it. He could be a fool, but he was a Senior Guardsman. And if the Merchant’s Guilds were on top of it…
“So one group is doing this? Wait. Is this related to the inn?”
That made her nervous. You heard stories. Relc shook his head.
“Not exactly. I’m gonna get Erin in on this too. But I’m telling you, Kelli, it’s something you want to think about. Sign up—or sign up your friends! Say, if you know anyone else who’d be willing to contribute…the minimum is one gold coin. I know, steep, but…”
He jangled the three-coin pouch. Kelli grinned at Relc, coming to a quick decision.
“Well, if I’m getting paid, I’ll sign up my friends myself.”
Relc sighed.
“Aw. Damnit. That happens a lot. But can I get you on this since I told you?”
He gave Kelli a pleading look. She nodded, excited.
“Let me get my money from my apartment. Actually—can you come with me?”
“Sure, I’ll write down your details. Address, next of kin, payment—it’s all very organized. This is great, Kelli. Can I sign half your friends?”
“Nope. But thanks for telling me, Relc.”
“No problem. This is great, isn’t it? Exciting times, Kelli, my dude. Exciting times.”
“…I’m female, Relc.”
“It’s an expression.”
The two Drakes headed off to Kelli’s apartment. Relc was scribbling as he wrote, as neatly as he could. Kelli was reassured by the receipt he handed her, and his assurances that money would be coming as soon as she signed people up. Weekly payments and the monthly one. It only occurred to her afterwards to ask.
“I missed the name of the organization. They have one, right?”
“What? Oh, yeah. They’re funding all sorts. But the name of the group is—The Golden Triangle. Catchy, right?”
“Yeah, I like it.”
Relc was nodding, pleased. Good deeds, and coin in his pocket. It was too bad Klbkch was in a mood. But he would feel better, right? Relc strolled to the inn—he was going to get Erin in on this too. After all, he owed her a lot. He’d already gotten Embria, and some of 4th Company who was speaking to him…
And the Drake was too late. By the time he arrived—Klbkch had left. And Relc saw the frightened Antinium and Erin’s face. And he realized he should have been there sooner. If he could have stopped it. But all the things were coming together.
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes ago.
Evening in The Wandering Inn. It was a beautiful day, with birds singing—no, wait, screaming as they fled Bird—but Bird was singing. The flowers were blooming in the Garden of Sanctuary as a bee buzzed around like the largest guard-bee imaginable. On a day like this, good kids were indoors.
Watching a play. Eating peach tarts. Although the Antinium were gluten-intolerant. But the inn was noisy, crowded as it now was oft to be.
Mrsha was having fun, playing with Ekirra and Visma. She still stayed away from the Antinium, though. Or rather, Pawn.
He was sitting in the inn, with Lyonette. Rubbing shoulders. And the Workers and Soldiers were around them.
A regular patrol of Painted Antinium, Workers and Soldiers both, and—surprisingly—Anand and Belgrade. No Yellow Splatters; he was taking over for them. But Chesacre and Thaina too, another couple sitting with the other Antinium, but separate.
Pawn was smiling. The other Antinium were eating special peach tarts Garry had made with Erin, ones they could digest thanks to his Skill. And they were all disobeying orders.
Only Anand was super-worried about it. But Pawn was reassuring him.
“It is okay, Anand. Yellow Splatters has someone keeping watch. When Revalantor Klbkch returns to the Hive, we will all hurry back through the special tunnel.”
“You’re a regular [Scoundrel], Pawn.”
Lyonette teased the Worker. He smiled.
“I have learned subterfuge from you, Lyonette. But we will take some food for the other Antinium. Bird has stockpiled some birds and his special ‘squishy birds’. I hear they are very good.”
The [Princess] paused. She knew what those were.
“…Don’t eat those, Pawn. I’m sure the Antinium can digest them. Bird seems to. But not you.”
“Why not me?”
The [Priest] looked puzzled. Lyonette leaned over and whispered to him..
“Because, I’m not kissing you if you eat maggots.”
“Oh. Should I stop?”
The young woman was opening and shutting her mouth. She felt good, after meeting with her friends, sitting with Pawn. Erin was laughing, saying hi to Belgrade as they played chess.
“So Chesacre and Thaina are female? They told you? That’s so…weird.”
Her brows contorted. Belgrade shrugged.
“They say they are.”
“Yeah, but—that’s almost like—hold on. From my home…um…”
Erin hesitated. She vaguely knew something about this, but she didn’t at the same time. She opened and closed her mouth; she was still sleep-deprived too. Another night’s sleep would do her good.
And then the door opened. And Klbkch entered the inn.
On a day like today. Good little kids, good Antinium, should not be here. At first, Klbkch didn’t even see them. Belgrade squeaked and disappeared, literally shooting out of his chair and into the kitchen. Erin turned to see what was wrong—
“Erin. I have been delayed. But I have come to speak. I would like to speak to you n—”
Klbkch was striding towards her. He walked past Pawn, Anand, the other Painted Antinium, who had frozen at their table. Along with Lyonette. For a moment, it was like one of those cartoons where the person kept walking until they realized the obvious and stopped.
Or a horror movie with the same premise. And then Klbkch halted, mid-step. Mid-word. He turned his head.
And he looked straight at Pawn.
“You.”
None of the Antinium moved. Klbkch was still. He also did not move.
He was staring at Pawn.
Anand quivered. He shook, as he stood with the other Antinium. Pawn had gone still. The [Priest] had locked gazes with Klbkch.
“Revalantor Klbkch. We were—Miss Solstice invited us—it was just for…”
Anand’s voice quavered. Erin looked at them. And she realized—a beat behind the others.
The Antinium were not supposed to be here. Klbkch’s restriction on travelling outside the Hive was still in place. Erin had heard about it. But she had assumed…
