“A…[Carpenter]. Pawn. He’s a friend.”
Zevara eyed Lyonette.
“Oh, the Antinium. I forget they have classes. Say—how’s it going with the Antinium at the inn? I only ask because Klbkch has been a bit off lately.”
Lyonette coughed on her tart. The Watch Captain paused in reaching for one and eyed her.
Zevara was, as always, writing at her desk. She spent a lot of time making reports; Lyonette gathered it was a Drake thing. They liked their paperwork.
“What? Pawn? He’s fine. Um—Klbkch isn’t doing well?”
“…No. There was that idiocy Relc cooked up. Well, it was fairly good for morale and apparently Klbkch doesn’t have—why am I talking to you about this?”
“Because you can’t talk to anyone else? Have a tart. I have other things to eat if you’d like something. Have you had lunch?”
The Drake [Watch Captain] looked resigned as Lyonette offered her a little shepherd’s pie. Lyonette smiled proudly.
“I made it myself. Without [Flawless Attempt], but I think it went decently.”
“You keep doing this, Miss Lyonette.”
“Well, I have to pay off my debt to the city to get my things back. And…we are friends, right?”
A [Charming Smile]. The Watch Captain’s face didn’t change as it bounced off her and sighed. But she did inspect the pie.
“I had lunch in the pris—already. You know, I disapprove of this. And if it comes to it, I’ll weigh my bias against any decision or relegate it to someone impartial. Either way, it won’t help you.”
Lyonette sighed. Straight-laced as usual. But she nodded at Zevara.
“Of course. This is just food. You know I’ll give it to Relc if you don’t take it.”
“Well, I suppose I could use it for dinner. I don’t get time to cook much…thank you.”
The Drake coughed, embarrassed. The two sat together, and eventually, Zevara relaxed a bit. It always took a little bit.
But here was Lyonette’s second friend in Liscor. She had two, by the way. Which was good. And Zevara was a contrast to Krshia. She was almost always at work. And she was strict, always assessing herself. Also—
“How’s your breathing these days?”
“Hm? Fine. That tonic that the Centaur, Palt, gave me, works well. I had to force the payment on him. Damn [Mages]. As bad as Terandrians with bribes. Stop pushing the plate towards me. I’ll have a tart if I want one.”
—She didn’t do small-talk well. But that was refreshing too. If Lyonette longed for someone she could look up to, respect, she also liked straight-talkers. She mentally reset herself.
“Right, sorry. So—anything new at work?”
Zevara stopped. And she abruptly put down the report she was looking over. And her face was grave. Serious.
“Yes. Bearclaw. I told you about the rumors about her last week?”
Lyonette’s smile wavered.
“Yes. What happened?”
Watch Captain Zevara paused. She looked at Lyonette, then cursed.
“Ancestors damn it. What’s in those tarts?”
“Peaches. Sugar. Why…?”
The Watch Captain grabbed the plate. Then she reached back, and came out with a bottle. And two shot glasses. She poured the Firebreath Whiskey into both.
“Here. It’s all I’ve got.”
She shoved a glass towards Lyonette. The [Princess]’s eyes went wide. This was unusual.
“Zevara?”
The Drake glared.
“If you’re tempting me, I’ll have some. And I’m also having a drink.”
“Isn’t that, um…discouraged on duty, Watch Captain?”
Lyonette had been teasing Zevara, but that was an unspoken game they played. The Watch Captain had never taken the bait like this before. But Zevara just grunted as she lifted the glass to her lips.
“It’s that or ordering the entire Watch to get out there, arrest Bearclaw, Mister Soot and every gang member in the city, and toss them into the dungeon. Or just find a long enough length of rope.”
“What happened?”
“Two Senior Guards are dead. Their bodies were found two days ago. I haven’t told anyone, but word is spreading. We knew they were missing for a week. But we only found their…remains now. 4th Company was clearing out a Shield Spider nest. They found the badges.”
The glass halted at Lyonette’s lips. The [Princess] felt cold.
“…Bearclaw?”
“Yes. I know it’s her. But—we hauled her in for questioning again. That Ancestors-damned—that slippery—she was smoking a cigar the entire time. And she lied. To our faces.”
Zevara slammed down a drink, filled her glass, and took another shot. Lyonette watched her.
“How? I thought you told me Klbkch and Relc were investigating her—”
“They were. But remember the time when I had to put Relc in the inn?”
“No—”
“Yes. We put a second pair on her. They vanished within their two hour reconnaissance period.”
“But how? Did she…?”
“I. Don’t. Know. Best guess is that she ambushed them. They were new Senior Guards. But they were good. Just…Sheikhe and Laven. I notified their families yesterday. But we couldn’t get Bearclaw.”
“Why? You used truth spells…”
Zevara caught herself from filling the glass a fourth time. She grabbed a tart and chewed furiously.
“Of course! But she evaded the spells. Told us to our faces she’d never even seen them. And she didn’t know where they died. If I could, I’d throw her in jail until she rots. But the law says I can do nothing but investigate. And I know she did it. Somehow, she lied. Twice now, that’s happened with our truth stones. This is good.”
“Thanks.”
Zevara didn’t make Lyonette feel as good about the world as Krshia. The Watch Captain went on.
“Serious criminals. First Regrika Blackpaw, now…it doesn’t help they’re Gnolls.”
“How so?”
Zevara shrugged self-consciously.
“Just me thinking on it. Feels like it’s confirming…in other cities Gnolls get hauled in more often. I’ve heard other Watch Captains say Gnolls turn more to crime than Drakes. I didn’t believe it; Liscor’s big names are all Drake, but these two outsiders? No—”
She sighed, rubbing at her brows.
“I’ve kept Liscor fair, which is why the Gnoll population is what it is and the Watch is trusted.”
“Can’t you ask anyone else if…sorry, I know I’m not helping.”
The Drake shook her head, but not in denial.
“We tried that. Of course, we did. Mister Soot was pinned at the same point as Bearclaw around the time she was unobserved. So we tried to grab him to ask what happened. But…”
“He’s dead?”
The Watch Captain blinked.
“If that happened, Liscor’s criminals would be in uproar. No. Mister Soot…has gone missing. He doesn’t want to be brought in. And that tells me everything I need to know.”
“So? What can you do? If you know she did it…”
Zevara clenched one fist.
“The law is the law. I’m doing everything I can, Lyonette. Between you and me—I know it’s her. But she’s protected. If I go after her and break any protocol, I’ll hear it. Just this morning, someone was complaining that Bearclaw was questioned twice. Already, they’re spinning the Gnoll angle. Bastard. It’s Soot, or someone else. They’re good at shouting loud. At least I have the Council on my side.”
Lyonette was nodding, her mind racing ahead of the conversation. They were both working at their jobs, and Lyonette sometimes talked to Zevara about this. She wondered if Krshia knew about Bearclaw. Surely so. What did the Gnolls think? Zevara went on.
“I have my best people watching her every step. Unfortunately, we can’t follow her into buildings. And there are rat warrens in the city, even if we try to get rid of the rats. I don’t know what she wants or when she’ll move. And when she does—if I’m too late, someone dies.”
She sighed. And looked tired. The [Princess] stared at Zevara.
“I’m sorry about the two Senior Guards.”
“Thank you. I’m sorry to burden you with this. Keep it quiet, obviously. The official word is the Senior Guards ran into a Hollowstone Deceiver. Three of them, so they couldn’t run. Freak accident. I had to tell their families that. And Bearclaw was offering condolences.”
Zevara’s eyes blazed. She was also smoking. Lyonette coughed and Zevara looked up. She stopped.
“Enough. I’ll drink enough that my breath turns into flames if I don’t take my mind off it. You—what’s happened?”
She eyed Lyonette. And suddenly the [Princess] was in the hot seat. Zevara had been a [Guardswoman] and then a Senior Guardswoman before becoming Watch Captain. One of Liscor’s best. She had put away the Drake gang leader before Mister Soot—or rather, got him exiled.
She had a history. And she was sharper than Lyonette liked, especially about Lyonette’s past. She knew more than she had ever discussed with Lyonette. She’d had Lyonette’s artifacts appraised by Montressa.
“Well…I leveled up. And gained a new Skill.”
“Really? Which one?”
“[Magnified Training].”
Zevara’s brows bounced up.
“Really? That’s useful. I wish I could slap that on most of my [Guards]. You still training with the sword?”
“That’s right.”
“Hm. Good. Anything precipitate the level up? I remember you saying how hard it was to level in your…‘[Barmaid]’ class. Which, obviously, has that Skill.”
The [Princess] winced. But only internally. She schooled her face into a polite, rueful smile and shrugged delicately.
“Well, I’m an [Inn Manager] these days. Didn’t I tell you?”
The female Drake’s face never moved.
“Ah, of course. You didn’t say. We should have celebrated. Which is why I heard about the celebration in the inn. Congratulations.”
“It was right after the Creler attack. Not a time to celebrate. But thank you.”
Both women looked at each other, Lyonette with her faint smile—Zevara not even going to false pretenses. It was a game both enjoyed. The Drake’s lips twitched a bit.
“Fine. But what precipitated you reaching…”
“Level 18.”
“Huh. I’d imagine that’s good for a [Baroness], right?”
This time Lyonette was ready. She didn’t move.
“Hm?”
“Nothing. So? The precipitating factor?”
“Oh. Um…nothing much.”
Lyonette’s hesitation made Zevara look up sharply. She narrowed her eyes.
“Really. Nothing?”
“…Do you want to know?”
The Drake’s eyelids flickered. She wasn’t an idiot. She opened and closed her mouth.
“Hm. That would imply…no. Wait. But…”
Lyonette found herself turning red as Zevara looked her up and down. The Drake was a bit drunk, but she had constitution Skills. She bit into a tart as she thought.
“That implies…but who are you seeing? It wouldn’t be…wait…didn’t you once hint that…”
“Zevara, it’s really—”
The Drake’s eyes widened. She choked on her tart.
“The Antin—Pawn?”
Zevara exhaled a bit of fire, cooking the tart. She coughed as Lyonette spoke.
“Look, what happened was—”
“Stop. I don’t want to know. Stop. Right there. Don’t tell me. Don’t make excuses. I don’t want to…wait. I thought—”
“Actually…”
Zevara looked at Lyonette. She wavered between curiosity and…
“No. Don’t tell me. Ancestors.”
Her reaction made Lyonette a bit angry. The [Princess] cleared her throat, suppressing her blush.
“You know, it’s not something I’m ashamed of.”
“Of course not. How did Miss Solstice take it?”
“Er…”
“Mhm. Don’t tell me she—”
“No. She’s actually against it in general. Sex, that is.”
Zevara actually laughed as she went to fill up her cup. She was doing it drip by drip, seeming to be trying to keep from filling it up that high.
“Now that’s funny! For someone as open-minded as her, well…good for you. I suppose it’s not that odd. Klbkch has been propositioned more than once, you know.”
“Really?”
“Yup. Well, not recently. But he’s been here a decade and people still remember him fighting off the Necromancer. He’s intelligent, wealthy, a Senior Guardsman—and, well, the insect thing didn’t put off some Drakes and Gnolls. But still. He doesn’t have…don’t tell me he’s an exception…? Why are you making me ask this?”
“Actually, you can solve that with some of Krshia’s, uh, special goods. Do you know about…? Zevara…?”
The Firebreath Whiskey was overflowing onto the table. The Drake stared at Lyonette. Then she tilted the bottle back upright, stared at it, then shoved herself back from the desk.
“I’m leaving.”
“Zevara!”
The Drake wasn’t kidding. She walked out of her office, shaking her head. She headed down the stairs and Lyonette chased after her.
It wasn’t just theatrics. Zevara strode past the desk and into the Watch’s training yard. Lyonette, following, saw her stalking past groups of training Watch recruits. Mostly Drakes and Gnolls, but some Humans were noticeably among the ranks of the rookies.
“Watch Captain present! Salute!”
The Drake on duty was Jeiss. The Councilman was also a Senior Guardsman and even if he had his other job interfering with his patrols, he could certainly teach. He was considered the best bladesman in the Watch—aside from maybe Klbkch and Zevara herself. Zevara waved a claw.
“At ease. I’m just here to train. How’re the recruits?”
Lyonette saw the Junior Guards were being drilled in basic combat. Those with combat classes were being taught the law or led on patrols, but Liscor’s Watch demanded a level of proficiency from most Guards in a fight.
Not necessarily too much; most Guards just had to hold their own. Subduing monsters and high-level nuisances were jobs for Senior Guards, who were specialists. The average competence of a [Guard] was dependent on the city’s standards.
And by the looks of it, Zevara had raised the bar. The Drake had a training sword and she was demonstrating a fight with Jeiss as Lyonette walked around the watching trainees and regular [Guards]. She didn’t recognize anyone but Jeiss and Beilmark; she didn’t actually know that many [Guards].
That was almost a failing, because the Watch numbered in the thousands. And many were watching as Zevara and Jeiss squared off.
“You look a bit off, Watch Captain.”
Jeiss had a glint in his eye. He looked angry—so did many of the [Guards]. Not at Zevara. The entire Watch had to know what had happened.
“Never mind me, Jeiss. I hear we have weights from Magus Grimalkin. Do you have the recruits on them?”
Zevara lanced out with her sword. Jeiss parried and slashed; she was already stepping back.
“Not yet, Captain. I’d prefer them knowing how to fight. By the way—”
He stepped in. Lyonette saw his blade flicker.
[Double Cut]! But Zevara actually blocked both cuts! One high, one low, simultaneously. She still fell back, shaking out her claw. The watchers murmured. Both Drakes were good!
“Point. Take notes, guards! It’s not all fancy fighting like Jeiss dishes out. Sometimes you’re fighting with less than a foot of space between you and someone else, behind a bar. And sometimes—”
