“Mrsha, don’t hit the—”
Lyonette faltered as Mrsha gave her a gaze that spoke volumes. She leaned over and whispered urgently to Pawn. She tried to keep her voice down, but Mrsha’s ears were too good.
“Pawn. I think she knows about last night.”
“Uh oh. Oh no. Is this bad?”
“Yes! I mean—I’m not ashamed. But Mrsha—”
“How does she know?”
Lyonette hesitated and turned red.
“I changed the sheets, obviously, but Gnoll noses—um, Mrsha? Honey, why don’t we talk…you see, Pawn. And I—and we—”
The Antinium paused.
“I am very fond of Lyonette, Mrsha. Last night, we entered into sexu—mghf.”
He made a sound as Lyonette covered his mandibles with her hands. The little Gnoll stared at the [Princess]’ flushed face. She looked at Pawn. The Gnoll glowered.
Hmf! Adults!
She climbed down from the table, got onto her two legs, and walked off. Not padded off on all fours, but stomped away to go find Drassi or someone else worthy of her attention.
The two watched Mrsha walk off. Lyonette opened and closed her mouth, but she didn’t know what to say. At least Mrsha wasn’t going to tell anyone.
“I’ll talk to her tonight, Pawn. Don’t worry. But—maybe let’s find another bedroom. I can reserve the one down the hall, now the Workers are on the third floor…”
She whispered to him and he nodded. The two smiled at each other, held hands, engrossed. But then—they did part.
They both had jobs. And this was secret. No one but Mrsha knew the truth in this inn. And they had to keep it a secret. Lyonette didn’t feel like being judged. Least of all by Erin.
Erin being Erin, she’d go ballistic at the thought of anything improper. Which was everything, apparently. As for Pawn—he kept it a secret because Lyonette thought it should be secret.
Affairs, clandestine meetings, secrets—all that was bread and butter to Lyonette, who had grown up in Calanfer. And Pawn naturally let her show him how things were done.
“I’ll see you tonight. Bring the other Antinium if Klbkch doesn’t stop you. And the books.”
Lyonette bade farewell to Pawn, and then she got back to work. The Antinium Worker walked out of the inn, a new Pawn. And he stretched his arms up to the sky, all four of them.
He had a new Skill. And the day—everything was different. Pawn smiled, because he understood more of what happiness was. And he was a [Priest] who worshipped only that. And heaven.
 
——
 
“Ishkr, you have the inn. You can manage, right? Erin’s asleep, so she probably won’t start anything. You need something?”
“No, Lyonette. I’ll manage the inn.”
The [Waiter]—now a [Head Waiter] by virtue of a promotion—nodded to Lyonette. She waited. The Gnoll also waited as the inn moved. The Players of Celum were coming in for breakfast and rehearsals, the staff were serving guests…
And Lyonette realized Ishkr had nothing more to say. He had that kind of…incredible, normal competence combined with the ability to not add to someone’s workload that made him so valuable. Drassi would have had opinions. Erin? Erin was chaos.
“Well then, thank you. I’ll be back!”
Lyonette walked through the hallway towards the magic door. She passed by a wide-eyed group of teenagers, a few years younger than her.
No—her age, really. Lyonette blinked. They were her age, but they felt younger. She was eighteen. But she looked different than them, her hair tied back, wearing her work clothes. Indeed, they were staring around.
“Look at this place! And we’re in Liscor? Farmer Strongheart was telling the truth! We’ve gotta tell the others!”
They were from Celum. Just—[Farmers], or maybe [Farmhands], from a nearby farm. Lyonette smiled as they hurried towards the door.
“Hello! The Wandering Inn is open at all times! The door isn’t always set to the Strongheart farm, but if they’re willing, you can wait there to be let through. It’s never more than ten minutes, usually.”
The two teens jumped and stared at Lyonette. One of them ducked his head nervously. The girl curtsied.
“Thank you, Miss! My folks’d love to see this place! There’s a play, right? Can we come back through again? For…free?”
“Absolutely. We might ask for a few coppers at some point, but we’ll put up a sign. And the Stronghearts are friends of the inn.”
The [Princess] smiled. Always good to put some thoughts in the heads of people. The two teens exchanged a glance. The Stronghearts were friends of the inn. They cautiously walked past Lyonette as she went to the door. She adjusted it for Liscor, and walked through.
It was another day. Another day, and yet—Lyonette felt like much had changed since yesterday. In more ways than one. And since it had—she had to tell someone about it.
Again, not Erin. Lyonette liked Erin Solstice, she really did. The young woman had saved her from death by exposure in the winter. She’d given Lyonette more chances than she’d deserved. She was a good person, even if she was slightly…Erin.
But Erin had flaws. Her good nature, belief in people, and willingness to accept anyone from Goblins to Antinium was also coupled with a stubbornness that a Minotaur would respect, a short fuse when it came to some matters, an inability to manage money or think politically…
And, recently, an aversion to anything sexual. Well, that had been a rather interesting day. But Lyonette wasn’t discussing Pawn with Erin. But she had to tell someone. So she went to her friends.
Lyonette du Marquin had friends in Liscor. Not many, but they existed. The first of them was running a stall down Market Street. And she was a Gnoll.
Councilwoman Krshia was still working her day job, even if she participated in Council meetings regularly. They had a schedule. By day, the Council worked, by night they enacted laws, argued, and did what they thought was good for the city.
It was interesting, to see Krshia and Lism hawking goods and talking with their constituents. Both [Shopkeepers] had lines. Their regular customers and people who wanted to put a bee in their ear about some new law…metaphorically.
Lyonette had an actual bee. Apista was currently flying around the Garden of Sanctuary, pollinating flowers, drinking nectar, and getting high on faerie flowers. It was a good life, if lonely for her. She didn’t have a bug-mate.
Krshia Silverfang was hard at work and it was a long line. Mostly Gnolls went to her, and mostly Drakes to Lism, although there was crossover. But Lyonette was at the back of a line of Gnolls. Some of them recognized her and gave her hard looks. Lyonette ducked her head as she stood in the back of the line.
They knew her. The [Thief] who’d caused so much trouble. But no one said anything. Lyonette had been forgiven by both the Watch and Krshia.
“Next! Ah, Tirr, how can I help you today? And if you want to ban Gnolls who are shedding, you will have to speak to someone else, yes? Because that is not a law I am going to fight for…”
Krshia’s voice briskly drifted down the line as Lyonette waited. And it was a funny thing. As the queue moved forwards, Lyonette didn’t talk to the Gnolls who were chatting amongst themselves. She would have liked a book. But neither was the [Princess]…rude.
A certain crazy Human might have gotten by with marching to the front of the line, waving her hands and shouting about some crisis, but Lyonette waited. And when she got to the front of the line, she bowed slightly.
“Good morning, Krshia.”
“Lyonette! Ah, hello!”
Krshia smiled at the [Princess]. It was funny, to think of how they had first met and where they were now. The Gnoll paused, sniffed the air a few times, and then laughed.
“No! And it is a most good morning, yes?”
Lyonette blushed as the other Gnolls in line gave her a sideways look. Some sniffed too and stared, perplexed. But Krshia gave Lyonette a knowing smile. The [Princess] coughed.
“Well—it’s not a bad one. Thank you for your help, Krshia. Can I get some of the goods on this list? I’m shopping, but if you have time, I’d be grateful if I could speak to you? After work?”
She dipped her head again. And if she’d had ears, she’d have lowered them. It was—subtly—a show of respect. The other Gnolls watching murmured.
They knew who she was. Even if what they knew was that she was a former [Thief], or that she was Lyonette of The Wandering Inn. But some knew, and Lyonette was being—polite. To Krshia. And because they saw that, it mattered.
Krshia, for her part, smiled.
“Of course I have time for you, Lyonette! After my work, certainly. I am only working another hour; I will have my assistant take over.”
“Oh? You have an assistant now?”
Krshia grinned.
“The times must change, yes? Just to sell goods. I run my store as usual, but yes. Let us meet at my apartment then. I have some of what you want. For the rest—try Samikha’s Butchery. You know it? She has some fresh Corusdeer venison, very good. And there was some beef at…”
Lyonette didn’t waste Krshia’s time. She ducked her head again, thanked Krshia, and walked off. And the Gnolls murmured, and a few more resolved to greet her the next day.
Small changes in Liscor. The new construction zone had tons of [Builders] and [Workers] marching towards it, some grumbling about their Human co-workers. A group of rookie Humans in the Watch were marching behind Tkrn. Lyonette saw it all, perhaps more clearly than Erin. She was part of the city. Erin—had her inn.
After an hour, Lyonette had stowed her purchases in Erin’s inn and made the walk to Krshia’s apartment. The Gnoll was already waiting. She spread her arms as Lyonette came in.
“Ah, Lyonette Marquin. So you did it, hrm? And how was it? Did everything go well? Pawn, he came to my store and I gave him some…tips. Did they help?”
She gave Lyonette a wicked look. The Gnoll woman did not beat about the bush. Lyonette blushed again. She sat down on the couch as Krshia made them some tea.
“How’d you know? I thought there wouldn’t be an um—smell…”
“We can smell many things. But it would have been harder. No—you have the look. And I knew what was supposed to happen. Here. Tea. Something to eat?”
“Thank you, I’m fine.”
Lyonette sipped from the spicy tea Krshia liked. The Gnoll woman sat across from her, laughing and joking. But kindly. She was genuinely happy for Lyonette. She listened as Lyonette shared what she was willing to. When she heard about Pawn panicking at the sight of blood and casting [Minor Heal Wounds] she laughed herself off the sofa. Krshia was wiping tears out of her eyes when Lyonette was done.
“Ah, good for you! Now, we must only have Erin relax, yes?”
She nodded at the young woman. Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“Good luck, because I’m not helping you. Honestly, Krshia, I think Erin’s just…scarred from her experiences. Which have been bad, I think. She told me about the Hobgoblin Chieftain she met within the first month of coming here…”
Krshia sobered. She slowly sipped her tea, nodding.
“Yes. Erin Solstice has had many things to grieve. But I think, joking aside, that it is good for her, yes? Well, perhaps it is not something casual for her. But I am happy for you.”
“Thank you for…for talking with me about it. And helping me. I wouldn’t have known about the um—harness and…”
Lyonette turned as red as her hair a third time. Krshia just laughed softly. Lyonette raised her head again.
What was fascinating about their conversation was that, even here, she was in a role. It was something Lyonette had learned, both from Krshia talking to her and from observation. Gnolls had a way of communicating like all people did. The way they moved, their ears, tails, their manner of speech…Humans had it in how you bowed, looked at someone. All races did, but Lyonette had learned Gnollish etiquette, or perhaps, body language was a better word for it.
And she was also acting it out, as the younger Gnoll might in a relationship between two females. Krshia was treating her like someone who was both friend and someone in need of mild guidance. It had changed the relationship between the two, made it more solid than a tenuous connection of Lyonette wanting to redeem herself and know more about how to raise Mrsha.
And Lyonette…loved it. She liked the experience, of looking up to a mentor, of being the inferior, the student. A [Princess] was never that. Even her [Tutors] back in Calanfer had known who she was. But Krshia was someone Lyonette truly respected.
“Ah, if you enjoyed it, despite all the awkwardness of a first time, what is there to say? He is not like most males—not at all! But that is good too. I would enjoy someone who doesn’t need to stop but when I feel like it! After Pawn, many males will disappoint you, sadly.”
Krshia laughed. Lyonette had to chuckle. The Gnoll had related stories of her youth and experience to reassure Lyonette. And it had been Krshia that Lyonette had asked for advice when the idea of her and Pawn getting intimate had even popped up.
“Hrm. Strange that love should blossom so. You told me at the beginning you saw him only as a friend. Can you tell me, now that you decided it should be so, why it came to this?”
The Gnoll woman mused. The [Royal Shopkeeper] eyed Lyonette and the [Princess] tried to put it into words. She hadn’t been sure, even until last night. At last, Lyonette nodded.
“I didn’t plan anything, Krshia. Honestly, I didn’t think it would happen—not with all the craziness in the inn. But we had our weekly chats—which turned into twice a week, and then three times—and I showed Pawn how to dance and…”
“You two grew closer?”
“Not just that. It was Pawn…being Pawn. How can I explain it? When the Antinium do something, they do it with everything they have. They don’t know how to be half-hearted. When Pawn loves me, he does. More than any suitor back home.”
All the artificial romance, the odes some [Poet] had written for the [Princes] and [Lords] and [Earls] and so on for her, the gifts or deeds—all of it was fake when you compared it to the genuine thing. And Pawn…he didn’t know deceit. That was why Lyonette had loved him.
It had started with a kiss on his cheek. Only—she hadn’t had to kiss a frog to undo a polymorph curse. Her prince had been right from the beginning.
“As it should be. I am envious. Truly, I wish for a connection like that. For youth, again, so that I could find one for me. But I have had good relationships. And I can keep myself pleased.”
Krshia smiled at Lyonette. And while she was not mother to Lyonette, as Lyonette was to Mrsha, she was like an older sister or simply an older female friend. One willing to teach Lyonette.
She’d never had that from her mother or her sisters, not like this. Lyonette dipped her head again.
“Thank you, Krshia Silverfang. I’m in your debt again. If I can do anything…”
