The Gnoll woman raised a paw.
“Ryoka Griffin paid your debt. And you gave me a class. Erin Solstice gave Brunkr hope—and you—his wish. You have done so much for one not of your tribe—and now yours. Mrsha. And you do me favors. That [Farmer], Wailant Strongheart, was a boon. So too will be Octavia. And the Gnolls who are learning to be [Actors] are grateful. We have no debts between us. We are tribe-sisters.”
The statement made Lyonette’s eyes go misty. She felt her eyes water and brushed at them.
“What? Krshia! That’s—are you sure? Oh no. I’m—”
Only another Gnoll, or someone trained like Lyonette, would have known what that meant. Krshia got up, laughing quietly, and put one arm around Lyonette, squeezing. Lyonette wiped her eyes, then cried a bit.
Such days. Who could have imagined they would be like this? Lyonette sniffed as she leaned against Krshia. No debts between sisters. Just give and give. Lean on each other in times of strife, support each other in days of plenty.
It was an honor. And Krshia had delivered it so casually. But how else would a Gnoll do it? She had stated fact and it had been so. Krshia had said this for no other Human. Not for Erin, to whom she owed a debt and protected. Not even for Ryoka. She was a friend, but no sister.
Lyonette would have liked to have been a Gnoll. But she rested her hand on Krshia’s shoulder and saw the Gnoll woman’s eyes were a bit wet. And then Lyonette told her friend something else.
“Actually—I leveled up after last night. I think it’s related. But—”
The two laughed as they went back to their seats.
“Truly? Give me your class and I will reach Level 50 in a year. Ah, how convenient! But—such is the name, yes? Worldly. Perhaps what you need is to experience all things. Not other men—but learning to bake as you have done. To organize a business. To settle disputes between customers. All things, yes? You do have a love for it.”
Lyonette nodded. When had she discovered she loved leveling up? Learning? Growing? It did fit her. She glanced at Krshia.
“Pawn leveled up too. Think that’s related?”
The Gnoll choked on her tea. She coughed, snorted, and shook her head.
“I do not know what Pawn is. But—he is unique. I am just glad for you, Lyonette. When you reach Level 20, we must hold a celebration, yes? Gnolls and the inn. A party worthy of it!”
She patted Lyonette’s knee. The [Princess] smiled. Krshia knew about Pawn’s class. Just like she knew about Lyonette being a [Princess]. The young woman had told her secrets. And in turn—Krshia had told her little tribe-sister some of her secrets.
“I know the Meeting of Tribes is coming, Krshia. I…I’ll miss you.”
Krshia’s eyes softened. She flicked her paw.
“Ah, well, it won’t be long. We’d have set out earlier, but Erin’s door will save us so much time. Four hundred miles of it, and skirting the Bloodfields is the biggest boon of all. There is so much land between Liscor and Pallass. It still boggles my mind. You know, there are cities, Drake ones that are closer to Liscor. I wonder, when the road is done, if we might trade with them as well as Pallass.”
Lyonette nodded. She inhaled slowly.
“Krshia…about your gift to the other tribes. Well—my Skill from this morning is [Magnified Training]. Which does what you think. It’s a Skill for [Soldiers], [Students], you know? I was wondering…could I try using the spellbook?”
Across from her, Krshia Silverfang’s eyes widened. Her brown eyes fixed on Lyonette. And the [Princess] saw the Gnoll’s fur stand up slightly.
“You? Lyonette Marquin? But you are no [Mage].”
“No. But I know you have Mrsha learning from it now and then…”
Krshia had asked permission after the fact. She said it was only now and then, and Lyonette hoped that was true. The [Princess] hesitated.
“I can cast [Light] and a few minor spells. But I was taught in magical theory. Most royals are. So I was thinking…I could try learning spells. I told you, Mrsha’s too young to memorize full spells. But I can cast magic. So, if you’re willing…”
She waited. Even knowing about Ryoka’s gift was a sign of trust that had made them this close. Krshia drummed her paws on the armrest of the couch, then she slowly nodded.
“For you, Lyonette? Of course. I did not say we were tribe-sisters casually. Come.”
She stood. Lyonette followed her into the room. The Gnoll cautioned her to stay back while she undid the traps and locks. And then—she brought out the tome.
The young woman gasped. She had never seen the book in actuality, just known it was there. But this?
“Calanfer would trade hundreds of thousands of gold pieces’ worth for this, Krshia. Even if it’s only spells from Tier 0 to Tier…what, Tier 4?”
“Tier 3 or Tier 4. I forget myself. I cannot read it. Can you?”
Krshia let Lyonette read it on her bed. The [Princess] squinted at the magical writing.
“…Vaguely. Most [Mages] learn Skills to help them. And to memorize spells. Someone who can cast magic without help, or something that enhances their natural magic is rare.”
“You can do it.”
The Gnoll woman looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] smiled, a bit sadly.
“Superior breeding, my parents would say. Marquin children have natural mana pools that are larger than most people. Let me see this book, though…”
She flipped through the pages. Indeed, Lyonette saw at a glance why Mrsha wouldn’t be learning new spells. This was complex. But at the same time…there was a flow to the instruction that made it seem simpler than most spellbooks. As if, indeed, this book was teaching the spell rather than just listing it without instruction.
“Forget Calanfer. You could sell this to Wistram for one of their Archmages. What are the bookmarks for?”
“Ah—spells Mrsha wanted to try to learn. You see?”
“They look…like nature spells. Hold on, I’m pretty sure that one’s [Stone Armor]. See? There’s an illustration.”
Krshia nodded.
“What do you think?”
“I think…this spellbook is organized by elements. No—wait—spell schools. And that would mean these are Tier 4—or Tier 3—attack spells. And these are…illusions…”
Lyonette was going through the book. Krshia made a quick note.
“And this section?”
“Enchantments.”
Lyonette contemplated a page, which was both illustration and word. Magical writing. She hummed.
“Krshia—can you let me try to learn this spell? It might be—it looks like it’s a spell I know from home.”
“Which one?”
“Here. If it is—it’s [Silverglow Enchantment]; it makes a sword capable of cutting spirits.”
“Really? That is useful. Against undead, yes?”
“I hear it’s good against Djinn as well. And non-corporeal foes. Or maybe—this one?”
Lyonette wavered. She’d spotted another spell as she went to attack spells.
“[Lightning Bolt]. That’s definitely it.”
“Another good spell. Do you think you can learn it?”
“I don’t know.”
If she could—and if she could, really, which was the best spell to try for? Lyonette eyed the spells again. And she began to get worried. Which one? Which…
Another spell caught her eye. Lyonette paused.
“…How about this one? I’ve heard of [Mages] using it. And it has a number of uses.”
“Hrm? Which one.”
“This. Right here. It’s wind-magic. [Razorwind].”
“…Seems much like [Lightning Bolt]. Except less useful, yes?”
“No, no. It’s Tier 3. But it’s not just sharp wind. It’s got utility. Let me try…learning it. You can compress the wind, use it as a shield. I can always try the other enchantments later.”
“Very well. If you can learn, it has some use here. Go ahead. Hrm. Perhaps a table? Mrsha takes a long time learning.”
“Okay. Here I go.”
Lyonette put the book on the table. She stared at the magical spell. Instantly—her head began to hurt. The magic was trying to embed itself in her head, and her mind was ill-prepared to accept it.
Even so—Lyonette realized the words made a lot more sense than even the Tier 1 and Tier 0 spells her [Tutors] had tried to teach her. Her Skill was working.
It was just that this was Tier 3. The [Princess] felt a trickle from her nose as she tried to memorize.
“Nosebleed. Here. Perhaps you should rest, Lyonette? It has been forty minutes.”
Krshia offered Lyonette a tissue. The [Princess] looked up.
“Forty…? It feels…no. No, I think I can do this. I’m going to try something else. Give another try?”
The Gnoll nodded. And so the [Princess] took a breath. She looked down and whispered.
“[Flawless Attempt].”
And her mind—focused. Krshia Silverfang saw the young woman’s pupils widen. And she felt something in the air. She looked at Lyonette. And in the closed room, the air began to move. The Gnoll stared at Lyonette. Time ran past the young woman as she read.
Her mind felt focused, as if she’d taken some kind of potion to enhance her concentration. And the magic was revealing itself to her. Imprinting itself in her brain. She raised her hand.
Yes. The wind can be as sharp as a razor. As mutable as thought. More than water. But it changes. Look. You can compress it; turn it into a shield, a weapon. But only for a breath. Concentrate. To know how to make a blade with air, you have to know what it is to cut—
“I need to cut myself. Where’s my sword?”
Lyonette found herself muttering. She felt someone shaking her. And she came to herself with Krshia’s knife in one hand. The Gnoll was holding her arm.
“No. Lyonette?”
She peered worriedly at Lyonette. The [Princess] blinked at her—and she came back into the world.
Two hours had passed. Lyonette let go of the knife, sheepishly.
“I—didn’t mean cut my throat. I just need to know how sharp a blade is. I’ll only be able to create a blade as sharp as something I understand. So the easiest way is to cut yourself. Lightly. I’ll heal it with a potion.”
Krshia stared at Lyonette, unnerved. And Lyonette wondered what she’d seen.
“Then—you learned the spell? Just so? Just like that?”
The young woman started.
“What? No. Of course not. I’m not even a tenth of the way there.”
“But then—you are partly there?”
For answer, Lyonette raised her hand. And the air in Krshia’s apartment moved. A gentle breeze touched the two for a moment. Krshia’s eyes went round. Lyonette smiled weakly.
“Told you. It’s utility. I understand how to move the wind weakly. But I’d need to study that at least a dozen more times. And—”
She realized there was something on her nose. She brushed at a tissue gently stuck there. Krshia pointed at it.
“Ah, you had a nosebleed. Just a small one.”
The [Princess] realized her head was aching. She suddenly felt stupid. She had to sit down for a bit.
“Wow. I’m exhausted. I can barely think—”
“But you remember the spell?”
Krshia had more tea and some stamina potion in Lyonette’s cup. The [Princess] nodded.
“I do. I do.”
“Your Skill. It is unfair. Give it to me.”
The Gnoll woman held a paw out. Lyonette laughed.
“It’s a [Princess]’ Skill. But—Krshia, that book is incredible. You shouldn’t be able to learn a Tier 3 spell like that, even with my Skills.”
She looked wide-eyed at Krshia. The Gnoll smiled.
“A gift unmatched. One wonders…but that is Ryoka Griffin’s secret. And we shall thank the one called Teriarch. Even if no Archmage in living memory has that name.”
The name sounded vaguely familiar to Lyonette. She frowned.
“Could I…try to learn that spell again?”
“Lyonette du Marquin. What kind of fool would I be if I did not allow it?”
Krshia gave Lyonette a look over her cup and snorted softly.
“What madness is this? All these young people growing like grass about me. By all means, come back and learn.”
“Thank you. But you’re not exactly leveling up slowly yourself?”
The [Royal Shopkeeper] and [Councilwoman] stroked the fur around her chin, and chuckled.
“I suppose not. But still—I cannot help but be envious. I only wish that Mrsha could learn. But she must be the most low-level of [Mages]. As children are. A pity. Even so.”
Lyonette bit her lip, covering it with a sip of tea. The one secret she had was that Mrsha was a [Druid]. Krshia was her sister, but some things you didn’t tell even sisters. Like Erin’s exact level.
Tribe-sisters and Lyonette’s family. Well, they were so close. But the young woman wanted to keep a few of those secrets. Like Erin’s specific tales from her world.
“Enough. Too much for one day! Let us just celebrate. Both this new knowledge, your level, and Pawn. And do tell me—which one of my selection did you use?”
Lyonette laughed as Krshia steered the conversation back. She refused to answer, and after another fifteen minutes, she excused herself. It was growing late
 
——
 
“Thank you for everything. And yes—definitely. I can take more time off, maybe meet in two days? Tomorrow? Come to the inn and we’ll discuss it—Erin misses you!”
Lyonette said goodbye to Krshia. The Gnoll woman wasn’t going back to her stall, she was due for a discussion with some of her people before the Council meeting. And while she did that, Lyonette went to visit her second friend.
Not to talk about sex. She’d get kicked out in a second if she tried that. Watch Captain Zevara probably wasn’t as uptight about sex as Erin. But she could certainly use someone in her life. Sometimes, Lyonette thought that was why she was so grumpy. And—because she had to deal with Erin. And Relc. That couldn’t help.
“Hi, Ishkr. How’s the inn?”
“Fine. We’ve got some [Farmers] from around Celum.”
The Gnoll nodded to a group of people who included the two teens she’d met this morning. They were staring wide-eyed at the Players of Celum. She smiled.
“Any trouble?”
“Nope.”
Thank the throne for people like Ishkr. Lyonette collected some pre-prepared objects from the kitchen and headed out again.
“Excuse me, is the Watch Captain here? I’d like a meeting.”
The Desk Sergeant was a Drake. He eyed Lyonette, but he knew the score. He waved Lyonette up. She slipped him a tart.
Erin was good at sugary foods. Ironically, she wasn’t a huge fan of eating the stuff she made, but she knew her audience. The peach tarts were a bit pricey—mainly because of the peaches. But Pallass imported food from Oteslia, so it wasn’t as expensive as getting it anywhere else. And these ones were…
“Bribes again, Miss Marquin?”
Watch Captain Zevara blinked at the little tarts on her desk. Lyonette had put them in a little wooden box; they couldn’t exactly be bagged.
“I’m just giving some food to a friend. And testing them out before we sell them. What do you think? See the box? I’m thinking about paying to have some made. Just a [Carpenter] engraving a bit onto it.”
“Hm. Well, I suppose you could sell them. Who did this one?”
