And so, Ranthia silently prayed to Xaoc for the women’s sake. The base commander might have left out the gods, but she wasn’t about to make the same mistake. May these two find true happiness and enjoy every bit of time they have together. Just over two-thirds of her mana disappeared when she completed the prayer and she caught a hint of Xaoc’s warmth—her smile brightened a bit further.

The couple had saluted at the base commander’s question, before they held their arms up, straight in front of them. The base commander silently—and surprisingly deftly—used the woven ribbons to bind the women across all four of their forearms in the shape of an eight-pointed star (it definitely didn’t resemble a spider, and Ranthia was absolutely not going to laugh in the middle of her friends’ wedding).

“Then with my authority granted by the Empire of Remus, I bind you together. Your first duty is to your nation, but your second is forever to one another. May you serve one another with honor and dignity, through good and ill. May your bonds strengthen you and strengthen our empire.” The man announced.

The gathered echoed the final sentence, though Avyna left off the bit about the empire. Ranthia seemed to be the only one to notice—Avyna offered a mischievous wink when she noticed Ranthia’s look.

The base commander concluded the ceremony by drawing his sword and severing the knot, which left the women freed with dangling lengths of unraveling ribbon hanging from each of their arms. That done, Glorine turned and held her right hand out to Ranthia while Gailla did the same for Avyna. Ranthia and Avyna, perfectly matching their moves, produced the bracelet they carried—each had been custom-ordered—and set them into the requesting hands. Glorine slipped the bracelet onto Gailla’s left wrist while Gailla—trembling—struggled to get her bracelet over Glorine’s left hand.

In the tradition of Gailla’s hometown, the meanings of the engravings and the explanation of the designs that were chosen would remain a secret known only to the two of them. The newly married couple joined hands and left the tent to share the secrets with one another in private—and likely indulge in a quick bout of amorous activity—before they rejoined the guests for the main banquet.

While they waited, said guests were served small cakes and wine. Even the base commander awkwardly stood in a corner and nibbled at a cake. Avyna linked her arm with Ranthia’s, as they found their own space. Avyna took bites from Ranthia’s unwanted sweet, while Ranthia held the goblet they both took sips from. Some of the other guests had started their own conversations, but Ranthia and Avyna were both content to silently enjoy themselves.

Avyna had worked hard, and the ceremony had been beautiful. She had done an amazing job finding a balance between Glorine and Gailla’s cultures that celebrated both of them—and their Legion ties.

And Ranthia’s heart and mind finally felt restored. She didn’t have to feign her joy for her friends’ happiness when the newlywed women finally—still somewhat flushed and vaguely disheveled—returned. Ranthia’s voice was louder than any other that cheered for the couple.
