He trailed off and faced Piety fully again. “Will there be anything else, Mother?”

Piety bowed. “No, Conrad. Thank you.”

• • •

Cool autumn air eddied through the sanctuary where Piety sat by herself; three pews back from the dais, on the left. The sun was down so no multicolored light shone through the windows to bathe the dais and its chairs in resplendence. A faint babble of conversation from the activity in the living quarters reached her through the connecting hallway. The tromp of soldier’s boots on patrol outside provided a strict counterpoint. The air still tasted of ash, but with a hint of rain that might wash it away. It didn’t rain much in the Valley of the Three Rivers.

Piety stared at the darkening dais, unable to quit thinking about those who had died. Not only the four soldiers, one acolyte, two orphans, and five citizens who had been killed by vhamps days ago, but those killed by vhamps in the weeks before her arrival, the soldiers who had died under her hands and in the field of battle, and even the vhamps themselves. She couldn’t stop thinking about them.

A gust of wind swirled about her ankles, ruffling her simple cotton dress. She looked down and noted a thin skein of dust driven by the wind. Her hands itched at the sight, longing to hold a broom. But she restrained herself. Twice she had met Father Vytal while sweeping front steps and though a part of her longed for it to happen again, to believe in a power that would grant her wish, she knew it couldn’t happen.

“Sweep?”

Piety looked up to see Lillyfield at the entryway to the hall connecting to the dormitories. Lillyfield shifted nervously.

“I’m sorry, I meant to call you Piety. I forgot.”

“I don’t mind.”

“I thought you were going to join us for dinner?”

Piety nodded. “I just… wanted to think for a bit.”

“Oh. Well, okay.” Lillyfield turned to leave, but then hesitated. “You know, Piety, that you’re a hero, right?”

Piety didn’t reply. The shadows lengthened and deepened within the Sanctuary, only a lone candle on the podium on the dais made sure the Sanctuary didn’t fall completely into darkness.

“Some died, yes, but you saved us. If not for you, we’d all have been killed. And many others too, from what I hear.” She cleared her throat uncomfortably. “Well… anyway.”

Before Lillyfield could leave, Piety spoke. “You’re going to be a great Mother Superior.”

• • •

For a full week Piety had been back in Appledel and slept beneath the roof of Sacred Heart church, a full ten days from Moonday to Sunday and tomorrow would be Moonday again. And in all ten of those days, Piety had yet to visit the kitchen. She’d meant to, she’d wanted to, but between helping Conrad secure the town, setting up elections for the position of mayor, and helping Lillyfield settle into her position at the church, there hadn’t been time.

Early that morning, with Tobias and Temperance readying the horses for their journey north, Piety finally stood at the door to the kitchen where orphans and a few sleepy-eyed acolytes helped Cook prepare the morning meal. She stood at the threshold quietly, watching the busy activity that had yet to take note of her.

It was Cook who finally said, “Well, are you going to just stand there or do you need something, Mother?”

Piety bit her lip. Cook still looked at the bread dough she kneaded thoroughly, but the girls in the kitchen looked up with surprise and awe, and they bowed their heads.

Piety sighed. “Please, don’t bow. I’m just here to get some supplies. Cook…”

Cook stopped kneading and looked at Piety, her face a cold mask of neutrality.

“I’m sorry I didn’t come sooner.”

“You had lives to save, undead to kill.”

“Cook—“

“Frij. My name is Frij.”

Piety rolled the unfamiliar word about her tongue and tried to approximate it. Her pronunciation wasn’t quite the same as Frij’s, and the large woman chuckled, breaking her façade. A few tears tracked down her cheeks.

“By Gods, I’m glad you’re alive, child. I thought that tyrant had killed you and buried you in the cellar.”

“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to worry you.”

“Bah!” Frij wiped at her tears. “Don’t worry about me; I’m tough.”

Piety smiled. “Speaking of lives to save, I want you to know that without you—“

“Nah. You had Temperance.”

Piety approached Frij. “Anybody else at this place would have beaten me every day for the disaster I brought with me into the kitchen. I looked forward to working here because of you.”

In a sudden rush, Frij strode toward her and picked her up in a full-bodied hug. Piety buried herself in that hug, letting it take away everything else. Then Frij cleared her throat roughly and held Piety out at arm’s length.

“You came here for some supplies, Mother?”

“Please don’t call me that.”

“I’ll call you whatever I please, Mother. Now, to business.”

A selection of dried goods was prepared. Frij and Piety did it on their own, leaving the kitchen workers to finish preparing breakfast. By the time they were finished packing the food in rough canvas, Tobias showed up to help carry the packages to their horses, waiting out front in the courtyard of the acolyte’s dormitories.

Lillyfield stood there talking with Temperance and a girl Piety didn’t know, clad in the grey dress of an orphan. Tobias preceded them by some distance.

“Frij…” Piety paused while Frij chucked at her pronunciation. “How did you ever come to work in a church under so strict a person as Willow Vytal?”

Cook shrugged. “I’m an excellent cook.”

“And she never harassed you because you’ve got yellow hair or pale skin?”

Frij shook her head. “It was never your white hair nor left hand that angered her. It was that you were so obviously special. And she wasn’t.”

Piety swallowed hard. “You know the Mountain Kingdom has allied with General Kempenny?”

“I do.”

“In some places, I’ve heard, yellow hair, pale skin, praying to more than one god… There have been mobs. Ugly things are happening.”

“I’ve heard that as well.”

“What will you do?”

Frij shrugged. “I’ll bake bread. I’ll leave the fighting to soldiers and the politicking to nobles and the vanquishing of villains to you. I’ll bake bread.”

They were at the horses then, and Tobias insisted on doing the packing. Piety let him take the bundles without comment. Frij bowed to Lillyfield, gave Temperance a hug, then Piety, and turned to return to the church and her kitchen.

Piety watched her go, uncertain that she’d expressed just how much the woman had meant to her. She hadn’t even realized just how much until this moment, when she wanted to call Frij back and tell her all over again, wanted her to come with them so she could protect her. But she held her tongue. Frij was happy here, and Piety couldn’t stay, and repeating what had already been said would accomplish nothing but more tears.

And then the horses had been packed.

Lillyfield introduced Piety to Renee and they exchanged brief greetings. Renee had been orphaned in a flood only days after Piety and Temperance had fled. She seemed nice and a good match for Lillyfield. Piety gave them both her blessing, mounted her horse, and followed Tobias out of Appledel.
