But this was where Orodan felt the goblin could make real gains. Training through such harsh circumstances would only improve Zukelmux’s Shield Mastery and Physical Fitness.

[Club Mastery 26 → Club Mastery 27]

He had gained levels in the skill over the course of the last loop, training with the goblin and Adeltaj. And now it gained one more as Orodan violently pounded on Zukelmux’s shield once more in a most brutal manner. Like a crazed blacksmith hammering metal, the club rose and fell over and over upon the diminutive goblin’s shield.

And although Zukelmux was an Elite who could fight evenly against peak Masters, Orodan had no compunctions about utilizing Grandmaster-level strength right off the bat. How else would his disciple grow if not put under immense pressure right from the get-go?

One thunderous blow after another threatened to shatter the goblin’s shield arm, yet against all odds Zukelmux held, having gotten stronger since the last time this exercise took place. And not only that… but the goblin had developed some new tricks too!

As the second blow of the club hammered down, his student used the kinetic momentum and force to generate power for a counter spear thrust with his right hand. Like the steam pistons of Lonvoron, the polearm flew for Orodan’s throat.

He saw it coming of course, parrying the blow. His Combat Mastery was far too high to not notice that. But it was an impressive counter which would have caught any other mortal Grandmaster of Inuan off-guard.

“Not bad. You’ve taken what I advised you on to heart,” Orodan praised. “I see you won’t be so easily overwhelmed by raw aggression any longer. Perhaps you’re ready to fight a real demonic berserker next.”

“I have much to learn still, teacher. May I have the honor of you escalating your level of force?”

“Very well. Stand and ready yourself then.”

The interesting thing about Mythical skills was that they often had unexpected uses and were by nature rather versatile. This was a general trend which only became truer as a skill’s rarity increased. And Orodan had learned that his ability to use Balance Maker went both ways.

A fact which Zukelmux was on the painfully receiving end of as Orodan’s power, restrained to just the level of a weak Grandmaster, met the goblin’s full power blow. His student was strong, probably the best combatant of all his disciples. But while the spear-and-shield wielding warrior was an Elite who could jump a tier to match Masters, he wasn’t yet able to match the raw power of even a bottom-of-the-barrel Grandmaster.

[Balance Maker 65 → Balance Maker 66]

But that was fine as Orodan’s Balance Maker skill made up the difference for him.

The goblin grunted in pain, his arm shattering, his mind reeling and even the soul trembling as the difference was surmounted at cost. It was a silly way of hurting a weaker opponent, Orodan considered. But the real benefit was allowing his disciple to get a glimpse of that level of power, so that he could hopefully bridge it easier and understand where he could make improvements.

“Well done Zukelmux. I can tell you’ve been working hard. Just a fifty-percent increase in power and you’ll be able to match a Grandmaster blow-for-blow soon enough,” Orodan praised. “How fares your mind and soul?”

“G-good… good!” the goblin lied through his teeth, pausing at the glare Orodan sent and then reconsidering his dishonesty. “My mind is muddled and my emotions rampant teacher… the cost for matching your blow is a heavy one.”

“I can see that. Still, it’s good training and forces you to innately understand the level of power you’ll need to reach to match Grandmasters,” Orodan said. Facing damage to the mind and soul from time to time kept one sharp. Edrosic and Aliya weren’t ready for that level of commitment to hardening themselves, but Zukelmux had requested it. “This was the smallest possible gap in power I could recreate to give you a taste of the Grandmaster-level while avoiding permanent damage. Any wider of a difference and your outer soul layer risks destruction, alongside the possible unravelling of your mind.”

Like he himself had suffered when using Balance Maker against the Eldritch Boundless One.

It was a good skill for training his students, but if he was being honest, in a fair fight Orodan felt it a cheap trick meant to artificially make him equal against a greater opponent. He wasn’t opposed to using it in desperate situations where the stakes were high, but that aside, it was better to honestly train his power to match that of his foe’s through hard work.

That and using it against someone who was his greater to an extreme degree would result in his death from the backlash anyways.

Nearby, the sounds of clapping could be heard as an elderly goblin approached, dressed in ceremonial garb.

“Incredible…! To think Zukelmux had become so strong in short a period of time…”

“Elder Griok! I have not earned such power yet, I must intensify my training before I can match a Grandmaster,” his student denied.

“Not being able to match a Grandmaster directly in terms of strength is no source of shame when you are but an Elite, Zukelmux. Did you not spar the headmaster of the school of swordsmanship at Bluefire yesterday? From what Adeltaj tells me, you made him get serious,” Orodan recalled. “Winning against a superior opponent does not always necessitate overpowering them.”

His fights against the Eldritch Avatar and the Prophet came to mind with that bit of advice.

“Teacher…! You embarrass me with your praise…” the goblin muttered looking downward sheepishly. “But I do not think you have met Elder Griok this time! Come, allow me to introduce you!”

They were in Velestok, specifically in a part of the Aenechean Forest right next to the House Simarji lumberyard. It was where the Rising Spear Tribe—Zukelmux’s kin—had settled thanks to the hospitality of Adeltaj’s house. It was the nice part about being able to ferry people’s memories back. He had simply left the procurement of Zukelmux and the integration of the goblin’s tribe to the old Simarji. Which meant that he had yet to meet the tribe’s elder in this loop.

“You must be the peerless warrior Orodan Wainwright, it is an honor to meet you. The young warrior speaks of you often and of the things you teach him,” the elderly goblin said. “He also said that you are in a… a time loop? It sounded utterly fantastical to me, but Zukelmux has never been known to lie and it would explain how he suddenly knew things which he did not before.”

“Aye. Every time I die I return to life, time having rewound to midnight of the day it all started. I hope Zukelmux has not bored you with all the details?”

“On the contrary my lord-”

“Not a lord, but go on.”

“Er… of course. What I mean to say is that he has explained to us the entire tale, and of how in your loops you always made sure whenever you could, to see us taken care of. For that, we would like to profess our gratitude,” the tribe elder said, giving a respectful half-bow at the waist. “And he also spoke of this joint-defense of our home world against threats from the stars. To that end, though it has been very long since we have done such things… we of the Rising Spear Tribe would like to offer our services in helping defend Alastaia.”

“Elder! Our tribe is not at all suited for such battles! I am enough! I shall fight at my teacher’s side in order to-”

“Zukelmux,” Orodan interrupted. “I do not teach you so that you can fight in my battles for me. I do it for its own sake… and the skill levels in Teaching.”

“But if I wished to join you-”

“Then you could. I will not deny you your choice, but there is no obligation. Although, you will certainly die fighting the kinds of enemies that are after me. But what you can do, is defend our world, and taking that choice away from your tribe would be wrong.”

“But how is this the tribe’s decision? Elder, all I hear is you proposing to follow my teacher into danger! Who else will fight? You are but a low-Elite in your combat skills who has remained stuck there for decades. Zur is the next brightest talent after me but he is young and his temperament unsuited for the harshness of battle. You shall all be slaughtered by the enemies which come for us.”

“You are too quick to rush to judgement young warrior. Who said anything about us fighting?” the elder calmly spoke, causing the young goblin to frown. “I have heard your story about Orodan Wainwright and how he helped us. But also how we in turn helped him. I would like to offer our services, not as fighters, but as Jewelcrafters.”

That… was quite the sensible offer. Orodan recalled how he had picked up Jewelcrafting from the Rising Spear Tribe in the first place. And it had been the elder of the tribe, Griok himself, who had taught him how to polish and work upon a jewel. The old goblin was at the Master-level of the skill.

“I would certainly be honored to learn.”

“And more than that. Zukelmux tells me about this ancient machine you seek to alter,” Griok said. “Tell me, does it possess an energy battery within? A control orb to interface with?”

“It does. Why?” Orodan asked, though he had a feeling he knew the answer.

“Then you will need an expert to evaluate the quality of these crystals, for energy batteries and control orbs are the end of the day items created by us jewelcrafters. At the end of this loop of yours, bring me along, and I shall see if this ancient machine’s energy battery, control orb and even its crystal inlays are up to par.”

“Crystal inlays? At most the machine has the powder of crushed gemstones lining certain joints, but that’s hardly a point of failure for the device.”

“I am no maker of these complex devices and the engineering would be beyond me. But do not be so quick to discount what difference the lining can make when the crushed gemstones are of proper quality and well-prepared.”

“I hadn’t even considered that. I will not lie, I do not see how the lining of it would make such a drastic difference, especially when the failure last time was due to the metal… but I will learn if you would have me?”

Griok nodded with a pleased smile.

“Come, Orodan Wainwright. Allow me to repay you for all you have done across the loops for the Rising Spear Tribe and Zukelmux, and allow us to make our contribution to the ancient machine and perhaps even to the defense of Alastaia.”

#

When Orodan had heard that Griok was a Master-level Jewelcrafter, he had reasonably expected the elderly goblin’s skill level to be in the early 90s, perhaps even past 95. But Griok had blown those assumptions out of the water by revealing that the goblin’s Jewelcrafting was at level 99. One step away from Grandmastery.

Long ago when he’d delved into the depths at Ranmere’s Folly for the first time and then for many loops after, he had learned Jewelcrafting from this elderly goblin, but at the time had never thought to ask exactly what level his skill was at. Well, now he knew. Griok was just one level away from achieving the Grandmaster-level in the skill.

It put the goblin quite close to a very rare category of individuals who were Grandmaster Jewelcrafters. Not only was training the skill expensive, but those that did were often locked down by nations, noble houses and the like. The grand energy batteries for cities, the expensive and high-quality gemstones used in certain high-level weapons and the focusing crystals used for powerful wards and rituals were all handled by Jewelcrafters. In fact, his education at Bluefire had taught him that there were only four Grandmaster Jewelcrafters upon Inuan and their services were highly guarded and coveted as a result.

But why bother sourcing the help of some Grandmaster he didn’t know when he had the opportunity to not only help one rise right here, but also one who would be far more inclined to help him learn than the others would be. Griok was a part of Zukelmux’s tribe, and to help this elderly goblin rise to the Grandmaster-level would not only be good for his disciple’s tribe but also for Alastaia in general.

But the truth of it was… Orodan owed Griok a debt and was fond of the elderly goblin and the Rising Spears Tribe in general. These goblins came from difficult origins in the depths, they had to struggle under their depths mole overlords and eke out a life for themselves despite the odds.

In Orodan’s opinion, an elderly goblin who was a Master of level 99 despite such a resource-starved environment was worth ten of whatever fancy pedigreed Grandmaster he could find in the human nations of Inuan. One who had overcome more struggle to reach the same point as another was far more reliable.

Needless to say, Jewelcrafting would be on his list of skills to develop moving forward.

For the past hour, the goblin had been showing him through the finer points of polishing and preparing a gem for use before it would be crushed into powder. And some of the incredibly intricate cuts and twitches of the goblin’s fingers were moves he doubted even a Grandmaster could perform.

“I never did have a formal education on Jewelcrafting,” Orodan admitted. “But this technique of etching a lattice onto the surface of the jewel so that it mirrors the internal structure perfectly… I have never seen it before in my life.”

