“We of the Rising Spear Tribe have had no formal education either. And although the venerable Adeltaj Simarji, our benefactor, has sponsored a handful of our youth to enter the county academy, it is still a slow process of acquiring knowledge and the dissemination of the Republic’s education unto our tribe,” Griok explained. “But… we goblins have always been small. Mere prey for most species of the depths, and even with the System not as physically doughty, level-for-level, as you humans or the dwarves. But where others see this as a weakness… our stature can be a strength.”

“I can see that. Zukelmux is akin to a ferocious cannonball in combat, difficult to hit and continually changing direction mid-motion,” Orodan added.

“True, the young one has always excelled at being a warrior… but fighting aside, the biggest advantage we goblins possess besides our keen eyes… are our small hands. Small enough that we can carve a lattice which a human would find much harder to perform. Now, behold.”

Griok put down his chisel and brought out a hammer. And before Orodan could ask why, the tool struck the gemstone, rendering it to dust with but the lightest of taps.

“As you can see, all that work of etching for nothing,” Griok said with a laugh.

But Orodan was not fooled in the slightest. Physical Fitness, Body Tempering and Absolute Body Composition meant that his sense of sight was keener than anyone else. And he also had Vision of Purity on top of that.

“This is…! The gem shattered perfectly!” he exclaimed in wonder.

What academy could even teach a technique like that? He’d seen gemstone powder on spell scrolls and lining certain joints of the ancient machine, but none of it was as fine quality as this. It was as though the lattice Griok had carved on the surface of the jewel encouraged to break absolutely perfectly.

Visually, the product looked like nothing more than a pile of ordinary crushed gemstone. The mundane sort where a high-quality jewel was put under a powerful hammer or an enchanted crushed to produce gem powder. But to his keen eyes he could tell that each grain, as a result of the perfect lattice alignment from the surface etching, was perfectly shaped. Like a crystal in and of itself.

This powder if applied to the joints of the ancient machine…

“Who taught you? You’ve learned from no academy or books…”

“Neither have you, Orodan Wainwright. You are an Adept Jewelcrafter, yes? Yet I can see no habits in you that the formally educated jewelcrafters of the human nations use,” Griok spoke. “Knowledge and education can come from more than just books and academies.”

A humbling sentiment and an enlightening moment. Orodan would never cease to be amazed by how the most profound sort of knowledge and insights could come from the unlikeliest corners of Alastaia, outside of any fancy academy or private schooling the wealthiest nobles could have.

“With my Celestial skill I could technically cleanse gemstone dust in order to create something similar… but I feel as though your raw handling of it has still produced a superior product,” Orodan said.

And that wouldn’t have been far from the truth either. He had a Celestial cleaning skill, but that still relied on his perception of what was clean in order to function. Even if he poured all of his power into the skill and attempted to cleanse gemstone dust, he still wouldn’t be able to match the product that this elderly goblin had just created. After all, Griok’s eye for gem quality and his intuition for jewelcraft was well beyond Orodan’s own.

A true Master who deserved more than anyone else to be a Grandmaster of his craft.

“Oh, you honor me with your words, but I am merely an old goblin past his prime who wishes to usher my tribe’s next generation to a better life.”

And Orodan intended to ensure that this old Jewelcrafter not only saw his tribe prosper, but that the goblin himself also rose higher.

For the next two hours Orodan worked diligently at attempting to replicate what Griok had done. It was a diligent effort and he spent much focus upon attempting to see it realized, but by the end of it he had to admit that he was but an Adept at Jewelcrafting and still had a ways to go. Although he did end up gaining three levels in the skill.

Edrosic, Aliya and Wainroach who had been focusing upon their own training or occasionally frolicking among the goblins of the tribe, met him as he exited the crafters’ area of the settlement.

“Success?” Edrosic asked.

“For me? It shall take time. But Griok has agreed to come provide his expertise and input in our endeavors to rebuild the ancient machine,” Orodan answered. “One more expert in an aspect of the device I hadn’t even considered.”

For not only was the crystal powder lining the joints of the machine the purview of Jewelcrafting, but as was the control orb and central energy core. Perhaps Orodan could improve the efficiency of these and thereby reduce the stress upon the metallic portions of the device?

“As expected… the elder feels as though he owes you a great debt, teacher,” Zukelmux said.

“In truth, it is I who owes him and will work to ensure that debt is repaid. Worry not my student, the Rising Spear Tribe shall know the light of day yet again.”

And not just for a brief two weeks after the start of each loop where they needed to reset over and over.

#

“D-damn… why is it so cold around these parts?”

“What was that Edrosic? You want to go sightseeing and explore that frozen lake over there?” Orodan asked.

“N-no! No! I’ll almost certainly die! If not from the cold then from whatever’s lurking at the bottom.”

He was being melodramatic, Orodan felt. With decent enough Physical Fitness, the risk of death from frigid waters wasn’t really as high as it would be for someone untrained. Really, it was just the discomfort bothering Edrosic, something the man would have to power through.

Guzuhar was cold in general, but further inland close to the territory of Clan Iron-Bear it was even colder. Teleportation would have been easy, Edrosic would have loved that. Unfortunately for the militia man, a row boat ride had been in order for the sake of physical conditioning. If anything, Orodan had been quite lax in not making them all swim to the northern continent.

Sure, they had to fight more than a few monsters as he kept intentionally steering the boat into sections of water which were their territory. But that aside, it was a relatively easy trip and three out of the four of his disciples looked like they were having fun.

“Teacher… does it snow everywhere in this place? How do these people grow crops? How does the snow not get everywhere?” Zukelmux asked.

“Right, I forget you’ve never seen snow before. For the most part, everywhere on Guzuhar is like this and I know not why,” Orodan explained. Perhaps it had something to do with the world energy distribution or something magical? Or maybe Cyvrosdyr liked it cold and snowy around his resting grounds. “As for crops, I’m told they grow some very hardy root vegetables and there are certainly no shortage of fish and aquatic monsters in the rivers and sea.”

“And you know… snow… melts. Indoors with a fireplace going anyhow,” Edrosic chimed in. “It snows where Orodan and I are from, but only seasonally. Not fun having a stationary post outside on those nights.”

Aliya and Wainroach were too busy scooping up snowballs and playing as they walked to join in on the conversation.

Those two had been progressing at a steady clip. Aliya was almost at the halfway point to reaching Adept-level in her Staff Mastery. And Wainroach? Near the start of the loop Destartes had declared to him that the old wizard would be stealing the cockroach as his student when it came to magic lessons. Which Orodan was entirely fine with if it meant she was getting better training in her pyromancy.

With some of the Fireballs she threw nowadays, it was apparent that the practice was having great effect. And every day she spent longer and longer in the firepits, attempting to acquire Fire Resistance. Frankly, Orodan had discarded any thoughts of using her as a test subject. She was a sapient being now and he actually cared about the little bug. But Wainroach herself still insisted that he use her to help develop his Elemental Living Enchanting once she learned how to resist fire.

Edrosic himself had improved quite a bit since some forced training without the System in the last loop. The man could fight decently now and was also close to becoming a Sword Apprentice thanks to the regularly harsh training and continual battles Orodan put him through. Furthermore, while his fellow militia man’s weapon skills and Physical Fitness might not have been as high compared to the upper half of the students at Oxhead, what Edrosic did have was battle experience. A lot of it, thanks to the regular journeys and fights he was forced into.

And Zukelmux, naturally, was excelling at his training and at Bluefire Academy. From what Adeltaj had told him, the goblin beat up Claridin Rockwood and Kastirya Asonueva a few days ago in separate duels, cementing him as the single strongest student at the academy. Orodan had expected nothing less, although getting the goblin good enough to fight and contend with the likes of Vespidia, Akelrim and Othorion would take more work still.

And really, the gains for his students in this loop had been particularly good since they’d been sequestered away in a deep section of the Aenechean Forest and had their access to the System cut off. That was right. Even in mistakes there could be learning, and Orodan had learned that sealing off the dimensional boundary perfectly was something that could be localized for the sake of training.

He could already do this by blocking the connection to his central rune of knowledge, but for others it was an excellent method of shoring up weak skills without the crutch of the System. Even if Edrosic grumbled continually while being put through his paces.

As the party crested a hill, their destination finally came into view.

Aliya gasped, and Wainroach’s antennae wagged with excitement. Even Edrosic who had been to Anthus looked impressed, while to Zukelmux who studied in Karilsgard this was normal if a bit exotic.

“By Halor… it feels so warm and coz, even from here…” Edrosic muttered.

“I’d normally caution against invoking the name of your Gods in a foreign land, but the Guzuharans have always been pluralistic and tolerant of other faiths. Given the large number of minor Gods and Goddesses they worship, it’s only natural,” Orodan added. “Now then, if I’m right Adeltaj and Eldarion should already be here. Making introductions isn’t something I’m very good at.”

“It’s oddly reassuring to know you’re not good at everything. Makes you feel a little less like a God, Orodan,” Edrosic remarked, earning a light glare from him. “Right, right… not a God, sorry.”

“Wow… they’re riding bears! Can… can I ride one too?” Aliya shyly asked.

“I’m not the bear, nor am I their rider. So how about you go approach one of them to ask? Stay out of trouble, you two,” Orodan told them, watching as the girl ran off in glee, Wainroach upon her shoulder.

Which left just Edrosic and Zukelmux alongside him as they entered the gates of Vorskard, capital city of Clan Iron-Bear and the first proper city Orodan had ever seen in his life. Novar’s Peak and Karilsgard were more impressive, and Swordmist City upon Xian and Druhmiyan within the third hell put all of them to shame.

But what did that matter when this place held fond memories for him? For once, he allowed himself to bask in that odd but warm feeling of nostalgia as he and his students walked down the familiar streets of the northern city. His very soul felt a warm embrace of welcoming, the effects of a very specific set of wards. And the passersby, deer-driven carts and bear-riding soldiers looked at them curiously but made no move to stop them.

He knew the place, and his footsteps eventually brought them to the foot of the city’s temple of the Gods, where he could see Adeltaj, Eldarion and the old but familiar face of Yarostov Iron-Bear waiting.

“I see one out of the two of your disciples look happy,” Adeltaj commented.

“Edrosic will have to learn to grow used to the cold,” Orodan replied.

“Well, I have been told that southerners often struggle to deal with the climes of our home, so we shall not hold his sour disposition against him too much. A warm hearth in the longhouse with some good mead in hand will fix him right up,” spoke the loud voice of a man built like a bear, standing just a half inch shorter than Orodan himself. A hand came forth. “Orodan Wainwright? I am Yarostov Iron-Bear. It is our honor to host the banisher of the foul God of Blood.”

Orodan took the hand.

“Agorhiku is still alive, but has no more Blessed upon our world. Actually killing him will have to come later once we have settled our affairs here. Have Adeltaj and Eldarion spoken to you about our situation?”

“Do have some faith in your assigned diplomats,” Eldarion said with a chuckle. “If we had approached your way half the city might be turned upside down from all the brawls.”

The elf’s assessment was not entirely wrong. But thankfully it needed not come to that, especially since the eyes of Yarostov took on a subtle glow. The Guzuharan God of Trickery and Illusions had descended unto the man, and all nearby pasersby and guards dropped to a knee, offering prayer and deference.

Edrosic’s face paled and the militia man nearly dropped upon his rear in shock at the sudden descent of a God right before him, but Zukelmux, while surprised, held the man steady and simply stood by Orodan unflinchingly.

