“My… lightning? Is that why you came here? Because you sensed me casting spells?” Orodan asked. “I’m not the one that called you, that would be her.”

Agatha Ingamiris looked more than a little shocked at being addressed in the conversation between Orodan and the elemental lord.

“I… I did not! Oh mighty lord of lightning, please accept my humblest apologies. I intended to summon elementals of ice, mere Initiates at most! Our call is pitiable and unsuited to courting one such as you, radiant lord of thunder.”

“Grovelling does not interest me. But this human’s lightning does,” the elemental lord replied. “This one did not intend to respond to the call of a mere Initiate. But the lightning whose mighty echoes were heard across the boundaries between planes… delicious. Please, elemental human, feed me with your lightning.”

“You… want me to hit you with a Lightning Bolt?” Orodan made sure.

“Your lightning is sub-par of quality, but the energy of it, incredible. Strike me, with as much power as you can muster.”

“I might kill you if I did that,” Orodan cautioned.

“I have felt the enormity of your mana pool, lightning-bringer. I demand nothing less than all of your power.”

As it wished. Who was Orodan to deny an honest request?

“Time for you two to get out of here,” Orodan said, looking at Agatha and Esbetta.

The older of the two nodded and used an amulet around her neck to get herself and her granddaughter out of the area. Thankfully, they were far west of Vorskard, enough so that the Valley of Spires could be seen in the distance. And while Orodan’s lightning magic had improved, he didn’t think it that absurd that the destruction would reach the nearest city from here.

Under the grip of his iron will, his mana pool stilled completely, compressed with a violent tension, like a coiled spring begging to be unleashed with gruesome force. The thundercloud looked confused at what it perceived as an utter lack of lightning, but Orodan ignored it, though was thankful that it had the sense to fly overhead so that nothing else would be in the line of fire.

Even the times he’d lost control and failed when using Burst Casting, Orodan had been trying to hold back and tightly control the reins he held over his mana pool. This, even during a failed usage of Burst Casting where his mana pool surged forth with momentum, still caused quite some loss of energy. And as his skill levels rose, each failed cast got weaker and weaker, signifying his growing understanding and ability to control his energy.

But if he simply threw the absolute entirety of his mana pool into a cast with intention?

[Lightning Bolt 36 → Lightning Bolt 38]

[Burst Casting 35 → Burst Casting 36]

[Lightning Magic Mastery 12 → Lightning Magic Mastery 14]

The results were cataclysmic.

The first thing to effect the surroundings was a superheated shockwave of air so hot that everything around him seemed to distort. For at least a half mile a powerful shockwave erupted outwards blowing away debris and instantly vaporizing the characteristic ice and snow of Guzuhar’s terrain.

And that was just at the point of origin, which was his hand.

The elemental lord had a singular moment where it looked to be considering the idea that it had made a poor decision. And in the next moment, its cloud-like body recoiled as though struck by a hammer of titanic force.

To its credit it absorbed the lightning. All of it. But it began spasming wildly, and for a moment Orodan wondered if he was going to unintentionally kill this odd being who had asked for him to strike it in the first place. But near the end when the cloud was looking as though it would break and disperse, it instead condensed, glowing with power as the energy of Orodan’s lightning bolt began to fuel it.

The cloud condensed to its original size, the roiling electricity within it glowing brighter and brighter, and it then began to glow with tremendous power. It grew and grew, expanding to become larger than Mount Castarian, and even beyond. And finally, the progress began to slow after fifteen minutes.

“It’s as though I’ve overfed a glutton…” Orodan muttered. He hoped no more clouds came through seeking a free meal now. He had things to do besides chuck tremendous lightning bolts at sentient thunderclouds.

A booming echo rang out across many miles of Guzuhar, an energized laugh belonging to a non-human being. He wondered if it actually laughed or if in reality its energy pulses were simply meant to convey such.

“Joy! Ecstasy! Elation! Power courses through this one’s form!” it boomed out and then descended to the ground, its cloud-like body practically touching the glassed rocky landscape as it got as close to Orodan as possible. “This one serves the contractor.”

“What?”

“The quality of your lightning is somewhat pitiable, but the energy of it has made you worthy of being my master. Allow this one to serve-”

“No. I do not need anyone to serve me. Nor do I need any contract where you accompany me.”

“But this one-”

“That is final. I came here to learn about how souls are formed in the first place. Elemental souls in particular due to their frequency of birth.”

“Then… this one, who you mortals call an elemental lord shall guide you. Together, we shall enter the elemental plane of lightning and uncover the phenomena you seek to observe.”

That sounded quite amenable in fact. In a roundabout way, and with one more tagalong, Orodan had secured what he came to Guzuhar for in the first place.

Although it was a plan which would face slight delay given the beating of titanic wings and the sudden chill in the air.

“Which uppity elemental lord dares intrude upon the material plane! You tread upon lands under the protection of Cyvrosdyr the Eternal Winter!”

Well… he had been considering bringing the dragon flights into the fold anyhow.

#

“Mister Wainwright?”

“Yes Lieutenant-General?”

“Might I respectfully ask why there is a giant glowing thundercloud above my city?”

“Apologies. It will not stop following me around and I have not the heart to turn it away.”

“And dare I ask why there is a mountain-sized dragon beating its wings in the air nearby, glaring at it and the gigantic spider dragon perched atop the nearby mountain?”

“You already know about the spider dragon, and it is here as planned. But Cyvrosdyr is following the elemental lord around in the hopes of avenging its defeat, and the protector of Xan’Coran doesn’t like the dragon and the feeling is mutual. And the unriddable storm cloud hounding my every step from up high doesn’t seem to like either of them.”

“I see, I see…” Tegin Carrotfoot said with an incredibly pleasant smile on his face. “Then, if it is not too much trouble Mister Wainwright, and really, I don’t want to bother you at all good sir… but could you kindly, respectfully, tell the dragon to stop sending gale force winds through the streets?”

“Right, I shall-”

“And the elemental lord to stop blinding everyone exposed to the sky with its bright flashes of lightning?”

“Of course, I-”

“And the spider dragon to cease weaving webs over the buildings?”

Tegin Carrotfoot had an exceedingly saccharine smile on his face. But that expression anything but. The vein which looked ready to explode upon the halfling’s forehead told the real story.

Orodan could only scratch his head in guilt, as he felt quite bad for bringing all these loud, disruptive and obnoxious giants to Anthus.

Karilsgard? Aldenil? Novar’s Peak? Who needed all of that when Anthus worked just fine? By this point the energy-well connected city was quickly becoming the go-to location for all military meetings and strategic gatherings throughout the loops. Orodan and the city commander naturally aligned in their views and goals. As did the Lieutenant-General’s mentor, Destartes. Which meant that unlike Karilsgard or Novar’s Peak, the city was essentially as friendly to Orodan as could be at the start of each loop.

Furthermore, the city wasn’t sprawling, with urban spread going past the walls like Karilsgard and Novar’s Peak. There were giant mountains outside the walls where Cyvrosdyr and Ashganruk could perch. The skies were entirely clear for the elemental lord to follow.

Still, just because the city was suitable for such a gathering didn’t mean that its inhabitants or commanding officer were too happy with the rowdy bunch of giants he’d brought along.

“Hey, you lot heard him didn’t you? Keep it down and behave,” Orodan calmly instructed.

“As the lightning-bringer says. This one shall cease,” the elemental lord spoke, and then promptly attempted to contain its internal lightning a bit. Of course, a light stray arc just so happened to hit Ashganruk. “Ah… unfortunate. The smelly one’s webs have been set on fire. How regrettable. This one does apologize.”

“You dare! I shall web you up into a coccoon until your spark dies out!” the spider dragon roared.

“Spider dragon! You should not open your mouth! What your kind has done to mine cannot be forgiven! I refuse to touch the ground for worry of what underhanded ambush this eight-legged imposter shall attempt!” Cyvrosdyr roared.

Soon, things devolved, and Orodan cracked his knuckles as he leapt out the window to join the brawl.

Fifteen minutes later, the elemental lord’s lightning was a lot dimmer. Ashganruk and Cyvrosdyr had two lumps above their heads, and Orodan had a happy smile on his face as he returned to the war room, with everyone now at their proper positions. Talricto was present, as were Orodan’s students, Adeltaj, Destartes, Eldarion and Old Man Hannegan. And the spider dragon had now weaved a web and its castle-sized head was looming right outside the window of the central fort’s war room. Cyvrosdyr was perched atop a central tower next to the war room, the dragon’s head craning down to loom directly outside of the opposite window. While the elemental lord’s gigantic cloud-like body loomed outside another one of the window, periodically pulsing its lightning, the brightness filling the room.

Yarostov Iron-Bear and the Avatars of Malzim and Halor were present as well.

“Could you shut that light off? I’ve suffered more damage to my eyesight in the last thirty seconds than I have when working with explosives in the mines of Novarria!” Old Man Hannegan barked.

“This one believes the infirm old human could simply turn his back to the window,” the thunderstorm politely jabbed, though without shooting an arc of lightning, having learned to mind its manners after Orodan had pacified all three of the giants.

“We don’t even know your name! You just randomly began following our rockhead around!” the old foreman retorted.

“This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons.”

“What a mouthful…” Edrosic muttered.

“Silence, you base and uncivilized cur. The names of elementals are chosen after much deliberation and are only allowed to be amended upon the crossing of a threshold or the accomplishment of a significant deed,” Talricto immediately defended. “One of them I met, was once It-Who-Learns-All and went to being It-Who-Knows-All! A mouthful for a bumpkin perhaps, but carrying much meaning which you will not understand,”

Which sounded absurd. How could a being know everything? The prior name sounded much more reasonable to Orodan. And if anyone had the ability to see past the surface and really see someone at core, it would be Edrosic.

“Thank you for elaborating my friend, I shall be sure to tell Parthus about minding his tongue. But come, we require your expertise on matters of great import,” Adeltaj spoke with a kind smile, mollifying the dimensional spider.

“Indeed. We have almost everyone of import within this room…” Ozgaric spoke, and then Orodan could have sworn he heard a faint laugh. “Or outside of it.”

Cyvrosdyr grunted, causing a cold gale to enter the room. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons pulses, causing the place to flash with blinding light, and Ashganruk the Safeguard strummed its webs in irritation, causing the central fort to briefly tremble.

And Orodan cracked his knuckles with a frown.

“Need I engage in another brawl? Tone it down, we’re trying to have a discussion here.”

They behaved after that.

“Thank you Mister Wainwright. And thank you, Malzim and Halor, for being present,” Eldarion spoke, looking to Halor specifically. “It cannot have been easy for you to find a new host on such short notice.”

“It is fine. Alcianne deserves to be with her love after all the milennia spent apart. Once her brother-” Halor said, gesturing to Destartes. “Told me of her plight and the full story, I did not have the heart to keep her in my service against her wishes. But that is besides the point. Orodan Wainwright, we are here because of you, and the first matter I wish to discuss is what your intentions are.”

“My intentions? What else besides protecting Alastaia from external invaders and raising our world to become one capable of defending itself without me? My intentions are simple enough.”

“Yet you have also permanently banished three of the Prime Five. I… did not agree with much of what Agathor did, but Ilyatana for all her faults still did much good. Her adherents ran charities, funded orphanages and assisted the misery-stricken with relieving their ails. If you intended to raise our world higher, then removing three Gods from one of its strongest pantheons is a counterproductive way of going about it.”

