It had certainly shocked and overawed the man, but there were no demands that the crown be purged at all. Instead, Orodan had simply explained the full truth of what the Eldritch was and proceeded to cleanse Alastaia on the spot, further proving his claims about being able to handle it.

And once the Eldritch was demystified as a source of power and proven to be most impotent before the Domain of Perfect Cleaning? Balastion hesitantly but willingly offered up the crown himself, after the elves too agreed to turn over the wand of Athandelu. Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot at Anthus would be keeping custody of both items. Both Eldiron and Novarria seemed to rather trust the halfling, despite his military victories against the former, and he was deemed a suitably neutral third-party who could hold such things for safekeeping.

Above all else though, was the fact that Orodan existed. His strength was the subtle underlying guarantee of no deception occuring.

It was… humbling. To see how things could proceed so very smoothly when kicking a door down and engaging in brute force diplomacy wasn’t the go-to answer. When combined with soft diplomacy, negotiations and agreements, Alastaia’s joint-rulership and defense went a lot smoother than it ever had when Orodan was handling the talking.

Novarria was the largest of the three human nations of Inuan; the most advanced too. Balastion Novar being in on the loops meant that as soon as Fenton’s orb touched the man’s head, they would have access to the full power of Novarria. And with Eldarion being the representative from Eldiron and Ozgaric from Guzuhar… things were shaping up nicely.

And during the rebuilding of the ancient machine, things had progressed a lot better than expected with such wide-ranging support from across the planet.

For starters, Griok had correctly predicted that Jewelcrafting would make a large difference in the device’s functioning. The metal, though under dangerous strain, wasn’t the failure point this time.

The enchantments and engineering were; running through far too much power and burning out in several critical bits of script and components before being able to truly unlock the Boundless One’s cage.

He had also put up a valiant showing against the goat-woman Embodier before activating the machine, but was still lacking. And the loop ended with the Boundless One slaying him as always… an attack he met with Balance Maker.

And now as he stood within the war room of Anthus once more, having gathered everyone of note, he realized that the orb’s limitation of twelve total memory banks was a bit stifling. It held Fenton’s memories, his other four students, Adeltaj, Destartes, Old Man Hannegan, Talricto, Ozgaric, Eldarion and Balastion Novar. But it could hold no more.

Cyvrosdyr, Ashganruk and This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons had been left out by necessity, although each of them trusted someone else who was along for the ride to represent their interests. For the World Guardian dragon, that had been Ozgaric, the most powerful God of Guzuhar. For Ashganruk it had been Eldarion, whose peoples held a vested interest in seeing the drow succeed, and the elemental lord of course trusted Orodan to find him again, looking forlorn and sad at the mere possibility of being abandoned.

What a dramatic cloud.

“I still cannot believe it… we really are returned…” Ozgaric muttered, attempting to reconcile the meeting room the God had already seen once.

“It’s not so jarring after you’ve been through it a few times,” Orodan replied. “Although I suppose I’m the only one the loops maintain full continuity for.”

Him and Zaessythra at least.

“We have much work to do if we are to get ourselves and you up to par, Orodan,” Adeltaj spoke. “We should get to training right away. Who knows how many loops this will take?”

Balastion though, newly added and on his first repeat, stepped forward looking closely at the table.

“Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine such a thing could be possible… here I am, meeting warriors, Gods and creatures I have already seen… but not in this time,” the first emperor muttered. “But these plans will not do. Not at all.”

“How so?” Destartes questioned.

“This is too… mundane.”

“Respectfully, first emperor… sir,” Edrosic began, feeling more than a little intimidated at the prospect of speaking to the ancient. “We can’t do things the way you do. We’re just locals from Volarbury County, with a northern God and a leader of the elves among us.”

“And Eldiron cannot provide the assistance you require due to the distance…” Balastion muttered, and then a slow, prideful smile of satisfaction overtook his face. Not wicked or selfishly ambitious, but as though he had finally found something to content himself with. “Then the Empire of Novarria, the first nation of humanity since the collapse, will provide.”

“Provide?” Orodan now asked. “We aren’t exactly in need of gold or resources.”

“Oh, but you very much are, Orodan Wainwright. You have told me of your time loops, and the tale is a sad one. Running from battle to battle against impossible foes, shoring up your foundations with a singular teacher or on your lonesome. A pitiable state of affairs for someone who is humanity’s… nay, our world’s crowning jewel. The amount of resources poured into your own development and training is utterly pitiful,” the ruler of Novarria declared. “From now on, Novarria, and I, Balastion Novar, will ensure that our mightiest defender receives the support which befits him.

“What exactly are you intending to throw at the problem?” Adeltaj asked.

“Everything. And in this, I shall ask for your aid as well, God of the north, and you too, rival ruler of mine. For too long have we squabbled with one another in a cold war. But like rats duelling over the last scrap of rotten meat from the butcher’s we are unaware of the larger cosmos around us,” the Novarrian calmly explained, offering a branch of peace to the elf. “We cannot elevate our world without bringing far more people into the time loops than that orb allows. And we cannot modify the orb unless we bring the prodigious Fenton Penny of Lonvoron here… and we cannot do that until this world is safe for habitation. Which in summary means… that we cannot escape this two week bind without besting the Embodiers coming for us. And the only one with a chance of doing that in any reasonable timeframe is the time looper himself. Orodan Wainwright.”

“I see your rationale… ancient ruler of humanity,” Eldarion spoke. “And although Cithrel may take issue with my decision, she has entrusted me to be the one whose memories are ferried along in these loops as the representative of my peoples. And I agree.”

“It is decided then. Guzuhar too, shall funnel our resources—what meagre amount we have—towards aiding the growth of Orodan Wainwright,” Ozgaric spoke.

“Your path has been fraught with much danger, and the hardships have laid the foundations for the warrior you are today. But now the time has come to stop training like a pauper,” Balastion spoke calmly. “Are you prepared, Orodan Wainwright? Your training will be relentless in every second of every loop. All the tutors I can think of will be brought to you, including the work itself. And those students of yours too will be driven into the ground too.”

Orodan shook his head, but didn’t disagree. With the resources of three entire continents at his disposal… how quickly could he advance in these basic skills he’d been grinding? How fast could be comprehend the secrets of true soul genesis and the potential re-creation of his own version of Action Increases?

“Just so you know… I’ll be driving you into the ground too, Balastion Novar. A quadruple-Grandmaster such as yourself will not be allowed to slack. Everyone in this room will be pushed… for you are all of you essential to Alastaia,” Orodan declared.

And at the end of it all, once he had bested his pursuers of whom the goat-woman Embodier was only the first one, he would forge a world worthy of bringing Fenton unto.

And from there… that moon was in far too nice a place to be looking so barren and lifeless.
