“We need to stop meeting like this…”

“And miss out on the surprise when I perfectly counter every spell you throw at me? I think not.”

Train. Teach. Die. Repeat.

This was Orodan’s new set of mad loops.

After recovering his memories and repairing his soul, he had dealt with the ancient machine, gathered everyone and then proceeded to reconvene in Anthus.

Although with a few new additions as the Lieutenant-General of Anthus gave an order via communications amulet and the anti-spatiomancy wards for the city were given a brief opening.

Space distorted, a rift was opened, and an entire elven delegation of armed soldiers stepped through and into the war room of Anthus. There were a dozen Republican soldiers too, but merely at the Master-level. The elves however, had eight Grandmasters, all of them here for the express purpose of guarding one elf.

Eldarion.

“Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot… we have received your letter and the most outrageous claims within it. Claims of a time loop and of future events which have yet to occur.”

The tension in the room was palpable among the elven Grandmasters and the Republic’s mere Master-level guards who had been called here to remain on standby. The difference in combat power and quality between the two nations was clear. Perhaps if it had been Novarria such a confrontation would have been more even. But as it stood, the Republic’s Masters on guard could only stand against superior odds if things came to violence.

Which, was entirely unnecessary as Orodan simply walked up and clinked Eldarion atop the head with Fenton’s orb.

The elven Grandmasters behind the elf were mid-attack, about to chop, blast or hammer Orodan into the ground for daring to touch their leader when a powerful voice interrupted them.

“Stop!”

It was a command from their lord himself, and the rightful attacks launched in defense of Eldarion immediately halted. The elf’s eyes took on a look of wonder as though recalling something of great importance.

And instead of looking at Orodan, the elf instead looked to Adeltaj.

“Honored friend, it is good to see you once more. Do you remember our time together?”

“Of course, esteemed Lord Eldarion. In fact, today, it is my honor to welcome you to the Republic. I quite wish to show you around the lands of House Simarji, humble though humble they may be. And from thence, a tour of the Eastern Kingdoms and the tea leaves you so enjoyed,” the old halberdier replied with a smile.

It was the oddest thing, from his perspective, to see two people reconnect with one another with their shared memories across the time loops.

Right before Orodan had left Eldiron, Adeltaj had convinced Eldarion to transfer a set of memories to the orb. It was an entirely costless thing, and the elf had grudgingly agreed. After all, what was the risk? If it was a lie, then he had nothing to lose. But if it was true?

That outcome was taking place right now.

“Much as I would wish to, I am afraid the fact that my entire worldview has been upended takes precedences,” the elf said and then turned to Orodan. “Unless this is the most elaborate illusion I have ever seen, or I am under mind magic the likes of which I have never seen before… I am in a time loop, aren’t I? Or more accurately, you are.”

A nearby elf Grandmaster, a mind mage by the looks of it, gave Eldarion a subtle nod.

“No signs of any illusion my lord, no forced mind magic either, though the orb did establish a connection with your mind.”

“And it was not at all a forcible assault or transfer. Remarkable…” the elven lord of friendship muttered. “I would much like to meet the absolutely prodigious enchanter who designed this. How many millennia this master crafter must have honed their art to make such an orb!”

“Fifteen years in fact. With no formal education either,” Orodan said, fondly recalling the lad. “And believe me, Eldarion, I would very much like to meet him again too. His final memories are within this orb I hold.”

“Then why not-”

“No. Among his final words to me were the worry that he would be forced to return to a life of misery where his mother was incurably ill and dying,” Orodan sternly interrupted. “Until Alastaia is safe. Until we can defend it against all comers… I will not bring him back. He deserves that much at least.”

And frankly… Orodan wanted to make Alastaia worthy of being Fenton’s true home. Not just so that the lad could live a good life as he deserved, but also because his ability to permanently alter the starting conditions of the time loop with his Celestial skill had caused an ambitious desire to brew in his mind.

Although to reach it, would require much training, hard work and death.

“Then the plan you discussed right before departing Eldiron… it still holds true?” Eldarion asked.

“Aye. That it does,” Orodan said and then proffered his hand. “I will not lie. I have many enemies and the wider cosmos even within our local area of the void is not as safe as I would like. The Hegemony, the nominal overlords of our star system, are cruel tyrants all. And beyond that lies the malicious ambitions of the corrupted Celestial Emperor and his many worlds of cultivation. And past that, the ever-covetous mercenary dwarves. Alastaia faces many threats beyond just the Eldritch Avatar, and while I will fight on its behalf forever… I cannot be everywhere at once and would not create a feeble world whose peoples grow weak with dependence upon my strength. I ask then… will you join me, Eldarion… in safeguarding our world?”

The elf looked conflicted. Orodan felt that he wanted to agree, but certain concerns were holding him back.

“You will bring Balastion Novar and the Empire of Novarria into this as well, won’t you?”

“I will,” Orodan answered. “That displeases you.”

“I… am not as paranoid of Novarria’s ambitions as my wife Cithrel is. But that crown of his, bearing the Eldritch taint it does, is a grave threat to our world and the peace between our continents.”

“And it shall be disposed of. Would that make your decision easier?” Orodan asked.

“It… it would. Very well,” the elf said, meeting the offered hand. “If our world is to be defended, then I am with you on this, Orodan Wainwright. These time loops of yours… together we can grow stronger. Not just you, but I, Adeltaj and even Balastion Novar. Alastaia will no longer rely upon the singular strength of one warrior.”

“And not just us,” Adeltaj spoke up. “But that spider dragon beneath the Dokuhan Mountains, the dragon flights, the Guzuharans. Together, we can rise above our station. We can become capable of defending our world and its peoples against threats from all corners of the cosmos.”

Adeltaj wasn’t wrong. The plan truly began to solidify in Orodan’s mind. During the long loop in which he’d ventured out to the cosmos for the first time, he’d formed a joint-council of Inuan, Eldiron and Guzuhar to rule the planet in his stead when he’d been World Conqueror of Alastaia. But even then where was their strength? Where were their armies which could resist any hostile forces of the cosmos?

The answer was that there were none. During the Battle for Alastaia the bulk of the work had been done by his allies from Xian, the Conclave, the Unity and the Blackworth Collective. Among the native Alastaians, only Vespidia had contributed, dying in the process.

Alastaia was woefully outmatched in any comparison against the forces of the galaxy.

Perhaps the elves and their trees of wisdom could mount some vague form of defense against a singular early-Transcendent of little talent. Or maybe Balastion Novar could get lucky and corrupt someone with Eldritch despite the new problems that would cause. But that was the extent of it. Vespidia aside—and her unique ability was limited to being effective against the Hegemony’s Crusaders alone—nobody on Alastaia save the core guardian were capable of making a difference in battle.

The Eldritch Avatar was the limit of what they could handle. And even if Orodan was willing to fight in defense of his world forever, this state of weakness and impotence was unacceptable.

Certainly, his home world was a young one and could not be blamed for it. But not only did the peoples of Alastaia need to come together, they also needed to rise together. For Orodan refused to bring Fenton someplace which would fold like paper in a storm the moment he was occupied elsewhere.

Alastaia and its peoples… needed to become capable of defending themselves.

“A multi-loop spanning effort, for we cannot meaningfully match these other factions of the galaxy in just two weeks when they have had hundreds of thousands of years,” Destartes spoke up. “In truth, I am somewhat doubtful of our ability to match them at all.”

“Do not lose hope old man,” Orodan said and then gestured to the room. “Look around you. We have an eight year old girl who is a Staff Apprentice and only poised to continue becoming stronger. We have a goblin warrior who can now begin to make Grandmasters take him seriously. A mighty cockroach whose mastery over fire grows prodigiously fast and by the day. And of course… a militia man whose drawings can inspire the creation of a Mythical skill.”

Edrosic froze as all eyes were now on him. Orodan had not revealed that fact in the last loop.

“E-eh? Me? What did I do?!”

“What did you not do? You’re the reason I acquired the Burst Casting skill as fast as I did, and you’re the reason I managed to bring my insights together to forge Balance Maker, something which allowed me to stalemate a monstrously powerful Embodier I should have had no chance against yet,” Orodan explained. “If anything, Edrosic, you’re in need of a smack upon the head for keeping your Drawing abilities hidden for so long. What were you wasting time as a militia man for if you’re that good at sketching pictures?”

The old wizard laughed and the tension in his shoulders eased a little.

“Forgive me, Mister Wainwright. A Grandmaster I may be, but warfare and combat are things I only pursue out of necessity. Fighting against hopeless odds like you regularly do is not my area of expertise. It seems… that Alastaia has plenty of young talent despite the headstart these other places have on us.”

“And do not discount yourselves either,” Orodan added. “In you, we have a triple-Grandmaster and possibly the finest mage I have seen on Alastaia. In Adeltaj we have a wielder of a Mythical skill who might reach Transcendence sooner than we think. And in Eldarion we have a man who became a Transcendent in a past loop.”

The elven lord of friendship agreed, his face taking on a look of determination.

“We on Eldiron have made brief contact with nearby worlds in the past, but these cosmic factions you speak of our beyond our scope of understanding. But despite that… regardless of the odds arrayed against us, our world has strength aplenty and we simply need to cultivate it. Where this Hegemony and their dwarven allies might have time and technology superior to ours, we now have a time loop.”

“I’m no commander of armies or musterer of forces,” Orodan admitted. “The fighting? That I can do. But informing people of the loops and bringing them into the fold is something I’m coming to learn I’m rather miserable at.”

“Have heart Orodan. A few more loops of brutishly approaching situations head on and you’ll gain a social skill which will save the day.”

Adeltaj jested, but the old halberdier had no idea how right he was. Orodan had in fact acquired things which could be used in a social context. Commandment of War being one of them, Incipience of Infinity the other. But neither of these were suited to gathering allies who trusted him and would willingly work together to raise Alastaia into becoming capable of self-defense. The former skill was more suited for combat and certain utility situations, while the Intimidation aspect of the latter could shatter someone’s mind.

But… he looked at Eldarion and Adeltaj, and his worries on that front abated. He was a warrior, not a diplomat. But these two… they had a way with words that he did not. A non-brutish one at least.

“And, we might not be as alone as we thought,” Tegin Carrotfoot interjected, pointing to the beautifully sketched canvas of details, courtesy of Parthus Edrosic. Specifically, to the section with the cultivators. “You said that not all within the Celestial Court were your enemy, correct? Perhaps Alastaia need not stand alone if play our cards right.”

And if Orodan had anything to say about it, Alastaia would be getting allies from a place far closer than the Celestial Court. But that was still an indeterminable number of death loops away. For first, the people he was bringing along needed to raise themselves to greater heights. And second…

…the entire plan would be fruitless if Alastaia’s mightiest warrior was incapable of contending with the Embodiers coming for him.

His broom hit the ground, signifying the beginning of the work in this loop and those onwards.

#

Edrosic, Aliya and Wainroach were training in the periphery, but every goblin within the settlement was paying rapt attention to the spar between Orodan and Zukelmux.

Spear and shield met club. Not only was this matchup of weapons so that Orodan could improve, but also because he had noticed that Zukelmux’s only real weakness was heavy bludgeoning weaponry which could tire out and overwhelm the goblin’s guard. Although saying it was a weakness was akin to saying that a blade to the gut was a weakness. Anyone would be exhausted and have their shield’s posture and guard broken with repeated heavy club strikes to their defense.

