“Orodan Wainwright,” the God spoke, lingering in silence for a second before a hand came forth.

Orodan took it… and the lizard which came with. He looked on in slow motion as the creature skittered up his arm, clambered up his head and then proceeded to lazily lounge upon the top. If anything, he was more bewildered than concerned about it.

“A… lizard?” he asked.

“Quite. I would not be much of a God of Trickery if I did not play a trick from time to time now would I?”

“You… played a trick on me?”

The Avatar nodded, and Orodan barked out a laugh.

“Heh… it’s been a long time since anyone’s done that, Ozgaric.”

“Given the dour-look upon your face and the size of you, I can see why,” Ozgaric replied.

Perhaps getting Adeltaj and Eldarion to make introductions on his behalf was the best approach after all. In all his meetings with the Guzuharan God he owed a debt to, he had never seen the divine light-hearted and mirthful enough to live up to his divine domain and play any tricks. Perhaps Orodan’s feat of banishing Agorhiku had eased the God’s worries? Or perhaps the understanding that the Eldritch Avatar would be dealt with?

“You are aware of the time loops then?”

“And that you have met me in the past and that I aided you at a critical juncture? Yes, Eldarion and Adeltaj Simarji have told me of these things. If your impossible cleansing of Agorhiku’s influence from our world was not proof enough, then the sudden shifts in divine influence all across Inuan certainly are, as well as these two knowing things about Clan Iron-Bear that they should not,” the God spoke. “It is incredible to think that our meagre world would not only have someone chosen for such a thing, but would then also be a monstrous talent the likes of which the entire cosmos has never seen. If nothing else, it is an honor to know that I have helped you along that journey.”

“You did more than just help. Your Blessing allowed me to finally lay low and stay undetected long enough to join an academy and get an education. I might have been betrayed by other Gods in the end, but not you.”

“Then I suppose I should thank the version of me who thought to give you that Blessing. I did not realize doing you a boon would repay me so many times over. But, I do not think you have come just to discuss that.”

“I have not. I came to learn spirit magic. I need to understand how elementals are formed, how they are birthed.”

“I see you have a representative of the elves with you. Does their continent not practice such magic as well?”

“They do… but not in the way I require.”

He’d briefly looked at spirit magic upon Eldiron in this loop, but the problem was that two cultures could practice the same art in vastly different ways. Eldiron’s spirit magic was the sort where powerful elementals were summoned in combat to aid the caster. These elementals were fully grown, mature and even the weakest were at the Elite-level and beyond. Furthermore, they were summoned through powerful rituals and after agreement, bound to enchanted items which a caster wore.

For his purposes, this was entirely useless for he needed to study how new elementals were born. All of them had souls, and he needed to see how theirs came to be.

“I see… the representative of the elves did mention something along those lines. Clan Iron-Bear can aid you. The spirit mages here are among the best you will find in Guzuhar,” Ozgaric explained.

That was good. He needed this in order to understand true soul genesis.

Almyra had spoken about that in length too, in the time he had in his possession. But the first step before any higher order phenomena could get involved… was learning how a soul formed.

#

The growl of violence he heard within made even him freeze for a moment. In combination with a soul possessively wrapping around his own, he could only sigh.

“I really don’t see her that way, Zaessythra.”

“I didn’t say anything,” she denied quite immediately.

While she hadn’t said it, Orodan had certainly felt it. Having someone else’s broken soul remnants practically cling arond your own was a uniquely unsettling experience. Though… not an unwelcome one.

Still, he hadn’t lied. Even when he’d visited Guzuhar for the first time and gotten involved with Esbetta Ingamiris, the woman hadn’t really been his type. It was she who had practically pushed herself onto him, in that emotionally volatile moment right after a battle too.

“Really? She doesn’t look too bad. What’s wrong with her?” Zaessythra asked. “She certainly looks pretty enough.”

“Too slight of frame.”

And that was all he needed to say on that matter. Besides, he had seen Zaessythra when she’d been mucking through the bloody and excrement-filled sewers of Narictus.

No other woman had ever looked quite as striking.

His thoughts on the matter must have bled through for she became quite subdued after that. Which left Orodan free to focus upon what he was being told and shown by the two spirit mages in front of him.

“Spirit magic is not like the spellcasting of a regular mage,” Esbetta explained. “We draw upon mana not to cast magic outward against our foes, but to call, empower and guide our spirits to aid us in battle.”

A brief pulse of mana went from her soul to the amulet around her neck and her hand lit up with fire. But the difference was that it wasn’t the mana of a spell, but rather a living orb of fire with a soul which moved from her hand and then began energetically flitting about her head.

He had seen her do such things in the past, but back then hadn’t been educated enough nor possessed of the keen sight he had now to appreciate it.

“That’s a living thing… an elemental,” Orodan observed.

“Correct. As you can see, my mana not only makes its presence in our material plane easier to bear, but can also empower it. And when not out and about it rests in the amulet I wear.”

“In a sense, it’s quite similar to what necromancers do is it not? They too are able to empower their minions just as you can,” Orodan said. “But unlike that foul craft, there’s an actual soul involved here. But how do you summon the elemental to you in the first place?”

The older woman, Esbetta’s grandmother, now spoke up. This was Agatha Ingamiris, and Orodan recalled fighting alongside the old woman when he fought the Eldritch Avatar for the first time.

“Esbetta here has yet to learn that, but there are rituals and skills we use to call the elementals to our plane. And notice that I said call not summon. We cannot directly access their plane, only put out a call and hope they answer. Watch closely, I shall call forth an ice elemental. The easiest sort to entice into joining us upon this cold continent of ours.”

The old woman then raised her hand into the air and began frowning her eyes in concentration. And Orodan watched closely as a pulse of mana flared out and went across the dimensional boundary.

“That’s Dimensionalism.”

“Astute of you to notice. It is the Dimensional Call skill. With enough levels in it, one can attune to a particular elemental plane and call forth their gate masters. You are familiar with Dimensionalism?” she asked.

“I’m a Master in the skill, yes. But what’s a gate master?”

The old woman sputtered at his revelation.

“A master?! I don’t know even an Adept of Dimensionalism… who… who are you? Lord Ozgaric would not elaborate on your identity…” she muttered and then schooled herself. “But that is not my place to pry. As for gate masters, they are the elementals in each plane who hear our calls and then open the way for other willing elementals who wish to respond. Not all elementals are capable of crossing over into our world after all. Even among the very few that are willing and not seduced by the calls from other places.”

“What? Alastaia isn’t a premier destination? How shocking…” Orodan dryly muttered.

“The jest is an unwelcome one. To start, the elves of Eldiron are able to promise far more growth, wealth and luxury to their contracted elementals than we can. And for another, there are other worlds nearer to our own which the elementals find more attractive. Here upon Guzuhar, acquiring any Initiate-level elementals which aren’t from the elemental plane of ice is considered a great achievement and excellent fortune.”

That Alastaia wasn’t a good destination for these elementals wasn’t too much of a surprise. His home world had no World Ruler and the world core was slowly decaying too. Furthermore, there was but one Transcendent and it was the core guardian. Compared to the far larger worlds and world cores he had seen across the cosmos, Alastaia’s was tiny and produced only an average amount of world energy.

“Still… this Dimensional Call skill seems useful,” Orodan remarked. “Why not just teach it to a mass number of mages? More calls equals more chances of an elemental answering, no?”

“And it would also increase the odds of something terrible coming through. Even the wicked worshippers of the blood God you banished do not summon devils like you Inuanans do. Dimensional Call is a skill which must be trained very, very carefully lest something you did not intend for answers your summons.”

Orodan didn’t think it was as dire as she made it sound. Throughout Alastaia’s history, nothing truly dire had come through on any summoning. Devils strong enough to destroy even a city? Certainly, but even these had eventually been killed and driven back by the mustered armies, Grandmasters and Avatars of the world. Interesting enough, Orodan knew that there were some truly unfathomable and powerful things out there. He’d inadvertently drawn the attention of that Living Crystal in the past.

But within the galaxy, within the territories of the Hegemony, tyrannical as they were, Orodan was certain there was some form of defense or monitoring mechanism which prevented anything truly powerful from slipping through the dimensional cracks to enter the material plane. For if the skill was as freely available to learn as it seemed, then someone at some point would have summoned a world-devouring monster.

Yet that hadn’t happened.

“If any devils come through looking to cause problems, I will kill them. Worry not,” he reassured. “Although… this takes a while doesn’t it?”

“I spend the entire time telling you how unwilling most elementals are to join us here on Alastaia and you find this surprising? We may be waiting for a while.”

And they did.

Orodan spent the time working on his Burst Casting in tandem with Lightning Bolt as they waited. An hour passed, then two. And Agatha and Esbetta were more than a little stupefied at how bottomless his mana pool was.

Orodan kept casting magic, and he slowly honed his Lightning Bolts to grow stronger and his Burst Casting abilities to grow more controlled. And as he did, he felt a strange rippling in the dimensional boundary.

[Burst Casting 34 → Burst Casting 35]

[Lightning Bolt 35 → Lightning Bolt 36]

[Lightning Magic Mastery 11 → Lightning Magic Mastery 12]

Those were the final messages he got before he had the vaguest sensation that something was prepating to come through the dimensional boundary. Multiple somethings.

“T-the boundary…! It’s cracking! Something big is coming through!” Esbetta shouted. “Grandmother, how can this be? You were as cautious as possible!”

“I… I do not know…” Agatha muttered in fear as a dimensional rift the size of a mountain tore open.

And out came a storm.

A literal storm. One might think it was a glowing ball of gas, but in fact it was a cloud. Simply one that had lightning going off inside of it so quickly that to the untrained and slow eye it looked as though a bright orb. And despite the perpetual flash of electricity within, two large orbs of light, brighter than the rest of the flashes, formed upon the cloud face.

And it peered down at Orodan.

“A… an elemental lord of the storm!” Esbetta exclaimed like a frightened rabbit.

And he could understand why, for his senses were telling him that this thing was as strong as the Eldritch Avatar. An elemental of pure lightning. He had never truly seen one in-person, and even current Inuanan history knew nothing of them. But archaeologists studying the old Hasmathorian Empire had uncovered murals and records from the fallen civilization, and how a weaker elemental lord could devastate a nation.

And this one, if the records was to be believed, was on the stronger side. A quadruple-Grandmaster from the looks of it.

A tendril of cloud-gas came down, pulsing with lightning as it touched his hand. Upon contact, the lightning sought purchase in his flesh… but was utterly ineffective.

“Lightning Resistance…?”

The voice was like energy incarnate. Like thunderbolts loud enough to deafen cities were booming with each syllable. But to Orodan it was nothing impressive, not when he had fought an Embodiment-level sentient thundercloud already.

The thundercloud the Prophet had enlisted in battle had been a tenth the size of a star system. A gigantic being, and its lightning had utterly ravaged him and caused the gaining of many skill levels. This being’s lightning, even though it didn’t even intend to harm him, was drastically weaker.

“A bit rude to reach out and try to electrocute me on our first meeting,” Orodan began. “I believe we were trying to summon ice elementals.”

The thundercloud twitched, looking almost apologetic as it realized its mistake.

“Forgiveness… this one did not realize the summoner is of flesh and blood. Your lightning… of sub-par quality, but incredibly energized.”

