“Counterproductive? Far from it. I simply removed a dagger which would have sooner or later stabbed someone in the back. I have grown and their treachery means little to me any longer, but what of the rest of you? Could you guarantee that the power-hungry Agathor would not try to compete with the elven pantheon for power? That the controlling Goddess of Fate would not attempt to work against Ozgaric? That Eximus would not see the winds shift and sell us out to our enemies?” Orodan asked. “They should consider them fortunate that I merely banished their wicked influence. I could do far worse.”

Halor didn’t look entirely thrilled by that answer, but the God appeared to at least understand it.

“Orodan Wainwright. I for one have no issue with what you have done. But I will ask how you intend to prepare Alastaia for defense against these cosmic forces. You have said that you will raise Transcendents, but what else? The standing armies of even the elves are no match for the forces of Grandmasters, Gods and more that you told us about on these other worlds.”

It was Tegin Carrotfoot who spoke up, the halfling’s voice cutting through the powerful aura of many of those present.

“That, God of Death, would be why you, Ozgaric and Halor are here. Not only do we intend to raise the power of Alastaia’s Grandmasters and hopefully make more than a few Transcendents… but the Gods will also be necessary for this, for without you our world’s armies cannot meaningfully stand against those of the cosmos who are Blessed. Furthermore, as Mister Wainwright has discovered… we might be able to acquire powerful elemental allies through shows of mighty magic in tandem with summoning.”

“This one has many fellows who were quite impressed by the lightning-bringer during his journey into the elemental plane of lightning.”

And hadn’t that been something? Orodan had never directly entered an elemental plane before. A Master of Dimensionalism he might be, but one could be a Grandmaster of Teleportation and not know how to get somewhere if they didn’t know where it was. Dimensionalism was no exception. But once the elemental lord had shown him the way, he stepped through alongside it and into a world of lightning.

Or rather… an entire cosmos of lightning. There was no ground, no world. Beneath his feet had been arcing electricity and above him as well. From horizon to horizon the entire place had been one gigantic canvas of unending, volatile lightning.

And all throughout the elemental plane of lightning there were powerful beings. Initiates, Adepts, Grandmasters and all. And even a few Transcendents. He had seen a singular Embodier in the great distance, but it was lazily minding its own business pulsating at the center of a star-system sized thunderstorm.

Rarely, there would be structures such as frozen lightning, or enormous spheres where two mighty lightning bolts would meet and the resulting explosion would be contained by all the ambient lightning around them.

It was within these spheres that actual elementals were born. And Orodan genuinely wished he could have spent longer in that elemental plane of lightning studying the phenomenon. As it stood, it was a matter for upcoming loops. This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons had certainly been useful and Orodan wasn’t hesitant to admit that he owed the troublemaking elemental lord a debt.

He still needed to observe that phenomena further… but already he felt as though he understood more about the soul now than he did in the past.

But back to the current discussion, his thoughts on having more elementals were clear.

“If one sentient thundercloud is this troublesome then I’m not sure I want any others.”

He didn’t even want to imagine the chaos an elemental lord of fire or ice would cause when following him around like a lost dog. The thought of cities being burnt to ashes or entire regions being frozen to absolute stillness thanks to a brief flare of temper had him consider the need for safeguards first.

For whiile This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons was relatively well-behaved, there was no guarantee that other elementals would be.

“Orodan Wainwright, that is an elemental lord. A lord! Even among my people such a being is revered as almighty and the descent of one is a generational event noted in the annals of history,” Eldarion added. “I for one, am honored to make the acquiantance of a mighty lord of lightning.”

The elf, whose culture clearly placed was more importance on these beings than Orodan’s did, was impressed and reverent.

As though a dam had been let loose, this singular interaction loosened some sort of unspoken tension. And soon, all around, the various peoples from different parts of Alastaia began chatting with one another, somehow getting along. He didn’t know if it was Eldarion’s social skill, or Adeltaj’s natural friendliness helping smooth things out, but Orodan was grateful all the same.

“Why, who knew that spider dragon silk had such tensile strength? Why if we could put it to certain uses in manual labor…” Old Man Hannegan muttered, impressed by Ashganruk’s webs.

“You smell of potent magic, human. Might I sample your lightning?” This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons asked Destartes.

“I sense the esoteric energies of Dimensionalism around you, spider. Have you wandered many places? Tell me of them,” Cyvrosdyr said.

Orodan was about to intervene and draw attention to what they should have been discussing when Tegin gently held out a hand, gesturing him wait.

“Your beating of those three giants has instilled some smeblance of order, but if they are to work together they shall need to get along,” the halfling said, his words going unheard or unnoticed in the cacophony of multiple conversations which had taken over the war room. “If they start off having a vague respect for each other, things will go very smoothly in the following loops. And the threat of you keeps things from escalating to actual conflict.”

Shrewd of the city commander to notice.

“And you’re sure I can’t bring you along? You could read as many books as you’d like while still remembering all of them,” Orodan offered.

“No thank you, Mister Wainwright. Perhaps on a smaller scale I might be used to command, but the sort of inter-planetary cosmic conflict you’re trying to prepare for is out of my depth. You shall have to find a commander used to planetary-scale wars, and that is not I.”

“I have someone in mind for that. But they’re currently… indisposed.”

But not for too much longer if he had anything to say about it.

Twenty minutes of everyone getting to know one another later, even Cyvrosdyr, Ashganruk and This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons looked as though they were just slightly less likely to go for one another’s throats. The tension between the dragon and the spider dragon had lessened as the two learned more about one another, and the elemental lord seemed to tolerate the spider dragon a bit better and had even praised Cyvrosdyr for putting up a decent showing in their fight.

At last, the Lieutenant-General brought the meeting under order with a clap of his hands.

“It gladdens me to see everyone is getting along so well. Now, what we’ve really come here for… an assembly into Novar’s Peak. Specifically, to bring Balastion Novar himself into the fold.”

“I cannot say I am entirely comfortable with that warlord’s inclusion in the time loops, but leaving the mightiest nation of humanity out of the joint effort to defend Alastaia would be foolish,” Eldarion said.

“And the man will not see himself as part of any group unless we deal with that crown he wears and sufficiently impress him with power.”

“Which isn’t a problem for me. I’ll just barge in, purify his crown and give any responding forces a beating.”

“And draw the ire of the Novarrian populace, possibly earn his resentment and cause him to play his cards close to his chest. We are attempting to forge a partnership with Balastion Novar and his empire, not secure a crony ruled through force,” Tegin said. “Tell me Mister Wainwright. Do you remember how the first emperor treated you on the loop where you finally beat the Eldritch Avatar?”

“He seemed a wise man who was trying to work with me to succeed. In no way did I feel as though he was attempting to command or control me,” Orodan admitted.

“And in the long loops since? When you simply barged in, purged his crown and went about your business?”

“That…”

…had not turned out as smooth. When he’d ventured to the cosmos for the first time, the man had seemed small in his own citadel, bereft of purpose. Recently, when Orodan purged the crown in the alternate timeline, Balastion seemed purposeless as well, shocked.

In neither of these cases was the first emperor a true partner, an equal. But a mere lackey sheltering under the shade of Orodan’s strength. Forced to go along with whatever he said. And sometimes, he had to wonder if that was how he came across to others with his direct and blunt methods of doing things.

How many times had his allies asked him not to reveal the fact that he was a time looper and he’d done so anyways? How many times had he gone against any and all advice and just brashly done things the way he wanted? Even when his allies meant well and in some cases were even right?

Even very recently, he recalled battling it out with Talricto, throwing a wrench into Adeltaj’s attempts to foster a good relationship by gladly leaning into the prospect of a fight.

Considering all that… Orodan had to admit that Tegin’s words bore merit.

“Forgive me… old man…” Orodan muttered, looking at Adeltaj.

“Oh? Gone sentimental on me have you? Worry not… it is the prerogative of the elderly to cover for the blunders of the young,” the old Simarji replied, a look in his eyes as though he knew exactly what Orodan had been thinking. The old man’s hand clapped him on the shoulder. “Sometimes, it’s alright to rely on others. Maybe not in fighting—for the world would sooner sprout wings and fly before you ever did that—but in other things like this? You are not alone Orodan.”

He nodded, grateful for the support.

And finally, he sought forgiveness from the one person he should have listened more to. For if he had, then she would never have been a broken soul anchored to his own and without a body. She had paid a steep price for him, and all because at so many points he had never listened.

“Forgive me… Zaessythra.”

“Idiot… open your ears a bit more from now on. Just listen,” she sounded back. “This is the right start. Gathering together everyone who can help you. You’re a mighty warrior and possessed of a drive which nobody else can match. But your training, learning and development still depends on others teaching you, training you or even just fighting against you. Self-development in an isolated void can only get you so far. Think, Orodan… what if your development was accelerated by not just a town, a noble house or a nation… but an entire world?”

The Administrators, the Embodiers who came for him… these beings all had millions of years of experience on him. They had been training, developing and honing themselves over profoundly long periods of time. And although he was a monstrous talent possessed of a drive the cosmos had never seen… he was still lacking in terms of all the advantages they had. The Reject? Trained, forged and risen from the rich heritage of the cultivators of Xian, and possibly even earlier if that madman’s words of being from a time before the System were true. The Custodian? Born of the rich heritage of the hells.

Orodan? Trained and developed through conflict upon Alastaia. And even then, not often taking advantage of the opportunities he could be using. He could be adopted as a prince of the Eastern Kingdoms, a founder of a noble house, a member of the imperial family of Novarria through marriage.

And while such things sounded horrid to him, the fact was that he could have been leveraging connections to a greater extent than he ever had in the loops. Although his humble experiences as a militia man and his insistence on taking the hard way had their own brutal efficiency… he was also lacking in many things by committing to that path.

Did he not owe it to those who depended on him to pick the efficient path forward?

Maybe leaning into the whole nobility and privilege angle wasn’t the right way forward. But perhaps… utilizing his connections and allies in a stronger fashion wasn’t wrong either.

“Mister Wainwright?” Tegin asked.

“Yes?”

“We’ve been waiting for almost a minute now…” Tegin muttered, and he had to admit that the introspection had caused him to lose focus on the meeting for a moment. “Shall we commence with our plan to draw Balastion Novar into the fold?”

“Aye… let us do it. Adeltaj’s plan did sound quite reasonable..”

#

Like that, the remainder of the loop passed as Orodan trained himself and taught those under his tutelage in equal measure. All his targeted skilled increased across the board as a result.

Balastion Novar, instead of having his crown purged had instead been invited to a neutral summit where Adeltaj, Destartes and Cyvrosdyr had calmly explained the entire situation to the man. The first emperor didn’t quite trust Eldarion, but with those three doing the talking that didn’t end up being any hindrance.

What had followed was an extended discussion including Vespidia and Demosthenos who were the right and left hands of the first emperor, and a prompt shocking of the man as Orodan demonstrated his Eldritch Resistance and some of his abilities.

