“We learned how he lost it from your internet. We looked into it after we met him that day when you two decided to help Bash-nor find his way off Earth. The rumors weren’t hard to polish into truths.”

“I didn’t know you were thinking about his eye that day! I’d have told Hn’tyon Lind-otta right then if she’d asked.”

Esh-erdi’s mouth twitched. It wasn’t really a smile. “Neither of us were going to loudly comment on something like that. Servin-ith and some of the others were concerned, too. Because he’s a Chainer, the situation is more of a knot than it should be. Another question for you…does he follow the beliefs of the Palace of Unbreaking himself?”

“Their beliefs? About wordchains needing to be maintained so they don’t break?”

“Not that. Does he believe that protecting wordchains is his <<holy calling>>? Or that most ways of doing magic other than wordchains are <<sinful>> unless done <<in accordance>> with rules set by the Palace of Unbreaking? Does he view himself as a <<special existence>>, pure of the wrong kinds of magic, and therefore worthy of standing before the Palace’s followers as they prostrate themselves?”

“What is Lute’s job?!” Alden exclaimed. “What is it? Why does everything about it sound so weird? He hasn’t been able to talk about it as much as he should because his grandmother makes the whole family get loyalty tattoos before she lets them have the Chainer class. But I know he’s not thinking of himself as a pure existence who stands above people prostrating away the sin of…wizards? Is the Palace of Unbreaking against most wizardry? But his main summoner is a wizard! I think he likes that guy—Parethat-uur—from the way he talks about him. But I also think he thinks Parethat-uur is a little crazy.”

Esh-erdi closed his eyes. “His story yesterday would have been a strange one for him to tell if he viewed his own position as the Palace does. But Lind and I wanted to have your opinion to be sure of ours. The situation must be as we feared, though. <<Vile.>>”

He said the word as if he wished to splatter it, whatever it described, across the horizon. Alden leaned back.

“Did…the Palace do something wrong to him? Is that why he couldn’t be healed?”

Esh-erdi’s eyes opened. “Don’t tell Lute we had a conversation like this. The Palace of Unbreaking doesn’t approve of people mitigating the negative effects of wordchains through wizardry. Their Chainers occupy an exalted position in the organization, even above the leaders in some ways. I’m sure they regard him being maimed by a dangerously powerful wordchain as a sign of his dedication. They’d rather show him off than cure him.”

Alden was appalled. “They won’t let him have two eyes because it was a wordchain accident? But the chain is over! It’s done now. Esh-erdi, that has to be against the terms of Earth’s Contract! Doesn’t it?”

“It is,” said Esh-erdi. “The Palace of Unbreaking is run by wizards even if most of its membership is ordinary class, and those wizards have to follow the same laws as other summoners. Ordering an Avowed not to receive treatment for an injury isn’t something they can do. Your friend’s family wasn’t telling him the whole truth when they said he could be healed, but it wasn’t a lie either. For situations when one of the Palace’s leaders, or their Chainers, want to avoid the cost of a wordchain, a substitute is provided. The same can be true even for something like this. The wordchain Aulia Velra used and its injury to a Chainer who performs bestowal for the masses were probably declared a special occurrence. When Lute asked for healing, they must have told him he needed a substitute.”

A substitute. “If he gets healed…they’re going to cut out someone else’s eye.”

“There would be ten thousand volunteers for the honor, I’m sure,” said Esh-erdi. “But the first allowed to volunteer, and the preferred one, would likely be his symbolic Opposite.”

In the indigo blue messenger bag on the seat beside Alden, there was a crystal checker that blinked whenever a person somewhere else in the universe cast a wordchain.

Lute’s Opposite…he was so serious about the Opposite Stone. He felt ashamed for leaving his in the laundry once.

“No.”

“That’s how they think,” said Esh-erdi.

“Lute’s about to turn sixteen. In Earth years. We’re going out for his birthday next week. His Opposite is a child.”

“Lute is also a child,” said Esh-erdi. “One whose goodness I will remember. The Palace isn’t allowed to have Artonan childrens’ eyes removed, either, even if they volunteer. They probably would have let the Opposite’s mother or father sacrifice one until the Opposite came of age. That would have made it harder for Lute to turn down the offer, I assume. Knowing it would technically be adult fanatics paying a stupid price of their own choosing.”

Alden had a weight on his chest just imagining Lute in that situation.

Hurt because of a wordchain he hadn’t wanted to be part of, surrounded by family he couldn’t trust and alien worshippers he couldn’t possibly be comfortable with, maybe on a call or even in the room with his little blinky checker person who would have been talking about growing up to give their own eyeball to the Gloss so Lute didn’t have to.

“Can you fix it?” he asked. “You can, can’t you?”

“It’s not simple,” Esh-erdi said. “To do it in a way that doesn’t interfere with Lute’s decision not to have someone else lose half their vision in his place will mean making the Palace view his healing as right. One way might be to have him cast another wordchain that leads through a series of surprising coincidences to the restoration of the eye. As if the chain itself has decided to make him whole without him trying for that effect. Lind will give the problem to some people. It won’t happen quickly, but it can be made to happen. Your help might be needed.”

“A series of surprising coincidences. And another wordchain. And Lute…can’t know it’s going to happen in advance?” Alden frowned. “Are we talking about something like him casting a wordchain for luck, then me accidentally on purpose knocking him unconscious during it and taking him to a healer who accidentally on purpose fixes more than they should? Then he wakes up with two eyes, and we all swear it was a gift from the wordchain?”

“That’s a course of events that might work.”

“I’m willing to help however I can,” Alden said. “But isn’t there a less ridiculous and deceptive way?”

“We could borrow him from the Palace of Unbreaking and come up with some role for him among knights that allows us to claim he needs to be in near-perfect physical condition. But the role would have to impress the believers well enough to keep them from feeling the wordchain that cost him the eye was being disrespected. Lind and I are willing to lie to such people and invent acts of valor for him, but he’d have difficulty hiding the truth himself. They’ll question him whatever we do.”

Alden looked down at his hands. They were clenching his pants just above the knee. “It’s wrong. That he ended up hurt in this way and that he can’t just be healed. That he has to work for people who believe extreme things about him that he doesn’t believe at all, and that we’re probably going to lie to him to help him. It’s wrong, Hn’tyon Esh-erdi.”

“I agree.” Esh-erdi said. “Much is wrong.”

I wanted him to say more than that. To say he’d fix it all.

He knew that solving all of that wasn’t Esh-erdi’s job.

It meant a lot to me that Stuart figured out what was going on with the secrecy contract and helped me out with it behind my back. Doing the same for Lute…

Doing the same for Lute was different. Alden didn’t want it to be different, because giving Lute back what Aulia’s Gloss had taken away was great to imagine. But it was.

A minute or two had passed.

“We can’t do that actually,” he said.

Behind Esh-erdi, he could see the grass bowing and straightening in response to the wind.

“I think Lute would love to be healed. But I know that having control over his own decisions matters to him. Human Avowed have powerful forces blowing us around more than we would prefer anyway. For Lute, it’s even worse because his family is…you heard his story. The people who should have helped him have a good Avowed choosing season did everything they could to crush him into a mold they’d picked instead.

“Haoyu and I heard as much as he can tell without violating the contract Aulia had tattooed on him, and we think what happened to him is insane. They made him think he had to take the Chainer class to buy his mother access to one of the Healers that does life extension treatments on Anesidora. It’s complicated how that misunderstanding existed for them to take advantage of. But they surrounded him with pressure and lies ‘for his own good’…and now he’s a Chainer. Until he dies.”

Esh-erdi looked calm. It was the same calm look he’d used when Alden was telling him about the guys who’d attacked Zeridee-und’h, though.

That’s not real calm. It’s his carefully calm face.

“What I mean is, I think it’s even more important to Lute than it is to most people not to have the choices he can make in his current position taken away. What’s happened to him is horrible and more than he can handle on his own, but his friend manipulating him to interfere with a decision he’s already made might be worse. I can’t do that to him.”

“I hear what you’ve said,” Esh-erdi replied.

“I hope I’ve said what’s right and that I haven’t cost Lute anything. Can I tell him you’re trying to help him? Let him say yes or no? If he says yes, I bet Yenu-pezth could erase his memory or lock it away somehow so that the distressingly weird people he works for never find out. Or there are contracts to hide the information, right?”

And with contracts on my mind…

“You could break the tattoo he has with his grandmother, couldn’t you? He hates it. It was a decision he made based on other peoples’ lies, not something he ever wanted. And if I’m wrong…but I’m not about this at least…it’s much easier to get a new tattoo than to say no to a new eye.”

“Could I break it?” Esh-erdi asked. “I think you’ve offended me.”

“I didn’t mean—”

“A lengthy fart could finish off a contract like that.”

Alden snorted.

“All right,” said Esh-erdi. “I’m glad I asked for your opinion. You may tell Lute that Lind and I are concerned about him and share the ideas I just shared with you. And you may try to stop Porti from taking him away in the night to bury him in one of his favorite healing groves.”

“Oh. Porti-loth. He was paying a lot of attention to Lute yesterday.”

“Because a child’s eye could be restored but isn’t. He’s never seen such a thing. If he’s not burying Lute when you get back to Earth, he may be busy burying members of the Palace of Unbreaking instead. In a much less healthy way.”

“The Palace of Unbreaking. They’re really run by wizards who hate wizards?”

“They like themselves very much for following their own rules. It would take a week for me to explain their thinking to myself so that I could explain it well to you. Some of them are sincerely pursuing what they believe to be a better way of life for our species, and they are supportive of knights. They’ve decided we’re allowed to take wordchain halves as we wish. That’s a convenience.”

“But you don’t like them?”

“I can’t worship the balancing of a scale,” Esh-erdi said. “It’s too easy to ignore what’s being weighed and to feel righteous while you measure out harm.”

Those words were the last either of them spoke for a while.

“We weren’t supposed to talk about anything dark this early in our trip.”

“It’s all right,” said Alden.

“I thought I was giving you good news about treatment for your friend when I started.”

“It is good news. He has more choices now than he did. I’ll tell him you’re offering help, and I’m sure he’ll be glad someone understands even if he says no.”

Alden smiled to prove the trip hadn’t been darkened by the details of Lute’s situation. “This has been a very productive and educational visit already. For example, I’ve found out that I’d like to be excommunicated from the Palace of Unbreaking. That’s something I needed to know.”

******

******

The flyer put them out on a dock. One of the posts at the end held colored pegs attached to strings, and at Esh-erdi’s instruction, Alden took out the peg nearest to the bottom and dropped it into the water. It was a scent call for their next ride.

They went back to enjoying lighter conversation topics while they waited.

Esh-erdi didn’t think Alden needed to be excommunicated just because he’d been assigned an Opposite. Together, they reasoned that Lute wouldn’t have agreed to teach him if it gave him the same “special existence” status with the Palace that a Chainer had. But Alden would be quadruple checking before he ever uttered a syllable of his next wordchain. For now, they were both amused by the various things one could dramatically announce if they wanted to break away from the Palace.

Esh-erdi had had to ask the Contract for the information, so he was learning of the possibilities for the first time himself.

“‘I take my stench with me and go to shiver in yonder hole by myself, alone and unloved,’” Esh-erdi said to a vatha that was sleeping on the side of the post that held the pegs. “That one is so <<mopey>> it becomes humorous, don’t you think?”

