298

******

Alden hurried into the teleportation area at Matadero on Saturday morning, his nose still cold from a swift flight over, and found Esh-erdi and Lind-otta waiting for him.

“Good morning! I hope your family likes these,” he said, holding up the bag of oranges that was his only luggage for this trip other than what he carried in his messenger bag. “And that I brought enough. I’m not sure how many relatives you have.”

Esh-erdi was already waving him into a teleportation alcove. “Naturally, you’ve guessed that my offspring outnumber the art’hs and their names sing throughout the universe.”

Alden looked to Lind-otta.

“Esh has no offspring. You’ve brought plenty of fruits.”

“I’m glad. I gave Stu’s family oranges, and they seemed to like them.”

“Esh’s nieces will enjoy them, though they might be too excited by a human guest to appreciate them while you’re there.”

“I feel like I’m being ignored,” said Esh-erdi. “It’s such a strange feeling that I’m sure it can’t be true.”

“You’ll have to look after him for me, Alden,” Lind-otta said. “I’m going to the Rapport as well, but I’ll be in the city to meet with some people. You’re visiting a different area.”

“I’ll try.”

A couple of his oranges ended up in Lind-otta’s pockets before they teleported away.

******

“No trees.”

“These want to know what you think they are.” Esh-erdi swung his arms wide as if to embrace the landscape that surrounded them.

This summonarium was an open-air pavilion with a roof that extended halfway across the lazy brown river that bounded one side of the structure. A long, unmanned barge loaded with humps of covered cargo was approaching. On the opposite side, Alden and Esh-erdi faced a stretch of nature. It was mostly yellow-green grass that was too tall to enjoy walking through and tan-barked trees with sparse branches and pillowy tuffets of leaves as their crowns.

“Sorry. Those are trees. I associate Rapport I so much with the forest that I started imagining every Rapport had the same kind of trees. I know that was illogical. Stu even told me their history. It wouldn’t make sense for those to be here on a different continent.”

Rapport III was on the other side of an ocean, near the equator. Midday would be approaching at the art’h siblinghold, but they were only a couple of hours from sunset here.

“Rapport folk travel freely between the Mother’s seven Rapports, and the culture we’ve woven makes us much more alike one another than like outsiders. But at the same time, each Rapport has its own way about it.” Esh-erdi turned his face toward the sun, looking downriver. “I’ve brought you here to show you lovely things, and to answer your questions about less lovely ones, I suspect. It’s past the proper time for that conversation we keep promising each other. This seemed like a place where words would sound better than they do at Matadero.”

Am I getting a tattoo this weekend, then?

One for Matadero shouldn’t be much of a problem for him, and it was long overdue.

But I only just got free of the last one.

“Don’t sigh yet,” Esh-erdi murmured. “I haven’t even told you anything unfortunate.”

“I’m grateful to be here,” Alden said since he couldn’t deny the sigh. “I want to know all about the Rapports, knights, you and Lind-otta, Goldbush, oaths, chaos everywhere, chaos specifically on Earth, how a knight like you thinks the war against it is going…if it can be won…I want to know everything. Stuart and I—Stu and I—talk a lot. But there’s only one of him, and recently, I’ve thought of more questions. And bigger ones.”

“That’s a large basket to sort through!” Esh-erdi patted him on the back. “For some reason, I once worried you were nervous about asking me for things. I won’t answer all of those. We don’t have time.”

“I don’t mean to be grab-greedy. I know you’re a person who has things to do.”

“One of the things I wanted to do when I arrived on Earth was meet humans worth remembering. And I have. You’re one of them. A very good representative of your planet.”

“I’m not sure how many humans would agree with that.”

“You’ve shown me some of Anesidora,” said Esh-erdi. “I’ll show you some of my home.”

Alden looked around them. “It’s nice here. How do we leave this summonarium?”

There were no roads or paths leading to where they stood and no sign of vehicles other than the barge, which had just paused to have its cargo teleported off. He didn’t see any terackerins around.

Esh-erdi pointed up, and Alden heard a chime that reminded him of the carts at LeafSong. An airy bubble of a flyer dropped down to hover at the edge of the summonarium, its bottom brushing the tips of the grass blades. On the side facing them, a hole had already opened to allow entry.

Alden followed Esh-erdi into it and sat on the soft white bench. Looking up through the clear dome, he could see cloudless blue.

“A chance to appreciate the sky,” he said.

“A chance to appreciate the sky,” Esh-erdi echoed, taking a seat across from him as the bubble sealed. “So you’ve picked up that type of thankful saying? I was always in a hurry as a boy and never happy to make journeys in any way but the fastest. I was scolded once for announcing that my family could have had a chance to appreciate the sky instead of the <<marsh>> slipper we were boarding.”

“I heard some adults talking to children about manners while traveling during the Here-to-There. ‘A chance to appreciate’ was mentioned a lot. Is it always appropriate?”

“Some would say not to comment on the beauty of the sky while falling through it to your death, but I think that might be the best time of all.”

Alden laughed.

The bubble rose to a height just above the summonarium’s rooftop before it set off, following the river downstream. Esh-erdi crossed his legs. “We’ll have the night for more serious conversation. For now, I’ll tell you about this Rapport since you were surprised not to see the trees you expected.”

“I know those are ancestral art’h-related trees. My thoughts were just off.”

He definitely knew. After all, he was wearing one of their leaves against his calf right now, with his auriad. He hoped the forest would enjoy learning about his trip to another Rapport in whatever way it was that a forest enjoyed things.

“It’s understandable. Those trees leave an immense impression. We do have a few here, but that’s because they embody the connection between our Rapports. They don’t usually grow in sensible climates like this one.”

The weather was in the mid-nineties Fahrenheit and so humid it felt hotter. Alden’s pezyva and sleeveless shirt combo was doing its best, but he was glad most of this trip would be during the local nighttime.

“You’re familiar with the first Rapport,” said Esh-erdi, “which lies on land that fell under the rule of the art’h family long ago. They claimed even more than that once. And nobody ever took it from them, either. Their winters and their wizardry were too much to deal with. I think they were only tempted into interacting with the rest of our planet because they wanted better food. The first record we have of one of your friend’s ancestors in this part of the world is from somebody complaining that a woman with the power of a century storm had come from across the water to take all the summer’s bundlefruit and ‘the two men the vines loved most’.”

“This…would have been thousands of years ago?”

“Yes. The art’h name wasn’t recorded, but we know it was one of them because of the descriptions of her magic and language.”

I wonder if she carried a walking stick. I bet she did.

Another barge was on the river below them, heading toward the summonarium.

“Chaos happened at some point,” said Alden. “The center of Rapport I is mostly the trees because of a major chaos incident. They’re part of the magic that protects this planet. There’s some situation like that here, too?”

“There is, but you can’t see many signs of it from here. We’re near the edge of Rapport III. If you crossed the river and walked that way, you’d reach the border before sunset. If you go the other way, toward our interior, you’ll start to notice more obvious evidence that chaos once struck here. You might run into one of our training fields. And you’d find the homes of knights who enjoy the countryside along the way. This territory is smaller than the first Rapport, but we have a much larger population. Significantly larger than any other Rapport. Most of those people live in our city. Wathe. It stands near where this river, Wathe’s Ribbon, meets the sea.”

“How do knights decide which Rapport to live in?”

“As long as everywhere is <<well-guarded>>, it’s personal preference. Rapport III is in the middle of the most densely populated coastline on Artona I. It’s as exclusive as all Rapports, but more visible. I was born south of here. Not far. I saw votaries and occasionally even knights visiting places I knew. Their homes weren’t so distant from mine, but their lives were much more interesting and impressive. Eventually, seeing became desiring, and now I’m sitting here, the most interesting and impressive of them all!”

Alden wanted to agree with him since he held the all-time record for catching up to his partner in power, but he wasn’t sure how to say he admired that without it sounding wrong.

“So you weren’t raised in the Rapports. You came from outside before declaring.”

“No knights among my ancestors,” Esh-erdi said. “I chose the path of highest onus after a youth spent looking toward the edges I could see of this Rapport. I imagined something different than the truth of it, and that’s the same for many young people today. Most change their minds before they join us, but many become votaries. A few become knights. Wathe is primarily a city of votaries. A lot of boring necessary business is done there. I’m a knight, so I don’t have to help with any of it.”

The walls of their flyer briefly changed. Instead of a window to the real view outside, they suddenly displayed a sprawling city of low buildings with streets winding between them like rivulets on their way to the ocean.

“That’s Wathe,” said Esh-erdi. He waited for the scene to fade before speaking again. “Some people come from outside like me. But we do have our renowned knight families here in Rapport III. You’ve even helped save the <<wayward>> daughter of such a <<clan>>. If only we lived in different times! You could demand Zeridee-und’h’s weight in manyadeeth from her parents. Actually, you should try that anyway. It will be years-funny, and there are some und’hs old-fashioned enough to try to fulfill the request even if her parents don’t.”

Alden had to read the definition of manyadeeth. It was a pigment extracted from tiny sea creatures.

“What am I going to do with Zeridee’s weight in pink dye?”

“Well, you could’ve bought an estate with it at one point and still had enough left to stain every stone. Now, though, you could show it to her and see the look it puts on her face, which is much more valuable.”

“Are the und’hs like the art’hs?”

“No.”

Esh-erdi said it so quickly that Alden wondered about it.

“They’re alike in ways that all knights share. And the und’h name belongs to a more diverse group of knights and votaries than art’h does, so there are some running around here who might slide comfortably into the siblinghold. But I would expect them to be different. More difficult for you to get along with. Though I don’t plan on having you meet any old enough for that to matter on this trip.”

“Old enough?”

“I won’t be surprised if there’s a small und’h with my nieces. They get to select their own lessons later in the day. This season they’ve chosen to learn about rocks. We’re going to rescue their instructor from them.”

“Are we really going to tell them stories?” Alden asked.

“You don’t have to, but a good story might be the only way to save yourself from their questions. It’s not enough to save you from mine, though.”

“Do you have questions?” Alden asked.

“I do,” said Esh-erdi. “I’m sorry to ask you to share what might be the private thoughts of a friend, but Lind and I would like to understand what his wants are without letting him know we’re thinking of doing anything about the matter.”

“You want to know something about Stu?” asked Alden. “Or is it Kon?”

“We could freely talk to either of them ourselves if we needed to. But Lute Velra…” Esh-erdi’s voice had an indecipherable note in it. “Does he prefer having only one eye?”

Alden’s answer was only slow in coming because his thoughts had been miles away from there.

“No. Of course he didn’t want for that to happen.”

Are they thinking of doing something about that? For Lute…this would be so, so great!

“He wanted to get it healed, but there was some reason he couldn’t,” Alden explained, leaning toward the knight. “He said something about his family lying to him about how easy it would be, then finding out it was really expensive in some way. He said he couldn’t afford it. I know he couldn’t have meant money because the Velras have too much of that. Because of how it happened, I assumed something magically complicated must be going on. It was a wordchain that made him lose it. It’s called— ”

Alden abruptly realized he didn’t know what the Gloss was called in Artonan. “It’s a big luck chain. Really big. It even affected me. I held the Chainer class during it for a while.”

