“I like the one about ‘Dancing brazenly while drinking the power that belongs only to the stars,’” said Alden. “If someone said they were going to go do that when they left a group I was in, I’d think maybe I should follow them out the door.”

He’d just found another vatha, resting on the dock with its brown wings blending in against the boards. He stepped over it carefully.

“I like wordchains. It’s nice that they’re a kind of magic more people can learn to do. But it’s so disappointing that the organization that takes care of preserving that magic is this way.”

“They’re only imperfect,” said Esh-erdi. “Things I consider bad are entwined with things I consider good. You said yourself that Lute seems fond of his main summoner.”

“Parethat-uur. Apparently, he was excited that someone commended by Hn’tyon Alis-art’h wanted to learn some wordchains. And I’ve liked having an Opposite until now. Every time I perform a chain the stone flashes like they’re casting every one they know.”

“That’s because they like it, too. You’ve made something important to them more fun.”

Can it still be that simple?

He’d have to decide some other time. An animal was coming toward the dock. It was already surprisingly close by the time he detected the motion of its approach in the way the water moved.

“Hi, Ploomp!” said Esh-erdi. Only ploomp was a sound he made that Alden didn’t think he could mimic.

The creature seemed to recognize its name, and a smooth dark blue back breached the surface. It would have a head sort of like a catfish’s, Alden knew from looking at pictures of them. Also paddle-shaped fins. No gills.

This one was the size of a small bus.

“Bloat,” Esh-erdi said as the terackerin reached the end of the dock. Immediately, a layer of skin on its back expanded, turning translucent and electric blue as it stretched thin, like the animal was blowing bubble gum with its own body. The top of its head became visible even though its eyes and mouth were still underwater. There was now plenty of surface area to ride on above the water, though.

“Isn’t she an excellent terackerin?” Esh-erdi said proudly. “Ploomp, this is Alden. He’s human. New rider, new rider! Alden, stick a hand in the water so that she has your smell.”

Alden quickly laid down and dropped his hand over the edge of the dock, getting as close as he could to the nose, which he assumed was involved in smelling.

“She’s hyektch!” he said. “Can I really stand on her back, though? I’m not too heavy?”

She was large, but the skin that had filled with air looked fragile.

“They’re tough,” said Esh-erdi. “And this one comes from a long lineage bred to enjoy company. Say her name.”

“No. You just want to laugh at me.”

“I’m giving you a chance to practice,” said Esh-erdi. “Before you meet the harsher critics.”

One of the terackerin’s long whiskers brushed Alden’s hand. It felt firmer and sharper than he’d expected. Maybe she smells with these?

“This is really amazing, Esh-erdi. I hope your nieces won’t mind me riding her.”

“Let’s go ask them,” Esh-erdi said, hopping off the dock onto the terackerin.

Alden followed. Stepping onto the animal’s back was easier than he had imagined. It was just a slightly rounded, surprisingly firm surface.

“I think I’m the first person from my planet ever to do this. I looked on the internet, but even though there were videos of Artonans riding one and mentions from people who’d seen them in the wild, I didn’t find a single human who’d ever touched one.”

Riding them seemed to be an antiquated local hobby.

“Some things about being an Avowed are very special,” he added. “Can I try to give her directions?”

“Say, ‘Oceanward’,” said Esh-erdi. “We’ll find out if she listens.”

“Oceanward, Ploomp!” Alden said. “We have a chance to appreciate the river!”

The terackerin shifted her fins as if she understood him well and began to swim downstream.

******
