“Good evening,” he said in that pleasant way of his. Pyre nodded at him even as her eyes scanned the man for anything off. He didn’t give any indication that he knew about what was happening in the sanctum, but he could be a good liar. It was hard to say how much he did and didn’t know.

“I just wanted to give you your patrol route for tonight,” Harris explained. He frowned, some of his cheer dampening a little. “A few guards called in sick, so we had to make some adjustments. It sounds like there’s a bug going around.”

He handed Pyre a map of the manor with a path neatly outlined in dark ink, but she was more focused on the mention of the other guards. She hummed. She was willing to bet those guards were the ones called away to deal with the sanctum and the Empire mage’s remains.

“Thanks,” she said simply. Without another word, she continued forward, exiting the manor and stepping into the chilly night air.

Pyre didn’t go to the garden right away. She checked in with the guard on the shift before her, then began her patrol following the map. It looked like the route passed by the garden anyway, so there was no reason to risk suspicion.

When she did finally reach the gardens, the area was empty. The light babble of the fountain drifted over the sound of whistling wind, and the flowering bushes rustled in response. Pyre idly scanned the area as she walked past, but she didn’t see any signs of the glyph circle sitting below the earth. She wouldn’t be surprised if they’d used magic to cover it up, considering how perfect the soil looked from above.

The demon approached the fountain and slowed her pace, mentally mapping the garden onto the diagram she’d seen. One hand toyed casually with the pouch hanging from her belt as she walked.

Finally, when she was at the right spot, she casually slipped it from its loops, and it fell to the ground. Pyre stopped and bent down, pretending to pick it up.

As she did so, she silently shot a bone out from the sole of her foot. She felt it pierce through the thick material of her boots, then dig deeper down into the soil. It was thin enough that the hole wouldn’t be noticeable when she was walking normally, and even if it was, she’d just say she stepped on a nail or something.

While Pyre moved to pick up the bag, she slid a few seeds out and dropped them into the hole before straightening. From there, all she had to do was pat the area down with her foot while she reattached the pouch to her belt.

There. A quick sweep of the area showed that there was still no one around, and if anyone in the manor had been watching from the windows, all they would’ve seen was a guard dropping their bag and picking it back up. Quick and smooth. Then again, this was supposed to be the easy part.

Pyre kept walking, continuing her patrol and leaving the garden and the freshly-planted seeds behind her.
