“Save your fake tears for someone who cares, Father.” Fire Dancer spat. “You told me before you left that you would come whenever I needed you. Well, I called. Over and over. You didn't respond.” She said. “I fought for years against those that wanted to rule this realm and called you again. The years turned to decades and still you didn't respond.”

Ren let his tears drip and evaporate as Fire Dancer's anger filled the humongous throne room.

“Decades turned to centuries, Father.” Fire Dancer said and picked up the Fire elementals Ren had delivered to her. “I fought and fought. The more enemies I defeated, the stronger I became.” She said and tossed them into her mouth and chewed. “I made their Strength and resolve my own.”

Ren felt the Fire elementals being consumed, then he felt the rush of power from Fire Dancer. “Oh, honey.” He said sadly and didn't try to stop his tears. “I am so sorry that you had to go through that.”

“Don't call me that!” Fire Dancer jumped to her feet and tried to stomp on him.

Ren knew he would die if he let her do that, and since he had told her that he didn't want her to kill him by accident, he stood up and caught her foot.

“Wh-what? How?” Fire Dancer asked, shocked.

“You've let your anger consume you and it's ruling your actions.” Ren said and pushed her foot aside, which knocked her off-balance slightly.

“No, it isn't!” Fire Dancer exclaimed.

Ren winced at the huge and blatant lie. “What would have happened to you if you had just killed me, Deity of Fire?”

Fire Dancer glared down at him. “I would have felt happy that you got what you deserved!”

Ren winced again. “If you really think that killing me will make up for abandoning you, then just do it.” He said and looked up at her defiantly. “Don't do it by accident or in a fit of rage, like what could have happened just now. I want you to stand there and make a conscious decision to end my life.”

Fire Dancer couldn't believe his insolence. “You can't tell me what to do!”

“I am your FATHER!” Ren yelled, and every Fire elemental shook from his command voice. “You will stand right there and you will decide if I live or die!” He said and crossed his arms. “Do I deserve to be punished for what happened? Yes, I do. Otherwise I wouldn't have willingly come here.” He said. “As you found out, I can't be forced to go anywhere. I came here through a Portal I cast, that I can cast at any time, and I can leave at any time.”

Neither Fire Dancer nor the Fire elementals in the throne room could refute that information.

“I've been here for 2 weeks waiting to see you, my beautiful daughter, because I want to be here.” Ren said and uncrossed his arms, then knelt on one knee again. “I won't ask for mercy, since I deserve none; but, I will ask you for fairness and to judge me accordingly. If I need to die, then kill me. However, I won't stay here and let you rant and rave and potentially kill me by accident.”

Fire Dancer took a deep breath and let it out. “I need to think this over.”

“Take all the time that you need, as long as it's within the next 5 minutes.” Ren commanded, and she caught her breath. “You've been thinking about this seriously for 2 weeks already, so 5 more minutes should be plenty of time to reach a decision.” He ducked his head. “I eagerly await your decision.”
