“Plus, Terandria offered far more than First Landing at that point. Between that and all the theatres we’re opening, and the television broadcasting deals, I think it’ll be a far bigger year than the last. Once we blow through Ailendamus by storm, of course.”
Emme had a shine to her eyes that made Lyonette blink. She spoke like a top-level [Merchant], and well she might—Lyonette had to wonder how much money the Players were pulling in. Not as much as the inn, but that was purely by virtue of the box. Wesle leaned over to her.
“I was just saying that we’d forgotten about the inn, Emme. Old Temile still sends a cut from Liscor and Invrisil—maybe we should send some gold back? And a few of the second-stringers who aren’t performing well?”
“Terandrian talent, why not? If he can make Invrisil, Liscor, and Pallass even bigger…I wish you could see Jasi, Eyonlett. She’s got the same aplomb and poise as you do.”
“Really? I’d love to see her, though I’m only here for the night.”
Kilkran smoothed his beard, sighing.
“A shame. But it is good to see you, and if you are here later, we will be touring Ailendamus at least a few months. More than enough time to make an impression on the locals.”
He winked at a young noblewoman staring with ardent admiration at the three Players. Lyonette hesitated, then coughed.
“Oh my, I need to get a drink—”
“Of course! Waiter!”
Wesle snapped his fingers, and she took a cup, then glanced at Emme. The Dwarf woman was thoughtfully eying Lyonette.
“Nothing exciting will be happening tonight, I trust?”
“Nothing that should bother the Players’ business, Emme.”
“Good! Then do let us know if the inn needs a donation of sorts. For old time’s sake? We’ll have to do it covertly, but I have people in Invrisil…”
“We’re actually well set up in that regard. I, uh, Grev is doing well too! Or so I think. He’s always in Invrisil, and I know Temile checks on him.”
Wesle chuckled.
“Grev, that scamp. Jasi will be glad. They talk now and then, and we might bring him on tour now that we have an entire support staff; Emme?”
“Eh, imagining the trouble he could get up to, I’d hate to bother our people. But Eyon, you have to give me some notes on who here is the most important…? I noticed that Baron you were talking to. Not highly placed, but I’ve learned to look for men and women who have everyone’s ear.”
Lyonette gave a few notes to the two for a couple of minutes, but they were happily interrupted by a young woman who came over. The same noblewoman Kilkran had been chatting up.
“Actor Wesle? I hate to interrupt, but may I introduce myself? I am the biggest fan of yours.”
“I’m always delighted to meet a fan. Eyon, do excuse me?”
Wesle’s smile could have charmed the swords out of a Redfang’s hand. He almost blew the young woman away due to tongue-tiedness, but three of her friends urged her forwards, and she burst out.
“I was praying and praying for this—I knew it would work! I’m, um, a [Believer], you see—”
“A what?”
Lyonette turned as well as Emme, and Wesle blinked.
“I’ve never heard of that class before. New or native to Ailendamus?”
“No, haven’t you heard? It is new, but…it’s from the Book of Levels. It’s a class for those who can simply have faith.”
The noblewoman’s comments were putting every hair on Lyonette’s neck up. Another consequence of the [Palace of Fates]? Wesle was purely interested, and he offered her a bow and his arm.
“I would love it if you explained it to me, Miss. And introduced me to your beautiful friends! Eyon, apologies, we’ll catch up later.”
He winked at her as the young women giggled and talked over each other. Lyonette needed to use the restroom, so she apologized to Emme—the [Manager] waved at her, already talking to Sophridel, the half-Elf who seemed in awe of her as much as the other Players.
Dame Ushar murmured to Lyonette as the [Princess] strode towards the bathrooms, which had, of all things, magical plumbing and running water.
“Your Highness, Kilkran seems to be rather drunk and flirting with a number of eligible young women. And possibly ineligible women.”
“That girl was, well, my age. Even Wesle’s too old for her! How rich are the Players, and do you know how they’ve been touring? They seem to have taken to the lifestyle.”
That was all she wanted to say on it, but Lyonette hadn’t missed how much magic and money they were wearing. Dame Ushar nodded and added it to her list of things to investigate. Besides that, it was fine. Though Lyonette kept glancing at the young woman who had a class of faith. She wasn’t the only one, Lyonette realized. Now and then, she saw someone say something then put their hands together. Tentatively. But in a way she had only seen Pawn do…
Faith was spreading at last. But in what? The Grand Design itself? She shivered. Then she really did have to pee. All this wine went through you like, well, wine.
 
——
 
The ball was going well. Everyone was vastly entertained by the attractions, of which the Players of Celum were one; they were broadcasting one of their recorded plays, actually.
On…
The sky.
That wasn’t an exaggeration, either. There was no handy backdrop like the palace walls or even a cloud. Rather, there was a three-dimensional image of the Players of Celum performing on stage, like giants striding to and fro, declaiming Hamlet.
The detail was insane. It was not that it was so detailed you could make out the Players’ pores, but it had a sharpness to the visual quality that surpassed Earth’s pixel-generated images. It was as if you were viewing them from afar, which was how the [Magic Image] spell had been cast.
However, the scale! The sheer size of the magic was allowing everyone in the city to view the play from miles away, and cities neighboring the capital could see giant figures moving to and fro.
The sound quality, meanwhile, wasn’t horrendously loud, but at a volume that increased if you focused on the image until it was loud enough to feel like a play occurring, no more. And this was but one of the magical demonstrations on show to celebrate the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus. There had been [Knights] dueling each other in friendly bouts of martial superiority, lightworks, the feast of foods, a travelling menagerie…
It was Wistram’s magical showcase that was most controversial, however, because this wasn’t a homegrown demonstration of Ailendamus’ magic. This was the enemy, but it was also new technology, so the Academy of Mages had an unhappy audience listening to them.
“Grand illusion magics. Tier 5. It’s the sheer scope of it that makes it Tier 5 magic; you could get to that kind of quality with a Tier 4-capable caster, but not this. We are offering this kind of magic to the highest bidders along with the magical carriages and other premium services.”
High Mage Telim was one of the [Mages] advertising the new spells between bites of his meal. He did it well; his was the exact opposite of a hard sell to the nobility. It was clear Telim wanted to enjoy himself, so he had to be asked what the spells were. It was also just as clear from the unsettled expression of Ailendamus’ own mage corps that this was magic on par with their best work.
“Services, High Magus? Even to Ailendamus, who was attacked by the Archmage of Memories?”
An annoyed nobleman asked the pertinent question, and Telim offered him a resigned smile.
“I’d say politics, Lord Verkith—”
“Politics don’t bandage Ailendamus’ war-dead!”
Telim didn’t react to the dangerous crackle in the other man’s tone; instead, he took a longer drink of wine.
“Nor does it the Dawn Concordat’s. The Archmage of Memories acted as he willed. He considered it a moral matter, and clearly, he has offended the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. I believe his willingness to offer these services to Ailendamus is by way of an attempt at mending bridges.”
Everyone waited for more, but there wasn’t any. Telim produced a goat’s leg and began to take measured bites out of it. There was an unhappy murmur that rose, then died down as they thought about what that meant.
No apology. Every other Archmage of the modern era would have played that differently. It was inconceivable to think of even a foreign Archmage not making peaceful overtures and promising this was a one-off, an exception to the rule. But Archmage Eldavin was not going to do that.
It was also—pointed. A clear reminder to Ailendamus’ nobility about who had started this war, an indictment of their national pride.
In Kaaz or another kingdom, that would have drawn blood. Here? Well, it was calibrated to its audience, but it told several listeners that the Archmage of Memory intended to be a force that needed assuaging on his own merits. Wistram had always been that political obstacle that could be problematic if it took the other side, but it had seldom offered any real teeth. Archmage Eldavin was a bared sword, and you had to have confidence to make his statements.
One look at a giant Wesle striding across the stage and you had to wonder if this was subtlety or the blunt mace of tactlessness. Certainly, the [Mages] had come armed to impress.
“What other services does Wistram offer Ailendamus, High Magus? Illusions and transportations are not to be ignored, but Ailendamus’ [Mages] are second to none on the continent.”
Lady Paxere of House Shoel asked that question. She was wearing white to mark her parents’ deaths, but her voice was cool and poised. Telim smiled at her.
“Why, spells, Lady…Paxere, I believe? You noted the desalination ritual that Archmage Eldavin created and sold at a nominal fee, in the name of the public good? That wasn’t old magic; he invented it specifically to aid in the New Lands colonization effort. That is not the only magic the Archmage of Memories has pioneered. The magical armor that some of his people used in the war…”
“You’re selling enchanted armor?”
Paxere’s voice was flat, and Telim waggled a finger.
“Artisan work from Wistram along with the spells themselves—though you understand tutelage commands a high fee on its own. Even…spells of very powerful Tiers.”
“Beyond Tier 5 magic. You’re selling Tier 6 magic?”
Now, every noble in earshot was listening hard. Tier 6 magic…even their [Grand Magi] would be considered exceptional if they could cast more than two such spells, linked. And such spellcasters had studied and practiced magic for four decades at least to get to that level. Paxere, though, she didn’t blink.
As if she thought she were equal to that level of magic. Telim recalled Archmage Eldavin’s briefing on Ailendamus: he had marked House Shoel as having magic on par with the other Archmages. So Telim smiled at the young woman carefully, like she were an enemy in Wistram.
“If I may name one spell, noblefolk of Ailendamus—then get back to socializing? I’m not a particularly good salesman, and I’d rather not have the class. This is a premium service to be offered to nations with coffers deep enough to make it worth Wistram’s while. Not to be spread around. But should there be agreement, then, yes. Archmage Eldavin walked Wistram’s higher floors before they were closed. A [Mage] that pre-dates Archmage Zelkyr and Az’kerash will teach magic. Such as—[Restoration]. Or [Regeneration], even, if you have [Restoration], though that one requires a [Mage] above Level 50. Now, I believe that pudding has my name on it. Do excuse me. [Greater Invisibility].”
The uproar that followed Telim and the rush towards the strawberry pudding to ask him what he meant was enormous. Of course…Telim wasn’t at the pudding table. He was eating cupcakes instead.
Someone who didn’t have the same worry about this great magic as the mortal nobles walked over as Paxere stood there. But then—Lady Paterghost, a former Great Knight of Ailendamus and immortal suit of living armor, had seen that kind of magic before. If rarely. She was over a thousand years old and pretending to sip a fizzy drink.
In reality, it was the Greater Mimic in her armor, Nube—her companion—who ate. The living suit of armor spoke in the refined accent of Taimaguros, her homeland, to Paxere; she had been in the royal palace for 1,011 years and styled herself as practically royal by association. Haughty, prickly, and annoying—most of the time. Right now, she and Paxere were firmly on the same side after all of Ailendamus’ losses, and so she kept her voice low as she nodded at Telim.
“He appears slightly rattled. Should you be staring at him so openly?”
Her engraved helmet, which featured the blue and red symbols of Taima and Gura, the twin beasts the kingdom had been named after, turned, and she picked out Telim munching on cupcakes, despite his [Greater Invisibility] spell. But then, Nube was a Mimic; illusions were hard to use on their kind.
Paxere had penetrated the spell with her own spellcraft. The young Lucifen sipped from her cup, eyes never losing Telim.
“Wistram is showing it has a superior amount of magic. A message should be sent that it is not alone.”
“Hah. Fairly said. As House Shoel’s leader, it is your decision. Know I would question Visophecin to his face in the same way.”
Was that a note of support? Paxere nodded after a moment of private debate whether to snap back. Paterghost’s head rotated again.
“The banquet is passably fine. I have, of course, known better.”
“Of course.”
“I am reminded of the Celebration of Gura eight hundred years ago. Eight spontaneous marriages, two murders, and five duels to the death. That was merely among the nobility.”
Paxere snorted, though she didn’t doubt something of that nature had occurred.
“One wonders how Taimaguros has enough nobility, the way they carry on and feud.”
The suit of armor paused and her haughty voice became slightly more retiring.
“Ah, well…they are prolific in their affections as well as hatreds. And I think, ultimately, it is not the nobility who war as bloodily for Taima and Gura. That was a particularly incensed time in the Empire. When I last left, it was so much more…showy. No substance. Hardly any bloodfeuds of note.”
Paxere raised a brow. One did not catch Paterghost badmouthing her nation in any way, usually. But the immortals of Ailendamus still mourned the Lucifen. They still mourned Fithea, Dioname.
“Young Eclizza lives. Let us not speak of death. The banquet is going well. I came to inquire, Paxere—who is that young woman who seems to be the talk of the Court of Masks’ regulars? She is practically beset, and her [Knight] is wearing a rather…impressive set of armor.”
Another oddity; Paterghost acknowledged no armor as worthy of praise unless it was at least half as old as she was. Paxere glanced over and snorted.
