“They didn’t leak anything besides that they knew each other. But did you hear Rhisveri talking?”
“Old friends? I do believe he’s actually jealous. Maybe she’s seeing him after all?”
Yietha murmured, and General Bathnir muttered over his cup.
“That still makes her all the more fascinating. But a frontal assault won’t work twice with their guards up. I say we strike from the undefended tower.”
“The other two [Actors]? Of course.”
Regalius searched around, and someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“I do believe Manager Emme is with that fellow, Sophridel, touring the Court of Masks and the theatre he built for the Players. However, Actor Kilkran is in the main ballroom.”
A new voice. Surprised, Regalius turned and saw a [Mage] of Wistram there. A persona non grata in many ways, but he’d liberated an entire leg of seasoned goat and was levitating it behind him as he stuck out a hand.
“Telim. High Magus of Wistram, professional busybody, and expert gossip. I, too, would like to join in this delightful hunt for answers. Shall we?”
They went to find Kilkran. He was a tall and imposing bald man who was declaiming a few of his best lines with a voice like golden mead or thunder and assuring everyone that the Players of Celum would not disappoint. When Regalius interrupted, the man gave him a rather supercilious gaze.
“Excuse me, sir, but I was declaiming the Bard of Avon’s work. I know I’m among august company, but his words are unto that of kingliness. Nay, immortal words!”
He was slightly drunk or perhaps full of himself, but Regalius apologized smoothly.
“Do forgive me, Actor Kilkran, but I hoped you could identify yonder lady who’s speaking with Actor Wesle? We have a little bet running as to her identity.”
Kilkran glanced over as he took a sip from his drink. Then he frowned.
“I’m afraid I don’t recognize my many fans. So many, you see. Unless…wait a second…the hair’s wrong, but—dead gods. Is that—!?”
He almost said a name. No, he did say a name, and Regalius heard it, but it was sucked back into Kilkran’s mouth.
“[Retract Line]. Ah, excuse me, I misspoke. I, ah—I have to go and introduce—pardon me!”
He went running over, and Regalius rubbed at his ears.
“Dead gods, what was that? Did anyone catch that?”
“He used a Skill! Damn! I should have known an [Actor] could do that!”
Telim cursed. They saw Kilkran run into the garden, and his booming voice sounded before the mysterious Eyon threw her arms around him in a hug.
“Who is she? She knows the Players—and they are famous. She met the Duke…”
“But she’s not in Ailendamus. You were lip-reading her during the dance. What was that, Regalius?”
The Baron was using all of his talents to piece things together.
“A rather heated argument about the war. She was taking the Duke to task about Ailendamus and I think intimating she was on the wrong side of our armies.”
“So she’s in the Dawn Concordat.”
“Or Noelictus, Nadel, Pheislant…we have nothing to go on! There are plenty of capable women in all these nations, I’m bound to say! Damn, if only we had something to go off of! She’s using a Skill on us, and we can’t best it!”
The group groaned, and Regalius thought they were at their wit’s end when someone spoke.
“What about that ring?”
They turned and gasped. King Itorin II had joined the conversation as they locked onto Eyon. Regalius blinked.
“What ring, sire?”
“Do none of you see it?”
Itorin glanced around, and no one did. He frowned.
“I barely noticed it myself. Look. Right hand, not her ring finger.”
Then Regalius spotted it, as if it were something he’d failed to pay attention to and was obvious in hindsight.
“A brass…ring. That’s very odd. Brass? It’s plain, but—Magus?”
Telim was passing a hand over his eyes.
“Magical. Subtly, though. Very subtly. Powerful enchantment. If I hadn’t learned to upgrade beyond [Detect Magic], I’d never see it. That’s no Relic-grade enchantment, but it’s got enough force to be considered a top-tier artifact. Your Majesty, are you also interested in answers?”
“The Duke is my brother, Magus. I confess, yonder lady has been a delightful distraction tonight. Queen Oiena is also quite invested. If anyone knows jewelry, it would be her.”
“It could be any ring enchanted so finely, though, Your Majesty.”
Regalius protested in a bout of ignorance, and Yietha and Telim corrected him. His wife took his arm.
“As a matter of fact, Regalius, many rings must be designed to their function. If it’s an uncommon design, it will be a clue. Better yet…it might be possible to get a close look to see if there’s any writing on it.”
“And how shall we do that? Trip and fall and try to get a peek?”
Telim was ready to try, but Yietha just raised her arm.
“Oh, nothing so foolish. Grumpy? Can you look at the ring for me?”
The cat scratched at one chin, and Yietha coaxed him.
“I’ll give you a treat! Or His Majesty might offer something scrumptious?”
She turned, and Itorin promised.
“My personal [Chef] will see to it.”
The cat leapt from Yietha’s arms and instantly made for Eyon. Yietha smiled at Itorin, who was probably going to have to pay for some prime Griffin meat.
“I have a few [Beast Tamer] Skills, you see. I can get a mild image or a word of what he’s heard. Let’s see…”
The cat approached Eyon, dodging a [Knight] who tried to grab it, and she smiled and petted it. Yietha was focused on the air, staring, and then she gasped.
“Oh my. Oh my…oh my word. I think we had better consult with Her Majesty at once, sire! I have a very, very clear image of a word that explains everything.”
Everyone leaned in, and Regalius found his heart thumping. Yietha turned to Itorin, who had raised his brows and said one word.
“Salazsar.”
 
——
 
“It’s an engagement ring of Salazsar.”
Queen Oiena needed barely four minutes to figure out what it was. When she did, everyone gasped.
“Dead gods. What does it mean?”
King Itorin stood with the others, and his mind raced to the conclusion almost as fast as High Magus Telim. The rosy-cheeked [Mage] beamed around and tapped the side of his nose.
“It means, ladies and gentlemen, we’ve been duped. Yonder lady is no stranger. Don’t you see?”
He paused for dramatic effect.
“She’s a Wall Lady of Salazsar! A Drake! That Duke’s transformed her or given her an illusion ring and smuggled her in from her city! Small wonder she’s never been to Ailendamus! But is she currently married or is that a sign of something else?”
Mouths dropped open. Itorin, who’d come to the same conclusion, thought something was off, but…there was only one reasonable conclusion to come to, right?
A Ring of Salazsar did not just get given out randomly. The nobles murmured.
“I have to confirm this!”
“No, subtly, subtly—that sly dog, Rhisveri! How did he get to talking with her?”
“By [Message]? I wouldn’t put it past him to be sneaking out…he travels a lot!”
“Your Majesties, thank you for the wisdom! We may, ah, tease our mysterious guest with your permission and see if we can get confirmation!”
Regalius bowed to Oiena and Itorin, and the King raised a hand, smiling. Fakely.
“Within reason. She is a guest of my brother, Regalius. Go soft. He has a temper.”
“Oh, naturally, Your Majesty!”
They left. Only after they had gone did Oiena stop playing with Oesca’s curls and turn. Itorin shielded his mouth as real privacy spells activated. And the two exchanged a far sharper look than before.
“Oiena, how likely is it that’s some Drake?”
“Unlikely. Itorin, there’s one other way a Ring of Salazsar might have found its way onto a finger not belonging to a Drake. I’m surprised the others didn’t remember it, but I remembered it being scandalous. Don’t you?”
He did indeed. He remembered reading the spy report, then watching the other ball in Oteslia. In fact, a servant already had the recording. The two monarchs leaned over the scrying orb. Itorin and Oiena watched, then he heard swearing.
“That Gura-loving idiot. That’s her.”
The woman dancing with the Wall Lord in Oteslia was the exact same as the young woman in the garden. The only difference was the black hair. Itorin closed his eyes.
“—She’s a Drake.”
“She’s a Princess of Calanfer, not—”
Queen Oiena began to hiss at him, and they realized their daughter, Princess Oesca, was right there. Fortunately, she didn’t appear to have heard, having snuck a second pudding from the desserts table. Itorin spoke slowly and deliberately.
“That is a Drake Wall Lady that my brother has brought. And she is going to remain a Drake Wall Lady until she leaves.”
Anything else would be…highly problematic. What was Rhisveri thinking? How did he even know…?
Questions for later. Oiena nodded and grabbed Oesca and pinched one ear gently.
“Who’s stealing sweets past her bedtime?”
“But Mother, it’s a celebration for Dame Eclizza!”
Oesca protested, pouting and trying to equivocate as hard as she could. Itorin laughed as Oiena fixed her daughter with an attempt at a severe look; she’d been very good tonight. The two had to deal with their daughter, but Itorin was entirely relieved no one had caught on. Otherwise…dead gods. He hoped the night ended without more eyes on Eyon.
 
——
 
Five minutes after their meeting with Their Majesties, the conspirators of Rhisveri’s friends, Telim, and Grumpy re-convened.
Not in the garden, but in the Court of Masks. You see…there was nowhere else you couldn’t be spied on. Not even other [Spies] or [Mages] could infiltrate there.
There was a long silence as Regalius, disguised, sipped from his drink. Then a crow-mask coughed.
“This is Telim. Ah, so. Did anyone else second-guess my conclusion?”
“She was rather coordinated for someone without a tail. And she mentioned being at war with Ailendamus. We haven’t fought Drakes.”
A lion-mask spoke. A sun-mask, Yietha, murmured.
“And I happen to know of one other Ring of Salazsar that wasn’t on a Drake’s finger. I credit my obsession with the television. But that would be—”
Beyond scandalous. The nobles and Telim eyed each other. Regalius let out a slow breath.
“This is incredible. But highly dangerous! Small wonder Rhisveri led us on. I’m just relieved Their Majesties didn’t catch on. Even for the King’s brother, if this should come out—”
“Dead gods, what does it mean? We don’t have proof!”
“No, but I have eyes. I took one look at another recording and her, and, well—”
“Dead gods. No one can know!”
Everyone agreed, even Telim. This was beyond hilarious. They had crossed the event-horizon into actually serious consequences, but for the sake of Rhisveri—for the sake of love—
For the sake of the best gossiping they would have for generations in Ailendamus, the secret had to be kept. Regalius went around shaking hands. Then he strolled out of the Court of Masks, dying to get to know Miss Eyon.
Dead gods, the name. He’d found a piece of paper and written down her name. Some days, you really felt like a fool.
 
——
 
Seeing Wesle was such a wonderful thing. Lyonette was delighted, if dismayed, when she saw Kilkran and Emme. Because, of course, they might well blow her cover.
Thankfully, they were actors. Emme was the best. She didn’t even bat an eyelash when she saw Lyonette.
“Ah, a former client of ours. How are you, Miss…?”
“Eyonlett. Hello, Emme! It’s a delight to see the Players do so well! You’ve moved from Celum to Invrisil to this?”
The [Princess] gesticulated around at Ailendamus’ grand ball, which was a sight even for other Terandrian kingdoms.
It was possibly one of the largest ballrooms in the entire world. Top twenty, she was sure. Another looted ballroom, made like a whirlpool.
Colors on the outer edges of the ballroom bloomed in each tile, stars of gemstone-bright stone that swept inwards as they deepened, losing their brightness, towards a center until a spiral developed.
A blackness, pulling everything inwards until the central point of the room where a tiny point of bright marble waited. Admired from above, it was, perhaps, like a great eye or the annihilation of a world into a vortex.
But for the dancers, it was a purely selfless floor that drained itself of color so they would shine all the greater. Closer you came until you were dancing in a midnight field with enough traction to step firmly, and smooth enough to spin into the arms of a partner.
Few people were even staring at the floor. Emme herself gave it a passing glance and then smiled into her cup of wine with a reserve that came from experience.
“It is lovely, but it’s far from our first such event these days, Eyon. If anything, I’m just glad that most of our number are sick in Pheislant. It lets us remain a mysterious commodity longer.”
“Plus, Andel might get into a fight if anyone dares criticize his writing.”
Wesle chuckled. He had a [Courtier]’s poise, Lyonette noticed, and Kilkran looked like a [Lord] himself, dressed up in all that finery. Had he gained weight? He kept stroking his beard, which glistened with oils, and his melodious voice seemed even more golden.
“Agreed, agreed. I’m just upset that we barely got a mention. We’ve come all this way to Ailendamus—who was the kingdom we chose in the face of every other kingdom begging for our talents—and the focus is more on their own ceremonies, that [Knight], and Wistram Academy!”
…He thought it was a problem that the Players weren’t the biggest focus? Lyonette craned her head back to stare at one of Wistram Academy’s magical demonstrations. Wesle glanced at it too, then laughed.
“Oh, that. I almost forget about it there are so many posters and recordings everywhere we go. Wistram has been all over us, recording our plays—”
“The decent ones. And they’re not to sell them or any of our newer performances. We need exclusivity, but we did partner with the Ullsinoi Faction, oh, a month or two after we left Invrisil? Because of E—the [Innkeeper].”
Lyonette hadn’t even known about that. She smiled.
“This is marvellous, you all. How was First Landing?”
“Oh, grand!”
All the Players lit up about Izril’s largest city in the north. Kilkran gestured expansively.
“Each one of the Five Families was hosting us night after night! We were the talk of the city—we founded another theatre, of course, and there was a bevy of talent to draw from there. They still missed us when we left! You can’t compare second or third-stringers to our act, but they’ll have to be satisfied with that. We ran out of new plays to perform; we have six [Writers] working nonstop, you see, on new material. Galina helps us adapt the ones she knows, but bringing them up to standard takes time.”
