Lyonette stared at Telim, then her face cleared, and she smiled so convincingly Ushar almost applauded. Telim chuckled.
“You needn’t do that. The spell is comprehensive.”
The [Princess] chuckled, and her smile never wavered. She studied Telim up and down, and she didn’t visibly change in demeanor, but there was something even more confident and authoritative in how she responded.
Not the act of it like Wesle had; the confidence that came from being the hammer and anvil and watching all between break in front of her. The same expression Erin Solstice could wear. And the same quicksilver strike that took even Telim off-guard.
“I’m not worried. You bely your competence, High Magus Telim. The Archmage of Memories acknowledges it too, far worse for you. I imagine social gatherings like these will be the most pleasant of things he subjects you to. Soon, you’ll be placed into more dangerous gatherings. Or perhaps war. Defense of someone who must be saved, if nothing else. Capable men are always used in such ways.”
Telim’s face fell as he took a hefty bite of a cupcake.
“Dead gods, you say the most horrific things, Princess Marquin. Not even a question about how I elegantly sussed out your identity?”
She shrugged.
“I imagine it wasn’t the hardest, sadly. For all I know, you have a Tier 6 spell that identified me purely based on magical talent. If you know more spells than that, you will be a [Mage] feared and marked across the world.”
He rubbed at his huge beard furiously.
“Incredible. There’s that Calanferian sharpness I’ve heard about; I’ve never been put off my feed faster. Have I offended you that much, Your Highness? I do apologize if so! I am not threatening your inn!”
“Magus Telim, the Archmage of Memories was at the battle at sea when my [Innkeeper] was fighting. You, respectfully, are either already on the list or not on the board. I’m merely pointing out the facts you may not have considered.”
Her sweet smile unsettled Telim, but he quirked an eyebrow at her.
“Ah. I’m being manipulated into…help me out, here?”
She took his arm.
“You could live a life of excitement, fascinating vistas, poisoned cake, and more, Magus Telim, or sit in an inn all day. The entire kitchen has a [Field of Preservation] on it. The record for a dish reaching the table after ordering is 2.1 seconds. Well, Asgra threw a pizza once, but that doesn’t count. Imagine it. A dreadful life where you can only sit, eat your fill, watch the latest incidents occurring in the center of it all, and cast magic when needed.”
He began beaming halfway through her description of the inn.
“My dear, that is the best recruitment pitch I’ve heard in the last decade! But what about the part where the inn explodes with Goblin Kings?”
Her eyes twinkled.
“You want to level, Magus Telim? You’ll reach Level 50 in our inn.”
“I’ll reach Wistram’s upper floors and Level 50 following Eldavin. Frankly, I’ll probably be safer eating poisoned cupcakes!”
He shot back, but he was fascinated by her. Lyonette’s eyes gleamed, and Telim followed her lips, forgetting to study her body language, drawn in by that charm.
Ushar, admiring Lyonette, was more resistant, but even she just listened with a pleasure that was her reward for this stressful night.
Lyonette didn’t have that two years ago. The [Princess] laughed at Telim like he was a silly man and gave him the look she’d given Captain Todi, Elia Arcsinger, and so many.
“You’ll stay when the Goblin King charges, Magus Telim—or be the first to run and save my daughters’ lives and many others. Either way, you’ll know the moment mattered far more than throwing spells down on armies or people you’ll never see. I’d put the biggest monster in The Wandering Inn against any [Mage] in Wistram. If souls have sins and weight, then they will always balance in our favor. Would you rather be the [High Mage] of a new era of magic or the magus who was there when the world changed and made his choice?”
High Magus Telim gazed at Lyonette. Then he blinked out of existence, and the illusion spell folded up.
“Teleportation!”
One of Queen Oiena’s [Bodyguards] spun and pointed as Telim appeared behind the gambling tables. He raised his hands as they surrounded him.
“I’m terribly, terribly sorry—do forgive me. It won’t happen again—ah, Miss Eyon. I do apologize.”
He strode back over and bowed to her.
“I merely felt like I had to get away. You are a terrifying woman, and I reject you!”
He made an ‘x’ with his arms, sounding merry, but only half-kidding.
“Please, allow me to enjoy my dinner and sterling conversation without putting me in fear for my life. Or soul!”
He bowed again, voice pleading. Lyonette laughed and took his arm as Rhisveri turned again.
“I’ll just have to charm you first, Magus Telim. Very well—you must tell me about the famous breakout with the King of Destruction’s agent and the Archmage of Chandrar! I heard a bit of what happened from a certain [Knight] who was there, but I am dying to know the rest.”
“Oh, safer ground! If I do that, what if I asked you about—wait, I have a list—Magus Grimalkin would be the top. Has the good Drake found a certain partner or is the magical gossip circle miscasting again? Because if so, the scandal and good man!”
Lyonette actually giggled. They began talking animatedly, and Ushar observed Telim’s eyes lighting up as they exchanged gossip. And—visibly—pulling back from Lyonette with genuine alarm.
She was so happy and capable, she was almost glowing in Ushar’s eyes. Almost—
 
——
 
“Radiant.”
That was Queen Oiena’s comment when she rejoined Itorin at the high table. The [King] gazed at her.
“The [Princess] struck you that well? I enjoyed how skilled she was at dissembling, but truly?”
Queen Oiena drank deeply from a glass of purified water, seeming troubled herself.
“She has backbone, Itorin. And conviction! She didn’t even blink at me. I wasn’t throwing my aura at her, but she treated me with perfect respect and didn’t hesitate to speak to me like an equal. She’s addressed foreign monarchs before.”
“Hardly surprising for Calanfer’s own.”
He wanted to down-talk the [Princess], who was a headache in his books, but Oiena shifted.
“I’ve met some of Calanfer’s [Princesses]—and one of their [Princes]—and she outstrips the lot of them, Itorin. Go over and see. Just go over!”
He resisted the urge to do that because it was too obvious and because the Players of Celum had drawn a huge crowd around them. More popular than the [King] themselves, and half as haughty. Itorin checked some notes his [Spymaster] had gotten him.
“Well, this is out of date. She’s supposed to say ‘peon’ and be haughty and condescending. Also, Level 5. I heard her talking about the New Lands. She had solid ideas, and I believe she came up with them on the spot!”
The two traded a look of exasperation and amusement, then Queen Oiena poured herself another glass.
“Do you think Rhisveri actually fell for her? Or is this some ploy of his?”
Seducing a foreign [Princess] sounded out of character for the Wyrm, but Itorin didn’t know. The idea of someone attracting his genuine friendship was implausible too. Then again, Ryoka Griffin was also tied to the inn.
“Hard to say. Let’s just make sure no one knows who she is. I have concerns about Magus Telim.”
Oiena nodded. He was acting suspiciously, which might mean the other nobles could catch on. They just had to put out some rumors with their people…they were arranging matters when another problem appeared.
“Father, I’ve returned. I apologize for the, ah, incident. May I have your permission to challenge Duke Rhisveri’s date to a public sparring match?”
Princess Ozena had reappeared after her incident with the glasses, and she was ready for war. She had a longsword at her side and a tunic and britches on. Itorin glanced at her and had a moment of telepathy with his wife.
“(She has no idea, and she will be a problem.)”
“(Yes, and she might lose, which would be worse! You think of something, Itorin!)”
Lose? His brows wrinkled, then he glanced at Lyonette and thought of the inn’s reputation. Hadn’t she killed some kind of Gnollish Demon with a sword? He frowned, drummed his fingers on the table, and thought back.
“(I have just the thing. Follow my lead.)”
Of their many Skills, [Parental Telepathy] was a low-level one that had many benefits. Itorin smiled at Ozena and lifted a hand as she glared at ‘Eyon’.
“My word, she’s done it! Ozena, fastest out of all the children. Not that Oesca is expected to keep up.”
He indicated his daughter, who was yawning given the late hour. Little Oesca blinked at him, confused, and Oiena just raised one eyebrow at him in amusement before smiling at Ozena.
“Oh, well done, Ozena!”
“I—er, what did I do, Father?”
Princess Ozena faltered as King Itorin nodded at the [Princess].
“Well, you clearly noticed who Miss Eyon was, correct, Ozena?”
The [Battle Princess] visibly hesitated this time, and he pretended to notice that and frowned. Ozena glanced at Eyon.
“Rhisveri’s date? I—I noticed she had a powerful aura when I, um, bumped her. And she has a certain walk that makes me think she can use a sword. I just wished to challenge her to a duel. Aura or sword—”
It wasn’t out of the question in Ailendamus’ courts, even between women, but Itorin’s frown was disapproving.
“Ozena, that’s unbefitting of you.”
“But she’s—!”
Ozena bit her lip.
“She’s more capable than whomever she’s pretending to be, Father!”
Now, he wore an innocent expression of pure confusion.
“Well…exactly. Which is why you came to me. Because you figured it out, didn’t you?”
He traded a look with Oiena, and she sighed.
“Itorin…now you’ve done it.”
Ozena and Oesca were turning to peer at their parents, and Ozena spluttered.
“Find out who she is?”
King Itorin pinched the bridge of his nose and groaned as if he were actually upset. He heaved a huge sigh.
“My fat mouth and I are too easy company. Well, I’ve done it now. Not a word to Votrin or Ivenius or Malenth, you two! This was meant to be a test. I thought you had passed, Ozena. The pieces were there. It’s basic statecraft—the obviously dyed black hair? That aura? I was sure you had it when you shoved her with your aura, though it was rather bald-faced of you…”
“Itorin, don’t belabor it. Perhaps it wasn’t that simple.”
Oiena scolded Itorin with a smile, because she’d caught onto his ploy now. Oesca burst out.
“Who is she, Mother, Father? She knew Ryoka!”
Itorin gave his younger daughter a slow nod.
“Well, she would. Rhisveri brought her into the ball for his own reasons, and of course, it’s a secret sealed by the crown. Neither of you are to repeat her identity in Ailendamus’ name. Is that clear? Ozena…no, thank the heavens you asked before dueling her. The problems that would cause!”
The [Battle Princess] was visibly wilting as he fanned at his face. She gave Eyon a second look.
“I—I apologize, Father. I did notice something was off about her, come to that! But I didn’t realize it was a test! I, uh—not a word. Not at all.”
“She’s quite dangerous, if not in your exact ways, Ozena. I hoped you two would be friends. It is such a rare opportunity…”
Oiena put in, clearly enjoying teasing her daughter. Itorin worried they were going too far, but Ozena did have to learn to watch herself and judge her foes. The [Princess] nodded several times, then licked her lips.
“Of course. I’ll—yes. I’m sorry, Mother. Father. But, um. Who is…?”
Itorin pretended not to hear. He leaned over to Oiena.
“I hope Ivenius figures it out. I know he’s just in his [Squire] training, but he has a shot. Surely everyone saw the ring? But then again, her Skill hides it well. I am glad that if they are investigating, no one is asking the nobility and causing a stir.”
She nodded gravely. Ozena opened her mouth and then hesitated. She squinted at Eyon, and Oesca slipped from the table.
“Father, Mother, I don’t want to sleep anymore! May I go into the ball?”
“For an hour longer, Oesca. Very well. Ozena, did you need something?”
The [Battle Princess] was suddenly very busy. She took her younger sister by the hand, and they raced out of earshot. Itorin watched out of the corner of his eye, then someone whispered to him.
“Your Majesty, Princess Ozena has contacted her siblings via her private magical spell.”
“Excellent.”
He sat back. At this moment, he was sure his two daughters would be finding their siblings and putting them onto the ‘test’, which none of them had been aware of.
“That should keep them busy and from actually confronting her. So long as they think we masterminded this.”
Otherwise, one of them raising a hue and cry might cause that diplomatic incident he didn’t need. It was all very well to be at war, but kidnapping a [Princess]…a bad look. Especially given where she should be!
“I had no idea Rhisveri was that powerful a spellcaster, Itorin. To magic her from that inn…”
Oiena had certainly noticed that. Itorin avoided her sharp eye.
“Rhisveri is a match for the Archmage of Memories, Oiena.”
“And he just…learned that? What war did he participate in to reach that level? Was he taught by a former [Archmage] after all? There’s something you’re keeping from me, Itorin.”
He sighed.
“Yes. It’s not my secret to share. It’s Rhisveri’s…perhaps the moment has come, my dear. But if you think today is startling, then know that it’s nothing compared to the truth.”
Her lips compressed because she didn’t like the idea of being the [Queen] and being coddled from the truth, but he fixed her with a serious gaze, and she nodded.
“Then I insist. Later.”
“Later.”
He agreed and watched Lyonette. It had all gone well so far, but Itorin had made one mistake in this ball. He had forgotten who it was about. As the hour grew later and the attractions gave way to more drinks, Great Knight Eclizza was finally located by two breathless Knights of the Thirsting Veil.
In hindsight, Dame Chorisa and Dame Lacres would readily admit that running to tell Dame Eclizza that Duke Rhisveri had brought an enemy [Princess] to the palace was a mistake. That they hadn’t located her all night was mostly due to being challenged by every level of security and having to prove their identities until they finally got access to the party. When they found her, she was already in a bad mood.
And her bad moods were legendary.
 
——
 
From [Fistfighter] on the streets to a Hydra Knight dining with the most rich and powerful men and women of Ailendamus. Hydra Knight Yoriven couldn’t believe his luck.
