Entry 21. Hey, it’s back! I was worried sick someone had stolen it. Turns out…this Skill only works on Terandria’s soil. I went on a trip to Rhir, where they’re setting up the Kingdom of Rhir. 
Brave boys and girls. But I tried to access this place to give them a few tokens of my appreciation, and I only got the empty closet again.
Turns out…turns out there’s a treasury on each continent! Hah! You know, I thought that was a good idea. Maybe it’s how I designed it in my head?
Think about it. You can’t steal from it if we keep things hidden on another continent, eh? I’ll put a few tools in the Rhir one next time I visit and open up ones on other continents. Not that I want to spread the wealth around, but if someone in House Marquin gets trapped on Rhir, they could always use another sword. I wanted to go and see if we could find more Crelers or where they came from, but everyone’s [Dangersenses] went off the closer we got to the Pit. 
Hell’s got places even I daren’t tread. Not even Dragons. It shames me to say, but we need to rebuild rather than chase the foe down there. Besides, if eight Named-ranks can’t report back…
I shan’t write about all I saw and whom I met there. Some secrets you have to keep, even in places as secure as this, and I vowed not to tell of it. We were warned. That’s enough to say. Not everyone wanted to listen, but it was fair. Warned and still, there’s something down there that no one dares battle. Not yet. We’re too tired, too beaten down, and if it’s worse than an Elder Creler, we must be ready. So that’s the plan.
They’ll build walls, they tell me. Walls so strong not even an Ancient Creler will break them. Let this be more of a lesson on how the treasury works, since I’ll write down my thoughts on Crelers and Rhir and shout that to everyone I know. But be damn careful.
Something’s down in that hole. Something that did for a lot of Crelers. I swear they were watching me long before I got close. I swear…there was a lot of ‘em, but I can’t write more. Hopefully by the time you’re reading this, it’s done and dealt with.
Anyways, also don’t store food in here. I had roaches.
—Marquin
 
When Lyonette glanced up this time, she saw one of the side doors was open. And there was indeed a bedroom with a very dilapidated bed inside. More personal possessions lay in there. Rhisveri was reading over her shoulder, and he seemed impressed.
“Do you know what this means?”
Lyonette saw Ushar had a wardrobe open, and she saw an old gown of magical fabric spill into the Thronebearer’s arms. The possession of one of the former owners. Lyonette’s breath caught as the dress whirled, and she realized it was enchanted so the green blew like a field of grass in the wind. Then she saw the sleeves changing color until they were like sundrenched wheat, shifting till the top was blue like the sky.
“Oh my. That…that could work. I think I have a dress after all, Rhisveri.”
Assuming it fit. But she wondered if someone dedicated enough to make an enchanted, color-shifting dress wouldn’t also make it resizable? Lyonette’s heart was beating fast, and she gazed at Rhisveri in wonder.
No heartbreak in this place—well, some. She remembered Marquin’s face as she led the charge against the Crelers and squeezed her eyes shut. The Wyrm, for all his bluster, was also more respectful of this place than he would have been otherwise. But he did smile.
“No, I meant—you know that armor your bodyguard stabbed? You know who wore that, don’t you?”
Lyonette’s eyes snapped back open, and Ushar faltered. Both women turned to Rhisveri, and he strode back to the front.
The battered Dragonchallenger plate armor and sword were plain, unenchanted, and scarred terribly by battle. Huge grooves were cut into the thick steel, as if produced by thin, weirdly curved blades. Or…claws of some kind?
Lyonette saw Ushar pale as she stared at the hole her enchanted sword from the [Palace of Fates] had left in the metal. Rhisveri knelt over the stand, righting it and murmuring to himself.
“Cheap for royals in any era. Why would they keep this around? It’s clearly been enchanted not to rust away…but if you think about it, this is the kind of armor you’d get if you couldn’t afford magic. Especially if you were in a war. Yep. Ahaha.”
He found something that had been knocked over and put it up. The plaque read:
 
Armor of Queen Marquin the Radiant.
 
The notched mace, the armor with a new stab wound in the chestplate—possibly one of the greatest relics of Calanfer stood there as Lyonette and Rhisveri turned to Ushar. The Thronebearer looked like she was going to throw up.
“It—it could be a replica.”
She tried, desperate, and on a hunch, Lyonette took the breastplate off the stand. It was so heavy she nearly fell over, but when she turned it, she saw some ancient padding inside the breastplate. It was covering the right side extensively. As if you needed a bit more there because you were missing something.
Like, say, a breast. Rhisveri whistled.
“If this is the armor she could afford back when she was, what, leading soldiers around, then she lost the breast when she was even less geared up. One angry Human with a mace beating down Crelers. That always struck me as a better founder of a nation than the Hundred Heroes. I met her, you know.”
He stood, smug, wistful, and amused, until Lyonette broke the paralysis by putting the armor on the stand. She turned and met Ushar’s eyes.
“Ushar, hand me that dress and anything that looks good. Rhisveri, you’re filthy. We have less than thirty minutes, and I have no makeup. Move!”
She clapped her hands, and the two jumped—treasury of her forebearers or not, Lyonette had a banquet to get ready for. Priorities!
She hoped Marquin would approve.
 
——
 
Only after the two were gone did the Thirsting Veil Knights let out a huge breath of relief. In fact, they began applauding like loons. Because they genuinely had been worried about the Wyrm in a strange way.
It was only after they’d relaxed that Dame Aine turned to Chorisa. The youngest Thirsting Veil Knight of the squad raised a hand and pointed at the young woman’s back.
“Er, Dame Chorisa?”
“Yes, Dame Aine?”
“A query and thought.”
“Only the one?”
The Thirsting Veil Knight didn’t really laugh.
“Hah. Two, then. Firstly, that female [Knight]’s armor was bright gold. Polished. She was good with her sword, though…does any other Knight-Order wear that armor?”
“Um…”
The other [Knights] stopped celebrating and began to catch onto Dame Aine’s thought. The young woman raised another finger.
“Second, he said ‘Your Highness’. And, uh, ‘Princess’. Never her name, but the other [Knight] said the duke as an ‘enemy of Calanfer’. Which…which [Princess] do you think that was?”
All four [Knights] regarded each other. Then the Wyrm, who’d curled into a ball to better control his other self for the night. They stared at the place the [Princess] had been, did some quick mental math.
Then two of them went running to find Dame Eclizza, fast as they could. But of course, by the time they found her—the ball had begun.
 
——
 
The Duke was late for the banquet he’d made such a fuss over. But King Itorin II didn’t mind. He’d heard Rhisveri had been running around the palace searching for a suitable date, and anything that made the Wyrm squirm amused the [King].
It was hardly as though you could realize Rhisveri was absent in a gathering such as this. Itorin wasn’t sure if it was forty thousand guests or sixty? They were spread out across many rooms, though the grand ballroom was probably accommodating at least a fourth of them.
A sea of species, not just humanity. Mostly Humanity, but he saw more than enough half-Elves. Normally, they might be shunned, but they mixed with Dwarves, long-lived beings who commented on how the palace had grown again since their last visits.
Species from other parts of the world were also visitors, emissaries or guests or sometimes just citizens brought here for their talents. A Garuda fluttered up to admire a golden visage of a former [King] of Ailendamus until they saw Itorin watching them and dove down, though he didn’t mind.
The Drakes were all gathered around the more flashy signs of wealth; they were admiring a rather horrible statue of King Itorin the First, made out of gold.
Just gold. Different colors like Truegold, Blacksand gold, purple gold—you could color it with effort—but it was just so horrifically gaudy that Itorin shuddered every time he passed it by. The plinth was reinforced to keep the horrible statue standing, but the Drakes always loved it.
Itorin put them out of his head. So long as they avoided fighting with the Lizardfolk—again—he was more minded to speak to the emissary of the House of Minos. The tall Minotaurs were standing, arms crossed, speaking to a group of Gnolls, all of whom seemed drawn to a huge roasting spit outside where generous cuts of meat were being handed out.
Lines everywhere, but Ailendamus under Queen Oiena had treated this like a battle and assembled hordes of food and entertainments such that if you didn’t want to wait for the meat, you could drift over to where an [Ice Mage] was lifting colored globs of ice cream into the air and compressing them into artful cones for dumbstruck children.
Or—a huge lure for anyone with a vegetarian attitude towards food—you could visit some of the gardens that grew produce, pick your favorite vegetables, and have them washed and prepared before your eyes. Oiena loved that trick. She called it ‘making the guests earn their food and prepare a dish they can’t complain about’. Itorin was sure there was a fancier way to say that, but Taimaguros didn’t go in huge for analogies.
Besides, as grand as the affair was, it hardly turned on the royal family. True, you had Wistram [Mages] in attendance recording everything, but this wasn’t going to be more than a mention on the news despite the massive number of guests.
It was a celebration for Ailendamus; once he gave the speech celebrating Dame Eclizza, he sat down, took the first bite of the food, and then the guests mingled and celebrated. The first illusion spells began activating in the gardens for people to watch, and several [Actors] were present.
Not to perform, but they’d been rushed all the way from Pheislant just to be here and add to the moment. The Players of Celum were booked for a full month in Ailendamus, and Itorin was only amazed that the Kingdom of Glass and Glory couldn’t get them for longer.
He supposed they were a kind of celebrity like the Singer of Terandria. He just hoped none of them were spies this time.
—The point was, when Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical was announced into the central ballroom looking out into the gardens, the banquet was already twenty minutes underway. Yet his presence was not…unnoticed.
Of course, the [Crier] drew eyes, but Itorin had been waiting for this, and so had a number of dignitaries in Ailendamus. House Shoel, both Lucifen and Agelum, were here, as well as many of the more reclusive ‘nobles’ like Menorkel. And Rhisveri’s entire social group was waiting for him. Their head-turns and clear interest made the rest of the ballroom focus their attention on the very nervous Duke standing with a sharp-looking suit on.
“Odd. More color than your brother normally wears.”
Oiena, the Queen of Ailendamus, remarked with a frown. She was in good spirits; a lot of Taimaguros’ delegation were here to celebrate with their allies, and she loved to talk of her empire with her people. She patted her mouth as she eyed Rhisveri’s outfit.
He did indeed have on a suit of off-white cloth with little twining serpents in purple on the forearms that ran up from the cuffs, but it was not his usual attire. It was a faintly golden white? Not cream, but…
Itorin would have said it was ill-fitting to most gatherings, but it worked. However, it was the partner who stood behind one of the doors he wanted to see. The [King] actually craned his neck.
Please be a polymorphed squirrel. Please be a polymorphed…if it was Ryoka Griffin, it would be a huge problem, but he thought he might die of laughter. But then Rhisveri held out an arm, making some comment to the unseen partner, and Itorin had another thought.
I haven’t seen Viscount Visophecin lately. What if it’s Visophecin under illusion spells?
He hid a smile with his goblet, then paused. Someone walked past Rhisveri, ignoring his arm. She halted, and Queen Oiena’s brows rose.
“Oh my, who is that, Itorin? I haven’t ever seen her in the palace. Is this Rhisveri’s mysterious partner?”
“He doesn’t have one.”
Itorin murmured, but his brows had drawn together, and he was focused on the young woman who stood, surveying the room of interested nobles. He realized in a moment that this was no polymorphed squirrel.
Her poise was too good. She stood, knowing she was on display, and her dress was clearly magical. It was a sunburst of yellow around her shoulders, radiating down to fiery orange and a deeper red, like a burning flame. Even as she curtseyed to the throne, he saw the colors shifting. Darkening like the sky itself, towards night.
Who is this? He was so focused on her, trying to understand, that he almost forgot to acknowledge the curtsey. When he did, she rose, and he saw her black hair curling around her shoulders. A brass ring flashed on one finger, and he saw no more he could identify about her. Only a certainty…
The [King] of Ailendamus crooked a finger, and a servant appeared. He murmured, shielding his mouth.
“Find out who that is.”
Then he stood as the Duke and his date approached the table.
“Brother, I thought I might not see you tonight.”
Rhisveri grumbled, seeming slightly pleased as he threw himself into a seat at the table. Oiena nodded at him as she smiled at the other woman.
“Oh, I had to show up, Brother. If only to prove I actually had a partner for this event. All these naysayers…”
“Will you introduce her to us? It is a delight to meet my brother’s paramour, Miss…?”
The young woman reacted ever-so-slightly to the word ‘paramour’; if he wasn’t watching, he would have missed the slight thinning of her lips. Well, well, even more interesting. Rhisveri cleared his throat.
“This is, uh, uh…”
He froze up, and the young woman leaned over.
“Eyonlett, Your Majesty. Though ‘Eyon’ is quite fine as well. It is an honor to be invited to such an auspicious occasion. I hope I shall not embarrass myself in your company.”
“Miss Eyonlett, anyone who can stand my brother’s company is already graceful in many ways.”
