And it was luck that he was here; a common Hydra Knight with no great deeds aside from surviving the Dawn Concordat’s war (and being punched out by Ser Solstice) did not exactly confer upon him great status.
However, the Hydra Knights were utterly equality-based, so they’d done a raffle for who got to go to the huge party. Dame Merila had even offered to put in her place, but she was their Great Knight and had to attend as a manner of honor.
It was Yoriven’s luck to go, and only a few of the senior [Knights] like Knight-Commander Forcel were mandatory guests; the rest of the Hydra Knights came from far and wide as their ballots dictated.
He’d already had four platefuls of fine food, and Yoriven’s belly was groaning. He hadn’t spoken to many nobles; some were rather aloof, but Regalius had sought him out, remembered his name, and shaken his hand and talked about Yoriven’s latest deployment before having to head off.
Mostly, the Hydra Knight had stared at all the entertainments. His eyes hurt from Ailendamus’ wonders, and in truth, he felt too shook to enter the ballroom and hobnob.
The gardens were fine enough! Unlike the palace, they were transient, the work of each generation to maintain, but he had heard the royal gardens had only grown with each passing decade.
The late Magistrate Fithea had won awards for her work here. She had brought everything from the classic bridge-over-pond architecture to hedges carved into the shapes of animals, but always put her twist on the matter.
Instead of a perfect, neat pond, she had insisted on a lake being placed in the gardens—the royal palace was big enough to hold one in its grounds—and placed a vast pier that stretched into the center of it. But it was no tamed lake with over-fat fish; the lake went deep, and if you cared to fish, there were over two hundred breeds of fish, some in their own pockets of water that you could catch.
Applying for a fishing permit was apparently a mark of prestige, and some amateur [Anglers] had made it their goal to catch every species.
The same for the hedges. Instead of re-pruning delicate hedges into desired shapes, the magistrate had made a compromise. She’d hired half-Elves who encouraged thorny bushes to naturally grow into desired shapes; they’d bloom with flowers and then wither into their base forms each summer. And if you wanted traditional hedges, she allowed it, but only plants so robust the trimming couldn’t harm them.
So—Yoriven could turn his head and see a snarling bear about forty feet high, one of the super-hedge ornaments. He’d also heard tell that the greenhouses were filled with every plant species Ailendamus had ever catalogued…but those were in the academies, not here. The grand fountain set into the courtyard adjourning the ballroom was still enough for him; the garden’s nightlife was out.
Glowing crickets and fireflies hovering in the air and the buzz of insects as you ate and talked. Somehow, they knew better than to get close to the people who’d squash them, and the feeling of being in nature was disconcerting to some cityfolk, clearly. Yoriven himself just gazed at a moth glowing with faint light as it fluttered past him and thought himself beyond lucky to have won the chance to be here.
Though it was nature. He sighed as a bat grabbed the lovely moth out of the air and flew, squeaking, towards its fellows dancing in the night sky.
Yoriven had asked the servants to get him a hamper basket so he could bring food back to the barracks to share with the rest of the unlucky losers. He was actively fighting the urge not to drink too much to make the night vanish.
However, at this moment, the entertainment had died down in the palace, and the fireflies were blazing different colors in the night sky. Most of the guests were heading back inside where music was playing, and Yoriven didn’t know how to dance. So he did what [Knights] did: he stood around in armor and talked to other [Knights]. What else?
There were three Knight Orders in Ailendamus. All of different stations, like Drell Knights, who were all-nobility, and the mostly-commonfolk Hydra Knights, and the almost totally female Thirsting Veil Knights willing to use poison and subterfuge. Not just them; Taimaguros had sent their own Knights of Taima and Knights of Gura, red and blue respectively, and the two fought like cats and dogs. Between that and foreign dignitaries, Yoriven had plenty of people to jaw with. Some were, again, aloof and thought of themselves as true [Knights] by virtue of rank and blood, but many were charmingly down-to-earth.
After a pair of Drell Knights had excused themselves from a conversation with him and left a bad taste in his mouth, a [Knight] dressed in mithril had approached him.
“Ser, to whom do I have the honor of addressing? I am Ser Makren of the Order of Haegris. In service to Kaaz at this moment as a member of the Thousand Lances.”
Yoriven almost dropped his wineglass.
“S-Ser Makren? It’s an honor!”
The man was in his fifties and had peppery hair and a bluff face, and he waved away the bow with a chuckle.
“Please don’t. I’m hardly well-placed in the Thousand Lances.”
“Ser, you’re still amongst the most elite [Knights] in the world! May I know your title?”
They all had a title, and Makren grimaced.
“Makren the Munificent. Which is no insult, by the way; I chose it myself. I paid for this armor with my business—you know the Order of Haegris’ reputation, don’t you?”
“Haggle Kn—I do beg your pardon!”
This time, Makren actually laughed.
“No, no! It’s a compliment! I’m the only one in the entire Thousand Lances; I think they made me train just so we could say we have one in their ranks! Point of pride. And it is a point of pride to buy one’s own armor, isn’t it? It makes me worthy enough to join the Thousand Lances. Without it, I am not one, and the deed that won me my armor was no great quest, but slaying unscrupulous [Merchants] on the scales of barter time and again!”
He was being humble. Now Yoriven heard the name, he knew Makren was a very generous [Knight] who crusaded against poverty and disease much like his entire order did.
“You built a fortune trading, Ser? May I know how that goes?”
“Of course! Haegris gives every new [Knight] a leg up and some capital. We always put it back towards the Order once we do well, but in truth, once you have gold, making more is easier. It’s a distressing truth. So, for the small investment of a thousand gold coins, I started my business in metals, oh, thirty years ago…”
He waggled his eyebrows and gave Yoriven an accounting of how he’d gotten to where he was, then they talked about the Thousand Lances.
“We’re all stirred up about the New Lands. Instead of talking about Ailendamus’ wars, no offense, it’s all about there. I don’t mind telling you that I felt too old to go myself, but I can share that quite a few of my Order have gone or are intending to go!”
“With Kaaz?”
Ser Makren frowned and sighed, and Yoriven realized he’d brought up a bad topic.
“No, not with the colony ships. Some of our own fell against the Bloodtear Pirates. Independently. A few high-ranking members…we are not all equally weighted, we thousand. Actually, we have a rather simple system in which I am at the bottom—but I daresay well liked enough because I don’t strive to compete. A friend who knows finances is useful in the Thousand Lances.”
He was describing how they worked to a fascinated Yoriven when a small altercation caught their attention. Two Thirsting Veil Knights practically dashed into the gathering.
“Sisters! Are you off-duty? Join us!”
A rather soused Dame Knight of the Thirsting Veil waved an unsteady hand at the two newcomers. The Thirsting Veil Knights were largely bad partners for talking tonight. In general, they were surly and loners, who preferred their sisterhood, but tonight the opposite had happened.
They were so happy about their Great Knight’s return to life that all of them were drunk or ebullient. Pleasant to talk to, but too much so—the two newcomers weren’t drunk, though, and their alarm made Makren and Yoriven peek up from their discussions.
“We have no time. Is Great Knight Eclizza here? I am Dame Chorisa, and I need to see her urgently!”
Where was Great Knight Eclizza? Yoriven realized he hadn’t seen her all night, and the banquet was in her honor. Makren cast around with a frown as well, and the other [Knights] called out.
Then a shadow seemed to detach itself from one of the fountains. Yoriven jumped as Dame Knight Eclizza pushed herself off the bench where she’d sat hidden. How…?
He saw a man in a black suit stand and bow, then walk the other way. A member of House Shoel? But Yoriven’s eyes were locked on the famous Great Knight, the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus.
He’d never seen Eclizza before. Her armor didn’t seem noticeably better than the two [Knights] who rushed towards her, but then, it was jet black with only a few faint purple and green highlights. Yet just the way she moved and stood made him feel like he beheld a coiled snake, all readiness to action.
“That is Great Knight Eclizza, is she? I should introduce myself if she is willing to speak.”
Yoriven had talked to Merila, and meeting another Great Knight was vastly appealing to see what he should aspire to. However, Makren had shifted, and his face had notably clouded as someone else spoke up.
“I would not were I you, Hydra Knight Yoriven. She is ill-tempered tonight, hence her aura cloaking. I barely espied her myself, and I stayed well away. Ser Makren, do you know our Great Knight?”
Knight Commander Forcel! Yoriven bowed slightly to his superior as the Knight of the Thousand Lances saluted him with a cup.
“Only by reputation. I was amazed she had been revived…or her injuries kept hidden while she recuperated. A boon for Ailendamus, and I share your celebrations, but I must say, I pity your enemies.”
Makren muttered, wearing the same expression as Knight-Commander Forcel. The two older men eyed Eclizza, who was listening as one of the two Thirsting Veil Knights waved their arms and pointed back to the palace. Yoriven laughed uncertainly.
“Ser Makren, you are too harsh! Great Knight Eclizza is an inspiration to her Order; you see that in the celebrations of her order. I have never heard an ill word of her, any more than Dame Merila. Have you, Commander Forcel?”
Actually, Yoriven had heard several ill things about his beloved Hill Knight, especially about her failure to stop Ser Solstice and other [Knights] in duels. But he omitted that and looked to Forcel for support.
The [Knight-Commander] didn’t answer right away. He coughed, then spoke without taking his eyes off Eclizza.
“In conduct, she is the model of what a [Knight] is, Ser Yoriven. That much is true. But I—”
He searched for words.
“You have never met her personally, nor seen her in battle, Ser Yoriven, nor you, Ser Makren?”
They shook their heads, and Forcel exhaled.
“Then let me just say this: she is a perfect [Knight]. A fighter beyond peer, master of auras. I heard she has overwhelmed the Order of Seasons in their speciality and bested some of the Thousand Lances in combat.”
“Oh, aye. Before they called her Great Knight, even. A scandal indeed.”
Makren murmured, and Forcel jerked his head at Eclizza. The air seemed to be…tingling around her. No, not tingling, Yoriven realized.
Writhing. Like sickly fumes. He felt rather ill just regarding it, and he noticed the water coming from the fountain changing colors. Turning greener…and the grass was dying. Forcel eyed Eclizza.
“She is the opposite of Dame Merila. Even Great Knight Gilaw and her temper is nothing compared to Dame Eclizza. When she goes to war, she embodies the heart of the Thirsting Veil. Poison without mercy. She does not enjoy social graces, and I believe the Duke is the only man short of the [King] who she will take a direct order from. And…I rather fear something has spoiled her mood.”
Indeed—if her aura was any indication, she was very upset. The two Thirsting Veil Knights had stopped talking. One was still pointing back to the ball room, and Yoriven saw the hand lower and the knights suddenly make placating gestures with their hands.
Everyone was far too distant to hear what was being said, but a picture was a thousand words. Especially when said picture was of Eclizza’s hand reaching out and grabbing the first Thirsting Veil Knight.
By the top of their helmet. You’d think that metal gauntlets on more polished metal wouldn’t get a good grip, but if your fingers were currently denting said enchanted helmet and squeezing it—well, you got a good grip.
“Uh oh. Dame Eclizza! Great Knight!”
Forcel started running, and Yoriven was right with him. They saw the first [Knight]’s feet lift off the ground as the second tried to reason with Eclizza.
“Dame Eclizza, we were delayed in getting to you by security! We just wished to tell—”
“He invited her here? One of them? To be his date?”
Her words were practically dripping with venom. Yoriven felt ill the moment he ran into her aura, but Forcel reached out.
“Great Knight, you are hurting your junior!”
Eclizza’s head swung towards him, and Forcel’s aura pushed back her noxious one. Yoriven could breathe again. She glanced over—and seemed to see she was holding her sister [Knight] so hard the helmet was deforming. She let go.
Dame Chorisa dropped to the ground, ripping at her helmet and exposing her thankfully-unbroken head. She gasped.
“Dame Eclizza, wait—it’s just the Duke’s desperation, nothing more! We only wished to tell you because of the risks—”
“Rhisveri knows the risks. He treats this like some game. After all that has been done to Ailendamus? I am not amused. It seems I am interested in socializing after all. Let us see what his guest is like, then.”
The Duke’s guest? Yoriven had heard some joking about that earlier, but—he barred her way, and the Great Knight regarded him.
“Dame Eclizza, forgive me! I am a mere [Knight] of the Order of Hydra, Ser Yoriven! But you may be overly hostile in this moment of celebration! Shall we not drink to your health? With Dame Merila and Knight Commander Forcel and Ser Makren?”
He called out, looking to Forcel, the Thousand Lances’ [Knight], and Dame Merila, who was sitting near the hedge maze with a huge tankard in hand. All three [Knights] turned to gape at him—with every other [Knight] in the gardens—and Merila’s eyes seemed to suggest ‘leave me out of this’.
