The only way to kill royalty fast. The knowledge of how to murder each and every being she laid eyes on was just background noise to Eclizza. The commentary only stopped when she stood in the Agelum’s, Lucifen’s presence, or another powerful individual.
Or Rhisveri himself. He gave her a very nervous smile as he swished his wine cup around.
“Ah, Dame Eclizza. Welcome. You’re looking…quite well. May I introduce to you Miss Eyon? My, ah, ah—partner for this ball? How are you doing? Is there enough wine out there for the [Knights]?”
He made a show of glancing out into the gardens, and Eclizza replied, her voice flat.
“I have decided to speak with those gathered at this festival in my honor. Your Grace, you seem well.”
A Wyrm vanishing with a triumphant smile as a woman with a sword cut everything to ribbons. Eclizza blinked, and Rhisveri smiled sweatily at her.
“Me? Yes, marvellously so! Is it hot in here? Well, lovely chat! We shouldn’t keep you. Eyon, let’s just head this way—”
He was clearly worried she was going to figure out who Princess Lyonette was. Miss ‘Eyon’ was more put-together and merely gave Eclizza a polite smile.
“Do forgive His Grace, Dame Knight. May I introduce myself? I am indeed Eyonlett, and it is my honor to attend this magnificent event! Much less to meet a Great Knight of Ailendamus! You and Lady Paterghost are quite impressive, so forgive me if I’m somewhat taken.”
She was well-made indeed. Chuckles from the other nobles indicated how this stroked their egos. Eclizza just met Lyonette’s eyes and saw the [Princess]’ blue irises widen as she felt the Pale Serpent’s aura pressing at her. Like a wave of venom with the weight of the sea behind it. Eclizza’s voice was, to her own ears, just as uncompromisingly direct. Whatever Rhisveri and this [Princess] intended—Eclizza was not of a mind to play their game.
“You say so, Miss…Eyon? But we have met before.”
Eyon barely froze a millisecond before laughing. She extended her hand lightly.
“Have we? Do forgive me, then, I would remember—”
Eclizza’s hand crushed Lyonette’s hand, and the [Princess] bit back a shout of pain. The [Knight] yanked Lyonette closer.
“We have. I remember you well.”
But she hadn’t been like this, before. Eclizza had only seen a broken [Princess] holding a dead child in her arms. Her ancestress calling on armies to make one final stand.
This woman…was far more than Eclizza had seen in the [Palace of Fates], and the Great Knight had taken the inn’s measure already. Even so, Eclizza had her doubts, so she pressed. Besides, her daughter had come back to life anyways.
Lyonette wavered, and the Pale Serpent’s aura blasted over her. Not purely hostile, just overwhelming. Venomous contempt and anger and frustration, not directed purely at Lyonette—but at her own weakness, the many foes they had witnessed, at the senseless death they had endured.
A snake preparing for war. Of course, Eclizza imagined it seemed like an attack. Certainly, the other nobles flinched backwards with cries of pain as her aura stung them. But the [Princess] was higher-level, and she guarded herself, a thin layer of light protecting her skin from the caustic venom.
She recognized she wasn’t under attack, and so did her bodyguard. No one else did.
“Eclizza! Don’t be so—hostile!”
Rhisveri’s first reaction was to try to free Lyonette from Eclizza’s grasp. He seized her hand in a powerful grip, and she was stunned.
Since when does he care for anyone like that? And—
When did his Human body become so strong?
He actually managed to pull her arm back until she shook him off. Eclizza’s helmet swivelled, and she flicked him with her aura; he went stumbling back into General Bathnir’s arms.
“Dame Knight, that is a—a powerful greeting! I hope Miss Eyon hasn’t offended you in some way?”
Regalius was trying to edge in between Eclizza and Lyonette, using his own aura like a shield. Brave man; he was visibly wincing and paling as her venom provoked an allergic reaction on his skin. Eclizza let go of Lyonette’s hand, and the [Princess] massaged her fingers, confused and wary.
“I hope I’ve not offended you, Dame Knight. I can’t imagine what I’ve done, but if I have done…anything, or anyone in my company has, I throw myself upon your mercy. Especially today.”
Her eyes were direct as she met Eclizza’s gaze, and she was unafraid. Just—wary. Of course, a woman who’d faced the Goblin King wouldn’t fear this. She seemed to think Eclizza blamed her for the [Palace of Fates]. The Great Knight jerked her head in a brief shake.
“Not that. I object to your presence here.”
They were enemies. Their nations were at war. What was she thinking? The [Princess] winced, and she bit her lip. Then her eyes slid sideways to Rhisveri.
“Circumstances do lead to strange bedfellows.”
“Some beds are filled with vipers. Even a fool would think better than to hop into them.”
The nobilities’ heads were swinging back and forth from Lyonette to Eclizza as they spoke in blunt code. Lyonette colored, then hissed back.
“Well, some people aren’t given much choice before they’re virtually teleported into said beds!”
Teleported into—? Eclizza had assumed that this [Princess] had been the fool in Dame Chorisa’s rushed explanation of what had happened. But the moment she heard that, she formed a different, and more accurate, understanding of what Rhisveri had done.
Her head twisted around, and now it was the Duke’s turn to back up a few steps. He opened and closed his mouth, then stared up at the ceiling.
“…Marvellous architecture; I say it every time I’m in here. The old Drenv palace roof, you know, reconverted into that marvellous radial design.”
He peered up at the distant beams which formed a spiral of marble over the dance floor. Eclizza didn’t glance up.
“I see. It appears Duke Rhisveri is as presumptuous regarding impromptu transportation as I recall.”
Like when you got me killed trying to apprehend a random Izrilian thief. Rhisveri was suddenly staring hard at his shoes, and Lyonette smiled sweetly.
“A close confidant of the Duke are you, Great Knight Eclizza? I was unaware he had any friends.”
An accurate statement, but it annoyed Eclizza to hear the [Princess] say it. Eclizza’s head turned, and the aura once again pinned Lyonette; the color drained from her cheeks until that [Knight] blocked some of Eclizza’s aura with her body. That had to hurt, but the woman did it anyways, even lifting a shield.
Thronebearer. Huh. Eclizza ignored the shield and focused her aura; she ran Lyonette through the chest with it, and the [Princess] paled further.
“I say, Dame Eclizza, however upset you must be, this is rather unfortunate! Miss Eyon has been the spirit of a good guest to Ailendamus! If I could offer you a drink and toast to the health of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory—”
Regalius was doing his best. Now the other nobles were trying to shove Eclizza back a step. All combined, they barely did a thing, much to their clear chagrin. Eclizza just pressed at Lyonette. The [Princess]’ chin rose.
“It appears I am unwelcome, Baron Regalius. Never let it be said that I cannot take a hint. But what would you call this, Dame Eclizza? This—impropriety to a guest at your own banquet?”
“A warning.”
Eclizza was waiting for the [Princess] to fire back her aura. She wanted it. She wanted to see what the [Princess] was made of, to see what had managed to catch Rhisveri’s eye, even for a second.
What are you doing, woman? We are at war, and I will break the Dawn Concordat if I must. Why are you here? Why Rhisveri, even for a jest or to assuage his ego? Why him of all beings?
Not him. Not the lonely Wyrm of Ailendamus. The odds of anyone ever charming him had been beyond remote, but it would have been the most alarming thing if someone had caught his eye. Because, Eclizza well knew, such a lonely being…what might he do for the one woman—or man—to catch his eye? And she had wondered if it might be a man, like the Agelum spoke of.
Her private worry, anger, and—jealousy that the [Princess] was in the position that Eclizza could not be in, for so many reasons, was in the silent strife between their auras. Eclizza’s aura was beginning to distort the air like a sickly heatwave, and all the food the nobles were holding had suddenly begun to rot, turn rancid.
Indeed, the rest of the diners and dancers were turning to watch the showdown. Concerned [Knights] filing in from the gardens, the royal family glancing up from their table, guests pointing and wondering who that woman facing the Great Knight was.
“Eclizza, may I have a quick word?”
Rhisveri was back, hissing at Eclizza, a smile on his sweaty face. She just murmured back to him.
“Once I am finished, you may explain your poor decisions to me, Your Grace.”
“Once you’re finished what?”
“Chasing her off.”
“There’s no call for that! Step back and pull your aura; that’s an order!”
He snapped at her, visibly angry. Eclizza’s helmet tilted slightly.
“But you do not give me orders, Duke Rhisveri.”
His eyes widened.
“I am—”
“—the Duke. I report to my superiors.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus, not his Human self. The Duke hesitated, and he began to realize how truly furious she was. And accordingly—looked worried. Lyonette was breathing hard; she was barely keeping the lance of venom from touching her actual flesh.
“If I may ask, how far are you going to go, Dame Eclizza?”
Eclizza’s overbearing aura faded slightly, and she gave Lyonette a level look.
“You may go, if your lesson has been learned. Do not return.”
For everyone’s sakes. She thought the [Princess] would accept, but Lyonette’s head went down, then her shoulders went back, and her chin rose.
“—Odd. I rather thought I needed to do something wrong to incur such a stringent lesson, Dame Eclizza. And if I refuse?”
Despite herself, the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus grinned.
“Then let’s see if you’re ready to stand in Ailendamus’ palace. It is not in front of a Goblin King. I have no doubt you are a match for it.”
Then two pale glows burned from between the slits in her helmet’s visor, and the full weight of Eclizza’s aura hit the [Princess] of Calanfer. It washed over the 6th Princess, and behind her, Lady Yietha dropped her cup with a shout of alarm; the wine had turned acidic, and smoke was rising from the silver goblet, which had turned black.
As for the [Princess]? She blanched dead white, and then her eyes locked with Eclizza’s and began fighting back. The Great Knight beamed behind her helmet. Despite it all—the Agelum had always taught her to respect a great opponent.
What was the purpose of strife if there was no one worthy to fight against? Eclizza’s aura faltered as the light of Calanfer’s scion pressed against it.
Then it doubled in intensity.
The five nearest nobles watching instantly projectile-vomitted.
 
——
 
Oh my. Lyonette had known that she wasn’t a match for a Great Knight of Ailendamus in any way, but she had wondered if she could at least be a decent opponent in an aura-war.
The answer was: no. Eclizza was a full monster in every sense of the word. The only thing keeping Lyonette from puking her own guts out was her [Greater Resistance: Poison] Skill.
She’s so straightforwards. The [Knight] did not like Lyonette. She was making that very clear, and she was telling Lyonette to get lost in no uncertain terms. Honestly…it was almost commendable how straightforwards Eclizza was.
Why am I even fighting her off? Lyonette’s hand was sweating green beads as she tried to hold Eclizza off. She felt nauseous, and she really didn’t know why she was even sticking around. It was just—she didn’t feel like being run off by this angry [Knight], and—she shot a glance at Rhisveri’s desperate face.
This idiot owes me a favor, and I might need his help. So I can’t back down! Lyonette gritted her teeth. She tried to muster a sortie of her aura, but she was barely able to keep Eclizza from squashing her like a bug. Any second now, she’d buckle, and then the aura would probably make her so sick that she’d void her guts from every orifice she had—which would probably be as good as exile.
Unbidden, as Lyonette swayed and Ushar whispered an oath from her helmet, she wondered if Mrsha was watching this showdown on television. Are you having fun, Mom?
…Sort of. That was the crazy thing, and that was why the Great Knight’s aura faltered once.
“Why are you smiling, woman?”
Lyonette tried to stop and just ended up grinning harder.
“I’m sorry. It’s more relaxing than my life of late, that’s all.”
She almost laughed hysterically in Eclizza’s face as Regalius gave her a bug-eyed expression of disbelief. And two things happened next to break this stalemate. The first was that Lyonette blinked, gasped, and nearly jumped out of her skin.
“Now? I—”
She caught herself, and Eclizza wavered a second as everyone stared at Lyonette. But the [Princess] just closed her mouth, determined, and the second thing was more interesting anyways. Which was that someone came up behind Eclizza and tapped the Great Knight on the shoulder.
“Excuse me, Dame Knight!”
“Leave.”
Eclizza didn’t even glance around as the high-pitched, annoying voice shrilled in her ears. The person tapped Eclizza on the shoulder again, harder.
“It’s really important! I’d like to introduce myself!”
This time, Eclizza’s head turned, and she audibly growled…then went as still as Lyonette and Regalius and everyone else who was staring at the giant, blue sock puppet with button eyes. Rhissy the Sock Puppet beamed at Eclizza.
“My name’s Rhissy. And that’s my friend there! Hiyah!”
Then he headbutted Eclizza in the forehead. It looked stupid, but Lyonette felt the ground quiver under her feet, and Eclizza let go of the [Princess]. She took a step back, and her aura retreated. Lyonette withdrew several steps, gasping, and Ushar hurried her back.
“What is…this?”
Her cool voice was suddenly, exceptionally unsettled. Everyone else recognized Rhissy, but Eclizza hadn’t ever seen the giant sock puppet. Rhissy waved two tiny hands and did a hop to wave at the silent ballroom.
“Hey, everyone, it’s me, Rhissy! Ailendamus’ most beloved sock puppet! Have you all been good boys and girls? Where’s the wine! I—ulp!”
Eclizza grabbed the back of Rhissy’s ‘head’ and slammed the sock puppet down into a knee. It would have broken someone else’s jaw; she lifted the puppet up and shook it.
“It’s some kind of Golem?”
“Hey, that’s not very nice!”
Rhissy gave her an uppercut and ripped free. He jabbed a few times and backed up.
