“Grateful. And I will be and remember it, I swear, this great favor that…fate bestowed upon me. Even if I wish they could all return. But that, I suppose, is how grief works. For it to hurt, you have to know there was a world that could be otherwise. You have to dream of being whole to understand what it is like to be sundered and never whole again. So, thank you. I do not mean to sound ungrateful.”
His throat worked, and his eyes were glimmering. He turned to Eclizza.
“Thank you. I think they would agree, if they could hear it. Fithea, Dioname. Children should live longer than the old. So, to the Great Knight of Ailendamus. May she live at least a thousand years.”
He lifted the cup higher and drank. When he lowered the goblet, it seemed as though he intended on refilling it. Tears ran from his eyes and into his pointed beard, which dripped into the cup. He stood in silence, in the center of the room, until someone began applauding.
It was, of course, Baron Regalius, but the man only preceded the applause a second, and then the room was filled with cheers and similar toasts. Lyonette herself found a cup on a platter and raised it. Duke Rhisveri didn’t seem to understand why she toasted him. He just stared ahead until the Great Knight moved.
She took one step forwards, towards him, and bowed, holding her arm across her chest. A single bow, and his eyes never left her, and hers him. Then, and only then, did Rhisveri brush at his eyes as if confused to know why he was crying and stomp away from the ballroom.
“Oh. That…I think that, in a moment, did more for your reputation than you could dream, you silly man. More than the rest of the night.”
Lyonette whispered, and she heard a sniff, then a honking sound, which was Gilaw blowing her nose. Menorkel just gave her a wide-eyed stare.
“I’ve never seen Rhisveri cry. Did you do that?”
“Me? No. I’m just his date for a night.”
She smiled at the young man, and Menorkel eyed her before remarking gravely—
“He’s never had one of those either.”
What could Lyonette say to that? She stared ahead, and as Rhisveri spoke to Eclizza and the music began again, Lyonette had a sudden vision. It was of Moore, Halrac, Jelaqua, and Ulinde laughing at a table in The Wandering Inn.
It was Brunkr grinning as he was served a cake, and Seve-Alrelious and Erek sitting in the common room. It was like Erin’s garden of statues, but instead of tearing her to pieces…it just made Lyonette think of Tessa.
“Ah, I have to go back soon. I have things to do. More memories to make.”
She wiped at her eyes, delicately, and turned to Ushar. Lyonette smiled, then began to stand. Menorkel seemed wistful.
“Are you sure, Miss Eyon? I know it is late, but I wanted to meet the woman who made Duke Rhisveri come to a banquet! Everyone is curious about you. Even Lady Paterghost likes you, and she likes no one!”
Gilaw made a cawing sound, and Lyonette had to admit she was mightily curious to know who these other immortals were. But she wanted to see her daughter.
“Maybe another time, Menorkel?”
If Rhisveri needs another banquet, maybe? It wasn’t the worst thought, though she was amazed she was even thinking it. Menorkel was nodding when someone leaned over.
“Ah, Miss Eyonlett. Did I hear you right? You are leaving? I had hoped to introduce myself before the night was over. May I just have a single word before you leave?”
A sharply-dressed woman in a dark uniform with gold and brass on it stopped with drink in hand, and Lyonette turned.
“Oh of course, Miss…?”
The woman leaned over the table to shake Lyonette’s hand. She smiled, then yanked Lyonette close.
“Brazier Lady Linvene. You are marked, Princess Lyonette. I am amazed you had the gall to appear tonight. But know that you are marked, and retribution shall come the sooner for this.”
Lyonette stiffened as the hand crushed hers, and Ushar’s arm was suddenly between her and the [Lady]. She recognized the sigil on the woman’s breast belatedly, and the color scheme fell into place.
“The Blighted Kingdom’s emissary in Ailendamus?”
She should have known Ailendamus would have one! The Blighted Kingdom had diplomats in every major kingdom, and at this function—
“Let go of Miss Eyon, please.”
Ushar warned the Brazier Lady, but Linvene let go without fuss.
“Your inn survived hellfire, but it has a shadow, and the Blighted Kingdom has marked it. That is your only warning, Princess. Leave it or watch it and all those within burn.”
Lyonette knew that Erin had made enemies, but such an open declaration of war still chilled her. At a gathering like this, no less! She lowered her voice.
“I’m shocked that a single inn merits the wrath of an entire kingdom, let alone one so important as the Blighted Kingdom. Do you intend to raze it and everyone in it to the ground? We have not been your foes. Guests, and our [Innkeeper], yes, but there are children within! Leave us out of whatever revenge you have planned.”
“Goblin Kings do not arise from nothing. You are warned.”
The woman was studying Lyonette and Ushar up and down, her eyes flinty. She glanced to one side and stepped back.
“And I see I am not the only one.”
“Good evening to you! Lady Eyon, is it? And Brazier Lady Linvene. I had waited for the good Duke to step away. A lovely speech about the fallen, isn’t it? I am [Diplomat] Ke’len of Erribathe. In the name of the Kingdom of Myths, I, too, would like to convey that we do not forget.”
The Dwarf who appeared at the table had runes braided into his beard and a far more relaxed attitude than the emissary of Rhir, and he put his cup on the table and treated Lyonette to a smile. She exhaled, loudly.
“One would think my disguises needed work. Or that emissaries would be good enough not to cause a fuss, wouldn’t they, Ushar?”
The Thronebearer nodded without a word as she watched the two diplomats gazing at her.
“We are not the only ones, Princess. You are marked from Rhir’s hell to the gates of Roshal. This is no time to enjoy your repast.”
The Brazier Lady warned Lyonette, though Ke’len’s lips twisted at the mention of Roshal. Lyonette sat very still for a moment, then exhaled. She leaned back over the table, and if the two had thought she was going to quail—she met Brazier Lady Linvene’s eyes.
“As far as I recall, Roshal is still mostly dust. Have they or the Blighted Kingdom not learned the lesson of picking the wrong fights? Because I believe a reminder was delivered—twice.”
She enjoyed watching the blood drain out of Linvene’s face. The Dwarf [Diplomat] just glanced sharply between Lyonette and Linvene, clearly wondering what that meant. The Brazier Lady’s fist tightened on her goblet, and she was about to snap back when someone reached down.
“Excuse me. I believe you are being rude to Rhisveri’s guest.”
Menorkel’s finger was big enough to push Linvene away from Lyonette. She recoiled, then spoke.
“Sir half-Giant. I was merely—”
“You were leaving. Miss Eyon is a guest of Ailendamus, and you two are being impolite.”
Menorkel frowned at the two of them from above, and when both hesitated, the shorter woman folded her arms.
“Gilaw agrees, and she’s a Great Knight. Go away.”
In the face of a Great Knight of Ailendamus, both Dwarf and Human had to bow and retreat. Menorkel turned to Lyonette and grew anxious.
“Are you alright? That sounded bad.”
“It was just a threat. A…known threat.”
Lyonette exhaled and began to rise. It seemed that this party had everything from joys to drama, sadness and reminders of the reality of her situation. Yet she refused to feel bad or worried. She smiled at Menorkel.
“I should be going, though. I’m sorry, but it really is late.”
Of course, it was never that easy to just leave. Rhisveri had to be told, but he was surrounded by people, and you had to pay your respects to the crown, especially since Lyonette had met with both of them. And then Regalius and Yietha and the others were trying to get her to stay and remark on everything.
“I saw the Brazier Lady storming away, Miss Eyon. Did she have words with you? She can be tactless when it comes to Rhir’s defense…”
“You must stay a bit longer! I have so many questions! The dancing has begun again, and you could have another shot at the five-step—”
Queen Oiena herself called out.
“Miss Eyon! Are you truly going? I almost but feel that you would benefit from a night in the palace!”
To that, everyone agreed Lyonette should stay, but the [Princess] was adamant. She was trying to refuse Queen Oiena as politely as possible.
“Your Majesty, I must go. I have little ones to attend to.”
Oiena did a double-take, then shot a glance at her husband.
“Little ones? At your age? Why then, you must go, of course! But an escort at this hour is essential…where’s Rhisveri? He should see you back home.”
At last, Rhisveri appeared, and with him, the final obstacle of the night. Dame Eclizza cut through the crowd, and even Queen Oiena was wary as she held up a hand.
“Dame Eclizza, it is late, and with respect to your quarrel with Miss Eyon, I insist on peace.”
“Peace, Your Majesty. As you will it.”
Eclizza bowed and lifted her head without looking away from Lyonette. The [Princess] stepped forwards warily and nodded to Eclizza.
“I cannot help but feel that we have gotten off on the wrong foot, Dame Eclizza. It is a shame, because I hope we are on the same side in some respects.”
The [Knight] scrutinized Lyonette up and down, and then she walked forwards, and her aura engulfed Lyonette again, but like wet gauze, not an attack. A privacy effect.
“We have been on the same side. But I do not trust you, Miss ‘Eyon’. I have returned and beheld my weakness and my kingdom’s weakness, and you come as a reminder of change. An omen of the greatest danger I have ever beheld. I do not know you, and more importantly, I have no measure of you. Should I welcome you with open arms?”
That was very fair, and yet, Lyonette still thought they were missing something. She turned to Rhisveri, and the Wyrm shifted from foot to foot.
“Er—time to go? It was a productive night, all things considered. Can you ask for better than that?”
Threats and publicity. A battle with a [Princess]—Lyonette shot a glance at Princess Ozena and realized she was throwing up into a waste basket, still suffering the effects of a full aura clash with Eclizza. The [Princess] gazed about and saw the Brazier Lady and Dwarven Emissary watching her.
And she was sad.
She was upset.
She was enjoying herself.
She was afraid for the future, but mostly for Erin.
—Lyonette knew what she had to do. She turned to Ushar, who was wearing Queen Marquin’s very armor, and the [Princess] gazed at Rhisveri, then looked around at Queen Oiena, Menorkel, Regalius, and realized she wasn’t done.
Show them…the [Princess] reached out and took Rhisveri’s hand. He blinked at it stupidly, and the [Princess] turned.
“Your Majesty, may I make one small request of you before I depart? I think that if this is a night to be enjoyed, there is one last thing I must try.”
“Oh, and what would that be?”
Queen Oiena leaned forwards with an interested smile, and Lyonette took a breath and felt her heart race. She gazed into Eclizza’s visor as the Pale Serpent tensed, and she smiled.
“Why…the Alamarian five-step. Crossing the Dwarven Mountains, I believe the song is. Would you give me one last chance to perform it?”
Of all the things…Oiena blinked, and Eclizza’s helmet tilted. The [Queen] hesitated.
“I can certainly give you the song, and I doubt anyone else would join you, but are you sure? It seems to me it’s all risk and little gain.”
Lyonette laughed in the confused [Queen]’s face. She explained, kind.
“It’s for none of my gain, Your Majesty. It’s simply because I want to try. Wonder for wonder’s sake. I will never know if I can if I do not try. I will never succeed if I’m not willing to humiliate myself. Besides, the Great Knight Eclizza wishes to know who I am? I’m someone who wishes to dare it.”
She turned to Eclizza and then to Rhisveri.
“And I rather think the fine Duke might be a good partner—if he’s willing to risk his sterling reputation?”
He gazed down at her, then adjusted his suit huffily.
“Bah, that sounds like a challenge. And I never back away from those.”
The Queen of Ailendamus was from Gura and loved such things, so she clapped her hands and laughed, then gave the orders. This time, the [Musicians] actually went silent when they heard that one of the last songs of the night would be the devilish song. But they began playing with twice a will—not just for the mysterious Eyon.
If you’re gonna go down, go down blazing like a [Fireball]. Lyonette began limbering up discreetly as people gathered around. Rhisveri did the same, muttering.
“I’d better memorize this thing fully. Don’t look at me like that Eclizza. She wants to dance? I’m not the one who’ll fall flat on my face!”
It was Regalius who drew Lyonette aside, nervous.
“Miss Eyon, are you sure about this? Every eye is upon you, and with respect to your skills, this is a dance that I doubt you could do better on a second try.”
She smiled at him.
“I know that, but I have to try. At worst, I’ll twist my ankle, and my daughter will die of laughter.”
Which was a positive! Regalius’ lips twitched, and he gave her a wondering look.
“So you do have a daughter?”
She made no reply, and Yietha murmured.
“But you used your best Skill! At least, I think I recognized you using one, didn’t you?”
[Flawless Attempt] was indeed still on cooldown. Lyonette shook her head.
“I have one last one.”
“It had better be a good one. Everyone is watching—I rather fear they’re too interested in your success, Miss Eyon.”
Queen Oiena warned them as she swept over, and Lyonette felt a butterfly fluttering in her stomach as she realized everyone was watching. The ballroom was packed with people, and no one was in the center. They were all waiting…for her.
“Oh dear. I thought someone would dance or be busy?”
“For the woman fighting with Great Knight Eclizza? And I think some of those diplomats added to the fire. I shall have words with them—but the damage is done. Miss Eyon, you can bow out. There is embarrassing yourself to be daring and ridicule.”
The Queen was offering her one last chance, but the [Princess] just took a breath. She stretched out her ankles, then turned. She walked towards the center of the room; Rhisveri was already in the middle, arms folded. She gave the Wyrm this: even when he was being an idiot, he could do it unashamedly.
“I should have asked him to dress up as Rhissy. Either way, it would make the dance better.”
