Itorin teased Rhisveri as the Wyrm narrowed his eyes at the [King], but he couldn’t say anything in public. There was laughter, and Rhisveri jerked his head.
“We won’t sit here long. I have to talk to my associates. Eyon—er, where’s your bodyguard?”
“Rusha? I believe she’s—yes, there.”
Itorin and Oiena turned, and the King saw, to his surprise, a rather stiff figure in a massive suit of plate armor standing with other guards. Dead gods, that looks heavy. It was half again as bulky as even a Drell Knight’s armor.
“What a fearsome [Knight]. Where does she hail from, Miss Eyon? Are you a lady of the realm or…?”
She smiled.
“One must be mysterious, Your Majesty. Do forgive me, but I fear I cannot say at this moment. As for my [Knight], she is sworn to defend me with her life.”
“Ah, a mystery. Delightful. Rhisveri, you snake, you’ve been keeping Miss Eyon secret from us all.”
Itorin smiled, but rather like a viper himself. He didn’t buy any of this for a moment. His first instinct was that this ‘Eyon’ was a young woman that Rhisveri had found, a servant or someone he’d teleported into the palace, and that ‘knight’ was much the same.
Or perhaps they were both [Knights] of the Thirsting Veil? You’d never know if one of them took off a helmet. Itorin didn’t like Rhisveri, and with due respect to the Duke’s poor dinner date, he intended to expose that she didn’t belong.
The easiest way being, of course, to just eat. Rhisveri and Eyon were served a course of food; leaves of salad fresh-picked from half-Elven villages, fresh produce from around Ailendamus, and a soup made by a [Masterclass Chef].
Itorin was sure every eye was on the duo, and he watched as the young lady…instantly picked up the right salad fork and delicately took a bite of the dish.
Huh. In fact, she caught Rhisveri’s arm and indicated without words that he was using the wrong spoon. The Wyrm corrected himself, and Itorin spoke.
“Ah, I have utterly failed in my own duties. My wife, Queen Oiena of Ailendamus and proud daughter of Taimaguros. Gura, over Taima.”
He smiled faintly as Oiena flashed a proud smile and introduced herself. The rest of the royal family were at the table, like young Oesca and her brothers, Ivenius and Votrin. There was even a young woman who was the center of attention—
“Princess Ozena of Ailendamus.”
One of Terandria’s most eligible noblewomen—along with Duchess Greina and Princess Telleis—smiled at the young woman, who did seem fascinated to meet the famous [Princess]. Ozena leaned over the table.
“Your dress is stunning, Miss Eyon. If you’ll pardon me, I should love to borrow the look.”
So saying, the [Princess] threw back her head in a practiced move. Her hair rose and hovered in the air behind her head—then the royal red of her hair, closer to ruby, began to ripple with colors.
Exactly like Eyon’s dress. There was a gasp from a few, and the [Princess] smiled. Itorin himself merely hid a sigh behind a bite of soup.
Only one of his offspring was wed, and his oldest daughter, Ozena, certainly attracted suitors like flies. She was gifted in magic and still studied at Ailendamus’ academies, but she was so capable she was often part-teacher as well. Ozena was also gifted with the sword, and she’d become that rare class that inspired so many to admiration.
[Battle Princess]. She was already Level 35 at her age of 24, and it was why she was considered to be one of the golden three along with her peers, who were already Gold-rank adventurers. She didn’t even have red hair; she could change colors without even concentrating. A level of magic that until Archmage Eldavin had been considered incredible.
Ozena also had a rather powerful aura, which she wasn’t letting wash over Eyon, because that would have been purely offensive, but it was hard to even meet her eye when it was strong. But to his surprise, Miss Eyon didn’t react to the theft of her dress’ style or Ozena’s aura. Instead, she laughed and clapped her hands together in polite applause.
“Princess Ozena, that is an amazing display of magic! Do forgive me; you must hear it all the time from non-[Mages]. However, I daresay that Ailendamus’ magical academies do prove that Wistram is not the only peerless magical institution in the world. Pray tell, are you studying at…Heltifens, I believe? In the Mayesh region? It must have taken days to reach the capital for this gathering.”
Itorin blinked. So did Ozena; Eyon met her eyes just long enough, and her face was openly delighted and respectful.
What a fascinating reply. In one moment, she complimented Ailendamus, demonstrated her knowledge of Ailendamus, and he thought she paved the way for Ozena’s reply.
“Oh, it only took a few minutes. I teleported here. The latest thing, you know.”
“My word. Teleportation at such distances? I heard Wistram was offering the service, but is Ailendamus doing the same?”
Despite himself, the [King] chuckled, and he leaned over; their voices were magnified by a subtle spell from the head table, so he knew even his confidential voice would reach others—and be recorded by Wistram’s [Mages].
“We have no intention to sell the magic on the same level as the Academy of Mages, but it is certainly a handy tool. I would have imagined Duke Rhisveri would have kept you up to date on all the magical goings on in the kingdom, though, Miss Eyon? He is our finest spellcaster, bar none.”
She smiled at him in a way that gave nothing away.
“I am well familiar with Duke Rhisveri’s ability to appear where he wishes to be, Your Majesty. But he is a hard man to compare to other [Mages] of Ailendamus or what is accessible to commonfolk.”
“Very true.”
And she gave nothing away. Not one thing! He even pushed at her subtly with his aura, but felt like he hit a rock wall.
She’s got anti-aura training? Or one of her own? If she did, she was suppressing it so hard that he couldn’t tell.
Who was this? There was a murmur in the background of their conversation as Ailendamus’ own smiled in national pride about their magical acumen. Several [Mages] of Wistram glowered as they spoke over their goblets, and visitors eyed Ozena appreciatively.
Few saw that Eyon had led the conversation that way. Itorin raised his glass. Despite himself, he was getting more curious than amused. And he wasn’t the only one. Ozena, as well as the queen, had focused on Eyon—perhaps they’d noticed Itorin using his aura or just picked up on her diplomatic abilities.
Rhisveri was the one who seemed uncomfortable by the clear interest the royal family was showing in his date. He pushed his nearly untouched plate back.
“Fine soup. Eyon, come, let’s visit my friends and not keep my brother too long.”
His rather presumptuous tone and jerk of the head made Queen Oiena frown. Oesca, her daughter, protested.
“But I wanted to talk too, Uncle Rhisveri! Your dress is marvellous, Miss Eyon. May I touch it?”
“Of course.”
Eyon bent over and offered her sleeve for Oesca to ooh over. Rhisveri coughed.
“Why don’t we go, Eyon? I’m sure you don’t want t—”
He took her arm, impatient, and she kicked him. It was so fast that Itorin saw the expression of agony on Rhisveri’s face as he sat up in his chair—and didn’t even see Eyon twitch.
Oh my. Now, the entire royal family was fascinated as they waited for Rhisveri to explode. The Duke’s famous temper…turned into a sickly smile as Eyon eyed him. Whatever passed between her steady blue gaze and his purple one, he sat back.
“Er—or we could enjoy the soup. What’s in this, cabbage?”
He took another bite of it, and Eyon addressed Oesca.
“It’s an honor to speak to you, Your Highness. This banquet is marvellous.”
“It’s okay.”
The [Princess] responded in that frank way of children. She glanced around, then lowered her voice.
“But it’s for Dame Eclizza, and she hates people making a fuss over her. The light show is very appealing, and the Players of Celum are delightful. You should meet both, Miss Eyon.”
She delivered that with all of a [Princess]’ dull training, but then added with a spark of independence.
“I just wish the Wind Runner were here! Did you see her on the news?”
It was indecorous, but Oesca was nine. And everyone had seen Ryoka Griffin’s daring rescue of that Lizardgirl a while ago. Here, too, Eyon said the most interesting thing.
“Ah, Ryoka Griffin? She is a daring woman. Have you met her yourself, Princess Oesca?”
“I have! And she gave me flying lessons and showed me how fast she can run and how to backflip—even if I’m not allowed to, yet—and she let me see her Faeblade, but not touch it.”
And she broke Lord Sammial Veltras out of the palace, killed Magistrate Fithea—we think—and cut off Archmage Eldavin’s head after paralyzing Baron Regalius. Terrible acts, but Itorin knew more than most; he’d hushed the death of Magistrate Fithea up, and he was well aware that Duke Rhisveri had first kidnapped Ryoka. Whether or not she’d tried to steal something from him to begin with, the immortal cabal had been the ones who’d orchestrated this entire affair.
They were a necessary evil in Ailendamus, but the [King] couldn’t grieve too long over losing Fithea, despite the fact that she was a national war asset. He liked Ryoka as a fellow mortal caught in the game of the ageless. So on the whole, Itorin was minded to forgive her, especially because of the Eldavin part. Eyon nodded, impressed.
“My, that is impressive. Backflipping is terribly dangerous, though, Princess Oesca. I should be quite careful if I were you.”
“I can do it! If I was allowed.”
Oesca shot a dark glance at her mother, and her older sister laughed.
“I can do a backflip! I’ll teach you, Oesca!”
The girl brightened up, and Eyon murmured.
“That is the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I’m…glad she was kind to you. She likes children. And it seems you were never in danger. That’s not always been the case.”
Again, Itorin’s head turned from eying some of Taima and Guros’ people. They were such a headache—Oesca blinked.
“She’s rescued more children than just the Lizardgirl and Sammy?”
“Oh, yes. Several. You know about Hethon and Sammial Veltras when she outran the Assassin’s Guild? She’s saved a Gnoll girl too. The one that was at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“The white Gnoll? I mean, the Doombearer?”
“The very same. I think Ryoka taught her to backflip. And frontflip, sadly.”
“She did?”
Now, how did Eyon know that? Itorin knew it, but he kept up to date on…he snapped his fingers under the table.
Of course! I know who she is! He beckoned a servant over, and the flustered man bent down.
“Your Majesty, we cannot identify Miss Eyon. Nor how she entered Ailendamus. If the Duke vouches for her, we must trust his word, but no [Appraisal] spells are working…”
“Naturally. Drop the inquiry. I rather suspect she is part of the kingdom.”
Itorin sat back, smiling at Rhisveri, who eyed him. It was so obvious—
She was a [Spy]! Who else had the training, poise, and knowledge of this young woman? She was so refined—too refined. Rhisveri had gotten some poor [Infiltrator] to cover his tail. Itorin grew markedly less interested and sighed, acknowledging the Wyrm’s genius.
He turned his attention away from Eyon telling a fascinated Oesca about the white Gnoll and Ryoka Griffin’s exploits. She was very good with the young [Princess].
It was Ozena who decided to stir the pot. She didn’t return home often, so preoccupied with pursuing her mastery on multiple fronts. She’d been demanding to be an adventurer or join the army—both ideas that Itorin hated. Gifted didn’t mean invincible…and it was Uziel’s private analysis that Ozena wasn’t on the level of a real Gold-ranker yet.
‘Talented, well-bred, and gifted with too much. The first time she’s punched hard enough to break her jaw, she’ll waver, and that will be the end of her.’
The Agelum was frank in his analysis, and he was always right. Overconfidence had to be curtailed in Ozena or she had to be trained until she could survive those deadly mistakes. Itorin was actually thinking of bringing her in on the secret and letting her train in House Shoel…
However, Ozena enjoyed her fame. How could one not? She was young, extremely attractive among her peers, famous…and used to hero worship from her younger brothers and Oesca.
Seeing the girl talking up the Wind Runner made Ozena remark with a carrying voice—
“She’s still a known troublemaker who’s broken laws in Ailendamus, Oesca. And she can’t be that capable or she would have rescued the entire family, not just that Lizardgirl. Isn’t that the point of the ‘Windy Girl’ puppetshow? She’s a silly Courier.”
Oesca turned as the conversation died down at the table. The younger [Princess] protested.
“I like that show! It’s about making mistakes and doing better! Ryoka’s funny!”
“Doesn’t she fly by farting?”
Votrin remarked to Ivenius, and the young [Squire] in training nearly snorted soup out his nose. Oesca’s older siblings were markedly less impressed than Oesca by the Wind Runner, who they hadn’t met like she had. However, someone else rose to Ryoka’s defense.
“The Windy Girl and Rhissy is a beloved television show across Ailendamus. Which I invented. The Wind Runner collects enemies and children like Baron Regalius collects socks. She’s still a Courier, Princess Ozena. I would work more on your magic before challenging her to her face.”
Rhisveri sneered at Ozena. She flushed slightly, and Eyon spoke with a smile.
“She’s normally Izril’s Courier, Princess Oesca, but they do go everywhere! If I should meet her, I’ll remind the Wind Runner to visit Ailendamus so she may let you fly again. If you do the same for me.”
That was cleverly done. Oesca beamed and promised and offered her pinkie; they made a promise, and Itorin smiled. Right until he heard Ozena mutter to her brothers.
“Well, we’d better put some more [Knights] into Oesca’s bodyguard if she comes back. That Gnoll girl she saved had white fur, right? That means the Wind Runner got her entire tribe killed. She seems to bring bad luck with her. Unless it was the Doombearer who brought the bad luck.”
It was a petty comment, but no more out-of-hand than what Ozena had said so far. However, this time, Itorin sensed a flare of heat from his right. He glanced over, and now, he distinctly caught an aura suppressing itself.
A strong one. He eyed Eyon, now second-guessing his take on her class. [Spies] didn’t have auras like that. But Eyon fixed on Ozena as Oesca glared at her older sister. It was Rhisveri who laughed hugely.
“Look at the time! Eyon, I’d better introduce you to Eclizza and Regalius and—everyone. Let’s just, ah—”
