“Well, we have the palace. It’s eight or more palaces combined. And it’s for Eclizza. Don’t worry, don’t worry! Well, actually, worry since we’re sitting at the front table with Itorin. Technically, he’s my brother.”
Rhisveri wore a self-satisfied smirk as he saw the two Calanferians’ dismay until Lyonette fired back.
“Well, you will either sit alone or with someone dressed so poorly they’ll assume I was paid to be there! Or that you treat your partner like trash. So help me find a dress or you can put one of them in a dress!”
She pointed at another of the Thirsting Veil Knights, and they went running for a [Dressmaker]. Rhisveri licked his lips nervously.
“I’m sure I can get someone to do good work. I am the King’s brother. I have precedence!”
Yes, but he’d have to fight a desperate [Lady] for a good [Dressmaker], and that wasn’t a battle Lyonette was willing to back the Wyrm on. She still needed a base outfit worth…something! Lyonette wasn’t just worried about that.
“I haven’t been to a Terandrian ball since I was seventeen. All my graces are surely gone. Oh, dead gods, this is a mistake! If only I had some Calanferian outfits. Not that I had good taste back then, but at least they would be decent!”
Rhisveri frowned at her.
“What does Calanferian fashion look like? Sunbursts and dawn imagery? That’s rather tacky.”
She was wishing for a miracle and was even tempted to raid the royal outfits of plundered kingdoms on the off chance they could make one suitably unrecognizable. She snapped at Rhisveri.
“We follow social trends! They’re beautiful atmospheric colors, Rhisveri. Not just sunshine. We have each state of sky in our wardrobes! Twilight gowns, celestial-themed outfits…and the colors of the dawn. But I took none of that from home, just my Cloak of Balshadow.”
“Oh, a Cloak of Balshadow? Not bad, not bad. Hardly more than Gold-ranking gear, unless it was a 1st-generation?”
Predictably, he grew distracted with talk of artifacts, and she pointed a finger at him warningly.
“Find me a dress, Rhisveri! There has to be one in your collection!”
“I don’t actually hoard apparel. The net value of it is too unpredictable. Dragons just grab everything. I make fiscal decisions, you see. I had this huge supply of sulfur a year ago when there was a huge buyout for some reason—”
“Get me a damn dress, Rhisveri! Check your rooms! That door!”
She pointed, and Rhisveri’s head snaked around. The Duke began to go running, then slowed.
“…That’s not a door that should be there. Take cover.”
The way he said that made her whirl and reach for a sword. Then Lyonette blinked and cried out.
“Wait, that’s my—don’t attack, it’s mine!”
Rhisveri’s mouth snapped shut before the Wyrm could blast the gilt door encrusted with flaking golden paint. He eyed her, swallowed, and rasped.
“You what? What is it with your inn and doors?”
Lyonette murmured, confused.
“It’s the [Treasury of House Marquin]. But it’s useless. I just store gold in there. See?”
She took a few steps forwards and swung the door open. This was one of Lyonette’s Skills she had gained but never really used, like her dance or gambling Skills. She’d been excited, but it was little more than a more impressive Chest of Holding—utterly useless with Erin’s Skills.
It was like a walk-in closet with wooden shelves lining a thin space, a rack of items on one side of the wall—nothing more. It was even slightly dirty, and she suspected no one in House Marquin had gained the Skill in generations.
The [Treasury of House Marquin] held all that Lyonette owned. Her Cloak of Balshadow, her tiara, the highly dangerous Ring of Conflagration almost out of magic…Lyonette really needed to get that recharged by Hedault. Even if they hadn’t been placed there, her possessions of value showed up.
She’d used it as a dumping ground for all the gold the inn had generated, and the shelves were groaning with stacks of gold coins, then just piles of gold on the shelves and floor when she’d gotten so desperate she’d just begun emptying full bags into it. A rather embarrassing closet, in short, full of grand titles and not much of value.
Rather like House Marquin, she supposed. It had tickled Lyonette’s fancy that if she forgot about it, at least a new generation of her family might one day get a bit of gold out of the Skill. That was the sight she intended to show Rhisveri. But when the door swung open, Lyonette saw no dingy shelves and walk-in closet.
Instead, she found a [Knight] in armor raising a mace overhead, about to swing on her.
“Aaah!”
This time, Ushar was there, and she swung her shield up to parry the mace as she stabbed with a blade of her own. Her sword pierced the battered piece of armor through the chest, and the mannequin fell over. The armor crashed to the ground.
“Huh? That’s—”
The helmet rolled off, exposing a simple wooden doll you could put armor onto. Ushar yanked her sword tip out of the armor; her enchanted blade had cleaved the metal in two.
Lyonette blinked at the strange weapon Ushar held, with a blue hilt flared out with very ornamental wings; the blade was unnaturally bright on its own. Then she remembered—Ushar had armed herself with weapons from Albez. This was one of Warmage Thresk’s weapons and it was clearly exceptionally sharp.
Still, Ushar’s first target in this world was an innocent suit of armor. Red-cheeked, the [Knight] shoved the armor aside and turned to the [Princess].
“Your Highness, this isn’t your Skill. Or rather, it is, but…”
It wasn’t anything like the walk-in closet that Lyonette remembered. It was bigger, and the room beyond was smoother stone rather than cheap wood. More than that…Lyonette saw the shelves were covered in dust. But there were traces of—
“Magic? This place is disgusting. I can see why you don’t advertise it. Do you people not clean your Skill-based rooms? That’s shocking. I take a cleaning spell around my part of the palace every week. But it’s hardly useless. I mean, the armor is, but that seems valuable.”
Rhisveri poked his head into the wardrobe as Lyonette spluttered and coughed.
“This isn’t my Skill, Rhisveri! It’s—dead gods, it’s filthy. What’s going on? I thought that was a man in armor.”
Ushar poked at the armor and helmet, shaking her head.
“Nope, just some battered plate armor, Your Highness. Terribly used; I wouldn’t give this to a [Squire] in the Thronebearers, for all it’s very good steel.”
It did appear horribly worn and cut up. It was thicker than Lyonette thought armor was, but Rhisveri just shook his head.
“You Thronebearers. That’s a Dragonchallenger-type plate. Nearly half again as thick on the chestplate. Heavy as you can wear and fight in. They retired that kind of plate, and we decided it wasn’t worth the mobility issues to mass-produce when we were designing our [Knights], but it’s very respectable. The wearer must have been strong, though.”
“This is a waste of time.”
Lyonette muttered, knowing they needed to focus on the dress, but her instincts were singing this was important. This…Skill had appeared when she needed a dress.
Could it be? She had too much experience with Erin to dismiss this. But that thought made her tense.
“Ushar, I think my Skill is doing something Erin-related.”
“Ah. Are we in danger, Your Highness?”
“From my Skill? I doubt it.”
“Very good, Princess. I’ll prepare handkerchiefs.”
Rhisveri’s head turned from Lyonette to Ushar, then he clearly remembered the [Palace of Fates] and tensed himself. He whispered.
“[Greater Identification]. Hmm. Not a big room. Two side rooms; there’s not much hostile magic in here, either. Most of it appears degraded. Actually, there’s layers. I’m getting magic that’s quite old and newer stuff, but the ‘new’ is still centuries in decline. Magic bindings faded. Oh, look at that hole in the shelves over there. Destabilized enchantments must have gone off. Shoddy work.”
He pointed at a hole in the shelves. Lyonette frowned.
“How long does it take for an enchantment to do that?”
“Very bad bindings from amateurs? Months. But this kind of quality…well, I guess centuries from the dust accumulation. And the old magic is…not as old as me, but very old. Thousands of years.”
That snapped her head around. Lyonette traded a glance with Ushar.
“But my closet was nothing! It only had my…stuff. This?”
They stepped past the fallen mannequin and saw a central pillar where it had been standing. The room split around it before ending after two dozen paces; then two doors to the right and left formed a ‘T’ shape to this place.
Hardly more impressive. The shelves were mostly still wood, though it looked richer than Lyonette’s dingy shelves, and she saw several objects lying under the dust. Gloves, a sword here, even a bottle of something—all of it old and probably useless or out of magic.
What the—then she saw the sign on the far wall and halted.
“Oh my.”
‘The Treasury of House Marquin’ was spelled out in faded, golden letters on a signboard hanging from the wall. Nothing more, and it wasn’t the product of a Skill, just someone with a steady hand and some paint.
That wasn’t what made Lyonette halt abruptly and put some of the pieces together. No, it was what was scribbled below the signboard. A neat hand had written the first part, and then the rest had been signed like signatures, all flourishes in faded golden ink.
 
Owners: Marquin Queen Marquin the First or something.
Prince Camridel King Camridel IV of House Marquin
Princess Angele, 4th Princess of Calanfer. Zekol 2311.
Princess Thie, daughter of Princess Angele
Marquessa Yinvinie, by blood of House Marquin, the honor of a lifetime.
Prince Amlet
King Amlet. I took your crown, Queen Marquin. Your armor is still too heavy.
 
That was it. Seven names, and one repeated. So this Skill had passed through owners exactly six times since…
Queen Marquin the Radiant. The original. The—Lyonette stared at the signboard in awe.
“Oh my. But how…her own Skill?”
Ushar had sunk to one knee. The two were transfixed until Rhisveri coughed.
“Dusty. Let me just get some water and a cleaning spell. Can’t cast [Cleanse] until you know what’s about—hey, there’s a roach over here. Dead. Oh, and a logbook. Excellent, excellent.”
Completely unaffected by their awe, he was paging through an ancient tome sitting on a lectern under the signboard. Lyonette shouted.
“Don’t touch—!”
“[Reinforce Bindings]. [True Stasis]…and [Repair]. Hmm. That’ll do. It’s not so old I can’t make it better, but you’d better re-copy this. We have thirty-three minutes, incidentally.”
He didn’t touch the old logbook, but levitated it up, and color washed over the faded, grey bindings until she saw green leather, and the pages brightened. Only then did he toss it to her.
It occurred to Lyonette that the best people to bring into a room of old artifacts would be Wyrms or Dragons, who had an interest in keeping valuables intact. She nodded at him as he wandered around, doing the same to other objects.
Then, with trembling hands, she opened the logbook. The first thing she saw was the same handwriting, blunter than the regal handwriting she’d been raised to, but legible. A [General]’s hand writing in bold words.
 
This is a logbook of my Skill, such as it is. If you’re reading this, then I had children or someone took up the name. Funny to be given a glorified storeroom as a Skill, but it beats bags of holding. I intend to leave anything of value for Calanfer itself, but I’ll put what I can in here. And how this damn Skill works. They never come with instruction manuals.
 
Queen Marquin’s writing. Lyonette flipped a page as Ushar poked her head over her shoulder in awe before realizing she should be on lookout. Another page was an entry marked ‘16’.
 
Had a word with one of Samal’s [Key Princes]. Nearly had to twist his arm off before he told me this kind of thing is normal. But all of their stuff is far fancier. I finally figured out how it worked! I was putting some of the funds I had while travelling in here and complaining how cheap everything was. Before I knew it, all the shelves were fine wood! Mahogany, nothing fancy.
…Damn room cost me 500 gold to do the upgrade, though. Five hundred? I could have done that with a saw and tools in a day!
 
Entry 17. 
Okay, everything’s too damn expensive in here. I built another room where I’ll store more private gear, maybe even put a bed in if I need to sleep in secret, but it’s not worth the cost when I have a kingdom to build. If anyone who comes after wants to shell out the gold, be my guest. But from where I’m standing, it’s not worth having a fancy ‘treasury’ Skill when a few shelves are all you need.
How many Relics are we going to have, anyways? Plus, if I bite the dust, I don’t think my little baby boy gets the Skill guaranteed. Better put only a few things in here, but what do I know?
 
Lyonette flipped the pages. The handwriting visibly changed after several more entries, which grew more sporadic as Marquin lost interest in this, but each new owner had something to say.
 
Princess Angele’s Log Entry #1, Zekol 2311, Era of the Seventh Nagatine Empire, 62. Solla 14.
I do not know who may read of this, so I am recording the dates as best I may. My predecessor, King Camridel, felt no need, nor did Queen Marquin herself, but I feel as though it is a necessity given that one hundred twenty-nine! whole generations have passed since the reign of King Camridel and my own.
I first must explain that I am indeed a [Princess] and not, I think, likely to succeed the throne. I would take this Skill as a sign, but as Queen Marquin herself noted, it is no mark of legacy for the throne. 
Perhaps it is needed, but I fear this is no hour when I see myself leading an army to Rhir…or against the Nagatine Empire. Not now. Perhaps I do not deserve this Skill? I am but a [Princess], but I wish to assure those who come after…
 
Two more pages were devoted to her justifying her gaining the Skill. At this point, Lyonette knew she had to stop reading; time was passing. But she had two questions.
One, why was this Skill so changed? It was clear to her now that she had accessed it much like Marquin had, in an unformed state. Could she expand her own Skill? The second was…why had it appeared for her? Surely there was something here she needed.
The answers to both came quickly, as Lyonette saw there was, in fact, several little leaflets of gold sticking out of the book.
Bookmarks. How handy. Someone had selected passages of note, like Marquin’s words of wisdom. Lyonette went back to one of the first ones and read.
 
