There was a fine, justifiable, nay, sympathetic answer to why Duke Rhisveri had acted so rashly. The first reason was obviously that he had no time, and Lyonette would have objected, hence his somewhat indecorous behavior, and he knew that. But he had many redeeming reasons, and the [Princess] did owe him a teensy favor for the emotional distress caused, if anything.
Once she stopped hitting him, he was sure she’d understand.
Alright, so what had happened was…
 
——
 
Earlier this day.
 
“The what?”
Duke Rhisveri was half-napping from a tiring morning of using teleportation to follow Dame Eclizza around. House Shoel, the ‘guests’…it was this entire affair that he didn’t have to explain to anyone.
Certainly not the nobility he cared to associate himself with in Ailendamus. The Duke of Ailendamus was notoriously reclusive, and he preferred not to be bothered, but even he had friends.
Fellow nobles he associated with was a better word, so he didn’t come across as a total recluse. He needed to maintain his social standing in some way, so, annoying as it was, he cultivated a group of peers and played politics in his ‘brother’s’ court.
It was odious, but good practice, and he normally had patience for it…and Rhisveri had to own, sometimes the nobles came up with good ideas. He half-turned to Baron Regalius, a man who got on with almost everyone.
The Baron gave him an understanding look.
“Worn out with celebrations for Dame Eclizza’s return, Your Grace?”
“Who, me? No, just…well, perhaps.”
It was a good excuse, so Rhisveri harrumphed, but Regalius gave him a knowing smile.
“I’ve scarce seen you in better humor, Duke Rhisveri! A smile from you is as rare as a Hydra with one head! That was my wife’s comment.”
Laughter from the group of nobles, which included a retired [General] and a [Minister] who was one of Sophridel’s puppets. Rhisveri harrumphed again, but what might have been a deadly insult in other kingdoms was only gentle ribbing here.
A [Baron] should be able to joke with a [Duke], a [Baron] should be able to joke with a [Duke]…he bared his teeth at Regalius.
“Yes, I am slightly exhausted. Magical casting as well. You were saying?”
“Merely if we were to see your presence at tonight’s banquet, Your Grace. I was saying that we seldom do—but surely this warrants the occasion. The gala is in Dame Eclizza’s honor, and she will be there.”
“The…oh, that.”
Rhisveri snorted, but genteely. He never attended social gatherings unless he had some aim. There were limits to even the Wyrm’s patience for such affairs…but if it was in Eclizza’s honor…
“Oh, very well, yes! Of course I’ll be there.”
He huffily remarked, and Regalius beamed.
“Wonderful! Ah, on that note, do you have a partner for the event? I hate to ask, but the dance card is rather empty—we need to fill the space.”
Of course he was masterminding the affair. It was the man’s entire gift, and you had to admit he was good at it. Rhisveri waved a hand.
“No, no.”
Regalius bit his lip as the group answered in the affirmative or negative; many were married. He turned back to Rhisveri.
“I could put you down with a Knight of the Thirsting Veil. It’s thought to be rather fashionable, you see, for single men. Even a few [Ladies] have offered to do the same. In honor of the Great Knight.”
Dance and spend a night with one of the stuffy Thirsting Veil knights? Dead gods, that sounded like fun. Rhisveri rolled his eyes.
“Hardly my interest, Regalius.”
The old [General], Bathnir, chuckled as he patted his wife’s arm. She was as white-haired as he; they looked like living statues in their military uniforms, but they both still taught strategy in their academies modeled after the Forgotten Wing company’s.
“Oh, I don’t know, Duke Rhisveri! Some company might do you well! That ever-present scowl and your attention to work might soften if you took the time to relax!”
A chorus of agreements made Rhisveri scowl.
“I hardly lack for company. It’s just that I don’t care to attend most social gatherings, company or not.”
He expected that to be the end of it, but a long silence made him peer around sharply. They were sitting in a huge glass half-dome along one of the hallways in Ailendamus’ palace, enjoying a cup of coffee and conversation as they watched the sun setting.
Rather pleasant, and this entire atrium had been the former royal family’s—until they’d looted it and the entire palace. Rhisveri always liked this room for that reason, but the sudden atmosphere made him squirm.
“What?”
“Er, Duke Rhisveri, it’s just that we never see you in company. Without offense, you’re known as one of Ailendamus’ highest-level bachelors.”
Grand Magus Detrida murmured as she levitated her cup of coffee up and took a gulp. He tried not to sound snippy as he shrugged at her.
“I’m very private with my affairs.”
That earned a loud chuckle from Sophridel’s Minister of Entertainment guise! The damn traitor, the half-Elf who never showed emotion, covered his mouth, but the damage was done.
“Something amusing, Minister Sophridel?”
In his guise, Sophridel was more human-like, but he still sounded like a damn Golem. Unfortunately…his lips curved upwards in a smile.
“I apologize, Duke Rhisveri. It is just that the thought of you in a relationship with anyone caused me to nearly have a nervous fit of exhaustive laughter.”
More tittering. They tried to hide it, but Rhisveri sat up and woke up as he realized…they didn’t believe him.
“I’m serious. Come now, what must you think of me? I just don’t care to—Sophridel, I swear, I’ll throw this cup at you if you don’t quiet down!”
He raised it, and Regalius leapt in.
“Come, come, ladies, gentlemen. What the Duke does in his own time is his business. A solitary life is one for many. My own brother was much like that, rest his soul.”
They were all nodding, respectful now, and Regalius smiled at Duke Rhisveri.
“Not to worry, Your Grace, your company is more than treat enough!”
He wrote in the notepad—until Rhisveri held out a hand. He knew he shouldn’t, that was the funny thing. A little voice in his brain told him ‘this is a bad idea’, but it was pride. It was always pride with Wyrms.
“No need, Baron Regalius. I’ll have a partner. Tonight, you said? An hour or two’s time is all I—I’ll just let her know to be ready.”
“Such short notice, Duke Rhisveri?”
“Plenty of time, Grand Magus! And I’ll introduce her to you all!”
Only silence greeted his statement. Everyone was giving him a…a look he hadn’t experienced before. Rhisveri blustered as his heart sank.
“Come on, what do you think of me? That I’m some—some Colth of Ailendamus? Ha. Hahaha!”
No one laughed with him. Rhisveri’s voice grew hoarse.
“You’ll meet her this evening. Then you’ll see.”
Then Sophridel cleared his throat.
“Her being…? Normally, I would assume a name is forthcoming.”
Sophridel got a kick under the table for that one from Rhisveri and shut up.
He made a show of hanging out with the rest of the nobles until they announced they had to get ready. Only four hours to go—barely any time for some of the ladies and Regalius. And it would go long, into the dawn. Even then, though, Rhisveri just lounged on the couch, making small-talk, sipping coffee, assuring them airily he’d be ready.
Only when the last person had gone did he leap up and race towards his rooms. Of course, he wasn’t panicked. He did have someone in mind—he just couldn’t tell them or it’d ruin the surprise.
 
——
 
“Eclizza! Ready for the night’s banquet?”
Dame Eclizza appeared in Rhisveri’s chambers as the Wyrm had his Human body throw on some clothing. She halted, like any warrior with good instincts, and eyed the two Thirsting Veil Knights who were standing straight at attention.
Eclizza could be…intense. She was the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus and, Rhisveri knew, an admirer of his. Not that he’d ever made anything of it à la the Dragonlord of Flames, that famous Satyr amongst Dragons.
Or was that Khetieve of the Waves? Bah, it was one of them. Eclizza didn’t look at the naked Rhisveri dressing himself and walked forwards to speak to the true Wyrm.
“Not particularly. I suspect I’ll be celebrated too much for my tastes. As for my fellow sisters, they’ve celebrated a bit too hard of late. I’m no Dioname.”
She glanced pointedly at Dame Chorisa and the other [Knights] under his authority, the ones who knew his secret.
“Nonsense, it’s what you deserve. And I’ll be there to cut the boredom.”
“Oh, indeed? You never go to such events.”
She was smiling behind her helmet, he could tell. The Wyrm cleared his throat a few times.
“Yes, so…well, just let me know when you’d like to head over. It’ll be tiring, but I’ll introduce you to the breakfast group I talk with. We might have to dance—dreadful stuff—but I think I avoided Regalius’ list.”
Eclizza’s possible smile winked out, and she tilted her head back. Then glanced over to Rhisveri’s Human body with a deceptive slowness. Her younger [Knights] edged back—they recognized a serpent moving in that way before it struck.
Irony of ironies, the Wyrm did not. He was busy watching his other self dress. He was a lot more coordinated after the [Palace of Fates] thing. Sensation, coordination, all increased the more mana you put into it. Almost like a simulacrum, but he wasn’t that stupid.
“Yes, all in the Court of Masks including Sophridel, ha-ha. They were talking out of their rectums about how I didn’t have anyone to go with.”
“You don’t.”
“Nonsense! We’re, ah—uh—going together. It’ll be grand. Right?”
He glanced over, and Dame Eclizza stared at him. Then she folded her arms.
“Rhisveri, I’m not going to my own banquet with you so you can reassure your friends you have a date.”
“What? But Eclizza—”
Rhisveri’s hearts sank as he heard an obstinate note in her voice. He protested.
“But surely—you’ve asked before! And I, uh—”
Don’t you like me in some manner? Dioname would have agreed, but the Great Knight just took a slow and measured breath.
“Yes. That was before I came back from the dead. Things are different. Whatever we are to each other—mentor, friend, ally, and my liege lord—it is not something I will sully by this little way for you to save face. And I would hope that in any reality, at any time, I would refuse you to your face.”
Wh—what did that mean? Rhisveri snaked around the room, blocking her off as she marched towards the doors.
“Wait, wait, Eclizza! I clearly offended you somehow, but it will be splendid! Come now, don’t be hasty—”
“The answer is no, Rhisveri. Move.”
Her voice was ominously flat, and when he tried to nudge her with his forehead, she put a hand on it—then punched his head.
Rhisveri was a several hundred foot long Wyrm. His head was larger than Eclizza’s entire body by far. So it really wasn’t fair how much that damn punch smarted.
Stupid auras. She slipped past him, and when the Duke Rhisveri tried to chase after her on foot, she grabbed his arm and tossed him back the way he’d come.
Several servants saw that. Duke Rhisveri lay on his back and stared up at the Wyrm. The two had the same thought since they shared one brain.
Uh oh. What’s my Plan B?
 
——
 
It would have been Magistrate Fithea, though she would have teased him endlessly about it. But he, ah—
It wasn’t his fault; it was biology. It was hard when your instincts said you had one shot at a romance, then you died. Male Wyrms only had one encounter to sire generations before passing on.
Fithea was dead. Yet some version of her had survived, in some world. Still, that meant no date—so once Rhisveri got up and dusted his Human self off, he turned.
“Dame Chorisa. Are you or any of your, uh, number free for this evening?”
The Thirsting Veil Knight stood straight and stared ahead.
“I regret to say that we are on guard duty this night, Duke Rhisveri!”
“Oh come on, I’m the person you’re guarding. I release you from your duty.”
“Thank you, Your Grace! However, I believe Dame Eclizza would object!”
“I outrank her.”
A pause.
“…With respect, you do not, Your Grace! In the Thirsting Veil’s hierarchy or in this matter especially!”
Rhisveri’s tongue pinged off Chorisa’s armor, but she refused to move. After several seconds of glaring, Rhisveri’s head lowered, and he whispered.
“—Then is there another [Knight] who, uh, is free?”
She hesitated, and then he recalled that Regalius had offered for a [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil to accompany anyone who was single. Damn!
“Nevermind that. Then…”
Well, it was obvious what he had to do. Rhisveri made a call. In moments, a gateway opened, and the smell of brimstone and steel filled the air.
“You called, Rhisveri?”
“Paxere! Excellent! I was just in need of someone from House Shoel to accompany me to an event tonight. Nothing arduous, just quick wits and a bit of footwork.”
Rhisveri sounded casual as possible as the young Lucifen stood there, and he almost missed Paxere’s twitching lips until he glanced over.
“What?”
“Nothing, Duke Rhisveri. I believe Lord Oxret is free for the evening.”
“Ah—er—a female member of House Shoel is essential.”
“Oh my. I’m afraid we are all engaged at the banquet, Duke Rhisveri. We shall delight in seeing you there.”
“Fine, fine! Then how about the Agelum—”
“Also occupied. And attending.”
It was only then that Rhisveri smelled a rat. He turned, and his eyes narrowed at Paxere, who was definitely fighting a smile.
“I’ll just ask Paterghost or—”
Her twitching lips stopped him. He was no idiot. The Wyrm’s vertical pupils narrowed too.
“Sophridel. That wretched, half-baked Mask Elemental—!”
He’d told House Shoel! And those damn—Devils—they were enjoying this at his expense! This was like the children broadcast all over again! Paxere bowed gracefully.
“We are so terribly sorry to fail to accommodate you, Duke Rhisveri. But I’m sure a Wyrm of your resource—”
He teleported her out of his chambers and a mile up. That made him feel better. Then the Wyrm of Ailendamus…definitely didn’t panic.
Because he was a Duke of Ailendamus! A famous, powerful man! One of Ailendamus’ most eligible bachelors, right?
Wait, they hadn’t said most eligible, just highest-level. And he’d intimated he had a long-standing partner. So he couldn’t just go out and find someone.
Still, not to worry. These kinds of problems…they just required more expenditure of resources. Now, true, it would take a lot of mana to teleport to Baleros and back, but Ryoka Griffin could dance. You had to be a good dancer if you went around barefoot and you were a Courier, right?
