“Oh, her. I shouldn’t say her true identity. It’s one of Rhisveri’s foibles. Again. What will we do if he leads Ailendamus into more madness?”
The elders were far more upset than she, but Paterghost merely paused, again, and Nube burbled in an approximation of her voice.
“Sad.”
The helmet nodded.
“Yes, Nube, sad. We allow it because what choice do we have, Paxere? Just as House Shoel’s heart should not break, our leader is weak in his own ways. So. Who is that?”
She bent her head, and Paxere murmured the answer, veiled by privacy spells. Paterghost’s head rose.
“Ah. Well.”
She took a longer sip from her drink.
“…That may not be the wisest course after all.”
Her head turned towards the young woman talking and even smiling from where she and a group of nobles were touring the ball. After a moment, Paterghost remarked softly.
“She seems to be enjoying herself.”
“Yes. Isn’t it odd?”
Another moment of silence as Paxere realized her read was not the same as the older immortal’s. Paterghost simply shook her head.
“Nobility to some extent, but royalty especially is lonely. They speak and act a world unto their own. Regardless of where it is, a fish loves to breathe water. Excuse me.”
She advanced towards the young woman in her straight-backed stride as Paxere raised her brows. But then, like many others, she focused on ‘Eyon’, or rather, Lyonette du Marquin, 6th Princess of Calanfer.
She was indeed smiling.
 
——
 
Lyonette kept catching herself and wondering what she was doing. Enjoying herself. But she couldn’t help it.
There was fresh food from home on offer everywhere, fashions and gossip from across Terandria, familiar accents and people who didn’t gawk at you for asking odd questions, and it was just—
Relaxed. For all she was in an enemy kingdom, this wasn’t a life-or-death struggle, so she tried to remember these were her foes, but in truth, she was melting. Melting away as stress left her, because even hiding her identity in Ailendamus was about a thousand levels less stressful than watching a Goblin King charging at her through a dissolving [Palace of Fates].
Of course, her audience, some of whom knew who she was, found her relaxed demeanor incredibly shocking. They would have put it down to brainlessness or complacency but for the fact that Lyonette was asking sharp questions.
“So Ailendamus is not sending a colonial effort to the New Lands, Baron Regalius? Pardon me if I laugh, but surely we may be honest? Whatever the diplomatic line is…even though Ailendamus was barred from the alliance at Calanfer, I am sure an effort was made.”
He tried not to smile too obviously as he took a sip from his cup.
“Ah, but I am the very voice of our diplomatic line, Miss Eyon. Besides, no ships of Ailendamus have gone anywhere near the New Lands. How would you otherwise claim we were planning on a colonization attempt?”
She rolled her eyes.
“Baron, if I were a gambling woman, I would check ship hulls to see if some are in fact rechristened vessels of Ailendamus. But I’m not. I do happen to keep an eye on trade, and it didn’t escape my notice that a rather large amount of gold was spent by [Merchants] in Izrilian harbors. You’re simply going overland from Zeres, from the northern ports, and so on. Also, do half-Elves not count? Because I’m sure Ailendamus’ half-Elves are part of the colony there, but I suppose that’s ‘unaffiliated’?”
Lyonette remembered that from when the inn had been buying and selling goods to hide all the gold it was laundering. More than one Ailendamus-based [Merchant] had bought up food like Prelons in bulk; rather odd for a nation that didn’t often want such goods.
Yietha murmured and offered a tray of sushi around.
“Oh my, well done. The dratted food shortages meant we had to sell as much food as we bought, though. We have enough silos of grain that we could outfit our expeditions amply, but we did buy up food. Drathian cuisine is on display here because we’re shorter on our own [Cooks]’ efforts. Kitchens running day and night to prepare for the trip, you know. I shudder to think of that food being wasted by Chests of Holding turning off.”
Lyonette selected a piece of eel on rice with some chopsticks.
“Drathian cooking! This is cosmopolitan. If they’re wise, I hope Ailendamus’ expeditioners not caught by the magic-drain simply leave their Chests of Holding at the border of the New Lands. Establish an outpost and keep the food there and let groups enter and exit. A relay system, but that’s simply off the top of my head.”
“Ah, you say that, miss, but have you been spying on our war rooms? You’ve distilled the basic plan our [Strategists] came up with after three days and nights of arguing!”
General Bathnir teased Lyonette, and a chuckle went around the room. At this point, Kilkran broke in with a too-hearty laugh.
“Spies? No one here’s a spy, General Bathnir. No indeed—er—though we [Actors] are good at changing our identities. So if there was a spy, it would be us. Not that we are spying, that is!”
He was a bit too drunk and laughed far too hard at his attempt at a joke. Lyonette didn’t even let her face change as Wesle covertly elbowed Kilkran. Actor he might be, but the stage clearly didn’t work the same as real life—for some. Wesle was a perfect image of a resigned coworker trying to keep a drunkard from running his mouth. He turned to Bathnir, apologetically indicating Kilkran with a head-nod, then smiled.
“I was merely a [Guardsman], but I have some notion of northern Izrilian politics, Lord Bathnir. Spies are a valid concern in the New Lands, as are [Assassins]. I hope Ailendamus has taken countermeasures?”
“I thought the Assassin’s Guild was dead.”
Someone commented, and Wesle exhaled.
“Dead? No. Hurt, most definitely, but that’s, again, north Izril. The Drakes have their own version of an Assassin’s Guild, or so I’m led to believe. We had one of them enter Celum once; a bloody murder that was never solved.”
“Oh my. One would think Drakes were ill-suited to the class. My image of them is haughty, loud-mouthed, greedy—and entirely stubborn.”
Lyonette and Wesle exchanged a look before trying to assure one of the noblewomen that this was a broad generalization that didn’t do justice to an entire species. Then Regalius broke in as Telim appeared, twinkle in his eye.
“My, you seem so well informed about Drakes, Miss Eyon.”
“As much as other species, Lord Regalius. I confess, I had hoped to meet some half-Elves from your amazing forests as well. Is it true they’re forming traditional half-Elven villages? I can’t imagine how you handled the scandal amongst the other communities.”
The [Baron of Ceremonies] burst out laughing and tipped his glass to her again.
“What a fine riposte! And such an insightful question.”
Half the listeners were just confused.
“Why would traditional half-Elven villages be controversial within the species, Baron Regalius? Aside from the ah, issue of their presence which I personally don’t find meritful—I had no notion other half-Elves resented the practice.”
He turned to Lyonette, and she explained with an easy smile.
“Influence. And, I daresay, jealousy. Traditional half-Elven villages, the truly timeless ones, are often an inconvenience on other communities. They’re far too insular and require safeguarding to maintain their states. Forming a number of them in Ailendamus would give the half-Elves here so much prestige and influence it might pull more of their people into the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. So, one hears, you would get the worst of infighting amongst half-Elves.”
“Tossing roaches in the fields to ruin the lifestyle?”
“That—and half-Elves visiting and claiming the village isn’t ‘predictable’ enough. Which means you have to have more visitors, and before you know it—”
“Actually, our half-Elves benefited from the late Magistrate Fithea’s influence. There was some unpleasantness, but they began growing glass trees. It’s been sixty years of trading different kinds of bonsai between several notable half-Elven villages. A ‘new’ project that has dozens of them doing it, so I gather.”
Lyonette broke off her explanation and turned to Regalius, purely amazed. What? She hadn’t heard of that.
“Glass trees?”
Then they were calling to show her some plantlife unlike any she’d ever known. And she just enjoyed it. Being among witty, informed people…Lyonette felt someone tap her shoulder and turned.
“Miss Eyon, a message for you.”
It was Ushar! Lyonette had to break away from the gathering for a moment; she saw the Thronebearer activate privacy spells and angle herself to block lipreaders. In doing so, she stepped away from a rather tall [Knight] who seemed intent on her.
Lyonette whispered.
“Who’s your friend, Rusha?”
“A former Great Knight of Ailendamus, Miss Eyon. A Lady Paterghost who’s rather taken with my armor.”
The tension in Ushar’s voice was minimal; Lyonette could just tell how much strain the Thronebearer was under. Lyonette felt guilty before Ushar murmured.
“—She recognizes its value. That means something.”
“Yes, I imagine so.”
The two traded a look before Ushar proffered something to Lyonette. A [Message] scroll.
“I established contact back home.”
“Oh!”
Lyonette tried to act casual as she opened the scroll. Ushar handed her a quill, and she saw a name.
 
Mrsha: Hey, Mother. You’re on television, you know.
 
Lyonette almost dropped the scroll, then wrote back hurriedly.
 
Lyonette: Oh no. Do they know?
Mrsha: Nah. It was really hard to find the channel. It’s a Terandrian-only broadcast, and you only appear in a few seconds in big shots of the ball. It’s very pretty. I like the super-chandelier with the multiple light spells rotating around. It’s like the solar system! The showcase is boring. It’s all about Wistram’s magic. And Emme was on television!
Lyonette: The Players are here. Ushar told you I’m fine…?
Mrsha: Yep. We got it since Duke Smellyface left a letter. Ilvriss was the one who was all upset. He wanted to go rescue you. Heh.
Lyonette: Oh dear. Did someone explain properly? Dalimont? Is he—
Mrsha: We dealt with it.
Lyonette: You’re sure you did, sweetie? Ushar could get me a speaking stone if—
Mrsha: I didn’t do a thing. I got Nerul to talk to Ilvriss after Dalimont talked to him. Problem solved.
Lyonette: That’s a deft solution!
Mrsha: I know.
Lyonette: I’ll be back within the hour. Tell Ilvriss that, please, and rest assured, I’m quite safe. No one’s even caught on to my identity. I think they believe I’m a Drake.
Mrsha: Don’t come back—
Lyonette: Excuse me?
Mrsha: —right away. You look like you’re having fun, Mother. We’ll be fine. Go have fun. Now, if you’ll excuse me, we’re playing cards, and I have six trump cards in my hand. Have fun!
 
Then she stopped writing, and Lyonette stood there, surprised. She blinked down at the [Message] scroll and realized that Mrsha wasn’t saying anything that was wrong, it was just—backwards.
She was the one being told not to worry and have fun. And Mrsha was gambling?
Again, all things considered, what a fine thing to teach a girl. Lyonette just felt a pang that Mrsha was thinking of her. She turned, almost wanting to go back just because Mrsha had said that, when she saw Ushar trying to fend off Paterghost outside the privacy bubble. Lyonette exited the spell and heard the energetic old woman talking.
At least, she thought it was a woman—the [Knight] walked around with visor closed, like some of the Thirsting Veil did, though her armor was a grey metal elegantly patterned with blue and red. Quite beautiful; more suited to decorative armor than anything else. Her voice was purely old woman, though, haughty and refined and from Taimaguros if Lyonette was a judge.
“—splendid armor, young woman. Dragonchallenger Mk. VII if I am a judge, one of the rarest runs of armor of that pattern to be found in Terandria today! You may note, here, how the forging ran too cold and had to be flame-spell welded? A flaw of the forges back then.”
She was trying to show Ushar a part of the breastplate on the inner section, and Ushar was clearly loath to let anyone touch Queen Marquin’s armor or have anyone find out exactly whose it was.
“An honor, Great Knight Paterghost. Truly, but I was merely given this armor, and I cannot remove it—”
She tried to pull away, but Paterghost seized one arm—gently, Lyonette thought. But Ushar couldn’t tug away, which suggested how strong the old Great Knight was. Yet Paterghost’s voice wasn’t nattering. It was, if anything, somewhat desperate.
“One understands, one understands. Armor is made for a purpose. To guard and defend. What higher honor can there be? Yet, young woman…this armor is old. Older than…older than I can name and still be functional. Here. Here…was a recent slice. Closed by a [Repair] spell from a scroll, perchance? Even today?”
She traced a line on the armor that appeared normal, but it was right where Ushar had stabbed Marquin’s armor by accident. Lyonette raised her brows but let Ushar answer.
“I, ah, yes. How perceptive, Great Knight. Merely a field repair—”
“Please, do no more of the kind. The armor will be destroyed in six more castings of the like. It is too old, Dame Knight. Too old. I think, if it must be used to defend life and limb…if it must…let it. But the magic can no longer repair it. And I think no artisan of steel under Level 50 would have a chance either.”
There was such a pained note in Paterghost’s voice as she gently touched the armor. Ushar hesitated, and her eyes swung to Lyonette.
“No [Repair] spells? But why, Dame Paterghost?”
A long sigh exited Paterghost’s helmet.
“The metal is too old. Simply that, Dame Rusha. You have heard of flesh that refuses to be healed after it is scarred or healed too many times? The same with metal. This armor is beautiful. Ancient. It was made by no master; it was mass-produced in fires that were too cold to forge it beautifully.”
It’s Marquin’s armor! Don’t talk of it like that! Lyonette wanted to object, but Paterghost’s helm swung towards her, and her voice grew soft.
