He’d never seen the Hill Knight abandon any fight. But wait…now that Yoriven thought of it, wasn’t Dame Eclizza the foremost Great Knight of Ailendamus? It was a small, small group so named, but she led them when they marshaled for a battle together. And she tested new applicants for worthiness. There had been some ‘Mirror Knight’ on the western border, but he’d died—and presumably been found unworthy.
Now that Yoriven really thought about it, Merila had once said that almost every fight of her life that had been the hardest had been against fellow [Knights]. Including…when she’d become a Great Knight…
He stared at the blank visor of the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus, and his heart quailed in the face of her overwhelming presence, though she was shorter than he was. But he had said his piece, and he was a [Knight]. So he held his ground.
“Dame Eclizza, this is surely not a night to come to blows.”
She studied him up and down.
“Your name again, Hydra Knight?”
“S-Ser Yoriven, Great Knight.”
Eclizza nodded once as Chorisa and Lacres stood there, Chorisa’s face pale with fear.
“Said well, Ser Yoriven. If you should live to Level 40, I will recommend you to train in House Shoel. Tonight is, indeed, no night for violence.”
He exhaled in relief and smiled, half-turning to search for some wine so they could drink to that. Then he saw Forcel’s eyes widen warningly and felt a chill run down his spine.
Eclizza was standing in front of him. But he’d turned—when had she moved? And she had a hand on his chestplate.
“However, I know the dance of blades in social settings as well as war. The good Duke is served by Great Knights and Great Generals and his peers. I merely wish to test Miss ‘Eyon’ by the same standards I hold to my peers. Excuse me.”
Then she shoved him. Or rather, her hand moved down and pushed up, and he swore it was a light shove. Amazing, Yoriven thought. Quite amazing—he wondered if Ser Makren could do that. Probably not; he saw the man gaping up at him in horror as the ground got further and further away from him.
Man wasn’t meant to fly. Certainly not in plate armor. Still, he gamely flapped his arms a few times as the palace drew closer and wondered how much this was going to hurt. Maybe he’d hit a window if he was l—
“Gotcha!”
Dame Merila grabbed Yoriven out of the sky and almost slammed into the wall of a tower. She caught it to steady herself, and Yoriven’s helmet nearly collided with a [Servant] frozen in an open window. Yoriven panted at the half-Elf.
“Good evening, miss. Sorry about the inconvenience—”
Then Merila was lowering him. Yoriven’s feet touched the ground, and he sat down hard. Merila was panting for breath.
“Ser Yoriven, you are a man after my own heart for bravery and a lack of sense!”
She gasped at him, and he remembered to breathe. In, out, in, out…he was amazed more people weren’t running over; only a few [Knights], including Forcel and Ser Makren. The rest were all following Dame Eclizza. Yoriven got up shakily as Merila offered him a finger.
“Okay, my attempt seemed to be lacking. Dame Merila, I nominate you for the next try. What’s she doing to that poor woman inside?”
Merila peered over everyone’s heads as they stared into the ballroom. Then she poked Forcel and touched her nose with a finger.
“Not it. You stop them.”
Forcel peered at her with betrayal in his eyes, then copied the gesture and touched Ser Makren. Instantly, the Knight of the Thousand Lances poked Dame Chorisa, who tried to grab Dame Lacres—then the [Knights] were arguing who was going to stop Dame Eclizza. All the Order of the Thirsting Veil instantly jumped back. Chorisa, in her desperation, tagged the lone figure not moving.
“You stop her!”
Lady Paterghost turned with a straw sticking out of a winecup. The former Great Knight of Ailendamus cast around as everyone turned to her in relief and consternation. Her reply was loud, brisk, and cheerful.
“Good heavens, no. I can’t wait to see what happens next.”
Then they all peered into the ballroom. Ser Yoriven told himself that he’d done all he could, and Eclizza had promised there wouldn’t be violence.
Fifteen minutes later, the aura clash blew out the windows.
 
——
 
Dame Eclizza halted in the glass doors that led into the ballroom from the outside gardens. Behind her, the shadows twined like snakes along the feet of armored [Knights], stretching out for hundreds of feet as the grand palace blazed in excess of size and grandeur to anything you could imagine. Ailendamus’ palace looked like your imagination’s greatest conjuring, not something lesser or smaller as so many palaces were, mere edifices of stone.
From the inside, you saw its many influences and could wander the labyrinthine areas as they twined together. From the outside?
From the outside, you saw what was more unto a fortress of improbable size that had led Drakes to calling it a Walled City—an admission that told you how impressive Ailendamus’ palace was.
It was just—too wide. Your eyes roamed from right to left, and then you craned your head, then realized this was three-dimensional space. It had too many towers and spires, for each palace it had been made of had been central and important, so it seemed like a city of buildings, each tip polished and glittering in the night.
Excess and conquest. Like some terrible being that had absorbed every defeated foe into it. Bloated, some said—but the vista was more overwhelming than corpulent.
Behold, my kingdom that shall last ten thousand years. How was it said? ‘Look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair.’ This was that palace before the sands claimed it, and it took many’s breath away.
It was a child’s dream, this kingdom. Filled with majestic heroes, lofty dreams of noble government, magic, and beauty. Her kingdom. It was so…young. She knew what they said of it, the other nations. So many feared Ailendamus’ growing empire, but they said it could not, would not last. It would vanish within a thousand years, unable to keep the rapid growth and strength of its kingdom compared to the ones founded by the Hundred Heroes. Perhaps that was true; they had few of the same Relics or protections of old. But they had people in this kingdom who were the Hundred Heroes’ equals.
Immortals. That was the secret bet Ailendamus had made. Whether the struggle and strife of those who lived forever could match Terandria’s greatest classes and the weight of antiquity.
This duality, of being a superpower and recognizing how precarious their situation might be against an alliance of foreign nations, of the immortal secret, meant Eclizza was both proud and paranoid. Confident and insecure by turns.
The same for everyone else. For instance, Ailendamus’ culture was hodgepodge, made of the best things they took from other nations and, at the same time, deeply uncertain. It didn’t have ancient traditions of its own, just those of conquered kingdoms absorbed into the zeitgeist. So what did they play as the hours lilted down into darkness?
Terandrian ballroom music. But not ‘traditional’ Terandrian ballroom music, which had a gentle melody, slow cadence, the kind of thing even a child or the elderly could dance to without embarrassing themselves. No, they had to show off, so they were playing Alamarian five-step.
It was about twice as fast as traditional Terandrian music and more complex—the shifts from high notes to low indicated sweeping moves like lifting a partner up and whirling them about, or floor-spanning steps that could take a dance pair a hundred feet in less than ten seconds. Alamaria had been known for this kind of music; they’d designed it in response to other species’ mockery of ‘slow and boring’ Terandrian waltzes.
Predictably, few people were on the dance floor even attempting the slower songs. The few that were were trained [Dancers] or the best amateurs. It was showy, and people were applauding the sideshow as they milled around the dance floor, talking and drinking this late into the night.
Eclizza’s head moved across nobles and her sisters in the order, officials and commonfolk alike, and to her, they all seemed so…fragile. Untrustworthy in the sense that she could give them none of her burdens.
Not the knowledge of Ailendamus nor trust them to ward her back in battle. The truth of Rhisveri’s nature would break them. They were not her level. They could not stand against dead gods or armies. She had no doubt they were brave, honest, talented individuals, but she herself felt…insufficient.
It was why she had been in such a foul mood despite coming back to life. Eclizza flexed one hand in her gauntlets and gazed at the black, enchanted metal moving. Armor worthy of a Named-rank adventurer, enchanted by Fithea herself. Close to Relic-class gear as anyone in this world had—and the body underneath was just as well-forged.
She was a work of art. Hand-forged by Agelum’s training and tutelage by Ailendamus’ experts. The Wyrm had made her, picked her from the Agelum’s many adopted children and offered her training. All that she could take. So many children backed out of that fire, the other half of the Agelum’s kindness, and they had found fine roles for their offspring, because they were too merciful to push until the breaking. You had to have the will to endure it on your own.
Eclizza alone had survived that crucible to the end. For that, she had been trusted. Had been given the knowledge of Ailendamus and Rhisveri’s confidence. She knew she was one of the few beings he relied upon among mortals.
And she had died. The knowledge burned the Great Knight of Ailendamus. All her training, all her levels—and it had been ended by a single finger pointing at her, the Death of Magic’s careless spell.
Annihilated—and Fithea and Dioname had followed soon after. If she had been alive, perhaps they might not have died. It was no idle boast; Eclizza would have been able to watch Ryoka Griffin as well as counter the Lightherald and assist in the war against Archmage Eldavin. She had been made to fight men such as Tyrion Veltras.
“—But I was always inferior.”
The Eclizza who had died and the memories of the one who had lived were now one woman—and what she realized was that both her worlds had been so fragile. One had begun to crack with her death. The other?
The Wyrm diving at the Goddess of Last Stands to buy a second as the worlds vanished like dying sparks, sucked into the void. A breaking hallway and an army of Crelers without end.
Eclizza could still taste the thoughts of Crelers screaming their fury at her, like caustic bile in her mind. Her helmet swivelled around the ballroom as people chuckled and gossiped.
And Rhisveri wondered why she was not enjoying this party in her honor. Eclizza’s wandering eyes finally found her quarry. It was not hard, despite the vast room.
She recognized Princess Lyonette du Marquin the moment she saw her, black hair or not. More than just the fact that they had both been in the [Palace of Fates], which was a big clue…
The crafted [Knight] recognized another child shaped to her purpose. Differently made, but nevertheless, her posture was too-perfect. She stood with such poise, listening, head tilted ever-so-slightly, chin raised, a smile upon her lips that even touched her eyes—all fake. Even if the woman inside were truly that interested, the act was beautiful.
Like a sculptor who had obsessed over every line of a statue, Eclizza saw the training that had produced the [Princess]. Just as she saw the cracks.
Someone had made a beautiful [Princess] out of clay, shaping her to be a wonderful tool. But there was a flaw: a fire was burning inside the clay doll, and it was beginning to blaze out through her shell. Her very aura could not be contained; she wore the shell she’d been taught, but Eclizza almost felt like shading her eyes.
Only King Itorin was higher level. And his was the product of decades of ruling. She had hit this level…when? How fast had she levelled, how much had she endured to grow this fast? Eclizza recognized it. She almost hesitated when she saw Rhisveri standing with Lyonette, making conversation and seeming genuinely interested.
Is he actually enjoying talking with this [Princess]? How can he? He has no friends. 
She knew the Wyrm of Ailendamus. Both Eclizzas did, and he let no one into his confidence. But with her…
Eclizza walked towards Lyonette automatically, without thinking. She knew that the other [Knights] were trying to stop her, including Chorisa and the other idiots, but she was the Pale Serpent.
Made for war. The Agelum of House Shoel had taught her via their oldest ways to be a living weapon, and they had made any number of women and men like her. Children they trained to their arts of battle until they could kill almost as well as Agelum themselves. Not unkindly; the Agelum were nothing but kind, but they knew the battlefield would mince even [Heroes]. So the training…
A room filled with bright light, lit from glass ceilings and illuminated with magic. But the blindfold never let you see more than dazzling lights, worse than blindness because it played upon the eyes. There you stood, stick in hand, fending off blows from every direction until you could fight blind, eat blind, and walk an obstacle course without missing a step. Until your aura became your eyes.
Betimes, the memories overtook her, and she had to remember the rest of what she was: a symbol of Ailendamus. Someone who had memorized ranks and studied politics. The warrior was the deepest part of her. She saw the [Princess]’ aura, a glowing, yet-unfinished work.
Light and command. Basics of Calanfer. Nothing stronger yet. But Eclizza could still see elements even another expert might miss; the way it linked Lyonette to that [Knight] in the old, bulky armor. Her bodyguard. Level…30. The armor was thick, but there was a scar on the chestplate.
Draw your sword, pierce the armor with aura in that spot, and the envenomed blade kills her in six seconds. Simple.
As for the [Princess]…she glanced up as Eclizza drew closer, and Rhisveri noticed her and froze. Was that worry in his eyes? Eclizza recognized Baron Regalius and a number of nobles who turned and saluted her.
“Dame Eclizza! The [Knight] of the hour! Will you join us, Dame Knight?”
Regalius called out, and Eclizza ignored him. She swept towards Lyonette, who hesitated, then smiled, eyes flicking up and down Eclizza’s armor. She was wary, on-guard. Her black hair swished behind her in a ponytail as she bowed.
Throatstrike. Won’t kill her if she has a tiara. Grab the neck and twist. Then envenom your fingers and pull her heart out.
