“Well, I’m no good at monarchs and stuff. I just make them upset. Or stab them, I guess. I’m just surprised anyone is giving you a hard time, Lyonette.”
“Why? They don’t know I’m a [Princess]. Pettiness is practically baked into such events.”
Lyonette was amused, wondering what Erin thought of such occasions, but the [Innkeeper] coughed into her hand again and gave Lyonette a mildly befuddled look.
“I know that. But I meant because it’s you. You’re the 6th Princess of Calanfer, Lyonette. You know how to talk to those people. And you’re—Lyonette. Are you taking it easy on them? If you really wanted to, you could knock their socks off, I bet.”
The [Princess] waved a hand, turning her head and smiling, pleased but embarrassed.
“You give me too much credit, Erin. I’m not like the [King] of Ailendamus or…”
Erin stood.
“No. I know that. But you could. Even if you couldn’t win an aura clash…you could do something amazing. I dunno, you don’t have to. It’s just that if this is a fun party for you, why don’t you do what you want to? It’s got to be better than sitting around and getting sniped at.”
Her words made Lyonette turn back to her. The [Innkeeper]’s voice was soft, and she was glancing back to the tent and campfire. She had to go back to the real world, and so did Lyonette, but the way Erin said it so plainly made Lyonette turn back to the exit. The image of Erin’s camp flickered and became the ballroom, and Lyonette saw it with fresher eyes. Pleasant and fun, but had she gotten all she wanted out of it?
I have just been trying to fit in. Why? To hide myself? Enjoy myself, Mrsha said. I could…
She gazed back at the still image of Dame Eclizza, and then her eyes lingered on the ballroom. On the dancers. She smiled as she gazed back at Erin.
“That’s good advice, Erin. I think I could do that. I may…have something to do.”
Erin grinned with simple pleasure. She nodded and indicated the campfire.
“I’ll—ahem—get back to my own party, then. I won’t call tomorrow or every day. But it was good to catch up—instead of—khak—sorry. I—”
She began coughing. Lyonette waited for her to finish, but Erin thumped her chest. Then she began coughing harder, a deeper cough that worsened until she doubled over. Deeper and deeper until it seemed like there was no way Erin should have that much volume of air in her lungs.
“Erin? Are you okay? Erin?”
Lyonette hurried over, and Erin tried to lift her head.
“Dry throat, I think. I’ve been a bit sick all—”
She coughed again, and this time, the explosive rattling in her chest made Lyonette reach for her reflexively. Erin coughed once more, and then her chest split.
For a moment, just a moment, Lyonette swore she saw Erin split in half. The tiniest gap, too small to even be called a cut opened—and then Erin was on her hands and knees. The coughing receded, but a thin scar seemed to travel from her forehead down.
“Erin!”
“I’m fine. I’m fine…”
It took the [Innkeeper] a moment to actually say the words. She was gasping for air, and suddenly—they were back in the gazebo, and Erin was glancing around.
“Door. I’ve got to go. In case it—I’m okay, Lyonette. Can you help me…?”
“Yes!”
Lyonette picked up Erin and began hauling her towards the door. The [Innkeeper] found her feet after a few steps, but she was weak. Her head was lowered, and Lyonette studied her.
“What is it? Sickness?”
“No. Just…a little crack in my soul. It’s fine. It’s a wound from the battle at sea. Ailendamus might actually—no. I’ll be fine, Lyonette. It’s one of the things I’m going to get checked out in the city.”
Erin managed a smile. Lyonette almost stopped and begged to know more, but it was self-evident what the problem was.
There was a crack in Erin’s soul.
“Oh, Erin…”
Lyonette felt tears coming to her eyes, but Erin was smiling determinedly.
“Ulvama’s not going to be happy. She thought I was all fixed. I’ll get better. Some things don’t heal that fast, I guess, Lyonette.”
She said that despite appearing so changed. Lyonette reached the door and held it open for Erin. The [Innkeeper] turned to her, guilty.
“Now I’ve made you worry. I’m fine, see?”
She straightened, coughed one last time, then thumped her chest to prove the moment was gone. And the [Princess] bet she really was okay…until the next time it happened. Lyonette stood in the doorway, as Erin gave her a worried look, hoping that Lyonette was buying it. The [Princess] just smiled.
“It’s not perfect, Erin. You don’t have to pretend with me. I’m not having the time of my life at this banquet either. But…”
She took Erin’s hands in hers.
“It’s not miserable, is it? It’s a bit better?”
She met Erin’s hazel eyes, and the [Innkeeper] blinked at her, then nodded. She smiled.
“Yeah. A bit better.”
“Then go tell Ulvama, and I won’t worry. Promise you’ll tell her?”
Erin hesitated, then made a face.
“Yeah. I promise.”
Thus relieved, Lyonette let go. She saw Erin sigh, then stand straighter. She rested a hand on the door frame and took a step back.
“I’ll call again soon. Good luck, Lyonette.”
“You too, Erin. You—”
The door closed.
 
——
 
“—too.”
The [Princess] cast around, and then she was back in the ballroom with people shouting at Eclizza, silken chaos abounding, and Ushar was staring at her.
“Eyon? You were a thousand miles away for a moment there.”
“Yes.”
The [Princess] almost laughed at Ushar’s worried expression, then straightened. Fearless of Eclizza, she gazed around, and again, all the tension of the ballroom—such as it had been—her worries, the inconveniences, they fell away.
Erin.
Lyonette hoped Ulvama could help. She hoped that someone could. And if they couldn’t…she would.
Oh, she felt so light when she thought that. The [Princess] turned, and she murmured.
“I feel free, Rusha. What a silly, funny little gathering this is.”
The Thronebearer seemed worried her [Princess] had lost her senses. But Lyonette was just gazing about, and she was reminded of the reason she’d even come here to begin with.
Right, it was always about him. She wondered if this was what he had wanted. The Duke, that was.
Duke Rhisveri was currently crabbing his way across the floor on his hands and knees, keeping below the eyeline of Dame Eclizza, who was having a merry little swordfight with the Drell Knights—some of her own Order had come to her assistance.
It seemed quite entertaining, and Lyonette admired the swordswomanship on display as Rhisveri hissed at her.
“Okay, she’s going to trounce the lot of them in five minutes at most. That’s just enough time—we’ll run to my quarters and get you out of here!”
A man nodded; Baron Regalius, looking a bit ruffled, was running cover, and he seemed ready to be a speedbump in Eclizza’s way, even if it cost him his dress coat. Lyonette just eyed the dishevelled Duke on the floor and then extended a hand.
“Rhisveri, this is more party than I thought I’d be getting myself into.”
“I know, and I’m sorry! I forgot she gets—moody. Listen, I’ll send you back now, with apologies, and—”
Lyonette spoke over him lightly.
“More party and less, Rhisveri. You haven’t even asked me to dance. And I imagine you would rather like to do so to prove you have a romantic life to your friends. Besides, I quite love dancing.”
The Duke’s mouth opened and he twiddled his fingers at Lyonette.
“[Greater Appraisal]. Your skull’s not cracked. What are you on about? We already danced!”
“That wasn’t dancing, that was shuffling in the vague direction. That sounds like dancing. Is that an Alamarian five-step?”
Lyonette nodded at the dance floor where the musicians were, in the best tradition of their class, still playing despite the sword-fight. Actually, the music was going quite well with the clash of swords.
Rhisveri and Regalius exchanged a glance as Ushar checked Lyonette’s head for contusions herself. Rhisveri spluttered.
“I don’t know what in Rhir’s hells a five-step is, but unless you want Eclizza to cut you from head-to-toe—”
“Oh, don’t be silly, Rhisveri. She wouldn’t do that. I rather think she doesn’t approve of me being your date. Is she like your younger sister? Or something similar? I am not going to soil myself if she growls at me, and she’s still a [Knight]. I doubt she’d do more than pull my hair. Now, do you want to dance or should I find another partner?”
Baron Regalius choked as he turned to Rhisveri, but the Duke was just blinking at Lyonette. She held a hand out—then whirled.
“Will anyone dance with a poor lady new to Ailendamus?”
She called out lightly above the sounds of battle behind her, and all the nobility in earshot were so dumbfounded they just gazed at her as if she were loony. But then someone did call out.
“I will dance with such a charming lady, salt’s word on it!”
A dark-skinned young man came striding across the ballroom, dressed in Chandrarian clothing. Rhisveri recognized him on sight and blanched, but Lyonette had never met the man in her life.
“Isomen! What are you doing here?”
Rhisveri seemed to emphasize each word in his question differently, and the young man grinned as he bowed to Lyonette. He knew…her? Or seemed to recognize her when she had no idea whom this was.
“Lord Uziel gave me permission to attend. My companion, Hith, refused, but I couldn’t resist. Such a lovely lady. Do you wish to dance, Miss? Anything you desire, I have a mind to grant.”
He bowed over her hand with such fluidity and poise that Lyonette was surprised. And the man seemed ready to lead her onto the dance floor, but Rhisveri was in the way and shoving him back.
“Get back before someone sees you! Have you not seen our other dignitaries, you idiot? I’ll do it!”
So saying, he yanked Lyonette towards the dance floor, and she glowered.
“I’m so sorry—”
She apologized, but Isomen seemed hugely amused and simply swept her a bow before retreating. Lyonette hissed at Rhisveri as he practically shoved her towards the open space.
“What was that ab—”
“Inndji.”
Rhisveri said it only after a slight ‘pop’ that meant silencing spells, and even then, it took Lyonette a second to realize what he meant. Her eyes widened.
“He’s…?”
“An idiot, and I think he was she last time we talked. The Agelum are just as—argh! What am I doing? Eclizza is going to kill us!”
Rhisveri shot a glance at the Pale Serpent, who had indeed bested her opponents and was tracking them across the floor. Lyonette just waved at her with a relaxed smile.
“Let her, if she really wants to. But I’m just here to dance. I’ll dance with her if I must. Do you actually know how to dance, Duke Rhisveri? This isn’t a waltz you can just memorize.”
He sneered at her as the [Musicians] noticed they had actual dancers and began to play a bit louder. The Duke’s eyes flickered.
“Let me just have my body summon the scroll on this stupid dance and I’ll do it. One dance and then…huh. Um. Wait, is this a half-Elven dance? They get picky about everything. Dead gods, how many steps are in…?”
He developed the same expression as most [Dancers] who were introduced to the five-step for the first time. Lyonette just giggled. She concentrated and remembered the steps that had been drilled into her head by her tutors. She let Rhisveri take her hands in the first step.
“You know, my mother had us learn this dance just so we could do it if we had to, but good protocol is to bow out, because anyone who actually wants to make you dance this is just trying to bully you. Out of all my sisters, I’m the only one who managed it.”
He blinked at her, and then the music began. Rhisveri jerked, took a step—and was left standing, staring at the spot where Lyonette had been a moment ago. She was already sixteen feet to the left and twirling.
Laughing. Her dress changed colors and whirled open as Yietha nudged one of her friends and pointed with a fan. The Duke went running after Lyonette, crimson-faced, and slid across the polished marble floor—he went skidding again as she made a perpendicular right-hand turn and moved the other way.
The Alamarian five-step was a cruel dance. It was meant to embarrass someone who couldn’t keep up, so if one partner could perform the moves and the other couldn’t, the other one would rapidly fall behind—and you could perform your part of it without your partner in most sections. And it was very, very obvious when you didn’t know what you were doing.
As in the Duke’s case, he was chasing after a bobbing, weaving figure whose dress kept changing colors. One second it was a maroon red flashing to a golden Faerie-Flower yellow, the next, it was aquamarine blue and deepening as if ink was poured over it.
That was already eye-catching and funny enough, but the fact that it was Eyon, the focus of Eclizza’s ire, meant it took bare seconds for people to lock onto her. And the [Princess] was…
Concentrating.
Her feet were a blur of steps, and it was an art of a dance. You had to do a complicated cross-step where one foot went behind the other, then in front of it in a pattern taking you left in Begiza IV—one of the intro parts of the dance—and you did that for thirty-two steps, then spun, stepped back like you were gliding—
It was hell on the feet and at such intense speed that you’d turn a heel in a second if you weren’t fit enough. And—Lyonette had to be honest here—
She wasn’t doing it right. 
Oh, it looked good enough, and she heard laughter as Rhisveri chased after her, cursing. But as ‘good’ as Lyonette appeared with him being a foil, she knew it was nothing to how the dance should look.
It was a half-Elven dance made by a dying kingdom with nothing to do than show off its command of the dance floor. She’d seen her [Tutor] doing it at half-speed, and it had been beautiful. Something to delight the eye, if you could pull it off.
This is so embarrassing. I shouldn’t do a dance I haven’t practiced in years! But I wanted to dance like…
Like she had in Oteslia. Sometimes, Lyonette would have terrible dreams about the Daemon of the dead Doombearers, Nokha, or nightmares about any kind of thing from Toren to the Face-Eater Moths.
But some, rare nights, she dreamed she was on that ballroom floor in Oteslia, dancing and feeling like she was flying. Or teaching Antinium how to waltz. She’d wake up, heart beating, and want to do it again—but the inn was never large enough to let her do that with all the tables and chairs down, and she had no one to dance with.
So she tried. Her feet moved faster until she thought they were catching fire, and she was using her Skills.
