He tried to take her arm, and Eyon did stand to curtsy and smile at Oesca. It was Oiena who murmured.
“I believe my daughter has been indecorous, Miss Eyon. Do forgive us. It’s the Gura blood.”
She was referring to Taimaguros, the empire split into two parts, Taima and Gura, who warred with each other and claimed their ‘side’ was better. It made Itorin’s head hurt whenever he had to deal with both, but Eyon just smiled at the [Queen].
“I understand completely, Your Majesty. Gura is as fiery and opinionated as they say. I have never visited the Dominion, but I should love to admire it. Well, one side of it.”
That pleased Queen Oiena, but not Ozena. She was giving Eyon a rather annoyed gaze. Like…she saw Eyon as competition.
That was an odd instinct. Itorin didn’t sense it, but his eldest daughter might have been tuned into something in her class. She stood as Eyon let Rhisveri escort her away from the main table.
“Ozena.”
Itorin said one word, warningly, and his daughter tossed her shimmering hair at him. She strode after the two and moved just close enough to do something very petty.
She shoved Eyon.
Not physically. Rather, it was the kind of thing a noblewoman learned in court. You took your aura and used it where you couldn’t use a hand or foot. Pushed—and made the other person stumble.
It could get more advanced, of course, such as blasting someone with an aura to leave them dizzy, or even being so subtle that you shoved a dagger of manifested aura in someone else’s ribs. They might not even know they were wounded until they dropped dead later that night. Itorin had heard that had happened once in Taimaguros.
He expected to see Eyon stumble into Rhisveri and perhaps fall over and was thinking of a punishment when the opposite happened.
He saw Ozena’s aura lash out fast and subtly—nearly invisible unless you knew what she was about to do. It hit Eyon—and bounced back so fast that it hit the [Princess] in the face.
No, wait, Eyon’s aura had lashed back out! It was so quick that Itorin blinked. He’d seen aura battles by masters, and that had been incisive. Like a counter-punch in a fistfighter’s bout.
Oesca’s mouth dropped open, and Oiena blinked.
“My, did you see that, dear?”
Itorin didn’t respond. He saw his eldest daughter blink, as if she didn’t know what had happened. She kept walking, shaking her head, and then feeling at her eyes and, he realized—her vision.
It had gotten her—
Wham. Princess Ozena walked straight into a servant carrying a tray of shot glasses of celebratory mead. The crash and cry was terrible. Down the [Princess] went, still clearly unable to see for a good ten seconds. When she rose, red-faced, the entire ballroom was watching her.
And they’d gotten that one on television. Oh dear. Itorin made a point to rise in concern and spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Oesca, check on the servant.”
The [Princess] left the royal table to hurry over to the servant to check if he was well. Ozena was on her feet, red-cheeked, apologizing—she turned to find Eyon, but Itorin got to the [Princess] first.
He threw his aura like a pigeon across the room and hit her—just enough to be more of a tap on the shoulder. She jerked around, and he shook his head.
Drop it. Blushing, angry, she hesitated, and the [King] sat back down.
“These things happen. Please, Oesca, help find an unbroken cup, and we shall all toast our hardest-working folk today!”
He had the nervous [Servant] brought forwards and made that the center of attention. Ozena had to retire to change clothes, embarrassed, and the matter was left at that for now. But now, Itorin was watching Eyon closely as she began to mingle with the others. He beckoned again for a servant.
“Find out who that is. That’s no [Spy] or servant. Oiena?”
The [Queen] was watching Eyon too. And she murmured.
“She’s hiding who she is. A Skill. That’s why we’re not figuring it out, Itorin. It’s certainly not that dreadful hair dye.”
He blinked. He hadn’t even realized her hair was dyed black. The [King]’s fingers began drumming on the table with genuine interest. What kind of Skill worked on royalty like him?
Or perhaps—
What level was she?
 
——
 
Lyonette got a plate of food to cool down from that incident with Princess Ozena. It was as she was fussing over a table that she caught herself and wondered what the hell she was doing.
Here she was in the heart of Ailendamus, the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, the nation that had nearly wiped out her home.
They had killed thousands of her people, put her sisters under siege—and she was just talking and dining with the [King] and Rhisveri, the masterminds of the entire war.
This was wrong. She bit her lip hard as she stood there, staring down at her plate.
I buried my daughter too recently for this. I beheld the Goblin King and the end of worlds. I met Queen Marquin’s eyes, and she was everything I ever dreamed of and so much more. 
I should be trying to get Tessa back. I’ve ignored her, again. What am I doing?
The worst part was that she had been enjoying herself. Not Ozena sniping at her, but teaching that haughty young woman a lesson had been fun. Oesca? Delightful. King Itorin was good at politicking; she had thought her father would have liked trading coded quips with him over dinner.
But they were enemies. That was the problem. Blood had been spilled, and even if Rhisveri could approach her with a smile…
“Good job on that haughty Ozena. I’ve known worse, but I rather enjoyed that. Let’s meet my ‘friends’ and—”
“Rhisveri, I want to leave.”
His eyes widened in alarm.
“What? Don’t be silly. Ozena won’t hold a grudge, and if she tries something, I’ll teleport her into the biggest lake in the empire. No one noticed a thing. You’ve been doing…quite well, actually. And the dress is impressive. Real classic magic, that. Not some cheap ‘one ball and falls apart’ nonsense.”
He looked her up and down, and Lyonette hissed at him as a bulky [Knight] stepped over. Ushar activated a [Silence] spell as she glared up at him.
“Our nations are at war. This isn’t funny to me.”
“What—oh, that? That’s just politics, as I said.”
The Wyrm’s cavalier tone made Lyonette stomp down hard—and she had heels. He dodged.
“Yow, don’t do that! That kick hurt like hell. I’ve added a lot of mana to this body in case I have to dance, and the sensations—”
“You began a war with my home! Do you think I’m going to just forget that? You—I dealt and talked with you because I had to, but this is too much.”
Lyonette’s wave took in the entire ballroom, which had split, and the first dances were beginning as the music began to play. Not Cara’s music; something classical. She recognized the dances, and it filled her with heartache and nostalgia, but this was not her home. And the Wyrm?
He caught one hand before she could push him away. He seemed genuinely confused.
“But it’s a healthy kingdom. Or do you disagree? Look: commonfolk are in this royal gathering. They’re not malnourished. We could collect ten thousand nobles from across the kingdom in less than a week’s time. The food’s good.”
He indicated pickled beets on top of a complex little salad she’d put on her plate—she’d already had dinner in The Wandering Inn, but she was peckish. There were foods from all over the world, but Lyonette yanked her hand away.
“So? My kingdom is just as beautiful. The Eternal Throne is beyond this ballroom. It’s my kingdom who’s suffered during your war. Rusha, are you doing okay in that armor?”
She spun away. Ushar answered in a strangled voice.
“Trying not to spill anything on it, Miss Eyon. It’s, uh, very heavy. All the other [Knights] ask how I train in it and what Order I’m from. I’m managing.”
Lyonette patted her arm.
“Hang in there. Well, Rhisveri?”
She wanted to vent her frustration at him and knew this wasn’t the moment. Even with [Silence], there might be lipreaders in the crowd—well, she was being vague. The Duke just ruffled a hand through his hair.
He normally either looked supremely arrogant or silly and defeated in her mind. But right now, he only seemed surprised. The Duke glanced around and saw several people waiting in line for the salad and not-quite-glaring at them.
“Not here. Come on—”
He grabbed her hand again and began towing her across the ballroom. He was too strong; Lyonette glowered as she followed rather than cause a scene. Then there was the hum of a violin; he cursed as a man and woman moved towards them.
“Excuse me—”
He pivoted, and Lyonette acted on reflex. She took his arm and stepped in tandem with him. Rhisveri blinked down at her.
“What are you doing?”
“Dancing, you idiot! You just brought us onto the floor!”
She turned, and he copied her. Rhisveri cast around and saw a dozen men and women—he groaned.
“Oh no, Regalius’ damn dancing. Hold on, let’s just walk—”
“Do you want to look like a fool? Everyone’s watching!”
He was the most thoughtless person she’d ever met, and she worked for Erin! Lyonette turned, and Rhisveri followed her, copying the slow waltz.
Dead gods, I’m on television! I hope my [Conceal Reputation] Skill is working! That and the dyed hair; those were the only precautions Lyonette had taken for this ill-timed affair.
She hissed at Rhisveri as he stared down at their feet.
“I should have refused, but you were so pathetic—”
“Ah, I forgot you lot were so nationalistic. Hold on, I’m memorizing this stupid dance.”
His eyes flickered, and then he looked up and casually swung her around as she twirled. Lyonette blinked and almost missed her steps. She knew this one, a rather easy routine, but how did he—?
“You just learned it?”
“Memorized it. I’m glad I had practice in that other palace or I’d miss my footwork. I don’t dance as a rule, but I can if I want to.”
“You and what feet?”
The Wyrm smiled archly at her.
“I’m a man of many talents. Did you forget the songs? That was purely impromptu.”
She had almost forgotten that silly event with the [Songmistress]…Lyonette shook her head.
“I’m not going to compliment you. So you’re a wonderfully talented monster.”
His face fell, and she clarified.
“A warmonger. How can you not care about the people your war killed? Your war. I know you could have done something about it.”
A [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil and a blushing [Lady] whirled past them, and Rhisveri raised one eyebrow. There was that expression on his face again. Not pure, superior arrogance or the look of a fool.
More an exasperated skepticism of an intelligent man. He put his arm in the crook of hers, and they rotated. Rhisveri stared across the vast ballroom.
“Calanfer can’t afford this. Don’t argue, just listen. I know you have a ballroom this big in the ‘Eternal Throne’. That doesn’t count. That was a gift. Yes, it’s beautiful, perhaps more beautiful than Ailendamus’ palace in some places. But you could not do what we do so casually tonight.”
“So your nation is rich. Does that give it casus belli?”
She scowled at him, using her own Latin. Rhisveri just gazed down at her with old eyes.
“The war kills peasants and nobles alike. It’s a war; a terrible act by default. But let me put it to you like this: this ball will kill no one. Unless some idiot chokes on a mackerel or something.”
“Few balls kill anyone—aside from the occasional poisoning, assassination, or duel!”
She rolled her eyes, and Rhisveri’s brows rose.
“Really? In my experience, they kill more than a few. Not that you’d notice. Let’s say a nobleman puts on a ball in another nation. It costs a fortune. So maybe he raises taxes on his [Peasants]. [Peasants], a class devoted to serving nobles. He might have to confiscate some food if it’s a winter shortage. Or maybe he goes hunting and hangs [Poachers] or just people desperate enough for it. Someone drops a tray at his palace and they’re whipped. Or it just costs money and he doesn’t build the bridge that year for the spring floods. The ball kills someone in Calanfer. Not here. We don’t have [Peasants].”
She opened her mouth, surprised by how he thought. But hadn’t Ryoka talked about that? Lyonette hissed back as they passed by a duo, a young giggling couple.
“I can see your logic, and I don’t respect it. Is your point that Ailendamus is better? That all nations should fall under your control? I have heard that before.”
He shrugged, calm as he and she traced a more complicated pattern of steps. She had to work on it now, but neither one missed a beat. She wished she didn’t enjoy doing it so much.
If my [Tutors] and Mother could see this…I wish I could dance like this back home. Not like how Erin dances, but this.
She was royalty, and Rhisveri murmured.
“Wars are endemic to kingdoms, Lyonette. If it were not Ailendamus’ conquest, do you know what Terandrian kingdoms would do? They’d launch another Crusade. Against which foe? Demons? Very laudable. Send the peasants and [Knights] to die on hell’s shores for your glory. Baleros? Bring back Lizardfolk [Slaves] like last time.”
“We don’t have [Slaves] on Terandria in any numbers!”
“No, of course you don’t. Anymore.”
His gaze was so scornful, and he added at her confusion.
“The seventh Nagatine Empire’s fall. Look it up. I was there, you know. The defeated always suffer more, because, well, they lost, they deserve it. Wars are such a good excuse for a nation to ignore their problems. Yes, Ailendamus makes war, because each one brings something important.”
“And what does the Dawn Concordat bring? The Eternal Throne?”
He never blinked.
“That. You know why we’d want that. But also—the coast. The mountains of Kaliv are an endless amount of vertical space. The forests of Gaiil-Drome?”
“All owned by people who don’t wish to be Ailendamus’!”
She countered, and the Wyrm shrugged.
“We haven’t had a rebellion in any province in a long time. It strikes me that the ‘commonfolk’ don’t really care about who wears the crown if life is good.”
“You treat them like…cattle. Like children to be managed while you decide everything.”
She glared as the music died down to applause, and he offered her a bow.
“Yes. Don’t you? That’s what royalty is all about.”
He left her unable to articulate a response and so angry that she didn’t curtsey and followed him off the dance-floor fuming. Especially because she realized he had a point. She needed to think up an answer—but he’d caught her. Ielane would have had him for lunch, but she…
