“Hah. Problem solved! I’ll just have to make her wear shoes, I suppose…”
Rhisveri grinned as he had the Duke adjust his bowtie in the mirror. Then he had a thought.
Wait, everyone knows she’s on Baleros. Well, rumor has her in Izril. But they know she’s not here. I’ve made a damn television show about her…how do I explain her just showing up? It’ll look like I’m desperate.
Which he wasn’t. It was just that he couldn’t justify her being here if she were on television in Baleros again the next day.
Damn, damn, damn—no, wait. Calm. Calm. Rhisveri exhaled. He had so many means…
 
——
 
Eighteen minutes later, the Knights of the Thirsting Veil peeked into the room where a female and very attractive [Lady] was trying to dance with the Duke Rhisveri. She managed a few steps, then tripped. After a second, Duke Rhisveri said:
“Damn.”
The [Lady] said:
“Ow. How the hell do you do it without…so that’s what [Parallel Thoughts] are for. Damn two legs! And how the hell does one dance in these things?”
She had heels on! Did you wear heels to a dance? Talking out of two mouths at once was…hard! After a few more tries, Rhisveri realized he might not even be able to get both talking simultaneously, let alone dancing!
Not without practice! Then he was really sweating acid. Think, think…
Okay, what about [Polymorphing] a [Servant]? A [Prostitute]? No, wait, that’s illegal, and even if I found someone who agrees, if word gets out, it’ll ruin my reputation.
Polymorph a squirrel? No, that would go bad. Uh, uh—
Wistram! Who else had [Mages] who could be here on short notice and loved shmoozing at fancy events? Rhisveri began sending [Message] spells. Not to the Terras faction, obviously, but if he showed up with a rival faction’s [Mage] on his arm, that would be a real move politically…or even if he had a Terras [Mage] as a date, come to think of it. A power move, a show of dominance.
Definitely.
 
——
 
One hour left to the banquet, and Rhisveri had a feeling they were laughing at him. Certainly, the last [Mage] he’d asked to attend, Sa’la, had seemed to know he’d asked dozens of [Mages] before her to go with him to the dance.
Free teleportation, drinks, food—was it him? Duke Rhisveri hadn’t been made that ill-looking, surely.
“It can’t be my personality? I work for Ailendamus! Everyone knows I’m gifted, and…you’re a fine fellow, Duke Rhisveri. It’s intimidation.”
The Wyrm was speaking to his Human self, and at this point, the Dame Knights were shoving each other. Chorisa was arguing with one of the others.
“It’s just one night. Whomever loses at rock-wand-paper has to do it. No armor—just put on a smile and do it. Look at him. He’s so…”
He could hear them. The Wyrm was about to accept their pity, but he knew the others would realize what he had done. He was lying on his side, out of options, when the idea hit him.
Wait a second. Wait…there was one person of excellent breeding and manners he could call on. Someone who would be impressive, who he knew, and who owed him a favor.
All he had to do was just—convince her. No, wait, get her first. He was sure she’d agree. But just, ah, in case, he’d teleport first, explain later.
Technically, kidnapping Lyonette out of her inn was a bad look, and he had a track record with Izril and doing that, which wasn’t great…but Rhisveri was desperate. So, you see—
 
——
 
“—It’s not even a huge issue! I don’t see why you’re so upset!”
The Wyrm had gotten this more or less out, and Lyonette was so aghast by the end of it she’d stopped trying to punch him. She turned, and Dame Ushar gave her a side-eye. They activated the mistress-servant telepathy for the first time in their lives in sheer haggardness.
“(Is he serious?)”
“(I fear he is.)”
Even so, Lyonette was outraged. Nay, she was furious! She’d just been catching up with Ilvriss and her daughters and not having a huge inn-event—that was tomorrow—and she’d been abducted!
“Take me back now, Rhisveri! I insist! My daughters will be worried! I have important things to do! One of my employees, Tessa, is in Tenbault, and I do not have the time to waste!”
He scoffed at her.
“I already left a letter explaining everything! It’s one night. You owe me this, Princess!”
“I owe you nothing! Your nation attacked mine!”
“Bah, that’s just politics! Come on, throw on a dress and just help me out. Something other than that apron.”
Rhisveri was trying to push her towards a wardrobe as she began to tell him he didn’t know good dress sense himself—but the ringing of steel on steel made him pause.
Dame Ushar had drawn her sword and placed it at his neck.
“Send Her Highness back, Your Grace. You are an enemy of Calanfer, and she does not consent to this abduction.”
Ushar! Lyonette was astounded, because the real Rhisveri loomed over her, eyes narrowed, and in the next moment, four [Knights] of the Thirsting Veil were around Ushar, blades pointed at her!
“Drop your sword, Dame Knight! Now!”
Ushar’s blade never moved. Lyonette raised her hands as Rhisveri froze, uncertain.
“Ushar, don’t—I don’t want you to get hurt! Lower your blade. That’s an order.”
“Not until the Duke agrees, Your Highness. I insist on his word of honor, dubious as it might now be given his actions.”
“You are in no position to demand anything!”
Dame Chorisa barked, but then Rhisveri deflated. He ignored the sword and sat down.
“No, it’s alright. Lower your blades, Knights. She’s right. No consent. I was just—nevermind. I’ll send you back. Just give me a second to make sure I’m not teleporting you a hundred feet up. I heard some idiot did that.”
Ushar blinked, and Lyonette turned, greatly surprised herself. He was backing down? The Duke scribbled magical signs on the ground with one finger, then looked up at her.
“What? If you don’t consent, you don’t. It’s fine. Mothers with children can’t leave them unattended. Yes, that’s it.”
This time, she and Ushar exchanged another telepathic glance as he muttered to himself, hugging his knees to his chest. The Wyrm was curled up into a ball, doing much the same.
“(Your Highness, no. Please.)”
“(Look at him, Ushar. I have to do it.)”
“(His nation attacked ours. You don’t have to.)”
“(Don’t you feel bad for him?)”
“(Well, yes.)”
“(You could do it.)”
“(…No, if you truly wish to, I support you.)”
Lyonette’s brow wrinkled up as Ushar avoided her stare. Then a third telepathic voice broke into the chat.
“(Please, we’re begging you. He’s going to be like this all month. Please.)”
…At least that was what Lyonette thought Dame Chorisa was projecting with her wide eyes and jerking head towards Rhisveri.
 
——
 
The first thing Lyonette did was regret her decision. Because the moment she agreed to help, Rhisveri sat up with such a self-important expression that she wanted to kick him.
“Ah, well, if you’re sure, we shouldn’t waste time then! I have a little sheet of notable people you should memorize. And of course, the event is in honor of Dame Eclizza’s return. Here’s a pamphlet on her deeds and titles—”
He produced a booklet that looked suspiciously hand-written. Lyonette glanced at it and then handed it to Ushar.
“Rhisveri, I am only doing this because of your actions in the [Palace of Fates]. And my investments in Ailendamus. I don’t intend to make a scene. I’ll appear, pretend to like you, and go.”
“Eminently reasonable. I won’t take you from your evening that much. An hour in, we teleport you back…”
Ancestors, he really was desperate. The Duke was smiling in relief, ego reinflating. Then he hesitated and added almost off-hand.
“You do have children to attend to. I’m not an idiot. That’s why I left the other [Knight]. It, uh, was good to see the little rascal. Mrsha. And the other one with the objectionable fashion taste.”
“Nanette. Thank you.”
He harrumphed, avoiding her gaze as he fiddled with his suit.
“Yes. Well—the ball awaits!”
She appreciated that, but then she realized she was committed. Lyonette groaned as she eyed the wardrobe and mirror set up.
“Very well, Rhisveri. We’d best make this proper if it’s done at all. How long do I have to get ready? It’s suppertime, you know. Is this some late-night get together? And clothing…”
She eyed his bow-tie and suit with the objectionable color-matching of dark purple on black. Dead gods, it appeared hand-tailored. Rhisveri straightened his bow-tie.
“An hour? No, wait, forty minutes, I think. It’s a late banquet until—”
“Forty minutes?”
She and Ushar shouted, and Rhisveri hesitated.
“What? Just throw on a dress and we’ll go over names. It won’t take more than, what, five minutes? How long does it take leggy people to dress, anyways?”
Another peculiarity of the Wyrm of Ailendamus was that he had no idea how to put on clothes. It transpired he had a spell that magicked them onto his body.
“[Valmira’s Spontaneous Attirement]. A lesser-known spell invented by the Archmage. I always thought it was practical, but Fithea and the Lucifen relentlessly mocked it. So what I’m hearing is you don’t want me to cast it on you…? And what is the problem with my clothing?”
Lyonette was tearing through the wardrobe he’d picked out for his fake dance partner and was tossing the expensive—and tasteless—dresses aside.
“This is utter trash! Rhisveri, are you insane? Forget the magic, I can’t wear any of this! It’s not sized to me—I’d have to be four inches taller! And it’s tasteless!”
“What? No it’s not! I had the servants gather up old dresses.”
I wonder what they thought of that. Lyonette just pointed.
“Sequins? Rhisveri, is this for a noblewoman or a [Dancer]?”
“Er…well, that one has lace.”
“Lace is out of fashion! Even you should know that! Dead gods—I have nothing to wear. I can’t even send you back to the inn because I don’t have anything fine enough to wear to a banquet with the monarchs of Ailendamus!”
She rubbed at her forehead. Rhisveri hesitated, and his main body slithered away.
“One second, one second—aha! I’ve got just the thing. I’m sure we can find someone to resize…this!”
He came back with a box, which he proudly dusted off and opened. It was rather like a giant briefcase—until Lyonette realized it was a custom-made Chest of Holding resized to be a walk-in wardrobe. A powerful spell, too; normally those did horrible things to living people, but this one was safe.
“What is that?”
“Some relic from one of the kingdoms we conquered. Caadnamis, I think? I use it to store some of my personal treasures. Here. Fit for a [Queen].”
To her horror, he levitated out a dress covered with so many glittering gemstones and cloth giving off its own light that it turned the entire room into a rainbow. She nearly went blind.
“What is that?”
“What? It’s the royal queen’s outfit. The Rainbow Dress of Caadnamis. Ah…I suppose that would be rather suspicious, wouldn’t it?”
It was so damn gaudy! Lyonette knew something of the old kingdoms that had gone under, and she didn’t recall hearing of that dress worn in public often.
I bet the old [Queens] hated that thing. It looks heavy as sin, and you’d blind your audience every time you curtsied. She folded her arms.
“Everything in that wardrobe is out. I’ll either outshine the royal family, be out-of-date, or wear a Relic-class dress to a banquet. Rhisveri, do you have any [Tailors] or [Dressmakers] in the palace with speed Skills? Extreme speed Skills?”
They might be able to alter something—Rhisveri hesitated, then he began to send his Duke form running off.
“I’ll get—”
“Oh, no you won’t. Your attire is just as bad. Ushar, do something about him. Send one of those [Knights]!”
Lyonette pointed at the Thirsting Veil Knights, who raised their helmeted heads. They seemed to be deep in thought about something, but one of them went jogging into the palace. Still—she was in doubt they’d be successful.
“Every time a banquet happens, someone needs a dress let out or something repaired. They’ll be in high demand. Who’s coming to this banquet?”
“Hmm. Everyone?”
This time, she actually went to stomp on one foot. Rhisveri was covering his lower half with a coat; Ushar was pulling out his outfits to find something less hideous. At least here he had a selection she suspected someone else had procured for him. She eyed him severely. Naked, Rhisveri was moderately fit and denuded of hair everywhere but his face. It made him appear very odd.
“How many nobles, Rhisveri? Don’t tell me you don’t know. Also, you look horrible naked.”
“What?”
He was highly offended. She scowled at him.
“Most people have body hair. You look like, well, a naked flesh-snake.”
“Hair. You primates with your hair everywhere. It’s disgusting.”
He grumbled as Ushar passed him some pants. Lyonette tapped her foot, trying to winnow down the dresses and find the best one, but it was hopeless. She hated them all.
The cast-off dresses of Ailendamus were either tacky, meant for [Dancers] or people who weren’t attending balls, or so ridiculously expensive—like black metal sequins sewn onto blacker silk so you looked like a glittering night sky…highly expensive and utterly generic as looks went, at least for someone who’d grown up with it.
Dead gods, the only person worse than Rhisveri is Nanette. Lyonette wished the girl were here to see this. She hoped Ushar’s message reassured everyone she was fine.
What am I doing? She wanted to go home and have a game of cards with Ilvriss. However, Rhisveri’s crestfallen expression and her memory of him fighting in the [Palace of Fates] made her relent slightly.
“If it’s not a huge gathering and it’s informal, we may be able to get away with an outfit appropriate for a sitting room or parlor. Slightly indecorous, but isn’t Ailendamus supposed to be oh-so-efficient and progressive?”
She tried not to let scorn enter her tone, but she did hear about the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, even if she’d never visited. Rhisveri sniffed at her.
“I wasn’t lying. I meant everyone. All the nobility who can attend are coming. This is a kingdom-wide celebration. I think there will be at least ten thousand of the nobility in attendance. Some Wistram [Mages] will broadcast the event since we’re being nice. A full legion of Hydra Knights has been invited—not one particular one, but various commanders and regular [Knights]…twice that number of commonfolk? Four times? And the diplomats are eating—”
He saw Lyonette visibly pale.
“Dead gods, Rhisveri! Even Calanfer couldn’t host that many people in a single space!”
