“It’s more of a loan, and it is more than the Duke owed. There was a gambling night, which I will admit goaded his pride…I could prepare the ledger, but I believe it’s upwards of four million gold coins lent? We’re not pursuing any repayment at the moment.”
The Great Knight froze, and when her head cricked around, Rhisveri stopped signing and began to appear faintly worried.
“I see I have more words to speak to my liege. Well done, again. An ally with teeth. Taimaguros is powerful, but dull. Anything…else?”
She turned to Lyonette, waiting. And the [Princess] had a sudden thought, an urgent one. She was weary to death, emotionally exhausted, and ecstatic as well. But the look of Eclizza, standing there, a dark shadow to her master, provoked a kind of similarity in her mind.
Black armor…like scales.
“I—yes! Yes, I have something crucial to do when I get back. This dratted evening has put me behind. But Dame Eclizza, you’re a master of poisons, surely. Do you know, um, how to deal with someone suffering from a drug addiction? I intend to bring her back, but it is no use without treatment and help. And what we had to help her with no longer exists.”
The Faerie Flower medicine was gone. Eclizza glanced back at Lyonette, again seeming to be surprised that the [Princess] had brought something up that the Great Knight had never expected of her. She replied fluidly as she switched back to facing Lyonette, hand on her bag of holding.
“If it is a mere addiction, Duke Rhisveri himself could cast [Restoration] and solve the physical effects of it. The mind is harder—or even Dame Chorisa could mix an antidote to most drugs. This is a matter for [Thought Healers]. Ailendamus has enough. Also, it is not a cure-all situation, spells aside. Which drugs?”
“Um…all of them?”
The Great Knight stared at Lyonette like she was an idiot.
“Are you a fool in this or do you just not know?”
“No, I resent that! I mean it! She’s a Named-rank adventurer, and I do believe she’s tried every drug under the sun! Her name is Tessa, or Shriekblade, and—”
Eclizza nodded once and glanced down at Lyonette’s feet before sweeping her gaze up and down the [Princess]’ body. Lyonette reflexively tried to shield herself, as if she was naked, and she didn’t know why until Eclizza spoke.
“Ah. Once again I underestimate the foe. That you aren’t carrying a hidden dagger or blade…you should. Queen Oiena carries one on her inside thigh, and her daughters and sons have a blade on them they never take off.”
“Thank you for the advice. Tessa?”
The Great Knight paused, then nodded.
“Procure me a list of what she took or is likely to have taken. It sounds…interesting. She could have killed herself or done permanent damage to her body long ago, but if she’s Named-rank, perhaps not. I have tried every drug I have ever encountered and come up with countermeasures for them all. I will assist though I will not teleport to Izril without greater cause. Is that all?”
Everyone was watching the standoff between the [Princess] and [Knight], and from the outsiders’ perspective, it seemed like they weren’t fighting. Just…talking? What did Eclizza turning away, Lyonette jumping and covering herself up mean? They kept glancing at Duke Rhisveri, who was trying to play it cool and looking increasingly nervous, as a man who knew he had things to be embarrassed by might when two people who knew him were conversing.
The final thing the [Princess] did was hesitate, scuff a foot on the ground, and then make a writing gesture on her palm. The Great Knight stared, then her aura collapsed. Lyonette chased after her.
“Just one autograph, Great Knight? Well, two—it’s not for me! I’m sure there are two fans of yours, and if not them—!”
 
——
 
What a strange [Princess]. King Itorin II had never, ever seen Dame Eclizza sign an autograph even when it had been the pitch of fashion. He leaned over to one of the people sitting with him.
“Knight Commander Forcel, has Dame Eclizza ever signed an autograph?”
The equally-fascinated Hydra Knight shook his head.
“Never once in all the time I have known her. No, wait, I tell a lie. She once signed her emblem into an enemy [Knight]’s helmet. With her finger. But never—that.”
The [Princess] bowed to the Great Knight, who threw up a hand in a backwards wave as she strode away. And then she was right there. In the center of attention as if it was natural to her. More than just a royal, she turned, and King Itorin II wondered—
They cannot all be like this, the [Princesses] of Calanfer. It reminded him almost like that new treat everyone ate while watching the scrying orbs. Popped corn. As if someone had compressed all this potential and zest for life into a tiny, miserable shell. And when the right pressure and heat baked them, they exploded outwards.
He decided he liked that analogy. Popped corn [Princesses]. He wondered if it had been on purpose. If so, he didn’t really want to meet the Queen of Calanfer, even if they ever took Calanfer.
 
——
 
Lyonette tucked Dame Eclizza’s autographed cards into her dress pocket, and the respectful silence became a buzz of voices instantly. Everyone wanted to talk to her again, but she was so tired all she could think was…pockets.
The [Princess] who’d commissioned this dress had once insisted on pockets. Most clothing for women didn’t have them.
Dead gods, we’ve fallen so far from what we used to be.
She turned, ready to tackle the next person coming her way—Baron Regalius, who looked positively delighted by the turn of events. But an arm blocked the Baron respectfully. Duke Rhisveri. He cleared his throat meaningfully, and a silence fell, and he looked at Lyonette, questioningly, noting her flushed cheeks and the late hour trending towards the dawn.
“On that fine note, I think it is time to depart.”
Lyonette nodded, despite the instant protestations the comment created. She bowed to the [Queen], who seemed oddly tongue-tied for a moment, and then to Regalius.
“I must be going, truly. I thank you all for your hospitality, especially you, Baron Regalius. It has been an honor to meet Rhisveri’s friends, and Duke…”
She turned to him, a smile crossing her features as she brushed black curls of hair from her face. She was barely twenty years old and, it seemed, at least a decade older. The [Princess] gazed around, then coughed.
“I—thank you, Rhisveri.”
“I’m not sure what for, but you are welcome.”
He wore his little caustic smile, and Lyonette coughed again. She covered her mouth, and someone proffered her a cup. She took it and sipped, and gazed at him, then around. Then brushed at her face.
“No, I enjoyed myself, truly. I…oh dear. Oh no, I’m so sorry. It’s just the dancing and…”
Then Rhisveri’s smirk changed as he and everyone else heard the wobble in her voice. Regalius, with the power of his class, reached for a sidearm without thinking; the handkerchief was in his hands before he saw the tears. And they were falling from her eyes.
Lyonette took the handkerchief as everyone drew back, worried they’d be blamed for the tears. But the cause of them wasn’t clear. The [Princess] dabbed at her eyes, then her nose.
“Thank you, Baron Regalius. I’m sorry, it’s nothing. I’m alright. It’s just—I am so tired of the death and dying. I’ve been exhausted, and this was something. It was small and pleasant, and I could relax. That’s all. I shouldn’t be crying; how embarrassing. Thank you. I’m so sorry…”
Small and pleasant. The death, the dying? Regalius gazed at his wife, and the nobles in the know were giving each other significant glances, which the rest of the audience picked up on. Queen Oiena cleared her throat.
“I think our dear guest is overwrought, which is a fine emotion to have on such a night. Let us give her a moment, in respect.”
At her words, the crowd drew back, and Rhisveri awkwardly tried to shuffle back before Queen Oiena pushed him back into the center. Then Lyonette stood in the center of attention, a stranger with dyed hair, still faintly glowing with another continent’s wonders.
It was Baron Regalius who drew back into the private circle of Rhisveri’s friends, the well-placed nobles who had enough power to be important. No one spoke as they watched Lyonette speaking to Rhisveri, but there was a thought that ran through the group. A treasonous one, perhaps, but one that still appeared, slithering like a snake in long grass.
A pleasant event. Despite an aura clash and a hounding from a Great Knight of Ailendamus. A [Princess] in disguise who had to get back to her children, driven to tears because she had been granted a single night of respite.
The death…and the dying.
Only a fool wouldn’t know who she was at that moment. For proof positive, even Princess Ozena was eying Lyonette and whispering with her brothers. And look at her.
Where was that haughty Calanferian arrogance or the cold-blooded politicking? If those were fake tears, then she was a master of her class. Few of the nobility here had ever ventured to Calanfer or known it beyond the enemy in the war. But for once…Yietha whispered into her husband’s ear.
“Regalius. Do you think she’s talking about the inn or the war with the Dawn Concordat?”
“I’m not certain.”
It was a distinction that they made, since he and Yietha were more aware of where Lyonette truly hailed from after some quick research, but the [Baron of Ceremonies] glanced around and sensed it. For the first time, he thought a seed of discontent against the war had sprouted through the ballroom.
A more principled, moral individual with a weaker grasp of politics might say that the seed should not have come from this moment, but the nobility were a people who had to witness something with their own eyes. This [Princess]…Regalius eyed the good Duke, who was motioning towards the exit.
Either this is a plan deeper than I can follow on Duke Rhisveri’s part, or he does not fully understand the ripples of his actions. For better or worse?
He couldn’t say. Regalius was only reminded, strongly, of a breeze passing through Ailendamus, like the Wind Runner. He watched it swirling again through the ballroom, changing the course of opinions, blowing on the tiller of empire. So he murmured back to Yietha.
“I do hope we’ll see her again.”
For better or worse, he thought he wanted to get a measure of that woman. Regalius watched the 6th Princess of Calanfer departing, and then he glanced away. For the image of the 4th Princess walked beside her, and he was too ashamed. For that deep debt he owed Princess Seraphel, no one would hear Lyonette’s true name from his lips.
Regalius saw the High Magus Telim was also watching Lyonette depart. Holding his cup of wine in hand like a shield against something, and the three Players of Celum had stopped, and all bowed deeply when she peered their way. Men and women swirling around an individual whose reach had touched even Ailendamus. So Regalius wondered to himself and to his wife.
“Dead gods, if that is the [Princess], who must that [Innkeeper] be?”
 
——
 
The 6th Princess of Calanfer still wore the dress of her ancestors as the rain chilled her skin for a moment. Then, the umbrella opened, and her [Knight] held a glowing umbrella like the sun over her head.
“Welcome back, Your Highness.”
Ser Dalimont bowed to Lyonette as he glowered at Duke Rhisveri, but the weary Wyrm just stood there. Casting a gate spell across the continent and the night of festivities had drained even his stamina. But he managed a short bow.
“Thank you again…Princess. I will remember the favor.”
She nodded to Rhisveri.
“Have a good night, Rhisveri. Thank you for the opportunity.”
There was more they could have said, but she was too weary, and they had said it all.
To each other, at least. Everyone else had something to say to Rhisveri, like the angry Drake who strode up.
“Excuse me, sir. I don’t know who you are, but I’d like to discuss your treatment of Miss Lyonette—”
Rhisveri gave Wall Lord Ilvriss one glance, then turned to Lyonette.
“Do you know this Drake, Lyonette? How important is he?”
That stole Ilvriss’ momentum for a critical moment. He opened his mouth, and someone brushed past him.
Bird, Elia, all the inn’s staff and guests—even if you didn’t know who Rhisveri was, you just had an instinct.
“Excuse me, sir, autograph?”
That came from Menolit. Rhisveri stared at the card. He almost reached for the quill when Bird shoved Menolit aside.
“Excuse me, sir or madam.”
“Wh—me?”
“Yes, I would like to post this message to the King of Avel, among others. Thank you. Here is my Runner’s Seal, and here are coins. And my friend here has messages for her home, Gaiil-Drome. Courier, please. She’s very important, apparently.”
Rhisveri was handed a stack of letters. And a Runner’s Seal with a feather glued to it. Then Bird showered several gold coins on top. She leaned over to Elia Arcsinger, who was at her most professional, and whispered.
“I forget. Do we tip him if he’s not technically a Runner?”
The Duke was stuffing the objects into his bag of holding and trying to get a final word out to Lyonette. Or a dignified farewell. But then he was kneecapped by a flying kick.
“That’s for stealing Lyonette! Mrsha, get him!”
The Duke’s eyes rolled up slightly as Nanette executed a flying kick to his kneecap with all of her weight. She landed with a black-and-white dress divided like piano keys fluttering around her. Mrsha, in her kilt, hesitated and didn’t stab Rhisveri with the fork. Because when he saw her, he froze up.
The energetic witch was still kicking at his legs when he picked her up and, without looking at Nanette, handed her to Lyonette. The Wyrm hesitated, and then he knelt down.
“Hello. Do you have a moment, girl? I…I know we spoke via the theatre Skill, but I don’t think I was that coherent. I’d like to—to apologize.”
Nanette’s squirming ceased, and the Wall Lord stopped trying to elbow the other guests out of the way. Lyonette’s head snapped around, and she remembered what Mrsha had said.
A crying Duke…his voice was already filled with that vibrato from his speech about Eclizza. She was about to cause a distraction for him, but her daughter was faster.
Why don’t we talk in the garden, Your Grace? I know just the place.
She took him by the hand and led him towards that glowing door, and he flinched. Of course…Lyonette and Nanette eavesdropped on them. They couldn’t help it.
 
——
 
A tall man with a sharp goatee and brilliant emerald eyes dripped in the garden filled with sand, dust, and a single moonbeam shining down onto the top of that mountain of sand. The wind howled at his face, but he didn’t care.
