“You wanna cause trouble at your own party, Eclizza? I can throw hands! I’ve got two! Let me give you a lesson on manners! Don’t make me call the Windy Girl!”
He swayed menacingly left and right, and Eclizza silently turned to Regalius. The Baron was trying not to laugh in horror.
“That, uh—that would be ‘Rhissy’, I believe. In the flesh? Dead gods, it’s an amazing creation. It’s from the hit television show, Rhissy and the Windy Girl. By Duke Rhisveri himself.”
Eclizza’s head slowly turned to Rhisveri, who was hiding his mouth behind one hand.
“You made that abomination? Rhisveri?”
“Hey! Who’s an abomination? Your face is an abomination!”
Rhissy shot back as Rhisveri visibly spoke behind his hand. He was speaking and converting his voice into Rhissy’s!
Some of the foreign dignitaries—and children like Oesca—were having trouble standing up due to laughter. Telim had fallen down, and he was trying not to puke. But Eclizza seemed genuinely unsettled.
As well she might if she thought her beloved Wyrm was losing his mind. Lyonette was half-focused on Eclizza, half gathering herself.
“Miss Eyon, we should leave—”
Ushar was whispering, but Lyonette shook her head.
“I’m not running, Rusha. And…this is quite hilarious. Let it play out. Besides—”
Her eyes flickered.
“I think there’s something else happening to me.”
“What? Magic?”
“No, a Skill. But I won’t know what happened until after.”
That made Ushar confused, but Lyonette was certain she knew what was going on. Funny how it felt to be on the other end of the Skill…she watched as Eclizza made up her mind.
“If you have an issue with my conduct, deliver it to my face, Rhisveri. Dispel this…puppet.”
She grabbed Rhissy’s face.
“Hey! Watch the stitching!”
Eclizza ignored him and, with her other hand, delivered an uppercut so powerful it sent Rhissy flying upwards. For a second, Lyonette saw the imprint of the Great Knight’s arm jutting out of Rhissy’s back; then the sock puppet was spinning through the air.
“Rhissy!”
Oesca screamed in genuine horror as she ran forwards from where she and her older sister were watching. Lyonette whispered to Ushar.
“Would that have ripped through someone’s spine if it wasn’t Rhissy, Rusha?”
“I think it’d rip through unenchanted armor, Miss Eyon.”
People were gathered around the sock puppet, who lay like a wagon-hit victim on the floor, mouth open, a cloth tongue sticking out. Eclizza turned back to Lyonette…and the blue sock puppet lifted its head off the floor.
“Violence isn’t good, kids. Except if it’s in defense of someone or against Crelers or abusers. Did you think you could beat Rhissy with mere violence, Great Knight Eclizza?”
He lurched upright and swayed forwards menacingly. Eclizza turned back to Rhissy. He smirked at her.
“I’m Rhissy. The Great Sock of Ailendamus! Who’s stronger, me or the Pale Serpent? Mmm?”
His head twisted sideways, and his ‘face’ puckered up into a crazed grin as he shuffled around Eclizza. The Great Knight just stared at Rhissy. Then her hand shot out.
She clocked Duke Rhisveri in the face, and both he and the sock puppet doubled over. A voice came from both mouths.
“Ah! Dead gods, my face! My toof! Aaaah! It hurts—”
Eclizza turned her back on the sock puppet and strode to Lyonette with the air of ‘I have to get back to what I know’. Solid ground, like bullying [Princesses], not having a showdown with a giant sock. In fairness, violence was currently working.
But her aura was visibly rattled. Lyonette? Lyonette was just smiling. She’d seen crazier. That was already making Eclizza hesitate when someone walked forwards, nodded at Lyonette, and set herself before the [Princess] and the angry [Knight].
“Dame Eclizza, upon my honor and Ailendamus’, don’t you think this affray has gone a bit too far? I do not presume to speak for the throne, but I must insist you stop!”
Of all the people, of all the things, even Lyonette blinked in pure incomprehension as her most unlikely savior barred Eclizza’s path. She tossed her magnificent hair back and pointed a long, dramatic finger at the Pale Serpent, who did halt…if only to avoid running over Princess Ozena.
The [Battle Princess] of Ailendamus seemed very pleased with herself. She was giving Lyonette quick nods and smiling both at her and the royal table where her parents were watching. It seemed Princess Ozena had gotten it into her head that in order to redeem herself, she had better defuse this situation with the [Princess] of Calanfer.
Honestly…her parents couldn’t tell whether this was a terrible decision or a brilliant one. However, Dame Eclizza was not to be stopped.
“Your Highness. Good evening to you.”
“Dame Eclizza, it is an honor to be at your banquet!”
Ozena beamed and bowed lightly to the Great Knight. Eclizza’s voice was flat.
“Indeed. Move.”
Ozena’s bow wavered.
“—And if I refuse? Miss Eyon is our guest, and lest my royal father decree otherwise, it is your party…but this is highly unchivalrous.”
“Chivalry is not for you to use to lecture me, even if I respected the word. Move.”
Ozena flicked a sword from her sheath and pointed it dramatically at Eclizza.
“You shall have to force me to do so! We are both daughters of Ailendamus! Let our wills be the deciding vote for all to see!”
She was poised, dramatic, winning the eyes and attention of her people. Ozena smiled confidently at Eclizza until the Pale Serpent rolled her shoulders.
“Very well.”
Eclizza threw her full aura at Ozena, and it was actually visible as a black orb of writhing snakes. Ozena blanched, brought her sword up, and focused her aura—Lyonette felt a hand seize her and hurl her to the ground—
The explosion blew out the windows. Lyonette, shielded by Ushar’s armor, was saved from the reverberation which blew everyone near the two off their feet. When she poked her head up, she saw Eclizza standing over Ozena, who was gaping like a fish. But she was also surrounded by two dozen Drell Knights aiming their swords at her.
“Dame Eclizza, release your aura! You go too far!”
One of them was shouting over the ringing in Lyonette’s ears. The ballroom was in chaos, and Duke Rhisveri was using Rhissy’s body as cover. Lyonette sat up as Eclizza’s head turned to her, and she thought—
This is still so much more relaxing than I thought it’d be. I must be sick. 
Still, the [King] and [Queen] of Ailendamus weren’t taking control of the situation. Eclizza drew her sword, and Lyonette shot a glance at the high table. No, they weren’t being taken to a safe room or knocked senseless. She saw Queen Oiena chewing on something and sipping from a goblet of wine. She rather suspected the Queen of Ailendamus wanted to see what happened next.
Lyonette was just about to suggest to Ushar they grab Rhisveri and make tracks when her eyes widened. She heard a door closing in her head and blinked. Then she gasped.
“Oh.”
It had been what she thought after all. The [Pavilion of Secrets] Skill ended—
And then, Lyonette remembered.
 
——
 
Two Lyonettes appeared. One was in the ballroom of Ailendamus, being pressured by Eclizza’s aura. The other stepped back, adjusted her dress, and then walked through the door that had opened for her.
That familiar door that led into a gazebo in the middle of nowhere. Despite it all, the chaos, the weirdness, her angst over the party—she was already smiling.
Erin Solstice was sitting on top of the gazebo, her short, multicolored hair swaying in a breeze. When she saw Lyonette, she waved, but waited for the [Princess] to come striding towards her.
The first thing that the [Innkeeper] called down to Lyonette was a question.
“Hey, are you drunk this time?”
“Who, me, Erin? I’ve only had a glass of champagne at best!”
Lyonette cupped her hands to her mouth and laughingly called up to Erin. The [Innkeeper] weighed this with a frown. Then she sighed.
“Eh, good enough. Get up here, wouldja?”
She pointed, and glowing stairs appeared, letting Lyonette walk up to the roof of the gazebo. The [Innkeeper] eyed Lyonette’s clothing as the [Princess] ascended, lifting the skirts of her dress.
“Nice clothing.”
“Erin, this is the most magical and beautiful dress you’ve ever seen me wear.”
Erin squinted at the dress from the vaults of House Marquin and nodded.
“Yeah, it’s pretty nice. Where’d you get it?”
“One of my Skills.”
“Oh, cool. I’m not interrupting anything, am I?”
The [Princess] blew out her cheeks, but she was still beaming as she pulled her knees up to her chest. They sat on the gazebo’s roof, and she shook her head.
“I’m just being threatened by an angry [Knight]—in a ballroom. In Ailendamus.”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth and closed it before opening it again.
“…Are you sure you’re not drunk? Because I was gonna call you back so I didn’t leave you like I did, but you sound drunk.”
“No, Erin, it’s this entire…remember when Magnolia Reinhart kidnapped you? It is that.”
“Oh. Oh. Wait, can you get back?”
Lyonette nodded patiently, and Erin relaxed.
“That’s good, then. Okay, I get it. We just spent another day on the road, and I thought I’d call you back.”
“Mm. Here I thought you wouldn’t talk to me for ages.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Lyonette a patient look.
“You were being extra silly last night. I was gonna pretend it never happened so you didn’t get embarrassed, but I guess that’s not going to be a problem. Do you want to see where we are now?”
Because she was too happy to be called, the [Princess] didn’t push that particular issue or needle Erin back and just nodded. So, the Fraerling-sized woman waved a hand, and the black void shifted as the wind blew again. Then Lyonette peered down and blanched.
“Dead gods, Erin!”
“I know, right? But Fraerlings don’t get scared of heights. We’re actually camped right here. I’m watching Mera and Zemmy do cannonballs into the lake down there.”
Down ‘there’ was at the bottom of a giant waterfall. Well, a waterfall proportional to Fraerlings. It was probably just some brook that led into a sheer drop, but it went down what looked like hundreds of feet—again, relative to their size. A small body of water below showed Lyonette tiny figures. Resting against the brook, lapping up water, was the Battle Hamster and the giant beetle with the tent on its back. A Fraerling with white hair was making a fire, and another was poking insect eggs onto a stick.
“That’s…Eurise, and that’s Matha, right?”
Erin smiled, surprised despite herself.
“You remember their names?”
“I was drunk, but not that drunk, Erin. Where’s Ulvama?”
The Hobgoblin wasn’t visible immediately, but Erin pointed.
“In the tent on the beetle’s back. We’re getting ready for dinner—a late one. Everything’s still good, see?”
She was smiling and kicking her legs over the edge of the cliff. Though, Lyonette noticed, she wasn’t looking down at the drop. The [Princess] gazed at Erin, surprised.
“I thought you hated heights.”
Erin glanced down, then shrugged.
“I don’t super hate heights, but really tall stuff bugs me. It won’t kill me, and it’s a great view. I’ve got to get used to them. In case we run into trouble, you know?”
Oh, so this was training. Lyonette’s smile slipped, but that was the reality of Erin’s situation, wasn’t it? Besides…dubious food content aside, the campfire seemed lovely enough, and some food and fresh water didn’t sound bad. Nothing Lyonette would ever do, of course. Mrsha and Nanette would love it, sadly.
“I’m having a bit more of a refined night myself. I’m at a ballroom in—oh, why don’t I just show you?”
Lyonette waved her hand and copied Erin’s technique; the ballroom where she was appeared, and Erin blinked around.
“Huh. Fancy. So this is Ailendamus? How’d you end up there? Was it…House Shoel?”
Again, the guilt, but Lyonette hurried to explain as much as she could. She didn’t tell Erin much about Duke Rhisveri, just describing him as ‘a friend’, and Erin listened with that amused, slightly disbelieving expression so many wore when they heard of an inn-event.
“…And now some angry [Knight] is trying to get rid of you? Are you gonna fight her? You want backup?”
Lyonette laughed in amusement.
“She’s not going to murder me, Erin. The worst she’d do is poison me with her aura, I think. I’ll be fine. What would you even do to help me, anyways? Throw your boon at me? That’d just cause a fuss.”
Erin tilted her head as she thought about it.
“No…I’d ask you what her name is. Then I’d use the [Pavillion of Secrets] on her. If you really needed help, of course. It’s risky.”
Oh. Lyonette’s smile slipped as she realized Erin did have power. She hastened to assure Erin she was fine.
“I’ll be okay, Erin. It’s just bullying. Not even bullying, really. She has a point. I don’t know what I’m doing with the Duke. I just…”
She sat there, chin in her hands.
“I think I just wanted a night off. Mrsha thought I needed it. She told me to stay!”
“Well, if you need a night off, you need a night off. Just don’t let her mess with you. We shouldn’t stand for that kind of thing after all we’ve been through.”
Erin chucked a pebble off the edge of the cliff and watched it fall. Lyonette nodded, gazing down…she decided not to after she felt the lurch of vertigo in her own stomach. Then she regarded Erin.
Should I ask about…? No, this was too pleasant. Lyonette didn’t want to pull that calm expression off Erin’s face. So they just sat for a bit, and Lyonette told Erin about how her [Treasury of House Marquin] Skill worked.
“Really? That’s awesome! And Ushar stabbed the ancestral armor of Queen Marquin? I bet she feels bad about it.”
“She’s wearing said armor, Erin. She has to since her armor’s too noticeable. I think she’s both going insane and delighted.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“That’s so funny. Can I tell Ulvama about this? She was really happy to know that Mrsha was okay. Really happy. And I guess I’ll tell her about your dress. She likes that kind of thing.”
Erin peered at Lyonette’s dress, clearly trying to memorize how it looked, and the [Princess] got up to twirl around and show off. She was pleased about that, then eyed Erin.
“Does she know about the [Palace]…?”
Erin avoided her gaze and nodded. She coughed into one hand and thumped her chest.
“I told her. I don’t want to keep secrets from her. But I didn’t tell her all of the…bad stuff.”
Lyonette nodded. She searched for something else to say, but then she just spread her arms.
“I should get back to my party. Any advice?”
Erin peered at Dame Eclizza, then eyed Duke Rhisveri. She gazed around at the ballroom.
