“Marvellous, isn’t it? One of Duke Rhisveri’s ancestors apparently proposed the design.”
Regalius murmured. Lyonette nodded, and he extended a hand.
“Let me know if there is anything you’d like to focus on. You can spend weeks touring the palace without lingering on a single thing. Thire’s palace is the central wing—you hardly see it since the royal family lives in it. But we’re at Rendova-Antivon. Friends? Antivon’s bathing pools or Rendova’s steel art gallery?”
He took a vote of the others, and two-third chorused.
“Galleries!”
Yietha settled the matter by taking them towards the crimson palace.
“The bathing pools are very well without crowds, Regalius. Don’t be silly. Now, all the metal in the galleries was made by their rulers and the most talented [Artists] of the day, Miss Eyon. It’s a game to guess whether it was a royal hand or commoner who made each piece. Usually, you can guess, but sometimes there was actual talent in the family…”
Onwards they went, Lyonette shocked to silence at first by the vastness of the palace.
And every wing was full of people. Commonfolk and nobles. In fact, some of Rhisveri’s group weren’t noble at all. When they reached the garden, Lyonette thought she’d seen far too many encounters of commoners talking to their betters.
This wouldn’t occur in Calanfer, even in the most relaxed setting. At least, not without more adherence to protocol. It didn’t make her think Rhisveri was more correct. But it gave her perspective; the Court of Masks was an example of how Rhisveri and his allies thought.
Equality preserved by the mask. 
Even so, she wasn’t quite at home. Everything here still spoke of the enemy, and she wasn’t in a position to ferret out state secrets, so she was a bit at a loss of what to do. She kept getting distracted and enjoying herself asking Regalius how he did his ceremonies, or talking about all the things Ailendamus had—like massive glassblowing facilities. They produced glass for the entire continent!
It was Dame Ushar who snapped her out of it. Lyonette had seen her [Knight] doing her best to shadow her, but in this place, Lyonette felt very safe. There were guards everywhere, and if someone attacked her or slipped poison into her drink…
She noticed Ushar doing what all the off-duty [Knights] were doing: having a conversation with the nobility. Lyonette stepped back as Rhisveri’s group mingled outside and eavesdropped on a conversation between Ushar and a rather rude noblewoman.
“Ah, another foreign [Knight]. Which Order are you, Dame Knight?”
“I’m an independent [Knight], Your Ladyship. May I take it from your attire you are of Taimaguros?”
“Gura, yes. Dead gods, well, one supposes Ailendamus vets its guests. You’re not one of the ‘Ghosttouched’ nobles or some peasant of the same ilk who found some armor, I trust!”
Rather too-loud laughter. The Gura representative had a drop of blue hanging from her temples. Taima liked red—Lyonette saw Ushar tilt her head.
“Ghosttouched, Lady?”
“Yes, haven’t you heard? Or are you from abroad?”
A more cunning gaze—or an attempt at one. Ushar bowed slightly.
“I have been abroad with my ward, yes.”
“Aaah. Well, it’s not Taimaguros alone. They’ve been all over the place ever since last year. You truly haven’t heard? I heard it was more common in Terandria, but—they’re madmen and women. They claim to be ‘chosen’ or to be given quests. By ghosts!”
The laughter wasn’t joined by Ushar or Lyonette, whose eyes widened. The ghosts!
“And they are purely delusional, Lady?”
“Well, some find trinkets or claim to have classes—but it’s nonsense. We have one particular problem I intend to bring up to His Majesty. A native problem. Anyways, what was your question?”
Ushar had noticed Lyonette eavesdropping and shifted her feet, but it seemed she was too desperate to not ask.
“I…was merely inquiring as to the health of His Highness of Gura. And, uh, Prince Kanmis of Calanfer?”
“That traitor who married into Taima? Doing just fine. As for our Prince…no, I don’t think I’ve heard anything. He’s still sick, I suppose. Why?”
“Merely inquiring into his health, Your Ladyship.”
Ushar bowed hurriedly and stepped back as Lyonette smiled at the confused woman. But her mind was racing.
Wait, wait. Kanmis? No! No way! He was the 2nd Prince of the realm, but he had gone to Taimaguros and been co-opted by the other nation. He never visited, and Ielane considered him a rogue asset.
Was he the one that Ushar was interested in? Impossible. But…Ushar was old enough to have served Calanfer for a long while. If she had once been attached to Prince Kanmis…who was this Prince of Gura who seemed to be in ill health?
A clue. Lyonette smiled at Ushar, who sighed through her helmet. The [Lady] of Gura turned to her.
“And you would be…”
Lyonette was introducing herself, but the [Lady] wasn’t interested. She did wave to Rhisveri, who turned from the group.
“Ah, there he is. Your Grace, Your Grace! I was just speaking to your lady here about the Ghosttouched. You must do something about the one in Taimaguros. He’s agitating the commonfolk.”
Rhisveri pulled a face at Lyonette as he muttered.
“Which one is that? It’s not our problem to deal with, Your Gura-loving Ladyship.”
“Nonsense. He came from your nation. He was at the battle at the capital, and then after that, he came back raving that the First King of Taimaguros himself had given him a mission! Unity over the feud. Ridiculous. He’s been imprisoned twice, but now he keeps escaping the [Knights] of both Taima and Gura.”
Lyonette exchanged a glance with Rhisveri, and for once, they were in agreement—this seemed to be an issue Ailendamus shouldn’t be involved in. Lyonette spoke gently.
“Perhaps his claim has some merit, Your Ladyship? Can he prove anything he claims?”
“Prove? He should be beheaded just for his words! A commoner chosen over a noble by the ghost of our founder? That’s treason enough. Off with his head, I say!”
The [Lady]’s loud words were not, in fact, earning her much support in the audience of Ailendamus. However, Rhisveri put on his best smile and chivvied the [Lady] towards a [Diplomat] whom she could vent to. When he came back, he muttered.
“Our best allies.”
“Such an appropriate ally for an enlightened nation such as yours! Beheading commoners for speaking above their place! I can see you embody your beliefs.”
Lyonette smiled sweetly at Rhisveri, and he grunted.
“I suppose I deserve that. It’s the realpolitik to lofty goals. Someone has to hold the Restful Three from swooping on us. Not that it’s working now that they’re riled up. Those damn…Earthers.”
He spoke the word casually and, Lyonette thought, deliberately. A passing man in robes whirled and nearly splashed the man he was talking to with wine. The tall, clean-shaven fellow leapt back with an oath, and the [Mage] apologized.
“I’m so sorry, sir. I was just stunned by that, uh—word. What did you say, Your Grace? Magus Telim, of Terras, here for your fine food and drink.”
Rhisveri accepted the handshake with a dour glower.
“And to show off more magic, no doubt. Did you teleport here?”
“Absolutely. Anything for a banquet.”
The magus was a rather well-fed fellow, but he was more charming than Lyonette expected. Cleverer too. He shook her hand, then fixed Rhisveri with a smile.
“So you’re, ah, aware of Earthers too?”
“I have no idea what you’re referring to, Magus Telim. What fascinates Wistram about the—what did you say?”
Rhisveri wore a snake’s smile, but Telim just chuckled and rubbed his belly.
“Oh, come now. Everyone’s been doing this song and dance, Your Grace. We’re two intelligent men. I heard what you said; you said it on purpose. This unpleasantness with the Archmage of Memory aside, can’t we speak frankly?”
“I don’t share information with the group that helped kill Great General Dioname.”
Rhisveri was not happy with the [Mage], but Telim just exhaled.
“War is a nasty business.”
“One that Ailendamus partook of, knowing the consequences.”
Lyonette stabbed Rhisveri in the back, and he gave her such a genuinely hurt gaze that she hesitated. But Telim beamed. He glanced up at some light spells that were making giant, long-necked creatures gallop across a grassy plain, chased by lions.
“Thank you, miss. A terrible business, but Wistram is willing to trade magic. Everything’s advancing, and we would hate to leave Ailendamus in the dust. Incidentally, do you like our illusions? Far higher quality. You can touch them. I made that myself. Giraffes, you know.”
Rhisveri just glanced up and sneered.
“Mere hardlight. When you can do smell, I’ll spare more than a glance at it.”
Telim rubbed at his chin thoughtfully, eying Rhisveri.
“You know, the Archmage said the exact same thing…well, perhaps Ailendamus is in way of being more competitor than friend. As for smells, I took a good whiff of those beasts and I felt like I’d rather hold off given the splendid event going on here. Certainly, you got the amazing, nay, incredible Players of Celum to perform here rather than at our academy! We were all terribly let down you know, Actor Wesle.”
He turned to the tall man who was brushing at his coat, and Lyonette’s jaw dropped and her heart began to thunder dangerously. Wesle stepped forwards with a bow, and he seemed taller, more confident, and certainly more impressive.
The [Actor] shook Rhisveri’s hand and laughed ruefully as he turned to Telim.
“I’m afraid we wanted to build a theater, Magus, and there’s just no room.”
“Yet. The Archmage was willing to build an entire—aw, it’s too late. I’ll just have to teleport to your latest performances. Have you seen them, Duke Rhisveri? Magnificent. I caught some scrying recordings of your work in Invrisil, but your levels make the new stuff incredible.”
Wesle bowed his head as Rhisveri rolled his eyes.
“No offense to your group, sir, but I’m not one for these…plays. But our Minister of Entertainment wouldn’t shut up until we hired you. I’m surprised he hasn’t accosted you.”
“Oh, Minister Sophridel? I think they dragged him off poor Emme back there. I hope I can impress you with some small performance though, Your Grace. Though I have to say…I can’t get your measure. You’re one of a handful of men I can’t read.”
Wesle eyed Rhisveri closely and got a smile from the Wyrm. Which said that he had read Rhisveri because that was the kind of thing that he liked to hear.
Wesle was so much more confident! And capable in situations like this. But Lyonette was trying to edge behind Ushar because—Rhisveri glanced around.
“Ah, manners. This is Miss Eyon. My date for the night.”
“Dead gods, you found one? Sa’la was nearly dying of—ahem.”
Telim blurted out, and Rhisveri’s glower intensified. Lyonette took Wesle’s hand as he looked her in the eyes and smiled.
“An honor to meet you, Miss…”
Ah, no. She saw his eyes grow confused and realized her Skill, [Conceal Reputation], might work on others, but he knew her. And he was far too high-level and experienced an [Actor] to be fooled by black hair.
“Is that—”
Before he could utter a word, Lyonette beamed and said the only thing she could think of.
“Fuzzylips! It’s me, Eyon! How long has it been?”
Telim and Rhisveri had been sipping from their cups and simmering at each other. When they heard the name, she saw them both blink and then make a calculated decision.
The two sprayed Winebreath Blasters at each other in a rather deliberate manner; wine flashed off barrier spells, and they both gave each other sinister eyes.
“Well played. I can see this isn’t your first Winebreath Blaster.”
Telim commented, and Rhisveri smiled nastily.
“Ever tried Umbral Throne diplomacy?”
“Oho. Oho, my friend, you may try—”
Their conversation was just a sidepiece to the one Lyonette and Wesle were having. He had levelled. His eyes widened, and he gave her an alarmed expression that focused on Rhisveri—and clearly, he understood what situation she was in, because the next moment, he threw his head back in a genuine laugh.
“Fuzzylips! Oh, dead gods, Eyon! I haven’t heard that since…how are you?”
He swung her around and then kissed her on the cheek. She was back in the center of attention, but now she had him on her side, and she was smiling.
“I came with Duke Rhisveri for the night. I never expected to see you here. Where’s Jasi?”
“Jasi? Sick, I’m afraid. The oysters got her. It’s just me, Emme, and Kilkran. They took us from Pheislant to here in a night! Magnificent—but you’re here on a date?”
Not being kidnapped or held hostage? His fingers squeezing her arms did the asking, and she gave him a relaxed smile.
“I hope to be feeding my dog sausages by morning at the latest.”
“Ah, the white one? How is Matty?”
“Well, she’s lost weight. Actually, it’s always chaos back home.”
“So I’ve heard. So I’ve…we haven’t had time to go back, you know. I would have sent some gold to help with all the troubles. We could if it’s needed, but you know, with the rest, it’s all political where we are.”
In Terandria where Erin is a wanted criminal and murderer of a [Prince]. Lyonette nodded tightly. As for the gold, she had no issues given the box.
The Players had been generous enough, really. They’d sent plenty of gold back until it had stopped—Lyonette just assumed it was going to Temile or their other projects and she hadn’t felt like it was needful to ask. She smiled warmly at the [Actor].
“Wesle, it is so good to see you. Rhisveri, he’s an old friend.”
The Wyrm wiped his mouth and eyed Wesle.
“Right. It’s always an old friend with you. I shouldn’t be surprised, really.”
He sounded calm, which was good, but she worried someone was reading into his words. Ah, well. She re-introduced Wesle to Rhisveri, hoping they could run into Emme and Kilkran before someone noticed.
 
——
 
The moment Regalius saw Actor Wesle’s reaction, he grabbed his wife.
“Yietha, our stalled mystery now has a clue! Did you see how he reacted?”
She was talking to none other than a servant of the crown and turned.
“I did indeed. She gave away nothing about herself, but that was unexpected for the both of them. Regalius, we’re on a mission from the crown. His Majesty wants to know who the Duke’s guest is too.”
“Magnificent. This is what I was hoping for.”
He rubbed his hands together. It was one thing to enjoy a nice banquet in honor of the Great Knight, of course, but this had his mind racing.
And all his co-conspirators’, which included not only Rhisveri’s friends from the Court of Masks, but servants of the crown. Regalius lowered his voice.
