It towered above her. It felt bigger than the dimensions of the room. The [Princess] cowered away from it, heart thundering in terror. It didn’t move, of course. It was just an object.
But it terrified her. She saw it, now. Erin’s true Skill.
“Not one, but four. Oh, oh dead gods.”
The box. The [Box of Incontinuity] was the smallest of the four objects. The smallest…and see what it had done! Now there were four.
Lyonette had been face-to-face with the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus and not wavered an inch. She had seen the Goblin King charging and refused to run. But right now, her hands were groping for the handle of the door, and she was pressed against one wall in a mindless terror. She didn’t understand.
Why now? Why now? Why, when everything had gone so well…
The safe was glowing, but there was no light in this room. Its glow bounced off the faded brasswork of the chest, and Lyonette’s fluttering heart calmed slightly as she gazed at the beautiful cube. Yet the vault terrified her. She felt like anything could be behind that impenetrable door.
“I don’t want this. I don’t need—leave me alone! Please!”
Was someone doing this? The Grand Design that Mrsha talked about? If so, Lyonette had something to say to it already, and she’d be adding her complaints!
But no…that’s not how it was supposed to work, was it? The [Princess] took another shaky breath and then remembered something.
She wasn’t just a [Princess]. She was [Princess of the Inn]. Her powers literally let her use Erin’s greatest gifts. What she needed, the inn provided. Just like how the Box of Incontinuity had appeared for her…
“O-oh. I see. I asked for this, didn’t I?”
The three objects didn’t respond, of course. She was almost…almost positive they didn’t work like that. It was just Erin’s greatest Skill.
Just Erin’s greatest Skill. Lyonette’s arms were spread against the wall as she kept her face to the objects, like they were wild animals, but she made herself leave the wall. Take a step forwards.
Nothing happened. The doors didn’t swing open. The horrors of hell didn’t emerge to drag her screaming into the receptacles. Of course not. Far worse…
They were waiting to be used. By her. All the consequences, all the responsibility was on the person who called for their use.
“Me.”
The [Princess] conjured a ball of [Light] into one hand. As she lifted it, the [Vault of the Mortal World] refused to acknowledge the light. There was no glow off its walls. It existed independent of light itself; in the pitch black of the void, she would have seen it.
Lyonette’s head swung to it, then to the safe and the chest, and she tried to understand what was going on.
“I summoned you. I wanted this, I think. Or I’m being given the opportunity to…do something. But that’s a silly thing to say, because I already know, don’t I? I know why I came here.”
She did, too. There was one, no, two last things to do before she slept, and it had been a long day. But if she had to name the two things to wrap this eventful, gentle, and now mildly earthshaking day…the [Princess]’ lips moved. She closed her eyes and spoke. It was easier when she couldn’t see the containers.
“You know, it truly has been a—a gentle and pleasant day. All things considered, it has been! Not an uneventful one, but I wouldn’t trust that even if I had one. It had that silly Wyrm, Ilvriss, and…it was not wholly good, but it was what I wanted. Truly.”
She took a breath, eyes still closed.
“There were only two things that took away from it. Only two. Not Pawn nor Eclizza; that was just living. No, what disturbed me, what I fear is the Blighted Kingdom’s threat against the inn. Their promise. And…Erin’s wounds.”
Yes, those two things genuinely hurt. Seeing the [Innkeeper]’s injury, which did not look like any healing potion or, perhaps, even Potion of Regeneration could fix, had upset Lyonette. And the Blighted Kingdom, Erribathe, Roshal, and the other foes of the inn…
Hectval had once taken Erin away. Hectval. If that little Drake city could do that, then what about world powers? Vaulont, Elia, the Calanferian servants would do their best, but in the face of that danger, Lyonette feared for the future.
“We have survived worse, and we will survive it. Erin and the inn. But it upsets me. So. That’s why I’ve called you here tonight.”
Detective Lyonette du Marquin came to the conclusion and reflected that Zevara really should have asked for her help. She was smart, insightful, and knew the Antinium! Anyways…she swallowed as she opened her eyes and looked again.
The room had changed. The Vault of the Mortal World was now in the center of the room, right in front of her. She was a foot away from the metal. This time, Lyonette barely flinched, and she didn’t scream. A vast improvement.
“I’m terrified. I rather fear I need the outhouse again. Unless I were to pee in one of these objects.”
That would be a rather funny way to end the entire world. No, no, that wouldn’t happen.
Probably.
Lyonette didn’t know what to do. But she did, at the same time. She had seen how the Box of Incontinuity worked. She didn’t know exactly what each object did, but if you extrapolated the powers of the Box of Incontinuity, then each object had some kind of authority that was the same as the box. Only…greater.
She had an idea, and it was very, very scary. But the [Princess] knew that was only half of the solution being offered here. She went on, speaking to herself and her audience.
“I can do something important here. But with respect, that isn’t the only important thing that will happen tonight, is it? I’ve been putting it off, and I think, so have you for a while. I’m overdue, though pardon me if I sound impertinent, um…Miss? Sir? No, Mrsha said you don’t have a gender. Uh—uh—Grand Design of Isthekenous?”
Yes. There was no movement in the room, no response, but she was addressing the only other thing who could hear her. The thing that heard everything.
Lyonette had heard a prayer to the Grand Design in the ballroom of Ailendamus, after all. But even without it, she would have known what to do. After all, Mrsha had told her mother of her great adventure. Besides that…Lyonette’s hands were clasped together. She knew the motion. She had heard the words.
She’d dated Pawn, after all. Even tried to pray with him for the Antinium’s heaven, but Lyonette had never been a true believer in this or even the future-Pawn world. She might wish for his heaven to be real, but it was an Antinium desire, and Lyonette didn’t see Erin as a goddess.
But the Grand Design? Oh yes, she could believe in that. She had witnessed its miracles from the first time it had given her levels. It had brought her daughter back for her. Even if she didn’t have the faith for a class…Lyonette prayed to it. A conversation before she reached Level 40.
“My family has records about this. Reaching capstones, that is. I’ve heard of people…requesting Skills. I think it works like that, doesn’t it? Queen Marquin had that happen to her. So, if you’ll excuse my presumption, the way I think it works is that we can ask for levels and classes. If it fits us. If you agree.”
She knelt on the ground, her dress changing to soft moonlight colors in the glow of the safe. Lyonette licked her lips.
“I wasn’t sure what I wanted to become. I rather feel like my [Princess of the Inn] class was well done. It fit what I wanted to be until now. Thank you.”
It never hurt to butter up your recipient, she reasoned.
“But I have reached Level 40. I have lost so much, and now it’s just me. And all the staff, of course, but I’m the one in the inn. I…I don’t know if I can do it. I am leaning on Erin’s Skills. I suppose I’ll do that until the day I’m no longer in the inn. That’s alright with me, but you understand, don’t you?”
Lyonette opened her eyes and stared up at the vault.
“I just want to help her. Erin. My daughter took on the burden of the [Palace], because she thought she had to. So that’s what I desire. Let it be me, next. I am so tired of watching someone else step forwards.”
Halrac challenging the Goddess of Death. Ser Sest throwing himself forwards with a laugh. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut on more tears.
“…So that’s what I want. Give it to me. A class that I desire. I have no name for it, but I will take on some of Erin’s struggles. And I will defend this inn. I will open the vault and protect the world.”
Her right eye opened, and the blue of her eyes caught the light.
“Protect Rhir, Roshal, and Erribathe and all our foes. For I will not be so kind when they come in wrath and death. This is the kinder option they do not deserve. If you agree, please, make my class interesting. Amen. Thank you for your time.”
She unclasped her hands and rose. There was no response, of course; she didn’t expect there to be. But she had said her piece, and the words seemed to echo in her chest with the faintest reverberations of that grand voice she had once heard.
Queen Marquin’s bellow. Someday, Lyonette wanted to speak and have the world listen like that. It was terrifying. A heavy weight that made her think she had never understood what the crown truly meant…but was beginning to.
There was nothing for it now. The [Princess] knew what she wanted, and she would see if the Grand Design thought she had a right to it. She stood, and the [The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World] was again in the center of the room.
But no longer waiting. Her breath caught; she had heard nothing, no lock undoing itself. Nor the sound of its hinges moving.
Yet the door was open. Just a hair, and inside the vault was nothing. Nothing at all.
An empty tomb, an unfilled space that you could put…anything into. The Princess touched the door, and it was lighter than a feather. Heavier than a mountain.
She swung the door open and knew what she wanted to put inside. She didn’t know…how. But the vault knew.
“Ah. How terrifying. Once and never again. Right?”
The [Princess] gazed down at what she’d put inside the vault, and her arm was shaking. Her eyes were wide—but she stared down at the little diorama that had appeared. A perfectly detailed, utter recreation of an inn on a hill, the rain falling around it.
The door closed on it. The [Vault of the Mortal World] made no sound, but when it was done, Lyonette stumbled backwards, gasping. She clutched at her chest, sweat soaking through her dress.
“I’ll need a bath after this. That’s one…we’ll see what that does. Tomorrow.”
She didn’t know if she’d be able to sleep after this, but—her heart was beating even faster when she turned to the second object. The small safe on the table.
The [Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments] somehow scared her worse than the vault. This would be harder, and she didn’t know if it was possible, even with the idea in her head.
The Grand Design knew what she intended, too.
Even it held its breath as Lyonette took the handles of the safe and tried to move it. This time, it was hard; the safe didn’t want to open. Lyonette threw her weight onto the handles and felt it shift ever-so-slightly.
“Please? She doesn’t need it. She trusts me, and I…I can handle it.”
Slowly, one turn after another, she got the safe’s door to open. Bit by bit, the mechanism unwound, and the panting [Princess] saw what was inside. She reached for it and then paused.
“It’s terrifying.”
She hesitated there, uncertain if she wanted what she had asked for. For a long time, an [Immortal Moment], she stood, pondering her decision. Then the [Princess] smiled like she had at the Goblin King.
“It fits this pleasant day. Some deeds should be done only when you’ve seen all there is to lose and know what the sunshine feels like. Just like Rhisveri said.”
So saying, she reached into the safe and murmured.
“Oh, it hurts so much, Erin.”
Then she carefully gathered it up and pressed it to her chest, hobbling away. The safe’s door slammed shut as the [Princess] turned and fled.
Something taken out, something left behind. Lyonette du Marquin stumbled out of that room that didn’t really exist and found her rooms waiting for her. She collapsed into the bed, and then, after a long moment, the Grand Design of Isthekenous spoke.
For not even it had known what her class would be until the last moment of those dice rolling. It whispered the class out, where the inn had once shook for Erin Solstice. A whisper that would run across Liscor and the world as they awoke to find out how, once more, the inn had changed.
 
[Class Change: Princess of the Inn → The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn!]
[The Cracked Princess, Keeper of the Inn Level 41!]
[Condition – Soul’s Crack Assigned.]
[Condition – Impaired Sight Assigned.]
[Condition – Crippled Reflexes Assigned.]
[Condition – Pained Nerves Assigned.]
[Condition – Resonant Flesh Assigned.]
[Skill – Grand Act: Reforge My Shattered Soul Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Lesser Charisma → Greater Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Give Me Your Best Obtained!]
[Skill – Ritual: Designate Heirloom Obtained!]
 
——
 
The next day, King Nuvityn was sitting in his tents for breakfast, having a scrying orb chat with one of Erribathe’s [Diplomats]. Not a group he usually interacted with, but this was apparently urgent.
The King of Myths was not in a good mood. He didn’t like surprises of this nature. And it felt to him like he was behind events. He really didn’t want to hear that one of his foes had appeared at a banquet thousands of miles from where she should be in the heart of a kingdom he disliked.
“You’re certain it was her, Diplomat Ke’len? There is no place for mistakes in this regard.”
He knew he was leaning on the Dwarven man, who spoke slightly tensely into the scrying orb, but if this was true…
Ke’len was a hundred and twenty years old, and he’d been [Diplomat] for half his life. He was maybe not the highest-levelled since Erribathe didn’t do much diplomacy, but his experience was still valuable. He was one of the sort who wanted to go outside Erribathe, and Nuvityn did trust his opinion enough. The Dwarf bowed again.
“Her hair was dyed, but she was unmistakable. Her name was an anagram of Lyonette—it was not the most involved disguise, Your Majesty. Either it was a poor fakery or the original [Princess], and I must believe my eyes and the reactions of others, including the emissary of Rhir.”
Nuvityn uttered an oath and turned in his seat.
“Across the world in a moment. How? Did that Duke waste a [Grand Teleportation] spell, Magus Tserre, or was Wistram in on it?”
