[Basic Footwork], [Balanced Posture], [Lesser Stamina], [Lesser Strength]—it wasn’t enough. She stumbled at one point when she should have thrown out a leg in a circle and spun, like she were Ceria on polished ice, and her cheeks went red as she saw how many people were watching.
No one was booing or making sounds of disapproval; who would try this dance in their right minds? And she was doing well enough. Of course she was:
This was her [Flawless Attempt].
That alone told Lyonette how demonically hard this dance was. But after six long minutes, she slowed, covered in sweat, and found Duke Rhisveri stumbling after her.
“Damn shoes. I think Ryoka had a point! How do you move in them like…are you wearing heels? How in the hells did you do that?”
He was red-cheeked too, but he hadn’t quit the dance floor. If anything, he’d stayed just close enough to her for her to think he was trying to keep up. Lyonette, panting, heard a scattering of applause and blushed.
“I remember doing that at a quarter-pace and practicing for a month to pull it off! Dead gods, it’s even more nightmarish than I remember.”
“Right, well, let’s leave. You certainly impressed people with that ludicrous dance. Much less the spinning jump.”
Rhisveri croaked, eying her feet. Lyonette just shook her head. Some people like Yietha were applauding her, but she didn’t deserve it.
“The real thing is far more beautiful, Rhisveri. I wish…”
She heard another bar of music and sighed. That was the thing about this kind of place. You couldn’t jaw around all the time—the next song was starting.
“Oh, damn—”
He seized her hands in a panic, but it was a far slower song that Lyonette recognized. It seemed dancing was back in vogue, so people wanted onto the floor. The musicians had obliged them, so Rhisveri swung Lyonette about, and she glanced around.
“No Eclizza?”
“She was watching, but I think she gave up. Ah, she’s over there. See? She’s not going to haul off and hit you.”
Lyonette saw the annoyed Great Knight standing to the side and eyed Rhisveri.
“That’s what I said.”
“Yes, well…you dance passably well. And you fought off her aura. Few people can do that, even if she was taking it easy on you. Well done. This wasn’t my intention, you know.”
Rhisveri stared past Lyonette as they saw more people entering the floor. Regalius winked at Lyonette, and he and Yietha moved past them, dancing in perfect sync. There was a couple who danced privately and practiced!
Lyonette eyed Rhisveri.
“I imagine everyone knew this wasn’t your plan when the sock puppet appeared. Why…him?”
“Rhissy? He inspires the children.”
Rhisveri seemed quite hurt. Lyonette snorted.
“He’s ridiculous. But he is endearing, I suppose. In a horrific way. Mrsha’s too old for him, I hope.”
“Bah, he teaches intelligent lessons and—why am I defending him to you? Listen, we’re dancing. You had an eyeful of Ailendamus, and an earful. We could talk about our gripes, but if you’re not going to write me an angry letter, we can call it here. I think I have made my point to my…friends.”
Rhisveri contrived to glare at some of his noble acquaintances, and Lyonette just sighed at him.
“Rhisveri, you are simultaneously the most selfish and conscientious man I’ve met. And I dated a [Priest].”
He might not have known the class, but Rhisveri snorted.
“Why, yes I am. Thank you for noticing.”
Because that was deliberate, that did make her smile. She continued as they traced the steps of the dance.
“I took this rather ridiculous charge on for you. Have you gotten everything you desire out of tonight?”
He blinked at her, then searched around.
“I suppose we presented ourselves to the throne, went to the Court of Masks—you held your own in terms of elocution, and so on—I can’t imagine any other way you could show off. What else would there be?”
He sounded so thoughtless she poked him like a Goblin. He jumped and hissed at her.
“Stop that! I feel things now.”
“Rhisveri…what is your last name?”
“Zessoprical.”
“Rhisveri Zessoprical, you fool. You’re treating yourself like the ornament at a ball to be fancy and admired, not just me. Did you want anything from this night beyond showing off and keeping your status, or is that the entire point of ‘Duke Rhisveri’?”
She glared at him, disappointed if that were the case, and the Duke hesitated. He opened his mouth, then thought about it. He stared past Lyonette, turning with her in the steps of the dance, then murmured.
“Well…not normally. You see, I don’t engage with these social activities with the expectation of liking anyone. Few people manage a century, let alone a thousand years. If I were here with associates, I’d talk to them. But the ones who knew me best are gone, now. Fithea always told me to find someone else to dance with. So I suppose this is a first.”
Fithea. That name…Lyonette remembered an old Dryad made of stone, and she didn’t think that was a lover. No, something far sadder. She gazed up at the Wyrm and thought that he was somehow lonelier than the Dragon who hung about her inn.
“Really? You’ve never had a partner at such events? Not one you remember?”
He avoided her eyes.
“Why should I? What’s the point? Should I look to be inspired by someone who has lived a mere, what, forty, sixty years at best? I would have said last year that such people can’t surprise me under Level 50. Now…I suppose they can, once or twice.”
He meant her. She smiled and actually felt her cheeks redden at the compliment. The [Princess] turned, walking with arms linked with his, and she gazed at his face.
“What a sad and lonely way to live, Duke Rhisveri.”
That brought him back to himself, and he scowled at her.
“Thank you for noticing, again.”
She shook her head.
“No, I would know. That sounds like how most Calanferian [Princesses] approach balls at some point. Too many, too much the same—no one genuine to talk to. It’s work, not play.”
“Ah, so you do get it.”
“Yes, but I found something to enjoy, or at least, try this evening. I hope that if it’s forced upon you, you will too. With respect to boring company—it’s my experience that everyone can surprise you. It’s just whether they choose to that makes them interesting.”
Step back, bow, and then you could change partners if you so desired. Lyonette and Rhisveri found themselves in a merry group of dancers, young and old, and he eyed her oddly.
“Well, thank you for the opinionated remarks. I shall take them to heart. One more?”
Lyonette was about to demur as she glanced around, because she was noticing she was the center of attention, and she didn’t care for all of it. But then she saw someone dancing past her, to the light intermission music, and froze.
“Rhisveri. Who is that?”
Lyonette’s hand tightened on his arm, and he turned, puzzled.
“Who? Oh, that’s Menorkel and Gilaw. Younger members of, um…Gilaw’s a Great Knight. Menorkel wants to sing. He was throwing a fit about the Singer of Terandria just the other day. Why?”
Her face had drained of all color. Lyonette was gazing up at Menorkel, the Titan in disguise. Of course, even then, he was like…
A half-Giant. Suddenly, she was reminded of Moore. They were nothing alike, of course. Moore had a much kinder face and a beard, and Menorkel was lankier, far, far taller, and yet…his earnest face, the way he shuffled about so timidly, apologizing to the grandly dressed nobles who looked up at him and smiled made Lyonette ache.
Lord Moore was at her inn. It wasn’t just the fact it was another half-Giant that suddenly invoked the Moore she had known in every memory and made her feel as though he was just out of sight if she turned her head. It was a desire. A compulsion that would never come true.
She wished Moore could be here. Could meet this shy youngster, someone just as out-of-place and timid as he was, and—would they be friends? Would he come over and be the adult, the one who had walked this lonely path, and would that boy’s face light up to see someone like him?
Lyonette realized why the blow to her was complete; Menorkel was hiding something in the crook of his arm, which he’d used to both fend off the need for socialization and while away the long banquet.
A book. She wished Moore had retired and become a librarian. She wished she could have shown him Calanfer’s library and her beloved half-Elf mentor and her fox. And then Lyonette realized she hadn’t thought of home in so long and remembered the people who she had missed.
Mexte. Lorentha. I haven’t written them one letter. They would have been worried.
Like an Earther far from their world, Lyonette had just…forgot, that selfish girl who thought no one would care about her.
It all hit her at once and left her clutching her heart, chest heaving, eyes over-bright. Moore…Lyonette felt faint. She saw Rhisveri glance at her, and the Wyrm noticed her sudden change in complexion. He looked around for a chair, but one appeared for her as she sat; Dame Ushar had produced it from her bag of holding.
“Lyonette, are you well? Damn, was it the food? Do you need water?”
“I’m—I’m fine. My apologies, Rhisveri. I just felt faint when I saw.”
Gilaw and Menorkel were striding over. Rhisveri turned, and he flapped his arms at them as they drew closer, concerned.
“Menorkel, Gilaw, shoo! I think Miss Eyon is worried you’ll step on her.”
“Hurtful, Duke Rhisveri!”
Menorkel shot back, and Gilaw cawed rudely, but they saw Lyonette’s face and respectfully stepped away. She waved her arms, urgently, not wanting them to think she was scared of Menorkel’s height.
“It’s not that. He just reminds me of a friend. A half-Giant. Just let me sit—is there anything to drink? Water?”
Rhisveri opened his mouth for another remark, and then saw how pale Lyonette was. Without a word, he snapped a finger and a glass of it floated over. He murmured as he handed it to her and she took a gulp, which helped.
“Who? Someone from the palace? The other palace…?”
“Yes. No. He was just—”
Then she was sitting there, trembling, as he told Gilaw to get her a cup of water, and she had to explain how it was just Moore. Moore, the half-Giant of the Halfseekers, who had died at Liscor’s gates.
She hadn’t even been there when it happened, just heard of it. Brave Moore and Halrac.
Halrac, standing at the exit, bow in hand, challenging Kasigna with the knowledge of fate shining in his eyes. Halrac the Grim.
Ah, and then she was back in the depths of her sadness, tears leaking from her eyes. The Duke knelt there, listening. Menorkel sat too, taller than everyone else, blocking out the ballroom from view, eyes wide. And the Wyrm?
He didn’t mock her. He just watched as Lyonette wiped at her eyes and accepted a handkerchief from Ushar and a glass of water from Gilaw.
“I’m sorry. I—and things were going so well tonight.”
She sniffed, and the Duke raised his eyebrows.
“Grief is an acceptable response to death. Better than if you were smiling all the time. We have a name for such people in Ailendamus. Psychopaths. Or Lucifen.”
Menorkel tried not to laugh at that. He covered his mouth with his hand and bent to whisper.
“I’m entirely sorry if I distressed you, Miss Eyon.”
Oh, and he was kind, like Moore. Lyonette wiped her eyes and shook her head.
“I should apologize, Menorkel! You did nothing wrong. It’s good to meet another half-Giant!”
“Ah, well, you should meet Dame Merilla. I could get her for you?”
Menorkel offered, and Lyonette refused politely. It was Rhisveri’s turn to sit there for a moment and shake his head.
“The palace was a painful place. Filled with…opportunity. If only it had been done better. But one is a miracle.”
That was all he said as he peered towards Eclizza, and Lyonette nodded. Menorkel and Gilaw gazed at Rhisveri, and he studied Lyonette’s hands. Then patted them awkwardly.
“Huh. I suppose there is one last thing to do that I would like. Stay there. If I make a fool of myself, just pretend you don’t know me.”
So saying, the Duke of Ailendamus stood, swiped the cup of water from Lyonette, and walked into the center of the ballroom as the dancers broke for another song. Lyonette peered at him and saw the Duke snag a teaspoon from a used tray of dishes.
Dame Eclizza started from where she was still mad-dogging Lyonette. The Great Knight seemed ready to harass Lyonette again, but like everyone else, she focused on Rhisveri.
He stood in the center of the room and calmly, loudly, clanged his cup with the teaspoon. The metal-on-metal violence was loud—he tossed the deformed teaspoon to the ground as everyone turned to him.
“Excuse me. I have a speech to give. Exalted guests, friends of Ailendamus, king and countrymen, shut up and listen…please.”
Oh, dead gods, a speech. The thing everyone wanted to hear the most at a time like this when they were actually enjoying themselves. Especially from Rhisveri. The man stood, casting around the vast room, and he projected his voice as he spoke. His face was relatively blank as he glanced at Lyonette.
“This isn’t a sanctioned speech by my royal brother. Just something I would like to say as the Duke. We are gathered here to celebrate the return of our Great Knight, the Pale Serpent, Dame Eclizza. In our dark hour, she returns, and no one is happier than I.”
“Hear, hear!”
Several people shouted, perhaps hoping that this was the entire speech, but Rhisveri ignored them. He gazed at Eclizza, who hadn’t moved and seemed to project hatred at him for putting her in the center of attention. But then the blank-faced man just searched around, and again, Lyonette thought he met her eyes.
“Victory in defeat. And it was a defeat. Perhaps not in the grand scheme of the war, which goes on, but we have lost…friends. Soldiers. [Knights]. They were someone’s lovers, friends, sons, daughters. Mother. On this day, I remember Magistrate Fithea, who was lost in an attack on the palace. And the Great General of Ailendamus, Dioname.”
He swallowed as a sudden silence fell over the room. People began reaching for actual cups, realizing this was not the triumphal speech they expected from Rhisveri. Yet his face hadn’t changed. He spoke now, staring at his shoes.
“Few things would give me any joy in life, but seeing them return would be worth all the treasures I possess. For I am a greedy enough man. For Fithea or Dioname…or Dame Eclizza, that is worth a kingdom’s treasures. So I am grateful.”
He regarded the Great Knight, and then to Lyonette, and then she detected a wobble in his voice. Rhisveri whispered.
