The magus was sleepy as she glared at Prildor, who looked in fine fettle. Amusingly, for being a half-Elf who lived a routine in the timeless villages—Tserre was not a morning person and would wake up at noon or late if she chose. She snapped back at him as breakfast dishes floated around her, preparing her plate.
“It’s far from impossible. It just requires a lot of mana or preparation. A dedicated [Gate] spell. I could make one.”
She shrugged at his expression.
“If this Duke Rhisveri is a capable spellcaster, he could do it too. Though it speaks to his mana reserves and acumen, either way. He’s then on par with a modern Archmage. Whatever that’s worth.”
He couldn’t countenance this, even for a King of Myths. Nuvityn snapped back, irked.
“I have it on good authority that the Order of Seasons can perform a similar ritual, but it costs a fortune in magic! You’re on par with their grand ritual then, Magus Tserre?”
She rolled her eyes.
“The Order of Seasons. Hah! Yes, I am, Your Majesty. I am on par with a Knight Order’s grand magic they stole millenia ago! What they can do is force a massive gate spell open anywhere in the world at great cost. Like throwing a hammer when they please. I can’t do that, but I could teleport one or two people a continent away. So it’s very possible.”
Her snap back made Nuvityn nod and turn to the scrying orb. Belatedly, he remembered the old [Archmages] like Zelkyr had pulled the same stunt now and then. Even then, it wasn’t that casual; they’d rather just fly from spot to spot. Or have those obnoxious flying Golems that the Drake had made…say what you would about the Necromancer, but the undead Wyvern chariot had been classier. And quieter.
“Then I acknowledge it was her. I am not pleased, Diplomat Ke’len.”
“Nor would any reasonable man expect you to be, Your Majesty. The only question is whether I acted in accordance with your will.”
The Dwarf bowed again, and Nuvityn thought.
“The warning was in vein with what I would have ordered. Establishing it was her—all good. Have you anything else to add?”
There would be consequences for this. There had to be. If not from him, then from her enemies. He was wondering if he should hire someone after all when Ke’len coughed. He tugged at his ornamental runes still sewn into his beard for friendship, honor, integrity, the kinds of things you would want in an honest [Diplomat].
“Merely, Your Majesty, a question. When the threat was given directly from the Blighted King’s emissary, she invoked the Slavers of Roshal. Knowing your opinions, I hesitated to agree. There are strange bedfellows in conflict and then there’s this.”
Nuvityn’s own mouth soured at the name, and he glowered. Tserre just shrugged. At his questioning glance, she replied drily.
“The Blighted Kingdom considers Roshal to be one of its better allies. More than most Terandrian kingdoms.”
“Your statements, Magus, are objectionable.”
She rolled her eyes.
“You send yearly support. Roshal is more generous. The Blighted Kingdom calculates its affections based on the value of support, not the sender.”
Well, he was in a worse mood yet, and Nuvityn growled back at Ke’len.
“You did well to be distant. Anything else?”
“Only that there was apparently a reprisal of some kind. ‘Sent twice’. Something that the Brazier Lady noticed, because it rattled her composure greatly.”
That made Nuvityn eye Tserre, and she raised her brows.
“That’s quite interesting. Nothing you heard about, Your Majesty?”
“No…but Erribathe’s spies are not exactly prolific. If it is not in our purview, it must have been hidden from ‘public knowledge’. Interesting. You have done well, Diplomat Ke’len. I shall consider this. If you see Her Highness again, notify me at once.”
The Dwarf bowed, and Nuvityn cut the scrying orb off and drummed his fingers. Once more, the inn moved at speeds that made his army feel slow. He turned to Tserre.
“I do not like this, Magus. It may simply be a singular occasion, but a reprisal may well occur before we even reach Izril’s shores.”
“Likely. Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom are rather direct and quick to reply with force to their perceived enemies. I imagine a…reprisal would already be underway, in fact.”
To that, Nuvityn just grunted.
“I am aware of one unsavory individual who has contacted me in hopes of securing funding for just such an act. I refuse to work with such forces and would rather slaughter the group itself—time permitting, we shall.”
He did not like that thought either. There were children in that inn, a fact that other powers seemed all-too-willing to ignore. Though he would be loath to defend the inn before he could hold it to account, Nuvityn realized he had to inspect the board before a move was made.
“Magus Tserre, will you perform a simple scrying spell on the inn for me? I wish to view it and perhaps…make some deliberation. I invite you to give your input as unstintingly as ever.”
Better her than his advisors like Andromeda who would argue for the most extreme option in the heat of emotion. Tserre sighed, clearly unhappy at having a [King]’s ear, and waved her hand.
“Very well, [Long-Ranged Scrying: The Wandering Inn].”
Nuvityn turned back to the scrying orb expectantly. He checked his reflection in it, noting the white hairs in his beard. He wondered how long until he was fully white-haired given how slowly he aged. After a few seconds of finger-combing his beard, he heard Tserre mutter again.
“[Pinpoint Scrying]. Hmpf. Those damn idiots in the [Mage’s Guild] have the wrong coordinates. One second. [Regional Scrying: Liscor]. There. Zoom, zoom…”
Then she went silent. Nuvityn realized after another half a minute that something was wrong. Tserre was staring at the air, lips moving.
“Magus? I can have our [Mages] pull the coordinates. They’ve scried it before.”
“I can find it!”
She snapped at him, and he let her work, but motioned one of his other [Mages] forwards. After a minute, Tserre whirled.
“It’s not there.”
The [Mage] working on the scrying orb peeked up.
“We have the exact coordinates, Magus Tserre. It should be right here…[Scrying]! There!”
He pointed, and Nuvityn stared at the blank scrying orb. Tserre scorched the other [Mage] with a look. She turned to the [King].
“The inn’s vanished. I can’t locate it.”
“What?”
He sat upright, and Tserre said it slower, overly patient.
“I can’t find the inn. I tried locating it via scrying spells. I scried the entire Floodbowl or whatever you call it, Liscor—I know where it should be. It’s gone, Your Majesty. Not just on scrying spells. I can’t find it.”
“Ridiculous! Did they use some kind of anti-scrying spell? If that Duke is a good spellcaster—”
“No, Your Majesty, it’s gone. I’m no idiot, I can bypass anyone’s wards! I can’t find it!”
She floated after him as he strode over to call for some maps. Andromeda came running, and Nuvityn stabbed a finger at a map of central Izril he’d gotten just for this purpose.
“Just find the location of Liscor and move towards the inn. It’s right…”
Then he felt his heart skip a beat. His finger stabbed down on the map of Liscor and the Floodplains, and, slowly, his eyes roamed the map. Andromeda gazed down as well, and her expression grew confused.
“That must be an outdated map, sire. Let me just—”
Tserre’s eyes had gone wide. She bent over the map and when Andromeda tried to grab it, pushed the woman back. Nuvityn murmured.
“This is the same map I’ve been using. This…”
His finger roamed the map, trying to find something he knew was there. Or did he? Had he been mistaken?
He couldn’t remember. But he could remember he remembered, and that shook him more than anything. The King of Myth’s fingers crossed over the Floodplains, then moved up, down, across the High Passes. But no matter how hard he searched, he couldn’t find it.
The Wandering Inn, which had been clearly labeled before…was gone. When Nuvityn’s head rose, he met Tserre’s eyes.
“Would a spell do…this, Magus Tserre?”
She licked her lips, then spoke in a too-calm voice.
“Yes. A Tier 8 spell would. Or maybe some kind of highly-targeted Tier 7 spell, but I would sense a Tier 7 spell, I think. This strikes me as a Skill.”
When someone said ‘Tier 8 spell’ in that tone of voice, it provoked a silence. Every advisor in his tent turned to the King of Myths, waiting for him to decry it as impossible. Nuvityn had embarrassed himself as a younger man too many times doing just that. So, he simply rose and spoke, face calm even if his insides weren’t.
“Mages. Contact Erribathe’s Mage’s Guild right now. And Liscor’s. Contact the Adventurer’s Guilds, the Cartographer’s Guilds in Invrisil—”
He suspected he already knew what they were going to find, but he had to do the silly thing and check. His heart was beating now, damn it. With frustration, anxiety, and excitement.
How? How? And then he thought—
If I am so calm, it is because I am not frothing at the mouth with madness. But I wonder—what is their reaction?
 
——
 
A Level 4 alarm was being called in the Blighted Kingdom. It began as a lower-level alert, of course. A [Strategist] tasked with the inn first suspected improper filing of their maps, already a huge issue, but it was upgraded to deliberate sabotage within minutes.
When it became clear no map or scrying spell had the location of the inn, a [Court Mage] was called for, who upgraded the Level 2 alarm into Level 4. Of course, the matter escalated from there.
The Blighted King himself had been waiting for news of a reprisal after the Antinium Incident. When he heard that the inn had vanished…he almost ordered the cringing [Strategist] thrown out a window.
Instantly, he demanded every spy they had in the region go find the inn and provide a beacon. Half of them refused on the spot, and he ordered them stricken from the lists of capable agents. Which the [Royal Spymaster] objected to because independent agents needed to be handled carefully.
Normally, such criticism was allowed in the Blighted Kingdom, but the Blighted King’s wrath was such that the [Spymaster] was ordered to be silent. Then the courts waited, as the [King] fumed, for a [Spy] to deliver news. Only…after an hour, the first reports came back.
No one could find the inn.
“Impossible! That door is still surely working! The inn provides transport for multiple cities! Has it ceased to work?”
The Blighted Queen snapped, annoyed herself at the incompetence of the agents. To which the [Spymaster] replied, cautious—
“The door is working, and one [Spy] moved from Invrisil to Liscor to report it was working.”
“Then go through the door to the inn! That…the door is connected to the inn, isn’t it? Or is it some kind of waystation outside the inn?”
Suddenly, her brows crossed. Even she couldn’t remember if the [Door of Portals] was actually in the inn itself. And she was the most certain person in the room—the court were trying to remember the layout of the inn, and if they had even known it…the [Spymaster] licked his lips.
“That’s the problem, Your Majesty. The [Spies] can’t. They’re not sure where they go. One even left the portal room. He wasn’t sure if it led to the inn, but he did try. He failed to reach the common room of the inn and was lost in the Floodplains of Liscor for half an hour before he managed to run back to Liscor.”
The Blighted King stared at the map. And his hands trembled on the armrest of the throne as someone summed up the problem.
“The Wandering Inn cannot be located.”
The court was dismissed as the Blighted King began to rage. Which, incidentally, was somewhat lesser than the reaction of the Slavers of Roshal. When the bad news was delivered to them, several people were thrown out of one of the tower windows.
Well, Thatalocian just laughed as he rolled a die and picked it up and found all the numbers had melted off the sides.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin watched aimless [Spies] and guests wandering around the Floodplains over breakfast until she felt bad for them and took them back to the portal room. They were like lost chickens. It was funny; not a single one could tell where the inn was.
Mrsha could. It was, well…
Actually, she doubted she could find it on a map, but she could at least get back through the door. She doubted anyone could pinpoint the spot well enough to blast it with a long-ranged spell, let alone march an army or [Assassins] in.
Leave the inn and you might be in trouble, but as a security-measure, she had to admit, her mother’s gambit had worked. Mrsha just wondered if there would be…consequences. But then, this wasn’t the most important thing of the day.
It was barely a blip on the radar, really. The inn was a flurry of motion. Calescent was preparing a menu, writing out packed lunch ideas for a trip. Ishkr jogged into the room, breathless.
“Alright, we will have wagons ready and I am going to look into horses. Is…is Lyonette also helping with the preparations?”
He asked Mrsha, who shrugged as Wall Lord Ilvriss argued with Ser Dalimont.
“I’ll go myself. There is no need for the inn or Lyonette to be part of this! She’s in no condition to—”
“Her Highness insists, Wall Lord.”
“She insists? Then tell her no! She’s not—we need a [Healer], not travel!”
The frantic Drake was arguing until someone spoke. Mrsha turned her head then and heard a voice which sounded like the one from yesterday. But there was a faint…rasp to it. A crack. Just like her skin, really.
“I’m fine, Ilvriss. I am going to see a Healer. Yelroan? I want to have Grimalkin and Pryde with us. Add them to the list of people to take.”
Mrsha stared at her mother as she came over and hesitantly reached up, then thought better of it. She didn’t want to hurt Lyonette, but the [Princess] took her paw and winced.
“Ow. That only smarts a bit, sweetie. Don’t worry. I’m going to take it easy today, but it is going to happen. See?”
A smile. Mrsha gazed up solemnly at Princess Lyonette du Marquin, and Nanette reached up to tug a hat she didn’t have.
“You look beautiful today, Lyonette.”
She spoke solemnly to Lyonette, and the [Princess] smiled and winced again as her lip split. She dabbed at it, then looked down anxiously at Mrsha. But all the girl wrote was…
You found something you had to do too, Mom? How does it feel?
Lyonette felt her hair and gazed into Mrsha’s cup of water. She couldn’t see well, and no one was rushing to hand her a mirror, but it didn’t matter. It wasn’t quite like greying of hair; more like a spiderweb of grey in her beautiful red hair. Much like her skin, and…Mrsha peered up. Lyonette’s left eye had a crack, and the iris of that eye was grey.
