Calanfer wasn’t that poor! It had [Peasants], but they weren’t starving! Yet Lyonette recalled there had been a famine when she was growing up. And, well, it was mostly hard to make an argument against the privilege of royalty. Because she, Lyon the Peon-Hater, had lived that mindset.
But he was the Wyrm. Was that what he truly believed, or was it just convenient for him to argue with her?
Rhisveri was getting a drink, and Lyonette was thinking on how to re-engage with him, when someone meowed. She turned and came face-to-face with a furless cat wearing a sweater.
Oh, and a [Lady], who smiled at her.
“I recognize that expression. Clashing with the good Duke is never pleasant—if he’s in fine form. On his worst days, he’s just another loudmouth in the Court of Masks, but at his best, he’ll cut you down like a Gold-bell [Duelist]. I’ve stormed off more than once when he’s decided to pick on me. Miss Eyon? May I introduce myself to you? I’m Lady Yietha du Ecte.”
Lyonette’s towering fury was interrupted by her need to smile and compose herself—she contained the ball of anger into her chest and replaced it with a hurried smile.
“Oh. Oh—the wife of, um, the esteemed Baron Regalius?”
The name popped into her mind, and Yietha laughed, delighted.
“You are good. This is Grumpy. He enjoys headpats. I shouldn’t have brought him, but everyone wanted to meet him, and he’s better around company than you’d think.”
She showed the cat to Lyonette, and contrary to his name, the cat tried to lick her hand when she reached out to pet his head.
“A naked cat. I’ve heard of them—that is such a beautiful sweater.”
The cat didn’t even seem to mind wearing it, and Yietha smiled proudly.
“I knit them myself. It’s a blend of cotton and a specific type of hemp so it doesn’t wear out or bother their skin. Do you like cats?”
“We have one at my abode—though he’s rather insane. I apologize if I made a scene in any way.”
Yietha just chuckled as Lyonette grew red-cheeked, wondering how many people had seen the not-so-subtle strife.
“Miss Eyon, if I were to survey the nobility who live in the capital or visit regularly, I don’t know if I could find more than a dozen who have not clashed with the good Duke on some matter or other. He is rather famous for it. Though, may I ask what it was about? I confess, I overheard some of it while dancing.”
Lyonette hesitated for a microsecond, having to word around her identity, then spoke airily.
“Oh, something trivial. We were discussing the cost of war, the Dawn Concordat’s example being the most prescient. Duke Rhisveri rather seems to think Ailendamus’s virtues outweigh the strife of war itself on any conquered nation!”
Too late she remembered her audience and added hastily.
“Not that I would impugn Ailendamus in any way! It’s just—does the sovereignty of another crown have no weight or meaning? What stick does he measure Ailendamus by, and his use of it on other nations feels unfair. In my opinion.”
Lady Yietha didn’t immediately fly to Rhisveri’s defense as Lyonette thought she might. Instead, she transferred her cat to the other arm, stroking his head as he purred, and seemed to consider Lyonette’s words before actually replying. And her voice did lower as she spoke.
“As someone who was not always a noblewoman of Ailendamus myself, Miss Eyon, I must say that love for homeland runs in my veins, however young Ailendamus is. I am quite receptive to the idea that Ailendamus is…overly aggressive in how it tries to bring its idea of prosperity to other kingdoms.”
She gestured around at some commonfolk, who had brought their goods from their homes to show off and were speaking with nobility who didn’t seem openly scornful of them.
“For every citizen who thinks fondly of Ailendamus, you may find their parents or grandparents who remember the Kingdom of Glass and Glory far worse. It has been the work of [Bards] and experts in reconciliation to keep our many peoples together. And perhaps—the kingdoms that fell to Ailendamus were doing worse than they might, which prompted the peoples to rather accept their new home.”
Fine, excellent points! Lyonette was adding a few more of her own as she nodded briskly, arming herself to take Rhisveri down. Then Yietha threw a disarming blow straight into Lyonette’s righteous fury.
“However, that is the privilege of a noblewoman who has never seen war. And a [Merchant]’s daughter, who lived quite well before that. I think, Miss Eyon, commonfolk of both the Dawn Concordat and Ailendamus would rather an end to the fighting. It is valiant of both nations to continue the war, in many respects, but we here are not the ones who fight and die. It is the [Knights], [Soldiers], and commonfolk who have no voice at all in these debates, which I do think are well said between the two of you!”
She offered Lyonette a bob of the head, and the [Princess] flushed. All the fire she had for Rhisveri was doused, as if Yietha had thrown a bucket of water over her. The polite reminder that Lyonette had no notion of the war that had been fought was so incredibly embarrassing the [Princess] wanted to vanish.
Even Tyrion Veltras and Dame Ushar saw more of the war than I did. She wished she had something to drink, and Dame Ushar passed her a wineglass—Lyonette took a deep draft and then spoke, red-cheeked.
“You raise wonderfully eloquent points, Miss Yietha. If I may say so, I’d hate to arouse your wrath.”
The woman laughed in delight.
“I hope I wasn’t too pointed! I have argued this point time and again. Mine is a peaceful voice in the minority, usually. I do apologize. And there is someone else who wishes to speak with you.”
She beckoned someone over. Lyonette was apologizing again for the scene, but the man who strode over and beamed at her was even more sociable than Yietha. He had a mustache that curled at both ends, and his smile was like an infection for which there was no cure.
“Nonsense. We’ve all been dying to meet the legendary lady who can rival the Duke. From the way you handled yourself, I can almost believe you two see each other. Though my husband is a skeptic.”
She gave Lyonette a glance under the lid of her eyelashes, and Lyonette realized that Yietha was very good at dissembling. She wore a lilac shawl over a maroon dress cut in an oddly formal pattern, almost like Drake togas, but overlapping, each layer of light cloth a subtly different shade of red.
Unlike Nanette, the dress was hardly offensive to the eye, and the subtleties could be appreciated the closer you got. The quirk of Lady Yietha was in the odd ribbons of blue cloth, written with golden text that hung from her clothing.
Words were scrawled on the ribbons, like ‘Perseverance’ or ‘Dignity’. Virtues, Lyonette supposed. If you wanted to be uncharitable, it made the [Lady] look like she was festooned with bookmarks, but Lyonette knew this style. She’d seen [Knights] of Ailendamus doing the same, often with the names of the dead or vows written on them.
Yietha’s husband was wearing a matching outfit; the coat he wore was hung with smaller names, that of [Knights], like a living record of ranks. It gave both a very patriotic feel that might have been mocked in Calanfer’s courts. But they seemed disarmingly genuine and casual about the attire. In fact, neither one so much as commented on it, as if it were only natural to wear such dresses, which was self-confidence and style in and of itself.
Baron Regalius strode over with a laugh and such a firm handshake and infectious presence she smiled despite herself.
“I don’t doubt that Duke Rhisveri meets lovely young women of excellent acumen! I just…find it hard to believe they can’t do better. Don’t tell him I said that, though.”
He made a show of glancing around, and Lyonette laughed as she saw other nobles drifting towards her.
“Are you all the Duke’s friends? I confess, he doesn’t talk much about his peers.”
“Ah, that sounds like him. But Miss Eyon, I have a bet of substantive proportions that you’ve been hired for tonight. I am not asking you to betray your contract, but I will accept hints.”
A smiling [Retired General] introduced himself as Lord Bathnir before being scolded by his wife and Yietha.
“Lord Bathnir, you mustn’t be that forward! He’s all strategy. Frontal assaults and never anything circumspect, Miss Eyon.”
Yietha turned back to Lyonette, and she raised one black eyebrow.
“And then you would be the scouting party, Lady Yietha? And the rest of this fine company ready to besiege the breach? Is Duke Rhisveri your friend or sworn enemy?”
That set them all laughing. They were all incredibly sharp, Lyonette realized. She wished it were not so surprising; Rhisveri wouldn’t surround himself with dunces, but Regalius handed her a cup of wine and her plate of food.
“I rescued it from the table. Can you blame us for wondering? Rhisveri is all pride. An intelligent man, but you have to keep such a fellow honest. That he suffers it is well enough, but if you are, in fact, acquainted with him, you must be delightful to speak to.”
A half-Elf muttered drily.
“You must have the patience of a Golem, Miss Eyon.”
“Hush, he’s coming back.”
The laughing, merry group welcomed Rhisveri back, and he eyed Lyonette.
“Well, here she is. She exists. Eyon, this is the motley crowd I associate with. Mostly in the Court of Masks.”
“Ah, I’ve heard of that.”
Unlike Ryoka, Lyonette du Marquin did know the notable things in Ailendamus, and she was curious about the place where everyone could speak their mind. Someone snapped her fingers and produced a colorful shower of sparks.
“Another thing you’ve never shown this young woman, Your Grace? Highly suspicious. She’s never been to the capital, even once?”
Rhisveri scowled at the woman.
“Detrida, your illusion spells are miscalibrated. And this is her first visit to Ailendamus, I’m almost positive. She’s a private woman.”
“Doubtful. I think a young woman who could best our Princess Ozena wouldn’t be that retiring.”
Yietha murmured quietly. Lyonette blushed, realizing they’d all seen that. But the next thing she knew, they were heading out of the ballroom.
“Just a quick visit to the Court of Masks won’t hurt. So you can say you saw it. Though we mustn’t miss the lightshow. Have you met Dame Eclizza, Miss Eyon?”
“Not, ah, not yet. May I ask what you do in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, Lady Yietha?”
“Oh, I help Regalius host [Knights] in celebration at our mansion. It’s a full-time job; we must have a party every night. We’re the fluff and fancy of the capital.”
“A vital position. Men and women must feel they matter.”
Regalius put in, and despite herself, she liked him. Because he understood why pomp existed. Plus, their cat was very cute. He was, in fact, a magical cat and had the ability to levitate food off people’s plates towards him if he scrunched up his face as hard as possible.
And he ate beets. Lyonette was so enthralled in feeding Grumpy beets that she didn’t realize they were at the famous Court of Masks until someone was offering a mask to her. And then she just had to go in and try it…
 
——
 
The Court of Masks was fascinating on an intellectual level. Lyonette quite enjoyed it, though she could see why Ryoka had decided to try and burn it all down on principle. That was just like the contrary Courier. However, she didn’t linger there long. There was so much more to see in the sprawling palace!
In the rush to enter the banquet properly, Lyonette hadn’t actually taken in the palace nor the people properly. Used to Calanfer’s wealth, she could gloss over a lot of richness as normal, not worth even commenting upon. But Ailendamus…
That the flooring was marble or smoothed stone was a given and just good architecture. Few materials were harder than stone or longer-lasting; wooden floors gave way or needed refinishing and resurfacing far too fast. Crystal or magical materials were also acceptable, but what you did with the floor mattered.
In each section of the palace, the flooring changed in a way that should have been disastrous and clashing. But it was like travelling from one zone to another, because, well, it was.
“—And here is the old Antivon palace. Note the zig-zag design on the tiles, the one that seems to roam endlessly?”
Lyonette gazed at a royal blue tile that interrupted the placid, whiter marble like a snake slithering left, right, even across the walls in places.
“Oh dear. That could be distracting.”
The blue snake had a golden body, and Regalius followed it as it split and branched. He turned to Lyonette as he had to twirl across the ground to keep from stepping outside the ‘lines’.
“One of the old Antivon family loved their son so much that they laid this funny path that traces every step he took. It changes, you see. One day, it’s this, the next, quite straightforward. Children—and adults—will follow it for hours on end. The game is not to leave the pattern.”
“Children, adults, and Barons, my love. Oh, and here’s another oddity of the Antivon’s—they loved pillars, but hated those big columns. See?”
A forest of thin trees rose from ground to ceiling, supporting the palace walls. Lyonette blinked, astonished; they were slightly hazardous where they grouped up and surely a nightmare to clean around.
“Wherever for…?”
“Earthquakes, I think. A central column collapsed and they realized the crack in the masonry had been buried deep. One of their [Architects] had the concept—why not build many smaller columns? If one fails, the rest will support the weight. And then, as we pass through here, you can see the old Rendova Palace. Dreadful people. Marvellous interior decorators.”
Red marble. It would have been an affront to the eye on a level that even Nanette couldn’t comprehend, except that the designers had paired the red stone with as many offsetting colors as possible. Not contrasting, just relaxing the eye until you didn’t feel like you were walking through an animal’s stomach, but a foreign landscape that demanded the bright lights hung from specialized chandeliers which filled the Rendova palace like the sky.
Of course, the marriage between these contrasting palaces, like the whimsical Antivon’s and Rendova’s, was the actual masterstroke. Bridging the gap between the two styles without feeling like someone had literally chopped a palace up and carted it here—which is what had happened—was the work of transitionary hallways, which made you feel like you were walking through a changing season.
Blue giving way to red. Lyonette gazed up at the tiles transforming colors and, for a moment, had an image of Rhisveri, as if a vast, multi-colored snake were passing her by.
