“That is not to denigrate it one iota. If anything, it makes the armor all the more beautiful. I…my armor was made by artisans to be worn and admired. This was forged in desperation, under dark skies. Mk. VII Dragonchallenger armor, forged by desperate smiths during the midst of the Creler Wars. Had I a week, I could even locate the very vein of iron mined by desperate miners in Silvaria, carted up to forges where it was hammered out for anyone willing to swing a blade in defense of the land. This is beautiful armor, Dame Knight. Whether it must be—used—or preserved, I only wish it to be honored to the last.”
She was so passionate about the armor that even Lyonette was left embarrassed and speechless. Ushar was the one bowing her head, voice low.
“I swear—I will swear to you that this armor will be preserved, Lady Paterghost. It was simply the only armor at hand. I-I had some notion of the value of it, but after this moment, I will preserve it. No [Repair] spells, you said?”
“None. [Stasis] is to be used if possible. That will give it…a hundred years, perhaps, but it has already been in something of the like. Books, armor, everything degrades in all but the most perfect time-stop spells. A hundred years is a chance. A chance for the armor to—to be appreciated. Short of that, you must bring it to a master [Smith] and hope one can restore it. Ah! A bath of iron sands might well work. The metal may take on some of the strength of the ore, you see…”
Ushar was taking notes as Paterghost went on. Was she the Great Knight of Armor or something? Lyonette herself was assuring Paterghost that the armor would be taken care of as it deserved. Ushar was bowing her head.
“I am ashamed, Great Knight. I am—”
“No, no. Armor must be worn. It should be used. I am merely passionate about…very good. Very good.”
The Great Knight seemed emotional; Lyonette was about to introduce herself properly when someone strode over and took the knight’s shoulder.
“Paterghost! Don’t natter at our guests! Great Knight Paterghost, meet Eyon. And her, uh, woman, Rusha. She’s not being obstreperous, is she, Eyon?”
Rhisveri looked flustered as he dashed over, and Paterghost turned to him, visibly offended. Lyonette halted him.
“She has been nothing but informative about Rusha’s armor, Rhisveri. You two are…friends?”
Oh, that explained a lot. Rhisveri caught himself and murmured.
“Paterghost, polite to anyone? I, uh, well! Yes! I knew Paterghost way back. She and F…”
He swallowed.
“—Magistrate Fithea knew each other. In fact, she was one of the first people I recruited.”
“Recruited?”
“From Taimaguros.”
Now, Paterghost was studying Rhisveri, and her head nodded. A bit more of her snappish tone returned, and she swept a rather flowery bow.
“Yes, I am of Taimaguros. A pleasure, Miss Eyon. The Duke rescued me from a small bind when I was a young woman. It has been my pleasure to serve and educate Ailendamus’ younger [Knights]. The era of my fighting in its defense has passed, though I retain a noble title from my time as a Great Knight.”
“An honor twice over, Lady Paterghost! Then are you from Taima or Gura?”
It was the question you asked anyone from Taimaguros if you didn’t want to be kicked for making a mistake. To Lyonette’s surprise, Paterghost hesitated.
“I would say I have spent more time in the service of Taima than Gura. But I was an—an exception who served the crown that ruled.”
Which would favor Taima over Gura as their descendants had taken the throne more than not, but only just. Who was she? Rhisveri seemed displeased by all this. He turned to Lyonette and folded his arms.
“You’re certainly entertaining my peers well enough. But you left me behind to discuss the New Lands! You’re my date!”
Lyonette rolled her eyes, and Paterghost made a honking sound behind her helmet.
“That charade will never bear fruit, Rhisveri.”
“No, she is! Just—demonstrate it more, would you? Do more date-like things!”
“Should I simper and hang off your arm, Rhisveri? Or confess my love for you in front of all and sundry?”
Lyonette gave him a cool gaze, and Rhisveri scratched at his chin, taking the question at face value.
“I’d rather not give off the impression you were some empty-headed trollop, thank you. Just…something in tandem! Less wandering away!”
He tried to tow her back to Regalius and the others, and he was annoyingly strong. Damn Wyrms and Dragons. Paterghost seemed to notice Lyonette’s distress and strode after Rhisveri.
“Leave the young lady alone, Rhisveri. ‘Tis not a shame to be alone in romance or relationship. Far more embarrassing would be to drag the unwilling into a farce.”
“Paterghost! Miss Eyon agreed to be my date.”
“Hah. A jest worthy of thrones.”
Her head swung back to Lyonette as they rejoined the social circles, and Lyonette hesitated, but only for a moment. When Rhisveri’s face fell, she couldn’t help but speak in a carrying tone.
“I know it may be hard to believe if you know him at his worst, but the good Duke did defend me and my loved ones, Lady Paterghost. This isn’t the first social engagement we’ve had together.”
Rhisveri’s friends, which now included Queen Oiena herself, all turned and gave the Duke a searching eye. Oiena cleared her throat.
“Oh my. I had no notion my brother-in-law was so gallant, Miss Eyon. What, pray, has he done in your company before this? Not to imply he begged you on hand and knee to join him tonight, but it is a rumor.”
There was merry laughter, and Rhisveri flushed again—he and Oiena clearly didn’t like each other. However, it was a gentle enough ribbing, and Lyonette once again made a choice that was easier than she’d thought. She gave Oiena a genuine smile.
“I’m quite familiar with Rhisveri’s worst instincts, Your Majesty. But when the moment appeared, he refused to back down in defense of what he considered righteous. That passes quite a lot of ill waters in my books. Well, enough to indeed say we’re more than mere acquaintances.”
A rather thoughtful silence followed her remarks as every eye swung towards Rhisveri, then Regalius applauded.
“And that is why he has the hallmarks of what we love in our Kingdom of Glass and Glory! A prickly man, difficult as a Tier 6 spell to love—but if I doubted those were his true colors, I wouldn’t call him a friend.”
“Hear, hear!”
Grand Magus Detrida lifted her cup, and the others joined in. Rhisveri blushed bright red and scowled even harder.
“You don’t need to lie.”
He muttered to Lyonette. Her response was to raise her brows and glance at Queen Oiena. Then the [Queen] of Ailendamus gave over with a true laugh. She seemed amazed by it and turned to address Rhisveri and Lyonette.
“Oh my. I do believe you were a hero, then, Rhisveri. I am endlessly curious. What social engagements have you two partaken of, Eyon? And it must be ‘Oiena’, since I am liking you.”
Lyonette curtseyed deeply and responded fast and quick.
“I would be nervous to say it in front of anyone but a daughter of Gura, Oiena. But, ah, um, gambling?”
This time, she knew she’d get a smile before she heard Oiena laugh.
“No! You gamble, Miss Eyon?”
“Like a damn Demon.”
Rhisveri muttered sourly, clearly remembering the famed night when she had played with the monarchy. Lyonette’s own smile was coy.
“It is somewhat entertaining.”
“I’m sure I saw a table—I always love watching the dice roll, if nothing else. Follow me!”
Nothing would do but for Oiena to take Lyonette over to a table. Normally, the monarchy shouldn’t be too interested in vices like gambling, but Taimaguros, and especially Gura, was known for having gambling houses that even the rich and powerful went to.
Lyonette’s experience in The Wandering Inn meant that all the stakes in the world would just bounce off her; she’d gambled for hundreds of thousands of gold pieces, and it had desensitized her. However, she was reminded of her Skill.
[The Gambler’s Dice].
She had never used it, because, well, you didn’t get a chance to literally gamble that often, especially in her inn. She stood next to Oiena as the [Queen] showed her a variant of Lucky Dice that she’d imported from Taimaguros; the simplest version was trying to get all 6s without getting snake eyes. More extensive versions added more dice.
“I can’t imagine my brother-in-law was good at gambling.”
She whispered to Lyonette, and the [Princess] hid a smile.
“He may have lost a small sum.”
“Oh my. He didn’t bet too much, did he?”
For a moment, Oiena wore the concern of a monarch, worried that Rhisveri had put himself in debt to a foreign power. Lyonette thought of Rhisveri gambling Ailendamus’ royal treasury, and her lie was the smoothest that night.
“Nothing he didn’t own. However, I daresay he walked away at the end of the night with more than he lost.”
She was thinking of the gold she’d lent him, but Queen Oiena took a different answer from the way she scrutinized Lyonette. One the [Princess] missed in a rare show of innocence. Ushar did not miss what Lyonette had implied and was sweating harder underneath her helm. She sidled back from Oiena’s sharp [Bodyguards] and got the worst message that night. She’d rather enjoyed seeing her [Princess] in action—until another [Message] spell buzzed.
 
Smoking: What is going on? Report this moment. You are on live television.
Knight U: Unable to brief at this moment. Standby.
Smoking: Pull her out of there this instant and explain why her net worth has jumped by a factor of at least one national treasure!
Knight U: I am wearing said treasure. Please stand by. They might notice the [Messages].
 
She dared not look any further. Instead, Ushar locked onto Oiena and Lyonette chatting convivially, ignoring the buzzing of her [Message] scroll. The [Queen] was laughing at something Lyonette had asked.
“A gambling Skill? Oh, no, one would never admit to using it. In other games, it may be genteel, such as chess, but the entire point of gambling is the illusion of luck. Someone with a luck-Skill would be banned from any game on using it.”
“Ah, so it’s all about using it in secret. Thank you, Your Majesty.”
Oiena fixed Lyonette with a kindly eye and shook her head.
“In fact, most gamblers would never use a luck-based Skill in gambling unless they were in need of money, Miss Eyon. Many I know consider the game itself to be a passion, and Skills dilute the joy and horror of it. Your Skill should be used on all the other gambles of life.”
Lyonette’s eyes brightened, but then she wavered.
“But that is even more horrific. I can name a few gambles where I could have used such a Skill—the idea of wagering even more on that is beyond my courage.”
Oiena once again gazed at Lyonette with frank interest. She tapped her lips a few times.
“Well, it is the mark of a true gambler to know when it is worth betting at all. You are remarkably poised for your age, Miss Eyon. I do confess, my first thought on seeing you with Rhisveri was that he was far too old for you!”
Lyonette whispered back as Rhisveri glanced up from the board where he was betting with Regalius, frowning in suspicion.
“This is more of courtesy than anything else, Oiena. But please, I did truly wish to save his reputation! I owed him that, inconvenient as it may have been to have forty minutes to prepare.”
Oiena blanched.
“Forty—I should hit him with a vase! He didn’t! That fool—well.”
She sighed, somewhat perplexed.
“That you were so gracious to him speaks better of the man than I thought. Now, I should not keep you and our gamblers on your toes. It’s considered bad luck to have a sitting monarch watching the dice roll.”
She swept forwards to place a bet, and Lyonette exhaled when she lost, laughed, and paid her dues before returning to the high table. She whispered to Ushar.
“She’s so personable.”
“She is from Taimaguros, Miss Eyon. Friendly as a [Drunkard] until you say the wrong thing, then as bad as a Kaazian.”
Lyonette half-smiled, but she gazed after Oiena in dismay.
“I wish this dratted kingdom were worse in some way. It would make it so much easier.”
She made the unguarded comment out loud, and someone chuckled.
“They’re all charming in some way. Even Noelictus and the famous Court of Dusks has something to love—though that’s the easiest one to run screaming from.”
Lyonette jumped, and Magus Telim held out a hand.
“Do pardon me. High Magus Telim, Wistram, Terras faction and all that. May I make your acquaintance, Miss Eyon? I confess I rather am desperate to do so. I fought for the honor.”
Ushar saw a pile of people cursing behind him; it seemed like they’d all tripped over something, possibly a spell. Lyonette hesitated, on-guard, but then blinked.
“Magus Telim? I think I know that name! Aren’t you…the inventor of the Adventurer Quest games?”
“The Adventure Rooms. Yes, I had some part in it, though it was a collaborative effort with the Ullsinoi faction.”
Telim was pleased by Lyonette’s recollection. He bowed over her hand and nodded.
“It’s quite lucrative and moved me up in Wistram’s little power circles, though attaching myself to the Terras faction when it was starting out did even more wonders. Now I’m actually someone of import in the academy. Dreadful. I used to have nightmares about it, but here we are.”
He pulled a face, and Lyonette laughed.
“Well, how can I help you, Magus Telim? I’m hardly so interesting as to be sought by such a famous person as yourself! Unless the Duke confers that much attention?”
Telim studied Rhisveri, then shook his head. He met Lyonette’s eyes cheerfully as Ushar sensed a subtle illusion spell move around them. She signalled Lyonette, but hardly needed to.
“No, Miss Lyonette. I rather fancy a number of nobles themselves would greatly desire to meet someone connected with the famous inn. Myself? This is as close as I’ll get to meeting the [Innkeeper] I’ve heard so much about, and safer, too. Do forgive me if I seem desperate, but you have a charmed life of your own.”
Lyonette froze up, and her head swung to Ushar, but Telim flicked his fingers.
“My best illusion spells. I don’t think even their finest [Mages] can get through that easily. It defeated Eldavin twice before he cracked it. I don’t intend on sharing your identity, Princess Marquin.”
“You…you don’t intend to place me in danger, Magus Telim? May I ask what you want?”
Lyonette was on-guard instantly, but Telim just raised his brows.
“To meet you, as I said. On my word—I’d offer a [Detect Truth] spell, but they’re useless, I’m told. I’d hate to make your inn—or the Ullsinoi Faction—my enemy.”
