She whispered to Oiena, and the [Queen] nearly performed a Wineblaster as she snorted. She gave Lyonette a genuinely admiring eye.
“My dear, I confess, I am finding myself your unwitting admirer. Were you always like this?”
Lyonette beamed at Queen Oiena, and she stopped by a table.
“No, it’s only been the last two years that made me like this. Someday, Your Majesty, I’d like to tell you all about it. Now, you gave me excellent hospitality and advice.”
“Oh, I did no such thing.”
Lyonette picked something up from the table and turned to the [Queen]. She showed Oiena what she had.
“But you did! So, Your Majesty, whether I do make myself the greatest buffoon in Ailendamus’ history or not—I hope you will respect the attempt.”
Every eye upon her, the [Princess] lifted what was in her hands, and Oiena gasped as she realized what Lyonette was doing. Then she actually cheered, and Regalius pointed with a finger that drew every eye, that fanciful [Baron of Ceremonies]. Yietha added in a stage whisper, setting Lyonette up. Teammates she had never known she had.
“The dice!”
The [Princess] had a pair of golden dice from the gambling table in hand. She turned, and the Skill she’d never used flashed into her mind. A reward for betting the treasures of kingdoms in a single wild night.
She threw the dice as hard as she could across the room, and the well-dressed men, women, and [Knights] took cover as a pair of flashing dice flew across the floor. Lyonette was running the moment she threw them, and the music was rising as she jumped and slid across the floor, fifty feet, towards the surprised Duke.
[The Gambler’s Dice]. One of the gold-painted dice bounced off of Hydra-Knight Yoriven’s helmet and spun, glittering on the floor. Another landed in High Magus Telim’s cup, and he peered down into it, then raised his goblet and drank the wine down as he toasted the [Princess].
And the [Princess]? She felt a wild, nervous energy surging through her body and wondered if it was luck or adrenaline. She grabbed one of Rhisveri’s arms and saw the same panicked expression on his face. He gazed at her, open-mouthed, and she breathed.
“Surprised by us mere mortals yet, Your Grace?”
Then she was sixteen feet left, spinning, and he was face-to-face with her as they whirled in a figure-eight. The gasp filled the room, and they caught themselves in the first move, eyes wide. He managed to reply—
“Well, anything you can do…”
 
——
 
Dame Ushar was recording the entire thing from the beginning. Of course, later, people would find the recording and replay it and there would be a to-do about the identity of the mysterious dancer.
People would tout it as an example of the famous five-step dance performed in the modern age, but they’d never have the perfect angle. Because wouldn’t you know it, a strange [Knight] in Dragonchallenger plate armor was always in the right spot, recording it.
For posterity. And her mother. The Thronebearer saw Lyonette and Rhisveri flash past her and cover a hundred paces in ten seconds. They were flying. And, it seemed to the Thronebearer…
 
——
 
“Glowing?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was up late, and he had a cup of goat’s milk mostly unfinished in one claw. He’d not been happy despite all the explanations about where Lyonette had gone and had been glowering at the scrying orb all night.
He had dark suspicions of this ‘Duke Rhisveri’s’ intentions; he didn’t see why Mrsha and Nanette liked him. He’d probably bought them off; he seemed like an arrogant blowhard. But his speech had seemed genuine. And now—this?
Ilvriss knew Lyonette could dance. Ancestors, he’d danced with her himself, but this was dancing taken to a level that made Ilvriss’ calves hurt just watching. But the [Princess] was doing it, and the Duke was keeping up!
It had to be a Skill, but it was no less impressive for all that. What made Ilvriss sit up and a snoozing Mrsha open her eyes was—
“She’s glowing.”
At first, Ilvriss thought it was his imagination, but as Lyonette and Rhisveri shot across the floor and slid the last ten paces, they glowed. And it seemed to Ilvriss that the light pulsed off them.
A familiar glow. Like the light of a certain [Innkeeper]’s magical fire, except light, flashing over their audience. It bathed the room in colors as the two turned, and Ilvriss shaded his eyes.
“What is that…?”
He’d seen this before. He swore he had. At Oteslia. Only this was the Skill born of that moment. He caught Lyonette’s face, concentrating, breathless, and when it flashed towards him—
A beam of light streaked from the scrying orb, hit Ilvriss in the chest, and knocked him out of his chair.
“Ilvriss!”
Nanette shouted, and Mrsha waved a card.
Drake down! Drake down! Take cover! Mom’s shooting lasers!
More beams of light flashed out of the scrying orb, and the rest of the inn did take cover, aside from Asgra, who was standing on a table for a better view. A beam of purple light hit her in the chest.
“Argh! I’m dying! I’m—”
The Cave Goblin writhed around on the floor and then felt at her chest as Ilvriss sat up. Asgra poked at her uniform, which had been all smutched up and slightly ragged from wear. It was pristine, warm, and clean as could be.
Ilvriss glanced down at his clawed hands and saw the blisters under his scales vanishing. He looked up, and Mrsha gasped.
That’s Mom’s Skill! Her [Dance of Blessings]! She’s never used that either!
That was it! The [Princess] was throwing off light which washed over the cheering crowd, and it touched individuals and knocked them down. Blessings delivered like a flying brick to the face. They sat up, minor injuries healed, sicknesses pushed away, or just—changed in ways that made them smile.
A laughing young woman who rose with beautiful, glittering topaz-colored hair, faintly translucent. An older man who felt a slipped disc unslip—a Hydra Knight who remembered where he’d left the keys to his personal storage chest.
Laughter and tiny miracles coming off the whirling [Princess] smiling fit to burst. Ilvriss sat himself back down and watched as Lyonette flew across the floor. After a moment, he turned.
“It’s a good dance. Well, she is doing most of the work.”
Mrsha just turned to him and, after a moment, patted Ilvriss on the hand. Then she went back to watching.
Wall Lord Ilvriss couldn’t understand why Mrsha was smiling so contentedly. He bristled; his tail lashed, and he began to bark more comments until he caught sight of something. His reflection in a mirror. The man recognized that supercilious expression of outrage and wounded pride, and because it was so familiar, he stopped. And then he wondered why he was wearing his old face.
In silence, the Wall Lord sat a moment and thought until he was as introspective as the child beside him. After a while, he did murmur.
“She’s enjoying herself, isn’t she?”
Then, Mrsha turned and nodded and smiled, and Ilvriss took a drink from his cup.
“Ah, very good, then.”
He felt like the approving smile coming from Mrsha was a strange thing, but fit the child’s face. Ilvriss just wondered what they were teaching her in that school in Liscor. Then he wondered if he could enroll his officers and fellow Wall Lords there for a week.
Only then, after the applause, after the panting [Princess] hugged the surprised Duke and kissed him on the cheek…
Then Lyonette went back home.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical took little credit for the dance afterwards. He just breathed in and out, mopped at his forehead with a handkerchief, and demurred, which was so uncharacteristic of him that everyone thought the wrong thing.
When he sidled over to Sophridel, Paxere, Menorkel, Paterghost and the other immortals, the Wyrm just sniffed at them.
“I was following along with the actual choreography the entire time. That’s not difficult. She did it according to memory.”
He nodded at the breathless [Princess] being congratulated by all and sundry. She still seemed to be giving off faint motes of light. Her [Dance of Blessings].
“Besides. It wasn’t a perfect dance. It could have been done better. She missed a half-step in the fourth pattern, and the musicians definitely slowed down from the original pacing.”
It was amazing how his mouth kept working, sometimes divorced from his brain. Well, the Wyrm had several. When no one said a word, Rhisveri just shoved his hands into his pockets.
“That’s the power of those who hold classes. They get to shine, briefly.”
Then he saw the [Princess]’ head turn his way and stepped forwards to the gathering around her. And they did gather, nobles of Ailendamus, [Knights], even the young Princess Oesca, holding her mother’s hand and asking Lyonette if she could ever dance like that. To which the [Princess] merely replied with a huge smile.
“If you practice, Your Highness, anything is possible. But you must try hard.”
“I try hard on lots of things!”
Oesca protested loudly, and there were chuckles, but Lyonette fixed her with a serious gaze.
“Do you try hard for a person or a [Princess]?”
Oesca’s face grew confused, and her mother blinked, but Lyonette went on in a voice that was calm, level, and understanding.
“That dance is hard for anyone, Princess Oesca. There are no favors, nor Skills, that can let you do it properly without effort. So if you really, truly want to learn it, you must try as hard as you can. The same with backflips like the Wind Runner.”
It struck the girl, and she stumbled a bit, or perhaps it was just the late hour. Oesca replied faintly, gazing into Lyonette’s face with a sudden solemness.
“Oh. I think I understand. Thank you, Miss L—Eyon.”
The little girl looked like she had a million questions to ask. She hopped from one little, glittering shoe to the other, then put her hands in her dress. She stood on her tiptoes and whispered into Lyonette’s ear.
“I was wondering if you think—if you think Lord Sammial Veltras was okay? And, um, if you think Gnolls would like me? I’ve met a few, but they’re all adults. I’ve always wanted to meet a Doombearer.”
The [Princess] blinked and then whispered back.
“I think Sammial is doing just fine, though he could use a friend or two who’s sensible. As for little Gnoll girls, I hope they’d all like you if you met, but I can’t guarantee that. You have to do your best to make friends, don’t you? Being a [Princess] doesn’t impress Gnolls that much, so you have to try extra hard. [Witches] too.”
“[Witches]?”
Oesca’s voice rose in a nervous, excited exclamation, and her mother raised her brows. Everyone tried to edge forwards, but before the girl could ask more, someone brushed past her.
“Oh no, here we go again. Dame Knight, this isn’t the time for—”
Someone actually tried to stop Dame Eclizza this time, but she simply halted in front of Lyonette and her aura blasted outwards. Lyonette jumped as it shoved everyone back, even Oesca. A sphere of pale green venom encircled her, and she braced—but she realized this wasn’t an offensive tactic.
A bubble of isolation formed around them, a natural privacy field—if not so subtle. The Great Knight folded her arms, then flipped her visor up.
Her face under her armor was too-pale, devoid of sunlight, and her eyes were likewise pale. Lyonette realized how the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus got her name. Another kind of cruel joke like the Titan’s nickname. Dead gods, she hoped no one ever named her.
She was relieved that these eyes weren’t trying to run her through. Rather, Dame Eclizza spoke as a few people banged on the aura-barrier and then waved their singed hands in agony.
“I thought you were well-made, Princess Lyonette du Marquin. But you’ve risen above your mere craftsmanship. Enough to dance with a Wyrm and not embarrass each other. I still resent your presence, but don’t doubt, now, that you may bring something to Ailendamus for all you take.”
The [Princess] scowled at Dame Eclizza, and to the horror of all watching, including the Duke and monarchs, she strode over and poked Eclizza a few times in the chestplate.
“Is that all this was? I wasn’t ‘good enough’ to be his company? He told you that he was so desperate for a date he teleported me out of my inn! If you were so concerned, you could have gone with him, or one of your Order! Though I can see how you would have avoided that!”
Eclizza’s eyes flicked to Duke Rhisveri, who was signing emphatically at her, and then to Lyonette—then down at her feet.
“That would not have been appropriate. I am his sword and champion. I would die for him and Ailendamus. I would be his…lover, if I fit. Not his doll to play with.”
Lyonette’s mouth was open, about to spit another furious condemnation. She closed it hurriedly.
“Oh. Oh my. I didn’t mean to—”
The visor slid shut, as if this gap into Eclizza’s soul was too much. She turned to stare past Lyonette, at Dame Ushar.
“Jealousy befits a Wyrm’s kingdom. Besides which, this is a dance that has been done before. Other of his mortal champions—all of them—have walked this line. I am but the last to learn the lesson. The only one living. It was my jealousy which prompted me to challenge you. But also…the question of whether you were just cost. I researched The Wandering Inn. It is folly to assume you will not call in your debts again. If you can give nothing to the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, why should we entertain you?”
That was a logical counterpoint, and Lyonette nodded. She gestured lamely at the dance floor.
“I don’t know if that qualifies. But in terms of gold and other factors, I do believe I can help. My boon is still working on Rhisveri.”
Again, Eclizza gazed at Lyonette, purely surprised.
“You put a boon on a Wyrm? That is…thought to be impossible. Though how many royals have ever tried it or Wyrms let it happen?”
Lyonette thought a smile flashed over Eclizza’s face, but the helmet obviously didn’t let her see. Then the Great Knight shrugged.
“I have made my decision. We shall not necessarily be pleasant. Perhaps we shall clash again. It is good practice for you.”
“Please, no. I feel like I might puke if I did it again.”
“We must level. That is the only way to keep up with them.”
The Great Knight nodded at Lady Paterghost, Menorkel, and the immortals in the audience. She whirled on her heel abruptly.
“I shall bid you goodnight with the assumption we are allies in the true sense of the word. Though…how much gold could your inn give Ailendamus?”
She turned her head, clearly skeptical, and Lyonette coughed into one fist.
