“I’m sorry. I should have stopped and fixed things.”
It’s not your fault. Everything was falling apart. You can’t blame yourself for that. You weren’t even there, only your magic body, and you did so much. It all worked out, in a way.
He was shaking his head. Tears were leaking down his face no matter how many times he used the handkerchief she’d given him.
“I could have healed you. I should have. I’ve seen battles. I let you down.”
Rhisveri, I caused that mess. I knew what was coming. I don’t blame you. Please don’t beat yourself up. It’s okay.
She tried to pat his hand, and he half-shouted at her with a hint of that arrogance, that ire towards the world that dripped out of him at times like his venom.
“You cannot tell me that! Not you. Children shouldn’t…children do not get to make that decision. You should have been safe.”
Even if it was my choice?
He knelt down in the sand and looked around, but his watchers were lying on their bellies, out of sight under a dune. He met her little eyes with his own, and she thought, suddenly, he understood her.
“Yes. You might have the character of Giants and the courage of Unicorns, but you still should never have to choose.”
Perhaps he’d once been her. Having to make hard decisions before he was ready. He, too, had lost his family and been adopted…the Duke whispered.
“It was my fault, and nothing will change that. I’m just glad…I can talk to you. Mrsha. Mrsha, I have had a conversation with those who can judge me. Bright folk who hide their wings. The times when they carried flaming blades has long passed. But they are still the only people whose wrath I fear. They raise many children. Keep them safe. It is in Ailendamus, and I know it is far, and you do not know my kingdom. But…if you wish to go, I will take you. Your mother and anyone else who will come too.”
She blinked at him. Then glanced around with more awareness than he.
Even if she didn’t want me to?
“I’d talk her into it. It would be safer than this. You deserve peace after everything.”
He stood awkwardly, hands in his pockets, gazing down at her. The girl just reached out and patted his good knee.
Thank you. I don’t wish to. If I ever do, I’ll ask you. You’re a good piece of corn, Rhisveri.
“…I don’t understand the analogy, but thank you.”
The girl cast around, then wrote something that not even their eavesdroppers could read. Glowing golden text cupped in her paw. He bent down to read it.
I wish someone had been there for you too. You deserve it too.
He blinked. Then shook his head. His eyes became distant. He looked around the sandy garden and raised a hand.
For a second, the winds stopped blowing, and Mrsha saw green plants rising out of the ground. A temporary field of flowers. Even trees, rising, until they shed their leaves and became withered. Then hard, like stone. But the Wyrm stood there as if it were the most beautiful thing in nature.
“I did. It just took a bit longer.”
He whispered to her. Then they were standing together, and Mrsha sat on a stump. He sat with her.
What are you going to do aside from taking my Mother to dances?
He shrugged, murmuring so only they could hear.
“Go back and be scolded? But after that, we are at war. There’s much to do. Armies to rebuild. But after seeing the palace and the truth…”
The Wyrm’s eyes narrowed, and they both saw the six beings standing there. The death of some of them. Rhisveri whispered.
“I have only thought in terms of war. That is what we default to, time and time again. Or perhaps it was just the Creler Wars which showed me the existential threats that no peaceful kingdom can endure. I had never been ashamed of the cost of lives…it was meant to be a place of safety. But what safety exists in the face of contempt itself?”
She nodded. The Wyrm glanced at her.
“Prepare. For both strife and the consequences of that. I promise you, I will not forget the lessons I learned here. That’s all. The dances are just obligations. We must be people in between being heroes and martyrs and legends.”
He stood, dusting sand off himself, and then blew his nose again. He handed her the full handkerchief, and she made a face.
Thanks, pal.
One tap and it fluttered, clean. The Wyrm turned away.
“She’s not so bad, you know. Fithea was far more dignified, knowledgeable, magical, and superior in every respect, but you have a fine runner-up as a Mother goes.”
True, but we don’t want to give her an ego. Second place is more than she needs. I’ve always thought that Colfa was very cool, myself.
He grinned, and then they were walking out of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Lyonette and Nanette met them outside the inn again. Mrsha and Rhisveri eyed their dusty clothing, and the Wyrm coughed into one fist.
“Well, I must be going. You have something all over you, Miss Lyonette. Thank you.”
She couldn’t scowl at him. The Duke walked back to the waiting gateway that opened in a flash of light. The [Princess] called out.
“It was fun, Rhisveri. Next time, please send advance notice?”
He hesitated, and his eyes fell on her hair as the black dye vanished and the royal red of her hair shone. Then he bowed again and stepped back into the portal, which closed behind him.
 
—-
 
Afterwards, everyone stood around for a moment, talking quietly, savoring the magic and the moment before it faded. Then they realized it was late. Very late.
Dame Ushar was still wearing Queen Marquin’s armor, holding her gaudy Thronebearer’s armor like a child’s outfit in her arms. Her eyes were wide as the night caught up with her. Then she started, handed the armor to Dalimont, and breathed.
“I must report in. By your leave, Your Highness?”
“Go.”
Lyonette nodded to her, and Ushar strode off. Ser Dalimont stood there as the rain pattered down outside the inn. He pointed towards the glowing door.
“Your daughters are in bed, Lyonette. They began washing up when they saw you leaving. The Wall Lord has taken himself to his rooms as well.”
“Oh my, it is late. I’ll check on them.”
Lyonette grew guilty, but Dalimont forestalled her.
“I believe they were quite happy to see you enjoying yourself. However, in interest of avoiding questions, we might use the [Garden of Sanctuary]? It is 3 AM, and I believe the common room has a number of guests and spies who would dearly love to question you.”
She nodded gratefully and conjured the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door. When she stepped into the 2nd floor hallway, she took a second to peek at her daughters asleep and whispered a goodnight to them.
Nanette waved blearily; her pajamas had little glowing [Witch] hats and broomsticks sewn onto the cloth. She must have made it. It was the most normal-looking thing that she had worn, so Lyonette didn’t comment on the fact that the pajamas were red and the glowing symbols were bright blue.
Mrsha was dozing away, but her eyes flickered as Lyonette kissed her forehead. She reached up a paw and touched her mother’s cheek. Then she wrote.
Your makeup is all tearstained, Mom. Good night.
That made Lyonette laugh. She bade her daughters good night, then walked back to her rooms. There she dismissed Dalimont.
“Go back up Ushar, please, and disperse the onlookers? Thank you, Dalimont. Tell everyone the plan for tomorrow is still on.”
“Are you sure? The hour…”
“We’ll have a late breakfast.”
She shooed him away, and then, after he was gone, Lyonette studied her face in the mirror. Dead gods, she was a mess. Makeup had run with her tears and sweat. So Lyonette washed her face with some water, then exhaled.
The next thing she did was go to the outhouse, using the [Garden of Sanctuary] to teleport right outside. Because she had been holding it for at least an hour. As the rain pattered down on the roof, Lyonette decided that plumbing in the new inn would be a delight.
After that, she returned to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and called out.
“Apista? Are you asleep?”
The bee flew down from her roost, and Lyonette hugged her and whispered to her for a while. It was so late that she let Apista fly back to bed, but Lyonette wasn’t quite asleep. She was still coming down off the adrenaline and emotions of the night, so she stood in Erin’s garden, breathing in and out, gazing at the place where gold coins still littered the grass. The Box of Incontinuity still hung there, waiting for another use.
“Dancing with a Wyrm. What a strange night.”
She shook her head, then stepped back into the hallway of the 2nd floor. Lyonette walked softly down the hallway, listening. She could hear and sense the inn around her; people winding down their own long nights.
Bird’s door was ajar, and the Queen’s voice was coming from the inside.
“Go fish.”
“…Do you have any 5s?”
“Go fish again.”
That was Elia and Calescent? They were playing cards. Which suggested that Bird and Elia and Calescent were friends. Lyonette didn’t interrupt them, just passed on with a smile. Above her head, she could sense Kevin in his rooms, and there was a faint clank and muffled oath as he dropped something. Working late on a project involving metal.
A sleepy pair of Goblins, Sticks and Asgra, were trailing back to their rooms with Goldbody; they started, then waved at Lyonette as they headed upstairs. Now the entire inn was going to rest. Even the staff.
They were waiting for me to get back. That touched Lyonette, and she ran her hand along the nameplates as she reached one end of the hallway and turned back. She was thinking of the night. Pondering the consequences of her actions. Because they had been her actions, even with Erin’s encouragement.
Oh, Erin. The memory of the [Innkeeper]’s wounded soul dovetailed nicely with the threats made by Rhir’s ambassador. They will notice. They are coming. We are not safe.
But she’d known that ever since the Winter Solstice. The [Palace of Fates] hadn’t changed the dynamic, just, perhaps, advanced the timeline. Lyonette didn’t want to worry or obsess over the inevitable danger. It was coming, and she would deal with it. She had to.
Dancing the five-step with a Wyrm. That little Princess Oesca, who might have made a good friend for Mrsha. And, Lyonette hoped, would have a happier life than she herself had had.
Ailendamus, glowing and delightful, for all it was the enemy’s land. Lyonette walked down the hallway, a half-slumbering [Princess] not weighed down by grief or anxiety for once. Just…existing with the weight of what she had to do upon her.
“So that’s how you felt, Erin. I should have understood. Coming back from the dead meant you carried that burden until the Winter Solstice. Baleros is more restful, splits in your soul and all.”
How terrible. How perfectly, painfully beautiful it was to see Erin sitting there, scarred, healing, at more peace than she had been in her inn, amongst friends.
Let her rest. I shall handle Roshal, Rhir, and Erribathe. And if I can…more than merely that.
The [Princess]’ steps slowed. She glanced at the smooth wall and realized she’d stopped running her hands over the nameplates a few minutes ago.
Yes, indeed. She was the last undamaged member of the inn. Erin, her daughter, everyone else was hurt and needed rest. But the [Princess]? No one had stabbed her or taken their pound of flesh and blood. Lyonette gazed ahead and then looked around, and it was dark.
A single window let moonlight spill into the long, empty corridor. There were no bedrooms around her, just the same wooden floor and hallway. Rain fell from outside, but Lyonette had never been in this part of the inn.
It did not exist.
“Erin’s new Skill. [Long Hallways].”
It shouldn’t be that impressive after the night she’d had, but there was something about the long, unbroken stretch of impossible architecture that gave Lyonette chills. She walked on, grateful for a place to muse all to her own.
That was The Wandering Inn. It had a personality of its own. When someone needed something, they found it. So, the [Princess]’ slow steps took her down the dim corridor towards the door at the far end. It had no nameplate, but she slowly put her hand on the brass doorknob and spoke.
“The other new Skill? What had Erin called it? Her [Room of the Traveller]?”
She wondered what that did and why it couldn’t wait till tomorrow. Smiling slightly, Lyonette swung the door open, thinking of her own Skills that she’d used for the first time tonight. So many useful ones…and the [Treasury of House Marquin]. She had to go back to Terandria to collect more of the treasures. To read that book. Oh, she’d forgotten to bring it back! Next time, she’d get it.
“Next time? Oh my. Oh no—”
Lyonette was chuckling as the door swung open. Then her breath caught. She stopped and flinched.
What lay beyond the plain door was not the [Room of the Traveller]. It was, in fact, no special room at all. It was a plain, empty room maybe twice as large as one of the bedrooms, denuded of windows or anything else.
Blank space. But it was not empty. There were…three things in the room, and the sleepy [Princess] froze when she laid eyes on them. And for the first time today, she experienced true fear.
For the tallest object sitting like a hunched giant in the corner of the room, big enough to hold an entire person, gleaming with dark grey metal, was a vault. A solid door shone dully on the plain-looking prison. It appeared ordinary, but it seemed to repel everything as well. As if those walls would survive the death of everything, including the world itself. It had no handles. No markings.
It waited.
[The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World] sat there, and next to it was a far smaller object. This was a towering repository that gleamed with burnished metal, mithril-bright, like a piece of the stars brought down and forged into a vault with a spoked metal handle.
The [Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments] sat on a plain table, the smallest object in the room. Its contents a mystery, a small container as promising as the vault was ominous.
Longing to be opened.
Along the far wall, the most ordinary-looking of the three was a huge chest sitting on the floor, wide and worn, the old brasswork scratched.
The [Faded Chest of Then and Them]. Of the three objects, this one was humblest and filled with the most painful of things.
A memory.
Lyonette saw them all fully as the door swung open, and she didn’t move. She had frozen, her eyes wide, her breath caught in her chest. This room. She’d never seen it. No one had. Had they always been here? Why was she here?
They didn’t move. Of course not. They were just objects. Just like the box…but she was feeling for the handle of the door behind her. Lyonette’s fingers found it, and she flinched. Tried to move forwards, towards the vault, but could not.
