Ren logged out and had breakfast, did his physical therapy session, and had a shower. Denise was there today and they talked for a while about all the things that had happened, and Ren told her about his deep regret over the outcome the duel.

“I was so eager to prove that I could defeat their champion, that I didn't even consider the rules might have been different.” Ren said.

“Barbara told me all about it.” Denise said. “She also said you handled it well.”

“I finished it as quickly as I could.” Ren nodded. “If he'd been wearing leather armor, or if the rules had said hand-to-hand and no weapons, it could have been a long and dragged-out fight.”

Denise nodded herself. “You've fixed a lot of problems with that one fight, though.”

Ren smiled. “I did... and my discharge should be coming sometime today, too.” He said. “I know this might sound hard to believe, but it's actually started to get boring being in the army every day. It's too easy.”

Denise put a hand on his arm. “Now you've done it!” She said and laughed. “You've cursed yourself! It's going to be really difficult now!”

Ren laughed and they spent a bit more time together watching a morning show. When his watch beeped, Ren looked at it.

“I better get back in.” Ren said. “It might be my last day in the army.”

“Have fun.” Denise said as he got comfortable in the bed.

“Don't I always?” Ren asked, and put on the VR headset as Denise laughed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren activated Sneak and left the old bedroom. He crept down the hall, through the main room and into the kitchen. He ate a quick breakfast, got some food for Princess, and went out to the stable to feed her. Once that was done, he ran as hard as he could to the Garrison. He made it to his designated area right on time and Ghomhan paid him the 2 gold coins he was owed.

Ren spent another slightly boring morning training at the Garrison. He felt like he was wasting his time, when he could be doing so many other things. His training Knight, Ghomhan, kept everyone doing the same things, and even Groggot was getting to the point that he was bored, too. Ren wasn't sure if there was anything that he could do about the situation, as he didn't want to cause any more trouble that would be brought to the Commander's attention.

While waiting for the rest of the Recruits to finish yet another series of running laps, he took the time to look at his status.

“Show Status.” Ren whispered, so he wouldn't attract attention.

Status

Name  Ren  Level  5

Gender  Male  Class  Artificer

Race  Elfling  Fame/Infamy  3000 (Well Known)

Dwarven Lands:

Influence  1970  Honor  760

Titles

Blacksmith

Tailor

Sally's Student - 20% stat gain at her shop

Issac's Novice - 20% stat gain at his shop

Lemming - 5% resistance to falls

Son of the Pelt - 20% stat gain using craft station

Honorary Dwarf - Grants Dwarf Race abilities

A Fool And His Money - Automatic 5% gratuity, plus perks

Ren, The First - Grants Command and Camaraderie sub skills under Aura (Personal)

Recruit (Temporary) - allows passage in and out of the Garrison, and certain areas inside

Health  597  Mana  652

Strength  92  Dexterity  73

Vitality  50  Agility  71

Endurance  75  Intelligence  73

Luck  24  Wisdom  72

Ren had another thought. He hadn't looked at his Skills in a while, and figured that now was as good a time as any.

“Show Skills, minus Zero levels.” He'd made that mistake before, showing all the skills he had access to, but hadn't learned yet. Ren wanted to know what he'd been doing, not what he could possibly do.

Skill List

Skill Levels: Beginner (1-9), Intermediate (1-9), Advanced (1-9), Expert (1-9), Master

Main Skill:

Alchemy Level 6 (Beginner 20%)  Able to make various potions

Sub Skills:

Herb Lore Identify  Lets you identify herbs and their uses

Herb Aura Level 5 (Beginner 0%)  Herbs will glow slightly when you are near them

Main Skill:

Archery Level 1 (Beginner 75%)  Can shoot various bows

Sub Skills:

Bow Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%)  Allows you to construct bows

Arrow Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%)  Allows you to construct arrows

Crossbow Making Level 3 (Beginner 10%)  Allows you to construct crossbows

Bolt Making Level 4 (Beginner 96%)  Allows you to construct crossbow bolts

Main Skill:

Appraisal Level 2 (Beginner 60%)  Allows you to determine the worth of non-magical goods and if they contain precious metals and real gems

Main Skill:

Aura (Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak) Level 4 (Beginner 0%)  10 foot radius, menacing feeling, small creatures flee

Aura (Personal) Level 3 (Beginner 30%)  Your presence is such as those near you will be in awe of you and your accomplishments. Current distance: 10 foot radius

Sub Skills:

Command Level 2 (Beginner 20%)  Allows you to lead a group and issue orders. Higher levels will allow a larger Command radius, and generate loyalty from those under your command

Camaraderie Level 4 (Beginner 0%)  Allows mutual trust and friendship to easily build among people who spend a lot of time together. Higher levels will allow a larger Camaraderie Radius, and grants XP bonuses when fighting in a group of 2 or more

Main Skill:

Cart Driving Level 3 (Beginner 70%)  Can handle horses to some extent and drive a cart

Main Skill:

Craft Familiar Level 1 (Beginner 25%)  Allows you to create a familiar / companion to accompany you on your journey. Higher levels will grant new recipes and access to new familiars. Current Limit: 1

Main Skill:

Cooking Level 7 (Beginner 0%)  Can cook various meals

Sub Skills:

Chop Level 9 (Beginner 0%)  Can chop various things

Main Skill:

Connection Level 1 (Beginner 50%)  Allows a connection to be made between 2 different items with similar properties

Main Skill:

Enchanting Level 1 (Advanced 0%)  Enchant items with runes or glyphs

Sub Skills:

Read Rune Level 3 (Beginner 30%)  Allows you to read unknown runes and add them to your Book of Runes

Dismantle Glyph Level 5 (Beginner 50%)  Allows you to destroy a glyph with the chance of learning a rune from it

Absorb Enchantment Level 4 (Intermediate 50%)  Allows you to remove an enchantment by absorbing it, refilling a portion of your mana in the process. Current Rate: 25% of original cost

Enchanted Eyes Level 4 (Beginner 20%)  Enchantments in the area will give off a slight glow

Decipher Level 3 (Beginner 10%)  You can read runes you know in other glyphs, with a chance to find new runes

Main Skill:

Etiquette Level 2 (Beginner 95%)  Allows proper behavior around nobility

Main Skill:

Fall Resistance Level 1 (Beginner 25%)  Reduces fall damage by 5% (total 10 with Lemming Title), Reduces chance of being crippled from falls by 5%

Main Skill:

Haggle Level 2 (Beginner 95%)  Can negotiate price of items and higher levels gain easier haggle of high price items

Main Skill:

Hardy Level 2 (Beginner 0%)  You have gained some resistance to poison, foreign spells, and foreign spell-like abilities

Main Skill:

Identify Level 1 (Intermediate 15%)  Can identify most items and their magic properties

Main Skill:

Iron Grip Level 2 (Intermediate 60%)  Grip things with unnatural strength. Any item you hold cannot be knocked from your grasp. Showing this skill can cause intimidation or fear in witnesses. Cost: 5 Mana/Second

Main Skill:

Knot Tying Level 3 (Beginner 25%)  Able to tie knots

Main Skill:

Leatherworking Level 2 (Intermediate 10%)  Manipulate leather pieces to make various items

Sub Skills:

Skinning Level 5 (Intermediate 25%)  Allows you to skin animals and gain their pelts

Tanning Level 5 (Beginner 0%)  Treat pelts for curing

Scudding Level 1 (Advanced 20%)  Remove hair from pelts

Stitching Level 1 (Advanced 10%)  Able to attach cloth or leather together with threat and string

Main Skill:

Metal Detection Level 1 (Intermediate 10%)  This skill lets you detect metals nearby. Nearby metals will give off a pulse when you focus. Higher levels will grant longer range of detection. Current Range: 30 foot radius

Main Skill:

Mining Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)  Ability to mine various items from the ground

Main Skill:

Pattern Making Level 2 (Beginner 90%)  This skill will allow you to alter existing patterns to fit your needs

Main Skill:

Rationing Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)  Reduces the amount of food needed to replenish Health

Main Skill:

Repair Level 4 (Intermediate 0%)  Able to repair things

Sub Skills:

Metal Repair Level 4 (Intermediate 10%)  Repair metals easily

Cloth Repair Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)  Repair clothing items easily

Main Skill:

Running Level 3 (Intermediate 0%)  Ability to run

Main Skill:

Serene State Of Mind Level 1 (Intermediate 10%)  (Passive) 15% reduction to pain received, 15% chance to resist mind altering effects; (Active) Completely removes mind altering effects, ignores all pain incurred on the body 15 Mana/Second

Main Skill:

Shock Absorption Level 3 (Intermediate 75%)  25% Reduction to all effects caused by hitting (or being hit by) solid and blunt objects; such as stun effects, damage, numbness, dizziness, etc. Stackable with other skills or effects

Sub Skills:

Block Level 1 (Beginner 95%)  May attempt to stop or deflect blunt force attacks, can combine with a shield for added bonuses

Main Skill:

Smithing Level 4 (Advanced 65%)  Able to shape metal

Sub Skills:

Hammering Level 2 (Advanced 64%)  Hammer metal into various shapes

Smelting Level 2 (Advanced 95%)  Can melt scrap metal and ore into usable materials

Blade Forging Level 1 (Advanced 60%)  Able to forge various blades

Sharpening Level 4 (Advanced 35%)  Able to sharpen anything with an edge

Polishing Level 1 (Advanced 60%)  Adds shine and durability to objects

Main Skill:

Sneak Level 7 (Beginner 0%)  Move with little to no noise in certain areas

Main Skill:

Speed Reading Level 6 (Beginner 0%)(Passive)  Able to read books quickly and still retain the knowledge

Sub Skills:

Knowledge Of Earth Level 3 (Beginner 50%)  Earth affinity and resistance increased by 12%

Knowledge Of Fire Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)  Fire affinity and resistance increased by 25%

Knowledge Of Water Level 2 (Beginner 0%)  Water affinity and resistance increased by 11%

Knowledge Of Wind Level 1 (Beginner 0%)  Wind affinity and resistance increased by 10%

Knowledge Of Light (Holy) Level 1 (Beginner 0%)  Light affinity and resistance increased by 10%

Knowledge Of Dark (Gravity) Level 2 (Beginner 0%)  Dark affinity and resistance increased by 11%

Knowledge Of Ice Level 1 (Beginner 0%)  Ice affinity and resistance increased by 10%

Knowledge Of Lightning Level 5 (Beginner 0%)  Lightning affinity and resistance increased by 17%

Knowledge Of Arcane (Void) Level 1 (Beginner 0%)  Arcane affinity and resistance increased by 10%

Hidden Knowledge Level 2 (Beginner 0%)  Lets you discover facts hidden within the things you read

Main Skill:

Staying Power Level 6 (Intermediate 10%)  Reduces Health Loss by 25%

Sub Skills:

Hold Breath Level 2 (Beginner 25%)  Able to hold breath

Main Skill:

Tailoring Level 6 (Advanced 30%)  The ability to construct clothing from patterns

Sub Skills:

Bag Craft Level 7 (Beginner 50%)  Allows construction of pouches

Stitching Level 1 (Advanced 10%)  Able to attach cloth or leather together with thread and string

Cloth Repair Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)  Repair clothing

Spinning Level 6 (Intermediate 20%)  Spin various materials into usable thread

Main Skill:

Unarmed Combat Level 1 (Beginner 20%)  Can fight without weapons

Main Skill:

Vision of Impurity Level 6 (Beginner 50%)  Can see weaknesses in all metal, and with Smithing can hammer them out

Main Skill:

Woodworking Level 6 (Beginner 95%)  Able to make things with wood

Sub Skills:

Nailing Level 6 (Beginner 50%)  Attach wood and possibly other things together with nails

Chop Level 9 (Beginner 0%)  Can chop various things

Saw Level 1 (Intermediate 10%)  Can cut wood with various sawing tools

Upholstery Level 1 (Beginner 40%)  Can cover wood with fabric and stuffing to make items more comfortable. Higher levels also increase and item's value

Non-Leveling Skills:

Dark Vision  Normally, this would grant clear vision for a limited area at night, but due to your already augmented Elfling vision, you can now see clearly at night (even in pitch blackness) as if it were daytime

Rock Steady  You suffer no penalties from wearing any type of armor. You will always move at the same speed no matter what and are not impeded by any moderate obstruction. Chest deep water, foot deep mud, dense foliage, etc. are no longer considered obstacles. You are also difficult to knock over or trip while you have both feet on the ground.

Slow and Steady  Increases the XP required to level up by 104% and reduces exp gained by 24%. When leveling, 10 stat points will be gained instead of 5. Skills gain XP 54% faster

Strong and Wise  (Strong) Strength +10, (Wise) Wisdom +10

Ren stared at the list of all the things he's done and shook his head. I can't believe I've done so much, and there's still a lot left for me to learn! Ren thought, then dismissed the popups. A Warrior entered the training area and looked around. He saw Ren sitting off to the side and came over.

“Recruit Ren, the Commander wants to see you.” The Warrior said and started to walk away. Ren stood up and followed him to the Commander's office in the next area. The Warrior knocked on the door once and opened it, without waiting for the 'Enter' command.

“Sir! Recruit Ren as you requested, sir.” The Warrior said and left.

“Well, Recruit... it seems as if your services are no longer required.” The Commander said and handed Ren a piece of parchment. On it was a set of orders, releasing Ren from active duty. “Even though you haven't finished the 3 week basic training course, or been officially indoctrinated into the Army, these are your release papers.”

Ren read the parchment and got a popup.

Notice!

You have been given an Honorable Discharge from the Dwarf Army.

Temporary Title: 'Recruit' lost!

Ren stored the parchment into inventory and looked at the Commander.

“I'm not sure how you managed to do that, but I'm very disappointed in you.” The Commander said. “You could have been a huge asset to our cause; but instead, you're back to being just a civilian.”

Ren frowned and thought about what the Commander had said. “Sir! Permission to speak freely, sir!”

The Commander sat back in his chair and crossed his arms. “You're not in my army anymore, so you can drop the 'sir'.” He said with a little bit of disgust in his voice.

“Sir, if what you just told me is right... then Recruits can quit anytime they want before they take the Oath of Service?” Ren asked.

The Commander frowned. “They'd lose some Honor for not fulfilling a promise; but yes, they can quit at any time before taking the Oath.”

I'm going to try and get Groggot out of here, before he gets trapped in a job he's going to hate so much because of boredom. Ren thought and smiled. “Thank you, sir.” Ren said and saluted.

“You don't have to do that, either.” The Commander said, but saluted back when Ren held it in place.

“It was an Honor meeting you, sir.” Ren said and left the Commander's office. He equipped his Travelling Clothes and went back to the training area to talk to Groggot. After several failed attempts to convince Groggot to give up the service, Ren told him that he had 2 more weeks to change his mind, and bid him farewell. Ren said goodbye to the other Recruits, and then to Ghomhan the Knight. Ren turned around and walked to the gate, and just as he reached to open it, a klaxxon sounded.

“Recruits! Fall in! Move it! Move it! Move it!” Ghomhan hollered.

“What's going on?” Ren asked as the Recruits formed a line by the gate.

“Evacuation to the bunker.” Ghomhan said and opened the gate. “Forward, march!”

Ren followed them into the next area and saw that all gates were now open. “Ghomhan, what's really going on?”

Ghomhan sighed. “Trouble at the front. We evacuate to the bunker before the catapults start firing.”

“Catapults!?!” Ren nearly shouted.

Ghomhan nodded and pointed up. “On the battlements. They're just barely strong enough to reach the front lines of attack.”

Ren looked up. “Where are the stairs?”

Ghomhan looked at Ren like he was crazy. “What?”

“Where are the stairs? I gotta see this!” Ren said, excitedly.

“4F3R, but you'll never get up there.” Ghomhan said. “Warriors only.”

“Thanks!” Ren said and turned around. “Groggot!” He said. “Are you bored yet?”

Groggot nodded slightly.

“Then follow me, my friend. We have to see what's happening!”

“He can't do that.” Ghomhan said. “He has to get to the bunker.”

“What if this is just an exercise?” Ren asked. “Is he under orders, or is this just procedure?”

Ghomhan sighed. “It's just procedure.”

“I'm going up, Groggot! You can come if you want to!” Ren said and ran towards the open gate of 4F3R. Ren went inside and there was a huge set of stairs there, but no guards. He could hear running footsteps, though. Ren started to climb up the 50 feet of stairs and Groggot joined him when he reached the first platform. Ren smiled and they jogged up to the top. Once there, they saw a sight they'd never seen before.

What looked like a thousand dwarves, swarmed over the battlements. All of them carried some type of weapon, but most were crossbows of some kind. Some tended the catapults positioned at certain junctions that were wider than the others, about every sixth crossing. Ren concentrated on his Command Aura and ran forward. Groggot followed closely behind. It only took about 10 minutes for Ren and Groggot to reach what the dwarves called 'The Front', and they stopped at the last battlement, surrounded by dwarves. The dwarves paid them no attention, however.

Ren saw a huge open field that was several miles across, and nearly a mile long, and ended at a thick forest. The field was pitted with craters and debris, and some of the craters were filled with what looked like rancid water. Ren stared at the foot shaped divots in the ground near some of the craters, and followed the path right up to the battlement he stood on. The foot shaped divots were about 4 feet long and 2 feet wide.

“No way.” Ren said. “No WAY!”

“What is it?” Groggot asked.

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “Giants, my friend.” Ren said. “Giants.”

Groggot grinned and pulled the battle axe from it's sheath on his back. The klaxxon sounded again and everyone froze; except for Ren and Groggot, who almost shook in anticipation. Ren heard a rustling in the trees and a giant, about 20 feet tall, stepped out of the trees and saw the dwarf wall. It leaned back and bellowed some kind of war cry, then started to run. It wore scraps of leather that were barely sewn together.

“Fire!” someone said and Ren watched as catapult after catapult launched their loads against the fast moving giant.

“He's not even trying to dodge.” Groggot said, as flaming rocks landed close to the giant's path.

“He doesn't have to.” Ren said. “He's moving too fast for the catapults to range on him.”

Each shot fell short, or went a bit too long, and the giant kept coming.

“Stairs!” Ren shouted to the nearest dwarf. “Where are the stairs?”

The dwarf looked at him in surprise, but felt Ren's Command Aura, and pointed.

“Groggot, let's go! We don't have much time!” Ren said and ran for the stairway, making it down to the ground as the giant was about halfway across the field. The gates were barricaded, but Ren saw a dwarf sized door near the edge of the wall. He ran for it and tried the handle... but it was locked.

“We don't have time for this!” Ren said, pulled out his hammerpick, and smashed the door to pieces. Ren and Groggot ran outside to the startled looks of about a hundred dwarves in full plate armor, crouched behind barricades.

“Don't mind us, we're just passing through.” Ren said and jumped over the series of barricades that were arrayed in front of the main gate, on this side of the Garrison. “Groggot, gather up as much debris as you can. Nothing heavy.” Ren said and pulled out one of the giant leg-holding traps he'd made. It looked just like a bear trap, but it didn't have any teeth. He set the trap and hammered the giant spike into the ground to hold it in place. Ren could see the giant coming, shifted the trap over slightly, and tossed some dirt over the ends of it.

“Groggot! Hurry!”

Groggot came over with plenty of debris, and Ren placed most of it around the trap, to make it look like part of the landscape.

“Lay down here.” Ren said to Groggot, then covered most of him with light debris and some dirt. “When the giant hits that trap, he's going to fall... and probably be really pissed off.” Ren said. “Come out swinging!”

Groggot nodded and Ren went to the other side of the trap, equipped his red leather armor, and laid down to cover himself as well. Then waited. A minute later, thunderous impacts could be heard and the giant's footfalls shook some of the debris off the trap.

Nothing to do about that now. Ren thought. It's almost here.

The catapults stopped firing because the impacts were getting close to their own troops, and in the next moment, the giant tried to run by Ren, stepped on the trap, which clamped onto it's boot.

“Raaargghhh!” The giant yelled, then it face-planted into the ground, and it's ankle snapped. Ren jumped up, equipped the Great Earthshaking Hammerpick of Reaping, and lunged at the fallen giant.

Groggot was right there with him and they started swinging. Using Ghomhan's overhead strike, Groggot severed a hand, then almost took the giant's whole arm. Surprisingly, there wasn't a lot of blood. Ren on the other hand, tried to smash it's head, but it raised a hand to ward off the blow. Ren crushed that hand, and the shockwave shattered the elbow, but it was enough to deflect the killing blow. The giant bellowed and tried to roll over, but it's leg was caught and Ren heard the grinding bones as it struggled. It swung it's tenderized fleshy hand at Ren, who ducked it easily. Groggot took that opportunity to slice open the giant's side, then flipped the battle axe around and jammed the end into the open wound.

“Raaargghhh!” It bellowed again and rolled over to try and get Groggot, the one who had severely hurt it. Ren absorbed the quadruple Dark rune glyph from the hammerpick, and put the double glyph of Dark runes on it 5 seconds later. Ren hefted the hammerpick over his head and brought it down as hard as he could, to smash the giant's skull. Everyone nearby heard the sickening sound of bone crunching, but the giant kept bellowing and fighting. Groggot dodged the giant's flailing stump, and swung his battle axe to slice open the giant's throat. It gurgled as it tried to keep bellowing and swung at Groggot again. Ren took pity on it and took another swing at it's head. Another bone crunch was heard as the skull collapsed, and the giant was silent after that.

Notice!

Congratulations! You have killed a (Demented) Giant!

Feared throughout the wilderness, it is a mindless creature that feeds upon the flesh of anything that it catches. Knowledge of this half-starved giant is kept secret from the general population, as it is the bane of the Dwarf Army.

Rewards: 5000 XP

Fame Bonus: +30%

Level up!

You are now Level 6!

10 stat points automatically allocated.

Ability Change!

Slow and Steady: XP required to level up +105%, XP gains reduced by 25% (Capped). When leveling, 10 stat points will be gained instead of 5. Skills gain XP 55% faster

Notice!

You have put your life on the line to protect the dwarves and their homeland, for no other reason than because you could.

Influence: +500

Honor: +500

Notice!

You have defeated a creature 110 levels higher than you.

Fame: +250

Notice!

You have gained a new title: Giant Smasher

This title grants you: Strength +20, Deep Impact Level 1 (Beginner 0%), and Skull Cracker.

Ren dismissed the popups and switched from his Command Aura to his Camaraderie Aura. He stood there by the giant's body with Groggot and they looked at each other. Neither of the two had a trace of blood on them, and after a minute, a single dwarf cheered... and that was soon followed by hollers and cheers from every single dwarf that could see the battlefield. Groggot stepped around the giant's body and clapped Ren on the shoulder.

“That was fun!” Groggot said, loudly.

“That's my motto.” Ren said and laughed, as they were surrounded by armored dwarves and congratulated. A few minutes later, a hush fell over the crowd as they made a path for someone to walk through. The Commander stepped up to them and shook his head.

“I should have you arrested for interfering with a military operation.” The Commander said to Ren, and looked at the mangled body of the giant. “Seeing as how you've helped us with our little problem, though... I think I'll overlook it this time.” He said, then motioned to the giant's 21 foot long corpse. “As long as you don't tell anyone about this.”

Ren smiled and walked over to the giant's trapped foot, opened the leg-holding trap, and pulled it from the ground.

“What the hell is that?” The Commander nearly shouted.

“This?” Ren held up the giant trap. “It's a giant leg-holding trap.” He said. “Or... I guess it's now a giant leg, holding trap.” Ren grinned and stored it.

The Commander looked at Ren. “Where did you get it?”

“I made it, of course.”

“What?!?” The Commander said, shocked. “How did a Tailor make that?”

“I'm a Blacksmith, too.” Ren said, and most of the gathered dwarfs gasped. Hearing a group of men gasp is a little weird. Ren thought.

“You're a Tailor?” Groggot asked, surprised, and Ren grunted.

Quest Update!

Your Mentor Donan, told you to show the world what you can do. You've taken the first step on that journey.

Rewards: Fame +500

1000 XP

Fame Bonus: +38%

I forgot all about that Quest, actually. Ren thought and dismissed the popup. He looked down and remembered that he should loot the body. Ren knelt and did that, finding 20 gold coins, a giant pocket watch, a clump of brown hair tied in a ribbon, and a pair of high quality boots (giant-size).

What's a savage creature doing with these things? Ren thought and stood up to give Groggot the 20 gold coins. Groggot tried to refuse, but Ren told him that they couldn't split the boots or the watch and clump of hair, so giving him the gold seemed the only fair thing to do.

“That leaves you with just the junk!” Groggot argued and tried to hand 10 of the coins back.

Ren shook his head. “That's okay, Groggot. I love junk.” Groggot sighed and kept the money.

The Commander stepped forward and looked at Ren in the eyes. “The military wants to buy that trap.”

“Sorry, it's not for sale.” Ren said. “I only have two.”

“You have two?!?” He said, shocked.

“I told you the story about fighting the two greater stone golems.” Ren said and smiled. “I swore when I made the traps that I'd never go anywhere without them.”

“Then... can you make more?” The Commander asked.

Ren shook his head. “No, I'm sorry. I have a lot of work to do before I can even think about setting up another forge.” He said. “I even forgot to bring my high quality iron ingots.” Ren sighed. “I'll have to mine more ore and then smelt it, or maybe I'll just buy some.”

“What if I provided the facilities and the metal? Could you do it then?” The Commander asked, with a bit of twinkle in his eyes.

I'm glad Donan warned me about this. Ren thought. “I'm sorry, but no.” Ren said. “The forge needs to be set up a certain way; and the smelter isn't standard, either.”

The Commander frowned, trying to detect a lie; but since everything Ren had said was the truth, he couldn't call Ren a liar. Ren saw that The Commander was trying his best to catch Ren at something, just so he could keep Ren at the Garrison.

“All right...” Ren sighed. “I'll sell you one.” Ren looked around at the dwarves in the crowd. “I can't let you face giants like you've been doing, now that you know how much easier it can be.”

The dwarves cheered again and the Commander waved them to silence. “How much?” He asked.

“200 gold.” Ren said.

The dwarves gasped again.

“There's about 120 gold in iron alone, not to mention the work that had to go into it.” Ren said. “Plus, once you have it... I'm sure your blacksmiths can get the plans for it, then duplicate it.”

The Commander looked at Ren, nodded slightly, and handed over 2 platinum coins. Ren's eyes widened slightly as he'd thought they would have to go all the way back to the Commander's office to get the money. Ren pulled out the trap he'd stored into inventory, and put it on the ground.

“Now that you've seen how effective it can be... you're going to need some big strong dwarfs to carry the thing to the right spot, and hammer in the spike to hold it.” Ren said and clapped Groggot on the shoulder. “Otherwise, you're just giving the next giant something big to kick you with.”

Several dwarfs laughed, including Groggot.

“I better get out of here, before I'm drafted again.” Ren said and even more dwarfs laughed. Ren nodded to the Commander and walked over to the busted out door. Ren Appraised it at 2 gold and walked back to the Commander, holding out 2 gold coins. “Sorry about the door.” Ren said and put the 2 gold in the Commander's hand.

Ren walked back to the Garrison and through the busted door. He didn't go up the stairs, though. Ren held his head up high, concentrated on his personal Aura, and smiled as he walked through the throng of dwarves coming to see the aftermath of the battle. Ren walked all the way through the Garrison to the main gate to Dornrach. He nodded slightly to the guards there, who opened the gate for him. Ren took a deep breath as he stepped outside the gate and it closed behind him.

You've been quiet this whole time, Teepo. Ren thought to his friend.

“Yeah.”

You don't have anything to say about all of this? Ren started to run.

“I wanted to wait until we were alone.”

We can't get any more alone than this... so, what did you think?

“That... was... AWESOME!” Teepo shouted and then chittered in delight.

Ren laughed and then ran all the way back to House Neram. He came to the gate and saw that it was locked. Ren smiled, looked around to make sure no one was around, then climbed the 8 foot wall easily. Most of the mortar was missing from a lot of the bricks, and it made great handholds.

I'll be fixing this outside wall first. Ren thought. It's way too easy to get in this way.

Ren hopped off the other side and crossed the courtyard. He entered the house and heard 2 female voices talking, and shut the door.

“I'm back early.” Ren said, walked into the main room, and saw that Nathalia and her mother sat at the kitchen table.

“Hi, Ren.” Nathalia said.

“Hi.”

“Good afternoon, Ren.” Narhilda said. “I like your red leather armor.”

“Thank you, My Lady.”

“The discharge came today, then?” She said.

“It did.” Ren said. “I assume that means...”

Narhilda held up several pieces of parchment. “These are notices that all of House Neram's debts have been settled.”

Ren smiled. “That's fantastic.”

“It is.” Narhilda said. “Nathalia and I were just discussing something very important.”

“Oh? What was that?” Ren asked.

“What we were going to do with you.”

“My...My Lady?” Ren said, surprised.

“Well, with all of the House's debts gone, that part of our contract with you is null and void.”

Ren widened his eyes. I didn't receive a notice about it, though! Ren thought. “And have you come to a decision?” Ren asked.

Both women nodded slightly and Narhilda shuffled the parchment papers a bit. She took a folded one out from underneath the small stack and stood up. She waved Ren over and handed him the parchment paper. Ren held it in his hand, but didn't look at it.

I don't want to read it. He thought. If it's a paper ending our contract, or an eviction notice... I... I don't know what I'm going to do. I dont want to leave here. Ren closed his eyes and took a deep breath. I have to read it, or I'll always wonder what it said. He opened his eyes and unfolded the parchment paper to read it.

It was a note of recommendation to see a stonemason from the Guild.

“My... My Lady!” Ren said, surprised. Narhilda laughed.

“I told you he'd think we were kicking him out if you did it like this, Ma.” Nathalia said, a little unhappily, and shook her head. “I'm sorry, Ren. She's getting to be a terrible tease, lately.”

“I... I'm sorry...” Narhilda said and kept laughing. “I couldn't... be sure...” She said, and then eased her laughing to a stop. “But... the look on your face... it let me know that you care as much about staying here, as we do about having you stay here.” Narhilda stepped close to Ren and took his hand. “I wanted you to know that neither I, nor my daughter, would ever ask you to leave, Ren.”

Ren squeezed her hand slightly.

“After everything you've done for us...” Narhilda said. “...this will always be a home for you, whether you need it or not.”

Notice!

A new Spawn Point is available to you. Activate now? Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said, and smiled as a medium-sized spawn point appeared in the main room. “Even though you were only teasing, it made me realize how much I wanted to stay here, for as long as I'm in dwarven lands.” He walked over to stand on the spawn point. “Set Spawn Point.”

Notice!

You have selected to change your spawn point from Safe Zone: (MASTER OF ALL, JACK OF NONE) to Safe Zone: (HOUSE NERAM).

Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.”

Spawn Point Set!

Whenever you die, you will appear on this spot after the respawn timer expires.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “Both of you, for letting me come into your home like this.”

Both women came over and gave him a hug, as a second key formed around Ren's neck.

“It's as much your home as it is ours, now.” Narhilda said and Nathalia nodded, then both held out their hands for him. Ren took Nathalia's hand, stepped in close and gave her a quick kiss on the cheek. She widened her eyes and put a hand on the spot; then he did the same to her mother Narhilda, who blushed slightly and lowered her head a little, to try and hide it.

I guess they only expected me to kiss their hands; but that's not part of the Acceptance ritual. Ren thought and smiled. He held up the piece of parchment. “If you will excuse me, I have an appointment I need to get to.” He said, bowed slightly, and walked through the main room to leave the house.

“You definitely surprised them, that's for sure.” Teepo said.

Why is that? Ren thought and started to run to the main part of the city.

“Well, if my knowledge of Dwarf Mourning Rites is still right, that was the first kiss Narhilda's had in the 12 years since her husband died.”

Ren nearly stumbled, but caught himself and kept running. You're joking!

“No. She's got another 3 years before she can even announce that she's no longer mourning.”

Wow... that's a long time to not have someone kiss you. Ren thought. I have a hard time waiting only a few weeks to kiss my girlfriend!

Teepo chittered in laughter and Ren entered the main city. He took the corner and went in the opposite direction that he'd go to arrive at the Garrison. He made it to the Stonemason's Guild and came to a stop outside. Ren admired the structure, as he was sure that was the intent of building the thing. It almost defied gravity with the way some of the terraces were set up, and the balcony at the top was halfway over the street. Ren walked up to the doorman and showed him the parchment. The doorman told Ren where to go and opened the door to let Ren step inside. The lobby was just as outrageous as the outside and Ren smiled.

They definitely know their stone masonry. Ren thought and followed the doorman's directions. No one stopped him from walking anywhere he wanted. Ren was tempted to just wander around and see what he could find; but Narhilda had gone to all the trouble to set this meeting up, and Ren didn't want to disappoint her by slacking off. He found the door he was looking for and knocked.

“Come in, my good man.” A hearty voice said and Ren opened the door. “I heard you coming down the hallway.” The dwarf said. “Sit, sit!” He waved to what looked like a hard wooden chair. “I'll be with you in just a minute.”

Ren walked over to the chair and looked at it. That is not a good chair. Ren thought and moved it out of the way, replaced it with the big comfy one that he'd made in the brig, then sat down. He watched the dwarf play with little stone blocks, as he tried his best to stack them without having them topple over. He wasn't having any success with it, however.

“Bah!” The dwarf said and pushed the blocks off to the side and then looked at Ren. “I'll get it one of these da... where did that chair come from?”

“Me.” Ren said and smiled.

“Well, at least it looks better than that monstrocity.” The dwarf said, waving at the offending chair. “Worst 10 gold I ever spent.”

Ren widened his eyes. I might pay 2 copper for it, but that's only if I wanted it for firewood.

Teepo chittered in laughter.

“About House Neram...” Ren said.

“Ah, yes. You want to hire me to work on it.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I'd rather learn from you.”

The dwarf's eyes widened. “You WHAT?!?”

“I'd like to learn your trade.” Ren said.

“Get. Out.” The dwarf said, angry.

“What is it?” Ren asked. “I can pay...”

The dwarf stood. “I was willing to see you as a favor to Lady Neram, because we were old school friends, but I won't sit here and be insulted!”

Ren stood as well. “How did I insult you?”

The dwarf scowled. “Asking me, a High Tier Professional, to teach!” He said and huffed. “As if I'd reduce myself to teach a commoner all of my tricks... ah, techniques. Techniques!”

Ren stored his chair and slid the ugly wooden one back to it's place. “My apologies for unintentionally insulting you.” Ren said and stepped away from the desk. “Before I leave, however... do you know of anyone who would be willing to... reduce themselves to my... commoner status?”

The dwarf clamped his mouth shut and Ren pulled the comfy blue chair out again.

“I'd be willing to... ah... forget that I left this chair here... if, somehow... I might have found a name somewhere...” Ren hedged and slid the chair forward.

The dwarf looked at the chair, then at Ren, then at the chair again. He took a piece of parchment from his desk, wrote something on it, and held it out. Ren walked over and took the parchment and put it in a pocket.

“Now... where did I leave that really comfy chair?” Ren said and turned around to walk out of the room. He got to the door, opened it and stepped into the hall. “Nope, it's not in here.” Ren looked at the dwarf, and saw that he was already slumped in the chair. Ren closed the door and took out the piece of paper. He smiled and left the Stonemason Guild's building. He walked a half dozen streets over, and came to a run down 1 storey building. Dust covered everything, and there were stone bricks everywhere. Stacks and stacks of them filled the courtyard, and Ren saw several people moving around, also covered in dust. Some were even carving stones into different shapes.

“Yes, I definitely like this place much better.” Ren said and smiled.

“Me, too!” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood, and skittered across the courtyard.
