Why did mother insist that I scrub the floor? Our floors are made of stone, just because there was a little grime from the night before doesn’t mean I should have had to get on my hands and knees to scrub my bedroom floor.

Using Double Step combined with my status points, I’ll reach Del’s clearing in only a few minutes. The day I’m most excited to work and I get held up cleaning by mother. I shouldn’t complain. I didn’t realize how much filth was trapped in my bed. I heard the rumors, back on Earth, about how a mattress gains weight as you sleep on it. Mother makes sure I wash my sheet once a week, but magic cleaning was much more effective than I thought it would be.

Speeding down the small forest path, I can’t wait to test myself today. I put off working with Del so I could take care of my mental problems. Now that I can sleep properly again, I want to try forging with my new stats.

Breaking into Del’s clearing, I almost slip on the forests underbrush as I try to stop myself too quickly. Catching myself while waving my arms around, I look around for Del’s stocky form. Good, he didn’t see me almost eat it. He must still be asleep.

Making my way towards the hut’s door, I knock as hard as I can. I feel the strong wood vibrate with each of my strikes. Giving it a few seconds, I open the door when there is no response. Sleeping like a baby, Master Del looks like he didn’t even flinch at the loud banging on his door.

Glancing around his hut, I’m happy that there are only a few dishes laying around. He’s gotten used to straightening up every morning, or in his case every afternoon. He probably wasn’t even aware I would be coming today. I’ll properly apologize when he wakes up later.

Moving to the corner he keeps his mining supplies in, I ruffle through the gear, picking out what I need. Pushing aside the light-hats, I grab a normal hard hat I forged years ago. Grabbing my normal pickaxe, I almost tumble again due to overcompensating my stance. The pickaxe doesn’t feel as strong in my arms as it used to. Placing my pickaxe down again, I grab its neighbor. The pickaxe next to mine is normally used by Del.

Heaving the axe into my arms, I marvel at the weight. Del’s pickaxe is only ten percent bigger than mine, but while mine weighs twentyish pounds, the one in my arms has to weigh almost 80 pounds. The pickaxe appears to be one solid piece of metal, and looking closely, I can’t find any seams that indicate welding.

The finish looks the same as steel and has a wavy pattern that adds a greenish tint to the metal. Wonder what would happen if I poured some mana into it? Injecting the smallest stream of mana I could manage, I watch as the pickaxe devours my mana. Once I nearly channeled fifty mana, the pickaxe erupts in copper colored lines. I can see the mana circulating an extremely detailed network across the surface of the axe.

“Wow!” Trying to study every line I can see; I marvel at the beauty in my hands.

“It is beautiful, isn’t it?” Flinching from the voice, I turn to see Del over my shoulder. He’s looking at the pickaxe like he’s remembering a distant memory.

“I’m sorry for touching your pickaxe Del. Mine feels too light now. The metal looked interesting, so I wanted to see how my mana would interact with it. I didn’t know it was a magic item.” Del just looks at me with a distant smile. If I knew it was a magic item I would have asked for permission before I touched it.

“It’s ok. You’re fine holding it.” Del’s reassurance calms my nerves. I’m happy he’s not mad about me holding his pickaxe. “It’s made from an alloy we Stone Kin call Miner’s Steel. It’s heavy and very durable, but doesn’t hold an edge well. We use it in our pickaxes and mining equipment.”

Looking down at the pickaxe again, I get sucked into the copper lines adorning the surface of the pick. I want to ask Del about the enchantment but I’m afraid he’ll get mad at me.

“I can’t activate it myself. It has been a while since I’ve seen the enchantment activated. You curious what it does?” Meeting Del’s eyes, I can’t keep the confusion from my face. “Don’t act so surprised. It’s not like it’s a piece of legendary equipment. The pickaxe is covered in a basic strengthening enchantment. You pour mana in and it pierces tougher rock.”

“Master, should you be telling me this? I thought you weren’t going to teach me Stone Kin secrets?”

“Ha-ha, you think that’s a secret?” Master points one of his thick digits at the pickaxe in my arms. “It’s the same thing as the three spells I taught you. The runic lines you see are some of the most basic enchantments Stone kin use. This runic structure has long been spread across the continent.”

“Then why is everything not enchanted like this pickaxe? I would think farm tools could benefit from this enchantment at the very least.” Del just laughs harder at my question.

“In Stone Kin cities, almost every basic tool is enchanted like my pickaxe. The reason that humans don’t copy us is that you need to be able to use basic magic before you can activate the enchantments. Your average human farmer couldn’t use a magic plow even if he could afford one. Also, don’t think enchantments are always a good thing. Different woods, bones, and metals can’t handle enchantments. The magic inscribed on the wrong material could weaken or outright break whatever you’re trying to inscribe.  Even if you know a few runes, enchanting takes years of practice to inscribe a tier 1 enchantment like that.”

“Tier 1? You classify enchantments like skills? Is that how everybody classifies magic? What tier are the spells you taught me in?”

Rubbing the back of his bald head, “I forgot to explain the magic tiers… Sorry. I’m not your magic teacher, if you don’t ask me questions, I’m not sure what to tell you. Listen, all magic, whether it’s a celestial spell or runic magic can be organized into tiers like skills. Mages decided to follow the example of skills and divide spells into six tiers. You have basic celestial spells like the ones I taught you in tier 1 alongside basic runes like you see on my pickaxe. Then as the magic becomes grander and more complicated as it increases to tier 2 and 3.”

“What about tier 4, 5, and 6, master?”

“It’s the same as skills. When you reach the higher tiers, everything becomes much more secretive. They say a tier 4 attack spell could kill a group of level 40 soldiers, while tier 5 magic is believed to be able to kill a whole platoon of soldiers. Over 500 years ago during the warring periods it was said tier 6 attack magic could kill hundreds of people in an instant.”

“And runic magic is classified the same way? Wouldn’t people focus on runic magic if they could just trace over the higher tiered runes?”

“If only it was that easy. I’m sure with your skills you can see that the runes on my pickaxe are only on the surface. Tier 1 and 2 runes are two dimensional while tier 3 and 4 runes are three dimensional. You can trace the most basic of runes, but the higher tiered runes are impossible to copy. All of that is just the challenge of the runes themselves. The inscribing process is an artform upon itself. I don’t mind telling you the basics that I know but because I can’t use mana, I only have knowledge of the most rudimentary steps to engraving runes.”

I’m torn between the excitement of learning crafting magic and the knowledge that I’ll most likely fail. “I would appreciate any knowledge of runes you can teach me Master Del, no matter how basic they are. Is there anything else I should know?”

“Yeah, there is one more thing I forgot to mention. Money! Enchanting is considered the most expensive crafting profession ever. You need good materials to enchant, you need good materials to make the enchantments, and you’ll destroy most of your materials upon your first try enchanting anything. I know you’ve been saving your coin these last few years but we’re talking silver coins for the most basic materials. And once you start asking for those kinds of materials people will take notice. You need to prepare yourself if you want to go down this path.”

…

“I want to learn enchanting, but I don’t plan on wasting materials just yet. I plan on practicing smithing with my new stats first. That’s the reason I was grabbing your pickaxe. I want to try mining with my increased stats and collect enough iron to try forging something new.”

Master Del looks interested at the prospect of something new. “That’s very smart of you, I can teach you when the weather takes a turn for the worst. But I’m more interested in this new design you have. You need a lot of steel?”

“I have a few ideas I’ve been saving for when I turned fifteen and now that I have higher stats, I plan on forging a lot more. Can I use your pickaxe? I want to see what I can do with my new strength.”

“Speaking of Strength, how did you distribute your points? You passed out and stayed home before you could tell me your new status values.”

Grinning, I use his curiosity to my advantage. “I’ll tell you if you help me push the cart through the mine.”

“I thought you wanted to test your new strength? Shouldn’t you be pushing your own cart?”

“I could push the cart, but then I would exhaust myself mining and pushing the cart out of the mine. I need to save my strength to work the bloomery later, so we have enough steel for tomorrow. All you have to do is push the cart out. With your strength it should be no problem.”

Master Del’s flat look doesn’t leave much to the imagination. Our staring matches never last long. With my best smile across my face, coupled with my Charm skill, we both know how this staring match will end.

“This isn’t how apprentices are supposed to work. The apprentice, that’s you, should be doing all the menial labor while I sit back and take a nap.”

“I was planning to let you sleep. You were the one who woke up and gave me an impromptu magic lesson. Thanks for that by the way.” Walking next to Del, we pass the time by poking at each other. I may have longer legs and higher movement skills but master’s ridiculous strength keeps pace with me even though he’s pushing the metal car in front of us.

“We would have had this finished days ago if you came to work on time and didn’t pass out so easily.” I’m about to retort his remark when I remember I haven’t apologized yet.

Dropping my challenging look, I turn my head towards Del. “I’m sorry master.” My sorrowful tone causes Del to almost trip. We were joking just a minute ago and the sudden serious confession was too much even for his reflexes to handle.

Watching him catch himself on the cart, I continue my apology. “I’m sorry I caused you trouble again. I caused you to worry again. Mother told me how often you came by to check up on me.”

“It’s ok. You stopped by after you got used to your new stats and let me know you might need some time off due to your new *Cough* skill. I understand why you took so long.”

“That’s another thing, master. I told you I would only need a day and I forgot to stop by later when it became apparent, I needed longer to overcome my new skill.”“Once you told me the nature of your… new skill. I had a feeling you would take longer than a day. I’m honestly surprised it only took you five days to get a handle on your new skill. I was more worried that your parents would be mad at me for bringing you home unconscious again.”

“You don’t have to worry about that. I made sure to tell them this was all my fault. It took me years to convince dad he doesn’t need to escort me to your house every day.”

We both share a smile at our awkward memories of Del trying to greet father every morning. Father hasn’t forgiven Del but he’s become much more civil in their encounters. It was awkward being their go-between whenever they had business, and with dad supplying Del’s lumber needs, interactions between the two were quite common.

Reminiscing about our time together, the trip to Del’s quarry passed by quickly.

Stopping at the caves entrance, I chant the light spell Del taught me.

“Cicsh het ploetts lages!”

After I chant the spell, a ball of light forms in the palm of my hand and floats up a foot over my head. Once the ball of light is floating in a small circle above my head, the two of us enter the mine.

When I first learned the spell, it cost me 90 mana to cast the spell once. When my skills increased, I could cast the spell for only 37.4 mana. Each ball of light will last 30 minutes, so with my enlarged mana pool I can keep the spell going for hours.

In fact, I always tried to conserve my mana when we were down here. Let’s see what happens when I cast the spell multiple times.

“Cicsh het ploetts lages!” “Cicsh het ploetts lages!”

Each time I chant the spell again, another orb of light materializes and hovers with the others above my head. The light has definitely become brighter; with my stronger senses I can see the walls of the cave much clearer than the previous expeditions I took down here with Del.

“Why did you cast the spell three times?” Del is obviously confused.

“I wanted to see what would happen to the light when I cast the spell multiple times in a row. With my higher mana pool, I can afford to be a little wasteful. Doesn’t the extra light make it easier for you too, Master Del?”

“Not really. I have a decent senses level and I have a skill for seeing in low light areas. Your magic makes little difference to me.”

An awkward silence falls between the two of us, before Del looks like he remembered something. “You still haven’t told me how you distributed your points.”

“Oh yeah, I forgot let me pull up my status page.”

