LV: 59 Experience: 30,387/ 385,461Health: 2,000.00/2,000Stamina: 918.34/1,250 Mana: 649.88/1,000Vitality: 200.00Endurance: 75.00Strength: 100.00Dexterity: 100.03Senses: 60.11Mind: 61.94Magic: 100.09Clarity: 75.04Status Points: 31Skills:Tier 1:Meditation (LV77), Running (LV66), Cleaning (LV50), Axe Skills (LV50), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Chanting (LV42), Mining (LV37), Drawing (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31),  Acting (LV30), Cooking (LV29), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV19), Spear Skills (LV2)Tier 2:Sense Mana (LV76), Charm (LV50), Double Step (LV39), Measurement (LV36) Hammer Arts (LV34), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Axe Arts (LV29), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4)Tier 3:Expel mana (LV53), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18)Tier 4:Inject mana (LV40), Mana Skin (LV29), Mental Resistance (LV24)Tier 5:Sense Soul (LV17)

A small headache accompanies my detailed status page, but thanks to the extra information I can tell Chanting went up a level without even reading my whole status page.

I spend the next fifteen minutes explaining to Del why I had chosen a more spread out status page.

“You chose a hard path, you know that right?” Entering the branch of the tunnel that leads to the iron ore, I have to agree with Del.

“Yes, I know. I have a physical job but choose to practice magic. I plan on focusing on my physical stats here on out. My magic stats are growing slowly thanks to my hard training, so even if I don’t invest any points into them in the future, they will slowly level.”

I grab the smaller cart we keep in the mine and start pushing it towards the deposit.

“Are you sure that’s what you want to do? It’s hard to raise your status through training, you never know if you’re making any progress.”

“I think I’ll be fine. It’s getting harder to level and my physical stats seem to grow slower than my mental ones. I’ll see how hard it is to level after level 60 and go from there.”

“I can’t believe you’re already level 59. At the rate you gain levels, you’ll pass me in only a few decades.”

“With my new status points, I plan on pushing myself even harder. I want to finally pass some of the skill tests that I’ve been stuck on. You said Blacksmithing only truly begins once you pass the first test, so I want to try pushing my crafting limits tomorrow.”

Turning the corner, we enter the first cavern of iron ore. “Then we better get as much quality iron as we can. How do you want to do this?”

I reach into the cart and carefully hoist up Del’s pickaxe. “If it’s ok with you, I would like to do the mining. You usually handle most of it, but I want to level my skill higher. Can I use your pickaxe?”

“You can try. You’ll be swinging an axe over three times heavier than you’re used to. If you want you can swing till you get tired and then we’ll switch.”

“Sounds good.” I walk over to the wall and take my stance. Imbuing the axe with some more of my magic, I wait for it to start to glow. Once the copper lines become visible again, I swing with everything I have. The pickaxe lands right where I want it and… the pickaxe doesn’t stop!

The feeling of striking stone is nowhere to be found. The pickaxe continues its arc through the stone till it comes out below me. I put so much strength into my swing, and it went through the stone so easily. I start to panic as I see the axe head get dangerously close to my leg. Before the pickaxe penetrates my leg, Master Del moves beside me and stops my out of control swing.

“Thank you master, I didn’t think I could swing that hard.” With my leg saved, I look back at the wall. A large gash is in the side of the cavern wall. Small chunks of pulverized iron litter the rocky floor.

“It wasn’t that you used too much force. It was the pickaxe’s enchantment. I told you it was for harder rock. This area has already been loosened due to our previous mining. The force of my swings travels deep into the walls. If you were starting a new tunnel by yourself the enchantment could be useful but here it’s just overkill. Try again, but be careful while the enchantment is still activated. Once the pickaxe runs out of mana, you’ll feel the difference.”

With the enchantment still in effect, I take my stance again. This time I focus on controlling the pickaxe instead of raw power. Each blow easily cuts through the black stone, allowing me to clear three feet of stone in only ten minutes.

I’m about to swing again, as the copper lines fade from the pick. Channeling 50 mana only kept the enchantment active for ten minutes. Master thinks I should try without the enchantment but using it made excavating really easy.

Debating whether or not to recharge the enchantment, darkness creeps around me. Looking up, the balls of lights above my head are slowly dying out.

“Cicsh het ploetts lages!”

Recasting my light spell, a new orb of light floats above my head as my original three spells disappear. Checking my mana pool, I can feel it’s only a little above halfway full now. Though using the pickaxe’s enchantment is fun, it uses too much mana. I need to save the rest of my mana so I can continue to summon light, as well as use magic to light the bloomery when we return.

With the light replenished, I try hitting the wall again. The pickaxe no longer travels straight through the stone, but now delivers the force directly into the wall. Larger chunks are ripped off the wall, as I change positions, giving Del room to gather the fallen stone.

Now that my strength and dexterity are higher my finesse with the pickaxe has increased dramatically. Observing the wall, I can make out subtle differences in the stones structure and adjust my pickaxe to break apart the most stone with each strike.

After my latest few swings, a large protrusion is left hanging on the wall. Determining the best place to strike, I swing hitting my intended mark the first time.

As my pickaxe connects with the stone two things shatter. The part of the stone connected to the wall breaks apart and my Axe skills finally breaks through the barrier and increases to level 51.

The pickaxe in my hands feels more natural. Swinging the pickaxe against the face of the wall, I can feel the qualitative change of each strike. After four strikes, with the last strike using my Double strike skill, I bend over breathing heavily.

“Congratulations on breaking past the first barrier in axe skills. Let’s dump the ore into the big cart and then we’ll switch places.”

Still breathing deeply, I follow Del down the tunnel as he pushes the smaller cart back towards the main tunnel. Half way back, I can steady my breathing enough to talk to Del. “You can tell that I passed the test in Axe Skills? How?”

“Your whole demeanor changed suddenly and you could see your improvement with each swing. You obviously had a breakthrough.”

Reaching the main tunnel, we start shifting the ore into the large cart. “Master, why don’t we enlarge the side tunnel so we don’t have to switch carts?”

“We could take the time to do that this winter if you want? I’ll warn you though, moving that much stone could take weeks even if we’re working together. We’ll also need the help from your father, with larger tunnels we will need to shore the walls with larger beams. This winter is going to be busy for us.”

“You won’t have enough extra time to sleep, master. Hope you don’t get too grouchy over the winter.”

“You know I don’t actually sleep that much right? High level sleeping problems are something everybody has to deal with.”

“What!?” I stop hauling a chunk of iron and stare at Del. “What do you mean high leveled sleeping problems?”

“Huh, did your parents never tell you about the insomnia that plagues high leveled people?” I can only shake my head sideways at Del. I just managed to regain a proper sleeping schedule, is he saying that I won’t be able to sleep as my level grows higher?

“Sorry, I forgot we’re in a small village again. Your parents probably don’t even know about level insomnia. You see, as people level, whether they place their stat points in physical or mental stats it becomes harder for people to sleep. The body and mind have so much energy they could go days without rest. You probably aren’t feeling the effects yet because you distributed your points evenly and push yourself with your daily training. The alcoholic brew I drink is to help me relax and fall asleep. Usually by level 80 people need an external aid to help themselves get a proper night’s rest. The reason I’m always trying to nap is because I don’t fall asleep till a few hours before sunrise. You shouldn’t have to worry about it for another ten or so years. Let’s get back to mining, as you said earlier, we have a lot to do.”

Sulking back to the iron cavern with Del, I can’t help but think about my status page again. I enjoy my sleep as much as I enjoy leveling. I had plans to try and power level myself this winter but having to drink myself asleep every night sounds horrible.

My Sense Soul skill can make me pass out but that too provides horrible sleep. I might have to hold off placing my status points till I find a solution.

“You’re falling behind Aaliyah, I thought you wanted to make some steel today?”

I can’t worry about something that hasn’t happened yet. “Coming Del!” Jogging up to Del, I do what I do best, and focus on the task at hand. I’ll prepare enough steel to forge all day tomorrow.
