These days, you didn’t have to wake up at dawn to avoid accidentally rousing her. But there was still a trick to it, and the trick was to not get…emotional.
Which was hard, in a way. Because if you were waking up early, it was to talk about her, and the moment you felt a tiny bit sad, she’d start to wake up. But it also meant you couldn’t be grumpy about the hour or stub a toe.
There was a trick to keeping yourself feeling neutral. Not empty, but just zen. And Ulvama had to draw on her training from the Molten Stones tribe to keep her in that mode. Training from when she hadn’t been sure if she’d be a [Witch] or another kind of spellcaster.
It was seven o’clock, and it wasn’t hard to wake up at that hour, even if she liked to lie abed and pretended to sleep when Erin got up. The Hobgoblin sat up in the tent on the back of the slumbering Corumdon Beetle, and this time, she avoided the ball of fur slumbering to her right. Across from her, Erin was sleeping with Matha and Mera in cots on the other four corners of the tent woven out of fresh leaves and blades of grass.
The [Angry Druid], Vrilla, had enchanted it all for them as a parting gift when they’d left the village of Dretonamis. Vrilla hadn’t made much of it at first beyond scolding Bowom to ‘behave’, but then she’d cupped his head in her hands and given the surprised [Mad Doctor] a kiss on the lips.
Like someone gave to someone they’d never see again. Then, Ulvama had known they were doing a terrible thing, encouraging so many Fraerlings to leave their homes. They’d brought death with them after all despite their best intentions.
It made the [Shaman] upset. But the Fraerlings just laughed at her. They were leaving home, chasing an adventure.
‘Better to be alive than pretending it.’ That was Bowom’s turn of phrase. And he was one of the Fraerlings who got up early like this.
Not Matha or Mera. They’d tried including the brawling duo, but Mera had about as much control over her emotions as the Battle Hamster. Ulvama edged around him, taking care not to step on him. One wrong foot and he’d rouse everyone in the convoy, not just Erin.
She had to hop off of the Corumdon Beetle’s back after that, down to the tents below. Almost everyone was asleep; they’d been marching or riding all day, and the giant Aphids were also napping.
Only a few Fraerlings didn’t camp with some sort of protective covering. One of them was Eurise, who could lie down wherever he wanted, bereft of a blanket, and sleep. He was already waiting for her as Bowom rolled out of his tents. Literally rolled…he grinned, but suppressed his own sense of amusement, which suggested he wasn’t actually that amused, just trying to get Ulvama to crack.
She waved at them, and the trio were joined by Roja, one of the [Explorers] who’d agreed to go just as far as the nearest Fraerling city to give everyone an escort. Like Eurise, she couldn’t abandon home that lightly.
In an hour, they’d all pretend to wake up. Then they’d have some mudroot tea, seasoned with nali-sticks, and get moving. Before that, they spoke. Bowom had a map out as he sat up.
“I think we’re a day away from Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. It’s not the biggest city, but it’s the closest. They should have a suite of facilities far beyond what we have in our villages, at least. If there’s no better [Healer], I’ll take my best shot at her the moment we get in. They are expecting us, right, Eurise?”
The Level 50+ [Explorer] shrugged, scratching at his spidersilk vest. He wasn’t openly concerned, but then, Ulvama couldn’t always read his steady face. He had seen worse than this, so he leaked no emotions out.
“I sent a tamed Dragonfly, but we’ve got no one I’d risk on the flight itself. It didn’t come back. Could be they sent it on to another destination or it got eaten.”
Bowom grunted.
“Well, they’ll have decent [Alchemists]. But I do think we need a Level 50+ one, which I don’t recall there being one in Lemoste. A city with everything we could ask for and a Last Box would be…Konor Amongst Pines. Have I mentioned how much I hate our naming conventions yet?”
Ulvama thought it was very Goblin-like, but she just nodded. Roja was having the hardest time keeping level emotionally. Ulvama cast a little spell of [Calm], and the [Explorer] nodded at her.
“It’s nearly eight o’clock these days. How fast is it getting worse, Bowom? Give us a real answer.”
The [Mad Doctor] scratched at his head.
“It’s a miracle she survived that much magical radiation. But again, I doubted it was that to begin with. It’s not my field; I can stitch limbs onto people, but the soul…that one’s hard. How bad was she coughing, Ulvama?”
“Lots in the night sometimes. For thirty minutes? Then she’d stop. Four times?”
Bowom tugged on his chin, thinking.
“Well, we don’t have enough data. Keep listening. If she stops breathing or goes low-air again, we’ll consider that another sign her deterioration is accelerating. My guess is that it’ll be a host of symptoms until total bodily failure.”
No one reacted. Ulvama kept her emotions in her chest. First the damage from the battle at sea, now this.
“What about closing the crack-thing? That’s easiest.”
Bowom shook his head as Roja demanded that.
“Good way to get a real horror. Think, Roja. If I split you open and sewed an ant into your chest, what would happen? Maybe it stabilizes you. Maybe you reject it. Worst case is that you accept it and it starts taking over. Or you’re just not the person you were before the operation.”
Silence. Eurise spat onto the ground; he’d been chewing on a bit of seed.
“We’re reaching Lemoste today. I could run ahead or have Zemmy or Mera do it if you need it, Bowom.”
The [Mad Doctor] was cool as could be, and not for the first time, Ulvama was grateful he had decided to come on their trip. Without him, it would be just her, and she couldn’t help Erin.
She wasn’t…the right level. It was tearing her up a bit, and she could tell because there was a flicker of wakefulness from her charms. Erin was getting up. Eurise’s eyes flicked to Ulvama, but he just nodded, and Bowom murmured.
“Don’t agitate the patient. Every time she gets upset, she gets worse. Alright, she’s up? Keep her from using her fire or craft. The color-Skills seem to be just f—”
He stopped talking.
They all did. Ulvama’s eyes grew wide, and she turned, but then she halted. Eurise stopped chewing on his mouthful of seeds. He ruffled a hand through his hair, then nodded.
“That’s good. New. She’s mending.”
“You can’t make a medical diagnosis; I’m the [Mad Doctor] here!”
Bowom snapped at him. He cleared his throat, and his bug-leg tapped its foot on the ground several times. He squinted at the tent.
“Yep. That’s positive. But what was the trigger? Did she level? Has to be—”
“You’re sure?”
Roja gave the two Fraerling men a suspicious glance, but Eurise just gestured at Ulvama.
“I was wondering—I thought maybe because they were Tallfolk, it was different. But it’s just what I thought. Erin’s no [Warrior]. Nor is she tough enough for her level. This is what was missing.”
Ulvama said nothing at all. She just blinked, and it washed over her. A feeling emanating from the tent, waking the other Fraerlings and even the beetle, who lurched to his feet blearily.
It wasn’t an aura. But it was coming from Erin. It felt like…that tingle you got when a lightning spell passed too close by you, but in a good way. Like the energy from rest, when you sprang out of bed, coming like a beacon from a lighthouse. Eurise nodded.
“We’re going to have to get her to turn that off. Used to be I didn’t know how either. I had to fight everything in a mile’s radius.”
“What, can old Zinni do that too?”
Eurise nodded at Roja.
“Sure can. Remember when her herd came calling? That feeling like a stampede’s bearing down on you? Mostly, she just uses it to keep her animals reasonable. If you ever hit 50, you’ll probably get kicked out of the village before your presence makes everyone go running off on expeditions.”
He nudged Roja, and the [Explorer] turned and glanced at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin was smiling again. But her eyes were slightly tearful as the sun rose.
Ulvama didn’t know how or why. Bowom just shook his head.
“Terrible [Innkeeper]. Making us all worry and the nice Goblin cry. Okay, investigation mode. Don’t miss anything. This is only circumstantial evidence…”
But he felt it too. When Ulvama climbed back on the Corumdon Beetle’s back, she saw a slightly sweat-soaked [Innkeeper] rubbing at her back. Erin Solstice pushed her hair out of her face and coughed once into a fist. But then she smiled.
“Hey, Ulvama. I dunno what happened, but I’m feeling better. Great, actually.”
The Hobgoblin managed to raise her brows skeptically.
“You sure? All I see is a sweaty [Innkeeper].”
Erin sniffed under one armpit and recoiled.
“Pleh! Gross! But I do feel better. See?”
She got up as Matha sat up sleepily, and Mera jumped out of bed in a flying kick. The Battle Hamster kicked her in the face, and she landed, swearing. Erin leapt off her bed, or tried to. She planted her legs, and Ulvama saw her shoot up—hit the ceiling of the tent—and punch through the top.
“Aaaaaah! What the—”
The Hobgoblin gazed up as the [Innkeeper] flew into the air. Mera and the Battle Hamster stopped punching each other, and then Ulvama did grin once.
“I’m falling! I’m falling! Oh wait, it’s not gonna h—”
Erin hit the Corumdon Beetle’s shell with her head, bounced off, and she crashed into the campfire, scattering little embers. Then the Beetle stepped on her by accident.
But she was just fine.
Fantastic.
 
——
 
“Hey, Ulvama, Erin’s looking great, isn’t she? Seedwrap sandwich?”
Matha commented as they were stopping for midday lunch. They were watching Erin squaring off with Zemmy and Mera. Ulvama took the sandwich as the Fraerling sat right next to her.
“Mm. Better.”
Matha energetically munched on the mashed seeds combined with bits of fruit and nut-berry to make a paste that you wrapped an edible leaf or dough around. It was Fraerling travel food and not the best, but hardly tasteless. She leaned casually against Ulvama. The Hobgoblin didn’t pay attention.
“I’m feeling great! Just try kicking me this time, Zemmy! Just not in the face!”
The [Innkeeper] was hopping from foot to foot and making beckoning motions—right until Zemmy launched into a flying [Double Kick]. Erin blocked the first one, but the second knocked her down. She was getting up as Fraerlings laughed or cheered. Zemmy tried to stomp on her when Mera tackled him from the side.
It was seeming like the regular free-for-all with Erin and the two [Brawlers]. They were evenly matched. Or no…Ulvama thought Erin was worse than the Level 40 [Brawlers]. In an actual fight, they’d kick her around unless she used her flames or witchcraft on them, and they were wise to her tricks these days. She was still an [Innkeeper], and they were dedicated combat classes.
So she was probably the weakest one, but it was still fairly even until…Erin was running away from Mera, who was on the offensive, when it happened. Her legs seemed to speed up, and her feet began leaving tracks in the ground, flinging dirt around.
“Ooh, her Galas is activating.”
Matha shaded her eyes, then ducked a clod of dirt that Erin had accidentally kicked at her. The [Innkeeper] was suddenly outpacing the swearing Mera, and she whirled.
“[Relc Kick]!”
She missed as Mera jumped over the simple stomach-kick, but Erin wasn’t done. She spun, then launched herself off the ground in a spinning kick towards Zemmy. He blocked it and swept her other leg.
“She’s going Galas! Get her, Mera!”
The two [Brawlers] teamed up, trying to keep Erin from getting to her feet. She cursed and kicked at them, and Ulvama nodded.
So far, the Galas muscles seemed to be only activating in Erin’s legs. They weren’t that strong according to Eurise, but the fact Erin had any meant that she’d kick into a kind of second gear after she warmed up. When she was ‘feeling cool’, in Erin’s own words, she could perform acts of strength that were ridiculous to Ulvama.
And it seemed…Erin’s legs were activating a lot faster. She kicked Zemmy off her, and he bounced off the Corumdon Beetle’s shell. Then she was swinging energetically at Mera.
“Aha! Got you! Got—”
Mera tossed a handful of sand in her face, and Erin swallowed half of it. The ensuing scrap ended up with Erin tapping her hand on the ground, her arm in a pin.
“Argh! I thought for sure I’d be super strong. What’s going on?”
She leapt up, peeved. Mera was feeling a tooth Erin had punched.
“I dunno, Erin. You’re not that much better at fighting, even if your legs went off sooner.”
“What, you’re sure? Not even a bit?”
The [Innkeeper] was crestfallen. Mera nodded, then thumped her own chest.
“On the other hand, I’m feeling great. I was all grumpy because you kept coughing in your sleep last night, but now it’s like I had that coffee stuff you pulled from your Skill! Right, Zemmy?”
“That’s right! What is it, your aura?”
Erin twisted around as if trying to see something.
“No. I don’t feel it. Well, I do feel good, but I don’t feel…huh. Darn, I wish I could sense whatever it is you do. It sounds cool. Hey, Ulvama. Hey, you. What’s lunch?”
She bounded over, and Matha waved her wrap at Erin.
“Seedwraps again. Want the rest of mine, Erin? I’ll get another.”
“Uh. I’ll get my own.”
Erin sat down, and Matha leapt up to get her one anyways. Ulvama poked at her hair, which was covered in dirt.
“You’re gross and sweaty now. Go away.”
“Hey! I don’t smell that bad do—ugh. Anyone got soap?”
Ulvama twiddled her fingers, and a rain of water appeared and doused Erin. Spluttering, the [Innkeeper] scrubbed at her head until she was more clean, then Matha handed her a wrap.
“Thanks…Matha.”
“No problem! So, didja figure out how you got better? Hey!”
The ‘hey’ was because the Battle Hamster had parked himself next to Ulvama with Matha’s seedwrap. She tried to push him aside and reclaim her food, but he just bit at her—so she slunk around to Erin’s other side and tried to scootch onto the twig they were sitting on. Erin sighed, but she just turned to Ulvama.
“No levels. No magic—I was wondering if it was something I ate?”
Ulvama was wondering if Bowom had slipped something into Erin’s food, too. But she just chewed on her wrap.
“You’re better if you’re better. Just say when you get worse.”
“Sure…but this feels pretty permanent. I mean, I dunno, I can tell I’ve still got a crack, but it’s not like I’m splitting apart. It’s more stable.”
