He raced upstairs, and Ulvama heard the screaming boy as her ears drooped. Erin turned to her.
“He didn’t blast us! Matha, you stand back. I’ll just—”
The [Baker] didn’t stop the screaming, but clattered downstairs in a hurry. He’d stowed his wand, to their relief, and he blinked at Ulvama as Erin tried to explain.
“Goblins? In Lemoste? Are there Goblin Tallfolk around?”
“No!”
He grunted.
“We could use them if they’d fight the ants. Listen, my son saw the ants, and he’s had nightmares for months about a monster with sharp teeth living under his bed. Ever since the damn silverfish got in—”
He shuddered. Proportional to a Fraerling’s body, a silverfish was big, and he’d had to beat it to death with a rolling pin after the boy had found it in his closet. As traumas went—you had to admit, that was a good reason to be terrified of monsters.
Erin was very understanding, but she kept glancing at Ulvama. The [Shaman] had closed her mouth and was trying not to scare the boy who was gazing at them from the banister upstairs, shaking with terror. His father thanked her for the charms, but when Ulvama glanced over her shoulder, she could see a pair of little heads vanishing from another house down the street.
She stared down at her feet. Erin kept smiling as she waved up at the boy. Only when the door closed did she look around and whisper.
“Bleh. I hate kids, right?”
Matha nodded.
“Absolutely. Can’t stand the little aphid shits.”
“…Lyonette has a kid. Two kids. They live in my inn.”
“Aw, c’mon. I was agreeing with you that time!”
 
——
 
“So, Ulvama…how’re we doing on the old magic front? Wanna make more charms and get back to it?”
Matha was rolling more seedwraps up, but the Hobgoblin was sitting in their tent, knees curled to her chest.
“Nn.”
She didn’t really make a ‘no’ sound, and Erin hesitated.
“Uh—you hungry, Ulvama?”
“No. No charms, Erin. Just give magic to [Mages].”
Ulvama saw Erin glance at the basket Matha was working on.
“I think that went really well. C’mon, let’s do another ribbon or something.”
“I don’t have enough magic. Too many sad Fraerlings. Not enough goodwill and happiness.”
Even after handing the charms over, it was a bad idea. Ulvama knew they should have just given mana to the defenses. Erin waved her hands at Matha.
“You sure? I think—”
“No. Too tired.”
The Hobgoblin turned to face the wall of the tents. She was tired. It was hard to pull on magic from across the world. Rags’ tribe wasn’t even her tribe, not really. She didn’t know how she’d ever had the energy to cast all that magic when they’d fought the ants.
She just needed to sleep. When Erin tried to get her to have lunch, Ulvama kicked at her leg.
“You go give magic. I go when I wake. Sleeping.”
“What about—”
“Sleeping!”
Ulvama put an aphid-wool pillow over her head. She lay there as Erin retreated and told Matha about the change in plans. The Goblin could hear them whispering.
“What about lunch? I just made more food!”
“We’ll give them out to the [Mages]. Besides, you don’t have a cooking Skill.”
“Yeah, but it’s a seedwrap.”
“Ulvama doesn’t need to eat the same food. C’mon, let’s go.”
They left, and the Hobgoblin went to sleep for a while. When she awoke, she found her stomach growling, but she sat inside for a long time. Eventually, she did have to get up because she wanted food and Erin and Matha weren’t back yet, but she dithered a long time.
 
——
 
When Ulvama came out of their tent, she had on a hood and scarf. That helped a lot; most of the children didn’t flinch when they saw her, and only Fraerlings who noticed her eyes paused.
“We, um, we get food here? Please?”
The Tallguard in line blinked at her.
“Dretonamis’ people? Sure, go on. One ration per person. If you’re getting some for a friend, just say so.”
Ulvama sidled into line. To her relief, the [Chef] at the front was too busy to even do more than glance at her eyes.
“Tomato soup and antloaf. If you really can’t stand the taste of ant, get more soup! It’s the last tomatoes we’ve got until the seeds grow.”
The soup was exceedingly fine. The antloaf…Ulvama munched it down while dipping it in the soup. She was wondering where Erin and Matha were, but the idea of searching the city…Ulvama decided to go back into the tent and take a nap.
Maybe they should have gone to fight the ants. Erin was right. Ulvama curled up in her bedroll.
 
——
 
This wasn’t really a tale about Erin Solstice. But, well, sometimes she made it about herself. She’d been trying not to, after Matha, even when she’d begun to feel…bad.
Lemoste didn’t need trouble. But—and this was a big but—Erin could tell Ulvama was unhappy. It wasn’t just noticing all the signs, but an actual feeling.
Like a string connecting her and Ulvama. Just like she could tell Matha was bored without having to see the Fraerling scratching her stomach. Erin had felt this before, but it was like she was awake.
What the heck had happened to her? Erin was walking through the city; not at random, though it seemed to Matha it was that way.
“Erin, why don’t we go back? Ulvama’s going to wake up, and this city’s depressing. Especially this part.”
“Yeah, I know. Shush, Matha.”
Erin realized they’d found themselves by a group of weary Tallguard. They appeared recently-bandaged. Their armor was messy, but they were whole. She waved at them.
“Hey, guys, can I offer you some seedwraps? What’s, uh, what’s going on?”
Most of them knew who she was. Even in disarray, a Human and Goblin attracted attention. A Tallguard with a huge scar across her nose grunted.
“Just resting up before getting back into it. Good thing you sent Eurise the Explorer. He dove into one nest and beheaded a queen. That and a trained Battle Hammy? We appreciate it.”
“Whoa, Eurise did that?”
Matha was impressed. The rest of the Tallguard—tired. Erin put the basket down and handed the food around. They weren’t starving, but clearly, they appreciated the food. A few of them eyed the simple nut-berry sandwich but took obliging bites.
“How rough is it?”
The female Tallguard replied directly to Erin as if she were a fellow Tallguard.
“Rougher than we want. Reconstruction’s going to take ages. We might be a month or more before a proper wall goes up, and even if we get the ants, there’s plenty of monsters that will be drawn to our magical signature. If we could get reinforcements or supplies, this would be easier!”
“Dretonamis could help. So will my village! They didn’t get the message—”
Matha began, and the Tallguard snorted at her. Not unkindly.
“Look, kid. We don’t need to tax villages. What we need is city support! An entire company of Crelerbane Armor would wrap up the rest of the damn ants and keep security up. Or supplies, magic, anything. We should have it already. But—Cillencreith’s gone quiet. They were always reclusive, but after this long with nothing? We thought they were just on a blackout, but they didn’t even respond to our emergency contact. So that’s more trouble. And none of our Tallguard outposts around there are reporting in.”
“Cillencreith’s the nearest city to here?”
Erin didn’t know any of the cities at all, and the Tallguard all nodded.
“Bigger than Lemoste by far. So that’s why we’re all down. If it’s two disasters or another wave of monsters from the Dyed Lands—”
The Fraerling woman took a huge bite out of her sandwich. Erin was nodding when she saw the Fraerling woman’s face change.
“What the hell is in—?”
She began unraveling her wrap, and Erin swivelled in her seat.
“Matha! What did you put in it?”
“Me? I, uh, didn’t I shuck the seed husks? Are the nuts or berries off?”
Matha raised her hands, clearly ready to run, but the Fraerling woman shook her head and took another bite. She chewed for too long, Erin felt, before swallowing.
“No…this is great. What the hell did you put in it?”
She took another bite energetically, and Erin realized the group had demolished their sandwiches. They turned to Matha, and she hesitated.
“What? That’s just day-old seeds and stuff.”
“You sure there’s not a sweetberry in here? It’s high-quality!”
“What? Can’t be.”
Someone had to toss a piece back to Matha, and she chewed it before her eyes widened.
“Hey, this is good! What the heck?”
Erin caught a piece herself, and it tasted normal to her. She said so. Everyone gaped at her as if she was crazy.
“It’s better than lunch! You got any more?”
They did not, but the Tallguard were sitting up a bit. Erin blinked at them, then turned. She glanced at her hands for a moment as Matha enthusiastically chewed on her bite. Then Erin…pulled back in that feeling that had been bubbling up with her. Matha stopped chewing, made a face.
“Wait, I got a bad bite. Now it’s just normal. Maybe I had some real fresh ingredients?”
Erin glanced at her. Then she flexed her hands again, eying the scars on her wrists. She saw one of the Tallguard gazing at her and stood.
“Well, we’ve got to get going. Hey, Matha—c’mere for a second. I’ve got an idea.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] walked Matha into an alleyway not because she was worried about eavesdroppers. Just because it was thematic. Then she swung Matha into a wall.
“Wh—hey! Did I use your special ingredients or something? Take it easy, Erin!”
Matha appeared alarmed as Erin gave her a look that had the [Raider] sweating a bit. It reminded her of when she’d first met Erin, and she wasn’t actually over that. The [Thought Healer] had actually said she was disguising her trauma and she definitely shouldn’t join this trip, but what did they know?
Erin pointed a finger at Matha.
“Matha, I’m going to be straight with you.”
“Okay?”
“I don’t like you. You don’t like me.”
“Uh…you got that half right.”
Erin blinked, but disregarded that as Matha held still. She glanced over her shoulder.
“Ulvama’s depressed because she thinks she’s scaring the kids.”
“Well, she’s got a pretty awesome smile—”
“Shut it. I’ve got a plan. A stupid one, and we might get in trouble for it, but…”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“I think it can work. I think it’s a good thing, if we do it right. That’s always how it goes. But I need your…help.”
She seemed like she regretted saying that, and Matha blinked.
“Hey, I’d love to help! Whaddya need? Me to steal something? Find someone? Ride something?”
“Nope. You can play the guitar, right? Or that thing’s close enough to one. Listen—”
Erin described her plan, and Matha hesitated.
“Wait. I can play a bit, but I don’t know the song.”
“I’ll hum it for you.”
“Uh—that isn’t how it works. Plus, I’m not that good!”
The [Innkeeper] was giving Matha an impatient expression.
“I’ll cover that, Matha. I can’t sing either, and we need like a drummer at least…hmm.”
Her eyes slid sideways, and she narrowed them.
“I have an idea there. You just agree to help, and we can do it, got it? Follow me. Keep an eye out for better guitars. And we’ll need a few spells for loudness and such. Easy.”
Matha caught up to her as she strode out of the alleyway, and the [Raider] had to bring some logic into the equation here.
“Erin, how is any of this easy? Listen, I used to lead the Cottontail Raiders. You can’t just execute something like what you’re talking about in a second! You need practice, lots of it, coordination, probably advertising and such—where are you gonna get a spellcaster or drummer?”
“Miss Eitine is an [Enchanter]. She can provide the magic. Even if she’s tired out, it’s a low-level spell—or she’ll know someone else who can do it.”
“Wh—okay, I didn’t think of that. But the crowds?”
“The crowds come whenever you do something good enough. As for a [Drummer]—”
They were six streets away, and Matha was jogging to keep up. Erin had made a seemingly random turn each time and gone up a flight of stairs. She walked through a back alley towards a dumpster behind a restaurant. Albeit a Fraerling one—so it was filled with worms who ate the compost and made of wood.
She flipped the lid open and spoke into it.
“Hey, Bowom, do you know how to play drums?”
Matha recoiled as a horror covered in worms rose from the dumpster. Bowom pulled one out of his ear and spoke drily.
“I am fascinated to know how you did that. And no…well, not professionally, but I’m all-in if this is something funny or covert.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled faintly. Then she turned to Matha.
“Okay, let’s rock.”
Matha was still squeaking protests as Erin dragged her into the city. It shouldn’t come together this fast! But Erin went back to the two [Carpenters], and one had a musician friend who directed her to a store who lent her the instruments she wanted because they were a fan of the Singer of Terandria they sometimes intercepted broadcasts of and no one was using them.
And they found a good spot, and Enchanter Eitine had just enough mana to work—but how? The [Innkeeper] just smiled at her when Matha objected. Bowom had to take Matha aside.
“Matha, Matha. I get what you’re doing. Wonderful straight man routine. I’d never have expected it from you. But you have to understand something.”
“What? How is she doing that, Bowom?”
The [Mad Doctor] met her eyes, cheerful, and jerked a thumb at Erin.
“She’s a Level 50 [Innkeeper], Matha. You don’t sneeze when Eurise blows the head off a monster a hundred times his size? You don’t raise your eyebrows when she does this. Here.”
He handed her a guitar. Then Erin was raising her brows at Matha.
“C’mon, we’ll do three practice-runs before we go loud. We don’t have to be perfect—I’m not gonna be.”
“Erin! I can’t!”
“What now?”
The [Innkeeper] growled, and Matha pointed at their audience, who included some of the kids like the [Carpenters]’, and at her guitar.
“I can’t play a song cold like that! I’m not good enough! I don’t even have a better class than [Strummer]!”
“I, on the other hand, am fully confident in my abilities to lay down a beat. It’s like stitching to the beat of a heart. One-and-two-and-one-and-two-and-suture-that-artery—”
Bowom cracked his knuckles as he slapped the drumsticks on the drums. Erin gazed at Matha, and the [Raider] knew that the [Innkeeper] didn’t like her. Which was fair, because Matha did have to make up for what she’d done. But for a moment, the young woman with her hair dyed magical colors and her intense stare seemed to look at Matha.
Her gaze softened, and she smiled as if she were seeing something familiar and funny. She slapped Matha on the back.
