“You can do it. Ready? On…five. Is it five or three for music? Heck, I hated band class. And singing in front of everyone. Oh well.”
She took a breath, and Matha heard it tremble, but Erin was glancing down from their vantage point. The open city lay below them, and they could see from here a tiny little green tent. And Matha realized.
Oh, she’s doing this just for Ulvama. Erin winked at one of the [Carpenters] in the audience.
“One, two, three…”
Matha protested.
“Erin—”
She saw the [Innkeeper] point a finger at her without turning her head.
“[Boon of the Guest: Numbtongue]. Four, five—”
 
——
 
Ulvama was trying to doze off when she heard a strange, familiar sound from above. It sounded like—
Music? She tried to ignore it, covering her head with her pillow. She managed that for about ten minutes, but it kept getting louder. 
And then she realized something was coming from above. The [Shaman]’s head rose, and her own senses, magical, picked up on something else.
“People happy? But why?”
The city was not in a mood for that. But above her, blossoming like a strange flower, there was a rain of…amusement. Excitement. Relief, even, drifting down.
Magic she could almost pull out of the air. The Hobgoblin scrambled out of her tent, and she saw, six floors up, Fraerlings moving towards one spot. That was where the din was coming from.
The Hobgoblin had no idea what was going on. But she heard the faster lyrics, the aggressive wail of a guitar—and the drums, and her eyes narrowed.
“Erin.”
She didn’t know how or why, but she knew.
 
——
 
The Hobgoblin nearly threw something when she saw the [Innkeeper] standing in the amphitheater with Matha playing a sparking guitar and Bowom on the drums.
She actually had one of her shoes in hand and was calculating the trajectory when she halted.
Ulvama had never actually seen or heard Erin…sing. She’d known the [Innkeeper] could do it, but never like this. The young woman was striding across the stage, throwing up her hands, dancing to the music.
She looked—incredibly embarrassed if you knew her, but the audience didn’t. And the [Innkeeper] had come prepared. She had somehow convinced the [Chef] to hand out the antloaf and tomato soup next to the stage she was playing on.
Possibly because she’d gotten the [Chef] to taste the food she was serving with Erin’s new power working on it. But what sold the music was the combination.
Erin’s [Singer] skills and her [Perfect Recall]—Matha playing like a legend of rock and roll on her guitar, which wailed as if it were electric—and Bowom.
The [Mad Doctor] was actually the weakest member of the band, having no musical training like the other two, but he did indeed have a very strong sense of rhythm and coordination. He was playing well enough on the drums, keeping the rhythm in line with the song—that wasn’t what was the impressive part.
At some point, the [Mad Doctor] had realized that his drumset had a more modern innovation that the creator might have actually taken from images of the Singer of Terandria’s band.
A bass drum pedal. A simple lever you stepped on to strike the drum. Simple, for a Fraerling artisan to replicate. Simple for a [Doctor] to operate. Just one thing.
Bowom’s dominant foot was his right one. Which he had lost at one point and replaced with a cockroach’s spiked leg. A cockroach’s leg, which had plenty of issues like standing perfectly vertical; it gave Bowom a lopsided slouch.
But in return, it had plenty of advantages like the ability to run at the speed of a cockroach, one of the fastest land-based creatures in this or any other world. And—the ability to hit the drum pedal so fast that you could barely even see his foot.
Bowom was doubling the beat of the song on his drumset. That he was still on-rhythm was crazy. Ulvama stared at the laughing [Mad Doctor] and the [Innkeeper] singing for the Fraerlings, who sat and ate their food, watching the strange Human.
At one point, Erin noticed Ulvama was there. They just made eye-contact, and the [Innkeeper] smiled as she lifted the wooden microphone the two [Carpenters] had helped make for her. Ulvama sat, pulling threads of the crowd around her into her magic. Her magical paint glowing. Trying to keep a scowl on her face so she didn’t encourage Erin.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] was still playing when Eurise and the other Fraerlings came back from their ant-killing expeditions.
They were bit to hell and back and tired and covered in gore. They’d killed eight queens—mostly Eurise dropping on them and assassinating them. But the aftermath had seen Zemmy and Mera getting a taste of real fighting, and they weren’t happy.
The sight of the city they had come to see so damaged had dampened their spirits, and Mera was unusually unhappy. When they saw and heard Erin and her band playing, she was the one who groused first.
“What is that? Music? We were killing all the ants, and we could have used her help! Instead, she’s just playing silly songs?”
She looked at Zemmy—he was tapping his foot to the beat. When she turned to Roja, Eurise brought a fist down on her head.
“Shut it, Mera.”
“Ow! Eurise! But she’s not even doing anything!”
Roja snorted as some of the older Fraerlings eyed the young ones. She leaned over to speak to Mera.
“She’s putting on a fine show for people. That’s worth more than you think, Mera. And if you think that’s nothing—you try dancing and singing on stage for more than twenty minutes. How long has she been going?”
She turned to Commander Leafin, who was bobbing his head to the beat. He glanced up as he took a swig of water.
“Three hours? They keep doing new songs and practicing them, but she’s been nonstop. Her presence makes the food taste better. Thanks for bringing these two, Eurise. The Hobgoblin’s giving out charms. They’re pretty good for Tallfolk, aren’t they?”
“Yep.”
The [Explorer] caught a flask of water as it was tossed his way, and Mera opened her mouth. Then she went up to watch the performers. She and Zemmy were practically guzzling their tomato soup out of their bowls later. The Corumdon Beetle clacked his mandibles happily below as he danced on his six legs. The Battle Hamster just curled up for a nap.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Ulvama met a hoarse [Innkeeper] as she hopped off the stage. She was covered in sweat, and her half-grown hair on the left side of her head had beads of sweat dripping down. She looked…appropriate, though. Her multi-colored brown hair and the music fit, perhaps deliberately.
Ulvama couldn’t say; there were things about Erin’s world that kept surprising her, and vice-versa. But she put her hands on her hips as Erin strode over. Bowom and Matha were still accepting applause.
“You Numbtongue now?”
Erin laughed and coughed. Ulvama handed her a tonic she’d made for her throat and some water. She was recharged on magic, actually, despite all her crafting. Fraerlings were waving at her and Erin. Ulvama waved back and elbowed Erin.
“Well?”
“What? I just felt like bringing the mood up.”
Erin replied innocently. The [Shaman] glowered at her, folding her arms. The [Innkeeper] coughed again, but it wasn’t a sick cough, just a dry throat.
“Before I forget—[Boon of the Guest: Erin]. For Nerry.”
On stage, Matha stopped riffing and fumbled her chords.
“Aw—Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] wore a smug smile as she turned back to Ulvama. To her surprise, the Hobgoblin hugged her, then let go fast.
“Thank you.”
“Whaaaa? For what? Did you manage to make a few more charms?”
The [Innkeeper] tried to appear innocent until Ulvama put her in a headlock.
“Argh! I give up! C’mon, Ulvama, I’m really hungry, and I haven’t eaten since…wait, I forgot lunch. I wonder if I can use my new power to make food taste good for me?”
“Thank you.”
Ulvama turned, and Erin fell in beside her. She was blushing now.
“It was a lot of fun. I’ve never performed like that before. Like—in a band! It’s pretty embarrassing, singing like an actual performer on stage.”
The Hobgoblin gestured at the stage.
“You did…good. Your voice wasn’t as good as the Singer—”
“Thanks.”
Ulvama poked Erin, and the [Innkeeper] jumped.
“No, shush. Not as good as the Singer of Terandria. But you sang like it mattered. So it was the best. It worked.”
Erin smiled and ducked her head.
“That’s good. I’d almost want to do it again. But—nah.”
She peeked wistfully over her shoulders, and Ulvama was surprised.
“Why not? That worked well.”
Erin waved a hand.
“Eh, if you didn’t need—I’m not good at much, Ulvama. Just chess and…chess. And killing things. I never really had the courage to try new things. Or go to concerts—Grand Rapids had them all the time. But I never went. Or started a band. Heck, I’d never have dreamed of even trying.”
She glanced across the city, waved at Eurise and the others, before putting her hands in her pockets. Ulvama unknowingly copied Eurise. She bonked Erin gently on the head with a hand.
“Dummy. You do new things to practice them.”
“Ulvama, I can’t. I’m too shy.”
She actually had the gall to say that out loud. The Hobgoblin looked at Erin, and then Matha collapsed onto her back. The exhausted [Raider] lay there on her back, possibly overwhelmed with the novel concept of work.
Or maybe that was too harsh. Even Erin turned back to gesture at her.
“I guess she’s useful after all. But don’t tell her I said that.”
In the distance, Matha lurched back upright in a sudden shock. She leapt up and then raised her hands overhead.
“[Punk]! New class! Wooooo!”
The [Innkeeper] sighed and turned away. Ulvama began to grin and then saw a Fraerling girl staring at her, open-mouthed. The Hobgoblin hesitated, and Erin whirled.
“She’s got awesome teeth, right?”
“Yeah!”
The girl nodded, and the embarrassed Goblin laughed, and then she and Erin were walking through the city as Matha and Bowom ran to catch up. Ignorant of the goings on in the greater, bigger world.
But they weren’t aching to go back. They were quite happy enough.
