Erin poked at her chest gingerly, then glanced up and hurriedly added.
“Not that I was splitting apart, but—it’s a lot better. So I guess I’m on the mend! Told you I’d be fine.”
She gave Ulvama a smile that was trying a bit too hard, but the [Shaman] just glanced at Bowom. He gave her two tentative thumbs up.
Why, no one knew, not even Erin. But the convoy was all smiles, younger Fraerlings and older ones returning to their adventure. To Lemoste-Under-Cliffs and beyond!
 
——
 
“Oh, that’s not good.”
When Bowom said that, everyone reached for a weapon. But he was merely the first to see it, standing on the Corumdon Beetle’s head as they rounded a huge cliffside—which was really a giant rock—and came to the actual cliff of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs, the Fraerling City.
An ancient tree petrified into stone, leaning against the cliffs that gave the city its name. A secretive Fraerling city, the first that Erin and Ulvama had ever seen in person. Only, it wasn’t so hidden right now.
Ulvama stirred as Matha’s three-stringed guitar playing came to a strangled stop. The former [Raider] rose to her feet, and she was speechless as color drained from her face. Eurise took one look at the city and snapped.
“Erin, Roja, stay with the convoy! I’m heading in.”
He was a blur already. Ulvama just gazed at the huge shards of broken stone lying on the ground. Then the colorful, exposed city that was visible from its wrecked walls. Bowom muttered.
“[Adjust Eyes]…well, they’re not all dead. I see lots of movement. Pyres? That’s either whatever attacked them or we’re walking into a real problem. Slow the caravan!”
“Shouldn’t we go after Eurise?”
Someone demanded. Zemmy was ready to run, but Bowom shouted back.
“Not until we know what the problem is! Hold it! I said hold it—”
A dozen Fraerlings on the backs of Aphids were bounding forwards to see more. They only halted when Erin put two fingers in her mouth and whistled. Since she utterly failed at that, Ulvama did it for her.
The Fraerlings halted and turned—Erin stood up and beckoned.
“Back, everyone! Zemmy, Mera, get over here! You heard Eurise!”
The two [Brawlers] hesitated—then reversed direction. Again, Ulvama glanced at Erin. It wasn’t quite her aura. But her voice had that ringing command in it.
Just as well. By the time they’d reformed, the group was already noticed. Eurise had halted in the distance, a tiny speck, but the city of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs was far from a ruin. The proof of that was a giant frame appearing in the air with the face of a Tallguard Fraerling with a mithril helmet and a scar across his face. He shouted.
“Halt where you are, travellers! Show us your eyes! Keep approaching and you will be cast upon!”
Ulvama saw his eyes flicker to her and widen.
“We’ve got more infec—wait, green skin? Drop the illusions! Is that some kind of polymorphing…? Every one of you, show me your eyes!”
The Fraerlings hesitated, but then complied. Ulvama held her own eyes open as the Fraerling inspected them all. Bowom called out.
“What kind of plague or malady are we dealing with here? We’re from Dretonamis! That’s Eurise the Explorer up there! We should be expected?”
The Fraerling Tallguard blinked, then cursed.
“Dretonamis? You look clear—what’s with her?”
He jabbed a finger at Ulvama, and Bowom glanced sideways.
“Her? Shrunk Goblin.”
“Shrunk—is this some kind of joke? If it’s not, come on through! So long as you’re not bringing actual Goblin Tallfolk…”
The convoy moved forwards slowly, passing by ashy cairns over churned earth. There were huge craters in it, and Ulvama felt her skin crawling as she stared at the city ahead. But the more she looked, the more intact it felt. She’d seen Paeth’s destruction. Certainly, the Fraerlings who were already scanning Eurise seemed numerous enough.
They took an extra fifteen minutes on Ulvama and Erin, but they were willing to chat. The Tallguard in command was Commander Leafin. His first words to Eurise and Bowom were ominous.
“If you’re searching for support, we can’t send it. We will take your village in if you’ve evacuated it. Tell me you weren’t overrun. We threw a warning back via your Dragonfly, but it didn’t seem like you were in the path of the swarms.”
Roja shook her head.
“It never made it back. What happened? We never heard a call for help!”
Commander Leafin cursed.
“We would have sent messages, but our Farspeaker passed. Every [Mage] not conscripted for battle has been running cloaking and barrier spells nonstop, or just casting [Restoration]. Listen, the Architects will want to talk to you when they can, but we could use anyone over Level 40 who’s willing to fight.”
“We’ve got several combat-classes. Fight what?”
Eurise gestured at Zemmy and Mera, but not at Erin. The Tallguard gave him an expression of envy and incredulity.
“The ants.”
There was a beat before Erin began cursing.
 
——
 
One of the Architects, Vision Tiregal, was a young Fraerling. Tallguard. Newly elected to his post. He wasn’t the highest-ranked, but he had, apparently, won the election that had occurred last week.
“The city called for it after three of our Architects perished. Lemoste must rebuild far stronger than before. I am calling for Fraerling villages to relocate nearer to us if they are not heavily entrenched like Dretonamis—frankly, I hope you will help us stay and clear out the rest of the hives, Eurise.”
The [Explorer] was walking around the outside of the opened Fraerling city, staring up at the buildings and floors within. It looked like an ant nest as well, albeit far more advanced, which made their foes all the more ironic.
“Of course I will. But how did they ever get through the walls? We saw one of those magical ants—they’re the ones, right?”
Vision Tiregal nodded.
“The Dyed Lands. We heard warnings from Tallguard outposts, but we never thought we’d run into more than a handful of monsters. The ants seem to have exited en-masse and cut a path all the way here. Not even the Great Companies were stopping them…they might have been embattled. We don’t know, only that this was where they honed in on. It could be they sensed our magical signature despite our Allotment falling within range or something else—”
“Excuse me, but I’ve seen Fraerlings fight. How did they break into the city? Don’t you have all kinds of magic and stuff? We killed one of those queens, and they were deadly, but…”
Erin interrupted. She gestured at the city and the Fraerlings on guard-duty, who were armed with crossbows and wands and who had sightlines across the entire cleared fields on anything coming their way.
They’d already seen Lemoste shooting down an opportunistic bird with a long-range fireball spell that had blown off its head. A team of Fraerlings was now going to pick up the corpse, food being one of the things the city needed at the moment. But this was almost like a siege.
Tiregal glanced at Erin, but her Human-ness seemed unremarkable at the moment. Ulvama he was peering at, but he replied in a low voice.
“We had only three individuals above Level 50 in the city when they attacked. Only one combat-adjacent. Over 48 above Level 40, but…we’ve killed 56 of the magical ant queens so far. We think the swarm is mostly broken, but they just overwhelmed our defenses with sheer numbers. We were vaporizing them with [Barrier of Eradication] spells tuned to insects, and they just kept coming until we ran out of mana.”
Fifty-six queens? Erin and Ulvama looked at each other as the gravity of Lemoste’s war sunk in. Eurise simply grimaced.
“You should have sent for us. I’m willing to headhunt the rest of the queens if you can pinpoint them.”
Architect Tiregal gave Eurise a weary smile and nod.
“It’s been four days of fighting, Explorer. You’d have missed the worst of it anyways, and if your village was next—we were trying to lure them away from us the entire time. Not again. The first thing I want to do is re-establish our Crelerbane Armor forces. However, we have to find or buy the Adamantium…Oierdressql had Crelerbane Armor and it still fell. Paeth and Oierdressql were wake-up calls, but we didn’t heed them. You’re welcome to our city, such as it is, but anything you can contribute is welcome.”
“We’ll get to fighting, then. Zemmy and Mera are Level 40+, and Roja is as well. Alright, anyone willing to fight, step up!”
Eurise shouted, and Fraerlings abandoned their convoy. Bowom cracked his fingers.
“I’m Bowom. If you have injured or people missing limbs who don’t mind new ones, sign me up.”
Erin was turning.
“I can go with you, Eurise. And Ulvama—”
She hesitated. Ulvama hadn’t raised her hand. The thought of fighting another sea of insects made her shudder. Eurise glanced at her, then pointed.
“You’re still not necessarily well, Erin. Stick with Ulvama. Matha, you’re in charge of these two. Keep them out of trouble.”
“Got it, Eurise!”
She saluted, and the Fraerling man rubbed at his chin.
“We could use the Beetle and Hamster if they’re willing. We’ll keep them out of harm’s way, but a flier and a Battle Hammie could be useful.”
The Battle Hamster was already in line with Zemmy and Mera, and so the Human and Goblin saw the Corumdon Beetle’s tent removed. They stood there as Vision Tiregal gave them directions to the forces coordinating the counter-offensive.
Commander Leafin was clearly relieved to be sending Eurise to the forces on the offensive, but before he dashed off to send word, he stopped them all.
“The worst part about the ants isn’t just their numbers or how much damage they can do with their pincers. It’s the Queens. If you see a Fraerling out there, make ‘em show you their eyes. The Queens…possess Fraerlings they capture. It’s easy to tell, mostly, and they can be saved. Just kill the Queen. But until then, they’ll act as if they’re on the ants’ side. Don’t let your guard down.”
Erin felt a chill run up and down her spine. She rubbed at her chest and remembered the queen reaching for her when they had fought. Ulvama was looking at her, and any inclination Erin had had to insist on fighting was gone.
Eurise just nodded.
“I’ve seen that kind of thing before. I don’t plan on letting them get to me. We’ll strike every queen ant we find. Got any fliers?”
“Yes, and levitation spells if not that.”
“Works for me. Drop and chop.”
He projected a weary and grim competence that had everyone looking at him as a leader. Erin felt like he could have rallied everyone here if he needed to. So, that was a Level 50 [Warrior] holding nothing back. She wondered…what Saliss was like when he really got mad.
She’d never seen it. Not even with the Wyverns.
At any rate, she and Ulvama had to ask more questions of Tiregal about the ant queens. He was frank.
“Most of our survivors are going through intensive treatment to make sure they’re not still influenced, but their basic summary was akin to hypnosis or being…absorbed into the ant swarms once they were brought before a queen ant. Some power of theirs—again, from the Dyed Lands. These are the most deadly ants I’ve ever heard of in the entire world. Magical army ants don’t even come close.”
For all that, the Hobgoblin felt like the situation was under control—the Fraerlings being on the offensive and unwilling to let the ants regroup seemed to mean that unless there was another huge wave of them coming, most of the magical ant swarms were reduced. Though they might still be horrific threats on their own…she feared they might become an apex predator group in this region, but that was a reality the city would have to deal with as it happened.
Only when Commander Leafin came back did Ulvama get worried.
Because three dozen armed Tallguard were with him as he whispered to Tiregal. The Vision looked apologetically at Bowom.
“I’m afraid we have a problem. We’ll have to detain you for now. You are under arrest.”
“What?”
Erin shielded Ulvama with one hand, and her eyes glinted dangerously. Leafin glanced at her.
“Level 50.”
The Fraerlings around her tensed, and Bowom spluttered.
“This is outrageous! We’re all trying to help here! Miss Erin and Miss Ulvama were trusted by three Fraerling villages and their protectors! I object! How dare you, sir!”
He jabbed a finger at Vision Tiregal, and the young Fraerling man handed him something. Bowom snatched it, unrolled what looked like an old scroll, and hesitated.
“Ah.”
“Bowom the Splicer, you are under arrest for crimes of medical malpractice in three cities and sixteen villages. Given the circumstances, we might actually need your help…the Architects are waiting for an interview. Will you come quietly? It’s just you under arrest.”
Commander Leafin eyed Erin and Ulvama as the [Innkeeper] hesitated. Everyone eyed Bowom, and he raised a finger.
“I object! I’m the medical supervisor in charge of this dying Human and—damn, I thought those things were expired. It’s been twenty years!”
He sighed as they marched him off. Erin and Ulvama gazed at his back as he waved.
“Don’t worry, I’m sure we can sort this out! It wasn’t anything too hein—well, we’ll sort this out!”
He winked a few times, and then it was just the two of them, all their luggage, and Matha. The [Raider] spoke after a few seconds.
“Who is Bowom!?”
Nobody knew. Ulvama picked up the scroll Bowom had tossed over his shoulder and read it. After a moment, she showed Erin the list of crimes. The [Innkeeper] sucked in her breath.
“Ooh.”
 
——
 
“So, I think I could join the fighting against the queens. Burn them a bit.”
After about forty minutes of touring the city of Lemoste, Erin floated the idea past Ulvama. The [Shaman] regarded her.
“What if they do that thing where they try to take over you again?”
“…Right. Maybe not the queens?”
Do you have to fight?
Erin was restless, though. She murmured as they walked around the streets, where elevators that worked on some kind of gas propelled Fraerlings up and down. Only, half were broken because the city’s exterior had been breached, so Fraerlings were using [Lightbridge] spells or just newly-built stairs.
They had a shellshocked look. Or a determined one, like Goblins after a terrible battle. No one was able to chat; even Ulvama was only getting passing glances, not the people in Dretonamis with questions.
“This city’s so sad. I can’t believe they destroyed it. I always thought it’d be so much…cooler than home.”
Matha was the one the most shaken up by seeing the devastation. Erin and Ulvama glanced at each other. The [Shaman] leaned over.
“I feel grief. Sadness. Mostly—shock. Apparently, not many civilians died. Not like Oierdressql.”
Erin nodded tightly.
