“That’s good. I sense the same thing. They’re working hard on rebuilding. It’s stressful, though. I think…didn’t the Vision tell us most of their food got eaten?”
Just like the ants to steal that. They’d swarmed over the area before retreating, so a lot of Lemoste’s goods were gone. Even so, Erin murmured.
“They’re determined, though. Poor kids are the most shocked. Like her.”
She jerked her head at Matha, and Ulvama recalled that most Fraerlings in cities wouldn’t be used to monsters at all. Unlike the villages…the [Shaman] nodded. Then she grabbed Erin’s hand so the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t run off to combat.
“You’re resting.”
“But I could help—”
“No!”
The Hobgoblin was so loud and fierce everyone turned, and she lowered her voice.
“We can help here. Okay? Somehow.”
Thus began their own part in aiding Lemoste. A harder task than it seemed.
 
——
 
Even after a battle, Lemoste was still far, far too advanced to need the things Goblins would. When Ulvama found a [Healer] with Matha’s help, they gazed up at the big building filled with magic. A weary woman came out to meet them.
“Cutting bandages? Poultices? Thank you, er, Miss. But we don’t need that. We have a [Mage] casting [Restoration] once every hour; if we need to, we’ll have the mana charge increased, but the worst of the casualties are dealt with. Unless you have any regeneration spells or Skills?”
They did not. The [Healer] shook her head.
“Hunting would be best, but the Tallguard want to avoid bringing animals or predators until we have a wall back. So you’d have to ask them. You’re from Dretonamis, right? Are you wearing a costume or did you polymorph yourself, miss? I love the magical signs.”
She gestured with a wand at Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin hesitated.
“No, I’m a Goblin. Just…smaller.”
“Oh. What?”
The [Healer] blinked, then leaned forwards.
“That’s incredible magic! I’d love to ask—but I have a shift to get back to. You wouldn’t happen to know if there’s someone who can do high-level healing amongst your group? I was told there was, but they’re not here!”
Erin cleared her throat with a hesitant smile.
“We, uh, we do have someone like that. His name is Bowom, but I think he got arrested. You wouldn’t happen to know him, would you?”
The [Healer] blinked. Then her face turned grave.
“Bowom? He’s still alive? I studied his case in school! That insane—of all the times! We might actually need him, but dead gods. Is he under lock and key? If not, we need to keep him away from the patients!”
She seemed ready to run until they assured her he’d been arrested. The [Healer] muttered.
“I have to tell our director now! Thank you—er, Miss Goblin. You two. If you can do any magic, we could use some of that!”
Then she was running off. Ulvama wondered exactly what kind of experiments these had been, but regardless, she realized her help to the city would have to be less traditional. She turned to Erin.
“We should do magic to cheer people up! Just a bit of it, you know?”
She flicked her fingers. Erin was nodding.
“Yeah, but I don’t have much happy witchcraft around. Tons of remorse, actually, but that’s not gonna cheer anyone up. And after Pallass, I don’t think just making a flame would be the best.”
Certainly not. Ulvama gestured at their packs.
“What if…we make some little happy charms? Give them out?”
She was thinking of the shellshocked Fraerling children. Someone had to; it was her job, even if this wasn’t her place. Erin scratched at her head.
“What kind of charms do you give to kids? Magic balls like Mrsha has?”
Ulvama stared at her friend. Erin raised her hands defensively.
“Hey, don’t look at me like that! The Great Witches didn’t teach me kid-charms. We never got to that segment.”
 
——
 
[Shamans] were different from [Witches]. They were, by nature, more communal than [Witches], who existed around communities, but didn’t have to have them. A [Witch] could be reclusive; a [Shaman] had to have a tribe.
Ulvama’s connection to the Flooded Waters tribe was weak, so she had to draw mostly on her own mana and what she could get. Accordingly, her charms weren’t the strongest, but she showed Erin and Matha how it was done.
“For little babies, you get a bit of dust and infuse it with sleepy. Just a teensy bit so they stop waking and crying. For bigger children, a ribbon like so, see? And you tie it like this—”
She made a complicated pattern that neither Erin nor Matha could follow, and the little flower-ribbon was done.
“Then put it in child’s hair.”
“What’s that do?”
Matha scratched at her back, seeming out-of-sorts and upset. Ulvama gave her a tight-lipped smile, trying not to show her teeth.
“When children run around, a tiny bit of their energy goes—”
She waved her hands around.
“Makes people feel better.”
“Neat! How many can you make?”
Ulvama pointed down at the ground.
“Maybe…four? But if we give them out, I’ll make more!”
That was how it worked, you see. Just like how [Witches] harvested their craft to give it away, [Shamans] relied on the people around them to give them scraps of something. Hope, for instance, like when Mrsha had told Ulvama about Krshia making a ball of it to toss into the sky for Liscor’s siege. Primitive work, but the Gnoll must have had training as an actual [Shaman] to do that. It was rather impressive, actually.
The [Shaman] gathered up all the spare food they had—mostly seedwraps—and made a basket with the four charms. Then she went to give them out. Therein lay the problem.
Ulvama got…well…
A bit shy.
 
——
 
A pair of Fraerlings hard at work sawing and sanding pieces of wood were joining the reconstruction effort. They were [Woodworkers] with a unique focus: joinery. Thus, they had no nails, but were making wood carved into the correct angles to slot together and form natural connections. It would be just as strong, if not more so, than something with nails or screws, but it was far more involved and precise.
So they didn’t have time for their two children, who were about and underfoot, sometimes running to get things, but, well, distracting.
When they saw the three visitors, one looked up.
“Unless you’re here for a delivery or pickup, we can’t take orders. Everything’s for the new wall. Oh—”
He stared at the Hobgoblin hiding behind the [Innkeeper] and Matha and poking them repeatedly, then nudged the other Fraerling next to him.
“Raan. Raan, look.”
The other [Carpenter] was swearing at a blister on his palms, then noticed Ulvama. He blinked.
“What the—”
“Hello! I’m Erin, and this is Matha, a reformed [Raider], and this is Ulvama! We’re from Dretonamis! We just were coming by with some charms and food if you wanted some? We arrived and didn’t know about the, uh, battle.”
The [Innkeeper]’s smile made both Fraerlings put down their tools. Matha half-glared at Erin as she shook the first [Carpenter]’s hands.
“Very pleased to meet you. Is that a seedwrap? Ah, we can take that. Rina, Rousy—you want food?”
They turned, but their children were suddenly hiding behind the huge joists of wood they were working on. The first Fraerling, Zignem, gestured, but they were staring at Ulvama. He turned to her.
“Are you the Goblin I heard someone talking about? Tallfolk in Lemoste. It’s been an age since then.”
“Hello, yes. I’m friendly. We have charms.”
She muttered so quietly he almost couldn’t hear her. Matha took over, explaining what the charms did as the [Carpenters] chewed on their snacks, asking how Dretonamis was. When they were assured that the village was well, one sighed in relief.
“That’s good. I was worried—I’ve never seen such a thing in my life. One moment they were ringing alarms, the next I saw on the exterior vision spells the ants pouring over the cliffs. Flying down—just waves upon waves of them. We were all heading to the emergency evacuation sites, but I thought—”
His partner nudged him as one of the Fraerling kids who’d been edging closer to Matha, waving a seedwrap at them, froze up. Then they looked so afraid that he halted. Erin hesitated, glanced at Ulvama, and then smiled.
“But you made it. Now everything’s going to be okay now that Eurise the Explorer’s here. Have you heard of him?”
The children hadn’t, but they glanced up as Zignem exclaimed.
“Eurise the Explorer? He’s here? We could have used him during the siege! He could probably wipe out the rest of the queens—I’ve heard he once killed a panther with his bare hands.”
“Oh, we had this huge snuffolomonster he beat up in like three punches. Plus, we’ve got his apprentices, Zemmy and Mera! They’re great. Every time they meet, they hit each other hard as they can. They’re already over Level 40, and they’re not even, like, eighteen yet!”
Erin made some punches in the air, and the mood lightened. The [Carpenters]’ kids edged forwards as she waved something at them.
“Plus, my friend Ulvama here made some ribbons filled with lucky Goblin magic! I think it’s lucky. Might just be Goblin magic. Want one?”
“What’s it do?”
When the two Fraerlings heard what the ribbons did, they let their kids debate who wanted to wear it. Then they directed the trio down the street.
“If it’s noisy babies you want, try Eitine. Her kid’s four, but he saw some of the ants—thank you for the food.”
“…welcome.”
“Thank you for chatting!”
Erin waved at the two and then at the kids. One of them called out.
“Is she a real Goblin?”
She pointed at Ulvama and appeared nervous. Erin turned.
“That’s right. And I’m…Human. Arghablaghblegh!”
She waved her arms, and the girl stared at her. Erin lowered her arms as one of the [Carpenters] began to choke on his snack with laughter.
“You don’t look Human.”
“…What’re Humans supposed to look like then?”
Erin lowered her arms, red-faced, and the girl informed her knowingly.
“They’re supposed to be tall as trees! And go around seducing things! Like trees. That’s how you get Dryads.”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth, and Matha was laughing too hard to let her get a word in edgewise.
 
——
 
The second parent they came to, Miss Eitine, was better. But when she saw Ulvama, she gasped—the Hobgoblin retreated nervously as she held the basket in her hands. Erin snatched it.
“Hello! Non-seductive Human here, and Goblin! Wanna seedwrap? And a charm for crying babies?”
“…What?”
The Fraerling woman warmed to them considerably more after they explained what they had. She smiled at Ulvama.
“Thank you. I would invite you all in for refreshments, but—”
She gestured at the half-destroyed home she was trying to repair. She was an [Enchanter], but visibly tired.
“I’m sorry, I gave all my mana for the defenses. If you have any to spare, you should do the same.”
“What’s that?”
Erin blinked, and the woman pointed.
“Just down there, you see the impromptu mana circles? It’s a tank of liquid mana. Every spellcaster with non-essential spellcasting is contributing. We’re using it to fuel all the important spells.”
“We can go there! I’ve got some, though Ulvama’s a bit low right now—can we, uh, help with the house?”
The woman glanced over her shoulder.
“Oh, that? It’ll mend. People won’t…the worst part is all the soundproofing is gone. Thank you for the charm, Miss Goblin. Do you have a name?”
She smiled at Ulvama and the Hobgoblin introduced herself. The mother nodded.
“I have another family who probably has a noisy baby. Thank you for the food—we’re rationing until we have a steady foodsource. As soon as this is done, I’m sure the Tallguard will hunt down a bear, but it’s very welcome. Especially for two Tallfolk! And you.”
Matha got the coolest look of all and hesitated.
“Um. Me?”
“Yes, you. A [Raider]? Shouldn’t you be ashamed of yourself, young woman? It’s one thing to be a [Loner] or to leave your village, but to take from it? Look around you! Fraerling settlements die when we don’t support each other, and that’s the class you decided to take?”
Miss Eitine raised her voice as she gestured around the city. Matha turned beet red, and then she was trying to hide between Erin and Ulvama.
“I gave it up! We’re reformed! I’m sorry!”
She might have gotten the rough side of Eitine’s tongue, but at that moment, her son woke up. She took the dust pouch Ulvama had made.
“I’ll see to him. Thank you for your time!”
“You, uh, give it to him after he falls asleep. Maybe with a big snack and water?”
Ulvama called hesitantly, and the [Enchanter] turned, smiled, and assured her she would. Ulvama smiled back, and Erin slapped Matha on the back.
“I like her. She’s got her priorities straight, unlike Citykiller Matha over here.”
“Oh, c’mon—”
They walked outside and watched as a bunch of broken shingles floated up towards a roof slowly repairing itself. Ulvama shook her head.
“Magic. So powerful.”
“But they didn’t have that many Level 40+ people. More than I think you’d get anywhere but Pallass, but still. It feels like even Fraerling cities lack for high levels. Having one Level 50+ person per village is the big thing.”
Erin observed. Matha sniffed and folded her arms smugly.
“Fraerling villages always have the most amount of high-levels per group. Everyone knows that.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“And the most people stealing from them too. Okay, let’s go help more babies fall asleep!”
 
——
 
Ulvama was perking up by the time they got to the fourth household. People weren’t that alarmed by the Goblin thing any more than they were Erin being Human. In moments like these—
A little Fraerling boy was opening the door of a rather mansion-like interior, despite the humble exterior. A bit of simple dimension-magic—the owner was a snoozing [Baker] with his mouth open in the living room armchair.
“Hey there! Are we coming at a bad time? We have some magic and a snack!”
Erin waved at the boy. He gazed up at her and shook his head.
“Da! Visitors! Da—look—”
He called, and the [Baker] barely stirred. Then the boy glanced over his shoulder, saw Ulvama waving at him and giving him a toothy smile. He froze up—and then started screaming.
“Monster! Monster!”
Ulvama’s stomach lurched. She instantly hid behind Erin, but it was too late. The [Innkeeper] was waving her hands at the boy as he ran back, climbing the stairs and falling.
“No, she’s not a monster! Don’t be racist—aw hells.”
The [Baker] was on his feet, waving a wand around in moments. He turned to his son, who was screaming his way upstairs, and then Erin and Matha. He saw Ulvama, froze, and then exclaimed.
“Richie, it’s not an actual—oh, cats. I’m so sorry, one moment—”
