Whet leaned back in his chair, looking calm. Rags wasn’t fooled. He was nervous. He was a good liar, but she’d upgraded herself far past being a little Goblin taught by a [Necromancer].
Her eyes flickered and she saw how hot he was. Not…hot hot, as in sexy. Rags was still not at that point. Yet the [Steelflame Strategist] could see heat. It was trickier to tell lies, but it still worked.
“We could have killed you. How many Goblins tribes kill you—people like you?”
Whet licked his lips and smiled genially. He tried to charm her, or do something—it bounced off her aura. It did work on Redscar, who had no resistance against that kind of thing, and an appreciation for anyone with a toned body. Rags scowled, jerked a thumb. Redscar left the room.
“I admit, it’s risky, making contact. There’s some unfriendly tribes out there. Heard of the Kraken Eaters? They don’t talk. Poor fellows learned that the hard way. But there’s another reasonable tribe out there. And I’m assured you knew one of the tribes we worked with from time to time. The Mountain City Tribe? Great Chieftain Tremborag?”
Rags blinked. Tremborag had…? Of course he had. She folded her arms.
“What is it you do? Buy slaves? Ask Goblins to raid places? I am not Tremborag. I would not kill you—”
Whet smiled wider, relieved. Rags went on.
“—But I would tell Poisonbite to chop off here if I don’t like what I hear.”
She gestured. Poisonbite grinned. Calescent and Whet looked uneasy. Rags wasn’t going to do that, but the [Rogue] spoke quickly.
“We don’t demand anything, Chieftain. We’re just—here—to be mutually profitable. Goblins have gold. Yet they can’t spend it. A long time ago, whomever started my gang decided that was a shame. If you had anything—anything you needed, like potions, books, trinkets you can’t get the usual way—we can help.”
Ah, they were [Traders]. Rags was surprised, then not. She supposed that she should have expected Goblins to join the underworld—if they could. Anything to survive. As for making money? Humans were greedy.
“Well, then. You can live. And keep testicles. And gonads. Even trade. If you tell about Goblinhome, though…”
She listened as Whet made his pitch, relieved to keep all his possessions. In fact, Rags asked for a catalogue, and after eying the list, turned to Calescent.
“Calescent.”
“Chieftain?”
He was pointing at something in the catalog. Rags slapped his hand down. He pointed again, at the shiny cooking set. He waggled his brows. Rags scowled.
“We will buy things on this list.”
She wrote down a short list of items. After a second, she turned, punched him in the leg, and added the cooking set—he hadn’t stopped poking her until she did. Rags glared at him, and then addressed the [Chef].
“Go disarm Stupid Adventurer traps #2 and #7. Also, get playthings from crèche.”
“Playthings?”
For a second, Rags heard the word differently. She shook her head and looked at Whet. The curious [Rogue] saw the Chieftain smile.
“Playthings for little Goblins. Jewels, gold. No use for it otherwise. Same with traps.”
His mouth opened wide. Especially when she showed him the pile of gold and gemstones…right over the pitfall trap. Rags smirked.
It was amazing how many adventurers fell for it. They knew it was a trap, but they still tried to get the gold…long enough for a Goblin with a club to sneak up behind them out of the secret passage.
 
—-
 
Rags’ brilliance among her tribe was her defining characteristic as a Chieftain. Reiss had been amazing at learning, copying. Garen was the warrior of warriors—Tremborag was fat.
Each Chieftain had a specialty. Rags’ was in plays like this. She saw Bevussa and the Wings of Pallass off at the same time as Whet.
Both [Rogue] and Gold-rank adventurer looked extremely uncomfortable as they saw each other. Rags just smiled.
“Keep promises. Goblinhome is secret.”
And good luck figuring out who the other person is. Rags had left Whet with a fortune in gold and gemstones, though. So that was why he had come with an empty bag of holding.
She shook her head, but he’d furnished her with two samples which were ‘gifts’ of his black market organization to make her eager to do business. She would have paid far more than their ludicrous rates for them anyways, and she had managed to strike a discount by pointing out to Whet that her tribe could actually buy goods via Liscor.
Of course, none of her tribe had actually gone to Liscor since Badarrow and Snapjaw, but one look at the portal stone and he’d believed it and given her a 19% discount. Rags wouldn’t have risked a door to Goblinhome anyways.
“So we’re free to go?”
As Whet left, Rags eyed Bevussa.
“Almost. Before you go—one more thing.”
She studied the Gold-ranks, who seemed a bit tense, wary, surrounded by so many Goblins. Rags sighed. Whet was an unexpected bonus, but Goblinhome’s secret was out, one way or the other. Bevussa had sworn to keep her secret, but…
“You have a question.”
Bevussa blinked. Then nodded slowly. She looked around at the Goblins. Then at Rags.
“I swore to keep this—Goblinhome and your tribe’s secret. If you didn’t attack other groups.”
Rags nodded, face blank. Bevussa frowned, her expression warring between a kind of sympathy, a desire not to believe—and suspicion. She peered down. Pointed.
“…I have to ask. Where did you get those boots?”
Kin and Issa looked down. Rags sighed. Stupid, clever bird-people. She lifted the boots, which no Goblin had made. Same as the chairs in her room, which Whet had noticed. She sighed at Bevussa.
“Goblins must live.”
She had decided to do it, in the end. Again and again. How will we break the cycle?
They needed more than they could produce, though. So again she had ordered it.
Burn the playthings. She remembered the voice. The burning Human villages. Rags’ eyes flashed crimson as Bevussa tensed. Rags turned.
“Grab them.”
The three Gold-ranks struggled, but gave up as the Hobs around them did just that. Bevussa nearly got into the air—but one look at Snapjaw, riding her personal Wyvern made her slow.
“Damn it.”
“Captain. You just had to—”
Issa was cut off as she was gagged. Rags nodded to the other Goblins.
“What now, Chieftain?”
Redscar looked at Rags. She pondered for a moment, and met Bevussa’s gaze. Rags smiled. The nicest Goblin the Garuda would ever meet shrugged.
“No help for it. Before they tell—let’s raid.”
The Redfangs whooped and grinned. Rags swung up behind Snapjaw on the Wyvern. She turned her head.
“Bring the Gold-ranks too. We’ll drop them on the way.”
 
—-
 
Bevussa wished she could have kept her fat beak shut. She was a prisoner, dangling from a Wyvern’s claw as it flew. Goblins rode on the back, light as could be; they had bags of holding.
Perfect raiders. Damn it! I should have just asked later. But I had to know. I didn’t think she’d—
She thought Rags had been the Goblin that Erin had met and talked about. A kindly little Goblin.
Time had changed her. Bevussa had no idea who that [Rogue] was, but she knew one thing: Goblinhome was raiding.
Maybe the Humans. Maybe Pallass wouldn’t care? She owed it to her city to report it. She hoped Rags wouldn’t…force her.
But her hopes were dashed. As if to make a point, to dare them, Rags and her group flew onto a raid. Carn Wolves followed by ground.
They blindfolded the Garuda and Kin and Issa as they left Goblinhome, so they didn’t get a perfect aerial view of where the fortress was. Not that Bevussa needed it; she knew the rough area.
They could have let the three Gold-ranks go there. They could have, with only suspicions, a pair of boots, a few strange items like high-quality soap, manufactured, dyed fabric.
They showed the three everything. Two days after her capture and then release, as Eldavin’s great history lesson was going on, the Goblins let the prisoners watch a raid.
It was everything Bevussa had feared. Worse—Rags gave her orders, watching the history lecture on a scrying orb with half an eye for the battle. She pointed, once.
“[Fireball].”
The explosion consumed a trio of [Guards]. Bevussa saw the last go flying like a toy doll. She wanted to believe…no.
That was not non-lethal. If she had any doubts, watching the Redfangs on Carn Wolves descend and attack the survivors of the Thunderbow’s ambush settled her doubts. They swung their blades with lethal efficiency, and then the Goblins stripped the caravan.
Worse—this would mean intervention. This was not something Pallass would entertain, to weaken the north.
They were Drakes dying. Rags looked at Bevussa, from her perch where she’d directed the slaughter.
“Do you see?”
Bevussa saw. She glared, gagged, unable to speak. Rags looked at her. She gestured.
“Not yet. Snapjaw! How many more caravans by scout?”
“Three. They want supplies bad. Big escorts.”
Rags snorted.
“Take them.”
She and the Goblin warband were on the wing within twenty minutes. They dove out of the skies on the second caravan. Bevussa saw Rags sitting on her Wyvern. The Goblin Chieftain bellowed.
“Loose!”
Like a [Commander]. Like a miniature [Warlord] in green. Her sword pointed, and the Drakes looked up at the unfamiliar voice. They scrambled—
Six huge Hobs who’d set up Thunderbows fired. The bolts took out the [Caravan Leader], the head of the [Guards], a [Mage]—and they were reloading.
Redscar raced out of cover, whooping. Snapjaw and her Wyvern dove from above, dropping a stone from a bag of holding that sent the [Guards] scrambling for cover.
A second slaughter. Bevussa saw Rags turn to her.
“Do you see?”
Bevussa struggled to shout. Kin and Issa were staring hatred. Rags looked at Bevussa. Pleadingly? No—not even that guiltily. She spoke.
“I was angry. I am. Figure it out. Third caravan. Snapjaw, go!”
They flew. The third caravan knew. They were spread out, using the wagons as cover. It didn’t matter. Rags blew apart one barricade with a [Fireball], her magic. She set up the Thunderbows out of the Drakes’ range and made them sally forth or die. This time the Redfangs loosed bows, refusing to even close.
A bloodless victory on one side. Death on the other. Bevussa saw halfway through the last Drakes dying, refusing to surrender. Drakes did not run.
She began laughing hysterically through her gag. Rags looked at her. She began laughing too. She cut at Bevussa’s gag and stood back. The Gold-rank Captain focused on Rags. She inspected the distant caravan, which the Goblins were setting to light after looting it of whatever they wanted. But before they did, she spoke.
“Hectval.”
Issa and Kin stopped struggling. They peered at the caravan and guards. The Drake caravan. No Humans, no Gnolls, which was odd if you thought about it. Liscor wouldn’t run a one-species caravan.
Rags grinned. She gestured, and her Wyverns took wing. She was raiding caravans. She was attacking…just not every target.
The reason Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia had not attacked Liscor was due to the distance, and their defeat, however pyrrhic it had been. Also, fear of the Antinium.
But also because every trading caravan had been hit in the last month. Only with an army’s worth of [Soldiers] for an escort would their mysterious attackers not strike.
It was not justice. However. Rags was content with that. She looked at Bevussa’s expression, and nodded.
“One more stop. Then you go.”
 
—-
 
A truth of all species was that change was inevitable. Smart peoples prepared for it, as Rags had known Goblinhome would always one day be revealed.
Change. Sometimes it was individuals.
Anand had not moved since Wrymvr had left, although it had been about eight hours. He spoke.
“You are lucky. You—ancestor of mine. For you know nothing of pain except…pain. Which doesn’t hurt as much as feelings.”
The little ant crawled on his finger. Anand stared at it, and then flicked it off him. He lay on his back.
Until he heard the thrumming. The vast beating of wings unlike any bird or creature in the skies save one.
Wrymvr the Deathless had returned. He was carrying something too. Anand heard the screaming long before the Centenium landed. He gazed up. His mandibles opened wide.
“Goat? What happened to you?”
He scrambled to his feet. The Soldier slid off Wrymvr’s back and lay on the ground in a ball. He hated flying. Anand looked at Wrymvr, shocked, angry!
However, he realized the screaming hadn’t stopped. After all, Goat was a Soldier. They didn’t make sounds the same way as Workers.
Slowly, the [Strategist] turned as Wrymvr put something on the ground. It scrambled away from the Centenium, screaming.
“Antinium! You monsters! Dead gods—fleets take me. I’m—I’m—”
Anand saw the half-fish features. The duskier skin. His mandibles opened wide.
“Seborn?”
The Drowned Person turned to him and Anand realized—this was not Seborn! Seborn was male. And the fish-parts were different. He slowly rotated.
“Wrymvr. What have you…done?”
For answer, Wrymvr gently pulled something off his back. Even a good bag of holding could only store a certain amount of material. Perfect bags of holding like the ones Ryoka Griffin had were magically neutral—but couldn’t hold more than the contents of a single room at most.
Which was why [Merchants] used chests of holding. Wrymvr couldn’t strap it to his back, of course. And hands were useful—even a Soldier’s hands. Which was why he’d brought Goat.
It was a very nice chest of holding too. Even so, only half of the small ship had fit inside.
“Have to get second. Come, Goat.”
Wrymvr picked up the Soldier, who flailed again. Anand shouted.
“What—what have you done?”
The Centenium turned to him, looking as amused as he could be. The Drowned Person was running, but Antinium were already emerging from the Hive. To capture it. Wrymvr indicated the broken wreckage.
“Ship.”
He pointed at the distant Drowned Person.
“Shipwright.”
“Wh-wh—really? You just attacked—”
Anand was hyperventilating. Wrymvr hesitated. He looked at the Drowned Person, cleaned some blood off a mandible, and amended his statement.
“Just a [Pirate]. Anand will build ships.”
He took off again. Anand looked at the half of a ship. He looked at the Drowned Person, screaming, and then at Wrymvr, flying, clutching the flailing Goat under him.
He was never drinking again. See what happened?
 
—-
 
The potential for someone to change things was great. Krshia Silverfang knew that too. Of course, she was often surprised by chance-encounters and events. Just look at Tkrn and Inkar. She had no idea how that had turned into Lehra, of course.
