The two chess partners were among the best in the region, Lord Bel having won their unofficial tournament. Of course, they had learned the game from the Titan and avidly searched for new strategies.
So naturally they’d read Chess Weekly, back when it was ‘Chess Monthly’, and before even that, when copies of an amazing game had begun spreading about. Along with the theories of chess notation, elegant openings…
To the two gifted chess players, it had been the realization that they were talented amateurs, nothing more. It had been like the first Humans to discover fire, glancing over and seeing a lighthouse in the distance. The sharpness of the chess, the change in style!
They’d looked into it, and concluded that the ‘mysterious chess player’, who might be the same as the Titan’s mysterious opponent, could be the same person and in Liscor! After all, it wasn’t Lord Bel, who was the guess most people made.
To cut a long story short, after many back-and-forths, delightful evenings and time spent at this guessing game, the hunt turned into an obsession. They had to know if they were right! So Altestiel had gone, as Lord Belchaus could not leave his post so easily with war afoot.
“And she was there? The chess player? Wait—wait. Let me guess. It was the Watch Captain, wasn’t it?”
Altestiel smirked behind his drink. Lord Bel’s clear, light blue eyes, almost like glass, were shining with excitement. He had postulated that it was the Watch Captain of Liscor; how else would the city have survived so many monster attacks?
“Wrong. It was an [Innkeeper], in an inn just outside the city. She owns the magical door. She’s also only…twenty years old. However, everything we thought was correct. She showed Strategist Olesm all those games. And she’s the Titan’s chess partner. I’ll bet every gold piece I have.”
Bel’s eyes widened. He sat back, whistling.
“Twenty—? Is she a [Strategist] or something? No, it’s just talent, isn’t it?”
Altestiel swirled his glass.
“…Talent? Hard work, she said. Practice. She lived and breathed the game. For years.”
Years, she had said. Implying that she had spent longer than…but Bel was watching him, knowingly.
“I see. Two questions. First? How good is she?”
“I lost. I never even made it to her. ‘Someone’ was playing via a magical chessboard. Sound familiar? And—”
As Lord Bel nearly choked on his shrimp, Altestiel went on, savoring the bitter pain of watching the other [Lord]’s reactions.
“And Chaldion of Pallass decided to show up, just to play in a little tournament. Antinium too.”
“You’re telling me the Cyclops, the Titan, Antinium, and the Earl of Rains all played in the same tourney?”
“Yep. She and the Titan were the final players. I only got to play in other settings. Bel. Even with Skills, she beat me. I used all my Skills one game and she beat me with ability alone.”
The Lord of the Dance sat there, quivering with excitement.
“Well, I have to play her now. Are you in contact? If you have a magical chessboard and you’ve been hiding it—”
He couldn’t hide it any longer. Altestiel tossed his empty glass to one side, sank up to his chin in the water.
“She’s dead, Bel. I left her for a day and she died. If I’d stayed…”
The Lord of the Dance looked at Altestiel. He did not exclaim, or doubt. After a moment, he sank into the waters too.
“How?”
The enchanted tub had many functions. No wrinkling, no need to clean it; it was an enchanted tub. If you were going to have a magic hot tub, it had better be worth everything.
Another function was cycling liquid. The steaming waters turned to a viscous mud. Not muck, but hot, thick sludge that was actually quite pure and clean. Another thing Lizardfolk loved. It fit Altestiel’s mood.
“I left her.”
He told Bel the story simply. The Lord of the Dance sat, his head back, resting on a towel. Kiish had joined them, albeit with a towel, to recollect since Altestiel hadn’t the will to tell it all.
The frozen bier. The grieving city. Six worthless crossbow bolts, shot by petty Drakes. An accident…
“The world’s greatest chess player. Dead. All because of an inter-city feud. The Titan’s opponent, an [Innkeeper] who led the Black Tide to war…do you think his absence ties into this?”
The Earl half-shook his head. It was possible. Even likely. However—he would not find what he was hoping for. He thought of Erin.
“She could beat him in chess. I think she did, before my very eyes. She was smiling. Keep talking. You still can’t imagine her. Erin Solstice.”
Altestiel whispered. He was drinking more, and Kiish was giving him a look of concern. Yet no rain poured from over his head. He was past the grieving—at least, directly. Now…
“I’m surprised you didn’t raze Hectval.”
“I would have. But her Majesty threatened to imprison me if I didn’t return. That Drake, Olesm, swore to do so. I’m…”
Altestiel dabbed at his face with a towel. More than perspiration had glimmered there. Lord Bel didn’t even hide his tears.
“What a waste. You actually tried to marry her?”
“I should have pressed my suit. I should have stayed. One day. I could have married her and…”
Visions of Erin Solstice meeting Geilouna, of finding a way to take her inn here filled Altestiel’s mind. The Queen was right in that it was a childish fantasy, of course. A romance with no bones of reality to it.
Now though, he regretted it. The two [Lords] sank in the deep mud-bath, until the waters cleared. They rose, neither mud nor oil sticking to them, and sat, Bel reclining with a towel for modesty, Altestiel, similar, but cross-legged in the heated room.
“So. Erin Solstice.”
Lord Bel raised a cup and Altestiel echoed it.
“To this sodding world and worthless people who make it worse!”
They drank. Altestiel gasped as the liquid burned.
“They’re trying to save her, you know. There’s some—some assertion that freezing her didn’t kill her.”
“I don’t understand that. Everyone would know about it, if so. You said they were a strange lot of young men and women?”
“The one who made ‘bicycles’ was one of her people. All extraordinary.”
Altestiel recalled. Lord Belchaus glanced at him, and then shifted his position. Careful as any [Dancer], he relented from the subject that had wounded Altestiel so.
“Speaking of what everyone knows…I came for a second reason, Altestiel. I admit, curiosity and concern for you was the greater, but I thought you should know that Nadel received some interesting messages of late. [Messages] from Wistram.”
Altestiel opened one eye.
“What about? Desonis has had none.”
Geilouna would mention it if so. Lord Bel nodded.
“I don’t doubt it. This comes to me by way of His Majesty…I am sharing it because it is a concern as much as it is helpful. Between us.”
His serious tone made Altestiel sit straighter and nod. Kiish, who had left to clothe herself, rose.
“I will see myself out, my lords.”
“Thank you, Kiish.”
Bel smiled gratefully, and then turned to the Earl. He did not beat about the bush.
“In the last two weeks—two weeks for the first, yesterday for the second, his Majesty of Nadel received two [Messages]. First, from Archmage Viltach, second, from a Grand Magus Eldavin, of whom I think you know.”
Altestiel nodded slowly.
“What did they want?”
“Nothing. Rather, Archmage Viltach first hinted and then the Grand Magus that there was…something…Nadel should know. Or perhaps, ‘certain Kingdoms of auspicious influence’. It was suggested, rather strongly, that it was my presence that allowed Nadel to fit on this list. An insult to his Majesty, of course.”
Bel waved a hand away, as if not aware of how his presence alone had changed shipping routes, made Nadel a major sea-faring power.
“So, what was the thing Nadel should know?”
The fact that Desonis was not on this list did not surprise Altestiel. He was the Earl of Rains, but the Lord of the Dance was a greater presence, he had to admit. He did not like that, but there it was. An Archmage of Wistram would court the [Lord] who could stop trade or secure safe passage far more than the ‘Bedtime Queen’.
“That’s just it. We weren’t told what it was we should know. Both [Mages] only said that there was something. In fact, they intimated that just us knowing that there was something to know was a favor in itself.”
“[Mages]. They wonder why people hate them.”
Altestiel sighed. However, his mind was racing. Belchaus leaned on his elbows.
“…You know something, Altestiel.”
“I don’t know anything, Bel.”
“You suspect something, then. Out with it. Fair is fair.”
The [Earl] nodded slowly.
“Erin Solstice. She told me, when I asked, that she wasn’t talented. I believed her; she was probably as talented as you are, but she said she’d been ‘playing since she was a girl’.”
Bel’s eyes rose.
“Is she the Titan’s protégé, when he was developing the game, then?”
“No. I don’t think so, or else why would he…I think he didn’t know who she was either. Bel, her friends were interesting too. Those plays you’ve heard of in Invrisil?”
Bel slapped the floor.
“I was going to ask you for a copy of their scripts, or whatever they use! Autographs too! Ah, but—”
“They came from her. She taught the Players of Celum. And she knew the recipe for ice cream. Also, mayonnaise, and a dozen other foods I’d never heard of before. The bicycle came from a young man staying in her inn. Oh—and you know the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? A friend of Erin Solstice. Whatever contraption she used? Erin Solstice knew about it.”
Bel’s eyes narrowed slightly. He did not speak for a good two minutes, then, in a contemplative voice, murmured.
“You don’t need to be a dancer to see a pattern in that. Strategist either. What does it mean?”
Altestiel didn’t know. A secret nation? A pocket dimension? …Time travel? He and Bel speculated with wild theories into the night, but they were too far from their mark.
That night, at least. Altestiel talked with his friend, Bel. He drank until he wept. He wept until he slept.
The last tears for Erin Solstice, the last of grieving.
 
—-
 
He woke, and found he was not alone. Altestiel was clinging tightly to someone. Not Bel, but Kiish. She was watching him, and had been stroking his hair.
Of course, she didn’t talk about it, practically vaulting out of bed. Altestiel reflected that Geilouna was too intelligent sometimes. Or too lucky.
If Lord Bel had spent the night in company, he did not show it. He and Altestiel played a game of chess with breakfast, the first Altestiel had played since leaving Izril.
Tactful as always, he said nothing, but his other nature made him murmur as the two men rose to walk Altestiel’s estates and talk further.
“You might consider marrying her, you know. It would be unfair to let it go on like this.”
“I know.”
 
—-
 
The Earl of the Rains kept a vigilant watch over his lands, because Desonis demanded it. Marshes and swamps abounded with life, even compared to forests, and the predators here were varied and nasty.
Perhaps, then, it was inevitable that when trouble called, both [Lords] were able to respond at once. The Earl of Rains and Lord Belchaus were walking with their people, talking candidly about the Ailendamus war.
“Nadel and Desonis might be next, but if we involve ourselves, Ailendamus will go after us. So, I don’t see us making the first step, which of course means an empty dance floor and a shy audience, waiting for—”
Belchaus’ head rose, and Altestiel held up a hand as he heard the same thing. A distant scream.
“Kiish?”
“Pinpointing, Lord Altestiel…five friendlies, zero attack value! One hostile—large, high attack value! Hydra, most-likely, full-grown.”
“Is someone in the marshes? Idiots—Knights of Desonis, to arms! Kiish, summon reinforcements from the mansion. Bel—”
Of course, the Lord of the Dance was already gone. Earl Altestiel charged after him. Where Lord Bel ran across the water, his feet barely casting ripples as his troupe of escorts surged after him, a touch less gracefully, Altestiel just raced upwards on a [Water Bridge], for height and vantage.
He saw the five terrified children and the two corpses a moment later. It was a Hydra, large as a house! They had walked right into its lair. A Hydra this close to his lands would have already necessitated a hunting party, yet this one was fierce.
“Poison type. Not as magical as some variants.”
“Take aim! Bel! Distract it!”
Altestiel saw the Lord of the Dance swing up his sword as he shouted. Altestiel looked down at the five children. Humans. Young, wearing bright clothing—paralyzed in fear. Grouped up so the multi-headed Hydra, this one with nine heads, could tear them apart in seconds.
“Hydra, to me!”
Bel shouted, and the Hydra turned. A targeting Skill on himself, of course. Altestiel seized that moment. He leapt off the water-bridge, fifty feet in the air. The young people gawked upwards and pointed in astonishment as a second bridge appeared under Altestiel.
He shot down a slide of water, balancing, used to the dramatic entry to a battlefield and the unparalleled speed it offered. His [Marsh Knights] and Kiish were a second behind.
“Follow me! Keep them covered!”
“Lord Bel—”
“Leave him!”
The group landed, and the [Marsh Knights] grabbed the stunned group. They began ushering them to safety, on the lookout for Hydra young or more threats.
“With me!”
Altestiel’s sword was drawn. He looked at the young people, watching as the Hydra surged after Lord Bel. He heard a strangled voice, a sob, screams—
“Oh my god, what is—”
Altestiel’s head turned slightly. However, then the Hydra leapt at the Lord of the Dance.
The Hydra was as fast as a striking snake—as large as a house. Some could get larger, with heads that could swallow an armored man in a single gulp. This one was bad enough.
Nine heads, all with venom dripping from their fangs. A scaly body like armor, which regenerated with unnatural speed.
Altestiel had heard comparisons between Terandrian Griffins, Wyverns of Izril, Manticores of Chandrar…Hydras were worse. This one was focused on Lord Bel as the man stopped in the muddy, wet ground. All he had was a sword and his dress clothing, both enchanted, but the [Marsh Knights] surging at him, his own people—both were too far away as the Hydra struck.
A head shot forwards and struck the mud. The [Lord] side-stepped before it struck him, so close the wind rippled his clothing. A second head shot forwards like a lance and Lord Bel leaned under the biting serpent’s head.
Altestiel slowly lowered his sword. He saw Lord Bel’s eyes flick up. The Lord of the Dance grinned. Then—spun.
