“No. They would become a new tribe. Not ours. Not any. Perhaps they would split once more. However, we would hope to send this new tribe, split from half of ours—and send it over the sea. To Chandrar.”
Krshia’s jaw dropped. She had expected something big, but this?
“To fight for the King of Destruction?”
“Hm…no. Although it is fine if others think that. No, to settle. To live, as we do on Izril. Live, that Gnolls might be widespread on two continents. We have done it before.”
“We were wiped out.”
“Then we must try again. You both know the last will of the Meeting of Tribes.”
To revitalize the Gnoll population. Both Gnolls scrutinized each other as Perbne nodded.
“The tribes prepared for war—ironically before the Antinium came. Now? Our numbers swell, but there is less land for Gnolls. Better not to fight each other or Drakes. Better to use the King of Destruction’s war. Some of our tribes may ally, some fight against. If they could live in Chandrar, we would call it success no matter how it happens.”
“That’s so—ambitious.”
Feshi took a breath. Krshia nodded. Her plans of teaching Gnolls magic almost seemed small compared to this. She was about to point out the logistics of getting so many Gnolls over the sea when Feshi spoke.
“I—wished to talk to Honored Krshia about this, but since you are here, Shaman Perbne, it seems only fitting. The Weatherfur tribe has a similar plan, if not one so ambitious.”
Perbne’s eyes opened. Krshia studied Feshi. The [Strategist] glanced at both, looking at Krshia longer.
“We plan to put forwards a movement smaller in scope. More…tactical. We had hoped to send a tribe north. Into Human lands. Multiple tribes, if it is even possible to negotiate for rights. I will be returning to Oteslia to attempt to meet with Magnolia Reinhart soon.”
Krshia sat there, mouth open. Perbne just smiled.
“A fine idea. Why not do both? Let our Chieftains meet, then. I hope Silverfang will listen to our plans and consider supporting them.”
“Of—of course we will. I have no doubt my sister, Chieftain Akrisa, will take it into consideration.”
The two Gnolls nodded. Krshia gaped at them.
Grand plans were being born at this Meeting of Tribes. They didn’t even know about the Earthers!
Or…perhaps that was why. They sensed it. The Gaarh Marsh [Shaman] looked restless, as if she sensed it again. A story repeating itself.
Times of change.
 
—-
 
Krshia wanted to find Akrisa and tell her about the big plans—she was even supportive of Weatherfur’s, a bit more dubious about the scope of Gaarh Marsh’s. However, Silverfang would surely ally with both powerful tribes.
Akrisa was not back yet, however. There was huge news, though. Cetrule, who had stayed to organize a search for Ferkr, reached Krshia as she returned to camp alone, looking agitated.
“Krshia! There is a massive problem!”
She tensed.
“The convoy from Liscor?”
“No! We must deal with this—I need your help! All the Gnolls of authority in the Silverfang tribe must stop this!”
“Stop what?”
Krshia was uncertain about her taking a position of command, despite being Honored, as a City Gnoll. However, Cetrule dragged her off, and she realized he was trying to grab every young Silverfang and confiscate…
What? Confiscate something? Krshia reached for a Gnoll trying to conceal something behind her back.
“What is it you have?”
“Everyone has one, Honored Krshia! Don’t take mine.”
The Gnoll had a jade bracelet on her wrist, a pretty thing she was trying to hide. Had she stolen it? That didn’t seem to be the issue, though.
“No one is taking anything! Put it back! Return it—now!”
Cetrule shouted. The Gnolls protested. One waved a magical wand—albeit one that merely removed stains.
“They were gifts, Cetrule! All the tribes have them!”
“We will not! Give them back! Now!”
Krshia eyed the bracelet. It was expensive, not some cheap fake jade replica. The real stuff was worth gold. She frowned at the young Gnoll.
“Who gave you this?”
“Aunt! Aunt!”
Tkrn ran up, dragging Inkar behind him, Oor and Orreh. Krshia turned to him. The [Guardsman] panted.
“Aunt! There are stolen goods everywhere around me! Beilmark and I sensed it—all these goods are—”
“Return them now! I do not care what the Woven Bladegrass tribe is giving out! They are not yours to take!”
Cetrule howled. Krshia’s eyes widened. The copper penny dropped.
 
—-
 
“Raided caravans?”
“Five. The Woven Bladegrass hit Drake caravans on the trade roads. Worse—they passed out most of what they took. A ‘gift to the Meeting of Tribes’.”
Cetrule had confiscated everything he could find, but there were countless trinkets he’d missed. Krshia stared at the pile of goods and felt sick.
“Why would Woven Bladegrass do this? Much less give it out?”
Beilmark seemed agitated, and no wonder. As a Senior Guardsman, this was like finding a criminal gang under her nose and she was itching to do something.
The second part was easy.
“It spreads the guilt around. If young Gnolls take it—older Gnolls too—then the other tribes cannot object.”
“Chieftain Akrisa will. The other tribes—the responsible ones—will not allow this provocation.”
Cetrule promised grimly. Beilmark looked at him, then at Krshia.
“Why attack caravans, though?”
“Because they were Drake caravans. Woven Bladegrass does not see Drake cities as neutral, but hostile. They’ve always been in conflict with other Drake cities, since they were founded. They would like other tribes to join them.”
The [Shaman] growled, exasperated. Krshia stirred.
“They’ll start a war.”
She glanced at the others for confirmation. Cetrule nodded, angry, worried.
“That is what they want. We must press them to stop. Force them to stop! Chieftain Akrisa’s meeting with Plains Eye will be interrupted for this. Before more can happen—Krshia, will you come with me?”
She nodded and the Gnolls rose. They went to find the other Chieftains to make a mass-decision. More were hunting for the Chieftain of the Woven Bladegrass tribe, Chieftain Werri.
Of course, they were too slow. By the time the other Chieftains were demanding to know where she was, news of what she’d done hit them.
 
—-
 
Paworkers. They were a phenomenon in some Drake cities.
Even if they did not exist, many cities had far more acrimonious relationships between species. Mostly Gnoll and Drake.
It was a phenomenon that Senior Guardsman Relc was getting to know. However, this was not the city he had been sent to. This one was closer to the Gnoll Plains. For all that—or perhaps because of that—it had a bad reputation for inter-species conflicts.
Of course, they went one way in the City of Selpysh. It was Drake-held, and had strong links to the City of War, Manus.
It was just another day in one of the bars with a higher-than-average Gnoll presence. However, the Watch was cracking down on a fight.
A Drake had taken objection to a few Gnolls and decided to sort the matter out himself. Well—many such incidents occurred, between Drake and Drake, Gnoll and Gnoll.
But if you looked for it, you could find it. A bloody-mouthed Gnoll was being shielded by a female Gnoll smaller than he was, and the Watch didn’t care.
“You’re under arrest. What happened, sir?”
One of the [Guardsmen] went to grab the Gnoll, while the Drake gave an angry accounting.
“You’re just going to arrest him? Stop!”
The female Gnoll tried to block one of the temporary workers, the Gnoll. He was trying to tell her to shut up before she made it worse. The Watch just grabbed her too, for interfering with their job. She began to struggle.
“…And that’s when they break her teeth, fine her, and throw her in jail. What am I supposed to see, hm?”
One of the Gnolls sitting at the table observed at the scene tiredly. He did not like it, of course. However, he studied the two sitting across from him.
No City Gnolls, these. The Woven Bladegrass [Siege Juggernaut] was massive. He was attracting attention from the Watch just by sitting here, despite not having been part of the altercation. However, they were clearly thinking their squad was not the one who should tackle this.
“This is what happens in cities like these. The other tribes would have peace—let this sort of thing continue. You know of Paworkers.”
The first Gnoll nodded. He was far smaller than the Woven Bladegrass’ representative. Two other Gnolls shifted uncomfortably.
Nearly sixteen tribes’ warriors were in the city of Selpysh. Not all in the same bar. However, they were presumably watching similar scenes. It spoke to the city, perhaps, that Woven Bladegrass had been confident they would find such examples at any given moment.
“I do not like this. I do not at all. However, these are Drake cities. We know this is how it happens.”
The [Master Slinger] of the Loofrel tribe glanced at the Gnolls, her brow deeply troubled. The Woven Bladegrass [Warrior] nodded. So did a Steelfur Gnoll. Despite his differences with Woven Bladegrass, he seemed ready to stand up.
“This does not change the fact that war between tribe and city is dangerous.”
The Steelfur Gnoll pointed out, half-reaching for his weapon. The gate guards hadn’t allowed Gnolls to carry noticeable weapons into the city, though, so the [Mace Gnoll] didn’t have his weapon, only a belt-knife.
“Do you think this is acceptable?”
Both Gnolls were on the ground now, being kicked. The first Gnoll took a drink of something as the other Gnolls looked uncomfortable. He calmly glanced up at the younger, taller Gnolls.
“Honored Berr, what do you think?”
The old [Berserker] saw the other Gnolls turn to him. He eyed the young Gnoll and temporary worker as they were dragged up. He drained his cup, less moved by the Woven Bladegrass’ persuasion than the others. He had seen this before.
However, he was here. He shrugged at the [Juggernaut].
“I don’t think it matters what I think right now. Warrior Devl, did your Chieftain come here to persuade us with words and sight? I do not think so, no. Tell me—does she do this often?”
He turned. Uncomprehending, the other two non-Woven Bladegrass Gnolls turned in their seats. They had been told they’d meet Chieftain Werri. But she wasn’t…
Berr stared at the shorter, female Gnoll who’d been dragged into the arrest. The angry Drake who’d started it all was talking to the bored Senior Guardsman. The patrol leader heard more shouting.
“Shut up that damned Gnoll alr—”
He turned just in time to see the shorter female Gnoll press her wrists against the manacles on her arms. The [Guard] raised a club.
The Gnoll snapped the iron manacles. The Gnoll worker under arrest with the bloody mouth, the squad of [Guards], and the angry Drake all stopped. They stared at the manacles.
“Cheap iron?”
One of the Drakes licked her lips. She looked at the female Gnoll. Who…seemed a bit taller now. A bit more muscular. She rubbed at her wrists; one of the [Guards] had given her a bloody nostril.
“Um. Did someone’s [Dangersense] just go off?”
One of the [Guards] turned her head slowly. The one with a club swung it.
“Don’t you d—”
Honored Berr took some satisfaction from watching the Drake hit the wall. Chieftain Werri, taller now, inspected the Gnoll next to her. His mouth was wide open.
“High-level criminal! Call for—”
The Senior Guardsman backed up, fumbling for his whistle. The other [Guards] tried to go for Werri.
They never had a chance, of course. However, Werri let the Senior Guardsman blow the whistle. She walked over to the table of other Gnolls. The [Master Slinger] and [Mace Gnoll] looked horrified.
“Chieftain! We’re going to be arrested.”
“No we aren’t.”
Berr said it at the same time as Werri. He met her eyes. She was grinning wildly, fury and excitement in her eyes. He just sighed and massaged one shoulder. Then he got up. And he was already a foot taller.
“What’s going on? You’re not going to fight the Watch?”
Werri looked at the nervous Steelfur Gnoll. Berr just shook his head. He pushed back his mug.
“Young Gnoll. Don’t be silly. Fight the Watch?”
The Steelfur Gnoll relaxed too soon. Chieftain Werri was standing on the tabletop. She surveyed the other shocked Gnolls in the pub.
“I am Chieftain Werri of the Woven Bladegrass tribe! Tell me, do you want to live like this? Do you want to live every day letting these Drakes, this city insult you, arrest you and beat you down?”
The Gnolls in the bar stared up at her. The Woven Bladegrass [Juggernaut] slowly stood up behind his Chieftain. The Steelfur Gnoll and the Loofrel Gnoll turned to Berr. The old [Berserker] shook his head. He was growing, and his own internal fury was slowly…building.
“Young Gnoll. Fight the Watch? Don’t be silly. Haven’t you ever seen the start to a city sacking? We’re not fighting the Watch. We’re fighting—everything.”
He grinned. The Steelfur Gnoll’s jaw dropped in horror.
Chieftain Werri raised her arm and she was joined by a roar from angry, fed-up Gnolls. Berr saw the first ones storm from the bar as the Watch reinforcements came down the street.
They were a good Watch. Led by former Manus soldiers. Indeed, they had a [Captain] who had served with distinction in Manus’ army who was also the [Mayor].
The Gnolls in the city weren’t warriors by and large. However, Chieftain Werri and the hundred or so Woven Bladegrass Gnolls were. She raced out of the tavern at the squads of Drakes.
Berr and the [Juggernaut] walked onto the walls. The City Watch tried to stop them of course. However, it was Honored Berr and…he tossed a screaming Drake onto a rooftop and pointed.
“Fast response.”
“You honor us. Will you fight with Chieftain Werri?”
Berr glanced over his shoulder. She was storming towards the city hall, intent on taking on the ex-[Captain] herself. She hadn’t even needed a sword.
A Manus-allied city. Berr wondered how much trouble they were going to be in. He shrugged amicably, and watched as the now Gnoll-held wall waited for reinforcements.
Eight thousand Gnolls were racing across the open ground from cover. They were running for ropes being tossed down the walls, or the gates which had been seized. Berr heard the howling, growing louder, striking fear into the hearts of the Drake citizens. He sat on the battlements, feet dangling there.
“It’s not as fun as it used to be. I’m growing old.”
He complained as he watched.
 
—-
 
The Woven Bladegrass tribe’s raids of the caravans were all but forgotten. Krshia, Cetrule, Akrisa, and dozens of other Gnolls and [Chieftains] all stared into the distance.
It appeared Chieftain Werri’s method of dealing with blame or trouble was simple. Cause more trouble, until the first incident was forgotten.
