Three more of the Hydra’s heads struck the water, missing the Lord of the Dance by inches. The Hydra recoiled, confused, then seemed to think the man had only gotten lucky. It struck, all nine heads twining to form a wall of scaled flesh that wouldn’t miss—
Lord Bel stepped on an open mouth, between the teeth, leapt up, landed on a crest, swung himself up—and landed behind the Hydra.
Altestiel shook his head. The charging [Marsh Knights] halted. They looked at Altestiel, and even the young people stopped screaming.
“Hold. Let him handle it. Get me bows.”
The Hydra turned, searching for the man. Again, it struck, this time with its tail before spitting venom, striking, biting—
It never touched him, Lord Bel swayed under striking mouths, walking around the Hydra’s increasingly-frenzied blows. The Hydra never had a chance.
“Show off.”
Altestiel did not know all of Bel’s Skills, but he knew these two. The Lord of the Dance had actually closed his eyes, and was stepping before the Hydra moved.
[Feel the Rhythm]. The animal’s instinctual attacks were like any song or beat to him. As Altestiel saw Kiish appear with [Longbow Archers], he raised a hand.
“Take aim! Ignore the Lord of the Dance! Volley!”
The [Marsh Knights] hesitated. But they too had bows and dozens of shafts clouded the air, flickering towards the [Lord] and the Hydra.
Lord Bel pivoted, side-stepping the arrows. They struck the Hydra full-on. It screamed, and Altestiel counted.
What was the rhythm? One, two, three, four—
“Loose!”
This time, somehow, the angry Hydra charged into the second flight of arrows so it turned itself into a pincushion. The young people, the [Marsh Knights], all stared.
[Change the Flow]. The Lord of the Dance walked back, having manipulated the dance he’d started. Altestiel called for five more volleys, then an enchanted arrow to finish the job.
When it was done, the Hydra lay dead, and the two [Lords] could attend to the frightened people. And the two unlucky casualties.
 
—-
 
Later that day, the court of Desonis was graced by some surprising visitors. Firstly, Earl Altestiel and the Lord of the Dance.
Also, her Majesty, Geilouna and the recently-rescued group who had been spared from death via Hydra, and were now given the opportunity to visit the court.
Of course, the nobles and such considered it an act of kindness. It was not. As Earl Altestiel bowed to the bemused Bedtime Queen, who had roused herself for Lord Bel—and his urgent [Message]—he couldn’t help but think of Erin Solstice.
Ah. It all made sense now. He kept glancing at the terrified group of five, who were alternating between wonder, grief, and sheer shock.
The Lord of the Dance could not keep his eyes off them either. He kept staring at them.
Sometimes, the great confluence of events was discernible by the greatest minds in this world, if they were given the right hints and followed logical conclusions to their inevitable center—even if they got a bit off-track with theories about time travel.
However, sometimes you asked a group of young people who’d been wandering in the marshes for two days, ‘where are you from?’
And they told you.
“Altestiel. What is this about? It’s not like you to show off.”
For once, Altestiel didn’t spar with Geilouna as she blinked at him, sleepily irritated at being woken up before midday. He simply bowed.
“I have something rather interesting to show you, your Majesty. Privately, I hope? I should hate to make a fuss about it.”
Her eyes flickered once, then she yawned.
“In my chambers, then, if one must.”
They left as quickly and unobtrusively as they could. Naturally, ‘not make a fuss’ was their code phrase. If one of them said that, the other reached for the Crown of Waters—or a sword.
This was the mark of the Queen of Desonis’ value. When Altestiel spoke, having invoked the code phrase, she listened. She sat on her bed, pets and fluffy blankets forgotten, head propped on her hands, but attentive. The inner council, the advisors beyond reproach or question, listened too, mouths agape. Twice someone said something like ‘that’s impossible’, or ‘are you sure?’
The second time, Geilouna ordered the person removed and tossed out into the hallway. Altestiel concluded his brief summary.
“Another world. You’re sure?”
“It fits the puzzle, your Majesty. I do not think they are lying. That is what they are. I would stake my aura on it.”
Queen Geilouna sat back, on her pillows. It would be later she processed it, with Altestiel and as much alcohol as she could consume, in her bedroom, with the private thoughts she did not ever utter aloud. Over the next week and months too, which would define her reign, she now knew. It was her story, and not the world’s story, so only she would know it and it did not need to be the center of other tales.
For now, the Bedtime Queen simply nodded. Then she began shouting invectives at the top of her lungs. When Kiish, Altestiel, and the council had uncovered their ears, Geilouna was calm.
“So much for my peaceful rule and death! What do we do, Altestiel?”
The Earl didn’t blink.
“Some of them may go with Lord Bel.”
“Do we allow that? Or kill him? At least, refuse, imprison?”
The advisors stirred as Geilouna gave Altestiel a flat-lidded look. Reassuring, despite the cold remark.
“We allow that, your Majesty. Nadel is an ally. Lord Bel would be one beyond reproach.”
“Good. What else?”
Altestiel had many thoughts, including going back and placing everyone in The Wandering Inn under Desonis’ protection. And screaming at Erin Solstice’s grave. For now?
“Your Majesty. The young people say they are from…Den’s Mark.”
“Denmark, Earl.”
Kiish whispered. Altestiel nodded.
“Denmark. They were far from alone. If whatever teleportation effect missed them—I suggest we comb the swamps. All of Desonis!”
“All of it?”
The Bedtime Queen raised a hand. She looked at Altestiel. She nodded.
“It will be done.”
 
—-
 
That day, the normally sleepy-but-sociable court and government of Desonis turned upside down. Every [Mayor], ruling body, or [Headman] of every village, town, and city, got a summons to report certain criteria to the palace.
[Scriveners], [Record-Keepers], and so on were mobilized to find unusual immigrants. [Harbormasters] were called to give an accounting of strange young people bound to Wistram, with dates and places.
Anyone—no, any Human—had to be reported. Especially with certain clothing, phrases. Devices?
Normally, that kind of thing would be something slowly put into motion by bureaucracy, with a local official carrying it out to the levels of diligence they possessed.
Not this time. The Knights of Desonis marched into the swamp, with [Hunters], and the bewildered lower-ranking leadership realized they couldn’t answer the [Message] spell after tea. They answered it now or they lost their jobs.
The [Chamberlain] was breathing down the necks of the royal [Knights], as well as the Minister of the Treasury, the Diplomat of Desonis, Earl Altestiel—
The Bedtime Queen marched about, inspiring people to action by her presence, as much as anything else. She would not rest until she was sure no other child of Earth was in her kingdom, and if she wasn’t resting, no one else damn well would!
Results appeared, if only because the authority present demanded results and competence—or heads.
 
—-
 
They found one more, bound for Wistram. Altestiel and Kiish were preparing to head for that harbor, to intercept the young woman waiting there, who apparently didn’t even speak the common tongue; the [Harbormaster] reported her as being ‘Drathian’, but not seeming at all like a native of Drath.
Geilouna flopped back in her bed when she decided they’d found all they could, dead from the unaccustomed exertion. However, she accompanied Altestiel to court. He was going with Kiish and a squad of Knights of Desonis; no overconfidence here.
If the Wistram [Mage] who’d found this young woman wanted to play games, she’d find out whether a tidal wave beat a [Fireball]. In Altestiel’s experience? It did.
Before they left, though, a crying voice interrupted them. The five Earthers, safely in the court, were nonetheless in tears—at least, two of the five.
One of the courtiers or nobles had, with goodwill and all the subtlety of a knife to the gut, inquired after the dead, or made some insensitive-but-well-meaning comment. Someone was in hysterics.
“Go. I’ll deal with this.”
Geilouna whispered to Altestiel. He nodded—and then heard a familiar whine of sound.
One of Nadel’s [Dancers] struck out on a fiddle, or a stringed instrument. No—a Chandrarian one, so, a wailing sound. Another pulled out a drum. The rest were clapping.
There he was. The Lord of the Dance stepped back, looking around. The screaming weeping halted—Lord Bel glanced at the young man he’d been talking to.
Another Earther. Far darker skin than one got in Desonis, where sun was rarer than rain. Lord Bel smiled at the crying Earther gently—then turned back to the young man.
He stepped back, and his escort raised their hands as they began to stomp their feet, setting up a beat. Some of the court joined them, enthusiastically. Lord Bel gestured.
Altestiel hesitated. It was…so like Belchaus Meron. Faced with the knowledge that would shake this world, revelations and the knowledge they were behind Wistram and other organizations, the first thing he asked was this.
The [Lord] was gesturing. The young man was lifting his hands, but you could tell what he was saying. The young man was demurring, but Lord Bel was gently insistent.
Show me.
The music took on an insistent tone. Faced with the clapping court, the music, and the Lord of the Dance, the young man threw caution to the wind. Embarrassed, he did a quick-step of some kind.
Altestiel knew court dances, but he’d never seen the complex footwork—outside of Nadel. Lord Bel laughed. Then—he copied the little trick.
The tears of the other Earthers stopped. Lord Bel called something at them, clearly trying to cheer them up. He gestured, and, encouraged by the Lord of the Dance’s people, the young man performed a move clearly meant to be done alone.
It looked so silly that Geilouna laughed. Altestiel glanced at Kiish. The young man was speaking in front of the embarrassed court.
“—video game—”
The laughter broke off as Lord Bel copied it. Move for move, shaking his body in the absurd little gesture, perfectly copying the young man. And what was on his face was nothing but enjoyment.
“I knew the Singer of Terandria had been taught that from somewhere! Show me more, show me more!”
Two of his people tried to copy the move, and they did so on the first try. The Earthers looked astonished, but they were realizing—they were in the presence of the world’s best [Dancers]. Anything they could do…
After some conference, a young woman tried a moonwalk and failed. Lord Bel promptly demonstrated the technique, moving in a circle as if his feet were sliding on ice to applause. Of course—then, it became a competition.
Could they show him anything that he couldn’t copy? Dances from Fortnite became attempts at capoeira, or breakdancing moves; at least one of the Earthers could dance.
Lord Bel went step for step with the young man trying to surprise him. Then—they began doing the break-dancing moves that Altestiel would have paid ten thousand gold coins to see a [Lady] do in a dress on a ballroom floor at the same time. Lord Bel didn’t just copy, he and the young man began moving in sync.
Astonished, the Earther stopped. Lord Bel just clapped him on the shoulder. Then, his head turned and looked at Altestiel. The Earl of Rains nodded, and gestured at Kiish, who was waiting with the carriage.
The Lord of the Dance kept dancing. Where other nations would greet the strange young people in their borders with hostility, fear, wonder, curiosity…Lord Bel greeted them with a dance.
More were coming. Most arrived there, in that room where he had torn a hole.
The rest elsewhere. They were coming.
Altestiel was just among the first to know it.
 
—-
 
Ironic. Purely ironic, although only a few…beings…would be in a position to find it such.
Ironic, that Desonis and now Nadel, at least the upper echelons, might learn something that far more powerful nations and individuals had yet to even get a whiff of. Az’kerash was blissfully ignorant, consumed with finding the last of Silvaria’s tomes in his library, reading through them.
So too was Queen Yisame ignorant of whatever it was she should know, despite the Grand Magus’ warning. She was, of course, aware that she was unaware, and had roused her court to fury, not least because she now owed the half-Elf a debt.
However, realization would be a long time in coming, even for those blessed with a ‘hint’ from Wistram.
Entire species knew now, like the Drowned Folk, whereas great kingdoms lay unawares.
Not that they were concerned because if you didn’t know what you were supposed to know, or didn’t even know that you were supposed to know what you didn’t know….
Ailendamus was not concerned with little hints, even from Archmages. Six times Viltach had tried, but King Itorin II was too important to bother directly with an Archmage’s concerns. Lesser officials, yes, but Viltach had insisted on speaking to Itorin II directly—and failed.
Grand Magus Eldavin too. Not that Itorin II didn’t have concerns. He had tons of them.
War with the Dawn Concordat, which he wanted done, uncomfortable with the eyes of the new ‘television’ on his designs for conquest. It made what he was doing a little too obvious. He wasn’t an [Emperor]—yet—for the very reason of optics. Television was making his job harder. He had a lot to do in any case.
Diplomacy, at home and abroad, to keep Ailendamus’ allies together and his enemies from working together. Jumped-up little [Lords] on Izril, foreign powers…
Not to mention the Demon’s ritual and whatever weapon had slain his [Knight] abroad. Of course, he attributed that to Demons. Not anything else.
Itorin Zessoprical, the Second, King of the Empire of Ailendamus—as it had swallowed smaller kingdoms over its meteoric rise—sat on his throne.
In his palace. Doing kingly things.
In another place in the palace of Ailendamus, someone almost as important was shouting at [Knights]. To be specific, the Order of the Thirsting Veil, one of three that Ailendamus boasted.
“This is not a small concern! Your petty excuses do not bear weight with me! Your Order will find out or—”
“Sir. Sir, we have no leads to go on!”
“That is not good enough!”
