A man howled in the face of one of Ailendamus’ [Knight-Generals], which was astonishing given the other man’s rank. The man, clean-shaven, wearing expensive dark-purple silk robes ostentatiously augmented by Truegold, was gaudy as could be. He had numerous magical rings, and though he carried no weapon, he made up for it with all the other artifacts on his person.
Dame Hevcla of the Order of the Thirsting Veil, who had once met the Knight-Commander Calirn of the Order of Seasons, couldn’t believe this man’s audacity. Her leader was not a patient man, and he had challenged Ailendamus’ nobility to duels for less.
Especially because King Itorin II was well aware of the value of his [Knights]. However—it seemed this man was too important for even a [Knight-General] to reprimand for spraying spit in his face.
“Your Grace—”
The Duke shouted again. Given Ailendamus’ sprawling nobility and royal family and relatives, that wasn’t as impressive as another nation—but it was still just below the royal family. However, that was complicated by the fact that this man was, in fact, the uncle of King Itorin II, albeit separated from the direct line of the monarchy. So then again, it was as impressive as it should be.
Duke Rhisveri Zessoprical drew breath to scream again, and Dame Hevcla interrupted with a crisp salute.
“Your Grace Rhisveri, perhaps you could illuminate us on what was lost? We are aware of the break-in, of course.”
The hugest lapse in security since Ailendamus itself was founded. A massive embarrassment as someone had apparently entered, nearly stolen a treasure, and fled without a trace when the alarms went off and the guard rushed in.
Every great [Thief] of this age was being scrutinized for motive, but what had nearly been lost was…the Duke turned on Dame Hevcla. She saw sneering contempt replace fury in a moment.
“You are all not privy to the true value of the royal family’s treasures, [Knight]. I demand only that you find the assailant! Are you Ailendamus’ finest or not? Employ [Trackers]! Employ magic! Must I do it for you?”
“No, your Grace. However, the trail really is—”
“Silence, you incompetent!”
The [Knight-General]’s face turned redder. He slowly wiped away some spit, but he said nothing in reply. This was the same man who had once drawn his sword in the presence of a foreign [King] for impugning Ailendamus’ honor.
Duke Rhisveri looked at the [Knights]. He was breathing hard.
“I will furnish you with the details if I must. You will find this thief. And you will bring them to me. Alive. All limbs intact. I want to know how they got past the protections. My protections!”
His fingers sparked with magic. He stalked back the way he’d come, to the royal wing, beyond which even [Knights] were not allowed passage. An entire wing for King Itorin’s family. Dame Hevcla watched him go, wondering just what had been so close to being stolen as to enrage the Duke so much. King Itorin II had not mentioned it—but perhaps it was something he had entrusted the Duke with.
The point was, whomever it was, be it the Lightning Thief, the Thief of Clouds, or anyone else—the full wrath of Ailendamus had been roused against them. They were in a lot of trouble.
…Shame their name was so damn confusing to scry. The Duke had been getting headaches all week long, and he’d used [Greater Scry] in his desperation. The wards returned precise weight, gender, species, and all kinds of other measurements—some of which were confusing—but the name kept blanking out because it was impossible to translate to the spell’s parameters. He didn’t even know what the second thing had been. But he was going to find out. Oh yes.
 
—-
 
On the subject of scrying, Wistram had now given up on monitoring the Antinium Queens. They’d kept recording—until it became clear beyond all shadow of a doubt that the Antinium now knew they were being watched.
Some oddities had been put down to the Antinium peculiarities, but after the failure of the Antinium to actually go to war and the huge embarrassment to Wistram after the Invrisil event—it had been clear.
The final clue though, had been the ‘discussion’ between the Flying Queen and her Prognugators on war tactics, in which she turned to the scrying mirror every five seconds and said something along the lines of:
“I wonder what I should do? How puzzling.”
“I do hope no one is listening to my grand plans.”
“It would be so inconvenient if someone learned of our secret weapons buried here.”
…With a map.
Back to traditional scrying attempts. However, if Wistram had kept monitoring the now-compromised scrying devices, they would have seen someone wander past the disused scrying devices replaced by more secure connections.
“Life is suffering.”
Anand walked into a wall. He fell down, and curled up. After a while, a few other Free Antinium found him and helped him up. They replaced the cover on the scrying mirror in the empty room and tried to bring him back to their base.
They were still guests of the Grand Queen, although they travelled to every Hive in the Hivelands—save for the Twisted Hive. Anand shook off the kind hands.
“Life is worthless. Erin is dead. I—I am drunk! I will now eject the contents of my stomach!”
He gave it a try, like he’d seen some guests doing. Eventually, he gave up and lay down.
Erin was dead. No one was here to help Anand. Not Belgrade. Not Pawn, not Bird or Garry or—Anand got up after a moment.
“Klbkch! Klbkch, Erin is dead. I am sad. What do we do?”
He entered the room and eight Custodium, and six Queens stared at him.
“Oh.”
Klbkch himself stared at Anand. His head, slowly growing a mass of tendrils being connected to a body-in-progress, was suspended in a custom vat. A Birther. Anand looked at the Silent Queen, who was performing the most complex creation of a new body in the history of the Antinium of Izril.
“Anand. Get. Out.”
The [Strategist] slowly backed out of the room. He wandered out of the Silent Antinium’s Hive, knowing he had made a mistake. Angered Klbkch.
No longer caring. Erin was dead. Anand knew this was not factually true, but it felt like it. He…
…Tried to drown himself in the underground lake. At least until Goat and Archer A11 pulled him out. Anand had only stuck his head under the water.
“Let go! I am a failure! I should have been there!”
He thrashed as they dragged him away. The teams of Antinium working on Iteration #227 of the ships stared after him. Anand cared not for the ship. It would fail.
The longest any ship had ‘floated’ was one minute and thirty eight seconds. If you counted mainly sinking as floating, anyways.
Ships were hard. Anand would have tried to study the books on ship-building he’d asked to be sent via Liscor, but he didn’t care.
Erin was dead.
 
—-
 
He was wandering the Hivelands, on the surface, half-hoping an adventurer popped out and stabbed him when someone found him. Not Goat, or the other anxious Free Antinium, who were also grieving, but something far larger.
Far older. Anand peeked up, then lowered his head.
“Oh. It’s you.”
“Me.”
Wrymvr agreed. The voice was bubbling, coming out of Wrymvr’s mouth…or multiple of them. Wrymvr the Deathless, most fearsome of the Centenium in close combat, able to fight multiple Named Adventurers at once and survive, looked down at Anand.
Once, Anand had feared the Twisted Hive. Even now, he feared what he had seen, a kind of death beyond death.
Today though, he would have charged the Twisted Hive with a bare fist.
“What do you want? I am grieving. If you’re going to eat me…”
His voice quivered. If he died, would he see Erin? He was afraid the answer was no, even if Heaven existed.
“No. I. Do not eat other Antinium.”
Wrymvr might have been amused. Talking came to him with difficulty, it seemed. Anand knew Klbkch and the Queens could talk differently.
“You kill us. We are not True Antinium. Is that why you’re here? Because I am a failure, a distraction?”
He touched his antennae. Again, though, Wrymvr demurred.
“No.”
The vast Centenium studied Anand. It—he—had sought Anand out. The Worker swayed on his feet; he had been imbibing alcohol on the assumption it might help. It had not, only made him dizzy. Nevertheless, Wrymvr appeared…different from the [Strategist]’s memories.
His body had evolved again, changing to some other role. He still had massive wings, and was squat, quadrupedal…sextupedal…many-pedal, rather than upright like most Antinium.
Many mouths, many legs, openings to project acid or other dangerous substances; Wrymvr was the epitome of death. Anand stared at him.
“If you are not going to kill me, may I go? I wish to try expelling matter from my body again.”
Wrymvr blocked his path with one leg as Anand tottered around him.
“Ships. You must build. Duty. You—Anand. Strategist. Build them. Float. Improvement.”
He communicated in staccato bursts of noise. Anand frowned at Wrymvr. He shook his head after a moment.
“I am too sad. I do not want to. Erin is dead. Not dead. Bring her back like Klbkch. Then…then I will do things. Can you do that? Please?”
“Irrelevant. You are necessary. Anand will not endanger self. Obey. Work. Build ship.”
A prod of a leg, but very gentle for Wrymvr’s strength. Anand looked at him. He opened his mandibles and found Antinium could vomit. He did so onto Wrymvr now.
The Centenium stared at Anand as the Worker wiped at his mandibles.
 
—-
 
“Klbkch. Klbkch, I do not believe I am able to communicate with your Worker, Anand, properly.”
Klbkch the Slayer listened to Wrymvr’s mental thoughts reaching his. He felt little, suspended in the vat of creation as the Silent Queen worked. Occasionally—well—often, he communicated with her, indulging her desire to speak about him, his life, his exploits…him.
Sometimes with the other Queens, although the liquid meant the Silent Queen had to interpret his words for them, which she did with a variable degree of accuracy. However, Wrymvr was close enough for the two to talk, which was a relief compared to Queens.
“You are attempting to speak to Anand, Wrymvr? Why? He was here just an hour ago.”
“He is wandering the surface. I am attempting to persuade him to return to his work of constructing prototype ships. I do not comprehend the Free Antinium’s new Individuals. They do not appear to obey orders.”
Klbkch’s response to that wasn’t words so much as sour schadenfreude. Wrymvr’s reply was amused, but insistent.
“You must help me.”
“Would you believe Anand is the most obedient of the Individuals?”
“They are like you, then. Deeply disturbing.”
In his vat, Klbkch’s mandibles opened and closed in a surprisingly non-Antinium gesture.
“I cannot aid you, Wrymvr. Employ direct speech and explanations.”
“Hm. Very well. Also: curious. I was not aware the Free Queen had experimented into acid projectiles as the Flying Queen and Twisted Queen have. It is ineffective so far, however. Limited range and accuracy. Noticeable volume however.”
“…What?”
 
—-
 
Anand found that Wrymvr was not going to kill him. He did, however, pick Anand up with his mandibles and carry Anand screaming into the air before depositing him near the entrance to the underground lake project.
“I am going to expel again. Please do not pick me up.”
Anand announced to Wrymvr right before it happened. He did feel more sober, though. The Centenium regarded him.
“Strategist Anand. Work.”
“No. I am sad.”
A wing nudged him.
“Work. For good of Hives.”
“No.”
Silence. Anand met the Centenium’s eyes…well, a few of them, with great effort. Wrymvr appeared to be considering what to do next.
“Will you kill me if I refuse?”
“No. Strategist Anand is too valuable. All agree. Queen. Klbkch. This Centenium agrees.”
Anand’s mandibles parted. He looked at Wrymvr.
“Thank you. I have been acknowledged! Klbkch does not do so often!”
“Regrettable.”
The [Strategist] actually began to feel a bit better after hearing that Wrymvr thought he was valuable. He hadn’t known that! It was really flattering, actually. Anand tilted his head at Wrymvr and had a thought.
“…May I call you Uncle?”
The Centenium considered this.
“If Anand works, yes.”
The [Strategist] sighed. He sat on a rock outside the tunnel as the Grand Queen’s Soldiers eyed Wrymvr, seeming as…nervous…as regular Antinium could.
“I do not want to. It seems pointless. Ships are hard. To build.”
He confided to Wrymvr. The Centenium fanned its wings.
“Yes. Sink easily too. Anand must build better.”
“I can’t. Klbkch has told me to work, and all the Queens! If I could, don’t you think I would have? It is too hard! I am a [Strategist], not a [Shipbuilder]! [Shipwright]? I do not even know what I am not!”
Anand’s voice raised plaintively. Perhaps this was a bad idea, but he finally had someone to complain to, and he was not afraid of dying at this moment. Wrymvr listened as Anand went on.
“Everything sinks when you put weight on it! Wood sinks! Stone sinks! Cotton sinks! It is so frustrating! Keeping something upright is so hard! Keeping it together is hard! It is too hard! I give up! I would not do so if Erin is alive. She is dead, though. So it is meaningless. Goodbye.”
He curled up. After a moment, a ‘foot’ nudged him. Anand rolled slightly on the ground.
“Strategist Anand is the only Antinium capable of design besides Queen. Try again. Encouragement words here.”
“You are bad at encouragement. Erin is better. She would give me a hug and kisses and food.”
“Can kill Wyvern for Anand. This Antinium does not understand hugs or kisses.”
“No good.”
There was silence now. Wrymvr stared at Anand. After a while, Anand…decided to do nothing. He hoped, wondered, if Wrymvr would leave.
Twenty five minutes later, Anand looked up.
“Don’t you have better things to do?”
“Possibility of ship construction is paramount. Anand realizes its own value and will work?”
Anand’s antennae waved at the vast Antinium dismally.
“…Anand does not.”
He went back to lying on the ground.
 
—-
 
“Klbkch. Klbkch. Your Anand is starting to irritate me.”
“Hah.”
The Silent Queen paused in her ministrations.
“What was that, Klbkchhezeim?”
“Nothing, Silent Queen. Merely recollecting thoughts.”
She nodded. Klbkch continued with Wrymvr.
“Anand is not the only method by which we might advance the Antinium’s cause, Wrymvr.”
“He is the most direct to reach other continents. Birthers cannot be easily transported overland; not possible under the ocean. Impossible/too much time. Boats are essential.”
