That was true, Klbkch had to admit. Birthers, the growing vats in which new Soldiers or Workers or other types could be made, had long been the replacement to Queens—they had been recreated in Izril, and they were what the original Antinium used on Rhir.
However, those Birthers had been far more advanced. Able to create Soldiers with the correct supplies in a fraction of the time, and far more powerful varieties. Even Queens.
The Twisted Queen had upgraded the ones here, though. A bit. Rather, she had solved an issue plaguing the Antinium: the need for a Queen to directly monitor them, their inability to be transported—or clone themselves.
She had solved it all, but only up to a point. Now, in theory, the Antinium could continue if every Queen died, albeit without minds to lead or create new forms. However, a few problems remained.
The Birther vats were as fragile as glass, even with the Twisted Queen’s improvements. Mind you, thick glass, and it was decidedly better than what they had been; if you shouted in their presence, they would become injured and lose whatever Antinium they were working on.
However, transport remained an issue for all Antinium aside from Wrymvr and maybe Xrn. To get to Rhir…
“Ships. Wrymvr, I do not know how to encourage Anand. You tried positive affirmations?”
“…Yes.”
“I do not know, then. Threats? My modality of options has been exhausted.”
After a pause, when Klbkch thought Wrymvr had given up or gone out of range, the Centenium replied.
“You are a poor leader, Klbkch.”
“I was not meant to be. I lead armies, not…nurture…other things.”
Somewhat stung, Klbkch retorted. Wrymvr replied.
“Neither do you change.”
 
—-
 
After a while, Wrymvr squatted down.
“Strategist Anand. Talk.”
“Go away. I am sad.”
“Strategist Anand. I am Wrymvr. Centenium. Do you acknowledge?”
“Yes, go away.”
“No. Strategist Anand—Wrymvr, I, will do anything for Antinium to survive. Anything. To save Antinium—anything. What will Strategist Anand require for similar resolve?”
Slowly, Anand’s head rose. He looked into Wrymvr’s vast eyes.
“…I will help. Later. It’s just so…hard. It’s too hard. I am frustrated. It is too hard and I am too sad, understand?”
“Sadness cannot be mitigated. Difficulty? Perhaps. What is issue?”
Anand sat, trying to explain. Glad, really; Goat and the others had tried, but Klbkch was incapacitated and even the other Prognugators weren’t that…smart. Well, smart, but not proactive, not creative, and the Queens were busy. The Armored Queen was super-busy, so all she had time to do was hold Anand and let him talk about Erin sometimes at night.
He liked that. So Anand told Wrymvr.
“It’s more than materials. I have every kind—including monster parts.”
The Queens had opened all the material stores aside from the most precious things to Anand. He had tried all kinds of combinations, so he shook his head.
“It is not that. It is…technique. Experience! I have books from Liscor—I need manuals. Blueprints! I need an expert. Perhaps…”
“Speak.”
“Perhaps if I went back to Liscor, I could find an expert. Seborn.”
“What is. Seborn?”
“He’s a Drowned Man. If he could talk to me, I could understand what I am doing wrong. Or I could buy a book from Invrisil. The problem, Wrymvr, is that I don’t have an example, I don’t have the understanding…”
Anand trailed off. Or the motivation. He began to try to explain that. Explain what Erin had been, why her absence, even if the others claimed she could be cured, had left a hole in him. In more than just her presence, but his confidence in her. His belief she couldn’t really die, that she would outlive him, that…
Wrymvr flew off. Anand was left sitting there, staring at the giant Centenium.
“Wait. But—wait. I was speaking.”
The Soldiers at the entrance stared at Anand as he sat back down. Then curled up again.
Anand decided Wrymvr was a jerk after all. He did not see Wrymvr, then, in the distance, dive and snatch the silently-screaming Antinium.
Goat, the Soldier, stopped thrashing when Wrymvr put him down. The Centenium spoke to the trembling Soldier.
“You. Will assist me. First, retrieve artifact from Twisted Hive. Then—follow.”
Goat looked around for somewhere to run. Wrymvr just picked him up and flew towards the Twisted Hive. Goat screamed. He really, really didn’t see what Bird desired in flight.
The thing Anand, even Klbkch had forgotten or failed to appreciate about Wrymvr was that he was unlike Xrn, or the Queens. He was a literal Antinium. When he saw a problem—he fixed it. He did not wait or make excuses.
 
—-
 
Most of the shocking events in Tkrn’s life had happened last year or this one. Monster attacks, Erin’s death…good surprises too, like cake. Baseball.
So, on the whole of it, waking up next to Inkar and seeing her sleeping there wasn’t a bad surprise at all. Still sleeping there, that was. Sometimes they left which hurt your feelings because you got the distinct impression they thought there had been a mistake in their night.
Such lewdness. Such debauched acts. Tkrn smiled when he thought about last night. That had been amazing.
Then—his brow furrowed. Wait a second. He slowly turned his head to the other side and saw Lehra Ruinstrider noisily snoring away.
That was up there on shocks of his life. Tkrn left the bed, and disturbed the other Gnolls. Three of whom were male.
He wasn’t the one they’d all come here for.
 
—-
 
Lehra Ruinstrider stretched.
“It’s like…they call it a harem. It’s a Human-thing.”
“Really?”
Suxhel, the Gazer, had not spent the night in company, nor had she wanted to. She eyed Lehra, who had somehow managed to pull off a very strange night; Tkrn had fled the tent and woken them all up.
“Absolutely. Humans have them. They have sex all the time. That’s why I feel like a Human.”
“More than Gnolls or Drakes?”
Lehra hesitated. The Named-rank adventurer lifted a furry paw.
“They have more kids, that’s the difference. Like—you know, Humans have as many as eight children. Who does that? Not Gnolls or Drakes. Imagine having them on the move. That’s why they’re everywhere. They’re sexual fiends. I heard that somewhere.”
She puffed out her chest at displaying so much Human-knowledge. Suxhel, who had met Inkar and other Humans, would have raised her eyebrows if she had any.
It was true though that Gnolls had smaller families than Humans, and a family of eight or more was largely a Human or Lizardfolk thing.
“You seem to have a lot of attention, however.”
“Pssh, yeah, well…I guess I’m popular.”
Lehra preened a bit. She gestured at the tent. Male and female Gnolls—plus Inkar, were waking up.
“Who are the tall, more appealing Gnolls inside? For your kind?”
Suxhel didn’t need to peer in between the tent flaps to spot them. Her eye saw all. Lehra shrugged.
“Ekhtouch. They’re a special tribe. Breeding Skills. Normally you wouldn’t be able to get near one since they’re so strict. It’s like—what they trade.”
“Sex?”
“Yup. But they’re all over me. I think because—”
“They would like to have children with you. Congratulations.”
“Thanks! Let me know if you want to meet a nice Ekhtouch Gnoll. I’m sure they’d be obliging.”
Lehra winked. She slapped Suxhel on the shoulder. The short Gazer sidled away and reached for her handkerchief and water bottle.
“Don’t touch me with that paw. I’ve seen where it’s been.”
 
—-
 
Contrary to expectations Lehra might have held, Inkar herself was not a sex-crazed primate. If anything, the Gnolls of Ekhtouch were the only ‘experts’ in that field.
…And they were experts. However, Inkar saw no need to tell Orreh anything, no matter how hard her friend badgered her. It was more surprising that she’d found herself in that situation to begin with. Lehra had a magnetic personality. However, Tkrn had also helped.
At any rate, the teasing was just one part of living with Gnolls. In another way, it was better: if there were no secrets to be held, then it didn’t matter as much.
The point was that Lehra Ruinstrider, the Stargnoll, was never alone unless she wished to be. Indeed, she was the first real celebrity that Inkar had ever met in this world. Every Gnoll knew her name. Children and adults wanted autographs; [Warriors] and such tried to apply for her team. Chieftains courted her council.
That was because Lehra was more than her name. She was a Named-rank adventurer and could, by her intervention, turn the tables in a battle. Or war. Even the Walled Cities, Inkar had been told by Deskie and Eska, had only five Named Adventurers they could call on at most in Manus’ case—and only one or two might ever be in the city at any given time.
Five Named Adventurers was more than any one kingdom could hope to field. On the other hand, that didn’t include [Champions], [Generals], and such who might match them. Lehra was twice as valuable for her age, though; she had already reached Named-rank in her twenties! What might she accomplish by the time she had lived twice as long?
The fact that she threw an arm around Inkar—and Tkrn’s shoulders—and called them friends, inviting them to eat with Suxhel, was not lost on observers. The Gazer adventurer made Lehra wash her paws first, though.
“Ah, to be young again.”
Honored Krshia snorted, noting her nephew’s embarrassment as the group took breakfast in the Silverfang camp along with some of the participants from last night. Akrisa, her older sister, raised her brows.
“What does age have to do with it, Krshia? Honored Deskie herself shouldn’t lack for company—if she wished it.”
“Mother.”
The scandalized Gnoll was not Krshia, but rather, Satar, Akrisa’s oldest daughter, who had come from an Ekhtouch union herself. The older Gnolls snorted as Satar escaped, with little Cers Silverfang, who decided the adults were disgusting too.
“Another day dawns in the glorious Meeting of Tribes. So, sister. What will we do today?”
Krshia yawned as she rose. Akrisa shook her head, her smile lessening.
“You, sister, have the chance to go about. Perhaps with Cers or Satar? They would like to visit the other tribes. I, however, must meet with the Plain’s Eye tribe.”
“Before the gathering of Chieftains?”
Krshia’s ears perked up. Akrisa gave her a frown, mindful of the listening Gnolls.
“It would be impolite not to.”
Once again, Krshia was struck by the Plain’s Eye tribe’s growing influence, and it had been strong in the last Meeting of Tribes she had been in. She nodded, slowly.
“I may walk with Cers and Satar. Not least because I have business with the other tribes.”
“Then you must go visit the Gaarh Marsh tribe. Cers! Your Aunt Krshia, she will take you to the blooming sights today, yes? Be polite! Perhaps Honored Lehra and company would be interested?”
“Blooming sights? What are they?”
Lehra’s head bobbed up, along with Tkrn and Inkar. Akrisa was amused.
“Perhaps you were too young to recall it last time? It is for children and adults. Go visit. You may pass some hours quite pleasantly, and understand one of our oldest tribes who keeps to all the old ways. Along with Plain’s Eye, of course. What else have you to do, Krshia?”
The [Royal Shopkeeper]-[Councilwoman] sighed. She looked at Akrisa, unable to conceal a tiny frown on her face.
“Merely a personal favor. Whilst our guests from Liscor are still on the way, and safe, I am assured—it seems another Gnoll I had hoped to introduce you to has…gone missing. Magus Grimalkin of Pallass has prevailed on me to find his apprentice.”
Akrisa’s ears perked up. She set down her silkap and glanced at her [Shaman] and partner, Cetrule.
“In that case, we will send some to ask for her and see if she was seen.”
“Thank you, Chieftain.”
 
—-
 
Lehra ran off to find the rest of her team. Tkrn and Inkar found themselves walking with Orreh and Oor as usual. Well, the change was that Tkrn and Inkar had linked arms.
“I wish I could do that. All I have is my brother, no?”
Orreh sniffed jealously; it seemed her relationships had not lasted beyond a night. Oor stuck an arm out, grinning. Orreh kicked him into a stall. She looked at the two she was escorting.
“Are we going to Gaarh Marsh’s display today?”
“Why not? Unless you don’t want to?”
Tkrn saw Inkar glance up at him and found himself nodding.
They were joined by Krshia, Cers, Satar, two Silverfang minders, a group of six children and some more younger Gnolls…and then Venaz, Peki, Merrik, and three new guests who had just arrived from Oteslia.
“Do I have the honor of greeting Honored Feshi? And you two must surely be…”
Krshia blinked, and Tkrn’s eyes widened. Inkar was less agog, but everyone else stared at the young man—and the gingerly-walking Selphid.
Yerranola and Wil Kallinad looked around, new to the Meeting of Tribes but smiling. They had made the relatively short trip from Oteslia here.
“Wil Kallinad, Honored Krshia. Thank you for showing my friends hospitality.”
Wil made a very courtly Terandrian bow, having already picked up on Gnollish honorifics. Yerranola smiled; she was being half-supported by Wil.
“Hi, I’m Yerra. Everyone seems to know my name around here.”
“How not? You were on television! I thought you were poisoned! You got better already?”
Orreh burst out, and then turned red under her fur. Yerranola laughed though.
“I’m getting better! Thanks to Oteslia and weird flowers…now, I want to explore! We came to the Meeting of Tribes because there’s a time limit, but I want to see Oteslia instead of being carried about in a jar! Other cities too. Pallass and…”
“Other cities to the north.”
Venaz was not smiling, for all his friend was up on her feet and able to use a Drake body. Merrik, Peki, Wil, Yerra, and even Feshi, who was greeting Krshia, hesitated for a moment.
Tkrn had no idea why. Krshia, who kept her ears to the wind, had an inkling of what was making the students edgy. However, she only smiled.
“We are honored if you would care to join us. Lehra Ruinstrider may join us—although it is likely she was just dragged off.”
“I would be delighted to meet her, Honored Krshia. I too thank Silverfang for its hospitality. Is Chieftain Akrisa here? My tribe of Weatherfur would like to meet with yours.”
Krshia blinked at Feshi.
“…That would be most gratifying. Akrisa is with Plain’s Eye. However, when she returns I will of course introduce you.”
“Perhaps Honored Krshia might take her place, as sister to the Chieftain?”
Feshi’s voice was tactful. Krshia grew more interested. She nodded, but the group was impatient to go, so they began walking, now in a gaggle of attention of their own.
