She had done what had to be done. Even before the incident with adventurers, she knew reprisals would occur. She checked her new, shiny boots.
Leather, in her size no less. Very well-made.
…Not made for Goblins, but they’d been adjusted. Rags stared at them for a moment, then checked her armor, the enchanted chainmail and leather, Carn Wolf fur neck, the huge crossbow that was now more comfortable on her growing back, her shortsword, also enchanted, and the two magical rings she’d added.
Then and only then, she went to meet Bevussa. Rags marched down tunnels in Goblinhome, past shorter Goblins. She had always been small, even for a regular Goblin, but she was growing. Slowly; not as fast as Hobs. She was very young to be a Hob, hence why they thought she was growing slower.
Maybe it was a Chieftain thing. For here walked the [Great Chieftain] of the High Passes. Rags. She was met by a Goblin waiting, also shorter than average for a Hob, but taller than her as of yet.
“Redscar.”
“Chieftain.”
He nodded at her. Redscar had his twin swords; no Thunderfur since the Carn Wolf hated the narrower corridors deeper in the fortress.
“Coming?”
“Just for while. Gold-ranks all walking about.”
His voice was…cautious. Rags caught the implicit language in the way he stood, the way he didn’t reach for his swords. Of course she trusted him and he trusted her judgment. Just in case, then.
She didn’t argue. Rags marched into one of the great rooms in Goblinhome and found the three adventurers staring at the manufacturing halls. For a second she felt a flash of irritation. Did Badarrow have to take them here?
The [Sniper] had confirmed them, but there was such a thing as caution! The Wings of Pallass were now front-row to seeing a Thunderbow being constructed from Wyvern parts. The massive bone chassis of the bow flexed as Goblins tested its strength, arming the oversized crossbow that had to be mounted on the ground, not carried. It could take down a Wyvern in time and it was one of Rags’ new projects.
Thunderbows for her archers. Anyone climbing to attack Goblinhome would be met with crisscrossing fire from hidden nests, that would equalize artifact advantages. Meanwhile, Redscar would ride down on them with his Redfang riders on Carn Wolves. If that wasn’t enough?
Rags looked down and saw another of her commanders watching the Wings of Pallass, a lot less sanguinely than Redscar. She pointed, and the Hob flipping the dagger right next to Issa scowled, but relented.
Poisonbite slunk back to her group of Goblins. Cave Goblins, regular Goblins, and Hobs, all who wore grey and faded into the landscape. Unlike Redfangs, they never attacked from the front. They were ambushers, all of them armed with poison. They’d happily tag you with a poison arrow, or slash your leg and run off while you tried to heal that.
Specialist forces. Everything Rags had lacked in previous battles. With time, with effort, she was creating an army based on what she thought could take on any foe. Now—she might have to put it to the test.
The last group of her dedicated forces present was manifest in the Ogre napping, ignoring the manufacturing going on.
The Ogre had 0% of the discipline of even the most basic Goblins in Goblinhome. He was one of eighteen warriors from the Tormek Al clan along with non-fighter Ogres who’d joined them. Rags sighed.
Somo would have to deal with discipline in her ranks. She was the female Ogre who had first volunteered to join Rags’ tribe. A ‘weak’ warrior among her clan, she’d greatly enjoyed the food in Goblinhome, but added to the need for more, as well as mana potions, which the Ogres took in payment for their services as happily as gold or jewels.
In return, they formed the shock troopers of Goblinhome. If Redscar’s or Poisonbite’s forces weren’t enough, or if it was a stand-up fight, in went the Ogres—as well as Calescent’s feared spicy-brigade, who laced their weapons with pepper dust. If you laughed at that, you’d never had him blow a handful of his secret blend into your eyes. Rags would rather have been stabbed in the stomach than face that after she’d asked for a demonstration.
Well, the Ogres might be ‘weak’ in Invek’s eyes, but Rags had quickly turned the Ogres into warriors the rest of their tribe would walk wide around. Not only had she asked Redscar to put some actual training and physical conditioning into the somewhat lazy Ogre warriors, she’d made use of their abilities.
They had thick skin like armor. So she gave them more armor. Each one was covered in iron or steel armor, even Wyvern bone or hide in places to make up for the need to adjust smaller sets to them.
When they went into combat, woe to the adventurers who faced them, because the Ogres would have the same gear as [Knights]—if not enchanted. Yet.
How many will I have to kill? Rags sighed. She leaned on the balcony as Bevussa spotted her. Had they ever met? She vaguely recalled…never meeting a Garuda in her life.
Badarrow was here, the leader of her archer squads, but Snapjaw was not. She was the head of [Wyvern Riders] now, having struck a connection with the huge, hungry beasts. Thanks to them, Goblinhome had mobility.
All of this meant that when Rags walked down into the manufacturing hall, the Gold-ranks stared at her like they’d seen Tremborag in war-form. Small she might be, but they saw what she had built.
“Dead gods, Captain. This—this is—”
“Shut up. Let me talk.”
Rags heard the Garuda whisper to one of the two Oldblood Drakes. She turned and after a second, bowed slightly.
“Chieftain Rags, is it?”
“Mm.”
Rags grunted. Badarrow eyed her, although Redscar’s face was carefully impassive. Bevussa looked at Rags.
“We’re friends of Erin Solstice. From…The Wandering Inn? You know her?”
“Mm. Tell them I know Erin.”
Rags turned to Badarrow, and the Goblin translated. She’d said that in Goblin tongue, not the common one. Bevussa eyed Rags. She nodded again.
“We are…sorry that we attacked your people. It was a mistake. We do not want to fight.”
She spoke more slowly. Rags grunted again. She nodded after a moment.
Stupid mistake. What had made Sharpstick think I told him to fight? She turned to Badarrow. He explained after a moment.
“Bevussa says it was accident. Not Sharpstick’s fault either. They said small [Strategist] did it. Titan.”
Rags’ brow wrinkled. A small Titan? She saw Bevussa exchange glances with her team.
In this way, Rags realized there was a lot about the world she still didn’t know. She might have, if she had remained at the inn.
The inn. She thought of Erin. Dead? She still couldn’t…Bevussa was looking at her. Rags schooled her features.
“You. Bevussa. What do if let go?”
She grunted, in passable common, but barely. Bevussa hesitated. Now, Rags eyed her, keeping her face mildly aggrieved.
“We would…leave. And not tell anyone about what you’re doing.”
“Captain—”
Rags saw Bevussa glance at Issa—or Kin—she didn’t know which, warningly. Rags made herself smile.
“Not tell? Promise?”
“We would promise. So long as Goblins don’t attack other people—we would promise. On truth spells.”
Bevussa nodded seriously at Rags. The little Chieftain thought about this. She glanced past Bevussa.
“Taganchiel. Were they telling the truth, or was that a lie?”
She called past Bevussa. The Garuda’s eyes widened as Rags spoke, far more fluently than before. She turned—and the [Shaman] sitting on the balcony opened his eyes.
He was from the Mountain City tribe, and was the best [Shaman] in Goblinhome.
“Half-truth, Chieftain.”
“I see.”
Rags saw Bevussa turn to look at her, the Oldblood Drakes patently shocked. Everyone thought someone who spoke poorly was stupid. She had learned that from Pyrite. So many lessons she had learned he hadn’t even needed to outright tell her. So many more she wished she’d had time to learn.
“If I let you go, you might bring an army back to attack Goblinhome. That would be a sad thing. I do not wish to have to kill an army of Drakes.”
She met Bevussa’s eyes. Rags gestured around Goblinhome.
“This is where Goblins live. You killed us one time.”
“We did not.”
Bevussa countered. Rags sighed.
“You? You are from Liscor, yes?”
The Gold-rank Captain nodded.
“We came after the battle, the siege. It was Humans who attacked your army.”
“Yes, I know. I was there. Humans attacked us. Drakes closed the gates in our faces. I saw both. Pallass tried to kill the Goblin Lord. You are Pallass’ adventurers, loyal Drakes and Garuda. I do not trust you. So—make me trust you. Or you will stay here.”
Rags met Bevussa’s eyes. Shaken, the Garuda stared at the little [Great Chieftain] of Goblinhome. Rags smiled.
“Do not worry. I am the nicest Goblin you will meet. I only wonder: are you honorable Gold-rank adventurers? Questions, questions.”
Then she walked off, rather pleased with one of her first conversations with a non-Goblin. Especially the goggle-eyed expressions. She had been practicing.
…But the person she had wanted to talk to was dead.
 
—-
 
She was probably going to let them go. Probably. Rags had considered her options.
She was not Tremborag. She would not torture the Gold-ranks. Keeping them prisoner? They’d just try to break out, and the odds were that someone would come to rescue them.
Prey on their notions of honor, make them sweat and swear, and hope. That was all Rags could do. She was already thinking of what to do if Pallass or someone else sent an army up here.
Part of her wanted to see them run up against the High Passes’ innumerable threats. However, Rags would never forget Tyrion Veltras’ army destroying three tribes in a single stroke.
The enemy could be terribly unfair. Which was why you cheated even harder.
Rags let Bevussa stew and talk to Badarrow. She, correspondingly, listened to news of Liscor that he relayed to her.
Nothing new with the dungeon. No new armies…Gnolls in some meeting of tribes? The inn was quiet.
Erin was dead. Rags nodded. She had known as much from when he returned. Right now, she had few goals in life.
Make sure her tribe was safe. Find out what Velan had hid, and the second key, which could be anywhere in Izril, or the world.
Grow stronger. Find out the secret of Goblin Kings. Kick Greydath in between the legs.
…See if Erin could live again.
Bold goals, big goals. Impossible to quantify or easily make progress towards, except in steps. The one immediate thing Rags was thinking of as the [Sniper] stood in front of her was….
“Numbtongue. And Ulvama. Both in inn. Which one do you want, if either?”
She examined Badarrow. The [Sniper] sat there, in a chair, also not of Goblin make. Rather plush. Rags had put the best items in her rooms. Luxuries of a Chieftain.
“Numbtongue. Ulvama is…odd. If Chieftain wants, Chieftain gets.”
“Would Numbtongue come?”
“No. He stays there. With Erin.”
Badarrow looked at Rags. She nodded heavily. The five Redfangs who had saved the Cave Goblins, who had met Erin and protected her…were no more. There was only Badarrow, Rabbiteater, and Numbtongue left.
Rabbiteater had gone far away. Badarrow was here, and Numbtongue? She had never met him, but he seemed to be Erin’s guardian.
For all the good it did. Rags put the bitter thought aside. What had shocked her was the knowledge that Ulvama was alive. She remembered the [Shaman] and their brief encounter—but she was dubious on Ulvama.
The [Shaman] had tried to persuade Badarrow to take her, but he’d been understandably wary. Rags shared his judgment. Ulvama had been intelligent, but cunning, a fit for Tremborag. Not Goblinhome, not necessarily. Still, a [Shaman] of her caliber would be greatly useful.
More important to Rags was the knowledge that there were Goblins being held in a land to the north! A land she knew. Her fist clenched.
“Riverfarm matters more than Ulvama. Dangerous [Emperor] has them.”
“Safe though, says Ulvama.”
Rags shrugged. A little Cave Goblin she had known was apparently among their number, if Badarrow’s news from Ulvama was to be trusted. Rags would have already set out to rescue them, but the logistics of saving Goblins from that [Emperor] were dangerous. Still, she had [Wyvern Riders].
If only she had Gold-rank Adventurers of her own she’d rest easy. Redscar was arguably that good—Rags herself might qualify to some degree, and Badarrow and Snapjaw, but they were few compared to the monsters out there.
Like Elia Arcsinger.
Well, Rags could have debated the consequences of all these actions all day. This was a familiar tangle of thoughts, a paralysis of command she’d grown used to. She looked at Badarrow.
“You go rest. Have sad sex with Snapjaw or something. I will let Wings of Pallass go free soon.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
He almost smiled at her joke. Rags watched him go. Then she sat back. Numbtongue and Ulvama.
“…Fine. [Emperor] is treating Goblins okay? We’ll see. If not…”
First things first. Rags sat back up, and as Badarrow left her office, went to meet her second appointment of the day. She walked into the room and Calescent, Redscar, and Poisonbite all turned to her. Her [Shaman], Taganchiel, looked at her as the second prisoner-visitor to Goblinhome in as many days raised his head.
Rags pursed her lips as she stared at the Human [Rogue] who’d climbed all the way up to their mountain fortress and surrendered to the Goblins.
“Why are all of you coming now?”
The man grinned.
 
—-
 
“As it happens, I’m not so much with that inn. Although I am by way of Ullsinoi and we do business with the Brothers now and then. My gang’s not all smash or even flash, though.”
Rags listened to the street cant as the [Rogue] spoke. He’d been divested of his gear, but he was high-level. And he’d dodged two Goblin ambush volleys before surrendering.
They might have killed him even so, but he’d gotten the Cave Goblins in the first trap-zone to hesitate. Because he’d spoken in Goblin.
She had no idea what he meant by Ullsinoi or the Brothers—he seemed to think she was more tied to The Wandering Inn than she was. So Rags dissembled.
“None mentioned your gang. How do you know Goblin?”
His eyes crossed and he replied slowly, with effort.
“Goblin taught me, obviously.”
Rags glanced at Redscar. The Goblin scowled.
“Wrong. Imposs—imposs—”
“Impossible. How would Goblins and Humans work together?”
Redscar nodded as Rags turned to the [Rogue], whose name was Whet. Probably an alias.
“Y’know, it’s always been funny to me, Chieftain Rags. A fellow hears that from Humans when they hear about Goblins in gangs. Yet Goblins say the same thing when they hear we do business.”
