Now, though, she thought that this would improve matters greatly. She waved from the hilltop where she’d been waiting and heard an answering howl. A group of [Riders] accelerated. Yet that was not who Krshia bounded down the slope to meet.
Rather, it was the strange vehicle and young woman determinedly peddling it towards the Gnoll camp. Rose looked sweaty, but she’d gotten the hang of riding—and the bike could actually outdistance the horses!
“Krshia!”
“Miss Rose. You are just in time, yes? So quickly, too! Where is Mrsha?”
“Not here, Krshia. Elirr decided she was too young for the trip.”
“She will have to come soon.”
Krshia scowled, but then beamed at Rose. Not least because Rose had brought the bicycle, spare sports equipment, copies of the plays—any number of gifts for Lehra and the other tribes.
“This is going to be amazing. Where’s Inkar? I have some electronics to show her—I want to hug her and ask her about everything! She must have been so—”
Rose was walking a bit unsteadily after days of riding the bike. However, her face fell as she looked at the other Gnolls. For all they were glad to be here in safety after their journey, their faces quickly turned from relief to…
“What is the matter?”
Krshia halted. Had they gotten wind of the Woven Bladegrass’ madness? Was it already affecting the other city’s dispositions?
No. Rose looked at the leader of the caravan. The Silverfang Gnoll looked at Krshia, gravely.
“We made it here, but we were barely ahead of the second group on the road, Honored Krshia. They’re right behind us.”
“What other group? Another tribe?”
“No. They came the same way as we—they left earlier, but moved far slower. They’re literally an hour behind. Az’muzarre practically ignored us. You—you may have to tell them to stop. They were ready to slaughter all of them, Pallass’ escort or not.”
Slaughter all of…? Krshia’s hair rose. She scented it, carried on the group. She spoke one word.
“Raskghar.”
They had arrived. Prisoners, yes.
But Raskghar. Krshia looked at Rose, then shook her head.
“Come. Worry not about Raskghar, no. You, Rose—come.”
She led them forwards. Inkar, talking with Tkrn, tickling him gently, looked up. Her hands fell away. She stood, uncertainly. Rose gasped. She began running, arms spread wide. Inkar heard her shouting, and her eyes filled with tears.
Rose met Inkar.
 
—-
 
The last visitors of the day to the city of Esthelm came through the gates. They were promptly stopped by the [Guards].
“You there. Halt.”
The Guard instructed one of the figures. The person turned, looking surprised, but not saying a word. They gestured at their face as if to say, ‘me, but why me?’
The [Guards] were more vigilant than most cities. They were former [Militia] who’d become regular [Soldiers], [Warriors], [Sentries], [Watchwomen], and so on.
This [Gate Watchwoman], a specialist in fighting at…gates…rolled her eyes.
“Yes, you. Are you serious? Your group. Stop. Hands up.”
The figures halted. The other people entering the city—and they weren’t many—backed away as the [Guards] drew their weapons. They didn’t play games. The [Watchwoman] pointed.
“I’ve never seen—you think you can just walk in? Like that? Are you serious?”
The masked figure in front, with a hood over their head, began to speak. The [Watchwoman] ignored her.
“Mask off! Hood off!”
She looked at her squad, who were ready for anything. Part of the [Gate Guard] was just…incredulous. Who thought someone wearing a face-mask and a hood wasn’t suspicious?
The carved, painted wooden mask was blocking the person’s features, and the rest of the small group. They wore heavy hooded cloaks that disguised everything about them. They were the most suspicious group the [Gate Guard] had ever seen.
The great disguise of Garen Redfang, as it turned out, was not that useful as the legends said. The arrows were nocked, ready to fire. The leader of the trio hesitated.
“Mask off or we fire!”
The [Gate Guard] had already signaled for reinforcements. At this, the leader apparently decided there was no help for it. Slowly, they reached up, removed the mask—
And spoke.
“Hold your fire, Guardswoman. Please.”
The [Watchwoman] saw Bevussa look at her as she tossed her hood back. Issa removed her mask, and so did Kin.
“Is that…the Wings of Pallass?”
One of the [Guards] recognized the three. The [Watchwoman] lowered her crossbow.
“Captain Bevussa? Why are you dressed like that?”
“It’s a long story, Guardswoman…”
Bevussa had no idea, really. All she knew was that Rags’ last ‘request’ was that Bevussa had to wear hood, robes, and mask as they were dropped off a walking distance away from Esthelm. She was as confused as the [Guards], but it was clear she wasn’t a Goblin.
On the other hand, further into the city, a Goblin happily walked into Esthelm, glancing around merrily, nudging his companion every five seconds.
“Look at that.”
“I see it. Stop nudging.”
“Look at that. Chieftain, buy me that.”
He pointed to a window display, tugging her back to point at a handsome cast iron pan. Imagine how many meals he could make on that! Rags punched his leg.
To any amused observer, it seemed like a daughter punching her father in the leg. Well—they appeared vaguely related, and that was enough for silly Humans who hadn’t seen many of their kind. A male half-Elf and a younger, female half-Elf child.
Rags wondered if the illusion on the rings did that because of the pointed ears. She kept checking her reflection, but she hadn’t even needed Bevussa’s distraction.
“Amazing. Am I handsome?”
Calescent stared at himself. Rags snorted.
“For a half-Elf, maybe. Hurry up.”
Whet’s gifts to the Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe had been calculated to impress a Goblin like her. They probably would have given Tremborag food or something. However, Rags? Whet had warned her she’d need to use more elaborate tricks to get into Pallass or any city with actual magical checks, but she’d walked into Esthelm easily enough.
“Stop that.”
She towed Calescent away from the stall where he was admiring knives, next, already flirting with the [Shopkeeper]. The [Chef] was happy to be here.
Redscar had refused. Snapjaw was with Badarrow, and he didn’t want to come back. So that left Calescent or Poisonbite.
Given the two, Rags preferred the [Chef]. She walked through Esthelm. There were many things to see. Many possibilities. Many things to do.
She knew the legendary smith was in this city and she wanted to meet him. She wanted to see these ‘bikes’.
But first.
First…
 
—-
 
Liska smiled as Imani and Palt went out to Liscor, arm in arm.
“Have a good evening, sir or madam!”
She parroted the instructions Ishkr had given her. The Gnoll, who was on door-duty, waited until she closed the door and had begun changing the dial, checking the other doors. She did pause to sniff the air, though.
“How, though? Is it…lots…and lots of oil? Is he really, really small? Or do they have a contraption? Or maybe—”
She opened the door, letting in someone from Celum who wanted to go to Pallass. Sighing, Liska did that, letting them deal with the checkpoint.
She was counting the minutes until her break. At least she didn’t have to talk to people. She opened the door to Esthelm.
“Anyone through to Liscor or elsewhere? We are not accepting guests for The Wandering Inn, as the inn is closed…”
She stopped as someone stepped through. The second visitor was a genial half-Elf, who peered around, rubbing his hands. But the first person, who was fumbling with her hand, had been shielded by his back.
A short Goblin walked into the inn as Liska’s eyes opened wide. She breathed in, slowly, and stared around the portal room. She looked at the Gnoll, at the unfamiliar walls, floor…
So familiar. So not. She listened, to the silent inn, scampering feet, to her own beating heart. Rags waited a moment.
Then she stepped forwards.
She was back. She walked out of the portal room as Liska eyed Rags, the half-Elf, decided it wasn’t her business, and went back to spacing out until the sand timer counted down ten minutes again. Rags emerged into the hallway that was unnaturally long, and gave her eerie vibes, and halted.
So quiet. So…forlorn. Someone was missing.
Someone had returned. And as if that changed things, amid the silence of the inn, the few living people, the Hobgoblin with his head bowed in the [Garden of Sanctuary], the [Shaman] and little Gnoll playing tag, the Titan sitting and scowling next to the bee in the rafters—
The door of The Wandering Inn burst open. Someone rushed in the regular way, having not been able to get through the portal door with Liska operating it in time. She was panting, clutching at her chest, having run all the way here.
Her light green scales and dress were a bit sweaty. Selys gasped, and then shouted, missing Rags and Calescent, who’d drawn a kitchen knife and bag of red powder.
“Everyone! Everyone—”
Selys Shivertail shouted. The noises stopped. She gasped, then shouted, her voice cracking with nerves.
“They’re doing it! They’re attacking the Village of the Dead! It’s just begun!”
A shout from further down in the inn. Calescent blinked. Selys gasped for air—then saw the little Goblin staring up at her.
“Wh—R—Ra—how—?”
She spluttered. Rags looked up at her. She listened to the crash, the sounds of life. She smiled, nodded at Selys.
“Long time no see.”
The Drake stood, stunned, as Rags walked over to the secret door, opened it, and went inside The Wandering Inn.
To have a bite to eat.
