…No. No one was going to forget this. It was a thin trail of smoke from here. The news though, hit the Meeting of Tribes.
The Woven Bladegrass had sacked a city. They were taking their spoils into the Gnoll Plains, to donate it to the Meeting of Tribes as part of their gift. Worse—high-level warriors in all the major tribes had participated, willingly or not.
Including a member of Az’muzarre.
 
—-
 
The Meeting of Tribes was getting more exciting every second. Chieftain Orelighn hated it.
All he wanted was for his small Greenpaw tribe to do better. He did not like talk of war; his tribe was a rare settlement-tribe, not a nomadic one that could flee enemy armies.
Nor was his tribe large enough to like thinking of fighting any Drake city. So he was doubly unhappy with the news, especially since he had really liked the gold bracelet he’d been given until he realized it was purloined goods.
Well, all that meant he was restless, but he composed his face because the other Chieftain was important. More important than Greenpaw; perhaps an up and coming tribe. It hurt a bit, but that was new tribes with momentum for you.
Yet the young Gnoll was very, very respectful. Which was so gratifying to Orelighn, who was often at the bottom of such pecking orders.
“Chieftain Mrell, thank you for your time. Apologies if I find the news of the Woven Bladegrass’ actions…disturbing.”
“Not at all, Chieftain Orelighn. Our tribes are both stationary tribes. Mine smelts, yours farms. We should be more cautious of antagonism with other tribes.”
The Chieftain of the Demas Metal tribe had a covered object in front of him. Orelighn nodded gratefully. The younger Gnoll was a former [Warrior], perhaps, but his new tribe had taken to smithing.
“Indeed. I am ah, curious, as all are in your new, wondrous metal. Demas.”
“A mix of Orichalcum and other alloys. Not as impressive as adamantine—but as good as mithril, if a bit heavier. However—durable beyond steel, even Dwarfsteel! I hope it will change the fortunes of all Gnoll tribes.”
Mrell did not lack for ambition. However, he had asked to meet Orelighn for some reason, when he could be talking to Steelfur. Orelighn nodded.
“An ambition I share, of course. How can Greenpaw aid your Demas Metal tribe then, Chieftain Mrell? Have some more snacks, I encourage you.”
The younger Chieftain brightened and he ate some of the snacks from the Silverfangs and Liscor. Orelighn hadn’t eaten them, despite being sorely tempted, and was using them to impress visitors.
“You are too kind, Chieftain Orelighn. These come from the north?”
“Yes, Liscor. Delightful, aren’t they?”
The Gnoll nodded.
“I have been north and south, but never encountered such dishes—wonderful.”
“You are widely travelled. A Plains Gnoll all your life?”
“All my life. I learned how to spot new ores, so discovering Demas Metal…well, my tribe is small, new, and I am the first Chieftain, but it may be large one day. However, we are [Smiths], [Smelters], [Miners]…not [Growers]. I came to you, Chieftain Orelighn, because your tribe is known to grow food best of all tribes.”
“Hardly as well as Oteslia. A poor choice in some ways for a tribe.”
Orelighn was still flattered. Mrell had a way with words. The young Chieftain shook his head.
“As we now see, Drake cities and Gnoll tribes are not always allies. Chieftain Orelighn, your fields could feed my tribe. If we could come to a trade arrangement, both tribes could grow richer.”
That made Orelighn excited. A steady partner tribe, especially one like this? He nodded, sitting back and having some of the sweet, flavored popcorn himself.
“This is an idea I would…certainly love to explore.”
“I as well. I hope this gift may convince you that Demas Metal would offer more than mere gold. Please; when I knew I would meet with you, I had my [Smiths] commission it.”
Orelighn’s heart beat faster. Surely not—? He tugged the cloth aside and saw a…hoe…made out of the blue Demas Metal. Sky-blue, delicate, with a ribbon pattern…
Fit for a blade. But a hoe? Orelighn blinked.
“So much Demas in this! This hoe…it is a wonderfully forged piece, Chieftain Mrell. But a hoe?”
“I know it may seem an odd gift, but I encourage you to have your people attempt to use it. I considered a scythe, but a hoe would strike rocks, and soil constantly. Even the strongest steel dulls.”
True enough. Orelighn hated the costs of replacing them. Normally, hoes were durable, but if you were chopping magical plants with their stupid, edge-dulling roots for instance…
Mrell gestured to the gleaming farming tool.
“This is lighter than steel. And—I wish you to test this—I do not think it will dull! If it does, it will be at a twentieth, a thirtieth the rate of steel. Perhaps even a hundred times slower. Consider that for your workers.”
Orelighn did. He began to like this gift more and more.
“Chieftain Mrell, I will give it to my best [Farmers]. This—this is a generous gift. You have my thanks.”
The other Chieftain nodded, modestly. He took another bite of the popcorn and then went on.
“It is my only regret that the Demas metal is not finished. It could be improved. It is a new alloy, and another insight into new metallurgy would benefit my tribe greatly.”
Orelighn paused, in inspecting the tool. He glanced up. Mrell met his eyes.
“I have heard, Chieftain Orelighn, that the Greenpaw tribe has an object of fine metallurgy. It is my hope I could obtain a sample. Just a sample, that our tribes might work together.”
The other Chieftain licked his lips. Who had told him? How did he know? Well, every Gnoll had a mouth…he hesitated.
“This is a complex issue, Chieftain Mrell. It is a gift to the tribes, and I am already…allied…with other tribes. It is not something that belongs to me alone.”
“I understand, Chieftain Orelighn. Nor would I interfere with any of that. However, just a piece might allow me to level or my tribe to improve. Time is of the essence, after all.”
Especially if he wanted to make a breakthrough to improve his tribe’s worth. Orelighn’s eyes flickered. He was still inclined to say ‘no’. Right up until Chieftain Mrell presented him with a second bundle.
“I would consider it a deep debt between our tribes, Chieftain Orelighn.”
It was a bag of holding. And inside…Orelighn gulped at the gold coins glittering there. He looked up and Chieftain Mrell was poised. Polite, confident—rich from his new metal.
“Perhaps…I could part with a small piece or two. If it was kept extremely secret.”
Both Gnolls smiled. Orelighn gestured.
“A sample is in a safe place. If you will follow me?”
They rose. Orelighn hurried Mrell out of the tent, looking around. There weren’t many Silverfangs or Longstalker’s Fang Gnolls in his poorer camp, but they were close by.
It wasn’t a betrayal! Well—it was just him using every connection he could. Orelighn told himself that Mrell was a Gnoll it was good to make connections with. Just a piece…
He was searching for Krshia, Inkarr, Deskie, Eska—anyone who might see them when a loud commotion made him flinch. Mrell turned, head sharp, and the two Chieftains saw an event taking place.
Only—not one aimed at them. Orelighn slipped into the guarded storehouse and handed Mrell a covered object the Gnoll took, inspected, smiled at, and slipped into his bag of holding. He bowed to Orelighn and then the two went to see what the issue was.
“Make way! This Gnoll is a criminal! Make way!”
A group of Gnolls charged with keeping order were forcing the crowd apart, for all they’d summoned them with a banging of a gong. Orelighn and Mrell both appeared to see one of the traditionalist tribes, Sofang, escorting a Gnoll between them.
Sofang…what was that? Orelighn recalled they were a loyal tribe to the old ways.
“Sofang? They’re charged with making sure order occurs in the Meeting of Tribes.”
Mrell was surprised. Orelighn blinked.
“You know them?”
“Trap specialists. Good fighters; they often work for Plain’s Eye. Traditionalists.”
Which meant he and his Demas Metal were the exact opposite of theirs—although Demas Metal had been carefully neutral. All that was fine and the two Chieftains stood at the front of the crowd, having done nothing wrong, only perhaps a trifle underhanded and that was on Orelighn’s conscience.
So why did one of the Gnolls with a bow spot the two and spit at their feet? Orelighn was shocked! Mrell though, just appeared resigned.
“What was that about? Is Demas Metal at odds with Sofang?”
“No. Not at all, Chieftain Orelighn.”
Mrell watched the [Archer] walk past, one of the security detail. She never looked at him again. He shook his head.
“My…partner. That is all. I was part of Sofang, for a while. I left to start Demas Metal.”
“Ah. I understand.”
Love and loss. Orelighn was used to that sort of thing as a Chieftain. He felt that young Inkarr might have the same relationship with Tkrn in time—then again, perhaps not. Human and Gnoll? It could work.
It was just a backdrop to the moment. The real event was when the Sofang’s leader—not the [Archer]—shouted.
“This Gnoll has been discovered to be tricking other Gnolls and falsely claiming abilities she does not have! She will now admit such for all to hear and apologize to the tribes!”
He yanked the hood off the Gnoll’s face. And there she was. Orelighn stared up at the young female Gnoll, who stammered her confession of guilt before the booing and shouting drowned her out. He looked up at Ferkr.
…He had no idea who she was.
Krshia Silverfang did, though. The Gnoll [Mage]’s admission of guilt rocked her. Especially because Ferkr was confessing to not being a [Mage] at all. To have been lying to her master, Grimalkin, and pretending to use mage-magic when she was just a [Shaman].
She was lying, of course. Krshia stared at Ferkr as the Gnoll was summarily expelled from the Meeting of Tribes by the guards. She was lying.
But…why? All Krshia knew was that she had found Grimalkin’s apprentice. The Sinew Magus was not going to like this, though.
Not one bit.
 
—-
 
Torture sucked. It didn’t have to be physical…mental torture was a terrible thing. Yet physical torture…it was bad too.
On the whole of it, magical spells blasting your mind or changing you, erasing parts of yourself was perhaps the greater threat as a whole and every smart military body trained their people to resist that kind of thing as best they could.
However—physical torture came in many forms. Horrible forms. Mutilation, rape, physical pain…
It was hard not to run through the list of ways she knew she could be tortured. Especially the most obvious one. She knew—she knew it was not likely. She hoped it was not.
Yet Captain Bevussa of the Wings of Pallass still thought of it. She was a prisoner of Goblins. She thought these were…not the same Goblins who might do that.
However, every adventurer knew the danger. Especially female adventurers. Kin and Issa were female. Bevussa was female.
“Captain. If there’s a chance—”
“Shut. Up. Kin. If it comes to that—we deal with it.”
Bevussa sat in her cell. No manacles; Kin and Issa were in other cells. Which was interesting, because the cells seemed new. As in—someone had built them just for right now.
The three Wings of Pallass looked at each other. Three. It should have been four. Zassil was dead. Killed in the battle with Hectval. She still missed him.
If she had led her team into the worst nightmare for a female adventurer…Bevussa closed her eyes.
“I have a pill in my ankle-bracelet.”
Issa spoke grimly. Bevussa opened her eyes.
“It’s not going to come to that, you two.”
“But if it does…”
“…It would have happened already. You know what happens with [Bandits] or—other groups.”
The two Drakes hesitated. That was true. They’d been tossed in here for a day, but none of them had been assaulted or tortured. In fact, they’d been fed a quite nice meal by a Goblin who just grunted when they asked questions. The only torture had been the spices.
The worry in Bevussa’s mind, even if these were the Goblins she thought they were, was the battle. It had been chaos and they’d been fighting for their lives, but she knew her team had killed or wounded some Goblins. Fair was fair; the Goblins had hit both their teams as they went for the Titan and fought monsters, but would they see it that way?
The Titan of Baleros, and those idiots had to be greedy. He had literally called down the mountains on their heads. Thunderstorms, monster attacks and the Goblins. Dead gods. Bevussa didn’t know what to expect next, but she was prepared for the worst.
A door opened. A Goblin walked down the steps, slowly. Kin and Issa tensed. Bevussa’s beak opened wide. She reached for the iron bars.
“Listen. We know Erin Solstice. The Wandering Inn. We didn’t know Goblins were here, but we know Erin Solstice.”
The Hobgoblin looked at her. Bevussa stopped speaking and stared. Badarrow regarded Bevussa through red-rimmed eyes.
“I know.”
 
—-
 
The fortress was called Goblinhome. It was home to the last major Goblin tribe in this region of Izril. The Flooded Waters tribe. Or that was what they had been.
Now, they were Redfangs, Mountain City Goblins, Cave Goblins, Goldstone Goblins, and many more. They were her Goblins, and this was their last, their first, their only home.
Goblinhome. Built into the trapped valley, a fortress of stone and wood. It had repelled Frost Wyverns, other monsters, and even taken out adventurers.
However, its greatest strength had been secrecy; that no one knew it was here. Now, they did.
Rags did not like that. Then again, she did not like many things that happened to her. They happened anyways. Adventurers had escaped the impromptu battle in the High Passes that had started due to some kind of…Skill that made Sharpstick attack.
He was doing penance, as he saw it. Dangerous patrols, shoveling poo-pits…Rags had told him it was not his fault. Sometimes, though, a Goblin had to do what they felt was right.
Adventurers were going to come and attack. She knew it was an inevitability. She just wished she had longer to prepare.
Then again, they were always coming. Goblinhome was far more than the primitive fortifications it had been. Miners had dug into the rock, constructed very lovely inner tunnels, choke points, and the layers of traps had been reinforced again and again. With as much cunning as Rags’ brain could come up with.
However, she had also faced the problems of a growing tribe, even one depleted by the battle at Liscor where so many had died. Goblins made babies quick, and little Goblin bands had found her.
Plus, she had Ogres to feed. That was why…she closed her eyes.
