Lehra never caught up, but Yerranola herself drew enough attention in her Drake body to have people interrupt their progress three times. However, Venaz carried them through the crowds—mainly by walking with no intention of stopping to shake hands or paws with everyone he met. Soon, they reached their destination; one of the largest, most powerful tribes of the Gnolls.
Gaarh Marsh. Above their waterproof huts, the more solid construction from the swampy terrain they liked to occupy, much like Desonis in fact, was their guardian. Even Venaz stared up, lost for words for a second as the vast Earth Elemental sat, filling the air with the scent of muck, rot, and growth, a giant even those on Oteslia’s walls might respect.
The old world sat, staring at nothing until it was needed.
 
—-
 
The Gaarh Marsh tribe’s display was called the blooming sights. What it was, Tkrn discovered, was a display of their [Shaman]’s craft and their unique abilities.
Of all the tribes, the Gaarh Marsh was, like the Wild Wastes tribe, the easiest to assign the most common Gnollish pejoratives to.
‘Barbarian’. ‘Savage’. You heard it sometimes to describe the Gnollish people. The comparison was always between Humanity or Gnollkind, or Drakes in their civilized cities compared to the wild nomads.
It was not fair even for those tribes. It was what people said. However, it was true that the Gaarh Marsh tribe had a bit more space from some other tribes…due to the smell.
Nature, to be blunt. The Earth Elemental had tracked wide swaths of rich soil and mud, and parts of it were continually decomposing. Growing as well. It was not a smell Tkrn enjoyed, so he wrinkled his nose along with some of the adults.
The children like Cers didn’t care. Satar bowed deeply to one of the [Shamans] sprinkling something on the ground. Peki kept staring at the Earth Elemental as the chief [Shaman] talked, explaining the Gaarh Marsh tribe’s specialty, and where they lived to the other Gnolls here for the event.
“Peki. Peki.”
Merrik nudged his friend, knowing what she was thinking. The Garuda [Martial Artist] glanced at him. The Dwarf whispered.
“You are not challenging the Earth Elemental.”
“Why?”
The two began arguing. Meanwhile, the [Shaman] was speaking.
“…we grow many rare plants, and make all we need from the marshes. Our power comes from there, and we do not reject living so close to nature. I do know some think it is odd, as some nature is uncomfortable! That is our way, however.”
She gestured to herself and Wil shuddered a bit despite himself. Mostly because when the [Shaman] said they lived with nature, she meant it. A bug crawled across one arm, under her fur, but seemed content just to shelter; it did not bite her. However, the proximity of insects made Wil decidedly uncomfortable.
“This place smells.”
Cers broke in, unrepentantly talkative, and some of the other Gnolls chuckled, a touch scandalized. Satar looked horrified and embarrassed. On the other hand, the [Shaman] of Gaarh Marsh just laughed. So did Krshia. It would take more than Cers’ comments to bother them, she knew.
“It does! Not everything in nature is fine. However, there are wonders. Come—I think that is enough talk. You are here to see the blooming. This is our tribe’s strength. Our magic—and our knowledge.”
So saying, she tapped the mud with her staff where she had been sprinkling small objects. As she did, the tiny seeds she had tossed down bloomed.
Vivid orchids sprouted in seconds, blooming huge petals. A twisting vine shot up and nearly hit Cers in the nose. He recoiled, and then laughed, as a tall, upright plant rose, then sprouted leaves, and a sunflower-esque head, albeit red.
“That’s amazing! Do it again! Again!”
The others were just as impressed.
“Beautiful.”
Venaz murmured, eying a resplendent plant, which seemed to have been comprised of straight angles and corners, no curves at all to it. It was sturdy where the other plants moved as the watchers reached out.
“Ah, do not touch that one, young Cers. Nor that.”
The [Shaman] stopped the little Gnoll from touching the tall flower, or another one. She cautioned the guests.
“Not all plants are good to touch, either. This one will prick you with invisible needles. This one will send little spores into your fur, which you will not enjoy.”
“Is it safe to have the children near them, then?”
A Gnoll was concerned. The Gaarh Marsh [Shamans] snorted. One retorted.
“Safe? In the short term—no. In the long term, how else would they learn not to touch when warned?”
He glanced meaningfully at Cers. The little Gnoll was reaching for the spore plant, which was more like a flower coming out of a mushroom. He hesitated, realized no one was going to stop him, even his big sister, and slowly edged back.
The display was wonderful, and the [Shamans] began showing the guests how each flower was useful. They even harvested one, mixing it up, and turning it into a dye; plucking another’s seeds and giving them to the adults. They were, apparently, quite good to taste and had effects adjacent to Dreamleaf, which the Gaarh Marsh tribe was familiar with.
Definitely worth coming to see. However, it did remind Tkrn uncomfortably of the Bloodfields. When he commented that to Inkar, having to explain what that was, one of the Gaarh Marsh [Shamans] overheard.
“Ah. You are from Liscor, yes? You have seen that place.”
Tkrn ducked his head.
“I didn’t mean to offend, [Shaman].”
He snorted.
“One does not offend so simply, young Gnoll. Nor are you wrong. Long have our [Shamans] maintained that the Bloodfields sprouted from ancestor-seeds similar to our people’s. If only they were easier to harvest, we might create new medicine or potions. Alas—we know the Bloodfields to be too dangerous.”
“Has anyone tried?”
Yerranola looked interested as she leaned on Venaz. The Minotaur was checking the diamond greatsword on his back.
“We should visit there too. Cautiously.”
Peki nodded; Feshi and Merrik rolled their eyes. Wil was just resigned. The [Shaman] grinned.
“Several times, Miss Yerranola. However, we do not try anymore. It is too risky for what we gained. Indeed, the last time we attempted to learn much was…four hundred years back. Four hundred and sixty. The Bloodfields have only grown more dangerous since then.”
He glanced at the other [Shamans] and they nodded. Yerranola was impressed.
“You remember that accurately?”
The [Shaman] nodded gravely.
“We must. Which brings us to our next portion. Come! Those who wish to admire the flowers or learn more may stay, but we have good drink and snacks. We shall enjoy it—here.”
He led them to a small hill. However, to the visitors’ surprise or dismay, it was equally muddy. The Earth elemental sat next to it, and they realized they were to sit there too, albeit on straw mats.
It did not prevent one from getting dirty. Nor, as it turned out, was that the point. As food and drink of the Gaarh Marsh was brought out, the visitors realized they weren’t eating in nature; they were eating with it.
A pale moth with white wings landed on Tkrn’s drinking cup and dipped a proboscis into his drink. He stared at it—then at the huge animal from the swamps who’d rolled over. The ‘pet’ began stealing some of the nuts from his bowl. Inkar just laughed, more at home with this than he was.
Krshia gently flicked off a roach from her fur, but she tried to be amiable as could be. Some couldn’t handle it, like Wil, who stood a bit shamefaced, drinking and talking with some of the others, but the others took the experience at face-value.
Venaz refused to leave, with classic Venaz-stubbornness, although his clenched jaw twitched every time a centipede or something ran over his legs. The Gnolls of the Gaarh Marsh tribe found this very amusing. However, as time went on, Tkrn and Inkar did enjoy themselves. None of the bugs bit, and the larger animals were quite welcome. Even a cow, with actual horns, who looked just as able to defend herself as any other animal who sat down next to them to Inkar’s delight.
As they sat, though, the chief [Shaman] had children and adults sit around him. The second part of this event was this:
They told stories.
 
—-
 
A bird landed on Cers’ head and he was wide-eyed, staring up at it with crossed eyes and at the [Shaman] as she spoke.
“Long ago, when the first Gnolls emerged from the earth, after the Time of Hiding, we saw the great cities that Drake and Dragon had built. Some of us decided we should learn from them. They became City Gnolls, and live there to this day. However, most Gnolls decided safety lay in the open ground, the plains. There was more space back then, you see, and north and south were open to us. We remember the first Gnolls who made the Gaarh Marsh tribe decided to live in the very same swamps and marshes we travel—although they were bigger in those days. Eight times bigger; they have shrunk as Drakes dredged the land.”
“You remember it so clearly? How long ago was that?”
Yerranola was impressed. The [Shaman] nodded.
“We remember this detail, Honored Yerranola. However, how long? Thousands of years. Tens of thousands? Some details escape. That is the problem with history. However, we remember all the stories we can, and tell them.”
She gestured at their audiences.
“Drakes have similar stories. Humans, likewise. I will tell you the story of Feis if you wish it, children, guests. Feis Firescale, greatest of the Oldblood Drakes, who was said to have learned from a Dragonlord in the days when they still flew Izril’s skies. That is a story even Drakes have forgotten! Ah, but first, stories of Gaarh Marsh.”
She told them one to begin with, how the first Gnolls had wandered into the swamps, many suffering, but eventually, one had struck a bargain with the heart of nature and the first guardians—the Earth Elementals—became their mentors and defenders.
“We remember it. Alas, but we do not remember how the bargain was worded, or where it was struck.”
The [Shaman] looked sad. It was Venaz who lifted a hand, as if they were in class.
“There is a fallacy in your statement, [Shaman]. If your tribe can remember as far back as the first days of your people, why have you not collated or written down this information? Is this myth or fact?”
Feshi kicked him in the back, but Venaz did not relent. The [Shaman] met his challenging gaze.
“Fact.”
“You did not seek to preserve your knowledge, though? There are memory Skills and books; none of this was employed?”
She chuckled.
“Minotaur. Do your people remember every event in your history? Even ten thousand years ago?”
He shifted as everyone stared at him.
“Our records are exact up till about six thousand years and we keep records in multiple locations.”
“However, that is a short amount of time. Gaarh Marsh does the same, by the way. We did not always keep written notes, although we do now—but we have great [Storytellers] and [Shamans] who remember. We took pains to do so. Why do you think we lost it, despite knowing the value of the past? Hm…little Gnoll?”
She pointed to a girl from another tribe. The Gnoll rolled up her eyes, squinting as she tried to figure it out.
“…Because you lost the books?”
Everyone laughed. The Gnoll’s ears flattened, but the [Shaman] smiled approvingly.
“Not a bad answer! The truth is, we did lose them. Or they were destroyed.”
“Every record?”
“Venaz, shut up.”
Wil whispered to him. The Minotaur looked affronted. The [Shaman] from Gaarh Marsh met his eyes.
“Every record, Honored Guest. Every record. Every [Shaman]. Every [Storyteller]. Sometimes, almost every Gnoll. We remember that we forget. And the reason we lost our history, despite our attempts to preserve it was because of calamity. I am sure you know of what I speak.”
The audience went silent. Now, the [Shaman] closed her eyes. She scooped some mud up with her paw, and tossed it up. Rather than coming down like a shower—the audience saw something fall.
It hurtled out of the clouds to the earth. Not falling like a meteor; collapsing. It had been taller than the clouds. Now—the Earth Elemental’s head slowly turned, moving for the first time since it had sat.
Watching a Giant fall.
“We called this age Skyfall’s Memory. It was one of the times we lost too much. One of the times entire species vanished, and the world was plunged into a time when even steel was rare, the art of it forgotten by many. Skyfall’s Memory. The last war of the Giants.”
The [Shaman] spoke as the image vanished. She tapped the ground, and spoke, using some magic to augment her tale.
“It was those times when history was lost. We remember other events; the Creler Wars destroyed so many records, entire tribes. The Faded Times, when magic died. Skyfall’s Memory was a great war, not a cataclysm like some times, though. Each event was terrible, regardless. Archmages’ citadels fell to ruin. Continents turned to dust…or sank. Minotaurs lost their history too. Every people did. You ask why we forget? It is because in those days, when we fled for our lives, we carried only our young, food, a weapon—we left anything to run faster, to survive. Books were not important, then.”
 
—-
 
The stories Gaarh Marsh did remember were impressive nonetheless. Indeed, the group left the entire event feeling rather solemn, even Venaz.
Krshia lingered, along with Feshi. It was a bit of a surprise, as the two Gnolls were not alike at all. Feshi was younger, half Krshia’s age, a [Strategist] in the Titan’s School.
Krshia was a Silverfang City Gnoll. However, both were highly-placed in their tribes, enough to speak to their Chieftains. Which was why the Gaarh Marsh [Chief Shaman], Perbne, asked them to join her in her hut.
“I hope you can bear our message to your Chieftains. My Chieftain will no doubt speak to yours, but Plain’s Eye demands much time of late, and the longer other tribes have to weigh our request, the better.”
“Your Chieftain is not attending the Plain’s Eye tribe’s meeting?”
“We were not invited. If we had been, we would have refused.”
Perbne said simply. Feshi and Krshia exchanged a glance.
“What is the Gaarh Marsh’s will? If it is something truly secret, Chieftain Akrisa would surely come by evening…”
The [Shaman] shook her head, smiling.
“We do not keep secrets. Not among kin. We do not shout this; but it is fine to tell you two. Gaarh Marsh hopes our great plan will be supported, and we are willing to offer much. What we offer—well, that is a smaller secret. What we desire is simple: we would wish for your tribes, every tribe willing, to send your young and old to ours.”
“To foster?”
Feshi’s ears perked up. Exchanges of Gnolls to learn at other tribes weren’t rare. The [Shaman] shook her head again.
