“As I was saying, it's a cycle based talisman. So unless you deliberately flip it to full auto, it will only use a single cycle at a time; three, five, or ten, depending on how much tracking you want. Most statistically average teams should be able to complete a delve at Tier with a single talisman per monster type they are worried about, but some might need two but they should have some remainder unless they dawdle. The strong teams who only use them for clean up are going to love this, though, as they might get two or three delves per talisman. The five rifts behind me are yours to play in for the next half hour, then you just need to work around the filming crews if you start a late cycle. But the rifts are big and I doubt they are going to kill that many of the monsters even if you do.”

As he expected, none of them took the entire time but their reactions were better than he hoped.

Rah was the first one out, quickly mirrored by Zack, who both came out to talk shop about what he’d done. Rah was very interested in the blood method to sense the continuity of the blood, where Zack was more interested in the talismans themselves.

The three of them were still talking when the others came out, but it was his and Aster’s friends whose reactions he paid special attention to. They only had praise for how easy delving would be, though they all had different opinions of how they would use the talismans.

His friends, who were on the higher side of professional delvers, considered the tracking talismans a fantastic anti-ambush tool. Normal delving for them was taking careful fights with only as many enemies as they could safely handle. Most delving casualties and injuries happened when a fight drew in nearby or previously hidden enemies, leading to unexpectedly dangerous fights.

The tacking talisman would let them fight with greater confidence, even when they didn’t have it active at all times. Simply checking their surroundings and ensuring no new monsters were close would allow them to fight with far more confidence while using only a few cycles.

Teams like them would end up using less than a single talisman per delve, and possibly rolling them over, but they would be his best customers. With added safety, the teams would get injured less, delve more efficiently, advance faster, and buy more higher Tier talismans.

That was in line with everything his Corporation people were saying and what Titan’s Torch anticipated.

Aster's friends were more representative of an average delver, and their envisioned use cases were a little more expensive, but safer. Their instincts were to use the talismans during the fights to watch their backs.

They weren't wrong for that, but Quill foresaw that requiring two or more talismans per delve. That wasn’t an insurmountable additional expense, and would hopefully be covered long term by less injuries and accidents. He suspected weaker teams who weren’t exploiting natural resources already would start doing so to help cover the expenses, but that was pretty rare.

Kelly, the lightning finch, said something in passing that made him smile. She’d seen one of their marketing strategies faster than he had. “It will be even better the second delve. Just take a bottle of blood from the last non-boss monster out of the rift with you. Maybe people will buy and sell vials of blood right outside the rift. I bet every ambush rift will. At least if these work on the monsters.”

The talismans were actually quite good at piercing most monsters' cloaks they’d tested, though it wasn’t perfect. Having to do so diminished their effective range, but it worked and was easy enough to test beforehand.

Liz was actually the last to exit her rift, only doing so right before the thirty minute timer he’d set. Wiggling her fingers, she showed him the talisman she’d pasted on the back of her hand.

“Pretty nifty talisman. Who did you talk to about this blood stuff? It's very impressive.” Leaning in, she surprised him. “Even I found it useful. The connection to monsters' blood makes targeting them with ichor or blood spells almost second nature. Well done.”

The good news continued during the ad recording, when several of the hired delvers ‘wasted’ several minutes fiddling with the talismans as they couldn’t quite believe what they’d been given. The crew’s got it all, and Quill didn’t need to be told it would serve as excellent b-roll footage for some of the longer form promotions.

Quill kept a fun distance between himself and the cameras, as befit the boss. He knew he’d have to do some promotional stuff, but he’d deliberately limited it to an absolute minimum, citing how busy he was.

Not intending and unable to monopolize such a large market himself, he planned to deviate from his previous practices for sharing the talismans freely. While he did intend to licence the talisman design in both Great Powers to pretty much anyone, he wasn’t going to do so for free.

Sadly, his grand ambitions of conquering the Corporations with his business genius were limited by a factor he only had nearly zero control over: The supply of resonance aura.

On the Empire side, he stood to make quite a lot, given his duchy was one of the largest producers of aura and were one of the rarer ones that subsidized the costs of less commercially useful aura types. Combined with his earlier warnings, his taxes would see a spike until the market stabilized. He also sent word through Cato that he didn’t want anyone sitting on stockpiles of resonance aura, but it might have been unnecessary, given most people's enthusiasm at being connected to another invention of his.

Quill watched as word spread across all eight of the Great Powers, having a near-real time update by watching his purchase history as groups bought the licences. Within hours of the talismans debut, Quill’s Quality Quintessentials catapulted into the lists of most successful businesses of the year, and they’d hardly had more than a dozen people walk through their front door.

Not that he was surprised. Pretty much every talisman related group in both Great Powers wanted to not only make their own aura tracking talismans, but they wanted to learn what they could from his work and adapt it to their own. He was confident Amelia was seeing her own surge of fortune as cultivators paid to get the detailed instruction, rather than trying to deduce the method themselves.

The first talismans to be made were sold for stupendous costs that were well above most premium talismans of the same Tier, but few who used the aura talismans wanted to go back to the older ones. The range increase and versatility were too useful for most teams to pass up, and that desire was better than any artificial advertising campaign. Day by day, as supply grew and more people actually tried the new talisman, that sentiment spread through the delving communities and demand continued to soar.

Having expected that, Quill's Quality Quintessentials had already secured their own supply lines, which allowed them to sell an incredibly limited, but steady supply, of aura talismans. To help spread the word, half of every batch was set aside for new customers. The resale value of their talismans skyrocketed because of that, but only the lucky, non-delving buyers sold. Most delving teams lucky enough to win the lottery ended up using the talismans themselves.

Word never stopped spreading, and other companies releasing batches of the talismans only increased the fervor. By the time most people in new markets had received the news, everything had been bought out, leaving them to repeat the cycle.

Ultimately, when all the noise settled down, there was a single unified reaction among the leaders of all eight Great Powers.

Aura was important and only growing more so with every day. Like mana and essence, it was always in demand. Unlike the other two, its production could be expanded and refined. Nothing immediately happened, but he expected to see more state backed initiatives to increase aura production across the Great Powers. He also knew more clandestine efforts to research aura types would be spun up if they weren't already underway.

With his main project done, Quill wanted to start working on making talismans out of his mana, but first he needed to help Liz.

Per Melinda’s pestering, she was going to reduce herself now that she'd solved her potion problem better than expected. She not only managed to replace the secondary ingredient without any noticeable downgrade in potency, she did so with a moderate cost savings over the original spiritual stabilizing potion.

Rather than license the recipe to anyone who was interested, like he did, she kept tight control. She only gave distribution rights to three Tier 45 groups in each Great Power. That left her with limits on how many other licenses she could distribute and how often, but that was a sad necessity to ensure long term production, given the maturity cycles of high Tier herbs. However, once they did get up and running, the amount of potions each group would be able to produce every year would be enormous.

While Liz would need to create new products eventually, she’d secured her business footing in the Corporations for at least that long, judging by JR’s standards. That might have had something to do with her product choice, but that had been intentional, Quill was sure. Spiritual stabilizing potions were useful in every profession, with most stock being expensive or back ordered for years.

One burden down, Liz set out to refine herself before she got tied up working on the bloodline potions Aster still needed to get her own business off the ground, or whatever else cropped up.

Melinda was so eager, she and Mathew came over for dinner the evening before, just to confirm Liz wasn’t going to delay again. Thanks to Liz’s teasing the evening before, she even arrived for breakfast the following morning. Not that they minded. He didn’t love cooking like Blake, but he enjoyed the process enough to cook for everyone. Even Titan wouldn’t have minded whipping up something for his oldest and dearest friends, which was an interesting revelation for him.

A part of his Domain really liked the underlying train of thought, but as fragmented as he was, it was nigh impossible to trace the feeling. He tried anyway, but it was like trying to track the memory of an echo.

His energy wasn’t being spent in vain. From the information on the name removal JR had provided, the small realizations he came to now would bear fruit when he reclaimed his name.

Instead of worrying about what in particular would trigger such revelations, he continued to do what he already was and relaxed, enjoying breakfast with friends.

Not that it lasted long. With Melinda’s urging, they retreated to the alchemy room where Liz began her preparations. Several of the others would arrive for the actual process undoubtedly, but they were a few hours away from that.

Scrubbing herself in an alchemical cleansing solution, Liz explained as she worked, “As much as one would think transforming into blood solves all cleanliness issues, it doesn't. It really, really doesn't. I tried washing just an arm at the start and using that one for the alchemy, but it failed spectacularly.”

Toweling off and getting dressed into a synthetic suit missing its right leg above the knee, Liz started a deeper cleaning of her leg and foot. Shielded from every angle, the three foot tall cauldron was based on a mold of Liz’s leg and helped get the leg prepared for separation.

Once her leg was seated inside, Liz explained the process, giving permission for Melinda to use a scanning spell during the process. That was all the healer needed, and she happily watched as Liz went through the, new to Quill, procedure.

His part was simple at least. Power the enchantment as it stripped anything that could be considered foreign from Liz’s leg. Once they were done, she separated the appendage at the knee, reforming it into a sphere of golden ichor.

Her lower leg reformed as she put the now cleaned ball of ichor into her cauldron.

“So it's literally just a part of you?”

“Yup. I could make a whole other Liz off this if I wanted to, and I will. That's pure me, no outside influences while representative of my entire self. And I’m about to start rendering it down. I didn’t do this the first few times and I regret it. I was right in that a lot of the effect is lost when propagating the changes to the rest of myself, but even a small advantage can’t be passed on.”

Mathew agreed, but Melinda was more interested in the science, interpreting the small talk. At first, Quill thought it was strange, but he realized she was ready to advance to Tier 25 when they got back, and might be interested in trying to copy or mimic the effect with her Overhealth Talent. It was a Tier 3 Talent after all, and continuously improved, but she needed a direction for that growth.

Now that she had an Intent, Quill's oldest friend had gained a new sense, and with it, new appreciation. Instead of a mirror Domain like he’d ended up with, she’d decided to expand on her Concept, growing it as a whole. She’d done so in a reflection of her Concept to an effect she was happy with.

Now her “Death” Concept phrase empowered her “Feeds Life” Intent phrase, as did all of her Domain. Growing off her Concept, Melinda’s Intent could add a healing aspect to any spell, further empowering her baseline healing. Furthermore, thanks to her Image of fungi decomposing a corpse, her healing spells were now contagious, able to spread from person to person with their excess magical energy. She had little control over the targets beyond preventing the spells from hitting monsters, but she was making progress every day working at the flower store.

