Her created anchor was a simple seed that bloomed a new flower every day. Using any of the copies she chose to make, she could cast her healing spells through them, finally completing her Intent and removing the barrier to Tier 25.

Quill did his part by keeping both women's mana pools full, even as Melinda asked an endless stream of questions as she sensed the ever shrinking blob-Liz. Not wanting to miss anything, she cycled the spells or senses she was using.

“How are you doing any of this to your spirit? This kind of compression should be causing debilitating spiritual damage. Is it all the cauldron or was this part of some method?”

“Most of it is the cauldron helping me, but don't be fooled, it is causing spiritual damage. The damage will become more apparent as we continue the prep.”

True to her word, over the next hour the blob of ichor didn’t only shrink, it started to look like a termite colony had moved in, with holes and tunnels forming throughout.

“Part of the preparation is preparing the channels that I’ll be stuffing the energies into.” Liz’s words were strained from her effort, but Melinda didn’t mind.

When Kyle and Annie arrived only a minute before the designated time, Quill thought that was all their guests, but Susanne slipped in right before they got started. Not to watch, but because she needed a heal from Melinda, having lost an arm in a duel and wanting the free healing, even if she’d have to pretend for the expected healing cooldown.

Already there, she decided to stick around and waited to watch the show.

Taking two of the Natural Treasures she intended to absorb, a fire and a fire-lightning hybrid treasure respectively, Liz tossed them into the cauldron like throwing away common garbage. As the treasures fell inside they twisted and morphed, as if they were nearing a black hole. That continued until the items had spaghettified into unreasonably long strands of energy, their physical shells shredded and expelled as ambient magical energy.

Speaking through gritted teeth, Liz explained as she worked, “From what I’ve learned, this energy is something like the raw form of the Natural Treasures or their intrinsic powers. There is some serious loss in energy but I’m not actually absorbing the treasures and there are no conflicts with others. In fact, every time I do this, I’m refining the other Natural Treasures I’ve used over the years bit by bit, better integrating them. I’ve always speculated how I could create my blood 2.0 from Minkalla, and I think something like this might have been key. I’m adding to a fundamental laye…”

Growling, Liz’s last words were incomprehensible as she forced both strands of energy into the orb of ichor. Like water, they poured into the holes, rapidly filling them, but the stream switched before any hole was overflowing. There a small amount of ichor flowed over, sealing the hole, though he knew that was more for the audience than out of necessity, as Liz never bothered with that step when they worked on the process alone.

When almost two thirds of the holes were sealed, she pulled out two new Natural Treasures. The first was a fairly cheap bone strengthening metal-based treasure they’d gotten at a bargain during the auctions. The second was an air-light hybrid that made fires radiate more heat.

While the spaghettification of the second batch of herbs was visually similar, Liz didn’t immediately infuse the second set of energies into her blood. Instead, she forced them to keep their distance from the ichor and run along the outer wall as they shrunk and refined.

Seeing her concentration and strain, Quill explained for her. “These treasures aren’t as compatible, so she, or rather the cauldron, needs to strip more out of the Natural Treasures before she can absorb their energies. That means a higher loss and more difficulties to not let the energies run rampant and destroy everything, but if she’s careful, she can take a portion of the treasures' secondary effects. Stronger bones and increased power of her flames in these cases.”

Looking between the final two treasures and the panting Liz, Mathew asked, “Are the last set of treasures even harder to absorb?”

Shaking his head, Quill put aside his friend's fears. “This is the hard one. Easy one up front and at the end. She could split it into three refinements, but that's a lot of extra expense she doesn't want to deal with when she can handle three.”

“So why the sets?”

Liz managed to answer as she finished the set and could spare some attention. “Balance. While dissimilar on the surface, there needs to be some level of balance between treasures. Sets of two were easier when I got started, and I’ve kept the habit. I might try three, but that would change processes, so I haven’t gotten around to it.”

With that, the final bit of Natural Treasure energy had been sealed away inside the ichor. Liz pressed her hands on the side of the cauldron before transferring over most of her mana pool to the growth item.

Pulsing brightly for a brief instant, like a light rune that killed itself, the cauldron started to hum as all of the energies inside were homogenized into that portion of Liz, removing the distinction between forms.

Only possible in a cauldron made from her own blood, when it was over, a new Liz climbed her way out of the cauldron and proceeded to absorb all of the other Lizzes. Doing so, she spread her new additional powers by converting every other piece of her to the new higher baseline.

While most of their friends seemed impressed, Melinda looked gobsmacked and Quill knew they were in for a long evening. Letting her take center stage, he slipped out shortly after they finished.

He still wanted to create flash talismans before they left the Corporations, fulfilling a deep rooted desire since he reached Tier 25.
