Hauling my teacher out of the water, I carefully lay him on his side in a recovery position and head back to rescue the others. Keeping an eye out for dangerous monsters and the like, I find nothing but empty water in all directions, which is not reassuring in the least. Why did the creature just up and leave? Was it overwhelmed by my Aura? No, impossible. It’s strong enough to muscle five Peak Experts into submission, how could my paltry Aura powered by my drained reserves be enough to scare it off?

Tired and confused, I set about rescuing the comatose Experts one by one, a task made far more difficult without Chi to Reinforce my body. Saving the Tyrant and Guard Leader is simple enough, as even though they’re both Martial Warriors, they’re still women with somewhat delicate frames. Carefully keeping my hands from straying to inappropriate places, I’m tempted to take a peek under Guard Leader’s veil, but after a moment’s thought I respect her right to privacy and leave it covering her face. I do, however, take a moment to ogle their tantalizing bodies, prominently displayed since their clothes are soaking wet and plastered to their supple bodies. The way I see it, even though I got them into this mess, I also saved them from it, so I deserve to look from afar for a second or two.

...I knew it. The Tyrant totally has nipple piercings, which is super hot until you consider they’re Runic Nipple Rings which probably fire lasers or something. Still, I’d put em in my mouth. Assuming she consents, of course. I may be perverted, but I’m no molester or rapist.

Storing the mental image for later use, I move on to the unpleasant task of saving the men. Lei Gong and Guan Suo will undoubtedly wake with a few bumps and bruises, but in my defence, one is a rotund, burly bastard who reeks of wine, while the other is a deceptively heavy half-red panda, so heavy I can’t actually lift him. After multiple attempts each ending in failure, I make do with draping Guan Suo over Ping Ping’s shoulder, hoping the big girl doesn’t come to with a start and the grumpy old man doesn’t freeze to death. Though lightheaded and feeling the onset of hypothermia, I head back into the water one last time to grab my cooking pot. Dragging it back onto Ping Ping’s shell, I peer in and find Sir Inky curled up in a ball, unharmed and untouched throughout this endeavour. Sighing with relief, I poke the octopus to make sure he’s still alive, and Sir Inky responds by slapping my hands away, his eyes still screwed shut in fear.

Well, I don’t blame the poor guy.

Ready to collapse where I stand, I take one last look around to make sure nothing is awry, though I’m pretty sure there’s nothing I could do about it if there was. Finding nothing amiss in the waters, it’s Mama Bun’s thumping paws which draw my attention. Unusually spirited considering she just almost drowned, the tangled mess of soggy fur darts back and forth along Ping Ping’s shell, leaving poor Blackjack to shiver alone in the cold. Wondering if it’s her way of dealing with near-death experiences, I tuck Blackjack into my shirt to share warmth as I head over to calm the poor Mama Bun down.

“Silly rabbit,” I call, crouching down with arms open. “Come here. It’s okay, you’re safe now.”

My words go unnoticed as the crazed rabbit lunges forward with a crazed look in her eyes, sliding to a stop before turning around to try again. Following her line of sight, I notice a tiny, oval stone sitting on Ping Ping’s shell, no larger than a pocket watch and covered in green, grassy moss. As luck would have it, we’ve somehow found a second stone covered in Spiritual Algae, and driven wild by the tempting treat, Mama Bun is so excited she can’t even walk up and eat it, failing to approach her stationary target time and time again.

No wait. She’s not missing, there’s something keeping her away, a gentle force leading her away. Is the stone Deflecting her? Or is that the work of the Algae? Holy shit, is this all the work of an intelligent plant? My god, the implications of -

A head pops out of the stone and the world makes sense once more. Not a stone, but a shell, with a tiny, adorable turtle hidden inside. Not a jagged, armoured dinosaur like Ping Ping, but a round-shelled, smooth-skinned regular turtle with the most adorable little eyes, yellow lines running down its neck, and so much moss on its head it almost looks like it has hair. Craning its neck, the tiny turtle blinks once and its Aura surges out, enveloping me in a familiar sensation of warmth, safety, love, and acceptance, tinged with a hint of hope and shrouded in plenty of hesitance.

‘Home?’ it asks, using its Aura to communicate. ‘Is it safe here?’

Catching Mama Bun on her next pass, I hold her close and lie down with my cheek next to the turtle, too drained and tired to use my Aura to respond. Instead, I pray my actions are enough and slowly place my hand over the tiny, but powerful creature. Gently stroking it between its eye ridges, I scrape the moss away and whisper, “I don’t know what you’re running from, and I can’t promise to keep you safe, but I’ll do what I can, okay?”

I’m not sure if it understands my words, but the turtle presses its head against my finger and closes its eyes, a sure sign of trust as I’ve ever seen. Withdrawing its Aura, the turtle ambles into the palm of my hand and retreats into its shell once more. Since it doesn’t seem to mind losing the Spiritual Algae, I feed what little I’ve scraped off to Mama Bun while stroking the turtle’s shell with my thumb to collect more, marvelling once more at the trust and affection of animals. I offered safety, and this little turtle came looking, simple as that. Sure, we had a little disagreement when he thought I was lying, but we settled it easily enough, and that’s that.

Oh, I hope he’s a boy, then he can fall in love and have babies with Ping Ping. True, they’re not the same size or even the same species of turtle, but true love overcomes all.

Welcome to the family Pong Pong. Sorry about your silly name, but it’s too adorable to pass up on.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 20 -
