Abby closes her eyes again and returns to her isolated cultivation.

Maria and I fade back to our real bodies, and the passage of time begins to burst by again.

My hands feel hot as I tug on the septillion soul ties connected to them, and they even glow bright white; visibly flashing in the dark membrane as some snap and more form, as life is passed away and brought into existence over and over again.

Another 100 million years pass by, and the clouds of raw, flawless-grade ether that surge into the membrane are an immense amount.

I watch my system level surge upward past [Lv. 7,000,000], then even fly by [Lv. 7,500,000] in the same instant.

It slows once the bright flash of flawless-grade ether settles in my Immortal Emperor's form, and I let another drop of essence down into the Origin Plane.

My assumptions during the last visit have become a reality.

There have been no large-scale industrial eras moving energy around, like the first 1 million years of the golden era.

Instead, there has been a slow decline.

All of the 5th Class Civilizations that made up the bulk of C-Tier megaports have slowly run out of energy to prosper in.

The natural lifespan of these stars that continuously spew out power has its limits. Some are burned out in just a few million years, while the more substantial ones last a few tens of millions.

Yet, now when I return, I see countless abandoned galactic ports where quadrillions of links of loyalty once lived. The echoes and fluctuating laws of lifeforms that used to live there are fresh in the fabric of reality.

I can see where many migrated to, finding new lives in the larger B-Tier Civilizations. However, this all happened long ago. The general contention for unaffiliated races or newer clans without ancient backing is to make their way up to the cyan and blue zones. This is where cheap energy is still available for the average citizen.

Scanning the dead and cold fragments of planets and stars left behind is quite eerie, as beyond the membrane, in many other galaxies, I can see almost exactly the same thing.

When we appear in Abby's chamber, there is a distinct difference this time.

The sturdy glyphs that hold her body and soul together have extremely small clouds of white and green fog hovering around their edges. When we appear within the room, they dissipate, but from analyzing the laws around them I can tell Abby has not moved a finger for over 25 million years.

This gentle mist is stagnant residue coming off of her cultivation, manifesting the minuscule imperfections that build up over time.

She opens her eyes, and without having to say a word, can feel the passage of time too.

It is not much, but when thinking about the scope of eternity, it is a jarring realization to behold.

When all three of our minds push down through the many zones and lower realm, we see into the chambers of our past allies, those that have been in a similar dormant state, in their ethereal ascended forms.

The clouds of ether that continuously build up in their isolated chambers are immense. So much so that automatic filtering systems need to clear them out every million years or so.

The Generals, Commanders, Knights, Admins, Warlord, and notable allies have all gotten to witness their kin prosper and sacrificed to maintain peace among the peak of the current era.

Now, without even having to act, their strengths have all fallen by a noticeable degree.

Many of the less talented Knights have dwindled by more than 90% away. The Admins and Commanders are at less than 50% of their peak. Even Arie, Ava, and Raven have dropped in strength by 30%. They have all come to realize their true natural ends are inevitable.

Even Alveron's mental capacities have begun to slow down. Over the last hundred million years, the loyal creature has created an army of over 99 trillion avatars made of silver armor. Each one acts as a node and maintains the laws of the Upper and Lower Realm's Galactic Trade Commission.

Only Abby and Seraphel have the true override permissions, while a voting system among the A and B-Tier Civilization's Galactic Trade Commission Representatives appoints revolving leaders every century to decide on more mundane tasks.

It too feels the passage of time, and during this visit to the Origin Plane, I get to witness the Ancient Mind Flayer go through the ascension process and relinquish its ties to the system.

Unlike the others who go into closed cultivation to wait out their days as long as possible, Alveron chooses to slowly travel through the many dead civilizations of the Lower Realm and admire the past. It will rapidly consume his ascended avatar's limited lifespan, but the monster is fulfilled and resolute on spending its retirement in this way.
