“As for Redflame’s personal use of [Gate], it has different applications inside Ar’Cosmos and outside. In both locations, he can open [Gate]s into all layers of Ar’Cosmos as he desires, and he can move people from one layer to another, or out entirely, without those people needing to actually enter a [Gate] at all. His [Gate]s are resistant to being destroyed, and will survive slight external movements. He can also open or close [Gate]s outside of the Script Second.” Bright Smile said, “And that’s the publicly available intelligence that others have on Ar’Cosmos, so I will keep it that way.” She turned to Aisha, pointedly asking, “How much of that did you already know? And how much did you learn, getting Erick to ask this of me, here and now?”

Erick rapidly said, “She didn’t do anything—”

“All that Bright Smile has shared is already known,” Aisha said, “It is news, however, that these capabilities are actually the product of Gatemaster, and not personal power, or Fae Magic.”

Bright Smile grinned wide, showing off sharp teeth, as she said, “Like I said; the capabilities of Ar’Cosmos might have little bearing on what Benevolence can do. I imagine that a Gatemaster of Death or Lava would also have vastly different capabilities. And Redflame hasn’t had cause to come to the Surface in an age, so perhaps all that we know he can do is simply skill, and has nothing to do with Gatemaster at all.”

Erick moved on, saying, “Much appreciated, Bright Smile. Would you like to stay for the discussion of Gate Version 6?”

Bright Smile glanced at the lightsculptures overhead, then said, “No. I don’t believe I could be much help with this. The Gates of Ar’Cosmos don’t operate like how your Gates operate, nor do we want them…” Her ruby eyes lingered on a particular display. She pointed to the automagical Gate idea, saying, “All the rest of your concerns will have to be solved in other ways, but this problem is semi-solved, alongside the Hub Gate idea. We have a House Death summoner cast a spell that consumes a gate space node, and then that summoner can control the node to cast [Gate]. This is the main function of House Death; to control the pathways leading to Ar’Cosmos. Your man Burhendurur was denied learning this magic, for it is one of our greatest secrets. We would ask that you not ask us for this spellwork, either, as this is a massive security concern. All I can tell you is that this problem is easily solved, and through this problem I suppose all the others are made easier?” She glanced at another display. “You probably don’t want others tromping around inside your Gate Space, though, since you likely don’t have multiple layers of land within which to hide the node.” She ignored the displays, and turned to Erick. “Unless you do?”

Erick said, “I do not have Gatemaster, so I don’t really know, yet, but Yggdrasil is inside there, anyway. He could provide overall protection, and I can assign others to operate inside of there since I am sure that having someone inside Benevolence will be necessary to spot deeper future problems… once I have the time to make extra nodes, anyway. I would ask for Redflame to assist me with understanding how to make extra nodes, exactly, if he could.”

Bright Smile’s grin widened. “I’ll inform uncle of your needs, and have a missive for you soon enough. We’ll talk about Ar’Cosmos’s Gate needs at that time, too, if I cannot get my needs met through your castellan, that is.”

Erick suddenly wondered if Redflame would be up for making a Gate Network, too. He made it once. He could make it again. But then again… Erick doubted Redflame would want to do such a thing, or that Ar’Cosmos would want that. Erick decided not to bring up that topic right now.

“I’m sure Zolan will assist Ar’Cosmos’s Gate needs as best he can. Your guidance is appreciated, Bright Smile.”

Bright Smile gave a small nod, then stepped away.

Erick turned back to the others. “So! A summon to eat a node, to cast [Gate]?”

Lapis said, “That is sort of what I was talking about earlier. I am sure there is a better way to do this than to give a [Gate] to another, to operate in your stead, and thus make your gate space vulnerable to… Quite a lot of things, truly. Too many. But a ‘node eating summon’ does seem like the proper solution here.”

Quilatalap said, “I agree, but let us talk this out, for maybe there is an answer here, anyway. In my mind, you would want an autonomous summon to eat a node, and then the summon would respond to a certain type of intent... Probably a telepathic ping. With a proper ping, the summon would automatically respond with a [Gate] from one location to another. I imagine an end-user sending out a telepathic signal to the consumed node and getting a [Gate] from their current location to their envisioned endpoint… But doing it that way would leave the node vulnerable to a [Telepathy] attack, which is likely why Ar’Cosmos doesn’t do it that way; they use manual control from an approved mage. Probably have some layers of defense between the mage and the [Gate]-requester, too.”

Aisha said, “From your descriptions, I feel that there is a [Gate] network that works based on a ‘ping’. The [Gate] you can purchase in the Script. For 500 mana, you get a [Gate] from one location to the next.”

Quilatalap’s eyes went wide. “Oh!”

Lapis thought. She wasn’t convinced— And then she was convinced. “Could that be the reason for spending 10 points?”

“I believe so.” Quilatalap said, “You have to spend personal power to make the summon which attaches to a personal node. Not the nodes that actually exist all around… Probably in some Divine Realm, somewhere. For 10 points, the Script could make a gate space for anyone. The Script could certainly do something like that.”

Erick considered. “Huh… And an autonomous summon could place limits on what goes through? Or maybe the limits are baked-in to the node the Script makes for you? That might be exactly why the Script [Gate] has limits at all, when my [Gate] and the [Gate]s of Ar’Cosmos have no throughput limits at all.”

Aisha looked pensive. “I suppose that makes sense… Should we aim for that design as the goal? Hobbled nodes?”

Lapis looked unsure. Quilatalap didn’t like that idea, either.

Erick looked back at his diagrams, then said, “I want a device where people can touch buttons and dial a Gate, and not have any root access to Benevolence space itself. When other people make their own [Gate]s then they can do that sort of thing and take on that risk, but not right now, not here at the start when the security we devise will remain in place for at least 50 years, and be the bedrock upon which all modern Surface movement is based upon.”

Lapis said, “Counterpoint: a system of multiple nodes, separated from you, will be harder to take down than you think, for you can always cancel the summon that you use to eat the node, if the person you have given the [Gate Maker] to decides to mess with your systems. A summon that eats a node will expand your territory a great deal, since you can set the node out there far away from current locations. And, a summon that is made to be directable can be directed with runic devices quite easily. And we know that a node-eating summon works.” Lapis said, “We don’t know that whatever pure-runic devices we attempt to create now will ever work, and we need a solution as soon as possible; not two months from now. And, I doubt that a pure runic device will work at all. There needs to be some soul magic in there, somewhere.”

Aisha and Quilatalap listened to Lapis. Both of them had some thoughts about the Shade’s words, with Aisha distrusting the woman but unable to find fault, and Quilatalap ready to work on that node-eating spell right now.

Erick wasn’t happy with it, but action mattered. “Then we shall move forward with this node eating idea, and I will… figure out how to make the nodes? Limited nodes, I suppose. Which means somehow copying spellwork inside of me and giving a copy to a secondary core.”

“Dragons can make extra cores rather easily” Lapis said, “If you have no experience with that I will help, but, I think Quilatalap has some ideas?”

Quilatalap did have some ideas. His toothed soul flexed a bit, as he said, “We don’t need to have the node to actually make the eating spell.”

Aisha tried not to show that she was miffed at her inability to participate in a Soul Magic discussion, as she said, “I have knowledge of how spellwork can be copied through multiple cores, but no actual experience with that.” In a much easier tone, she said, “But making spell-eating magic which then uses the magic it ate, according to the whims of the caster, is an application of Book Magic, and I am rather good at that. I am rather sure that we could solve this entire set of problems you have listed through Book Magic, and runic workings, and we don’t have to do Soul Magic, node-eating magic, at all. Simply eating a single cast of [Gate] should be all we really need to do.”

Erick rapidly backtracked on his previous course of action. “Yes. Let’s do that instead.”

Lapis said, “I would use Book Magic to make the node-eating magic as well, but to fully accomplish this without a deeply altered [Conjure Force Elemental], and thus push this spellwork into the realm of Soul Magic, would be needlessly complicated.”

“It might be possible to do this without Soul Magic.” Quilatalap said, “Might even be possible to do this without [Conjure Force Elemental] at all.”

Lapis was not convinced.

Erick smiled a little, feeling that they were getting rather far with this little discussion. At the mention of Book Magic, a few ideas swirled inside his own mind, including that time he had managed to make [Teleport Magic] through Tasar’s assistance. A lot of people considered Book Magic a different way of viewing all magic, and yet Tasar had not even brought up the subject when it came to that spell, or all the other Spatial Magic spells she knew, which, to the untrained eye, might also look like Book Magic. Erick hadn’t done much with that branch of spellwork, but he knew most of the basics. It appeared he would need to learn more than the basics, though, and fast.

Erick said, “I would like to stay away from Soul Magic for this, and focus on Book Magic. I like the idea of making a magic that eats a specific [Gate], instead of a full node, and then moves that [Gate] under the control of the caster. Getting that sort of spell into a runic device might be a problem, too. But that’s for later. The major problem is that I know next to no Book Magic, and my Soul Magic is mostly instinctual, too, so we’ve got our work cut out for us.”

Lapis was unsure. Aisha looked determined and willing to try, but there was trepidation there, too.

Quilatalap shrugged, saying, “If anyone can do it, you can.”

“Hopefully.” Erick asked, “Anyone want to start explaining Book Magic, first? Let’s start from the very top, if we can. We can get to the actual [Gate Control] spell in a few hours.”

The orcol archlich, the iridescent wrought archmage, and the human Shade, each looked at each other. A small discussion later, circling around depth of instruction and who wanted to go first, and the first person was ready to speak.

- - - -

Aisha began, “I am a Book Mage, so my perspective is rather skewed, but I believe that Book Magic is the most useful magic in existence. Not the most powerful. Not at all, but it is the most useful. This is because, at its base, Book Magic is about editing reality. Book Magic can take a bowl of cold soup and edit away the ‘cold’, replacing it with ‘hot’. And like with what Architect O’Lark did with the three different ideas of the house of House Benevolence, Book Magic can edit multiple things together, in the most fascinating sorts of ways.

“This editing ability is so powerful, that among the non-wrought, Book Magic is theorized to be the basis for the Script. That theory is true in some respects, yet it is also not true at all. The Script is an act of godly power and pure magical intent, along with a bunch of other things that are outside of the scope of Book Magic. Perhaps there is a ‘Divine Book Magic’, used by Rozeta herself to organize the world… Perhaps.

“The Book Magic that we use, though, is much more restricted.

“The most common restriction is that you can only really use Book Magic on various things that are fundamentally yours. Spells qualify most easily for this restriction, and indeed, Book Magic is very useful for making new spells that have truly strange effects.” She began summoning light sculptures to illustrate her words. “For instance, under normal Script designs, you can take [Force Bolt], Mana Altering Fire, Altering Ice, and Altering for Elemental Book, and produce the tier 2 spell [Burning Frost Bolt]; a spell which hits with the sting of ice, and leaves a freezing fire behind that sucks the heat out of the target.

“But instead of making that one spell, you can use Elemental Book to have fun with all the various Bolt spells you have ever made, without needing to lock yourself into actually making [Burning Frost Bolt].

“You simply use [Editing Bolt], instead.

“Casting this spell will take some skill, because you cannot simply cast the spell like you would any other Script spell; simply flicking your intent and mana into your desire to cast, and it will be cast. To use [Editing Bolt] properly you must also mentally link with the two or more Bolt spells that you wish to cast at the same time, and you must also decide, on the run, which effects you desire from those input-spells.

“As another example, imagine a [Fireball] spell, and another spell similar in scope, but not in effect, [Frostbomb]. Now, you could simply combine the two spells, making a higher-tier spell based on that combination. You might end up with the standard [Frostfireball], which causes a creeping frost that deals damage over time, and slows all affected by the spell. But, under the limits of the Script, when combining magic, the outcome that you get is the outcome that you get, and you must break that combination if you wish to try for a different combination. This means your [Frostfireball] is static. Unchanging. What you cast was what you got, and if you want to make a different sort of [Frostfireball], leaning more into the initial damage, or the damage over time, or the area, or whatever, you must break that spell, wait the appropriate amount of time based on the tier of the magic, and then try again.

“But we’re going to do some Book Magic and bypass those limits.

