“For this example you would use [Editing Bomb], since all of these input spells are based on [Force Bomb], and that is how Book Magic works best; between things that are already similar, but vastly different in specific ways.

“Instead of making any higher-tier magic at all, you simply use [Editing Bomb], linking with your [Fireball] and [Frost Bomb] spells, and you mentally adjust the output spell as you desire. In this way, your [Editing Bomb] spell will produce a [Frostfireball], or a [Flashice Bomb] which explodes sharp ice in a large area, or a [Mistyfireball] which spreads a floating mist that burns and lingers. You can use the same three spells and focus on some different desired aspects each time, altering your arsenal, tailoring your destruction for what is actually needed, at that moment.

“Through a modicum of Book Magic, and heavy initial investment, one is able to switch around one’s magic at will.” Aisha asked, “Does that all make sense?”

“… Huh.” Erick said, “Never had it explained quite like that— So are you doing something Paradoxical when you use Book Magic? Like when you [Teleport], and what you’re actually doing is rewriting the past to put yourself in a different place in the present; are you rewriting the outcome of combining [Frost Bomb] and [Fireball] through Elemental Book, and Book Magic?”

“Ah! [Teleport] is actually a special case of where something looks like it could be Book Magic, and you can make a Book Magic sort of [Teleport], but it’s not the same thing at all.” Aisha said, “In [Teleport], you are changing a past event and propagating that change to the present, like, say, a decision to eat lunch in one city versus a different city. That’s the most common example of what it means to [Teleport]. This version of [Teleport] will put you in that different city.

“But [Reposition], the Elemental Book version of [Teleport], looks like this:”

Greater Reposition, instant, super long range, 1 mana + Variable

You change your location based on the transformation of one attribute.

“That’s my version, anyway.” Aisha continued, “And as you can guess it is a lot more limited than [Teleport], but it can do a lot if you know how to work it. For instance, for 500 base mana, I can [Reposition] from here to Oceanside, though I have absolutely no control over where I actually end up at Oceanside. Usually it’s some unprotected library.” Aisha allowed herself a brief excitement, and then controlled that excitement back down to normal levels, as she said, “I have been working on a [Benevolent Reposition] which hasn’t gone anywhere recently. The goal with that one is to enact the change from ‘I am here’ to ‘I am where I need to be’, which is a very large transformation. Difficult.” She added, “And just so you know, the wording change to get me from here to Oceanside or back is ‘I am here at the Gate District’ to ‘I am here at Oceanside’. If you switch around your language in which you conduct your formation of intent, you can make Book Magic easier, or much harder than it needs to be. Ancient Script is good for Book Magic in some ways, but harder in others. It’s all rather self-evident, though, once this has been pointed out… Yes, you get it.”

That was all so fascinating. Erick wasn’t sure where he wanted to continue his questions.

After a moment, Erick picked what seemed like the largest concern to get out of the way, and asked, “What are the limitations of Book Magic, with regard to the things altered, for example?”

Aisha gave a nod, beginning to speak halfway through the motion, “Book Magic works best on what is yours, and yours alone. ‘Bars of gold’ is something that you might own according to your bank accounts, but not according to Book Magic. Book Magic makes really good buffing magic, because you can temporarily do things like give yourself 200 extra Willpower— Which has very deep soul-problem-issues if you use something like that with any regularity at all. Once every year would be about all you could handle with that…” Aisha thought. She said, “Book Magic is also most used in information tracking. [Remember] is a version of a basic Book Magic buffing spell, which is a result of [Identify] and Mana Alter Book, and a self-buffing sort of framework, which allows you to sort your memories in a way that allows for easy retrieval and indexing. Most Book Mages keep that one running all the time, in a way that every mage casts a [Personal Ward] at the start of the day. It’s a cheap spell, and once you learn it, you don’t need it active all the time in order to still make use of the indexing that you’ve built within yourself…” Aisha paused. “And that’s a good start. Obviously you could write a book on Book Magic—” She grinned, having told a very old joke. “—but we’re not here to read books. Who wants to go next?”

Lapis and Quilatalap shared a look.

- - - -

Lapis began, “Most applications of Book Magic are limited to self-magics, but this sort of transformation is a much deeper magic than simple memory spells. The big example there is [Polymorph]. All the best mimicry magic is also Book Magic. [Duplicate] is considered Book Magic, but since [Duplicate] is so heavily controlled, no one really knows what category that falls under. Book Magic makes the most sense for that one, though.

“Because, at its base, Book Magic is about categorizing everything, and then, if you pull and push and snip and rearrange well enough, Book Magic is also Editing Magic. Indeed, many Book spells are named ‘editing’ in some way. Overseer Aisha touched upon how one can only shift around one’s own stuff, but the deeper answer is that one can only shift things that are minor, and only between similar circles of interaction.

“If you have a reed basket of apples and a thin-wood plate of limes, and everything is the same except for the nature of their containers, you can use a basic editing-focused spell in order to easily transform the reed basket into thin wood, and the thin-wood plate into reeds. To transform the positions of the apples and limes, you’ll have to use more mana and have a better visualization of the change you are enacting upon the items. One of the hardest things to do would actually be to tip the apples or limes out of their containers with a Book spell, since that would be completely transforming the nature of the situation, from one of order, to one of random disorder. Some of the other hardest things for Book Magic to do is to change anything that the user doesn’t think is easy to change.

“Teleport will get you out of a welded-shut cage. Book Magic will have a tougher time.

“The most basic editing spell is something with [Identify], Altering for Elemental Book, and [Force Wave]. This working creates a splash of power that you must then focus on the things you wish to edit, and if you can visualize the shift easily enough, then it will happen. Normal people will fail at all applications of Elemental Book, for their visualizations are terrible. You will likely find this part of Book Magic easy, due to your various senses.

“For the purposes of making a simple [Gate Redirector] —tentative name, non-Soul Magic— what you will be editing is the location of the other side of the [Gate], to predetermined locations, primed to accept a [Gate]. The editing process should be rather simple in this case, for the shift will simply be ‘this [Gate] connects to pair-Gate 1’, and then you shift the ‘1’ to any of the other options in the system.” Lapis ended with, “I am completely unversed in what sort of editing-level power one must be able to achieve to move a [Gate], but the Mind Mages use a version of this ‘connection selection’ when it comes to their Crossings; their [Telepathy] network.”

And Lapis was done.

Semi-excited, Aisha said, “It might not be nearly as difficult to switch the end-point of a [Gate] as I thought— I mean. Well. A ‘Gate Hub’ would need to have some codes and such in order to prevent someone from making a theoretical ‘Gate #11’ in a 10 Gate system, and then flicking the Master Gate to an unapproved location… But then again maybe that’s a good thing? Room for expansion and contraction of Gates, as necessary?”

Lapis, having a weird moment at sharing excitement with a wrought, said, “Adjustable Gate Hubs seems like it would solve a great deal of future issues, like mismanaged expectations on travel loads here and there causing a buildup or dearth of Gates.”

This was very, very good. Erick had known that Book Magic was exceedingly useful for the editing of worked objects, and books, and even one’s mind. From what Lapis and Aisha had already said, it seemed like Book Magic was the way to go in this project.

Erick felt better and better about this. One more person was here to speak his ideas, too, though, so Erick asked, “Quilatalap? I’d love to hear your opinions.”

From their expressions, Lapis and Aisha dearly wanted to hear the lessons of the Archlich of Necromancy, too, but while the Shade was openly interested, the wrought was still coming to grips that this was happening. Aisha was working alongside beings she knew of as unrepentantly evil, and yet they were working toward a common good. It was messing with her, a lot. She was coming to accept this new part of her life, though.

Quilatalap stood from his chair, as Lapis sat back down.

- - - -

“Book Magic is a crude tool that can do anything you want it to do, if you’re good with mental shifts and if you’re okay with having a crude final product.” Quilatalap said, “If you want a plant to grow in a certain way, you use a directed [Grow], carefully using the Elemental Water and a variation on Ooze called Wood or Plant, and adjusting the whole transformation from seed to tree. You do not do a Book-shift, violently changing the plant from ‘seed’ to ‘tree’, for you will end up with a dead tree, or a stunted thing, or any number of other problems. You don’t use a Book-shift to heat your water, editing its ‘cold’ status to ‘hot’, because you might end up with boiling tea, or bath-water tea, or a flash-transformation into steam. The [Reposition] of Book Magic can get you from here to another city halfway around the world, but you’ll end up in some random location in that city every single time, and [Reposition] certainly can’t get you to any specific place like [Teleport] or elementalstepping can.

“The best, most controlled way to use Book-shifts, and to end up with a proper result, is to target two or more objects and to edit their parameters, moving desired and undesired parameters around until you’re happy with one of the objects, and willing to throw away the rest. If your Book Magic isn’t targeting two or more things that are fully under your authority, then you’re going to have a bad time.

“Gaining authority over an object for the purposes of Book Magic is only truly achievable through a Book Domain of some sort. An Elemental Book aura can be used to exert authority, but this is a half-measure at best. Same goes for any other type of Domain, while any other aura spell will do less than nothing; it will actively harm your attempts to use whatever Book spell you’re using.

“There are some spells you need to experiment with before you attempt to make [Gate Control], or whatever it ends up being called.

“The best combination for making a basic, all-around editing spell is something close to what Lapis suggested. [Identify], plus Altering for Elemental Book, which is to add directable Book into the [Identify] spell, and then [Force Wave]. When made properly, which means no damage from the Wave and all power turned into classification and malleability, this sort of spell looks like it should cost around 100 mana. If you make the version for 100 mana, then you have done it wrong.

“If you make it correctly, it will cost 50 mana plus Variable, and still be rather difficult to use. You will only achieve a measure of skill with the spell when you get the hang of mentally labeling the things you wish to edit before you cast the spell, and then you use the spell to edit those things, while also pumping enough mana into the working to ensure that the edit actually takes place. If you spend too much mana, then you will have unintended edits, causing shifts in areas you did not intend to shift. If you don’t spend enough, then you will have accomplished nothing.” Quilatalap finished with, “Literally anything you can do with Book Magic, you can do cheaper, and more exact, with other schools of magic, except when it comes to the one thing Book Magic excels at; the generalized editing of the attributes of two or more things.”

Erick felt a lot better about the future as he listened to Quilatalap. “Thank you, Quilatalap. I feel I’ve been neglecting Book Magic for far too long, and now I think I need to actually go make this spell.”

Quilatalap said, “You haven’t been neglecting anything. Book Magic is unwieldy. But yes. I’ll make this magic with you. To the throne room?”

Erick’s heart soared. “Yes.” He turned to Aisha and Lapis, saying, “Do either of you have any other suggestions for Book Magic workings? Any necessary things?”

Aisha said, “Try out something simple like [Editing Bolt] and a bunch of assorted Bolt spells to get the feel of Elemental Book before you try to make a generalized [Edit], which is the name of the [Identify], Book, and Wave spell that Lapis and Quilatalap suggested. It’s a fine version of [Edit], and can easily be transformed into an aura spell, so I have no qualms about that.”

Erick nodded.

Lapis said, “You’ll need a Super Long Range version of [Editing] in order to make the [Gate Relocation]s spell, which is… I’m not sure how difficult that is, but it seems doable with Spatial Magics, and using runic devices to push back the Darkness… Certainly not a normal spell, though.”

“I have some suggestions on that front, Erick,” Aisha said. “But getting through the first round of spell creation will be important to do, long before we get to making [Gate Relocation] magic.”

Erick said, “Think of other options besides [Gate Relocation] while I’m working on this, and also whatever Soul Magic that might be good, too. But, I’m rather sure that [Gate Relocation] will solve a myriad of security issues, from allowing the shut down of a [Gate], to minimizing the need for Gates here in the District, to making it so that there aren’t open [Gate]s just… Every-fucking-where— Wow, that’s going to be a security nightmare... I want this to work.” He glanced over to Zolan, and everyone else planning out Gate Network expansions. “I think Zolan knows the new plan—”

