Three hours passed in blessed calm.

People talked. People planned for cooperation. No one yelled. Fairy Moon gave a rapid apology and no one denied her apology, but a few servants and Cook Donny accidentally thanked her. Fairy Moon just thanked them right back, thus equalizing the perceived debt. Erick hoped that wouldn’t become a problem. Having seen his distress, and looking to make another good impression, Bright Smile spoke of how Erick’s staff were probably fine, and if Fairy Moon were going to call in any sort of debt, she would call it in on him.

Which made him have some complicated emotions.

And then Bright Smile said, “I’m joking.”

“Oh? Ha. Ha. Good one,” Erick intoned.

Bright Smile smiled brightly.

Meanwhile! Zolan and his borrowed elites organized the cooperation for the securing of the Surface, rapidly drawing in every single guest who was not a servant or a Cook or cook. First Knight Harriz, from the Wasteland Kingdoms, who had come in with Shade Lapis, was incredibly excited about the loss of [Teleport] and the switch to a Gate Network, and let everyone know that.

“It will mean an end to angelic bombardments!” Harriz said, “This means no lightning fights, or death spells cast in town squares and then the perpetrator escaping.”

Fallopolis countered him with, “It means people will be learning proper magic and then how to do that properly, Harriz.”

Lapis said, “Going from 25% of all people being able to [Teleport], with most of those people the ones who actually matter for war, to .01% of all people on Veird, is still a great reduction. Harm reduction is still harm reduction.”

Bright Smile said, “Wars are just as deadly in Ar’Cosmos as they are on the Surface, but they take a great deal more commitment. All this means is that the cowards won’t go to war.”

Erick said, “This means that the cowards won’t be able to flee when their captains tell them to charge an impossible defense.”

“If you will permit me, my king,” Zolan brought the conversation back around, saying, “We have 20 hours before the Feast is over and we all need to work in order to prevent catastrophe in the coming week. Talk is great, but let us focus on solutions of all kinds, which, as we are locked inside this current space and unable to speak to the outside, means figuring out an organizational structure for others to adhere to, question and answer sheets that we need to be able to give to nations out there to answer all their questions, another questionnaire about needed and desired Gate access, and finally, for us to decide how we will include others in a rapid expansion of House Benevolence in order to meet these needs.”

Fairy Moon spoke up, “This is the perfect time to temper Surface society into the collective image of cosmopolitan Candlepoint. Demand laws of your lands be followed, and deny Gates if those laws are desecrated!”

That comment started a whole new debate.

Erick checked out of that debate as Quilatalap reappeared in the atrium, at the far side, looking at Erick. Erick went to him. Quilatalap furrowed his eyes as Erick walked his way. When Erick finally reached him, the big man said nothing.

So Erick said, “I’m glad you came back. I was about to start a Gate Version 6 discussion with others, if you want to join? There’s the rest of the discussion too, if you would rather be there.”

Quilatalap frowned a little, debating with himself if he wanted to be petty, or not. He chose to say, “The fairy apologized to me. That has never happened ever before, Erick.”

“She also thanked everyone who accidentally thanked her for her apology.”

Quilatalap paused. “… That’s different, too.” He whispered, “She hasn’t actually changed at all, you realize?”

“I know. She views what she does as good. I’m sorry I didn’t come for you sooner, Quilatalap.”

“… Accepted.” Quilatalap breathed deep, and in the process he dispelled whatever surface misgivings about all this he had, looking like a brand new man in that moment, but Erick could tell it was an act. He smiled a little, asking, “So what’s been happening so far? What’s Gate Version 6 look like?”

Erick returned the smile, and turned back to the gathering, speaking of plans as he walked beside Quilatalap, leading the way toward Aisha, and Lapis.

- - - -

Amid possibly the best magical minds of the world, Erick began casting lightwards into the air, as he spoke of Gates, and their limitations. Everyone knew how the spell actually worked, but Erick did go over that briefly, and then he moved onto ‘enchanting’ Gates themselves, and what that meant. For it wasn’t actually ‘enchanting’ at all.

When he made a wood and iron Gate, that was simply making an anchor to set a [Gate] into.

And then he went over the problems he had encountered in his implementation of [Gate].

“Four problems,” Erick said, “Problem one: Security, to prevent unwanted passage, to lock the Gate when not in use. A few people had already been asking for better security before today’s events, so that they can dedicate two or three hours per day to overseeing transport through the Gate, and then shut it off for the rest of the day. Not everyone wants a portal open all the time, letting everyone through. Extra security would also include a way to shut the Gate off, without needing to poke it with an antirhine knife and disable the [Gate] inside the Gate the hard way. Had one guy do that at the Gate to the Forest to prevent a sudden stampede of undead from breaking through to the Gate District. Ended up preventing the invasion, but he ruined a lot of work trying to shut the Gate off. They could have simply sent a message up the chain of command and I could have personally dealt with the invasion, but he made a fast decision. He recovered from the explosion of Benevolence plants, but he did almost die.

“Problem two: Cost of Gates. In time and effort and gold. Mostly time and effort, though, since I’m inscribing these all myself. The current design takes about 25-30 minutes to make a single Gate, and I am not going to live inside a [Hasted Shelter] for the rest of my life to meet the needs of the entire Surface. I probably will have to do that for the next week or month, but hopefully not more than that.

“Problem three: Is there a way to make a Gate that will automatically cast itself? I’m manually adding the [Gate] to every single one of these Gates, and that’s a fucking pain in the ass. I can only imagine that the rest of my entire life will be spent recasting [Gate] unless I can make an actual magical item that will cast [Gate] for me. I’m also not handing this task off to Yggdrasil, for I won’t have him do that job either.

“Problem four: Is there a way to make a Gate lead to other locations? Like if I put up one major Gate at the center of a hub, and then have thirty smaller Gates out there that the main Gate can flick between, with a touch of a dial, or something like that.

“These are the major problems that I have found with my Gate Network so far.” Erick said, “I am sure that we will run into more problems in the future, but these are the current issues. On the positive side, these four problems have some clear overlap, like with the ‘main hub Gate’ and the ‘I-need-to-shut-it-off security problem’. If the main Gate could be switched to a ‘null’ Gate option, like perhaps to the other side of the main Gate itself, effectively creating a [Gate] that was only a decimeter across, then that would solve the problem of needing to ‘turn it off’ well enough. So! Let’s consider it all. Let me know when you have your first questions.”

Aisha sat silently, standing back as she took in all the lightsculptures that Erick had made to illustrate the problems of [Gate], and making Gates to hold them.

Lapis studied the image of the Main Hub Gate idea.

Quilatalap asked, “Have you tried using [Teleport Spell] to shift either side of a [Gate]? The range of [Gate]s you could reach would be limited, but that could let you make a Hub.”

Erick brightened. “I have not tried that yet! Excellent idea, Quilatalap. I’ll have to try it once we’re out of the Feast Barri— Ah. Shit fuck.”

The brief joy in Erick’s heart faltered hard, because almost all of them realized what was wrong with this idea a second after Erick. Even though the idea might theoretically work, and by all rights it should since both sides of a [Gate] were affected by magic…

Aisha said, “The [Teleport Lock] of the Feast Barrier will go around the entire world, blocking all Spatial Magic. This [Teleport Spell] idea will not work as it does, but, there is a solution. The t-stations of the Geodes already push back the Dark, allowing for point-to-point Spatial Magics, as long as both ends of the spell are cleared of the Dark. I am absolutely sure that Archmage Tasar and Archmage’s Rest will work with us to come up with a way to make this Gate Hub work.”

Erick knew that setting up this conversation was a good idea.

Lapis said, “Those t-stations have already solved for the selection of different targets, too, as well as the boosting of range. This should allow for a ‘Gate Hub’, and you’re going to want to outsource a lot of your own efforts to Archmage’s Rest and Stratagold anyway. But they will not be able to help with the auto-casting problem. Allow me to assist with this task, for this solution will likely require the condensation of Benevolent mana into a [Familiar]-like being. Such a being seems to me the only way to make a deep magic like [Gate] be automagical. Solving this problem in this way does open up your gate space to intrusion, though, for someone could use some soul surgery to open up one of those creations and make them do their bidding.”

“… Let’s come back to the automagic topic in a moment, for I have realized another problem I need to solve before I thought I needed to solve it.” Erick said, “[Gate] has a range where I can freely use the spell. That range is a few thousand kilometers around every Yggdrasil at the moment. This will make putting up a Local Area Gate Network rather difficult in a place like, say, the Greensoil Republic. So could I [Teleport Spell] both ends of a [Gate] around, to plant a [Gate] pair into Gates that are far outside of my current range of [Gate]?”

Aisha was unsure. Lapis had no idea.

Quilatalap said, “You should be able to. But I suggest you drop some Class Ability and take Gatemaster, Erick, and then plant some more Yggdrasil out there on the Surface. One per continent should be fine. It’s time.”

Lapis raised an eyebrow, looking at Erick. She was surprised that Erick didn’t have Gatemaster.

Aisha half-rolled her eyes. She and Erick had spoken of Erick’s lack of Gatemaster before. She still couldn’t believe that Erick didn’t have that Ability. She was also a little weirded out that apparently Quilatalap knew that about Erick, but she got over it in the face of the coming disaster.

Erick said, “I suppose I must.”

Lapis still couldn’t believe what she was hearing. “You were doing a Gate Network without Gatemaster?” A bit stronger, “And you could implant a [Gate] into a Gate at all?”

“What’s wrong with that?” Erick asked. “All the Gate has to do is not move and the [Gate] remains intact. My [Force Wall]-ish spell does that quite well.”

Lapis blinked a bit, saying, “I’m simply surprised that that actually worked. That this whole model of… everything… That it has worked at all without Gatemaster.”

Quilatalap smirked, saying, “He’s very good at runic work. Doesn’t have ‘Shifting Runes’ either. Not even the lesser version.”

Erick grinned at the praise in Quilatalap’s voice.

Lapis said, “Well that’s not news at all. But the lack of Gatemaster is.”

“What does it even do? Besides the obvious, anyway?” Erick asked. “All the Ability says is ‘Double the effective range of your gate space. Minor improvements to everything gate related. ’.”

Aisha said, “That really should be more than enough of a reason to take it.”

Quilatalap said, “I don’t know the full answer to that question, either.”

Aisha briefly looked put upon, then she added, “No one has made [Gate] in a very, very long time. The only other person who has [Gate] was the one who made the original Network, from before the Death of All Halves, when the Forest of Glaquin was home to the original dragonkin. The creator of those lands never told anyone what it does.”

Well that was a pretty bright idea then, wasn’t it? Erick said, “Let’s see if we can find out, then.” He turned, calling out, “Bright Smile! Do you have a moment?”

Bright Smile lifted her head from her talks with Zolan. She glared at Erick, and her small grin turned into her namesake. She walked over, saying, “I do not appreciate being called like a wayward wyrmling, Erick, but I understand that we’re solving problems here. I will attempt to be similarly succinct:” She stood before Erick. “What do you want?”

“Do you know what the Class Ability Gatemaster does, in full?” Erick put on a pleasant face. “Your uncle is Redflame, and you are empress of his gate space, correct?”

“Ah. This is an easy answer.” Bright Smile said, “Increased range, and minor improvements all around.”

Erick almost laughed. Quilatalap did laugh, though he kept that to a small chuckle. Bright Smile lightly glared at the large man, and then she turned her attentions back to Erick.

Erick said, “Yes, but what does that actually mean?”

Bright Smile rattled off, “For Ar’Cosmos, which is in Fairy, and which surely has different options than what you will likely have with Benevolence, we can change the color and presentation of the [Gates]. We can make [Gate]s into Ar’Cosmos come back if they are destroyed. Inside of Fairy itself, we can create layers of gate spaces, with the deepest ones good for hiding things and the higher ones good for living on. Perhaps the most well-known power of my uncle, though, is that he has the power to deny the Realities of others; it is how he mitigates the Curse to nothing, and how we restrict all Script Magic inside our lands. It is theorized that this sort of power is rather normal for Fairy, but my Uncle has control over that. There are a few other minor benefits to Gatemaster that I will not divulge in mixed company, and if you ask me later I will likely tell you, yet ask you not to divulge them either.

