I'd make sure of that. I raised my brow.

"Are you all ready?"

Tera gulped.

"Of course."

Helios took a deep breath, his mood like sour milk. He stretched out his hands, and our dimension bent. Springfield stood on the other end, and one of my architect golems waited for their arrival. Helios and I walked through before we turned to the skeptiles on the other side of the warp.

I gestured to the city.

"Alrighty then. Welcome to your new home planet - Earth."

Chapter Begin

The skeptiles paced onto another world, many of them having never left their world and its barren hellscape. The skeptile veterans ogled at the buildings, city streets, mana lamps, and especially the greenery. One of them murmured.

"It is as if the world is dyed green."

As they walked onto Springfield's heart, Krog, Chrona, and Diesel waited for them. Though somewhat afraid, the skeptiles gave them bows and exchanged greetings before we got the group situated. Once everyone was over, Helios hopped through his portal. His nose bled before he raised a hand.

"I'm getting a drink."

He stumbled away. His portal remained open in case we forgot anything. With everyone on our side of the ether, I raised my hands.

"Hello, skeptiles. You are the frontrunners of your kind, and your mission is to bring your species out of anguish and into avarice. I'll be giving you more than one chance to make that happen, and with diligence and duty, you'll forge a new path for your people. No corpses will desiccate under the sun if you all apply yourselves."

Honestly, even if they lazed about, they wouldn't starve here. My declaration had the intended effect as they radiated a palpable enthusiasm. I shifted my aura from the Rise of Eden to Event Horizon as I turned to our convoy.

"This is Krog, Chrona, and Diesel. They'll take an architect golem towards your new home. There, you'll scope out various lands before forging a massive capital of your choosing. I'll add nine other cities once your primary landing point has been established. All I ask is that you work with the locals of any area by giving them plenty of breathing room and space."

I gestured to Diesel.

"Once you're settled in, Diesel will assist with creating your new city layout and building plans. He's experienced and will help you pull this together quickly."

One of the skeptiles murmured.

"It will take centuries, but it will be done."

Diesel sat on the shoulder of the architect. He tapped the ethereal-looking golem.

"You'd be surprised how much ground one of these babies can cover."

The architect gestured a hand.

"Though I am but a humble servant, I am here to grant my services to all in the name of my creator."

I smiled.

"That's the plan. I'm guessing these are the volunteers for the project?"

Four gialgathens, a few dozen Eltari, and twelve people waited behind my followers. Elthara was one of the Eltari, her Omega Strains rippling over her body. By now, they were a part of her body as much as my armor was mine.

She bowed to me.

"We are. We wish to grant these people as warm a welcome as we received."

Tera blinked.

"I'm hoping it wasn't a cold night when you arrived then."

Elthara reached out a crystalline arm.

"To us, this world is chilly, but its people are like embers. It's good to meet you. I am Elthara."

Tera smiled, his eyebrows rising.

"I-I,m Tera, the World Breaker."

Elthara's eyes widened.

"Impressive title."

Tera let her hand go.

"I'm certain you've got plenty of achievements that rival my own."

One of Tera's wives, this one a warrior, walked up.

"You seem ripe. Would you join our clan?"

Elthara gawked.

"Huh...I, I don't think so."

The wife pointed at her eyes, then at Elthara's.

"I will tell you first, but we don't give up easily. Be ready to be invited to many warm meals when we get a new home."

Tera nudged his wife back with an arm.

"Do ignore them. They're just ecstatic we get to live somewhere with so much water."

Elthara laughed.

"You should see Blegara."

They chatted away, getting along without a hitch. Chrona scoffed.

"It would seem these skeptiles are like babies that never fully grow."

Krog nodded.

"They're so strange, like tiny caimans."

I gawked as one of the skeptile children ran up and grabbed a horn on Krog's side. They must've run through the open portal. The child spread its hands.

"You feel like big frogs."

Krog's face soured.

"Ah. I suppose all races know of frogs aside from us."

Chrona leaned down, her eyes the size of the child's entire body.

"Little one, have you not learned fear?"

The child put its eye up to Chrona.

"I am so afraid I will either laugh or cry. I choose to laugh."

Chrona smiled.

"Then I will choose to laugh with you."

Tera grabbed the child.

"Go back through the warp before it closes. Stay with your mothers until I return."

The child deflated like a popped balloon. It sprinted through the ruptured space-time before it slammed shut. In an alley to the left, I could hear Helios vomiting. We wouldn't be getting any more warps for a while. Either way, we had one last remaining issue. I messaged Shalahora, who warped into the square an instant later.

A palpable wave of fear spread through the skeptiles before Shalahora dispersed a subtle psionic web. Tera narrowed his eyes at the shadowy Sovereign. Tera murmured.

"What is he doing?"

Shalahora whispered.

"They are clean."

As quickly as he came, he left. I waved a hand, getting everyone lined up.

"He's running a quick checkup to make sure there's no smuggling going on."

Tera tilted his head.

"What counts as smuggling?"

I smiled.

"Apparently, aspirin."

A short chat later, I accepted the skeptiles into my guild. Each of them grew by several feet in height, thousands of pounds in weight, and gained enormous amounts of stats. Tera scoffed.

"Is this what everyone who is in your guild experiences?"

One of the eltari in the back laughed.

"I threw up when I first joined. It was like bad hangover."

After squaring everything away, I waved bye as the skeptiles left. Some floated with the architect golem. Others rode the backs of the gialgathens. Tera shouted on the back of Chrona.

"Thank you. This is a beautiful home, and we will not tarnish this gift given."

I smiled.

"I didn't doubt you guys for a second, but you're welcome."

After they were gone, I pulled Helios back up to Mt. Verner. We wove through tunnels before I set him near his room in the top suites. He hobbled off, his exhaustion leaving him shaking. Even if he didn't say it, I could tell the trip shook him up. Combine that with fighting Elysium's forces, and Helios hardly made it to his room.

Before he walked in, I extended a hand.

"You know, I could always give away a few golems to help you with your fights against Elysium."

Helios leaned against his doorway.

"I am not going to be a burden to you. I fight on my own terms for my own reasons. They're not yours, and you will not treat them as such."

He glared.

"I ask you to give me this dignity."

I frowned.

"Dignity, huh? Well, consider it done, but know the offer still stands."

He hobbled into his room.

"As do my principles. Goodbye."

His doorway closed before I stood there in contemplation. I had to admit that it was nice having a follower who wanted to handle his own business when needed. I was always getting pulled around to different tasks, and a large part of that stemmed from how much help everyone needed. Still, it didn't take long to make combat golems by any stretch. I could crank those out in like, two hours or something.

Making them weaker was the real problem.

Anyway, I walked towards one of the ventilation shafts before heading outside. As I traversed the inner tunnels, I collected lint before burning it outside of Mt. Verner. Whether I liked it or not, I was, in fact, a giant duster at this point. I might as well do a good job dusting. With the sun setting, I headed towards Shalahora and my hill, my chosen place of purgatory.

As I lazily hovered over, my thoughts tumbled in my mind like clothes in a drier. I let them tumble without any rhyme or reason. The skeptiles suffered under Obolis, and other species did the same. I was aware since the Vagni suffered a similar fate, but the Vagni were half eldritch.

That's why the Empire's paranoia against them seemed logical at the time. After all, Blegara had been a fringe world. It carried many detriments that would require decades of determined effort to fix. However, the skeptiles demonstrated no such hostility, and their upbeat attitudes amidst their harsh lives left me feeling hollow.

How many races were in their position? How many people suffered the same kind of fate, one relegated to squandering in dirt as others pilfered off them? It didn't even make sense to me why someone would do that. It left the leeching species fat and weak, with their minds lazy and their bodies soft.

It helped no one. No one at all.

I wanted to have people fight and face reality head-on. In my kind of planet, we'd find what we love and do it every day. Although I didn't understand people well, I knew enough to say they were happiest when working towards something. A guild worth building would have that goal front and center by inspiring the masses and giving them a deeper purpose.

In that regard, I had floundered. My guild's mission and purpose were dictated by my personal concerns, not anything overarching or principled. In some ways, it stopped us from getting caught in the weeds. If everyone acted without any direction, then the guild would naturally splinter apart. On the other hand, by directing the guild on my terms, I swiveled this ship's helm in wild, crazy ways.

In time, I needed to sit down and think about my governance. How would everything be managed while I was away? What guiding principles did we need? What about punishment, legalities, etc? These were skills and entire thought systems I sorely lacked. It left me humbled as I arrived with Shalahora waiting on me.

The shadow sighed.

"Again. You never miss an opportunity to suffer, do you?"

I pulled my dimensional anchor into a comfortable, easy-to-maintain spot.

"If the suffering has meaning, then sure. Anyways, you ready?"

His form blended into the dark, an encompassing visage.

"Tell me if the night is dark enough."

The night of training passed by in a flash. Well, you know, if a flash was a prolonged persecution by torture-happy demons. After being mentally beaten, psionically bruised, and spiritually trounced, I got my bearings back by meditating. Once handled, I checked up on the luminari leaders. After seeing the skeptiles wallowing, I grounded my actions once more.

Even if I didn't see it, what I did mattered. It really, really mattered at this point. To take advantage of that leverage, I aimed my sights on establishing a solid relationship with this new species. That, and I got my revised contract back from Florence's contact. The lawyer albony quadrupled the length of my document, having an extensive history of comments and details on what changes he made and why.

I had one mind convert it in the cipher, another read through the changes, and a third one carve what the other converted. Doing a dozen things at once, I landed in the medical bay. A real one, this time. Kessiah had an architect construct a series of concrete buildings with the appropriate quintessence lighting. While sterile and lifeless, the hospital gave the luminari exactly what they needed.

Each space offered direct vantage points to the sun and stars, glass lining every ceiling to the sky. They even had fans operate when medical personnel left the room, ensuring a steady breeze bombarded the aliens. It left them healing at a rapid pace, giving Kessiah a much-needed break.

Speaking of, she walked out of the room, her belt buckle glowing. A bead of sweat poured from her forehead as I walked by. I pointed at the artifact.

"How's it holding up?"

Kessiah leaned against the wall.

"Yeah, well enough. It's...I don't know, noisy? It's definitely a strong tool, but it puts a lot of pressure on me to perform."

She wiped a brow.

"It's so damn weird. I feel like I'm barely scratching the surface of what it can do, but that's while I'm giving it my all."

Remembering my experiences with Shalahora, I nodded.

"I understand the feeling. How many casualties were there?"

"None. The only people that died were the ones Shalahora uncovered to be Elysium agents."

I held up a hand. She high-fived before letting out a gasp.

"Yeah, some of these people you handed off to me...They were in such bad shape. Keeping them stable took everything I had."

I winced.

"You mean the rulers from L-7?"

She shivered.

"I can't believe some of them were even alive. Some of them even had these rainbow spines coming out of parts of their body. You told me not to touch them, but I didn't need the tip. They felt...Like demons under their skin or something."

Kessiah's eyes grew distant.

"I think that's about where my new limit is. After the Yawm situation, I'm willing to take on tough jobs. Sometimes, dealing with them is easier than tolerating the guilt from running away."

Her eyes narrowed.

"But that new planet you mentioned, L-7? You won't see me there unless I'm dead or dragged by my hands and feet, kicking and screaming."

I shrugged.

"You might surprise yourself, but yeah, it's pretty bad."

Kessiah scoffed.

"That's an understatement. I'll walk into the fire, but I'm not diving into a lava pit."

She walked off.

"Anyways, good luck. Cya later, big guy."

She left me wondering if my perspective was warped on Leviathan-7. I estimated the pressures of the planet, but my build gave me immunity to most physical ailments. Based on Kessiah's description, the hostility of the planet dwarfed even my high estimations. Either that or she sensed something I couldn't.

I hoped the golems and cities I left behind would make it until I returned.

