Putting myself back in the present, I checked the medical rooms. Each alien glowed with far more health and radiance than when they arrived. With the luminari's safety ensured, I finished forming the luminari's contract as I walked into Echo's room.

Having regained its vitality, Echo's white outline thickened into a shimmering mist. The internal dark deepened, its skin a void without end. Its surface lights bounced around within its outlined shape, but to show politeness, it dimmed the flashing so it wouldn't blind other races.

Echo bowed its head to me.

"Harbinger, thank you for the hospitality. We can hardly believe the thoroughness of your care."

I raised a palm.

"It's the least we can do, but I wouldn't thank me just yet. We still have this to attend to."

I showed the contract in my grimoire. Echo's lights changed to red.

"This is far more than we agreed upon."

I waved my hands.

"I had a professional work on it. It stops you guys from rescinding as easily or finding loopholes. This isn't just for my safety, either. You guys will suffer fewer stray bullets if I use better legal documentation and all that."

Echo's red deepened to the color of blood.

"This stops us from using Schema's system to our advantage. You are stopping the future prosperity of our race."

I scoffed.

"You're not feeble. You don't need to leech off other species."

Echo's lights hastened.

"We're not invincible. Those measures you look down upon allow us to save other races while benefiting our own in the process."

I shook my head.

"Do that without the daily contracts or caste systems, or is your entire species only able to use this one venture for affluence?"

Echo glared down at the contract, its eyes coalescing into a single orb on its face. It was like an ink cyclops with charcoal skin.

"I know your thoughts, but you have to understand that I'm more than worried. We're going to struggle after this war. How are we luminari supposed to recover?"

I furrowed my brow.

"I've read a little about your kind since we last met. From what I gathered, the luminary are not weak, frail, or foolish. Maybe you need to be reminded of that."

Echo's hands shook.

"This...This will ruin us."

I pulled a ring from my dimensional storage.

"You're underestimating how much I offer in return for your obligations."

The luminari stared at the ring. I gestured to it.

"Try it on."

Echo put it on a finger.

"We are a people worthy of trust-"

He gawked at the ring. His light outline thickened, more lights forming within his body. He expanded, and the bed buckled beneath him. I tapped the steel pages of my grimoire.

"I thought the last people I worked with were worthy of trust as well, but I was wrong."

I pulled the grimoire's words out as glowing letters.

"And I'm not going to be wrong again. Sign, or our alliance is done."

The letters singed onto a large plate of my dimensional fabric. The luminari heaved back as if distraught.

"Y-you use your skin as paper for contracts?"

I floated the panel over to him.

"Paper is fragile. I am not."

I saturated the panel in a gravity well before pointing at it.

"Use something to turn it if you need to. Putting your hand against the page will result in it being crushed."

Echo pulled its hand away.

"Why use so much gravitation?"

"Because it's heavy. Very, very heavy. I'm going to have a talk with Florence real quick. You heal up and read through that."

Echo leaned back.

"Aren't you worried I'll change the wording of the contract?"

I leaned over the document, my hand on the dark metal. It shivered as if alive.

"You can try, but know this document still has teeth."

I stepped out of the room.

"Remember one thing if you've forgotten everything else I've told you in this conversation. I believe in you and your people. You should start doing the same."

As I walked out, Echo's head lowered, and his hands squeezed the hospital bedding. Heading out of the place, I sent Florence a message. He replied, and I walked back inside to a different room in the single-floor building. Florence rested with his feet propped up. He chatted on his obelisk, enraptured in a conversation as I walked up.

He closed his obelisk, more like a chatterbox, before Florence grabbed his knee.

"Oh, oooooh, the pain. It's too much to bear."

I gently flicked his leg. He pulled it back while rubbing his ankle.

"Oof, what was that for?"

I rolled my eyes.

"I was testing to see if it was still injured. How are you holding up?'

Florence pulled his feet off his bed before standing up.

"I'm fine. Kessiah and Shalahora have analyzed and tested every facet of me to ensure I'm not implanted with Elysium's ilk. I've been cleared this morning for further tasks."

"Good. I'm going to start offering this deal to other empires."

Florence's brow raised.

"Really now? Where's this sudden change of heart coming from?"

"Eh, I've seen what state a lot of these people are in. It's not good, and if I can change it, then I will."

"Ah. You must've seen skeptiles then. It's a nasty business, isn't it? I remember the first time I saw their capital. Corpses lined the streets in droves. It was as if some dark demon put a straw in their veins before sucking out every ounce of moisture."

Florence frowned.

"That was a large part of why I signed up to rule over Blegara despite feeling so unprepared."

I put my hands on my hips.

"You didn't want them to do the same thing to the Vagni?"

Florence brushed off his hospital robe.

"Indeed. It was a personal vendetta, in a way. My family thought it was too difficult a thing for me to manage, from my idealistic standpoint to my monumental task of rehabilitating the Vagni."

Florence's eyes carried a lingering sadness.

"They were right. You bailed me out of my over-commitment, and they still rebel to this day."

I shook my head.

"We rebutted Elysium, took control for a while, and we survived."

My eyes hardened.

"Considering who our enemies are, we accomplished a lot. That's actually why I'm here."

Florence tilted his head. I raised a fist.

"I want to extend this anti-slavery deal to all the other rulers we saved on L-7. It lets us retaliate against Elysium for sending Lehesion to Blegara and for breaching our air space on Earth. After we have these empires benefitting from our arrangement, I'm extending the same deal to anyone being assaulted by Elysium."

Florence winced.

"I was fine with doing this for one species, but well over a dozen? I don't think that's a good idea. We'll attract the ire of Elysium on a different scale."

Through the glass roof, I stared at the sun. I could peer into the light without being blinded or hurt by its brilliance.

"I gave that some thought. See, they can't face us in an open military conflict. If they send the giant, mopey gialgathen our way, I'll brutalize him like I did last time. Plazia and Shalahora can be used as potent weapons both offensively and defensively as well, and Earth's retaking doesn't require my direct intervention."

I interlocked my hands behind myself as Torix oftentimes did.

"However, Elysium's ability to turn neutral ground into an advantage is unmatched. Without anyone knowing, they can dismantle an alien force from within using their remapping abilities. Anyone with the luck perk can be reconstructed into an unwilling homunculus for their goals, one they guide towards key positions before they take the offensive."

I frowned.

"That's how the luminari fell. You mentioned them turning sides at random. It turns out there's nothing random about it."

Florence winced.

"Nasty business."

I nodded.

"Agreed. If anything, we need to apply pressure to keep our position where it is. If they're able to focus on an unseen offensive against us, they'll destroy us from within like cancer killing its host."

I met Florence's eye.

"Hm. We'll apply soft pressure where we need to, and perhaps their response shall be far less tumultuous than we expect. We're not promoting slavery in these arrangements, and that is what Elysium fights so ardently against. The ideological sting of their propaganda should fall flat in the face of this leveled response."

Florence gawked at me.

"Since when did you become a strategist?"

I tapped my temple.

"Eh, think of it like this. There are many Daniels swirling in here, and I'm speaking for them. If my articulation alternates midspeech, it could also be from me switching my dimensional wake to a different one. In this case, a primordial aura."

I rolled my hand.

"It's better at the tactical application of knowledge, but the interpersonal skills are...Well, lacking."

Florence laughed.

"This version of you reminds me of Helios."

I interlocked my hands behind myself.

"He has his good points."

Florence tilted a hand to me.

"Speaking of which, I wanted to discuss him. He's pushing himself too hard as of late. I was wondering if you could offer him some support. I'll pay back your patronage fully, of course."

I shook my head.

"I already have, and he won't accept it."

Florence put a hand over his chest.

"Then I'll take whatever you planned on offering him before forcing it down his throat. I'll make sure he won't take no for an answer, either."

A menace shined in Florence's eyes. I smiled.

"I'll send you the golems along with a copy of the cipheric contract we aim to have the other species sign. I'll change the details as necessary, but it should give other species some understanding of what will be required."

Florence walked through the room, his voice rising in volume.

"Ah, finally, we can take some mark of aggression against these monsters. I know I'm not the most impartial of observers, but someone should've already Elysium wiped off the face of the Earth and from all planets and from all peoples. It's going to be difficult, but we'll silence them one voice at a time."

I sighed.

"I'm as anti-Elysium as anyone, but they're not going anywhere anytime soon, no matter what we do."

Disgust erupted over Florence's face.

"What? Do you not believe in our potential? We can wage war and win."

I frowned.

"To me, it's not a matter of who's stronger. It's a matter of will. I'll give an example. In my world, the worst wars were fought over ideological nonsense, from striving for absolute purity to enacting a utopian ideal. The pursuit of perfection clouded people from viewing the hell they created while pursuing their goals."

I raised my brow.

"I think that Elysium is the result of millennia of silenced dissent against Schema, and it's erupted in this brutality for that reason."

Florence grabbed his chin.

"Perhaps, but it doesn't justify what they've done."

"You're right. It doesn't, but it does explain why they do what they do. That means if we kill them, we still haven't killed the reason behind what they do. They'll come back in another form, and it may be even worse than the current iteration."

Florence scoffed.

"I doubt that's even possible."

My eyes darkened.

"If there is something I've learned since diving into Schema's universe, it's that there is no end to how deep a pit can go. Some of them are so abyssal, you can jump in and die before you even hit the bottom."

Florence gulped.

"Certainly, that seems to be the case. The fact they're recreating people to serve them is as dystopian a principle as anything I've ever heard of."

I frowned.

"What if they did it to unborn children? Perhaps they could cipherically implant their ideas into the genetic code of people. They'd propagate silently, spreading their ideas and messages in silence, yet the proliferation would be as certain as stone. It would be akin to a plague written into their DNA."

Florence shivered. I closed my eyes.

"Or they may make a disease that slowly alters other people's DNA in the same way. I can't say because, at this point, the situation has become worse than I imagined it could four or five times over. That's why I think my imagination might be the problem."

Florence took a step back, his eyes wide.

"Daniel...Don't speak something like that into existence."

I turned and stared at a wall.

"We'll need to tackle this problem from a wider angle. They're doing all of this because of Schema. That means we need to fix the problem at its source. At some point, at least. As for eliminating Elysium, it's impossible without getting past their protector."

Florence furrowed his brow.

"You mean Lehesion?"

I grabbed the wall, my fingers digging into the concrete.

"No. I could've smashed him like a bug. I need to kill the so-called gods that protect him."

Florence furrowed his brow.

"And who might they be?"

I spiraled the concrete dust over my palm. It swirled like nebulae in space as I turned to Florence.

"The Old Ones, of course. I'm going to kill them all."
