Another old fight came to mind, her first sparring match against Rain which she’d handily lost. She remembered it well, how she moved into position with Stalking the Dragon before unleashing a devastating combination attack, Swipes the Rushes followed up with Reversing the Flow into Fanged Clutch. Rain had just barely fended off her offensive, but what if that Swipes the Rushes had been a quick-draw attack instead, or at least a lesser version of one? Even if he blocked it, her powerful attack would’ve broken through his guard and left him vulnerable, allowing Reversing the Flow to cleanly gut him and end the fight there.

Two Insights in a single session now. Luo-Luo was correct, this bamboo grove was simply marvellous...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The whispering winds danced about the edges of Yan’s perception, but try as she might, their voices were impossible to make out.

They weren’t whispers in the sense of words and sentences, but she sensed a hidden message in the brisk air as it navigated the twists and turns of the bamboo grove, with a whistle here and a hum there. The message wasn’t directed towards her, or rather not solely for her ears alone, nor was it the opening to a conversation or exchange. No, this message, or rather this information, was given freely to anyone who could hear it, and circulated regularly at all hours of the day and in all corners of the Empire. She recognized the signs as she reflected on her memories, these same whispers present throughout her entire life, cutting through the Northern forests and wafting through the Central plains, howling along mountain passes and billowing in seafaring sails. Those whispers had existed since time immemorial, and would persist long after she was gone, their wisdom unnoticed and unheeded by most, just as Yan had missed them until she set foot inside this beautiful and mysterious bamboo grove.

For this was the Divine Wind, one of four Prime Children who helped the Mother Above form this world Yan lived in.

Truth be told, Yan never put much stock in Diviners and equated them to fortune tellers, palm readers, and the like, but now she understood she was merely a frog in a well. If a Diviner could set up something like this bamboo grove to aid Martial Warriors in finding Balance and Enlightenment, then maybe there was truly someone out there who could calculate the future from tea leaves or take two people’s palms and deduce if they were soul mates. Who was she to place limits on how others might perceive Heaven’s Will? Wasn’t she trying to do just that while sitting on a dirt path outside a field of shit-strewn soil?

Medical Saint, Runic Craftsman, and now Taduk could add ‘Natural Diviner’ to his list of lofty titles, as if he weren’t talented enough. It was almost criminal how unfair the Mother was, favouring a chosen few over the rest of Her children. To think, Yan once believed Rain was one such chosen, but the Mother Above only treated him a little better than the rest and saved the bulk of her love for those few blessed individuals like Taduk. Perhaps for his next accomplishment, the half-hare eccentric would visit the forges and craft a Spiritual Weapon on his first try, one made from his ear-wax and quenched in his own piss, yet somehow resulting in a masterwork weapon imbued with sentient thought.

Honestly, at this point, nothing Taduk did would ever surprise Yan. Nothing.

Putting her errant jealousy out of mind, she took a deep breath and quieted down to listen to the wind, instead of sitting down to meditate like Mila, Li Song, and Luo-Luo had done. There was something to be gleaned here in the real world, Yan knew it for truth, though how, she couldn’t say. All other thoughts and sounds faded from perception, whether it was Luo-Luo’s flowery fragrance lingering about, Rain trying to convince Taduk to go wash his hands and borrow gardening tools, or minute vibrations in the ground resulting from sixteen rabbits hop-hop-hopping about. She didn’t seek Balance so much as had it dropped into her lap, wrapping her in the Mother’s warm embrace with no effort or warning, yet even this was merely a footnote upon the consciousness of her mind, something to be noted and discarded without thought because there were more pressing matters to attend to.

The wind kissed her skin and rustled through her hair, exploring the contours of her existence like a playful, formless friend, knowing her as she so yearned to know it, but comprehension and Enlightenment sat tantalizingly out of reach. She was so close she could almost taste success, yet the more she struggled, the further she slipped away. Balance came easily here, but at a price, for even though she’d told Luo-Luo to ‘focus on nothing but awareness itself’, Yan was having difficulty following her own advice. How much time passed, she could not say, but when she came to her senses, she found her mind clouded with frustration as the whispering winds fell quieter than ever before.

Nothing was ever easy, but Yan was never one to give up.

Unlike Luo-Luo who often left her Spiritual Weapon in a corner somewhere, Yan kept her weapons on her at all times except in the bathhouse and bedroom, and now she brought them out to hold in her hands. Laying her battle-fan across her knees, she smiled wryly at the odd and admittedly awkward design of the strange and exotic sword, one which Grandpa Du had discovered in some dusty history book which claimed this shape would help Wind-Blessed Martial Warriors reach their full potential. Whether this was true or not, Yan wasn’t entirely certain, because while the battle-fan helped her perceive and adjust the natural flow of wind around her, its cumbersome, contoured, butterfly-shaped body left much to be desired. Most importantly, it was so wide it required a custom-made sheathe, one which could only be worn slung across her back. This made it impossible to draw in a hurry, which was why she commissioned a leather-worker to modify Shana’s harness to hold the sheath snugly, all so Yan wouldn’t be stuck fumbling for her weapon in the event of an ambush or assassination attempt.

Of which there’d been many during her time in Central and on the front lines, far too many to list, and more than she cared to share with Rain or Grandpa for fear of what they might do in retribution...

Then there was her six-pointed star-shield, which she considered her first betrothal gift from Rain. He didn’t see it that way of course, because when he gifted it to her back then, he still thought she was a boy. Mule-brained idiot is what he was, but she felt bad for the beating she’d given him shortly after learning the truth, though she sometimes wished she could give Baatar a similar one for making the same mistake. Thankfully, Rain didn’t hold her brutish nature against her, and Yan loved him all the more for his forgiving and generous soul. Still, there were times when she wished her shield was more like Mila’s, a larger, rounded aegis which covered most of her compact torso. In contrast, Yan’s shield was closer to a buckler and better suited for parrying or Deflecting rather than outright blocking a blow, but to make up for it, she could use those wickedly sharp points to gut or garrote any enemies who strayed too close, and presumably throw the shield as Blacksmith Husolt suggested, something which Yan had never tried in actual combat. The biggest drawback, however, was that she had to keep the shield ensconced in a wood-and-leather guard, one which covered those sharp points so she didn’t accidentally stab someone while walking around with it strapped to her hip.

As much as she loved Grandpa Du and Rain for gifting her with these two precious and unique weapons, she had to admit there was something to be said about the convenience of simplicity. It would be so much easier walking around with a standard longsword strapped to her hip and a rounded shield slung over one shoulder...

How quickly the winds change. When Yan first accepted her Spiritual Weapons, she’d been over the moon about their exotic appearances, but now she dreamed of having two normal weapons in their place. What’s more, while the Battle-Fan had reasons for its strange design, as far as she could tell, the star-shield was only like this because the Spiritual Heart had initially been two bone-plates from a grass snake’s triangular tail-blade and Blacksmith Husolt couldn’t be bothered to fill in the gaps with steel.

Even now, so many years later, Yan still couldn’t understand why Mila’s stout, folksy father considered this shield a piece of Inspired work, and even went as far as to call it some of his best work ever.

Regardless of her complaints, she wouldn’t trade the shield away even if she could, so all her complaints were for naught. Placing the shield aside, she took her battle-fan by the hilt in both hands and twirled it about, spinning the wide-brimmed blade like a top and setting the wind to whirling. “One cannot tame the wind,” Yan whispered as she brought her twirling battle-fan to a halt, only to set it spinning in the opposite direction and start the process over again. “One can only shape the setting so the wind chooses to follow one’s will.” Her lessons flowed through her mind once again, narrated in Grandpa’s passionate and patient tone. The wind is capricious and untamed, wild and unrestrained, yet even it has its rules to abide by, the rules of Heaven set down by the Mother Above. The wind might blow west one moment, then east another, but there was good reason behind it, as many sailors and navigators might tell you. The wind was always flowing, even when you couldn’t feel it against your skin, and its power could range from a light breeze to a heavy hurricane rending apart everything in its wild, unpredictable path, and while a powerful wind could tear down buildings, even a gentle breeze could eventually polish a stone cliff-side smooth.

And it was this wind which Yan sought to understand, to control, and wield against her enemies, this wind whispering all its secrets within this bamboo grove, only she lacked the ability to perceive it.

Sighing at her inadequate acumen, she stopped twirling the weapon and set to fanning it left and right instead, for no particular reason that she could think of except that her palms were getting tired. The wind pressed against her metal blade and she angled her wrist to catch it as a sail might, moving back and forth against its heaviest resistance, negligible as it might be. Then, on a whim, she switched to cutting through the wind instead, and her movements grew light as a feather and quick as could be.

Wide, clumsy and heavy.

Thin, sharp and light.

Slow, powerful and resistant.

Fast, quick and easy.

What about... wide and fast? Thin and slow? Was there a way to catch the wind, yet be speedy and light? Or how about a way to cut through all resistance while bringing that ponderous weight to bear? Light as a feather, heavy as a mountain, the wind was both one and the other, somehow at the same time, so there was no reason why Yan couldn’t use this to her advantage.

The answer was here, in this bamboo grove, where the intermittent wind made its way through the twists and turns of the verdant green stalks, only to kiss her hair and disappear into the horizon, where it might travel to great heights and vast distances before ever making its way back.

But it would eventually return, because that was the way of the Divine Wind. Heavy yet light, dense yet intangible, here and there, all at the same time. It was nowhere and everywhere, part of everyone and everything, from plants and animals to water and blood.

And all this meant...

What?

There Yan sat, waving her sword this way and that, spinning, twirling, lifting and more, all in an effort to explore the natural truths lying before her. Soon, she found herself watching a leaf float on the wind, dancing about the treetops and darting this way and that, seemingly on a downward trend yet always finding a way to remain in flight. In some ways, she was that leaf, no beloved talent or blessed Chosen of the Mother meant to soar through the skies, but while the Heavens favoured the fortunate first, the diligent were next in line, and Yan was nothing if not diligent.

Chapter Meme
