She looked down at her dangling hand, and tucked it back into her clothing. “It's nothing.” She said, but he could see how much pain that little movement had caused her.

“Ma'am, please.” Ren pleaded. “I'll only touch your hand, and possibly your wrist.”

“No, even that... I'll...” She shook her head. “Do you know how hard it is for me to not throw myself at you?”

“It's one of the things I don't quite understand about dwarf culture.” Ren said. “I'm apparently a good mate because I prove how strong I am.” He shook his head. “It doesn't matter if I'm good or bad, rich or poor, or anything else like that.”

“Right.” She said. “Everything like that can be earned and doesn't matter.” She smiled. “All that really matters is the potential for your children to be even more powerful than you.”

Ren blinked his eyes at her. “Wait... that's the imperative for females to judge a male's worthiness?”

She nodded. “The reason I signed a contract with Throgg was the chance, the very slim chance, that he would want children.”

“Oh.” Ren said, and thought about all of the reactions of the female dwarves since he came to the Dwarven Kingdom. “Well, I guess that does explain a lot of what's happened to me.” He said and smiled. “Thank you for explaining it to me.”

“You're not angry?” She asked. “When people find out that we only think of men as sexual objects that can give us children, they usually freak out, yell at us, or run away.”

Ren chuckled. “I try not to judge people for what they feel.” He said. “Has talking to me eased your lust a little?”

“By the gods, no.” She said and grinned. “I want you to pound me so hard that our grandchildren will be born with headaches.” She laughed. “I am a lot calmer, though.”

Ren grinned back at her. “I think that's the weirdest request for sex I've ever heard.” He said. “Would you be upset if I politely decline?”

“Yes.” She said, and winked at him. “But it's understandable. We're buried underground and aren't alone right now.”

“It's not that.” Ren said. “I've got too many women to take care of properly as it is. I don't have the time to spare, or the room in my life, to have yet another one thrown into the mix.”

“Hold on.” One of the other female dwarves said. “Are you saying you'd have sex with her if you didn't have someone else?”

“No, I'm saying I can't even consider the possibility, because I'm having a hard enough time with the women I have now.” Ren said. “I honestly can't start seeing another woman.”

“Why couldn't we have met you first?” The female dwarf with the broken wrist said, and held her hand out for him. “I'm sure I can suffer through your touch now.”

“Are you sure?” Ren asked. “It's bad enough you're suffering physical pain because of me, but I don't want you to suffer emotional pain as well.”

“Yes, I definitely regret not meeting you first.” She smiled sweetly at him. “Please heal me.”

Ren nodded slightly, and carefully examined her hand and wrist. When he gently probed her lower arm, he found where the break was. He had to use two Major Healing spells, but her wrist and arm were healed in no time, and he let her hand go.

“Let's get you out of here.” Ren said and stood up.

“You aren't going to loot the place?” One of them asked.

“What for?” Ren asked.

“The things in here are worth hundreds of platinum coins.” She said and pointed to the chest that had hurt one of the other female dwarves. “That chest alone is worth 15 platinum.”

Ren shrugged. “I don't need the money.”

“WHAT?!?” The female dwarves yelled. It echoed loudly from the bare walls.

“Come on, let's go.” Ren said and helped the closest female dwarf stand up. “I need to get home.”

The first female dwarf shook her head. “We can't leave.”

“Excuse me?”

“We were ordered to stay in this room, and we haven't been able to leave since.”

“But he's dead now.” Ren said.

“He never rescinded the order.” She said. “Until you find the contracts, we're not going anywhere.”

Ren looked at her, then at the piles of things they sat on.

“They should be in here somewhere.” She said and pat the cabinet she sat on. “Start looking.”

“I have a better idea.” Ren said and helped her stand up, reached down and touched the cabinet, then stored it. “I'll clean up the place first, then look.”

The other female dwarves stood up and watched as Ren walked around and stored everything, then marvelled as his pace didn't slow down or falter, despite having to carry so many things.
