Thankfully, Quiss had tackled Seth before he had gotten too close to Wyin. Without the keys that unlocked the way, Seth had pretty much been left outside the three large doors. Quiss nodded to Renny who was lightly napping nearby as the tour seemed to be at an end for now.Delta watched Wyin huff as she closed the door behind the two men. Ignoring the deep thud as the door closed, Quiss dragged Seth back towards the jungle.“Drinks for all! Come on, stop harassing everything with a pulse and let’s get some shots!” Quiss cheered. His mood was still disturbingly happy. Burning that tree must be some secret pleasure for Quiss, thought Delta. She would have to keep a close eye on him around Wyin.“The rude one was of help? I hate to have let down a louse to be a bother,” Wyin asked lightly. Delta gave her a small smile.“He was… and thank you for letting him pass,” she said and Wyin merely met her gaze.“Being unable to leave of my own accord made me take drastic measures,” Wyin shrugged one large branch-like shoulder.Delta hummed.“I guess you’re a bit rooted to the spot,” she agreed. Wyin’s cool facade broke as her lips peeled back in a pained expression.“Must you?” the tree woman pleaded. Delta’s own face was beaming.“Gotta make like a tree and leave. I’ll be back soon once I’m done absorbing an evil lab that had crimes against both morality and humanity in them, I’ll be bark before you dew it.” Delta waved. The cry of anguish was funny and Delta had no idea Wyin had such a drama bone in her,Drama root? Drama stick?Delta would have to think on that.She floated back down to the third floor, wondering how the process was going.---WHAT VILENESS! The army paled before a mighty foe as it took to the room under the command of the GREAT DELTA! But this? It promised to be their greatest foe yet! Mana Squad 354 ‘The Wiggy Woggy Bombers’ attempted to dive bomb the smear and their formation broke as the flavour of it turned the orange Mana green with displeasure. This… what DISHONOR! It took a step forward towards this dreadful—though not as tricky and cowardly as the… Gazebo - but this foe had its own foulness.Troll Soup. The great knowledge of Delta offered a name but the Mana commander called it another name.Evil.But distaste and illness were unimportant. It knew that. It knew that countless of the squads could turn back and flee but not it. It was the leading Mote of Mana. It was no coward! This soup had traces of Delta, the great and holy one, but it was mixed with reality. Turned into a much fouler substance by the slime cauldron remains. It tasted like old shoe dipped in oil then cooked with troll soup.Much deadlier than the already fearsome troll soup.It charged, crying praises for Delta as it hit the substance, head on.Its army followed, empowered by the commander’s bravery. The slime was taken down and many legends would be passed on by this feat of heroic action.---Delta paused then she gagged.She coughed and sputtered as a foul taste coated her throat. Oh God, it was killing her! She hacked and tears leaked from her eyes.Finally after… much time. Delta licked her lips and tasted nothing once more.“Memo to myself… don’t let Jeb cook with Gutrots. I can’t take troll soup with bits of Gutrot. I might actually break,” she rasped.

Nu’s box appeared, now that the third floor was devoid of people from the outside. Delta wobbled to her feet.“Tell me, Nu. Have the Gutrots made it down here?” she tried not to demand. Her mind a chaotic mess of ‘Ow’ and ‘Never again’ and ‘Blargh’. Nu seemed to vanish before reappearing.

Oh dammit to heck. Delta squared her shoulders.“Nu, start feeding me the list of notifications. I got tons of them no doubt,” she asked. Delta had asked Nu to keep them back until everything was settled and cleared from the lab. Getting distracted from a battle due to pop ups was not going to happen.Instead of an answer, she was given a neat stack of windows that she could pick up and read. Delta floated to the mess hall for the better light ambience. It made no difference to Delta physically, she could see in pitch black in her Dungeon but it felt nice to have a table.The first of the windows began to flash past.

Delta winced but thankfully… Jack’s resurrection had taken a lot of Mana. She took a quick peek at her own numbers before the notifications added more numbers.

The good news was that she wasn’t gonna be suffering from Mana overload anytime soon. Having to experience that so soon after the troll soup tasting? Delta might actually cry. The next few windows showed her some interesting things.

“What’s the difference?” Delta asked with a slight tilt to her head. Nu, who was floating nearby—and also appreciating the gains, began to explain.

Delta was quiet for a moment.“So… what you’re saying is that I am awesome?” she batted her eyes.

“I love you too,” Delta grinned. The next few notifications came and Delta blinked.

Delta paled and her stomach gave an unpleasant turn.The idea of that taste… that smell… moving on its own and trying to be cute and affectionate made Delta both smile and want to hit her head off the table.“I’ll… think about that later,” she finally said and the relieved menu quickly moved on to the next item.

“What kinda arts?” she pondered. The menu shifted to show a little pixel art of the cauldron and the requirements. Delta blinked as she already had quite a few of the requirements underway.

Delta was stunned but Nu was already humming with speculation.

Delta turned to him slowly as Nu seemed to stumble over his words

“Praise the System,” Delta mumbled and turned back to her notifications.

“I knew something so evil wasn’t natural!” Delta pointed at the menu with accusation. Then she frowned.“I wonder how they escaped and how they spread so much…” she mumbled.---Holly Dabberghast felt her nose tingle but she manage not to sneeze. She hummed as she transplanted her ‘Lovely Locks’. A cheerful yellow plant that soaked up the sun’s rays in its new home.Unauthorized tale usage: if you spot this story on Amazon, report the violation.The container she used was an old one. She had purchased it from that lovely man, Mr Japes. She had been oddly chuffed at the price at the time until she saw Japes had left some odd dusty shrivelled up thing at the bottom. Poor creature.Holly had assumed Japes had been too shy to ask her to nurse the fungi to live… and so Holly did so quietly out of respect. The sheer life those mushrooms gained were fabulous. Holly had kept it to herself when they spread far and wide. Finally, some life in this manaless place, but that was then and this is now.The lovely dears, they were everywhere, they even looked like they might just grow legs any day now and dance. Holly hoped they would.It would be a shame if Delta, the dear, had all the fungi fun!---Delta hazarded a guess that ‘Durence’ was a safe bet and left it at that.

Delta would save that reading for when she was bored or insane.

Delta was beginning to think these scientists just researched whatever topic came out of a hat. Heroes? Like… RPG atypical teens?Sure, Deo was… well and Poppy wasn’t… Delta quickly floundered for a name.Grim was perfectly normal. Nodding to herself she felt the last of her gains from the head office finally settle. Eager, Delta watched to see what would come first.

Delta stared. Did Sis just tell her to wait? That had never happened. Things were processed through the system faster than Delta could think!

Nu jingled slowly.

He trailed off.“Terrifying?” Delta supplied.

