Erick instantly put up a [Hasted Shelter] around the vast swath of his gate space inside Benevolence Itself, encompassing all of his family and a good hundred kilometers out, his Authority over the space feeling rather absolute in that expression of power. He wasn’t sure when the war would start, but he was going to take some time and reconnect with everyone he loved…

Most everyone.

Kiri was absent. As were everyone else from the House. Zolan and Mox. Burhendurur, Aisha, Volaro, Raingorl. Poi’s sister and Teressa’s husband were absent, too.

Yggdrasil grew over there, but his avatar wasn’t here. He was probably busy, though.

Ahhh… This was mostly everyone, and that was good enough.

Erick hugged Ophiel more, and Ophiel talked of everything that had happened, and Erick only knew some of it because Yggdrasil had only spoken of some of it—

“Wait. That part.” Erick asked, “About Oozy Stormcaller? What’s that? I told Melemizargo about him before all of this stuff. What happened to him now?”

Orange Ophiel excitedly said, “He’s the Avatar of Nothanganathor!”

Blue Ophiel said, “One of his avatars.”

“The main one,” Jane said, silencing all other talk. “He’s also gone. Everbless vanished, too, and we haven’t been able to find either of them and we’re pretty sure they’re not on Veird anymore. They’re probably on Fenrir. Our expeditions to that place have been difficult, to say the least. We have schedules of people leaving, but we have only fragments of memory of sending anyone, with Yggdrasil telling us not to send anyone again. We don’t send people out there anymore.”

So that was terrifying.

Kinda expected. Still terrifying.

Erick had one hand around his back, holding up Purple Ophiel who was currently hanging onto Erick’s neck with his arms, while his other arm was weighed down by Green and Yellow Ophiel. Erick made a decision. Then he said, “Nothanganathor hasn’t been allowed to kill Veird, because he wants to stay in the good graces of Margleknot… And I see most of those words are a surprise, so I guess Yggdrasil hasn’t been able to tell you all much?” Erick rapidly moved on, “So we’re fighting a defensive war. Protecting the ways in, disallowing certain magics, etcetera. I believe that Yggdrasil and myself can protect one Veird. As soon as we have more people from here that can protect more, then we’ll be protecting more. As soon as we can strike back, we’re striking back. Nothanganathor is a mastermind planner, but it’s taken him almost 12,000 years to get to this point, so we might have a little bit of time.

“Nothanganthor gave me a week's time frame before he starts doing shit, but I don’t believe that at all.”

“A much more likely scenario is that he will strike within hours, while I am deep in a get-together with this family. So we’re going to do this, but it’s going to be fast.”

Everyone recognized the need for that. Ophiel gradually slipped away from Erick to stand strong.

And then Erick smiled, ruffled Ophiel’s hair, hugged him fast, and then said to everyone, “Hugs first, though! And I got power ups for everyone! Those powerups are kinda scattered all over, but we’ll get to them soon enough.”

And then Erick went right to Quilatalap, to look the big guy in the eyes, to feel his heart beat hard and see Quilatalap’s eyes light up wonderfully as they got closer together. Erick wrapped Quilatalap in his arms, and Quilatalap chuckled as he hugged Erick back.

He was warm.

After a long moment, Quilatalap said, “Welcome back, Erick. I missed you.”

“It’s good—” Erick choked up for a moment. “It’s good to be back.” He pulled back and kissed Quilatalap on the lips. They would be doing a lot more than that later but this was good enough for now. “Love you. I missed you, too. I heard I was gone for a year and change?”

“It’s been about 2 years now. There have been some Time Magics on this side of the equation, but I heard there were some on your end, too?” Quilatalap said, “It’s been pretty crazy. Not too crazy that I didn’t have time to make a bunch of food, waiting for today. I made practically everything you can think of, and in great quantities, too.”

Erick smiled wide. “I’ve got a lot of surprises for you, later, too.”

“I look forward to them,” Quilatalap said, smirking.

Jane cleared her throat.

Erick rapidly turned to his family, and to Jane, rushing to them to hug them and talk and catch up.

Soon, food came out and Solomon spoke of warfronts and Quiet/Forever Wars and Erick mentioned a few things about valkyries. Every single Jane-derived person and the original all scoffed at that, and then Solomon started talking about how Erick had really leaned in to the whole ‘Norse shtick’, hadn’t he.

“Ha! I even sacrificed my ‘eye’ —that All Seeing Eye— when I Ascended, so yeah.” Erick laughed over a plate of mashed potatoes and so much great gravy. “Kinda!”

“And Nothanganathor is the wyrm that eats the universe,” Jane said, frowning a little over her plate of meat.

Destiny waved her knife around and strongly said, “If he tries to eat Veird it means we’ll be that much closer to his heart.” And then she made a stabbing motion with the butter blade.

Erick chuckled, and so did some others, but the Janes were serious. Poi and Teressa were serious, too.

Erick stated, “Nothanganathor will not win this war. We will not roll over and die. We will exterminate him here, and everywhere else— Ah. I just realized. Poi. I can’t [Telepathy] you without running the risk of a few possible weirdities, right now, so did you pick up anything from Yggdrasil? He should have been limited in communications while I was gone, but now he should be fully open? Maybe regarding the information I distributed to everyone, and also the minds of the valkyries?”

Everyone looked to Poi.

Poi looked like he had some small thoughts that he had been waiting to share for a long time, and now it was time to share them. Poi said, “Your information is being curated by Ascendant Prime. Preliminary information was supposed to go out 30 minutes after your arrival, but we’re in a [Hasted Shelter] and last I heard there was a lot more information than anyone expected. So we haven’t gotten any of the big stuff. Yggdrasil has been drip feeding us major points for the last two years, but we’re absolutely sure that he used some Time Magic when he divulged information that he shouldn’t have divulged, in order to go back in time and erase ever having given us that information. He was limited, and it wasn’t by his own choice. He was being controlled by someone far beyond himself.”

Yes; Yggdrasil had been controlling himself…

The people here didn’t see it that way, though. Everyone at the very large table, out under the Benevolent Sky, was pretty worried about all of that; about the implications Poi was suggesting. Except for Ophiel.

Red Ophiel said, “Yggdrasil is just a doodoo head! He didn’t mean anything malicious about it!”

Not everyone believed Ophiel at all. A few of his selves didn’t quite believe what he was saying, either; or maybe those faces were simply the faces of self doubt. Probably self doubt, now that Erick was really looking.

Shit.

Was it really that bad while Erick had been gone?

Erick said, “We did a ritual to prevent Nothanganathor from Erasing people, like how he Erased Debby, and Yggdrasil was a part of that. Did he really lose so much trust for you all to think this way, and yet he was still trusted by Rozeta, Melemizargo, and Fairy Moon?”

After saying that, everyone was slightly less worried about Yggdrasil.

Poi said, “Facts remain facts. He used Time Magic to subvert events.”

Jane clarified, “He sent ten thousand troops to die against an incursion in the upper levels, with Nothor Beasts raging unchecked in the back lines. 32,000 people died by the end of that event— that we know of. It was a massacre. Every altercation with the Red is a massacre of unknown proportions, as some people simply never exist; eaten by the Red Sparks.”

Before Erick got really worried—

Solomon clarified, “Yggdrasil gave us good information. We failed to act on that information correctly, only realizing what he meant after the events happened.”

Destiny looked to Jane, saying, “Those troops did their job. They stopped the Claw from forming.”

“And it could have been a lot easier if—” Jane cut herself off.

Silence.

Erick wasn’t sure what a Claw was, but he could guess easily enough. He could also tell this was an old argument. To be sure of what he was seeing, though, he asked, “So Yggdrasil told you to defend a spot, and you defended it, but not as well as it could have been defended?”

Poi said, “Yes. He could have told us about certain obvious elements in the backlines that are painfully obvious in retrospect… And we think he did. And then he undid that telling… Or Phagar did. We’re not sure. Honestly, Erick. It’s been… Difficult.”

Solomon said, “Strained.”

Teressa said, “The Benevolent Sky is all fucked up, Erick.”

Teressa’s daughter, Lenitha, repeated after her mother, “Sky’s fucked up!”

Teressa nodded, softly saying, “That’s a powerful word, now, Lenitha. Don’t go saying it unless you really mean it.”

“I know, mommy!”

Evan said, “The House is having trouble, with the minotaur schism and the assassinations. The Overseers survived, but Zolan was crippled. He’s still recovering his memories.”

Destiny said, “Those fuckers at Death’s Throne turned Red briefly, too, before we exploded that part of the world. Quintlan has a great big hole in the center of it now, and so does the upper layer, and all the way down to the close Underworld.”

Quilatalap said, “They deserved it for abandoning this world for promises of another. I apologize for not annihilating them with you sooner.”

Silence. Nobody quite knew what to say to Quilatalap’s apology.

Quilatalap had had a strained relationship with everyone here, hadn’t he? Ah, shit.

And then Candice said, “You were busy with the Red Beasts. Quilatalap. We all had shit on our plate.”

That seemed to heal some bridges.

Jane still looked like she had a bridge on fire, though.

Erick made a decision. He said, “It sounds to me like Yggdrasil did what he could in order to play both sides of the coin because he needed to do that to allow for the victories we will have going forward, and that a lot happened that I am not aware of. Yggdrasil won’t be playing any sides anymore. He’s here, and he’s fully for the defense of Veird, just like me, just like everyone here.

“Things are complicated up there. Things are complicated down here, too. I really want to hear about whatever happened at Quintlan and all the rest, but first: I’m going to start at the beginning. I’m going to tell you everything that happened, and you can ask questions, but I will be as brief as I can.” With great aura control, Erick cast some lightward images on both sides of the table, so no one needed to turn around to see what he was saying. He began, “So I started on Fenrir, which I learned later took me a year and a half to land upon for some reason, and now it’s 2 years since I left, which is some more lost time somehow, but continuing… So [Duplicate] is really useful for being out in the middle of nothing, and then came mana production and collection…”

Erick rapidly moved through his Ascension, talking in mostly broad strokes about how he went with an infinitely dense core. That was primarily for Destiny and Solomon’s use, and both of them looked highly interested in that, but Quilatalap was fascinated, too. Erick decided he’d be telling them all about that in more detail later.

For now, Erick moved on to the first ‘fight’ with Nothanganathor—

Jane interrupted, “Dad. Do the one display and we’ll turn the table or something. I feel like I’m missing a lot if I don’t watch both, or that one of them is going to turn into an actual threat. We’ve had stuff like that happen before.”

Erick paused. He looked around. “Really? I mean… I can see it on your faces. I just didn’t expect— Ah. It’s a fae-like name-calling thing, isn't it.”

Solomon said, “Displays of the wyrm have a way of turning real.”

Candice suddenly asked, “Is he a fae, dad? We’ve had debates about that.”

“No. He is not fae.” Erick said, “The scale of power goes ‘mortal-ascended-fae’, in that order. Gods are outside of the scale, and mostly weak because they don’t take direct action. I’m at the high-end of Ascended. Wizards are at the high-end of mortals.” Erick said, “Tell me about this image-attack.”

Some unsure relief passed through the group as most of them reoriented themselves on the new power scale.

And then Jane said, “The white Void Wall around Eralis in the Songli Highlands came to Red life after you left. It tried to eat Rozeta’s temple and Nirzir. Nirzir fought it off, but not without Phagar’s direct help. Eralis had been a bastion of protection before that. Now it’s a population crisis. Most people have moved away.” She added, “Phagar appointed Nirzir as his Champion after that. Phagar’s been a big help for the truly dangerous things.”

Erick breathed deep. “Oh. Shit.” Erick had a lot of complicated emotions about that. “Congrats to her, then. Um.” Erick got up from the table and said, “Let’s move some things around. Nothanganathor isn’t here though. My Authority in this place is rather absolute. He’s not here.”

Jane said, “Ophiel rescues a lot of people from the Red Sparks to this place. It’s a great temporary shelter.” She got up. “Still rather not have displays of the Red Wyrm on both sides.”

Erick nodded. They reorganized the table, and soon they were all watching one lightshow display in front of them, and Erick paid special attention to see if Nothanganathor was counter-scrying through his magic. He didn’t seem to be, but Erick stopped showing the man’s true leviathan face after Jane’s request.

Erick continued with the story.

Soon, Erick was at the part where he did the Margleknot Emergency Response Communication Yorddle, and what that all meant, while handing out notes on Layers and the Universe to everyone. He didn’t have any paper so he had to make some of that himself in the moment, so he simply used some resons to conjure paper from thin air, taking it from some universe that wasn’t using it.

Which brought Red Sparks into the space.

