Erick left that conversation for later.

Gifts for now.

Evan asked, “Can you do a western dragon? Or just the eastern style? I don’t want to be an eastern-dragon.”

Erick paused. “… Uh? You know. I never guided it that way. The dragons that happened in Tir Geal and the Endless desert all turned out either western or a little weird; probably because that’s the kinda dragon they imagined when they imagined ‘dragon’. Or maybe it was a genetic thing. Or something else. I only know 90% of how this magic works.” Erick thought for a second, then said, “I can probably force a certain form with some reson work… I’m not going to experiment on you.

“Also, the Dragon Curse is still active in the world, and that’s probably making every dragon into a leviathan-shape. We break that and we break the leviathan shape.”

Candice had been waiting for her father to finish before she said, “I don’t care about the shape. I want to be a dragon—” She glared at Evan a little. “Because the power is necessary for what is to come.”

Evan pulled back his objection, “You’re right.” He said to Erick, “Let’s do this thing. We can do the spiders later.”

Erick smiled a little.

And soon, 5 of Erick’s kids were dragons.

Every single one ended up as a western dragon of a different color, each of them maybe 25 meters long, and each of them loving it. They rapidly turned back into their normal forms, hugged their father, and then rapidly began talking with each other about strategy in the war now that they could bring more power to bear on the enemy.

Erick wanted to spend some more time with them in that conversation, but they all told Erick that Teressa wanted to talk with him.

Jane said, “The Benevolent Sky is all kinds of fucked up, changing at a moment’s notice and with each battle, but it’s thanks to Teressa and the Benevolent Sky and Kiri that we’re able to fight back in a real, tangible way. You should talk to Teressa.”

- - - -

Erick walked over to Teressa, who was sitting on a bench and looking at the Benevolent Sky beyond the edge of the Hasted Shelter. The Sky was kinda wonky right now, with white lightning everywhere and black tangles also everywhere. Erick had spent a few minutes looking at it earlier, but when he saw an attack going down at House Benevolence, he had thought hard about ending that attack, and then the prognostication of the attack had evaporated; it never happened.

The Sky was kinda unreliable right now.

Still useful for general, on-demand strategy, when forces were lined up and moving and could not change course, but not very useful for true prognostication. Such was the nature of a Wizard War.

Teressa’s little girl, Lenitha, didn’t care about any of that. Lenitha was out of her mother’s back basket and gathering flowers in a nearby field. Lenitha was something like 18 months old, but she was already out there, playing with flowers, and she had been saying words all day long. Orcols were already fast to develop, but Lenitha was above and beyond advanced.

Teressa turned as Erick got close and smiled in a wonderful sort of way. “Welcome back, Erick.”

Erick said, “I’m glad to be back. I hope my reinforcements are going to be enough.” Erick sat down on the bench next to her. “Sounds like you’ve had a rough go of it.”

Teressa chuckled. And then she sighed, tried to smile some, and then she looked away, back to the Sky.

She dropped a bomb.

“I don’t know Lenitha’s father. He was taken by the Red.”

Erick stilled. “His name is Dariok.”

‘Was’ Dariok.

Oh.

Shit.

Teressa chuckled, and then that chuckle turned dark and sad, and she whispered between the quiet sobs, “Please don’t let Lenitha see me cry. Illusions, or some— thank you.”

Erick made it look like the two of them were talking about the Sky as he put an arm around Teressa and guessed at some events that had happened while he was away. He held Teressa, and Teressa sobbed.

After a minute, when the crying slowed, Erick asked, “A Nothor Beast?”

“Or the Claw attack last month,” Teressa said, head in her hands, sobbing out some final cries. She tried to breathe deep and she eventually got herself together. She sat up straight. “Thanks, Erick.”

“I’m sorry I wasn’t here for… for any of that.”

Teressa shook her head. “Tell me about Dar—” Tears fell freely. She touched her face, feeling those tears fall, though she wasn’t sobbing anymore. The tears still came. “That’s his name, alright. He could have died to a Nothor Beast. He could have died to a Claw Event. I’m not sure. The Red didn’t take everything of him… but it took a lot. Was I close to him?”

Erick grabbed a piece of paper out of Possibility, made it into a few sheets of paper, then rapidly wrote down everything he had ever known about Dariok. And then he sealed the papers into an envelope and sealed it in Privacy magics. It had taken a single second to do all that. Teressa’s brilliant emerald eyes shimmered with lightning, Seeing what Erick had done, and then she shut the lightning off, her breath stilling. She didn’t want to Look. Not yet. She could have… But no.

Erick handed her the envelope, saying, “I can tell you some small words, but here’s all I know of him along with several pictures taken from my memories of you two. Your wedding was beautiful, and so was your courtship.”

Teressa took the fat envelope, sobbing briefly. She held the envelope to her chest.

“Tell me a story, please.”

Erick began, “Dariok and you almost met 10 years ago, at the Orrery of Rozeta, for you were both down there for the Benevolent Essence Program. He was there to learn about Prognostication and Benevolence, for he had lost his whole tribe to a Deathsoul Shroom event when he was a kid and he wanted to be sure that something like that never happened again. He went for the Prognostication stuff long ago, and going to the Benevolent Essence Program was just a step further toward that, and you were just getting into it at that point, though you were our lead Prognosticator already. You were still a Juggernaut at that time. He was a Scribe with Warrior tendencies.

“You two actually met a year later, here at the House.” Erick said, “I didn’t know it at the time, but he would eventually marry you not too long later, and then move into the cloud castle house. He was great at the grill…”

Erick spoke about Dariok, keeping his own sadness at bay, because Teressa needed him now. She had been struggling with understanding how she had had a kid and probably a few empty rooms at the cloud castle.

A half-empty closet. Two sinks in the bathroom, with only one occupied. A whole trophy room for Dariok’s hunting trophies, that was probably gone right now, or at least empty.

Erick had really liked the guy.

Teressa’s pain tore her up, but soon Lenitha came over and Erick dispelled the illusions while Teressa cleaned herself. With a steady smile, she grabbed Lenitha —who started giggling at being picked up so high— and happily said, “You haven’t truly met Erick yet, have you, little Lenitha!”

Lenitha said, “He talked a long time at dinner!” She settled onto the crook of Teressa’s arm, saying, “Hello, Wizard!”

Erick smiled brightly, saying, “Hello, Lenitha! I left when you were still in your mother’s belly. You grew up fast.”

“You were away too long!” Lenitha said, putting as much scolding into her tiny words and as much furrowing into her brow as the little girl could. “Everyone says! Why no one tell you at dinner!” She looked at Teressa. “Mom! Why not you yell! You said you would!”

Teressa had so many conflicted emotions in that moment. She decided to say, “You’re dropping words again, Lenitha. It’s ‘Why didn’t you yell at him’, and I didn’t yell because we only speak loud in true anger, okay?”

Erick chuckled, putting on a good show of not hurting inside, just like Teressa was doing, because that’s what you did for kids when you could.

- - - -

Erick didn’t sugarcoat anything with Ophiel as he held the red version of his son tight, saying, “I missed you so much and I want to be here more, but there’s a war on. I’m so sorry for leaving like I did. Are you okay? Talk to me about anything and everything while you can, while we can be here and be safe and happy.”

Red, Yellow, Orange, and Cyan were with him, here in a grove away from the others. Ophiel’s other bodies were elsewhere, as Erick guessed they usually were. Erick didn’t get to spend much time with Ophiel after he was born; not nearly enough time at all.

Red softly spoke against Erick’s chest, “It’s been scary, but we survived.” Cyan said, “I missed you!” Orange said, “Yggdrasil has been a jerk!” Yellow added, “He wouldn’t tell me everything all the time! Terrible brother!” Red pulled away, because Cyan was softly saying it was his turn, and then Erick was hugging Cyan as Red said, “I know that Yggdrasil had ‘ ‘ ‘responsibilities ’ ’ ’. Still not happy about that. Never gonna be." Yellow added, “It was so annoying!” Orange said, “He did it for the good of everyone but I can still be mad at him.” Red asked, “Right? Can I be mad?”

Erick hugged Yellow as he said, “Yes, you can certainly still be mad. You can be mad at me, too. I’m very sorry I had to go away for that long.”

All four of Ophiel went a little still. Then Cyan mumbled, “We’re just a little mad.” Purple stepped out of Cyan, saying, “Just a little!”

Purple had shown up out of nowhere, and now there were 5 Ophiel around Erick. Erick was pretty sure that Purple had died trying to do something or save someone somewhere else, and now he was here.

Ophiel was still doing that.

Purple clambered to hug Erick next and Yellow made way.

Erick hugged Purple, saying, “I’ll try to make it up to you, Ophiel. I really will.” Erick hugged Purple a bit tighter, and all of them liked that. “Can you tell me about the war?”

Red said, “It’s been bad.” Purple climbed off, saying, “I stopped a Nothor Beast eruption in Minotown. I died—” Purple rapidly realized he had fucked up by mentioning that. They all did. Purple rapidly added, “But I got my full mana production back a year ago! That’s good news!” Happily, Yellow said, “I can do a lot more!”

Erick smiled and focused on the good. “That’s great! I thought it was going to take a long time.”

“I healed faster inside Benevolence Itself,” Red said. Yellow added, “Rozeta helped.” And then Cyan looked away. All of them looked away, and they stilled. Cyan looked back. “You told Teressa about Dariok.”

Erick had briefly worried that something horrible was happening.

Just some horror with his loved ones, though.

Erick softly nodded, as a bunch of leaps of logic came to him. At least Ophiel had known of Dariok, so there were ways to prevent Erasure from affecting everything aside from that Establishment ritual that they had done half a day ago. Perhaps sometimes the Erasures were just badly done? Could a person be brought back from that?

How had Ophiel survived that Erasure intact?

Oh.

Ophiel had survived a lot of Erasures.

Dariok was just one Erasure that Ophiel had been privy to knowing.

How many people did Ophiel know, which were no longer here?

Erick picked up Cyan because Cyan looked like he wanted to be picked up, and held him, saying, “You’ve been very brave. You’ve been picking up all these broken pieces of lives and memories and holding onto them as best you could, not knowing how to tell people what they had lost. Some people have held on in small ways to those who were Erased, but you held on in all the ways. That must have been tough.”

Every Ophiel went wide-eyed and then their eyes filled with tears. Erick held on to his son for a while, and they held onto him in turn.

Eventually, stories came out.

Of Dariok, who had lived with Erick and who had been Teressa’s husband for years.

Of Guildmaster Mog of Spur, whom Erick had first met when she bull rushed Bulgan and kicked that bastard out of Spur’s Adventurer’s Guild. She was Erased, and no one knew she should have existed.

Of the entire city of Pearl, of the Sovereign Cities, falling to a Descending Claw of Red. Everyone thought there were just 3 Sovereign Cities now; or 4, because some people still thought of North and South Curio as separate places.

Of others, in other lands.

The animation of Rozeta’s Wall in Eralis in the Songli Highlands had been bad. Half of that city had been Erased. Most of the damage was done to the population itself, with the Claw only striking back at defenders when those defenders proved able to fight.

But mostly, Nothanganathor went after the people. He assassinated targets of opportunity when he could, but mostly he went after the people.

The lands around Stratagold had fallen to a Descending Claw, too, but the city itself had been mostly spared. It had been cracked open like an egg, though.

Ophiel wasn’t sobbing anymore. He was just explaining, as he said, “Stratagold knew something was wrong, dad. They knew their city shouldn’t have a hole in it, but they acted like it should. I spent hours talking to them all, telling them that they had been attacked. Rozeta had to come in and tell them, too. At first the gods told people what they had lost, but… Not anymore. It’s too painful for everyone.”

Ophiel wasn’t talking across multiple bodies anymore. Most of him had vanished off into the rest of Benevolence Itself. Just Red was talking with Erick right now, the two of them sitting on a bench.

Erick stared out at the Benevolent Sky, beyond the [Hasted Shelter]. It was white and full of lightning with ten thousand black tangles here and there. It hadn’t been that bad before Erick had left. Now it was bad.

“Nothanganathor is killing people most of all, to make this entire world non-viable,” Erick said, softly, with quiet horror in his voice. “How bad is it, Ophiel?”

“We got a lot of people when the Merge of Worlds happened. Minotaurs; a few million. They’re great guys. Mostly the angels and demons got bodies and… They’re kinda problems, but they’re making mana and… But… of the 550 million we had, we’ve got 232 million people left,” Ophiel said, frustrated. “4.5 billion right now, but… most of those are the dead come back to life.”

From an estimated 550 million to 232 million. Half the living world, gone, and dead civilizations returned.

Gods.

This was a horror.

Erick held Ophiel as Ophiel cried again, sobbing about how stupid angels and stupid demons kept going to war while Claws descended, or when Leviathans rose. He spoke of how Avandrasolaro was helping with all that, but he was fighting a losing battle.

