When Ophiel stopped crying, Erick sat in silence with him, just holding him.

He gazed upon many things at that moment. Through Benevolence Itself, Erick looked upon all of Ophiel as almost all of them were taking breaks now, three of them sleeping, crashed out after the emotional turmoil, but Blue still watched the Benevolent Sky, plotting courses to his next actions. There were so many actions to take.

Erick saw Jane, who was talking strategy with Candice, both of them clearly leaders of some sort in the world’s collective army. They called themselves the Blue Corps, and their sign was a solid blue circle on the right arms of their jackets. They even had little yellow chevrons and other markings of rank, which looked very Earth-like, honestly. Abigail, Bethany, and Evan were there, also talking strategy. They were less highly-ranked than Jane and Candice, according to their markings, but they were still ranked high. They were using this time to digest everything that Erick had given them, because there had been a lot to digest. Evan seemed to have developed some sort of Book Magic to help organize, and that’s what he was doing; he had some sort of role in the House according to the insignia he wore. Abigail seemed to be low ranked in the Blue Corps; maybe logistics? Bethany had some ‘first strike’ insignia; she was probably the first into any battlefield. Candice and Jane seemed to be ‘heavy hitters’, whatever that meant.

And now they were all dragons.

Solomon, Destiny, Quilatalap, and Poi were all talking about Soul Magic and ‘Universal Marks’. Enchanter’s Guile, the gold fae fox that rested on Solomon’s arm when not in fox form, sat to the side, listening, and occasionally talking. He and Quilatalap seemed to be getting along, so that was great. Guile hadn’t wanted to show when Erick had been around, though… And now that Erick was Looking, Guile noted that and excused himself. He retreated back to Solomon’s arm. There was a short delay of concern over that, but Quilatalap rapidly pulled the conversation back to topic.

Erick turned his Sight away so that Guile could rejoin them.

Teressa was still with her daughter, Lenitha. Teressa had not yet cracked the seal on the information packet about Dariock. That packet was in her jacket, and her hand was over the pocket that held it. Lenitha was having fun picking flowers and showing them to her mom, and Teressa didn’t want to interrupt that.

Erick held on to Ophiel, and said, “We’re going to solve some of those problems soon, Ophiel. I’m going to strengthen the doors and plug the holes.” He asked, “Can you go over the categories of monsters, now? What kinda threats are we looking at.”

Red sniffled, then said, “The Beasts are easy when you can see them. Mostly you can’t… Normal people can’t. You can. I can. Yggdrasil can. Gods can only be in so many places, it seems. Phagar is doing the most help. Melemizargo is… having trouble.” Red said, “Nothanganathor is trying to eat Melemizargo’s worshipers out from under him the most. Ascended Mountain is a wasteland. The shadelings all moved to Candlepoint. It’s been tough there, too.”

Erick nodded. “That was one of Nothanganathor’s main ways to fight Melemizargo; kill the worshipers.”

Ophiel breathed deep and seemed better as he said, “Then there are the Claws. When enough Beasts gather they form Claws. Big things. Mostly invisible monsters that rip through population centers and Erase everyone they kill. They’re like… 50 meters tall and super fast. They’re as strong as the Ancients that Melemizargo used to empower.

“And then there are the Leviathans.

“We’ve only had one Leviathan-level threat and it came from Eralis’s former Void Wall. It ate half the city before we killed it.” Ophiel frowned, saying, “That one only existed because three-or-four Claws had been circling the area, eating and eliminating outlying lands and the Clans weren’t fighting them properly. The Claws got all of Clan Star Song and half of Void Song before the Claws made their appearance. They carved the Void Wall into Nothanganathor’s likeness, making it an avatar of him… And then the leviathan ate half the city.”

It was another pair of gut punches among gut punches.

Erick asked, “Patriarch Xue Star Song? Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song?”

Ophiel sniffled, his eyes going dim. “Xue is gone. Jane remembers him but… Lingxing is… not all there anymore.” He hugged Erick from the side, his wings wrapping around Erick as much as they could, along with his arms. “I miss them, dad.”

Erick held Ophiel, asking, “How are people able to survive at all?”

“The dungeons.” Ophiel said, “It wasn’t a well-done system before, but now it is. People evacuate to the dungeons fast in a Red alert. Jane and Candice formed the Blue Corps and they got help from Melemizargo to do that and they’re doing that. The Shades are doing that, too…” Ophiel said, “There are a few more Shades, dad.”

Erick huffed out a quick, almost exhausted laugh. “Who?”

“Al, from Spur,” Ophiel quickly said, to get it all out there as fast as he could. “The Red took Mog but it also took Savral; Al’s son.” Softer, “A pair of Claws tried to Erase Spur… they got kinda far.” Even softer, and looking away, “I forgot to say about Savral earlier… There’s been a lot.”

Erick took a moment.

And then he stood up, controlling his rage, though the sky roiled with more lightning anyway. Erick calmly said, “I need to talk to some gods now, Ophiel. I love you so much. You did a great job while I was gone, and now I’m going to pick up where you left off, Okay? I’ll be back soon.”

Ophiel hugged him once more. “Okay.”

Erick held the hug until Ophiel let go himself. It took a few minutes, but it was minutes that Erick was more than willing to spare.
