Erick ruthlessly crushed the Red, saying, “Well fuck you too, Nothanganathor. So that’s a trap there. Don’t use resons without specifically targeting a universe that doesn’t have his influence. Like this.” Erick raised his hand and pulled some paper out of the air, and this time the paper was perfectly normal and clear of influence… it had also cost a good 25 resons to do that. “So that should have cost 1 reson, since I was plucking from side realities in this Layer, but it cost 25, which means that other side realities are pretty far away from this slice of reality.”

Destiny nodded as Erick spoke, and then said, “Wizardry has gotten harder.”

“I’m surprised you could do that at all,” Solomon said. “Without inviting the Red in.”

Jane asked, “You’ve quantified Wizardry?”

Erick said, “No. That wasn’t Wizardry—” Destiny was about to argue, and she’d be right to argue, but Erick looked to her and rapidly added, “It was close, but it wasn’t Wizardry. They’re the same thing, but different. Maybe resonwork is Small Wizardry? I’m not sure. What I did was pull from side realities with resons. Grand Wizardry is more an expression of Authority, I would say. Resons are merely the magic of the Fractal Universe—” Erick panicked as he realized something.

The valkyries would have used some resons naturally, just to do stuff that they normally did. They knew it would be harder to do that sort of thing here, and a lot of them weren’t very good at that magic yet, but resons were the innate magic of this universe, and so people in-the-know about all that would use resons when they wanted to do stuff.

And Erick’s valkyries were in-the-know.

“I need to check on—” Erick rapidly stepped away from the table and opened a portal to the valkyrie center, saying, “—the valkyries… which are fine.”

Through a distortion of time, there was Aloethag, all orcolish, and Phagar, looking like Erick, sitting in a fractal waiting area, in front of the valkyrie center. They were having tea with each other on a nice white table, along with a few others. There was Nirzir and some orcols from Treehome, along with Shivraa.

Phagar, Aloethag, and Nirzir were the only ones moving at a normal speed. Everyone else was slowed down to 1/60th time. This was because Erick was viewing them at an increased time rate, and when someone viewed the God of Time with Time, then Phagar easily looked back at whoever was looking at him. All gods did that, of course, but Phagar did this more than all the rest.

Champion Nirzir seemed able to do this, too. She rapidly turned around when Erick opened the portal. She smiled and said, “Erick!”

Phagar interrupted, “We’ve caught all the problems that could have happened here with this resonwork magic. It’s a problem we’ve been working on for two years now, and we expected your people to try it, so we were ready for it. Take your time with your family.”

Erick sighed in relief. He smiled, and said, “Hello, Nirzir. Hello, Aloethag, Phagar. Thanks for watching out for this. I wasn’t aware that resonwork would be trapped.”

Phagar said, “You’ve got some time to fix that. We hope you have a truly good solution, because we haven’t been able to find one. As for the war: We expect Claws to descend in 6 real hours, which means it could happen between 4 and 8 hours from now, or 10 days at your current rate of time alteration. The timeframe of arrival gets smaller and smaller as we get closer and closer, which is why I can only give you an estimation. We’d like you there to combat a few of them. See what you can do. But until then, take some time with your family. You got about a week at your current rate of acceleration.”

Erick felt supreme relief. “Thank you. We won’t take all that time.”

Phagar nodded.

Aloethag asked, “I’m—”

Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, appeared on the other side of the portal, in the tea-time meeting, saying, “I love everything about the valkyries. They will be fantastic warriors. They are Propagation, though, so they are disallowed. However you manage to make it work, my generals will want to be a part of this magic.”

The God of Righteous War was adamant in his suggestion/demand.

Erick had no problem saying, “Of course.”

Aloethag said, “I want to help with this magic, Erick. With as much Carnage and Blood that is inside this magic, I can easily connect it to the Red Dream. This spell will never go wayward if you do this.” Aloethag added, “But I want the spell pledged to me.”

“Sorry, Aloethag,” Erick said, feeling glad that he could be completely honest here, “The spell is already pledged to the defense of the universe under the Fractal, and they already cleared up all those sorts of issues.” He said to everyone, “It won’t be allowed here on Veird, where my Siphon seems artificially minimized, but it’ll work well outside of Veird, which is where it needs to work. We’ll talk more about that later. I’m catching up with my family. Thank you for ensuring that the stuff I brought with me isn’t a problem. I foresaw many issues, but not the reson issue.”

Sumtir and Aloethag looked like they both had more words to have over that proclamation—

But Phagar moved on, saying, “The side-slices of Veird are all infected minimally. It started a while ago, and we believed it was to corrupt all attempts at Small Wizardry. We didn’t have the words to understand what was happening until today. Think of a fix, if you can, Erick.”

Erick said, “Let’s put that on the docket as the next thing to fix, to make the ways in harder.”

Phagar nodded. “We have some good news: there have been many attempted ‘Erasures’ but all of them were thwarted. The people still got damaged heavily by Nothor Beasts and other workings of Malevolence, but Rozeta patched-in some Child Protections for anyone who was affected. [Greater Treat Wounds] on everyone suffering from a Malevolence attack was enough to end that secondary threat.” He added, “You could work for years to fix things and still not be done, so go be with your family for now, Erick. We’ve got this.”

Erick was a little nervous, but not overmuch. He nodded. He closed the portal. He turned back to his family, and sat back down, saying, “I wasn’t aware resonwork was trapped. We’ll be fixing that soon.”

Solomon asked, “How would you fix that?”

Erick cast some imagery into the air, and began, “At first thought, I’ll be making Benevolence mana-dungeons and then attaching them to this spell called [Spellsurge Weave] along with [Benevolent Cleanse], and…”

The magic talk didn’t last too long, because Erick could see that Jane, Poi, and Evan wanted to get back to the tactical information regarding Margleknot.

So Erick got back to the story.

- - - -

Eventually, Erick spoke of his first meeting with Nothanganathor and the following events with the Fae Council, in complete detail.

Solomon sat back in his chair, saying, “Fuck. I’m even more angry now. The fucker really did tank your entire Wraithborne anti-Contract strategy, didn’t he?”

Erick said, “Wraithborne might be speaking to Tir Geal now that I’m not there, but yeah.”

Erick continued, speaking of fallouts and otherwise.

Eventually, he was done.

Dinner was long done by then, which was a good thing. Erick had ruined all of Quilatalap’s great meal with his terrible news and debriefing, but he would make it up to the man later as much as he could. He would find a way to make up for the Shadow-betrothal-thing, too.

But for now, Erick said, “I’m sorry for ruining the great meal, Quilatalap.”

Quilatalap blinked as he processed that apology, along with all the other stuff he was processing. “Don’t worry about it. I have more in other places for us to share.” And then he went silent again, to stare at the image of Nothanganathor’s avatar, floating in front of the table.

Everyone was silent.

Erick waited.

And then Jane spoke for all of her siblings, it seemed, as she spoke on a topic that everyone had avoided like the plague when it had come up.

“Of course mom’s a Malevolent bitch. I’d believe that more than anything else.” And then Jane stood, and said, “Okay! So! Let’s break for talks. Guys?” She looked to her siblings.

People moved.

In small discussions here and there, everyone spoke about everything that they had learned, and about how that lined up with what was happening on Veird.

Erick went into the house. Quilatalap followed.

When they were relatively alone, Erick wrapped Quilatalap in a hug and then held him for a while.

Quilatalap held Erick in turn.

Erick said, “So I’m betrothed. Sorry.”

Quilatalap chuckled. “You can make it up to me later, in private.”

Erick felt warm again.

And Quilatalap grinned.

- - - -

The rapid consensus was that if they hadn’t heard it all from Erick, they would not believe it.

Poi said, “I still don’t believe it all. Nothing in the Crossroads says anything about this stuff. It’s like you stepped out of some ‘Other Layer’… And I suppose you did.”

The two of them sat next to each other under a big tree, for Erick wanted to do some [Telepathy] work. And he also wanted to just talk to Poi.

Erick said, “Yggdrasil told you all some of this stuff, right?”

“In the broadest of strokes. ‘The enemy is out there and powerful and here are some measures you can take to avoid him’ sort of strokes. He was not forthcoming. Not entirely.”

Poi was having a lot of trouble right now, and Erick knew that most of that trouble came from him not being able to passively read Erick like he always used to do. For a Mind Mage, not being able to sense the mind of another was like someone brandishing an open knife. Poi might not have been able to read Erick right now, but Erick wasn’t doing anything to hide his own emotions on his own face, so Poi picked up on that much at least.

Poi said, “And it’s really hard to see you as you like this. I know you’ve probably already empathy-read me that way, which is why I guess you’re approaching me first after the talk… It’s hard to believe we have little ‘Fractal Marks’ inside of us all, too.”

Erick smiled softly. “See? You don’t need telepathy to read me that well at all!”

“Har har,” Poi sarcastically said… And then he softened. “It’s good you’re back.”

“I missed you, too, Poi.”

Poi chuckled once. And then he breathed, and asked, “So where do you want to start with this whole thing?”

“I want you to be able to read me, and then tell me if you can mind control me at all, and maybe not in that order. We’ll see what happens. But I do want you to do everything you can to try and influence me mentally.”

Poi breathed deep. “… Thought you might say that. Is your goal here to learn Mind Magic?”

“Hmm… Somewhat. Not really. I’m not sure. This is going to get complicated.”

Poi nodded. “Give me the complicated.”

Erick began, “Until new information presents itself I’m 95% certain that Nothanganathor cannot do Mind Magic like you can, for a variety of reasons, but he can still notice Mind Magic being done.

“Basically, Nothanganathor has a Fractal Mark, a Dark Mark, and probably more Marks that may or may not matter, but I can’t plan on those other ones; I can only plan around the Fractal and the Dark.

“Everyone on Veird who uses any sort of Mind Magic at all has a Dark Mark in them, which is the thing that makes mana, but also a Fractal Mark, inside [Telepathy] and such. It’s a mutated mark, but it’s still a Big Deal. Perhaps Mind Mages have a more basic Mark inside of them; I don’t know, I’m not a Mind Mage, and I can’t really see your soul all that well and I’m not about to be invasive about my search just yet.

“Anyway: I need to have some way to interact in the mental-arena that allows me a weapon to use against him, and a weapon to protect myself from whatever his ‘Sign of Power’ can do. I assume it consumes people who he has weakened first, or something like that; like a Mind Mage that consumes the minds of others.

“That’s the theory.

“Now here’s the evidence for that theory:

“The Fractal Universe does not give out Marks like the Dark gives out Marks, with every single person touched by mana going on to produce mana through the Dark. The Fractal Universe is actually quite picky about their Marks. I don’t think Nothanganathor had a Mark at all, but instead he has stolen Margleknot’s Mark, and that Mark was already made to do a few things, like contain lives and memories.

“And Nothanganathor can’t adjust it that much. Sure, he adjusted it to eat the Painted Cosmology, but he can’t use it normally.

“It is because his Fractal Mark —which is about connecting and communication— is consumptive and containment-oriented, that he could eat timelines when people spoke of the Red, back when talking about the Red was a problem, and why Mind Mages were hit particularly hard when they encountered that Anti-Meme, because Mind Mages were naturally interacting with another Fractal Mark when they interacted with that particular Anti-Meme, and there was some sort of resonance-eating happening there.

“So opening my own [Telepathy] spell and taking the Mark out of there to use it as-is would probably not work out very well, for a variety of reasons. The Mark of the Mind Mages seems particularly susceptible to Nothanganathor’s influence, because he completely Erased all the options that made the Mind Mage Mark able to fight him.

“And so, I want to make my Mark the opposite of susceptible to him.

“I’m not sure how to do that.

“So I want you to hit me with some Mind Magic and see what happens. This is very basic testing, at the moment. Advanced testing would be me trying to purchase more Mind Magics from the Script to try and pull them apart and see what makes them all tick, in order to build an anti-Nothanganathor Fractal Mark… or something like that.

“And yet, that may or may not be the way forward, to make Mind Mages truly strong against Nothanganathor.

“The original Fractal Mark that Melemizargo used to make Mind Magic was incredibly vulnerable to Nothanganathor once it was outside of Melemizargo’s direct oversight. What you all have today is an evolutionary result of what remains beyond Melemizargo’s direct protection. I clearly need to be having this conversation with him, too, but I’ll have big conversations with him later, and I don’t want to get into it with him right now.

