“And so, I might ask you to let me see your soul later, to look at your own Mark directly, but the Script obfuscates the soul a whole lot more than I knew it did. Right now your soul is all cloudy. That’s not how it is outside the Script.” Erick said, “My own soul seems unchanged, though the edges of it are kinda cloudy.

“Real souls are all glitter-crystal and incredibly easy to see, once you start Looking.”

Poi listened, and Erick could tell that he was purposefully remembering everything Erick said, both because it was important, and also Poi was kinda terrified at all of Erick’s tearing-down of everything that Mind Mages thought they were. Incredibly strong against everyone? No, not really. ‘Bred to be easy to control’ was more correct.

Other people in other groups had stopped talking to listen in.

Way over there, Jane softly said to her group, “Well that’s fucking nuts.”

Erick remembered something. He called out to the Janes and Evan, “Oh yeah, you guys! I have really special spiders for all of you! They make the strongest, best threads known in the universe! The spiders and the threads are unbreakable unless exposed to destructive resonwork and if they break then they just regrow with an application of one’s own resons. The spiders are kinda cute, but the fabric is absolutely amazing. I’ll have to show you my outfits sometimes! Really great stuff.”

And now they were distracted in much better ways.

Erick turned back to Poi, smirking a little. Erick was there for Poi, but Poi was still on his own to deal with what Erick had told him.

Poi steeled himself; to lock away all his thoughts of Marks and evolutionary mutation and interactions with Nothanganathor. “Thanks for the theories. I’ll be talking to others about them. Moving on to [Mind Control].” He asked, “You sure about this?”

“Do it.”

Poi reached out with his tendrils of thought and plunged them into Erick’s body… and he only got half a millimeter in. Less than that, actually. Poi frowned. He pulled back. He said, “Okay. So. First problem. It’s like sticking a finger against a solid wall. That’s… not how a mind usually is. That’s not even how a Shade is. This is completely new territory for me.”

“That’s the infinite density; the out-flowing river.” Erick glanced at his Status. “Try again.”

Poi tried again. Ten seconds later he stopped. “I don’t think I can get in at all.”

Erick said, “I don’t think you can, either, which is both good and bad. You know how I said I gave myself a mini-Script with ‘Psyche’ as the mental resource? You were knocking a few hundred points of damage against that wall with every attempt.”

“Hundreds of points?” Poi frowned a little, thinking a whole lot of thoughts, some of them confused. His frown deepened. “And you said you had billions of Psyche?”

Erick nodded.

Poi said, “A billion-health shield is… It’s insane, you know.” And then Poi smiled, and laughed. And then he sighed, happy. Poi looked at Erick, and said, “I’m glad to hear that. Could you do that for everyone on Veird?”

“… Huh.”

Erick hadn’t thought of that sort of solution because there were so many holes in the idea that it never occurred to him, but…

Erick seriously considered the option.

Eventually, half a minute later, Erick said, “That’s one possible way to win this war; just help everyone Ascend. But that seems impossible. It takes a lot of self-resources to make this whole system inside of me work. Most people simply do not produce the resources needed to maintain this system, and the Script certainly could not handle doing this for everyone. For starters, we’d need to have everyone accrete fully, and they’d need the resources to accrete fully, all on their own, and then… The Script just doesn’t support that, so we’re dead in the water in the first step.” He added, “I might ask Rozeta about adding some of this functionality to the Script Itself, to make the Script unassailable, but even that likely won’t work. The Script is already trillions of mana dense, but it’s a soft density, filled with people connecting to it and interacting with it all the time. It’s a woven basket of connection ports.

“I don’t think I can help make the Script more resilient itself. Maybe I can talk to Rozeta and she can do something? Not sure.

“I will, however, be helping everyone Ascend who can Ascend.

“At the very least, I’m pretty sure that I can write a good Ascension Manual for a Personal Script that will help Destiny and Solomon Ascend. That’ll give us a lot more options for a better defense.” Erick added, “You’re not supposed to do that for others because Ascension is very personal…” Erick glanced over at Solomon and Destiny, who were talking with Quilatalap about Ascension, and now looking over his way. Erick called out to them, “Was the talk at dinner enough? Or do you want a whole thing?”

“The whole thing!” Destiny said.

Solomon said, “Curated Ascension Manual for a Personal Script.”

Quilatalap said, “I want to know about ‘growing the Dark Mark’ with an Awakening Machine…” He trailed off, then added, “Just. All of that.”

Erick smiled. “Sure.”

They all nodded.

Erick turned back to Poi. “Some people will Ascend. You want help Ascending? You’d need more resources, first.”

Erick let the implication hang in the air.

Poi breathed deep, then he said, “Based on this new information about Mind Magic and Fractal Marks… I need to learn how to use these ‘resons’, yeah?”

“Ascension through Fractal power is a lot harder than through Veird’s mana-based way. I’m still at step 2 of a 4 step program there. Step 1 is recognizing resons. Step 2 is cultivating them. Step 3 is full-body saturation, which can be broken into anywhere between 1 or 10s of individual steps. Step 4 is Ascension— Which is kind of a misnomer, there.” Erick said, “You can only really ‘Ascend’ once and I already did that with mana from the Dark… Well… That’s beyond the scope of today. There are almost no people who Ascend through resons. Everyone uses other universal powers… And let’s not go there today.”

Poi smirked and nodded. “Lectures another day.”

Erick chuckled. “Sure. I’m pretty sure that as soon as I get this [Telepathy] working, we’ll have a whole bunch of Mind Mages Ascending to power, or at least that’s what my Lightning Path is telling me.” Erick said, “You should probably quarantine yourself if this works, at least for a little while. You also might need to accept a Benevolent Dragoning.”

Poi had waited for Erick to say that. “I might have to actually do that, huh?”

“Not guaranteed, but being Ascended is about limiting the ways in which you can be influenced while increasing your influence upon the rest of the world, so you do need some influence of your own to be able to do that second part better. Being a dragon makes your influence bigger.” Erick said, “I have reson cultivation manuals that you can read, though, if you’d rather—”

Poi snapped his talons. “That. Yes. I’ll read those later.”

Erick chuckled.

Poi said, “Let’s do this [Telepathy], thing. Hit me.”

“Hit you?” Erick joked, “I don’t think I want to do that.”

Poi laughed, and then that laugh became a simple smile.

It was good to see the man happy. He probably wasn’t very happy for a long time.

Erick had used [Telepathy] outside of Veird, but it had fucked up when he came back to Veird and it wasn’t working at all. Back in the Endless Desert, Erick had used [Telepathy] to connect to the time worm, but that connection had rebounded with a whole lot of False Damage in an ‘I don’t want to talk to you’ sort of way, so Erick had adjusted that small part of [Telepathy] that he could remove the possibility of False Damage. Erick didn’t tell Poi about that, though. He wanted to know what Poi felt with Erick’s [Telepathy], without being told about it beforehand.

“I’m going to use my [Telepathy] now.”

Poi steeled himself. “Ready.”

With a tiny, soft voice, Erick sent, ‘hello.’

Poi scrunched his face. He paused in thought, and then he tried to connect a telepathic tendril to Erick’s mind again. Nothing happened.

Which was fan-fucking-tastic! Erick had worried about… Any number of weird outcomes. ‘Nothing’ was a great outcome for right now.

Poi asked, “Say that again? I heard… something soft.”

Erick breathed a sigh of relief. And then he sent a normal-volume, ‘Hello.’

“I got a ‘Hello’ that time, but… It’s like you’re… upwind in a hurricane. You’re all distorted. I’m throwing my voice back to you, but it’s being pushed back… somehow.” Poi scrunched his face. “This is a weird interaction. I have never had this interaction before.”

“Try to deny my connection.” And then Erick sent, ‘Hello.’

Poi blinked. He narrowed his eyes at Erick. “I’m not entirely sure, but I think you… You did something.” Poi said, “It’s a rare mutation of [Telepathy], so it’s not unheard of, but sometimes some people can send out messages and not be denied at all. I still got your message. That should not have been possible for an untrained Mind Mage… But I guess you’ve uncovered something about Mind Magic that no one else knows about, so... Sure? Sure.”

Erick smiled a little, then held out a bit of his aura and made a little lightshow of the soul crystal that was [Telepathy]. It was all glitter crystal inside, but surrounded by Benevolence Crystal, and it had a few inputs and outputs. “So when I frameshift myself to view [Telepathy] inside my soul —the version that I gained when I Ascended and codified my Script-based soul magic into myself, anyway— this is what it looks like. I imagine that other people’s crystals look kinda the same, but maybe not! Who knows; not me. Rozeta, probably. Ascendant Prime? Perhaps. Anyway. You see this little bit here? That’s the input and output, while this bit over here is for the connection to the mind, and...”

Soon, Poi was not alone in the lesson, because Solomon, Destiny, and Quilatalap had seen Erick move on to soul stuff and they needed to be involved. Erick welcomed them to the talk, and Poi was glad to have them here for this part, too. Poi had stuck his toes into the deep well that was Soul Magic years ago, but after Erick’s disappearance he went further with that stuff. Not nearly as deep as ‘whatever this crazy stuff is, Erick’, as Poi put it. But still kinda deep. He could necromance, if he wanted, but he did not want that.

It was wonderful to talk magic with the people he loved.

A mere three hours later, everyone decided that they needed to do some quite literal soul searching.

So Erick got to grabbing presents for the Janes and Evan.

- - - -

Soon, Erick stood with 5 of his kids around several boxes, each of the boxes a good 2 meters cubed. The lids were off, revealing cloying mists and sleeping spiders. Each spider was from the same species, so they all looked mostly the same, but they varied in their colored bands around their bodies, marking some of them like police caution tape.

Erick said, “They’re really, really expensive. A hundred million resons per adult spider. That’s enough rice to feed a hundred million people for a month. They live forever, though, once they’re settled in and starting to catch resons in the air, and as long as they aren’t killed, but that’s kinda difficult. They don’t eat meat or plants or anything like that. They just sit on their glowthread nests and start soaking in the resons in the air, ignoring practically everything because they’re pretty much indestructible when they’re eating.”

Candice whistled. “Indestructible?”

“There has to be a catch,” Jane said.

“Of course there’s a catch,” Evan said. “They don’t have fangs or anything like that. They look harmless.”

Erick nodded, saying, “They’re kinda harmless, yeah, as long as you don’t get caught in their web, then you’ll go to sleep as they drain off all the resons in your body. They’ll kick you away if you look to die because they don’t like messes around their homes, so no one really dies around these guys. That’s how they bred them; very clean spiders, and very hard to kill. They are rather strong against all sorts of magical creatures, too, because their drains are rather like Siphons. I’m rather sure that you can do a lot with that.”

Jane strongly said, “Oh yeah.”

Erick smirked. Then he continued, “Over there in that box we have juveniles that I’ll be releasing into this gate space to have them become a part of the natural habitat. They don’t eat people, so it should be fine. And then we’ll get Benevolence glowthread.”

“Is that actually useful?” Candice asked, “In an anti-Malevolence way?”

Erick shrugged. “Probably not. But it’ll make really nice clothes that regrow!”

There were a few chuckles.

Erick smiled, then said, “Over here we have 2 lightweavers; they grow thread from light-based resonwork sources. Darkweavers over here; not Dark, but just dark. Shadow weavers. Heat, cold, electricity, and stillness; red, cyan, electric purple, and pale yellow. Those are the only ones I could get. Not even sure if you’d even be able to use them for [Polymorph], since they’re not from around here and they have no experience with mana… There’s a lot of ‘ifs’ up in here. If you want to use them, you can try. Might need to let them sit somewhere for the Script to recognize them and for mana to soak into them, though, so you can get a life imprint.

“Also, I want to grant each of you a Benevolence Dragon form.” Erick looked to them all, and they all looked a variation of suddenly-concerned. “It’s time to accept some real help, Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Evan.”

Erick was prepared to put his foot down this time. He hoped he wouldn’t have to do that. He hoped the girls and Evan would finally see reason. Yes, they would be mad for a while, but even if they didn’t get over that, they’d be alive, and that was enough for Erick.

Erick waited.

Jane steeled herself. “Yes. It’s time.”

And that opened the floodgates. Relief flooded Erick—

And Abigail softly nodded. “Yup. Okay.”

Beth said, “Yeah.”

Evan said, “Yeah.”

Candice smiled a little. “Thank the fucking gods because holy shit yes I want to be a dragon.”

Erick snorted in a sudden laugh. For a brief moment, Erick was thrilled. His kids finally wanted the power that he wanted to give them… And then he realized that things must be really bad for them to actually want the power now. They had talked about some of how bad it was… but not really. Erick had seen some of the world… but not really.

