The ambush on Nigel’s team came hard and fast. No less than nine gold-rank vampire lords and dozens of silver ranks poured through doorways, clambered through holes in the ceiling and even burst through the floor. Higgy’s shield magic was powerful, at the peak of silver rank, but was not up to blocking gold-rankers unenhanced. Neil’s Hero’s Moment spell gave him a powerful boost, but he still focused on protecting his silver-rank teammates. He trusted his gold rank allies to do their part.

Nigel’s twin pistols blazed light from the barrels. A sun essence had given him the power of light bullets that, at his current rank, were anathema to the vampires. Neil was also proving that he, while not an attacker himself, was more than capable of fending them off. His Burst Shield power provided short-lived but critically timed shields that blasted vampires off the floor and ceiling like pinballs. One even shot a vampire lord on a flat trajectory to bounce out of the building altogether. With more than sixty storeys to fall, through the light of day, that took one of the vampire lords out of the fight.

Neil also managed to summon his chrysalis golem, which added a powerful defender to the group. His Reels of Fortune spell was another powerful asset, a conjured set of slot machine reels. They periodically rolled to deliver boons and healing to allies, or afflictions and damage to enemies. The effects were random, but ranged from strong to outlandishly powerful. One jackpot roll sent out swarms of tiny suns, that annihilated a dozen silver-rank vampires, one of the vampire lords and the blood oak, sneaking up on the team.

Remy proved to be a dark horse, the vampires finding his dimensional manipulation powers to be tricky and dangerous. He had the same Juxtaposition power as Clive, allowing him to switch-teleport allies and enemies. A vampire about to savage a member of the team would suddenly find itself attack its own allies. Neil, familiar with the tactic, was always ready to shield the team member suddenly dropped into the enemy line.

It was clear that the vampires had sent powerful members to the ambush, armed with bizarre powers, blood magic expertise and raw numbers. Many of those were foiled or even returned to their attackers by miniature portals popping up across the battlefield. Alongside them were dancing blades with only two dimensions, so sharp that even gold-rank limbs were in danger of being severed.

The fight was brutal, but the need to defend the silver rankers on Nigel’s team was proving the weak link. Remy tried to portal them out, but the vampires recognised the threat, either disrupting his attempts by harassing him, or destabilising the portals with their own magic.

On the verge of being overwhelmed, Neil used one of his most powerful abilities to draw his allies into a dimensional space. The Reaper’s Redoubt power gave his allies succour and plunged his enemies into darkness. Magical protections were shattered by resonating force magic, blood shields falling apart and hardened flesh cracking open. Vampiric bodies had their life force tainted with death energy, causing their bodies to rapidly necrotise. The normally powerful vampiric recovery was hampered by afflictions that crippled any kind of healing or recovery.

While secured away, Neil and his allies rapidly recovered mana. Neil made sure everyone was healed as Nigel regrouped the team and laid out the plan for the next stage of the battle. They steeled themselves to resume the fight when the power ended, only to find one man standing amongst the fallen vampires. He was casually draining the life force from a vampire lord hanging limply in his grip, while the others were being devoured by a carpet of leeches.

“G’day all,” Jason said. “I came to help, but all I found were these guys, and they were easy to clean up after what you did to them. Nice job.”

“I thought you had a meeting,” Neil said.

“Yeah, I left them to their deliberations.”

“How do you think it’ll go?”

“I don’t know. If I were them, I’d probably tell me to go jump, to be honest.”
