“There’s taxes, I’m sure.” Erick said, “Those’ll be a kick in the nards.”

Jane snorted. She dropped the handle on her cart, and said, “Let’s get to [Mend]ing!”

Erick walked over to the nearest wall and began turning the orange wall into a slightly taller orange wall. “Al said he’d be around sometime to help fix it all up and stay a few days, too. I’ll ask him about his [Ward]ing schemes, then.”

Jane [Mend]ed as she replied, “I’m sorry about that, Dad. I shouldn’t have blown up at Savral. Or Al.”

“I don’t think you hurt me, at all. I can live wherever. But you certainly kicked your own future’s ass.”

She nodded. She stopped.

Erick continued to [Mend], keeping Jane in the corner of his eye.

She smiled wide, and looked up at the orange stone. “I could do that! Right.”

Erick stopped. “Do what?”

“I’ll show you.”

She walked through where the front door would have been, and stood in the middle of the front room. Erick began meditating. He saw the flows of mana all around her, curling into—

Jane radiated power that washed around the house, spilling through reforming walls and up through recreated ceilings. Mana flowed out of her, all around, freely touching upon what was not there and bringing orange stone back into where it had once been, long ago.

In 6 seconds, the house was back to most of its former glory.

One large tower facing south toward Ar’Kendrithyst. A shorter tower on the north side of the house, only two stories tall. A multi-tiered house with verandas and porches stretched between the towers, taller toward the southern side. It was almost the same style as the Mage Trio’s house, if a bit bigger, and partially melted here and there in the smaller details.

Jane breathed hard from the front room.

Erick asked, “What the fuck was that!”

Jane laughed loud, then said, “[Mend] as an AOE spell with Mana Shaping X, Aurified, and a smaller application of Mana Shaping to focus the spell on the walls. Even made a tier 2 spell out of it.” She pushed a blue box Erick’s way. “Looks good, yeah?”

Mend Structure Aura, long range, 550 MP per second

Restore a very large, very complicated, non-magical structure to its prime. Time since the structure was destroyed may alter final results. This spell automatically adjusts its area of effect and range to maximize its ability to repair.

Erick smiled. “You’re a lot better at this world’s magic than I am.”

Jane laughed. “Whatever you say, Archmage!”

“You’re right!” Erick acted smug. “I noticed you don’t have any tier 3 spells. Such a slacker! You’re missing out on 2 ability points.”

“Shit. You’re right.” Jane played along. “All bow down before the master archmage!”

“Thank you, thank you. I accept oaths of loyalty and bribes of coffee.”

Suddenly serious, Jane said, “I need you to [Grow] me coffee, Dad.”

“Oh my GODS yes. I need coffee too. I have a long mental list and coffee is on that list.”

“I’m still waiting on those potatoes, too. I wasn’t kidding about that.”

Erick looked up at the house, then to the left, at a flat orange surface large enough for many various things. “We have room for a garden. Gonna have to turn that stone into dirt, though. Not sure about how that works.” Erick turned to Poi. “Any ideas?”

“The sewers are 10 meters down; everything else is rocky soil except for the first 3 meters below the city’s surface. That space is solid stone and already plumbed to wick water away from the city and into the sewers. [Stoneshape] in the streets or past 1 meter depth is illegal, but you are able to turn the stone in your front yard to sand, and then enrich that sand into soil however you feel you can. You can buy compost or soil from the Farmer’s Market to speed up the process. I would suggest adding a drain to whatever growing field you choose to create, especially if you’re going to rain for a whole day.”

“Thank you, Poi.” Erick said, “Hear that?”

Jane called out from somewhere inside, “Can’t hear you! Exploring!”

Erick decided to go explore his new house, too.

An hour later Al showed up and helped Erick and Jane fix the little melted bits that remained from Jane’s new spell. Al was impressed, though. As a generalized reconstruction spell, Jane’s spell was one of the better ones Al had seen. She could hire herself out for multiple gold a day with that spell, if she wanted. Some adventurer in town was always damaging something somewhere, after all.

As Al worked, Erick was falling in love with his new house.

Ceilings tall enough for an orcol, amenities sized for humans, all the ambiance of stone. Orange and yellow stone walls, all bright and happy. This was the best interior of house he had ever owned. Al even did a little plumbing, though there was no turning any of it off; water pressure kept water flowing up from down below, through two fountains and down the drains. One fountain in the kitchen, the other in what would become the garden area. Al even adjusted the front yard for a garden. It was sand right now, but that would change with a trip to the Farmer’s Market.

Standing outside, Erick just stared at the exterior of the house for a while.

He was in love. After a lot more fussing from Jane, she was in love, too.

Jane wanted ‘Victorian Architecture’. Al had never heard of ‘Victorian Architecture’. Eventually Al had given up trying to understand Jane and just did what he knew how to do; he was an accredited Stonemage after all. He had done houses in every popular style of the last hundred years. ‘Victorian’ was kind of like ‘Newood’. Whatever it was or wasn’t, the style Al chose was close enough to what Jane wanted that she was happy, and therefore Erick was happy. Al wasn’t exactly happy; Jane kept asking him to fix small details.

But the style was good for rainy climates!

Al was happier when Erick said he was buying dinner.

Jane insisted that no, she was buying dinner. She had found two thousand, three hundred and fifty gold in rads, out in the desert. She was flush with cash… for now. Gaining the [Polymorph] skill would likely cost her 1500G.
