“Polymage?” Erick dismissed Al’s blue box. He felt lost again. Then he latched onto a problem. “You didn’t even tell me Classes existed, Jane. Or any of you. And then I got one shoved at me!”

Jane looked at him. “It’s been in your Status since we got here! You never thought to talk to anyone about those blank lines?”

Erick ignored that fact. “What’s a Polymage? Someone who specializes in [Polymorph]?”

“Broadly, yes,” Jane said.

From over in the kitchen, Savral said, “It’s the official name for Monster Mage. And yes, it’s a weird class. All of the blendy mage and warrior classes are weird and harder to get than usual.”

Al sat back in defeat. “Whatever Scion you pick, or if you pick none, your stats determine what Classes the Registrar will allow you to Quest for.” He narrowed his eyes. “You really want to be a monster mage?”

Jane said, “What I want is to be able to fly, and swim, and explore, and live anywhere and do anything. To go everywhere. To talk to the mermen in the ocean, or the harpies in the mountains. Or any number of people anywhere they might be. Killing and eating monsters is very low on my list, but I don’t want to be scared of anything, either.”

“Adventurers will see you as a monster unless you’re careful.”

“I can be careful.” Jane said, “And I’ll have a 4500 buffer either way. [Ward] every morning!”

Savral repeated, “[Ward] every morning!” like it was some sort of mantra they had formed habits around.

Now Erick was scared. Erick vividly remembered Al blasting that shadowolf to ash. But he couldn’t tell Jane not to be who she wanted to be; to not become the person she wanted to become.

Erick said, “You really need some embroidery or something on your armor, Jane. Something flashy that says, ‘I’m not a monster’.”

“Okay.” Jane relented, “Maybe Polymage, specifically, is not a good idea. I won’t know for a long time. I’m only level 32. But I am buying Scion of Balance. I am a fighter, and a mage. This is who I am.” She looked up in the air, then said, “There we goOoOOoo…” She paused. She said, “That felt weiii…” She laid back and closed her eyes.

Erick stared, stock still, his voice a whisper, “Jane—”

She started snoring.

Savral and Al laughed.

Savral said, “She ran herself ragged out there! I’m surprised she didn’t crash as soon as she sat down.”

Al asked. “How many points do you think she assigned?”

“At least 25. She was waiting to hear what you had to say, but she already knew what she wanted. She’s really good, Dad.” Savral spoke to Erick, “Your daughter is one of the best talents I’ve ever seen. She certainly has the range to make it as a Polymage.”

“Truly, Savral?” Al asked.

Savral said, “Dropping down to almost a third HP and MP here with Scion of Balance is much worse than anything that happened out there. She’s really good.”

Al and Savral joked about making monumental Script decisions in the living room.

But Erick could only watch Jane, as she laid there snoring gently. He looked upon his daughter and knew that she would be alright, but the thought of Jane in danger still scared him. It was a primal fear and well known, etched deep into his very core, born when Jane was a little girl he held in his arms and fed with formula every night, then nurtured by helping her grow into a very strong young woman, and seeing how the world treated strong young women.

The crucible of life turned some people hard, and Jane was one of them.

Erick’s fear for Jane had grown from those simpler times on Earth, to become a multifaceted terror on Veird. He had always managed to push the terror away with denial and wilful ignorance, but sometimes fear reared out of the darkness with flashing white teeth and burning white eyes. He couldn’t conveniently forget his fears today, not at this moment, as it mutated into something even more horrible.

Of Jane, dying as a monster on the end of some idiot’s sword.

Of Jane, falling from the sky as her wings gave out.

Of Jane forgetting who she is, and becoming a beast.

Of Jane reveling in the murder of monsters first, and then people.

Of Jane deciding that a person needed to die for what they had done, or did not do.

Because that was the real darkness; the real fear. Erick had known, ever since Jane held a knife at a kid’s throat in highschool, that she was capable of murder if she deemed it necessary. She wasn’t psychotic; not by a long shot. She was very simply, a very moral person, in the way that a soldier has morals, or that a country has morals.

What would happen when Jane’s morals caused her to take a life?

What would happen if it was Erick’s own death, or murder, that precipitated Jane’s fall from grace?

Dark humor sprang forth an answer:

You won’t have to live with the consequences.

He laughed to himself, and Jane blinked open her eyes. Not even 5 minutes had passed.

Erick put on a smile, and said, “You feeling okay, Sleeping Beauty?”

She stretched. She yawned. She said, “I think so. I… I actually feel really good.”

“That’s that doubled Fatigue and Exhaustion resistance.” Al said, “You’ve been burning the candle from both ends, haven’t you?”

“I have!” Jane yawned again, then said, “We have that expression, too. Kinda nice hearing it on a different world.” She smiled, then said, “So…? How about some show and tell! Come on, Dad. I want to see how much you’ve progressed.”

Al held up his hand. “One second.” A burst of sparkles flowed outward, and soon, the windows and the whole room were obscured, probably with [Ward] Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption. Erick felt he was getting better at identifying the spells around him, and maybe he actually was. Al said, “There. Shouldn’t be showing your status out in the open, Jane.”

Erick looked to the obscured window. “I wonder if Poi will dislike that.”

“Don’t think I didn’t notice your personal bodyguard, Dad. But first things first. Here.”

Jane shoved a bunch of floating boxes his way. Al read over Erick’s shoulder.

She asked, “Where’s yours?”

“Right.” Erick gently pressed his Status toward her. “Now don’t get mad at me until I’ve had a chance to read all of this.”

It might take a while.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 32, Class: None

Exp: 110034012 / 352457800

Class: -/-

Points: 6

HP

742/1500

1055 per day

MP

781/1500

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

25

+0

25

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Scion of Balance

Doubles HP, HP regen, MP, and MP regen.

Doubles resistance to Healing Fatigue

Doubles resistance to Mana Exhaustion

Requirements: Strong, Enduring, Discipline, Concentration

Requirements: 25 Strength, 25 Vitality, 25 Willpower, 25 Focus

Strong X

Multiplies base HP by 3

Requirements: 20 Strength

Enduring 2

Multiples base HP regen by 2.11

Requirements: 20 Vitality

Exp: 42/200

Discipline X

Multiplies base MP by 3

Requirements: 20 Willpower

Concentration X

Multiplies base MP regen by 3

Requirements: 20 Focus

Meditation X

Always Resting

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Clarity X

Reduces spell costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Focus

Rejuvenation X, instant, touch, 5 MP

Touch a creature, heal 5 HP + 2x WIL per second per level of Rejuvenation

Invisible Rejuvenation, instant, touch, 5 MP

Touch a creature, heal 5 HP + 2x WIL per second for 10 seconds

Strike X, 10-40 HP

Level 1: Deal 1.0x damage with your weapon

Level X: Deal 2x damage, + 2x <Piercing Force> damage

Blink X, instant, 25 MP

Instantly move from your location to another within <sight>, max range 10m per level of Blink

Teleport X, instant, 250 MP per person

You and <hands> number of people appear in a known location, max 1000km distance.

Interception X, instant, close range, 5MP + 5MP per 10 meters moved

Instantly move to intercept an attack meant for another. Lasts 1 minute or until used.

Conjure Weapon X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon. Lasts as long as held, or 1 minute per level not held.

Conjure Armor X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create weightless armor of whatever design you can create. Lasts until catastrophic damage.

Conjure Item X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create an item of up to large size. Skill with mana manipulation determines final creation. Lasts until suffering 50 points of damage.

Ward X, instant, short range, 24 hours, ~{Favored Spell}~

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Create a Large Ward that can have Large Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 35 MP + Z

Create a Ward with another Spell attached to the interior. Spell activation based on Z invested into Ward. 100 MP + Z

Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.

Special Wards can be made Permanent. 250 MP + Variable Cost

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Large Effects: Drain Hostile HP/MP, Gravity Ward

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost

Mana Shaping X

Alter spell AOE in better, subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Alter spell AOE in better, moderate ways, 30 MP + spellcost

Aurify Unlocked

Alter AOE in better, major ways, 100 MP + spellcost

Alter AOE in better, extreme ways, 300 MP + spellcost

Change any spell into an AOE spell, or freely alter the AOE of any AOE spell, 500 MP + spellcost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Mana Altering X

Bludgeon, Slash, or Piercing Damage

Force to Light, Blinding, Variable Cost

Invisible Force, Variable Cost

Force to Thunder, Disorient, Variable Cost

Force to Fire, Burn, Variable Cost

Force to Ice, Slow, Variable Cost

Force to Lightning, Paralyze, Variable Cost

Force to Decay, organic damage, Variable Cost x1.5

Chain, Variable Cost x2

Combine Effects, Variable Cost x3

Generate new effects. Variable Cost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Aurify 2

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

You may choose who or what is affected by your aura.

Doubles the range on an Aurified spell.

Exp: 150901/1000000

Cleanse X, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Mend X, instant, touch, 10 MP

Touch a complicated large object, or a small common magical item, and restore it to its prime.

Force Shrapnel X, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 25 + WIL damage in a cone

Invisible Shard Aura, 4 MP per second

A storm of invisible blades surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage.

Radiant Shard Aura, 4 MP per second

A storm of brilliant blades surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage, driving back the darkness and blinding those who would raise their weapons against you.

Telekinesis X, medium range

Move large objects around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large objects around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Scry X, instant, super long range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a quick sensor to see a place you have been or have seen

Defend X, 1/10th HP cap

Take 50% less damage for 1 minute, cannot take more than 90% of your HP in damage in 1 hit.

Silent Movement X, 1 HP per meter moved

All actions are muffled.

Swift Movement X, 1 HP per second

Move faster.

Erick finally said, “Wow.” He dismissed the boxes. “You did a LOT out there, didn’t you?”

“I haven’t showed you my Status since well before the Crystal Forest.” Jane smiled, saying, “You’re the one that did a lot while I was out there, Mister Particle Mage.”

Erick joked, “That’s Archmage, to you, young lady.”

Jane scoffed. “I heard… but really, Dad?”

Savral almost scoffed too, but then he stopped; he had looked to Al for confirmation and found it.

Al said, “Normally you’d need to create a tier 9 spell, but creating a whole school of magic is a good workaround to that requirement. Even the Headmaster called him an Archmage, so I think he qualifies for the title.”

Jane nodded slowly, saying, “Tell me everything.”

Al took down the obscuring [Ward]. Poi was outside on the porch, not directly looking inside, but the corners of his eyes were visible. He nodded at Erick through the window, then resumed guarding from the outside.

Jane looked at the sapphire dragonkin. “Starting with him. What’s all that about?”

And so Erick began talking about the previous days. A lot had happened to Spur in the time Jane and Savral had been exploring and plundering the Crystal Forest.

- - - -

By the time lunch was ready, Jane had begun her story of the last several days in the Crystal Forest.

It involved a lot of monster murdering and corpse dismembering.

