With that, Jianghong abandoned his attempts, sensing Yo Ling’s annoyance and worried of taking things too far. Such was the fate of the weak, with no choice but to swallow their pride, but Yo Ling needed to be cautious. If he took serious injury in the battle ahead, Jianghong would undoubtedly turn on him, forcing him to reveal his hand early or possibly even request aid from the Venerated Ones. Best to leave them hidden for as long as possible, as their presence brought too many complications.

Calling his Butchers to a halt, he stood tall and studied his enemies, the Corsairs lined in the streets at what used to be a market, a single long avenue lined with shops and stalls. Arranged behind makeshift barricades in a wedge formation, the Corsairs stretched from wall to wall, barring his path to the plaza and bridge behind them. An unwashed mob of ruffians, these were no true soldiers, the perfect sacrifice needed to raise his Butchers’ morale. Though this position was suitable for defence, they were here alone, the Militia and guardsmen unwilling to abandon the Bridge. Fools.

Still, the Corsairs were well prepared, the buildings and rooftops bristling with bows and spears, ready to shower them in a hail of projectiles. Planks laid out between the buildings allowed for easy retreat and removing them even easier, forcing him to clear the defenders out building by building. Who knew how many traps and ambushes awaited him inside? Even heavily armoured as his Butchers were, a head on attack would be cost him dearly.

Too bad he didn’t intend to attack head on.

Jariad’s antlers stood out from the crowd, moving to the forefront to speak with him, but Yo Ling ignored him. Unless it was Bastard Liu across the way, he had nothing to say. Turning to his strongest Transcendent, he took a moment to appreciate its elegance, power given form. A hulking creature with the head of a stag and the arms of a gorilla, it towered above him on two hooved feet, its taut muscles and dense fur near impossible to pierce. With no preamble, he ordered it to charge and off it went, roaring in bestial rage as stone and dirt rose in its wake, moving on hoof and hand with head lowered, its barbed antlers a sight to behold, gleaming white and soon-to-be dripping with blood.

Ignoring all the buildings, it ran headlong towards the barricades with reckless abandon, shrugging off arrows and stones as it picked up speed, shaking the ground with every step. As it closed the distance, Yo Ling watched Jariad give a signal, and in response, a piddling few Spiritual Weapons shot out to strike the Transcendent, each one caught by the bramble of antlers. Bounding over the last few meters, it struck the barricade head-first with a resounding boom, crashing through wood, bone, and flesh in an explosion of blood and gore.

Amidst the confusion, his other five Transcendents joined the fray, three trailing the first while the others dealt with the buildings, clearing them out with ease as the defenders were petrified by Transcendent Auras. Screams rang out as bodies rained down from above, Corsairs jumping from the rooftops to escape the creatures killing and devouring all before them. Chuckling at the sight, Yo Ling raised his voice above it all. “Forward my Butchers. End these pitiful pretenders and let all the Empire know, Butcher Bay is unrivalled beneath the heavens.”

Screaming in fury, his Butchers set upon the scattered Corsairs with unholy fervour, exerting all their frustrations over years and years of rivalry. Though most of them weren’t present during the schism, his Butchers hated the Corsairs for everything they represented. If not for them, then Butcher Bay would have dominated Sanshu, with no room for smaller bandit groups to be had. Hands clasped behind his back, Yo Ling strolled through the battlefield, watching a wave of Butchers crash into the ruined barricades and hack apart the disorganized defenders, enjoying the carnage and bloodshed. There was no need to lift a finger unless Bastard Liu showed his face, then they would settle their score once and for all. Until such a time, he could sit back and let his Butchers enjoy themselves. After all, once this battle was over, it was possible they wouldn’t have another chance for bloodshed, Sanshu already well within his grasp.

Breathing deep to take in the scent of death, he exhaled slowly, sighing. A damn shame his Butchers didn’t live up to expectations. To forever be surrounded by your inferiors, such was the burden of genius.

Chapter Meme
