The moment she was through, a hand went over her mouth and an arm went around her waist. She was pulled down into the scraps and trash leaning against the building. Fear rose from every nerve in her body, making her almost blind with panic.

But nothing happened.

Her breathing slowed, and the white specks at the edge of her vision retreated.

Penn was holding her against him. His back was to the street, and he was leaning over, hiding her between his own crouched form and the wall beneath the open window.

Once her breathing had slowed, he moved his hand off her mouth. Their faces were so close together, when he turned his hand to put his pinkie against her lips in a silent plea for her to be quiet, his index finger touched his own lips.

“For me.” His voice was less than a whisper. “There are two people at the ends of the building. I think they’re Haley’s men.”

“You should run—”

“No!” He went on, slower, “We’ll wait here. I don’t think the fight will last long.” He twisted around to sit beside her. “But we have to do something about your arms.” He pulled out his pocket knife again.

“They need to be tied up. Pressure. To stop the bleeding.”

“Did you learn that from Mr. Gray?”

“A field surgery manual.”

Penn pulled out the ends of his shirt. “Your father just lets you read anything, doesn’t he?”

“Mr. Penn.”

The thief stopped.

“Use my skirts. The dress is already ruined and the strips will be much longer.”

Penn raised an eyebrow. “I don’t often get instructed to play with a woman’s skirts, but far be it from me to argue with a lady.”

“Mr. Penn.”

He could tell she was trying to chide him, but her voice was weak.

“Right,” he said. “Sorry.”

He cut out the strips of cloth a bit at a time, waiting for any sign that the policeman heard the ripping. Then he wrapped them around her arms as tight as he could.

As he worked, he said, “I wish my men could think as straight as you when they’re in shock. Honestly, I wish I could think as straight as you. The hammer. Your skirt—”

“You think I’m in shock?”

He glanced up at her white, clammy face. Her breathing was so fast and shallow he wondered if any air got as far as her lungs.

“I think that’s a safe bet.” He finished tying the last knot and sat back.

“I do feel faint. And ill.”

“I know. It won’t be long.” Hurry up, Haley! he thought as loud as he could.

“And I can’t stop shaking.”

Penn glanced over and saw Eleanor staring at her hands. He reached out, grabbed them both with one hand, and pulled them into his lap.

“It could be excitement,” he murmured. “You know—exhilaration. I get like that before some jobs. Your hands start shaking and your heart feels like it could fly right out of your chest if you take a deep breath.”

“I think this is something different, Mr. Penn.”

“You can’t mind the shaking hands. If you focus on what you have to do, the hands will do what they need to, shaking or not.”

“What are we supposed to be doing?”

“We sit here and wait until it’s safe to move.”

“That’s it?”

“Know when you have to move. Know when you have to wait. Always know the difference.” He turned his head so he could look at her. “And if you can, you should try to slow your breathing.”

Eleanor leaned her head against the wall. She tried to match her breathing to Penn’s. Sometimes it escaped her and ran away at a wild pace, but the rest of the time, she could almost manage it.

Minutes passed.

Penn stood up and helped her to her feet. The men at the ends of the street were gone, and inside, everything was quiet. Ryce walked her over to the street lamp by the corner of the building. When they looked down the alley, they could see men moving in and out of the firelight. Their voices were too faint to make out, but Eleanor and Penn could hear coaches and cars.

A figure turned the corner and started toward them. Eleanor flinched, but Penn’s hand was on her back, holding her in place. He didn’t move.

The figure walked from one end of the building to the other, then stepped into the glow of the street lamp. It was Haley. He was staring at Penn.

“What are you doing here?” Haley said.

“She needs a doctor. It’s bad. She could faint at any moment.”

Haley pulled Eleanor away from the thief and into the light. While he inspected her torn dress, her wrapped arms, and the blood that seemed to be everywhere, Eleanor heard a rustle and felt an empty space behind her.

“Penn,” she muttered.

“Let him go,” Haley said. “He’s right. We have to get you to a doctor.”

He put a hand under her chin and gently raised it. She could feel his breath as he leaned in to examine the cut on her neck. When he pulled away, Eleanor watched his face. He looked so sad and stern.

“There’s a car waiting,” he said. “Can you walk?”

Eleanor nodded, but Haley still supported her as they went down the alley. She could not have been more grateful. Every time she stumbled, she held tighter to his jacket.

She passed a man in uniform, laying on the street. He was being treated by another policeman.

“Your men…” she said.

“They’re securing the ones that were willing to surrender and tagging the ones that weren’t.”

“They’re hurt.”

“They had the chance to take out nine of the city’s worst criminals. I don’t think they’ll complain.”

They reached the car. Haley practically had to lift her into the high back seat.

A man ran up to them. “Lady Serrs!”

“No time!” Haley said. “She’s been hurt, Ellsworth.” The inspector climbed in beside her. “I’m taking her to Lady Sybil’s hospital. Please come find me when you finish up here.”

“Understood, sir. And the duke?”

“I’ll deal with that while I’m there.”

Ellsworth stepped away as the police driver put the car in gear.

Eleanor tried to sit up, but she felt faint. She put her elbows on her knees and leaned over them. Haley pulled her back so she was leaning on him instead.

“It was Farnham,” she mumbled.

“I know,” Haley assured her.

“What happened to him?”

There was a brief silence.

“He had a knife and he wouldn’t surrender.”

“He’s dead?”

“Yes.”

Eleanor’s chest heaved. “That should make me happy. I should be happy and relieved—why am I crying?”

Haley closed his eyes and lifted his head. He was glad it was too dark for Eleanor to see his face.
