-We have a lot to check up on and do within the city, but none of those obligations are set for a few more days at least. We can settle in and just be for a day or so. Let the familiarity of the old place soothe us some.-

Yeah… Yeah, that sounds nice. Thank you, Alat.

-Sure.-

And so they did. Tala, Rane, and Terry wandered the city, speaking of memories and times gone by, chuckling at little things.

They passed the bank, and Tala was tempted to go in, but they didn’t have any business within. Still, she happily recalled paying off her debts and how she’d reveled in that accomplishment.

It seemed so trivial now.

How much of her life had revolved around what was now such a miniscule amount to her and Rane?

There was probably some lesson in there, but she couldn’t contemplate sufficiently to parse it out.

They passed by Lyn’s old house, and that set off some sadder reminiscences. It was no longer hers, of course, since she had taken up residence in Irondale. Kannis lived there now, and while they would still be welcome, it wasn’t Lyn’s house.

Lyn had been giving Tala space to grieve, but Tala felt like that distance was no longer required. She missed her friend.

Alat reached out, and moments later, Lyn flickered to the superficial. After a quick visual check on Tala, she oriented herself and chuckled. “Well, home sweet home, eh?”

They were in the park across from the home, somewhat near where they’d fought the syphon. Rane chuckled as well, and Tala shrugged. “We just followed our feet.”

Lyn regarded Tala for a long moment before opening her arms wide and huffing a laugh.

Tala was a bit surprised. “Why did you laugh?”

Lyn shook her head, tears coming to her eyes. “I only laugh just to keep from weeping. I am so sorry, Tala.”

Tala only hesitated for an instant before stepping forward and accepting the embrace.

“I know what it is to lose those you love. I’m here for you.”

Tala tucked in tighter. “Thank you.”

After a long moment, Lyn pulled back slightly. “Come on. Let’s go get some food.”

That drew a laugh from Tala, followed by a faux glare, and the three humans and a terror bird turned to go do just that.
