"Aha!" Marikos shouted with glee, twirling Shiv high in a flourish of triumph. "The beast falls! Victory is ours!"

"Marikos!" Shiv cried as he struggled, but his Pillar of Orichalcum left him pinned in place. He couldn't even twist his neck to look around. "That's not the Tarrasque! That's not the Tarrasque! It’s a decoy corpse! It's still alive! It's..."

But the Dragon-Knight didn't get Shiv's warning in time. The ground beneath them exploded upward in a geyser of ruin and shrapnel. A massive fissure split the land from horizon to horizon, and what seemed like a living mountain rose into the sky and crashed fist-first against Marikos’s body. A series of sickening cracks sounded from his torso, and the Legend was wrenched free from Shiv and thrown high up into the air.

Hawgrave tried to respond—only for the Tarrasque to hit her with a contemptuous gravitic backhand. A blast of force tore a pocket in the dense cloud of ash choking the battlefield. The Republic Legend and her blade both yelped and vanished skyward from the impact. And then the Tarrasque swept its hands wide as it unleashed cascading walls of shrapnel toward the Ascendants.

As Shiv fell, he watched the Tarrasque open a gravitic well in its hand to pull Marikos back toward it. Then it gripped him with two hands and twisted. A horrific snap followed. Shiv screamed from inside his pillar, trying to get at the Tarrasque, trying to—

Then the Tarrasque smashed Marikos’s limp form against Shiv. The Deathless felt a crack form throughout his pillar, and then things broke inside him as well. He barely noticed. His eyes were locked on Marikos. His body twisted over itself in a nauseating heap. The front side of Mariko's torso was now sprawled against his tail, and as the Dragon-Knight fell, rivers of blood trailed out from between his teeth and out his very eye sockets.

Shiv didn't know if Marikos was slain, if his vitality was merely flickering or fading altogether, and he didn't have time to make sure. The moment he extended his mana-hydra to pull away some of Marikos’s wounds, the Tarrasque caught him as well, and despite all his durability, Shiv was much easier to break than a Legendary Dragon-Knight.

"The beast falls," the Tarrasque mockingly drawled, mimicking Marikos. It wrapped its hands around Shiv, but it didn't just use its brute force. Its body came aglow with shuddering tides of Dynamancy, and the Tarrasque's gravitational power was magnified a hundredfold. Shiv tried to go out of context, but the Tarrasque was faster than him. Far faster.

First, the cracks lining Shiv's Pillar of Orichalcum widened into chasms, and then they shattered altogether. A ragged cry of agony escaped from the Deathless as he felt the left side of his body get crushed to a bloody paste.

"Why is it always that side?" Shiv snarled in frustrated misery.

He tensed and waited for another death to follow—prepared to cast himself back across time the moment he resurrected back to Blackedge, leaving the Tarrasque to the Ascendants and the Auroral Council. But then a cage of black lightning crashed down around the Tarrasque's body, and the tip of its index finger was halted but a scant centimeter away from Shiv's falling form.

The Tarrasque shrieked with frustration, but its shriek was drowned out as a high and alluring voice began singing once more. Shiv's pain immediately faded. His wounds vanished as the song passed through him, as the song swallowed his agony and left only joy in its wake. That voice was beyond divine. That voice was holy. That voice was everything Shiv wanted and everything he would ever want in this life.

That voice—

Psycho-Cartography: That voice is ripping through your mind and slowly conditioning you into becoming a slave. Remember, the Ascendants aren't your allies here. Focus on something else, anything else. Collapse your eardrums.

And Shiv did as his Master-Tier Psychology Skill demanded. His heart screamed as the sweet melody was cut off, but the moment it vanished Shiv felt his senses return, and he noticed how vulnerable the Tarrasque was. Its eyes were wide and distant, and a strangely childlike expression lingered on its face. Through the chaos and carnage Shiv caught sight of a small and slight body, and despite his ears being burst, a giggle washed through him, the giggle of a child.

"You finally got him held still, Halsur!" a young girl’s voice said cheerfully. Her words washed through Shiv from the inside out, and unlike Kathereines, whoever this was filled Shiv with a sense of impending dread. "Well, looks like it's time for me to play doctor. I want to find out what the insides of a Tarrasque snack look like…"

And then Shiv struck the ground, his body left fragile after his Toughness skill broke in several places. His bones tore out from his flesh in compound fractures, but he didn't let that stop him for long. He fed his injuries into his Biomancy, and they ignited around his field, rendered into crystallized spell patterns.

“Alright, I just need—oh, shit!” Shiv gagged as a waterfall of oil-like blood smashed into him. A waterfall of blood followed by a plunging shadow. Shiv's eyes widened as the Tarrasque's corpse toppled forward. He went out of context before it could crush him, and soon, he found himself standing within a wide chasm lining its throat. It was like someone managed to garrote a literal mountain open. How did they get through the crystal and everything else underneath? This cut is clean and deep…

He had no idea how the Ascendants had managed to wound the Tarrasque this badly, but he wasn't going to complain, especially since it gave him the opportunity to continue experimenting with Vitality Drain. He flung himself deep into the Tarrasque's wound. As he swam through the mess, he soon found himself pressing against a cracked wall of crystal. There was so much blood washing over him that it was hard to tell where what was or even which direction he was heading in, but he simply needed to make contact, and as soon as he did, he began funneling the Tarrasque's vitality into existence once more.

He bent the flow of the Tarrasque's lifeforce, and this time, he saw in full what it looked like. Instead of all the red rushing into him, it began to swirl atop his palm and coil around his body. Shiv was a singularity for the vitality, but he wasn’t its ultimate resting place. Instead, he was just a guide now, and he groaned as he continued channeling his power, letting the vitality dance around him in an unending current.

The vitality flowed constantly, ceaselessly, forming a maelstrom of bright-red essence that slowly began to dissolve into existence. Every bit of brightness that was drained out from the Tarrasque nourished the world itself, and that faint sheen of vitality layered over everything became ever denser.
