The thing moving towards her warped light around itself in a strange, cloak-like fashion. A quick glance only revealed the far wall and a slight distortion. Viv discreetly used mana to burn a circle on the ground, but otherwise watched, confident in her reflexes. She was learning a lot by merely observing the curious attacker. The stealth effect went beyond light to play tricks with her mind as well, which she found fascinating. Her gaze kept going up and down despite the firm knowledge that something was there. She felt the black mana try to convince the world this spot was empty.

When Irao had demonstrated his abilities, she had found it impossible to adopt the concept of being hidden because she was, she had to admit, noticeable. That had been a mistake on her part. Black mana didn’t allow its wielder to blend in, just like Irao could never be taken for a normal laborer in the streets. Instead, it denied the world the ability to find them. It was actively affecting the target rather than subtly hiding the caster. And that made it much more manageable for Viv, for whom getting people to do stuff came naturally.

“Holy shit I’m having an epiphany. Oh, yes. Net!”

Thin, razor filaments emerged from around her to lash at the hole in space and the veil dropped as the monster behind shrieked. Viv noticed black scales and a lizard-like body while ichor dripped on the dusty stone floor. The witch made a snap call that it may not be enough. Her filaments gathered in a blast spell that cut through the beast from skull to rectum. It fell dead. The scent of blood and offal wafted towards Viv.

“And that’s that.”

She approached the body, which looked like a Komodo dragon dipped in oil.

[Dark-Scaled Stalker]

Nasty teeth on that thing. A pulse of mana attracted her attention and she used her focus knife to remove a small core from the creature’s sternum. It was barely the size of her thumb but that was fine. They sold for gold talents. This one was aligned with black, life, and a smattering of minor affinities. She pocketed it.

And turned in a rush, pushing her round shield in front of her. A reflexive blast hit something in the shoulder. It yowled, but its weight smacked into Viv and she was pushed down. A quick excalibur ripped through her attacker’s muscular body before it could recover. She fell with a massive weight on her torso. Innards spilled on her dress. It stank like hell.

“FUCK.”

Idiot, idiot. Idiot! If there was one, there could have been others. She had let herself be distracted. Her trip through the forest had gone too well and made her cocky. Understanding a concept was useless if she died for it.

Viv pushed the lizard corpse aside and stood up, covered in disgusting fluids. She swore when she realized some of it was her own just as pain let her know she hadn’t survived the ordeal unscathed. She had a gash near her right shoulder and a small cut on her scalp that bled freely. Not alarming per se until she realized her complete lack of medical supplies. The constable’s men had taken her mending potions.

“Dammit.”

A quick inspection revealed two more wall creatures slowly making their way over from the back of the cavern. Fucking things. She moved to the side where the passage to the river ought to be, eyes opened for more surprises. The tunnel continued only for a little while before ending in another room. Viv blinked when she realized this was an underground pier.

A wide stretch of dark water moved lazily towards her left, deeper into the mountain. The light in her hand could not pierce its surface. A stretch of stone expanded into the river around the middle while stone pillars stood at regular intervals, possibly to moor small rafts. A long plank of wood was the only sign that the Merl had ever been here.

Viv suspected that whatever furniture had been here was long lost, but the stone remained. There were tables set against the wall on her side while stairs led up to her left, signs that the Hollow Mountain truly deserved its name. Viv almost slapped herself when she realized she would indeed have to swim. At least the plank would keep her belongings dry.

She almost jumped in before a groove on the ground grabbed her attention. A few step backs gave her a better look at a construct around the entrance. it was enchanted with a shield construct like nothing she had ever seen before.

“What...”

The construct was three-dimensional. Not even Prince Lancer’s carriage had been shown this level of protection. The enchantment used the natural curve of the tunnel to form a double circle of different radius. More interestingly, there were no runes she could see.

She checked the way back. The lizards moved slowly, apparently unwilling to let go of their camouflage. They probably weren’t all that smart. A hiss of anger and the sound of cracked bone let her know what was really happening. The lizards were eating their fallen.

Whelp.

With some time for herself, Viv raced through the stairs and placed some alarm spells. She cast another long one around the entrance, just in case something attacked from the river while she was busy. Fuck, this really wasn’t a good place to hold, but she didn’t want to get into the water without bandaging herself first. On a hunch, she moved mana into the tunnel construct, then more, then more. Almost half of her reserves were gone when suddenly, the construct flickered to life. Runes appeared mid air, ones she was thoroughly unused to seeing: the number six, unity, projection, protection.

A shield set in place then, expanding to form a half-sphere bulging outward. It consisted of hexagons fused together. Each shield fragment was semi-independent from the rest. Viv’s contemplation was cut short by the feel of something warm dripping down her shoulder.

“Right. The bleeding.”

The witch had to salvage most of her small cloth and both of her sleeves to tie her arm to her satisfaction. She had used water to clean it, but knew it wouldn’t do much in this dirty environment. And it would require stitches. And it would probably scar. She looked at her left arm, where the dragon-shaped burn scar remained from Arthur’s first flame breath. Nyil was leaving its mark on her.

With her last breast band firmly held against her scalp wound, the witch focused again on the shield. Truly, it was a thing of wonder. The key runes had been dug inside the stone in three dimensions by an insanely talented earth mage, then projected outside by a projection rune. Could it be that modern Paramese had forgotten past techniques? Or maybe she hadn’t seen its like because she had never left boonies.

As for the shield itself, the hexagon structure was a fascinating design decision. She could see from the way the tiles were arrayed that some could fail and the structure would survive. If a tile was attacked, it would offload pressure to the surrounding ones as well. It was an extremely efficient, extremely resilient design that sacrificed size for survivability. It was perfect for small passages or personal protection. She had to make her own, had to. It was just too good to pass.

The witch focused like never before, trying to extract the heart of the spell so she could use it herself. Redundancies were removed. Range got further reduced. Parts of the spell were designed to absorb great blows by moving with them, something that wasn’t needed right now. Slowly, the vital elements filtered into her mind where they remained, waiting for completion. Viv stopped twice to check that she wasn’t bleeding out and once to see if any lizard was approaching. One was, but it was on the other side of the shield.

It took her half an hour of constant effort, but eventually she managed to reduce the complex shape into its simplest components. It was there, her mind, ripe for casting. She ordered the symbols in her mind and they appeared, dark and familiar around her. The structure reminded her of something she had seen long ago at a honey sale. The idea settled into her mind.

“Hive.”

A black-colored ball manifested around her.

It was… magnificent. She could control each and every facet, directing power to them as needed. Her experience with the coating spell easily let her handle the many elements, even if it was significantly more taxing than a more simple shield. She exulted.

Acuity +1 (39)

Lost Heiress (4/10)

All her regrets of not getting to fucking Helock without distraction disappeared before this amazing discovery. There was only one small, tiny problem though.

She could not see through the shield.

it was completely black and blocked her line of sight.

Oh well, she could find a solution later. It was nothing compared to the excitement of studying something obviously exotic. If she could learn from this… how many more constructs waited here or in forgotten corners of the world for her to find them? Maybe Harrak hid a treasure trove of secrets even Solfis had not been taught. Proprietary constructs and spells… The possibilities were… intriguing.

Viv turned her eye to the entrance when a flash of tongue momentarily disrupted the black mana cover of a lizard. It was smack in front of the entrance, but the presence of the shield obviously confused it. Viv took the opportunity to examine the creature more closely. Paradoxically, the shield blocked her mana perception, which meant that she had to rely on her willpower alone to track down its movements. The struggle against the monster’s instinctive use of the ‘stealth’ concept sharpened her own, forcing an understanding through confrontation. It took an hour, perhaps, but eventually she felt her soul vibrate in harmony.

It was not stealth, but denial. Denial of light and attention, denial of the world. Black mana could remove things temporarily just as it removed others permanently. It could remove her if needed. She gasped with the epiphany.

Lost heiress (5/10)

Her soul pulsed and the lizard turned and fled, its own coating bleeding from its body like melting paint. She could do it. She could hide.

“Sneaky Cloaky.”

For once the stupid name reflected reality. The world dimmed around Viv. Swirls of darkness wafted from her dark-clad form and she felt ever-so slightly that the world was paying less attention, which made it a real surprise when something screeched very, very loudly. The ear-shattering scream paralyzed the escaping lizard and Viv. An intense pressure crashed on her, backed by the most evil will Viv had ever felt. Even the Herald of Octas had not felt so vile, so destructive. She made to move and realized she could not. Her heart beat a crazy staccato while her lungs labored to find more air. She tasted bile down her throat. She was aching to flee, but her body wouldn’t do that one last step of contracting muscles. Whatever creature had screeched went far beyond anything either her will or the cloak could possibly negate. She was going to die here in this dark, hopeless place.

No.

It was all over.

No.

She did not stand a —

No!

Viv pushed back against the foreign thought. This wasn’t her. She had to move. She had to move now! One step back, and she collapsed on herself. Her elbow hit a rock. It went numb. The familiar pain woke her up. She crawled to the nearest plank. It was all she could see and all she could do because the world was under the dominion of something terrible and only hiding or crawling would save her. The wood was grainy and wet under her fingers. She dipped in the river. The water was shockingly cold. Its icy grasp freed a bit more of her mind, barely enough to hear the lizard’s whimper when it saw something it shouldn’t have. A ghastly crack silenced the beast.

Viv let the current carry her away but could not stop herself from watching the entrance. A blood-splattered, white arm the size of a small tree pierced the static shield as if it were wet paper. Its clawed digit swept across the room languorously like a child looking for chocolate. The stone groaned. The creature was too large for the opening. Viv knew exactly what it was before she inspected it.

[Necrarch: :LETHAL, caster, cunning, Men Nightmare…]

Viv cut the skill before the information could flood her mind. She needed all the concentration she could get. A shiver shook her body and terror filled her heart when the creature sampled the air. It chuckled, the sound vicious and pitiless. It whispered one guttural word. Black mana flooded the room; it searched for Viv; it found her. It tried to invade her conduits.

It did. The thing was simply too powerful.

Viv fought it off with everything she had, claiming the sweet poison for herself. She was getting away, deeper into the lightless flow. The roof was getting lower above her head. Already, the creature was out of sight and still the spell persisted.

Her chest suddenly hurt.

You are suffering from mana poisoning.

You are suffering from cardiac arrest.

“Ah.”

The spell was fading. She had to hold on, fight it off. She wheezed pathetically in the dim light, one hand holding the shining stone and the other the plank she had grabbed. Her core converted the foreign mana coursing through her conduits as fast as it could even as cold sweat covered her brow. Finally, the last of it disappeared. She checked her pulse.

Nothing.

“Ok, bad bad bad.”

It wasn’t even arrhythmia, there wasn't a beat. Compressions? Compressions. Viv placed a hand under her breast and pushed. The angle was wrong. The water reached to her chest. Changing tactics, she punched her side instead. Still nothing. The water slowed her fist down even with her improved strength.

“Come on, come on, come on.”

