Desperate, she started to push with her leg to bob out of the water with every punch, just to give them some more impact. Her ribs screamed in protest. Her head started to swim from the increased oxygen consumption but her determination kept her focused. She would not die now and certainly not so stupidly, not after learning so much. Not before Arthur reached her majority. Viv roared and used a burst of strength to slap her side. The pain stole her breath, but the reward was immediate.

You are no longer suffering from cardiac arrest.

Willpower +1 (39)

Okay, okay that was better. Slowly, the pain in her chest faded away, replaced by wariness. Not dying right now. Or at least, not quickly. She swore when she realized that her bag had been in the water from the start and still hung from her back. She placed it on the plank to dry, hoping that the insulated outer fabric had kept the contents dry.

It was cold here, and silent. The waters moved placidly along. Viv’s breath slowly calmed down until she was mostly back to normal except the small, tiny problem that she had almost died. Again.

A flash of white, corded muscle reminded her of Harrak, of the first necrarch she had seen. That one had been dumb and feral, unlike the abomination that almost killed her. Fuck, for all her abilities, she was still small change before those freaking monsters. Still the same scuttling thing looking for an exit. And Solfis had killed two of those with his true frame? Insane.

Viv took shuddering breath after shuddering breath, pushing the panic down for now. She would be fine. She was fine now. The necrarch had been too large for the opening and the river ended so far away she would be safe. There was nothing in the water or it would have eaten the Merl scouts. unless it could taste her blood in the water. Fuck. Ok, calm down. Calm down.

Viv changed her grip and winced. her shoulder and head hurt. She felt feverish, but that was probably the mana poisoning. A quick glance at her naked hand showed black veins and pruney skin. How long had she been in the water already? That long? It felt like just a couple of minutes.

Slowly, adrenaline faded. It was replaced by exhaustion. The witch placed her head on the plank and fell asleep.

Viv woke up with a jolt and panicked. Her blood-crusted fingers closed on the light crystal, causing feeble yellow light to dawn in the darkness. She was trapped. She was in water. Raw dark stone covered the sky.

Oh yes, the underground river.

Okay.

Food.

Her backpack yielded a slightly soggy egg roll. It was cold but good, and it settled her. The merl had mentioned that it would take a day to exit the cavern but they had probably been swimming and she had merely floated, so she beat her legs and moved on. She didn’t dare change the bandage on her shoulder or clean her crusted scalp, so that would have to wait until she found a more salubrious environment. A tiny voice reminded her that the stalker lizards looked like Komodo dragons, and those killed their prey via septic shock, but she silenced it. Besides, the bacteria were in the komodo dragon’s mouth and she had been hurt by the lizard’s claws, so there. She inspected her shield. It was, once again, pristine. No hint of damage. The merl had added skin and feathers at the back. It felt a bit more comfortable in her hand and would also soften the blow the next time an attack sent the heavy implement into her jaw, which would definitely happen, the way things had been going so far. Viv took the time to wash off most of the congealed blood in the stream with the rationale that predators would taste the lizard blood anyway so a little Viv seasoning on top wouldn’t make much of a difference. Then, since she had nothing better to do, she paddled.

She kept paddling for a long time.

At some point, only the passing low roof over her head confirmed that she wasn’t stationary. Thank the light gods for her strong grip because her sanity might not have survived hours of darkness without the light stone. The trip was still a grating experience that eroded her spirit as the hours went by. She thought her ordeal was soon over when the cavern opened, but it was too soon and she knew it. Instead, she found a cavern. It was not very big and apparently devoid of life. The river cut straight through the middle, with the shore entirely blocked by stalagmites. She still smiled because she was seeing light. It was a nice fuschia and radiated out from a peppering of crystals nestled inside the stones, so that the entire cave shone like a disco ball. The effect calmed her down further, even as she left it behind. She paddled with renewed vigor and told herself it helped practice her core. The thought was silly and made her smirk.

After what felt like an eternity, she saw a pink light in the distance. The sound of rushing water woke her up from the semi torpor she had been in. The roof gave way to a dawn sky with high clouds. She swam to shore, only to realize her feet reached the bottom and she could walk instead. There were trees and bushes around. The air smelled of sap and growing things again.

In front of her, the river joined a body of water so large the opposite side was still covered in fog. She approached it and tasted the liquid under her finger. No salt. There was only one lake that size adjoining the Deadshield Woods: Lake Hydon. Losserec would be a few hours away on the south side.

The sun rose above a distant mountain and bathed the world in warm light. A bird tweeted.
