To be honest, I know the kind of Balance I want, I just don’t really know if it’s possible, nor am I able to wholly describe what it actually entails, or know how to go about achieving it. I want the sort of Balance Buddy has, where he’s so in tune and enthralled by his emotions to the point where he can be ecstatic and excited to be having a treat despite being embroiled in a bitter fight for his life. It’s not that he’s unaware of the danger as he hides between the Old Wolf’s legs to wait until it’s safe to strike, nor is he wholly ambivalent to the threat to his life as his little heart pounds away in his chest and he pants up a storm, but while those emotions are no less palpable than his glee and gluttony, Buddy focuses on what he feels is most important without being overly burdened by the rest. I don’t know how he does it, shunting those unwanted feelings aside without suppressing or ignoring them, but letting it all play out in the background while he focuses on the good bits, on the satisfaction of stuffing his face, the warmth of a full belly, the accomplishment of the hunt, the camaraderie between him and his new hunting partner, and the thrill of rising to the challenge and emerging victorious time and time again. This is a form of emotional surrender without struggle, and a stalwart struggle without surrender too, a paradox of quantum states in which Buddy’s emotions are perceived without influence, expressed without engagement, and experienced without any change to his overall disposition.

Or maybe I’m overcomplicating things. Maybe Buddy is just feeling happy and excited because those are the strongest emotions present, stronger than his fear, concern, sorrow, and everything else combined. I dunno. Either way, even after seeing his behavior and sharing in the experience through our bond of emotion, I have no idea how Buddy can immerse himself in so much joy without becoming Unbalanced. If I were to give myself over to any one emotion like he does, I would lose sight of Balance in the blink of an eye, rendering me incapable of driving Chi or Heavenly Energy through my Spiritual System to do anything of note. My emotions might well drive the Energy of the Heavens to some effect, but it would be wholly outside my control and determined by emotion alone, yet Buddy is more than capable of Orating, Deflecting, and Devouring among so many other things whilst immersed in the sheer joy of this very moment. Everything I know regarding Balance tells me this should be impossible, that Buddy has tilted the scales too far in one extreme to be able to control the Energy of the Heavens, and yet there he stands in perfect Balance despite what his shared emotions would indicate.

I want this Balance, an unregulated, organic Balance that just comes so naturally to Buddy, without any need to struggle or surrender. All he needs to do is exist, and he is in Balance at any given time, even now on what might well be the happiest day of his life as he Devours the fifth Demon of the day with great relish and delight. I want the freedom to immerse myself in emotion, whether it be joy or depression, love or hatred, rage or contentment, or any other emotion which runs the gamut without having to worry about the consequences. Though the Balance of Oneness seems like the ‘mathematically’ perfect answer, I just like Buddy’s form of Balance so much more, while the Balance of immediate disregard I’m accustomed to just seems so fucking exhausting after having seen what other options are out there.

Alas, Buddy’s form of Balance is not for me, but I have no alternative to try. I don’t want to put my emotions aside anymore, because that’s just a temporary solution, leaving those emotions for future me to deal with since I can’t be bothered to deal with it now. Yes, it’s stupid, and yes, it's worked so far, but I know in my heart of hearts that if I tried to Ascend with the Balance I’m so familiar with, I would fail because the weight of my disregarded emotions has grown too large. This weight is what drove me to such extremes in JiangHu, which almost resulted in disaster as I tried everything I could to abandon this life short of actual suicide. That’s not a healthy way to deal with emotion, but this is all I know.

Since I’m unable to put numbers to emotions, I’ve turned to colours instead, which is why I’ve been parsing through all my current emotions in an effort to organize and colour coordinate them, because maybe then I can find a pattern and figure out how to emulate Buddy’s form of Balance in a more palatable, human way. Try as I might however, I make no headway in my investigation, because I am a man who spent two lifetimes embroiled in conflicting emotions, ones I tried my best to ignore, suppress, or just plain deny as much as I could until they became too much to ignore. I’m not great at allowing myself to feel emotions, not like how Buddy does it. Dad too, now that I think about it, who is emanating an Aura of passion, excitement, defiance, and general contempt as he gives himself wholly over to the thrill of battle which has been the love of his life for so long. In many ways, his form of Balance emulates Buddy’s, though not taken to such extremes, and it is only now that I realize I can parse through Dad’s emotions as well. Not just from his Emotional Aura, kindled in a moment of need thanks to a small gift of usable Heavenly Energy from Buddy, but rather from a more intimate source, for his emotions are being broadcast through not only his Aura, but his actions and expressions as well.

Everyone broadcasts their emotions all the time. I just needed to learn how to listen, and as I tap into the currents of information flowing out of Dad, I uncover a simple truth that should have been evident from the start. He is harnessing the Energy of the Heavens through emotions, which isn’t anything new, but the manner in which he does so is different from how I would do it. He isn’t severing his emotions and giving them over to the Heavens, he is indulging in his emotions and allowing the Heavens to share in the experience before being driven by his Will. Again, nothing new, but I see now that this is similar to how the Defiled control the Energy of the Heavens, yet falls short of the full surrender and indulgence that would bring him to Divinity. In sort, it’s the same, but different in ways I can’t exactly identify as Dad somehow remains wholly Balanced and in control in spite of the torrent of emotions and Heavenly Energy surging through him.

Which just seems crazy to me, because it never ends well whenever I indulge in emotion.

Eager for more perspective to help define Balance, I struggle to free myself from the Eternal Emperor’s steely grip, but to no avail. Luckily he seems distracted by what’s happening in Shi Bei and has been true to his word, so he doesn’t react to my efforts. Alas, this doesn’t leave me any less stuck, and without a sexy step-sis or step-mom to lend me a hand. With no other choice, I set to Scrying around Shi Bei which is almost as good as seeing things firsthand, and the first person I check on is not one of my wives or any of my floofs, but my big sister who has done so much for me. Not because I have step-sisters on the mind, or because I’m worried about her. Well, yes, but I’m not more worried about Alsantset than anyone else. My reason for checking on her first is somewhat selfish and self-serving, namely because her Dao is so similar to Dad’s that it should be easy to compare and contrast how they approach Balance and better understand it.

So yea, it’s illogical to feel guilty about why I’m checking in on her, but I’m trying something new here and not repressing my emotions, which sucks a big one. Then again, I doubt Alsantset would hold my relative lack of concern against me since she knows I worry enough as is. My big sister loves battle and bloodshed as much as Dad does, but the difference here is that her love of family does not merely match her love of battle, and in fact supersedes it. Not to say Dad loves us less, or Alsantset loves us more, but rather that the absolute values are maxed, only the relative ratios are evenly matched in Dad, while skewed more in favour of family for Alsantset. What does this mean in terms of emotions? For starters, Alsantset’s determination is tinged with fear and anxiety, whereas Dad’s emotions are completely devoid of all doubts and concerns. This doesn’t mean my sister is a coward, nor is she lessened by her apprehension, but rather the opposite. Her fear does not control her, nor does she allow it to overwhelm her, and instead she uses it to hone her courage and determination whilst driving her to new heights of fury and strength. The fear is a part of her she will never deny, and it reminds her of what she’s fighting for, a reminder which emboldens her with the conviction and resolve to stand firm in spite of her exhaustion. She cannot fall here today, because then her children would be without a mother, her husband without a wife, her parents without a daughter, and her brother without a sister. Because of all this and more, she fights that much harder whilst risking her life time and time again, laughing defiantly against the odds because she has something worth fighting for, and more importantly, something worth living for.

If Dad’s courage is the bright, burning red of courageous fervor, Alsantset’s is similar but tinged with hints of pink and blue for love and dedication, the courage of a mother, daughter, and sister which surpasses even that of a Warrior, and the Energy of the Heavens responds equally to Dad and Alsantset.

Mila’s fiery ringlets are easy to pick out amongst the crowd, her freckled features scrunched up in fetching determination as she hunkers down behind her shield and holds firm against her foes. There is a thread of anger and pique floating close to the surface, a dark green indignation over how this battle is so unfair, but it is drowned out by the light grey of stoic determination as she rises to the challenge and gives it her all. These Transcended Half-Demons surpass her in speed, strength, skill, and more, but she holds the defender’s advantage and strikes at her foes as they land on the battlements in a kill or be killed exchange, one issued and completed before they can find their footing. No battle is without risk, yet Mila defies the odds time and time again as she fights on with the stubborn determination I know and love, emotions tempered with the radiant golden glow of fearless pride and enduring tenacity built on a foundation of hard work and unrivalled talent. Even though she knows she is outmatched, she will never back down, because where there is life, there is hope, and so she fights on without despair. Either the Imperials will win, or she will escape to fight another day, for she is Sumila of the People, a woman and Warrior who refuses to die here today.

Standing beside her, Li-Li’s lithe figure makes for a stunning contrast as she dances about her sister, her feet never slowing and her sabre never stopping even for a moment. Again, she knows she is outmatched, but victory or defeat means little to her, as she has given herself over to the fight and has eyes for nothing else. A pure, luminous glow, one which is absent of all colour, that is how I would describe Li-Li’s single-minded determination, a heroic and indefatigable will which is focused on the moment and nothing else. There is no seed of doubt sprouting in the back of her mind, no concern to be had regarding the ultimate victory or defeat of the Imperials here in Shi Bei. In fact, Li-Li pays no mind to the overall battle save to care about how it will affect her fight on the wall, as she calculates her current move, her next move, and perhaps a handful more while accounting for the actions and reactions of her foes. That is all she cares about, the fight and nothing else, wholly fixated on hindering her opponents for as long as she can and killing them wherever she can. Why? Because she is determined to keep her sister safe, the sister she loves and admires with all her heart, which is all that matters here and now as they fight side by side.

Even if she dies here today, Li-Li would die with a smile on her face, because she will have died knowing love and contentment, which is more than she ever dared to dream of.

