The scything winds cut down a dozen Half-Demons and a small cheer rises up in response, the work of my bold and courageous Yan. Her emotions are far more turbulent and unstable, for despite the assured and somewhat smug expression she wears so well as she fights with all her heart, she has always been one to hide and harbour her doubts. Unlike me however, Yan doesn’t let them shake her will to fight on, and much like Alsantset, she uses her doubts as a whetstone to temper her pride and drive her to even greater heights. Despite being one of the strongest and most Talented Warriors of her generation, she does not see herself as a peerless talent and holds no aspirations to being a phoenix among cranes. No, Yan believes all her accomplishments are the result of training, preparation, and luck alone, and to be fair, that is a large part of it, but she gives herself too little credit and is blind to far too many of her strengths. Another similarity we share, for she is so hard on herself despite her unmatched accomplishments, and even now she is internally chastising herself for not being able to do more. These doubts cast her emotions with a faint hue of unsettling green in an otherwise calm sea of noble blue and courageous red, all dancing atop a field of cold, stoic dark grey that almost appears black at times, one which holds back the surging tides of sorrow and compassion for her fallen comrades. A necessity, this callous disregard for the death of so many, because unlike Mila and Song, Yan is not fighting as a Warrior alone, but as an Officer and leader in command of a thousand Warriors. While Mila commands as well, she does so by virtue of strength, and leaves the minutiae of morale and leadership to her underlings. Not so with Yan, who shoulders the heavy burden with pride and does everything she can to support those who follow her lead, bellowing orders, compliments, and insults as they come to mind. Her efforts are evident to all, and her soldiers draw courage and determination from knowing they are led and supported by a Warrior who sees them as more than just meat for the meat grinder, but one who genuinely cares for them. Though Mila’s Blessing of the Sun has proven equally devastating as Yan’s Blessing of Wind, the latter has won the hearts of the Imperial soldiers because they can see that she has taken it upon herself to become a pillar of the army, a responsibility she holds in the highest of esteem even as she silently mourns for the soldiers she’s lost without allowing her emotions to shake her resolve.

Yan is a Warrior born, and a leader to boot, one who will go far in her military career so long as she survives. Mila could do the same, but she has spread herself too thin, meaning in terms of military command, Yan will always be two steps ahead.

In stark contrast, Luo-Luo is no Warrior or leader, or so she believes, but as I watch her bleeding fingers pluck away at the Domain-Plated strings of her zither, I wholeheartedly disagree. While she might not have the full training or ingrained instincts of a Warrior born, it is clear she possesses the heart of one at the very least as she plays on in spite of the pain, conserving her Chi so that she might eventually eke out one note more rather than protect her fragile fingers with her Domain. A pleasant, relaxing orange-red ambiance emanates outwards with every note that she plays, one filled with the hope of the rising sun which brings with it a brand-new day, but these are the emotions she chooses to broadcast, not the emotions she herself feels. Those are more difficult to describe, for I sense in her the noble purple glow of pride and conceit without the ugly veneer of arrogance, disdain, or pretension. A result of her bloodline, which she takes great pride in, being only one generation removed from the current Emperor, whatever that’s worth. I don’t put much stock in bloodlines and lineages, but Luo-Luo cares deeply for them, as do many others who see the Imperial Clan and five Supreme Families as undoubtedly superior to the rest. Because of her upbringing however, she embodies the best traits of nobility while eschewing the worst, a kind, considerate, and charitable woman lacking the haughty airs so many nobles succumb to. Others always thought I was taking on too much by trying to single-handedly feed the provinces and raise their standard of education and living, but Luo-Luo went right along with it, because in her eyes, that is what the mantle of nobility entails, the responsibility to make the decisions for the betterment of all mankind, an attitude which makes her inner beauty shine even brighter than her considerable outer beauty. As she plays her best on the walls of Shi Bei, there is no regret in her heart, no sorrow regarding her possibly impending death, no grief or dissatisfaction over having been dragged into this conflict against her will or the circumstances which have brought her here. Instead, she is honoured to fight alongside these heroes of the Empire and proud to provide what little assistance she can, all with a graceful dignity and grand distinguished virtue which I’ve fallen head over heels in love with.

Luo-Luo is genuinely too good for me, but then again, all my wives are, which means I need to work all the harder to ensure I never disappoint any one of them.

As for Lin-Lin, who I’ve loved for so long, her emotions are all but impossible to describe. There’s a streak of dark fear and gloomy concern, but also radiant glee and glowing pride as she moves to support Luo-Luo, who she only now just noticed was struggling on her own. My sweet, cherubic wifey has more or less mastered the art of transferring Life Force to those she loves, and even though I know she is an Ancestral Beast and likely has more than enough to spare, it pains me to see her giving up what might well be years, decades, or even centuries of life for a cause she doesn’t really care for. In Lin-Lin’s eyes, war is no different from the changing seasons, an unstoppable phenomenon which she tolerates and endures because she has no other choice. There will never be an end to the war against Defiled, but even if there was one, it would only lead to a different sort of war, because that is human nature. Thus, she sees no point in being here, but she supports us all nonetheless, and has never once tried to dissuade me from pursuing my Dao. Because of this, she has suffered through the most turbulent period of her life when she should instead be happy, safe, and cherished, meaning she suffers only for love of me. To make matters worse, circumstances forced her to reveal her status as an Ancestral Beast, so even if we survive the battle here in Shi Bei, she might well be forced to spend the rest of her life running or hiding from pursuers seeking to enslave her against her will. I’ve stolen an untold number of years of safety and anonymity away from her, a debt which I can never repay, yet she holds no grudge against me nor does she blame me for her woes. Instead, she strives to support me and everyone she loves as best she can in spite of the dark future awaiting her, because she would rather live happily in the moment than let what might come next bring her down.

Again, Lin-Lin’s Balance is also quite similar to Buddy’s, in which they give themselves wholly over to the strongest emotion present, yet my sweet wifey has never once shown any sign of Imbalance, and might well be the most Balanced person I know. A contradiction which I am still unable to resolve, because in my mind, Balance has been cemented as net-neutral emotion, yet time and time again I am seeing that this is not the case.

Which logically means my fundamental understanding of Balance must be inherently and intrinsically flawed.

So what is Balance? The question puts me in mind of a conversation I once had with Fung, and I find him fighting on the walls of Shi Bei beside his lady love. What a match they make, wielding their swords in hand as they support one another against foes far too strong for them to face, moving in near perfect coordination as Ryo Seoyoon follows Fung’s lead without hesitation, the two love-birds glowing with warm pinks and blossoming greens accented by icy-blue determination. My friend has come far since we first met in Shen Huo, and as I watch his sword trace a path through the air and catch the faintest hints of Sword Intent surging within, I am unable to even guess at what heights he will eventually reach. The lyrical lines of his incomprehensible poetry flow out without pause, and the measured cadence of his speech aligns his breathing to the rhythm of the World which empowers him even further as he goes head-to-head with Half-Demon Peak Experts and comes so very close to matching them. Even more impressive is how his poems enable Seoyoon to do the same, but only because she has wholly given herself over to him in mind and soul, if not body, and thus able to match his flow as the Energy of the Heavens surge around them.

I have always believed that Fung is one of the greatest talents of our generation, but I never knew how talented until now. If given some more years of conflict to wholeheartedly pursue his Dao, I believe Fung has it in him to become the second Ying Zheng, a Warrior with the strength to conquer the Empire and unite all the lands behind him. No wonder his advice was so sound, delivered so nonchalantly over dinner as we ate around the fire only days after the purge ended, but before the siege of Sanshu had yet to truly begin. “Balance is a concept for which we humans are ill-suited,” he began, his cheeks still rosy-red from laughing at my naivete. “We are fragile, emotional creatures, capable of observation and thought which many scholars believe hinders our progress. Animals naturally seek Balance, but humans must reach for it, struggle to hold it, and there has yet to be a single person who has truly mastered it.”

Because there has yet to be the human equivalent of an Ancestral Beast, a human who reforged their body in the Energy of the Heavens to become something more than what they were before. The human Divinities we know of are false Divinities at best, though one could argue that Ancestral Beasts are also false Divinities, though most certainly less false than human Divinities. Then again, this might no longer be true considering what Zhen Shi only recently accomplished, reforging his body in the image of his soul and therefore the Eternal Emperor’s image as well, a feat I suspect the original was also able to accomplish, though he purposely left the details of his Path vague and indistinct. Thus, my goal is to match them in this, to become a true Divinity, because anything less will not bring me victory against my foe, but first I must answer the question of, “What is Balance?”

“You’ve confused Balance with morality.” Fung’s voice sounds out once again as the memory of our talk continues. “There is no right or wrong, no good or evil when it comes to Balance. Life and death are but two sides of the same coin, both required for the world to continue. Take for example a wildfire ravaging through a forest, destroying trees and killing wildlife without mercy. Many would see the flames as evil, but it is also a source of renewal. The dead trees nourish the soil and without them, the canopy no longer blocks out the sunlight, allowing for new growth to flourish. Some trees have even been noted to only produce seeds after a fire, meaning the forest cannot be sustained without the flames.”

“So you’re saying fire is good?”

That was my question, which goes to show I missed the point entirely, but my good friend answered patiently without judgement. “No, the fire is neither good nor evil, it is merely an agent of Balance. As humans, we allow our morals and philosophies to colour our judgment, which affects our ability to find Balance. Does the rabbit consider the wolf evil? Does a flower hate the deer? Perhaps they do, but each are merely acting in their nature. Morality is a human construct, Balance a natural one. It’s how people like the Shrike and Fu Zu Li retain Balance, they are merely doing what is required of them.”

Again, missing the point, I ask, “Then how come anger and rage are so bad for Balance?”

“It isn’t. Too much anger is another thing altogether. Take all things in moderation. Laugh when you want to, cry when you must, fight when called upon, and stand up for what you believe.” Shrugging, Fung adds, “It’s all much easier said than done of course.”

And truer words had never been spoken. All this time I’ve been struggling to define Balance, but the truth is, there is no definitive answer. Balance is not a set state of mind to achieve, not a condition to aim for, but rather a goal to keep in mind at all times when pursuing the Dao. Balance is simply Balance, without any right or wrong answer regarding how to approach it, because there are a myriad of different ways to find Balance, but the goal is not as important as the steps one takes to reach it. I’ve been asking the wrong question, namely, “What is Balance?”, when instead I should be asking, “What does Balance mean to me?”

