You have made a habit of meeting avatars in battle and living to tell the tale. You are now well-known among the gods, and they are observing your progress.

Nothing like facing a goddamn incarnated deity to propel you to new heights, Viv thought as she breathed a sigh in relief. It was done. For now. Octas had made it clear they would meet again soon and this time, there would definitely be spiders.

Your Huntress title has evolved into ‘Vive la Révolution’ thanks to repeated beheading attempts on dangerous targets.

Your spells will be more effective when attacking the weak points of very powerful enemies.

Enemies that are nominally stronger than you can experience terror.

“Wait a minute. How do you know what the French revolution is?”

Maradoc shared the content of your ‘hard drive’ with me.

“Stop spying on my stuff! Ugh.”

Perhaps the Vandal title should apply to Emeric-given appliances.

“I am grateful for the chance to spread the ideals of democracy.”

I thought so. Good luck, Outlander.

Viv sighed, then she sat on part of the destroyed mast. Sidjin joined her a moment later with a satisfied expression. The two watched the result of their work in content silence while, around them, temple guards and sailors cried and cheered, hugging each other for having accomplished the impossible. A couple of minutes later, a flushed Captain Sil walked to them, her back straight and radiating confidence.

“You did manage it. I dared not hope but you managed it. You killed a gods-cursed avatar. I can scarcely believe my eyes.”

“Not our first time,” Viv said, though she wasn’t feeling as confident as she was projecting.

“It was… talking to you. It remembered you!”

“As I said, not the first time I faced an avatar of the dark gods in battle, though it was probably the most dangerous one. Octas doesn’t like civilization very much and my goal of returning the deadlands to human control runs against everything she stands for. It shouldn’t be a surprise that we butt heads.”

“Butt heads? You… you are being far too casual. Almost blasphemous.”

Viv dropped to her feet and took out her dagger. It was time to work.

“What, errr, what are you doing?” the captain asked.

By her side, Sidjin prepared a levitation spell, probably for easier access to the tail. There were damaged parts contaminated with black mana they would sadly have to excise.

Viv approached the severed torso of the avatar and, with one swift Excalibur, cut off the animal head.

“Oh just collecting a gift for a friend. Got to find a bag. Then it’s time to process the monster parts.”

“What? But… this is… this is the body of a dark god!”

“No, that part is the body of a human turned into an avatar, which we won’t touch. That’s an abyssal octopus—”

“A juvenile,” Sidjin elaborated.

“Yes, and that is some sort of giant lobster.”

“A Perdition Gulf rock crusher. Adult. Female.”

Viv waited for Sidjin to add twenty years old and gravid or something but he thankfully didn’t.

“You two are… no wait! YOU INTEND TO EAT IT?”

“Sure,” Viv said.

“You are MAD! This carcass must be purified then burnt!”

The captain was livid. Around them a few sailors and guards approached with worried glances.

“You can purify and burn the human part and I’ll sanctify the lobster tail with my stomach,” Viv said.

“I know this sounds mad, however I assure you that the monster parts are untainted. There are precedents. Giant spiders animated by divine mana have proven perfectly edible after the death of the avatar. It is a matter of public record,” Sidjin explained with a calm voice while picking large chunks of tentacles. “It would be criminal to let that mana-rich flesh go to waste, especially under the present circumstances.”

“I will not allow my ship to turn into an avatar barbecue.”

Viv and Sidjin exchange a glance, but it was a different voice that broke the status quo.

You would refuse us, your saviors?

All the attention turned to Arthur lounging lazily over the broken mast, one wing still looking a little raw.

It would be a shame if I had to… provide the fires myself.

The captain had one good look at the small fires still clinging to parts of the dead body despite having spent minutes fully immersed in blue mana. She gulped.

On such a joyous occasion.

Oh, and I was wounded while defending you.

Her malevolent red eyes focused on Captain Sil with laser-like intensity.

Are you insured?

“I will have the braziers brought out for you. And have the cooks join you… but my people will stay away from this meat!”

The captain turned around, but the dragon wasn’t done.

And a crate of Helockian sweet fish sauce.

Sil froze in her tracks.

I know you have it.

I smelled it in the front of the boat.

Second layer from the top.

Mother needs more food to grow wings.

Do not stall me further, borgling.

“I, errr, this was ordered by the quartermaster on Sardanal’s Cradle. It is not mine to share!”

The quartermaster is not here.

I am.

“I’ll say it was lost in the battle,” Sil replied, dejectedly. “Is that all?”

The reply was clearly meant to be sarcastic.

“White wine,” Sidjin added.

“And butter,” Viv added to honor her French ancestry. “Oh, and any citrussy fruit you might have.”

“I’m going, I’m going!”
