Once more, the ship lurched and the sails swept the deck as they crossed the winds. Sailors climbed the rigging to adjust or tense sails while roving bands of guards still patrolled the deck, waiting for the avatar’s inevitable return. The harpoon fired again and something screamed out of sight. She could see it in the manic grins of the men and women now: they finally believed they had a chance.

“Faster!”

“BRACE!”

Viv gripped the charging port tightly while the sailors compensated for the next impact. Only a few guards stumbled. This time, however, the Beast didn’t leave. Soon, a grating sound traveled through the hull, a bit like a saw. The hull enchantments flickered. They were not designed to resist a sustained attack.

“Can’t get a shot, ma’am,” the harpoon crew yelled.

“Viv?” Sidjin said.

The witch raced to her paramour who was busy casting something, something large. All the blue mana he had went into the construct.

“I need to stay near the charger or the hull will fail.”

“It will be breached. Trying to outlast the Beast is a losing strategy. We need to get to it.”

“My spells won’t work through that much water.”

“I know. I’ll open the way, but we need to be fast because I can’t contest control of the surrounding water with the Beast if she’s aware I’m trying. At least, she doesn’t seem very observant.”

“If we have a small window, I can use the aspect of the destroyer.”

“You must.”

The problem was that the aspect of the destroyer required her to be unmoving relative to the earth and the ship was currently sailing at several knots, which meant that even activating the skill would make her fall off. The window would be short.

“We levitate to the side, you activate the skill, I cast the spell and you give that thing the death it deserves. Ready?”

“After you.”

Viv and Sidjin levitated to the side where the Beast was at work. Below, cries of a hull breach reminded her she was working on a schedule. The pair of casters noticed the writhing shape of Octas’ avatar clinging to the side, then moved forward to get the right timing.

“Whenever you’re ready,” Sidjin said.

Viv adjusted her position. The ship was below and behind her. This would have to do. With a thought, she relaxed and let her anchor activate.

The false wings on her back extended and dug down into the fabric of the world. Her motion stopped abruptly, giving her some small amount of whiplash but she’d been expecting it. Powerful mana flooded her body until she felt ready to burst.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

Below, the Beast tensed. It was too late.

“Parting the sea,” Sidjin said, his brow covered in sweat.

The ship raced by them while below, the ocean opened. White, foamy water rose in twin walls like an opening curtain, revealing for the briefest of instants the thick dark shell and colorful body of the avatar. A muffled scream of outrage pierced through the stifling waves. Sidjin’s surprise attack met with the chimera’s absolute control and lost, but the opening was there and in that instant between instants, Viv took it.

[Sequence: Astra, Astra, Hyperbeam]

Viv carpet bombed every visible part of the avatar. A torrent of spells annihilated what was left of the water and the flesh underneath. Cataclysmic energies crashed through the surprised avatar’s defenses, opening great gashes along its body, revealing flesh squirming underneath. Blood and viscera flew up as the avatar lost its grip and plunged deeper to escape its death. Viv cut the skill as soon as the last of her barrage was off and half-collapsed into Sidjin’s waiting arms. It was still a difficult thing to control.

“I.. I just need a moment.”

“I know.”

The archmage dragged her up with speed, and faster. Both of them were feeling it.

Below them, a maelstrom of energies churned the waters. The boiling vortex intensified until there was enough energy to start a tidal wave. A low, rumbling warned them of the imminent danger. Viv’s danger sense screamed at her to dodge. She pointed towards a safe direction for Sidjin to carry her.

The sea exploded. Large geysers shot all over the place. Vi managed to reactivate her levitation and the pair dodged left and right. Cold sweat and stress gripped Viv’s heart. The spray was so intense she was completely drenched. Saturated mana and the mist obscured her vision until all she could do was cling to Sidjin and rely on their instincts. Her shields would be useless here. Even if they survived, the pressure alone would send them careening across the sky.

“Shit.”

Something huge was coming. Viv accelerated even more. At this height, she could finally see the ship in the distance and the geysers, their efforts exhausted.

The Beast took off from the sea with the largest column of water yet at its back. The nightmarish form surged towards them on a torrent, a shield already forming… and then the water dispersed.

Viv watched the avatar’s face switch from triumphant rage to confusion. Someone was contesting her control over water and winning.

“SKRAAAAA!”

Water sprayed in every direction when Arthur raked the Beast with a torrent of fire. Its skin cracked and bubbled on an entire flank. The young dragoness latched on a side and raked it with violence, deepening ghastly wounds with every claw swipe. The Beast shuddered. A green cloud puffed out of its strange shape.

“No, ARTHUR, GET OUT!”

But it was too late. The dragoness cried in pain as she let go. Her left wing beat strangely. An expanding circle in the delicate membrane spoke of dire damage. Viv dived. She put all of her power into the descent. Arthur was struggling to stay afloat using gray mana. She latched onto Viv as the witch passed her by. A sharp pain told the witch where her daughter’s  nervous claws had latched on. Ok. She was fine. She was going to be fine. It was okay.

Viv veered off towards the ship. That was where they had the advantage. Sidjin came after her, throwing large transparent spells in the path of water attacks.

Mother!

It hurtsssssss.

“Clean it with water. DON’T TOUCH IT!”

It itches!

“Do not fucking touch it. Sidjin?”

“Covering you, let’s go.”

The dragoness was fucking heavy but Viv didn’t care. Fear propelled her forward towards safety while behind them, the screeching form of the avatar cleaved through the waves after them. Speed made her clothes flap in the wind and for the first time since turning part elemental, Viv was cold.

“I WILL KILL YOU!”

The two caster and the wounded dragoness landed on the deck a moment later. Arthur’s wing was now encased in a bubble of water suffused with life mana. The dragoness complained and hissed but Viv was just happy she was doing fine. They were all alive. For now. She’d never been so happy to have planks under her feet.

“INCOMING!”

Sil’s yells reminded Viv of what was at stake. Sidjin surged towards the ship’s controls but Arthur blocked Viv with a clawed hand and a grumble.

I cannot fly properly like this.

And you have only black mana.

I will power the boat so it does not sink and we can make fire and eat the avatar.

You go kill it first.

“Are you sure?”

Don’t let the tail fall in the water!

It’s the best part!

“Okay.”

Viv raced to the railings and grabbed on. Emeric’s Girl was listing to the side. For a moment, she worried the avatar might finish the hull off but it was without counting on Octas’ absolutely unhinged nature. The Beast was crashing through the waves towards them in a flurry of bleeding limbs. Some embers still clung to its reddening, cracked shell. Thing was resilient.

“Damn,” Viv whispered.

Might have to use her training earlier than planned but that was alright. She grabbed her forged shield from her back and approached the edge of the deck, feeling only mildly confident. She’d practiced with Solar. It would have to do.

“Everyone, hold on to something!” The captain yelled.

With surprising speed given her tilt, Emeric’s Girl turned to face the incoming threat.

“Full sails!”

One moment, Viv was standing on her feet. The next, the sails flared with power, a mighty wind roared through its white canvas, tensing it with a sound like the crack of a whip. Viv slammed against the ground, rolling as Emeric’s Girl surged forward like a speeder. Around her, the sailors held on but the idiots who’d not heeded Sil’s words were sent sprawling across the deck. Viv recovered almost immediately and sprinted towards the front of the ship.

There was a crunch when the prow hit the avatar head on. Its screams turned into incoherent yells of horror and fury, and Viv’s hope it would be enough faltered when bleeding tentacles latched on the deck, pulping an unfortunate sailor. The tendrils grappled with a strength that made the wood groan and crack ominously. The nightmarish face of the avatar soon followed. The fallen human was made even more monstrous by the wounds it had suffered, the black-infected gashes on its surface and the deep wounds, the burns, none of it slowed her down. Squads of temple guards attacked the tentacles where they landed, blocking the threshing with kite shields. Viv closed in just as the avatar’s human half cleared the railing. She got a real good look at the way its chest inflated as it breathed it. The effect would have been comical if it wasn’t so horrifying, any semblance of humanity turned grotesque and bulging, like a drowned dead. The mouth opened disproportionately.

The ship’s self-drying activated but what came out wasn’t a cloud this time, but a highly concentrated stream of transparent liquid.

Viv couldn’t let that hit the deck or it might burn through everything on the way down.

“Aegis.”

Viv stepped in the path of the spray, intercepting it with a layer of devouring void. Something hissed, though Viv wasn’t sure what it was. There was a lot of blue mana in that thing and she struggled to cancel it all. She couldn’t open gates here, or use most of her spells for fear of thrashing the ship. Good practice indeed.

A warning screamed in her soul. Viv levitated up, above a sweep from a tentacle.

“Excalibur.”

She allowed the tentacle to slice itself on the blade. Solar was right. She had no need to sweep because the blade’s destructiveness did not rely on momentum. Red blood sprayed in her face, on her clothes. The metallic stench joined that of voided bowels and the tang of acid to add to the chaos. Viv shadow stepped forward to avoid another strike and cut another tentacle at the base. The avatar gave up on killing her to hoist itself on the deck with supreme effort. Its massive bulk pushed the temple guards away. The abomination managed to grab a few to fling overboard in the confusion despite Viv’s best efforts, then another limb grabbed the central mast before snapping it. It crashed down on the combatants behind Viv which added to the general chaos of battle. Meanwhile, Viv didn’t relent. Her mind burned with the effort of casting spell after spell in a flurry of attacks. It would have shredded a cavalry charge but the avatar was divine and it was incredibly resilient. Octas used her remaining claw to block those that did not rake the Beast’s flank.

Viv grit her teeth. Any time now.

With one last Astra, the claw finally fell off. Her opponent bellowed in agony.

“YOU. PESKY. MORON! YOU COULD HAVE HAD IT ALL! YOU WERE A PERFECT VESSEL BUT NO, YOU HAD TO SERVE THE SHINY WEAKLING.”

“I only serve ideas. People tend to disappoint.”

“MORE QUIPS. MORE TONGUE-FLAPPING.”

Viv stepped through the shadows to avoid another hit. The creature’s three free tentacles focused on her but it was an awkward battle. They were not meant to be used this way and the avatar was forced to use two more to stabilize its massive body, now a liability. Sailors and warriors attacked its flanks with axes now that it had sacrificed its mobility.

Nevertheless, it was still an avatar. Even bleeding and dying, it was all Viv could do to stay ahead and dodge the multiple strikes coming her way. The creatures’ suckers were small but each was adorned by an inward-turned hook, a white boney thing that promised great pain. Viv retaliated with Excaliburs and nets thrown at minimal range. The creature was just too fast for her to do much else. Float up, travel through the shadows, strike, dive, block with her physical shield until the metal groaned. Rinse and repeat. The humans by her side were doing their best to assist but the Beast’s regeneration made the task difficult.

“Make way,” a calm voice suddenly said.

Viv didn’t need to be told twice. She moved backward then pushed a squad aside. The avatar turned to her in triumph. It opened its mouth wide again.

It faltered.

Sidjin’s blender spell screeched through the air. The avatar stopped what it was doing to call on water but the blue mana slid uselessly against the dense construct. Feeling the danger itself, she formed a water shield and pulled all of its remaining limbs between the spell and her core.

The blender traveled through them with a ghastly sound like a chainsaw meeting rotten bark. The entire front castle was showered in gore, the screams of the dying avatar eclipsed by the continuous carnage. It was the opening Viv had been waiting for. She stepped in front of the bleeding form of the human torso. It was missing an arm, its scaly skin shredded and bleeding profusely.

“I will see you… on the island.”

“Guillotine.”

A cage of black mana blades opened on the Beast’s ‘head’.

It closed with a sound of seared flesh.

For a moment, the avatar kept glaring, then the head of the beast fell as large cubes on the stained deck with a meaty splat.

Danger Sense: Intermediate 7

Shield Mastery: Intermediate 6

Acuity-based reflexes: Intermediate 9

Acuity +1 (45)

Ascender: 2 / 5

