I sighed, "I don't get it. The security for the giant megastructure is minimal. How do they even maintain a society with these things running around?"

Other Hod grimaced, "Does it matter?"

Isa and Lester paled at the sight of the creature. Isa mumbled, "This, uh, this looks pretty bad."

I pointed at them, "Uhm, you two, get ready to pull Alexander out if we can't get this thing under control."

They gave me an immediate salute and followed my orders, both of them happy to not be confronting this thing. I turned to Hod, "Let's kill it. Ready?"

Other Hod's form blurred, "I am always ready for killing. It is my nature."

I walked onto another plane, shifting through the veil. I flew towards the creature while getting my cannon ready. It was too heavy for aiming and firing while in flight, at least for longshots like this. Procuring a lovely spot, I landed on an elevated platform nearby, and Hod skulked into a series of shadows under steel girders. We waited in ambush.

The beetlecrab king ran through the nearby steel, its size dwarfing even gialgathens. It was like a small skyscraper peeling through the terrain, so I shot bone spears at the beast, using ones full of explosive material. This made them detonate once they made contact with an enemy, shotgunning their insides with bone. It helped make my spears better against formidable foes.

It might have also been an idea to counter Daniel's spear knocking technique, but that's beside the point.

Using a pre-prepared supply, I fired at the beast with abandon. I took that planning measure from watching Kessiah heal with her blood. She piled stockpiles of blood, and now I did the same with bone spears, lobbing the piercing bullets with great abandon. It made my longevity in fights better.

As my spears landed like clockwork, the beast charged forward without a care in the world. I would need every bit of stamina I could get. My shots drilled through the giant insect's chest before exploding, and normal creatures would splinter apart, their bodies shredded. This thing kept moving, undeterred and unstoppable. It ignored the tiny cannon holes, its regenerative ability remarkable.

At the same time, Hod peeled out of several shadows, sending umbral slices at the beast. The behemoth's carapace crumbled against the onslaught across its body, but it retained its momentum, bounding at the corpses. It passed us, so we chased the raging beetle.

It stripes blurred into the same color as the steel, making its outline challenging to see. At the same time, its shell opened across its back, its wings blowing up sand nearby. This made it difficult to make out, and the noise boomed so loud that I couldn't hear its crawling anymore. The shadows Hod used as weapons dissipated as a sandstorm brewed up as well.

The monster wasn't as dumb as it looked.

Other Hod adapted, creating a phantasmal form amidst the fog. Slicing from many angles, Hod evaded the quick, snapping swings of the beetleking's arms. I pelted the creature with spiked spears saved for just such an occasion. These lances carried dozens of hooked prongs over their surfaces, wrenching the guts out of any animal they impaled through.

Our attacks gored massive splatters of green, acidic blood from the beetleking. It leaked out from its beady eyes and mandible pronged mouth as it retaliated. Grabbing steel girders, it tossed missiles at us with accuracy. I flipped through the air to dodge, staying light on my feet as I evaded the metal chunks.

I used a strange evasive style oriented around swinging my cannon around. It was heavier than I was, so I turned myself around my gun. I did this while darting back and forth, making circular patterns while weaving around. This disorienting, movement heavy dodge style was difficult to learn and master, but it worked well. Even against larger attacks like this, just my baseline movement pattern alone dodge nine chunking attacks out of ten.

Hod's own evasive style was utterly different yet equally effective. He shifted in and out of shadows, changing positions every second or two.

It made me dizzy just looking at the shadow master, but he ran circles around even agile foes. Considering this beetle's power, we needed absolute avoidance of its attacks; otherwise, we'd be smeared apart against the metal beneath us.

We did just that, holding the line for minutes all while attacking the creature from every angle imaginable, and the beetlecrab's frustration expanded by leaps and bounds during that time. That contrasted its physical size. We ripped waterfalls of blood out of the monster, splaying its insides onto the outer walls around us.

The beetleking didn't fall. It stayed standing.

Condensing and growing smaller and sharper on all sides, its outer shell began hollowing out. Its form altered against us, and I started missing shots while Hod's attacks slowed as the beetleking swung faster. This eldritch beast turned into a nimble fighter within ten minutes, giving us a run for our money.

Hod sliced off one of its arms and legs despite this evolution, and the monster howled in despair. Its wings opened behind its back, and the creature went into the air. Hod shifted into shadows off the walls nearby, but the monster darted back and forth, evading Hod's swipes. In the air, Other Hod could no longer use his shadow techniques.

The beetle charged at me, zipping past two of my harpoons. Running low on backup spears, I evaded sideways, and the beetleking's claws grazed my jumpsuit. The beast tore out a piece of my side before devouring the bloody chunk hungrily. A vivid spout of pain ran up my spine, causing me to grunt, blood coming out of my mouth.

I pulled a Daniel, gritting my teeth and clenching my fists. The beetle charged towards me, and I swung my cannon overhead with all I had. A cataclysmic impact ushered out, steel caving under my feet. My arms shattered at the blow, both my upper arms snapping like twigs. The beetleking somehow looked worse off than me.

Its face caved in, my swing crushing the upper half of its body. The creature's legs squirmed for a few seconds before its chest split open. It molted, revealing a smaller, metallic version of its larger self. Once again, I was reminded of fighting Daniel and his unending tenacity. I fought through that, so I sure as hell could fight through this.

I stared the monster down before it shot towards me. Hod appeared from behind it, trying to slice the beast. The hollowed corpse moved to block Hod's attack, and the molted shell began fighting with Other Hod. The new, metallic version sprinted towards me with its legs clicking and clacking.

I shifted onto another plane, walking sideways in time for it to miss. It scrambled and flailed its arms at random, and the beetle let out a frustrated clicking in frustration. I got unlucky, and it clipped me with one of its swings. It cut deep into my thigh. Stumbling away while dragging the cannon, I used stilts made of bone to set my arms and leg. Once usable, I got close before slinging the gun again at the beetlecrab king.

Everything broke on me again, but I left my cannon embedded in the beetleking's side, having caved its chest in. Exposed and vulnerable, I hobbled away. The creature pulled the gun out and lobbed the device at me. I ducked, and the cannon swooped past my head. It tore the metal under it, the weapon so dense and undentable that even the blunt side could cut metal given enough force.

The metal beetle ran away, and I let out a sigh of relief. I turned and found Hod dismantling the headless corpse of the old beetle king. As the acid blood melted gobs of metal, Hod outmaneuvered the headless king, ripping it apart. Stumbling over, I pulled my cannon out of the steel.

I couldn't complain about Daniel's weapons when it came to their durability. Leaning on that weapon, I waited for my arms and legs to regenerate. A few minutes later, I regrouped with Other Hod. He stood atop a defeated king, the shadow slayer oozing black fire. Other Hod hissed,

"Where is the other beast?"

I let out a frustrated breath, "I don't know."

A disgusting crunch echoed in the distance. We both sprinted towards the source of the sound. The beetlecrab king feasted on the burning metal eaters along with the leftover cobra corpses. The king's body expanded, rapidly reforming the massive exoskeleton it carried from before. I lifted my cannon, frustrated by the beast's revival. This was going to be a hard fight.

But it wasn't.

From our encampment, a bolt of violet lightning streaked out of a window. This bolt pierced the center of the creature, impaling the metal body within. Using the monster's momentary paralysis, Hod and I unloaded a series of bolts, swipes, and slices at the beast. It fell apart, its body no longer sustaining the acid within it.

Alexander's eyes widened as he heaved for breath. From behind him, Isa gave the boy a pat on the back,

"I knew you had it in you."

The leftover pieces of the giant beast swelled as life left its body. We braced for impact, everyone hiding behind cover. The beetlecrab king's body splattered over every nearby surface. Alexander's head popped back out after the explosion, the teenager chugging mana potions. Lester threw a napalm bomb at the beetlecrab's remains while shouting,

"Normally, I wouldn't burn a good corpse, but I don't even want whatever that thing had in it."

Alexander shook off his exhaustion, turning towards the ritual site. He hobbled over towards the runes and channeled more energy. The runes glowed for the ritual's completion. Before he finished, the melting corpse of the beetlecrab king seared the outside wall of our encampment. A pivotal portion of the wall disintegrated, parts of the floor falling apart as well.

Alexander gasped at the sight, half of his hard work melting before him. The wizard blinked a few times before his eyes rolled back in his head, and the boy fainted. Lester caught him before his head clunked against steel, and each of us stared at the absolute disaster before us.

I stared up, a foreign planet looming over our heads. Some kind of border guards began mobilizing in the distance, coming to inspect all the damage left behind. We all looked at each other, everybody too stunned to move or think.

We needed to move. Now.
