The more I learned, the more it made sense why Elysium owned this place now. The first rational reason for staying here was mining. From every part of this planet, they took out an abundance of rare resources. Conscripted miners from many planets harvested these ores, gems, crystalized mana, and eldritch parts from the lower portions of the world's crust. This allowed them to power massive amounts of machinery for drilling with ease. The extra mana was shipped off to power ships, the upper ring, and other buyers.

The critical economic aspect of this harvesting was the mana pollution that this mining caused. Though this planet couldn't support silvers because of all the metal eaters, the purple, smelly sludge was a valuable resource by itself. Considering the volumes of mana pollution required to make the silvers, the Adair's fought bitterly to keep this place theirs. Emphasis on fighting bitterly.

Seven raids by Schema occurred during our stay here, one each day. Elysium pushed back each of these assaults via orbital battles. Somehow, this planet was a higher priority than even Giess for Schema. When I got below the surface and walked with miners, I discovered why this was a habitable fringe world.

That sounds like a misnomer, but it was true. Gypsum's resources came from thousands upon thousands of underground rifts lying beneath its surface. These pocket dimensions' density meant a dozen planet's worth of resources brimmed just beneath the surface here. Hundreds of miles of tunnels went far across the world, deep into its underground world. From only preliminary scouting, I estimated this planet must be at least ten times larger under the surface than it seemed above ground.

Eldritch dungeons worked in weird ways like that.

I envisioned a world at the brink of chaos with this kind of dungeon density. They managed because of a few factors. First, the dungeons opened up underground. That containment let Gypsum forces control security here more easily than if a dungeon was exposed. Most eldritch weren't just going to burrow through the rock to the surface anyway.

Even if they did, it didn't matter. The lack of organic life on the surface meant dangerous eldritch never broke out. By comparison to a place like Earth, this was a land incapable of making really dangerous monsters. The worst of the bunch were beetlecrabs, which could sometimes become an issue. Hybrids did well against those guys since the worst of those guys built up metal over their bodies from eating metal eaters.

Because of the natural insulation of their dungeons, Gypsum handled dungeons differently than how we did. These guys set up mining operations in the alternate dimensions. These dungeons supplied an endless abundance of both natural and unnatural resources. Gold, silver, platinum, orichalcum, and dozens of ores I knew nothing about, this place flooded with those rare substances. This was where all the Hybrids resided as well. They offered protection and security to the minders who toiled in these rifts. To feed these people, Gypsum imported food from other worlds. They paid for bread and meat with gemstones and diamonds.

Here's where it got interesting - Schema never supported this place. He didn't set up warp stations or let Sentinels establish themselves here as guards. Schema registered Gypsum as a fringe world lacking the necessary means for his support. This made personalized warps big business, though people didn't use them as often anymore. The rate of failed warpings was high, many people walking through a warp and never walking back.

This lack of infrastructure and support was why Gypsum joined Elysium. Elysium offered adaptable support, allowing the many rifts to be mined with Hybrid guards. This rich abundance of rare materials harvested here meant hundreds of trillions of credits for Elysium. Even small transactions on Gypsum left merchants wealthy. From what I heard, Elysium set up warps, Hybrid guards in the underground, and they even maintained order on the surface.

It was an unfortunate thing to see. Schema's rule was so unyielding that he didn't take advantage of this place. Elysium did, so now...now Gypsum helped fund Elysium's war efforts. This planet was where all the orichalcum came from that Elysium used. Some of the rarer ores for their tech came from here too.

I took these observations as notes, ensuring to videotape what was necessary and some stuff that wasn't. This place would be a surefire target for us later on in the war effort, so I reported what I could. I was in luck because most of the security here was primarily in orbit, preventing anyone from establishing a real foothold here. Warping in was possible, but it would be dangerous and difficult. Portalists struggled with getting the coordinates right due to the complexity of Gypsum's orbit, and that didn't even mention the hazardous surface conditions.

I thought they'd warp underground to compensate, but that required absolute precision. If you messed up the warp, it would fuse portions of a person's body with the surrounding stone. Recovering from that required extensive surgery, and if your head submerged into it, well...you died instantly.

That meant that Elysium's warps were popular here since they were safe. We weren't totally out of luck, though. Spear could get us in here with his dimensional slicing, but that would alert people we were here. It also would tax our Sentinel since maintaining a warp large enough to move an army wasn't really possible for a single person. Helios would struggle for the same reasons, and he needed this planet's orbital information before he could warp in anyways.

We needed someone with massive mana reserves and a lot of computational ability for that kind of thing. Fortunately, we had just that kind of person at our disposal, and he happened to lead the guild. I just hoped Daniel would be able to learn this kind of thing. He already managed an absurd amount of stuff, and asking him to become one of the galaxy's premier warpers was just piling on even more.

We'd have to see if it worked out. Daniel pulled off some crazy stuff in the past, so maybe he'd do it again. Either way, it was about time we got out of here and returned back to Mt. Verner. I was getting tired of the mission, and our rendezvous time was closing in. I came back from my morning infiltration while looking forward to leaving. I raced across the barren desserts back to our base. As I did, the old megastructures groaned like ancients beasts, the wind causing them to bellow out noise into the distance.

Those echoes passed me by as I reached our base. We got a lot of useful info during our stay here, but we were all ready to leave. Hod's defense of the place left hundreds of bodies piled up in front of our domain, the bodies giving off an oily smell. That odor drifted out over the hills as I landed beside the birdman. Hod turned to me, his eyes blank as always,

"Hod glad to see lady friend. Hod kill many monster today."

I grinned at him, "Good job, but you're supposed to clear out the bodies, remember?"

Hod smacked his forehead, "Hod forget again. Hod do that right now."

The absent-minded birdman ran into the base before taking out one of Lester's napalm bombs. Tossing it onto the pile of corpses, they singed with the smell of copper, smoke, and erosion. The wind pulled the smoke and dispersed it out without us even needing to disguise the stream of dark gas.

Hod put his hands on his hips, "It time for Hod rest. Hod tired. Other Hod come out now."

I frowned as his eyes turned from a hollow white to a full red. The crimson color swam over his eyes like the eclipse of two moons. His shifting feathers engulfed in shadow, and Other Hod stretched his darkened, muscular arms. He groaned out in a dark, menacing growl,

"Gagh, I needed a good rest. Much better." He looked at the corpses, "I missed much of the killing, didn't I? A shame."

I raised my eyebrows, "You ready to leave?"

He walked towards our base, hearing the others toiling,

"I am. Let's part ways with this desolate and barren land."

I raised a finger as we walked into the room, "It's actually less barren than you'd think."

Amara snuggled into a corner, her work with her status already finished days ago. She worked on gaining as much information for our guild as possible, all while inspecting various cipheric energy flows. On the other side of our encampment, Alexander toiled till his fingers bled on the runes required for warping.

Complex computations smothered the entirety of the walls, most of the metal having been engraved on. Alexander learned to use a torch to work on the steel, and it slowed him down. He also didn't think that it would be as complicated as it was. He still got it done, having pulled an all-nighter the day before to finish up.

Alexander sighed as he got the last marking made. Lester and Isa prepped a few more of their weaponry and tools for eldritch slaying. They harvested hundreds of bodies' worth of supplies during our stay here. Those resources made them rich and happy as could be. The task still bore down on them despite their initial enthusiasm, however. There were only so many glands you could harvest before it got boring.

With Alexander finishing, I turned to the dungeoneers and spread out my hands,

"Hey, we're done here. We can finally go."

They jumped up, expecting to head out any minute. Packing over the next few minutes, everyone prepped for getting the heck out of here. We'd be taking the room with us, just like when we first warped to Giess, but we didn't want to leave anything behind. Alexander took a break in the meantime, the poor guy exhausted from all the runic languaging.

As this all happened, Other Hod stood guard of our campsite. He walked out of the sound-absorbing barrier, peering around for anything nasty nearby. His head twitched with irritation, and I stared at him as he struggled to discern what he just heard. I didn't want any complications, so I jogged off towards him, Other Hod jittering about.

I enlarged my own ears, and the wind howled in from all angles. Wanting to know more, I grew wings and leaped up. Flying in place, I peered around and found a sandstorm coming our way. I shouted at Hod,

"We'll have to stay in the shelter, but that thing shouldn't be too hard to wait out."

Other Hod's dark feathers bristled over his phantasmagorical skin as he yelled,

"That isn't a storm. It's an eldritch."

I stared at it, the giant sandstorm coming our way. At the center of the storm, a darker blot of dust shifted in place. I expanded my eyes, finding what lay beneath. A muscled insect walking on four limbs rushed toward us. It traveled by digging with its front two legs and wiggling its back ones, cascading a vast plume of sand behind the monster. As it got closer, the forty-foot tall eldritch showed a beetle's shell over its back, stripes over its carapace, and two large mandibles under its jaw.

Racing out of the sand, it tore through portions of the ancient metal structures surrounding us. It used bulked arms designed like crab claws with three fingers. Using those hands, it ripped steel like paper and devoured any metal eaters nearby, snatching them into its mandibles. Other Hod stared at the burning bodies of metal eaters besides us,

"That idiot. Hod left an enormous pile of rotting corpses...You all did."

I raised my hands, "I was trying to spy on enemies. We burned them at the end of every day to make sure this didn't happen too. We always left a few since harvesting the venoms was the only thing Lester and Isa could do the whole week."

Other Hod seethed, "Now we pay for their boredom by facing an enormous monster. It's a matter of simple prioritization."

I shook my hands, getting a little nervous, "It's fine. We made a mistake. Let's go out there and kill it before it wrecks the ritual site. It shouldn't be too hard. The eldritch here aren't too strong...Usually."

Other Hod breathed deeply,

"Fine. Let's go."

I flew into our camp and shouted, "Everyone, an eldritch is coming. It looks powerful, so we need to get out of here asap. Get the ritual going, Alexander."

The teenager sighed but pushed himself back up to work. The other Dungeoneers put on their rebreathers and goggles, running outside with us. Using grappling hooks and rope, they reached towards the megastructure's upper portions, Hod and I flying instead. The colossus came at us, so I tried inspecting the thing using Amara's makeshift system. It worked.

Sorta.

Alloyed Beetlecrab King, exact species unknown(lvl 6,000-15,000) - This variant of an alloyed beetlecrab king seems to be a stronger, more able version than most, probably. They usually tear through colonies of sandworms, feeding on the larva in most cases. This could be a different case. Hard to say.

A beetle king spawns when the beetlecrabs overgorge on nearby food supplies. The beetlecrabs subsequently starve, and the remaining beetlecrabs devour their kin. The last one remaining from this cannibalistic cycle is a beetlecrab king variant. This variant then gorges on the densest metals and minerals of metal-eating eldritch. Overtime, likely decades, this beetlecrab king evolved into some kind of variant with far denser shell structures and muscle fibers. Once again, this is all an assumption.

This developmental process resulted in a destructive, powerful creature capable of killing even classers with relative ease if given a chance. Be careful of its abilities, though this update can't be sure of what they are.

So yeah, good luck.

The vague descriptions weren't typical, but they worked well enough. I kinda figured it was a beetlecrab after seeing it anyway. I sent my teammates screenshots of the description in case they couldn't inspect it. Other Hod shouted over the sound of distant ripping steel,

"This does not appear to be a 'weak' eldritch, Althea."

