Kervin’s Point of View:

“I missed this.”

“Missed what, Boss?” Lurte asks to the side of me.

“This,” I gesture to the forest around us. “A quiet trip through the woods. No bandits after us, no emergency delivery; just a simple delivery to a client.”

"And the fact that we're picking up hundreds of gold coins worth of weapons and materials has nothing to do with it?” Reel cheekily comments from behind me. It was his turn to rest in the cart, but it wasn't as comfortable as usual, with the pile of ore and other goods taking up most of the space.

Turning my head slightly, I see that he’s sitting on the edge of the cart with his feet dangling over the side. “That too,” I smile at him before turning my attention back to the road even though I don't need to; the bivol know what they're doing. “Everything has just been so hectic lately. You know I used to hate this,” I say more to myself rather than expecting a reaction from my men.

“Is that so?” Reel responds, sounding more than a little bored. I’m happy that no one was trying to kill us this time; Reel… not so much.

But he answered me, so I keep the conversation going. “That’s right; I wanted nothing more than to be promoted to an office position or perhaps run one of our branch stores. Funny, right?"

Reel scoffs at the idea, but his attitude doesn't bother me as much as it used to. In fact, I realized he keeps things interesting.

When we escaped Drey and the assassins Grey sent after us, we were essentially stuck at Silver Herd’s main offices, in case he made another attempt on my life. It wasn't all bad; I had a sit down with Giovanni, where he spelled out my job regarding Aaliyah. But in the end, he basically repeated everything I already knew, treat Aaliyah like the golden roc that she was and help her produce as many golden eggs as possible. However, being stuck inside wasn’t nearly as glamorous as I thought it would be.

I was officially one of Giovanni’s trusted people, but that only equated to me being allowed to help with some of his more important paperwork. The paperwork I was subsequently buried under until Grey was all but confirmed dead.

In comparison, the last two weeks were much more enjoyable. Finally, I was allowed to make my way back to Drey, where I was happy to learn my house was spared in Scholl’s takeover of the city. Aaliyah and others laughed at everything I had piled up in my house, but now with goods priced at their highest points in decades, I can sell almost everything in my house for nearly double what I paid for it.

Add in my percentage of the goods I’m about to pick up, and I’m going to have more gold than I know what to do with.

It’s true what they say; even in strife, one can build wealth.

“Now that I’m back on my cart, I can’t think of anywhere I’d rather be." Of course, the further away from all that paperwork, the better, but I don’t say that part aloud.

“Well, I can agree with you there." I see Reel draw one of his daggers out of the corner of my eye and start playing with it by flipping it around. "It's no fun sitting around doing nothing." Then, faster than my eyes can follow, he throws his dagger into a bush in the distance. A goblin falls out of its hiding space with Reel’s dagger buried in its throat. Poor thing, bad luck choosing that spot to hide.

I shake my head; since when did I start feeling bad for goblins?

“Don’t worry, he was alone,” Reel tells Lurte and Ryiba, who draw their weapons and close in on me. He then jumps off the cart and moves over to fetch his weapon.

It's funny; the sight of a goblin used to send shivers up my spine. But, I guess after surviving an assassination attempt, things like goblins don’t bother me anymore. That or Reel’s personality is rubbing off on me.

“I guess goblins are returning to the woods,” I offer up an observation.

“There can’t be many of them if we’re only seeing one now,” Reel notes as he jogs back to the cart, and I think he’s right.

We should be reaching the village any moment now, and we’re just now seeing a single goblin? Before the whole magic spider fiasco, Lurte and Ryiba would usually have to kill multiple groups of the buggers before we’ve made it this far. To think that was only a year ago, it feels like it's been much longer than that. More happened in this last year than in all the time I’ve spent working for Silver Herd combined.

“Still, we should inform the village when we reach it.” I snap the rains, making the bivol kick it into high gear. They go from slow to slightly less slow.

I wonder how the village has been doing since we were last here? It has been more than a couple of months since I made that final ore delivery, and I can’ help but imagine they were starving for supplies. I brought bags of salt, spices, and other everyday items the village would regularly order from me, along with Aaliyah's ore. I’m sure they’ll be excited to see me.

“What in the gods name is that!?” Ryiba exclaims, pulling me out of my thoughts.

He was walking slightly further in front of us, but as we round the bend in the road, the rest of us saw what made him exclaim as he did.

We were at the front of the village, but it looked totally different than what I remembered. The small clearing we usually camped at, the trees around it, they were all gone. From our position, there was an unobstructed view of the village where once was a thin line of trees.

In front of us, I count nearly twenty villagers working in what could only be described as organized chaos. Six men, including the man I recognize as Aaliyah’s father, were felling trees like they were saplings. Once a tree fell, another group of six would move over and start processing it. Another handful of villagers was digging up boulders and roots, while three men who I assume were hunters stood nearby keeping an eye on the diminishing forest.

Coordinating the chaos was Salus, the village’s architect. We've done business in the past, but I've never seen him working like this before.

“Hey, it’s Kervin!” One of the villagers finally notices us. One of the hunters was already moving to point us out to Salus, but now we drew everyone's attention.

“Hello,” I call out with a friendly smile as I nudge my bivol forward. The cart shakes over the upturned earth, but my boys are strong enough to pull us through much worse than this.

“Sorry for the mess, but we’re a bit busy at the moment," Salus calls out to me as we near him. "You, get those beams ready. The cart should be back soon," he turned and snapped at one of the workers.

“It’s quite all right," I start to say, but Salus cuts me off mid-way, issuing all kinds of orders in quick succession.

I watch, stunned, as everyone follows his directions.

“Sorry,” he gives me a half-baked apology without taking his eyes off his workers. “But as you can see, I have my hands full. These guys wouldn’t know a dovetail joint from a miter joint if their lives depended on it,” he said, motioning to a duo planning down a felled tree trunk.

I had no idea what the salty architect was grumbling about, but it was apparent we were only getting in his way. “We’ll be on our way,” I tell him as I usher my bivol forward out of the construction zone.

“Yeah, alright,” he waves me off, not paying attention to us in the slightest.

What were they doing here? I spot a stack of large stone blocks off to the side, and next to it is a sizable mound of crushed stone. Were they building some sort of fortification? A building, perhaps?

Curiosity drove me to snap my reigns again, hurrying us into the village. Usually, we'd park in our regular spot and see where all the goods I brought would go, but with our clearing destroyed, I guess our only option was to head to the clearing in front of the headman’s house. Maybe there we could get some answers.

It didn't take long for us to make it to the headman's house, but it was long enough to get a rudimentary glimpse at the village. It looked nice, nicer than most of the villages we’ve passed through on our way back to Drey.

I also didn’t miss the brand-new stone building behind the headman’s house either. Its large double doors were wide open, showing off the impressive arsenal within. I’ve sold enough of Aaliyah’s work to realize at a glance that she made everything within.

“Should they have it open like that?” I frown at the open doors.

“Do you want to try opening those doors quickly in an emergency?” Reel sarcastically chuckles at me. I guess he has a point there.

“Still,” Reel casts a curious glance at the village’s new armory. “That's a lot of gear for a village this size. I'd say there are enough weapons in there to outfit most of the village if need be. I’d feel bad for any bandit’s stupid enough to try and attack this place.”

“Aaliyah’s been busy,” Lurte jokes.

“That she has,” I find myself mumbling under my breath. The construction at the front of the village, a new armory, what else has changed since we were last here?

“Kervin, it’s good to see you!” Headman Downs was waiting for us outside his front door as we pulled up. “It’s been too long!”

“It has, hasn’t it,” I smile, noting that he looks happy to see us.

“Is all that rubble back there for Aaliyah? I swear that girl" Headman Downs shakes his head like a tired parent would, but his colossal smile contradicts his tired tone. He feigns a sigh before focusing on the crats tied down on top of the loose ore. “I hope you brought stuff for the village as well and not just what Aaliyah asked for.”

“You don’t have to worry there,” I lean over and pat the nearest crate. “I didn’t forget about the village. I have salt, spices, and considering it's almost the new year, I brought a few barrels of mead with me. Are you interested?” I give the headman my best merchant’s smile.

“That’s exactly what we need,” Downs beams at me. “We’re celebrating my daughter’s marriage this festival, so the alcohol will be much appreciated.”

“Congratulations,” I smile. I brought alcohol with me because I figured the village could use a drink after being isolated for as long as they have, but I didn't know they would be holding a marriage ceremony. If I knew that, I’d probably would’ve brought more.

“Thank you,” Headman Downs’ grin widens. “Things have been busy lately, and the supplies are much needed.”

“We noticed,” I glance in the direction of the village’s entrance. “You tore up our clearing.”

“Sorry about that. but the scale of the project demands as such.”

“Speaking of which, what are you building?” I curiously ask, raising an eyebrow.

“We’re building a wall," Headman Downs grandiosely proclaims, spreading his arms wide.

“A wall!?” I’m rendered speechless. This village probably doesn’t even have a thousand people, and they want to build a wall? I can understand why they would want one, but walls aren't generally built around a settlement of this size.

"And the village can afford that?" I tentatively inquire after I collect myself.

“Normally no,” Headman Downs informs me. “But as I said, my daughter and her soon-to-be husband returned right before all this Scholl business. After studying in Drey, he became a respectable architect, and he proposed the project. Considering his family, it shouldn’t surprise you that he has lofty aspirations.”

“His family?”

“Yep, he’s the older brother of Aaliyah. He convinced her and her master to mine out the required stone for it. It will take a few years to complete, but I’m assured the project is doable. I’m sure you saw how eager people are to help.”

I nod along with his explanation. If anyone else told me such a plan, I’d call them a fool. However, if the project involves Aaliyah and her family, I can see it working out. What is this village turning into?

It will be a fort all unto itself, located in the middle of nowhere, but a fort non the less.

“I would love to stay and chat, but I have some things I need to take care of around the village. Why don't you leave the goods meant for the village here outside my house, and I'll have my boy look at them. He needs to get used to dealing with merchants if he’s going to succeed me someday,” Headman downs good naturally chuckles.

“I won’t go easy on him,” I tease. I’m sure we both know that making a few extra coppers off some bags of salt nowhere compares to the business I do with Aaliyah. I'll push his son for him, but I won’t charge what I could.

"Much appreciated," Headman Downs gives me a wave and walks off, leaving my men and me to unload the crates and barrels we brought.

We get everything unloaded before the headman’s son shows up, but I’m not worried about leaving my goods unattended, so we make our way towards Del Razen’s clearing. I’m sure Aaliyah’s there now, and if not, it’s still the place she’d probably want us to drop off her delivery.

The trail we go down looks worn out, and I can see tracks of were multiple carts passing through here. It's obvious where the stone came from; I just hope Aaliyah didn’t spend all her time mining stone when Giovanni asked her to sell us some extra metal.

Eventually, through the trees, I hear the sounds of someone hammering metal, signaling we've arrived.

As my cart rolls into the clearing, I’m greeted by at least one familiar sight. The clearing looks the same it did the last time I was here. I honestly half expect to see a massive furnace or some other contraption thrown up since then, but everything looks the same.

