“It’s perfect,” Sandra says, and I feel a bit of tension leave my body.

“With the mithril he brought, you’ll have your engraving pen in no time,” Aaliyah affectionately pats her friend’s shoulder before looking at me. “Thanks, Kervin.”

"It is Giovanni you should be thinking," I point out. I know better than to take credit for something I didn’t do.

“Still, thanks,” she repeats. “I’m afraid to ask, but what’s the damage?”

I cough into my hand and gather my nerve. “The gem is 34 gold coins.”

Sandra Downs pales at the price, and Aaliyah looks like I just slapped her. “34,” she repeats in an icy tone.

“I was told it was extremely hard to get ahold of on such short notice. Giovanni mentioned he had to go through some ‘less than reputable dealers’ to find one. 34 gold coins is what Silver Herd paid for it; you're not being charged a single copper of mark-up," I stress.

“Aaliyah, I don’t need-," Sandra starts saying, and I immediately break out in sweats. Silver Herd paid a lot over the asking price to get that gem, and if Aaliyah says she doesn't want it, there isn't much we can do.

"No, it's fine," Aaliyah lets out a sigh, and I can breathe again. "I ordered it; it's only right I buy it.”

“I’ll pay you back,” Sandra promises.

“I know you will; we have a contract after all."

Do the two of them have a contract together? I'm curious what it is, but I keep those thoughts to myself; however, I file that tidbit of information in the back of my mind.

“Excellent, I thank you,” I clap my hands together and lay on the charm. "Though it may be expensive, I'm sure the two of you will make great use of it." I then seamlessly switch over to business. “Where would you like us to unload your ore?”

“Over by the smelter is fine; the same place you put it last time.”

I wave my hand, signaling Lurte and Ryiba to get to work. While they do that, I should take inventory of everything I’m supposed to pick up. “So, which of these weapons are for the order?”

"You hold onto the gem," Aaliyah tells Ms. Downs before focusing on me. “Almost everything in this shed belongs to the order I promised Grey.”

I nod and start doing calculations in my head. Aaliyah’s original contract stated she would be paid 70% of the market value for everything she made. Still, now, the market is overinflated, and Silver Herd had already sold everything to Pacore at a lower price. Giovanni told me to pay 80% of what we sold them for, so that’s…

“278 gold coins there,” I mumble to myself. “And the arrows?” I ask Aaliyah.

“Over here,” she says in a proud tone of voice.

Aaliyah leads me over to a large flat box sitting next to her workbench. The wood has been sanded and applied with a varnish; the hinges shine in the sunlight, and I’m happy I won’t need to procure my own box this time.

“You have the honors,” she motions for me to open the container; so, I do just that.

As soon as I open the wooden case, I suck in a breath of air. The arrows inside look like works of art rather than weapons. The black arrowheads contrast with the tan arrow shafts and make the colorful fletching pop. Running my hand down one of the arrow shafts, I marvel at how smooth it feels to the touch. You can’t even tell that it was formed by a hammer.

Engraved just above the fletching on each of the arrows is Aaliyah’s maker mark, and just like the arrow shafts, they are smooth to the touch. She must have used engraving ink to make them. Her maker's mark isn't a rune, so I don't think it will affect anything, and because it is flush with everything else, it won't affect the arrow's aerodynamics. Not that I’m an expert on either subject.

But no matter how I look at it, these nine arrows are a cut above the first one she sold me.

“What do you think?” She asks me with a proud grin on her face.

“I think they are amazing,” I give her my honest opinion. I don't, however, tell her I think Silver Herd lowballed Pacore on their price. It’s our fault for underestimating the monster that is Aaliyah, but we could’ve easily gotten 10% more for arrows of this quality.

“Happy to hear it. So, does all this cover what I owe Silver Herd?”

“That and then some,” I tell her. The goods here were enough to cover her debt to the company and then some. It even covers the price of the goods I brought her today. “I was told you also had some metal for me?”

“I do," she maintains her smile and leads me over to another shed. Inside this one are stacks of iron and steel ingots. "I can't sell you all of it because we need to save some stock for everything we're building for the wall. That's what I was working on when you showed up," she motions to the steel rod she was working on.

“I understand; how much can you spare?”

"Three-quarters of our stock, roughly 220 steel and iron ingots,” she tells me.

“Standard ingot size?” I ask.

“Of course,” she nods.

That means each ingot weighs roughly 20 pounds. Four hundred forty ingots at 20 pounds; so, that gives me almost four and a half tuns of metal. It isn’t enough to supply all of our customers, but it will put a small dent in what’s needed. At least we’ll get some product out to our most valued clients.

Steel is currently trading at 24 copers a pound, nearly triple its original 9. Iron is even worse at 15 when it used to be traded for only 4 copper a pound. The market value of everything is 17 gold coins and 16 silver, an astronomical sum considering it's only iron and steel and not a magical metal. At 80%, Aaliyah will get 13 gold, 72 silver, and 8 large copper. Adding together what we owe her for the weapons and what she owes us for the second delivery, she went from owing us 450 gold coins to use owing her 18 gold coins!

Damn, I didn’t bring that much with us!

“How’d we do?” Aaliyah asks after she sees the gears in my head stop spinning.

“It pains me to say it, but it looks like I didn’t bring enough gold with me.” Walking over to my safe again, I fetch the bag of coins hidden there. Aaliyah’s hands tremble as I offer her the bag. "That is 15 gold in assorted coins. With this, Silver Herd owes you three more.”

“Yes, I’m no longer in debt!” She happily shouts.

I stand there sharing in her enthusiasm, I may only get a small percentage of everything, but that still guarantees quite a bit of gold for myself.

“Shall we make it official,” I hold out my hand after Aaliyah stops jumping for joy.

“With pleasure,” she firmly takes my hand. Even with her barrier skill still activated and our hands not actually touching each other, our skills still recognize the transaction as complete. I feel a warm glow in the pit of my stomach, signaling I just got a good deal of experience. I hold off on pulling up my status page, but I bet my Merchant skill leveled just now.

It may have taken months and an assassination attempt, but it was all worth it in the end. Maybe in the future, I'll-

My thoughts halt as Aaliyah squeezes my hand tighter than I would like. Her cheeks are red, and she has a drunken expression on her face.

“Are you ok?” I ask, to which Aaliyah just smiles at me.

I seem to have forgotten how weird she could be. Do I even want to ask what just happened?

Oh well, for the amount of coin I just made, I could put up with anything. And I’ll continue to do so for as long as possible.
