Aaliyah must have seen us coming because she stops working after we make it a few feet into the clearing and lowers her tools. As we got closer to her, I saw what she was working on. It looks like a steel staff, but it's a lot rougher than the usual stuff she sells me.

“Kervin, you’re alive!” She smiles at me as I hop off my cart.

For a second, my merchant's smile slips, and I frown, but then I remember she's a lot like Reel, probably why they get along as they do. Forcing my smile back onto my face, I greet her. “We did. Was there any doubt?" I puff up my chest, but her response makes me deflate.

“A little bit, yeah. I was happy to hear from Giovanni that you all escaped, ok." She holds out her hand, offering me a good-natured shake, but I freeze right as I’m about to grasp her hand.

I didn’t feel it when we were approaching, but now that I’m standing directly in front of her, I can feel a physical weight behind Aaliyah.

She’s always had a presence about her like most high leveled individuals I’ve met, but it’s different than that now. I can’t put my finger on it, but she feels dangerous. It’s a lot like what I feel when I’m around Giovanni’s bodyguard.

I felt the same thing from Reel before the assassins attacked us, but somehow, he keeps his pressure contained whenever he’s not in battle. I didn’t even feel a thing when he killed the goblin earlier.

“Is something the matter? Is my hand dirty?” She pulls back her hand and looks it over for whatever is bothering me.

"No. nothing like that," I force out, trying to hide my emotions like a good merchant should. "I just thought you look like you've grown a bit taller than the last time I saw you," I lie.

“I hope not,” she exclaims before looking herself over. “I’m tall enough as it is. I’m happy for the height my parents blessed me with, but I don’t want to stand out more than I already do.”

“That ship has already set sail,” is what I want to say, but I bite my tongue. "It must have been my mistake," I smile, offering her my hand.

We shake, and I'm again reminded of her skill that creates a boundary around her. It doesn’t feel like I’m shaking someone’s hand, but merely being forced to wave my hand up and down, and it’s a lot stronger now too.

So, the clearing hasn't changed, but it appears Aaliyah has.

"Well, look at you.” Reel picks now of all times to make his presence known.

“Hey Reel,” Aaliyah smiles at him, and I don’t miss that it's more of a friendly smile than the polite one she gave me. “I heard you found Gray’s body.”

“What was left of it, more like,” Reel chuckles in a way that makes my hair stand on end.

"Goblins, am I right? I wish I were the one who found him.”

“You and me both,” Reel agrees with Aaliyah and starts scanning her with his eyes. “You’ve improved,” he notes with a smile I don’t like.

I’m about to discourage him from doing whatever he's thinking about, but he moves before I can say anything. He throws a left hook at Aaliyah, pantomiming like he's holding one of his daggers.

I don’t even have time to shout as Aaliyah brings up her left arm, blocking his imaginary blade, but she takes it one step further. She steps in and sends a very real fist at his armored chest.

Reel flashes backwards and starts laughing. “I take it back; you've improved a lot." He looks delighted that Aaliyah was able to stop him. And judging by her smile, the feelings were mutual.

She playfully scoffs but continues to grin at him. "You have no idea."

“What is this?” A cold voice cuts into Aaliyah and Reel’s conversation, and a new pressure bears down on me.

Aaliyah’s smile slips as she turns to a woman in armor walking towards us. Her face is a mask of neutrality, but it only takes one glance from her to make me want to turn tail and run.

When I was helping Giovanni with paperwork, I had a chance to meet Pacore; this feels just like then. I can't bring my head up to meet her eyes. It was like a literal mountain was walking towards me.

Aaliyah doesn’t say anything when the woman stops in front of her. Her head swivels in Reel’s direction, and it was his turn to be looked over. I watch as Reel takes a tentative step back for the first time. His face was flushed, and I could swear there was a bead of sweat forming on his cheek.

“You are an assassin,” the woman in armor states like a ruler handing down a sentence. "Are you here for the girl or me?" Her hand drops to the sword at her side, and alarm bells start going off in my head!

“If I was, did you think I would just tell you," Reel defiantly answers, and I've never had a bigger urge to strangle the man.

Luckily, Aaliyah steps in on his behalf, both metaphorically and physically.

“Whoa there,” she steps in-between Reel and the armored woman. “He’s with Silver Herd; he's a friend."

“Is that so?” The woman questions without taking her hand off her sword and never taking her eyes off Reel.

“He is,” Aaliyah assures the woman while starting to nervously sweat like the rest of us. “He’s helped me loads of times, even saved my life once.”

The woman hums in thought before slowly removing her hand from her sword. “Alright then, if you know each other, I suppose it's all right." Hearing her words, both Aaliyah and I let out a collective sigh of relief. “Though it is a little disappointing, I was hoping for a real battle for a change.”

I start coughing. This woman is insane!

“Funny, I was thinking the same.”

Shut up, Reel, you idiot!

The previously stony-faced woman smiles, and my instincts scream at me something is wrong.

“Really?” The woman asks with may too much enthusiasm. She pushes past Aaliyah and stands directly in front of Reel. “If that is the case, how about we have a quick sparring session. I’m sure it would be entertaining for the both of us.”

Standing behind the armored woman, Aaliyah frantically signals Reel to turn down her offer, but Reel ignores her. "That sounds like fun; we're here for the rest of the day. Can I find you when I'm ready?"

Aaliyah mouths, 'you idiot!' at him before shaking her head back and forth like it couldn't be helped.

“You may find me here when you are ready,” the armored woman savagely grins at Reel before walking back the way she came. She sits down on a bench next to a mediating girl I just now notice.

"You're dead; you know that, right?" Aaliyah flatly tells Reel.

"You sure? After taking her hand off her sword, I didn’t feel any more killing intent from her. I think she's just like me and board at the moment."

Aaliyah snickers in Reel's face, "You have no idea what you got yourself into. Let me know when you plan to fight her because I want to be there when they scrape you off the quarry’s floor.”

“I take it Pacore’s student lives up to her reputation.” It’s only thanks to Reel’s comment that I finally realized who the woman was. Giovanni warned me one of Pacore’s students was in the village and that I wasn’t to get on her bad side. And here Reel is antagonizing her! I’d berate the man if I thought it would do anything, but I’ve long since realized Reel only listens to Giovanni.

“I mean, she has to be good if she helped you improve so much in such a short amount of time." Reel tries to antagonize Aaliyah, but it doesn't work.

“Sorry, what was that? I could’ve sworn I heard a dead man talking just now," she counters.

Reel and Aaliyah continue to trade barbs, and I’m forced to step in at risk of the two of them squabbling the day away. “Not that this isn’t productive, but I believe we have some important business to attend to,” I remind the bickering pair.

“Oh, yeah, my order,” Aaliyah quickly breaks away from Reel when I remind her that the rest of us are here.

She skips to the side of my cart so quickly that I could only barely follow her movements. She smiles when she sees the pile of kaglese I brought her.

“You have no idea how much I needed this,” she happily remarks.

I thought she might be mad because I only managed to bring her a third of her original order, but it looks like she knows that magic materials are hard to come by right now. While she is happy, I should sweeten the deal.

“That isn’t all,” I motion to the two crates sitting on top of the ore. “Giovanni wanted you to know he was able to get ahold of some more mithril and a couple of the herbs you requested.”

“Really?” Aaliyah excitedly pries open the nearest crate with her bare hands. The wood splinters as she easily removes the crate's lid that was nailed shut. Granted, most physical builds could do the same thing, but watching a fifteen-year-old girl do so was… unsettling, to say the least.

“It isn’t much,” I remind her. “But I hope it’s better than nothing.”

“It is,” she beams at me. “I suppose since you brought me such a special gift, I should show you one in kind.”

Aaliyah nimbly leaps off my carriage and beckons for the four of us to follow her. She leads us over to one of the small sheds in the clearing and dramatically flings the doors open—my pulse races when I see the shiny weapons inside.

Swords, spears, each in her usual design, but their tannish coloring gives away what they’re made of.

Reel steps forward, grabs one of the short spears and begins twirling it around. He lets out a long whistle, signaling his approval. “I might just need to take up spearmanship.”

“These weapons are already sold,” I remind him.

“Pity,” Reel sniffles, pretending to be sad. “Hey, Aaliyah, how much to make me a dagger?”

“You don’t have enough daggers already?” She motions at Reel’s entire body, most likely more aware of how many blades are hidden all over his person than any of us do. In all the time I’ve known him, I’ve never seen Reel run out of daggers. Lurte, Ryiba, and I even have a friendly bet going between us as to just how many he carries with him. If he follows through and fights Pacore's student, we might finally get some sort of an idea as to how many he has.

“You can never have too many daggers!” Reel looks offended at the implication.

“Sure,” Aaliyah smiles, but that quickly morphs into a smug look. “But I’m contractually obligated to sell all my goods to Silver Herd. So you'll have to negotiate an order through Kervin."

Reel’s draw drops, and the rest of us have to hold back our laughter.

"I'm just joking," Aaliyah laughs at Reel's expense. “I still owe you one for saving my life; a dagger is the least I can do. I'm busy at the moment, but if you stop by sometime near the end of the day, we can discuss the design you want.”

Reel practically bounces in place in excitement like a kid promised a sweat treat.

“I can’t enchant it yet, but it should be able to hold a strong enough one in the future.”

Reel and I pause. “Did you just say you couldn’t enchant it ‘yet’?” I ask.

Aaliyah proudly puffs out her chest. She then reaches over to a shelf in the shed and pulls out an ugly-looking piece of scrap metal. She only needs to hold it for a second before luminescent lights ignite across its surface.

No way! It’s only been three months!

“Sandra and I are still working out some kinks, but we're hoping to be able to reliably enchant stuff by festival time. It eats up a lot of resources, though."

It’s no wonder she asked for more mithril and herbs; I can only imagine the gold she burnt through to advance at such a quick pace.

"Oh yeah, in my excitement, I forgot. Did you bring me the magic gem I asked for?”

I nod, “It’s in my safe.”

“Awesome! Hey Sandra, your gem arrived!” Aaliyah calls out to the girl who’s meditating on the bench, and I realize it's Headman Downs' daughter. "Sandra!" Aaliyah calls out again, but she doesn't stir.

“Normally, I'd hate disturbing her like this, but I know she would want to see it,” Aaliyah justifies to herself before walking over to the statue of a girl.

“Hey Sandra,” Aaliyah places her hand on her shoulder, and her eyes snap open.

“Aaliyah!” Downs’ daughter snaps. “You know how annoying it is when someone interrupts your meditation!”

“I know, I know,” Aaliyah gestures for her to calm down. "But I figured you'd like to know your magic gem arrived."

Aaliyah motions over her shoulder at us, and when the headman’s daughter sees us, her eyes go wide, and she leaps up from her seat. “Kervin’s here!?”

Aaliyah chuckles at her friend. "You were in such a deep meditation you missed him entering the clearing."

Sandra Downs blushes in embarrassment, but that doesn’t stop her from moving past Aaliyah and jogging over to us.

I haven’t seen her in a while, not since the last letter I delivered to her over six months ago. I notice a few subtle differences between the woman walking towards me and the girl I last saw. She was glowing, and not in the Vitality sort of way. Her clothes were loose, but that didn't stop me from seeing her growing baby bump.

“Congratulations, Ms. Downs,” I politely bow my head.

"It's been a while, Kervin."

“It seems everyone is saying that these days,” I give her my best merchant’s smile. "I wish someone told me sooner," I motion to her stomach. "I would've bought you a gift."

“I guess it's more obvious now," she affectionately places her hand over her lower abdomen. "The gem you brought is enough.” I can see the excitement in her eyes.

So, I move over to the safe built into my cart and open it, fetching the small case within. Aaliyah stands next to her friend as I carefully pass over the jewelry box.

She slowly opens the small box, and the two of them stare at the small gem within. It's only slightly bigger than a grain of rice and is a bit cloudy, but I was reassured it was the best Giovanni could get his hands on with such short notice.

