Her attention shifted as she remembered the masked performer who had worn a fox mask. She had been trying to catch a glimpse of him amid the revelers because she was still curious about how he had concealed his mana signature while casting. She had rarely experienced that kind of near‑invisibility in her senses. Even her father, who could suppress his own aura, was easy for Lily to detect from one end of their villa to the other.

And so, she kept wondering who the fox‑masked stranger might be.

Curiosity pushed her to do something that she was not entirely proud of. She decided to break one of her personal rules. She had no qualms about using [Mana Sense] to read her parents’ emotional states, since that was often helpful to see how they would react if she accidentally provoked them, but she usually refrained from using it on Lavinia. She had held to that rule since she had first used it on her by mistake almost.

Now she felt she had to see what her friend was experiencing, so she let her [Mana Sense] reach out toward Lavinia.

She discovered that Lavinia was hard to read from a distance because so many people surrounded her. Lily tried harder and found herself concentrating more than she had in a long time. She frowned and tried to isolate Lavinia from the dozens of others around her, but something in her friend’s aura was elusive.

Lily felt a mounting pressure in her head as she reached deeper with [Mana Sense]. She recognized that the skill was demanding more focus than usual. She paused, pressed her lips together, and searched for a clever way to cope with that difficulty.

The process was so consuming that she felt blood start trickling from her nose, so she used a handkerchief to hide it.

"Are you ok, darling? Are you feeling sick?" Adriana asked when she noticed Lily ignoring her soup.

"I'm fine, mom."

It didn't take much to get Adriana to focus on something else.

She decided to redirect her power. She knew how to look inward with healing magic because she had repaired her own body and Ridi’s body after accidents or injuries.

If she could mend bones and strengthen joints, she could perhaps address the side effects of [Mana Sense]. She recalled that whenever she checked inside herself for injuries, esoteric, mysterious bits of knowledge flitted through her head.

And just like that, a word came to describe the phenomenon of her memory experiencing those bits. She thought of the phrase “photographic memory.”

As she studied the intracranial pressure behind her eyes, inside her skull, in her very brain, she understood that it was not just blood flow but cerebrospinal fluid as well. She told herself that she needed to be cautious because she might become brain‑damaged if she pushed her senses too far.

Images related to term brain death formed in her thoughts, and she tried to force down her rising apprehension. Lily's plan was to now act on the arteries. She believed her [Mana Shaping] was already at a high level, so she chose to attempt a delicate maneuver.

She created tiny threads of light magic and looped them around her arteries, including the smallest ones. She took care to weave them around even the capillaries.

It took so long that once again Adriana asked Lily if everything was ok, and she had to stop for a moment.

Lily smiled and took a few spoonfuls of the soup, saying that it was not up to her taste, and, knowing how picky she was with food—or at least that was what she wanted her to believe—Lily just went back to work on the spell.

Halfway through that, Lily realized she was probably going to get a skill for it, because she had wrapped most of her arteries and capillaries in nets of Light Magic; the amount of Light Magic she had to use was very small, since this was more about control.

By the time Lily finished weaving her lattice of magic, she felt relief because the pressure in her head had massively eased up.

She smiled and cast her [Mana Sense] outward again, embracing the calm that her Light Magic brought her. She then narrowed her focus until only Lavinia occupied her senses. She blocked out everyone else until it seemed there were only two people at the party.

She finally perceived her friend's emotional state, which was neither sad nor pleased, but profoundly tired. It was the weariness of someone whose spirit had grown gray. Lily realized that she had only encountered such a feeling in the very old or in those whose hearts had been worn down by age and life's challenges. She wondered why a twelve‑year‑old child felt such bone‑deep exhaustion. Her thoughts were still churning around that question when she noticed Livia rising to her feet.

“Dawn’s mercy,” Livia exclaimed while she clapped her hands excitedly. “We’re so happy to have all of you here, and we have two grand announcements.”

Aurelianus rose as well with a large smile on his face, and Livia looked expectantly at him.

"A [Healer] confirmed it this morning. Livia's about to bring me a male heir!"

The entire party erupted in cheers and applause, and Aurelianus saw many of his pals, especially from the military, getting up and toasting him; this was great news, and the gents Emilia would soon have an heir, and, as the cheering calmed down

As the cheers subsided, Aurelianus prepared to deliver the second announcement, but Lily was distracted because she still sensed a deep pit of despair from Lavinia at the incoming news.
