Focusing, Pyre grew a few internal bones, trying her damndest to remember what that human skeleton had looked like. It was easier to grow the bones now that she’d done it once before, and she wasn’t bothering with perfect accuracy. She wasn’t trying to look human, just to get legs, and she did succeed on that front. She tested them. Yep, they felt good to walk on. Even misshapen and a little crooked, her old human instincts kept her coordination solid.

Next, she formed something roughly resembling a torso and arms, but she didn’t bother with a head. She simply shifted her six active eyes (and their corresponding eyebrows) all over her body, then sprouted some additional bony spikes along her back and on the sides of her torso that she could extend out at a moment’s notice. [Flesh Sculpting] was finally used to keep the flesh firm enough that she didn’t have to constantly focus on it.

In the end, she’d shifted into a large, bipedal form with arms that were a bit too long, one giant mouth in the middle of her torso (which she might move depending on how tall this other demon was), and a lot of eyes everywhere. Plus two silver horns at the top, since those liked to stick around no matter what shape her body was in. No head necessary.

Pyre did have to hunch down to fit in the tunnel like this, but it wouldn’t be a problem once they were outside. Based on Callan’s expression, she probably looked pretty damn monstrous right now. Perfect for meeting another demon, she supposed.

No sooner was she done than the scent in the air shifted. Pyre covered her body with bone armor just as lightning streaked down the dark tunnel.

Perhaps because they were still relatively deep inside the mountain, the lightning fizzled out before it could reach them. Their current spot was beyond the demon’s range, then. Still no signs of the creature itself, but it had to be outside. Waiting.

The sloth fiend dropped her bag down. Callan met eyes with her, a brief unspoken conversation passing between them. They’d gone over “the plan” several times on the way here, at least insofar as it could be called a plan. Mostly it boiled down to “try and avoid a fight if you can because this thing is definitely way stronger than us, but also you probably won’t be able to so be ready to fight anyway.”

Pyre turned towards the exit. Raising her voice, she yelled, “Chill out, we’re just trying to pass through!”

Callan frowned, which meant that probably hadn’t sounded as diplomatic as she’d intended, but in her defense she had to yell pretty damn loud to be heard.

There was no response at first. Pyre debated if she should try again. The moment she opened her mouth, however, a ringing voice suddenly echoed all around them, the sound bouncing off the enclosed tunnel walls.

“Who are you?”

It was unnaturally loud and seemed to come from everywhere at once. “Voice projection,” Callan whispered. Pyre nodded and kept looking towards the exit.

“Travelers,” she called back.

“You’re a demon.”

Pyre snorted. “So are you.”

The voice went quiet at that. She could be patient, though, so she waited. Finally, after what felt like hours, it spoke again.

“I already told Cyrus I’m not interested in joining his war.”

Beside her, Callan frowned in confusion. His ghostly mind was undoubtedly moving a mile a minute right now. Frankly, the fact that it hadn’t already come to blows (save for that first lightning bolt) was a miracle.

Pyre raised an eyebrow. “Sorry to break it to you, but I don’t know who that is.”

More silence. The sloth fiend waited a bit longer, but it looked like the voice had gone totally quiet this time. There were no new lightning bolts though, which could be a good sign. She turned to Callan and gestured at the exit. He looked pensive, but nodded.

Carefully, Pyre took a step forward. Then another. Then another. Still nothing.

The rest of the walk out the tunnel was perfectly silent save for the sound of the demon’s footsteps and the occasional clatter of a rock falling to the ground. Pyre had to hunch over to fit in the space, but she kept moving forward steadily. Callan drifted close behind.

Soon the exit came into view, stone and dirt expanding into the stormy world outside, but neither of them relaxed.

There, waiting below the overcast sky, was the demon.
