But Jo started her search, typing faster than a teenage girl with her first cell phone. Sure enough, no healing-related weapons popped up. “What else you got that’s common?”

"Earth, I guess," Thomas said, then remembered, "and Light. But I haven't actually absorbed either."

"You sure? Earth and Light don't make any sense as a combination," Jo said.

"You've got to let go of old preconceptions, Jo," Zach advised. "Maybe it makes sense to the elves. Try filtering by Light mana and see what happens."

That filter actually provided some results. Most of them were swords, including a scimitar that Thomas thought looked fairly interesting. Then something caught his eye. "What about this?"

He pointed to a weapon listed as a halberd, which had a long pole topped with a sharp, thin blade on one side. The other end of the blade curved into a stylized hammer.

Zach scoffed. "That isn't a halberd. It's more like an ancient Chinese polearm."

Oh, it seemed somebody was a secret weapons purist.

"Maybe it's an elf halberd," Thomas said with a grin. "You gotta let go of old preconceptions, Zach."

"It's not about preconceptions, it's about using the wrong name," Zach said, looking unaccountably peeved.

"Anyway," Jo said, cutting across them, "I got the location of the booth if you want to see it in person."

****

The marketplace was visually similar enough to the protesters' craft fair that it took Thomas back a little. Of course, there were no anti-magic protesters and no conspiracy theorists that he saw, but the vibe was a little bit like a festival, with the smell of cooking food (at least he assumed that was the weird smell) and a square with people dancing to music. All around, vendors stood behind booths with homemade banners strung up behind them.

All in all, it was so... normal. Except for the night dark sky, the weird smelling food, and the look of the dark elves, this could be a community farmer's market.

Thomas really wanted to check out one booth which seemed to be selling dungeon guides, because that was right up his alley, but nope, he could not afford to get distracted. Weapons first.

They found the booth, and, weirdly enough, the vendor seemed to be expecting them. The halberd was already sitting on a tabletop, gleaming in the evening light.

"The System pinged me that someone had been taking a look at this beauty," he said. "Not many people around here will choose a Light weapon."

The pole of the halberd was five feet long, but it was unusually... well, light in his hands.

"That blade is sharp, sonny, be careful," the man said. "You're Terrans, aren't you?" He paused. "Well, I suppose we'll be seeing more of your people around. Do you have Light mana?"

"No," Thomas said, eyes still tracing the blade of the weapon. “Just compatible with it.”

The vendor nodded once. "Good. No one decent needs that crap in their core."

After a moment, Thomas remembered to look at the System name for the weapon.

Light-Bringer

"What does it do?" he asked.

The vendor grimaced ever so slightly. "To be honest, the magical effect isn't great which is why I've had it for more than a year. It can produce a burst of light to temporarily blind enemies. The real benefit is the balance and the blade."

By the looks of it, the blade was sharp, and the hammer was... hammery. That was about the beginning and end of his weapons knowledge.

So when Zach asked to see it, Thomas handed it over. The man looked it up and down with a professional air then returned it. "Looks well-made, dude. It probably won't last you past this next level, but it should do what it needs to do."

Jo jumped in. "I think you should get it."

Then she and the shopkeeper began to dicker on pricing. To Thomas's surprise, she seemed perfectly comfortable haggling. He had tried it once or twice when he'd visited Mexico, but he always had a feeling he was bad at it.

Apparently, the halberd cost 3,000 shadows. That was when Jo brought out the tadpole tooth necklace, which was hideous, but the teeth were definitely sharp and provided some interesting crafting material to affix to weapons.

"Oh yeah, throw this in too," Zach said, pulling out the mosquito toy he'd gotten as a drop. "I got this appraised, and it flies. You basically use it as a training aid for ranged weapons."

"Wait," Thomas said, "You guys, this is too much."

Jo playfully rolled her eyes at him. "Thomas, stop being such a healer. We want to do this for you."

The vendor, who had stayed out of their conversation so far, looked briefly taken aback. "You're a healer?" He looked Thomas up and down doubtfully. "And you're fighting?"

"He's a weird healer," Zach explained.

"I suppose you Terrans must be a weird people. Healers fighting," he muttered, "What will they think of next?" But that didn't stop him from accepting both items in the deal.

By the time Thomas walked away from the weapons booth with the halberd in hand, Jo was grinning. "We should use that healer trick more often. I know that we got that for like 2,500 shadows."

"It's too much," Thomas still insisted.

"No, man." Zach clapped his shoulder and leaned in to speak in an undertone. "You need to get the last hit on monsters before they die, right?"

"Right..."

He felt a little bit better after that.

Thomas meant for his next stop to be the dungeon guide booth, but then a blacksmithing shop caught his eye.

He shuffled through his backpack and brought out his penknife, which now had a durability of 5%. Had it gotten banged around in there?

Going up to the blacksmith, Thomas presented his penknife and asked what he could do to mend its durability.

The elven blacksmith took one look and snorted. "It's a level one," he said. "Melt it for smelt."

"It's been good to me," Thomas said, "It's sentimental."

The man looked at Thomas like he was insane, but he said, "It will cost you ten shadows, though in my opinion, you'll be throwing them away."

That didn't seem like very much, but it was, after all, a level 1 item.

"But I've got to warn you," the blacksmith continued, "it’ll break the first time you use it in a level 3 dungeon.”

How did he know that Thomas was level 3? Was there a way to tell?

"Got it," he said. "I have a nephew who will be getting his Gift soon."

His expression cleared. "Ah, that makes sense."

He simply touched the weapon. The pen-knife shook slightly, Thomas swore that he heard the echo of a bear's roar, and then suddenly the weapon was renewed.

"My Gift is to Restore," the blacksmith grunted in explanation. Then he presented a marble slab which glowed blue with System information. Having just seen this transaction done at the weapons booth, Thomas pressed his thumb on one side of a small marble slab and transferred the ten shadows over.

They spent some time at the Dungeon Guide Booth next, looking over level three and level four local dungeons. Most of the loot drop tables were the four elven elements, which was very interesting to him, but something that was going to be increasingly common once there was more trade to and from Earth.

"You guys, look at this," Zach held up a guide in triumph. "Here's a dungeon with fire and teleportation mana!"

Jo gave it a dismissive glance. "That's a level 5 dungeon."

"I know, but still, think of the possibilities."

A bitter wind picked up. The elves didn't react at all, but Thomas shivered. He lived in Lake Tahoe, so it wasn't like he was running around in shorts and a T-shirt, but it was still cold.

Just then, a young elven girl ran up to them. She wore a cardigan in the style of a uniform. She stopped, executed a bow, then said, "Which one of you sirs is Zach?"

"That would be me," Zach said.

She gave him a slip of paper, then ran off.

"Huh. Old-fashioned messenger service," Zach said. He opened up the page, then frowned.

"What is it?" Thomas asked.

"So get this: They were able to get a message to the Ross-Astors," Zach said. "I didn't think they'd be able to pull it off so fast, but it sounds like the family wants to meet to talk about the Brightens in person."
