Zac stood up from a flying treasure he’d been using as a meditation platform and flew toward the memory domain’s edge. Observing the runes was mentally taxing, and he’d reached an impasse anyhow. He’d grown increasingly certain the key to seizing the Primo’s treasure lay within the mantra, but his time was better spent exploring other avenues while waiting for the corruption to be refined. It might be what helped him get past his current hump.

As usual, Zac inspected the memory lanterns as he passed through the film of Imperial Flames. He still had a free slot, and finding an identity linked to the Left Imperial Palace could prove useful sooner rather than later. Today’s search proved no better than the last. Their quality was a bit lower than the average of the continent’s inner regions. The few that held a clear connection to a court were invariably bound to the Hollow Court.

The sea of flames was less than a mile wide, and Zac soon reached the other side. He took a steadying breath before entering the world beyond. Unnatural Death immediately rushed at him, to the point [Void Zone] could barely put a dent in the assault. Madness hid in the darkness, layers of decaying truths superimposed into a chimeral Dao.

It was reminiscent of the Lost Plane’s corruption, though there were critical differences. Zac still remembered his initial exploration before he broke through to Peak D-grade. He thought he’d found a bottomless reservoir of enlightenment waiting to be refined—exactly what he needed to complete the finishing touches on his blueprint.

When he dragged the corruption into [Purity of the Void], he was surprised to find there was none of Ultom’s enlightenment waiting to be excavated. There was only Death so ancient that not even his Void was safe. Much had changed since then.

Zac remained calm as the Ninth Hell’s cursed gift burrowed into his body, silently enduring until it reached the necessary threshold. He entered his Void State, and Fuxi’s esoteric patterns aligned themselves in his mind’s eye. The Void permeating his body tried to mimic the concepts the mantra conveyed. It was far from perfect, yet the world’s desolation immediately gained new meaning.

The Ninth Hell was a realm that shouldn’t exist, propped up by a Dao that should not yet be born. It was a realm built on the Era of Order’s own demise, borrowing from past Eras through the echoes of the Void.
