Ren stopped a hundred feet up and cast a small Magical Barrier of Protection, then cast the Full Illusion spell of a house to fill it.

Gretchen gasped at the sudden change in their circumstances. “What... how...”

“It's okay. No one is around and no one can see or hear us.” Ren said and furled his wings away. “You can let go now.”

“B-but...”

Ren moved his head in and gave her a gentle kiss. “You held onto me this whole time because you were worried people would see me poking out of my Speedo.” He said. “I normally wouldn't reveal myself like this; but, because you used your body and protected my modesty with all those people around, I don't mind if you see it.”

Gretchen's blush was back in full force, and he chuckled. “Are... are you sure?”

“Let go and find out.” Ren said.

Gretchen took a deep breath, then uncrossed her ankles from behind his back. Her legs dropped down and she put her feet on the floor, but her height didn't change. She looked at him with wide eyes, and he nodded.

“I'm standing a foot above the floor so you can stand up without bending your legs.” Ren said.

Gretchen nodded and took her arms away from his neck. Ren still held her backside and her back, though. She looked at him with a question on her face, and he let both hands go. She caught her breath as his firm hands no longer held her to him, and she took a step back. She stared into his eyes for only a moment more, then she looked down.

Gretchen stopped breathing at the sight, because she hadn't realized her movements had pulled the tiny Speedo down. “Is that real?” She asked and blinked her eyes, rubbed them for a moment, then looked again. “It's not real.” She looked at his face. “Are there game mods for these things?”

Ren chuckled. “No, it's real.”

“How?” Gretchen asked and stared at it. “I mean, I know it's there and... and it works.” She smiled. “I'm assuming it works.”

Ren laughed. “It does, because my heart pumps blood really fast.” He explained and stored the Speedo to give her the full view. “Now that you've seen it...”

“...are you going to kill me?” Gretchen asked and laughed.

“What do you think?” Ren asked, and she knew that he didn't want a joke for a response.

“It's out of proportion to your body.” Gretchen said and knelt to get a closer look. She leaned to the side and then to the other side. “Despite that, it's very pretty.”

“It's pretty?” Ren asked, surprised at the description.

“Handsome doesn't fit.” Gretchen said. “Telling you that it's nice wouldn't be a fair description, either.” She lifted a single finger and touched it just under the tip. Ren caught his breath and it throbbed for her, and she held in her laugh at his reaction. She slid her finger down its length slowly, then she stood up and ran her finger the other way. “The only real description is pretty.”

Ren felt her confidence in that answer, so he held a hand out and cupped the side of her face. “Thank you for your honest opinion.” He said sincerely, and she covered his hand with hers.

“Did it really mean that much to you?” Gretchen asked.

“Oh, yes.” Ren said and equipped his blue suit and felt her slight disappointment. “It means more to me than I can ever say.”

Gretchen rubbed her face on his hand. “You can try.”

Ren chuckled. “Maybe some other day.” He said. “I need to get to work.”

Gretchen nodded and let his hand go. Ren took her into a hug and unfurled his wings, dismissed the Full Illusion spell and the Magical Barrier of Protection, then floated back down to the crowd waiting for them.
