“We’ll take Drey, Blaiton, and Yleles, and that’s where you and your men will come in,” I tell the captive general before taking another drink of my wine. “We’ll trade your lives and the lives of any other nobles we capture in exchange for the land we’re occupying.”

“And you think everything will happen that smoothly?” Lady Pitz looks at me like I’m a rookie commander in over his head. “Olebert won’t stand still and let you take lands that rightfully belong to us!”

I grin like a starving animal. “I sure hope so. It was disappointing how easy it was to take Teeburn. The spies I had mixed in with the people fleeing teeburn reported Drey has no chance or resistance. But I hope Olebert lives up to your expectations, or this will be the most boring campaign I've ever participated in."

My excitement must have displeased the general because she turns her head away from me and doesn’t look like she wants to continue talking anymore.

I can understand her frustration; I myself feel silly knowing my country had to go to war over crops. Even our ancestors that went to war for any reason possible had never cited food as the reason. And then there's the difficulty of the fighting ahead. I relish a good battle, but every person we kill is one less hand to work the land.

Depending on how the local lords try to repel us, it could set our plans back even further if we kill too many conscripts. I have until the new year to secure our position before the refugees from the Heart of Scholl will arrive to help with the farming.

I have to take three cities and a lord's residence, all while killing as few of their soldiers as possible.

Even if I enjoy a good challenge, this is too much even for me.

But I can't stop now. The dragon has tormented our lands for a year already, and the food shortage is starting to be felt by everybody.

I will not disappoint my king!

I'm the undying shield of Scholl, and I will not fail!

I sit back into my seat and close my eyes, feeling the rocking of the carriage. Every second that passes, we grow closer to Drey, closer to saving our people.

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

"Damn it, damn it, damn it!" I shout as I run down the forest path.

How am I supposed to enjoy my run when I’ve confirmed I was somehow screwed over in my contract?

I pull up my status page for the third time today, hoping somehow it will have magically change since the last time I saw it.

LV: 72 Experience: 880,183/ 911,219

Health: 2,400/2,400

Stamina 1,288.17/1,633

Mana: 812.94/1,020

Vitality: 240.00

Endurance: 100.00

Strength: 150.00

Dexterity: 145.00

Senses: 62.31

Mind: 65.07

Magic: 102.46

Clarity: 78.55

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV76), Blacksmithing (LV69), Hammer Skills (LV57), Axe Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV51), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV48), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV45), Cooking (LV39), Dagger Skills (LV31), Wood Carving (LV31), Acting (LV32), Sword Skills (LV31), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2), Alchemy (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV61), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV46), Hammer Arts (LV41), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase Price (LV21), Lower Price (LV20), Steady Hands (LV16), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV14), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV62), Mana Manipulation (LV60), Precise Strike (LV40), Double Strike (LV40), Weighted Strike (LV37), Flash Step (LV21), Contract (LV7)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV53), Mana Skin (LV53), Inject Mana (LV52), Extract Mana (LV31), Magic Blacksmithing (LV25), Empowered Spell (LV9), Air Walk (LV1)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV38), Soul Manipulation (LV6)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV2)

Increased Skill Levels

Trading (LV43-45) 6,600exp

Acting (LV32) 1,600exp

Increase Price (LV18-21) 7,800exp

Contract (LV6-7) 1,950exp

Skill Experience: 17,950exp

Crafting Experience: 1,843exp

Fighting Experience: 0exp

Total-experience Gained: 19,793exp

Seeing exactly where I gain my experience has been a big boon for me ever since I could better organize the information from my soul.

I can easily see which of my skills have leveled and how much experience I've gained from crafting activities, including negotiating.

Looking at the results of my meeting with Mr. Grey makes me feel the need to punch a tree with all my strength as I can over my status page again.

Both Trading and Increase Price saw huge gains after my discussion with Mr. Grey, but one skill did not. Contract, the skill I was expecting to soar through the roof after I signed with Mr. Grey only gained two levels, and it was only at level 5 to begin with.

If that wasn't a good enough indicator that I was bamboozled, I only gained 1,843 experience after agreeing to such an important contract. I've gained more experience trading with Kervin.

I would have to be an idiot if I didn't see the writing on the wall. However, I've been going over the contract in my head for hours, and I can't find anything that screams 'gotcha.' Did Mr. grey write something in invisible ink? No, I was watching every move he made; there was nothing hidden in that contract. In fact, the contract seemed relatively short and to the point.

I almost trip over nothing as I suddenly realize what's wrong with the contract; it's missing too many details!

Back on Earth, you would be lucky to find a contract shorter than three pages. Hell, every time you updated an app, you would have to agree to ten pages of who knows what.

I still don't know what Mr. grey left out of the contract, but I'm sure Mother will have an idea once she sees it.

I'm disappointed in myself for not noticing sooner. If I didn't have the skill to counter contracts, I would be in big trouble right now rather than complaining about how I didn't level my skills as much as I wanted to.

I wonder if this is a sign, I'm getting overconfident with my abilities? I thought the contract business was beneath me like it didn't matter, and I allowed myself to be duped. Just because I'm stronger than most people doesn't mean I'm invincible.

I'll need to be more careful in the future, especially now that I know Mr. Grey has some sort of plan for me.

While I alternate between berating myself for my slipup and complaining about my missed skill levels, I finally spot what I’m looking for just up ahead.

I spot Sandra's search spell, meaning I'm closing in on them. Deactivating my mana obscuring amulet, I chose to approach them without scaring them this time.

As I round the bend in the trees, I spot Sandra and Brother, who both look happy to see me despite how I left them last time.

“You’re back already!” Brother shouts in disbelief as I approach their slow-moving cart.

I choose to shrug like it’s no big deal. “I told you I’m fast.”

"Did you have any trouble in the city?" Sandra asks, concerned like an older sister.

I don't feel the need to lie to them, so I answer truthfully. "There were some small hiccups. The city is in worse shape than I thought. Everyone is trying to leave Drey, and the guards are taking advantage of that. After seeing Drey for myself, I'm all, but sure it won't hold once Scholl arrives."

I walk up next to their cart and go into detail about my experience in the city. Sandra makes fun of me for forgetting my pad at home while my Brother awkwardly tries to tune me out for that part of the conversation. I even tell them how I visited Silver herd and arranged for numerous materials to be delivered to the village before Scholl arrives.

"You signed a contract," Sandra looks at me concerned after I finish recanting my short tale. "You have to take contracts seriously, I had to sign one before I started practicing under my master, and even now, it affects me."

“What does your contract entail?” I curiously ask.

"It was a basic mage apprenticeship contract. It was really long, so I'll sum it up. Basically, I can't teach anyone anything I learned from my master until I buy out his magic rights."

“What are magic rights?” I scooch a little closer to the cart.

"Purchasing magic rights from a master means you bought the right to teach others," Sandra tells me.

“That sounds stupid,” I scoff at the idea of charging someone twice for the same knowledge. “Why is that even a thing?”

"It's how mages ensure unfaithful or disgruntled students don't pass around their spells. Think about it, what would happen if one mage paid for their apprentice to study under another mage and have him relay everything back to the master? If you wish to teach others, you have to compensate the master for their knowledge."

“Wait! Does that mean we can’t swap magic ideas?” I ask in astonishment.

Sandra gives me an awkward smile telling me everything I need to know. “We can talk about magic; I just can’t teach you any of the spells I learned.”

“I guess that isn’t all bad,” I reluctantly say, kicking a pebble into the nearby bushes in disappointment. I was somewhat hoping my spell repertoire was going to grow when Sandra came back.

"And don't think I didn't notice how you changed the conversation," Sandra gives me a knowing look. "What exactly did you agree to in your contract?" And like that, Sandra went from a cool older sister to mom in under a minute.

Lying doesn't feel right, but I don't feel like divulging my screw up. I look up to Sandra, who's sitting next to my Brother, driving the cart. "It's a little personal, but believe me, I have it covered," I reassure her.

Sandra must see my resolve because she lets out a reluctant sigh. "Ok, if you say so. But if you need anything, make sure you ask."

“I will,” I nod in agreement.

Walking next to the cart, I’m reminded how much Sandra and Brother support me. I psych myself and tell them what I should’ve said as soon as I saw them.

"Hey, Richard, Sandra, I want to say I'm sorry for how I acted two days ago. Both of you were just caring about me, and I overreacted. I'm really sorry," I anxiously glance up at the two and hope that they'll forgive me.

Brother and Sandra share a quick look before both turning towards me. “We would also like to apologize to you, Aaliyah,” Sandra says with a soft smile. “We shouldn’t have tried to control you, no matter how much we care about you.”

“Yeah, we're just as sorry as you are, little sis." Brother chimes in. "The two of us should know better than anyone what it's like to have people question your decisions when you're 15." Brothers joke earns a small laugh from Sandra and me.

“Thanks, but that doesn’t excuse the skill I used on the two of you.”

"Yeah, please don't ever do that again," Brother gives me the same look master did after I used Sense Soul on him for the first time.

“I promise,” I quickly agree.

"Speaking of the skill, what was it?" Sandra has all the curiosity of a cat. "I've never experienced a skill like that before, and it lets you view our levels? How does that work?"

I know she won't stop asking until I tell her, so I give her an outline of my skill, not divulging its tier. "You can think of it as an invasive scanning skill. It mostly lets me see a person's level, but it can show me other things too. Like when I scanned you, I noticed something weird in your stomach. Are you…?"

“Woah!”

“Woah!”

Both Sandra and Richard flail in their seats, stopping me before I can ask my question.

“That’s something personal between your brother and me that we still need to discuss,” Sandra points out while placing her hand on her lower abdomen.

It’s hard to hold back my excitement.

I look at Sandra, who seems to be glowing even more than the last time I saw her, before turning to Richard. "Dad and Camden are going to kick your ass."

“No, they won’t.”

I smirk at my brother. "You're right; Mother and Sarette will get you first for not being officially married yet."

Brother pales at the mention of Mother, and I start laughing. Sandra can’t help herself and giggles along with me at Richard’s expense.

It's great talking to Sandra and messing with Richard, but I can't stay here much longer.  "If you promise to be nice to me from now on, I might decide not to tell everyone when I get back to the village."

"You're leaving?" Brother asks, surprised, and Sandra stops laughing. "Why?"

"For the same reason; I'm scared of Mom too," I point out. "I promised her I would be back as soon as possible, and that doesn't mean I can walk next to you guys for the next week. Besides, someone has to let our families know the two of you are safe."

"She has a good point," Sandra agrees with me.

“I know, I know,” Brother mumbles and sets the reins down. The sickly looking bivol doesn’t so much as change direction or pace even though Brother is no longer holding the reins. Was he just pretending to control the beast?

Both Sandra and Brother dismount their cart and move to hug me.

The three of us exchange goodbyes, and I definitely, positively, didn't tear up when we separated from one another.

“Hurry up and make it home,” I call out behind me as I jog away.

“Stay safe!” The two shout back at me before I can no longer see them.

I quickly gain speed and start soaring through the forest. If I push myself a little harder, I can probably make it home in time for dinner, I happily think to myself.

It's incredible what family can do for you. Before I saw Sandra and Richard, I was frustrated and angry, but my day feels brighter somehow after talking to them. I guess you can call it the magic of family…

Ok, that was a little too sweet even for me.

I laugh to myself as I make my way home, optimistic I can overcome any challenges I might face in the future as long as I'm careful and have help from my loved ones.
