The forgewagon’s heart was all one piece—furnace, forge, smelter, boiler, turbine, generator, mana capacitors, intakes, and tanks for water, steam, and fuel. Pipes snaked from it, mostly leading through the floor to the drive compartment, but some also went through the walls and ceiling. The reactor—it was easier not to argue with Rain about the name—was the primary reason Tallheart had needed his soul as a testing ground. It was not the size of the vehicle that was impressive; it was the complexity.

Tallheart made his way through the compartment, not having to stoop. The reactor was enchanted, of course. The most critical runes were deep within, worked in Thermalitic Bronze and designed for the careful shepherding of heat. Others were for vibration dampening, noise suppression, and strength. Still more dealt with mana—intake, distribution, and storage. The list went on.

In the same way that a heater plate was not a Flame-enchanted sword, the forgewagon was not equipment. Its enchantments could not rely on the soul of a wielder. Everything had to be done the hard way, and the size of the vehicle made it infeasible to encompass everything with a single runic chain.

Tallheart had not let such trivialities stop him, of course. He had simply built additional chains. Each string of runes necessitated independent charging and mana storage elements, but there was no helping that.

He scratched at the base of one of his antlers, turning away from the reactor.

Truly, a vehicle fit for a Dynamo.

The remainder of the engineering deck was functional space. His anvil. Workbenches. Tools for Staavo, Ellis, Shena, Myth, Reason, Meloni, Mollo, and Romer. Dedicated storage space, including a vault to hold their rarest and most valuable materials.

The entire vehicle, not just the vault, was shielded with Obfuscation and Facade. The base runes for those enchantments were the same as those on his armor, but they were not used in the same way. Learning to ward an area had been a challenge. He had needed to combine his knowledge with what Romer had discovered from the Sale-human’s lair. Even that had not been enough, and he had needed to iterate the design, both within his soul and in the real world. Testing the efficacy of anti-Divination wards was not something he could do on his own.

In the end, however, he had persevered. The forgewagon’s interior would be strongly shrouded from senses both magical and mundane. Everything was Muffled, both for secrecy, and for the comfort of those working within. Anyone standing outside this compartment would have scarce insight into the manner of the vehicle’s propulsion. Most would assume it to be a large Journey Core, similar to the one that animated Mlem’s cart. Such Core-driven vehicles were common enough in large human cities, though not typically on this scale. Goldships were perhaps the ultimate example; however, only the most trusted of the Bank’s Workers would know for sure.

Like the Bank, Ascension would do its best to discourage questions.

Staavo had mounted the two ballista emplacements they had scavenged from the Sale-human’s mansion atop the control platform, though the weapons were more of a statement than any real defense. In Staavo’s words, they said, ‘Mind your own damn business.’ Hopefully, it would be enough.

A goldplate-level Diviner would be able to pierce the wards. Any goldplate could simply tear the vehicle apart if they were sufficiently motivated to see what was inside. Fortunately, encountering someone that strong in Three Cliffs would be unlikely, given what they knew of the city. The true concern was that the fact of the vehicle’s existence would spread. Over eight hundred humans would be witnesses to its creation. That was eight hundred humans that needed to keep their mouths shut. Such a thing would be impossible, even for one.

Tallheart chuckled to himself as he climbed back out onto the control platform, which, even here, was only half-finished, missing its fabric awning. Fundamentally, nothing had changed. At this point, the fact that Ascension had crafters would be impossible to hide. The enchanted swords and rings were more than enough to paint a target on his back. It was just a matter of keeping that target as small as possible. Perhaps building the forgewagon so large was not the wisest decision in that regard, but it would significantly ease their crossing of the salty plain.

Settling himself in the driver’s seat, Tallheart closed his eyes and took a deep breath. Mentally, he compared what he had just seen in his inspection to the real version, then nodded, satisfied. He exhaled, and when he opened his eyes, he was seated in the driver’s seat of the real thing. He was alone on the platform, having told everyone that there was a significant risk of an explosion when he engaged the turbines. There was not. As the dials on the console before him indicated, the boiler was already at full pressure and had been for some time. If the vehicle was going to explode, it would have already done so. No, he had simply wanted time to complete his inspection in peace. And to reflect.

The completed vehicle was…impressive. A masterpiece, even, but not one that he could claim as his alone. Staavo had helped with mechanical aspects, solving several intricate problems through a lifetime of experience as a tinkerer. Ellis had helped with the metalwork in his small way, proving his worth as an apprentice. Myth and Reason had supplied frictionless grease for the drive train, as well as the mysterious headlight fluid Rain swore was essential. Even the unawakened had participated. A Vestvallan glassblower had made the lenses for the headlights, and still more Vestvallans had worked to gather fresh earth for the smelter. Indeed, it was a team effort.

Tallheart smiled, humming as he reflected upon the novel experience of building something with others. It had been…nice.

If only we could agree on a name.

He retrieved a pair of brass goggles from beneath his seat, fastened them across his eyes, then reached for the throttle.

A strange vibration from the ground made Dust pull up short, nostrils flaring. He’d been running playfully from the fiery human filly, not presently on fire—which was fortunate, as she crashed into him moments later.

“Ooof!” Ava grunted in surprise. “Why’d you stop?!”

Dust ignored the young human as she rebounded from his flank, trying to get a better feel for the vibration. Flicking his ears, he looked toward the gap in the line of trees on the ridge. That way led to where the human herd had been staying before they’d moved to the river. Yes, something was definitely coming.

“Hey, do you feel that? It’s like the earthquake again,” Ava dusted herself off, getting back to her two human feet. As if there was any wonder why she’d fallen over.

Dust snorted, trotting away toward the ridge. He didn’t bother trying to unpuzzle what she had said to him. Humans made far too many sounds, and remembering what each one meant was difficult. It didn’t help that Rain was being stingy with her winter’s breeze of late.

Dust wasn’t exactly sure what was going on with Rain. Why the other humans treated such a lazy mare as their leader was a mystery. Ameliah was far more deserving of a place at the head of the herd, even if her mane was not so long as it had once been. Perhaps it was Rain’s shell that the others admired? But then, Ameliah wore a shell now too, as did the pointed human and the loud human, though his was not as sleek. They had had their shells first, as Dust recalled, though his memory of that time was fuzzy. Regardless, it didn’t make sense.

Dust snorted again, putting it out of his mind as he neared the ridge. Ava was following after him, babbling more human nonsense that he didn’t have time for. The vibration was growing stronger, and he needed to know if it was a threat. Humans were stupid, and those of this herd were stupider than most. They couldn’t be trusted to look after themselves without his help.

Suddenly, and with much less sound than something so large should have made, an enormous boulder tore over the top of the ridge. No, not a boulder. It was too shiny, and it was the wrong shape. A house? Houses didn’t move. A wagon? A monster? Dust didn’t know what it was, only that it was extremely bad. His ears had flattened down against his neck, but as he turned to bolt, he saw Ava standing there, her eyes wide in shock.

“Look!” the young human shouted, pointing dumbly. She clearly had no intention of getting out of the way.

Hurriedly, Dust moved to place himself between the stupid filly and the onrushing danger. The wagon-boulder-house-thing was much, much larger than him, though, and didn’t seem to be intimidated. It was coming at them very, very fast.

“Move! Hyaa!” a deep voice shouted.

Dust didn’t see where the pointed human’s voice had come from, but it didn’t matter. It was too late. He dug in his hooves, bracing for the impact, but the object that struck him was not the wagon-thing, but something else. Something from the side that he hadn’t seen coming. Dust screamed in terror, his hooves flailing as he found himself tumbling through the air. Only after he struck the ground did he realize that there was very little pain. There had also been a strange…ripple in the air. The thing that had struck him, he saw, was not a thing, but a human. Rain was already getting back to her feet, sparing Dust a glance before she galloped after the fleeing not-boulder, yelling as she went.

“Tallheart! Slow down!”

Dust got his hooves back under himself, then rose. Ava was fine, he saw. The young human was standing beside him as if nothing at all had happened. Meanwhile, the pointed human—Tallheart—was shouting something.

“I cannot! Something has gone wrong with the brakes!”

Dust’s eyes widened as he spotted the source of the voice. The pointed human was riding the monstrous contraption!

“Dust, look!” Ava shouted, jumping up and down at his side. She laughed. “It’s huge!” She grabbed at him, attempting to climb up. “It’s going for the bridge! It’ll totally smash it! Let me up and let’s go!”

Dust snorted, then bucked, thoroughly done with this whole situation.

Ava shrieked as she was dislodged, tumbling to the ground, and then Dust was off, headed for the trees.

Perhaps he would come back later.

Perhaps not.

He would have to think about it.
