Pekona huffed, and Ylawes nodded. He could relate. He was telling Pekona about the stubborn streak that ran in House Byres’ family when the two heard a scream—and Ylawes leapt up with sword in hand, then sighed.
“Falene. She must h—”
The flash of light and half a dozen low-level [Light] spells going off made Ylawes shield his face. Falene had just unloaded all the mana she had on one of the ghosts. He was about to shout at her that she was endangering the group when he felt a chill run down his spine.
He…saw a ghost for a second, in the direction of Falene’s tent, drifting away, a Drake in armor looking rather ragged, as if something had punched holes in its body and made it tattered like old cloth. Pekona gasped and drew her sword as Ylawes stared.
Falene had hurt the ghost? It drifted towards them, then turned, and Ylawes saw that dead Drake’s face become wrathful. It had a spear.
It stabbed at them.
“Pekona, look out!”
She leapt sideways, trying to parry a ghost’s weapon, but it was no use. It passed through her sword, stabbed into her chest, and Ylawes shouted—then saw the ghost recoil as steam rose from it. It threw up its hands, and he thought he saw a look of agony cross its face—
Half of the talisman’s on Pekona’s armor dropped off, suddenly, and the [Sword Dancer] leapt back, wide-eyed. Ylawes Byres gaped.
By the Silver Dragon, it does work. Then he saw another Drake ghost emerging with a sword in hand, raising it two-handed behind Pekona. She hadn’t seen—Ylawes Byres moved instinctively.
He stabbed the ghost through the back with the Graveblade before he realized it was utterly futile. But to his shock, the blade went cold—so cold his fingers numbed—and he felt the slightest tingle down the blade. The ghost froze, screamed with a mortal howl that echoed across the entire camp—
And vanished.
Ylawes Byres stumbled back, sword in hand, and Pekona whirled. The Silver Swords charged out of their tents, then stopped. They saw their Captain standing with the pale sword he’d been given from the Dungeon of Liscor.
Liscor’s dungeon, which Mrsha would later be told was the site of the former City of Graves.
The Gravesword was glowing, a faint blue light, and Ylawes saw indistinct writing tracing up the metal of the blade. He swore it felt colder, even as the light faded, and he glanced around.
“Uh…”
“Lad. With all this talk about charms and whatnot—if we could have just stabbed the buggers, why did no one tell us?”
Dawil joked weakly, and Ylawes Byres hefted his sword. He turned, and he swore he sensed eyes on him and Falene, who hefted her staff. The glowing light of a spell illuminated the two, and the Silver Swords stood there as Pekona, rather smugly, began to write on another talisman.
 
[Charm Maiden class obtained!]
[Charm Maiden Level 2!]
[Skill – Minor Warding Talisman obtained!]
[Skill – Minor Safety Talisman obtained!]
[Skill – Memorize Drawing Pattern obtained!]
 
A new class for a new skillset. The next day, everyone was wearing Pekona’s charms, but something rather curious happened. After the night when Ylawes Byres stabbed the ghost—
They didn’t see one again. He wondered if he’d scared them off. And if so…had they passed on?
Or gone back to their fortress? Either way, it was a huge victory, and he kept checking the slightly-colder Gravesword as their trip back to Goisedall improved, and they really did feel like celebrating. Only Mrsha’s reports that Captain Nailren was in trouble kept Ylawes from feeling fully victorious.
The Gnoll had no Graveblade or magic to use. And his ghosts…they were getting worse.
 
——
 
Day 46 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Haunting intensifies. A surprising victory.
 
The charms worked. They did. That was the shocking thing to Nailren; the woven charm, the totem he’d carved, it all kept the ghosts at bay. He saw flickers, but the moment he put the totem outside his tent and hung the woven charm around his neck, the assaults subsided. For a day and a half, he felt relaxed, energetic again, and certainly relieved.
—Then, in the dead of night, he felt like a cold finger had stabbed him through the chest, and he sat up with a yell. His skin had a hole in it and was frosted. When he yanked at the charm, he found only wooden fragments spilling into his paws. Outside—
The carved symbols on the totem hadn’t shattered like the amulet, but they’d melted down the wood. The Gnoll stared at the two charms. He made four new ones of each—or tried to. The third amulet snapped mid-weave, and he realized that Fetohep had been entirely right.
They were getting a lot stronger, a lot faster.
 
——
 
“Captain, we have to get you to Goisedall. You’re in danger, and we can’t fight this.”
An unnerved Cuska came out with it the next day, and Nailren raised one hand as he felt at his arm. He was missing fur from it in patches. They were yanking the fur out.
“I know. But Ylawes’ team is moving at wagon speed or slower if they’re on foot. Even if I get there—I need his sword to fix this. From the sound of it, [Mages] can help with light magic, but I don’t trust riding.”
If he rode, he felt like they’d try to throw him off his horse or steer him astray. And they were truly going for him, now.
They’d learned how to throw things. He watched as a piece of dirt rose, and Cuska blocked it. She was pale under her fur.
“Why are they so powerful? They’re just four dead Humans, not [Chieftains]!”
“Maybe I really made them mad. Or it’s something else. Maybe this is how dangerous they are. Or maybe they were actually higher-level than we thought.”
It could be anything, but Nailren was getting desperate. It wasn’t the violence, the screaming—which had actually decreased in favor of actual harm—or the helplessness that was making him worried.
It was the malice. They weren’t able to ‘take his eyes’ or do significant harm, especially given his levels, but they were trying to make his life hell. For instance, on a hunch, he checked his boots this morning and carefully poured out the horseshoe nails that they’d planted—spikes up—in them.
“Come on, this is just petty. What are you, rival [Ladies] going to an academy?”
He’d heard [Ladies] did stuff like this, which was horrific if you considered children of fourteen doing this to each other. Nailren was more concerned when he was waiting for food and one of Bekr’s knifes slipped, nearly slashing open Nailren’s cheek.
“That’s it. I’m desperate for anything—I need to try what Fetohep said. Either that or…Cuska? How much salt do we have?”
The Gnolls eyed each other, but it was getting late, and Nailren needed to sleep. He drew a circle around himself with salt, praying it wouldn’t rain or blow hard, and then lit five candles and put them around him. He lay down, staring up at the sky, ready to dodge or block an attack at his face.
…Nothing happened. Nailren was so paranoid he lay there for a full forty-five minutes before he realized—
“Dead gods. Joseph was right?”
He knew the young man had been seriously trying to help, but—he would have taken Erin’s advice more seriously! Nailren sat up and saw the four figures.
He froze.
Four Humans were standing outside the salt circle, unable to get in. They stood, dead corpses of who they had been, and he saw a curious tableau taking place. It looked like they were—
Arguing?
He stared as it seemed to him the young man and the young woman were arguing with the two older ones. One was pointing at him, and the other two were shaking their heads.
Infighting? If they were speaking, he saw no lip-movements nor heard anything. Nailren kept still, eyes on the four. The short woman who hated him the most was vehemently stabbing a finger at him, whereas the young man was hesitating. And he saw something else odd.
The young man and young woman appeared rather like he remembered. Dead corpses, but true-to-flesh more or less of what he expected from someone a day or two dead. The man, who had been in the same condition as the others, was severely atrophied. His face was rotting, and his eyes seemed to glow a bit brighter than the others. Nailren saw his stomach had burst open, revealing rotting intestines—closer to how the Gnoll had actually found him.
But the short woman…
She had passed beyond ‘rot’ and into something else. She was a few inches taller, and her fingers had begun to elongate. Her flesh was more leathery, and Nailren’s fur stood on end. He saw her eyes swing to him, and the arguing stopped.
“Hello?”
He spoke to them, and they all stared, faces turning hostile. They pressed up against the salt circle, and he shouted.
“Leave me alone, would you? I didn’t kill you, but I’ll finish the job if I have to! Dead gods, I stole some canvas from your tents!”
None of them responded. They circled the salt barrier, and he eyed the line of salt, hoping he hadn’t left a break. The candles flickered despite the lack of wind, and Nailren watched the faces of the four dead Humans growing angrier as they impotently circled him, and he had a sudden thought.
I can’t hear them. They were clearly speaking, talking about something. How much to torment me? What if—
You had to think logically about this. He was an intermediary between tribes and Drakes, and sometimes, it was just a damn misunderstanding between two groups. Sometimes, you had to fight or redress wrongs, but sometimes, you could just—talk it out.
Logic. If he couldn’t hear them—
Could they hear him? Then another thought occurred to Nailren instantly.
Did they even know who he was? And lastly, most crucially—
How the hell were they haunting him? His eyes stole to his pack. Nailren slowly, slowly reached a paw out for his pack, which was outside the salt circle. Then he stopped, caught himself, and lay back down.
“Shave me bald, I’m not doing that.”
He was getting a good damn sleep, and he’d figure it out in the morning.
 
——
 
Day 47 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. The counterattack begins.
 
Nailren went around the Pride’s camp, asking for supplies and making ready for the day’s work. He did two things.
Firstly, he took a bunch of supplies to the camp where he’d found the four dead Humans along with the scraps of canvas. Charcoal, salt, shovels—and pieces of wood.
Secondly, he put the damn pieces of canvas back, piling them up where he’d taken them and placing a rock over the bundles.
“There. It’s back. Are we even?”
He spoke to the four corpses, who were by now very decayed and still atrophying on the ground. He saw little wrong with that, aside from the morbidity of it; corpses naturally went back into the soil. Some Gnolls practiced this method of burial, but he supposed other cultures found it ghoulish.
The answer to Nailren’s question was a stab in his shoulder. He glowered and exhaled.
“All right. You asked for it.”
He burned the canvas instead. Which might have been overly aggressive as acts went, but Nailren had been fed up with this situation, and he was approaching the problem of this haunting like, well, a problem-solver, not a victim.
Realizing the ghosts had been stymied by the salt circle and seeing them arguing had reframed their abilities in Nailren’s head. They’d gone from rather omniscient beings to ones with their own senses, albeit ones he didn’t understand.
He was gathering information for the tribes. And one of those information pieces was how you got haunted.
Stealing possessions of the dead was the guess the Silver Swords had come up with and Nailren obviously ratified based on the evidence given to him. However, he murmured as he took a seat.
“I wonder what happens when the thing I stole is gone? Is our…link gone?”
That was how [Scrying] spells and other location-based magics worked. Get rid of the source or obfuscate the name or other aspect and the magic failed. Nailren sat just outside the camp. He’d know very soon if this worked or if he’d just empowered them.
…Nothing happened for a good minute. Then two. Which was normal; they attacked in waves, as if they had to gather energy for a big strike. Nailren sat there, then had a second question.
How do I know if they’re around? He bet there was a charm or object he could use for that purpose; Joseph had described a lot of nonsensical tools that Nailren couldn’t build, but the Gnoll, in lieu of that, used his eyes, ears, and nose.
And his brain.
Wind was blowing along the yellow grass and camp, ruffling the water on the lake, and insects buzzed around the corpses lying there. They stank faintly, but not much. He heard a few buzzing wings and felt mildly warm in his fur on this spring day with the sun beating down.
Then a cold breeze passed by him, and he shivered. Nailren’s eyes snapped down as the grass began to move—away from the breeze.
There. And there. And—did he see puddles on the lake in the absence of the wind just there? Yes, moving…
They were around him. He thought he could actually trace their patterns on the ground, moving in curves, as if…searching.
Searching for me? Nailren held still, keeping his body frozen, emptying his mind and just—existing, like he had been taught to do.
As if he were waiting for a target. What had the Hunter of Noelictus said?
Remove your signs of life. Nailren wasn’t able to do that fully, but he could get as close to it as possible with these techniques. He felt another cold breeze pass him—then a clawed hand in his flesh.
“Aha. You found me. What if I—?”
He leapt away, nimbly, brushing at his shoulders, and then cast around. Hm.
Nailren began moving through the grass, using a Skill so it wouldn’t shift in his wake. Evidently he lost the ghost coming after him, and he saw the grass rustling towards where he’d been. He stepped back, evading another chill in the air, and grinned.
“Got you.”
They couldn’t see him. Nor could they leave this campsite, it seemed; when he moved back, it felt like they had a radius of fifty feet or more, judging by how he was tracking them. Nailren rubbed at his forehead wearily.
“Dead gods, it was this easy?”
It was his fault for asking all these magic-users for help. They all had solutions which worked, but someone should have just said to put the stuff back and get lost. He should have listened to Fetohep.
“Still, if I’m here, I might as well do more investigating.”
Nailren crouched down and grinned. Missing fur, cold sores on his body, and lack of sleep—they deserved a bit of being his experiment in return, right?
 
——
 
Test #1. If he could stealth around them, did that apply to…?
The moment he touched a foot of one of the corpses, they came for him, fast and malicious. Nailren leapt away, then shouted.
“I’m here, you idiots!”
