The two things happened almost simultaneously just after the morning. Ylawes was grumpy again, having woken from a dream of a monster howling at him. He’d been having it the last few days, and he attributed it to stress.
He was walking along with Infinitypear next to him and not really thinking, but he hadn’t noticed Rasktooth’s normally vigilant stance growing languid. The Cave Goblin sitting on his brother’s back cast around, head panning left and right, but the motion took on a rhythmic pattern, and his eyelids drooped slightly. His face went blank, and his breathing slowed—until his eyes snapped open.
“Ah! That weird!”
Ylawes jumped, and Rasktooth twisted around on Infinitypear’s back. He hollered at Pekona.
“Hey, Pekona! I got [Putrid Spirit Realm Initiate]! What that?”
Her head snapped up as Ylawes turned, and he heard an inarticulate shout coming from Pekona. She raced over, demanding to know what he’d done, as Rasktooth grinned.
“It sound sort of yuck. But I thought—hey, maybe I have this energy thing after all. It feel all squirmy-nasty though. Like I got little bad-bad things like wormy poo. Eh, but then I made nice ball, and I levelled.”
“How—but you don’t have any energy!”
“Psh. I got tons. You don’t know. Maybe I eat tons of pill-stuff in dungeon. They eat maggots in Drath?”
Pekona was demanding to know exactly what Rasktooth had done, and Ylawes noticed a uniquely fed-up set to Infinitypear’s mandibles. He suspected Rasktooth having time to meditate might be wearing thin on the Antinium after days of walking. He was about to suggest Rasktooth ride on the wagons so Infinitypear could relax his shoulder…shell when someone whistled.
“Captain! I see something!”
Larr was riding a horse with his bow drawn in case he saw game, and Ylawes’ head snapped up. Rasktooth and Pekona whirled, and Ylawes saw a huge shape on the horizon to the east. It was moving slowly and steadily, and he narrowed his eyes as his heart leapt in his chest.
“Dawil, get on a mount. Larr, tell me what that is.”
The two adventurers rode forwards fast, and Ylawes had the entire group halt. He peered towards the rising ground to the west. That was where that huge ravine was—he couldn’t tell if it had ended, but the ground there was less grassy. He thought he saw a colorful turquoise streak to the ground and wondered what the heck was going on over th—
“Lad! Lad! Larr says it’s a damn Golem! It’s the Terlands! Come on!”
The moment he heard that, all notions of safety left his head. Ylawes began running, Rasktooth whooped, and everyone was racing forwards. Erin had told the truth!
The rush across the ground towards the Golem slowed within minutes of starting; no one had the energy to run, but they yelled and hollered as the Golem—and a small group—turned and saw them coming. Handlers for the Golem, no doubt. Ylawes expected them to come their way, but to his surprise, the moment they noticed them and Dawil and Larr riding at them, the Golem turned—and began stomping away with the four Humans.
Rather fast. Ylawes slowed, dismayed.
“They’re leaving? Dawil, talk to them!”
The Dwarf was trying. He urged his horse faster, shouting at the Golem, and Ylawes, speed-walking now, saw the encounter go down. The Golem swung around as Dawil approached, and then the Dwarf brought his horse around fast. Larr shouted and raised his bow—then lowered it and ducked. Both rode back quickly, and now Ylawes saw the Golem turning away faster.
“Lad, they took a shot at us! I think they believe we’re bandits! They’re headed straight to their camp.”
“Silver and steel—tell them we’re adventurers!”
“I did! Hold on, I’m getting my helmet on—”
Dawil was set to head back at the Terlands, and Ylawes shouted at Larr.
“Give me your horse!”
He put his own helmet on, and Falene shouted at the two of them.
“Ylawes, Dawil! Don’t alarm them! If they see two [Riders] coming at them in armor, what do you think they’ll do? Let me send a spell of some kind to reassure them!”
That drew Ylawes up. He realized that if the Terlands were this jumpy, there was no telling what their main camp might do. And that Golem—he turned.
“Dawil, hold back. Everyone slow down—we’re following the Terlands, but at a safe pace. Details, what did you see? What’s their condition?”
Larr reported, having had the best eyes on them.
“They look—decent, Captain Ylawes. There were four of them, yes? That big Golem is all stone. It looked like they were scouting, maybe. But the instant they saw us, they turned and fled.”
“With an eight-foot Golem? Awfully jumpy of them.”
Insill was incredulous, and Larr sniffed the air.
“They smelled afraid.”
“…And there are quite a lot of us. If they thought we were dangerous or desperate—but Erin told me they were here! I think she even warned…damn, I don’t quite remember. I wish she’d contacted me again!”
“Lad, what exactly did she say?”
Everyone regarded Ylawes, and he put his head in his hands, forcing his addled mind to focus.
“She said to come this way and there would be help…I think she talked to someone, but she looked—bad. I don’t think she was well herself. If they’re that worried—I have an idea. Let’s move. Insill, do we have any white sheets?”
 
——
 
It was a forty minute trek after the Terlands. Everyone kept up a brisk pace so as not to lose them. The Silver Swords and the settlers crossed over the strange dirt, which had colors mixed into the soil that gave it an eerie, beautiful look.
Hardly hospitable ground, though; not even the yellow grass bloomed here. Ylawes wondered if Miner Homle thought it was good ground, but the man just spat.
“Not what I’d go after first, Captain. I bet if you were someone sifting sand for traces of gold or minerals, you’d get more, but all the [Prospectors] stayed with the Consortium. I bet you those Terlands have someone who knows their stuff, though. Their Golems do everything from mining to farming, don’t they?”
“Famously so. They’re one of the Five Families. I’ve visited their lands a few times, and they were always hospitable.”
Ylawes was a member of House Byres, a small family, but he was hoping that it was at least recognizable. He was conscious of his tarnished and rusty armor suddenly and was polishing it with a cloth as Insill finished stitching something with Petia’s crew.
A white flag. It seemed like the, ah, thing to do, and Ylawes felt like a fool for raising it, but it turned out that might have been a very prescient move. For when they saw the Terlands’ base, a huge ring of dirt earthenworks filled with over a dozen Golems, it was clear they were on high-alert.
“Damn, lad, they’ve got nearly a dozen wagons!”
“Not many people, though. We outnumber them.”
Surprisingly, this group of Terlands was low on numbers; there was a Golem for every dozen people and, unless Ylawes mistook them, several more that looked like they were crouched down or slumbering. Dawil stroked his beard as they drew closer.
“A dozen Golems would be a bad fight, lad. They’re not fast, but that one was stomping pretty quick. If they go for us, they could run us down.”
“What? Dawil, they’re Terlands. It’s not going to come to a fight.”
The Dwarf gave Ylawes an uncharacteristically dark look.
“Lad, after how the Consortium business went down, I wouldn’t bet on anything here. Maybe we have the settlers hang back, eh? And, uh, keep Rasktooth and Infinitypear away?”
The Silver Swords’ Captain hesitated—then gave swift orders. So he found himself riding forwards with Falene, Dawil, Larr, Pekona, and Anith, leaving the rest of the adventurers and settlers behind. He tried to sit tall and look, well, not like a [Beggar] pleading for aid. Especially because that was what he was.
Ylawes saw a line of six Golems standing shoulder-to-shoulder at the front of the Terlands’ camp. No one on the walls, but six massive stone Golems in the shape of humanoids made Anith audibly swallow.
“We’ve fought bigger Golems before, eh, lad?”
Dawil’s voice was casual, and Falene nodded as Pekona and Anith shot Ylawes a look. The Captain nodded.
“Of course.”
Only, they weren’t artificial Golems but natural stone ones, and they were slow and uncoordinated. He’d heard Golems made by House Terland were superior in every respect. As they drew closer, Ylawes’ heart pounded a bit faster in his chest. Two of them had huge maces and shields.
“How are they keeping them active? With the mana drain—I’d say they were generating their own mana, but they’re not nearly high-grade enough for that!”
Falene was astounded, but Ylawes was searching for the leader of the Terlands. He didn’t see them. He didn’t see…anyone. They were all out of sight, and that struck him as ominous.
“You there! Halt! Identify yourselves in the name of House Terland! We have your likenesses and a [Mage]!”
A loud voice shouted from behind one of the Golems as Ylawes reached a few hundred feet distant. He raised a hand and halted. Strange—but his neck hairs were prickling. He coughed, cleared his voice, and shouted back.
“L-Lord Restraud Terland? Am I addressing Lord Restraud Terland?”
That was the name Erin had given him. He thought he detected motion behind the Golems, then the voice bellowed back.
“Identify yourself!”
“Of course! We have a white flag—I am Captain Ylawes Byres of the Silver Swords! With me are, ah, settlers and my adventuring team! I was directed here to speak to Lord Restraud about employment?”
He was lightheaded from lack of food and, he realized, unprepared. There was silence—then the voice grew notably suspicious.
“Ylawes of House Byres?”
“The very same!”
Silence. Falene cast a spell under her breath and whispered.
“I’m enhancing my hearing. I think I hear—”
“Tell that [Mage] to stop casting magic!”
She jumped, and Ylawes groaned. He shouted.
“At once! Falene—”
She lifted her staff, abashed, and made a show of tossing it down. The voice came back, rough, and Ylawes realized that something was off. Well, beyond the obvious. He’d assumed Lord Restraud would instantly identify himself and give one of the pithy addresses Ylawes was used to. How did it go again…? The speaker sounded uncertain.
“If you are Captain Ylawes, then you would know when Lord Restraud entertained this offer—and of course when last House Byres signed a trade agreement with House Terland!”
Every head turned towards Ylawes, but his chin rose.
“It would be three days ago that Lord Restraud spoke to a young woman. As for House Byres’ trade agreement with House Terland, if it has occurred within the last month or two, I have no notion of it, but our silver shipments do reach House Terland every five years! Stone walks and kneels before House Terland, friends! By silver and steel, House Byres has always counted the Lords of Stone in the north as allies! Surely we may converse in a more amicable setting?”
Dead silence as he sat high on his horse, who chose this moment to try and eat a stray tuft of yellow grass. Everyone waited until the center Golem took one slow step to the side. Then he saw a dozen or so people warily waving at him.
“Captain Ylawes may enter with a single guest!”
“Good job, lad. I never thought all that fancy protocol would come in handy—who’s going in, Pointy or me?”
Dawil slapped Ylawes’ shoulder, and the Captain smiled, but worriedly. Falene breathed.
“Ylawes, something’s very wrong.”
“I know. Falene, how’s your knowledge of etiquette and Golems?”
“I, uh—I took Golemancy 101 in Wistram, but that was only because I knew the instructor.”
She turned bright red, and Dawil and Ylawes eyed her. The [Knight] shrugged.
“Good enough. No casting magic, and Dawil, don’t do anything, ah, alarming.”
“On it, lad.”
The party broke up, and Ylawes and Falene rode forwards and made a show of dismounting before the gates. But that was really because the horses got spooked by the impervious Golems. Falene ran a whispered commentary as Ylawes sized up the fortification.
It really was a ring of dirt pushed up in a circle, though on the inside he saw a number of tents and what seemed like the beginnings of actual foundations: stones hammered into the ground to reinforce the dirt ring. Still, there were no ramparts, and his first thought upon entering the Terlands’ base was that something was very wrong.
There were less than sixty of them present—an incredibly small number given they had a dozen active Golems, and of the Golems, half were stone, half were wood, and one was a metal Golem like the kind he’d seen at Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion. That one was standing still and immobile in one corner of the base, next to a tent.
The group that met him was comprised of nobles, but what rank, he couldn’t tell. Their speaker was a man in his mid-thirties, and the moment Ylawes laid eyes on him and the three other nobles, one male, two female, he knew none of them were Lord Restraud.
It was the way they stared at him so uncertainly and that tingle on the back of his head. Falene whispered to him as Ylawes searched around for somewhere to put his horse—no one was running up to take it.
“Ylawes. There’s ten dead Golems over there. They’ve been drained of magic. They’re dead.”
“I see them.”
Kneeling figures with their chest cavities opened. Ylawes had heard each one cost upwards of a thousand gold pieces. A fortune lost—but the Terlands were putting on a good show.
“Ah, Captain Byres. You do match the image of you. And this must be Magus Falene Skystrall. Am I to take it the Dwarf who alarmed our party was Dawil Ironbreaker?”
“That’s correct, Lord…?”
“Comigen. And with me is [Golemancer] Sir Martz, Lady of Stone Safta, and Lady Leerne of House Amaz.”
“Lord Ylawes, Adventurer Falene.”
They murmured greetings, and Ylawes tried to decipher all that. Not many titles—but Lady Leerne would probably be someone who married into the family since she wasn’t a ‘Lady of Stone’. They prized [Golemancers] like nobility, so he gave them all a nod in turn.
“I’m honored to meet so many of House Terland. May I ask where Lord Restraud is? I wished to tender him my personal thanks for his offer.”
Comigen had sandy hair similar to Kevin, but it was speckled with black like someone had dumped pepper all over him, and he wore rather expensive nobleman’s shoes and one of those lacy outfits with a ruff like a tea cosy. It appeared hot and mildewed, and the shoes were badly scuffed. He smiled.
“Lord Restraud is resting at this moment. I, ah, wished to confirm your identity first, so you will excuse our wariness. Your group was larger than expected. You said the Silver Swords—a group of three. Whom are the rest? Settlers?”
