It hadn’t occurred to him, but he had a bad feeling he knew what this was. Nailren shook his head as Kelthe regarded him worriedly.
“You mean from the tents? We could burn the fabric—”
“What? No. It’s just fabric, and it ran out of magic. What’re the odds they had…cursed tent fabric? And if there was a Relic-class item, it’d have gotten you, Kelthe. I’m, uh—I’m probably having Warsights.”
No one but Cuska knew the term, and Nailren scratched at his chin, embarrassed. It was normal, and he’d seen plenty of people with it, but even so, he’d just never thought he’d get it.
“It’s when you live through an event, usually violent. You start jumping at shadows, remembering what happened vividly. Flashing back. Warsights, see? Drakes get it a lot. I’m told Doombringers—excuse me, Doombearers, too. I never had them until now, but it makes sense.”
“But you’re just seeing the dead travellers, Nailren? Normally it’s people you kill, right?”
“Yes…but maybe I’m not reacting to this new lifestyle well. I leave civilization, live without doing the job, and I start cracking up.”
It made Nailren kind of gloomy to think that was what was going on. He’d have to see a [Shaman] or [Thought Healer] about this. The other Gnolls looked at him sympathetically, and Bekr, who’d only joined Nailren’s team a few times, raised a piece of fish to his mouth.
“I’ve killed a few people, Nailren. We had a fight with the local Drake city one time. It got bad—idiots taking shots at us at night and us doing the same until they sent the army. How many do you have to kill to get, uh, Warsights? Or do you have to go through a war?”
Cuska glanced at Nailren.
“Could just be one, could be lots. War—that’s harrowing. I bet anyone who met the Goblin King has a Warsight about him. As for Nailren…”
“I’ve done both.”
Nailren was normally quiet about his past, but he was retired, and they were friends. He smiled ruefully, and Bekr hesitated.
“War and killing? Er, how much?”
“Wars. I couldn’t tell you how many people. That’s the job. I should have known it’d catch up to me. Strange, though. Sorry for causing an alarm.”
“It could be magic. We’ll keep an eye out.”
Kelthe insisted, but Nailren just sighed. He put his fish down; he wasn’t much hungry.
“Why strange?”
Bekr wanted to know, and Nailren shrugged, again embarrassed.
“I—I never thought it haunted me like that. Never regretted it or had much trauma, except for maybe the close calls or injuries. But I mean…if I see them again, that’s proof, eh?”
He grinned, and they agreed, slightly worriedly. They kept a watch that night, and Nailren was told not to bother with his. He thought it best and laid down to sleep.
Sleep was hard coming, possibly because he had that unsettling feeling, like when you had a nightmare and you didn’t want to open your eyes. And sure enough, when he opened his eyes in his tent and peered up—
A young woman was staring down at him, knife wounds in her chest. Skin grey, eyes a pale white. 
Nailren sat up and stuck his paw through her chest. It passed clean through, and he felt a bit cold as his fur shivered, but the apparition vanished. He sighed.
“Great.”
Warsights it was.
 
——
 
The next few days became a routine that took all the fun out of his time in the New Lands. Nailren grew used to seeing the four dead travellers around him. They’d pop up while he was preoccupied with something, hunting—a figure out of the corner of his eyes, or they’d be amidst an ordinary scene while he was glancing around. A dead, grey person staring at him.
It got on his nerves, actually. For one thing, he didn’t like people appearing and had a good awareness of his surroundings, so he jumped or had that spike of adrenaline when he saw them. But they were just apparitions.
No one else saw them—they often appeared when he was alone or vanished when someone’s head turned, and he didn’t point them out after that first few times. Nailren had to be honest about seeing them though: it was too hard to hide.
“I’ll go back with the supply run and talk to a [Healer], alright?”
He snapped at Kelthe when she asked about it, then grew annoyed about snapping. Here he was, supposed to be exploring this tower, and he’d called the trip off because he didn’t trust his instincts with the Warsights around.
“Are you sure it’s not something else?”
“What, magic? Kelthe, Mrsha told me how the Silver Swords ran out of magic—and they’re a Gold-rank team. That was some poor group that got jumped in the middle of nowhere.”
“I know, I know…but it’s just not like I’ve seen. I knew a few Gnolls like that in my tribe. They were great some days, then they’d hear or see something and it’d set them off. It wasn’t regular like this.”
“Well…I bet it’s individual. I’ll get over it or get used to it.”
 
——
 
He did not get over it or used to it. If anything, after another day, the visions seemed to grow more frequent. The dead quartet would appear closer to him, and he grew used to swiping at them and ignoring the chill running up his fur.
He started talking to them too.
“You again. Get lost.”
The oldest was the short woman who had been killed by the sword. She swayed as he kicked out of the latrines, and he saw Cuska giving him a concerned look.
“You sure you don’t want to go back to Goisedall now? It’s not that many days’ ride, Nailren.”
“No! I—argh, yes. I think I should.”
He scrubbed at his face with a paw, frustrated, seeing the young man staring at him from behind a boulder, and realizing he couldn’t get away from this. He sighed.
“Tomorrow morning. I’d appreciate it.”
“Sure thing. We can ask about the Silver Swords too. You were worried about them. Trade some information, buy salt…sell those hides.”
She was cajoling, and everyone was being kind to him at lunch, and Nailren felt like a lump. He breathed out through his nose and took a moody bite of fish. Then he saw a flicker out of the corner of his eye and punched with one paw.
“I just wish they’d leave me the hell alone! Right there—I knew it was bad, but I should have been kinder to people suffering from it.”
Kelthe looked up, and a glowing figure recoiled. Then spoke in a nervous voice.
“U-um! I can come back later, Captain Nailren, if this is a bad—”
Nailren nearly leapt into the fire as the image of Nanette Weishart stood there timidly. The witch girl was standing there, flickering—and he realized the [World’s Eye Theatre] had sent her to him again.
“Ancestors! I nearly died of—who is this?”
Cuska clutched at her chest, and Nailren turned. He knew Nanette, but not well, and smiled.
“Nanette! This is a good time. Perfect, actually. I apologize, I thought you were something else—where’s Mrsha? How are the Silver Swords?”
She tipped a baseball hat at him, and he blinked at her. She was wearing a yellow poncho and weird fishies on her stockings…and the baseball hat.
No accounting for style, but she seemed pleased with herself.
“Hello, Captain Nailren! Captain Ylawes is fine, I think—we’re having trouble keeping up with him, but I’m checking in instead of Mrsha today. She’s a bit sick. The rainy season just started in Liscor. I’m glad I found you! You weren’t showing up the last few days.”
“Ah, understood. I know there’s distortion in the New Lands. How can I help?”
She screwed up her face, fumbling for a notepad, which he respected.
“Well, Captain Nailren, have you seen or observed anything valuable? I realize information is money, but we could compensate you for it—anything that might help our friends in the New Lands is valuable. I’m taking notes in case we do contact Captain Ylawes.”
He stroked at his chin, amused.
“May I ask what the finder’s fee is for valuable information? I am willing to share, of course, but if you’re asking…”
Nanette blinked, and her eyes slid sideways, so he supposed that had just been an offhand comment. Then, to his surprise, she brightened up.
“I don’t have a number, but I’ll ask! Miss Lyonette—!”
She ran off, and Nailren stood there until someone else sidled into frame. There were sounds in the background, but a Cave Goblin, Asgra, appeared, furtively ducking into the picture. Cuska nearly leapt into a tent, but Asgra peered around.
“Whoa. This New Lands? It nice?”
“Hello, Asgra. It’s very nice.”
Nailren bared his teeth at her, and Asgra gave him a thumbs up.
“Is good you not starve. You like Goblins. Very smart. Species that start with ‘G’ are best! Oops. Nanette coming back.”
She picked up a broom and innocently began sweeping as Nanette hurried back.
“Captain Nailren! I just spoke with Miss Lyonette! We could offer…five gold for basic information and fifty gold for anything valuable? Or even higher if it’s substantive!”
Nailren whistled, and a few of the Gnolls watching perked up. That wasn’t bad money at all—he wondered how the inn could afford that. Then he smiled.
“Well, I would have shared the information anyways. Let me think.”
He ran down a few of the discoveries like the travellers—omitting the visions—the Landsharks and how they were using bait, and even his observations on multiple ruin types to see if that qualified. Rather to his shock, Nanette happily wrote all this down and accorded him a twenty-five gold coin bounty.
“This is wonderful, Captain Nailren! We can, uh, get the gold to you in the Merchant’s Guild. They have one in Goisedall, and I’ll ask Ishkr to bring the money to them and credit you right away!”
Either she had open access to the inn’s purse strings and she wasn’t nearly as pragmatic as he’d given her credit for, or the inn had a lot of gold to spare. Nailren wasn’t going to complain; he’d learned to expect weirdness with Erin. He grinned and nodded.
“Well, I have one last tidbit for however much it’s worth. You know your issue with growing plants?”
She grew sharper instantly.
“Yes? Have you found a way to grow plants in the soil? Or cleanse it? Because I imagine everyone would want that!”
“Neither. Instead, it’s the solution of a Gnoll, an explorer. There may not be much soil not filled with salt, nor an easy way to purify it, but that doesn’t mean there’s no arable land, Miss Nanette.”
“You’ve found some? Tell me, please!”
He grinned and indicated Cuska, who waved.
“This is Cuska, one of my teammates. I’m not sure if you’ve met—”
“Hello! I’m Nanette Weishart, a witch and member of Erin’s inn! She’s not here—I think Captain Nailren knows the entire story. If you have messages for family, I could take them! We try to check on you daily, Mrsha and I.”
“I, uh, I shall think of any messages to pass on. I’m deeply grateful, Miss Nanette.”
Cuska replied, sounding a bit unnerved, but delighted by this powerful effect. Nailren gestured to her.
“Her group found a natural basin while exploring in the New Lands, Nanette. Dry—but filled with plants, including what we’re calling ‘water onions’. It had breeds of plants we recognized, but altered for this environment, if that makes sense. Overflowing—and then nothing. It filled the circle and nowhere else. Do you know what I suspect?”
Her eyes shone with interest, and she put her head in her hands.
“It sounds like a riddle for a [Druid]. Let me think…if it’s all salty…then there’s where it evaporated? Or, no—was there something there? I don’t know what it could be!”
He grinned.
“I have a theory, but you may wish to ask a Drowned Person or [Sailor]. Ask them…if there are places underwater where freshwater or some other kind of water or substance accumulates. For it seemed to me as though the soil there was good to plant. We buried a few Yellats, but they’d take more time to sprout—we’ll check on them. But if something were there when the New Lands rose…”
“…The salt water wouldn’t drain into it, maybe! Or perhaps it’s just better soil! Basins of growing soil, Captain Nailren, that’s a wonderful insight! I’ll tell Captain Ylawes right away, and, um, Miss Lyonette will figure out who else to tell.”
Ah, so they would use the information. Nailren was a bit happy about that and coughed as Nanette wrote furiously.
“Obviously, this information is valuable, Miss Nanette, though I am sure in time many people will notice this.”
“Not if they’re Drakes. Hah!”
A few laughs, but Nanette nodded earnestly.
“I can pay you, Captain Nailren—”
“You could pay me by telling anyone you come across who figured out this information, assuming it is good.”
Nailren interjected and was pleased by the slight widening of her eyes then her eager smile.
“Credit’s worth more than gold, Captain Nailren?”
“To me, it is. Please mention my team, actually.”
It was some small bit of fame, and he liked the idea that even a big group like Nombernaught might hear it was him—and The Pride of Kelia, of course. Nanette beamed.
“Well, in that case, I think I need to send Ishkr with five thousand and twenty-five gold pieces to the Merchant’s Guild!”
Even Nailren’s excellent card-face couldn’t help but betray a blink, and Cuska spat out her boiled water. Okay. Either the inn was engaged in some kind of illicit activity like selling drugs or…he wasn’t going to turn down that fee, though, and he bared his teeth.
“Pleasure doing business with you, Miss Nanette. That’s no small amount for a Silver-rank team.”
Or even my finances. It’s not like I could get paid more than what a Silver-ranker earns. I could use that. For the [Thought Healer] if nothing else.
And like that, his moment of fun and triumph turned sour—and seemed to almost summon two specters this time. Pale, grey Humans staring at him from the entrance to his tent.
Dead gods, they’re so creepy. Do they have to be creepy? I thought it’d be someone I murdered, like that damn Drake who thought I was sniffing around Manus. I feel bad about that, but it’s just them.
His smile wavered, but Nailren was determined to make this a victory, so he opened his mouth.
“So, where is Captain Ylawes and his team? I’m heading to Goisedall, Miss Nanette, and it’s possible I could head north and scout for him if there’s a need. Mrsha said he had help, including from Erin…? But if I could make a difference, I am willing.”
Nanette peered at him, then stared past Nailren, mouth open slightly. She hesitated, then focused on Nailren.
“They do have a bit of help, but keep that secret, Captain Nailren, about, um, Erin, please. If you’re willing to help, I can certainly try and pinpoint where you are, but without maps—”
“Ah, yes. Such an issue, hm? But I am good at tracking too.”
She nodded eagerly, then hesitated.
