“Yes, Captain. I lost it when my bag of holding exploded. I’ve been trying, but…even the cooking oil is gone.”
“I’ve got a tiny bit left. I can give you some—it’s understandable.”
Pekona’s face grew more embarrassed, and she bit her tongue. She had features vaguely like Ryoka’s—black hair and a similar profile, but her gaze was even more intense than Ryoka’s had used to be.
“It’s embarrassing, Captain. My sword—I’m—”
She struggled for words, and he remembered she wasn’t a native speaker to the common tongue everyone else had. Pekona muttered a few words.
“This is what I trained. I have been a disgrace at the Village of the Dead. Then the Trial of Blades. I swore to improve. If I can’t even take care of my sword, what am I?”
Her voice shook, and he realized this one thing was haunting her. Much like his own armor. Ylawes hesitated.
What do I say here? He sometimes had Falene’s or Dawil’s complaints to address, but a junior member of the team—his first instinct was to say what was ‘right’, like ‘you’re a valued member of the team, Pekona Lastname, and I’m honored to have you here, rusted blade or not’.
…He felt like that was trite, even if true. And he couldn’t say it with a straight face, so Ylawes sighed and shrugged.
“Pekona, I’ve lost all my magic gear. My armor’s rusting, I can feel my body languishing, and we’re starving and lost. The Graveblade has some magic, but that’s one artifact compared to—well, everything I had. Right now, the most valuable members of the team are the Poke Duo, especially since Infinitypear’s spear still has some magic, and Mrsha, because she can scout the area. If your blade’s rusted, well, I need you to swing it as hard as you can for me. That’s all I can ask.”
His statement didn’t exactly perk Pekona up, but it refocused her. She ducked her head and nodded.
“Yes, Captain. I can do that. I just wish I were more…useful. Like others, from home.”
“Useful how? You’re the best fighter—”
“Some can do more than fight. If I were a 修心者…”
He had no idea what the word meant, but there was no time to ask. A cry from the side made him whirl, and Pekona’s sword rose.
“Bad thing! Bad thing!”
The forest had a predator after all. Infinitypear and Rasktooth backed up, shouting, and Ylawes ran at—a pack of three-foot tall racoons, snarling and biting. They had thick, bristly fur, and there were eight of them.
One leapt at Poke Duo and got impaled on Infinitypear’s spear. Rasktooth shot his crossbows into another, which flinched—Ylawes’ sword pinned it, and he yanked the blade clear. He was slow; a racoon leapt on his back, biting and snarling, and Pekona cut it in half, halting her blade before it touched his armor.
He still had half a racoon clinging to his back, and then the blood rushed down into his armor. Ylawes closed his eyes and wished for rain.
Then he regretted it because the damn rain was freezing.
 
——
 
Roasted racoon tasted good with hot tubeworms. That was a blessing.
The second blessing was that the weird trees, which Falene dubbed ‘Coral Trees’, did burn. It took some doing, but they’d turn into brighter embers, and Ylawes perked up a bit as he devoured pieces of the racoon meat off the bone.
He’d been all for hunting down more to augment their stores, but the big racoons had fled when three of their number had gone down, and Rasktooth had only managed to take out a fourth with Pekona’s help.
“Nice little system they’ve got here. Bats eat bugs and the worm-things, racoons must eat them. I wonder if they migrated here or magic just made ‘em poof into being.”
Dawil was commenting as Anith gnawed on a bone. The Jackal Beastkin’s voice was quiet.
“I recall them from Baleros. It could be they were on the New Lands as they rose? Or they’re natives to Izril.”
“Fast inhabitation of the New Lands is all I can say. I wonder if we’ll get more over time. I heard Corusdeer were migrating this way. Could be there’ll be a lot more animals in time, but most have yet to arrive.”
Hence why they were having trouble finding food. Ylawes grimaced. He got up to check on the tubeworms they had left.
Miner Homle was doing the same thing. He and Farmer Petia were leaders of their groups of settlers, and he gave Ylawes a strained smile as he lowered the tarp over the wagon.
“Two-thirds gone. I hope that Rasktooth fellow can find us more.”
“I’m sure there will be.”
Ylawes lied. Rasktooth had said that the ‘hot soil’ patches that Poke Duo had found were only around the foothills. Perhaps they should make some nets and catch the bats now swooping around in the darkness. He suggested it, and Homle shrugged awkwardly.
“I could see what we have lying about. Maybe Petia’s got someone with the right Skills? We’re out of our element, Captain Ylawes. A few of us have got [Survivor] classes, uh, since we started getting hungry, but not many Skills. Just ones to stop hunger or walk further while hungry, mostly.”
Skills. Ylawes felt so limited himself as a [Knight]. He couldn’t hunt well, scout—the Silver Swords really weren’t the team for this kind of trip. Falene was the exception, and she was out of magic…
He went back to his team, and when he asked if anyone knew how to make nets, predictably…
“Got no clue, Chieftain-Captain.”
Rasktooth beamed at Ylawes, and the Captain groaned.
“No nets? I thought you’d know how, Rasktooth.”
“Nothing really in the big dungeon wells. Not really need nets with Raskghar. They just run and hit things.”
“Larr?”
“I could make a rabbit trap, maybe…but I’m not good at nets either.”
“I can try, Captain! I’m good with stuff like that.”
Insill waved a claw excitedly and jumped up to get some twine. At least there was that. Ylawes brought up the topic as he sat back down.
“Falene, pass the racoon. Does anyone else have more…utility Skills we can use in this situation? I should have asked, but I assumed everyone was volunteering their best. Any talents, tricks? Not even Skills.”
He gazed from face to face, and Falene chewed on her bite of a hindleg. She looked as bad as he did; her usual immaculate appearance was frayed, and she was giving him some Ceria-esque vibes. The [Battlemage] grumbled.
“We’re out of racoon. All my knowledge is academic. Dawil’s only good trait is hitting things and throwing objects while drunk. Vuliel Drae?”
Poke Duo had a number of talents, so that left the Silver-ranked team. They argued and debated, and predictably, Insill and Larr had the most utility talents, being [Rogue] and [Ranger] respectively.
“I can pick locks and, uh, break into places, Captain Ylawes.”
Ylawes remembered Insill raiding the Consortium’s wagons and nodded. Larr had experience as a Plains Gnoll, but Dasha and Anith were unhappy to report they had few applicable talents as well.
“I, uh—I worked as a [Guard] for the Merchant’s Guild before becoming a Bronze-ranker, Captain. That’s all I’ve got.”
The bearded half-Dwarf muttered, and Anith threw up his paws.
“And I—came from Baleros! I could tell you about all kinds of species and customs there, but I wasn’t like a Lizardfolk who lived in the jungles! I moved away from the Beastfolk villages because I was sick of living in the wilds and their rules. I hated having to train as a warrior and worrying about our tithes to the clan.”
That made everyone glance at him, and Ylawes blinked stupidly.
“I don’t know much about Beastkin, Anith. I thought they lived in tribes like Gnolls.”
That got him a glower from Larr, but Anith just breathed out. He sat cross legged, very different from Larr’s sprawl by the fire. His posture was excellent, and the Jackal Beastkin’s voice was steady, if demoralized.
“Beastkin who come from our society in Baleros are very rare, Captain Ylawes. Most are born in other lands, like Hawk the Hare. Which is not to say they miss much. Back home…each ‘clan’ of species lives together. Jackal, Dog, Cat, Squirrel—we are all allied together and supposedly a unified group, but it is precarious living next to Maelstrom’s Howling’s lands.”
“Centaurs. How many Beastkin tribes are there?”
Anith’s face grew guarded.
“Hard to say. Less than a hundred. Many clans have gone extinct. Everyone contributes to our survival, be that as fighters or gatherers, and supporting one’s clan is an utmost priority. I…left. It happens, and I sent back gold the first few years I was working as an adventurer, but I imagine I’m one of the disgraced few pointed out to the children. Few Beastkin have good relations with their home if they’ve left. Three-Color Stalker being an exception.”
“Foliana of the Forgotten Wing company?”
It took Ylawes a moment to remember her, and Anith nodded.
“Her Squirrel Beastkin clan is very strong. I think she gives them money, because many of them emulate her. [Rogues] who work for the Forgotten Wing company, I think. All this to say that I grew up learning how to fight, but not to hunt—and certainly not in these lands. My best skillset would be…I don’t know, analysis of foreign or ancient magics? I was fascinated by that and read any number of books, but that’s not useful here.”
Fascinating as this was, it meant he was an academic source of knowledge and deeply embarrassed by the lack of mana. And then they came to Pekona.
She fidgeted, usually unwilling to talk, but after a few glances at Ylawes, she muttered.
“I am a [Sword Dancer]. Not a chosen…how do you say it? Mediator of Drath. All I know is the sword, so I left. If I were a mediator, I would be home and respected. So I have nothing.”
She clammed up as Ylawes tilted his head.
“Mediator? I don’t understand, Pekona.”
The woman turned redder.
“I’m not one! So I am third-rate, I know, Captain Ylawes!”
She rose, but Dasha patted her foot.
“Pekona, c’mon, Captain Ylawes doesn’t even know what you mean. He’s not gonna be mad you can’t do that sitting stuff. Sit back down. Have a bone.”
Pekona sat back down again, and Ylawes tried to adopt an understanding demeanor. He didn’t get what any of this was.
“I’m sorry if this is unpleasant, Pekona. I don’t know Drathian culture at all. What’s a mediator?”
She relaxed slightly, but grew embarrassed again as she gestured with her hand.
“They’re the finest warriors of Drath. Those who can walk on water or split lightning with their fists. Their energy inside them refines until it’s as powerful as the heart of an [Archmage], and their bodies refine with medicine and time. They live hundreds of years if they are powerful. Few are chosen because it is so difficult to give them what they need. If you are not them—I chose to study the sword and leave. I could have been a [Slayer], but I didn’t want that.”
Very confusing. Ylawes frowned.
“So there’s some kind of special class in Drath. What does a [Slayer] do?”
“They slay the things that come over the edge of the world. Drath’s sacred duty.”
Anith murmured.
“Oh. Seamwalkers.”
Everyone shivered, and Pekona tried to clarify this strange class she meant.
“There is an energy in many things. If you sit and…mediate, you draw it in and refine yours. Like a smith making metal. Until it becomes a power all your own. Like magic, but not. Orthenon—he’s the traitor who stole countless treasures and fled. He’s one of them. A [Cultivator].”
The King of Destruction’s [Steward]? Ylawes blinked, and then Falene clicked her fingers.
“Oh, meditation. That’s the word. Ylawes, she means meditation. I’ve heard of this. One time, Wistram had a bunch of pills and tonics from Drath they swore would improve [Mages]’ conditions. Archmage Viltach sponsored it, but all it did was give every [High Mage] the runs.”
Pekona nodded gratefully, then snorted.
“Probably low-grade pills. Making them is very, very costly. Like alchemy—but different. Even if you drank it, it wouldn’t do any good if you didn’t know how to refine the energies.”
“And this is some kind of ability you wish you had?”
She gave Ylawes a narrow-eyed look as if he were mocking her, then shrugged.
“I…prefer mastering the sword. It would make me more useful, though, if I could sit and draw in energy. I would not need to eat and have more wisdom or insights. Probably.”
She grumpily plucked some grass off the ground and tossed it into the fire. Rather to her surprise, everyone was curious about what this strange class was, and after she realized they weren’t mocking her for being excluded from the ranks of these privileged warriors, Pekona opened up about what she knew.
“Even the meanest villager knows something—my grandfather had a jar he aged all his life and sold so I could buy my swords. There are masters in many villages, but it’s expensive to buy enough to break through to the next rank. Which is how it works. You advance and cultivate and…break through.”
“Break through what? Is it like Gold-rankers rising in status?”
“No, Captain Ylawes. In your…head. In your body. All internal. You break barriers internally each time you change.”
Weird. Then again, Ylawes supposed it was no stranger than how [Mages] worried about their mana reserves and whatnot. Falene insisted it wasn’t the same, though.
“It’s all mystic spiritualism in Drath, Ylawes. Magic is a purely intellectual pursuit. The mastery of the mind and memorization and application of concepts.”
Dawil snorted.
“Hah. Tell that to a [Sorcerer] or a [Shaman], Pointy Ears. I reckon it’s interesting. So you just have to sit and focus, Pekona?”
“There’s more to that, Dawil. But yes. You absorb strong energies—in pills or tonics or just the air—and focus. Like this.”
She actually showed them, sitting cross-legged and giving them all a brief lecture of how to focus their minds and meditate. Ylawes gave it a shot, but his stomach gurgling and his grimy armor kept him from doing more than making his mind wander. He was too worried about finding this group Erin had mentioned and if she was well and what would happen to everyone…
After a few minutes of silence and breathing, Larr passed wind loud enough for Dawil to burst out laughing, and everyone gave up. They rolled into bed, pulling blankets over their heads because the damn bats kept trying to land in everyone’s hair or even take bites out of them. And that was that.
 
——
 
Day 40 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Unemployed. Starving.
 
Two things happened on the third day of trekking northwestwards after they left the bat coral-forest with several annoying bat bites and marginally better spirits than before.
The first was that they found the Terlands.
The second was that Rasktooth gained a new class.
