“Captain Nailren? Um, Miss Cuska—are—am I the only one seeing those grey people in your tent? They’re not undead, but I swore I didn’t see them a second ago, and I—”
Nailren had that sensation of his stomach dropping as Nanette spoke. Annoyance becoming horror—he turned slowly, and Cuska whirled. He saw her eyes grow round, and then her paws reach for her bow—
Then she screamed. Nailren saw the two figures staring at him—then vanish. When they did? He glanced at Nanette, and she looked disturbed. Then Nailren realized those weren’t Warsights and he’d been actually seeing visions of—
He felt like screaming too.
 
——
 
Day 38 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Unemployed. Starving.
 
Ylawes Byres woke up and saw the desolate image of the [Merchants] screaming at him as he sat up. His chin rasped with stubble, and each day he woke up…he began to realize how many things he’d taken for granted.
The first thing to go was his body’s condition. It had been slipping from the moment everyone had to reduce rations, even with the adventurers being fed more than the rest, but the privation that had set in near the end of his time with the Consortium of Enterprise had been hard.
It was the days after when they marched away from that doomed camp, and had to live off the tubeworms that Rasktooth and Infinitypear had found, that he truly felt the effects set in, though. Because starvation was one thing—this was decay.
He woke up and had less energy to go around. Normally, Ylawes could roll out of bed and go for a five mile jog before even worrying about breakfast. He was 28 years old and often got told by older adventurers that his [Warrior] class would keep him from slowing down physically even in his thirties and forties.
Normally, Ylawes just…had energy. He could do anything he wanted. If he was tired, he always assumed it was because the task was so strenuous anyone would be exhausted by this point because he was in peak physical shape.
He’d never had to struggle just to march on foot or gotten grumpy after a day of walking, but he realized part of his foul temper wasn’t just due to the stress of being lost in the New Lands without a food source—it was physical.
That…annoyed him more than he wanted to let on, and he caught himself being snappish more than once with his teammates. As ever, it was his team who seemed to be ahead of him in terms of maturity. In this case, a three-year-old.
They were walking along the multi-colored river with purple sediment that wound along the yellow grasses omnipresent to the New Lands, heading northwest towards the place Erin claimed they’d find help. Terlands, apparently.
Ylawes only had his vision to go off of, and because Erin had appeared to him in that strange…place, he knew the team was taking his word on trust. Let alone the other settlers, who were well aware how much food they had left.
Everyone marched along the grass, following the wagons loaded with the gritty, ash-flavored tubeworms. By now, they were a constant companion; every meal was tubeworms. They’d roast them over a fire, then snack on them throughout the day. Water, tubeworms.
When someone caught fish or another animal, everyone would sandwich the bites between the tubeworms for some flavor, any flavor besides the ashy meat taste. But they weren’t starving, so that was something.
March and watch the hills they had been camped near recede—and the huge canyon to the west, a crack in the ground, keep pace with them. Sometimes, they’d pass through weird, disc-shaped meadows filled with flowers and plants that broke up the yellow grasslands, and Ylawes could see patches of discolored terrain eastwards, inviting and fascinating, like the weird pink structures—but they dared not stop to investigate, even though the [Farmers] wanted to check out the plants.
They had a limited supply of food, and they were uncertain of their destination. Each step they dallied might mean the Terlands had moved from their last known spot—and Erin hadn’t checked back in. Nor had they seen Mrsha.
The grass was annoying. It wasn’t that high yet, but was growing with each week, and the effort of shuffling through it in the front left Ylawes annoyed. In his silversteel armor—it was taxing to walk, and he had grumpily refused Larr’s and Dasha’s offers to walk ahead.
It was Rasktooth and Infinitypear’s conversation that stuck out to him. By now, the Cave Goblin was operating as a scout like Insill. His survival knowledge had saved them once, and Ylawes had him in front to spot any food sources—or dangers. Rasktooth, paralyzed from the waist down, rode on Infinitypear’s back in a little harness. He was chatting as he carved up pieces of tubeworm and fed them to Infinitypear.
“Hey, brother, you tired?”
“No, brother. I am very good.”
Infinitypear sounded upbeat, and Ylawes tried not to scowl and get annoyed at their childish banter. Rasktooth stopped carving tubeworm.
“You don’t have to lie, brother. Walking is suck, like eating maggot guts. I know.”
Infinitypear hesitated, and the Worker, who was carrying both his pack and using his Adamantium-tipped spear as a walking stick, glanced at Ylawes. The [Knight] said nothing; his pack felt heavy today, and his shoulders hurt. He brushed at his metal gauntlets irritably; he saw the bright metal was discoloring.
Then it started raining again, and everyone groaned as a squall broke over them. Droplets became a storm, and whatever vision they had was suddenly just dimly-moving shapes amidst raindrops, turning the world into a picture of rain.
“Everyone move closer together! Check to make sure no one’s out of place!”
Ylawes shouted, and the group slowed and bunched up, swearing. They didn’t stop; they knew this shower would stop soon, and another would hit within an hour. Springtime in the New Lands. Infinitypear hunched his shoulders as Rasktooth patiently fished something out of their packs.
An umbrella. He held it over the Worker, shielding them from the rain, but it still made the footing even more treacherous. Infinitypear slipped and nearly went into the river as they moved—Ylawes spun, caught him, and then adjusted their path to keep further from the edge. The riverbanks were already overflowing, and Infinitypear spoke.
“I hate walking. I hate rain. But I am not sad I have to carry you, brother.”
Rasktooth patted him on the head.
“I know. But walking is the suck.”
“Yes. Very suck. Captain Ylawes, is being an adventurer this much walking?”
Ylawes blinked and looked at them. He was about to say that it wasn’t usually this bad or something encouraging when he saw Rasktooth’s knowing stare and Infinitypear’s innocent one. So he replied without the pretense.
“Normally, we ride. Sometimes it’s a slog, but this…is exceptionally unpleasant. I quite dislike it.”
The Goblin and Antinium exchanged a glance, then nodded at each other and high-fived, as if hearing that this was indeed unpleasant made things better. That motivated Ylawes to complain a bit more. He glanced at the horses being ridden in shifts by the others.
“This entire expedition is a disaster. If I’d have known about any of the issues—any—I would have insisted on more mounts. Spare horses, far more mobility, farm animals—”
“Would that not be more mouths to feed, Captain Ylawes? We have eaten many horses already. Which is very sad.”
Infinitypear seemed confused, as did Rasktooth, but Ylawes indicated the horses.
“They’re the only things thriving here, Infinitypear. They eat grass.”
That was the Consortium’s big mistake, he’d realized. They hadn’t wanted to deal with herding at all, but it was the one thing that would have kept them from starving. Ylawes groused as the rain let up again. He stared into the sky and counted.
“One, two, three…”
Four rainbows hung in the air, one a complete circle in the distance. Another stretched across the horizon, but several were just…wonky. One of them was wobbly, like a ribbon, and Ylawes wondered why there were so many.
It was just another thing about the New Lands. Infinitypear and Rasktooth loved the rainbows, but Ylawes was in no mood to appreciate them.
“And the damn rain. I’m running out of oil, and I had to abandon most of my supplies because my bag of holding exploded. My armor’s rusting.”
“What’s rust, Captain Ylawes?”
Infinitypear held up a hand, and Ylawes gave him an incredulous look, then showed him a stain on his gauntlet, creeping around the edges.
“This! The metal’s wearing away. It shouldn’t even be rusting!”
“Why that?”
Rasktooth blinked, and Ylawes’ plaintive note grew louder.
“It’s an alloy! Silver and steel—it tarnishes if it’s made right, but never rusts. I had this made by a [Blacksmith] in House Byres, but look at my plate.”
His cuirass wasn’t rusting, despite multiple showers, but it did have a rather cloudy look to it and had darkened from the pristine silver to a bronze-y look. Tarnishing made it appear grimy. However, his gauntlets and patches on his armor where he’d had them repaired were beginning to rust.
Ordinary steel or improper alloy instead of the real House Byres specialty. If he ever got back home, Ylawes would walk into that smithy and punch—
He controlled his breathing. He’d write a very strongly worded letter to the [Blacksmith]. He couldn’t even be public or he might ruin the man’s reputation—
Even if he sold me the wrong damn alloy?
His dark mood lasted as he had to explain to Infinitypear the dangers of rust, and Rasktooth happily talked about the benefits.
“It good for stabbing though. You stab someone with rusty blade, they die bad. What that you always say, Captain? Every cloud have a silver lining?”
“Too much steel in this one.”
Ylawes scrubbed at his gauntlets again and grumbled. He glanced over his shoulders guiltily, hoping no one had heard him ranting, but when he saw Farmer Petia trudging after him, the woman just gave him a weary, blank-eyed look. He supposed it was hard to feel worse than now. He just felt—
 
——
 
Day 39 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Rusting. Low-energy.
 
Decayed. His armor was tarnishing, his muscles and body were getting soft. They found trees on this particular day. Actual trees, not the cotton tufts. They saw them in the distance, and despite being a day out from the Terlands’ last known location, Ylawes had to investigate. For the possibility of food if nothing else.
Only, when they got closer, the trees looked all wrong. They had holes in them and were multi-colored, with greenish-red tops and grey-brown trunks, but it was all one substance. Not leaves—Dawil enterprisingly cut a piece out with his ruined axeblade and eyed the inside.
“No sap. The hell’s this, Petia?”
“No clue. Let’s see if it burns.”
The [Farmer] started a grassfire as the team spread out amongst the trees, or began to until Ylawes called them back.
“Hold it, everyone stay back. Adventurers only. Falene, stay with Anith, Dawil, Dasha, and Larr. Pekona, you’re with me, Rasktooth, and Infinitypear. We need to scout this out first.”
By rights, he should have marched them back while the adventurers checked it out, but everyone was footsore, and the fire was already going. So Ylawes marched into the trees and quickly found that this might be a strange forest, but it had life.
…Mostly these worm-like things that slithered in and out of the holes in the trunks. Rasktooth spotted the first ones, and Ylawes groaned.
“I’m sick of damn worms. Surely there’s something else here? What lives on the worms? Birds, maybe! Or—”
“Bats, Captain?”
That came from Pekona. She pointed up, and Ylawes saw, in the shadows of the tree canopies, familiar hanging shapes which trembled as he drew close. His groan intensified.
Bats. Not even interesting bats like Dropbats, just…bats. Because of how the trees were made up, they provided excellent shade and cover, and the bats would roost underneath their branches.
Bats and worms. Oh, and mushrooms growing along the bark. Rasktooth scraped a few off, but he was wary of trying them.
“Eh, my skin tingly a bit when I put it on there. Probably not eat, Captain. Worms is okay. But hard to catch. Bats…could be good meat, but need a net. Your face all scrunchy. You not like bats either?”
“Bats aren’t appealing to us Humans, Rasktooth.”
The Cave Goblin gave Ylawes a look as if asking what kind of food the man did like, and he shrugged.
“Is not as big as Dropbats anyways. Less meat.”
Pekona seemed hugely relieved as she turned cautiously in the forest. Ylawes directed his attention to her to avoid watching Rasktooth and Infinitypear catching a few bats to sample them. He ignored the high-pitched squeaking and the crunch.
“Pekona, how are you holding up?”
He hadn’t talked to the other members of the expanded Silver Swords much, despite their time trekking. No one was in a mood to talk, but keeping morale up mattered. Well, keeping morale anywhere above rock bottom was a challenge.
“Good, Captain. I can fight.”
She was concealing her curved blade from him for some reason, hiding it behind her back like a child. Ylawes peered at her.
“Everything alright…?”
She appeared as good as he was and shifted from foot to foot.
“I—yes, Captain.”
The most silent member of Vuliel Drae was, as Ylawes had observed, a mystery even to her teammates. Pekona, the Drathian [Sword Dancer], spoke little, but practiced intensively with her sword, even after a day of marching.
“Well…let me know if you have any issues. My condition isn’t what I want it to be, and you’re a solid anchor in the team.”
“I am?”
That seemed to surprise her, and Ylawes watched as Rasktooth bit the head off of—he turned back around.
“Yes. Of course. You’re the third-best combatant in the team with Falene out of magic. Dawil needs to stay behind if we split up like this, so you’re the one I’ll need to watch my back. Infinitypear and Rasktooth are promising, but they’re still rookies.”
He meant it, too. Insill was a [Rogue] and not good in direct scraps. Anith was a [Mage]; out of mana. That left Larr, who was a [Ranger], Dasha, a [Warrior] who didn’t yet have the levels to be outstanding, or Pekona.
One arm or not, she’d participated in the Trial of Blades, and he’d seen her slice up the Landshark. She might not be as sturdy as Dawil, but he wanted her guarding his back.
The compliment made Pekona flush, and she fidgeted from foot to foot before showing him her blade.
“I’m…not that trustworthy, Captain Ylawes. Look.”
Her blade, a shorter version of the long, curved katana that Erin-Zeladona had used, had rust on it. Just a few specks, but Ylawes saw her guilty expression, and her hand was red and scraped.
“Out of oil?”
