Falene murmured. More skeletons were getting up, collapsing—it was actually sort of sad to see. The undead were trapped in a perpetual loop of reanimation and decay. Even so, what Ylawes observed was…
“So many. Do you know what this was, Lord Comigen?”
“Some kind of battlefield or graveyard. My money’s on the former—we found weapons, long rusted away. Nothing valuable. It’s the ruins we want. There’re several promising entrances scattered around here, and we’ve had Golems digging them out day by day. Exploring them is a rather harrowing idea, though, so your arrival was just in time. What do you think?”
The Silver Swords gazed at each other, and Insill grew excited, though Dawil was stroking his beard.
“We’re not exactly flush with readiness, Lord Comigen. Without our magic gear, it’s a mite trickier…but we are adventurers. Lend us a few Golems and I reckon we could give it a crack, eh, lad?”
It was their job, and Ylawes felt the first stirrings of actual interest and familiarity as he saw the mound of newly-displaced rubble that Lord Comigen pointed out. He nodded hesitantly.
“You understand, Lord Comigen, there’s no telling what could be in there? If we find monsters or traps, we may deem it too dangerous.”
“Of course. Of course. But Lord Restraud was determined to establish some…crumb of value from this expedition. If we could at least establish that…”
Comigen’s hands opened and closed with real emotion, and Ylawes believed he had actually respected the man who had offered to hire the Silver Swords, sight unseen. However, Ylawes had an image of the other [Merchants] shouting at him that they had lost too much to turn back.
He nodded judiciously.
“We can only see what lies in there. Though I warn you, most dungeons are devoid of actual treasure.”
“Well, if you give me a look inside, I can order our departure posthaste, Captain Byres. I was thinking of exploring it tomorrow morning. To let you regain some strength. Is that appropriate, or does your team need more time?”
Ylawes turned to the other adventurers, and they ranged from apprehensive like Dawil and Anith, to excited like Insill, Dasha, and Poke Duo. Pekona shrugged; she was polishing her now-rustless sword with the oil that the Terlands had given her.
“We’ll do it, Lord Comigen. Early morning. Send some Golems and perhaps some observers to coordinate them—but I’ll want preparations.”
His mind, denuded of food for so long, began to churn over as Falene and Dawil drew closer. It was time, once more, for an adventure.
Ylawes had a thought though. The Silver Swords hadn’t done that well in Liscor’s dungeon. They weren’t actually dungeon-experts. As for Vuliel Drae and dungeons…he turned to Infinitypear and Rasktooth.
“Er. Let me consult with my experts as well.”
 
——
 
Preparations for the Gorgeland Ruins expedition were simple. They took horses, ready to ride at a moment’s notice. Four Golems, each one made of stone—they left the two with weapons behind at the Terlands’ insistence and because they’d be no good in close-quarters anyways.
Rasktooth had opinions about dungeon-diving. Mostly about not going in first and letting a Golem or Insill walk into the traps he was convinced were there.
The original Silver Swords were veterans of many ‘dungeons’ not as bad as Liscor’s own and were of the opinion that trapped rooms weren’t that common. They were mostly concerned with monsters, and to that end, Ylawes had Miner Homle and Farmer Petia construct some ramshackle barricades to seal off entrances.
“Anything else we can do for you, Captain Ylawes?”
The settlers looked relieved to be fed, but nervous at having no role to play. Ylawes almost shook his head, then changed his tune.
“If we do find anything to haul or excavate, Master Homle, we’ll call on you. I imagine cave-ins have collapsed that structure. Once we ascertain how many monsters are in there, we’ll send for you.”
Lady Safta interjected.
“In the meantime, you can help us perform duties around camp, like disassembling the Golems. We’re low on hands since all our serving Golems were sent away.”
From [Farmers] to servants didn’t exactly please the others, but they were willing enough to help with full bellies, and Ylawes’ last job was a gear check.
“Falene, how many spells can we count on you for?”
“One Tier 3 spell and a few Tier 2s. Maybe a Tier 4. Anith can pull a few Tier 2 spells. Beyond that, it’s up to you, Ylawes.”
“Who’s got an enchanted…anything? I have the Gravesword from Liscor’s Dungeon. Infinitypear has his magical spear. And…”
Dawil hefted the bag which held the broken throwing axe that could cut through anything, even in pieces.
“I’ve got my axe fragments, and that’s it, lad. We’re down to Skills. Armor’s out of enchantments.”
“Wonderful. Then I want myself in front with you and Pekona—Infinitypear and Rasktooth in the center. We’ll move Golems forward and—go for it.”
He had no better plan than this, and he realized he was concerning some of the listeners like Lady Leerne. She struck him as someone more worldly than the Terlands and might have actually met other adventuring teams. But that was the Silver Swords for you. They weren’t as tactical as Griffon Hunt or…they weren’t tactical.
 
——
 
The entrance to these ruins didn’t look like Liscor’s Dungeon. Ylawes had seen the massive double doors and the way they loomed out of the hill, or the crack in the dungeon from the Floodplains. Both were rather grandiose in their way, ominous.
The entrance to the Gorgeland ruins was…a staircase. A bit of broken stone covered in moss sat around it, but the stairs were narrow, cramped—and that was it.
“Strange. So you just found this, Master Martz?”
The [Golemancer] was present to coordinate the Golems, and he shrugged in that helpless way of a man presented with a question outside his field of knowledge.
“Yes, Captain. There’re stone blocks all over. Well, in a big circle from here…to here.”
He paced across the ground, and dirt covered a lot of it, but Ylawes saw a big circle around where the staircase was. He turned to Dawil.
“Thoughts?”
“Lad, I may have lived in Dwarfhome, but I’m not an expert on stone any more than I’m a smith. I can’t tap my hammer and tell you this is fifty fathoms deep or whatever. Looks like this is a big chunk of masonry. At the bottom of the sea floor or wherever it came from. I can tell you who owned it, though.”
“Who?”
“Drakes. You see them skeletons? All Drake. Either that or Lizardfolk’re bulkier than I think. Makes sense given where we are.”
Ylawes had seen the tails on each skeleton, and while he didn’t exactly make a habit of wondering what each species looked like without their flesh, Drakes fit. He whistled.
“A Drake building. Perhaps…hmm…”
He stared at one place where the circular ruin of stones ended as one of the Golems tried to descend the staircase. It was going to be a pretty tight fit, but they could still swing their arms inside. Ylawes saw a few blocks of stone and walked around them. Then his eyes strayed towards another stone around the circle.
“Thoughts, Captain?”
Anith clearly had an idea of what this might be, and Ylawes murmured.
“I think we’re standing on…if you think about it, who’s to say how high each piece of the New Lands rose? It could be, Master Martz, that we’re standing on a—a tower. If these are the battlements…”
Didn’t it make sense? At his words, Martz had the Golems dig around the edge of the blocks of stone that would have made decent cover. They unearthed more walls of stone going down, and Ylawes wondered how tall this tower was. Falene murmured at him.
“Could be hundreds of feet high. But if it’s a traditional keep, it’ll only be a few dozen. City watchpost? We could be standing on the ruins of one, like in Liscor.”
“Or just a watchtower. A lighthouse like Pheislant has. If there was a battle here, it might have been a keep. Okay, let’s go in order. Two at a time, two Golems in front, two behind. Master Martz, stay with Falene and do everything she says.”
They entered the ruins, and Ylawes found the steps took them into solid blackness. Martz gulped the moment he saw the pitch blackness, but Rasktooth’s eyes glowed as the Cave Goblin smiled, and Infinitypear hummed. In their element.
“[Light].”
Anith cast the spell, and the flare of light blinded Poke Duo. Rasktooth swore at the Jackal, who shrugged apologetically. Ylawes saw the two Stone Golems stomping forwards.
“Keep them close to us, Master Martz. Are you sure we couldn’t have gotten the Steel Golem?”
That thing would have made him feel a lot better, even if he wasn’t going to sneeze at four Golems of stone, but Martz sighed.
“It’s Lord Restraud’s personal Golem. It won’t harm members of House Terland, but it refuses to follow orders.”
“A shame. Well…let’s go.”
 
——
 
It was rather like old castles that Ylawes had toured as a child, but far vaster, far more run down, and far darker. The lack of sunlight meant that each room was pitch-black until the twin [Light] spells that Falene and Anith had conjured cast shadows around the place.
Spooky, in short—and the amount of debris on the ground didn’t help either. Ylawes kicked aside all kinds of objects, from dried seaweed or plant matter to fish bones to…well, whatever the occupants inside had owned.
The first time the hallway showed him a door, he saw the actual remains of a doorframe, but the wood was so old it crumbled away as he brushed a hand against it. Inside, the room was a swirled mess, and he kicked through a sea of debris.
“Everyone search for clues. Objects. Falene, Anith, if you see magic, call it out. Otherwise, Insill checks each place first, then Golems stomp in, then you touch stuff. Got it?”
“Got it, boss. Hey, I found someth—”
Dasha reached down, and her first find was a giant…hermit crab. The scuttling creature with its hard shell tried to jab her in the beard, and she screamed, tossed it at a wall, and nearly murdered Sir Martz with a heart attack.
“Dasha. Please.”
Anith shot Ylawes an embarrassed look, and the [Knight] kept his voice cool.
“Insects and scavengers are a common occurrence in dungeons, Master Martz. Watch your step, everyone.”
 
——
 
The benefit to having Insill, Rasktooth, and Infinitypear in the team was that they weren’t shy about touching anything, even trash. Nor did bugs really phase them. Insill chattered as he sorted through trash.
“Reminds me of digging through garbage back home. Or doing dead drops when I worked in a gang. Lots of times you dig up graves, but every now and then you dig up a corpse. Or you have to jump in an outhouse. No one wants to look there.”
What they found was a lot of metal and a lot of very, very old wood fragments. Ylawes eyed the pieces of metal, and here his expertise as a [Knight] and member of House Byres came in.
“Spear. Spear. Spear. Probably a halberd. These are definitely arrowheads. This is probably a guardroom, assuming our theory about the tower checks out.”
“All these damn spears. This is definitely a Drake fort.”
Larr flicked a spear-tip at a wall, and it made a surprisingly high-pitched ringing sound. Ylawes scrubbed at the spear-tip, but it was covered in barnacles and junk—and, he suspected, animal feces. The wood had long-since rotted away, and he wondered if there were any good metal to salvage in this collection.
Pekona was studying another lump of long metal that could have been a sword—again broken to pieces. Probably just the sword blade itself if the guard and hilt had been made of a weaker material.
She scraped at it with a pocket knife as Ylawes turned. Dawil had gone ahead with the Golems, and Ylawes followed after. They were leapfrogging from room to room, and at first, it was just spooky. Silent.
“Lots of trash. Dead gods, we’re wading through it in places.”
Sir Martz had the least gear on, not even boots, and he looked like he was sick of getting it in his shoes. Ylawes shrugged.
“Decades, perhaps even millennia of accumulation, Sir Martz. We’re lucky we don’t have to dig through it.”
He spoke too soon, of course. Some rooms had windows that had admitted dirt enough to close them off. This first floor had two rooms the Stone Golems had to excavate, but all the Silver Swords found in them was debris too badly damaged to be called anything.
—Except for one moment when Anith noticed a gleam on the ground and came up with a piece of metal. He showed it to Ylawes, and the man saw it was half of some kind of emblem.
“A badge, Captain Ylawes? What metal is this?”
“Looks like…bronze?”
Ylawes squinted at the ruined metal and turned to Dawil, then realized the Dwarf would just shout at him about being as bad as Erin. But he saw the definite edge of embossed metal there.
When he and Anith cleaned it off with some water and their fingers, they saw a rather complex symbol that Ylawes had never seen before.
“It looks like…an arm?”
“Can’t be if it’s Drake. No claws.”
“No, those are definitely fingers. See? It’s reaching down and holding something here. But it’s sheared through—ow! It’s sharp!”
Anith cut one paw on the metal’s edge, which surprised Ylawes greatly. He yanked his hand back, and Ylawes frowned.
“Keep it. This is valuable and might be a clue to where we are. Hey, Dawil! Found something! Anything here?”
“Fifty more hermit crabs! Bah! And the stairs! Let’s link up!”
On the way out of their room, Ylawes saw Pekona drifting after them. The [Sword Dancer] was mostly on guard-duty because one arm meant she couldn’t rummage and be ready with her weapon, but she had that piece of metal she’d found, and it was indeed a blade.
“Captain, look.”
It was a bronze-y blade that, while dull, had a faint gleam in Anith’s [Light] spell. Ylawes frowned at it.
“Bronze? Some alloy? If we were closer to a village and had a bag of holding, I might scoop it up for the local [Smith] to recycle.”
“Maybe, Captain. But it’s in very good condition for sitting here so long that it has moss.”
Pekona held the blade up, and Ylawes smiled at her, then heard Dawil shouting.
“Well, swords up. Looks like Dawil found the stairs.”
Dawil had indeed found the stairs, and what was more—Ylawes’ skin prickled the moment he saw the stairwell, or rather, didn’t see the stairwell. Because there was a door.
And the door was not only intact, but enchanted.
 
——
 
“Solid, lad. Look at this. Metal, even if it looks like shit. Definitely underwater—see them barnacles?”
