His chest hurt, but it wasn’t that deep a cut, truly. A sip now might mean they were missing it when it mattered…Anith put a hand on Ylawes’ shoulder.
“If that’s the case, we need to clean the wound and sew it up.”
Ylawes blanched.
“Won’t it just heal…?”
“He’s right, lad. I remember the inn talking about that. Or maybe we bandage it up. Who knows which it is?”
No one was certain enough, and Ylawes opined he just needed bandages; the idea of sewing his flesh closed was more nerve-wracking than fighting the skeletons again. He realized he was shaken. For all they were Gold-rankers, running into those high-powered Golems had been a close call.
Dawil was as shaken as Ylawes, and he glanced down at the artifacts they’d brought out. There were only nine of them, as much as Falene thought was safe, and Lord Comigen stared at them.
“Well, this is a haul worthy of Lord Restraud’s legacy. The implications alone will have Lady Ulva see the value of his—our efforts. Yes, indeed. And if we find out any of these artifacts have powerful enchantments…well done, Captain Ylawes! Well done indeed! We’ll, ah, we’ll have to do a preliminary appraisal of them, but not in Goisedall. It might take until Invrisil until we find a trustworthy [Enchanter], but we shall handsomely reward you for the value of each artifact!”
Ylawes was feeling a bit lightheaded as they rode back, but he didn’t miss that.
“Excuse me, Lord Comigen? I thought we’d split the artifacts. Half and half.”
“Split? Captain, these are treasures from who knows how long. From a keep with Golems in it. Were you—what would you do with them?”
“Use them. Assuming they hold a charge at all in these lands.”
Ylawes was suddenly reminded that in the open air, they’d run out of magic quickly. Comigen was appalled.
“Use—I suppose you are adventurers, but I insist we pay you for them! A handsome amount, full market value! But House Terland must inspect them all, Captain! Golems speak! They’ll run out of magic unless we get them back to Goisedall! Martz, make sure they’re all charged up. I want the camp packed up and us on the move by evening. If Captain Ylawes is too unfit to ride, a wagon or…”
Ylawes felt that sinking feeling in his stomach again. He opened his mouth to object to Lord Comigen, but the man was in a frenzy, and Ylawes could see why. Giving up half the artifacts from this disastrous expedition wouldn’t impress Lady Ulva Terland much—but they hadn’t gotten the damn things!
True, the Silver Swords had just appeared when it was time to check the ruins, but no one here but Martz had risked their lives! Then again…they’d sacrificed four Stone Golems to explore down there, and Ylawes wondered how that would add up if they were claiming costs.
Nor did he like the idea of getting paid ‘market price’ for the artifacts. It always sounded good, but somehow, magically, ‘full market price’ was always only a few thousand gold or tens of thousands of gold instead of the value artifacts were normally worth.
Magical artifacts that powerful might give us a boost. But in the New Lands, we can’t use them. He gritted his teeth, about to argue with the [Lord] about fair treatment regarding the artifacts, before he had a thought.
It was only nine artifacts from a literal keep of treasures. Also, they had no way of keeping them active. Ylawes exhaled and spoke.
“Very well, Lord Comigen. I can agree to that.”
“Ylawes—”
“Lord Comigen, a word—”
Falen and Dawil both reacted with outrage as the [Lord] turned, half-gratified by Ylawes’ statement.
“I might ask for that in writing, Captain, but that’s very good of you. I’ll get you a bonus for your graciousness, upon my word, and if we can get any healing for him, Martz…”
“Lad, are you crazy? I don’t care if they’re House Terland, those are the artifacts we need after losing—”
Dawil’s voice was furious, and Falene was vibrating with uncharacteristic wroth. But Ylawes just put a hand on the Dwarf’s arm and squeezed. The Dwarf hesitated, and Ylawes called out.
“If I might, Lord Comigen? We found some old weapons in the keep as well. Could we be allocated them in case we can use them? And anything else we found, like that crest.”
“Old…oh, those? Yes, fine. They weren’t magical, were they, Martz? Absolutely, Captain! We might need a copy of that seal, but splendid, yes!”
Comigen agreed breezily, and Ylawes saw Falene’s brows knit. Pekona’s head rose, and he gave her a sidelong look. She stepped back towards the keep, tugging on Insill and Dasha’s arms, and Ylawes sat there.
His stomach…didn’t hurt. His chest really did. But all the shame and guilt he thought he’d feel was gone. It was like the Consortium all over again.
I’m a terrible person. Here he was, lying to Lord Comigen…by omission, really. And all Ylawes could wonder was how much a bunch of mithril weapons might be worth versus magical artifacts. Especially in the New Lands.
They were riding back as Dasha, Insill, and Pekona loaded their horses up with the dirty weapons and gave Ylawes a thumbs up, and Falene and Dawil were sitting very calmly and discussing how dangerous those damn Golems were when Ylawes saw Master Homle sit up and grunt.
“Hey. There’s a group at the base. We don’t have that many horses, do we?”
Ylawes looked up, and his stomach did a backflip then. Lord Comigen went pale and whirled in his saddle. Ylawes exhaled hard. He would have slowed down, but they’d been spotted already, and the group of thirty was coming their way.
“Everyone, off your horses. Get to cover. Hide those artifacts—now.”
The Terlands’ problem had arrived at the worst moment. The plus side was—they recognized him. The downside was he recognized them.
 
——
 
They wore masks and helmets, but he could see hints of hair and features underneath their caps. Not enough to make anyone out, but they were Human, all of them with bows, and mounted. He heard one of them swearing loudly as he waited.
“Fuck my ma blindfolded—that’s the Silver Swords.”
“You sure?”
“I’d know him anywhere. That’s Ylawes. Gold-rankers. Let me do the talking—hey! Hey, Captain Ylawes!”
Something was familiar about his voice. Ylawes tried to cover his armor with one arm, but he knew they saw the damage to his plate mail instantly, and he counted.
Twenty, closer to thirty, against his team in the open. The Silver Swords had no real cover; they were using the horses, and only Larr, Insill, and Rasktooth had ranged weapons.
This was bad. However, the fact that they recognized him made him squint.
“Have we met?”
“Suuure. We met at Albez. We were one of the teams that, uh—y’know, ran off. Not saying which. Fancy meeting you here.”
One of the Silver-rank teams? Ylawes remembered Deniusth chasing after them and Erin’s involvement in their escape. Of course they’d come here—but he’d never have expected to run into them!
“You made it all this way?”
“Sure. No thanks to that damn [Violinist] and his team. I heard he sliced his way through a lot of teams. Bastard. We, uh—we’ve been exploring this place. Some ‘New Lands’, huh? You lot realize the ground’s shit and the magic’s dead?”
Ylawes was sizing up the adventurers behind their leader. They were whispering, pointing at his armor, but he had a feeling they were Silver-ranks. He didn’t get the menace of a Gold-ranking team, and they had been the ones who stole most of the loot.
“Our expedition wasn’t the best. We hired onto House Terland. Lord Comigen told us they’d been shaken down by some [Bandits].”
The leader had a bald head and a bad sunburn around his metal-plated helmet. He gave a forced laugh.
“Bandits? We’re not [Bandits]. We’ve been trading with House Terland. Selling them what we found. Hides, plants and bugs for food. It’s, uh, hard to come by. Real hard. So there’s no hard feelings, eh?”
“Lord Restraud would beg to differ, Captain.”
Comigen’s voice was icy from behind Falene, but he was eyeing Ylawes nervously. He could count, and he wasn’t an idiot. The Captain of the Silver Swords nodded.
“He’s dead.”
“Oh. Shit.”
Some of the swagger drained out of the group of adventurers, and they regarded each other, swallowing hard. The leader muttered a curse.
“That was an accident. We shot a few arrows—listen, Captain Ylawes, we’re just searching for some food to get us through the week. The Terlands have loads. They were all set to hire us until Lord Terland said he had someone better in mind.”
“Until you failed to pass a [Detect Truth] test!”
Comigen snapped. The leader of the adventurers ignored the comment. He was staring at Ylawes, sizing him up and down.
“You got into a fight with those weird undead up there? How about we come to a deal, Captain Ylawes?”
Ylawes wasn’t sure what to say. The adventurers wanted food, but the Terlands didn’t have an unlimited supply, and with nigh on eighty more mouths to feed…
But they were pinned here. Even if the Golems came out, it wasn’t a fight Ylawes wanted to risk. His voice was taut.
“How much food?”
“Enough for…two weeks? We saw you got a lot of people, and looked like you were pulling up the stakes. So—if you’re heading out—”
Two weeks’ of food for thirty people? Ylawes glanced over his shoulder, and Lord Comigen bit his lip. He was clearly wondering if they could support that. But Ylawes—he folded his arms.
“House Terland’s running low on food, Captain. I can’t turn it over when I’ve been hired to defend them.”
The leader of the adventurers was whispering with someone wearing a pointy hat and less armor who had come up to him. He glanced up sharply, then rode forwards a bit.
“C’mon, Captain Byres. Don’t fucking do this. There’s three of us to every one of you. Just, uh—just be reasonable. And also, what the hell did you find that’s got magic in it?”
Ylawes’ blood was icy, but his heart was thundering in his veins. Wonderful. He looked over his shoulder again and saw Lord Comigen’s face grow pale.
“Nothing that concerns you. I’m warning you, sir…”
He couldn’t ask them to fight. Not Infinitypear and Rasktooth. He expected to see the Antinium to be nervous again, but to his surprise, the Worker was raising a sling as Rasktooth loaded his crossbows. They seemed steady. People must not scare either one as much as undead.
The adventurers saw the duo, and their leader visibly recoiled.
“Is that a—a Goblin? What the hell? Has that damn [Innkeeper] made you as crazy as she is, Ylawes?”
Erin. Ylawes’ mind flickered to her, and then he looked at Martz and Falene, who was out of mana again. Maybe she had some saved up from the dungeon, but no one had mana for advanced spells. Martz could barely muster a [Detect Truth] spell…
Erin. Captain Ylawes Byres, whom everyone in Invrisil knew, Captain of the Silver Swords, that stupid band of Gold-rankers who did work for free. He knew his reputation even if he didn’t acknowledge the sneers. Ylawes had a thought.
“Have you been caught in the rainstorms, Captain?”
“Who, us? Yeah, the damn rain hits us all the time. Same as you. Why?”
The question caught the adventurer off-guard, and Ylawes nodded. He showed the man his gauntlet.
“Half our blades are rusted over. We’re almost out of healing potions, and I bet you are too. Rust in the blood means you’re paralyzed without a [Healer]. Ever heard of adventurers who get cut up by Metalbite slimes in the wild?”
Some of the adventurers on the other side saw where he was going with this. They shifted and muttered, but the Captain just narrowed his eyes as he adjusted his cap.
“Dying of that’s better than starving.”
“True. Poison’s worse. Rasktooth? You have my permission to poison your crossbow bolts. No quarter. I don’t want to do this, Captain, but I’ve sworn an oath. By silver and steel, you won’t steal from my employers.”
Captain Ylawes was trembling, and the adventurers blanched as Rasktooth sat up, then reached for a vial of something and poured it over his crossbow bolts.
“Fucking Crelers, Byres. Are you mad? Is this worth dying over?”
“I gave my word. Don’t make me do this, Captain. I don’t want to have to throw an acid jar at you, but I will.”
Ylawes put a hand on his belt, and then there was silence. He didn’t know if they’d heard about Erin’s unique adventuring tools, but ‘acid jar’ said it all. Out of the corner of his eye, Ylawes saw Falene tossing something up and down, and the adventurers blanched. Their leader was staring at Ylawes, and the [Knight] could just see the wheels turning.
If they had [Detect Truth] spells or even a truth stone, this wouldn’t work, but no one had the mana to waste on that. Anyways, someone else might lie. But he was Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords. An honest man.
Dead gods. He really was going as crazy as Yvlon. The [Knight] met the Captain’s gaze, and he almost felt the urge to laugh. Insanity. His hand tightened on his sword, and he half-drew it.
If they start shooting, we have to be in the middle of them, and I’m wearing the most armor. Draw their fire and just—hope my armor holds.
“Silver Swords—”
His voice felt like thunder in his lungs, and he swore he heard that roaring sound from his dreams again. The adventurer recoiled a few steps, and then he shouted.
“Alright, alright! Stop! This isn’t worth dying over. You damn madman. Let’s ride!”
He kicked his horse around and whirled. Ylawes blinked as the entire adventuring team spun and took off, taking backwards looks at him or cursing as they fled. He stood there, amazed that had worked, until he heard cheering from the Terlands’ camp. Farmer Petia, the Terlands, were all cheering as they watched the adventurers go, and the Silver Swords flocked around Ylawes.
“Lad—lad—I never thought the day would come when we could play cards together, but that was the coldest bluff I’ve ever seen. And Pointy, did you color that water? I know that was ink—”
Dawil was scrubbing at his hair as Ylawes sat down hard, and the [Knight] saw Lord Comigen approaching with an expression of amazement on his face.
“My word, Captain, you are—well, the stories don’t do the Silver Swords justice! I should have known the team who took on Arcsinger’s Bows wouldn’t hesitate to fight even three times their number! Dead gods!”
“Purely artifice, Lord Comigen. I’m relieved it didn’t come to blows.”
The [Lord] just stood there, and Ylawes exhaled. Then he eyed the mithril weapons that were stashed on Pekona’s horse. She was giving him a wide-eyed stare, and he nodded at her.
