Dawil tapped a knuckle on the door encrusted with dead barnacles and more dirt plastered on. Ylawes stopped him as the Dwarf dug a knife into the debris, trying to unearth the door.
“Whoa, Dawil. Remember the Horns’ run-in. What if it’s trapped?”
“Don’t worry, Captain! I checked it, and besides, if there was a spell, it’d have triggered from all this stuff! If it’s active, it’ll only go off once we uncover it!”
That…stopped Dawil and Ylawes from prying more crud off, and they backed up and called for Sir Martz. He was only too happy to have a Golem scrape at the door with one crude hand. As they worked, Falene studied the door.
“It’s magical, Ylawes. Fairly magical. I…I can’t tell how sturdy it is, but look at that!”
One of the Golems scraped something off, and everyone gasped. There was a door there, metallic, but to the sides, Ylawes saw a faint piece of smeared…air? A stairwell beyond, filled with stones that were amazingly pristine, and then he realized what he was seeing.
“Glass.”
The rounded corridor that met the stairway going down the tower had a solid door in the center and enchanted glass to the left and right, locking the door in place. Dawil muttered.
“Now that’s either the most impractical damn door I’ve ever seen—or that glass is harder than Pointy’s head. Hey, Sir Martz, why don’t you have one of your Golems try to punch through that?”
“While we stand around the corner.”
Falene hurried everyone back, and Sir Martz gave the order. Ylawes, peeking, saw the Golem pull back a fist, then punch the door as hard as it could.
The sound it made was a dull whumph, and when Ylawes glanced again, he saw pieces of the encrusting debris falling downwards. A flash of magic—
“Back, back!”
Everyone dove back, and Ylawes listened for a sound—anything—then heard another thud. He chanced a look again and saw the glow of magic…
Words?
The door was framed by glass blocks set like bricks around the clearly metal doorframe. But what caught the eye were glowing words that were scrawled over the entrance. Parts of it were chipped away, but the rest said…
…Ylawes had no idea what it said. It wasn’t in the common script. He squinted at the door and turned.
“That’s Drakeish. Insill?”
The [Rogue] squinted at the words, and his voice grew confused.
“It’s not Drakeish like they use back home, Captain. The words look sort of familiar, but it’s all messy. What’s it say? Anyone?”
No one had a clue, and Falene, who could at least read Drakeish script passably well, just scratched her head.
“There’s a spell that translates this kind of thing. I might have a copy of it in my spellbook—if my spellbook were still working.”
She groaned, but Anith’s ears had perked up when he saw the writing. He approached the Golem still punching the door energetically—to no effect—and read over its shoulder.
“Captain Ylawes, I might be able to translate a bit of it. I’m not an expert like Miss Falene or a native speaker like Insill, but I did study this when I was reading books on adventuring. Would you give me a few minutes? And some space. I need a quill, ink…Insill, would you help me?”
Ylawes nodded, and Martz commanded the Golem to stop punching the door as Falene approached to try and see what kind of enchantment was on it. More of the same bronze metal—there was no handle, and Ylawes suspected breaking into the door by force was out of the question.
 
——
 
Anith had a translation of the text after ten minutes, and Ylawes had an idea for how to open the door at roughly the same time. Infinitypear and Rasktooth were energetically stabbing the stones around the edges of the door frame as Anith came back.
“Captain Ylawes, most languages based off of ours have to conform to our alphabets. Drathian is an exception, as are a few others, but there’s a kind of calculation you can do with each word to decode them.”
Ylawes peered at the letters on the wall.
“…I don’t follow.”
“Consider any word, Captain Ylawes. Say…‘Anith’. Each letter wouldn’t tell you much, but one of the most common letters in our language is ‘a’. You can guess that vowels, like ‘a’, ‘i’, ‘e’, and so on, will be repeated. Then, assign letters to their corresponding ones, and if they match up, you likely have the cipher!”
Ylawes stared blankly at Anith. He still didn’t get it. Anith sighed and showed him his work.
“I think it says—and this is with Insill recognizing some of the letters—well…”
The message scrawled over the door read, in glowing white letters:
 
By order of General Straheld:
They’re willing to die down there, so let them sink. Seal the exits. We hope it’s dark down there with our dead brothers and sisters.
 
“…Well, that’s dark.”
Larr read over Ylawes’ shoulder, and the [Knight] agreed. He turned to Anith.
“Why would someone write that on the door?”
Dawil was chipping at the brickwork with his axe as well, being very careful.
“To warn stragglers? Sounds like a hell of a fight might have happened up above. A bunch of dead Drakes. Can’t say if they were defenders or attackers. ‘Straheld’…doesn’t sound Drakeish. Either way, some poor bastards hole up in here, and whomever’s here decides to shut the doors. Bad way to die.”
“Down there…sinking. Strange. This must have been at sea. Maybe they sank this place?”
If you hit the base, that was probably possible. Ylawes shuddered as he imagined sinking in a tower with oxygen running low. Then he turned back to the door. The [Golemancer] was doing a nervous dance as he stood there behind two of his Golems.
“This is all very fascinating and slightly terrifying, Captain Ylawes. Is, ah, is this a good time to report back to Lord Comigen?”
“Hm? Oh, no, we’ve not found anything yet, Master Martz. Neither threats nor any treasure. If we can get this door open, we’ll see what we can find, but this is fine.”
Ylawes smiled at the man and didn’t get the panicked expression Martz shot around—a civilian amongst adventurers. He protested.
“But the, um, door is highly magical. I’m no expert, but I doubt even Magus Falene could easily deconstruct it.”
“True! So we’re going to dig around it.”
“Around…?”
Adventurers and doors. Part of good adventuring was never giving in to a door, even if one didn’t have locks. Which Insill was pretty sad about because he was a [Rogue]. However, Insill liked Ylawes’ plan, which was a classic.
“If the door’s spelled, do the doorframe! I bet these rocks were enchanted, but the New Lands absorbed the magic.”
“Actually…they’re still enchanted.”
Dawil grunted as Infinitypear stabbed again and dug up a tiny bit of stone. Insill did a double-take.
“What?”
Dawil had his axe blade in his fingers and was sawing ever-so-gently at the mortar around the bricks, but he backed up enough to show them what he meant.
“My broken axe cuts anything non-magic in the world. Even a lot of magic. No, Pekona, you can’t touch it. Several people have lost fingers to it…here, look at this.”
He pressed the tip of the blade into the stone a few dozen feet up the corridor, and it sank in like butter. Dawil had to actually break the rock apart to retrieve the bit of metal. Martz goggled at the sharpness of the blade like everyone who saw it for the first time. Then Dawil stumped over to the door.
“Now look at this.”
His blade didn’t so much sink in as dislodge a tiny bit of mortar. Dawil chipped delicately at it again, and Ylawes saw Infinitypear’s spear doing good work too.
“Enchantments are weakening, but we must be far enough down or the keep’s stone is shielding it from losing all the magic. Maybe the door’s doing it, but on the bright side, we’ve got blades sharp enough to cleave through whatever enchantment this is. So with a bit of work…aha!”
Dawil stepped back, and the block of stone they’d been working on shifted ever-so-slightly as he tried to lever it up. Insill began to help, but broke a claw trying to wedge it in the crack.
“We need something sticky to get this stone up. Lad, your sword’s magic. Use it as a lever.”
“I’ll snap it!”
Ylawes gave it a try anyways, but he couldn’t lift the stone with the tip of his sword. Exasperated, Falene cut in.
“Oh—Beardy, let me.”
“Beardy? What kind of a name is that, Pointy?”
She ignored him and stuck her hand down. Falene spoke.
“[Sticky Grip]! It’s not much mana. Aha—eep!”
She pulled, got the stone up a tiny bit, and then realized she had absolutely no physical strength to pull the huge block up. Ylawes and Dawil glanced at each other and snorted. Then they grabbed her hand.
“Wait! Wait, I’ll recast the—my hand! Ow, ow, ow—”
Falene’s hand came up—and the block of stone—and she released the magic and massaged her wrist. The chunk of masonry was still so hard that when Dasha gave it a few whacks with her axe, it chipped her steel edge.
“Aw! It’s still enchanted!”
Dawil nodded.
“Mortar’s gone before the stone. But you know what that means.”
All they had to do was chip out a few more blocks and they had a clear bypass of the door. Ylawes grinned and then got to work flaking away at the stones.
Between his sword and Infinitypear’s spear, they managed to get five more blocks out before actually breaching the other side. The first thing that hit Ylawes’ nose made him recoil.
“Eugh! Stale as a [Librarian]’s farts!”
Insill coughed as the sheer torrent of air assailed them. Ylawes eyed the opening in the stones, then nodded.
“Let’s make an opening large enough to get a Golem through. Or if we’re lucky, we can pull the damn wall down. Come on.”
 
——
 
It took probably two whole hours of trading off in shifts to pull enough stones to let Insill slip through the wall, and he was thinnest of all of them. Everyone participated, including Sir Martz, and Ylawes actually sent Larr and Dasha back to get some of Homle’s [Miners], who were only too happy to help with this interesting project.
“Nice stone. I think it’s some kinda limestone. Beautiful cuts, even with corrosion. What d’you reckon’s down there?”
“With any luck, a lot of dead bodies and all the loot they had. See how there’s no water damage or debris? That says ‘preserved treasure’ to me, and I like it.”
Lord Comigen had come himself to see what all the fuss was about, and he appeared happier than Ylawes had seen him, inspecting the broken crest and the words.
“How fascinating. We could look this up once we get back to civilization! Are you going to enter the ruins right after this, Captain Ylawes?”
“Absolutely. We’re rested, and Falene’s only used two low-Tier spells. Although…I’m going to have all the [Miners] move back to the entrance, and you yourself, Lord Comigen.”
Ylawes was beginning to feel like an adventurer again. He sat, watching as Homle stabbed with Ylawes’ sword, adjusting his armor and wishing they had more than three working healing potions. Three was better than none, but dead gods, he’d have had eighteen amongst the team and thought that was ‘normal’ last year. He had to remember they couldn’t take big risks…Comigen frowned.
“I’m actually rather keen on exploring this myself, Captain Ylawes. First into a dungeon? It would be something to honor Lord Restraud with. Besides, from the sounds of it, you haven’t run into anything worse than a few crabs, and all the defenders are dead.”
“Yes.”
Ylawes’ casual tone made Dawil glance up and Falene break off meditating. Rasktooth was copying her, much to Pekona’s annoyance, and the [Sword Dancer] had vanished. The [Knight] glanced at the door.
“I have a theory, but I’d like you to ratify it, Falene, Anith. This door and tower are clearly magical. Which means the mana-drain effect doesn’t reach down this far.”
“Oh! I see! If the Golems and Terlands moved down here, they could mitigate the mana loss! This might be a perfect base to operate from! Captain Ylawes, you’re a genius!”
Anith leapt to his feet, eyes shining, and Ylawes opened his mouth.
“…I didn’t consider that.”
Comigen and Martz seemed astounded at the idea and grew even more excited, but Falene’s eyes had focused. Ylawes nodded to her.
“If magic is still active down there…this is a fort or some kind of stronghold, and there was a battle above. Which makes me think that there are going to be undead and active traps down there. The real adventure is going to begin the moment we head down. So, Lord Comigen, I will respectfully ask you to stand back.”
The [Lord] glanced nervously at the entrance to the big stairwell, and Martz swallowed hard. Suddenly, the stairs descending in a spiral pattern down, down into the tower made Ylawes wonder how big this place was. And how many people had been down there when they died. Attackers?
Our brothers and sisters…
How nasty did undead that had been trapped down in a place like this get? He remembered the image of the Village of the Dead raid, and Larr swore as he began to restring his bow.
“If we run into more regenerating undead…”
Dasha swallowed hard, and Dawil put a hand on her shoulder.
“Just stay behind us and don’t touch anything, got it, rookie? We can handle a few monsters, and we’ve got Golems.”
“Of course.”
Dasha looked reassured by this, then grew concerned as she stared around.
“Where’s Pekona? If we run into undead, she might freak out a bit. That Drake that cut off her arm—”
—Had been a Revenant. Ylawes realized this was a real case of potential trauma for Pekona and got up.
“I’ll find her. She might be using the privy.”
“All the way back at camp? That’s a long way for a young woman to go unescorted, even an adventurer.”
Every adventurer turned to stare at Lord Comigen, as well as Homle and all the [Miners]. Ylawes himself blinked.
Dawil coughed into one hand.
“Er, Lord Comigen, I rather imagine Pekona will—nevermind. No, you know what? I hate to ask, but have you always used a latrine or whatnot to relieve yourself?”
The [Lord] gave him a blankly horrified look.
“What? Are you implying that I’d relieve myself on some random rocks like a [Barbarian]?”
Larr whistled.
“Dead gods.”
For once, Ylawes had no way to really defend that. He went to find Pekona.
 
——
 
Pekona was back in the first armory room they’d found, chipping away at some of the metal pieces on the ground. She was so focused on her work that a hermit crab had crawled on top of her head. Ylawes picked it off her, and she spun.
“Captain, I—”
“Watch yourself in a dungeon, Pekona. We’re about to breach the door. You okay? There might, ah, might be undead down there.”
