That moment of foreboding grew, and Ylawes hesitated, so Falene leapt in.
“Settlers from the Consortium of Enterprise, an exploratory group we were contracted to escort to the New Lands, Lord Comigen! Our contract with them ran out, so we parted ways, and some of them elected to join us. When we heard there was employment to be had, we moved to your location.”
“I see. I don’t know this Consortium of Enterprise. An, ah, a group of [Merchants]?”
“Yes, Lord Comigen. Newly formed.”
The young [Lord] was older than Ylawes, but they felt roughly the same age. Comigen tugged at his collar and glanced at Lady Leerne. She spoke smoothly.
“Of course, we could use some additional hands; isn’t that so, Lord Comigen? Lord Restraud was principally interested in the Silver Swords, of course.”
“We’ve expanded our team to a total of ten members, Lady Leerne.”
“Oh, ten!”
Some of the Terlands brightened, and the [Golemancer] exhaled, his eyes flicking to Lady Safta. He looked…well, like a craftsman more than a [Mage], and very, very uneasy. He kept eying the group behind Ylawes. Comigen tugged at his ruff again.
“For guard duty and escort? Unless Lord Restraud had hired you to explore the ruins?”
“The ruins?”
Falene and Ylawes chorused, and Comigen’s mouth snapped shut, then he gestured.
“Yes, in the Gorgelands…ah, the area past that rift. He didn’t discuss it with you, then?”
A note of suspicion, and Ylawes bowed, feeling that prickling down his spine again. He glanced at the tent where the metal Golem was standing.
“The contact was made by a third party. A young woman? Due to the magical drain—”
“Ah, you have it too!”
Martz interrupted, and everyone glared at him. Ylawes nodded.
“—yes, due to that, our ability to communicate was severely hampered, but her Skill reached both me and Lord Restraud. I was told to seek him out and given approximate directions.”
“That is what he said, Comigen.”
Safta whispered, and the [Lord] pulled out a handkerchief and mopped at his brow. He exhaled.
“The Silver Swords are a reputable team. Very reputable. Lord Restraud did mention you by name—but not this other group.”
At this point, Ylawes felt like it was time for some honesty. He coughed into one hand.
“My team…did not have faith in the Consortium’s long-term prospects, Lord Comigen. We offered to escort anyone willing back to Goisedall, due to certain issues with the supply of—supplies. Hence their presence here. I can vouch for their integrity, and we have one of the [Merchants] who was with the Consortium. Merchant Anlam. I can bring him if you wish?”
Comigen hesitated, and it was Lady Leerne who exhaled, leaned over, and broke the awkward dance they were doing.
“They ran out of food, Comigen. Like the others. Have Martz cast [Detect Truth], and let’s hire them. I think that’s the best option.”
Everyone turned, and Safta glared at her, but Comigen exhaled, then nodded.
“Very well. Martz? A bit of magic, if you please, and Captain Ylawes, I should be delighted to hire you and your team—and these settlers—to work for us for a short-term duration. I, ah, I don’t have any magical contracts, but I suppose we could tell the Adventurer’s Guild of our arrangement, and they’ll have a record of that.”
Ylawes Byres exhaled in relief and then nodded hurriedly.
“Absolutely, Lord Comigen. Er—we do have a lot of mouths to feed, and we have some supplies, but as Lady Leerne observes, it was an issue.”
“We have food aplenty. A good amount in a Chest of Holding.”
They had a working Chest of Holding? Ylawes blinked and then smiled in clear relief.
“Then I believe we could come to an arrangement, Lord Comigen—”
“For a respectable fee. At a discount.”
Falene put in hurriedly. Ylawes saw Comigen nod, and more of the tension bled off. The [Lord] turned and waved airily.
“Welcome to Camp Terland! Our people will help divvy out food—to attention! Golems, stand down and hibernate!”
The Golems relaxed, and the glow in their eyes faded as they stepped back, forming a double line at the entrance. Ylawes strode after Comigen as more people came out of their tents, and now he saw Leerne rubbing at a shoulder. Golemancer Martz was checking a clear, glowing piece of stone as Falene spoke to him, and Ylawes felt it pertinent to ask.
“So when may I speak to Lord Restraud?”
He had a feeling he knew the answer already, but Comigen answered with that pale smile that Ylawes had learned to fear.
“He’s dead, Captain Byres.”
His Golem stood in front of the late Lord Restraud’s tent, unmoving, as Ylawes Byres exhaled hard. Out of one fire and into another.
At least the Terlands had food. And magic.
 
——
 
“We noticed the drain after two days of marching. We assumed we were in a deadzone and continued on. By the time we realized how pervasive it was…Lord Restraud sent back every artifact and Golem of value. He insisted we forge ahead. We have been, ah, draining mana to keep the most valuable artifacts alive, and our [Golemancers] have been fueling those that remain. We keep them ‘hibernated’ to save mana.”
The Terlands’ situation wasn’t as bad as Ylawes would have thought. For a group that relied on Golems and mana so much, he would have assumed they’d all fall to bits, but each Golem was apparently better designed than that. Martz tapped one of the Stone Golems’ chests.
“Each one is mana-neutral or slightly positive at Comezat-grade, you see. They produce enough mana, just enough, to power other artifacts. But we’ve had to remove the Golem Hearts from far too many to keep this base running.”
“Disgraceful.”
Lady Safta sounded as though they’d committed some great sin, but having a working Chest of Holding, let alone enough mana to power several other spells, was a miracle to Ylawes, and he said so.
“All our bags of holding exploded during our journey, and we lost our food to lack of preservation runes, Lord Comigen.”
“Dead gods. You appear rather thin, Captain—eat up, I say. We were already working with more food than we needed since we thinned our ranks. Nor do we intend to stay in this cursed land. Once we finish what Lord Restraud set out to do, I intend to leave forthwith. If someone else wants to set up an outpost, I welcome them to it, but we were unprepared for several factors.”
Comigen was the replacement leader the Terlands had selected, and he watched as Ylawes practically devoured another piece of roast corn. They had beef, bread, grain, even luxuries like spices and wine! Some of it was slightly stale, but Ylawes was trying not to wolf down everything in sight.
“And you ate those…tube-worms the entire way here?”
Lady Safta shuddered in horror, and someone piped up.
“Is pretty good.”
She stared at the Cave Goblin and nearly leapt into Martz’s arms—the two were apparently married—but even the sight of Infinitypear and Rasktooth seemed to be dulled on the Terlands. There was something they weren’t telling the Silver Swords, but their hospitality was enough.
“Your, ah, your new teammates are rather interesting, Captain Byres.”
“Rasktooth is a valued member of the team, Captain Comigen. So is Infinitypear, the Worker. They’re from Liscor, and they were a team called Poke Duo before we admitted them to the Silver Swords.”
“Poke Duo.”
Comigen covered a smile, then shook his head.
“I heard there was an inn…well, under normal circumstances, I cannot imagine what Lady Ulva would say. But, ah, normal circumstances don’t apply here. Good fighters, are they?”
Ylawes didn’t know how to answer that, but Dawil looked up from scarfing down a stew and wiped at his beard.
“Rasktooth uses two crossbows, and Infinitypear has an Adamantium spear.”
“Adamantium?”
The nobles exclaimed, clearly impressed, and again the reaction was different. Comigen’s brow cleared, and he wiped at his forehead again.
“This damn heat. All our enchanted clothing was first to go. And cooling spells. Martz can barely keep up a charm against all the dratted bugs…crossbows, eh? Well, that will do. That will do. So, Captain Ylawes, defense of House Terland and assistance in exploring the ruins in what we’re calling the ‘Gorgelands’ is all I require before we leave. In exchange, we can pay your team five hundred and sixteen gold pieces upon delivery of our party to Goisedall. Is that fair?”
“Very fair, Lord Comigen. Shall we get it in writing?”
Ylawes rose to shake the man’s hand, but Comigen waved it off.
“You are a man of honor and a fellow [Lord], so I shall trust that and lodge the notice with the Adventurer’s Guild. I wish to be done with these New Lands.”
It occurred to Ylawes after he got a meaningful glance from Falene that this might be another trap in the making. He cleared his throat.
“Of course we’re able to assist in both tasks, Lord Comigen. We’ve fought off Landsharks and other local threats. What kind of dangers might be in these Gorgelands? I’ve seen the canyon myself. But there was no route to the other side…”
“There’s a pass just beyond here that you can traverse where the land joins. There are rocky ruins up there—some kind of settlement, though what kind I can’t say. We’ve been exploring it and the local area for the last week, but we’re not adventurer-focused. Between that and realizing there’s no arable soil…”
Comigen seemed like he wanted to spit, and Ylawes winced. Farmer Petia wore a terrible smile of sympathy.
“Tried it, did you, milord?”
“Ten acres of land ploughed and seeded. Not a sprout, and we received word from House Terland there won’t be any.”
“Ten acres?”
The [Farmers] were astounded, and Comigen shrugged almost self-deprecatingly.
“The Golems did it. We were set to have them do everything. Transport, farming, quarrying—Lord Restraud fancied he could create a full township within the year. Now, though…”
Martz broke in urgently.
“It’s not impossible! If we brought enough Golem Hearts, we could sustain any number of Golems. There are means, it just requires a significant undertaking and restructuring of our equipment. Knowing we cannot farm means we either bring enough food, hunt for it, or raise animals.”
He had a good grasp of the problem, but Comigen just muttered.
“Assuming there’s aught of value here. Argh. I might as well tell you, Captain Ylawes. We’ve had some unscrupulous groups coming after our food. A…pack of men and women. Thirty strong. Adventurers, I think. Armed with bows. They’ve been trading with us for our food stocks. We’ve acceded to that. But their demands grow more frequent, and I’m rather grateful your team showed up.”
That worried Ylawes. Thirty armed men and women? His team was outnumbered three-to-one…but then he eyed the dozen Golems.
“I can’t imagine that would intimidate House Terland. Surely with so many Golems you’d chase them off, Lord Comigen.”
A slightly pleased expression appeared on the man’s face, but then the [Lord] sighed. He picked up a blue piece of corn and began to munch on it.
“You think so? I’d have said the exact same thing except for the fact that Lord Restraud sent our most valuable Golems back. All the ones with spell effects, speed—they don’t dare get close, but they shoot arrows at us. And we don’t have any magic…Lord Restraud was hit by an arrow. A trifling wound, but our healing potions were all bad save for the most expensive one. And when he realized it was infected—”
Everyone looked down, and Ylawes stopped eating. Dead gods. An infection had killed a high-ranking [Lord] of House Terland? But they had no [Healers], and with healing potions so rare—
Disaster. No wonder they’d caved to the threats after that. They didn’t have a great number of [Guards]. Because they’d trusted to the Golems. Another issue; the Terlands had done better than the Consortium, but they hadn’t been prepared for bandits with bows.
“Ah. My condolences. I’m sure we can handle that kind of threat if it appears.”
The Silver Swords had two people who used bows, but he bit his tongue on saying that. Cross that bridge when they came to it. Comigen was very relieved, though Lady Leerne…he met her eyes and wondered if she thought they’d have attacked if the Terlands hadn’t hired them.
“Well, the sheer number of settlers present might deter that group, Lord Comigen. My team is Gold-rank. What about these ruins?”
Comigen nodded, greatly relieved and smiled.
“Ah, yes, that! Not to worry, Captain Ylawes. There are a high number of, mm, undead in the Gorgelands. I daresay I see up to a thousand daily.”
“A thousand—”
All the adventurers sat up, and Insill dropped his piece of corn in horror. Comigen smiled brightly at Ylawes’ expression.
“Yes, it’s quite entertaining. The most fun I’ve had in this place, aside from the rainbows and those gigantic snails. They mostly rise at nightfall. Would you like to see?”
 
——
 
The Gorgelands were indeed a huge plateau encircled as far as the eye could see by that giant ravine that Ylawes had inspected. It was thousands of feet deep and filled with things that no one could reach without a lot of rope—or wings—but the Terlands had found a land bridge across.
You had to hike upwards, whereupon you entered more rocky terrain filled with broken structures of stone. It looked like a terrible place to farm, and Homle opined there wasn’t much to mine for anyways, but Ylawes could see this being a very defensible place.
The reason the Terlands had camped away from it, though, was the undead. There were indeed thousands of them. Skeletons—long dead and encrusted with salt or pieces of plant matter rising upwards. But there was a reason the Terlands viewed the undead as a comical sight, far less threatening than a group of thirty people with bows.
Why? Well, think about the New Lands’ unique features. The salty land, the mana drain, the…well, the fact it was new. Then think about undead and ruins.
Undead were creatures of mana. For all they were reanimated corpses, the factor that made undead rise was death magic, which they produced or which generated around them in some way.
The New Lands drained magic. So what Ylawes saw was a skeleton rising upwards, glowing yellow eyes flickering in its skull as it rose, bones floating to form a skeleton that…had a tail? He squinted at it and saw the head wasn’t that of a Human. But before it could take more than a step, the yellow flames flickered out, and the bones collapsed.
“Vastly entertaining, isn’t it? I watch it for hours. They rise more in the night, and when the moons are full, even faster. Sometimes, they make it as much as a few dozen paces before they collapse.”
“Incredible.”
