Her cheeks turned red as he squatted down and saw she’d unearthed more of that bronze hue from the spear-tips and so on. They were all remarkably good under all the…crab poo. Pekona was rather filthy, and she brushed at her leather armor.
“Undead? How many?”
“I don’t know. Worst case scenario is they’ve upgraded, and it could be hundreds. Can you handle it?”
“Hm? Sure. As long as I have room to move about. Why?”
Well, there went the theory of her arm-trauma. Ylawes nodded at it awkwardly.
“Dasha thought, with your arm and the Revenant—”
She blinked, and then her face fell. He felt like a true fool for bringing it up, but Pekona shook her head.
“That was a [Blademaster], not an undead. I was weak. He was like an old master from the legends of my home, like Zeladona.”
Her eyes shone as she recalled the frankly horrifying woman Ylawes had seen. Pekona drew her sword and stared at her reflection in the newly-polished blade.
“Those I practiced with would have given up an arm to duel her just once.”
“Really?”
Pekona hesitated.
“…No. Maybe not. But they’d say it. I survived two legends. I won’t be afraid of undead. Even Draugr.”
Ylawes smiled ruefully and resolved himself to put Pekona in the mid-row, in case her determination got her hurt. He offered her a hand.
“Well, we’re about to make the hole big enough for the Golems. Ready?”
She hesitated and glanced down at the pile of weapons at her feet. Then Pekona peered at the doorway and lowered her voice.
“Captain, may I speak to you of something private? Here, here.”
She drew him into one corner of the room, so no one could see them if they were coming up the hallway. She whispered to Ylawes, who lowered his voice with a frown.
“What’s wrong?”
“Captain…I am not a great adventurer like you and not a Dwarf like Dawil. So I am not sure, but I think there is something you did not notice.”
She gave him a nervous look, as if she was expecting him to get angry, but Ylawes rubbed at his hair. A hermit crab fell off it, and he stared at it.
“Pekona, I miss a lot of things. Like that hermit crab. If you saw anything, call it out, please! What is it?”
She cast a nervous glance at the doorway.
“I did not say because I did not know, but Captain…I know blades. I studied them and even took care of some special blades in Drath. I am not Dawil—”
“He doesn’t know metals, Pekona. We just joke he does because of something Erin once said. Why?”
She offered him the sword she’d found, and he saw she’d scraped it clean of all its filth. It was a very bronze sword, but one that gleamed in the faint light coming down the corridor. He whistled.
“That’s held up amazingly well over time. It’s still in one piece. It must be an alloy, like my silversteel.”
It…barely looked damaged, actually. It had lost its edge, but anything probably banged about for ages in a place like this would. Pekona licked her lips.
“Yes, Captain Ylawes. It has survived a very long time. But I think…how heavy is it?”
Ylawes was getting a read on her tone, and now he lifted the sword up and down. With all the crud on it, it had been about the weight he expected. Now…even without a handle, it felt light. Way too light.
“It’s bronze, right? Some alloy?”
Bronze didn’t rust, and he’d assume that it would make sense if it was some kind of alloy, but bronze was also weak. And Pekona’s voice…she lowered it further.
“Captain Ylawes. Metal…what did you say your armor did?”
“Rusts? Tarnishes?”
“Tarnishes, yes. It does that with age. One of the blades I cared for was a masterpiece forged for Drath. It looked like this. Like how silver grows dirty. Only—the blade wasn’t silver. It was mithril.”
Ylawes almost dropped the sword he was holding. He caught it, then stared at the long blade with the gleaming metal and then at Pekona.
“Mith—”
She slapped a hand over his mouth, which was filthy, and he caught himself. Suddenly, his attention was all on the blade, and she showed him something he’d missed.
On one side of the blade was an etching down the central flat of the blade. It was elegant writing he assumed was Drakish, and it hadn’t even faded that much over the years. Protected by the coating, no doubt, but—Ylawes bent down.
The spear-tips and even arrowheads he’d dismissed were all still in their original shapes. Everything else in this room was trash, but an object that held its shape after this long…
“This is insane. It can’t all be mithril. This is a guard-post. No one would just issue mithril blades to the rank and file.”
“In Drath, they said that each of the [Emperor]’s soldiers once bore blades of Adamantium or better, Captain Ylawes. They still have armories of magic weapons—when the hour is dark, the [Emperor] will open another and another until the Last Tower of Vigilance is finally empty. Then Drath will die.”
He shivered when she said that, but he had to…Ylawes drew a belt knife, made of good House Byres steel, and he put it against a spear-tip. With all his strength, he sawed at the spear-tip, unearthing the silvery-bronze metal beneath. He put his strength into the knife, resting his thumb on the edge—
The knife snapped and pinged off Pekona’s sheath as she raised it. She and Ylawes stared down at the spear-tip.
The faintest scratch was on the metal, and when he rubbed a finger at it, there was a silver gleam below the bronze. But brighter even than House Byres’ silver, luminescent in the darkness.
Mithril.
Ylawes’ heart began thundering in his chest, and he dropped the spear-tip. It made that pure, ringing sound when it struck the flagstones, and Pekona snatched it up.
“I gathered every piece I could, Captain. There are a lot of blades—only one sword, but spears, arrowheads—what should we do?”
He answered instantly, without thinking.
“We have to tell the Terlands. This is their bounty, after all, and ours.”
Her face fell, and Ylawes saw her expression of disappointment. He gestured at the trove.
“We’d split it. Even half is a windfall—it’s the right thing to do.”
“Yes…”
Clearly reluctant, she swung her eyes over the haul of weapons, but Ylawes felt right about that. They’d give Lord Comigen something to bring back. Proof this place was valuable, and then—
He felt the same pang that Pekona felt, though, deep down. Ylawes liked to pretend he wasn’t greedy, but he always did have that moment of hesitation. It usually paid off for the Silver Swords, but there was a reason they weren’t rich despite their careers as adventurers.
The Terlands are rich. We’ve lost all our magic gear, and this haul would be enough for everyone and then some. Dead gods, we could give some of the money to Petia and Homle’s groups—they won’t even be paid! But otherwise we’re splitting it and—
He shook himself. Lord Comigen had given them food and shelter instantly when they were in distress. What kind of [Knight] was he to think like this? He was about to take the sword and march over to Lord Comigen when he heard a voice.
“Gotta piss, gotta piss, [Miner]’s gotta piss or his swing he’ll miss—”
A briskly humming Miner Homle stepped into the room, fumbling with his pants, clearly intent on proving to Lord Comigen that a man could and should pee wherever he had space. Ylawes and Pekona moved without thinking. He shoved the blade behind him, and they leapt towards a corner in the wall.
“Wha! Oh—dead gods, Captain Ylawes and—uh—oh.”
Homle screamed when he saw the two of them, and he leapt back, then pressed a hand against his heart. Then he stared at the two of them standing in a corner.
“Er, Captain Ylawes! Excuse me for interrupting!”
He was staring at them, and Ylawes realized that he and Pekona were clustered together in very close proximity. He leapt away.
“I was just—”
“Absolutely, Captain, no worries. Lips sealed.”
Miner Homle lifted his hands and stepped back, grinning. Ylawes felt like Homle had gotten the wrong idea, but he wasn’t sure what. Perhaps Homle thought he’d been consoling Pekona? Her cheeks were red as Homle hurried away, and Ylawes looked down.
Why had he done that? He’d moved to hide the mithril sword when he shouldn’t have. He felt guilty as he turned to Pekona.
“I think Master Homle thought I was consoling you. I—don’t know why I hid the blade.”
She gave him a long look.
“That—I don’t think I know your language. Consoling?”
“Comforting.”
“Oh, yes. He probably thought that.”
Ylawes nodded. He hefted the blade, embarrassed, as Pekona gave him another strange look. Then he turned to her.
“Let’s show this to Dawil and Falene first. I think you’re right, but before we start shouting we’ve found mithril…”
He was determined to do the right thing here, but what was done was done. Pekona nodded, and rather cleverly, she suggested he sheathe the blade in his sheath, and they hid the rest under a pile of debris. Ylawes told himself it wasn’t dishonesty. He hadn’t been dishonest yet. He was just—being practical. No sense making a fool out of himself in front of the Terlands.
He just…
He wondered how much money his father needed for House Byres’ reconstruction. And how much money the Consortium would charge his team for dereliction of duty, assuming they’d told the Merchant’s Guild.
 
——
 
Ylawes had a stomach ache when they finally passed the enchanted door and began to descend into the ruins. He told himself it was nerves, but he was conscious of the slight weight at his side.
“You okay, lad?”
Dawil gave him a concerned look as Ylawes took a few deep breaths, readying his unenchanted shield. At least he had his Skills. Ylawes nodded.
“Ready. Golems go first with Insill right behind them. Insill, you get back the moment you see trouble and sing out so Master Martz can stop the Golems. Everyone else, speak up if you think something’s amiss, got it?”
Dawil waved a hand in front of his nose.
“Okay, lad. But you’re passing a lot of gas. Lotta friendly fire going down to the middle ranks. Glad I’m up front.”
Ylawes’ cheeks flamed, and he hissed at Dawil.
“Dawil!”
Dasha and Insill giggled, and the group lost the tension it was holding. Just like that—sometimes, Ylawes was amazed Dawil wasn’t the leader of the team. Falene rolled her eyes.
“Just keep us shielded, Beardy.”
“Yeah, yeah. I’ll keep your precious rear safe so you can cast that one spell when it really matters, Pointy. Alright. Let’s get these stompers moving.”
The spiral staircase was wide enough for the two Stone Golems to go down it easily, and without slipping and falling, which Ylawes had been informed was a real issue given their lack of dexterity. He could imagine fighting up and down this staircase, and the light illuminated section by section as they spiralled down.
The second floor they came to instantly gave Ylawes bad vibes. For one thing, it was a lot further down than he thought. He’d assumed each floor would be relatively the same size as the one they’d been on, imagining a tower-like structure. But after passing twice the length vertically as before…they came to a hallway, and Ylawes saw the tops of the eight-foot tall Golems’ heads were nowhere near the ceiling. Also—the hallway was far wider than before.
“Uh. Lad? You thinking what I’m thinking?”
“Yep. This is no tower. We’re in a fortress. A keep.”
Ylawes’ understanding of where they were instantly shifted. Instead of being at the top of a vertical tower, they had reached the top ramparts in a larger structure. Which meant they’d barely penetrated the top layer of a larger fortress.
Just like the dungeon of Liscor…
He felt a slight chill on his skin as the Golems spread out along hallways of what he bet were dormitories. Broken pieces of wood hung at each entrance, next to empty torch sconces—most of which were perfectly intact.
Rusted, a bit, but clearly intended to let someone put a torch there, and the wood wasn’t nearly as rotten and destroyed as above. Ylawes saw some faintly blue paint on one of the shattered doorframes. The hallway stretched onwards, before splitting right. The light spilling from the two [Mages]’ spells illuminated quite a ways as Ylawes glanced down the stairs. Then Insill made a sound.
“Hst. Captain—there’s light down there.”
He pointed straight ahead, and Ylawes saw it. A faint glow…he spoke fast.
“Dasha, Larr, get those barricades and put them along the stairs. Wedge them in. Master Martz, I want two Golems on guard-mode on the stairs in case something crawls up behind. Insill, traps on those rooms, then we check them.”
The adventurers burst into a panic of motion, and Dasha and Larr wrestled the makeshift wooden barricades down the stairs, swearing. Insill swept around the doorframes as Falene did the same on the other side. He leapt back, and Ylawes and Dawil swung into the door and saw—
Mold. Destroyed wood, a noxious odor that made Ylawes cough and back up, covering his mouth—an empty frame on the walls. And—his eyes cast over the frame of wood where the slats had fallen inwards, but enough remained.
“Beds.”
It was a dormitory. Which made sense; you would have your [Soldiers] nearest to the battlements, wouldn’t you? On the other side, Pekona had spotted the same thing, and the Silver Swords formed up as Ylawes saw the stairs heading deeper were walled off with Golems guarding them.
“Good. Looks like this is a keep after all. Keep away from the fungi. It might be poisonous. Master Martz? We’re advancing. Nice and slow. Golems forwards, then Insill…room by room.”
They checked room after room, finding more of the same dormitory-style stuff. The bedding had mildewed into rot, and Ylawes didn’t want to inhale some nasty green mold he saw drifting in the dead air, so he pushed them on.
“Mold, though. Makes me think there was some air down here, or I doubt even that’d grow.”
Dawil whispered, and Ylawes nodded. His team wasn’t the best on professional silence, so he murmured.
“No bodies. Doors were smashed in, which suggests they were fighting there—but no bodies.”
“Maybe they cleaned up after the fighting was gone. Or…whatever was in there got up and walked off.”
Undead. An adventurer’s most common foe. Ylawes kept his shield up as Larr aimed his bow around, clearly spooked.
“Anyone smell a threat?”
“No.”
That came from Larr, but Rasktooth piped up.
“My [Hound’s Nose] say—there something here edible, Captain.”
“Er—really, Rasktooth?”
“Yep. It not lie.”
“Well, thank you. Any clue where?”
“Down. Behind us.”
“Hm. We’ll keep moving along this floor, Rasktooth. Ideally, we seal this off, floor by floor, and make it so nothing can get behind us.”
