“You’re all alive, lads and lasses, and you fought hard. New monsters always throw you for a loop. The lad and I were just lucky we had levels on them. The fact that they got past us is on us.”
He nudged Ylawes subtly, and the [Knight] agreed.
“Absolutely. It was our fault for misjudging them. Don’t agonize, and don’t lose focus. There could be more.”
That shaped them up. Ylawes gave Falene a covert nod, grateful her magic was back. If she hadn’t been there…
That little skirmish made Ylawes’ euphoria at exploring this fortress a lot more guarded. If that was the opening salvo from the local threats—well, it was no Skinner, but he was conscious of Master Martz and the people above.
Better report back before we take too long. But Falene was glancing ahead.
“Ylawes, I sense…something ahead. Can we check out that room?”
She pointed just past the place she’d walled off, and Ylawes bit his lip.
“Okay, but we’re heading back fast. [Stone Wall] every way but our retreat.”
They came across the first sign of what this place had been in a room that seemed to be the remnants of—no, Ylawes didn’t know what it had been. What it was now was a grave.
“Tribes.”
Larr turned pale as he backed away from the entrance, and Ylawes’ shield rose.
“Falene? [Fireball] this entire room if anything so much as twitches.”
“I will. But—they’re not undead, Ylawes. Look. Someone put them to rest.”
After all this time had passed, the bodies were more mummified than anything else, scales stretched taut over skin and bones or just…bones. But they were neatly arranged in a long row, hands folded over their chests, their reptilian heads staring upwards at the ceiling—severed from their bodies.
Bones. Bodies neatly beheaded and—Ylawes stared down—given funeral rites.
“Silver and steel.”
Grains of silver dust were sprinkled in each eye socket, and he saw long-dead flowers placed in the ribcages of each skeleton. If he had to guess, it was mourning lily—and earthen dirt and charcoal dust was also there.
“Lad, is this some kind of practice you’re familiar with? Must be hundreds of them. Poor bastards.”
Ylawes nodded.
“This is how you prepare the dead, Dawil. If you don’t want them to rise. I mean, we bury our dead with silver, and I know about the lilies, but this…”
A room full of corpses who’d never be undead. He wondered why the skeleton stalkers hadn’t disrupted them—but perhaps so much silver or the rituals involved repelled even undead. Then his eye caught something else. Anith breathed.
“…Oh my.”
Piled in front of each dead [Soldier] or inhabitants of the impromptu cemetery were objects. Most were a single item, but in places, there was a pile of them—or a scorch mark? The floor was warped in one section of the room, and the skeleton there was twisted around a divot in the ground. But in each case, Ylawes saw the glimmer of what was unmistakable to him. That sheen like a bubble’s glow to the object.
Magic artifacts.
He bent down, then stopped himself from scooping up a wand just lying on the floor. Dasha almost did likewise until Insill grabbed her.
“Whoa! It might be cursed!”
“I don’t—I don’t think they are, Insill.”
Falene’s voice was shaken, and she pointed.
“Elves! There are so many magical items here! This is—”
“A treasure trove!”
Dasha exploded with delight, and Falene and Martz spoke at the same time.
“A disaster! Everyone, back up now! Don’t touch anything! There’s so much magic in this room that it could all start a chain reaction of interference at once! That’s why parts of the room are destroyed!”
Suddenly, Ylawes put the charred spots on the ground together and remembered his basic training. Put too many objects together that clashed with magical interference and it’d all explode. Or worse.
He backed up fast, but then caught himself.
“There’s no way it’ll all activate at once, Falene. This must have been here for ages.”
“Well, don’t disturb it! Whomever did this—I applaud their dedication, but they were no [Mage]!”
Falene was shaken, and Golemancer Martz nodded.
“Highly irresponsible. But so…incredible. The last survivors must have laid their dead to rest. Perhaps they expired before they could do all the undead. However, this is why the fortress isn’t completely overrun with them.”
He rubbed at one eye and stood in solemnity at this testament to the long-gone. Ylawes nodded somberly and took a deep breath.
“We should be very careful, then. No one disturb the bones. And only take as much as Falene thinks you can get away with without magical interference. No one stand too close to each other.”
“Wait, what?”
The [Golemancer] gaped at Ylawes in abject horror. The [Knight] of House Byres gave him a blank look.
There were magical artifacts. They were adventurers.
Was he not supposed to take them?
 
——
 
The horror over graverobbing from Martz made Ylawes realize not many people understood that adventurers almost always took from the dead. It was just a difference of ‘long dead’ that made you an adventurer or a [Treasure Seeker], whereas ‘freshly dead’ made you a [Looter] or [Graverobber].
He insisted on loading everyone up with what they could carry safely, which wasn’t much, and Ylawes was already wondering how many people they could bring down to grab this and go. All the [Miners] had hands, and if they did two fast trips—
He never got a chance to execute on the idea, though. They were halfway back towards the stairs when they heard a crash—and then Rasktooth spoke.
“Captain. Bad [Dangersense]!”
“Golems! My Golems!”
Martz shouted, and Ylawes slung his pack onto his shoulders and drew his sword and shield. He heard a terrible crack of what sounded like stone on stone, a thud-thud-thud of heavy steps—but dead silence. No voices of pain, nothing but—
The first Golem’s head hit the wall, and he slowed down, and two Stone Golems thumped past him as Ylawes saw another Stone Golem of House Terland reeling backwards. A spear was sticking out of its chest, a big spear as large as a harpoon. It yanked free of the Golem, and it fell motionless as Ylawes saw the wielder whirl the spear up and open its mouth.
At first, Ylawes thought it was another undead, glowing red eyes, a Drake’s skeleton with a spear—until he realized that it had scales that were pale white, and its eyes were not burning flames but gemstones. Ruby eyes flashed as the Drake Golem opened its mouth and breathed fire over the two Terland Golems.
“Back! Back!”
The Terland Golems advanced into the flames, swinging their fists in big, heavy swings, and the Drake Golem’s mouth snapped shut. Its eyes flashed, then it spun backwards, down the stairs. It crouched, then leapt, spear stabbing.
It pierced a Golem through the heart and twisted back with a [Spearmaster]’s flair, much like Relc, yanking the spear out, and Ylawes’ blood chilled as it punched the cruder Stone Golem, knocking it back. It seemed to understand it was fighting Golems, because it punched twice at its chest, then raised its spear.
“Such beauty—”
Martz was the only one dumbfounded by the Drake Golem. The other adventurers saw it execute the fourth Golem with the same spear-thrust and backed up.
“Pointy! We need spells on it!”
“[Stoneflesh], [Mass Speed]—[Lightning Bolt]!”
Falene finished casting spells on herself and the group, and Ylawes felt the world slowing slightly as she pointed her staff. Anith cast [Muddy Ground] on the stairs, and the Golem reacted. It lifted a hand, and he saw a gemstone in its clawed hand flash. The [Lightning Bolt] vanished, and then it leapt the muddy ground. He was charging to meet it when he saw the foot come up.
His [Shield of Valor] Skill caught the kick, but Ylawes still felt like he’d been hit by a brick wall coming at him. He staggered, and Dawil’s shout was panicked.
“Get back, get back! Up the stairs! It’s just like that damn Wistram Golem!”
The Gazer Golem. Ylawes had the same bad premonitions, but it wasn’t as wholly deadly as that one. He regained his footing as it spun its spear and stabbed.
A quick jab behind the back, using its arms to stab in a way he didn’t predict. It skidded off his shield as he lashed out with his Gravesword. The blow chinked off the scales, and the Golem spun its torso slightly, mitigating the force of the blow, then swept its tail around.
“Gah!”
Dawil got hit by the tail hard and slid, but caught the Golem with a blow from his hammer as he spun back. It didn’t slow the Golem—it made a dull thunk, and Ylawes shouted.
“Don’t get close! It’s too—”
The mouth opened, and it breathed flames on top of him as it went for a slash to his leg. He blocked it as flames scorched over his face and helmet, shouting, and it would have hit him in the leg but for Pekona. She slashed at the spear, and the blow sent her twirling away, but it reduced the impact, and Ylawes’ knee just buckled. He saw Insill stab the Golem twice from behind, stare at his steel daggers, and leap away.
“Go!”
Anith ran past him, shooting [Light Arrows] as Larr’s and Rasktooth’s arrows glanced off its face. Martz—Dasha was carrying him past them, and Ylawes saw the Golem whip around as Falene unloaded a barrage of Tier 1 and Tier 2 spells on it. It held still—then lunged at her.
“Pointy! [Thunder Blow]!”
Dawil’s hammer knocked the Golem back a step just in time, and Falene stumbled backwards, face pale.
The Golem was jabbing the spear, advancing on Falene as she blocked one of the thrusts with her staff. Ylawes crouched on the ground. He pushed off, and his armored boots left the ground.
“The Silver Dragon!”
He leapt, and the Golem whirled as a trail of silver lunged across the hallway. The Drake’s ruby-red gaze focused on the trailing wings following the [Knight]. Then on the man’s bared teeth, a snarl on his contorted features. Desperation and rage, sword following his raised shield. A metal beast, roaring as the light shone off its armor, throwing itself out of cover to save its comrade.
A spark of insight flickered in the Golem’s memories. It had no true sentience, and this creature was far smaller than the ones in its targeting files—but it identified the foe. The Golem began to broadcast a warning signal.
Dragons had come again. The Golem took a step back, eyes glowing bright, waiting for the charge.
[The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel]. The [Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon] saw the Drake-Golem lower its stance, then the spear flickered in a flurry of stabs. He caught the impacts on his shield, and crashed into it, sword slashing across its chest. It tried to throw him, shoving an arm at the [Knight]—
The collision threw both of them into the wall, and the Golem staggered. Ylawes shouted, desperately, as he heaved at the incredibly heavy construct.
“Dawil! Help me!”
“[Force Orb]!”
Falene pointed her staff, and the controlled explosion knocked the Golem down. Then Ylawes and Dawil were on the struggling automaton, trying to take out a leg as it kicked, slashed with its spear, sprayed flames—but they could do this! Ylawes saw a spear thrust in and stab into the Golem’s chest. Infinitypear.
“Keep it down and—”
“Ylawes! Behind you!”
He turned around as the second Drake Golem came up the stairs, eyes glowing sapphire, and his heart sank.
“Run!”
Infinitypear ran as Ylawes charged the second one. It had a sword and shield, and they performed the same move simultaneously. A shield ramming forwards as Ylawes hurled himself at the foe, then a cut—
The Golem caught the smaller [Knight] effortlessly, heaved him back, and slashed across his chest. The blade sheared through his armor, and Ylawes blinked.
“Ow.”
“Ylawes!”
The Golem swung past him as Falene and Dawil ran for the stairs, then swivelled its head back to Ylawes. It slashed with a backhand slice, and he parried it. Ylawes backed up.
[Avert Mortal Blow]. He always got one. The sword-Golem advanced in tandem with the spear-Golem, and Ylawes stumbled up the stairs.
“Ylawes! Hurry!”
He couldn’t lower his shield. They were trying to flank him—they had a wary quality about them as they seemed to choose their moment to strike. He backed up, felt hands pulling him up—up—
The Golems kept advancing up the stairwell, pulling back as Larr and Rasktooth fired arrows at them. Each time Falene cast a spell, they’d either let it wash over them or raise a hand and ‘catch’ it. But they didn’t—strike.
They seemed to want to pin the adventurers into place, and every time they moved up the stairs, the Golems would pursue, then open their mouths or tense—and the frantic retreat of the adventurers was fast enough that the Golems kept moving.
Ylawes heard voices at the entrance to the tower as he stumbled back, blood running from his damaged chestplate. He was last to move back, against the opening in the wall, and the spear stabbed through after him, quick as a viper.
It punched him back into the arms of the others, and Ylawes lifted his sword, but the Golems stood there, eyes glowing, and then just…stopped. Their heads swung right and left, scanning the adventurers, and one put a hand against the door and pushed.
“They don’t know there’s a gap.”
Insill breathed incredulously.
“Don’t tell them, dumbass!”
Larr punched his shoulder, and the adventurers held their breath. But the Golems stopped pushing at the door and then backed up. One seemed to stare balefully at Ylawes, then it lifted its spear and slammed the butt down as it held it out, like a [Guard] posing. Then it spun on its heel and went down the stairs.
“Dead gods. The finest Autonomous-class Golems I have ever seen—those are pre-Zelkyr Golem guardians! With [Spearmaster] and [Swordsman] templates!”
Master Martz breathed. Ylawes put a hand on his chest and stared at the red blood that was now running from his wound. He saw Dawil fumbling for a healing potion, and Ylawes spoke faintly.
“Someone brick up the entrance. Then I could use a bandage, and we get out of here, right now.”
No one argued.
 
——
 
Lord Comigen was agog and horrified to see the Silver Swords emerge from the ruins with treasure and tales of the undead and Golems below. He almost wanted to see for himself, but one look at Ylawes’ cut chest and he agreed a speedy retreat was in order.
“We’ll—we’ll have to come back. With teams and experts in recalibrating Golem Hearts! And the magical artifacts—!”
“Good luck on subduing that lot. They nearly took us apart. And those undead would have gotten us but for Rasktooth. Lad, you need a sip of the potion.”
Dawil turned to Ylawes, but the [Knight] shook his head.
“I’m fine. It’s not deep. We have to save them.”
