He kept moving back, stealthy as could be, but began exhorting them verbally. He felt like maybe they heard him? They kept pursuing him, but it wasn’t clear.
“Weak hearing. Eyesight—they can see if I disturb the ground, but mostly it’s based on whether or not I’m disturbing their things. How about harm?”
He had to wait for nightfall for that. He’d observed they took forms more readily in the dark, and besides, they were vigilant, so Nailren crept back to his camp. When he told the Pride he’d shaken the ghosts, they were all for ditching this campsite and riding to Goisedall, but he insisted on going back.
“Captain, you’re insane.”
“I’m mad, Cuska. And if they’re going to be a threat, we need to know how to counter them. Besides…ever heard of a ghost in a jar? Those are old weapons or tools I’ve heard of, back in the day. Ghost-catching nets. If I get caught, I’ll suffer it, but I’m on the hunt now.”
He was sleep-addled but vengeful. They let him have a night to experiment, so Nailren snuck back to the camp and observed. What he saw was fascinating.
The ghosts didn’t have to have a corporeal shape. Three were missing when he approached and observed, his eyes adapted well to the low-light. But one was moving around.
The short woman.
“It’s you, shortie. You’re looking…rather monstrous.”
Those long claws, the change to her figure that made her more hunched—he saw the faint outlines of her, only seeing features the closer she got. She was circling the ground, as if to still find him. He grunted.
“Let’s see if you can die. First, let’s find the rest of you.”
He drew an arrow and loosed it, putting it in one of the corpses’ sides. Instantly, the other three appeared, quite agitated. Nailren grinned.
“Gotcha.”
Since they couldn’t get near to him, all he had to do was sit here and he was safe. So…Nailren watched as they spread out, then he pulled an arrow and spoke.
“[Elemental Arrow: Shock].”
Always nice to have a Skill rather than pay for magic. The hissing Arrow of Shock sped through the apparition, and the older man flinched, and whirled, but it didn’t do anything.
“Well, that’s pretty much what they said would happen. How about light?”
He lit a small fire, then an arrow, tip ablaze, streaked through the same ghost. It flinched—as if the mere light of the fire did as much damage as magic.
“Torch?”
Now he was getting bold. Nailren snuck up on the angry shortie ghost and waited. He tossed a rock at her corpse, and she whirled—then he swung the torch through her body.
It went out, but he swore he heard the faintest sound like a shriek, lower than even the sound of the breeze. She recoiled, and he stepped backwards.
“We can dance, then. [Light] spells or torches. A big fire—I bet you can recover, though. Better if I’d just used charms to ward you off and saved up for a permanent killing blow. Or a trap. Now, how would I do that?”
He sat, thinking, as the ghosts whirled about. Nailren was imagining a net or perhaps…a container? Yes, like a Djinni’s lantern. He’d heard the [Witches] asking if he could ‘bring the ghosts back’ for them, like the ghosts were valuable.
He imagined they were. If you could kill them, perhaps they left a residue, in which case, any [Alchemist] worth their salt would want some. Magical beings fueled magic, and these were weird.
If I managed to get an enchanted box, maybe I could trick them into it—I bet their size varies. Or—what about just an ordinary box with the right charms? The [Witches] said they weren’t confident which charm worked well, and I was making them out of scraps. Pekona had talismans according to Mrsha.
Yes, even a mundane object properly ‘set up’ might be able to trap these things. Then you had these ghosts where you wanted them. Weapons, resources, materials—heck, he bet they had no actual weight if they were literal spirits. Just like he’d said, you could put one in a jar.
The Gnoll…stopped as he sat there, mind occupied with vengeful fantasies. He rubbed at his shoulders, where they’d ripped fur out of his body. He didn’t like these damn bastard ghosts. But that last thought…
“Where did I hear that phrase? Ghost in a jar? I know [Shamans] have said that. In a jar. In a jar…oh. Not [Shamans]. Pisces’ story.”
The wind blew dark over the New Lands, and Nailren saw faint, amber lights in the pond as some kind of insect or fish surfaced. Bats flew overhead, and he heard their faint squeaks, but it felt dark suddenly.
Yes, he imagined you could trap these spirits in jars, like a Djinni. Frankly, they had given him more reasons to do something like that, but he refocused his thoughts, tried to see it another way.
“They’re dead. Four people murdered. They didn’t start that battle. They’re dead…and what happens? Mrsha said there’s a place for the dead, but maybe they didn’t make it there. You’re dead and you can’t see. You can’t hear. All you know is that someone killed you, painfully, and then—some idiot steals your stuff.”
Did they even know who he was? He wondered. If someone murdered him, he’d be quite upset. Nailren wasn’t above doing some haunting of his own, though he thought he’d be more clever about it. They had a right to their anger. Perhaps, though—perhaps they didn’t even know they had the wrong target.
The captain of The Pride of Kelia sat there, thinking, letting his anger fade as the night wore on. Here he was in the New Lands of Izril, and he could be petty and vengeful, and no one would ever know. Just like the people who had sullied this place by murdering the four travellers.
“…But I don’t have to do that, do I? I am the first explorer of this place, and like so many before me, I can come with blazing torch in one hand and steel in the other. Or speak, as the wisest Gnolls once did. I wonder.”
How did you speak to the dead? Communicate in ways as convenient as pure verbal speech? He didn’t know—but the Gnoll did understand they were upset, these murdered spirits. He rose and rubbed at his paws.
“If I’m wrong, the entire Pride will mock me. But I suppose I should try. Deeds speak louder than words, after all.”
He rose and fetched out his pack of supplies. Then he walked into the camp. He pulled a shovel out with a sigh and began to dig.
 
——
 
They found him, of course. Especially when he began to touch their bodies. The cold hands pulled at him, and the voices screamed—and that figure spoke his name.
“Estwhile.”
But for that clue, but for that plaintive tone, and Nailren might have given up. He dug, ignoring the shards of cold ice in his stomach, growling and swearing as he did his job.
Digging four graves was hard, even with the soil warm. Doing it under attack? Harder still. But the pain let up as Nailren approached the first body and began to prepare it.
At first, it was worse, a frenzy of outraged blows, weak, but cold—then Nailren removed the head, placed the body on some cloth he’d begged off his teammates, and wrapped it up after sprinkling charcoal dust and salt between head and body.
He had no silver nor appropriate flowers like mourning lily, so he’d found some wild ones, which smelled like sage and were bright green starbursts, which he put on the body, and he folded the arms up best he could with a grunt.
One of the stabbing fingers stopped clawing at his face. Another halted as well. The last, that shortie, bit with cold, phantom teeth deep, but he kept working as he laid the body into the hole and reached for the second.
By the time he wrapped the second up in a shroud, all but one had stopped attacking. Midway through the third, he glanced up and saw them again. Three figures—holding a fourth back. Watching him, now.
“My name is Nailren. I am an adventurer of The Pride of Kelia. I did not kill you. I did not mean to steal from you—well, I didn’t think you were here. I’m burying you since there’s a reason for it.”
He spoke it in as clear and carrying a tone he could, and then wrote it on the dirt in the open campsite. If they understood, they gave no reaction, but he wondered what they sensed.
Deed mattered more than word. They must have been able to tell what he was doing. Four bodies lay in the graves he had dug. Not beautiful burials, no caskets nor anything else, but he pulled out a piece of wood and wrote on it.
“Estwhile.”
He put it on the young man’s grave and swore he saw the ghost peering down, as if reading it. Nailren stood back, and now four pairs of eyes were on him, and it was silent.
“I know you’re dead. This is all I can do. Do you have…names? Is there anything else I can do before burying you?”
Silence. Nothing. They seemed to waver in place, then cast about uncertainly, and he realized—
They can’t see me. On a hunch, Nailren bent down and touched the young woman’s leg through her shroud. Instantly, he heard a breath in his ear. No scream, but a voice. Mournful and also relieved.
“Enla Estwhile.”
“Ah.”
Nailren shivered, but without the same cold of animosity. He picked up another piece of wood and wrote swiftly. He put it there and saw the ghost move back. Then the second—the young man spoke.
“Robel Estwhile.”
The third.
“Jordien Calmec. Fiancé.”
Oh, now Nailren saw it. Brother, sister, fiancé. The last corpse he touched must have belonged to their guide, or perhaps protector. Or family? He waited as he touched the leg and gazed up.
He saw three ghosts, two of them related, one the man, standing there, no longer grey, but pale-faced. Bloodless and dead. Nailren turned his head and saw the short woman sitting there. She wasn’t like them.
Her face was rotted, but no longer as monstrous as before. Her eyes blazed at him, and she said nothing.
“Your name?”
Silence. After a minute, Nailren let go, and the figure sat there, head bowed. He grabbed the shovel.
After he had buried the four, Nailren realized the sun was rising. This had taken him all night. The Gnoll yawned, then stood there and saw four…shades milling about. It was hard to see them as the sun rose, turning their images, their memories translucent. Perhaps they were forgetting what they’d looked like. Perhaps you changed, like the shortie over there.
“…Damn it. They’re not fading away.”
He’d hoped they would. All this work was supposed to lay their spirits to rest, but Nailren got it. If someone stabbed him in his sleep or murdered him in his bed, he wouldn’t just up and quit because he had been given a grave.
However, perhaps he’d gotten through to them. They might have realized he wasn’t the murderer based on how he had treated their corpses. At the very least, their rage might be abated by having a marker, though he thought the short woman was nursing a lot more rage than the rest.
Nailren wondered about all of this.
“Your camp was overturned. Someone did steal from you; food I suspect. But you didn’t haunt them. Why? Because you didn’t know how? Or is there a waiting period for this kind of thing? Or were you all [Mages] or…is this what the New Lands is going to be like?”
Burying the dead. Respecting their remains. Nailren grinned wearily.
“I can do that. It might make it harder to be a bastard, though. Fairer. Well, my job is done.”
He knew the Gnolls waiting to go with him to Goisedall were probably all saddled up and hoping he wasn’t haunted. Nailren turned, rubbing at his weary shoulders, but he felt relieved. As if he’d done, if not a good thing, then the right thing.
He was walking away from the camp and four graves when Nailren closed his eyes and rubbed at his face.
“…Theikha is going to pull my ear off. Argh!”
He turned, stormed back, and had the impression he scared the hell out of the four ghosts. Nailren stomped into the camp, cast around, then snatched up a few fragments of the canvas he’d burned. Nothing here was actually worth anything…he spotted a bent spoon on the ground and picked it up too.
Four cold presences appeared at his back, and Nailren spun.
“I get that you’re dead. It seems highly unpleasant. If this is what happens to people if they can’t become undead or they’re not buried properly, I’m going to make sure they bury me. But—you’re dead. I’m sorry, but if it’s between this or floating here forever, I can take you with me. Bring you somewhere where you can be put to rest. That’s the offer. If this is worse, scream at me. If not—be nice.”
He had no clue if he was making sense to them. Four ghosts stood around him, and Nailren took a step back. He warily began to walk away—and stopped.
A young man stood in the grass in front of him, hands in his pockets, downcast but relieved. Light played across faintly red hair, and he lifted a hand. Then—without a flicker, a moment—light shone off of a pair holding hands. A young woman and a man five years older, perhaps, who smiled at him, relieved. Nailren’s eyes opened wide, and the Gnoll stopped.
They gazed at him once, straight at him in a way he’d never forget, as if they saw him entirely for the first time and more that he would never know. Then the sunlight passed through all three, and they were gone.
Gone—and there was no chill in the air, no cold, no ghosts. Just three graves, names, and his surety they had been bound to this land in some way until they’d let go of it.
Then…he couldn’t tell you what came next. Nailren slowly breathed out until a cold wind blew across the back of his neck, and he turned.
A short woman was standing there, face miserable, eyes locked on that image, but her hands were clenched into fists, and she met his gaze. Just once. She vanished, but the chill passed over him as he held the bent spoon up.
“Alright then. I can’t promise I’ll find who killed you, but it beats boredom. If you stab me again, I’m tossing this in a river. Come along, then.”
Nailren tied the canvas scrap to the spoon, put it in his belt pouch, and set off. After a while, he began humming and couldn’t tell if that was insulting or fit the moment. His head rose, and he sighed as he muttered—
“I’d better figure out how to make that board Joseph was talking about. Because I’m not doing a guessing game again. Goisedall—argh, I never explored that tower!”
He had time. The Gnoll smiled as he set off along his long and strange roads. With a new companion.
 
[Ghostspeaker class obtained!]
[Ghostspeaker Level 7!]
[Skill – Supernatural Sense obtained!]
[Skill – Item: Locus of Connection obtained!]
[Skill – Minor Resistance: Spirits obtained!]
[Skill – Clear Statement (Spirits) obtained!]
[Skill – See Ectoplasm obtained!]
 
He grinned that next morning—until he realized the weird, glowing residue was all over him. And his tent. And—
It turned out ghosts were like snails.
