“Too risky. I’d want a team of twenty or more given how many are in a pack. You’d have to lure the rest away, isolate one…and I’m not convinced their hides would sell well outside of novelty. Their skin’s so rough…”
“I bet you Shedrkh could do something with it.”
“Honored Shedrkh can do anything. But only he can do it. So what’s the point? It’d be a fun hunt, though. If we find more Gnolls, are you down for it, Nailren?”
The [Chieftain] eyed the Landsharks and shrugged as they tore north again, after more prey.
“Not the most interesting, yes? But I’d be down to try it once. We’ve got some time. Anyone want to stop by the clam plains and see them? It might make good travel rations.”
Everyone agreed, and Bekr stroked at his chin hair.
“Sounds good. Do they dry well with salt? I like clams now.”
 
——
 
Exploring was Nailren’s biggest obsession with the New Lands. No one knew what was out here, so the joy he got from hunting and living like his forebears was nothing to documenting the place. He was marking down notes on his map as he stood on top of a huge, rocky hill that he suspected had come from the bottom of the ocean floor.
Or maybe it had been created when Archmage Kishkeria lifted this place? It was hard to say what magics had created the New Lands’ unique and varied geography. He’d talked to Drowned Folk who claimed the true bottom of the ocean floor could be just…sand. Flat sand and pitch-blackness. This, on the other hand, was a surprise each time you crested a hill, and he felt like if the Archmage of Eternal Grasses had done any of this intentionally, she’d made this place interesting on purpose.
“More damn ruins. Not even the same architectural style as last time. There’s no way so many were so close together. Unless…hm.”
He was staring into the distance with a glass telescope at a new style of ruins, which he was trying to copy down with brief sketches in his journal using charcoal. They had a vaguely…well, he wanted to say Drake design, but that was only because of how blocky they were. Strong geometry, but also these exposed columns that held up the building—most broken, but he could see where they should be.
Drakes didn’t go for that in his experience. He’d seen evidence of their forts: blocky walls with no open space save for arrowslits. But these? They were set in a valley of sorts, with pinkish foliage on the ground and reaching upwards, but not trees. Giant, living…well, he had no word for them. Some kind of organism that built on itself without the ordinary need for leaves, trunk, and roots he was used to.
He’d love to go that way, but it was Landshark territory, and he’d want backup if he were doing an adventurer thing. It went into his notepad for now; he was scouting, and then he’d have a pick of things to do.
Assuming, of course, someone didn’t beat him to the punch.
“Nailren! Contact with other explorers!”
—And there it was. The Gnoll turned, having already seen Kelthe riding at him fairly hard. He had a shortbow that was his primary weapon of choice; Nailren could use a lot of weapons, but it and some standard steel arrows took care of most threats if you hit them in the head. Liscor’s dungeon had been fairly nasty for his team at the time, but here…
“Trouble?”
“No, we just saw them off, but I was thinking we tail them just in case they were lying. They’re heading east fast—a bit north of us. Can you see them?”
He could not, but then, the ground rose, and he could imagine they’d passed into the highlands where a bunch of those annoying sucker-feeders lived. Nailren slid down the rocks, and Kelthe gave him the breakdown.
“They said they’d been out here twelve days before us.”
“Fast. Drakes?”
“Yup. Eight of them, adventurers—well, they say adventurers, but they looked more like former Watch to me.”
“Hostile?”
“Nope. Practically fell over themselves begging for directions and food when they saw us. I was worried they would jump us for our food, but we had the salted venison, and they scarfed it down. Poor bastards—we shared our water with them too and pointed them at the watering hole. Was that too much?”
Nailren shrugged.
“If they can even find it again, it’s just a watering hole. More starvers?”
Kelthe pulled at her ears, seeming mildly flabbergasted.
“I don’t get it. They must not know how to hunt…”
“They don’t have our ears or noses, Kelthe. Think about it. They’re lost, they run out of supplies, and then they start panicking. Corusdeer bolt the moment someone sneezes at them—which was it?”
Kelthe pointed northwards.
“They got lost. They were heading straight for the nearest ruins with enough food, they thought—but their bags of holding died, and then they lost most of it to pests. Moths, they said.”
“Face-Eaters?”
“Nope. Just regular nasty ones. Got all into their grain, and I got the impression they dumped it rather than winnow and salvage. They thought they’d hunt, and they got some kills, but they were so busy searching for the ruins they thought they’d spotted they lost their orientation. By the time they realized they’d run out of food even if they got to the ruins—well, they had the good sense to turn back when they did. They were looking pretty thin. But they had their horses. Half their horses.”
Nailren shuddered as he imagined the sight, which wasn’t hard. He’d run into three groups himself, and only one of them had seemed prepared for this kind of situation.
“What a disaster. I bet they’ve dumped their gear too. How rich did they appear?”
“Not very. Not worth scavenging in my opinion. On the plus side—they gave us some coins for the meat. It’ll be clams again though, unless we find something worth eating.”
“Bekr will be so upset…”
The two laughed about that, and then Nailren scratched at his chin. He hadn’t decided how charitable he wanted to be with people he might meet in the New Lands. Or how greedy. They were playing it by ear with each group, and so far, the Gnolls had just pointed them back towards the city of Goisedall or shared some supplies or information. But intelligence—both literal and figurative—was vital here. He was having fun, but it occurred to Nailren that there’d be people aplenty soon. He growled at Kelthe.
“We might want to find a good place to stake out. This one’s not too far from these new ruins I was looking at, but it’s in Landshark hunting territory, so I don’t like it.”
“Agreed. Let’s see if Cuska found a better spot up north.”
 
——
 
Cuska had returned by the second day, and she brought news, though only she had come back.
“We found a watering hole up north as well; nice, lovely lake filled with something nasty, I just bet. But, uh, everyone else is still up there. Jorr, the idiot, did the thing he’s not supposed to do. Take a guess, Nailren?”
“He drank the water?”
“He drank the water. He’s been spraying for hours. I think I can still smell it.”
Bekr looked up from the clam chowder they were remaking.
“Cuska. I don’t need to imagine that!”
“Tough! I could smell how far he got! We’re checking to see if we need to do more with the water than just boil it; I’d love it if we didn’t have to waste alchemical ingredients on it.”
There was a pricey little tonic you could buy that would let you drink even fairly stagnant water without risk; it was an adventurer’s fallback, and Gnollish tribes kept it around. But Nailren agreed it wasn’t what you wanted.
“Is it better than here, Cuska? I saw another set of ruins, so that’s two in range…”
She gave him a toothy grin. She had a City Gnoll’s accent, like him, and didn’t end her sentences with ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
“This spot’s good, Nailren, hey? There’s a huge plains area west of there—just the kind of spot any tribe who wants grazing land desires. More importantly, it’s out of the Landsharks’ hunting range. There’s also what looks like some kind of broken tower not a stone’s throw away from the lake. Interested?”
He was, very. Nailren agreed to pack up and move to the lake, though everyone agreed they’d better stock up on water in case it wasn’t going to work out. They were telling Cuska about what they’d seen and the Drake group when she sombered.
“Ah—we ran into some dead people.”
“What? Starvation?”
“Nope. Small camp. Four tents—some gear trashed about, but scavengers had gotten to it first. They were badly decomposing, so I can’t say how long, but it was a fight. One of them was knifed in their sleep. Two more got arrows, and the last—I think it was sword cuts, but I didn’t check that close.”
The first murders in the New Lands they’d heard of. Nailren put down his bowl, frowning.
“For food or…? What species?”
“Human, and I don’t know. Don’t worry, everyone’s mounted a double watch, and Jorr’s not with the main group. He’s camped away, so if they’re only paying attention to him—thought you’d be interested, Nailren.”
He rubbed at his chin. He didn’t like that.
“Sounds like a [Rogue]. Few people have the guts or ability to stalk someone and knife them in their sleep. Lower-level though, or they’d have just killed all four? Four? One per tent?”
At her nod, he hmmed.
“We could use the tents if they’re good material. I know it’s grisly, but I’ll take a look and see if I can get more. Oh, and let’s put out some of that fishing line at night for tripwire. A permanent spot sounds best.”
That was his call, and everyone else agreed, so they went to sleep that night with a few more perimeter traps. Nailren slept easily, aware that if he heard the wrong noises at night, he’d wake up instantly.
He was a [Clandestine Chieftain of the Arrow], after all. This wasn’t his first experience camping or fighting in the wilds or against hidden foes.
This was Nailren’s life two months after the Winter Solstice. Enjoyable, but not carefree; an explorer in the New Lands of Izril.
The visions started after he deconstructed those damn tents.
 
——
 
It was a simple job; the camp was a forty minute ride from the lake, which was ideal. It had good high ground, a concealable basin they might use if they didn’t want the attention, the water seemed good—though obviously don’t drink it, Jorr—and it was indeed out of Landshark territory.
Save for the dead travellers, there was no immediate threat, so Nailren had gone out to investigate and salvage the tents because they were good material.
They were still up and stained a bit with blood, but Cuska had removed the bodies from the tents—scavengers had already gotten to them. Nailren grimaced at the foul odor and glanced at the corpses.
Oddly shriveled. He bent down and saw familiar circular sucker marks on the corpses.
Those damn sucker-things. Must have bled them dry, and then I doubt they’re as tasty to anything else. He saw yellow flies buzzing around and bent to do the grisly inspection work.
There wasn’t much to see other than a few interesting things Cuska had missed. The wound was atrophied on the back, but it was rough, and there were two stabs—Nailren guessed the victim had screamed, which suggested inexperience on the stabber’s side and the lack of an enchanted blade.
Secondly, the arrows were Human as well. He knew that because he checked the fletching and the construction didn’t read to him as Drake or Gnollish. Fun fact: Drake [Fletchers] often hid a tiny number along the fletching for the Watch to use in identifying the arrows if they were made by a bigger producer in a Drake city. Gnolls also preferred a different, more slender type of arrow, and this was a cruder, thick-shafted arrow.
Maybe it’s some city or tribe I don’t know, but it doesn’t feel like it. No clues from the one who got stabbed. Sword, probably. Tents…yeah, we can use these.
He worked in silence, electing to just cut the tents apart and bundle the fabric up. It was some kind of cotton that he suspected had been enchanted; it might mildew quickly, but it was good for a lot of things. Bandages, shelter, toilet paper…
He took it down to the lake, gave it a good wash with some boiled water, even added some soap from a ball he’d brought, and that was that. Nailren was hanging them up to dry on a little clothesline made of a few sticks and twine when he saw someone out of the corner of his eyes, watching him.
A gray Human woman.
He spun and had an arrow nocked to his bow in a single moment, dropping the sheets. But when he pointed at her—there was no one there.
In situations like these, Nailren didn’t say ‘hello’ or ‘is anyone there?’. He cupped one paw to the side of his mouth, howled, then held his ground.
Jorr and three other Gnolls were there within minutes, and they advanced with Nailren, sweeping the area and sniffing the air. But there was no scent of anyone being there. Nor did they find tracks where the woman had been standing.
“Grey, about five-foot-five—Human. If you see anything, call it out.”
Nailren wasn’t shaken. He suspected he was being watched, and he didn’t pretend he was lowering his guard, not for a second. Rather, he instantly had every member of The Pride alerted, and no one moved around in a group under three.
The sheets went into one of Nailren’s packs. He put them away, then joined the others scouting for food—fishing in the lake. He was more on alert this time, so when the next vision occurred, he spotted it instantly—and realized what it was.
Nailren was casting a line into the waters, trying to nab some of the fish that were definitely in there, and peering into the semi-brown liquid when he saw a face gazing up at him.
Male. Young, mid-twenties at most. Face grey, standing at the bottom of the lake.
“Tribes!”
He leapt back, and everyone whirled. Jorr raised a hunting spear, and Nailren pointed.
“There! In the water—”
Gone the moment he looked again. Of course the man was. Who could stand at the bottom of a lake? That was stupid…stupid. And Nailren, panting, realized he knew that face.
“The dead travellers.”
Well—great. Just great. The other members of The Pride of Kelia turned to Nailren, and he rubbed at his face.
 
——
 
He saw a third dead traveller as he was having dinner. Nailren turned from eating some of the fried fish and saw a man sitting at the fire, next to Kelthe. This time, he very calmly and very slowly called out.
“Kelthe, to your right. Anyone see that?”
Everyone’s head turned, and Nailren saw the figure vanish before anyone turned his way. He saw them glance at him and reached for his fried fish.
“Great. Either I’m under some kind of super magical effect—or I’m snapping.”
