And I think worse is coming. Nailren hand-signed that to Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl looked alarmed. She glanced over his shoulder and wrote.
They’re starting to not disappear, Captain Nailren.
One of them was standing behind Nailren and not vanishing, even when watched. The Gnoll sighed.
“I know.”
Each one of the four ghosts was…different. The youngest man would repeat his name, ‘Estwhile’, again and again, and persist for ages. The younger woman was the one who kept screaming, even though the short, older woman was the instigator. The man, who Nailren suspected had been a fiancé or partner to the younger woman, was the most silent.
But Nailren had the distinct impression that the most aggressive one was the five-foot-five woman who’d been stabbed to death. Her face seemed to snarl when it appeared, usually right in front of his, and he learned to snarl back whenever he saw her.
“Get lost, would you? I’m not easy prey.”
He was a pragmatic Gnoll, and he didn’t respect these damn mind games they were playing, or the screaming. His solution to them popping up and yelling at him?
Earplugs. He had some candles he melted into wax and stuffed them into his ears. Problem solved! Nailren was trying to fish in the pond, wondering if there were monsters down there or something hidden at the bottom, when he saw the older woman appear behind him.
Her mouth was open, exposing rotted teeth, and her eyes held that unearthly glow of the dead. Nailren’s face refused to change. He scrutinized her black hair and the rot that had eaten into her features.
Poor Humans. Murdered while trying to explore. Adventurers? He just didn’t know why they were taking it out on h—
The hand seized his head and pivoted as the cold numbed his fur. Nailren struck out with a howl, but his paw just felt frozen air and then—
His head was underwater, and he was flailing at the air. The Gnoll kicked and struck, but the force holding him down had no body he could hit. He was drowning—drowning—
“Nailren!”
One of the others had seen him go under and yanked him out of the water. The Gnoll spat water out, gasping, and crawled away from the lake. He whirled—and the female ghost was gone. But then the Gnoll felt his fur truly rising and saw Bekr was gazing in horror at him.
“Thanks. What? Am I bleeding?”
“Your fur.”
It was frozen along the back of his neck where she’d grabbed him. Then—Nailren needed answers right now.
 
——
 
The emergency strike team of ghost-specialists were three [Witches], Valeterisa, and Joseph. Everyone stared at Joseph, but he folded his arms.
“Someone’s got to be here from the Earth squad.”
Nailren raised his brows. He knew Joseph, but of the Earthers at the inn…he wasn’t Nailren’s first choice. The Gnoll thought for a moment and frowned.
“Why not Imani?”
“She, uh—she said that she’d rather fistfight a Rock Crab than get involved with ghosts. But I have some of her notes!”
People were taking this very seriously now that Nailren had been put in mortal jeopardy. And the Gnoll emphasized to the group in the [World’s Eye Theatre] how bad this was.
“Their touch is cold enough to create ice. I can feel…hands on my fur.”
He shuddered. It was like being grabbed by frozen flesh, externally and internally. A cold pressure on his heart—he snapped.
“I need help now.”
“You need magic. There are ways to dispel or combat these beings, Gnoll Captain. Short of that, you must fashion a warding and charms.”
Mavika leaned forward, eyes narrowed, and Nanette nodded urgently.
“Shaman Theikha’s prepared several totems for you to create. She says you know how?”
“I can carve them, but I have little magic or affiliation with a tribe, even if magic remained here. What else?”
“Salt circle. You put some candles down and draw a circle in salt. Not a hexagram or pentagram, though. That’s fucked. Don’t break the salt, and make them good candles that don’t blow out.”
The [Witches] gave Joseph a look, and he hunched his shoulders defensively.
“Listen, I’m going off movies, but we have these stereotypes for a reason! Also, if you spill salt, toss some over your shoulder. Maybe it blinds them or something.”
At this point, Nailren was willing to try anything. He snarled again as claws dug into his shoulders.
“We don’t have that much—argh! I’ll try. [Witches]?”
One of the [Witches], Agratha, had a helpful diagram.
“I have a charm for you to weave out of twigs and twine. Or, ideally, a fresh root in a single piece.”
“We don’t have trees aplenty. I’ll try that. Next?”
Nanette had a sheaf of scrolls she held up for Nailren to see.
“There’s a list of Fetohep’s appeasements—”
“I’ll appease these bastards with a blade. Weapons?”
Valeterisa lifted a hand.
“You have to isolate them first or force them to materialize. There are stones, but, mm. You can’t do that. I could try sending my [Shadow Familiars] to fight them, but I’m rather far. The only thing I have learned from my studies is that light-magic should have an effect. So…stay near the light?”
It turns dark for half of the day. Nailren had observed the ghosts appeared in the shade or shadows, though, so he nodded.
“Any weapons, Archmage?”
“Oh, yes, absolutely! Very effective ghost-slaying weapons that also repulse them and would last in the New Lands without the, um, mana-drain effects observed by so many.”
Everyone turned to Valeterisa, and Nailren’s heart leapt.
“Yes, absolutely, thank you! What is it?”
She beamed at him, delighted.
“Truegold, Captain Nailren.”
Truegold. As in…the rare, expensive metal that you could find in some artifacts and had no market presence worldwide? Nailren made a strangled sound.
“Who’d have Truegold just lying around?”
“We had quite a lot, actually. Um, I wanted some for my materials, but that rude Duke was very insistent about having it all back. You’d imagine they could spare a few dozen…at any rate, Ailendamus has some, and I imagine Noelictus would as well. They do have old undead-slaying weapons. I’ve taken the liberty of writing to them, and I actually did get a response from the, um, Hunter’s Guild? They said an undead-slaying specialist in their ranks knew how to kill ghosts and to, er…”
Valeterisa checked her notes and adjusted her spectacles.
“…Camouflage yourself by removing your lifesigns. Get behind the ghosts if they materialize, and stab them with the brightest thing you can. The expert did indicate this was unlikely to be feasible. Though their backup plan was very unhelpful.”
“What’s the backup plan?”
It felt like someone was trying to pluck the hairs out from his arms one by one. Nailren saw Valeterisa hesitate.
“Oh. Um. To die somewhere where no one will find you and keep from haunting the next person to see you. But no throwing yourself down a well. Or, if you do—put a big rock on top.”
The dark commentary from the Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus and this mysterious expert was what told Nailren he was in trouble. Serious, actual trouble, in fact. He’d never run into a monster he couldn’t kill, but he’d wondered how he’d do if he had to fight an Adult Creler without good weapons. Sometimes, a foe was just beyond you, and this—
This wasn’t good.
“How’s Captain Ylawes doing?”
Nailren tried a strained smile as Joseph waved a hand.
“I’ve got one! Ouija boards. You can communicate with the dead—”
Nanette shot him a withering look and then turned to Nailren.
“They’re passing through deadzones, so it’s harder to say, Captain Nailren. But I think…better? They have a [Battlemage], and Ylawes Byres says he stabbed one.”
“He what?”
 
——
 
Day 45 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Escorting the Terlands back to Goisedall. Stabbing ghosts.
 
Ylawes Byres had gotten the impression the ghosts were avoiding him, despite the initial hauntings. Everyone else in the Silver Swords had been seeing them after the first couple days, but he only saw a few glimpses.
“Lucky you, lad. They’re scaring the beard off me and Dasha. In her case, it’s an improvement, but…we’re freaking out the Terlands.”
Lord Comigen was indeed staring at them over breakfast from a very healthy remove, and Dawil had bags under his eyes as he drank tea gratefully. They were still eating a lot after so much hunger, and Ylawes chewed on his breakfast with substantially more vigor than the others.
“I think it’s the silver. It’s not pure, but my breastplate’s good material. Did Mrsha get back to you with tips?”
“Sure. Anith’s carving a totem-thing, and Rasktooth was making those necklace-charms that the [Witches] suggested, but lad—Falene’s, uh, snapping a bit.”
The half-Elf was no coward, Ylawes knew. She’d fought undead without blinking and had taken on every challenge he’d come across by his side. But she really, really didn’t like Drake hands reaching up in the night and grabbing her.
She was sitting and staring with an expression so intense that no one was willing to sit in front of her. Her eye was twitching as she muttered spells.
“[Light Arrow]. [Lightbeam]. [Light]. [Illumination]. [Flash of—]”
Ylawes eyed her as he scrubbed at his hair.
“I don’t understand it, though. Master Martz, are you sure you’re not seeing any Drake ghosts?”
“Not at all, Captain! But I, uh, I’m rather grateful, if you don’t mind me saying so!”
The [Golemancer] was unnerved by the hauntings, some of which the Terlands had seen, proving the Silver Swords weren’t crazy. It made no sense, though. Ylawes was trying to think it out.
“Team meeting, anyone who doesn’t need rest. We have to get on the move. Why isn’t Martz seeing ghosts? Also, let me know if those charms work.”
As the more ‘sane’ members of the group, he had a discussion with Anith, Pekona, Rasktooth, and Insill as the others slept or just rode blearily. They were headed back to Goisedall, and it’d take at least a week or more to get there, but aside from Landsharks, Ylawes actually thought it’d be a good trip if they could deal with the ghosts.
“Pekona, what are you up to?”
Pekona’s eyes were bloodshot, and she was visibly freaked out. This was apparently very close to ghost stories in her homeland, and she had more to dread; she was writing on a piece of paper as she muttered.
“I’m making talismans from home, Captain Ylawes. Not…real ones, but ones written to ward them off. They had some on cursed swords.”
“Good idea. Anith? Insill? Rasktooth? You look better than the others.”
Insill grinned weakly.
“I guess I’m used to sleeping around danger from when I was on the streets, Captain. You’ve gotta sleep sometime.”
“And I think it’s all very fascinating. Concerning, but it’s not that scary.”
Everyone looked at Anith, and Pekona nearly dropped her piece of paper.
“I saw a Drake staring at me out of the latrine.”
“See? That’s pretty funny, when you think of it.”
Anith smiled, and Rasktooth grinned.
“Yep. Infinitypear, he very scared, but they just staring. When they start poking or biting, I get nervous.”
“Infinitypear…he’s faced down Facestealer without flinching, Rasktooth. I was going to ask about why the undead freak him out.”
Rasktooth shrugged and indicated Infinitypear, who was curled up next to Dasha in a wagon.
“He scared of things he can’t see. Big Landsharks not scary. You pop up and go ‘boo!’ and he scream.”
“That makes a kind of sense. I prefer foes I can fight. Okay, let’s think. Why are we haunted and Master Martz isn’t?”
Ylawes felt like this was a big clue that might be important. Rasktooth scratched his head.
“He take artifacts just like us from dead Drakes. Should be haunted. He really easy to spook.”
They all glanced at the [Golemancer], and Ylawes nodded.
“But he wasn’t. He definitely carried some items—Lord Comigen’s been inspecting them, and I think every Terland’s touched them.”
“Maybe it only affects the first people who steal the thing? Curses work like that.”
Insill suggested, and Anith shook his head.
“No, no. You, Larr, Pekona, and Captain Byres were the ones who saw the Drakes at first. It took a day for the rest of us to see them. If that were the case, it wouldn’t have spread.”
“Ah. So what changed?”
Pekona’s head slowly rose as she finished writing on the piece of paper with an inky brush and met Ylawes’ eyes. She slowly stuck a talisman on his armor, and his mind connected the dots.
“Oh. There’s one thing we took that Martz didn’t, nor did anyone else. And—was the second day when we showed you all the weapons we found?”
Anith’s mouth opened, and Insill softly groaned as Pekona blanched. Ylawes began to see it.
It wasn’t the artifacts from that grave-room. It was the mithril weapons.
But then—again—
Why?
 
——
 
Pekona had a theory. She had put a talisman on everyone’s armor and slipped several into their packs as they were bedding down for the night. The Silver Swords were sleeping away from everyone else, who didn’t want any part of this haunting, and she sought Ylawes out.
He was polishing his armor and sword, though the Graveblade didn’t really need it. It was sharp and magical, even now, the only object he had of true value now his breastplate was torn.
“Captain, if it’s like stories of my home, maybe I know why the ghosts only appeared for the blades. The owners of the weapons weren’t laid to rest. They were undead. But the ones with artifacts—were.”
He glanced up, eying Pekona with surprise.
“Could it be that simple? But the bodies, if there were any, of the weapon-users were in the magic-drain area. If there were ghosts, I’d expect them to be where magic is.”
“I don’t know about that, Captain. But it makes sense to me. If they’re appeased, the dead don’t haunt the living. Mostly.”
He scratched at his head, but he supposed that if you were properly buried, you wouldn’t hold a grudge.
“It’s a good theory, Pekona. Have you been haunted by the ghosts much? I haven’t, and I feel bad about it.”
She blinked and then felt at her body, and he saw she had six talismans pasted onto her armor and even her skin.
“No, Captain. I’ve barely seen any.”
“Oh? Maybe those charms of yours are working, then?”
She seemed gratified by the suggestion and ducked her head.
“Thank you for wearing mine, Captain. Magus Falene and some of the others don’t think they’re valuable.”
She seemed hurt by that, especially since it had taken her hours to do each one. Ylawes sighed.
“She’s grumpy. She’s searching for magical solutions to this—don’t mind her. I’m surprised Dasha was so inconsiderate, though.”
“She’s nice sometimes. Sometimes she’s stubborn if she thinks I’m being silly.”
