“You the boss, Captain. Big place, though. Very easy to sneak up behind.”
They came to the intersection just as Rasktooth said that, and everyone swung their weapons right. Ylawes half-lowered his shield, and Dawil’s hammer dropped slightly.
“Grandfathers. Lad—what the hell is this place?”
A massive corridor stretched ahead of them, wide enough to be a match for Pallass’ 9th floor, and dirt had caved in several sections—but Ylawes still saw the gaps in the masonry and the collapsed pieces of wood and metal. He was no expert, again, but one look at the first pile of debris on a dais gave him a flashback to a mud-filled plain.
Goblins, an army of them, a young woman with a white flag, and in the distance, an army led by a man he had respected, Lord Tyrion Veltras, and his father. And the objects that rained stones at Liscor—
“Siege weapons. Oh my. This is a Drake fortress.”
Falene breathed as the pile of what might have been a ballista or some other weapon of war lay in a heap. Half the corridor was buried by a cave-in—Ylawes saw the lights flickering eerily, and his voice echoed faintly for a while as he glanced back to the smaller corridor ahead of them.
“I—how many barricades do we have, Dasha?”
“Not enough to cover that, boss.”
There was no way to wall this corridor, and Ylawes cursed. But to his surprise…Falene lifted her staff.
“Ylawes, I could cast [Stone Wall].”
“Falene, if you’ve only got one spell, I’d prefer to save it for actual trouble.”
The [Battlemage] was frowning, and he saw a glint in her green eyes.
“No, Ylawes—I’m in a mana-dense zone again. My mana’s replenishing.”
His eyes widened; Anith blinked, and then his [Light] spell brightened.
“So’s mine.”
“Do it.”
She cast the spell, and a wall of stone rose, sealing off the corridor. Falene grinned, and her staff lit up with a glow as the dead crystal began to pulse with light. Dawil crowed.
“We’ve got magic again! Damn, my hammer’s still dead. But wait—Pointy, your staff!”
She was making it pulse, and the [Battlemage] wore a smile of delight.
“It’s reactivated! Archmage Nailihuaile made it for me—some enchantments do that! Even if they’re out of mana, the bindings don’t break! Check your gear!”
Everyone did, but Ylawes’ armor wasn’t back, nor his bag of holding, which had exploded. He sighed, but the Gravesword he held felt colder—and he swore that Infinitypear’s own spear was glittering more.
“Alright, spells free. We’re headed towards that light source. Silver Swords, let’s move!”
Encouraged, they moved down the hallway, passing by a second stairwell that Falene instantly walled off, and found themselves…passing by more dormitories.
“Dead gods, this place is big. Assuming it’s box-like or we’re in one corner, this could have held thousands of [Soldiers]!”
Dawil whispered, but Ylawes was more concerned about the light. It was just out of view at first, a rosy yellow glow…and then he drew closer and murmured.
“No. It can’t be.”
There were two glows. One orange yellow, a dancing color that made the shadows shift on the wall eerily, and the other—a bright blue? And bright as—as—
Day…
The Silver Swords halted in front of the object on the wall and then stared into the room with a kind of awe. Even Falene, who knew magic, was stunned.
“It’s just a—an ordinary—well, it’s not inexpensive. But to see it still active after so long—”
They gazed at the single object burning on the wall like it was a Relic of legends. Infinitypear reached out, and Rasktooth stopped him, but after a look at Falene, Ylawes nodded. The Worker stretched out his hand and gingerly, oh so gingerly, lifted the flaming torch out of the wall socket.
“An Everburning Torch. Golems speak.”
Golemancer Martz was as awed as the rest of them. The bright, smokeless flame that burned from the wooden torch was still aflame. Still aflame after—Ylawes couldn’t imagine it.
Then he gazed into the room, and he did feel his heart skip a beat. Dawil stared in after him and whispered.
“Lad. I think we just hit the jackpot of treasures. And we’ve got a lotta questions about who this fortress belonged to. Because I don’t think this was some low-level fortress. Not if they’ve got…magic windows.”
It was a frame of wood on the wall, fake, in fact. Because there was no real…thing to show behind the wooden frame, just stone. Ylawes had seen the other ones hanging there and thought they were picture frames. But now, he realized they were just out of magic.
What they were showing—what they should have showed was presumably a vision of the outside, or whatever the designers of this place had wanted to project to the claustrophobic, enclosed rooms within. So when Ylawes Byres stared at the bright, blue sea and the white clouds floating above a vision of the ocean…
“A sea fortress. This must have been on the western edge of Izril. Drake or…the magic’s still active.”
He reached out for the frame of wood, and his fingers made the magical image ripple as he touched it. Ylawes brushed a finger against the frame, and then the image morphed.
He jumped as the image changed from one of idyllic sun and sky to a raging thunderstorm. Then there was sound.
Kra-kooom! A classic crack of thunder echoed through the hallways like, well, a lightning bolt. Ylawes grabbed the frame.
“Lad—lad—”
“Falene, silence it! Turn it—”
Pekona slashed the frame in half, and the roaring thunderstorm instantly vanished. Ylawes held the severed frame, and the [Sword Dancer] glanced around as everyone stared at her accusingly.
“What? It was noisy.”
“But it was magic—”
She hunched her shoulders, face going blank, and Ylawes had a memory of Ryoka Griffin. He patted Pekona on the shoulder.
“It’s fine. Good reflexes, Pekona. Let’s—let’s keep going.”
He hoped nothing had heard that sound, but as he stepped back into the corridor, Rasktooth, who’d been glancing around with a lot less interest and wonder than everyone else, spoke.
“Chieftain-Captain Ylawes?”
“Yes, Rasktooth?”
“[Dangersense] just went off.”
The Cave Goblin grinned as everyone stiffened. Ylawes tightened his grip on his sword.
“Got it.”
 
——
 
Something was here.
Rasktooth knew it. He knew it in the way a Cave Goblin knew danger, from the dungeon. Like Facestealer, it was creeping up on him, and he whispered to Infinitypear to stay ready. But the Antinium had lived in the Hive, used to other people thinking and being around him.
Even Captain Ylawes, even Insill, didn’t have the right instincts. But Rasktooth knew.
They were being watched.
He couldn’t tell where, but his guess was they were ahead, given that the adventurers had barricaded everything behind them. He was in the rear with Infinitypear, and he kept his eyes trained ahead of him. They were running into doors now, real doors, and preserved…furniture stuff.
The kind that Rasktooth sometimes found in the dungeon. Nothing valuable like weapons, but Captain Ylawes liked it, and they were arguing about what it meant. Apparently, there were silly things that made it Drake.
Like a hole for their tails where they sat. But the hallway spread out, and there were little intersections and rooms ahead of him. Too many. The Cave Goblin’s eyes narrowed.
Far away, past the shadows the [Light] spells were casting, did he see…?
Anith walked in front of him with a [Light] spell, and Rasktooth swore. He squinted—and saw nothing.
“Captain, there something out there.”
Ylawes believed him, but Rasktooth couldn’t say what. He only felt like it was like Facestealer. A peeking…when he pointed, there was nothing, and Larr’s good eyes and Falene’s magic showed him nothing.
“It watching us. Whenever I blink.”
He insisted it was true, so Ylawes had Larr on overwatch. Rasktooth sat on Infinitypear’s shoulders, staring, staring…
He blinked his eyes deliberately, and Larr glanced sideways at an exclamation from another room. Infinitypear made a sound.
“Something moved.”
The Antinium had no eyelids to blink. Rasktooth whispered.
“Where?”
“Long way down the corridor. It put its head up and down. Brother. It was fast. I’m…not scared. I cannot be, but I do not like it.”
Rasktooth patted Infinitypear’s head.
“We got Captain Ylawes. Larr…”
“I heard. I didn’t see it, and I don’t smell it. I didn’t see anything.”
Rasktooth glared at the Gnoll, and the [Ranger] put up one paw.
“Okay, fine. I believe you.”
This time, Ylawes stood and thought for a long moment. He turned to Falene.
“Can you check?”
“[Detect Life] gets me nothing, Ylawes. [Detect Death]…ah.”
She made a faint sound and squinted. Rasktooth felt all the hairs on his neck rising. He lifted his crossbows, and Falene breathed.
“There are six of them. Four where Rasktooth pointed, two in that room four doors down. Humanoid. I don’t…humanoid.”
Everyone tensed. Ylawes’ breath was calm, though, calm in a way Rasktooth liked.
“Okay then. I want a wall spell blocking their exit. Anith? [Repulsion Barrier] on that doorway. Master Martz?”
“Oh, Terlands—y-yes?”
“Golems will run there. Whatever’s in there they block or kill. Three of them, three of us. Me, Dawil, and Dasha engage. Pekona, don’t let them get to the second row. You and Infinitypear support us—Insill and Larr, I want shots of opportunity. We rush in.”
“If we had a Tripvine Bag, I’d get them, lad. Just one thing I can throw—”
Dawil growled as the [Mages] tensed. Rasktooth swore he saw a head rise…Infinitypear clacked his mandibles together repeatedly. Ylawes Byres smiled like a Raskghar.
“Falene, on my mark, [Stone Wall]. Then throw a [Fireball]. Three. Two. One—”
The moment the [Stone Wall] rose, the watchers knew they’d been made. One leapt and almost got over it before it snapped upwards and trapped them. The other two came out fast. Fast. They were underneath the [Fireball] and charging as the other two leapt out of the hallway before Anith’s spell could block them.
Rasktooth had never seen this kind of undead before. He knew Ghouls in the dungeon, even Bone Crawlers who hid on ceilings. Never…
A mask of flesh and two glowing blue eyes blurred as it crouched, then leapt from wall to wall. He tracked it—fired with his crossbows, one, then two.
Missed. It bounded at him, then saw Anith’s light arrows streaking at it and—dodged. It moved behind a doorframe for cover, then burst out again. Undead, grinning at him. A Drake’s skull and long, slashing claws—
Pekona saved them. The [Sword Dancer] whirled into the undead, and it tried to dodge, then the two were locked together as she pursued it back and forth. The other four were fighting, trying to get around Ylawes and Dawil, but the [Knight] shouted.
“[Shield of Valor]! [Challenge of the Knight]!”
They leapt past him, but his shield grew and caught one of them, which he rammed into a wall. It fell, dazed, and Dawil was on top of it, hammering down on the figure. The other spun to attack Ylawes—leaving two for Falene and the midranks.
“I’ve got it! Insill, flank it! I’ve—”
The skeleton-mask slid under one of Dasha’s axe swings and slashed at her cheek with a claw. Only Insill’s stab of daggers made it back off. It twisted its head as Larr fired an arrow, and Infinitypear’s voice was uncertain.
“[T-Tidal Jab]!”
The simple spear stab drew the undead closer to the spear, but it yanked back and stumbled as Dasha hacked at its leg. Rasktooth fired again.
This time, the skeleton-Drake caught a glancing blow to the skull that skewed its mask up, revealing yellowed teeth in the grinning skull. It leapt forwards as Anith shouted.
“[Light Ray]!”
The beam of light caught the undead full-force and vaporized its bones—or should have. Instead, it saw the beam of light as it leapt in midair—split apart into two sections of bones—
The lower half charred as it hit the spell, and the upper half landed on the floor. It flung itself at Poke Duo as Rasktooth dropped his crossbows, drawing a dagger, and Infinitypear flinched backwards, stabbing—
“[Wind Orb], [Thunder Volt], [Thunder Volt], [Flamespray], [Force Orb], [Light Arrow Volley], [Ice Spike], [Ice Spike], [Ice Spike]—”
Falene blasted the undead out of the air and into a wall, then hammered it nonstop with spells as Rasktooth lowered his daggers and opened his mouth. He swivelled right and saw a pile of steaming bones where the last undead had been. She gave him a slightly superior look, and Rasktooth and Infinitypear regarded each other.
Miss Falene was now the coolest Silver Sword. Why did Dawil call her Pointy Ears when she could do that?
 
——
 
By the time Ylawes downed his undead, the battle was over. He whirled and shouted.
“Anyone hurt? Any more—?”
Falene had gotten two with the others’ help, and Dawil had finished his off. He kicked bones apart, cursing.
“Damn thing’s fast! It bit my leg! Ow! Didn’t get through the armor, but that hurts! What the hell was that?”
“Some kind of stalking undead. Faster than Ghouls.”
Maybe not as sturdy, but Ylawes hadn’t expected their speed—or their ability to dodge. Ghouls bounded at you fast, but they never backed up. He exhaled hard.
“Wait, there’s one trapped on the ceiling. Falene, keep it there.”
The last undead actually was pinned by the [Stone Wall] spell and wriggling like mad. Everyone gathered around, including Master Martz—he was very shaken, and his two Golems hadn’t been able to keep up with the undead at all.
“Wh-what kind of undead is it, Captain Ylawes?”
He had no idea. Pisces might have known, but all Ylawes got was ‘undead skeleton that wears a flesh mask’. Which…you know, that said too much.
“Some kind of stalker-undead. Nasty. I’d put it at a high-Silver threat. If there were packs of them, I’d say Gold-rank. We got them, though. Nice work, Rasktooth. Falene, keep up that [Detect Death] spell.”
He thought it was a fine encounter, but the rest of the adventurers appeared downtrodden. Pekona had actually killed her undead solo, but Anith was shamefaced, and Dasha, Insill, and Larr seemed embarrassed. It was Infinitypear who spoke up.
“Captain Ylawes, I am ashamed to report that I am a failure. I was uncertain in the face of danger and did not stab my foe. I must be punished.”
Ylawes turned to the Bronze-rank duo, astonished.
“Infinitypear, you’re not even Level 20. The fact that you held your ground and did what you wanted was enough. Falene got the monster.”
“Yeah, and it dodged all of us. Fat lot of good we are.”
Dasha rubbed at her cheek that the skeleton had slashed at. Dawil put his hammer on his shoulder.
