The visions began after a month and a half of what he could only describe as bliss. Truly, incredibly, and stereotypically, Nailren Fletchsing thought the New Lands were a Gnoll’s dream.
All he did was hunt. He loped across the ground, or rode if his feet got tired, and everything he saw was fair game. There were no damn Drakes asking if he had a Charter B-class Hunting Permit and checking his passport nor other tribes counting how many pelts he brought in.
It was just…open. Nailren stood in a plain filled with strange, clacking clams and spread his arms and turned in a circle, seeing no cities nor other inhabitants. He howled and, in the distance, heard the faintest howl from some of the former members of the Pride of Kelia, the team who’d come with him.
That was all. The Gnoll gazed around and realized that this—this was what Gnolls had lost.
Isolation. A place big enough to run about without encountering someone else. He could just imagine leading a herd of sheep across the landscape for grazing. Well, here was pretty rocky and—he blinked.
“Ow.”
One of the clams had enterprisingly tongued itself over the ground and bit his foot with a surprisingly strong grip. Nailren yanked it off his foot after using a dagger to pry its mouth open. The clam clacked at him. He grinned at it.
“Lunch.”
 
——
 
It was a stereotype, mind you. Some of the other Gnolls who’d journeyed into the New Lands of Izril found Nailren at their meeting spot, experimentally prying open clams and flicking their meat into a pot.
“Hoi, Nailren. Got a good haul. Bagged another Corusdeer. I swear, every herd in Izril came this way.”
“They can sense open space, same as us. Why’d you have to go and shoot it, though? Now we’ve got to eat Corusdeer meat tonight.”
Nailren was in a good humor as he stirred the pot. One of the two Gnolls, a former ‘Silver-ranker’ named Bekr, just growled.
“Beats all this seafood. Come off it—what’re you cooking now?”
“Clams. I found tens of thousands lying in this prairie over that way. If they’re edible, it’s food for years—assuming no idiot overharvests them.”
“Clams? They look gross. They’re like a hollow rock, no?”
Bekr was instantly upset by the notion of the seafood, which made Nailren snort and toss some of the empty shells at him.
“You cub. It’s food. Do you think your ancestors took a look at a snake and said, ‘I can’t eat that’?”
Bekr bristled and growled as some of the other Gnolls hauling the Corusdeer over laughed.
“You don’t even know if it’s edible!”
“I will in half a minute. Are we moving our camp or same place?”
“Hrr. Same place? Stripping it down to move seems so pointless. We’ve explored the north, but there’s so much more to see—”
Nailren nodded, and the other Gnolls squatted down. Half of them seemed like they were getting a bit homesick, like Bekr clearly was, while the other half had Nailren’s excitement.
Here was the stereotype: every Gnoll, especially City Gnolls that Nailren had met, had the image of ‘living free’ for two or three months. Going out, hunting for your food, living off the land, and so on. Even Gnolls in the tribes got the itch; they were usually the ones in big tribes where you didn’t have the same need for everyone to share jobs.
The thing was…it wasn’t for everyone. There was a reason some Gnolls had lived the life of wandering nomads, raising herd animals, and then taken a look at a Drake city and gone ‘yep, I’m sold’ and never gone back.
Part of it was how you had to live as a Gnoll in Drake lands of the south. With only half a continent, you ran into other tribes and Drake cities far too often, and it got…political. It got nasty, whether it be two Gnoll groups quarreling over grazing and hunting, Drakes banning you from ‘their’ land, or even fighting with [Farmers] or villages accusing the Gnolls of stealing—rightly or wrongly.
It was a mess, and if you were on the side of Gnolls, like Nailren, you learned two things:
Firstly, Drakes were petty bastards who’d use every reason to make your life miserable. If you ran afoul of a powerful group like a Walled City, they’d go as far as to sabotage you with their special operatives, or just hit you with the laws and march their armies out. Drakes were the worst.
Secondly—a lot of the time, the local Gnollish tribe had done something wrong. Not what they were accused of, but enough to make the Drakes mad. It took two to dance like Terandrians, and some Gnolls were only too happy to band together under a shared community and brush their own misdeeds under the shared protectiveness they had to develop.
That’s why you had to have people like Nailren. When you had a tribe threatening to go to war with Drakes, mysterious deaths, or anything else—you might beg a big tribe like Hawkarrow or Plain’s Eye or Weatherfur for help. And they might send their own mediators, or, if those big tribes were too far and they needed help fast and discreetly, they put in a request with The Pride of Kelia.
Captain Nailren, Silver-rank-team. He showed up, he drank ale, he even hunted some monsters. And he fixed problems.
Technically, Nailren claimed to be from the Fletchsing tribe, as did his entire team of Silver-rank Gnolls. If you researched the Fletchsing tribe, you’d find tons of Gnolls who’d heard of it or knew a friend who probably had a relative from there or something. It sounded Gnollish.
Fletchsing didn’t exist. It was related to the Hawkarrow tribe, who had formed and sponsored it, but it, like The Pride of Kelia, was purely a convenient disguise. The truth was that Nailren was a kind of roving [Chieftain]—he even had the class. His ‘tribe’ was The Pride of Kelia, and he recruited Gnolls to work with him as the need arose—sometimes as adventurers, sometimes as problem-solvers.
It’s what the Drakes liked to call special operatives, or [Saboteurs], [Infiltrators], [Agents]—Nailren just looked at it like work. Drakes did it, and they got so precious when they realized Gnolls could do it too.
That life was over, now. He had quit. He hadn’t made it a big thing, just de-listed The Pride as an adventuring team and gone to the New Lands. Why? Well, because this was more fun than stabbing Drakes in the middle of a cornfield at night and hiding the body.
This was the dream, and Nailren hadn’t gotten bored of it. He had been one of the first people to reach the New Lands, since he and his team had raced here on horseback, beating even the first settlers with their wagons. They’d driven fairly deep into the lower eastern section of the New Lands—at least, Nailren thought so; there weren’t any maps nor [Scrying] spells, so it was all measuring by eye and geography—and they’d been thriving.
“Okay, anyone got some more herbs or are we still relying on supplies? I’d love to find some salt.”
“Hmph. I’ve got a bunch of those weird squishy wet onions, but I’m not putting them in the pot until you make sure this isn’t poison.”
“No salt from me, but I’ve got a bunch of bone stock from last night. And fat. I was going to use it on the Corusdeer…”
“Tribes, I never thought I’d get sick of eating fresh meat. Please tell me you found something vegetable-based.”
Good-naturedly, the group of six Gnolls began working on meals. Two were gutting the Corusdeer, telling Nailren about their journey north.
“Cuska’s group is striking further north. She says she’s sick of those Landsharks and is scouting out a new spot, yes?”
Nailren nodded amiably. Now they were here, he wasn’t in charge, and The Pride’s members were doing their own thing. However, they were still hanging together, and they’d been doing well—a stark contrast to the vague rumors he’d heard floating about. He checked the pot.
“Food’s almost done. Kelthe, get over here, would you? What’s that Drake city with all the floating puffballs we passed?”
“Uh…no clue.”
“Weren’t they talking about a few groups coming back starving?”
Kelthe came over and squatted down, sniffing the pot. She was a Gnoll with tawny dark brown fur and usually the thinnest Gnoll around. She’d put on some weight, another sign they were living well.
“I remember that. One wonders how, yes? Drakes, I bet.”
Everyone grinned or snorted. Nailren rolled his eyes with good cheer, but the part of him that was more introspective understood. They made it seem easy, but in truth, once a problem-solver, always a problem-solver. There was a methodology The Pride was using that Nailren had drilled into all of them. Which was: never take anything for granted.
Always have a plan or a solution for problems. Never assume you’d just wing it, because maybe you could, but if you couldn’t, what then? So, for instance, Kelthe sniffed the pot as Nailren blew on a spoonful of what he was hoping was a clam chowder’s base.
“Well?”
The female Gnoll took a whiff, then a ginger taste of the soup.
“Smells decent. [Poisontaster’s Tongue] says…needs more salt. Tastes a bit like rocks. Sweet rocks, actually. Are they supposed to taste like that?”
Nailren tried a spoonful himself.
“Hm. It’s pretty close. Maybe a bit more of that stone-taste. You know what’d go well with this?”
“Salt?”
“No, that Drathian stuff. Shoyu or whatever. I suppose otherwise it’s clam chowder. So that’s venison, potatoes, and cream. Unless anyone wants that venison cooked differently?”
The Gnolls glanced at each other. Bekr folded his arms, preemptively sulking because he could tell he was going to be outvoted.
“Sounds good to me—let’s get it made up. Though we’re going to run low on our non-meat ingredients soon, Nailren.”
Another Gnoll warned him, and Nailren grinned.
“We’ll have to resupply at that poofball city sometime. Either that or we go far enough to run into the Drowned Folk or half-Elves on the other side. Bekr, milk?”
“Yeah, yeah. I’m doing it.”
The Gnoll got up and trudged over to an animal grazing on some of the tall, pale yellow grass that seemed to be delicious to them. Bekr fished out a pail and began to milk a cow. Though cow wasn’t the right word; this wasn’t one of the docile creatures that lived all their lives in pens in Drake lands. This was a Longstalker’s Fang heifer, a smaller and more compact cow with orangey fur and horns known as Plainsfollower Cattle. Shebites was her name—well, nickname. Ordinary, mundane in the Great Plains—
She had a saddle on her back, and Bekr rode her around. She wasn’t as fast as the horses, but it was free milk thanks to one of his Skills.
Shebites continued grazing and let Bekr get away with a fresh pail of milk, which he jogged over to Nailren.
“Milk and clams?”
“Shut up, you’ll like it.”
Nailren was busy preparing a sample of what he wanted it to taste like in a bowl. Milk, clams, some venison, and…hm. All they needed now were seasonings. Oh, and more clams.
 
——
 
Everyone liked the clam chowder, including Bekr, who had four bowls. He lay on the ground, refusing to get up, even when Kelthe nudged him with a toe.
“Bekr.”
“I’m full.”
“Bekr, [Shamans] help me, get up and help or I’ll have Shebites sit on you.”
He grumbled like a cub, but then rolled over and began kicking dirt on the fire’s embers with his legs. Kelthe gave up and began collecting entrails from the deer carcass as Nailren rubbed salt into the rest of it.
“I wish we had our damn bags of holding, Nailren. We could skip the salt.”
One of the other Gnolls with a dedicated [Hunter] class, Poinr, growled. Nailren agreed, but added.
“We’re all getting soft. It’s basics for all of us, which means whomever does the supply run had better bring back as much salt as they’ve got.”
“True. I’m glad you told us to stock up from House Ulta first, yes? Or imagine how much the damn stuff would cost. I imagine prices will rise, regardless.”
Briskly, another of the Gnolls was cleaning the skin of the Corusdeer. They didn’t have the time or desire to tan it, but it was worth a bit of coin—it went onto a bundle on one of the horses’ backs, and the female Gnoll grumbled.
“We’ve got seven hides all told. Though I can’t imagine it’ll be worth anything more than a few silvers.”
“Goods are goods. It’s not like we’re aiming to make a profit.”
“True…I’ve gotten more selling some of the things I’ve killed to local [Alchemists] or [Traders] than the meat. Everyone’s convinced every bird, fish, or whatever’s the next Sage’s Grass. Okay, time to wash up. Who will help me clean the dishes? Bekr? Bekr.”
The Pride was disposing of all the scraps of meat far away from their cooking spot, which, incidentally, was not their camp. Because that would lead to predators sniffing around their camp, which was not a fun experience with Landsharks about. Indeed, the Gnolls had been keeping an eye out throughout their meal, and as they began to ride, one of their ears perked up.
“Hm. I think I hear them again. Landshark pack.”
Nailren’s ears weren’t that good, so he went silent—then they all heard that faint cough-roar of the Landsharks. Calmly, but swiftly, they changed tacks.
“Must’ve smelled the Corusdeer. Cover up the rest with that de-scenting cloth, Bekr. Who’s got a cut we didn’t salt?”
“Here. No—wait—this is a good one…here!”
Someone pulled out a fresh piece of bloody venison, and Nailren searched around for a good spot. Rocks were best…he didn’t see any tall ones, so he shrugged.
“Stick it is. I’ve got a few pieces of firewood—someone pass me a few more?”
Kelthe had a longer cut of wood for just this purpose, taken from the thin puffball trees. Far too green to burn, but when Nailren tied it to another piece with a piece of string in a secure knot, it made a seven-foot pole which he planted into the dirt hole someone had dug. They covered it, made sure it wasn’t going to fall over, and then Nailren threw a lasso with a bit of string up.
The piece of bloody meat hung from the top of the pole as the Gnolls checked themselves. Nailren washed his paws, applied a bit of de-scenting lotion that Gnolls used to hide smells—a tool also beloved by criminals—and they moved out.
By now, the Landshark pack was pretty close, and Nailren actually saw them as he and his group rode away, making swiftly through the earth for the pole. He watched as they rippled out of the ground, then circled the pole, snapping at the piece of meat but not quite working out they had to push the pole over to get at it. By the time one of them knocked it over, the Gnolls were over a mile distant, and they watched the group fighting over the meat.
“Shame they’re so damn big or we could take them down for their hides. Their teeth would make good arrowheads too.”
Poinr shook his head.
