The Terlands’ camp packed up and left that very day, Golems marching eastwards, and to Ylawes’ relief, Lord Comigen had a good idea how to navigate back to Goisedall. Ylawes stuffed himself with ravioli until he almost vomited, then lay down with his chest aching and his heart overweary.
A liar, a cheat of honest men—if they asked him on truth spell, he supposed he’d get away with it, but he’d done a lot of lying today. Yet he didn’t feel bad. His stomach just hurt because he’d eaten so much, and all was well.
All was well. Everyone gave him wide-eyed looks, and for some reason, Falene was glaring daggers at Pekona over dinner, but Ylawes was relieved. He tried to envision the road back to Goisedall and what came next, but he was so exhausted he just rolled into a bedroll and slept.
When he woke up, a Drake with empty eye sockets was standing over him with a spear. Ylawes slashed at the legs and rose with a shout—but the figure was gone. When his teammates came out of their tents, he told them what he’d seen, and Dasha paled.
“I thought it was a nightmare.”
The visions began with him, Pekona, Larr, Insill, and Dasha. Then they spread to the rest of the Silver Swords.
 
——
 
Day 42 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Nailren’s good humor. Ghostly investigations.
 
Knowing he was haunted actually made Nailren quite cheerful, at least compared to him thinking he was suffering from Warsights. It wasn’t great, but he explained it to the rather shocked Mrsha (who’d come running as soon as she heard there was a haunting and cool ghosts from the movies and Erin’s story) and Nanette like this.
“It’s a monster, Mrsha, Nanette. I’m an adventurer. They might be troublesome, but this is what I can deal with. My mind fighting against me would be a worse foe.”
“Very practical, Captain Nailren! And we’ll help you with the, uh—uh—are we sure they’re ghosts, Mrsha?”
For some reason, the girls had insights into the supernatural, and Mrsha held up a card.
Do they glow and talk?
“Er…no. Just stare.”
Lame. Erin’s ghosts were different. There’s a deadlands or afterlife or something, and that’s where they’re supposed to be hanging out. She said there used to be ways to, uh, go back and forth as ghosts, but these don’t sound the same. They can’t vanish or do tricks.
Interesting. Mrsha’s suggestions about the life after death being existentially terrifying aside—Nailren had to agree.
“My image of a ghost from stories is different too. These pop up, and I think I feel cold when I touch them.”
“You touch them? Captain, as a witch, I have to warn you—not to do that!”
Nanette was alarmed, and he sniffed, amused.
“I didn’t realize they were real at the time. They’re not very dangerous.”
The rest of The Pride of Kelia disagreed; they were freaked out, and Nanette bit her lip.
“Yet, Captain Nailren. Give us some time to talk to, ah, experts? I think I know what kind of ghost we’re dealing with. You’re most certainly haunted, but by ghasts, I fear. People who bear you a grudge.”
“What did I do? Ah—”
Nailren’s mind flashed back to the tent canvas, and he covered his face with a long, long sigh.
He’d stolen their stuff. Although…he didn’t see why it was such a big deal.
It was only their tents. He hadn’t done the murdering.
 
——
 
That was actually a valid question when you got down to it and the excitement faded. Nanette took time out of her busy schedule harassing Lyonette about the magic wand to help Captain Nailren, and her first question was…
“Why wouldn’t the murderers be haunted? And why have ghasts, assuming that’s what they are, now?”
Mrsha nodded vigorously, and the person they were talking to was almost as excited.
“I have no idea, Nanette, but isn’t it amazing? Did he say what they looked like? Grey…so they’re rotting, then? Are they continuing to rot, or do they just look like how he found them?”
Satar Silverfang was, uh, not as concerned for Nailren’s well-being as she might have been. The [Historian]’s eyes were shining, and she was badgering the two for questions as she wrote all this down—until Theikha shoved her out of the way.
“This is no joke, Satar! Nanette Weishart, you must send word to Nailren, for we have no means to have a [Shaman] travel to him, far as he is. A few tribes may be there, but none have experience with spirits. I, myself, only have the stories to go off of, but they are dire, no.”
“How so, Shaman? And I am talking to magical experts, believe me. Archmage Valeterisa, and I’ll be asking the [Witches] of Riverfarm for their guidance later!”
Archmage Valeterisa thought it was fascinating too, but Theikha was worried.
“These are graverobbed spirits. There are stories of those who stole from our burial grounds in the past and were cursed by the vengeful ghosts. At first, like you describe, in visions which one could ignore, a chill. But the end of the story…ah, ‘he felt their cold claws digging into his flesh, day and night, until his royal court saw the marks each day, and the [Archmage] he had summoned stood by, unable to ward off the Great Chieftain’s spirits. Then came the day they took his eyes, and he begged for mercy but would not return the blade.’ A tale of the [King] who stole one of our treasured axes. Before, presumably, someone else stole it for good.”
Satar began to look worried as Theikha related a very concerning tale. Nanette swallowed.
“So they get stronger with time?”
“Presumably, no? Ask your [Witches], and I shall consult with our [Shamans]. It is a shame Nailren is not a [Shaman] himself. He has some knowledge of how to perform our magic, but only enough to activate certain spells. I shall await your call at dusk with all I have learned, yes?”
Thus began a game of, well, telephone. In which Mrsha and Nanette talked to every magical expert about the phenomenon and acted as Nailren’s fact-finding resource. As intermediaries went…well, they were energetic, but perhaps not the most reassuring group he’d have chosen. Nevertheless, the reactions they provoked were interesting.
 
——
 
Witch Agratha waved a finger admonishingly at Nanette as everyone drinking tea in Witch Eloise’s hut exclaimed.
“Ghasts? No, my dear, I see how you’d think that, but clearly it’s a specter of loss.”
The [Witches] were in uproar about the news, and half of them wanted to question Nailren at once, but then they began arguing what, exactly, he was being plagued by. Because none of them were quite sure.
Margrave Mavika herself landed with her crows, looking as excited and schoolgirlish as Nanette and Mrsha had ever seen her.
“It’s a Haunt.”
“A haunting, certainly.”
“No, Witch Agratha, a Haunt. These spirits of woe and ill numbered legion in days of old. To identify them, we first begin with those who make the air grow cold. This is a task for those who know the oldest ways.”
“Or those with a good bestiary.”
Agratha undercut Mavika with a cheerful thump of a Monster Manual used by adventurers, and the two glared daggers at each other. Nanette tried to get a word in edgewise.
“Identifying the ghost is very important, Witches, but Nailren would like a cure before anything else…”
“Identifying the ghosts is everything, Miss Nanette! You don’t cure a cold with a Feverchill Brew! And cure? Why would we—he should bring them back! Ghosts are an exceptionally useful tool for [Witches]!”
Mrsha’s mouth fell open as she tried to cram biscuits in there with her tea. The [Witches] were all nodding, even Eloise.
“How far away is he? I’ll take them off his hands myself. I just need to figure out how those binding circles went.”
“You want to take his ghosts?”
“My dear, we’re [Witches]. Ghosts, black cats, broomsticks, dancing naked around dodgy spell circles? There’s a reason people still tell stories about this kind of thing. We’ll find a cure if we must, but this—this is a reason to go to the New Lands, if they’ve got ghosts again. I always wanted to kiss one.”
Everyone turned to Witch Agratha. Even Mavika hesitated.
“I—do not recall that in my list of cures or magicks against them. What does that do?”
“Oh, no. I just meant in general.”
“Ah.”
 
——
 
The last magical expert they consulted was not so sanguine about all this. Mrsha and Nanette had considered Pisces, but they had a feeling he’d just give them a whole lot of hoopla, and he was busy in Chandrar anyways.
Rheirgest’s [Necromancers] were fascinated of course, but Elosaith readily admitted they were a bone-focused group. Besides, they all deferred to the real expert: an actual dead person.
Fetohep of Khelt’s eyes glowed golden as he took a moment from—well, Mrsha and Nanette saw the plans being hurried away, and he spun.
“Tombghasts? Your friend is in grave peril, Nanette Weishart, Mrsha du Marquin. He should return the objects at once, then perform rituals of abasement before their remains! It has been long since any such undead roamed this earth in profusion that I know of. I had heard of a disaster in Wistram where fools awoke the same kind.”
“He says they’re only cold and staring, Your Majesty.”
“For now. What do you know of the spectral undead, Nanette Weishart?”
Fetohep sat on his throne, and she had to admit—
“Not much. We talked to [Witches] who wanted to, um, use the ghosts, or trap them, and the Gnolls knew stories of their own dead who haunted people. They want warding totems made, and I’m talking to Nailren later. Do you have any solutions?”
“I shall have a list of appeasement rituals transcribed forthwith. It is less…magical than you would like, Nanette Weishart. I have read of the undead, given Khelt’s nature and my own. But I do warn you: these are not undead like the kind you know.”
Fetohep sat forwards on his throne and indicated his own mummified body.
“They have no flesh. And they grow based on their emotions and other esoteric means. The [Mages] of Wistram were decimated by the ones that sprang forth from a great [Necromancer]’s tomb, and they were the most equipped to deal with ghosts. Few blades not enchanted can harm them. Even magic fails against many breeds of them. [Fireballs] pass through, [Lightning Bolts] merely inconvenience—elemental spells are all but useless against the greater varieties.”
Nanette swallowed, and Mrsha scribbled fast.
That’s not good. How do you fight them then?
“Light magic. Silver blades. Truegold, if it were available, but it is a rare metal. And—[Witches] would know more than I—other rituals. A candle in the dark is worth more than a steel blade in hand. Salt, I believe. Mundane tools are better used against supernatural foes. I cannot linger and give the aid I would want, Mrsha du Marquin, but tell this Gnoll to appease the spirits if possible.”
Fetohep rose; people were demanding his attention. But he spun and pointed a finger at the girls.
“Ah! And do not perform any ill-fated actions.”
“Such as?”
“Tossing objects into a well. Looting the dead—more of the dead, that is. Stay indoors during the witching hour; beware full moons and nights when there is no moon, sites of ill-luck or death, black cats…”
 
——
 
The mix of opinions and takes on ghosts was pretty amusing to Nailren when all of it came back to him, though he got the warning, especially from King Fetohep. The ghosts hadn’t been doing more than the annoying popup trick, though more Gnolls had begun seeing them.
“I don’t have much silver, though I’ve got salt. Now I know the issue, we’re preparing to head back to Goisedall in a few days, Nanette, Mrsha.”
Just in case he needed magical backup. Because if this was a magical issue, then the New Lands were not the place to be. Which made his fur tingle a bit.
The one place where I need magic and there’s not a drop to be seen. Well, it sounds like I have time.
“We’ll get you concrete things to do when we can, Captain Nailren! And—well, um, silver might not be a perfect solution.”
Nanette was bouncing on her toes, seeming excited and worried, and Nailren’s ears perked up.
“Oh? Why?”
“We got in contact with the Silver Swords! They found food, and they explored a dungeon, but now they’re haunted too!”
Nailren grinned ruefully.
“Out of one issue and into another, eh? Where are they bound? Do they still need help?”
“They’re heading to Goisedall as well.”
“Interesting! Then I’ll definitely head back there to meet them. Keep me updated, Nanette.”
He was feeling really good about all this, actually. Spooky ‘ghosts’ or not, who cared? He wasn’t having hallucinations of trauma, and he had three groups of magical experts on the job. Nailren’s good mood continued until he rolled up into his tent, determined to get an actual good night’s sleep now he knew the flickers of movement were harmless.
The rest of the Gnolls were keeping an eye out, and he was spared lookout duty because of the haunting, so he was snuggling into his bed wrap for some quality sleep when the short, female ghost appeared next to his ear and shrieked.
The sound had every single Gnoll in camp racing out with weapons drawn and Nailren’s own shortsword cleaved through a pole in his tent. He sat up, panting, and then, when he realized what had happened, he bit his tongue.
“Stab my [Shamans]—”
He just had to say something stupid right before it got worse.
 
——
 
Day 43 of the Silver Swords’ Journey into the New Lands. Screaming. It gets worse.
 
It turned out these ghosts, ghasts, or angry spirits had voices. Either they’d gotten strong enough or figured out they could do it, because Nailren was suddenly assailed by screaming voices, moaning from gurgling lungs, snarls of rage, or—names.
“Estwhile. Estwhile.”
One of the two Human males followed him, appearing and whispering it in Nailren’s ear. The Gnoll swiped at the figure, red-eyed and snarling. He nearly hit one of the other Gnolls, but they just backed up, fur standing on end.
It was getting worse—fast. Maybe all that talking with Nanette was a bad idea, because Nailren wondered if the ghosts were aware he was trying to get rid of them. The Gnoll girl and witch’s reports didn’t paint a great picture on the other side, either.
“Captain Ylawes’ team is better off than you, Nailren. Apparently, only they can see the ghosts, not the Terlands they’re with. There’s a [Golemancer] they think should be haunted, but he’s doing fine. They see Drakes. Dead ones in armor, holding weapons and looking menacing, but they just got haunted. However, Captain Ylawes is wearing his silver armor, and it doesn’t help—maybe they haunt him a bit less, but it’s not pure enough.”
“I need a solution, Nanette. My ears are going first.”
