"You've got to be bullshitting me," Jessica muttered to herself. She was half shaking in disbelief, half green with envy. But then she thought of how her Awareness skill had advanced twice just moments ago, and realized that this was likely what it meant to obtain the System's highest favor.

The clouds above her rumbled with rolling thunder, but slowly, the sound transformed into a low, echoing chuckle.

Jessica rolled her eyes. She knew what was coming. And she didn't want to deal with it.

"You know, Giantsbane—" the Challenger began.

Jessica held her sword to the side and magnified its size by a few orders of magnitude. Rusty grew from being twice the size of her body to a scale that dwarfed mountain ranges, and with a casual flick, she parted the clouds for a dozen leagues around her, silencing the thunder.

"No, you fuck off. I told you to fuck off then. I'm going to tell you to fuck off now. I've got nothing to say to you. I will have nothing to say to you tomorrow. I'm not going to have anything to say to you the day after that. So stay the fuck away from me. That's all."

To the Challenger's credit, he knew how to take a hint. The skies went quiet aside from more plunging near-corpses and screaming Pathbearers.

Jessica turned her gaze back down and watched as the goblin came to a halt, golden lightning revealing both her and Shiv. She watched intently as a flood of darkness expanded out from the kid's body. Was he going to try stealth? Jessica cringed. The orcs definitely had Diviners with them. He wasn't going to be able to hide and all that. He suspected he wouldn't be able to hide even if there weren't any orc Diviners. He needed to be cleverer than that.

Come on, kid, think a little bit more. Use that fat head of yours. Think! Don’t let these overgrown assholes fuck you over.

"Just wait and watch. I think we haven't seen the fullness of his plan yet."

The sudden intrusion of the other voice made Jessica uncharacteristically flinch and swing her sword in a wide arc. It stopped a finger's length away from Valor's neck.

"Seriously, you love doing this shit, don't you?” Jessica hissed. “Popping up behind people out of nowhere.”

The bastard lich had the audacity to chuckle. "It really is quite amusing. And your Awareness does need some improvement, Legend Hawgrave."

"Yeah, well, here's a skill you can work on too: fucking off like the Challenger."

"Now, now, Bearer," Valor replied amiably, "I am not here to start a fight. No, I am here to observe our pupil and his newest evolution."

Jessica glared at Valor, but briefly turned to glance at Shiv. Then she froze. "Wait. The hells you mean our pupil?"

"There's no need to deny how you feel and what you have already decided." Valor sighed. "As I said, your Awareness needs work. I've been behind you for quite a long time now. I heard you cheering and squealing like a young maiden receiving a letter from her beloved earlier. There is nothing you can do to deny that. Now, shush. Let us watch if he has any more surprises left for us. And himself, I think.”

Jessica blinked. Her face turned red. Her lips pressed together. She looked away from Valor, trying to resist the crushing urge to drive Rusty up through the underside of her chin to bring an end to her shame.
