“But I realized I could just be an [Innkeeper] and serve them food—or I could do that. Meddle. Not in a bad way, but be on their side. I am on their side. And sometimes, I do things that I’m not allowed to do. Things that have consequences. If it matters, Mrsha, you can do anything. If you’re prepared to pay the cost. Do you understand?”
Mrsha gazed at the [Innkeeper], lying on the raft in the middle of the ocean, leaking burnt mana and covered in wounds.
Yes.
“It shouldn’t be you. Lyonette…let her do it. Ryoko, if she’s there. Or…show Ishkr.”
Erin mumbled. She was drifting off, trying to stay awake. Mrsha held a card up as Erin focused on it.
It has to be me. I can’t run from the responsibility. Thank you, Erin. I think you’re the best person in the world. I don’t want to be like you, though. I’m afraid of that.
A familiar smile twitched over Erin’s lips. She chuckled.
“Mrsha. Who wants to be like me? I’m not that cool.”
The Gnoll girl just wiped her eyes. They’d been running for a while. She gently bent over Erin and hugged her as carefully as she could.
You’re the coolest. I have to go. Thank you. I know what I have to do. I’m gonna close the door, okay?
Otherwise, time would flow on. And at least this Erin could rest. Mrsha fumbled in her bag of holding and pulled something out.
Here. Even if you don’t want the potion, take this.
Gently, she raised Erin’s head and put a pillow under it. The [Innkeeper] protested, but sighed as her head lay back. She was falling asleep as Mrsha searched around and slipped into the water. She’d tied a bit of orange cloth to the root on this side and anchored the raft to the cloth. Or else it might drift away and she’d never…
“Mrsha.”
The girl turned as she pulled herself up and saw the door when she touched the root. Erin looked back at her.
“I regret my choice after all.”
She held Mrsha’s gaze with her eyes. Then Erin rasped.
“Even so. I would do it again.”
In silence, the girl continued pulling herself up the root and nodded. She hauled herself back into a hallway of marble and stone—and shut the door. Water trailed after her, and Mrsha looked back at the broken door. Not even the root was visible.
Thanks, Erin.
She put the card against the door, then lay there for a while. She was still petrified. But it was time. After a while, Mrsha got up.
“Child. Do you know what you are doing?”
A voice spoke from above her. Mrsha looked up at the figure of Empress Sheta, gazing imperiously down at Mrsha from the mirror. Mrsha held up a card.
Yes, I do.
The last Empress of Harpies blinked down at Mrsha. Then she dipped her head.
“Perhaps…you do. But I warn you. This Palace was never meant for what you intend. It will break your heart, and you shall regret it forever if you dare to do what I think you intend.”
Mrsha sat up. She rubbed at her face, then nodded. She wrote briefly before slapping a notecard against the mirror. The Harpy Queen had to bend down to stare at the sticky, wet note.
Maybe. But I’ll regret it forever if I don’t try.
She walked into the [Palace of Fates], towards the opening in the ceiling where sixteen roots dangled. Two were cut; Mrsha du Marquin walked with fear in her heart, uncertainty racing through her mind, doubt in her footsteps, water dripping from her fur.
At last, she thought she knew how Erin Solstice felt.
Mrsha hated getting old.
 
——
 
Dyeda munched on a bowl of spicy vegetable soup, perfect in the rain, and watched as Rianchi ate pork chops. Not just any pork chops, but pork chops seasoned in spices with brown sugar baked onto the edges. He was greedily sucking at pieces of fat.
This was real cooking. It wasn’t even Calescent’s finest work; he’d actually apologized on the basis that this was a ‘simple meal’ because so many [Necromancers] of Rheirgest were about so he couldn’t give them a deluxe meal.
For Goblins, this was better than anything they’d ever had, even former Mountain City Goblins like Dyeda. Now and then, someone had come back from a raid with Human food, but it was always banged about and a few days old. It was stolen, usually with blood as the price of the meal.
This was a good soup. Nice, crunchy vegetables, and hot in both ways. Dyeda wished life were like this soup. No armies coming to kill you, no super undead giants…
Why can’t everyone just leave us alone?
The thought passed by Dyeda, and she didn’t really engage with it. Every Goblin asked that at one point or another. Besides, she had a job.
Namely, to be here with a speaking stone tuned to Goblinhome, just in case something happened to Chieftain Rags. She and Rianchi were also here to ‘cover for Mrsha’, whatever that meant.
Dyeda had a realistic opinion of how well she’d be able to trick the [Princess] or [Knights] or even Ishkr if they noticed Mrsha missing and started asking questions. But she was going to do her best, because that was all she could do to help.
Actually, someone else was here on the side of the Flooded Waters tribe: Fightipilota. She was stacking pork chops on a plate with mustard, mayonnaise, relish, fish paste sauce, soy sauce, and ketchup between each one and now sawing down through the stack to create the largest and most dubiously sauced bite of meat in the world.
“That good idea. Maybe I—”
Dyeda glowered at Rianchi, and he sulked as she shot that idea down. Fightipilota moodily chomped on the pork chop massacre.
“Fighti, why are you here? I thought you took Chieftain Rags back home? What’s wrong?”
Dyeda called out, pitching her voice casually so as not to alarm anyone. She knew someone was watching her. There was this weird Drake with yellow-green scales that Rags had said was a spy; he sat in a corner, having a coffee and bagel, and seemed focused on the scrying mirror playing the news.
Fighti’s glower was answer enough.
“I took Chieftain back. Now I useless.”
“Ah.”
Fightipilota was a flier; zero help underground. She was a Redfang, but as a regular Goblin, she probably ranked low on who Redscar would take on a raid.
The presence of the spy made it hard to talk, even in Goblin, so Dyeda decided to just mess with the stupid Drake reporting to 2nd Army.
“Well, if we’re waiting here, you want to have a Goblin orgy? There are probably fourteen Goblins off-duty. Perfect for a small one.”
Rianchi nearly choked on his pork chop and gave Dyeda a look of betrayal until he remembered the spy. Fighti just glared at Dyeda, not in the mood for witty banter.
“No. I’m eating.”
With that addition to Goblins lore perplexing the minds of every non-Goblin who’d heard it, Dyeda went back to munching on her soup. After a while, she decided she couldn’t finish her bowl and picked it up.
“Come on, Rianchi. Let’s go.”
“To orgy?”
She glowered at him.
“To the garden.”
“Oh. Aw.”
Fighti grunted as she chewed on her meal. After a moment, she tapped her speaking stone. As she passed by the other two, she nodded at them.
“I’ll check on you if Chieftain says anything.”
“Got it.”
Heart pounding, nervous, Dyeda went to find the only other person who knew what was going on and might help. That’s what Rags had said—Mrsha knew something more, and Dyeda and Rianchi should put themselves under Mrsha’s command if anything went wrong.
Which was weird because Mrsha was a cute little girl, an actual child, but Dyeda could follow orders. Rianchi wheeled his bicycle after Dyeda as they went to the door that led them to the [Palace].
“Rianchi, stop it. Put it away.”
“Why? I can’t ride it in the rain or keep it in the inn.”
“Why not?”
“Someone might steal it. Is a very nice bike. Top of the line, from Kevin. I need a bike lock.”
Dyeda gave up, and Rianchi produced a toolkit to tinker with his beloved metal steed. Dyeda searched around carefully, but aside from a napping Apista, no one else was in the garden. So they slipped into the [Palace of Fates].
“Mrsha? It’s us! You want lunch? Lyonette and Nanette aren’t back yet! No word from Chieftain Rags!”
Dyeda cupped her hands to her mouth and shouted as they landed. The empty palace echoed with her voice, and she shivered. It was magnificent, and she got to play at being a proper [Queen] with Rianchi, but it was also creepy. Despite Mrsha’s assurances, sometimes Dyeda felt like someone was watching her.
“Mrsha? You there?”
No one responded. Well, duh, Mrsha was mute, but Dyeda heard no scrabbling of paws. She eyed Rianchi; he was busy removing a chain from his bicycle. Dyeda hesitated, then began to wander the palace.
“Mrsha? Where are you?”
 
——
 
There were five doors that Mrsha had found that she deemed…significant. Okay, more than five; many doors mattered, but these five hit her differently.
She observed each one in turn, again, procrastinating. Delaying her decision.
The first was the one with Erin. A door so broken and damaged that you didn’t realize it was the door to her [Garden of Sanctuary] until you saw the doorknob.
The second was the door that had first revealed the truth of the [Palace of Fates] to Mrsha; a door covered in twisting vines and a fancy carved relief, like a stained window, with Mrsha’s head on it, Lyonette, Apista, Nanette, Bird, Rabbiteater—
A tapestry of her life. A door for a true protagonist of this world; ironic, because that Mrsha had been…fake.
Fake, but real enough. Mrsha stared at the little stone she’d wedged in the door to keep it open. That one was one thing.
She didn’t bother opening that one or the other door that had brought this place home to her. That one had a simple note on it:
If Brunkr lived.
Mrsha avoided them. For now. The last two mattered to her differently. One was a door that showed her almost everything she wanted. Almost perfect, but not so perfect it was impossible.
The other was a door that showed her all that could have gone wrong.
Mrsha wasn’t sure which she feared most.
 
——
 
The first door was that of the [Garden of Sanctuary], but brighter. The wood had a polish to it; someone had rubbed the brass doorknob with oil. It looked like the door Mrsha knew so well, but better. She hated it. It was like it mocked her or was making a statement.
The second door was even more direct. It was frozen over, frost sticking to the smooth, worn wood. Yellow flowers and grass blooming around the ice. Not Faerie Flowers, but…
They stood next to each other in a hallway containing only a few doors, the ones that mattered. Mrsha supposed this was like a kind of organizational system for the [Palace].
Bookmark the doors that hurt you the most! She hoped the real Erin never came here.
What was the point?
…She had something looped over her arm, which she put down carefully. A bundle of rope at first glance. A few strands of long roots hacked off. She took a deep breath and seized the polished brass handle. When she threw open the door, Mrsha saw—
 
——
 
Scars.
It was as if he’d traded a scar for every disaster he averted. Which was why Headscratcher didn’t mind them. If anything, the Hobgoblin sometimes looked as if he’d have traded his life for a better future where a thousand fewer Gnolls had died at the Meeting of Tribes—where Tyrion Veltras had aborted his siege of Liscor an hour earlier.
[Goblin Lord of Sorrows]. The defining figure in The Wandering Inn, bar none. At least, to the concerns of nations.
A Goblin Lord who had forsworn war, so long as it was not made upon him and his tribe. They’d heard that one before, and the natural answer was to blast this ‘Goblinhome’ with Tier 5 spells until even Crelers couldn’t live in the remains.
Too bad Goblinhome was deep underground. And just as equally too bad that Headscratcher had taken a page out of history. Just like Velan the Kind, he had negotiated an alliance of sorts. Nothing so prosaic as a mutual defense pact; rather, a mutual non-aggression pact. That was a statement in itself.
The Forgotten Wing company, Liscor, Celum, Esthelm, Pallass, Invrisil and House Reinhart, and over sixty Gnoll tribes and counting had signed onto that treaty. He was in negotiations with Desonis and Ailendamus for treaties of the same, thanks to Ryoko’s contact with Duke Rhisveri and the Earl Altestiel, who considered Rabbiteater a great friend.
Calanfer was out. Even with Ser Solstice and Ser Boxhead’s—Shorthilt’s assumed name when he joined Rabbiteater—relationship with the crown, it wasn’t politic for Calanfer to make that move. Nor was Khelt likely.
His Majesty, Fetohep of Khelt, had some passing relationship with Kevin, even interacted with The Wandering Inn, but he was mostly annoyed by the uppity [Innkeeper] who kept trying to bully him into favors. If Fetohep of Khelt was impressed with anyone, it was the Horns of Hammerad, but they didn’t have the sway to get him to commit his isolationist kingdom to signing a treaty with Goblins.
 
—Oh yes. History had changed. The Meeting of Tribes had still happened. The Siege of Liscor had still occurred, but with twists. Only, Tyrion Veltras had aborted that final charge and withdrawn his forces.
Instead of Khelt sailing to the aid of the Gnolls, it had been the Flooded Waters tribe as well as a certain [Innkeeper] and the Titan of Baleros who’d taken the side of the Gnolls.
The main change, aside from the presence of all five of the original Redfangs, was that Erin Solstice had never died when Hectval attacked the inn. Instead, Headscratcher had taken half a dozen crossbow bolts to the torso. He still had the rounded weals on his chest.
His brothers had joined the war on Hectval. Erin Solstice had helped find and rescue the Titan of Baleros, much to his embarrassment, and they had all gone after Mrsha when she had been kidnapped by Wer the Wanderer for her ‘protection’.
There were no dead gods, no machinations of the faeries. Everyone was expecting a convivial Christmas for once, and Tyrion Veltras had a tan from the beach.
 
Headscratcher, though, was still depressed.
It was kind of his thing. The emotional former [Berserker] disliked leading the Flooded Waters tribe. It was hard. Even with the beach in full swing and people encouraging him to get drunk, hit the waters, and enjoy everyone being in the inn, he was sad.
So many dead Gnolls. The Wild Wastes tribe especially distressed him. They’d taken him in after he got separated from the others, and he’d spent two months in their company. They were like his people. Not savages, but savagely free, willing to weep and cry and rage and full of traditions that he had envied and learned from.
His very armor was an old fur set that had belonged to an older Chieftain of theirs, gifted to him after he had gone north to rally the Flooded Waters tribe to their aid. These days, he was the feared Goblin Lord; people sent him messages all the time. Goblins asked for his aid.
