The other Mrsha blinked. She stood there as the original pulled something up from the ground. She walked forwards to the barrier between them and fed something into the air.
It was a long tendril of brown plantlife that seemed to twist or writhe a bit as it crossed dimensions. Despite the severed root, it poked forwards, quivering as it came from the space in Mrsha’s world—
And into the other one.
A Faerie Flower root hung in the air between the Mrshas, and suddenly, the other Mrsha, the one trapped, knew what that was.
Faerie Flowers? Ryoka Griffin, not Ryoko? What was going—
She clutched at her head, then stared at the root. At the other Mrsha. She reached forward, trembling, and touched the root. It was real in her hand, not fake rope. It was real. But if there was a root on both sides, could she—?
The real Mrsha reached across the root, and the fake one recoiled. The real Mrsha hauled herself forwards, through the doorway, so fast the fake couldn’t move—and then grabbed herself by the arm. She pulled, and with a silent shout, the other one felt something tearing her through a wall in the universe. Pulling apart, pulling—
 
——
 
—The two tumbled out of the doorway. One ragged ball of fur, one healthier girl holding the other. They sprang apart at once, and the two Mrshas sat upright. One was panting, feeling at herself, feeling at the ground—the other rose slowly and turned.
She flinched as she gazed at the door. Then reached out and slowly touched the Faerie Flower root.
The brown length of root had been oddly vibrant, despite Mrsha cutting it. It had even seemed alive, feeding on…what? Fate? Something else? It had been hanging in the air—right until Mrsha had grabbed herself. Now she looked at it again—
A pale, dead stalk of plant matter hung in the air. It flaked away at her touch. It didn’t turn to ash; it drifted into pieces. She swallowed.
Consequences. That tearing pull of bringing herself through the door had to go somewhere. She’d ripped apart the root to cross the gap.
That meant there were…seventeen left. And she’d used two on top of that to—
Someone grabbed her, and Mrsha nearly screamed. She turned, saw the Alternate Mrsha standing there, wide-eyed, and almost punched her. It was the surrealist thing in the world to see a mirror image of her waving her paws.
“What did you do? What did you do?”
“The roots.”
“Faerie Flower roots? Why do I know ‘faeries’? Why is Ryoka’s name—my head!”
The inconsistencies. Real Mrsha realized they must have been corrected, or maybe the truth was allowed to exist in the real world. Alternate her was stumbling about, and Real Mrsha caught her. She was so thin…
“We need to get you food. And to hide you away. No…listen. I have magical roots that go through doors. I’m going to go through more doors.”
The other her caught on at once. They were practically identical, after all, from mirror timelines. She understood what Mrsha had in mind.
“You’re crazy.”
The other her signed emphatically, and Mrsha decided the other her was…Root Mrsha? Mrsha Two? It didn’t matter, but they were already different. Root Mrsha was shaky, and Mrsha could only imagine what it had been like to survive for days without food, realizing your existence was a lie.
“I’m doing what Erin would do. I talked to her.”
“You saved me. The root’s dead. Does that mean—?”
“Seventeen chances. Fifteen, really; I used two roots. Only seventeen Faerie Flowers are adult. I don’t know if I can grow more.”
The other Mrsha’s mouth opened and closed. She was still shaking, glancing around.
“I thought you were gonna close the door on me. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you—does Lyonette know?”
“No. I have to do this myself. Rags knows, but she’s in danger.”
The other Mrsha’s features firmed.
“So she’s not dead yet? You have to save her!”
“She’s executing a plan to hurt the Titan. I’m—doing this. Listen, saving you wasn’t in the plan, but I’m glad I did.”
It was the right thing to do. She couldn’t do it for the others, and this was going to cause…problems…but Mrsha felt it. The other her took a deep breath, trying to concentrate.
“Let me think. If one of us hides here or uses the palace…the other could go into the inn! Like that stupid TV show that Erin’s theatre had!”
Real Mrsha brightened up. It was a good idea, especially because Root Mrsha probably wanted the hell out of the garden. She could eat, rest, and—
“Let’s do that. This is a great idea. You get up there and eat lunch and—hold on, let me tell you everything you missed.”
The two were sitting, sharing notes, amazed by how fast they were communicating. Of course, they were each other, so the idioms and examples they went to were identical, by and large. Was this what having a twin was like? Root Mrsha seemed to read the real one’s mind.
“Okay, got it. I go up and eat slowly—”
“Super slowly! Small portions!”
A sniff.
“I’m not stupid. We both helped Ylawes and asked for advice on how to deal with starvation, remember?”
“You’d better wash up first. Maybe wear something like a coat; I can tell you’re thin, and if I can, Lyonette definitely will.”
“Good idea. You signal to me whenever you want to switch, got it? Maybe we’ll clue Apista in or something. And if you need help, or Rags does, you let me know. If I can do something like warn General Shirka or distract the Titan or—anything, send me.”
The real Mrsha paused as their thoughts diverged a moment.
“Whaddya mean?”
The other her gave Mrsha a small smile.
“Duh, stupid. Now you have a spare. If anything bad happens, I’ll be there.”
Mrsha felt a chill go right through her. She signed back fast.
“Don’t talk like that. That’s not why I did this.”
Root Mrsha shrugged and gave herself a wild grin. She wrote slowly, because some things weren’t communicable in paw-signs alone.
“You and I both know it’s what we’re thinking. This is it, me. We owe a debt to Brunkr, Halrac, and so many others. We’ve always been the young one, small and unable to help, and they protected us. Perhaps that was right and good. Now, it is upon us. Send me forwards, and I shall call it glory. I know how Erin felt.”
Mrsha looked in the eyes of herself and couldn’t breathe for a moment. The bright gaze of that other Mrsha—
“I shall go, even if I am afraid.”
Root Mrsha was surprised when the real one grabbed her fiercely in a hug that drew all the breath out from her body. The real one let her go and signed furiously.
“Dying is never the point.”
Root Mrsha hesitated, then lowered her head. She stared at her paws for a long moment as the real Mrsha fished in her belt pouch. She handed her copy some of a breakfast muffin, and the other her instantly tried to swallow it whole. She took tiny bites, rapid and fast, and signed, one handed.
“Sorry. I forget, sometimes. We’ve buried too many people. That’s why old people and Named-ranks get crazy, I guess.”
The real Mrsha signed back slowly.
“We stay people because we bury them. When it stops hurting, then we’re mad. Come on. Let’s get you up the ropes and into the garden. I don’t know if you can climb.”
She helped Mrsha get up into the [Garden of Sanctuary] and then into a bathtub. One look at the girl after she emerged, wet and clean, and they realized there was no chance in heck they’d fool the Thronebearers without precautions.
So they put on a shirt and kilt and tried to stuff it so Mrsha looked reasonably healthy, fluffing out her cheek fur. It might work.
Root Mrsha nodded to Mrsha, walking into the inn and making a beeline for the kitchen. Real Mrsha watched for a second, then headed back to the [Palace of Fates].
Now she had all the time in the world. She picked up a spare root and stopped as she stood in front of the doors.
Now I know it works. Now I know what I am doing.
She pulled open the door with the burnished knob and stopped as she touched the root that had let her steal that first slice of cake. It didn’t seem destroyed…cake must not be the same as a person. Mrsha swallowed hard, then stepped through the doorway.
By the time Rianchi and Dyeda entered the [Palace of Fates], Mrsha was nowhere to be seen.
 
——
 
Meanwhile…a very confused Apista stopped smoking on her latest spliff and wondered what the heck Palt was putting in them these days.
 
——
 
In The Wandering Inn, Ser Dalimont returned as a fuming Nanette stomped through the door, followed by Hethon.
“I mean, I think you did a good job—”
“I’ll show them. Just you wait until I—”
They both shot Dalimont a look, but he was good at looking innocent. Also, he was genuinely distracted by something. His speaking stone purred.
“Dalimont, report in.”
“All’s well at the inn. I just spotted Mrsha. Funny, my tracking spell malfunctioned. It dropped her and picked her up.”
Calanfer had very good spells that, even if the [Garden of Sanctuary] could bypass them, auto-located their wards once they were in range. Dalimont gave Mrsha a suspicious look, but she was eating a hamburger.
He…had never seen someone eat a hamburger like that. Slowly, piece by piece, chewing, savoring each bite, so slowly and with such relish that Calescent was giving himself a pat on the back.
Even the other Goblins and Antinium slowed down eating their meals out of embarrassment. Mrsha was so engrossed in her burger, in fact, she ignored Nanette’s stink-eye.
Ser Dalimont stared at Mrsha for a good minute until she noticed him and waved. He smiled back and spoke into his speaking stone.
“Ushar, something is up with Mrsha. I think she’s either plotting something or…unknown.”
“Hmph. Don’t let her out of your sight. I’ll inform Her Highness.”
It was a mystery, but Mrsha was here, and Dalimont was merely suspicious. Mind you, it felt like she’d done something wrong and was covering it up.
“Hello, Mrsha. Oh my. Is this hug-day?”
Bird had appeared for lunch, and Mrsha got up and walked over and slowly embraced her. Mrsha buried her head in Bird’s side.
No, silly. Sometimes I just like hugging my favorite big sister.
“Aha. This is good. Pat, pat. Would you like to eat lunch together?”
Mrsha nodded, and they sat. Dalimont had to check on Nanette; he suspected she was trying to steal the wand again, but he upgraded his assessment.
She’s either blown up a room or accidentally broken an artifact. Or there’s a tradition in the inn called Hug Day.
He hated that he could never rule out the latter.
 
——
 
Her name was Mrsha du Marquin, and she had done her best. Only, Mrsha supposed that wasn’t really her name anymore. She wasn’t Mrsha.
Not really. She sat in the inn, thinking, taking bites out of her burger as Bird hummed and chattered about birds she’d seen, and Mrsha just thought to herself that she’d tried to do the right thing.
She really had.
She hadn’t meant to go tumbling down into the [Palace of Fates]. Yes, she’d been incautious, but she’d really not thought she could get into danger in Erin’s Skill.
Then she’d fallen into the [Palace of Fates], and it had been fun, scary, and she’d taken it seriously, tried to get out. She’d been determined to live, to warn Rags…until she saw that other Mrsha looking at her. Until she’d heard the door closing with a sound to end everything.
Then she’d known she was fake. Then, she’d realized there was no way out. Mrsha had gone from door to door and found only a few where the grandest of magics, the most improbable of circumstances, had let her out.
She hadn’t told the real Mrsha that. The real Mrsha had important things to do. Fake Mrsha, that was who she was. Frsha…no, that name sucked…she knew what the real Mrsha was going to do.
After all, it was what any Mrsha worth her salt would do. They were alike in that, still. But the fake Mrsha had stared at the doors longer than the real one. She had searched for a way out and beheld, in the [Palace of Fates], the countless realities where she aged to death, if she didn’t starve. A lonely Gnoll drifting in and out of madness, watching her friends and family live their lives. A spectator—forever.
And yet, Mrsha had tried to live. She hadn’t given up, even knowing the future. She’d done her best to survive because she was afraid of dying. Because even knowing the truth—she wanted to live.
It was going to be hard, now. She didn’t know what the future held. This state of affairs could not continue.
When this was over—Mrsha would want her life back. Could Lyonette handle having two daughters? Could anyone? Even if Mrsha got her life back, she knew her Rags was already dead.
She had failed her Rags. Her mother would miss her forever, even if she was just a frozen memory in a door.
Mrsha’s paws shook as she put the burger down and drank more water. She was starving, but not hungry. She looked at her paws as Bird whispered to her.
“Mrsha, you are all dressed up today. Is today important?”
She shook her head absently, and Bird wiped at her brow.
“Oh, good. I was practicing with Elia Arcsinger, and I would hate to think she had failed to dress up properly.”
Mrsha wanted to hug Bird again. She wanted to bury her head in Bird’s side and cry, or tell her everything. But she couldn’t. Not yet.
This was the most important thing ever. Afterwards…Mrsha could see what happened. If she could help the real Mrsha, make a difference, she would. Then? Then, if there was one root left—she’d go back to that door. Even if it meant she was trapped in the [Palace of Fates]. She hoped the root would let her go back to the inn. Mrsha clenched one paw tight.
She’d go home, meaningless though it might be. Mrsha searched around this inn, this familiar place, and took a shuddering breath in.
—To save any version of Rags. To make a difference. My turn. She wiped at her face.
“Mrsha? Are you crying?”
Bird bent down, her emerald eyes sparkling with curiosity and worry, and Mrsha held up a card.
No, silly. I’m happy. Sometimes it just looks the same.
“This is a very true statement.”
The Antinium sat back, and Mrsha rubbed her eyes again. She looked around the inn, breathing in the sights, the overwhelming sensations after so long of nothingness. Memorizing it all. Just in case.
 
——
 
Two Mrshas appeared, each with their own classes and data sets.
This was fine.
You know, honestly, it was so fine that no one should even worry about it. What was the big deal? Mrsha, two Mrshas—this kind of thing happened. It wasn’t the job of the Grand Design to pass judgements, just to react.
