She had no splendid words to say about the dead. No real scars to show. The girl named Mrsha du Marquin had no thousand-yard stare of someone who had lost everything or faced down armies until they or she broke.
If you asked her, she would readily admit, once she was done being silly, that she did not deserve such things. She had survived so much and been lucky, a hundred lifetimes worth of luck, to make it this far.
Many people had bled, died, and she’d borne witness to it as the bystander on the walls. The girl carried to safety.
So she had nothing, really, that made her obviously different from other children. Sometimes, for fun, she’d somersault down a hill a dozen times until she nearly threw up, or chase her friends around the streets, heedless of everything and everyone, lost in her own little world where bad things didn’t happen and you were young forever and adults were weird.
Every now and then, she’d sit in the garden, at a table in the inn, stand in the drizzling streets with water running off the umbrellas overhead, a half-eaten sandwich steaming in her paws, and just stop when her thoughts caught up with her.
The girl’s brown eyes would drift past whatever she was looking at and focus on something distant. Just over your shoulder, and you might see her face grow contemplative. Sad. Nostalgic. Happy. Bitter. She’d laugh, then come back to the world.
Take another bite of her sandwich and slurp up a piece of salami. Brush a few crumbs off her fur and check the menu to see if there was any chance she could get a slice of cake with lunch.
Few people noticed. Fewer still understood what those moments were. Grown men and women who had yet to bury anyone they knew well would think it a child’s stray attention. Even those who were older didn’t realize it—yet.
The late Tekshia Shivertail had seen it. Drakes and Gnolls sometimes gave the girl a second look when she stopped being the energetic child and sat there, staring out a window at the rain. Glancing around, rubbing at one eye, and smiling when someone distracted her. They were just, after all, passing moments. That was all the hints you had, really, to know that the dead walked with Mrsha.
Not aggressively. Not in her way or audible and visible like Numbtongue. They were just, after all, memories. A grumpy [Marksman] leaning against a window, the illusion of a half-Giant poking with a dismayed face at a too-small sandwich.
A Gnoll [Knight] in armor beaming in delight.
Then they were gone and you went about your day. Sometimes, it was a painful memory. But in time, they were just—there. People collected ghosts. The myth was that you’d ever reach a land where you never saw them. Even in the most peaceful paradise, filled with far green shores and glorious, restful days—even if you reached those lands, they’d just be there, waiting for you.
Making your peace with that wasn’t something you learned or had the fortitude to endure. It just happened as you lived through it.
So that sometimes—not always, not even often—was Mrsha du Marquin.
Today, she did not have that expression on her face. She was in that wide hallway that stretched forever.
Rags had gone. Dyeda and Rianchi were having a warm soup in the inn as the rain pattered down. Nanette was furious at her, and Lyonette was somewhere else.
She was, for a moment, alone.
A good time and place to lie flat on her back, her chest rising and falling like the bellows of Pelt’s forge, panting. Unable to breathe despite the lungfuls of air she inhaled and exhaled.
She couldn’t move. She was afraid.
How long Mrsha lay like that, she didn’t know. After an eternity of it, hours, she got up, fur covered in sweat, and leaned against a hallway. It was just one of those things that happened when you got older, she reckoned.
Panic attacks. Everyone talked about acne, growing pains, hair in more places, and your voice cracking. Next would be back pains and hemorrhoids. In Mrsha’s books, nothing fun happened when you grew up except that you got taller.
It was fine. She reckoned she deserved it.
After all, she was doing a bad thing. Not just one. She was going to do a terrible, bad, illegal thing.
She wasn’t sure who’d written the rules down that said you couldn’t, but she felt in her bones that someone would be unhappy. And she was going to do it anyways.
…Right?
She didn’t know, honestly. For once in her life, Mrsha didn’t know if she was doing the right thing. Wasn’t that the worst part of growing up? Life had been so simple.
 
Lism bad. Teasing Fetohep was fun! You deserve another french fry. Plain’s Eye were evil. Belavierr was evil. Pisces was good. I am a good person, or I try to be.
 
Then you got older and changed.
 
Lism is a pain in the tail, but he’s somehow better than the old Council. And Krshia likes him, which just means she has bad taste.
Fetohep never shows when he’s hurting, so you can hurt his feelings and he’ll never tell you when he’s upset or stressed. Even he can be stressed.
Plain’s Eye were Gnolls. They did evil things because they thought they were for the best. Even if they were terrible.
Belavierr still sucks.
Pisces is still good, but I worry about everyone worse than him making him a less-good Pisces.
I…am going to do what I believe in. Because I have a chance. I don’t know if anyone will forgive me. But that’s okay, because I know what I’m doing.
 
Did she? Mrsha got to her feet and looked around. She began to walk and came to that hallway of glass.
The Empress of Harpies was there, watching her. She walked along the vast mirror that reflected her, a bird of prey looming over Mrsha. Not menacingly—at least, Mrsha thought Sheta was trying not to be menacing. She was bad at it, but the intent was there.
Neither one said a word to each other. The Harpy had tried, but Mrsha had nothing to say. She slowly walked to that cracked door, scarred and damaged so badly that it barely looked like it was in one piece. Mrsha rested a paw against the wood, then reached up for the brass handle.
Her heart thudded in her chest, and she felt the panic rise until she could almost vomit it onto the floor, but she couldn’t lie on the ground forever. And…this was better than not knowing, asking the questions in her own head.
She slowly turned the knob, and with a creak, the door opened. The Harpy Queen bent her head, trying to see what Mrsha was doing. A single root, blooming with yellow flowers, trailed through the doorway. Mrsha gently took hold of the root and saw where it passed over the boundary of the door.
It passed from the smooth, grey marble flooring into the water. An ocean, black as night, and above it, unforgiving stars of every color. There was no sound but the creak of wood, the water moving.
And breathing.
Mrsha dared not glance up. She grasped the root and pulled herself through the door. One step, two—and she felt a barrier that should have been impenetrable to everything. Even dead gods. Even Tier 9 spells.
—But the roots gave her access. Mrsha hauled herself through the door and felt gravity reassert itself.
She splashed into the waters, deep and cold and wet. She swam up, abandoning the roots, and grabbed the one bit of non-water in sight. Mrsha pulled herself up onto the creaking raft, and she was still afraid to look up.
Only when she heard a cracked, weary, familiar sigh and a chuckle that came from lungs so damaged they wheezed. A hand tried to help Mrsha steady herself—but it was too weak, and Mrsha scrambled onto the raft. Water ran from her fur, and someone spoke. A young woman who sounded old as time.
“You’re back again.”
Erin Solstice lay on the little raft of wood as water slopped around the burnt remnant of a ship. She was spread-eagled, staring at the sky. Her clothes were mostly burnt off her body; parts were fused to her skin.
She wasn’t bleeding anymore. But the little girl hesitated as she stood. She extended a hand and halted, because what could she do?
Pick up the wounded [Innkeeper]? What part of her wasn’t damaged? Even her hair was discolored, falling out. When Erin Solstice spoke, her voice rasped low, and she coughed sporadically.
“It—feels like just a minute passed. How long was it for you?”
Mrsha had to fish in her wet bag of holding for paper and quill, and she held the notecard over Erin’s face, angling it so the [Innkeeper] could see. Erin squinted and tried to raise her head.
“Days? Really. I guess that’s how it works. If I’m fake…is it time?”
Yeah. I think so. Hi, Erin. I brought you some stuff. Here’s a pain-relieving potion. And I got bandages.
Mrsha awkwardly put a potion on the raft. Erin didn’t reach for it. The bandages nearly fluttered away in the sea air.
They were in the middle of the ocean, so far from land or anything else that it looked like a purgatory, a sea with no beginning nor end. Just the lifeless waters, the raft, the stars, and the [Innkeeper].
She seemed like she was dying. Erin Solstice lay there, and Mrsha wondered if it was because Silvenia hadn’t turned her small in this future. Or…was this how Erin had looked? Did she still look like this?
Mrsha’s paws trembled as she tried to wind the bandages around some bloody, healing gashes, but Erin just shook her head weakly.
“Don’t bother. I don’t need a potion. I’m not real.”
But it’s just a potion.
“I deserve this. I’ll live. You said it yourself, remember? Erin lived through this. The real Erin. So will I.”
She moved away from Mrsha’s paws, or tried, and because the girl didn’t want to agitate the young woman, she stopped. Mrsha sat there, dripping water, and began to write.
Rags is going to fight the Titan. I’m afraid. I’ve gotta make my choice today, but I needed someone to talk to. I’m sorry.
“For what? I’m glad…it gets boring lying here and eating honey. And if I’m not real, then—”
Erin raised one hand and stared at the skin that had been sloughing off her arm.
“Well, I dunno about asking me about making good choices. But I’ll talk. Of course I will.”
Mrsha avoided glancing at Erin’s arms, focusing on her writing, but she didn’t know what to write this time. This was…the second time she’d visited.
Erin.
The [Innkeeper] was right here. The salt stained Mrsha’s fur. If she reached out, she could touch the [Innkeeper], but it would hurt Erin, so Mrsha didn’t. She felt the wetness on her fur. She knew that if she were to cut herself here or take…a piece of the raft, she’d be able to carry it back through the door.
The cake proved that. So here they were.
Here they were.
Erin seemed to sense Mrsha’s turmoil and cast about, eventually rasping a question.
“How’d Elia Arcsinger take the Palace? You…didn’t you mention her? That’s really strange. Hah. Hahaha.”
She giggled before bursting into a weak coughing fit, and Mrsha desperately offered Erin some water. The [Innkeeper] sipped that, and Mrsha wrote.
She’s okay. She’s staying. I tried to open the door that showed me what a Goblin King was like, with Rags, but it didn’t show anything.
“Really? Damn. I kinda wanted to know. If you find out, can you come back and…? No. Nevermind.”
Silence fell as Erin closed her eyes. Mrsha sat there.
This was the Erin Solstice who had survived the war at sea. The [Innkeeper] as she lay upon a raft—not shrunk down by the Death of Magic—an Erin that Mrsha could talk to. The one who had made her choice.
Mrsha felt guilty bothering this dying woman. But she had to. Of all the beings in this or any other world…
Erin understood.
“Which door? You said there were a few you bookmarked. They’re like the real world, right? Even if I don’t remember these…faeries…or those dead gods, I remember enough.”
A flash of hazel. Mrsha shivered as Erin’s head rose slightly.
“Five left. I don’t even know their names. I don’t even remember what I fought at the Solstice, because I’m fake. One…I hurt…her?”
Yeah, her.
Erin visibly had to count, to think.
“One was…thrown somewhere. Two escaped. One—one I don’t know about. One’s gone. The Gnomes got him. I remember that. Five. Be careful, Mrsha. That’s my—Erin’s job. Ryoko’s. Not yours.”
I know. I told Elia, even.
“Good. Good…so which doors, again? Can—can I have another sip of water?”
Mrsha gave Erin more water, then even some oatmeal she’d smuggled out of the kitchens. Nothing else; Erin couldn’t eat anything more complex, and she barely had an appetite. The girl held cards up for Erin to read, wishing she could speak. Erin’s eyes opened and closed, bloodshot, her face covered with soot. Mrsha tried to rub it away, but then stopped when she saw Erin wincing and realized her skin was coming with the towel.
There’s one door where everyone’s having a Christmas party. Nothing bad on the Solstice. All the Redfang Five are there. And I guess there’s one in the future. I wanted to know what happened if you never woke up.
“Anything cool?”
Lotsa sad stuff.
“And some cool stuff. I bet. You must be…older in that one.”
Yes.
Erin’s gaze was roaming the sky. She whispered.
“Sounds good. You didn’t manage to see what happened with the Goblin King. Why?”
It’s all black. Like a black screen’s in the way.
“Huh. I wonder if that’s because it makes sense to us to see it that way. Or…okay. Okay. So are you going to do it?”
I don’t know. I’m afraid, Erin. Now I don’t know if I want to. If it’s right, let alone what will happen. Is that silly?
Mrsha confessed, and Erin smiled.
“No. If you were certain, I’d be concerned. Things…things like this should scare you.”
Then should I not?
Erin closed her eyes and breathed in, out. Something made a gurgling sound in her stomach. Which Mrsha might have thought was hunger, but it sounded—wrong. Erin shifted, belched something that smelled acidic and sooty, and exhaled.
“How much danger did you say Rags was in?”
Lots. I can help. Maybe. But what happens if I mess up? Even if I do it all perfect—what happens, Erin? What are the consequences?
Mrsha underlined that last part, and Erin Solstice had no answer. Her eyes were opening and closing. She was exhausted, but she murmured.
“When I was in Liscor, after Skinner, I think. Or maybe before that? I don’t remember…I realized something, Mrsha. You can break any rule in the world. If it matters. You can do anything you want, of course, but you can make things happen.”
She closed one eye and fixed the other one on Mrsha.
“I realized it when I was talking with my guests. Pisces. Relc. Klbkch. Pawn…and I realized I could hurt their feelings. Or anyone’s, really. I could say or do something nasty. Or try and give them a boost. You can do that with anyone, if you know them. Duh.”
She took another coughing breath.
