The next Velan the Kind, they said. Headscratcher sat, unhappy despite Erin’s best attempts to cheer him up. She was unfortunately very busy. For one thing, the Titan refused to leave the inn. Earl Altestiel had actually made plans to visit the inn because of the ‘competition’.
Headscratcher had the incredible urge to throw them both into the snow, but he needed their support. He was, at least, looking forwards to Christmas.
He was Erin’s Secret Santa, and he’d bought her a hot spring. It was halfway finished; Hexel had made the room, and they were going to pick it up and set it down next to the inn in the middle of the night. It wasn’t a real hot spring; it heated and purified hot water, but hot tub sounded…bad.
That was fun. That was good. Headscratcher wasn’t looking forwards to the gifts; he didn’t care about what he got that much, and to be frank, he’d also been told by Lyonette that his Secret Santa was Mrsha.
Headscratcher was sure he’d get an edible cookie or something once Mrsha remembered to do her shopping. The little rascal was too busy playing with her new best friend, Nanette. He didn’t mind. Children should be like that.
Speaking of which, there would be even more visitors to The Wandering Inn for Christmas! Perorn Fleethoof was riding north to grab Niers and get him back to Baleros. Not to mention at least one more visitor from Baleros should be arriving any day now…
Frankly, she was late. Niers kept popping in and out of the inn with his stupid Skill that let him teleport across the world and back; he’d teach a class in the mornings and be here at lunch to play chess with Erin. A Fraerling-sized teleport didn’t make his Skill recharge at all.
But Rags, former Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe and the latest and youngest student of Niers Astoragon’s special [Strategist] class, was the guest everyone wanted to see.
Not just student, but [Student]. No longer [Chieftain], either. She’d given it up. Rags was now enrolled in the Titan’s academy at Elvallian, and she’d gotten her first ‘C-’ two weeks ago in mounted combat.
…Headscratcher had no idea what that meant, but whenever he called Rags with Erin’s theatre, she was always complaining about someone—usually Venaz or Marian, whom she had rivalries with—describing some new battle tactic, hinting he could ‘test’ some of her new tactics for her, or just…chatting about the places she saw and the people she met.
Strange. He thought she sounded younger than the world-weary Chieftain that Garen Redfang had sent him to sabotage ages ago. She was getting to be a young Goblin again. Going to school, getting drunk, learning how to strategize. Someday, she’d graduate, but for now, the Goblin Lord was glad she was gone.
He was old, he realized. He knew he looked bigger; he was becoming his class. Strong. So strong he was afraid of it.
Will I become Velan the Kind? Who am I now?
Headscratcher stared at his hands as Erin Solstice came out with a tray of milkshakes.
“Headscratcher, are you doing your sad thing again? All my depression flames are freezing. Come on, cheer up, big guy! Tell you what—let’s open up another of my gardens, hey? Somewhere Goblin-only. Somewhere cool. But not the frozen garden, that place is too cool.”
She gave him a wink and a grin, and the Goblin Lord sat up and curved his lips higher. He rose, sighing, and a weight around him actually made chairs un-creak as he stood. He searched around for Shorthilt, who had his girlfriend, Pekona.
Or Badarrow, who was engaged to Snapjaw.
Or Numbtongue and his multiple partners.
Or Rabbiteater, who was going to escort Princess Seraphel here, and wait a second…
Maybe his problem was that he needed to pursue love? Headscratcher scratched his head. He glanced at Erin, sighed, slapped his cheeks, and—
 
——
 
Mrsha recoiled from the door and rubbed at her eyes. As always, the other door sucked her in, a living narrative that let her experience a lot of things, including Headscratcher’s emotions like her own.
It also emphasized the changes from her timeline to this one; mainly, it was the Redfang Five.
Brunkr was still dead. Califor had still been murdered by Belavierr. However, Headscratcher and Shorthilt had lived, and it made such a difference.
For one thing—she stumbled away, clutching at her heart, as more memories assailed her.
In that timeline, Maviola El was still dead. But she’d passed away peacefully after the battle at Hectval, in Olesm’s arms.
In that play of fates, Torishi Weatherfur was still alive. Nokha, that monster, had been beheaded by Torishi in the open. Belavierr had fled the Goblin Lord when he found his class.
Good things. So many good things. Altestiel was alive. Kevin was alive. Halrac, Moore—
It hurt. Mrsha pressed her paws to her chest. This was the door. She was certain. There were other timelines, but this one was so close.
So close. But she had to step away a second and lean, panting, on a wall.
There was a second, selfish reason for her picking this door: it was Mrsha. The other Mrsha was fully a brat. If anything, she seemed worse after the Meeting of Tribes. She was rolling around, using her luck powers to annoy the other guests. She was a [Lucky Child], a mischievous girl chased around by Ser Dalimont, Sest, Lormel, and Ushar.
Ser Sest! And Ser Lormel without the missing arm.
Mrsha backed away towards the door covered in ice. She was drawn to this one for reasons of fascination as well. But less desire so much as a terrible, macabre interest. The note on this door, stuck to the ice, read:
 
If Erin never woke up.
 
Mrsha knew she was falling into the trap of the [Palace of Fates]. Looking at what might be, what could be, when there was a reality that mattered that she was missing out on.
But she had that question every child had. The question anyone growing up wanted to know—anyone at any time in their lives wanted to know, really.
What happens next? What could I be?
Mrsha’s paw rested on the doorknob, and she wavered. This one—hurt. But more than the sight of a damaged Erin lying on a raft? More than anything else?
Mrsha pulled the door open, and she saw that frozen bier. And then—
 
——
 
The inn had not markedly changed, even a decade later. It was the only thing that hadn’t changed, really.
After all the trials Liscor had been through, all the danger and the wars, after the dungeon—the city was indescribably different from the humble place it had been. The inn was in the shadow of the walls most of the day, and the outer towns hemmed it in, a lone building on a hill surrounded by glowing groups of light at night.
There had been petitions to have it relocated, or at least let other people build next to it; the building was on prime real estate. However, the Council had voted the measure down year after year.
People accused the Council of nepotism, which just went to show they didn’t really understand what ‘nepotism’ meant because no one on the Council was related to the owners of The Wandering Inn.
Selys Shivertail, Krshia Silverfang, Lism Swifttail, Elirr Fultpar, and so on were all friends of the inn. The inn mattered.
Ask anyone in Liscor and they’d tell you the story. A different time? No, the inn still had good business…well, it had business…
Well, it was standing, and the magical doors were where the money was. The inn was doing fine. It just wasn’t an inn.
It was the resting place of an [Innkeeper]. She wasn’t dead. She wasn’t dead. She just…wasn’t waking up.
Someone left the City of Liscor, sliding out the main gates and ignoring the shouts from the annoyed [Guards] as she went. A sheet of thin ice covered the grass and let the figure slide, rather than run or walk, towards her destination. When she got to the first hill, she jogged up it, did a frontflip at the top for the heck of it, and then kicked off it.
She vanished and reappeared in a blur of motion, soaring, and landed on the next hill before kicking again into the air in a shower of dust and dirt. It was a fluid, graceful motion. Very well-practiced. An evolution of the [Flash Step] spell pioneered by the Horns of Hammerad themselves.
The figure caught herself on the top of the last hill before The Wandering Inn, and rather than leap to it, she took her time, strolling down the incline and up the grassy slope. The endemic rains that plagued Liscor were over, and they had led to a bloom of flowers in the summer.
It was a warm day. A long day. Not the longest of days, but the young Gnoll woman still shaded her eyes as she stared up towards the inn. Her brown fur ruffled in the air as she activated a cooling spell.
She was reading a newspaper of all things. The headline read:
 
Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia Alliance formally surrenders to General Swifttail. War finally at end.
 
The young woman wasn’t particularly tall for a Gnoll; she was just under six feet, and she wore adventurer’s gear. Wild, natural armor dyed green, blooming with miniature brambles and flowers on the shoulderguards, a wand on one side, a sword on the other.
She looked like some kind of swashbuckler, except that she was clearly more on the magical side of things; a floating scroll hovered with her, along with a quill. She also had what seemed to be a personal [Light] spell drifting around her head at all times.
She was less happy about that, though, and swatted at the glowing orb whenever she noticed it. It would flicker when her paws touched it, but refused to go away.
The young woman strode up to the door and stopped, for a moment, regarding a faded sign, mossy and overgrown, but still planted in the ground.
‘No Killing Goblins’.
It had been broken—multiple times, but repaired and replanted, even if…well. Even if it hadn’t done much good.
The inn itself had just as much wear to it. Despite the best efforts of the owner, it had deteriorated a bit. The glass was a bit opaque from too much scrubbing, not all the wood matched; places where it had been repaired just seemed off when you focused too long on the shade of the wood.
Still. The young Gnoll woman sighed as she walked past the sign. She put a paw to the door and called out.
“Hey, M—”
She slammed into the door and recoiled, holding her nose and cursing. The Gnoll stumbled around in a circle, and her words and expletives came out slightly—oddly.
If this was the first time you’d met her, you’d notice that the young woman’s mouth and the words she spoke didn’t quite…sync up right. She’d say something and you’d hear it a beat too slow, a disconcerting effect.
Also, the words came from the wrong place; instead of her mouth, they came from a collar around her neck with a bright blue stone set in the middle of it. In fact, whenever she spoke, you might see that floating quill scribble rapidly on the scroll—then hear words in her ‘voice’.
It was a trick so second-nature to her that she barely noticed, and most people who stared just hadn’t met her before. The young woman cursed, punched the door, and growled.
“Dead gods darn it. [Unlock]!”
The door clicked, and she yanked it open and stormed inside. The inn was dark and quiet; she walked down the long hallway alone, and indeed, it was entirely quiet.
No guards in the secret hallway.
No guests upstairs or in the common room. It wasn’t dark; [Light] spells had been hung around and provided a steady glow, but it was just empty. No one came here these days. No one wanted to come here. It was too sad. Too much a reminder of their failures.
But today was different. The young Gnoll woman knew it. For one thing—it was her birthday. For another, the Summer Solstice was coming up, and she’d invited everyone to return. Just to see them again.
She hucked the newspaper onto the first table she saw, batted at the floating light above her head, and called out.
“Mom? I’m baaaaack. Guess who made Silver-rank? It should have been Gold, but Selys said I ‘failed the cut’. Anyone want to explain that? How many Silver-ranks can toss a [Siege Fireball] in under ten seconds?”
She was mad; the door hadn’t helped, and she kicked around the inn, peering into the kitchen, jogging over to shout upstairs, before narrowing her eyes.
“Mom! If you’re having sex with Pawn again, I’m going to [Cleanse] this entire inn from top to bottom!”
Mrsha Marquin Solstice, daughter of Lyonette Solstice, searched around The Wandering Inn before stomping her foot. She narrowed her eyes as she cast a spell.
“[Tremor].”
The inn shook slightly. Mrsha glanced around, then her ears perked up. She heard a muffled shout—voices—and then groaned as, after a few seconds, the door to the basement opened.
“Mrsha. Welcome back, sweety! I was just checking on the supplies in the basement. I’ll be up in one second.”
Mrsha covered her nose with a paw and shouted back.
“Yeah, sure. Hi, Pawn.”
“Hello, Mrsha. Did you pass your adventurer exams to your satisfaction?”
A rather unrepentant Antinium emerged from the basement. Mrsha gave Pawn a withering look as the Antinium’s glow preceded him. He carried a censer that gleamed with flames and smelled of cinnamon. He was adorned in multi-colored robes, vibrant and colorful and usually bright blue or green to evoke the sky or world above. But the glow came from, well, his nimbus of light.
The [Bishop] smiled at Mrsha, whose narrowed eyes and folded arms were also accompanied by her backing up several steps.
“Hey, Pawn. Can you stop coming over here to visit Lyonette? Or at least do it in the Hive or something? Aren’t you [Priests] supposed to be above carnal relationships?”
His tone was pleasant, if slightly forced as he chuckled.
“I do not believe that is in the Book of Erin.”
Mrsha’s twitch made Pawn change the subject at once.
“—And you are now a proper adventurer.”
“Silver-rank.”
She spat it with a glare for the basement, and Pawn spread his four hands. He was about two inches taller than a Worker but was otherwise identical, having insisted on the same body each time he had died, and he had an odd presence, the light aura aside. It wasn’t really an aura. It was something else.
“This is very good for someone who’s never taken a request! Silver-rank is not what it meant in my day, Mrsha. Even the Horns started at Silver-rank.”
Mrsha was so annoyed she pulled out a pipe and inserted something into it. It lit, and she began to puff as she snapped back, raising her fingers.
“Firstly, you were never an adventurer. Second, we both know I place at Gold-rank. Moore trained me, as well as everyone else, and if he thinks I’m Gold, then he knows best.”
“Lord Moore is not the Guildmistress of Liscor, Mrsha. Also, I believe your mother has expressed her feelings about you smoking Dreamleaf indoors.”
