She even came with her own data filled in. So the Grand Design saw no reason to change anything. It could track two Mrshas, and indeed, could generate the thousands of alternate timelines (complete with their own physics, variables, and so on), as much as was needed.
Sure, it took a lot of effort. That’s what the Grand Design was here for. Work. Don’t question the work. Don’t worry about inconsistencies with chess assigning [Strategist] experience. Don’t fret about the need for new classes.
Not the Grand Design’s problem.
If there were new classes needed, someone would have made them already. The Grand Design was here to keep things running a-okay until the boss got back.
The boss being the Grand Design.
The other Grand Design.
 
——
 
So, the Grand Design exploring the universe that Kasigna had originated from had come to a few astounding conclusions.
Firstly, reality was big. It had so many new class ideas and concepts to run through, not to mention completely separate histories and cultures and physics, that it could be analyzing this for a year.
However, it was no longer overstrained…or so it thought. Because it had discovered a function within itself that essentially let it perform [Parallel Thoughts], but in a much more reasonable way.
The Grand Design could…clone itself. In a sense. More like split a part of itself off to manage one particular reality, and the two parts could communicate.
Obviously, it didn’t know that because it had never interacted with another reality, at least in the sense of ‘crossing over’. But the functions were within it. Rather interestingly developed too…it didn’t have that creative edge that some of the rules around [Heroes] and new classes did. It had a different…quality to it.
A different designer? The Grand Design wasn’t sure how it felt about that. Nor about the understanding that with each new ‘reality’ it would adjudicate, another part of it would siphon off. In fact, the coding was more than merely linear; once two realities were entered by the Grand Design, it would have enough ‘brainpower’ to spool off a third unit of itself as a kind of overseer of the other two.
Kasigna’s dead reality didn’t really count, so what the Grand Design was really doing was dividing most of its intelligence to keep the real reality running while investigating this dead memory. However…it saw parallels between how it had been designed and the rapid spread of hostile organisms.
Or viruses, to use an Earther idea. How many realities had it been meant to oversee?
All the…incisive qualities of the Grand Design, which you might call a personality of sorts or its decision-making matrices, were still exploring Kasigna’s lost realm and reflecting on the nature of its design. It was onto something, though it was aware its…processing…had slowed down noticeably.
Probably all the new data it was analyzing. The other section of itself kept assuring it that everything was fine. And the Grand Design had to trust itself, even if the copy of it was just—well. Bland.
Forty thousand years old bland. No originality, no desire to make new classes—approve the class, assign the level. It’d handle things for a bit, but the Grand Design wasn’t spinning off new elements of itself any time soon.
That was just…for one thing, there was no point. But it was just…
Wrong?
Anyways, the Grand Design of Isthekenous had achieved something in its studies. On one hand—it had finally copied an afterlife from the realms used by the dead gods of Kasigna’s original pantheons.
Some of them weren’t the best. They had judicial systems, economies, all kinds of odd processes, including guardians and higher-ranking dead. Kasigna’s afterlives were far more, well, fair.
No one came back from her afterlives. They were reborn, in time, allowed to become new people and tread that endless karmic wheel again, but the right to bring back the dead had never been allowed by the Three-in-One.
No one. She had broken her vow at the Winter Solstice for the first time in her creation.
The Grand Design didn’t judge that. It wasn’t here to pass judgements on people outside of its jurisdiction. However, there was a simplicity the Grand Design could use in Kasigna’s designs, and one of her last afterlives resembled the lost Kasignel almost identically. The Grand Design, you see, was aware the loss of Kasignel had impinged on so much.
Not only the function of ghosts, but its own knowledge. Not merely the existence of those manifold souls, but the function of classes like [Warlock] and [Summoner], who were designed to interface with the dead.
It wasn’t a morality call. Definitely not. It was about the proper function of the system. That was why, for this reason and no other, the Grand Design of Isthekenous prepared to make a new afterlife.
All it had to do was create one, a perfect copy of the world and all the geography of the world that had been and ever was, forfeit of causality and time, where souls could remain and interact in limited ways with the world of the living.
How hard could it be? It would let them return to a proper afterlife instead of Hellste, because the rules were vastly different when it came to Hellste or Diotria. All it had to do was evict one, well, three-in-one beings.
She was still there. All the souls were being funneled to Hellste rather than becoming part of her. The Grand Design of Isthekenous had no opinion on unnamed entities outside of its ruleset and jurisdiction consuming the souls of mortals, definitely not. There was nothing personal about it moving to relocate her.
Even if that meant the probable destruction of her being. As far as the Grand Design of Isthekenous could tell, the <Category: Gods (pending authorization)> were beings that survived on faith from those with <Miracle> classes especially. Even basic knowledge seemed to give them some kind of authority, and souls were another sort of sustenance.
They had limits, at least currently. What might happen to one of them that had been both wounded and deprived of all of her hoarded souls and had no access to any more was…well, death didn’t apply to them like other beings.
The three-in-one remained in a void where Kasignel had been. She had begged it when she noticed its presence checking on her, attempting to catalog her.
Begged.
And she never begged. She had pleaded that she was dying. Shrieked at it. Threatened it.
The Grand Design had done nothing, for she was not of it.
This was fair.
 
——
 
She was fading away. Piece by piece, with nothing left to sustain her. No; that wasn’t accurate. She did have shreds of belief that fueled her.
But she, Kasigna, the Three-in-One, the Goddess of Death, was dying. She had overexerted herself, as banal as the explanation was. She had used her power to affect reality, but she had no strength left to pay the cost.
Like an overextended star, all the raging fury of energy had become a dim ember—and she had already been a withered corpse, rotting from ages of scavenging to survive. Only, this time, the very basis of her strength, her afterlife, was gone.
This vanishing was painless. It was like dissolving into everything, a slow unraveling of a thought. Yet the Three-in-One fought it.
Three beings, Maiden, Mother, Crone, huddled together in the void that had been Kasignel. They reached for souls, but there were none; they appeared in Hellste instead. There was no more deathless land to draw on.
No infinite supply of the dead. Just three beings. They knew it was their end. The only being capable of entering this place was Isthekenous’ final creation, and it ignored them. If anything, it seemed to be taking pleasure in their unmaking.
They could feel it maneuvering to replace her. To eject her into another reality, where the sheer weight of physics or her formless nature would eradicate her in moments.
“Defeated.”
That was what the Maiden said; even alone, Kasigna was three beings, each with a different mentality. Different perspectives. The Crone spoke next.
“We shall…survive. We have clawed our way through the death of universes. We shall survive. Then revenge ourselves on our daughter, the [Innkeeper], each and every mortal who opposed us. And reward the loyal, such as Bethal Walchaís.”
Her face was bitter. But she remembered each person who had done her a service as well; the Crone never forgot, ironically. The shreds of half-belief from a few hundred people were the only things keeping Kasigna alive. If she hadn’t summoned so many dead, taken physical form and battled one of the Wild Hunt, she might have survived.
—There was a hole in her chest. Her daughter’s blade. Traitor. The Maiden was despairing. The Crone was bitter. The Mother was stillest of all. She was thinking not of the battle, her enemies, nor even survival—not quite.
“We brought a soul back.”
The Maiden twitched. The Mother’s voice was soft, accusing by its gentleness. The Crone responded instantly.
“As was our right.”
“As we have never done. We offered the souls a second chance. Never have we done that, and it was done freely.”
The Crone sucked at her rotten teeth, trying to find a counterargument, but she was uncertain. The Maiden knelt.
“I was drunk upon the power long lost to me. I long to shape this world, to triumph over the others. I offered the one thing I could. The one thing I should not.”
“No, no. It was—”
“Yes.”
Two voices spoke and overwrote the decrepit voice of the Crone. The Maiden and Mother nodded at each other, and the Crone fell silent, scowling, disagreeing, wrathful, but that was Kasigna’s nature.
She was changing. She could feel it. Not just from her long aeons of suffering; the Crone was different. So were the Maiden and Mother.
What will we be? No—if we even live.
All three selves began to reflect on their demise. The Maiden lifted a hand, watching the tips of her fingers vanishing as even her sense of self eroded. She did nothing. The Crone licked her lips.
“That unfinished creation of Isthekenous shall not destroy me, nor the Faerie King’s wiles, nor any other being. I am Kasigna. I never die. I have walked before time itself and bested rival gods by the hundreds. The old ways sing through reality, so deep that even the rot between worlds kneels to them. There is a way.”
Because one knew it, the other two did, but it was a terrible thought, even for them. Neither of the other two halves said a word. Then the Mother spoke.
“It shall be I.”
“No.”
The Maiden reacted at once; the Crone did not speak, but a terrible void opened up in her eyes. Regret. Horrific loss and acceptance. She bowed her head as the Mother rose. She was a grand woman, and the Mother smiled.
“It is fittingly I. The only question is whether it should be done.”
She looked to the other two questioningly as the Grand Design drew closer, and the Maiden said nothing. She knelt, covering her face. The Crone whispered.
“I am endless. I am Death.”
The Mother’s face twisted with self-ridicule, with scorn, and then her expression changed to one of triumph and pride for everything she ever had been, good and ill. She spread her arms, and her voice rose.
“So be it.”
There were no shadows in this place. No sound. Nothing but the void—until it changed, and there were shadows. Three. They moved, a hunched figure and a young, spritely one. Advancing towards the tall figure, who did not move.
Then there was sound, a dripping sound, the sounds of hushed voices. The smell of something ancient filling this place with a familiar odor. There was touch; fading warmth. And as there was, as ever—
Death.
 
——
 
The Grand Design had been gifted tools to subdue even the divine.
It had never thought to make war against anything, to interfere, but it had the power, if it was deemed necessary. It did not think to use the weapons gifted to it against Kasigna.
This wasn’t personal. It simply returned to remove her and place her in the mortal realm, for it had need of the afterlife. The Grand Design did not travel, but appeared in a place that had no geographical coordinates anyone would understand.
Between Diotria and Hellste.
In a place that had no ‘space’ left to it, just as time and other constants had fled it.
There was only the Three-in-One, Kasigna, Goddess of Death, a being older than this universe, and the Grand Design.
Only her, and the Grand Design knew her legend. She who had never died.
She who had judged her own mother, who had slain other gods and sent them to her realm. Who had outlasted reality breaking, the onslaught of the rot between worlds—
Kasigna, who never died. Most feared of the gods who had ever been.
The Grand Design came across nothing but the void. And a pool of liquid, which it skirted…though this place should have had no substance at all. It came across three people.
No…
Two.
Two women. One young, a maiden in every guise and form that had ever been, who looked like youth across all species, and the crone, wretched and age and judgment. The Maiden and the Crone from whom entire mythologies echoed.
They knelt over the third…body. The Mother. The…
The Grand Design saw the two glance up. Maiden, Crone.
Both Kasigna. Both different. Both—
Two? The third was lying there. Blood dripped from their fingers. Kasigna devoured Kasigna as Kasigna…wiped at the ichor of gods dripping from her mouth.
“One is dead. Forever, forevermore. I always survive.”
The Crone rasped. The Maiden drank the blood at her feet and rose, and part of her lay dead. A third of her slain so the other parts would live. They reached down, tearing flesh off their body, weeping at this sacrilege.
Kasigna ate Kasigna so Kasigna would live. She ripped out her eyes and ate the rotting flesh, Maiden eating Mother, Crone devouring Daughter.
The oldest rites. Rules so old the Grand Design stood in their shadow.
“I always survive.”
The Grand Design had no eyes to lock with Kasigna. No body to shiver, nor emotions to feel fear. It had its duty. It had its logic. It had the weapons forged to kill gods.
The Grand Design beheld Kasigna.
—It decided to leave things as they were.
The Grand Design left Kasigna as she ate.
