“My mother expressed a lot of feelings towards Selys, which is why I’ve been placed at Silver so I can be babied for a few years! I don’t care. I’m placed, and other guilds can recertify me. I’m starting the team, just like I said. Also, would you get rid of your stupid blessing? I had to convince everyone I wasn’t cheating!”
Mrsha jabbed a finger up at the floating orb of light. Unlike a regular [Light] spell, it had a subtle gradient to the yellow-white glow. It was also somewhat tangible; when she swung a paw through it, it flickered like a candle.
“Mrsha, the blessing is for your protection. If you are set on becoming an adventurer, any aid is surely welcome.”
“I don’t need this.”
For emphasis, Mrsha pointed; the light ball changed, and the room brightened even further as a bright yellow halo burst to life over her head. Pawn tilted his head.
“It is a very good blessing. My best.”
“It looks stupid as Creler eggs, and I don’t want it. Dispel it!”
“Very well.”
He waved a hand, sighing, and the halo vanished. Mrsha nodded at him. Pawn studied her, then spoke.
“I really think you should take a few days to reconsider your plans, Mrsha. Some experience would help you level a bit before you took on a risky quest, much less—”
“Aha! I knew it! You want to saddle me with a bunch of idiot rookies in Selys’ pocket so you can keep me from curing Erin! You of all people, Pawn?”
Mrsha exploded in fury, and flames burst out of her pipe. Pawn didn’t react as she stormed up to him, but he did raise one hand.
“I did not object to that plan. Your mother may have differences of opinion. I would rather that you find the cure without a chance of failing.”
She glared at him and hesitated. The stalemate was broken as Lyonette, somewhat red-cheeked, fussing with her hair, appeared out of the basement. The first thing she went to do was kiss her daughter on the forehead, though she had to stand on tiptoes to do it.
“Congratulations, Mrsha! I’ll send word to Ryoko, Pisces, and—why, everyone at once! They should be coming, but they’ll want to congratulate you! And give you some presents and advice, no doubt. Silver-rank! How wonderful! I know you had your heart set on Gold-rank, but—”
Mrsha gave her mother a long, and annoyed, look.
“Wow, Mother, you have good ears to hear my rank before I told it to you. And you can skip sending anything to that woman. Or convincing me to wait around. I’m forming my team. Pisces swore he’d help. I’m going to look him up, or Revi, and even Ceria, if she can spare the mental energy to care about anything.”
Lyonette’s face fell. She gazed at Pawn, at Mrsha, and then clasped her hands together.
“Actually, I’ve invited all of them for the Solstice reunion, Mrsha. I am on your side, believe it or not. Which means I did invite Archmage Springwalker and House Veltras—”
“You did what? I don’t want to see her!”
A second explosion, and Mrsha’s eyes blazed. She stormed around the tables, and Lyonette hurried after her.
“Mrsha, you’ve got a white spot on the back of your neck. Didn’t you check the mirror? Pawn, where’s the fur dye? This is why I’m not happy with you going off! I know how much it matters, dear, but you’re not ready. Pisces couldn’t find a cure, and if he couldn’t—”
“I’m going to do it. Leave off, Mom. And I don’t want to see Ryoko.”
“She’s doing her best, Mrsha.”
“She can live with him in House Veltras for the rest of her life and have a dozen children. I wish her the best. She’s given up on Erin. Well, I haven’t. I waited, I trained—I’m going to bring her back. I swear it! I don’t care if I have to fight through a Named-rank dungeon, and I don’t care if it puts my name on the map. If I have to kill all of Plain’s Eye, I will. Don’t stop me.”
Mrsha clenched her paw and shook her fist at Lyonette. The [Princess] stared helplessly at Pawn, who held her shoulders gently. Mrsha had tears in her eyes. She turned away and stormed for a door that led into a garden. Up a hill. Towards a waiting bier covered in frost.
There, she stopped.
The bier hadn’t changed for ten years, but the tributes had. They were piled up around her. A spear, a frozen little doll, flowers and books, letters and artifacts. All failures. Mrsha halted suddenly, awkwardly, the flames of her anger gone out. She shuffled her feet as she walked forwards. Cleared her throat. Then spoke to the figure lying in the ice, the broken crossbow bolts still embedded in her flesh.
Still smiling.
“Erin? I’m sorry I took so long. I had a—well, it’s not the best birthday ever, but listen. I did it. Today’s the day. I’m going to do it, and I hope—”
She took a huge breath.
“I hope you give me your blessing. Just hang on, okay? Just give me a year and…”
She had maps. Clues to real healing artifacts, truly powerful magic. The remnants of the Forgotten Wing company had sent everything the Titan had to her when she was sixteen—his last legacy. Moore, Pisces, and other adventurers from the old days had pledged to help.
She had to try. Mrsha knelt by the bier, snuffling—
 
——
 
The real Mrsha jerked away. The pain in her chest had been building, building until she had to recoil or collapse. She lay on the ground, panting, not in another panic attack, but until the devastating grief, the desperation and loss, faded from her a bit.
It’s not real.
It could have been real.
In a way, it was surreal seeing a different Liscor like that, seeing herself—talk. Mrsha had witnessed her older self taking the Adventurer’s Guild test.
She could cast magic! Tier 4 spells, a number of them! Older Mrsha had Skills, a voice, and—
Brown fur. In this fate, terrible things had occurred. The Titan had never been found after he vanished one day.
The Meeting of Tribes had ended in a brief civil war where several Gnoll tribes died and Plain’s Eye emerged as the ruling tribe.
Goblins were no longer welcome around Liscor. The Horns of Hammerad had dissolved. Ten years later was a terrible time. Lyonette had even gotten together with Pawn. And yet…
They’re still there. They’re still alive. I’m fighting to try and save Erin.
That—that meant something. It was why Mrsha watched, it was why she had chosen this door as one to remember.
This Mrsha was like her. She…she’d probably do exactly what Mrsha was going to do and understand perfectly why it mattered.
Okay.
Mrsha lay on her back, wondering what was up with the Dreamleaf, though. The collar was sort of cool, especially if she could talk like that. The jump-kick trick was awesome.
The Dreamleaf was just stupid.
Enough wasting time, stupid. Do it. Do it.
She slapped herself on the face with the notecard, but she was still scared. Mrsha searched around, then wondered what time it was. She leapt up, ran to the garden entrance, and climbed up the rope to see—
Barely half an hour had passed. Phew.
Mrsha slid down the ropes, wiping at her brow. One of the problems with the [Palace of Fates] was that time lost all meaning when you stared into the doors, let alone…went through them.
If I’m gone, Dalimont will notice the moment he gets back and Elia says she never saw me. He’s not entirely stupid, and Mother’s clever. They might find out, especially if Rianchi and Dyeda give up the beans.
The two Goblins versus a Thronebearer’s insight was not a bet Mrsha wanted to take. She wondered if she could bring a clock of some kind with her? Then again, would it even work? A spell would probably mess up instantly…
She was still procrastinating, she knew. Mrsha walked back to the hallway and picked up a root. Technically, she didn’t need it. The root connected to the Redfang door was still attached.
Go in, out, and just—just do it! Mrsha slapped herself on the cheeks. She strode over to the other door, bag of holding at her side, wand in its holster, ready to go.
—She stopped by the slightly-ajar door with the carved image of her own face on it. Mrsha peered at it a second, then cracked it open slightly. She’d left the door ajar because time seemed to stop or things just…ceased to exist when the doors closed.
She didn’t know. It was just a kind of instinct, a—well, a not-mercy for the Mrsha who’d gotten to realize she was the fake one. Mrsha hesitated, then opened the door a bit more.
Curiosity was a terrible thing.
This [Palace of Fates] was a horrible place…because you got to indulge it without limit. And what Mrsha saw was…
 
——
 
A girl was curled up in front of the door. She had white fur, though her fur here was stained brown in places and ragged. She was thin. Her paws were a mess, and she was—
There.
Right there. Sleeping in the hallway of the palace in another world. In a bed of fur and grass and—
The real Mrsha stared. She gazed upon a [Last Survivor], Level 17.
Four levels had gone by since the other Mrsha tumbled down here. Four levels—for a girl who had no way to leave this place. No food nor shelter nor tools.
Only a bag of cookies long gone. Water from the palace.
And the knowledge that there was no way out. That she was fake and stuck—and that sliver of a half-open door.
Whatever this other Mrsha had gone through, it wasn’t shown. Not visibly on her. She was thinner. She was dirty. Dirty, the real Mrsha realized, from digging.
Digging up. The hole in the palace was vastly expanded; dirt covered the floor, and Mrsha realized the younger her had done the only thing that she could to survive. She was lying next to an impromptu garden.
Did she even have any seeds? She must have combed her fur, desperately searched her bag of holding for crumbs, pieces of bread, anything, and then planted and watered them and hoped to…
Her paws were banged up from digging. What had she eaten? It had been days. The real Mrsha stood there, paralyzed, and saw bundles of grass—and a crude firepit—next to her.
She’s been setting flame to it with her [Emberbearer] class. And eating grass? 
Grass and water? That was the only thing in the [Palace of Fates]. The little Mrsha slept there, facing the door. Waiting for—
She stirred as she heard a sound. Just the faintest sound. She glanced up and sprang to her feet, pressing her hands against the barrier in the air as she saw the other Mrsha standing there. Eye to eye—as the real Mrsha began to shut the door.
 
——
 
The other her pressed her paws up against the invisible barrier, shaking her head. The real Mrsha was trembling.
She had to close the door. This—this was insanity.
If I keep the door open, she’ll starve to death.
If I close the door, she starves anyways.
There was one future Mrsha had ever seen where a Mrsha was rescued. In every other reality, she lived out the remainder of her life here, growing what she could, living in this maddening hell…
I have to get her some food. Mrsha jerked back as the other her fumbled for paper, a quill, banging on the door, signing desperately. Then she wondered how long that would give the other Mrsha. Seeds? There was no way out from there. 
How long could the other Mrsha live in the [Palace of Fates], even if she found a way to survive? Until she literally couldn’t take it any longer.
A fluttering sound. Like the gentlest beating of wings.
Mrsha slowly turned her head…and saw a line of doors to either side, behind her. Each door was identical. But the reliefs on the doors were faded. The etchings dulling, the wood visibly aging. The doors stretched on and on and on—
Every fate with a Mrsha in each one—
She couldn’t move. She backed away from the door until she bumped against the one that was still open. The other her was holding up a notecard.
Please don’t. Please. I want to try to find a way out. Please let me try.
Mrsha jerked away from the door. She fell back, scrambling, running on all fours, and slammed into a wall. She lay there, trembling and holding her head.
This is wrong. This is all wrong. I hate this place.
She—had to see. Mrsha stood up and walked towards one of the doors. She pulled one open, peered inside—and closed it.
She walked to another, pulled it open, and closed it.
Without a word, she collapsed on the ground, clutching at her face, curling up.
This is all wrong! This is unfair! This is—
Mrsha lay there on her back, gazing up at the ceiling. A little girl, all fed, with people who loved her, with a way out. Surrounded by Mrshas lost to fate.
This is all unfair. 
Yes, I know.
Everything in here, everything I wish to do, is unfair.
Erin Solstice’s words came back to Mrsha and hit her like a frying pan to the face.
—if it matters—
Mrsha stood. Slowly, she walked back to the door where the other Mrsha was still standing. The other her was ragged, desperate, but she held up a card with shaking paws.
I know I’m not real. But maybe there’s still a future for me. Good luck, other me.
Slowly, the real Mrsha leaned against the door and held up her own card.
We’re both us. We both know how much this sucks. You’ve seen the doors.
The truth was reflected in the other Mrsha’s eyes. She held up a single card.
Rags is dead. Did you save yours?
The real Mrsha recoiled. She sat back and wrote.
I’m trying.
Then go save her. Run.
The other Mrsha held up the card and then signed with her paws, and they realized that they could talk like that.
“Run, Mrsha. Run to Lyonette and hug her and don’t think about me. Just leave the door open a bit, please?”
“I can’t do that.”
The paw-signs became faster.
“I’m afraid. I’m so afraid. Let me be here. I won’t do anything, I can’t. Just let me—if I dig, maybe I’ll find something. All the other Mrshas gave up, but this can’t be underground forever. Can it? Maybe I’ll dig into another Skill.”
“All the other Mrshas gave up?”
Hesitation. Then—
“I’m afraid to look. Please let me stay.”
The real Mrsha hand-signed slowly, looking herself in their eyes.
“You know Lyonette must be desperate. You know how unlikely it is to get out of here. You know where you are. Despite all that, despite—knowing you’re not real, or not the original, do you still want to keep trying? Starving? If I close the door, you could rest.”
The other Mrsha’s face was dirty, and she was shaking with hunger or adrenaline in an empty body, but her eyes blazed, and she signed back.
“You’re me. Never ask me that again. If I have to take years, I’ll find my way back to my mother. I’ll go back and save everyone I can. Let me try. Let me try or get lost, you coward! Never give up. We’ve let too many people die for us to ever give up!”
She punched the barrier between them, then bared her teeth, pounding on the barrier. The real Mrsha nodded. She took a deep breath, then made her choice.
“Wait. Stand back.”
