Summer in the City of Arts proved to be far milder than Ranthia had expected—it was hardly the sweltering humidity of Remus or the dry, deadly heat of the wastelands. If anything, the temperature outside the city finally matched the perfect environment within the city’s walls which was provided by a combination of enchantments and auras.

The seasonal change also left everyone in the city abuzz with excitement. Contrary to Ranthia’s expectations, the summer solstice itself was a total nonevent, but that was only because the elves were gearing up for a far grander celebration. Namely, the celebration in honor of the day that the City of Arts was “completed”—the day that the twin trees were finished and the first Maestro of Sculpture and the first Maestro of Horticulture ascended.

Oddly, it wasn’t a religious celebration. Sure, it was customary—though far from required—for residents to leave some offering for one or the other, but the celebration itself focused on the life and immortal achievements of the beings as they walked Pallos, not the God of Arboriculture or the Goddess of Sculpting Crystal. And as part of the eight-day celebration, the top ranks from every art were expected to do presentations, samples, and giveaways.

And, naturally, grand competitions were planned. After all, it was one of the few venues where even a Maestro could be unseated.

More annoyingly, it was a rare celebration for which even the Lodge closed its doors for the duration, which would forcibly disgorge Ranthia and the other Hunters into the revelry. As such, its final day open was crowded—everyone was eager to get their last drinks in and compete to see who had the best final hunt ahead of the celebration.

Ranthia’s own contribution was modest. She had no good explanation for where in Xaoc’s glory the eighteen wild hogs had come from—and none of them had been particularly high level—but they were tearing up the place. She was perfectly pleased with the medium amethyst she received for removing the problem and the vast quantity of pork she’d infused into the upcoming festivities.

Besides, a modest success was infinitely preferable to Anthelleon’s ongoing drunken misery.

“A level 1094 thunderbird, completely unawares, and I still missed! Is this all that my quest to become a Hunter has wrought? A loathsome inaccuracy against an even more loathsome bird?!” Ranthia’s friend shed another singular tear—seriously, how did she keep managing to shed only the one on command?—before she pounded back yet another mug of their favored blackberry spirit.

Ranthia got along—to varying extents—with most of the Hunters, but a few exceptions to that rule had made themselves clear over the months. Ranthia stopped comforting her friend as the most glaring exception sauntered his way over grinning like a dog that bilked its well-meaning masters out of a second meal.

“This is why we should remove the lowest performing Hunters from our ranks periodically, so shameful displays don’t mar our crystalline reputation.” The jackass stopped on the opposite side of their table and directed his words their way, even if he kept his eyes forward.

“Mm-hm, and remind me how many Hunters were in your party when you took down a level 600-something dinosaur?” Ranthia sassed. She honestly didn’t care about people like him, but she knew Anthelleon’d appreciate the retort. Her friend was vulnerable, and she wasn’t about to let an obnoxious idiot make things worse.

Even if she was eighty percent certain that he was Sunny’s oft-derided father.

“It was level 703—749!” As if anyone could have possibly missed his brazen attempt to inflate his half-borrowed achievement. “But at least I didn’t miss. Accept it, little miss diamond spoon—you aren’t meant to be a Hunter!”

Ranthia was halfway out of her chair, ready to invite the man to join her outside of the city when a metal mug bounced off one of his horns with enough force to stagger him.

“Shut up already, you damned idiot. You haven’t got any room to talk about failed hunts, and I’m not in the mood to listen to you fill the air with your shit! Pay for the woman’s next round and sit down or get the fuck out of my Lodge!” The tavern owner’s annoyed shout reached them about the same time Ranthia caught the slightly dented mug.

The asshole stamped off, grumbling darkly and Anthelleon raised her head from the table just long enough to send a half-hearted smirk Ranthia’s way. With the situation… handled, Ranthia made her way to the bar to return the mug to its owner.

“I’m afraid it dented on… er, his horn.” Ranthia gently warned the woman. The effect was probably hindered somewhat by her wince over her inability to recall his name. Honestly, Sunny’d said it more than once and he’d been a part of the introductions Ranthia received!

“That’s my throwing mug. I use it on idiots that deserve a cracked horn. That piece of shit got lucky though, happened to turn his head just right at the moment of impact—otherwise I would’ve taken a chunk off.

“But you, right here, right now: tell me what his name is.” The profound woman leaned over the bar, scowling at Ranthia, totally ignoring the mug held in Ranthia’s outstretched hand.

“Um…” Her mind’s best offering was blatantly wrong, but she had nothing better on the spot! “Primus?”

Honestly, he was an elf, not a Reman!

“Why don’t you have a memory Skill?” The question felt atypically gentle. The woman was still leaning deep inside of Ranthia’s personal space, yet her tone was undeniably kind!

“Er, well I had one, but it didn’t work very well. I’ve been waiting for Avyna to return so I can…” Ranthia stopped talking. The bartender had a look of annoyed resignation on her face as she blatantly raised her hand and balled her fist at perfectly mundane speeds. Ranthia’s silence didn’t stop her, of course.

The punch came and Ranthia assessed it. Her instincts told her it wasn’t a threat and [Divine Eyes in the Void] plainly agreed. She could have dodged it, at least so long as the high-level woman didn’t get serious, but she chose to accept the incoming bonk. It seemed like the prudent thing to—

The bursts of color resolved into an unsteady reality as Ranthia tried to stumble back to her feet, aided by multiple deft hands. One of which was on her butt, though it moved before Ranthia could figure out where—er, who—it had come from.

She had blood in her mouth, but she narrowly came to her senses before she spit it out. The bartender was still glaring in her direction and pissing her off further by making a mess was a bad move. There was a reason she and every other Hunter made damn sure they weren’t carrying actively leaking trophies into the Lodge.

Instead, Ranthia sent out a fresh image and tried to force her spinning head to focus long enough to shift.

“Fuck me, I swore that was a gentle rebuke—not a full-force punch.” Ranthia groused once she was in her fresh image. Mid-way through her gripe, she dismissed her abandoned image and struggled to fight down the moment of discomfort that stemmed from sharing [Reflections of Reality]’s effects with such a large crowd. She was done with hiding her Skillset, but old habits and mindsets were hard to overcome.

“It was. If I punched you seriously, you would’ve painted half my damned Lodge! …Wait. The low experience zone… Dumbass, answer me this: amongst your people, how prevalent were levels like mine?” The barkeep’s initial snort of disdain vanished beneath an unmistakable note of concern.

Questions felt especially hazardous after recent experiences, but Ranthia still answered.

“I’m only aware of one other human that’s ever seized immortality, but I had one of the highest levels Remus had ever seen. …To be honest, I was an adult by their standards before I even knew it was humanly possible to unlock your third class; not many people got much past level 200.” Ranthia confessed, baffled by the complete change in the woman’s demeanor.

“Ah, fuck. You’re an idiot, yes, but this is actually bad. You have no idea how to coexist with people like me, do you? I really should have realized the problem after your ridiculous showing when I tested you… Eh, well, I’d apologize, but you’re still stupid.” The tall woman paced back and forth behind the bar as she complained, then stopped and took a deep breath before she continued speaking. “Fine, we can fix all of this. First. You have until this stupid celebration comes to an end to either pick a Skill to drop or make something merge—I know dropping Skills is hard on non-elves and so I’m not going to force it here. But don’t even waste your time trying to learn someone else’s—every fucking child knows better than that. I’ll teach you how to make a memory Skill that is actually tailored to you. And no damned excuses about your Skills—I’ll rip out your damned tongue, and I won’t even feel bad about it since I already know you have the classes to survive it. Second, I know someone that has experience with mixed level groups. I’ll call in that old favor and let him teach you how to not get yourself killed.”

Ranthia was left momentarily stricken by the words. Okay, rationally, yes, eight days was… ambitious, but it was probably fair. As much as she liked [Skilled Fingers] and [Expert Tongue], the Skills were ultimately ‘disposable’ and she could spend some time mulling over which to drop—assuming she couldn’t miraculously make anything merge within that period of time. But the Skill question felt unimportant after the (willfully nameless) woman’s final words!

“I know what a favor means to immortals, I’m not—” Ranthia had to voice her protest. She had been uncomfortable enough with Avyna calling in a favor when their hearts were intertwined, but the tavernkeeper was practically a stranger to her!

“Don’t worry about it. Honestly, this is a good thing—I’ve been looking for a sensible way to discharge that damn favor for longer than most of the idiots in here have been alive. Time is running out and you’re the best damned excuse to call it in that I’ve seen. The favor isn’t a proud moment for either of us; it’ll be good to have it done. So shut up and be grateful—in other words, buy another fucking drink and get away from my bar.” The woman growled, before she turned performatively to the drinks available.

Ranthia sighed and went to set the dented mug down, only to notice that it was no longer in her hand. How?! Sure, the triple-classed level 2560 [Warrior] had to be in a league of speed beyond what Ranthia recognized, but she should have at least felt the mug being taken from her hand!

Ranthia just grumbled and ordered another round for herself and Anthelleon, along with a loaf of warm cheese-covered bread. The night was still young, and her friend still needed to be cheered up. By the time she reached the table, said friend was sprawled on her back across the table and was subvocalizing moody poetry that used as many flavors of the word ‘fail’ as the woman possessed.

Ranthia rolled her eyes, set the drinks down, tore a chunk off the loaf, and stuffed it into the brooding woman’s mouth.

“Eat. You’ll feel better. And take this drink slow, it’s a waste to throw a good brew back like cheap swill.” Ranthia ordered.

“You can be quite loathsome, my friend.” The elf complained after she swallowed the bread. Though, for all she complained, she slid bonelessly back onto the bench next to Ranthia and reached for more bread.

“Oh, you don’t know the half of it! If you promise to properly listen, I’ll tell you about the time I locked three rapists into a building together and pitted them against one another.” Ranthia offered her friend an impish grin.

“You’d have more of my attention had you taught them to love one another—physically—and have no further need to torment the vulnerable for their lust.” Anthelleon turned her nose up, but her eyes were far more honest—she wanted to hear the tale.

Ranthia snorted, but she still launched into her story. Remembering her tenure with Ranger Team 13 was still… bittersweet, at best, even after years of correspondence with her [Mind Healer]. But in hindsight, she was genuinely grateful to Republius for turning a blind eye to her… unofficial and unsanctioned acts of justice. There was little chance that the man had been unaware, and she improved lives through those moments, just as she did with the official acts of the team.

By the time Ranger Team 6 began its rounds, most cities in Remus had begun to pay at least serious lip-service to the rights of women. And, of course, Green was more than willing to lean on her authority to force the city guard to comply with the letter and spirit of the law, unlike the aloof Leoios. He only cared about overt actions that safeguarded the lives of cities as a whole—the man never cared about the plight of individuals or marginalized groups that were beneath his notice.

Naturally, Ranthia was just getting to the fun part of the story when an interruption came.

“Friends, Hunters, and anyone else desperate enough to wet their lips in this hole—no offense, ma’am—I have returned triumphant! I bid you to join me outside, so I can unveil proof of my latest hunt! …Because it’s a bit too big for the crate.” An unfamiliar elf declared even as he thrust the door to the lodge open. His sand-colored hair was short, and his horns swept back from his forehead, obscuring much of it. He was dressed in light riding leathers with no trace of a weapon on his person.

[Warrior – Arcanite] level 1024, [Mage – Arcanite] level 519, [Warrior – Gravity] level 1024.

“Who is that?” Ranthia quietly asked her newly distracted audience of one. She’d been in the City of Arts for almost half a year—so an unfamiliar face that was known to the crowd was more than a bit surprising.

“Aegiomus! I’ve mentioned him before, he’s at the top of my to-do list. Come on, you’ll want to see this.” Anthelleon was completely back to her normal self as she grabbed Ranthia’s arm and dragged her along to join the masses trying to filter their way through the Lodge’s tiny exit.

Ranthia just sighed and yielded to her friend’s efforts. Honestly, she spent hours trying to bolster the woman’s mood with only minor success, then all it took was some (allegedly) handsome guy showing up?!

Gathering everyone outside of the Lodge took time, even with Egopus, or whatever his name was, trying to coordinate things. He refused to start or give any hints until every last Hunter was gathered around the Lodge. As a crowd, they wholly blocked the street, even before other stickybeaks bolstered their numbers, but no one seemed to complain.

