"I doubt that." Helios said while shaking his head, "You managed to defeat her, though you are both comparable. I underestimated the potential of their species. Even my uncle would vie for their favor. Her temporal dilation in particular is extraordinary now."

I shrugged, "They were strong before getting Schema's assistance. Obviously they'd be unbelievable with it."

Helios raised a hand, "Yes, maybe, but I never anticipated such a rapid change in her output. Chrona dented you with such simplistic ease. From what I've heard and seen of you, you're rather difficult to kill. To break your bones with strikes alone..."

Helios let his shook his head, "Even more so, however, was your regeneration. How did you heal bones so quickly? It was as if you've the blood of an immortal in you."

"Eh, trade secret," I said with a smirk.

Caprika put a hand on my arm, "I've spoken with uncle about temporal dilation before. It increases both the output and damage dealt by the user. It's very taxing on your mana reserves, however, so he rarely uses it."

I narrowed my eyes, listening close. 'High' mana costs were irrelevant to me.

"In her instance, she's hastening herself. Stretching out the blows she receives dramatically reduces their impact. The same could be said of her own strikes, their fierceness remarkable."

Helios gestured a hand to her, "I believed that magic not worth its investment. I may speak with uncle and uncover a few of his journals on the topic. He no doubt has detailed knowledge of it if it's this effective."

I pointed at Helios, "Well this all makes me feel better about the situation and all, but I was meaning to ask what he plans on doing after we meet?"

Helios tilted his head, "His intentions are beyond me. I will simply say he finds you interesting. Whether or not that will prove to benefit or harm you, only time will tell."

Helios let out a laugh, "I'm sure he viewed your performance in this fight as well."

"Really? Damn, I thought he'd have more important shit to do."

Helios scoffed, "He didn't only view the fight. I'm certain he accomplished a dozen tasks as he did so. My point is this-" Helios adjusted his stance, looking a bit out of place for once, "I was wrong about you. You've exceeded my rather low expectations of you."

Caprika gave Helios a slow clap, "Well well, you have the ability to admit you're wrong. I never thought I'd see this day. Truly this is incredible."

"Hah, hah, live up your short lived victory while you can. We must leave soon," Helios said.

Caprika turned to me, "As promised, you shall be receiving the highest status I can give you, and I guarantee a large guildhouse will be available to you in my city. I will advertise your legion for all ears that will hear it and eyes that will see it."

I grinned, "Thanks."

Caprika leaned back into her seat, relaxing a bit, "I can't believe I'll finally be allowed back onto the homeworld."

Helios mumbled, "Neither can I."

She shoved him, succeeding in rolling herself back. She let out a puff before glancing back at me, "You know, I've never heard of a non-classer defeating a classer with an over 4,500 level lead. That's not even counting her unique class and skillset."

Helios rolled his hand with impatience, "Enough with the egocentric praise. Perhaps you can attempt sucking his metaphorical dick when I'm not around?"

Caprika crossed her arms, "Ho, ho, is someone jealous?"

"It's time we leave," Helios grumbled, "Follow me unless you believe he'll protect you this time, unlike the last."

Helios stepped through a wormhole of his creation. As I stared at it, Caprika molded her fur, hardening it into makeshift limbs. They pulled her wheelchair along by gripping the floor. She reached right beside the portal before turning to me,

"Thank you for helping me. You will not regret it."

I raised my eyebrows, "Eh, that depends on what kind of mood your uncle's in when we meet."

"Oooh, that will be fun to see. Do be prepared for a bit of eccentricity. He's...unusual."

"I figured. Goodluck."

"Likewise."

With our goodbyes said, Caprika rolled through the wormhole, the rift in spacetime closing right after.  I glanced around, finding most of the crowd remaining after the fights. They chatted with animation in their voices. That was good. I would need quite a few volunteers to join my guild soon.

With that in mind, I flew off towards Emagrotha's old home and Chrona's current residence. The icy cavern sat near the mountain's peak, icy sculptures illuminated in the fading sunset. As orange light danced in the many frozen carvings, I took off my gray armor and began collecting strips of blackened metal.

Within an hour, an orange gialgathen covered in yellow stripes flew in across the sky. It was Sheom, her skin smooth and moistened by a constant fog she kept over herself. As she paced into the icy den, I finished ripping another chunk out of my arm. I was sitting on a stack of metal plates, waiting to be forged. She walked up to me, her eyes curious and searching.

"Do you do that for discipline, perhaps?" Sheom said, her voice grave.

I shook my head, continuing my work, "It doesn't hurt much. I'm relatively numb to pain at this point. It's like pricking my finger, and that's not something that can phase me at this point."

I jerked, my skin snapping with a loud pang. As I set it down behind me, it clattered on the ice, smashed ice all around my workspace. I'd fix it before I left.

"Is that numbness also from the system you speak of?"

I stood up, "Yeah, it is."

Sheom took a deep breath, "I...I am sorry for calling you a dirtwalker earlier."

I scoffed, "You don't need to apologize to join me. What I need is for you to work, and work hard."

Sheom nodded, "I will do anything to gain the powers they owned."

With an evil grin on my face, I took a piece from Torix as I cackled,

"I hope you're ready."
