She leaned over, her tail restored, mana welling over it once more. At the same time, I charged a singularity's worth of mana into my blood once more. Though I never used it against Krog since I didn't need it, it might prove useful. It was always worth having a trump card ready.

Without further warning, Chrona dashed at me. With a bit of prediction, I swirled the molten mass in front of me, spreading it thin like a shield. Unable to withstand the scorching barrier, Chrona skidded to a halt in front of me. Using more mana still, I melted the ground under her. At the same time, I created a well of gravity under her and a well of antigravity above her.

She withstood the pulling force, outflying the downwards pull of gravity. I swirled the mass of metal into two balls, my focus sharpened. I kept one close, using it as a defensive measure. The other sphere I launched towards her, attempting to splash it over her frame.

The ball sped forward like a waterfall of shining silver. Chrona dodged it with unbelievable speed, but the pressure was constant. Unlike a pool of magma, this was my own dimensional fabric. It wasn't affected by Chrona's temporal dilation. That's the entire reason I went through the trouble of tearing my skin off.

Anytime she approached me, I whipped the defensive mass around me. As she backed off, I kept Event Horizon over her while attempting to smother her with the offensive glob. It proved ruthless and effective, preventing Chrona from approaching me by heat alone. At the same time, I kept a gravity well over her, draining her stamina. Anytime she tried landing, I melted the ground to magma under her.

It seemed like an airtight strategy, one I would win if the fight kept playing out like this. Chrona learned as we fought, however. Though the blob wasn't slowed down, she was still hastened in her field. She sped herself up further, her movements blinding. Testing her limits, she upped the pressure. As she did, I struggled more and more to maintain this new style of combat.

Sure, I was a swift learner, but she pushed me to the boiling point.

She charged from the front, her silhouette growing in my vision. I whipped the molten field to the front of me before she lifted a paw into the air. I thinned the shield over my head. She slammed her hand into the ground, tricking me before I could melt the rock.

My footing crumbled around the arena, the shockwave of her strike like a bomb going off. I stumbled back as she whipped her tail behind me. I pulled myself forward, evading the brunt of her blow. It was light graze with her tail, but it sheared through my back, tearing my spine and sending me flying.

She combined a kinetic enhancer as Krog had, whipping the momentum of her strike to the very tip of her tail. This gave it the piercing power. It came at a cost, her end of her tail hanging on by a strange of skin, the armor ruptured. She contained the pain, flipping over me.

With the agility of a dancer, she pushed off my back, crashing me through my own sheet of melted metal. I flopped off the ground, tearing chunks of granite from the arena, she landed, light on her feet, and dashed forward. I drilled into the stone, using it to buy myself time. She followed, striking with her tail like the hammer of a mad titan.

I sidestepped, a crater forming beneath us both. I let myself fall downwards. Well versed in aerial combat, she weaved around my wild strikes, slamming me from several sides. Her armor prevented her from burning her skin, several of my bones breaking in the process. Deeper we dug, the impacts creating a canyon in the arena.

With desperation building, I reversed direction, launching upward with a weighted punch. I caught her off guard, pulling her into my punch with a gravity well. As my fist slammed into her chest, I dented her amor inwards while snapping several of her ribs. Without that protection, my fist would've impaled her.

Eh, that's the reason I made it in the first place.

She recoiled as I lifted a hand, expecting another attack. Instead, I began forming a singularity above us. It would be delayed, taking over ten seconds to develop. To hold her down, I exploded off the rock beneath me with another leap. I lunged at her, hugging my arms together. A master of distance, she dodged by a hair's length before retaliating with a blitz of her own.

I sidestepped her first swipe, swinging my own fist forward. She outsped me despite her massive build, using her reach advantage. Her tail whipped into my side, leaving my ribs broken and cracking my spine. She paid a price once more, her tail further broken and the hanging chunk flung away.

My glowing blood coated what was now the end of her tail as well, so I reached out a hand and solidified the mass. Chrona pulled her tailback in agony, trying to sling the muck off. She flayed herself, the skin peeling off from the wound. She howled before I melted the area around us. Magma from all sides poured in, drenching us in heat. Chrona dispersed the entire mass by spreading out her wings, the wind creating an eruption in the arena.

At the same time, she clamped her jaws in my direction. A kinetic shockwave rippled through me, my balance disrupted. Using the distraction, she sliced her hand towards my head. I tilted sideways, dodging her claws by an inch. Her strike sliced deep into my torso, splitting me down the middle two feet deep.

With her arm stuck in my chest, she sliced her other paw towards my head. I pushed myself myself back by shoving against her lodged arm. Her claws grazed my face, sinking an inch into my helmet and tearing my facemask off. I met her eye. She squinted her brow as she stared at the grin on my face. I murmured,

"It's over."

Before she understood, the singularity I planted earlier imploded ten meters above her. Slowed down or not, the resulting explosion was close enough that we both were swept up in the resulting destruction. It broke both her wings and snapped the armor on her back. I was caught up as well, my body further mangled.

It was more than enough. Both of us were embedded in the walls of the crater we made. Hidden from prying eyes, Chrona struggled to recover. I didn't have that problem, my sheer regeneration coming into its own. My limbs and legs reconstituting in seconds. Within twenty seconds, my health was back to being topped off.

It paid off being a living dimension after all.

I pulled another set of gray armor out of my dimensional storage, cooling the surface of my skin. After wrestling it on under the rubble, I walked out of the ground, good as new. With a quick leap, I landed in the tunnel Chrona left in the stone. She was in a sorry state, ribs broken, limbs contorted, and a few rips in her skin. She'd be fine though. Schema's reorientation of her metabolism made her far harder to kill, just like it had mine.

Kessiah and a few health potions helped me come to that conclusion though. It would take a bit before she was fine as well. Once upon her, I reared my fist back, ready to continue the beating if I had too. A Sentinel appeared above me, dashing into the tunnel and stopping the fight. I let out a deep sigh of relief, glad they ended the fight there.

I stayed there for a moment, collecting myself. After a few deep breaths, I paced back out in front of the crowd once more. I raised a hand to a roar of applause.

Once more, I'd won.

Unlike last time, this was by a much thinner margin. Half a second later on the singularity, and Chrona might have had a chance of winning. It exposed a hole in my build, my strength not being up to par with some specialist builds.

To fix that, I'd be investing into constitution for a while. Constitution fed 40% of its value into strength, and my Immense tree added 25% of my mass as extra physical damage. That would come after this fancy rune I was working on.

Extra physical damage was a deceptive stat. It mainly meant general strength. Improving it quickly with extra mass was pivotal if I was going to face off against behemoths like the hybrids, Helios, or even Chrona. Learning that temporal dilation would make a massive difference as well.

I tucked that tidbit into the back of my mind as Kiki Mosk scrambled to explain what the hell happened in the fight,

"Ahem, so, er...The Gray Giant used alteration magic on his, uh, skin to make it metal? Then he used it as a zoning tool against Chrona by heating it into a glowing liquid...And then...er, he...um..."

He turned to the crowd, "You know what, I'll just leave it to the analysts to decipher. Regardless, the Gray Giant came out on top despite some very close calls. I'll say this much, he had more cards up his sleeve than I ever expected of the one-sided slugger."

Using a gravity well, I pulled Chrona from the crater, giving her several health potions. After gulping them down, she glared at me and sent out a telepathic wave,

"That grin of yours confused me for a moment. That is the only reason you won."

I shrugged, "All is fair in love and war. Besides, you're lucky I didn't just melt the armor you were wearing. Boiling your blood was another option. Maybe-"

"That's enough. I'm glad you decided to keep within a few parameters." she continued on a lighter note, "I am astonished by my progress as well. The fact I almost won is a testament to my progress."

I let her have that almost there. In my opinion, she still had a way to go.

"It is," I crossed my arms, "It isn't that surprising though. You've fought for what, centuries?"

"A century, but yes, I have fought for a long time."

"Point is, you have an enormous amount of experience and a wealth of difficult to learn skills. In that regard, I'm not your match. You just need to get used to the system and you'll be golden."

Chrona scoffed, "I would argue that in regards to your skills. I've never seen you fight in that manner. It was so odd seeing you implement it."

I spread out my hands, "Well, I was trying to use my head this fight. I'll be honest, you're a fucking monster at slugging it out. If we pummeled each other, there was a solid chance I might lose. I took the safe route, eliminating your chances of winning."

She shook her head, "By the time your delayed explosion landed, my body was in tatters. Your armor's claws and swords were the only reason I could cleave through you. You are denser than steel and hard as gemstones. I don't understand how your heart pumps blood through your frame."

I didn't either.

She hissed to herself, Just as well, before getting my class, I wouldn't have stood a chance. I'd have broken myself before I could've hoped to break you."

I gestured to the arena of gialgathens, "Let them know that if you can. Either way though, I'll be fixing my lacking strength here soon. Don't you worry about that."

Chrona wore a smirk, showing her teeth, "Yes, lagging strength as you call it. I look forward to it." She winced, "If you'll excuse me, I'll need some time to recover, however. Perhaps a new set of armor could be made as well?"

I nodded, "Of course. I'll let Krog get you out of here."

By now, Krog had recovered his ability to move and fly. His injuries weren't as severe as Chrona's. His own armor was still covered in dents and tears.  I waved my hand to him, and he flew on over. As he landed, he stomped a foot,

"You were so close to defeating the Dark One. I could not believe it. I was on the edge of my seat as I watched and healed myself."

Chrona sighed and said, "Speaking of healing, I could use a bath in the springs here. That and a few numbing herbs and barrels of mead. I shall feel these aches tomorrow."

"Honestly though, you probably won't. Once your health's topped off, you'll be fit enough to fight again. Perks of the system...You'll still be mentally tired though, so take it easy," I said.

She nodded, "We will."

"To the springs we go then," Krog said with a bit of excitement in his voice.

He picked her up by grabbing the edges of her torn armor and flying upward. As they left, Kiki scratched the side of his head,

"Look at them go. Krog's already up to carrying her somewhere to heal. In all my days, I've never seen a gialgathen live after the punishment he took, let alone carry a comrade hours after."

I flew back up, projecting my voice once more, "And you know why. If those battles didn't illustrate why you should consider my offer, I don't know what will. You'll find me at Chrona's current residence, near the top of Rivaria. I look forward to seeing the most driven and ambitious of you there."

After finishing my spill, I gave Kiki's shoulder a pat, "Thanks for keeping us safe man."

He looked down at my hand, then back up to me, "Of course. Glad to be of service." Kiki glanced across the arena, "And to all those here, have a wonderful rest of your year until the next Honoring of Lehesion. The champion will be given his rewards during the award ceremony back in Yildraza. Goodbye and goodnight!"

The crowd gave one last hoopla before I glanced towards Helios and Caprika. Caprika was cheering, making a huge ruckus even from her wheelchair. She poked and prodded Helios as I flew over.

"Hah, I told you that my judgment was sound. Did you see him at his peak? Even our the Emperor would be proud."

Helios crossed his arms, his mask hiding what was probably a deep frown,

"Perhaps...Perhaps not."

Caprika rolled her eyes so hard that her head rolled too, "I found talent. You can accept it or live in denial. It's your choice."

I landed beside them, lifting and flexing an arm, "Hope you guys are impressed. That was about all I've got."

Helios let out a groan before dragging his hand down his black facemask, "I might've even complimented you if your ego wasn't already about to burst."

I scoffed, "If anything, I was humbled. Chrona almost won."

