Iris turned her gaze to Jessica more neutrally and sat on her haunches. “Just returning her hostility. If it is not answered, she might think us weak.” Then Jessica was sure she almost saw a smirk curl onto the Hell Hound’s lips as Iris added. “Though we’ve already defeated her once. I suppose she ought to know well enough by now.”

“It is quite a cunning beast, isn’t it?” Saelin asked.

“Her name is Iris,” Jessica said.

Saelin looked around, examining the walls of rock that surrounded her. “I wonder how well she’ll fare while lacking open sky.”

What she was implying was obvious, and Korrin spoke up in their defense. “They utilize their strengths, yet they are hardly helpless on the ground from what I’ve seen.”

“From what I recall, you easily almost defeated the beast, Korrin,” Saelin said. “It was Wyrmscar attacking that let her get the distance to resume her cowardly tactics.”

“So what? Iris is Elva’s weapon. If you think that is not fair, then take a rematch without using your swords. Besides that, she was lower level than you and every other challenger that day.”

“Enough,” Draven said firmly before the tension could rise any further. “We’ll be hunting together for at least a week. If you keep arguing over past battles instead of focusing on the hunt, you’ll become a liability to the party. If we cannot cooperate, I’ll call the hunt off early.”

Saelin clicked her tongue. “I was merely pointing out a possible weakness. Something we ought to account for…” With that, she turned and walked away, muttering a few last words Jessica didn’t quite hear. But it seemed Iris did.

The Hell Hound looked back up towards her. “We’ll need to challenge her back.”

Jessica dismounted her Direwing and used checking the harness as a reason to crouch lower to Iris and whisper, “No, Iris. Don’t start anything.”

“I already know. She will not stop prodding until she is sure she is above us. Or until we make her understand that she is not.”

“Iris,” Jessica hissed through her teeth, but the Hell Hound was already walking away.

Iris looked back for just a moment as she said, “If you do not answer her next challenge… I will…”

Jessica really really wished she could speak to Iris telepathically because she had a lot more to say. But Korrin asked, “Elva Wyrmscar. Is everything alright?”

“Huh? Oh, yeah!” Jessica chuckled as she straightened her posture and pumped a fist. “Just uh… getting psyched for the hunt!”

Draven and Korrin looked at each other. “Psyched?”

Jessica flinched, realizing that was a pretty modern term. She circled a finger in the air, “I just mean uh… getting mentally prepared for battle! You know?”

Korrin nodded. “Psyched… so it is a warrior’s mindset. I shall remember this word.”

Draven gave a small shake of his head before turning his attention forward. “Let's start working deeper into the canyons. The Direwings will stay near and fend for themselves just fine until we are ready for them again.” With that, he hefted his spear and led the way.
