“Just hold me.” Rosie said, and Ren felt that was what she really wanted; so, he held her as he dictated a quick book about the difference between enchanting and spell casting. He didn't give away any secrets that he knew about enchanting, like making elemental grenades or bombs; but, he did use examples of his work and the spells he had cast, and then included enchanted wands that could cast the spells, which almost crossed both barriers. When he was done, Rosie had tears in her eyes.

“You can't feel my Undead Adept skill again, can you?” Ren asked.

“No, Ren.” Rosie said and wiped her eyes. “That was a great book.”

Ren blinked his eyes at her. “But...”

“I'll be right back!” Rosie said excitedly and left the room. Ren waited for a few minutes, and she came back in with two copies of the book. The original with gold lettering for Ren, and the copy that she would put in the Library. “This... it's going to be popular! I just know it!”

Ren stored his copy and smiled. “I'm glad you liked it.”

“I really did!” Rosie said. “If there's anything else I can do for you, just let me know.”

“Well... there is something.” Ren said and smiled.

*

Anabelle had to have one other sales clerk with her every day to handle the increase in customers. She wasn't sure why so many more people were coming into the shop; but, the orders kept coming in and the money kept coming with them. She was so happy that Tee-one had been kind enough to visit every day and he continued to make the orders and do the armor and weapon repairs that were needed.

Anabelle felt something pass over her and she shivered. “REN!” She yelled, and the people in the shop looked at her. “Katie, take over! I'll be back later!”

“Okay.” Katie said and walked over to the main counter. “Should I get Holly-”

“Whatever!” Anabelle said and ran out of the business and stood in the middle of the street to wait.

*

Ren had asked Rosie if she wanted her own Library.

She fainted, and once he had revived her, she accepted graciously. She told him how to establish a Library in his county, and he apologized for not doing it already. She laughed and kissed his cheek, then he asked her for 2 normal books that he needed. She got them for him, and offered him a special one. He accepted them and thanked her profusely, then left the Library.

He mounted his Phantom Steed and rode slowly up to the Artesian District, because of all the people he had to greet on the way. He arrived on the street to his business, and he saw Anabelle as she stood out in the middle of it.

“It really is you!” Anabelle exclaimed.

“Yes, Anabelle.” Ren said with a huge smile when he felt how happy she was, and rode over to her. He held a hand out and helped her climb up, and they rode over to the Housing District together.
