More flattery. Resisting the urge to snort, Zian sniffed quietly, though it didn’t escape her notice. Accepting the criticism in stride, the Shrike continued with a smile. “I am not one for empty flattery, Situ Jia Zian, I merely state facts. Nor am I fishing for a husband, though I might consider it. What I mean to say is, regardless of your individual desires, your peers will look to you for direction and guidance. Each of you are positioned to lead, which is the crux of the matter. The Purge is... an unpleasant experience for everyone involved, the repercussions varied and extensive. I hope to use this time to prepare you all for what lies ahead.”

The audacity of her, she hoped to find a captive audience to spew her rhetoric upon, claiming yet another Aspirant for her entourage, the crazed followers who aided in her dark fancies. BoShui picked up on the same thing and chimed in, distressed and uncomfortable. “Cousin, we understand the gravity of the situation. You need not worry, we will obey your orders.”

Reaching out to pat his hand, the Shrike wore a sad, almost believable smile. “I’m not worried about your obedience, I worry about what follows. This is no battle where you kill to survive. This is slaughter, plain and simple, a massacre of your fellow citizens, people who look to you for protection. They will die slowly, screaming in pain and anger, cursing you, condemning you, and it will blacken your soul.” Glancing around the fire, she looked at each of them in turn, her skills beyond compare. “Perhaps you will care nothing for their plight, but I was not so strong. I was twenty-five years old when I experienced my first Purge, and when it was done, I felt so much despair, so much hatred... I wanted to take vengeance for the poor souls, to take those responsible to task, and almost did something I would not live long to regret. Luckily, my Master saw my pain and took me aside, enlightening me to the reality and the risks at play. I pray I’m able to do the same for you. Come, I’ll answer any questions you may have, ask away.”

At mention of her Master, the mood around the fire quickly fell, fear causing Zian’s meal to sit uncomfortably. After a long silence, BoShui took the lead and spoke. “No questions here, I understand the need. Uncle speaks often on the matter.”

Finally, a moment of genuine emotion, the Shrike faltering as her smile faded. She recovered in an instant, but Zian tucked away the knowledge for future use. Did her father disapprove in her choice of career? Well of course he did, but it bothered her that he didn't support her choices. Why would he? Her actions made her a pariah, a decade Zian's senior and still unwed despite her beauty. What crazed man would even think of laying with the Sanguine Priestess? Better to become a eunuch and join the Penitent Brotherhood. Self-flagellation was far too tame for the Shrike’s tastes.

As if sensing his thoughts, she glanced at him with a raised eyebrow. Shaking his head, Zian replied with a line from her own catechism. “We do what we must. Kill thousands to save millions, a necessary, if unpleasant task, but such are the burdens we carry.” Every word true, yet few delighted in the Purge as she did, the stories of her excesses enough to make hardened warriors quiver in fear.

Pursing her lips at his answer, she moved on, unable to find fault with him. Dastan likewise claimed to have no questions, but when she prodded Falling Rain, he sat in silence, staring at the fire. Zian could see the question forming on his lips and wanted nothing more than to scream in warning, but it was too late. “... I don’t understand.”

Closing his eyes, Zian prayed for Rain’s soul. How did this idiot even survive to adulthood?

Chapter Meme
