Shiv considered that for a moment. "I don't know. When your mother hatched out from my Foreshadowing skill, she materialized behind me, merging from the splitting of two different skills, one of them Unique. So far, nothing's split out of these skills, and I don't have a Vitae-formed effigy of... I don't know what your sister looks like. She wasn't even born when she died, right? She wouldn't look like much of anything."

"Yes, but do you think there might be a chance that she... that..."

Adam couldn't quite articulate what he was trying to say, but Shiv caught on anyway. "I don't know, Adam. Maybe. But so far, there doesn't seem to be a sign. So, I don't feel like it's the case. This feels different than when your mother emerged from me. Veronica also implied skills sometimes talk to people."

The Gate Lord sighed. "Fine, let's… let's do this five-way conversation with Hymn. Let's see if we can throw them off as much as they're trying to throw us off."

Their dialogue finished, time resumed its flow, and Shiv looked at Hymn. "One more thing. I think we want to include the Avatar here as part of the conversation."

"You want to what?" Radio suddenly looked at Shiv.

"You wish to what?" Cripple's voice followed right after.

"We promised to get you in touch with the Starhawk, right?" Shiv said. He pointed at Uva through the hole in the wall. "Well, here's the moment. You're looking at his Avatar right now."

Radio's screen-shaped face flickered with incandescence. "But…”

"Roland took a bit too much of a beating toward the end of the siege," Shiv said. "Not the least thanks to most of you guys fucking him over instead of helping him. So, in his place, we found the only other person capable of sustaining a god's power."

"How?" Cripple asked. "How could she, possibly?" And then, a realization struck the Ascendant. "The eldritch. Thaen is using their power as a bridge to avoid burning her soul down to cinders."

"Interesting strategy," Hymn said. "I hope you understand that I'm not overly worried about this, right? Most of what I'm doing is sanctioned by Chandler." Hymn paused. "Well, I wouldn't exactly call it sanctioned. It's more like she doesn't care about what I do, and I try not to care about what she does. We give each other space. It's what Legends do if they want to coexist. And right now, hand on my heart, I'm not really scheming against you. I understand why you two kids are paranoid, but if I was going to do something against you, I wouldn't be acting so obviously."

"And I know you too well to trust you completely," Cripple declared. "But I will have this conversation. I will see you as a conduit and accept your bargain. But you would do well to remember that I know where you are, Headmaster Hymn. Understand that if you do anything, if you try to sell this moment to the highest bidder, if anyone finds out, I will burn your spirit down to dust."

Hymn pressed his lips together and nodded. "Great, perfect. Glad you got that off your chest. I love being threatened by one Divinity or another. Everyone’s just treating me like garbage today…”

"Do not compare me to the outer gods," Cripple said. "I am not nearly so ruinous."

"And they don't have quite as much dementia as you do," Hymn shot back. "Now that we've all finished waving our micro-penises at each other, can we get on with this thing? Because I have some more drinking and stroking to do later tonight."

"Did he just say stroking?" Kura said under her breath.

Gone nodded once. "Yes."

"Stroking what?" the scarred elf asked, genuinely confused.

"I believe he indicates an inclination towards masturbation," Tulveg declared, "but I cannot fully be sure. Human cultures are not all aligned, and the Republic has been an enigma to me."

Hymn proceeded to confirm the vampire's words with a snap of his fingers. "Yep, gonna spend some quality time with my favorite hands."

"But you only have two," Adam muttered.

Hymn nodded without any shame. "And I don't cheat on either. It takes both when the challenge they face is great enough.”

“Didn't you say micropenis a second ago?” Shiv asked, his intrusive thoughts getting the better of him.

“Size is relative. Something may appear micro when you're mating with a dragoness, but massive when compared to your hands.”

Suddenly, Shiv was having second thoughts about going through the Headmaster's mind.
