Nodding to himself, Jake repeated the experiment a few more times, aiming to get more familiar with successfully directing and merging the Lesser Primeval Energy with something else. To his relief, Jake successfully pulled it off over a dozen times in a row, and by scooping up some of the liquid mana and putting it inside a ball of stable arcane mana, he confirmed that the decay in potency came as a result of it simply passively leaking energy into the atmosphere. It could be viewed as the environment trying to equalize pressure, draining the energy from the liquid mana until its potency matched its surroundings.

Once he was satisfied with his consistency using purified water, Jake moved on to something one step harder. No, not a herb or any other usual alchemical ingredient, but something with an incredibly stable structure without any noticeable impurities:

Metal ingots.

During his experiments with purified water, Jake had placed an order for some purified ingots to work on, and the order was quickly delivered, with the items teleported directly into his laboratory.

Hey, if Villy wanted to actively spectate Jake’s alchemical experiments, he may as well make himself useful as payment for the viewing experience. It was definitely faster than using the token to place an order and then waiting for someone to deliver.

The metal ingots Jake had ordered were all gold bars, as even after the system, gold had the wonderful property of being very non-reactive, while also possessing great mana conductivity. From what Arnold had said, there was a definite correlation between metals good at conducting electricity before the system and metals capable of conducting mana now, though it wasn’t a hard science. Plus, while gold was good at conducting mana, that was only when one compared it to other bottom-tier metals. Arnold’s many composite materials or alloys were far superior, with even the metals used far surpassing gold.

Jake had chosen gold over those other metals for a good reason, though. He wanted it exactly because gold was a relatively low-tier material that also had the properties he was looking for.

Following his success with purified water, Jake took one of the gold ingots and began slowly infusing his Lesser Primeval Energy. Once more, he exercised supreme patience as more and more energy entered the ingot. Jake was ready when the threshold was reached, and the reaction began as he directly controlled the Lesser Primeval Energy with as much precision as he could muster.

From the center of the gold bar, a powerful sensation began to emanate, and in the very next moment, the entire ingot was flooded with energy. Jake gritted his teeth and tried to hold on, but he couldn’t control the Lesser Primeval Energy perfectly anymore. The bar began to deform and melt in places, with Jake doing all he could as the seconds ticked by.

It ended up taking more than half an hour before things finally calmed down fully, and Jake let out a huge sigh of relief as he looked down at what had once been a metal ingot. He had avoided an explosion, but things definitely hadn’t gone as planned. The ingot looked broken, with all the metal having lost its luster. It couldn’t even be called gold anymore, and it was utterly bereft of energy.

With disappointment, Jake ran his finger over the ingot, watching it fall apart in the process as what had once been gold turned to nothingness at a mere touch. Yet, as the broken ingot slowly disappeared in his hand, he felt something. With a finger, he carefully removed more of the broken gold until he saw it.

There, in the center of the ingot, something gave off a small golden reflection. It was not larger than a speck of dust, if even that. To a pre-system human, it would have been invisible to the naked eye and required a microscope to even see, but despite how incredibly small it was, Jake couldn’t help but grin as he looked at it.

After very carefully removing the rest of what had once been an ingot, he was left with only that small speck on his fingertip. The rest of the gold had turned into nothingness, but in its wake, it had given birth to something that not only Jake couldn’t help grinning at, but which he even felt the Malefic Viper carefully observe as he didn’t doubt that they both used Identify at roughly the same time.

[Unstable Lesser Primeval Gold Mote (Legendary)] – A small mote of Lesser Primeval Gold. This item is unstable and will lose material integrity imminently. Unknown uses.

Jake barely had time to see the message before the small mote let out a sound as it scattered into pure energy, dispersing instantly. Its existence had been short-lived, but Jake still couldn’t help but smile.

It was definitely one step forward, and one thing was for sure: Jake definitely wanted the assistance of a system skill when trying to “purify” objects using Lesser Primeval Energy. Trying to freeform, it wasn’t going to be consistent anytime soon, and even then, he doubted he could ever be truly consistent.

He also knew that while a part of him had hoped to just quickly bang out an upgrade to Alchemist’s Purification, that wasn’t going to happen, as Jake wanted to do this right. Alchemy took time, experimentation, and effort, something Jake wholeheartedly accepted, and he didn’t at all feel deterred as he picked up a second gold ingot to see if he could work on stabilizing the process.

It was going to be hard, but when hadn’t Jake liked a challenge?
