The next morning, after leaving the gate, we bolted across the farmland, where the farmers were already up with the rising sun. Lily and I had our paws pounding hard against the ground as some stopped to stare and point. Grick had a new weapon at his side, a somewhat larger sword to accompany his dagger which would do him much better when fighting from atop Lily’s back.

But once the goblin noticed some of the farmers pointing his way, and particularly a cute lady farmer carrying a basket, he had an idea. The goblin raised his sword high into the air and shouted, “Grick rides forth to glory and defense of nice empire humans!”

There were a few people clapping and shouts that followed us. Grick really was soaking in the reputation, and it was more and more clear to me that he really was becoming the hero of this story.

Lily didn’t mind though, as she yipped with joy and then tilted her nose into the wind and increased her speed.

“Hey! Wait up!” I thought through Pack Bond and tried to catch up.

However, still technically being in my veilfang stalker form, just not masquerading as a human, Lily was easily faster than me.

By the time we passed the boundary wall and into the forest, we finally slowed to a trot alongside each other, both of us panting heavily. Above, the canopy left us in shadow, and the soft, wet smell of morning filled our noses with birds chirping off in the distance.

But when Lily and I met eyes, we both paused, and our ears folded back.

We both knew it was almost time to part ways.

“Hunt?” Lily asked.

I gave her a wolfy grin. “Yeah, let’s hunt.”

I looked to Grick. His ears were also folded flat alongside his temple. “Puppy really has to leave?” he asked.

“Yeah… I’m sorry but that’s what they want me to do… but I really don’t want to,” I said through Pack Bond. I shook it off and then reaffirmed, “Hunt! Let’s do one hunt first, okay?”

I couldn’t use Pulse Sense, and I wouldn’t be able to change forms again either way for another day, but since everything is so low-level directly around the empire other than the occasional bandit, I thought I’d be fine without it for a day.

So Lily and I got to work with our sniffers, Grick jumping down from Lily’s back and walking alongside, his sword at the ready.

Lily and I seemed to have picked up the same trail, and as we began following it, we bumped into each other, once again catching eyes with that longing look.

Lily whined. “Miss sister.”

I licked her face. “Don’t worry, I’ll be back before you know it,” I told her through Pack Bond. “Let’s just enjoy this hunt.”

We got back to sniffing out the track. I was getting better at using my sniffer, or maybe I was just very familiar with moss grazers at this point, as I picked up the familiar scent pretty easily. When we finally looked through the bushes to see our breakfast, we found it was one of the whiplash variety, using its bladed vine to scrape moss from a random boulder.

I nodded to Lily, and she arced wide around it. We would hit it from both sides.

I used {Analyze}.

Mossgrazer - Level 13

Not a bad level…

Grick seemed willing to let us just have this one, and the kill, of course, was quick and clean.

Lily and I pounced from both sides, knocking it down, Lily seizing a leg and me going right for the throat. It managed to lash us a couple times, but it did little damage, and after a few shakes it was dead.

Lily instantly went for the belly, but paused and looked over to me. “Sister want?”

Oh, Lily! My heart ached. The belly was her favorite part, but she was offering it to me!

My tail wagged as I went for the legs. “You can eat the belly, Lily,” I said.

And so we gorged ourselves, ripping open the Mossgrazer together, Lily burying her muzzle deep into its belly and happily slurping at the warm innards while I braced my paws against one of its legs and stripped meat from the bones.

Blood soaked into the forest floor beneath us. Something wet and stringy slapped against Lily’s chin, and she wagged her tail as she tossed it back and swallowed it down. I crunched through a smaller bone, tore away another mouthful, and felt a melancholy ache settle deep in my chest.

Because for one last wonderful moment, everything felt normal.

But we both knew it wouldn’t last long.

When breakfast was done, Lily licked her muzzle clean, then turned and started cleaning mine as well. I let her do it, her tongue sliding across my fur, grooming me just like she’d always done since we were pups.

Nearby, Grick let a soft chuff escape him as he tried to hold back tears. “Grick not going to cry. Grick not going to cry!” he muttered and blew his nose on a handkerchief.

“Get over here, Grick,” I said through Pack Bond, and he instantly ran over and hugged my flank.

“Grick misses Puppy!” he said.

“I know, I’m going to miss you guys too.”

We waited just a little longer, but after a while, we all knew it was time. The hunt was over, and it was time to part ways.

As we walked off in opposite directions, Grick now riding Lily’s back once again, we turned back to face each other one last time.

I barked, “Show those bandits who’s boss! This is your forest now! And don’t you forget it!”

Lily barked back, “I’ll eat their faces!”

“I know you will!”

Grick raised his sword. “Grick will make Puppy proud!”

“Take care of her, Grick!”

And before I could second-guess myself or give another moment where I might break down and finally convince myself to stay, I turned and I ran, leaving my pack behind as I charged through the forest and began my journey to the Black Pyre.

***

By the time I stopped running, I was completely out of breath, and my throat ached. I slowed to a trot, panting more heavily than I had in a while. I looked back over my shoulder, nothing but dense woodland behind me, and somewhere in front of me I heard the rush of the river I’d have to cross. I trotted more slowly to the sound of water, and soon found myself breaking out of the forestland to see the rushing waters just ahead of me.

I looked up and down the river. I needed to walk with the current for a little while until I found a bridge. That’s what Nobaru had told me.

On the other side of the river, the trees were not as thick as on this side, and if I peered through them perhaps I could begin to imagine the landscape changing to the dead desolate land that supposedly belonged to the Umarii.

I trotted along, only pausing once to dip my muzzle into the cool water to take a drink. I noticed some River Gazellids across the water from me, but they were not concerned as they were safely on the other side. Either way, I already had my breakfast and… honestly, even if I was hungry, I don’t think I’d be in the mood to kill and eat anything just yet.

It’s not too late, part of me wanted to believe. I could go run back, seek out Grick and Lily with Pack Bond, and change plans!

But no, I knew this is the proper path forward for both of us. When we got together again in a few months we would all be so much stronger.

I eventually found the bridge and trotted across. This was a little more well-maintained than the crumbling bridge by that abandoned church where we had first met Fox.

Fox… yeah, I guess I’ll miss her too, I thought.

Part of me didn’t want to admit it, but despite her attitude and her self-serving nature, she does have these moments where she legitimately seems to care.

I think so, anyway…

Or maybe I’m just fooling myself. Maybe every nice thing she ever actually did really was just to satisfy whatever quest she was on. And besides that, even without a quest, surely she realized that she had to stay on my good side at least somewhat in order to maintain that position at the palace she now has. After all, if I didn’t give a crap about her, Rin would have no reason to placate her during her forced detainment.

Though, I did wonder if Rin would ever actually let Fox be free? What were her reasons for forcing Fox to stay within the city walls? Was it really just that she didn’t trust her and was worried about letting a high-level monster loose?

I continued trotting through the forest, the canopy overhead thinning more and more until finally, I found a break in the trees. As I pushed through the last of the foliage and sat on my haunches, I stared across a field of grass, but it slowly gave way to a blight of death as the grass turned from green, to patches of brown, to just plain not being there, with nothing but rocky ground and pathetic scraggly trees with no leaves further in the distance. And far beyond that, black mountains rose into the sky, so far away that they were disappearing into the mist of distance, and I could imagine it might be multiple days of travel across the desolate land to even reach them.

Somewhere, nestled amongst those mountains was the Umarii fortress.

I dipped back into the forest and continued to travel inside the treeline, avoiding the blighted land. Nobaru had explained that beyond that mountain range was ultimately my goal, but if I cut directly through, there was a chance that I’d be spotted by Umarii. Even if they didn’t recognize me as a transmigrator, they might try to kill me simply for being a Hell Hound.

And if they did recognize me as a transmigrator, well…

I actually had no idea what they would do. But I guess it probably wouldn’t be good.

I continued to move beneath the tree cover, occasionally glancing out between tree trunks. Veilfang Stalker really did feel like a pretty useless path. It only had Analyze to identify prey and no Pulse Sense or anything else. Arcane Nightstalker wouldn’t have Pulse Sense either, but it at least made up for it by having really powerful magic.

As I continued to travel, morning gave way to afternoon, and finally the sun was beginning to lower in the sky. The forest curved around the edge of the blighted land, and finally I was heading more directly toward those mountains. I came to the edge of the forest once more and looked along the outlines of the mountains.

At first, they all looked the same to me. Black stone, jagged peaks. The kind of place that looked like it had almost purposely been set up that way to make travelers turn around and just want to head home. Very welcoming.

I narrowed my eyes as I thought over my directions that were pointed to me on the map. There was a particular set of peaks along that mountain range that was called “the broken fang.”

Should I be able to see it by now? I tried to visualize the map I’d seen in my head, but it was hard to imagine where my place on that map might be after walking all day. Well, the treeline of the forests had begun to curve west toward the mountains, and I knew it was west because the sun was setting in that direction…

Then, I spotted what I think was my goal.

There was a set of peaks that were spaced out a little more, with a few smaller ones between what would be two taller ones—the fangs—except one of those two fangs looked like it had been chipped off about halfway down.

Once I imagined a wolfy mouth and placed that mental image over what I was seeing, I was sure that’s what it was! If that wasn’t this so-called “broken fang” I was looking for, then I had no idea what would be.

But looking up at the sky, and more specifically the sun, I didn’t think it was time to start heading that way. Out there in that barren landscape, I’d have nowhere to hunker down for the night and feel safe.

No, I’d spend tonight over here in the forest. But before that, I needed to hunt some dinner.

As I thought about hunting, of course, my heart ached.

How long had it been since I did a hunt all on my lonesome?

It didn’t feel right without my pack with me…

Lily and Grick…

We were not a whole pack. There were still so many of us missing. But at least having the two of them with me was… well, it was something. I wasn’t alone.

I looked into the forest.

At least it wouldn’t be like the days following the red mask attack. When I was just a scared little pup barely surviving.

That’s right! I was strong now!

Maybe I would face some bigger challenges along my upcoming journey, but for the time being, this entire forest sitting behind me was one big buffet! And I didn’t even have to pay for it!

Yeah! Let’s go hunt some dinner and enjoy the benefits of being an apex!

With that thought, I trotted back into the woods and started trying to sniff out some prey.

But… whatever excitement I tried to muster… didn’t last.

I started to get onto the trail of something but… my heart just wasn’t in it!

I gave up the hunt, trotted over to a decent-looking pocket of thick bushes for cover, and then just flopped down on my side.

I should have been hungry. The sun was setting, and I hadn’t eaten since this morning, so I knew I should be hungry!

But I just wasn’t.

I just felt a different kind of empty void in my heart.

I was depressed.

I rolled onto my back then continued rolling back and forth with my legs kicking the air as I howled.

“I’m saaaaaaaaaaad!”
