She chose her words carefully, and Beacle and Mariel nodded. Seraphel looked at Neranthei, and Mariel dabbed at her eyes. Then Seraphel exhaled.
“It will end in tears and death. And I cannot sing like Cara. I am a fool, and if it is my grave I dig, well. They say I am cursed. Keep Erribathe—no, keep everyone from Rabbiteater’s door. Find me a naked, tailless Drake.”
“Your Highness?”
Mariel put her hands over her mouth, and Seraphel rolled her eyes.
“And put him in armor. Beacle saw him. Get a few scales as well, and make sure they show up in his clothes. What else?”
“Ser Dalimont could find a relative of Ser Solstice in Liscor? One who gets drunk or wants to make some coin off his knowing the ‘real’ Ser Solstice?”
Seraphel sighed lightly.
“So terrible. You can’t trust family. Speaking of which, Iradoren’s ship is in the center of the fleet. I want to be closer to Earl Altestiel. Hang the formations; move me to the tip of the navy. I wish to be first on Izril’s shores.”
“But milady, every nation will begin copying you, and they’ll throw the Earl’s plans in disarray.”
Neranthei protested, sounding shocked that Seraphel would do something like that. The [Princess] eyed her.
“Well, apologize to the good [Earl] in person and explain matters. You know I can’t be reasoned with.”
She was trembling, she realized. Trembling and now thinking so fast and hard about making Iradoren’s life difficult, having a banquet celebrating the war, making the moment as hard as possible for him—
She was going to fight for it. Fight for a stupid Goblin’s life whether the idiot thanked her or not. If they got to land, he was a lot safer; you could run on land.
“Mariel. Find me a boat. For now, just find it.”
If nothing else, she could give him a chance. The [Princess] closed her eyes—then rose as her cabin broke into a flurry. Not a single one of her people asked ‘why are you doing this’ or ‘is this a good idea?’
Seraphel knew the answers to both had no reason her mother would respect. Her father—perhaps, even if he would never countenance it. But it felt like she was riding out of her keep, heart in her throat. It felt right.
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin left her cabin, later, and went to find the Ivory Four. They were playing cards in Altestiel’s cabin.
“Damn. I lost again. Okay, take off your pants, Cortese.”
“I object to this team-game. Why must I suffer for your mistakes, Solstice? And come to that, this is highly improper—”
“You like it when Menrise loses.”
“How dare you, sir.”
“How dare you! Am I that unattractive?”
“No, what I meant was—”
Earl Altestiel was laughing.
“Okay, okay. Let’s calm down on the unique card game that Rabbiteater’s shown us. The next hand should be reasonable.”
“Agreed.”
“If you insist.”
“Yes, Earl Altestiel.”
Kiish, sounding relieved.
“Coward.”
Seraphel paused, and Earl Altestiel’s voice turned merry.
“The loser has to drink this live eel cocktail…”
Everyone was laughing when she pushed the door open. The ship’s cat was sniffing at an eel in a glass of something that everyone was leaning away from, except Rabbiteater, and Seraphel saw Cortese pause with his pants half off. He turned red.
“Your Highness! I knew she would turn up!”
“You said she’d never come play cards—”
Menrise objected, and Seraphel blushed as they fell silent. She had been reclusive these last few days, weighing what she had guessed about Rabbiteater, and she still had a hard time letting her hair down.
Menrise was drinking through a straw, and she had her tunic off. Altestiel had all his clothes on. Cortese had gotten the worst of it and had been denuded of all but his smallclothes.
“You done being boring yet?”
Rabbiteater waved at Seraphel, patting one of the empty cushions, and Seraphel walked over and shoved him.
“Oh, you prat!”
She was purely exasperated. Then she hugged him straight through his armor. She was surprised her arms could do that! For one second, she squeezed, and he jumped and stared at her, and then she let go and sat.
Everyone looked at Seraphel a second, but she just reached for the glass with the eel, drank it down, and spat the eel back into the cup. The cat decided it was now edible and leapt for it, and Seraphel exhaled. Then she looked around.
Cortese’s mouth was open, and Menrise was clapping her hands in delight. Altestiel gave Seraphel a long, searching look, but Rabbiteater began laughing and slapping the floorboards in approval, and Seraphel sat there.
“Let’s make the most of it. I can’t abandon the team now.”
She thought she saw Rabbiteater hesitate out of the corner of her eye, and Altestiel began to chuckle himself. Then Seraphel was smiling. Until the dawn came.
 
——
 
The most hungover [Princess] in the world was a miserable one. Seraphel stared blankly at the map as other nobles clustered into the room. She sipped from a cup of tea, but there was no salvation there.
Altestiel was holding it together a bit better; he hadn’t gone as wild as the others. Plus, he had a job to do. But he’d been woken up early, and it showed.
“Ladies, gentlemen, Your Highnesses—we have a developing situation. I was reluctant to summon you hither to, but I am now certain there is a potential crisis unfolding, and you must be made aware.”
Seraphel’s head rose slightly as Prince Iradoren stopped looking around for Rabbiteater, who wasn’t here. This was only the senior nobles and leaders. Ship [Captains].
A lot of [Captains] looked grim, but the nobility didn’t know what was going on.
“Trouble with the rations? More wisps? Don’t tell me the half-Elves or Drowned Folk or Drakes have somehow interfered with our landing spot.”
“Another storm ahead of us? Do we have to turn back?”
Groans rose, and Altestiel raised his hands as Kiish changed the magical projection of the map. There was a lot of water around, but she began using the spell to create magical fog everywhere; Seraphel saw the New Butt of Izril in the distance and smiled at the nickname for it…then saw mists enfolding the coast. Then she noted Altestiel’s tension and stopped smiling.
The ‘mists’ encircled everything but Wistram and a bunch of dotted lines in the sea. Which Seraphel realized were shipping lanes. The most common sea-routes. Next, Kiish began placing markers for ships.
“This may not be known to many, but scrying or monitoring the sea—or even places of land not densely populated—is difficult. We generally scry by known coordinates—which are hard to acquire—or people. So you can always get a view of, say, Pallass. And the trade roads around Pallass. But let’s say you wanted a view of the wilderness. It’s tough. And the sea is even harder. This is how I would describe our ‘view’ of the ocean around us the last few days.”
Altestiel began the briefing as he pointed to the map. He traced a smaller circle around their fleet, marked by a lot of ships.
“This is our sight range. So you understand the distances at play, here. There are ships on the trade routes; and the Iron Vanguard is…here.”
He moved west and tapped a spot just past Wistram. They were still near to the Isle of Mages. But Altestiel went on.
“Normally, this isn’t much of an issue; if the seas hadn’t changed, we’d have more understanding of where ships are, but the truth of it is that we are a navy that few in the world could challenge by sheer weight of numbers. If, say, the Wellfar Family were to come at us in full strength, they might win, but we’d see them coming and turn.”
“…You make it sound like we’ve been caught off-guard.”
Lord Firrus Kallinad didn’t beat around the bush. Altestiel’s eyes rose, and even Prince Iradoren, who had been glaring at Seraphel—paused.
“We may have been. I cannot tell, but the signs are increasing. For more context—how many of you are aware of the troubles the half-Elves have been facing while emigrating to the new lands? How many of you have heard of one of the famed [Pirates]—the Alchemist, Irurx?”
He began to elaborate, and a half-Elf from Gaiil-Drome made a groaning sound and turned pale as Seraphel’s heart began to sink.
“If this dread [Pirate]-[Alchemist] is stalking us, he’s one ship, Earl. A single vessel crewed by our [Knights] could surely put him to flight.”
The Earl of Rains paused a second.
“…That statement aside, Lady Razere, I would agree with you we have little to fear aside from a rapid attack or maybe a cloud attack. However, there is one group that could pose a threat to an armada. I have heard via my sources that the Alchemist has been reaching out to [Pirate] groups…he may have sequestered one of the most dangerous ones: the Bloodtear Pirates.”
Then the room tensed as some of the [Captains] began speaking to each other, and Seraphel caught a few mouthing oaths. One of the inland nations—Golaen’s half-Giant nobles—laughed uncertainly.
“I thought they were landbound. The Bloodtears hit that village on the news, didn’t they?”
“Bloodfeast Raiders, Lord Oxet. They’re actually a splinter group of the Bloodtear [Pirates]. And the Bloodtear Pirates do run in armadas.”
“Armadas as in how many ships?”
Lady Menrise was looking around, for she saw how the map was laid out. If there was an enemy fleet coming their way, they should spot it. Right?
“Not as many as any standing nation, but they’re famous for disappearing—then joining together to attack harbors or raid. They are one of the most dangerous criminal forces in this world, and as I said—until today, we had no sighting of any of them. But if you consider where we can scry known vessels…”
Now, Altestiel was tracing a finger through the mists, and Seraphel could see how ships could be moving towards them if they stayed away from the usual shipping lanes. However, at this, Lord Etrogaer, the leader of Golaen’s folk and a capable commander in his own right, did protest.
“If you’re telling me you didn’t notice a flotilla of ships, scrying spells or not, you are incompetent, Altestiel. Even a dozen ships shouldn’t be able to shadow us without you noticing it, seas or not.”
The Desonis officers bristled at the implication, but Altestiel lifted a calm hand.
“I would have seen it, Lord Etrogaer. I absolutely agree. Which is why I’d like to now show you what just happened last night. Kiish, is the projection ready?”
“Set up, Earl Altestiel.”
The [Strategist] glared at Etrogaer but bowed, and even the gigantic man bent over the table with a frown. Seraphel stood on her tip-toes to see, and then Altestiel nodded.
“Here are all the ships we saw.”
The Iron Vanguard, ships sailing across the trade routes from Izril to the Isles of Minos to Chandrar, the trade route from Izril to Baleros, Izril to Terandria…and ones just going to Wistram. These were all the vessels ‘visible’ on the map.
Then Altestiel snapped his fingers—and nearly three dozen ships broke off from the trade routes, turned red, and slipped into the mists, all breaking towards the Terandrian fleet. More contacts appeared in the mists, behind and ahead of them.
Cortese swore softly as Altestiel nodded.
“The Bloodtear Pirates have always, famously, been elusive. Now, perhaps, we know why. Some of those ships are established, known trading vessels. But it occurs to me that a crew can change ships. [Captains] can hire on new crews in bulk so long as they do a good job. Or let go of crews and bring them back later, switching from honesty to piracy. Not a single one of the vanished ships will answer our hails. We have noted their designations with every port. And the other ships we did spot; they’ve come into range and are advancing.”
Now the alarm was spreading, and another [Lady] who actually understood strategy was audibly dismayed. Lady Ficombe of Tourvecall raised one hand as she gestured at the map with the other.
“Ahead and behind. How did the ones ahead appear?”
“They rose. All the ships waiting by the coast are capable of submersion; the ones behind? Faster and doubtless the bulk of them. I have counted thirty-two ships to the rear. Fourteen ahead.”
“That many?”
Kiish clarified hurriedly.
“They’re not warships. Many are only sloops or even smaller. Some are as large as anything but a Citadel-class warship. At this time, the Earl is considering turning towards Wistram.”
“The Academy of Mages can shelter us with their magic. The only question is whether that is acceptable; we would have to run our ships aground in the worst case.”
“Evacuate the entire damn navy?”
Altestiel spoke over a raised voice.
“In the worst case. Whereas moving ahead will let us disembark but press us against the shores. Either way, I would like the permission of all gathered to negotiate with House Wellfar as well as Zeres, if either can reach us, and any [Storm Captains] in the area. Even other [Pirates].”
“What about the Drowned Folk?”
That came from Seraphel, and she blinked as all eyes turned to her, then blushed.
“The Drowned Folk? They’re no better than [Pirates] themselves. The damned Drakes or Wellfar have a far better army…”
Etrogaer said this as if he hadn’t just seen Captain Therrium—well, maybe he hadn’t. Altestiel, though, gave Seraphel an approving nod, then a shake of the head.
“We have reached out to them. I think the response is telling.”
 
——
 
The Terandrian Fleet was not slowing, but they were turning.
Northwards. It might take them up away from the New Lands, but it gave them room to break west or east, still, while taking them closer to Wistram. Of course, they would then be around the middle of Izril, and the High Passes extended into the sea and offered no safe landing.
But it was a good stopgap, and they were still within the range of usual ships arriving and exiting Izril. Of course, many of those were suddenly turning away from their routes. Far, far away.
Like minnows suddenly detecting trouble. But more than one ship did stop to offload goods or, in the case of three vessels, exchange words.
“I cannot speak for the Shadewarden of Nombernaught, Lord Cortese. I can sell you the last of my catch if you were so interested, though I fear it’s not a nobleman’s fare.”
The [Captain] of a fishing vessel had weird, flat fish that Rabbiteater had never seen before. A ‘stingray’? Baeris, the lioness, was sniffing one, and Cortese impatiently handed over some gold.
“That one—for Baeris so long as it’s not poisoned. I was told that Nombernaught refused to help.”
The [Captain] paused a second; he was a half spinefish fellow with tons of spines. He glanced at Ser Solstice, then adjusted his cap.
