The men and women of the Kingdom of Myths still lived in tribes in some places; in others, there were half-Elves in their ancient villages, or Dwarves, and his land had endured while every other nation fell to ruin or lost their bloodlines.
There was no comparing a new nation like Ailendamus or Taimaguros to Erribathe. Yet Erribathe’s influence had waned; they had been content to be a sleeping power.
Now, with knowledge of Earth, Iradoren was no longer content. He was wholly happy to work with snakes in the grass like Reclis du Marquin to get his way; he might clash with fools like Cortese or run over Earl Altestiel if they decided to oppose him, but they were all Terandrians at the end of it.
What Iradoren could not tolerate was a challenge to his kingdom itself. People who asked questions.
Like how Ser Solstice brought up another issue that he was allowed to think. But the Goblin Slayer had been heard openly speculating on the question that, to him, was obvious.
“Wait…if Prince Iradoren’s a Human man…he is one, right?”
“Rabbit…”
“Wait, I’m thinking. I’m good at thinking. Average. If he’s Human. And his father’s Human?”
“Rabbit, are you drunk?”
The recording of Ser Markus and Rabbiteater talking was blurry, but it was the ninth conversation Rabbiteater had had—and he’d even asked Archmage Feor in public company for an answer. Rabbiteater went on after a second.
“…And he marries a half-Elf. Isn’t his kid a half-Elf? Because they only have half-Elf babies. Not even Skills change that or magic. So how did his father get Iradoren if he’s Human? Is he Human? Or did he have a second wife—”
“Rabbit, stop talking about sex!”
“You talk about it all the time, Markus.”
“I do not!”
That was the end of the recording, but Iradoren’s temper grew. Because once again—Rabbiteater, or whatever his name was, had pointed out an unfortunate truth. He was absolutely correct. The theory had been that half-Elves would rule Erribathe, marrying other half-Elves or Humans, as it had been since the first Elf had married a Human to continue the bloodline of Elves.
…But Erribathe had needed a Human [King]. So they had continued the marriages, but children were another matter.
It wasn’t the largest scandal, and doubtless many a person had quietly come to the same conclusion, but Iradoren did not like how loudly Rabbiteater spoke, as if he had not the decency to whisper.
So turnabout was fair play, and the Prince of Men had an inquiry made into the ‘Goblin Slayer’s’ past.
He did not like what he found.
 
——
 
There was no Goblin Slayer of Izril. Oh, one had appeared for a few months, and there were rumors, but he had no real presence before that.
Nor was the Order of Solstice real. It had not existed except as a name and the [Innkeeper] ratifying it…
The [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice, who famously took Goblins and Antinium into her inn. She had Ser Solstice’s name. She had been contacted for his ransom; he cited her and no one else.
She had friends among Gnolls and Drakes, both of whom rarely made [Knights] and might be fairly scandalous if they came to Terandria, but it wouldn’t end the world if they were unmasked.
Ser Solstice had sworn never to remove his helmet.
He was one of Erin Solstice’s guests.
Erin Solstice had once had five Hobgoblins staying at her inn.
It felt like the top of Prince Iradoren’s head had exploded when he put it together, and it was so obvious. Most of the next three days had been him double-checking his work in between covertly eying Ser Solstice and realizing he was right.
How had no one seen it?
Well, the obvious answer was that some people had, but most had fallen into Iradoren’s trap: the truth wasn’t hard to find, but it was so ludicrous, so insane that they thought it couldn’t be true. They thought someone else would have noticed, and like that, the insane walked around and pretended he was just some other species or a scarred man.
Because a Goblin who could speak that eloquently—no, he did have odd linguistic quirks. But a Goblin who was a person was so insane that Iradoren understood.
He understood that someone had to have still known. Queen Ielane was said to know everything that went on in her palace; a great thief had barely stolen from her, but she should have known.
Perhaps it was ignorance. Did the rest of the ‘Ivory Five’ know the truth? Iradoren couldn’t believe it of Cortese or even Menrise or Seraphel, but Altestiel had visited Erin Solstice’s inn…
And Rabbiteater had been an esteemed guest of the Order of Seasons. Someone there had to know with their abilities around auras.
There would be a reckoning for this. Iradoren could accept japes and blunders and even idiocy like incest or mistakes of a nature that men and women made. He might not associate with said individuals, but he would allow them to exist—perhaps not in his nation, but he would not put his foot down.
This? This was conspiring with one of Humanity’s sworn enemies. Goblins. Goblin Kings had destroyed so many, and one of them was walking around, and some people were covering his secret?
Iradoren wanted to know who before he launched any action. He also, frankly, wanted to be absolutely sure he was correct, because a false accusation would be very damaging to him with how beloved Ser Solstice was. Even a 10% chance he was wrong would be far too great.
But that was Iradoren’s main concern and conviction as the fleet neared Izril and the Winter Solstice was about to begin. Two things stopped him from unmasking Rabbiteater.
The first was ill tidings at sea and the entire fleet shifting course.
The second was Princess Seraphel.
 
——
 
Princess Seraphel du Marquin spoke sternly.
“Hold still.”
She stared into the eyes of the nervous Ser Tobb, a slightly rounder Thronebearer assigned to her guard escort. He was vetted by Dame Neranthei, Seraphel’s only [Knight] she trusted aside from Ser Dalimont.
High marks for swordfighting, low for graces—but that might be because he was just heavyset. Quick on the uptake. Closed-mouthed. Good at working in a team. Quite a fan of Seraphel? Had seen her fighting at Krawlnmak’s Pass.
All these things meant Ser Tobb might be a loyal helper, but Seraphel trusted few. He was nervous as he stood in her room with his helmet on and visor lowered. He flinched as she reached out, and her semi-transparent hand passed through his visor. She poked his cheek.
Poke. Poke.
Seraphel’s face was a mask of concentration. She felt at his cheek with a finger, withdrew it, and tried to recall if it felt different.
“Do you have a beard, Ser Tobb? You may speak.”
He raised his visor and gave her a guilty bow.
“Five o’clock shadow, Your Highness.”
He was a bit scruffy, but he probably kept his helmet on most of the time. Neranthei gave him an approving look, and Seraphel stared at her finger.
Right, but even if you assumed hair…Rabbiteater definitely didn’t have scales or fur. So he was Human or Humanoid enough…
“Do…Stitch-folk, Dullahans, or Selphids have noticeably different skin?”
“Selphids you would notice, and Stitch-folk, depending on the cloth, Your Highness. I’m told even regular cotton feels slightly more like fabric.”
And who has pointed ears? Maybe a Stitch-folk with odd ears or a Selphid with a half-Elf’s body, but it made no sense. So it had to be a half-Elf or someone with odd ears, right?
Like a half-Elf. Because Izril had so many.
Or a weird, improbably pointy-eared person.
Or a half-Elf.
Or a person with a scar or some disfigurement or who was in disgrace.
Or a half-Elf.
Or a Goblin.
Seraphel stared at her hand and knew which one it was. She knew not because she had poked so many half-Elves she knew who was and wasn’t by touch—she knew because he had refused to remove that helmet.
As if he would die.
Dame Neranthei was no idiot. She had noticed Seraphel’s questions and stood there, shifting from foot to foot. She was nervous and had to be calculating fallout.
Mother and Father will be under heat. The Order of Seasons might face strife from multiple [Knight] orders—and their own nation. We’ll all be laughingstocks, the Thronebearers will face…well, we’ll survive that.
He won’t.
Why? In the name of a thousand polished buttocks hanging from the Eternal Throne, why?
Why would a Goblin don a helmet and come here?
Of course, she heard Rabbiteater’s voice in her head.
“Why not? You only live once. Idiot.”
That last sentence was uncalled for, but it was him. She had known him, known he had an odd point of view and thought he was Izrilian or a Gnoll, and she had wondered who he was and liked him.
Now?
Now she was in a horror. She couldn’t breathe. She had to call for help! She was going to swoon—
Seraphel felt at her forehead.
“Neranthei, am I swoonish?”
“You are the peak of health, milady.”
“Drat. Mariel? Mariel, am I looking piqued?”
“No more so than normal, Princess.”
“Huh.”
Mariel, the [Princess]’ personal [Handmaiden], and Neranthei, her acting head of security and bodyguard, had elevated in the world since she had first known them when she had gone to Noelictus and met Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria.
It felt like an age ago. The gloomy Kingdom of Shade with its undead and own secrets and Cara—now, Seraphel was older. She’d survived another war, and her heart had broken a few more times, but that was alright.
Happy endings didn’t come for [Princesses] like her. For Lyonette, Seraphel hoped. For her? These new lands were the best she could hope for, and even that was a gift from a Dragon.
A bit of courage.
A second chance.
Where was her moral outrage over the Goblin? It wasn’t like she’d hobnobbed with monsters in Noelictus. Undead, yes. Anti-royalists like Cara, yes.
But she reached inside her for the well of outrage and fear, and all she thought was that Rabbiteater was as stupid as she thought he was. A stupid, brave [Knight].
A Goblin [Knight].
Seraphel began laughing. She couldn’t help it. Ser Tobb stood there nervously.
“Your Highness?”
“Return to your station, Tobb. Keep a lookout.”
Neranthei ordered him out and knelt as Seraphel quieted a second. Mariel passed Seraphel a cup, and after the [Princess] started giggling, poured water down her neck. Seraphel yelped, sat up, and then stared at her hands.
“Oh, Neranthei. Mariel. You understand, don’t you? Why do I keep meeting good [Knights] who are dead—or soon to be dead?”
That was the thing, she realized. Seraphel had met many a brave and good [Knight]. She liked them.
Ser Solstice was going to die. Sooner or later, someone would find out. She’d seen Cortese eying Rabbiteater; he liked the Goblin Slayer, but he’d yank the helmet off because the Hundredlord was like a dog with a bone—no, wait. More like a cat with an expensive cup that it knew you loved sitting on the edge of a table.
“I think Ser Thilowen can handle…anything you would wish to do. Otherwise, we may let things take their course, Your Highness.”
Dame Neranthei was trying to feel her way through tricky waters. Ignorance was bliss, and if they could have been ignorant, that might have been the best thing to do. But Seraphel was shaking her head.
“I could—I could have the new girl get you something to drink, Your Highness?”
Mariel was even less help. She looked around for Beacle, a new member of Seraphel’s staff who’d also risen fast in ranking due to the [Princess]’ favor. But Seraphel just stared ahead.
“He didn’t save my life. Well, he did in the battle, but I helped him first by riding out. He helped win a war. No wonder Altestiel kept trying to get him a ship to House Veltras’ lands.”
“The winter storms were too harsh, Your Highness. What’s the issue if we wait a bit longer?”
Mariel was confused, so Dame Neranthei elaborated softly.
“Prince Iradoren is monitoring him. He may have come to the same conclusion as Her Highness.”
Doubtless, he had. Seraphel rubbed at her forehead as she looked out the window and into the sea. She suspected Iradoren was well-placed to uncover Rabbiteater’s secret with his class.
Also, the eyes on Erin Solstice and her inn had spotlighted the truth; it was easy to miss the obvious when the [Innkeeper] wasn’t famous and her relationship with Goblins wasn’t common knowledge.
“He’s looking for proof. Ser Solstice is staying on board our ship; someone has been snooping around his room. The Thronebearers notice everything. I…Lyonette must know. Lyonette’s staying at that inn. She knows. Dead gods, she’s interacting with both Goblins and Antinium.”
Seraphel gulped at some water feverishly, now. Ielane would kill her. Neranthei muttered under her breath.
“She’s interacting vigorously if our reports from Dalimont are correct.”
Seraphel spat the water out across the room all over Mariel, and Beacle rushed in with some towels as the [Princess] coughed.
“Neranthei! Are you serious? I thought Dalimont was pulling our leg or offering us the gossip—”
“He didn’t report that to the Eternal Throne, Your Highness. I think—”
Seraphel’s mind actually shut down and had to be rebooted with a wet cloth. Then she just sat there.
“How has Lyonette changed so much from the girl who used to shout at peons?”
“Your Highness has changed a lot as well. I wouldn’t have recognized you from a year ago. You’re so much less gloomy, Princess Seraphel.”
“I never was. I was sharp-tongued and mean to you and Thistel, Mariel.”
“Yes…but you were gloomy. Smaller. Not to say you’ve ballooned! More like—shrunken? Indrawn?”
Beacle was peeking at Seraphel as the [Princess] gave her servants the oddest look. Seraphel wanted to smile at Beacle, but she feared she might cry.
“I have had a great friend. I wish she were here because this is as insane as it has ever been, Mariel, Neranthei. And I have no Cara to sing a miracle for me! It will end in tragedy. It always does. And I shall carry on and find I can survive…but I will never be rid of the guilt.”
The [Deathtouch Princess] sat there, staring at the moving waves as the ship went up and down, slowly, the dark waters without end like her world, which had so little hope. Yet there were other ships at sea, and they glowed, their lights gleaming upon their long journey. And somewhere out there was a shore she had never dreamed of.
Yet she still had tears in her eyes, for she knew how it ended. Neranthei looked up from where she knelt.
“Your Highness, we are your servants. In this room, your will is unquestioned. Even Ser Thilowen does not order us over you. I have vetted your personal [Knights], and each one is of the same will, though I might not trust them as I do Dalimont or myself.”
