Bloated. He was five feet taller, his skin puffed up, his nose snarled, and his eyes bulging. He was still speaking.
“811458114581145—Haade. Haade the Ogre.”
A name like a memory. Now he was charging forwards, swinging the lantern like the death of reason. When reason died—there was only this.
Slavers were screaming, now, and the guards tried to stab at him. Hands wrenched their heads, tore limbs, and the lantern rose and fell, dripping with blood and flesh.
Haade the Ogre rampaged throughout the room, down the hall, and by the time Shaullile had found a key and unlocked her and Andra’s collars, she counted almost no one living. Thatalocian had missed a number of the serving slaves, and they cowered until Andra screamed.
“[Form Ranks]! Protection! [Empowered Puppets]—we have to help him.”
“I think Thatalocian is fine. See?”
Shaullile pointed as Andra commanded the surviving [Slaves] to pick up weapons and charge forwards—they both saw an old man limping back their way, lighting the lantern once more.
His hands were cut a bit, and he looked tired, but that was all.
“One number alone did for the rest. I expected the Naga.”
Andra was shaking, but she produced a puffer she had demanded upon waking and lit it. The blood didn’t bother her as much as the betrayal.
“Loerhin might be gone. Or Pazeral?”
Thatalocian sat down on the slab of stone from which he had awoken. Blood was dripping around the runes, and he shook his head.
“Pazeral was too clever. I didn’t trust him. So the rulers of Roshal had a point. Even now we squabble and infight. Roshal must change.”
“I will help. I’ll follow the greatest of Roshal. A pact, then?”
Shaullile offered. Andra offered a shaking hand, and Thatalocian took it. His bloody hand touched the Drake’s claws, and they stood there.
Ghosts no more. The last ghosts returned to flesh, and the Goddess of Death waited for the zenith of her power until they were all under her power.
These ones were far from the locus of her ire. But they had a role to play.
“The Naga has had the benefit of flesh. For now—his plan around the Solstice triumphs. But I will make good on my promise. Now, come. Roshal awaits, and we define it.”
Thatalocian stood. Ships at sea. Agents abroad. He reflected it was well they had waited; if Iert, the fabled champion of the Naga, were here, two of them might have been taken. But the Gnoll was on Izril.
When that day came—all of it happened at once, everywhere. Everything. Like a flash of light.
And so slowly. The hands of Roshal, the will of ghosts, were all twining around that [Innkeeper]. Perhaps so only the fae could see it, but she touched upon them all.
Bloodtear Pirates singing in a storm, Roshal’s agents departing from the Grand Hive of Izril, the goodwill and her potential enemies—all waiting for that day. Great ghosts living and dead had come across the world.
No more. No more. But they had spoken to [Pirates] and [Slavers]. Gone to farmboys and roused slumbering [Rogues] in Salazsar’s towers.
No more. Now it was just death herself. And the living who feared her.
On the last day before the Solstice, everyone was waiting, making ready, sailing. Every number counted, every thread in place. Except for one group of five running through a world even Kasigna did not know.
