“That was the last era Roshal ever ruled. Its power attracted enemies who drove it to the very precipice. The Roshal of now is better as a far off place with little presence in most parts of the world. Better we be a dark dream to our enemies that they can excuse as ‘elsewhere’ or terrible, but unique only to one city and a tiny amount of holdings.”
That was his entire reasoning and why he had never seen fit to want to ‘rekindle lost glories’. Yazdil was well aware of the backlash that a greater presence might engender.
Pazeral just smiled. He did not deny that the crumbling had occurred; he had seen it as he lived.
“You are not wrong, Emir Yazdil. Yet…what a glorious moment it was, however short. I would do it again in a heartbeat, to hold the world in my hand.”
He laughed and drank the wine meant only for the dead that he had insisted upon, and the lesser [Emirs] looked at him, and Yazdil thought to himself—they were hypnotized.
All his sway and their fear of him was gone, erased by their awe for Pazeral’s short-sighted glories. Yazdil could only move them with a knife at their throats. No wonder he was so angry.
 
——
 
Each ghost came from a different time and place. It was not hard to ask them who they had been; they were dying to share it. The hard part, at first, was believing who they had been.
Weak ghosts had not survived the dead gods’ destruction and the Seamwalkers. In fact, these five had been lucky to make it; many had missed the spirit nets, and apparently, Seamwalkers had been tearing Chandrar apart, and even truly legendary ghosts had gone down fighting.
What a waste. And you could argue Roshal had not been represented well during that fight; oh, they had strength. But other ghosts had tried to settle their grudges once and for all, infighting at the last.
But the blunt truth was that the most infamous ghosts of Roshal hadn’t been there. Even Riqre. The sort of [Slave Lords] that had made the mortal world tremble had never been in the deadlands. They had been—elsewhere.
A puzzle for Yazdil. As for the ghosts…
 
——
 
Thatalocian was waiting for his new body, as all five were. Not another undead corpse to puppet via a necromancy spell.
A body.
He had been very exacting; they all had. No one wanted an ‘old’ body, but rather to Yazdil’s surprise, the [Numerologist] had demanded one at least 40 years old—in the best condition, obviously—but that old.
“I am not so vain as Andra or Pazeral. And even Andra asked for someone in her late twenties or thirties. Age is command.”
“You don’t include Shaullile or Loerhin in that appraisal of ego?”
Yazdil watched as the old [Numerologist] slowly wrote down numbers on a sheet of vellum neatly. Thatalocian did not respond, and so the two lapsed into a silence as the Naga observed the numbers being obsessively written down in an incomprehensible pattern. They made no sense to Yazdil, and some numbers had been invented, so he understood, for more elegant usage in whatever odd language Thatalocian wrote.
Sides. Already, the ghosts had expressed dislike for one another. Thatalocian disliked Andra, Pazeral, and Loerhin to various levels.
Which was funny. But they really were ghosts from different eras. Thatalocian had been oldest of them by far when he died. He pursed his lips as he paused with brush in hand.
“You are an interesting man, Emir Yazdil. The most feared [Slaver] of today. I wonder what your number is.”
“Do you wish to know my favorite number?”
Yazdil was prepared to tell Thatalocian and smiled teasingly, but the [Numerologist] just kept writing. The vellum was so thin the candlelight made it transparent, and he had such a long sheaf of it that he was writing on, endless numbers that gave Yazdil a mild headache to behold.
“That matters little. Many people say such things to me. My numbers are a way to look at the world. ‘Favorite number’ matters little. I know names in numbers. 8-1-1-4-5.”
“Is that a name? Let’s see…H-A-A-D-E?”
A name, he presumed? Thatalocian confirmed it.
“Haade. A beloved set of numbers for a being I knew. They matter to me, Emir. I have recorded ideas down, and I see, sometimes, in the pattern of numbers, who matters. Do you know who is not at Erin Solstice’s side, whose numbers intersect with hers again and again?”
The Naga paused. He disliked Thatalocian’s focus on Erin. Well, the Naga was fascinated by the beautiful [Innkeeper] as well. He wanted to meet her.
But his obsession was not the same as Thatalocian’s. The [Numerologist] seemed to respect Erin in different terms. Even so, Yazdil knew the answer.
“The Horns of Hammerad are suspiciously absent. A query at the Meeting of Tribes was raised by Erin herself. Chieftain Feshi replied they had vanished and cited a ‘Wer’, one of the Doombringers, excuse me—”
“Doombearers. I knew them. They warp numbers too, but luck can be seen. Brave and extraordinary all. Their number must be chosen for them to even become white-furred. It was foolish to try and wipe them out, as this tribe did. They are the ones who will stand against this coming darkness best.”
A soft voice. Thatalocian paused, and Yazdil shifted, a Human man now, and paced around the table.
“You—have a very different perspective from the other ghosts, Thatalocian. May I address it?”
“I do not lie with [Slaves] of either gender. I do not drink. Nor eat foods meant for ghosts. Nor speak of how I suffered in the lands of the dead?”
Every other ghost was doing just that, even if they got no actual sexual pleasure at the moment—Pazeral being the exception. Thatalocian was almost monk-like. He had been collating his numbers, writing them down; he was a [Scholar], but it did not make sense.
All [Slavers] had a peccadillo, even the hard-working ones. Andra was close to Thatalocian in that she was business-minded; she had been auditing and inspecting all of Lailight Scintillation’s finances, but her goals were naked; she intended to gain power as fast as possible.
“Will you explain it to me?”
The old [Numerologist] removed his glasses; and that was it. He thought of himself as a numerologist before [Slaver].
“Of course. The other four ghosts…no, other three. One of them isn’t like the others. Three of them are soft. You can see it. They have known strife, but never struggled. I could wish for better companions, but I will take what I can.”
Soft? Yet the disdain behind those glasses was apparent. Yazdil swept closer as the brush dipped.
“Pazeral and Loerhin are both skilled warriors beyond almost any living fighter in Roshal, save a Djinni. Even some of the Djinni admitted they might be bested if the two were armed suitably. Is that soft?”
“That is just power. You know what I mean.”
Yazdil did—and disliked Thatalocian’s piercing gaze. But now, the old man was winding the vellum up, binding it carefully around some contraption he had demanded. Hence Yazdil watching. At length, Thatalocian explained it all so simply.
“I am from the era you called the ‘Long Night’. The time when magic lay dead. I lived long enough to see it rekindled, but I was born into those days. Sometimes, they were bright; but the nights seemed too long. Even the sun had vanished. And Seamwalkers rose, fearing nothing with magic dead.”
Yazdil’s skin prickled in sudden, visceral excitement. 
“You survived that?”
“Yes. Numerology was one of the things we turned to; you see, it had a power that we clung to when reason became madness. A way to make the world make sense. So you ask why I am a [Slaver] least of the four? We had little time for it. In those days, Roshal stood side-by-side with what you would deem your enemies. Survival mattered more than all. I have a deep, abiding respect for the Doombearers who used luck against the horrors. I look at Erin Solstice and see someone I would have stood with—but the reputation of Roshal soured her to us. I will have that second chance.”
So this was Thatalocian. Yazdil wasn’t disappointed—but he was amazed.
“Are you even a [Slaver]? I merely ask because you have expressed no interest in creating your own following, and our own masters have been jealous to the point of ludicrosity. Perhaps you seek Djinni? Pazeral fears them.”
“Pazeral was born in a time when there were free Djinni. They warred mightily to free their kin. He knew Jinn. He is quite happy we ‘won’ our war. I have not yet found anyone worth keeping company over. Perhaps I shall tour these markets and find a child or promising pupil who understands numbers. If they suit, I will take them, or when I gain a body, I will remember the pleasures of flesh. But I do not care to count like Andra or need them like Pazeral.”
The Naga’s skin prickled again, and this time, his instincts made him recall something. He chuckled softly as Thatalocian glued the paper to a piece of curved metal, continuing to wrap it around something.
“I met a Human [Lord] and had one of those debates, of late. He saw slavery as the intractable evil. He would have freed a [Slave] he was quite enamored with—until he realized she did not love him.”
“Hmm. I have done that many times.”
Now, Yazdil did stop, and Thatalocian’s head turned. His glasses shone like owl lenses.
“Have you never debated with a child of another continent, Emir? Slavery is a better way than prisons, to me.”
“Of course. That was my argument with him. Yet you free them?”
Thatalocian’s finger rose.
“If they are worthy. If I think I would rather have them free. If they are a slave, I treat them as such. But they need not be it forever. There is a chance to rise, however slim, and that is the egalitarian thing many speak of. I? I do not debate it.”
It reminded Yazdil of how he spoke, but he felt such an uncanny repulsion that he backed up a step.
“Are you a slaver, Thatalocian?”
It was only a half-question. The ghost was truly different from the others in that. And yet…his eyes rose, and he smiled as he plucked something from the table, his job nearly done.
“Fear not, Emir. I am still Thatalocian. Of Roshal. You see, that is who I am. More than a [Slaver], I have always been endlessly proud that it was Roshal who endured that long night. I come to you and say we should be proud once more. Wherever the foe lurks, Roshal shall hunt it down. Some foes defy even our chains. I am not blind to how dark we go. I am Roshal. But we are not alike. You see? This is what I did while the others indulged.”
Then he lifted the stick of tallow, lit it with a touch, and placed it in the contraption he had requested. He closed the metal pieces, and the wrapped vellum writ with numbers twined around the candle in the center, and the Emir saw the numbers glow.
Then Thatalocian lifted the lantern up. And Yazdil understood.
“The Lantern Lands.”
A lantern, shining with the numbers that Thatalocian had written, rose in Thatalocian’s hand, and it projected a calm light. A light of…
“This is the Lantern of Reason. It is a weapon to be used against horror. It kept minds sane; the Lantern Lands may well descend from my work. I was not the only one who found flame in the Long Night. It was flame which saved us, and it is why the [Innkeeper] and I must be allies. I am flame and number. I am proud of Roshal, and if we can be allies, we shall, Yazdil. However uneasy.”
Thatalocian stood across from the Emir, and the Naga twisted, backing away from the light. His eyes seemed to glow, and a serpentine figure rose in the shadows as Thatalocian stood there. Ghost and serpent.
“What makes you think we need be so distant, Thatalocian?”
The [Numerologist]’s eyes found Yazdil’s, two serpentine orbs.
“I think you would rather I had little pride and more vanity. That I were less certain. That I needed things more. I believe I am righteous, at times. I may be a monster to many, but I seek to end my foes. Then I shall consider what else I wish to do. You pursue your dreams and simply hate those who threaten them.”
A pause. And the Emir hissed.
“I could have liked you most of them all, Thatalocian.”
He slithered away as the [Numerologist] called back.
“You don’t like yourself much either. Do you, Emir Yazdil?”
 
——
 
Of the five, Thatalocian was the most unsettling, the most dangerous, and the least predictable.
As Yazdil said, at least three of the others were—weaker in some way.
Andra was sitting, nibbling on a nail, making a list of properties she wanted and people she had deemed as acceptable to her needs when Yazdil swept into the sitting room.
Three ghosts sat there. Pazeral, leaving his body now and then to conduct business, Andra, plotting her work, and Shaullile.
Of the three, Shaullile was the most bored, but she was checking sketches of her new body. She obsessed over her looks while the other two obsessed over their possessions.
“I’ll borrow what isn’t given. Markets…there’s no seith anywhere. Ally with me, Naga. Entrust the business-dealings to me, and I will guarantee you a return on investment. Give it to me. It’s what I know.”
Andra, at least, was more familiar to Yazdil, even if he was amused by both her focus and her competency. He sat down as Pazeral sat up.
“Do we have any good [Slaves] in Oteslia? I have a deal to strike.”
“If you are speaking for other [Slavers], Lord Pazeral—”
The [Lord] barely glanced at Yazdil as the Naga sipped from a winecup.
“This is all for my own enjoyment, Yazdil. I’m not building a mercantile empire. But I need authority to get what I want. These Djinni…you trust them too much. But I’m glad to see there’s only a handful free. We won. It took so damned long—but we did win. Once I’m ready, I’ll find the oldest one I can and see if it remembers me. That’s how you do it. Djinni and Jinn. Roshal triumphs, in the end. Who’d know about a good [Slaver]?”
“Try our guild—the palace. If there is a registry you may hunt down…”
Yazdil stopped talking because Pazeral was gone.
“He leaps through bodies like a storm. I think he can do it to any [Slave] if their masters are too low-level. Was that what it was like, the [Slavers] of our golden era?”
What obnoxious folk they must have been. I am endlessly glad they were murdered like that, then. Yazdil sipped from his cup; Pazeral had been barely thirty-nine when he was murdered by a rival lord.
It said something, when each had died. And how. Thatalocian? Old age.
The other four had all been killed. Though Pazeral had the dubious honor of being the only ghost present who’d died to treachery. The other three, Shaullile, Andra, and Loerhin, had known death intimately with blazing sword, claws and fangs, and spear.
Though, again, nuance. Shaullile and Loerhin had been murdered by people.
Andra had been eaten.
