The oldest of [Lords] rode down upon the Stitch-folk town with a hundred whooping figures on horseback. He swung his sword from the saddle and ignored the arrow sticking out of his chest; when he raised the blade, it had the blood and brains of the first Stitch-folk on it. Brain turned to cloth; lifestring tangled.
“Even the gore isn’t right. Take them!”
Loerhin’s voice rose above the din and screaming, and he left the figures snatching, leaping from horseback to pursue people into homes.
The man himself walked through the town and left no one alive who raised their blade against him. Twice, he spotted someone he wanted and ran after them, calling for chains and warning others against marking ‘his’ possessions.
He resembled the Bloodfeast Raiders…not at all, actually. This was the oldest form of Roshal, the raider, with no care for the fact that this town was under Roshal’s aegis. That you could get everything he took with a sword with gold and time and words instead.
The man was still dangerous, though; undead body aside, he threw one person strong enough to challenge him through a brick wall, and when he noticed a growing unity among the defenders, he cleaved through an archway with his sword. What made him dangerous was that it was clear he wasn’t trying at all.
“He’s celebrating his rebirth in the oldest of ways. I wonder if there’s something like witchcraft or ritual in…no. He’s just celebrating. From this man sprang Roshal, but he does not know it. If he had mastered anything like learning to bathe in the blood he shed, he would not have been in the lands of the dead.”
The Emir Yazdil watched from carpetback. If Loerhin knew he was observing, the man didn’t care; Yazdil had the sneaking suspicion that if he sent one of his lesser Djinni at the man, Loerhin would win.
Mak’eireen, his current bodyguard and companion with Iert gone, sat in the air, waiting upon the Emir’s words. She was relaxed enough with this new master to converse with him.
A sign of trust. You could bind any Djinni with words very cunningly, but they were never so useful as when they liked you. Of course, most of the owners didn’t understand how to command loyalty, and Yazdil didn’t give out lessons.
A hint: freeing them from intolerable situations and offering them temporary deals for their loyalty did work. Djinni who had been caged so long took a long view, and it was in Mak’eireen’s interests to like Yazdil.
Certainly, she found him more interesting than most. So she spoke after a second.
“He would have been in the same place as the likes of Riqre? He is distasteful enough to me, Emir.”
Below, the man had found another quarry, and Yazdil stared down at him.
“Yes. I imagine he, in his way, is as ‘bad’ as you can get before crossing that threshold. He is only forty-seven; he might have changed if he aged. But I wonder who would have won if they had met: Torreb the Undefeated in his old age or Loerhin.”
High praise for the man’s physical abilities, then. But Yazdil still found the man amusing. Amusing…yet as Loerhin reluctantly noticed the time and swung back to Roshal, abandoning his corpse on the way, the Naga did not yet smile.
The time had come for even the dead to flee death. And that spoke to him of the true danger. Yazdil had plotted many things. But he had not foreseen ghosts.
Nor did he know how even death could be slain.
 
——
 
The return of the living to a true life, no matter what their form, was pain. 
It was an agony, however short.
And it was here that you could not lie. Not to the voice that spoke.
 
[Levels removed.]
[Skills removed.]
 
The voice counted the levels culled. It pulled and closed off power, and though it spoke equally dispassionately in the ears of each ghost, three men, three women, who took flesh—there were mixed tones in it.
Welcome.
Welcome back to the lands of the living. Welcome to another chance.
Disappointment.
Did you really think you could cheat and avoid this? Everything has a cost. Erin never truly died. You did.
Joy.
The same joy they felt as a hand flailed and grasped at a lantern. A half-Elf sat up with a scream, clutching at her chest, and the shriek became joy.
A Drake silently closed her clawed hand and made not a sound, feeling each part of her body, moving it. The toughest of all, perhaps.
The [Lord of Possession] sat up, cursing, and reached at once for the first [Slave]. But he savored it, the pain and the joy of rebirth.
 
——
 
The last woman sat up slowly and opened the eyes already decorated with black kohl, then exhaled with annoyance at the work she would have to do. She took the hand of the [Necromancer] and nodded at him. The first true compliment upon her lips.
“Well done, my ally. No. My friend. You may be worthy of it after all.”
There was still enough of the man to smile faintly at that. But the Lich, the true Lich stood there and offered her a precise bow. The two in conflict, and a skeleton watched as the Immortal Tyrant breathed again.
Somewhere in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, under the palace of Tyrant’s Rest, a tomb cracked, and its keeper ran screaming out of the crypts and into the Court of Silks. Then the last living guardians threw themselves shrieking off the balconies and the city trembled.
She was smiling. Nerrhavia lifted her hand, inspecting it. The craftsmanship was beyond impeccable, she had to admit. And more; she lifted her hand, grimacing as she felt her power siphoned by the cost of rebirth.
But she had stolen from death as well. She concentrated, and her hand turned translucent. Nerrhavia walked through Toren, turned, and smiled as she rematerialized.
“Very good.”
“I expect you shall repay me the effort and expense. Such things matter little, but in this case—the cost was exceptionally high.”
Az’kerash’s voice was dry, but satisfaction burned in every word. Nerrhavia’s nod was crisp.
“You shall have it, as I do not owe anyone lightly. Give the other ghosts their bodies.”
The [Necromancer] turned to a mirror clamoring with souls, and Nerrhavia crooked one finger as the voices rose.
“After we finish negotiating terms, of course. We best hurry. We only have a day left.”
So even the dead knew fear as the Immortal Tyrant laughed, and the Necromancer, Perril Chandler, gave the ghosts a vaguely sympathetic look.
 
——
 
Six ghosts, not five, took flesh that night.
At this moment, in the final hour, six ghosts took flesh. A choice to escape what they felt was the real danger. And the voice welcomed them all.
Welcome back. Rise higher this time. 
Welcome. Disappointment. Joy.
But for the last of them, the voice had none of these things. Only a kind of sadness. Only the fear, dispassionate, for the eternal cheerleader in everyone’s mind, the hope and reward—
It saw no future it could cheer for Lord Loerhin.
Five hands stretched. Five pairs of lungs inhaled and exhaled. Five voices rose; five hearts beat irregularly. Five tongues moved.
And the last of them woke up and didn’t know what was wrong at first. He tried to open his eyes and realized he couldn’t. He tried to move—and realized he couldn’t.
“The transfer has failed! You idiots! Get me a new body! Now!”
Loerhin shouted in a fury. He had followed the guiding signals into his form! Yet his voice didn’t even come out. He tried to move and found, to his growing horror, he didn’t even sense arms or legs. He…he…
Where was he?
The ghost’s ability to leave his body was gone. He was truly reborn. And he…he…
He heard laughter, then. Long and loud, and then he did see, though he had not opened his eyes. They were already open; it was just that vision was strange.
The world was like a fishbowl…no, that was how he saw. And the voice was distorted, yet the laughing man, nay, the Naga wanted him to hear.
There he was, standing, laughing, kissing a Djinni who looked on with a kind of amused disdain, and Loerhin spoke.
“Yazdil! I’m trapped! I’m trapped. What’s happening?”
He could not move. He could not speak, not really. Even seeing wasn’t under his control; a kind of light had appeared and let him see, but he had no eyes to…
Wh-what was going on? Loerhin’s mind was sluggish. But he realized he had been tricked at last, and his rage…
His rage and Skills did nothing at all. They just made him shake slightly, and noticed he was in something wet. He was floating in…something. A liquid. And then he realized that he was in a smaller container than he thought.
A…
Jar.
And the [Lord]’s rage became a horror as Loerhin Kallinad realized he truly had been tricked. The oldest of Roshal’s ancestors vibrated in the suspension of liquid as Yazdil pointed at him.
“Of all the five, you never questioned it once. You think we have changed? Perhaps we have, Loerhin Kallinad. But you were an amateur playing with people. We learned from you. Welcome to the Wishing Well.”
What have you done? What have you done? Let me out!
Now, the thing in the jar was really trembling; it was impressive. He shouldn’t have had the ability to move on his own. But a truly powerful man had been Loerhin Kallinad. He was trying to use his aura, and there were Skills that you could use with just your mind.
But the jar was very complete. Yazdil felt little more than a buzzing, which was being drowned by the excited voices.
Fear eclipsed rage. Rage was hot and heavy with betrayal, but Yazdil’s laughter had only come when he knew he had won. He walked around Loerhin, shaking his head.
“I have heard it said that I do not bring about the same fear as a man like the late Emir Riqre. There are those who dived so deep they never surfaced; but the lands of the dead did not welcome them, did they? You don’t know who they are. Don’t worry, Loerhin. I am sure your keepers will tell you, if they wish. They were great admirers of Riqre. But he was a man who was only one thing. I? I am Roshal. Riqre knew no subtlety. If he were a man who made wishes, he wished upon every star. I wish rarely. When it matters. And I wished for you.”
Now you saw it. It would be wrong to call it a man. But it still moved, and Yazdil read the words that inscribed themselves on the slate; there was no other means of communication.
Let me go. I will slaughter you if you do not. Let me out. I cannot feel anything. 
“You will feel things soon enough. Let you out? You are no use as Lord Loerhin Kallinad. I do not need a [Warlord]. Stay here, with me. Your Skills and everything else will be put to better uses.”
How? 
The man didn’t even understand. He thought he was invaluable, as if he could get out of this whenever someone handed him a sword.
Roshal had learned how to take everything. It was difficult, slow. Messy. Especially against one’s will, but Yazdil had little care for that. He stepped back as more words frantically wrote themselves on the slate.
Negotiations, now. The Naga slithered back the way he’d come.
“Master? Don’t you want to listen?”
The Djinni pointed, in her way as cruel as could be. And the Naga’s head turned.
“You speak as if there were ever a chance. Come, Mak’eireen. Don’t torment the man. You throw hope into the well. Give him the great dignity of knowing there is no more.”
Behind him, the thing in the jar began to tremble. It had organs, you know. It still had to be alive. Excited people, the caretakers of the Wishing Well, were already clustering around with syringes and tonics. They wanted to give Lord Loerhin a treat and establish how things would be.
The jar had a powerful spell on it. [Regeneration]. You could not lose someone if you wanted their capabilities. As for how you stole a Skill—
Yazdil understood it was a matter of giving and taking. Giving the right classes and Skills and conditions even against one’s will. Taking or being given things was a matter of convincing them. All it took was time on your side.
Silence behind him, aside from the whispers. Loerhin said not a thing. If Yazdil imagined a screaming voice, well. The man had no more voice left. But he might live…
Forever.
If only the others were so easy. Yazdil counted Loerhin as useless as almost anything but his current form. The other four?
Pazeral was too cunning. Too much a foe; the Wishing Well would have had him if he hadn’t known better than to trust his revival. The other three would have made excellent subordinates or allies. But not leaders.
Doubtless, the other Slavers of Roshal thought so too. Yet Yazdil suspected the other three were ready.
 
——
 
Dark deeds.
It was hard for the disoriented ghosts to resist, with unfamiliar bodies, if someone put a collar around their necks. The genius of Pazeral was securing safety for himself. You could argue the same about Nerrhavia.
The other three?
Thatalocian, Andra, Shaullile. Two were collared in a moment, and no Skills or magic availed them. The third of them fought.
The collar went around his neck. It snapped shut—and the lantern burned the metal away, and Thatalocian rose.
[Numerologist]. A man stooped and hunched with spectacles askew as [Slaves] and guards rushed at him, surrounded by [Slavers] like Morren who had seen Shaullile’s disdain for him.
They valued her—but not as their leader. They shouted for someone to re-collar Thatalocian. Take the lantern from him.
Someone tore it from his grip as he laid about him in a fury, strong thanks to his new body. Andra was shrieking; Shaullile was still. She had backed away to a wall where she stood. Eyes on the old man.
Waiting.
“Treachery. Treachery! 81145. 81145.”
He was screaming numbers, and these [Slavers] had not expected the lantern to be his way out. They had thought nothing could break that collar. As if they had not seen the King of Destruction shattering older magics.
They thought a [Numerologist], a [Patternlord of Graven Icons], was a weak man. Thatalocian had survived the Long Night.
Yazdil had preyed upon the weakest of the ghosts. As people piled on Thatalocian, chains in hand, the bodies and flailing hands bulged. Then the [Guards] pressing down exploded backwards, and a hand reached out.
It seized the lantern, which had gone out. The vellum had knocked against the candle, and the lantern was dark. Wisps of smoke rising in the room.
“Stop him before he relights t—”
A [Guard Captain] was aiming a wand at the former ghost, not caring if he hurt Thatalocian. He should have begun with that wand. Even then, it might have been too late the moment the man opened his eyes.
The lantern descended and crushed the helmet and head. Thatalocian hammered it down and wrenched it up with a sucking noise. Brought it down again on a second head.
The [Slavers] froze. Andra stopped screaming, choked—Shaullile drew her back against the wall. And then Thatalocian turned. But his body had changed.
