“It would surprise me if Nombernaught said anything of that nature. Refusing outright would be too rude to a land-lord…we do not tell other folk what to do.”
“I caught the spirit of the refusal. Surely there’s a [Pirate]—that Therrium fellow! Can you contact him? I’m not accusing you of being whatever those Drowned Crews are—can we contact him?”
Cortese growled, and the [Captain] ducked his head again. He watched as the stingray minus the tail was offered to the lioness, who nibbled on it. She wasn’t into it until Rabbiteater tried to get a piece. Then Baeris decided it was all hers.
“I regret to say I don’t know a Captain Therrium, and if I did, I couldn’t speak for him. But while my vessel’s no good for trade, I hear Wistram has all sorts of delights, Lord Cortese.”
“We just passed it. What about Captain Rasea—”
“I must be going, Lord Cortese.”
 
——
 
The second captain met with Menrise, and he strode aboard without the voice of a deep Drowned Man, but full of good cheer.
“Spell Lady! This will have to be quick; I can sell you a bunch of pearls or take an order for later.”
His vessel harvested pearls, and it was small and probably very profitable. Lady Menrise, Seraphel, and Rabbiteater met with him.
“No pearls today, Captain Doulav. Unless you can get me in contact with any of the following people?”
The jovial [Captain] listened politely as Menrise rattled off a list of names, including the Shadewarden Doroumata. Then he shook his head.
“I’m afraid to say I don’t know a single one. The sea’s vast. Ah, I regret that I can’t help you, and then if I’ve taken your time, at least it was only a few minutes, Lady Menrise.”
“Can’t you think of a person? Captain?”
Menrise pleaded with him as the [Captain] hesitated. But he bowed, then glanced westwards.
“It may be rough sailing, but I hear there are treasures the likes of which my simple vessel couldn’t dream of. More than enough for a lady of magic and means like yourself. At Wistram, Lady Menrise. But far be it from me to tell anyone what to do.”
Rabbiteater was nibbling on some cooked stingray as Menrise thanked the [Captain]. He nudged Seraphel as the man strode back to his ship.
“You know, I think he’s trying to hint something to us. Both of them.”
Seraphel stared at Rabbiteater along with Menrise. Every Drowned Folk they’d talked to had been like that.
“It must be their way. They’re all but telling us to turn around and head to Wistram. We’d run straight into the Iron Vanguard as well, which is doubtless why. But the Iron Vanguard has already told us they will fall back unless we hire them, and even if we were right at Wistram, disembarking all these ships would take days. Let alone if Wistram could hold us all!”
“Right. But they’re saying to do that.”
Rabbiteater pointed at the Drowned Captain’s back. And that, at least, was unarguable. Seraphel stared as the Drowned Ship began to head straight south, towards Nombernaught. Doubtless that [Captain] felt safer than they were.
 
——
 
“Paying for the Iron Vanguard’s protection is all but insane. They are charging us hundreds of thousands of gold pieces! And that’s a base-fee—they want massive, insane fees for every ship and soldier they’d lose!”
“They have us over a barrel.”
“They think we’re helpless in the water! We have thousands of [Knights] and more soldiers than any army you could roll from any one nation! We have magic and [Lords]—let us break through the ones ahead and land on Izril! These [Pirates] might fight well on sea, but on land?”
“They bring the tides with them.”
Earl Altestiel sat with the most senior war-leaders, and he was consulting a map. He was the most advanced seafaring expert, and he was quiet. Thinking. In the end, they could turn back and try to fight through the bulk of the forces from the west to Wistram and the Iron Vanguard.
Or they could try to break through to the New Lands or any part of Izril.
“Fourteen ships. Perhaps more lurking in the waves, but we have a superior foe at our rear and an inferior one ahead. North, south—we have no idea how strong the enemy is. I request a test of arms.”
Prince Iradoren stood, and the rest of the war council looked at him. Altestiel exhaled.
“Three ships with magical support from afar that can fall back into our aegis. Crew them heavy with [Knights].”
“I will send one of the Thousand Lances.”
Hundredlord Cortese offered softly. Iradoren’s eyes glinted.
“And I will call for the Skyguard of Erribathe: peerless archers.”
Etrogaer smashed his fists together, grinning, creating a minor shockwave, and a buzz began, selecting the best forces to test the enemy’s strength. Before nightfall, the entire expedition was curving back southwards, towards the New Lands and the blockading force.
Most of the ships deemed too valuable or without means of supporting or fighting, like Calanfer’s flagship, were sent to the rear with a few watch vessels, though their pursuers were still far too far away to attack. Altestiel took the vanguard, and even Menrise’s ship, Tourvecall’s noble [Mages] onboard, was near the tip of the spear, supporting three ships that sailed out to test the enemy’s strength.
Seraphel was so far back she could only see billowing sails, figures craning on the railings, hear cheering and shouts as Rabbiteater sat there. Cortese, Menrise, and Altestiel were all ahead of them.
But the Goblin sat and sat, and when she looked at him, he stared up at her.
“Do you think they could lose? One of the Thousand Lances and [Knights], Rabbiteater…even the Order of Seasons sent a number of their own.”
“Yeah. Three warships. How many are meeting them?”
“Th-three?”
Seraphel looked around. She’d heard that being shouted. Rabbiteater grunted.
“Three for three. Want to know a secret, Seraphel?”
“What?”
“[Pirates] are like me. Sometimes they’re crazy. Sometimes they’re cowards. But if they go three-for-three when they could go fourteen for three…get worried.”
The [Princess] hesitated as the Goblin looked up at her, and she swore she saw red light through that visor. She longed to ask him, but now was not her moment, and she almost thought she sensed Iradoren watching her from the side.
“But those are our finest [Knights], Rabbiteater. You know how good they are.”
She protested with him, almost pleading. The Goblin stared up at her.
“Yeah. But we’re at sea. Remember how I beat them with my fists?”
Then Seraphel didn’t know what to say. So she slowly sat and listened to how the cheering became louder and louder—then stopped. A silence fell until a great flurry of voices arose, and she saw sails billow and felt the ship they sat on turning.
“Thilowen. What is going on?”
Seraphel called out as the leader of Calanfer’s detachment strode across the deck. The man turned and bowed.
“We are heading back towards Wistram at all speed, Your Highness. The Earl of Rains is now approaching the Iron Vanguard and other parties at sea. He has not heard from Tulm the Mithril.”
“Let us know when he replies!”
Seraphel called back, and she heard a dark laugh. She turned her head, and Rabbiteater stared at her. Not as if she were stupid—okay, a bit. But more as if he felt sorry for her and vaguely envious.
“What? Rabbit, I’m sure he’s negotiating prices…”
“That’s not what your guy said. Smart commanders would be talking already. I think that Tulm person was watching that last battle. We shouldn’t have shown him.”
Then Seraphel sat with him, and after a while, Rabbiteater patted her on the shoulder.
“Is it going to be alright, Rabbiteater?”
The Goblin paused as she leaned against him for a second.
“No. But we’re a team.”
She smiled when he said that. Rabbiteater stared eastwards, towards the place where the battle had been fought, then west, towards Wistram and the other side of the Bloodtear Pirates. Then north.
“I hate the ocean. Lots of weirdos around. They all glow.”
Seraphel had no idea what that meant. But then she was meeting with the nobility again for a briefing, and the thing about the sea was that it was vast.
Things happened slow. So you could see more ships appearing, see how your own fleet was turning and being chased and boxed in and count the hours and days. It was all so dreadfully—inevitable.
In the distance, as the ships turned, Princess Seraphel could see two ships locked together with the pirates’ three mismatched vessels. All five ships were torn by magic, and two of the [Pirates]’ were burning.
But they were streaming onto the Terandrian ships without slowing, and brave [Knights] were fighting to their end. No quarter. No mercy. Men and women in armor. Magic and steel.
An ‘admiral’ of the Bloodtear Pirates held up the head of Dame Reigata of the Thousand Lances and dipped his blade in her blood. Captain Ereiyne stood on her vessel; her opponents had sunk, their hulls crippled by stone pillars. The survivors were being cut down as they tried to swim away. [Pirates] in the waters, raising their blades as the water turned red.
And the third ship was covered in crawling insects. A single [Alchemist] stood on the taken vessel. Pointing at his kin, a wild smile on his burned face.
The fighting was dying down. The Bloodtear Pirates had probably died in similar numbers to the [Knights] and [Soldiers]. But they hadn’t stopped coming. Something was motivating them, even crazed as they were, to throw themselves into sheer oblivion.
A great buzzing behind them, now, and the Goblin squeezed her shoulder and looked across the seas at the Bloodtear Pirates waving at them.
“They look like me at the Floodplains the day my brothers died.”
“Hopeless?”
Seraphel had never heard him speak of that day, but she looked up at him. Rabbiteater’s helmet paused. And he looked down at her.
“No. Full of hope. Have I ever told you about it?”
“No.”
The Goblin grinned behind his helmet.
“If we survive…no. If you want me to, I will.”
So Seraphel took his hand as they sat there together.
“Then I shall tell you my story too. I hope you wouldn’t mind. I should love to know yours, Rabbiteater.”
“Me too.”
Ser Thilowen’s head turned back, and he noticed Dame Neranthei trying to subtly stand between him and the [Princess] and odd [Knight] with Ser Tobb and her people. But one look showed the moment.
The Thronebearer of Calanfer had specific orders regarding Princess Seraphel. At this moment? The precise, pedantic leader of Calanfer’s forces met Neranthei’s eyes and smiled grimly. He turned and walked on. Behind them, they heard the Bloodtear Pirates beginning to sing.
 
——
 
On the day before the Winter Solstice, everyone made their preparations. Some people did not know the significance of the day.
Ghosts did. They desired bodies, and so the five of Roshal all prepared to transit to their new forms.
Each one had been carefully selected, and unlike the corpses…these were not dead. They had been brought from a place that only two of the ghosts even knew existed.
It was down.
In Lailight Scintillation, the Grand Bazaar, which dominated the glowing city, there were no visible roads to the place that also defined Roshal’s harbor. But it was down.
Down.
And down.
And further down.
It was a place that men like Emir Riqre knew. It was the same spot that had spawned the [Assassins] who were called ‘Ranks’ that would fill the guilds of other continents; these were all ideas, you see, that came from this place.
Riqre would be what he defined, in his own words, as an ‘innovator’, an experimenter, a man who had gone his own way. But he would have given credit to the place he took inspiration from.
It was called the Wishing Well. Even other [Slavers] only knew of it as a place. Only a few were allowed entrance.
But this was not a tale about that. Suffice it to say that the bodies came from there, each one fit and perfect for their new owners.
Three bodies were together.
Andra’s, Shaullile’s, and Thatalocian’s were all inspected by the ghosts rigorously, for each ghost had that kind of personality.
A man who looked white haired, but had a body that was hale and hearty, if somewhat long of legs, a Human man, was for Thatalocian, and the [Numerologist] bent his head over it and pronounced it good. The hour was almost midnight, and he was waiting for the best moment to make the transfer.
Things could go wrong, and in the same way, each ghost had taken a body befitting them. For it would be harder to mesh with a body not like their nature.
Andra had a half-Elf’s body, albeit far younger than she had actually been. That was vanity, but she had chosen one that was as fit as youthful and attractive. One of the candidates for [Assassin]—now used in another manner.
And Shaullile had chosen a Drake. One with pale white scales, and she had carefully weighed her many choices before choosing this one. She had not taken the most beautiful body she could find, with looks crafted by Skill and magic and alchemy.
Rather—she had chosen the Drake for the color of her scales. Still a beauty, but also for her vocal cords and age and many factors.
Three bodies lay together with a great gathering of [Slavers] and [Slaves] and servants. Ready for the occasion. Andra was annoyed by the lack of the other two’s company.
“Pazeral could not even wait for us? I was told he took his body and slipped into it somewhere else. He’s lucky he didn’t face backlash.”
Thatalocian turned his head, curious, as the ghosts stood in the air, visible but for the moment, immaterial. Unable to use Skills as well, until they had a vessel.
“What form is his?”
“Stitch-folk. He was a Jinn; he likes how the Stitch-folk can change their forms.”
Indeed, that [Lord of Possession] had no real camaraderie; for all Andra and Thatalocian did not like each other, they were still ghosts bound by what they had witnessed, and Shaullile had asked both to be by her side when they woke.
“The first thing I shall do is drink water. Just water. And breathe.”
Andra whispered as she waited. Thatalocian placed his lantern on his body’s chest. Watching it rise and fall.
“I cannot rest. We have a journey ahead of us. Time for work.”
And Shaullile said nothing at all. She just stared at the Stitch-folk amidst Roshal’s number, then at her face. As if memorizing it so she could know it better than the other ones she’d owned, so she could smile and you could believe it. An actress memorizing her new role.
And the last of the ghosts committed an atrocity before he took flesh. Because as a ghost he feared no ordinary blade. He rode out of Lailight Scintillation’s towers with a host of those he had gathered that he deemed worthy, as if to remind the world of how he would soon change it.
 
——
 
