That explained it. She and Pazeral were grabbing for power in their own way, but Pazeral did it like a game, for self-interest. He and Loerhin were annoyingly honest in that regard; Andra was afraid.
You could see it in how she was pushing. Doubtless that was her personality as well, but she was muttering.
“I have to organize. Lailight Scintillation is still a power, but if I have to grab each living Walled City and drown them in gold…this K-Kas—”
Shaullile flinched, and Andra couldn’t finish the word. Weak-willed, perhaps. Yazdil observed her, idly drinking.
“Kasigna. Not that we should empower her. I certainly don’t respect her. You and Thatalocian seem remarkably committed to the cause.”
That was bait, and Andra replied swiftly.
“Thatalocian gets it. Pazeral, Loerhin—they must be mad. They saw those Seamwalkers, but they think now that they’re getting bodies all will be well. Twice. I’ve seen this done twice, and I won’t die a third time. Potions of Youth…I need some. But I have time. So long as—”
She broke off, shuddered.
“I can do it this time. I was complacent. Complacent with everyone else in Roshal. This very city. And look how we died. They climbed the towers. Maybe even this—this one. I don’t know.”
Her foot began to tap. Taptaptaptap—
“They climbed into my penthouse and ate me alive. Slowly. I could hear them laughing in my head. Not this time. I should have hired every [Mercenary], forced the nations to go to war instead of—”
Yazdil leaned over and rested a clawed hand on her leg. The half-Elf was no stranger to intimacy, and she leaned over as Yazdil gave her a sympathetic look.
“Tell me.”
“The Creler Wars.”
Shaullile’s head rose in vague recognition, but she predated those events. Yazdil blinked and placed her.
Aha. So Andra is the youngest of the ghosts by far. She whispered as she leaned into him, for security, for comfort, and touched his scaled side.
“We never paid attention, you know. Everyone was screaming about it—but horrors from Rhir always emerge. This time? This time I remember the Dancer going.”
“Who was she? History notes a dancer…”
“The greatest [Dancer] in the world. She went there and died on those blasted shores, and that was when I felt like I woke up and saw it. Horrors. But it was too late. Too late. We were still rallying a force when they burst across the world. Dragons died. Dragons. They got to Roshal as the evacuations were happening. Two times. Then the Seamwalkers; this time, I am forewarned. But you must stand with me and give me control of your gold, Yazdil.”
“Andra, you and I shall be amazing partners.”
He promised her earnestly. And her look of relief turned into a distance as she pulled away, reestablished authority.
“We’ll have to fire most of your current staff. Many of these [Slavers]—we’ll let them go or roll them into [Slaves] if there’s a protocol that’s acceptable. Am I allowed to simply enslave the incompetent?”
“Not…legally. Why don’t I send one of my competent subordinates to discuss it?”
“Excellent. A lot of them don’t want to give me…enough help. They’re against the plan for the Solstice and anything interventionary to begin with.”
Yazdil paused and slithered upright.
“Yes. That’s true. Let me visit the conclave.”
To his surprise, Shaullile rose and, still checking a mirror with makeup, nodded at Yazdil.
“I’ll go with you.”
 
——
 
The oddest one was Shaullile. She was practicing smiles as Yazdil and she rode an elevator powered by Djinnis up to where some of the more common [Slavers] were gathering to protest—quietly—all this money and power being redirected to the other ghosts.
As Yazdil understood it, they held that interference in the world beyond Roshal would attract reprisals. Which was his position—yet he knew they had to fight or at least resist the dead gods.
There was a difference between complacency and a practiced reserve, and idiots on both ends, from Pazeral’s goals of rebuilding Roshal to isolationists, annoyed Yazdil.
As if you could reduce the political actions of Roshal to simple factions.
Shaullile annoyed him too, frankly. She looked like the least of all ghosts, even including Andra.
“As I understand it, your original body was…a Drake? Have you any input into the way we are organizing Roshal, Shaullile? You have not expressed your will.”
The ghost—wearing a Human’s body at the moment—looked up at Yazdil blankly.
“Not really, Emir. If Andra or Thatalocian or you have a vision for how to deal with our enemies, I will happily let you take charge. I was never a leader like everyone else.”
She flashed him a rueful grin—her control over her corpse was very good. Yazdil raised his brows.
“How old were you when you died?”
“Twenty-six.”
“Ah.”
He had thought she seemed young, but that made it more clear. And yet—Yazdil watched as Shaullile raised the mirror again.
“Excuse me. I still don’t have this smile down right. I haven’t had a mirror for…ah, perfect. Can you hold this?”
She thrust something into his claws, and he found himself holding an artifact Wistram had recently made—a ‘camera’. It was something that took a magic picture, so it was an old piece of magical technology made simpler. Yazdil dubiously held it up.
“Should I…?”
“On three. One, two…”
And then Shaullile threw back her head, shaking out the dark brown hair of the body she was piloting. She bared her teeth and smiled as the Emir gingerly pressed the ‘capture’ button. He looked at the picture, and he had to admit—
It was perfect.
The single frame of reality that captured Shaullile was of a young woman, her dead body’s features subtly covered up by makeup, hair flying, and she was smiling.
But that was such a mundane description, so Yazdil tried to imagine how he’d tell Iert about it over the speaking stone.
Shaullile’s mouth was pulled back in a too-wide smile, showing a lot of teeth, like a Drake. She was staring straight ahead, making eye-contact with you even though it was a picture. Not just anyone could stare straight like that. Her eyes were direct, and there was a bit of light giving her gaze a shine—and yet.
And yet, Yazdil stared at the image that Shaullile found satisfying and thought there was something uncanny in the beautiful features. As if there were a void behind the eyes and the charming smile.
Shaullile smiled at everything and nothing. She smiled to be beautiful, and she had the air of someone who had focused on this one thing to the exclusion of everything else. She was, Yazdil realized, focused, and after getting her look right, her mind suddenly snapped back to reality as they entered the conclave to join the [Slavers].
 
——
 
The presence of Yazdil and this young woman, one of the ‘new’ members of Roshal, caused a stir in the audience. But the lesser [Slavers] were determined to have their piece.
“Tithes. I understand that we have it upon truth spells that this is for the good of Roshal, but why must we give even some of our lesser [Slaves] to this cause? It’s the same as Rhir—why must we buy all this ‘goodwill’? Let these other nations take care of the matter without us giving in advance.”
Slaver Morren was repeating a lot of points Yazdil had privately made; he was an ambitious Stitch-man, and Shaullile instantly hid behind Yazdil, staring at Morren with unconcealed wariness.
She did not want to have any Stitch-folk near her. And, Yazdil recalled, she was from a very interesting part of Roshal’s history.
But the debating [Slavers] were largely in agreement. One nodded at Yazdil.
“With respect to the Naga himself, anything the Emir says must be so. But perhaps he could foot more of these exorbitant costs?”
No one had forgotten the fate of the last [Slave Lord] to run afoul of the Naga, but being forced to pay for all these things had even the most cowardly voicing complaints—in this very non-aggressive manner.
Yazdil didn’t care. Letting his detractors make their points here where his supporters could fight and they could get a lot of nothing done would make it seem like there was movement, especially if he conceded on small points to get his way.
This was just good politics, and he actually inclined his head to the complainer. But interestingly—
Shaullile didn’t take the complaint well. She stiffened when she heard the most minor objection to a ten-slave levy on each [Slaver] who could afford it—and raised her hand.
“Excuse me, may I speak?”
“Emira Shaullile. You have the floor.”
Few of the ghosts had made their presence known amongst the lowest ranks of Roshal’s elite, so there was a great deal of interest as Shaullile strode forwards. Yazdil wondered if she was going to make a fool of herself, until he realized her true nature as she glared once more at Slaver Morren.
Oh.
Shaullile had come from the second most-recent time in Roshal’s history. Her time period?
The rebellion of Stitch-folk. She had been slain by the followers of the first rebels and the Rebel of String, Elucina herself.
Then he saw her as she strutted down the aisle, took a speaking stone, and pitched her voice perfectly for the room. She was more attractive than any other [Slaver] in the room, even with their own illusions and magics and ointments.
She had poise. She had training. Of course! What a fool Yazdil was!
She was the mouthpiece of Roshal. And when she spoke, behind closed doors, her voice had a snap to it.
“I am Emira Shaullile. My role, nobility of Lailight Scintillation, will be to represent Roshal abroad in international affairs. I will be travelling, I expect, to other continents. Izril especially. I know the Walled Cities.”
“Represent us? Emira, you must be new; we have no presence in the Walled Cities. Our number would be barred from any…Drakes don’t even have courts.”
One of the [Slavers] laughed at her, and Shaullile raised her brows.
“If we don’t have it, I will rebuild it. And I think I’ll start with a presence on television networks. Chandrar has one; I will begin with music. Song and dance. I know quite a lot of Drathian songs; it was the style of my day to sing in another language. It was more fascinating. Believe me, I can get the Drakes’ attention. I am needed; I have already noticed my rival denigrating Roshal, and the fact that no one like me was called for is a problem. The Singer of Terandria will be my nemesis. Happily—she’s not the only one who can sing ‘new’ songs.”
She threw her head back, and her hair hovered a second before it settled around her shoulders. The [Slavers] stirred, and Yazdil saw Shaullile wink.
Oh, the stage presence. He wondered what kind of a time she must have been in to have been created to make Roshal’s words heeded. Then he looked at the Stitch-folk and realized Roshal must have been desperate at the time. Afraid of what would come.
Tough. He had thought that Thatalocian meant Loerhin, but now he saw. Shaullile addressed the [Slaver] who’d been complaining.
“To your point, sir. I understand you may be personally inconvenienced amid levies of your hard work. Especially for matters that seem distant from Roshal’s shores.”
“Thank you, young Miss.”
The angry Stitch-folk [Emir] looked gratified—a second before Shaullile snapped.
“Drop your objections, sir. We are Roshal. And when the Emir Yazdil says that our way of life is being threatened, I swear to you on the same truth spells—everything you love and live by is in danger. If you want to hoard what you have, go ahead. When they come for you with a flaming sword, you will lose everything. Do you understand me?”
“Wh—how dare—is this a threat?”
The [Emir] blustered nervously, but the conclave of [Slavers] stirred. Shaullile raised her voice, and she was intense, now, staring down the [Slaver].
“If you don’t know, ask. But I can see a number of people here who know the truth. Members of the Verdant Halls.”
She turned her head, and everyone above a certain rank who would have been briefed—ducked or hesitated. Suddenly, the lesser [Slavers] were focused on the others, and Shaullile’s voice became pointed.
“If they don’t see fit to tell you, find out. But I cannot understand why the Verdant Halls is not closing this debate at once. If you do not understand what is going on, you are not ready to know. But the rest of you? Do you not understand you can lose it all? What are you doing?”
“The cost is high, Emira.”
A nervous [Slave Lady] muttered, a Dullahan trying to hide her head behind her as she faced down the ghost of a Drake. And Shaullile drew a line across her throat.
“The cost of being beheaded is higher, Lady Roare. I know that from experience. Stop objecting. And if you wish to continue, I will find you, and we will open your eyes. The rest of you? This is the will of Roshal and in your self-interest. Do you want to be welcomed into Zeres? Do you want to walk into a Terandrian court and not be laughed out? I require your unity. Now—close ranks.”
Dead gods. Yazdil was glad he was in his Naga form or he’d be having a very embarrassing wardrobe problem right now. He was completely reversed on Shaullile.
A dangerous girl. But what a useful one! 
She had the entire conclave of [Slavers] moving around her in one go. Yazdil didn’t even try to get down there to get a word in. He just turned and went to check on the final ghost.
But he didn’t find Loerhin for a while. When he did, the oldest of Roshal’s number was the most…amusing.
 
——
 
Loerhin Kallinad didn’t associate with the other ghosts as much. He had tried with Thatalocian, but the two were clearly different, and he didn’t care for Pazeral.
Andra and Shaullile were non-starters, and in fact, the Emir realized why Loerhin was avoiding him and approached the moody [Lord] sitting on a balcony and drinking the ghost-draught in the right…form.
Which was to say, Human. Yazdil walked forwards, robes swishing, and sat down. Loerhin had stiffened, but he relaxed slightly and motioned. He had already equipped rings with dangerous war spells, and he carried a sword; he was every bit the [Warlord] that Yazdil took him to be.
But he was the most uncomfortable with Roshal as it was, and the reason was hilarious.
“I’m glad I found you in that—appearance, Yazdil. Is that your true form?”
“A gentleman does not divulge all of his secrets, Loerhin. But if that makes you more comfortable, feel free to imagine it so.”
Yazdil had a wineglass and sat, idly looking down over Lailight Scintillation. The Grand Bazaar. The docks were filled, and Djinni flew through the air carrying goods.
It was one of the richest ports in the entire world. Loerhin looked down upon the city and all the magic and saw it was good.
