The hour was coming, and they were still all moving towards their destination. Ships. People. Gods. Soldiers. The living and the dead, and the [Innkeeper] was counting, now, like a woman whispering numbers in a dark, swaying room, waiting for the door to open and a kind of reality to rush in.
Sending messages out.
Possibly no one in this moment mattered more than her in the entire world. A strange thing to say.
Let any person be so honored as to be that person. Let them all be terrified of that moment. But the calculus was exacting; Erin Solstice had the eye of dead gods. Her inn was a locus of Izril.
Her level didn’t matter.
Her number? Her number mattered greatly.
That was the strange arithmetic that was being calculated across the abacus at this moment. A delicate finger jerked forwards—stopped. The control wasn’t perfect. So the man who had been known as the [Numerologist] his base class, then a [Patternlord of Graven Icons], one of the five Traders of Roshal who had been saved from the purge of the deadlands, grimaced a moment.
He wore spectacles, despite his new body not needing them and the vision of a ghost being perfect. He had been provided with a high-quality corpse to temporarily animate, yet he still wore spectacles and seemed—hunched.
A brooding, older man, sitting at a table and counting, flicking beads on an abacus and writing down numbers on a long scroll of parchment as if they mattered more than regular ones.
His name was Thatalocian Reevis. And he counted.
“Erin Solstice. Her last name doesn’t even need a value; look at it. What beautiful symmetry. Her name…Erin. 5-18-9-14. Hmm. How I wish I knew her birthdate.”
He was writing, writing down numbers and compiling a sheet of ‘facts’ about Erin as a number of other people watched him. Thatalocian was unto a kind of myth to the current [Slave Lords] and men and women here.
He was a ghost of ages past. A bearer of calamitous news, but hope. Hope, yes! There was irony in it, but Roshal lived on hope. You could not have despair without.
Thatalocian was not liked by all, of course. His other ghostly comrades paid less attention to his numbering of the world; they believed it mighty strange and ineffectual to the powers they commanded. And of course, the living legend who defined Roshal hated Thatalocian.
Emir Yazdil listened, though. He always listened to his enemies. And while he had a particular disdain for numerology, a kind of weird nonsense where you abstracted the world down to numbers—he had to admit, it had a power he didn’t like.
“A quick calculation now. [A Sound Reasoning]. An addition of numbers. [A Missing Entry, Filled]. And we derive answers. Of course, she of the three-in-one cannot be easily approximated, even with a thousand numbers. But Erin Solstice is her metered foe. So her number reveals. Erin Solstice matters, and so I count the simplest of my art. Six. Then…19-21-13…”
It sounded like a kind of odd poetry, you had to give it to him. The Skills activated so naturally that you had to strain your ears to catch them. The brush danced and flicked and ran down the numbers in an incomprehensible pattern.
Numerology. Yazdil understood from his—sources—that it was a practice on Earth, and there were precedents, but the actual usage of it was a long-dead thing. However, Thatalocian had been born in eras where it had gained sway for whatever reason or another and been one of the greatest users of it.
His exact level? Unknown. Yazdil assumed it was over Level 50. Every one of the five ghosts was at least Level 40.
They were competitors. Large fish who had entered the pond that Yazdil had mostly tamed. They swam arrogantly from the past, and for a while, they had been valuable as sources of information, even if that information was frankly unbelievable.
The problem was that the other [Slavers], by and large, were worshiping the old ghosts in amazingly sycophantic ways. Not one had thought to chain ghosts like one did everything else. By the time Yazdil had arrived, it had been too late.
Why not imprison a ghost rather than treat one like a superior? But then. These were former [Slavers]. Unto royalty.
The Naga’s scales twisted as he, in his serpentine form, sipped from a drink and watched. The other four ghosts were waiting for someone to transcribe the [Messages]. One of the five was tapping her foot. Tapping and tapping, an obnoxious, staccato rhythm.
She had demanded a body much like her living one. Had a poor woman executed so she could still have that too-stiff face and the sharp eyes of a vulture. White hair. A suit that embraced little of fashion. More just a kind of uniform for business.
Andra Meitolo. A former half-Elf. Her body was Human, which she did not like, but her entire nature was impatience. She strode around, talked like a storm. It was at odds with Thatalocian; if not for their bond as ghosts who had escaped the dead gods, she might have never associated with the [Numerologist].
Dead gods. Yazdil was still wrapping his mind around it all. He could countenance the word ‘god’; few could. He could understand this threat, but he did not know it or them. He did not know their stories, so the ghosts had even more intractable value.
At any rate. Thatalocian finished his work to satisfaction.
“A small number. There.”
What had he done? The other ghosts stirred, and Yazdil was prepared to mock an inferior conclusion, but did not expect to. That was the thing you had to do. Never ever underestimate your foes. The numbers might be silly to him. The method might be inane. Yet the results?
“Erin Summer Solstice. So fitting.”
The old man sat back, smiling, though the mouth of the corpse he was puppeting twitched, unable to mimic him perfectly. It was like having an inferior Golem, Yazdil understood; the ghosts were all very unhappy and claimed there was no good [Necromancer] to be had in all of Roshal. When they tried to raise a cup or smile, the bodies were a beat off, a step behind.
That would be solved soon. Yet their Skills were intact, and Yazdil…felt his scales prickle with a kind of excitement.
So they knew her middle name. Valuable? Possibly. Invaluable? No. But Thatalocian had many powers that were analogous to [Diviners] of old; rare powers for this day and age.
“That is all very well and good, Thatalocian. Write that down.”
Andra snapped left at a hovering flunkie, who wrote nervously. Her snort made it clear she would demand another helper soon; she was finding a team of people to cater to her every whim. But she trusted to what she could accurately measure. In her case, that was maps, personnel, numbers.
She was a [Lady of Great Enterprise]; that was her claimed class. Her real class was probably more nuanced, but it said it all. A [Merchant Queen] of bygone days.
It had been her Skills that added to Roshal’s own contact networks; right now, she was intercepting [Messages] sent by Wistram.
Even the newly encoded ones. The ones not immediately legible were being logged for later codebreaking. Right now, Andra held up a single slip.
“This one originates from Liscor at 6:31 AM? Destination: Iron Vanguard. Care of Tulm the Mithril. I have here a message at 6:32 AM. Bound for Wistram.”
“Yes, um, lady—that’s—”
Andra’s glare made her helper wilt. But she re-confirmed. Then dipped a hand into a chest overflowing with gold. She had insisted upon it, as she didn’t have any ‘actual assets’—yet.
“[Golden Remuneration]. Codebreaker.”
Her eyes flashed. And the gold vanished until only a strip of it remained at the bottom of the chest.
About four thousand gold pieces spent. Yazdil didn’t wince at that; Roshal was rich. But that Skill would bankrupt even Roshal if it were used for all the [Messages].
No wonder Andra had demanded only five thousand gold coins be put in the box. She flicked the [Message] slip up, grunted.
“Observations. The current cost is around four thousand six hundred pieces for a decryption of [Messages] now used by Wistram. The method is at least widespread enough for the Skill to work. One such talented—well, basic—[Mage] is in Drath. I cannot read this. Find me a [Translation] spell.”
The [Message] had been translated; Andra’s Skill meant that if it could be done and paid for—she would have it done so long as she had enough gold. The results sometimes varied.
The Slavers of Roshal knew better than to ask her ‘what the heck was [Translation] these days’. Several younger ones actually went running instead of ringing for a servant; no Djinn were allowed in this room. Sometimes, they might be used, but another ghost had forbidden their presence. Stitch-folk, too, except for the masters.
“I can read this.”
A hand delicately plucked the paper out of Andra’s grip, and the [Lady] glowered—then relaxed. A third ghost.
Shaullile, her name was. Last name not given. She sat there and read; she had not demanded anything other than a female body of ‘suitable attractiveness’. And she had made few plans and given the least number of orders, Yazdil’s spies reported.
She had sat in front of a mirror practicing how to smile for days on end, so her movements were the most natural of the five. She seemed the least impressive of the lot—yet her eyes flicked, and she read aloud.
“The message reads as follows: To the Iron Vanguard. This is Erin Solstice. Thank you again for your offers of help and payment. Afterwards, I will discuss sending the possessions back—but I am requesting your mutual aid during the Solstice. Be ready for battle, please. Tulm should get it. Interesting. She must not trust Wistram.”
“Is this the same vein of [Message] sent to Wistram?”
Another [Slaver] asked, and Andra tsked.
“I dislike wasting coin. The cost of my Skill doubles each time it is used in a single day. Very well.”
She produced a second [Message]—this one addressed to Wistram, translated it, and this time, it wasn’t in Drathian, so it was read aloud.
“Prepare for conflict. To Archmage Eldavin and any of the current leaders of Wistram? Very interesting. Largely the same wording, though. She has only one day left after this. One would assume this is late.”
“Assuming she does not have a plan? Fool. She has spoken to the legends of Chandrar, though she did not deign to include Roshal’s number. She associated with Nerrhavia, who was a serpent worthy of Wyrms. And I have known both.”
A new voice snapped at last, a ghost who turned the head of his puppet and spoke in a strident, arrogant tone. The [Slaver] bristled; no one spoke to him like that, not the Naga himself.
“Your great foe has done little more than produce a few wisps, Lord Pazeral. Forgive me if I do not quake in fear of—”
They were confident until the puppet jerked and the ghost left it. Slavelord Morren was still taunting the ghost when a hand reached down—a delicate servant girl’s hand—and grabbed the man by the throat.
Morren jerked and recoiled as the hand dragged him up. One of his bodyguards reached for the serving girl to strike her—but a pair of glowing eyes turned to him, and the hand tightened.
The eyes. Yazdil liked this [Slaver] ghost the least. Because his power hadn’t even been affected by death. You could argue…he’d only gotten stronger. Now, the ghost of Lord Pazeral rasped through the girl’s mouth, an eerie blend of the two.
“My foes are the kind to break Roshal in twain. If my foes were the kind you feared, I alone would have broken them and sent them howling back into the sea. Are you a dog who can only see something by its size and must see it to believe it? Should I remove an eye so you can learn to see what is not in front of your face?”
Delicate fingers dug into the man’s sockets, and Morren cried out.
“L-Lord Pazeral. Please—”
“Lord Pazeral. Surely you can forgive Emir Morren one slight?”
The Naga spoke. Pazeral’s fingers paused—then he snorted. Left his host body.
The [Slave]’s eyes dimmed; the corpse sat back up as the ghost returned to the body, and the [Slave] leapt back. Her eyes flickered, and she babbled apologies as she let go of the neck she had been holding in an iron grip.
Instantly, her master began slapping her, and the [Lord of Possession] snorted.
Thatalocian. Numerologist.
Andra. Business dealings.
Shaullile. Class and purpose unknown.
Pazeral. Able to possess the bodies of [Slaves].
And the last of all of them, who had not spoken, just continued to drink, staring in disgust around the room, at Yazdil, was Loerhin of House Kallinad. A huge man—he stood like he was meant to be tall and authoritative, the oldest of all of the ghosts by far. He had been one of the first Kallinads. He had lived during the days when Roshal was on Terandria.
Loerhin, a [Warlord] from the dawn of Roshal’s existence, one of the mightiest combatants by far. He had put even Yazdil’s mightiest servant, Iert, onto the ground with a single blow.
These were the five new powers of Roshal. Now you counted them, instead of Yazdil and his trusted associates or Yazdil and the [Slavers] who could match him—it was those five and Yazdil.
Each one was a force, but Yazdil did not know them fully yet. He was finding out more, day by day. Loerhin rumbled.
“So long as she does what she swore, we do not need to aim at her.”
“Do we not? She is, like us, a survivor of that apocalypse of death. She is either an ally or foe, and I demand to know which. I demand her to make it clear.”
Andra countered, and Thatalocian murmured.
“Reductive. You make a binary where there is not one. We want her on our side, this is true.”
“Then we shall have her. But we have virtually no agents on Izril. Roshal is a tiny speck of what it was. All the trading routes are down. We are banished from Terandria’s shores, Izril barely lets our caravans through? We slink along Baleros’ coasts? Ridiculous.”
Pazeral glared, and all the ghosts nodded at that. More than one cool eye glanced at Yazdil, who felt compelled to speak.
“Lailight Scintillation is the last major port under Roshal’s control. But I remind you, guests, that Roshal is all but ruler of several ports in name.”
“In my day, we were at a thousand ports. We were in kingdoms as advisors. There is nothing to compare. Your Great Desert was not empty in my day. That is the difference.”
Pazeral returned. And Yazdil’s teeth bared nastily.
“Yes…Roshal was the most ascendant during your time, Lord Pazeral. It was the largest, most powerful it has ever been in its entire history.”
The [Lord of Possession]’s date was easiest to place; it was indeed during Roshal’s golden era, when Wyrms were still ruling parts of Chandrar, before Nerrhavia was even a dream, when the Great Desert was no empty spot. He was a scion of that era; no wonder he was worshiped.
And yet, the Naga reminded him.
