“We didn’t have this, you know. Better magic, but a lot less of it. The fact that you have healing potions? I’d need a [Slave] with healing powers. And there’s fewer monsters. No Hunter’s Guild—no damn Giants. World feels emptier, though. No Halflings. Didn’t even have these…Selphid things in my day. Or Antinium.”
Yazdil burned with a great envy of how Loerhin spoke. But the man looked troubled as he gazed down over Roshal. He greatly approved of the wealth, the means. But…
“Something bothers you about all this, Lord Loerhin?”
The Naga was innocent as could be, hiding a smile with another sip. Loerhin chewed it all over, but it burst out of him at last.
“Have you—why—Roshal’s forgotten the point.”
“The point?”
Yazdil raised one manicured eyebrow, and the [Lord] stared down at a Stitch-woman pulling a new [Slave] along on a leash. And he looked appalled not because of any other reason than it was a Stitch-woman—and a Human slave.
“Roshal’s not supposed to be like this. I look around and the wrong people are leading. You? I’ll take you. Thatalocian is a fool, but he’s the right sort. Pazeral? I thought I understood him until I learned he was a Jinn.”
Loerhin spat over the railing.
“Andra? Half-Elf. Shaullile? Drake. What happened? I talked with a dozen of the top [Emirs] or whatever they are now—and they’re not the best of us. They’re fat, complacent, receding chins—it was supposed to be the best of us. We shouldn’t even have that one, down there.”
He pointed, and Yazdil raised his brows, snorting to himself. Yes, that was Loerhin Kallinad. He had a moral objection to the way Roshal ran itself. It was too egalitarian for him.
“It must have been quite a different time when you were part of it. Did Humans found Roshal, then?”
“It wasn’t called Roshal. There were—I’m sure other continents did their thing. Half of my peers wouldn’t ever talk to me face-to-face, but more than not agreed. I took a look at Terandria, and you can see it. Back when I was alive, red hair was the standard for beauty. See how the [Kings] have kept it in their bloodlines? That’s purity. But everything else? The Humans of Terandria look right. The Five Families are purer, but Chandrar? You shouldn’t let the inferior members of our species reproduce. Any species. There aren’t any laws about it. Can you change that?”
“I don’t rule Roshal. It might be difficult, Loerhin. Come, come. Didn’t you all unite with each other, ghosts, at the end of things? Trying times make it hard for us.”
The Emir was having a grand time teasing the [Lord]. The man just shuddered and kept drinking.
“So long as you get me a half-decent body where I can feel things and set everything right, I won’t get in your way, Yazdil. You’ll have worse from Pazeral or that idiot with numbers. Don’t worry; I know how to use people. I’ll bide my time. But I’d rather go home and fix things from where I was. I’d start with Erribathe. They might still be allies.”
If Yazdil understood things, Loerhin had been running his version of Roshal until he’d been stabbed during a raid and died. The Naga wondered how House Kallinad would react to their great ancestor’s return. It would be fun to see how he ran into Terandria. The first thought was that they’d kill him and bury the evidence…but maybe he’d find a lot of traction there.
Who knew?
At any rate, those were the five new lords of Roshal. The Naga needed them. Or at least, he had. Right now, the Solstice was impending, and every piece had been set into motion; no time to alter things. Yazdil just wondered if they were ready.
He did not like surprises. And this year had been full of them. Preparations abounded, and Loerhin spat something out of his cup over the balcony.
“Bodies ready? I’m not sticking around to see if that hag can command us if we’re still ghosts.”
“By tonight, Lord Loerhin. The witch’s hour: the best time for it, according to Thatalocian.”
The [Lord] grunted as he stood, then leapt off the balcony without fear. A dangerous man in this era that was too small for him. The Naga sat there and knew that however Roshal rustled and stirred—whatever came on the Solstice would not be here.
He could see the pieces moving on the board. But what bothered him was where even Roshal’s eyes failed to see. The Naga stopped drinking after a second and scowled.
“Master?”
One of the Djinni in the air of Lailight Scintillation appeared from under the balcony. She lifted something in her hands, keeping it away from him.
The newest Djinni in the Naga’s employ, Mak’eireen, held the crossbow bolt up, and the Emir hadn’t even heard it fired. But he saw her blowing the air away from him and guessed that meant it was highly poisonous.
“It might not be him. It may just be a casual assassination attempt, as one receives. How close was it?”
“Five of your [Assassins] are dead, Emir. I blocked this one where your spells and other guards failed.”
When you needed a Djinni to snatch an arrow out of the skies, you were gambling. The Emir put down his cup and sighed.
“Well, I am sure they can tell I detest each and every one of them. The feeling, you know, is mutual.”
He lay there a second, staring moodily at the sky, and reflected it was too bad he had slain all his good rivals and enemies. Because right now…the new ones were making him sweat.
He had been ready for many things. To quash rivals, to stop enemy nations or even eliminate up-and-comers with too much promise. But this had been too fast, too decisive.
Ghosts changed the world too much. And these were only the ones who had come to Roshal.
 
——
 
As the Emir Yazdil was relaxing on a balcony in Roshal, which was merely balmy in the winter, it was a lot less fun at sea. Winter snow and storms had made the crossing of the oceans perilous, even with the great fleets laying down as much protective magic as possible.
Avoiding two nasty coastal storms and the fear of attack from the Hivelands had sent the Terandrian colony fleets far further west than they wanted. They were still over two-thirds of the way to their landing point at the New Lands, and they had received a welcome influx of supplies and even visitors from the only ‘nation’ around: Wistram Academy.
The fleet had debated weighing anchor at the Isle of Mages, but there were so many ships that they’d overwhelm the place. Plus, the Iron Vanguard had been spotted coming in from Baleros, and everyone had been reminded this was a race.
Nevertheless, meeting with the Archmages and having a few banquets with the [Mages] had been delightful. The winter chill was still annoyingly bad at sea; it was somehow worse than when you were on land. It was probably the exposure to so much sea and the salt—and inability to move around that made it so dire.
But at this point, the prospective colonists and explorers of the New Land were thoroughly sick of the ships in the Terandrian fleet’s combined navy and had begun taking sides and doing what they did best: politicking in preparation for landing.
Part of that introspection and deliberation came from a certain [Prince], one of the highest-ranking members of the entire fleet. Prince Iradoren, aboard Legend’s Wake, his flagship, crewed with the myriad people of the Kingdom of Myths, Erribathe, one of the Sleeping Three. The [Prince of Men] had come to an interesting conclusion of late, and it was this:
Ser Solstice was definitely not a Human. Which wasn’t hard to deduce, and he had gotten there on their first meeting. But Prince Iradoren was beginning to suspect the ‘Goblin Slayer’ might have a visage under his helm that no one would like.
There was more than just intuition at play here. Iradoren’s very class and other factors had led him to this dark suspicion. And it was growing by the day.
 
——
 
One of the moments when Prince Iradoren had realized Ser Solstice wasn’t normal came earlier on their trip. He had paused while touring the other ships, bored out of his mind by the long sea voyage. But one ship had been fascinating.
“Your Highness! Will you join us for a game of this…what is it called again, Rabbiteater?”
“Basketball.”
On Earl Altestiel’s flagship no less, someone had cleared the deck, and they were bouncing around a ball and aiming it at a giant pole with a net under it! Of course, Iradoren knew the sport. The young men and women under his authority in Erribathe had already explained the game and a number of other things.
But he’d never seen anyone actually implement it. A [Knight] in armor was trying to block an aggressively pacing [Lord].
Cortese was trying to get at the net, bouncing the ball every now and then, while Rabbiteater tried to block. It had to be said here that Rabbiteater had adopted Erin’s ability to create events and fun.
But he hadn’t, uh, remembered all the fine details.
“Hah!”
He kicked at Cortese suddenly, and the Hundredlord jumped over the leg, dribbled two feet, and went for a layup as Menrise gamely tried to tackle him from the side. The [Spell Lady] with her helmet was less nimble, though, and Cortese shot, missed, and was going for the ball when he dodged another kick.
“I say, Ser Solstice! Are you sure that’s how you play?”
Ser Markus called out from the sidelines as Prince Iradoren slowed to watch. Earl Altestiel was waiting on the other side, playing with a few other people, and even Princess Seraphel was trying to be useful! She was nearly knocked over when Cortese, Menrise, and Rabbiteater all came hurtling the other way.
“Careful, Princess.”
Iradoren steadied her, and she turned and bowed, flustered.
“Your Highness—stop fighting, everyone! His Highness of Erribathe has arrived! Ser Solstice, you’ll hit someone in the face if you keep playing.”
“Yeah, that’s the fun part.”
However, the Izrilian [Knight] in armor stopped, and introductions were made. Prince Iradoren had to confess, privately, he had been interested in the doughty Ser Solstice who’d done so much damage to Ailendamus.
Not a real honorable [Knight], they said of him. Well, Iradoren couldn’t profess to admire the man’s tactics, but he was still curious. The Summer’s Champion and Spring’s Warden, both of whom were in the fleet, were friends with the Goblin Slayer of Izril, and he knew Erin Solstice.
By rights, the [Prince] should have gotten along well with Rabbiteater or whatever his real name was; he was almost universally loved. But the [Knight] barely shook his hand before jerking his head.
“You want to play? You’ll have to toss the fur cloak if you do. And you could get hurt. Can you swim?”
He was brusque—and Iradoren blinked and reconfirmed what he already knew.
Ser Solstice wasn’t Human. Seraphel instantly began scolding him, and so did Earl Altestiel, albeit a bit resignedly. But few Humans ever had this kind of issue with Iradoren.
“I’m not sure I understand this game of ‘basketball’. Where did you learn it, Ser Solstice?”
“Back in Liscor.”
Ah, so Erin Solstice was from Earth. Every Earther in Erribathe assumed so, but Iradoren was dying to meet her. She was rather more accomplished than the ones he’d found.
A shame that Cortese was looking sideways at him; Kaaz and Golaen had found the young people in their lands, and it was annoying to compete. Frankly, Erribathe was not in the right state to rapidly…industrialize? But this was an advantage Erribathe had to seize.
Hence Iradoren’s presence on this expedition. He wanted allies, and Ser Solstice was a brave man. Iradoren respected anyone like that.
“How about a duel, perchance? I hear you take little mercy on your foes, but I could try a few rounds—though we cannot use our swords.”
Everyone laughed again at this, and Ser Solstice’s head turned.
“I don’t get the joke. Explain.”
Then he poked Princess Seraphel in such a familiar way that she jumped, slapped his gloved hand, and Iradoren wondered who the hell Ser Solstice was. He was amusing…but he had to be a Gnoll? Even Drakes surely had manners.
“Ser Solstice! So you know—His Highness carries a Relic of Erribathe! The Sword of Humanity itself! A weapon enchanted to harm all foes of Erribathe!”
“Would you mind showing it, sire? Some of us may never lay eyes on it in our lifetime.”
Even Altestiel was curious, and so Iradoren bared the blade slightly. It glowed as it caught the light.
“Oh no. Is it after Ser Solstice’s blood?”
Cortese laughed, and so did everyone else, but the Goblin Slayer paused a moment. Iradoren hastened to assure him this was not the case.
“My blade often glows; it is meant to be a weapon of [Bane] for all foes that would threaten Erribathe.”
Bane. A powerful enchantment or Skill. Of course, the blade had more powers than that, but this was the famous ability it had. Most enchantments were only a bane to one thing. Trolls, Selphids, spiders, etc.
But the Sword of Humanity was one of the old weapons from the age of the Hundred Heroes. His father might carry it, but he was old, and Iradoren was off to potential danger—so it was his.
The Goblin Slayer refused to touch the blade, but he did nod as he inspected the ancient, beautiful lines. Yet then he said something else.
“Bane against all of Erribathe’s foes? Oh. So that means everyone but Humans, right?”
Everyone started laughing at that. Cortese and Altestiel began slapping Ser Solstice’s shoulders to make him apologize, and Menrise bounced a basketball off the back of his head. But Prince Iradoren hesitated for the faintest second.
And he swore that Ser Solstice noticed. Because, of course…that was entirely correct. Only, people were not supposed to know that.
“Nice sword. Does it do the fighting for you?”
“I do practice without, Ser Solstice. Would you care to test my mettle?”
“Nah. I think I’ll get in trouble if I do. Want to play basketball?”
The [Knight] jerked a thumb at the mock-court, and Iradoren declined. He continued watching for a while before continuing onwards, but while the others pretended not to notice or genuinely wrote it off as a passing encounter—
He and Ser Solstice conceived of an enmity in that moment. They did not like each other. And that was both in personality and Prince Iradoren’s sudden suspicion that the Sword of Humanity had been created explicitly to rid the world of whatever face lay under Ser Solstice’s helmet.
 
——
 
His nature was protector of Humans. His upbringing, his kingdom, was the oldest in Terandria. The Kingdom of Myths had been founded with great pacts forged.
Iradoren’s wife, Helesteria, was one of the proofs of the old ties; she had given half her longevity to him, such that the [Kings] and [Princes] of Erribathe ruled for centuries.
