“Lasted to the end. Ha!” Erick said, “240 mana gone, just like that. You know, Ophiel, I think I grew complacent as to just how much 250 mana means to most people. That’s a full day’s allotment.”

Ophiel twittered in response, happy to be included.

Erick looked down at his circle of platinum. “Not done yet, but I’m spent. Break time.”

He left his stuff there and went to the bathing pool for a small swim and a cleanup. He had extended Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward] across part of the water, though, so he was still able to Rest while he was resting. Half an hour later, Erick was out of the bath and ready to go for enchanting round #2.

Now this part was tricky. Not too tricky, since Erick knew all how it was supposed to work. But tricky in the way that he had never done it before. There was no time like the present for some hands-on learning, though, so Erick sat down at his enchanting table and held his hand a decimeter above the platinum disk.

White glows manifested across his palm.

A quick flick with the black scalpel opened up the meat of his hand; one of the easiest places where a person could cut and not worry about channeling mana through the artery/vein confusion. Blood flowed, but it did not drip. Erick held the flow back with his aura, and his mana, making tangible the intangible, soaking the bright red power in his white mana. As Erick focused, his blood began to glitter cyan as infinitesimal core dust began to manifest inside the red drops that had not yet dropped.

And then some line of power had been crossed. A shimmering iridescent droplet of blood fell from his wound to land upon the center of the amulet like a tiny firework that started off red and white, but shifted to cyan as it flowed into the lettering. The blood vanished into the metal, but the power remained. The words he had carved began to glow. Another drop of magic blood fell onto the amulet.

Drip drop. Drip drop.

With every bit of power that fell from Erick, the lines of his inscription began to fill with cyan blue crystal, like rock candy crowding out of a sugar solution. Twenty one drops and practically all of his Mana later, a drop of iridescent blood landed on the amulet and did not soak inside. The magic splashed away from the crystal. Nothing grew larger.

The enchantment was full; saturation had been reached.

Erick smiled and pulled back his aura. Ophiel rapidly hit him with a [Greater Treat Wounds], instantly healing the small cut on his hand. Erick had been holding him back from doing exactly that for the last ten minutes, while he also held open his own body to keep the blood flowing.

He smiled, saying, “Thank you, Ophiel.”

Ophiel twittered in joyous violins.

And Erick inspected his work.

The platinum amulet was practically festooned with cyan-colored crystalline growths, almost completely obscuring the original words. But the words were there, if you looked hard enough. Erick picked it up and pressed it against his chest—

Cold, yet refreshing flows scattered throughout Erick’s entire body, like he had jumped in a wintry pool. He shivered a bit. It wasn’t a bad feeling, though. Erick took the amulet away from his chest, and while the cold abated, it did not fully go away. The thing was now linked to his aura, it seemed, or something like that, and even holding the thing in his hand was almost as good as properly wearing it.

Erick smiled. “Now that’s a successful enchantment.”

He strung a chain through the loops in the back of the amulet and wore it below his necklace from Fairy Moon. The cold chill seemed to return in full, but Erick got used to the feeling quickly enough. And now, then, was the moment of truth.

Erick turned toward the counting crystal. He took the cube in hand—

Ah. Shit. Right. He was out of mana.

… Erick went over his enchanting books for a little while, making sure that what he had was truly an example of a good enchanted object (it was) and was surprised when his normal 30 minute wait to full mana only took 20 minutes. This boded well!

Erick checked himself with the cube.

- -

Strength: 17

Vitality: 20

Dexterity: 18

Constitution: 17

Perception: 17

Willpower: 39

Focus: 52

Intelligence: 17

- -

Mana: 390

Mana Regen (Vit+Foc): 720

- -

“Ah ha!” Erick laughed out loud, then told Ophiel, “This is great! Complete success; I even got some base mana, too! And Vitality, too? Unexpected— Ohh. I should account for all of that next time. This is good, Ophiel. This is literally days saved…” He looked at all the rest of his enchanting ingredients. “And I should be able to make a better amulet with some adjustments of materials and process— Oh this is good. Very good, indeed.”

Ophiel twittered in happy violins.

Erick got back to accretion as soon as he could.

Time flew fast as Erick’s core filled out, and his body strengthened. He had saved a lot of time, and the next item he made would help him save even more.

- - - -

Yggdrasil watched his father make a magical item out of metal.

And then he thought back to what Fairy Moon had said about taking a clipping from him, to help his father make items for himself. A part of him felt odd at seeing his father happy over bits of metal, when there was apparently a better way; a way for Yggdrasil to be involved, directly.

Yggdrasil wanted to be involved.

But he wasn’t stupid. He had seen what Fairy Moon had done to his father, and he didn’t like her at all. Nope! Not one bit.

And yet…

Yggdrasil focused a very large and trying-to-be intimidating eye at Fairy Moon, who was sitting in the air in his boughs. She was not intimidated. Yggdrasil’s eye usually scared lots of people, but not her. She didn’t even eye him back. She was simply not scared of him, at all, and that was weird. It was very easy to kill small things like her, after all. Yggdrasil had accidentally killed small fishes before, and he had accidentally hurt people…

He had purposefully hurt people when they tried to hurt him, but mostly he did not. Father had said that words were important, and that Yggdrasil needed to be defensive; not offensive.

But against Fairy Moon? Yggdrasil had purposefully killed her many times already. Walls of Force. Trapping Domains. Slicing light. All of it had worked, too. He had killed Fairy Moon ten times so far.

Usually, dead things stayed dead, but Fairy Moon appeared to be an exception. Each time she came back the same as before, looking no worse for wear.

Yggdrasil spoke, “If I give you a twig will you go away and leave my father alone?”

“I will go away for now if you give me a twig tamed to reality, so that I may relinquish it to your father,” Fairy Moon answered. “It is for his enchanting efforts.”

Well… that was fine… right?

And yet…

He didn’t like Fairy Moon.

Yggdrasil broke a twig off of himself and floated it toward Fairy Moon, and then he stabbed her through the head with it. She died, again.

Probably wouldn’t last long this time, either—

Fairy Moon instantly reappeared, yelled, “Appreciated!” and vanished along with her previous corpse, and with the stick embedded in its head.

Yggdrasil didn’t know how to feel about that.
