‘A lot of people are divided on if this letter is real. I hope it is. I was talking with Treehome about going into the place that the old guy showed us, guns blazing, but now we’re waiting. It is what it is. Also, apparently you have Yggdrasil’s eye there with you, and so I went to Yggdrasil to see about that. He wasn’t allowing anyone near him, but he let me. He wasn’t able to show me you, or to do much except say that you’re there against your will, and that you’re alive. People are divided on what that means, though, because apparently all of Ar’Cosmos is an illusionary lie. Anyway… I hope that this letter is true, and that you’re safe. I love you. Come back home as soon as you can.’

Erick sighed and smiled as he read Jane’s letter three times. Afterward he just sat there, absorbing the moment. And then he glanced toward his new clock.

He got up and set the alarm for 3 hours; he was exhausted and he needed some sleep. Not a lot, but some.

He slept through the alarm.

- - - -

Erick managed to pull himself out of bed for a cycle just before Maid Maria knocked on his door to announce dinner. At dinner, Erick asked about enchanting.

And then Fairy Moon’s eyes glittered. She opened her mouth, and Erick was suddenly worried that he had stepped into some shit.

Fairy Moon’s words were ethereal. “Books and bindings and words and runes all work for alternative reasons. Even the language I speak is suffused with the laws of enchantment, but putting that power down into detailed creation is cause for celebration. Not everything tried by everyone works because not everyone works hard enough, and yet what is work but a trifling weave of trial and yearning for more? I say work is nothing but power made pure, but now we question ‘what is purity?’. A machine of a million parts like a shopping mall mart, where people buy things for all time, is basically purity in the sense of a surety of how economies turn on bell chimes.

“But most enchants are simple, like the stripping of pimples from the face of a child yet grown. Or perhaps you are partial to colors and contrast and you strive to make green out of grey, so maybe you add in some things that make no sense like you place the enchant near a plant. The power will thus present only in environments of trees or grasses or mossy graves.

“For my self-sense a rhyming repeat-ance makes magic have power and poise. But some magics are so dense that surfacing from them is a dangerous prospect indeed, and so here’s a warning that is not much a warning for you already know it in true:” Fairy Moon drew herself up in her large chair, and in that moment she was absolutely ancient. “Beware the depths on all sides and walk the way toward the sights you desire to behold, for while the person carves their path and creates their power, the power also causes the person.”

Silence stretched in the dining room, and for a brief moment, Erick felt the weight of the world upon his shoulders. The wooden carvings of people and fae on the walls, and all the paintings and sculptures scattered throughout, all seemed to look at him, and Fairy Moon, to bear witness to this moment and give it weight in their viewing.

The moment passed.

Erick collected his thoughts, felt that whatever magic Fairy Moon had made was not against him, and so he brushed over all of the power in her words, to say, “I have no trouble believing that. Say. Could I get some ancient mana-soaked wood for some Stat rings? I want to speed up this accretion process.”

Fairy Moon looked at Erick a bit longer, her vibrant green and pink eyes staring a bit too hard, and then the stress of the moment faded. Fairy Moon relaxed. She stuck a fork in her buttered vegetables, saying, “Of course. You will have your materials by the morrow or sooner, though if wood be what ye seek, then perhaps a clipping from Yggdrasil would be better for your magic.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye turned on Erick’s shoulder, as he perked up.

“He’s not real yet, though.”

“… He’s not?” Fairy Moon frowned. “Yes he is?”

Erick considered his stance, what he knew and what he thought Fairy Moon might know, and then he said, “A divine seal prevents a full manifestation because all the gods are worried that Melemizargo will blow up this world as soon as he has another. I don’t know what is happening with Yggdrasil’s twin, under the care of Sininindi, but this Yggdrasil is still a part of me, and he is not fully real.”

“Ah. That. I suppose that view is also correct.” Fairy Moon waved a hand, saying, “He’s as real as the magic enhancements you wish to make, so perhaps a clipping, properly clipped, would be best for you and yours.”

“… Or some wrought-class metal, would be good, too.” Erick said, “I’m not willing to do experiments on Yggdrasil, now, or ever. Perhaps when all a clipping requires is a simple dropped branch, then I will take your advice.”

Fairy Moon rolled her eyes, saying, “Working in metal is working in poison to the non-metallic, and you are non-metallic. If you don’t want to get a clipping from Yggdrasil then I will get you a clipping from another source of similar power. Still, though, you should pluck twigs from your Yggdrasil and create wonders like no other.” She shrugged, and with a bit of sarcasm, said, “Or maybe you can just make a silly little belt of Stats, like a common caster.”

Erick nodded, and adroitly declared, “I am but a humble mage, looking for some small bonuses here and there; no need to go making mountains when molehills will suffice. And besides that! I’ve been working on Stat enchants ever since I heard they were possible and—” A thought struck. “Oh my gods.” Erick chuckled a bit, saying, “I’ve been making things slightly better for a while, eh!”

Fairy Moon looked to him, suddenly judging.

… She slowly nodded. “Perhaps you have. This bodes well.” She paused. She said, “You will need to make mountains eventually, and at least one shall be called Elemental Benevolence, for it will need to withstand all storms to ever arise. When you reach another revelation or four about how you desire to proceed with that mountainous construction we shall discuss the necessities you deem necessary. I doubt this will happen before Second Foundation though… Perhaps seven days away?”

“Hopefully sooner than that!” Erick asked, “Can I get those wood clippings or wrought metal, and also my adamantium knife, too? Maybe in a few hours?”

“… You will have a collection of materials made available to you, soon. I do not have your knife, but I will figure something out.”

Erick thought for a moment, and said, “Maybe some normal carving tools… and I’m going to try for bloodwork. What do you think of bloodwork in magic?”

“Bloodwork is but a path to crystalwork; crystalwork is better.”

Erick considered those words, then asked, “You mean crystals as in mana crystals, yes?”

“You mark the meaning correctly.” Fairy Moon said, “I doubt you have ever seen an actual mana crystal, though, aside from the piece of one used to make your counting crystal.”

“I imagine that they’re just purified mana that is allowed to settle and then self-organize in a vat, or something like that? Not monster cores?”

Fairy Moon tilted her head. “That is an oversimplification, but that works. And no. Monster cores are not mana crystals.”

“But mana crystals are all about putting down layers of similar mana, yes?”

“Similar and yet different.” Fairy Moon ended that vein of conversation with, “I do not desire to taint your learning of mana crystals at this time. I will approach Illustrious to speak of crystals with you more, if you desire.”

“Sure. That works.”

The conversation moved on to lighter topics. It was almost a normal dinner, between normal people, with Erick mostly staying away from the larger topics, and Fairy Moon giving warnings about things that were self-evident. It was, perhaps, the first nice talk that Erick had had with Fairy Moon. She still spoke alliteratively, though. Which was a bit freaky.

- - - -

Erick cut his accretion short and opened his eyes. The green moon hovered beyond his window. The air was cool, and he was clean from a recent bath but with a light sweat from his accretion efforts.

There had been a knock on the door.

He got up and answered it.

Maid Maria stood on the other side, holding a large wooden box by a handle on its top. “Greetings, Archmage Flatt.” She lifted the box like it weighed nothing, but it looked like it must have weighed a hundred kilos. “Your requested materials are here for you. Would you like me to place them in your room?”

“Ah. I can take it from there.” Erick said, “Appreciated, Maid Maria.”

Maria set down the box. “Will that be all? Or would you perhaps desire a work table, too? I can retrieve one of those from storage, as well.”

“… Oh? Uh. Yeah. I could use a work desk.” Erick said, “I didn’t know that was an option.”

“Fairy Moon desires to be accommodating where she can. I will return with a desk as soon as I leave here.” Maid Maria said, “Also, the kitchens are open at all hours. You need not restrict yourself to normal meal times. If the mealtimes Fairy Moon has chosen do not agree with you, then adjustments can be made to account for your wants.”

Erick smiled softly. “Appreciated. Maybe I will get myself a midnight snack later, after I make some Stat jewelry. Otherwise, everything has been about as good as it can be.”

Maria gave a curt nod, then said, “I will return with a desk shortly.”

But she was waiting for Erick to pick up the box and prove he could move it on his own.

Erick grabbed the handle and tried to lift it—

Failure. It didn’t even budge under his physical power.

Maid Maria instantly offered, “I can move the box around for you before I go.”

“Nope nope.” Erick struggled to lift the heavy thing, so he decided to drag it across the floor instead. “It’s fine. I’ll take that work desk as soon as you can.”

Maria nodded again, then stepped away, back down the stairs.

Once she was out of sight Erick frowned at the heavy box. He could already tell what was in there, and the only things that weighed so much were the metal disks at the bottom of the box. So he had Ophiel grab it with his lightform and move the thing to the side of the room, where Erick wanted it to be.

Erick dug right into the gifted box, pulling out sparkling silver wood and gems of every color and gold bars and platinum ingots, and dark carving tools made of some strange metal that was likely not adamantium. Or maybe it was? The tools were simply labeled ‘enchanter’s carving kit’. A lot of things had rather simple descriptions that told Erick nothing of their true value. He kept everything separated and organized on his writing desk, but he was glad for Maria’s offer of an additional tabletop; he was going to need it. This was an enchanter’s cornucopia, worth thousands upon thousands of gold. Some of the materials were so obviously magical, like the ‘manawood’, and so very much out of Erick’s expertise that he had no idea of their costs, or their functions.

Luckily, Inferno Maw’s enchanting books should be able to help with identification of—

Maid Maria returned with a sturdy desk, carrying it up the stairs and into the room like it was a particularly large and unwieldy sheet of paper, and not at all like the thick wooden creation it appeared to be. She set the desk to the side of the room, and then stepped back to the door, and curtsied.

“If that is all then I wish you good night, Archmage Flatt.”

“That’s all. Good night, Maid Maria.”

Maria left.

And Erick got down to the business of learning how to make an amulet of… At least Willpower and Focus, yeah? Yeah. That seemed safe. Easy. With that in mind, Erick began organizing the contents of his gift box on his writing desk to that end, while simultaneously poring over the textbooks from Inferno Maw, checking and double checking what he had against what he needed.

When his mana topped off, he accreted.

- - - -

The sun dawned in the window and Erick finally felt ready to make himself an amulet.

Every little detail about enchanting was different here in Ar’Cosmos, from how it was out there on Veird. But the broad strokes were the same. ‘Imbue an item with the thing you wish to empower/create’. Simple stuff. The details were still vastly important, though.

Using Ophiel’s power, while the little guy sat on a perch on the edge of the table, Erick grabbed a lump of platinum off of the ingot with [Metalshape]. A simple crushing light turned that metal into a perfect disk. Mostly, Erick tried to use Ophiel to do the big stuff, for Erick had none of his usual throughput, but Ophiel was not limitless, either. But at the same time, Ophiel’s mana limitations weren’t much of a concern since this particular Ophiel had been conjured with Erick’s Normal Form’s power, and had over 13,000 Mana and 57,000 Mana Regen, and he was located inside the dense, Restful air of his [Prismatic Ward]. Ophiel wasn’t losing cohesion any time soon.

Erick couldn’t use Ophiel’s mana to enchant, though. He had tried before and it never worked. So Ophiel was just a glorified assistant, for now. He didn’t seem to mind. With bright white eyes and flickering wings, Ophiel watched as Erick worked.

Erick slipped the platinum disk into a holder he had already made, that would allow him to both hold the amulet and turn it as he worked. He turned the amulet in its cradle now, while he marked out where the words would go with chalk, for everything needed to be set correctly for it to work properly. In that way, this was pretty much ‘formation work’ from Songli.

Once everything was marked out and the cradle was calibrated, next came the engraving half of the ritual.

Erick took the black scalpel from the carving tools and held it himself. For a moment, he worried over his own mana reserves, but he should be able to complete one inscription if he went fast. His hands were steady. He was rested enough.

He discarded his worries and went for it.

Glowing aura flowed into the scalpel, then latched on to the mana-conductive metal as soon as Erick tried to latch on. Slowly, mana flowed through, and Erick shifted that channel to resonate with his Focus, turning the white glow to bright cyan. With a quick, Dexterous right hand, Erick began carving, while with his left, he turned the cradle slowly, but surely. With quick flicks and focused touches, words began to appear in the circle of platinum. ‘Focus on the flow, and let it fill you full.’

His Mana reserves lasted it all the way to the end and a little bit beyond.

Erick had to laugh at that thought, though.

