Erick had already perfected Permanency magic long before now. He knew how to protect enchantments so that they continued to function under normal wear and tear. How well that information translated to this Ar’Cosmos, though? He had no idea.

He kept reading, though, and kept being surprised at how enchanting worked in Ar’Cosmos.

And then Erick laughed out of minor joy when he read the various sections on ‘how to protect enchantments from natural degradation’, for he already knew everything they spoke of, and more besides. He laughed again as he realized that none of what was written here was even hinted at in the normal textbooks at Oceanside. In enchanting, perhaps more than any other way, Oceanside proved itself as inferior to Ar’Comos, by a lot.

Once again, Erick wondered how much of Kirginatharp’s teachings were malicious, versus how much were intended to protect the world from mages who knew too much. Kirginatharp’s Elites surely knew how to work magic properly, but the basic students? Not really.

None of the classes Erick had attended there had helped him with his own enchanting efforts at all. It was only when he encountered the runic systems of Enduring Forge that he had begun to make any real progress with enchanting. Now, he could even make runic webs that held onto magic indefinitely long. Staves that fired off a hundred [Fireball]s at once.

All of that stuff ran off of Script-support, though.

But with this stuff here…

Erick was pretty sure that if he tried for it, he could make amulets of All Stats that would function in any world, using the little bit of knowledge contained in these normal, Ar’Cosmos enchanting manuals and textbooks. He was also pretty sure that if Jane, or Kiri, or if anyone of his people had this sort of knowledge—

Kiri especially!

Like, holy crap. She would be so good at this stuff.

Maybe even Jane could learn proper enchanting, since apparently math was only supposed to be used to plot out how to best link up inscriptions and formations, to make sure that the kerning in inscriptions was properly done so that letters and such were all spaced properly. The entire school of enchanting is supposed to flow a lot more organically than it did in the classrooms of Oceanside. It was supposed to be more like dungeon ecology, and permanency magic. Enchanting was about controlling the flows of mana inside self-reinforcing spellwork. Math was just used to make that process work out properly.

… Maybe that’s what Oceanside’s math did? Erick still wasn’t sure what was going on there.

He would have liked to talk to Kiri about all this. She knew her stuff, and Erick trusted her.

The next twelve hours passed with another 20 cycles geared toward generalized accretion. He had likely missed a few points of progress here and there due to needing to spend mana on such annoyances like checking his Stats, but he was pretty close to accretion perfection. His Stats were pretty much exactly the gains he had expected.

- -

Strength: 17

Vitality: 18

Dexterity: 17

Constitution: 16

Perception: 16

Willpower: 28

Focus: 28

Intelligence: 17

- -

Mana: 280

Mana Regen (Vit+Foc): 460

- -

Erick had gained 35 Points since yesterday, all of which were evenly distributed.

Over the next 24 hours, Erick would regenerate a little over 11,000 mana, according to current numbers, but he would be at more like 12,000 by the end. He would need to cycle about 45 times to make use of all of that, which was eminently doable. Nearly every half hour...

“I need a clock,” Erick decided. “A clock would be better than timing this by feel.”

Though every mental hurdle was getting easier to cross as his Intelligence inched back up to where it had been, he was still far away from his ‘normal’. Even discounting the rings he always wore, Erick had been at 25 base Intelligence before this monstrous reset.

He glanced around the room, and at the golden sun beyond his window—

A sudden wave of sleepiness crashed into him, but he blinked and held it back. He frowned at his own weakness. What the shit was that? Bah. He had only been awake for like… Three days? Or something. He could last longer than this, right?

Redflame’s [Renew] attempt was only 6 days away, and Erick needed to be ready for that before it happened.

Erick took a quick bath, felt a lot better about everything, and then headed downstairs to get breakfast. On his way down the stairs, he met Maid Maria who was on her way up. She curtsied again, explaining that breakfast was ready. Erick followed behind.

Breakfast was great.

Maid Maria had made cinnamon rolls. She still ate in the other room, though, which was fine.

After breakfast, Erick asked Fairy Moon for a clock, to which she told him that it would be done. And then she handed over the reply letters from all of his people.

Erick stared at the envelopes, not sure if they were real or not, and not knowing what to do if they were real; If the words therein were truly from the people that he wanted them to be from.

Fairy Moon said, “If you desire continued correspondence then I shall have Maid Maria set up a box beside your door, to which you may place letters and in which Maid Maria can place responses.”

“I do desire continued correspondence.” Erick took the letters. “This is appreciated.”

“Let me know if you desire more than that.” Fairy Moon stared at Erick, briefly, but with a depth that betrayed so much worry. “Your letters ended a burning that your people tried to enact on the Forest of Glaquin, which would have done nothing but make the Twisted Visions mad. This saved us all that particular fate. I had not expected that, but your Path seems to have expected this much in my place.” She said, “It is good that I am walking with you and not the other way around.”

“… Ah. Then… That’s good.”

“It is objectively good, yes.” And then Fairy Moon said perhaps the first thing that made her seem like a real person, “None of these people involved in this world deserve any of these fates, but circumstances have been unkind for a long while. I tried my best, but this reality is a lot tougher than how it used to be. Sometimes my judgment creates jeopardy instead of justice, and this appears to be one of those times.”

Erick just sat there for a long moment.

And then he said, “According to the enchanting books I read, and everything else I have heard, I imagine life was much more fluid in the Old Cosmology.”

“Oh yes.” Fairy Moon began, “Back when everything was mana instead of half of the whole…” Her voice trailed off, as she got a far off look in her pink and green eyes. She glanced to Erick, then looked away, saying, “It was a different time. An easier time in some ways and yet a weariness in others.” Then she looked to him. “You should rest some, Erick. You are getting rather talkative in your sleepy state.”

Erick didn’t feel he was anymore talkative than he normally was, it was just that...

Maybe she would understand if he told her.

“Maybe some of my walls have come down due to sleep deprivation, but I’m normally talkative. The only reason I haven’t been talkative is because I don’t trust you, Fairy Moon. Kidnapping then mind control— The mind control I can sort of understand, because I almost killed someone, and I bet you’re used to using your Fae Magic to stop a lot of fights around here. Everyone was giving Illustrious Moon the same looks that I know I was giving you after that… episode.” Erick said, “So I guess House Fae is able to apply your fae rules against other people to keep them in line, too.

“I don’t really know about that, but it makes sense based on what I have seen.

“Anyway. I still don’t like the kidnapping and the control, and I only barely blame myself for the accidental murder that almost happened.” Erick tried, “You do understand that if you hadn’t knocked me out, and if I was able to be on my own, that I never would have attempted to murder Maria. Or anyone else nearby.”

Fairy Moon said, “The Fate you represent is bigger than your own needs, Erick. While I earlier stated that my judgment was not always just, in this instance I know what I am doing. You play at powers you cannot control, so I hope you come to accept the mantle of master you are trying to wear sooner rather than later.”

“I am not a master of anyone.” Erick wanted to sigh, but he did not. “I suppose my personal desire to simply help people doesn’t really matter, since enacting even the most basic help means changing how the world functions.”

“Exactly.” Fairy Moon said, “Personal desires are best discarded when building a perfect-Fate Future, and you, Erick Flatt, are enacting far-reaching change.”

“… It didn’t start out like that, nor did I mean for that to happen.”

Fairy Moon nodded, saying, “I believe that most heartily. Doesn’t change any facts, though.”

Erick frowned, but it was at himself.

Fairy Moon said, “Go sleep, Erick. You need it.”

“Heh.” Erick snarked, “Are you going to order me to?”

“No. We are past that, and you did not take well to instantiated instruction.” Fairy Moon said, “I might have made some miscalculations about that, somewhere between there and here.”

Erick laughed once, for that was a pretty big apology from her.

Probably.

Anyway. Breakfast was done, and so was the conversation. Fairy Moon had Maid Maria retrieve a ‘mechanical’ stone clock from some storage room and had her help Erick put it in his room. Maid Maria even set it up, and then she did a little curtsy before leaving him to his own devices.

It was a nice clock. Simple, and yet…

Maid Maria had said that it was a one-off production from a very old mage who had gifted it to Fairy Moon long ago, and that it was still working due to the fact that it could be recharged with replacing the rad that powered it. It was like the portable stove, or any number of other ‘modern’ conveniences that used rads back in Spur. But because it used rads, which were worth 5 gold, it was ruinously expensive to operate for most of the people of Veird. It never caught on due to that cost.

Erick instantly fell in love with it.

The clock was a simple disk of green stone, possibly jade, with green lightward numerals floating above. Touching some raised bumps in the back seemed to complete some magical circuitry, or something, which caused the numbers to progress forward. Taking one’s hand off of that junction caused time to proceed as normal. Most people didn’t really use clocks on Veird, though, and Ar’Cosmos was no exception, so this was the very first illuminated clock that Erick had ever seen. Back in Spur, if anyone wanted to keep time, they looked out and up at the clock tower in the center of town. Back in Songli, there were small water clocks everywhere.

But this stupid, small, solid stone clock reminded Erick of his stupid alarm clock back on Earth. He loved it. He even cried a bit as he played with the alarm settings. Luckily, he was alone, so he was the only one who saw his silly tears. Probably (not, but whatever).

Reading the letters was yet another emotional rollercoaster.

Silverite had replied on Spur’s behalf, of course. Apparently she had gotten the Crystal Star along with his letter. The Crystal Star was now waiting for him at Spur, for whenever he got back, for she was not comfortable with having it and Koyabez had already told her to hold it for Erick until he returned. She had a page of suggestions for how to deal with Ar’Cosmos and Fairy Moon, but as she had never dealt with any of them on her own, all she had were minor suggestions, and heavy caveats to not trust her advice on that matter. She did add, though, that she would have liked to never have dealt with Ar’Cosmos or Fairy Moon, but the deed had already been done. ‘So thanks for that, Erick. Hope you fare well and come back soon, and I can tell you off in person.’

Queen Strelkova responded on behalf of Stratagold, telling him of how they were glad to know that he was safe. Her letter was rather dry, though it was full of instructions on how to escape Ar’Cosmos, cobbled from the intel of various people, from Kromolok, to the wrought city of Titanite, to Riivo at Archmage’s Rest, along with everyone else who felt like responding. That letter took up ten sheets of paper, each numbered, and each wholly intact, as far as Erick could tell. Erick didn’t know what to really make of that, except for that it was either a ruse from Fairy Moon, or the truth, and he didn’t know which one was more unbelievable.

Kirginatharp from Oceanside had a single paragraph, full of sarcasm.

‘Dearest Erick. I don’t believe this will actually get to you, but if it does, then you should transmute antirhine through some Particle Magic and directly cut your way out of Ar’Cosmos. It might work. See if you can stab Fairy Moon on your way out, too. Might actually kill the horrible witch if you manage the feat on her homeland! Never know unless you try.’

Erick smiled at that.

… Lead probably wouldn’t work, would it? Likely no.

Kiri’s letter was full of concern, half of which was asking if this correspondence was even real, while the other half was about the history of the fae that she had learned back at her time in arcanaeum. The fae were all dangerous; too dangerous to even talk to. Too dangerous to be a real threat, even. But Teressa seemed to think that the contents of the letters were real, and Kiri had no idea what to make of that.

Teressa’s letter was also full of concern for the future, for what she was seeing was dark, and terrible. She saw Treehome on fire, and danger all around, but then, suddenly, on the morning before the arrival of this letter, the future seemed brighter. Now she knew why. Erick’s letters had caused many people to rethink what Erick-in-Ar’Cosmos meant.

So that was good news.

Poi’s letter was a flat refusal to believe that these letters were real because Fairy Moon had never let anyone communicate with the outside like him before. But in the off chance it was real, and maybe it was according to Jane’s small visit with Yggdrasil (but then again all that could just be fae fakery) then he wished Erick well. He would also be teaching Erick some proper mental blocking spells after this was all over.

Erick felt warm inside to read those words. Also… He probably wouldn’t need their help protecting himself against mental magics if this accretion thing worked out how it needed to work out.

Jane’s letter was simple.

