The man in the green coat did something to a panel by the big door. It opened part way, and the armored car drove into the fruit packing warehouse, its metal tires grinding against the pavement.

The scientists had a very brief discussion while the driver sat in the car, frantically pushing at the dozens of buttons on her control panel. Wave after wave of light washed over the vehicle. There was a fresh burning smell in the air around it. It was obviously designed for trouble, and she intended to activate whatever safety features it had.

Thenn-ar was speaking to the others harshly. The blisters all over her arms were lending her an additional air of seriousness.

Alden’s interface wasn’t even trying to translate anymore. There were just a few random floating symbols and lights, all of them in places where they obscured parts of his vision instead of sitting in their usual minimized form around the edges. He listened as hard as he could to the conversation, struggling to understand what was going on.

He didn’t catch any of the words.

The young scientist in green started pulling the shielders out of their stands and locking them into rings that seemed to be designed for them on the vehicle. His face was pale. Alden watched him do the first two carefully and hurried over to help with the third. There were a series of latches at the bottom of the devices. He freed one and passed it over to the scientist, who only nodded at him with a bleak expression, then he went to get the last.

They’d put the children in the back seats of the vehicle, and strapped them in with the harnesses. Now the father was having a hurried discussion with the driver. She was pointing at buttons and telling him what they did.

Alden understood the words “more,” “less,” and “home.”

Something about the way it was all happening seemed wrong. He felt an unease in the pit of his stomach. He had a sense of growing dread. But he hadn’t quite taken the leap to full realization when Thenn-ar stepped over to try talking to him.

He handed the last shielder over to the man and turned to look at the pink-eyed leader. There was a buzzing sound coming from somewhere in the warehouse again. It wasn’t where he could see it, but it made his heart race. From the start of the accident until this moment, he thought, it couldn’t have been more than five minutes.

Things went wrong so quickly.

Thenn-ar said something. Alden didn’t understand.

She said it again, then she pointed from the vehicle to him, to herself, to the man in the green coat, and to the driver. She made a side-to-side gesture with her hand.

Alden recognized it. Some Artonans used it to mean no.

He looked back at the car. Girls in the back seat already strapped in, father in the driver’s seat—it had felt wrong.

“No,” he said. He wasn’t sure if it was a denial or if he was repeating the idea she was trying to convey.

“We’re not going with them?” He said it in English. He needed to figure out how to translate it. His brain wasn’t being as obliging about that as it had been earlier.

Why? WHY?

The armored car was large enough for everyone if they held the kids. It was powerful. It was even taking the shields. He wanted to scream the question, but what was the point when he wouldn’t understand the answer?

There had to be a reason. They weren’t even taking the driver.

Maybe the protections would work better on fewer passengers. Maybe it was something more basic, like weight. Maybe…maybe any of a thousand things he didn’t know.

Thenn-ar was still trying to convey the message. Her pink eyes were fixed on him. Her burnt hand was flapping the “no” sign, and she was repeating the word in Artonan.

“Does the car come back for the rest of us?!” he demanded. “Or are we just supposed to stay here and die?”

He sounded hysterical. He was hysterical. He was glad he’d lost all his second language skills momentarily so that nobody could understand him.

Although they probably did anyway. There were only so many responses to match the situation after all.

Zero in.

But there wasn’t anything left to zero in on was there? How were you supposed to do your part when your part was nothing? Alden looked around the warehouse. He didn’t know what he was hoping to see.

Help, maybe. But there was none.

He spotted his targeting halo glowing over the older girl’s head.

Shouldn’t have worried about trying to swap it, he thought. She’s not going to be around to entrust me with anything.

There was more buzzing in the warehouse now. Out of the corner of his eye, Alden saw a black dot bang into one of the robotic arms, and then it drifted slowly through it. It was a slightly different shape when it came out the other side, but it kept flying.

He had to keep his head. It was no good to freak out.

Focus. Think. Do something.

Thenn-ar must have seen that he’d gotten the message. She stepped away from him to say something to the father who was about to drive away with all the safety. Including Alden’s best chance of even having a skill.

With his target gone, he’d have nothing but Proprioception, Agility, and freaking Appeal.

Can’t forget the visual processing. When I’m alone, I’m just a semi-athletic human with nice skin and good peripheral vision. Exactly the man you want to throw at a radioactive insect swarm on an alien world!

Well, as a Rabbit, his Sympathy for Magic was actually quite high, too. But it hadn’t done him any favors so far. All it seemed to do was disproportionately draw his attention to shiny magic stuff that wasn’t his to use.

He took a couple of deep breaths, trying to calm down. He wasn’t the only one staying here. All of the others were, too. He shouldn’t make it worse for everyone else.

Zero in.

There had to be something he could do so that he didn’t feel quite so helpless and terrified.

He stared at the targeting halo. Right. Yes. Okay. That’s something.

He dug his hands into his pockets and walked toward the vehicle. Thenn-ar made a sound of protest, and Alden shook his head at her.

“I’m not going,” he said, pointing at himself and the car. “I’m not going.”

I understand I can’t go. It’s okay. I won’t flip out or try to insist. It’s okay that I’m staying.

He pulled the toys out of his pocket and held them out to the little girl who still had the glowing halo of light-that-wasn’t-light floating above her head. She stared at him.

Her little sister was bawling in the seat beside her.

“Yours,” he said. He wanted to say ‘take them,’ but this was the best he could do.

The girl reached for the toys. Alden waited until she had all three of them clutched in her small fingers, then he said, “One for me, one for you, one for your sister.”

She blinked.

Her father leaned over into the back to say something to her. She passed the Ryeh-b’t model to her sister and set it on her knee when the younger girl didn’t move to take it. Then she took the whistle for herself and passed the glittery putty ball back to Alden.

“Thank you,” she said.

“Thank you,” Alden said, trying to smile. He felt his skill activate. “Bye. Go home safe.”
