Alden was in front of the teleportation alcove. The father was ripping the little girl out of his arms and thrusting her toward her sister. The woman in coveralls slammed a handful of crushed berries into Alden’s palm. Everyone was yelling so fast that the translations were lagging and skipping.

<<Did it get—?>>

<<What?!>>

<<Didn’t see—!>>

<<—the cursing swarm!>>

<<Yaghar tethpet fki ^&!>>

That wasn’t Artonan.

The man had spoken Artonan, but the translation wasn’t in Artonan or English. And translations weren’t supposed to skip or lag.

“Something’s wrong,” Alden said. “Something’s wrong with the System.”

He didn’t understand what was happening.

You just zero in on your part of the job, and you let everything else go.

Hannah had told him that once, when he asked her if she ever got scared during a mission.

Zero in. I have to zero in.

He shoved the crushed berries into his pocket. He targeted the older girl. Her sister was in her arms now. Her father was speaking, but the words were getting translation garbled into something completely unrecognizable.

“Come here,” Alden said, bending down to smile at the older girl and holding out his arms. “We’ll be safe.”

Oh thank goodness. The Artonan words had just popped out of his mouth without him having to dredge them up from the depths for a change.

She stared at him, unblinking, for a heart-stopping second. Her little sister had a death grip on her, and she was leaning back in an effort to hold onto her. Then she stumbled a couple of steps forward into his grasp, and he lifted the two of them. They froze, and he threw himself into the alcove, heart pounding.

The notification that his quest was completed finally popped up.

At least, he knew that was what it must be. He couldn’t read the garbled text. It wasn’t even letters anymore. The symbols in front of his eyes weren’t from any language he knew, and they had gone three-dimensional and buzzy, like vibrating alien braille.

But it has to be the quest notification. It always happened as soon as he got the berries. All he had to do was accept the teleport back to campus.

“Accept!” he shouted, arms tight on his cargo. “Yes!”

There was another loud zzzapp, and this time Alden saw what made the noise. The shielding devices flared, and for an instant, the barrier Alden had expected to see appeared. A dome of white light surrounded the teleportation alcove, sealing it and a small space in front of it in. Joe’s assistants were all standing in that space. He couldn’t see much beyond them. Just their backs and the harsh flare of light.

It was gone almost as soon as it had appeared.

Alden still didn’t know what had caused the barrier to activate. He couldn’t see any threat. And Thenn-ar’s injuries offered no clues. It looked like her arms and chest had been burned. It seemed like something the barrier itself might have done instead of some attacker.

Zero in. Focus on what I’m supposed to be doing.

He hopped once to keep his skill active. The symbols were still in front of his eyes. They weren’t changing.

Oh no. This is bad.

The Moon Thegund System hadn’t heard him. Or it hadn’t understood him.

“Yes,” Alden said in Artonan. “Yes. Go.”

Nothing was happening.

“Contract,” he said. It was one of the first Artonan words he’d ever learned. “Contract, yes.”

He hopped. He shifted his grip on the girls. They were small children and they were Artonans, but they had to weigh at least sixty pounds combined. Holding them in one arm wasn’t something he wanted to try, but he needed a hand free. If the System wasn’t responding to verbal confirmation, maybe poking at it would work. The symbols it was showing did look like they might be designed to be tactile.

But I don’t know what they say.

He knew where the teleport acceptance button usually appeared in English.

It’s almost certainly not in the same place.

But he didn’t have a better idea. He reached out and had the surreal experience of grasping a floating symbol that felt like a knob in the middle of the air. It must have been designed for a species that needed that kind of accommodation, but Alden had no clue what to do with it. He pressed and twisted, then moved on to the next one, the next one.

The next.

Something would work. It had to.

Zzzapp!

Light flared, and this time, the barrier didn’t disappear immediately. Instead there was another series of sizzling sounds following the first. Alden stopped trying to figure out the symbols so that he could grip the girls more securely.

It was a good thing, too, because a moment later something hit them.

It looked like a random fleck of trash. Just a dark, shiny shard of something that flew off the light barrier, between two of the adults, and landed on top of the older sister’s head. It wasn’t even moving that fast. Alden could probably have dodged it if he’d been alert to the risk and aware that he needed to.

It was like getting sucker punched right in the magic.

If he hadn’t experienced the massive skill drain that came from carrying the screaming bowl in the lab, or even just the surprise factor of Jeremy punching his carried object that one time, he would definitely have dropped them.

Instead, he swore loudly and blew on the dark thing. It fluttered off the top of the girl’s head like a leaf and hit one of the runes glowing on the floor of the teleportation alcove. The rune and several surrounding ones winked out. The dark thing dissolved into a puff of smoke.

The children’s father cried out in fear and yanked Alden out of the alcove.

Okay fine. Apparently I can’t teleport right now anyway.

Half of the symbols had disappeared from in front of his eyes. He couldn’t read his own interface.

He let the man take the girls back from him and shook his arms, twisting from side to side to work out a crick in his back. The zaps had stopped, but the light from the barrier was still so strong he could barely make out the warehouse around them. The air smelled like burnt dust.

He squinted, looking for more pieces of the strange debris flying through the air, but there didn’t seem to be any.

The father was brushing through his daughter’s hair frantically where the thing had landed on her.

“She’s safe,” Alden said in Artonan. “My Avowed magic does safe.”

He hoped that sounded less dumb to them than it did to him. The woman in coveralls and the man in the coat were peering through the light barrier. Thenn-ar, her burnt arms held out slightly in front of her as if she were trying to make sure not to touch them against anything, stared at Alden with a grim expression.

Was she mad at him for still being here?

“Contract,” he said, making a sweeping circular motion with his arms to try to convey that he meant the whole of the System. What was the word for broken? Or messed up? “The Contract here is bad now.”

<< — — .. — ->>

It was a question. And she’d spoken clearly enough for Alden to pick out the word ‘everything.’

Maybe she was asking if he’d tried everything?

“Call Worli Ro-den,” he said in English and then again in Artonan, poking at the place in the air where he should have had been able to access his System communications panel.

Zzzapp. Who else could he contact?

“Call LeafSong University. Call Clytem Zhao.” Poke, poke. “Call Boe Lupescu in Chicago, Illinois. Send a text message to Bti-qwol on Artona III. Contact Stu-art’h, son of the Primary.”

Zzzapp.

“Contract, initiate communication with any Avowed on Moon Thegund.”

He tried not to look panicked as he went through the motions of trying everything. He tried not to be panicked.

“Access Wardrobe.”

Half of the symbols disappeared from in front of his eyes, and his heart leaped. But nothing replaced them. The Wardrobe didn’t appear.

Alden’s hands hovered in the air in front of his face. At this point…there was nothing. He’d tried to touch everything there was to touch. The only obvious thing he hadn’t messed with was his targeting option. The halo of light was still over the older sister. He did not want to play around with that.

Is targeting actually done by the System? Or is the System facilitating my own authority to do it somehow?

After his lessons with Joe, he was fairly confident it was the second. But that was still a big problem. Alden wasn’t sure he couldtarget someone without that facilitation.

I mean…theoretically? Yes? It’s my power, right?

But maybe he couldn’t do it without practice. And now looked like a really bad time to have a practice session. If he was magically locked onto the older girl at present, then he’d better just stay that way.

He let his hands drop. “I try everything,” he said to Thenn-ar. “The Contract here is bad now. What’s happening?”

She answered him. He didn’t understand any of the words.

But he kind of knew anyway.

Chaos levels were a problem on Moon Thegund. They worked sort of like bad weather. The System was quirky even when it was at its best. This half of the moon was largely uninhabited. Joe’s lab was here to research “demonic energies.”

We’re obviously under attack by some kind of chaos monster. Some kind of demon. Or maybe more than one of them.

Right before it had conked out, the System had translated the word swarm.

But even though Alden got it, he didn’t really get it.

He’d never seen a demon before. The people who called Gorgon one were just repeating a shitty joke as far as he knew.

He basically had the impression that they were Very Bad Monsters that were somehow dirty…like, radioactive maybe?…because of chaos. Which was Very Bad Stuff the Artonans were always trying to mitigate in one way or another, though it seemed to only be a problem out here in far-flung places like this.

It wasn’t something you had to worry about on the Triplanets or Earth as far as he could tell. Hundreds of high-ranking Avowed were used to smack down Earth’s annual demon allotment. It always went off without a hitch. Zero contamination, zero casualties.

That was all a regular human kid knew or needed to.

Oh, yeah. And the head of the Chicago Consulate got in trouble recently for consorting with a demon.

Consorting implied it was intelligent. And capable of communicating. But maybe that wasn’t a standard thing for the species or type of creature demons were?

The way the father had acted when that little fleck of garbage had touched his daughter fit with the sort-of-radioactive theory. And the fact that it had strained Alden’s skill and burned out a spot of magic on the teleportation alcove was pretty concerning.

He tried to make sense of everything and build a picture of what was going on.

So that black fleck is a piece of a demon. Or it was. It went up in smoke. That’s a little too on the nose for the name demon. It was only a piece because the barrier must have fried the rest of it.

The bubble wand barrier works like a magic bug zapper? Well, I guess that’s what you would use on something called a swarm.

Alden tried to decide if he would rather deal with a single giant chaos monster or a swarm of little ones. The answer was neither. But it was way harder to avoid a thousand small things than one big one.

Will I die if one of them touches me?

He opened his mouth to ask, then closed it again. He shouldn’t say that in front of the kids.

After a few seconds passed without any zaps, the barrier faded again. Thenn-ar barked an order, and the woman who always drove the vehicle nodded grimly. She dashed for the door of the warehouse and the man in green was hot on her heels. She went out through a small side door, and he stood beside a larger one that seemed to be intended for trucks.

We’re going back to the lab in the car?

Alden was relieved there was a plan, though the idea of a long drive across the grassland through some kind of swarm of demon bugs sounded like a nightmare. But if the lab researched demon energy it stood to reason that it was better prepared to fight them or shield against them than a berry farm.

He tried to decide what he could do to prepare for the trip. All he could think was that if it was like magical radiation, he probably ought to cover up as much skin as he could. The lab coat was supposed to be mildly protective against explosions. Maybe it worked on demons?

Sure. Let’s go with that.

Something buzzed several yards overhead. He glanced up to see a black dot. Like a big carpenter bee. It wasn’t attacking, just flying drunkenly. Thenn-ar was staring at it. So was the dad. They were both clearly poised to move.

The children had their faces buried against their father’s legs.

Alden tried to keep one eye on the thing—demon?—while he covered up. But it didn’t come after them. Instead it bonked into the metal roof, gently, like a moth batting against glass. And rather than bouncing off, it punched right through and disappeared. A tiny hole was left behind, barely visible.

He took a deep breath. It was better than an attack, but it was still terrifying. A swarm of lazy flying things that went through walls and screwed up the local System was only moderately better than the intelligent killer hive-mind scenario he’d just been imagining.

The hood of the coat zipped into a panel on the back of the neck, and Alden had been keeping it tucked away for days. He’d grown complacent now that he’d seen what the lab exams were actually like. He unzipped it and pulled the hood over his head. It didn’t fit tight to his face, which would have made more sense to him. Instead it was deep and oversized.

Joe had the weirdest taste. Alden looked like a bright red grim reaper when he pulled the thing up. The coat had an inner zipper and two rows of buttons. He sealed himself in. He wished he’d brought his goggles.

Why did I leave them behind?

