But Udraal was so fixated on them that he didn't see the darkness crawling behind him. It came first as faint wisps of shadow, wisps that blended in with the dark patches of the crawlspace. Fingers of darkness seeped forward, crawling across the skin of existence like taint gliding through a limpid lake.

Yet before it could seize Udraal, Veronica's ghostly echo manifested once more at the Abyssal Lord’s invocation. Udraal’s skillset was disgusting. Mainly because whatever you attacked him with, he could absorb and release right back at you. This time, Veronica’s copy was pointed backward, and her call sang out, striking the dark and bidding it to stay still. Harlock was a god, but Veronica remained a Legend, and the words she used on Udraal were as powerful as anything she could muster.

Veronica grimaced as the dark jolted to a halt, and Udraal invoked his Chronomancy. She had a guess as to which skills he had right now: one Unique and at least two Legendary. This wasn't that helpful, considering Udraal had possessed at least ten Legendary Skills the last time she'd encountered him. And only the System knew what else he could channel through the god he had bound to his current vessel.

As his form flared gold, Udraal multiplied. Chronomantic clones exploded out from him in swirling spirals. He moved and struck, coming at Veronica and the other Avatars from countless angles, and there were more of him every passing second. He unleashed himself as projectiles, but Veronica countered as a general would.

"Fire!"

Her order rang against the twisting of time, and though Udraal projected himself in countless copies into the future, Veronica's voice could defy the limits of time and open the gulf for retaliation. Her brass cannons roared, and the balls they fired were hyper-accelerated by spells of Dynamancy, Chronomancy, Psychomancy, and more. They streaked through the air, moving so fast that faint wounds were left upon the surface of reality. Udraal was not the only one who had an understanding of Animancy; though he was better at it than her, Veronica still had enough support and resources to render it as an effective weapon.

Maiden's Avatar flung something over Hawgrave’s head just as she brought her great blade upward. A wave of Dimensionality crashed against the many Udraals, displacing them, holding them at bay. Yet they tore into that static veil using their wings, and with those same wings, they shielded themselves, a faint sheen of blue protecting them from bombardment.

At Veronica’s command, the ancient fire dimensional she'd struck a pact with unleashed its power through her Nexus of All Paths. Incandescence absolute spilled down from a place on high, fire that could burn existence as if it were but a book, and the world was merely a page. It was fire that made space and mana both molt and crawl into blackness—Fire that Udraal swatted aside as he invoked the powers of his own god. The needle-riven wolf howled, and from its mouth exploded a glistening orb. It pulsated with a coldness beyond Veronica's knowing, and it swept through her mind, stilling her movements, halting time itself.

And as power clashed against power, Maiden's construct came into effect. A layered shield formed over Veronica and the other Avatars. It was hexagonal in form, and it kept building upon itself, growing with every passing second. The clatter of battle fed it. It drew in kinetic force, heat, time, everything to fuel its own existence. And magic only rendered it stronger.

But magic wasn't Udraal's only means of striking at the world.

"Transgression, to me."

These words were spoken not by Udraal's body, but by his soul, and as Veronica bared her teeth against her fear, he reached into the Animancy core upon his chest and pried free his impossible weapon.

Every single one of his Chronomantic clones followed in his stead, and when their hands emerged from their chests with a flourish, a length of tissue lay within their grasp.

It had the dimensions of a flagpole, and people writhed along its length as if drowning in a sea of Animancy. There appeared to be merely thousands, but Veronica knew that if you felt them, if you touched them, or if the weapon touched you, you would realize they were entire worlds, entire peoples, entire realms sacrificed to the creation of something that should have never been. The uncountable fallen Pathbearers swam in that burning ocean of Animancy, their souls blurring together, flesh, metal, and more intermingling, swirling like a maelstrom. From the pole’s tip extended a long, quivering flag of Animancy, dancing in the air.

Suddenly, with a wave of that flag, a billowing wind passed through Maiden's protections entirely. Transgression did not follow the rules of the System. Transgression had no enchantments; it had no levels. Transgression shouldn't be. Just seeing it clawed at Veronica's mind, tore at her very soul, and for every few seconds she studied it, something flashed in her eyes, a strange notification she still couldn't process.

[Error] — [Level Error] SPHERE III “[Error]” DOMAIN: [Error]
