“So stop meltin’ it, genius!” Carten yelled, laughing. He made no motion to follow. Instead, he kicked the downed bear, then planted his leg on it, Captain Morgan style.

“Carten, don’t be stupid!” Jamus yelled, clutching his hat to his head as he slogged toward the mill.

“MOVE!” Rain screamed. He reached the safety of the mill, then turned to face the others. A flicker of light caught his eye, and he glanced up, then swore explosively. The underside of the roof was still burning, after all; he just hadn’t realized. The flames were building even as he watched, subjected to the full power of his aura now that he was out of the storm. Fuck me!

“Carten, come ON!” Jamus yelled again.

“Bah!” Carten shouted, then waved at them. “I’ll be fine!”

“I fucking won’t!” shouted Lyn, passing Jamus, who was being slowed by his waterlogged robes.

Rain held his breath, alternating his gaze between his allies and the spreading fire above him. Lyn and Samson ducked into the dubious safety of the roof. Val was almost there, holding a pane of light over his head to shield himself. Rain clenched his fists, watching Jamus struggle.

Mlem caught up to the waterlogged mage, then lay a hand on his shoulder and threw something in the direction of the mill. The moment he saw that, Rain sagged in relief. He dropped Immolate, switching to Force Ward. It wouldn’t do anything for the cold, but it would stop the hail. They’d have a few seconds before the big stuff hit them. Quickly, he adjusted the settings, prioritizing Lyn and Tahir. Carten was out of range, and everyone else had enough health to survive the collapse of the roof. Hopefully.

Mlem and Jamus vanished, appearing with a splash of displaced water, leaving just Val and Carten out in the open. Carten was laughing, not even bothering with his shields as he roared his defiance at the sky. Val slipped under the roof just as the blizzard struck, angling his barrier to deflect the worst of the hail. Noise exploded as ice slammed into the wood above them.

“Get under it!” Val shouted, his voice barely audible over the din. He raised his other hand and stretched his barrier into a larger sheet, though its light dimmed as he did so. The group huddled together beneath it, fighting to keep their footing against the tide of increasingly frigid water and ice rushing in from outside. Then, there was an almighty crack of splitting timber, and the roof gave way, smashed by the fury of the storm.

Dozer was experiencing an emotion.

He didn’t have a word to describe it. Words belonged to Rain-King and the other ⟬greater bonesack slimes⟭ that made up most of his family. Dozer was learning, but remembering was hard. He knew his name, of course, and the commands. Emotions, however, were something the ⟬greater bonesack slimes⟭ almost never used their words for. Things would be much easier for them if they did, Dozer thought. They seemed to have emotions quite frequently. As far as he could tell, they only caused problems.

Problems like he was having.

The emotion pressed on him. Dozer quivered, trying to force it away, but it would not go. It was not an ⟬instinct⟭. It wasn’t ⟬eat-need⟭, ⟬sleep-need⟭, or ⟬clean-need⟭. It wasn’t even ⟬order-need⟭, which was the most complicated ⟬instinct⟭ that he had.

Dozer had learned several emotions, but none as complicated as this one. It wasn’t happy or bored or scared. The most complicated emotion Rain-King had taught him was hangry, which was like ⟬eat-need⟭ and ⟬kill-need⟭ together, but this new emotion was even more complicated than that.

The worst part about it was that the emotion was making him want to be bad.

Rain-King had told him to stay. Normally, this would have made Dozer happy. He was in the Forge-Home, and he much preferred it to the horrible cold snow down on the ground. Tall-Brother was here, using his hammer to make plenty of noise. Thanks to the reflections, Dozer could sense the shape of the Forge-Home in great detail. It was comfortable and warm. It was safe.

And yet, he wanted to leave.

Dozer wobbled, then reversed direction, resuming his exploration of Forge-Home. He traced the seam where the floor met the metal. He checked near the fire-cave, searching for ⟬filth⟭ that had fallen from above. He climbed into his box-bed, then counted the pieces of metal that were there. Once he finished with that, he climbed out of it again, then relaxed his membrane to slip past Tall-Brother’s metal legs. After he was through, he restored his shape and returned to the seam, checking it once more. Round and round, he circled, not knowing why. He was too busy thinking about the emotion.

Dozer could still feel Rain-King through the ⟬king-link⟭, but he was…far. So far that Dozer couldn’t tell if Rain-King was hurt or if he was in danger. Dozer didn’t need anything as complicated as an emotion to know that he needed to protect his ⟬king⟭. ⟬instinct⟭ was enough.

Dozer expelled a piece of metal with a clatter, dropping it back in his box-bed. It would be easy to follow the ⟬king-link⟭. He’d done it before. The problem was that Rain-King had told him to stay. If Dozer wanted to protect him, he’d have to break a command, which would make him bad.

The emotion surged, and Dozer had to fight to keep his shape, clinging to Tall-Brother’s legs for support. There were good emotions and bad emotions, he knew. Whatever this emotion was, it was clearly bad. It wasn’t anger. It also wasn’t fear, though that was closer.

A vibration from Tall-Brother jolted Dozer out of his thinking.

“Stop that, Dozer. Rain will come back. You do not need to worry about him.”

Dozer slowly released his hold on Tall-Brother’s legs and slid down into a puddle, confused. He had recognized his name, and Rain-King’s name, as well as two different commands. The commands hadn’t come from Rain-King, but that was fine. Tall-Brother was close enough. The problem was that the commands didn’t make sense. How could he both stop and come at the same time?

Dozer wobbled uncertainly as he reformed himself, trying to understand the rest of the words Tall-Brother had used. Dozer didn’t know these ones. Without Rain-King there to hear them too, he had no way to find out what they meant.

Dozer thought about this for a while.

Eventually, he decided that it was too confusing, and that he didn’t feel like listening to Tall-Brother anyway. He headed back for the fire-cave. There would be more ⟬filth⟭ by now. Not much, but ⟬filth⟭ was always falling from the fire-cave. And then he’d check his box-bed, and then the seam where the floor met the wall. Maybe he’d find something that would tell him what to do about the emotion. Or something that would tell him how he could both stop and come at the same time.

The next time Dozer pressed himself past Tall-Brother’s legs, Tall-Brother rumbled. It wasn’t just any rumble. Dozer knew this rumble. It meant that Tall-Brother was also having an emotion. He was angry-but-not-angry.

Dozer stopped, reforming himself near the open edge of the Forge-Home. Did he do something wrong?

Dozer thought harder.

No, that couldn’t be it. He was being good. Tall-Brother wasn’t angry-but-not-angry because of Dozer. Tall-Brother must be angry-but-not-angry because of something else.

Dozer put it out of his mind. Since he was already at the open edge of the Forge-Home, Dozer turned his attention outside. He listened hard but heard little. There was too much snow out there. Dozer hated snow. It was cold, and it stole the vibrations from the air, making it hard to sense what was around him. It was even worse than ⟬filth⟭. ⟬filth⟭ could be ⟬cleaned⟭. Snow could not.

Tall-Brother rumbled again. “If you are going to go, go.”

Dozer quivered excitedly. ‘Go’ was a command. Rain-King had said ‘stay,’ but that was long ago. Long enough that Rain-King might have forgotten. Or long enough to believe that Dozer had forgotten, which was the same thing.

Dozer scrunched himself up, then jumped. He struck the frigid ground with a spatter, then jerked back from it in discomfort. Instinctively, he made himself tall so his membrane would touch as little of the snow as possible. This couldn’t last, however, so after a moment, he forced himself to spread back out.

Dozer was brave. The snow wouldn’t stop him from protecting his ⟬king⟭.

Moving as quickly as he could, Dozer plowed a track through the horrible snow, following the ⟬king-link⟭. He heard Tall-Brother call something out behind him, but he didn’t pay attention to the words. He didn’t want to hear any more commands.

His hearing muted by the snow, Dozer quickly began running into obstructions. This was normal. Most of them were easily circumvented. The only thing that delayed him for more than a few moments was when he ran into Floofy-Cloud. The ⟬furry bonesack slime⟭ had collected a significant quantity of ⟬filth⟭. Obviously, Dozer couldn’t leave until that had been corrected.

Dozer liked Floofy-Cloud. He was the best of the ⟬furry bonesack slimes⟭. As Dozer worked, Floofy-Cloud proved his goodness by trying to ⟬clean⟭ Dozer in return. It wasn’t very effective, but at least he was trying, not like Picky-Picky. Picky-Picky only ever ⟬cleaned⟭ herself.

Leaving Floofy-Cloud behind, Dozer continued. Soon, he began to hear a strange vibration, unlike anything he remembered sensing before. It was like a wall of whispers, stretching high above him. Near the wall, Dozer detected one of his brothers, but he couldn’t determine which one it was because of the snow. It might have even been a sister. Dozer was still unsure what the difference was.

It didn’t matter right now, Dozer decided. He ignored his unidentified brother and pushed ahead toward the wall of sound. He would climb it if he needed to, no matter how high it was. Rain-King was on the other side. Too late, he realized that the brother wasn’t a brother at all. It wasn’t even a sister. It was Ameliah-Queen. She scooped him up out of the snow, just before he reached the wind-wall.

“I’ve got him, Tallheart. Don’t worry,” Ameliah-Queen said. Dozer heard the vibration of her words clearly, pressed as he was against her membrane. He squirmed, but couldn’t escape. He couldn’t shift his body quickly enough to escape from her arms. It wasn’t fair. If he had known that she would stop him, he would have hurried even faster. Dozer squirmed harder, but it was no good.

“Stop that, Dozer,” Ameliah-Queen said. “I don’t know if it will let you in, and I don’t want to find out. You’ll die in there. Stop, I said!”

Dozer stopped. Ameliah-Queen had issued a command. Still, he couldn’t stop completely. The emotion was still there, almost worse now that he was closer. He jiggled unhappily in Ameliah-Queen’s embrace.

“It’s okay,” Ameliah-Queen said, the vibrations of her voice gentle. She squeezed him gently, then began stroking his membrane.

Despite himself, Dozer began to relax. Once it was clear that he was no longer trying to escape, Ameliah-Queen took one of her hands away and pressed it against the wind-wall. As she did this, Dozer experienced another emotion. Surprise.

Ameliah-Queen’s hand had sunk into the surface. That meant the wall was soft, just like him. He felt more than heard the bones inside Ameliah-Queen shift against each other as she pushed harder. She was trying to go through!

Before Dozer had even finished processing what this might mean, Ameliah-Queen stopped, stepping back from the wall. “There, see?” she said. She gave Dozer another little squeeze, then started rocking him gently. When she spoke next, it was almost a whisper. “They’re still alive,” she said slowly, then sucked a large volume of air through her membrane, only to let it out slowly. “They’re all going to be fine,” she said softly. “Shh, now. Shh…”

Dozer wasn’t sure, but he thought Ameliah-Queen might be having the emotion too.
