Immolate!

stdout.sh: if you can't see this message, dialog spawning didn't work

focusboost.sh: trigger detected: oaura_active

focusboost.sh: f_start is 30

focusboost.sh: c_start is 53

focusboost.sh: f_tol is 70

focusboost.sh: c_tol is 144

focusboost.sh: got here

focusboost.sh: shifting 40 points from Clarity to Focus

focusboost.sh: Focus: 80 Clarity: 213

focusboost.sh: got here

focusboost.sh: mods detected: ['aura iff']

Immolate (10/10)

176-202 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 50 mp/s

Rain ignored the dialog that spawned as he activated the skill. The undead villagers—ghosts, zombies, Memories, whatever you wanted to call them—were less ‘Night of the Living Dead’ and more ‘Twenty-Eight Days Later’ in terms of their approach. The temperature rose as red light shined from his armor, his cloak billowing slightly from the heating air. He wasn’t using any boosts out of fear for his allies, but neither was he holding back. The lack of ambient Heat mana made the spell spread slowly, but his own mana would be enough to get the job done, given enough time.

Time that his allies would buy him.

“Block the door!” Carten shouted as he fell into a wide squat. He slammed his shields into the ground facing forward, building a wall of flesh and steel. There was a screech of ice on metal as the blade of the lead Memory skittered across his armor. More were right behind it, too many to count. Hundreds. Carten grunted as the tide of dead bodies crashed into him, but they might as well have tried to move a mountain. He didn’t slide back so much as a single centimeter.

The first kill was claimed by Samson. He’d slipped to Carten’s left, and in the same motion effortlessly beheaded one of the dead villagers with a slash that left a trail of white light in its wake. Samson had eschewed the wooden shield he’d been issued, preferring the two-handed style that he knew. The lack didn’t appear to be hindering him, his sword rising smoothly to deflect a strike meant for his neck.

“Ahhhh!” Lyn yelled, her spear a blur as she fought to fend off the monsters on Carten’s other side. She was using it more like a staff, thumping the monsters to push them back. The Memories, Rain realized to his horror, were awake. They were screaming in anguish, frozen tears in their eyes. Rain watched as one of them dodged back from Lyn’s spear, the tip scratching a line into its icy armor.

“Kill meeee!” it yelled in a voice that sounded like the wind, its blades slashing for her neck. Lyn couldn’t respond. She was busy trying to wrest her spear away from another Memory that had grabbed the haft. Rain jerked forward, knowing as he did that he would be far too late to save her. Fortunately, he wasn’t the only one to see the danger. An Arcane Bolt took the Memory right in the face, Jamus’s magic detonating its head in a fountain of gore.

“Ha!” Mlem shouted, his scimitar freeing Lyn’s spear by severing the arm of the Memory holding it. He moved up beside her, plugging the last hole in their defense. With the four front-liners in place, the entrance to the mill was effectively blocked.

Val and Jamus set to work, Arcane and Light magic tearing into the horde. For all that Val’s magic wasn’t as destructive as Jamus’s, it was no less effective in getting the Memories to flinch back. The press of bodies was overwhelming, with those that fell being quickly trampled by those behind.

“Oh gods…” Tahir said, his voice trembling. He stepped up beside Rain, sending an arrow flying over Carten’s head and into the face of one of the Memories trying to climb over the big man. The Memory jerked back; then its head pivoted to stare at the archer, the shaft of the arrow sticking from its skull above its eye. It—no— she screamed at Tahir in terror as she lunged forward. It was the woman from earlier, the one who’d wanted to buy some grain.

“Oh gods!” Tahir yelled again, his voice breaking as he shrunk back. He fumbled his next arrow, dropping it to the ground.

“There’s too many!” Mlem shouted. He blocked a slash with his wooden shield, then retaliated with his scimitar. “We can’t keep them back! Do somet—oh.”

The expanding sphere of Immolate had finally crossed beyond the confines of the mill, the outer fringe of the aura starting to work on the nearest of the Memories. Rain’s heart was hammering as he clung to his spell, adrenaline born of fear fighting against the horror of what he was seeing. Of what he was doing.

They’re not real. They’re not real. They’re not real…

Sharp cracks filled the air as the conjured ice broke. Moments later, there was an explosion of fire. Everyone except Carten and Rain shouted in surprise, cringing back from the rapidly growing fireball. Within seconds, the first of the Memories started to die. Through the flames, Rain could see their health bars sliding down in an ever-expanding arc. Immolate was tearing through them like the detonation of a bomb in slow motion.

The health bars suddenly froze. The Spirit Caller was screaming again, the unnatural sound stabbing into them like a physical thing. Rain could barely see now, squinting against the ever-increasing glare. The sound of cracking ice told him what had happened. The Spirit Caller had conjured a second layer of armor for the Memories, but it hadn’t been enough. The bars were falling again, even faster than before. Rain was forced to squeeze his eyes shut as the flames grew too bright for him to bear. The afterimage of the blaze danced across his vision, taking the shape of the slit in his visor.

“Haaaah! Get fucked, ghosts!” Carten yelled. There was a clang of metal on metal as he slammed his shields together. “Fuckin’ hells, Little Mouse!” he shouted, laughing.

The torrent of kill notifications finally slowed, the glare fading. Rain cracked open his eyes, then began to cough. Smoke was filling the air, carrying the scent of charred decaying meat and scorching his lungs as he breathed it in. His Heat resistance accolade didn’t do anything to reduce his sensation of the temperature; it merely prevented it from damaging him. To his horror, he saw that Lyn and Tahir’s health displays had dropped. Tahir was at 97% and Lyn was at 94%. They’d drop even further if he didn’t do something.

“Rain,” Lyn coughed, “st—stop! It’s too hot—” She coughed again. “I can’t—”

Purify.

The world vanished, blotted out by Aura Focus. When it returned, it had changed. Purify had erased the smoke as if it had never been, as well as the charred remains of the Memories that he’d burned up like so much kindling. A few remained, health bars in the red as they continued to burn. The Spirit Caller was in much better shape, its health bar only a sliver off full. It looked pissed, but Rain was focused on a more immediate issue. The roof above them was burning.

“Get out in the street!” he yelled. He stumbled to obey his own instruction, slipping through the melted snow. His eyes widened as he got a look at the sky. The burning mill was a problem, yes, but it was far from the only one.

Immolate!

The spell spread more quickly this time. What little Heat mana there’d been for it to consume was obviously gone now, but the air was already hot, so the magic spent little energy as it spread. The licks of flame creeping along the rafters exploded into great gouts of fire under the influence of the spell, and steam was beginning to rise from the slush filling the street.

The Spirit Caller roared, but Rain didn’t spare it more than a glance. When the monsters had appeared, the snow had stopped, which he’d hoped meant the end of the lair’s interdiction on fire. Clearly, he’d been being optimistic, but it wasn’t like he’d had a choice. Now, he simply had to pay for it. The lair’s wrath was descending on them, a blizzard so intense that it looked as if a solid wall of ice had been cast down on them from the heavens.

“Rain!” Tahir yelled. He coughed, covering his mouth as he cringed back. “Stop!” he choked.

“Look up!” Rain shouted, pointing at the sky.

Tahir looked up, then screamed wordlessly and ducked, covering his head. The wind hit them first, almost flattening them. It was followed by a downpour of rain—hot, heavy drops, like a monsoon.

Immolate had done its work, saving them from being flattened by the storm. Rain kept channeling, the deluge growing colder as the lair fought against his magic. His eyes flicked to the party display, checking everyone’s health, then his mana. He had about five thousand remaining, not having started the fight at full. At fifty mana a second, he’d be able to keep this up for a minute forty, but they’d be royally screwed after that.

There was a roar and a clash of steel on ice. Carten had moved to engage the Spirit Caller, bashing it with his shield and making it stumble back. Rain shouted over the pounding rain, pointing. “Help Carten! I’ve got the weather!”

Planting his feet, Rain took careful control of Immolate and used Channel Mastery to reduce the power. The water was rising, already past his ankles, blocked by the slush and with nowhere to go. He had to let the lair equalize the temperature before he ran out of juice. Hail began pinging against his armor, the sound blending into a continuous ring as the size of the hailstones increased. Rain cursed, then reversed his grip on Channel Mastery, pushing more power into the spell again.

Shit shit shit!

The hail continued to worsen. He’d gone too far and lost too much heat. He pushed even harder. Finally, the hail stopped, and the rain started to feel warm once more. This time, Rain lowered the power more slowly. He stopped just as the hail began and held it there. Checking his display, he saw that he’d managed to save twenty mana a second, extending their time by another minute or so. Unfortunately, it had taken him half a minute to do it.

Outside his sphere of protection, the world was a sea of white. The spell had carved a bowl in the packed snow, and that bowl was rapidly filling with water as the edges froze solid. Unbidden, the image of a red-hot nickel ball melting through a block of ice popped into Rain’s mind. Damn it, brain, this is NOT the time!

“I can’t use lightning in this!” Jamus cried. Purple-blue light flashed, an Arcane Bolt striking the Spirit Caller and shaving off a sliver of health. The fight had started in earnest while Rain had been busy with the storm. There was another flash of light as Jamus circled to the left. “This is the strongest I’ve got without frying everyone!” he yelled.

“We already got fried, thanks to Rain,” Mlem called, slashing at the Spirit Caller’s flank. He dodged back as it swiped at him with its razor-sharp icy claws. “And now we’re getting drowned! I haven’t been this wet since I left the isles, specifically when I fell overboard!”

“Stop talking and kill it!” Samson shouted over the hail. He and Lyn were harrying the beast. Lyn’s spear gave her enough reach to stay at a safer distance, while Samson needed to be more cautious, only striking when the bear was distracted. The thing was fast. Val was blasting it with Solar Ray after Solar Ray, the beams visible for once, thanks to the weather. His mana, however, was starting to get dangerously low. Jamus was doing slightly better, thanks to his larger mana pool. His purple-blue bolts moved slowly compared to Val’s instantaneous blasts, but they had much more power, tunneling through the downpour and leaving shockwaves in their wakes.

“Damn it!” Tahir yelled, loosing an arrow. It struck the bear’s frost-encrusted hide and bounced away. He’d recovered somewhat, but he still looked shaken as he drew back on his bow. He cursed, letting off on his draw as Carten got in the way of his shot. “Are my arrows even doing anything?” he yelled.

Rain glanced at him. Oh. He can’t see health bars. “I don’t know,” he answered honestly, shouting to be heard. “Save them for now!” I think the others can handle it…

“Let’s try this!” Mlem shouted. The merchant darted in, chopping at the bear’s neck, his sword glowing just as Samson’s had before. Faster than blinking, the bear pulled its neck back like a turtle. Mlem yelped and dropped to the ground, dodging the bear’s icy teeth as they smashed together where his head had been moments before. He flailed on the ground, then pushed himself up on one elbow and whipped his arm to the side.

Rain screamed in denial. The Spirit Caller, heedless of Lyn’s attempt to stop it, had lunged for Mlem’s fallen form. Moments before its teeth snapped closed, Mlem vanished, appearing with a splash a few meters to the right. Only then did Rain realize what had happened. It was difficult to see through the downpour. He’d missed the skipping stone entirely.

“Oi! Oi! Oi!” Carten roared, having circled behind the bear. He lowered his shields and put all of his weight into a mighty kick, his boot striking the gigantic monster right in the asshole. The Spirit Caller screeched with justified rage, then spun, lunging for Carten’s face. Instead of his throat, its teeth found a Shield Bash waiting for them. Fragile ice shattered, and the bear stumbled back. By this point, the continued onslaught had brought its health to a third.

“Too fuckin’ slow, icy-bear!” Carten taunted. “Ain’t so tough without yer spirits, eh?”

“Hurry!” Rain screamed, wading toward the fight so he could reduce the range of Immolate. The water had risen, reaching halfway to his knees. There was no sign that the storm was going to abate any time soon. Despite the death of the Memories, the party display still showed the lair’s integrity at 100%. Wherever the lair was getting all this ice and snow from, it didn’t appear to count against the total either.

“Yes boss!” Carten shouted, moving in. “Shield Bash!” he roared unnecessarily. “Shield Bash! Shield Bash! Shield Bash!”

The injured bear couldn’t get its feet under itself to respond. Lyn, Samson, and Mlem were also laying into it. Jamus, Val, and Tahir had stopped their assault, unable to get any shots in without endangering their allies. Rain’s aura had no such issue. All through the fight, it had been active, slowly but surely eroding the monster’s health. The system’s chime soon announced the Spirit Caller’s death, but the ordeal wasn’t over.

“Everyone get back here!” Rain shouted, checking his mana. He was down to fifteen hundred. He beckoned, pointing to the mill, the fire long-extinguished by the rain. He grabbed Tahir by the elbow and started towing him in that direction, shouting over his shoulder. “The lair won’t stop the storm until the snow is back!”

