The sun sets and rises before I open my eyes again.

When I finally do wake up, everything outside looks crisper and all of my movements feel faster and more efficient.

No harmful tension is left in my physique, it feels as though it’s settled quite nicely into place. My breaths pull in more air, and even the movement of qi through my meridians feels heavier, like its being pulled with far greater force.

My spirit crane glides around in circles above the fields, and comes down to land before me once it notices me watching.

A few of its previously white feathers have been tinted in a pale blue coloration.

[Ding!][A more valuable secret within the target has been located. Old data overwritten.]

[This crane has not eaten element stones in over a decade, relying on the natural water element in the atmosphere to collect just enough to shower its fields with rain. The stones the host granted it gave it its first sense of progress in a long time.]

I recall tossing it a few inferior grade water stones, but for a mid stage qi refining beast, I did not believe they would do much.

“Stay put, I’ll be right back,” I remark while tossing it another water stone, and walking down the hill toward the stewards and servants working in the fields.

One older man, Shen Dehai, notices my figure approaching and stops his work of walking up and down the fields inspecting crops to bow.

“Senior, the task you asked of me is complete. I rented out double the earth lizard extermination teams necessary and cleared them out in under 2 days. The extras were distributed to the stewards from our fields equally.”

“Good.” I look around, and all of the rice plants look even healthier than they did days ago. Some already have heavy looking golden brown rice stalks weighing down the top of the plants, emanating small wisps of qi particles.

“Senior Li, your spirit crane watered the fields with a minor spirit rain technique twice as much as our old plot owner used to. This is why the fields look so vibrant. If it keeps this watering pace, a few plants even appear on track to produce low quality rice grain, rather than the required inferior grade.”

I raise an eyebrow. “What’s the difference between the two?”

Shen Dehai’s eyes light up, “Oh, the difference is simple, it is the raw amount of qi that has been naturally absorbed into the plant in its growth cycle. Usually the 3 month mark is enough for fields of this qi density to produce inferior grade rice to meet the quota. Though, if we grew this rice longer, for say a year straight in these fields, it would most likely hit the low quality standard. And well- if we waited ten years, maybe we could get a batch of mid grade rice. The natural water element infused qi dense rain clouds from the spirit crane can speed up this process even more.”

“Interesting… Thank you Junior, I will have more tasks for you in the future. I appreciate the updates. Share these with the other stewards, and even a few bright eyed servants if they look like they’ll be useful in the future.”

I toss him a vial of low grade qi gathering pills, then turn away, walking back up the small peak to my dwelling.

Deep in my storage, I still have plenty of these low quality pills. Even if upgraded to their perfect state, they don’t affect me at all. It’s better to use them to build more goodwill with the cultivators working for me; selling them off for a few dozen spirit stones each is not worth my time.

Once the old man is out of sight, I pull out another 10 pill vial, and attach a communication talisman to it while activating my emerald swallow. Giving to these workers reminds me of another seedling I should water.

“Junior Wei Ping, I hope you’re doing well after the war. I’ve made it to the Outer Sect, and have spread my connections even further. This gift should help your cultivation progress continue, do report back if you’ve been promoted to a permanent steward, or if your situation has changed.”

The swallow flies off toward the servant camps of the alchemy peak where my climb in this sect started. I stare off at the sun rising up over the vast expanse of 122 acres of fields I passively manage now, and my mind wanders to how much more this world has to offer.

My presence feels extremely heavy and strong. I haven’t tested it out in the rematch simulator yet, so I’m not aware of my full strength, however I can certainly feel this is my most significant jump in raw power.

A grin grows on my face as I slowly lift the suppression on my Illusory Demon’s Concealment Art from the initial stage of level 2, all the way up to the perfected stage.

I’ve had access to a mid grade vein all to myself, and have even been seen and recorded on record trailing along with Lan Xin as an assistant. It is also known that I have a mid stage mortal grade physique, and a connection to the Wang Family. Having no progress at all with these resources would be even more suspicious.

The old spirit crane wakes up from its digestion about 30 minutes after devouring the stone, and I ride it over to the Quest Hall.

It’s still not even noon by the time I arrive, but the lines for exchanging contribution points have grown long. Every single window at the back of the hall has a worker present, and every line has dozens of mid stage cultivators.

There are a few late stage here and there, but I don’t see any with black markings on their sleeves or collars, meaning no named disciples are present. Everyone here is technically the same rank in the sect.

“Are there any open slots in the expeditions to the Misty Forest sooner than I’m signed up? I was told sometimes people cancel.” I ask once I finally make my way up to the counter, handing over my identity token.

The middle aged level 4 qi refiner scans a jade tablet, and shakes his head.

“No, there are no openings left… but you could catch the crowd waiting outside for today’s beast hunting expedition, maybe you have something of worth to trade them for a slot. Though, I would advise against going even if I could get you an opening. It’s recommended that you reach the 6th level of qi refining for better safety.”

I take my token back and turn around with a sigh. A few cultivators look my way, as I’m the only outwardly initial stage cultivator in this hall right now. A few murmur the same words as this worker.

“That’s the level 2 disciple that you told me about, he’s actually real.”

“Connections get you into the Outer sect even with trash roots like him.”

“Now he’s trying to go on a beast hunting expedition? Ha! Like any squad captain would agree to bring him along even if he had a slot ticket.”

I tune them out while walking out into a large courtyard filled with ten qi refiners split evenly between level 6 and 7.

The majority have large grey wolves, while others do not have their spirit beasts with them at all.

A large black flying vessel is resting on the ground, and a short skinny young man with silver framed glasses stands in front of it marking down people’s names.

The instant I approach within sight, he looks up my way, and the rest of the crowd surrounding him does too.

A familiar voice calls out from one of the level 7 qi refiners in the crowd beside a grey wolf. “It’s you! That 9th grade trash that took my brother’s Outer Sect position all because the Wang Family vouched for you. What are you doing here? The ten slots for this expedition are already full.”

His face looks familiar, but I don’t realize who he is until his system scan appears in my mind.

[Automatic Inspect Function Activated…][Feng Minshun] [Age: 45][7th Level Qi Refiner][Water, Earth, Metal Spiritual Root][7th Grade][Acquired Beast Mastery Physique][Initial Stage - Mortal Grade][No Innate Physique][He is the son of the patriarch of a major qi refining family with a few properties in Lingshi City. Wanted to get his 3rd level qi refining younger brother into a spirit farming position after the war, but was turned down. Is jealous of foundational family’s power.]

There is far more anger in his tone than the first time we met by chance. By now, I’d assume he’d be over it. The general disgust of those in the Quest Hall toward me has lessened a bit, but another notification chimes in my inner ear.

[Ding!][A more valuable secret within the target has been located. Old data overwritten.]

[Is irritated by the fact his plan to ruin the host’s fields with a planthopper infestation was so easily solved.]

“You sure have been taking advantage of that middle grade vein. Jumping all the way up to the perfected stage of level 2 so fast… the sect is just wasting their time on 9th grade trash like you though, you’ll never reach the mid stage of qi refining. You have no business getting near the expedition vessels, they’re reserved for real cultivators with futures, not ones that leech off others’ power.”

He stops a few meters away from me with his arms crossed, his wolf nearby. However, I just look past him toward the crowd.

“I’m looking to buy a slot off one of you to go on this expedition. Name the price, I’ll be able to match it.”

Feng Minshun’s face reddens, “Hey, I’m talking to you. Just because we’re the same sect rank doesn’t mean we’re equals. You still must show those stronger than you respect.”

I shrug, “I assumed you wouldn’t want to sell yours, am I wrong?”

The grinding of his teeth sounds in my ears, “I’ll sell it alright. As long as I can buy your position in the outer sect in return! Let’s make it a trade!”

I sigh, and look back past him, “Those aren’t equal at all… any better trade offers? Or just pure spirit stones, I can borrow some from the Wang family.”

Feng Minshun yells out, “None of you sell to him, or you will be an enemy of my Feng family. This is personal.”

He slowly walks forward, breathing heavier than before.

“Why do you think the Azure Cloud Sect has total dominance over the hidden mist county?”

I shrug, “It is stronger than any other force here, I would assume.”

He nods slowly, releasing extremely subtle vibrations from his initial stage physique.

“That’s right. If a sect’s foundation slowly cracks from allowing trash like you into its ranks, strength will matter less and less, and connections will be the only thing that matters. This rot will spread to the inner sect, and even the elders if it is not nipped in the bud. How can they allow a 9th grade trash into the same ranks as me, you’re hardly better than a mortal in raw talent, you will never progress far enough to truly help the sect.”

He stops right in front of me.

“If you want a slot in this expedition so badly, challenge me to a duel. If you win I’ll forfeit my slot free of charge.”

I start to nod, as I remember reading in one of the pages of a booklet the vice peak master gave me that private duels can be held at any time to sort out differences, but the rules must be set by the challenger with a lower cultivation.

He doesn’t stop there, “If I win, you have to forfeit your place in the outer sect. Volunteer to downgrade your position to a steward where you belong!”

“No thanks, your offer isn’t equal.” I roll my eyes and look past him, “Any other takers? I’ll put up a hundred spirit stones for a slot, two hundred even?”

Feng Minshun jumps in my way. “I said look at me while I talk to you, trash. I’m giving you the option to step down without facing any shame. Losing to me in a duel would be honorable.”

I scoff, but speak loud enough for everyone to hear, “Throw in your family’s biggest storefront in Lingshi City as a forfeit item alongside the expedition slot. You want me to gamble on my future, put yours on the line too. A bare hand fight, no weapons, talismans, or spirit beasts. Whoever is knocked unconscious first loses.”

A loud laugh comes out of the dark haired man as he yells, “Deal! You aren’t just a weakling, you’re an idiot too. You think that Martial Elite body of yours gives you an advantage in a hand to hand duel?”
