“I will be involved everywhere in this organization. From top to bottom. When you are not here, I will be here, making the big decisions. When you go to fight Nothanganathor, I will be there at your side. When that fight is done and we have won, I will come back here. I plan to spend the next 500 years being the Benevolent Dark Queen and ensuring that this universe never again desires to conspire against my own, and instead supports my own. When that is done, I will give up this power to the worthy and move on through the Dark to remake the Painted Cosmology, if I haven’t already been doing that all this while.

“In this way, House Benevolence will be the link between the Dark and the Fractal.”

Shadow finished.

And Erick felt a weight of pressure upon him.

Of history, and eyes, and Paths and futures.

Erick stood, and regarded Shadow.

She regarded him in turn.

There were only two ways that this could go. Three, if you count ‘putting it off to another day’ as a valid choice. Erick wanted to make that third choice… So he poked holes.

Erick bargained, “You will never turn full Evil.”

“I will never turn full Good, either.”

“You will always deal with House Benevolence’s and my interests with the best of possible intentions and actions.”

“I will never do everything outside of House Benevolence and your interests in ways you would always approve, for we do not control each other, Erick. I am above you in certain ways. You are above me in others. Together we raise each up higher than we could have reached on our own. When we are on our own, we are on our own. When we are together, we will be the best of comrades, or at worst, rivals.”

Erick decided, “I like this side of you, Shadow. I hope you can keep it up when the going gets tough, and you don’t resort to normal fae shenanigans.”

Shadow smiled. “My ‘fae shenanigans’ will win us this war, Erick.”

“I am in a committed relationship already.”

“I have eternity, Erick. I can wait.”

Erick took a moment.

He looked inward for any reason he should not do this. For any trick. For any future issue. Honestly, there were a lot. Even before Erick checked his Lightning Path he knew this was a path that there was no stepping off of once he took that first step…

… There might be a relatively safe way to get out of this.

Erick was pretty sure that he should at least try that way…

Erick looked to his three newest Overseers.

Lanzoil looked as though he were seeing a breaking and remaking of a world; he was horrified in a fascinated sort of way. He knew the dangers of the fae, but he also knew the bounty that came with them if they were on your side. Erick knew of that bounty, too.

Querkooda saw security arrive in the form of a universe-creator asking to marry his new boss. All of this was fine with him, for Erick had asked Shadow all the proper questions and Shadow had responded in all the proper ways. For Querkooda, if Erick did not choose to marry Shadow, then he was a fool.

Ta’Kamoil had a problem with Erick being in two main relationships at once, but only because Erick brought up ‘being in a relationship already’ as a problem at all. Anyone in true power was expected to have multiple consorts at once, after all. The fact that Shadow was a fae was a bit of a tricky thing, but she had answered all questions satisfactorily. For Ta’Kamoil, that Erick was considering turning down this offer at all was a big problem.

Erick found himself agreeing with them. And yet...

Erick spoke to his Overseers, “The consent of the governed is necessary for any real government to function well, and for consent to be true, it has to be informed. I inform you now that all of this happening here with Shadow’s sudden marriage proposal was not my idea, but it appears it is Shadow’s well-formed idea. But her as my queen would mean she would give you orders. Would you consent to taking orders from Shadow?”

Shadow raised an eyebrow at Erick—

Lanzoil instantly said, “She will be the fourth vote on the council. She was already recruiting people out there. Those people can be a part of her ‘Queen’s Guard’, or whatever she wishes to call her people. She will not have automatic power over anyone who is not specifically signed up to have her as their Queen. Signing on to House Benevolence does not make one vulnerable to her whims, and on the contrary, should make anyone signed up under the House, and not her specifically, less vulnerable to her fae desires.”

Erick smiled a little.

“I agree to this amendment,” Shadow said. “Erick will retain supreme power over his House for as long as he wishes to wield that power, he will grant supreme power to whoever he wishes to grant that power, and he will take that power back to himself if he wishes to rescind that granting of power.”

Erick saw the future at that moment.

Of a land of Benevolence with ten billion tendrils crawling out into all the universe, each of those tendrils filled with the Dark, creating positive outcomes all across this universe and many others, and spreading growth wherever it touched. Many of those tendrils reached to Veird, and to the FENRIR system, and to another Dark universe in that section of this Fractal Infinity.

This was the best possible outcome for House Benevolence.

It was a conflicted outcome for Erick.

But he was a King.

He made the best possible decision for all people and every individual, and then he took a moment to convince himself it was the proper decision, and then he truly believed it himself.

Erick said, “I accept your engagement, Shadow.”

Something clicked.

- -

Yggdrasil stepped into the room, and the room was suddenly a lot larger, for the walls expanded far away to reveal the glitter-crystal of the main audience chambers of the Fae Enclave. They were no longer on Cascadio’s islands outside of his Cavalcade. They were here, at Court again, at the very center of Margleknot.

Lord Eldraki, Lord Dakka, Lady Seraphaka, and Lady Aelorika all sat in judgment up there on the arc of the judge’s bench, on that wide curve of densest glitter crystal. The Fractal Fairy sat on their bench in the middle of the arrangement, looking like an eternity contained to a single person.

Lanzoil, Querkooda, Ta’Kamoil, stood to the side.

There were no fae in the audience rows in the back of the chamber, and there were no prosecutor or defendant tables. There was no sound.

There was simply Erick and Shadow, standing side by side. Erick was 3 meters tall and wearing normal, if fine clothes, with his crown of black horns upon his head. Shadow was taller than usual, standing even with Erick, if a little bit shorter. She wore her black and white jewelry and clothes of common, if fine make.

Yggdrasil walked in front of Erick and Shadow, looking at them, as he calmly said, “I refuse to recognize any sort of engagement without a proper courtship.”

Ah, Erick thought, that probably would have been a good way to get out of this, too.

Erick said, “I’ll accept that limitation. Welp! You all heard the man. Courtship first.”

Shadow narrowed her eyes at Erick, then she relaxed, stood straight, and said, “I suppose that is—”

Lord Eldraki, the trickster, gleefully chuckled, interrupting all proceedings. He rapidly said, “I’ll sign off on this anti-Nothanganathor business if Shadow and Erick share assets equally.”

Shadow and Erick both exclaimed, “Never.”

Erick and Shadow glanced at each other.

Ah.

Well duh.

Shadow had assets, too, and they were probably a lot larger than Erick’s.

Lord Eldraki laughed louder.

Lord Dakka, the fae of twisted, rusted metal and war, said, “Then it’s back to war. Go kill some slavers, Erick, and I mean actually kill them. I want blood and death and carnage!” Dakka paused for a brief moment, then he grinned wickedly. “I want Blood and Death and Carnage. You can use those, right?” Dakka looked around. “He can, right? I didn’t misread that, right? Oh well!” He said to Erick, “If it takes you some time to make those spells then that’s fine, too!”

The Fractal Fairy tapped the table in front of them, and the courtroom vanished.

- -

… Erick once again stood in the small office with Shadow at his side and Lanzoil, Querkooda, and Ta’Kamoil, all sitting back down in their chairs. The three mortals looked a little worse for wear, but not too much worse. Mostly, they were in states of shock. The shock was passing fast.

Shadow looked relieved, and yet wary.

Erick spoke first, “I still want you as the Benevolent Dark Queen, Shadow. Things will be going slower than we bargained for, though, and I’m fine with that.”

Shadow eyed Erick, judging his words. She said, “And they’ll go even slower still. You’re not getting your hands on my power, Erick.”

Erick grinned. “And you’re not getting your hands on mine.”

Shadow nodded. “Fair.” She turned to Erick’s people, saying, “These are your people, then. I am merely a vote on the council.” She plucked out a chair from the air and sat down with the three, saying, “Where shall we begin, Apparent King?”

Erick smiled, saying, “The best part about hiring good people is that you simply need to ensure that they work well together, and that you’re all operating under the same vision. I have the good people here, and I can already tell that you three will work well together, so now I just need to set you out into the world with power and purpose in your pockets. So how would you three like to be immortal, shapeshifting dragons?”

Lanzoil, Querkooda, and Ta’Kamoil, each looked both surprised, and then not surprised at all.

Like a man who had seen the future and knew it to be Good, Querkooda easily said, “I accept this power and this duty. I will be your general and we will raise armies to keep all evils at bay, both within the empire and without, to ensure that all are blessed in brightness and Benevolence.”

Erick said, “Your declaration is accepted. Your honor is noted.”

Ta’Kamoil energetically said, “It appears I need to adjust my idea of House Benevolence by a few notches! And so I have.” With solid words, Ta’Kamoil said, “I accept this charge and this demand upon my very soul, and will act accordingly to all of the power granted to me. I wish to learn your reincarnation magic, to ensure that it is not lost, and that House Benevolence can rescue more than it can eradicate.”

Erick said, “Your decision is accepted. Your wishes will be granted.”

Lanzoil took a moment, for the weight of an age was upon him. He spoke, “I will be your regent. I will raise civilization under Benevolence. You and I will work out the laws and the power you wish to enact, and it will be done, and I will push back when I feel you overstep, and you will hear my words and know them draped in the knowledge of a thousand years of rule. What we create must be a land of equality and justice, or I will be leaving after my 5 years of first term are up.”

Erick smiled. “I would have it no other way.” He added, “And 5 years of term is more of a suggestion than a reality that must exist, for I fully expect each of you to be more than comfortable in your roles. What I actually expect is that you will each have offices with Seconds and Thirds and all the way to Tens, if need be, that might take over for you when you wish for a break. If you should ever fully retire then one of them would step up into your position, and if they don’t like the job, or if the people don’t like them, then they would be replaced by the next person in line. Otherwise we can work out election processes.”

Lanzoil nodded solidly, happy that Erick was thinking long-term.

Ta’Kamoil looked relieved. He already knew he would be asking for a break in 5 years.

Querkooda said, “I was simply going to apply for a renewal in 5 years. By then, I will have proven myself to my soldiers and the renewal of contract would be a foregone conclusion.”

Erick grinned. “That’s a good way to do it, too.” And then he looked to Shadow.

The other three looked to Shadow, too.

Shadow smirked. She said, “And I will be the hand of House Benevolence that does what needs to be done.” She intoned, “For the good of all, and every individual, we give assistance to those in need and do what we must to prevent apocalypse before it happens, to found and cultivate an evergrowing cycle of less war, less horror, and more hope, for now, and for me, personally, for at least the next 500 years. Renewals might follow.”

That was big.

Erick wasn’t sure exactly how big, but it was big.

Erick smiled. “I accept your declaration, my Benevolent Dark Queen Shadow. Thank you.”

Shadow smiled back. “I accept your thanks, and return them to you in kind, my Apparent King.” She stood, and said, “Now let us dispense with the flirting and get to work. I have 27 people for you to reincarnate for my Queen’s Office. I am taking Holy Mother Caa, Yasmi Bloodgood, Aryear Zumgwy, the Demon Dragon Heliberko, and many others. The four named will be my Second through Fifth.”

Erick said, “I’m fine with that.” He said to all of them, “I expect much of the next month or so to be spent on organization, and then some time spent outside of this [Hasted Shelter] to get people back into the real world to get them more cultivation or accretion, etcetera etcetera. During that outside-time I’ll be going to the Celestial Observatory to go see what’s happening with the newly-reincarnated people killing Observatory people. And so—” He turned to his new Overseers. “Let us get you three into new bodies, and then dragonize you. Who wants to go first?”

Lanzoil said, “I believe that is being a bit hasty, sir, for I need to discuss computational machines and my missing Library Talent, and the replacements you propose in the shape of ‘Book Magic’. I am unaware of Book Magic, as it pertains to Queen Shadow’s Darkness-derived mana creation engine.”

Querkooda spoke up, “I was a Grand Warrior of all weapons and styles with a Talent for mass combat and the sharing of power. I have no idea how to get that back, for I have lost that cultivation. As a general of armies, I want that Talent back, if I can get it back.”

Ta’Kamoil held up his fingertips and Benevolence danced between them. And then he instantly looked tired, but happy. He grinned, saying, “This is all rather intuitive for me, but I am rather far from where I used to be.” He looked to Erick. “You can’t grant me my Shard of Altering, can you? I don’t actually need my old Shard anymore but… I do miss it.”

