The crowd went silent for Erick quietly shushed them with spellwork. That very same spellwork raised the voice of the one under the light.

The man’s voice spread softly across the entire trio of islands, “I want guaranteed resurrections for me and the people who would become my family, and when I get old I want to be brought back to this age here. Or I want to be an immortal dragon. There’s a rumor that you can do that. Is that true?” The light on the man faded.

Erick said, “Good questions. Yes. I can make anyone I want a dragon. As for resurrections, that will be a part of the incorporation of House Benevolence into an entity recognized by Margleknot. Administration will figure out all of that later. Reincarnations into a younger version of yourself is certainly possible, too. I’ll be working on an auto-Reincarnation magic soon enough so I don’t have to spend all my time on that one.” Erick pointed at a woman. She lit up with light. “Yes, you.”

“Are you saying you can really make us young like this… forever?”

Erick said, “Yes. It’s not that hard. Benevolence is very good at positive-outcome Soul Magic. I plan on enacting all of your reincarnation paperwork later, too. Anyone can watch that whole process, if they wish. I’m sure many of you will want to become Soul Mages yourselves. I welcome those of you with the expertise to try to copy what I can do.”

Erick won over 30% of the crowd with that statement alone. Eternal youth and life? Yes please.

Erick pointed to the next person.

“Who is that fae beside you, exactly?”

A lot of people in the audience were worried about the fairy in their midst. That was good of them; it showed they knew what to be worried about.

Erick said, “Shadow here is the constructor of a universe that she and many others call the Painted Cosmology. That universe went through a universal sundering event because of Nothanganathor, of Malevolence, about 1450 years ago, Veird-time. Uncountable millions of billions of people died in that Sundering, because Nothanganathor did something that no one is quite sure of. All we know is that he killed Shadow’s universe, and she and I are here to enact long lasting justice on Nothanganathor. He will not be spared.” Erick gestured to Shadow.

Shadow stepped forward, and said, “When we ensure that the problem of Nothanganathor and the degradation of the Darkness is done, there will be a great expansion. The Dark will flourish. This is the foundation. Erick and House Benevolence will likely be at the center, but I will be ever expanding and creating once again. Stars with worlds will be made habitable. People will flourish. If you want resources, we can make those resources. If you want homes, we will make those homes. The land we make will not be subject to any greater Balance of Good and Evil like it is here in Margleknot, but instead it will be the home of the Darkness, and of Benevolence, the best anti-corruption power ever created, and which can create resons at a 9-to-1 rate.”

Every single person that Erick had not won over, Shadow enthralled.

Erick was a bit hyped up now, too. He had not known that Shadow was going that direction exactly, but he was glad to see it. With a soft smile, Erick nodded, and then said, “There is a great deal of room to expand. I plan on making a multi-world gate network back on Veird, and to our local stars. All of that will come many years from now, though. I’ll answer a few more questions, and then I’ll be reviewing your reincarnation paperwork and doing all that. I expect, in a week or so, that I will be marching on Slaver’s Den. I expect some assassins to arrive shortly if they aren’t already here.” Erick pointed at another person.

Light lit upon a person who almost didn’t speak because they were obviously worried about assassins now, but then they caught up to themselves and asked, “How do you see this fight going? Slaver’s Den is 40 million people and though 80% of them are slaves, they will fight in defense of their land, for that’s what their shackles demand of them. Even if you get around that problem then they’ll have Wraithborne backup, and that means immortal liches who will come at us through uncountable deaths.”

Erick smiled softly, and said, “That’s a good question, too. I plan on evicting a lot of people from Margleknot completely, sending them off to other worlds and lands through a reson-empowered [Grand Reincarnation], turning them all into random people on random other worlds, giving most of them a great chance at a new life free of the problems they fell to here on Margleknot, or the problems they themselves created. Such a magic looks like this:”

Erick cast a lightshow into the sky, placing a good hundred little human-shapes scattered throughout the air above, and then he struck them with another lightshow of lightning that struck one person, split into striking two people, and then continued on like that until every person was touched. Each person the lightshow lightning touched turned to flowers and grasses and mushrooms, but their souls went elsewhere, into fractal splashes that soaked into the roots and branches of Margleknot, to move off to other worlds, to be reborn in Benevolence.

A few people in the audience were in complete disbelief.

But some wanted to believe.

Some people started talking softly. Some started arguing with their neighbors about realistic goals.

Erick spoke above the susurrus, “Right now, I can do that to about a million people at a time. I’ll work on some Propagation Magic and make that spellwork self-sustaining so I don’t have to wait a few days between clearing out a million people at a time, but even if we did take the long way, according to some math, clearing out 40 million people would only take 150 days.”

That got people talking.

Someone shouted, “What are we expected to do if you do it all?!”

Erick did not mind the outburst. Emotions were riding high right now. Erick said, “My magic cannot hit those who are well defended, and so I would need fighters to take over for the smaller problems, and to keep the peace as we advance across Slaver’s Den and take it all from them. Mostly, I need people willing to do paperwork, to organize others, to make Slaver’s Den habitable, etcetera. I’m building a House here that will last for a very, very long time, so all of the normal things are still necessary.”

A big woman stood up and the crowd around her went silent. Erick recognized her as Vieltresia the Demon Summoner, a woman who had been locked down by Wraithborne Contract for 1,700 years, according to Cascadio. She was just one of many people who had tried to circumvent Erick’s [Reincarnation] out of the Waiting Room. She had not succeeded in that circumvention.

Erick nodded her way.

A beam of light came down upon Vieltresia, amplifying her voice. “And what of Wraithborne? Are we truly going to ignore them? To be nominal allies? To forgive what they have done to us?”

The crowd was mad about that, now that Vieltresia had brought it back up.

Erick said, “You don’t have to forgive. You don’t have to forget. But the greater victory would be had by turning Wraithborne to Benevolence. The simple fact is that Morbion wants power and to control all of Margleknot and thus the universe and beyond, but Evil can never get there; Good anchors Evil into an ever-warring Balance. Benevolence is not like that. Benevolence is better. Someone inside House Benevolence is going to achieve that goal of universal power. Evil cannot rule this universe or any other. Neither can Good. Morbion was always destined for failure by choosing Evil. With Malevolence, Nothanganathor got so much further than Morbion, by far, for he took down an entire universe. By that same, opposite turn, Benevolence will build a universe.

“Maybe more than one.”

Erick let those words hang. He had not known he was going to say all that when he had started answering questions, but he knew those words to be true.

Someone was going to rise up through Benevolence to create a universe.

Perhaps Nothanganathor wanted to use Malevolence to do the same.

It was hard to know right now, but the mirror there was impossible to deny.

All the world seemed quiet as they thought about Erick’s words and proclamations, too.

Into that pause, Erick spoke softly, “That’s all the questions for now. I’ll be reviewing your [Reincarnation] paperwork now. I am sure that after I get through the first ten or twenty people that many of you will want to write up new paperwork, and the people who went first will wish to be changed to something else. Perhaps a bit taller, or naturally stronger, or smaller, or maybe a different species or color. All of those are fine changes. I will have to stop everyone from going a third time, though. Let’s be careful with our life-long choices before we make them, please.” And then Erick turned to Lanzoil, Querkooda, and Ta’Kamoil. “With me. Shadow too, please.”

He walked off the stage.

Behind him, people started talking to each other, or they got lost in thought. Some people were beyond happy. Others were worried. Some doubted. Most did not doubt at all.

Mostly, there was hope.

- - - -

Erick sat down in a temporary office made of stone and soft fabrics. The walls were opaque, but there were no privacy magics here. Cascadio didn’t truly believe in real privacy, which is why many of the buildings around here were made of clear glass. The walls of this place were even only half-opaque, with the ‘stone’ actually a bunch of darker white splotches inside the glass. It was almost like glitter-crystal, like the Fae Enclave, but not that at all.

Lanzoil, Querkooda, Ta’Kamoil, and Shadow sat with Erick.

Erick started with, “Are you three comfortable with the general direction of the duties that I would impose upon you? Lanzoil as grand administrator again? Querkooda as warrior general? Ta’Kamoil as prime archmage? Primarily, I expect you three to be able to work together in a council-like shape, with Lanzoil doing most of the administration, Querkooda keeping the peace and the walls, and Ta’Kamoil providing a deciding vote to break up the power of administration and enforcement.”

Erick had spoken to each of them inside the Dead Waiting Room about much of this, and he was pretty sure that at least Lanzoil and Querkooda had met and spoken with each other, but Ta’Kamoil had not been a part of that meeting-of-2. He was here now, though.

All three of them had a pretty basic sort of human body.

All three would be changing, soon.

Lanzoil and Querkooda glanced at each other, and then at Ta’Kamoil.

Ta’Kamoil smiled a little, saying, “I have heard stories of Lanzoil’s prowess with paper and ink and because of that I desire to see what he can do with a new land, and with the Father of Margleknot at his back. I’m very glad I’ll be courted for my vote instead of actually participating in administration. I’m much more of a teacher and explorer-crusader leader than an organizer of civilization.” He said to them all, “I would seek action outside of the lands of Benevolence, ensuring that people know us well and acting as more of an ambassador, while maintaining schools back at home, and for those schools to maintain wards and other magics.”

Querkooda and Lanzoil relaxed a fraction at that. Erick could tell those two were already experiencing friction but of a rivalry-sort, rather than a friction of real dislike.

Querkooda said to Lanzoil, “Then it appears you will not be getting your way with everything, Lanzoil, for I can already see my organization sending off warriors to babysit exploring mages.”

Lanzoil grinned, “And I will be the one ensuring that the schools and army are funded, and that Benevolence flourishes.”

Erick relaxed as he saw a bright future ahead, and as his Lightning Path coalesced around all three of them, each of them gaining a bright ring of Benevolence around their necks that then flowed inward, into their souls and bodies. They would be the instruments of Benevolence upon Margleknot by which Margleknot would truly grow Benevolence, to spread productive power out into the rest of the universe.

Erick asked Shadow, “Do you have anywhere in this organization you would like to be, in particular?”

The group looked to her—

And Erick felt his Lightning Path wrangle into a new, deeper shape.

Shadow became something More in that eternal moment.

Her eyes flashed Dark. Her mien turned regal, and powerful.

And then she began, her voice a sonorous declaration, “There is a collection of stories that I am reminded of, Erick. They appear in your dossier as the Tellings of the Creation of the Painted Cosmology. The one my father Told was perhaps the most correct, from their perspective, but from my perspective, there on the ground, in the Dark, working Creation, the First Telling told by the Shades at your Last Shadow’s Feast was more correct, in parts.

“Insanity and a loss of perspective caused Melemizargo, my distant greatness of a grandson, and his flock, who have also lost themselves, to lose some of the Truth of that Telling. But not all. The story of the First Dragon meeting the rest of Creation begins with a specific meeting which was touched upon in that First Telling.

“Specifically, there is the part when the First Dragon meets the Second Dragon in the Dark.

“I am that Second Dragon.

“I am the one with which the Dark created so very many children, and brought gods into being, and life into living.

“And so, when I say this next part, know that I say it with the full weight of my history and Truth.

“You and I will be married, Erick. We will have a child of my choosing. It will be a marriage in the oldest of senses; of power meeting power and begetting power. It need not be a marriage of love, and it need not be a closed marriage, for neither of us will be bound to each other. What is mine is mine. What is yours is yours. What is ours will be More than the sum of their parts.

“It doesn’t have to happen now.

“We will have eternity, Erick.

“And in that eternity, we will find time to consummate this marriage.

“And yet, even before our marriage happens, I will be the Benevolent Dark Queen of House Benevolence, starting today.

