Lanzoil and Querkooda both nodded at that. All three of them had built their power in their own ways, and now they were worried that Benevolence could not do everything that they used to do. All three of them had been stuck inside the Waiting Room for thousands of years, though, living off of the resons they could create and use to ward off traps and enemies inside that place of Death, so the sting of their loss of power was not as large as it could have been, and they still had resonwork to fall back on.

Erick said, “I cannot grant powers outside of Benevolence and the Mark of the Dark that goes along with that, but Benevolence can do anything you can Alter and Shape it into doing.” Erick held up a hand and conjured an ever-changing orb of a whole bunch of different Elements, all rushing and joining and separating and mutating through a vast swath of the spectrum that Erick knew and used. “Benevolence is incredibly varied. Perhaps Shadow can enlighten us as to what else the Mark of the Dark can do, though?”

Ta’Kamoil was enthralled by Erick’s tiny display. Lanzoil and Querkooda sat calculating.

Shadow shrugged, saying, “The Mark of the Dark simply spins a person’s Everything into reality-changing mana depending on the personal strength of the person wielding that Mark. The stronger you are —which means ‘the better of a future you make for yourself and the people around you’— the more material that the Mark has to work with, and thus you make more mana. Mana is possibility manifested, after all. It is sort of like resons in that way, but different. Better, in a lot of ways. Mana can do a lot more than resons can, so don’t go looking for even more power before you exhaust all the power in the Darkness, which won’t happen until you Ascend yourself. That is what Erick did.

“The Darkness is the best possible universe to belong to for it doesn’t care what you do with the power it grants you as long as you work toward more and more possibilities. If you want other powers then you’ll have to bow to other powers to gain more Marks and Shards and Talents and whatnot.” Shadow glared lightly, heavily, adding, “But you will not be doing that. You will not be diluting the power of the Dark in House Benevolence…” She added, “Resons are okay, though. I suppose.”

Ta’Kamoil instantly said, “I’m ready to become a dragon, my king!”

Erick smiled.

And then he got to work.

- - - -

One real-day and 10 time-dilated days later, Erick had an organization that was not working too well because they were all trapped on a small island without any outside resources available to them. Other than that, though, all 3,097 people of House Benevolence, including the people who had walked in from the Cavalcade, were ready for a new age.

Everyone was in their desired body, and plans were set everywhere, along all levels of Erick’s newest branch of House Benevolence. Erick had even assigned various people percentages of Erick’s reson generation from the Benevolent Sun and done some basic paperwork from Margleknot to make House Benevolence a recognized entity to which people could belong. All of that could be done inside the [Hasted Shelter].

None of the real work could be done inside [Hasted Shelter].

Erick and his Overseers —and Shadow— had good hopes for what came next.

And so Erick broke the [Hasted Shelter] containment.

Over the next complicated hour people got moving through portals. Some of the people from the modern age went out to places they knew of which still existed, while those of older generations went with those younger people out into the world, to learn of the new Margleknot. A whole lot and also nothing had changed in Margleknot in the hundreds or the thousands of years in which some people had once walked this land. For some, their desired plans were rapidly cut short.

Erick witnessed several people call out to Margleknot for transportation to specific places, only to find an error message; ‘that place does not exist’. Lanzoil tried for Paradise Rises, and had to sit down when that error message came, even when he knew it was coming. Holy Mother Caa tried for a place called ‘Water Chime’ and briefly darkened the world with Abyss and blackening Benevolence when that error text flowed across her view. Some people simply cried.

But there was work to do, and the horrors of forgotten lands had been something that many had understood long before they called out to those dead places.

They moved on as fast as they could.

Lanzoil and Querkooda went to get technology for logistical needs from both the Astral Bazaar and the Aetherium Bazaar. Ta’Kamoil went to the Arcane University to tap old contacts there to get magical texts so he could ask Erick questions about Darkness-made mana and magic, to see where they lined up in their thoughts of how spellwork actually worked.

Days ago, Erick had told them all that they needed to learn Book Magic, and he gave all of them some books on that subject, along with some collected notes on Benevolence and its uses and powers. Most of that information was on accreting. They’d be learning that stuff, yes, but they wanted what they already knew worked, too.

Shadow actually led the accretion efforts among House Benevolence, which was both nice and odd to see.

She had a talent for bringing out power in people, just like her father, Fairy Moon. Erick watched her now and then, when she walked among the students attempting to manifest power, as she spoke small words now and again and those small powers turned into manifested Truths. She was remarkably good at that.

Once things seemed to be going well and seemed to be on the right track, Erick decided it was time to solve that problem with those resurrected and reincarnated who went to the Celestial Observatory to kill people.

Holy Mother Caa went with him.

The targets were two former rulers of some smaller crystal spire mountain tops.

They had fallen to their own swords in ritual suicide centuries ago in order to remove Wraithborne Contracts from their people. One of those rulers was a woman named Daria Lys, of the grand city of Lys, and the other was a man named Geraz Hydaki, of the grand city of Hydaki. Their cities were twin cities, known together as Hydaki-Lys-by-the-river.

Both those cities were now Wraithborne-ish lands of the Observatory, where Contractors of Wraithborne worked to spread Wraithborne influence in the Observatory. Their primary tool were Contracts, of course, linking the people that signed to Wraithborne, which allowed those who adventured into the valleys below the clouds to be easily resurrected should they perish in other worlds. Such a Contracted person wouldn’t even need to go through the Waiting Room first.

Those kinds of Contracts were reminiscent of how the incani on Veird made Vile and Demonic Pacts to bring incani to specific houses in Hell when they died, but Wraithborne Contracts were vastly different in many ways.

Erick was once again glad for the decisions that Rozeta and the Relevant Entities of the Script had made regarding allowed manas on Veird.

Contract Magic was an abomination against free will.
