Mihaela gestured to a spot, and Ci sat there, harrumphing at Salamani. Never let it be said the Haven didn’t have fun things too—but The Wandering Inn was cooler.
For one thing, Sammial and Hethon had seen so few Gnolls they were staring at Ishkr—and the famous Mihaela and the Courier! But they were headed through that door! And the Haven would only get exciting that night.
Oh, it had a farm and floated and a library and famous people—but Ryoka was somewhere else, and in Sammial’s mind, the most interesting things happened with Ryoka.
“It’s fun here, Sammy. Miss Larra is a former Named-rank adventurer.”
Hethon tried to reassure his brother. Sammial just stomped one foot.
“So? Ryoka’s cooler. She made half the palace in Ailendamus explode. I bet you she’d blow up the Haven if she was here.”
The [Vice Innkeeper], Barnethei, heard that. He decided to make sure Ryoka Griffin was being watched at all times—but the man had other things on his mind. He checked on Ci to make sure the horse had a bucket of water—because she was a type of honored guest. Then he pulled aside his [Bartender], Roreen.
“What do you mean, ‘we’re running low on drinks’?”
“I can’t find a bunch of kegs and barrels. I checked—we have a [Thief] or something.”
“Which ones?”
It seemed odd that they’d be robbed—Larra and Barnethei had amazing abilities. She could change her [Law of the Inn] to prevent all but the highest-level thieves, but normally, Larracel could sense them.
They were rolling down the High Passes towards Liscor, and Barnethei knew they got deliveries of the local specialties—as well as [Traders] who unloaded things via Invrisil. He went to see the problem.
Sure enough, half the wagon was empty, and a [Driver] was claiming he’d brought everything here—only for it to vanish. The horses he’d hitched up were nervously stamping on the floating ramp; you could literally ride up onto the Haven while it moved, but it scared most animals like crazy.
Two stallions rolling their eyes; a fast wagon and a small fortune in drinks!
“They got the most expensive stuff, Barnethei. I swear, I didn’t take my eyes off the spot.”
And Roreen hadn’t stolen it. The delivery area was in plain sight. Barnethei scrutinized the [Driver], but he was in good standing with the Driver’s Guild. He looked around.
Open road moving past at a decent pace, three horses, a few guests passing by…one of the horses sniggered. Barnethei stared at it vaguely, and the horse stopped.
“Neigh. Neigh.”
…The [Vice Innkeeper] stared at the horse. It was definitely neighing at him. Why did he feel…? He turned away, and Taletevirion edged down the ramp. But he stopped, and his ears flicked up as Barnethei cursed and turned to Roreen.
“Well—we’ll just order a second batch. Keep an eye on it. At least we have that Antinium Rxlvn. No one can handle it undiluted—the nobles love it. And the Minotaur’s Punch.”
Oho? What was this? The disguised Unicorn flicked his ears up again. New drinks? He decided to clop up the ramp after the [Innkeeper] as the [Driver] settled things with the [Bartender]. People noticed him, of course—he was a horse. But somehow, most of them didn’t seem to realize it was odd having two horses just walking about the inn.
In fact, the only people who saw the horse and looked twice were a certain [Lady] and her [Maid]. Even they missed Taletevirion at first. Then Ressa’s head snapped around, and she whispered to Magnolia. The [Lady] put her head in her hands—and pretended to ignore him.
“That’s right. I’m just a horse. Neigh. Neigh, you stupid idiots.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras slowly turned his head as a horse walked past him. It sidled away as he felt…something…bothering him. But the horse was just lining up for the magic door. He only stopped once.
“Hey, kid. Keep your chin up, huh? I know it feels like the end of the world, but the world doesn’t end, sadly. Hold on and keep running.”
Ci looked around and then stared at Taletevirion. He dipped his horn and trotted through the door. Her mouth stayed open as Mihaela slowly sat up in her chair.
“What was that? Did that horse just—?”
 
——
 
Sammial Veltras didn’t notice the other guests. He was just staring at the portal door and sneaking glances at Jericha. Ullim should have been watching the boys, and he was.
The problem was…the [Majordomo] kept trying to stare at Sammial and Hethon…and he kept losing track of Sammial and forgetting the lad needed an eye on him at all times.
It wasn’t his fault. A certain Unicorn was standing right behind him and the [Lord], and his ‘don’t notice me’ spell was so powerful that even the [Majordomo] was forgetting Sammial.
It wouldn’t have mattered…except that the [Lord] was staring at the door. He tried to go through it when it opened, but he bounced off something invisible.
“Eight silver pieces. Sorry, kid. Get your parents to pay for the day if you’re staying at the Haven.”
Liska yawned hugely. Sammial’s features crossed. A Unicorn huffed.
“Says you.”
He walked through the door without more than a second’s pause. Sammial stared at the talking horse, and his face went blank. Then he frowned.
“Why do I have to pay?”
“Magnolia Reinhart.”
Liska shot back as she let her brother through. She was yawning as [Lords] and [Ladies] fished out coins and fumbled them into the pot on this side. Sammial’s features turned hostile.
“I don’t want to pay. Why do I have to pay? She’s not the boss of me.”
“Well, good luck on getting through.”
You literally couldn’t walk through the door unless you were Erin or someone close to her. Liska watched with urbane amusement as the boy pushed at the invisible barrier at the door.
“I…am…Sammial…Veltras! I don’t want to pay! I—don’t—want—”
He was pushing against Magnolia Reinhart’s power. By now, Taletevirion had passed through the door, and Ullim remembered Sammial, and his head snapped around.
“Oh no. Lord Veltras, get back here!”
He strode across the deck as Tyrion, Jericha, and Magnolia and Ressa themselves noticed Sammial. Hethon ran over.
“Sammy, you stupid idiot! I told you—”
The [Lord] was throwing his full, untrained aura at the door, and his time in Ailendamus had, sadly, only made it stronger. Meeting Oesca and the other nobles, surviving his time abroad—
He might not have won a clash of wills against Magnolia herself, but she sensed him bypass her tax Skill on the door. The [Lady] saw Hethon grab at Sammial—just as the barrier vanished and they went tumbling through the door.
“Oh my word. Tyrion’s sons are as inescapably bad as he is.”
Magnolia groaned as Sammial and Hethon vanished. Tyrion went striding after them—only for Jericha and Ullim to grab him.
“Lord Veltras, it’s fine. Sammial, come back here!”
“I just want to see Ryoka’s inn! Hey. Is that a—Goblin?”
Tyrion froze—and then Magnolia got to her feet.
“Tyrion, don’t you dare—”
Too late.
 
——
 
Sammial and Hethon Veltras had about two minutes’ head start on Tyrion. Mostly because Liska had closed the door after they tumbled through. She was yawning and didn’t realize they hadn’t paid the fee. She switched the door to Pallass.
“Anyone coming through here? Hello. Where to?”
The boys stared at the Hobgoblin. They were alone, unguarded, and in Sammial’s case, a true hazard to everyone around him.
Ulvama peered at the two boys as she came back from the outhouse. She’d been out there a while because she’d been eating all day—and then she’d been laughing at Kevin trying to hold back a silly white Drake as he went tumbling down the hill.
“Oh. Little boys. You lost?”
She looked around for parents and saw none. Sammial fumbled for his belt.
“S-stay back!”
“Sammial, don’t—”
Hethon was trying to guard his brother. Both had a hand on their belt knives. Ulvama peered at the little blades as they drew them. She shrugged.
“Liska. Two lost little boys. Go find their parents.”
“What? Damn—can you tell someone?”
Ulvama glared at Liska, but the Gnoll was busy. The two Humans—and the Drake—stared at Ulvama in horror, but the [Shaman] just sighed. Long. And loud.
“Okay. You two boys. This way.”
“It’s a Goblin!”
Sammial looked around for someone to kill Ulvama, but Liska just tapped a sign. There were three of them, one on each side of the portal door. One hung above the entrance.
No Killing Goblins.
Hethon read the words and stared at Ulvama. She just pointed.
“Yeah. No killing. Stupid. You want cake?”
Sammial Veltras’ mouth opened—and stayed open. Hethon was looking at the door, but Ulvama just beckoned.
“We find your parents. Come on, little stupid lost boys.”
“I’m not stupid! You can talk? Why can you talk? Are you a Hobgoblin?”
“Am a Hobgoblin. This way.”
“Sammy—”
Hethon ran after Sammial, but he couldn’t take his eyes off Ulvama for different reasons. She snorted and pushed open a door to the inn down a long hallway. The noise that hit the boys was huge, raucous, and exciting.
The first thing Sammial and Hethon saw was Moore tossing a white Gnoll up in his arms. He was a half-Giant! They goggled up at him—then the equally-tall Gnoll who was chewing with an entire steak hanging out of her mouth.
“Gross! Stop having an eating competition, Gire, Snapjaw!”
Someone shouted. An [Innkeeper] with the most powerful aura that Sammial had ever sensed from a non-noble was shaking her fist at a Goblin with a huge head—and there was a half-Elf with a bone hand stabbing a woman in the chest. Then a metal hand stabbed her back, harder. Yvlon Byres’ hand morphed, and the boys stared at a real adventurer from the scrying orb.
“Don’t play games with me, Ceria! How long have you had it? Did you lie to—”
“What is this place?”
It was amazing! The Haven was grand—The Wandering Inn was weird chaos. Sammial looked about, and the white Gnoll girl, dizzy, stumbled around as a little Drake girl shouted.
“Me next! Me next!”
Visma climbed up as Moore gently tossed her up and down, and someone strode past the boys. Hethon recoiled from a Goblin as tall as he was wearing a warlord’s armor in miniature, complete with reddish fur. She had a huge crossbow strapped to her back. She eyed him.
“Excuse me.”
She opened the door, and Hethon stared at Rags. Hethon was still trying to pull Sammial back to the door, but weakly.
He…wanted to look around. He hadn’t said it to Ryoka, but he had felt the urge to ask to come along even if Tyrion couldn’t. Sammial was doing what he shouldn’t, though, and the two boys bickered.
“We should go, Sammy. You’re already getting us in trouble. Ryoka’s fine. Goblins or not.”
“She’s never fine.”
The little [Lord] proclaimed boldly. Hethon nearly decided to put him in a headlock when Sammy looked around earnestly.
“She’s been worried all month. Someone needs to help her, and it’s going to be me! This is just like that stupid Duke. You should come too. She likes you more than me.”
His head ducked, and Hethon opened his mouth to tell him how stupid that was when a bee flew past. The two boys stared at it. Mostly because—they might have seen bees that big in the Vale Forest, but never a bee with a tiny Fraerling-made hat, smoking a cigar and shooting green jet flames as she blitzed past them.
“Wh—was that real?”
Sammial was agog—and twice agog when Ulvama came back with huge slices of cake on two plates.
“Here. Ishkr—look. Little lost boys. You find them parents.”
“I see. Excuse me—where are your parents?”
Sammial had a fork in the cake already, and Hethon bowed.
“My father is—”
He hesitated, realized where they were, kicked Sammial so hard the boy’s eyes filled with tears as he tried to speak with cake in his mouth, and pointed at the door.
“In the Haven! We just went through by accident.”
Ishkr nodded.
“In that case, why don’t I wait with you and we’ll bring you to the Haven right now? Keep the plates.”
Sammial kicked back ferociously as the Gnoll did the most sensible thing and escorted Hethon and Sammial back to the portal door. Sammial pointed.
“But thereth Ryoka! Can’t we stay?”
“Sammy, shut up. We’re in huge trouble. Don’t you know where this is?”
Hethon was sweating. A Unicorn was trotting out the front door, muttering about ‘damn doorknobs’, and looking around the Floodplains with interest as Ishkr patiently waited for some people to come through from Celum.
“Liska, open a door to the Haven, would you? These two came through without their parents. Something you shouldn’t have allowed.”
“Father. My father is—”
Sammial yelped as Hethon stepped on one foot. Ishkr glanced at the boys, but Liska was already setting the dial to the Haven, arguing with him. All would be well.
Then—as so often happened around Ryoka Griffin in Sammial’s experience—
Something exploded.
 
——
 
Tesy ran through Liscor. Screaming.
His eyes were no longer clouded, and the [Magical Painter], Sellme, had a cut on one cheek that made his scales turn red with running blood. It was probably poisoned, but he’d drawn a bandage over it with an antidote sign on it.
Behind him came a song. Through the mists, the shouting chaos in the streets of Liscor as the Watch blew alarms calling everyone indoors, past the sounds of fighting—people shouting as he slammed into them and ran past stalls—
He heard the music. It was just one instrument right now. Someone was striding after Tesy and playing music.
A violin’s wailing strings. Just like in Salazsar and everywhere he’d run—he heard a single note.
One of Symphony.
She came after him in leaps, her violin still playing that eerie wail. But she didn’t hold the instrument. Every time she stepped or moved or slashed—he heard the notes, as if she were the violin herself.
A Drake with a fan of dagger-blades. She hurled one, and the [Magical Painter] whirled.
“Stop!”
Time slowed as Tesy drew a page, ripped it out of his artbook, and threw it up. A wall of bricks. The blades thudded through the masonry, lodging halfway.
Tricks. Sellme, the famous painter, was so high-level he could neutralize poisons, create fake walls—or literally put doors down that created temporary boltholes.
His newest creation was simply a trick of perspective. A long tunnel—not a door. He threw it up and charged through an apartment complex and out the other side. The [Assassin] had paused at the entrance of the tunnel. He slashed paint across his creation as she threw another knife—it vanished and fell to the ground as his magical painting ended.
This would have been enough to escape most pursuers. And certainly—Tesy kept running, and he was fast on his feet.
