Someone coughed, and Erin jumped and saw Jelaqua edge into the conversation. She had a drink and a cupcake on a plate. She innocently stood there…and Erin saw Halrac standing behind her.
“Halrac?”
“Hmm?”
He didn’t even come up with an excuse. He just stood there, arms folded. Erin looked over his shoulder, and Gireulashia tried to hide behind Inkar. She actually managed to hide most of her body, somehow.
“Oh, come on. Who’s listening in?”
Half the people loitering around her coughed or looked away. Venaz wasn’t even bothering, like Halrac. He was pulling a Grimalkin and taking notes. He raised his brows as Erin shook a fist at him.
“Miss Solstice, this is exceptionally valuable information. At least put up a privacy spell if you really want to keep this ‘secret’.”
Erin glared at him. She raised her voice as Rags glowered at everyone taller than her.
“Alright, you want to hear it? <Quests> have requirements. Requirements! Not just rewards—well, they’re tied to rewards. I have this one I can’t post because I’m missing something. Or I don’t know exactly where something is, or I can’t—fulfill the reward.”
“Really? Like what?”
Erin huffed, but she was in too deep now. She scuffed a foot on the ground and turned red.
“…Apparently, I can’t dance good enough. And I can’t sword well enough either.”
“You mean, use a sword?”
“Yeah, to teach people. Which is rude! I can definitely dance. I think. I mean—I don’t dance. But isn’t that rude?”
Dance-based quests? Wil mouthed and decided he needed to send a [Message] to the Lord of the Dance. Onieva just started laughing.
“She can’t dance? Or use a sword?”
“Don’t bully me! Just because you’re Saliss’ cousin—I’ll hit you!”
Erin turned red. She raised her fists, and Onieva ruffled her hair.
“And I’m a bit of a good fighter too. Chaldion teaches all the family how to fight. But if that’s the problem—I think I’ll go kick Saliss after all. Or just raid his lab. Has he never told you about Talent Potions?”
“What now? Oh…”
Erin’s eyes widened, and Onieva winked at her. Mirn cursed as she called over her shoulder.
“He might actually have one for sword-fighting. Not that he’s a specialist. Maybe that’ll help? Or you could get someone to give you a boost.”
She headed for the door, and Mirn ran after her, swearing. At least she hadn’t told Erin to come with! In the meantime, Chaldion was murmuring to Erin.
“If you need a boost to fulfill these requirements, we could set up a test with—”
“Gyaah! I just want Christmas! No one make me any offers!”
Erin scowled around and broke up the group by dashing out of it. She put her back to the wall.
“Anyone wants to get a <Quest> out of me—you’d better beat me at chess first!”
“Well, let’s have a game, then.”
Venaz grunted. Erin smirked at him—and Peki cracked her knuckles.
“I have an idea how to win.”
“Punch me and die.”
The Garuda sighed. No one liked her solutions. Erin was just about to sit down and begin deflecting people via her one game when something happened.
The wind had been brisk and chilly this winter day. Enough to make people hurry in and out—while one white-scaled Drake, oblivious, slowly stumbled his way down the hill. Kevin kept directing him back to the outhouse and shaking him, growing more and more concerned. But he needed both hands to drag Tesy back, and no one heard him calling for a hand.
—Because the wind suddenly picked up. It turned from a breeze to a sudden gale.
The shutters on The Wandering Inn’s windows suddenly clattered against the glass. The wind blew, a fierce storm of air, like the jangling of nerves. Like the beating of someone’s heart.
Erin Solstice froze and turned her head. Mrsha’s little head had snapped up when the wind blew, and the thing she had been waiting for…forgotten at last in the excitement…suddenly burst into her mind.
She sniffed, but could smell nothing in the crowded inn. But Erin was getting to her feet, ignoring Venaz. She turned to the common room door, and Lyonette, Ceria, the others filled with a premonition, got to their feet.
“I, uh…I think someone’s come to the inn.”
That was all Erin Solstice said. She turned to the door, and then a hush fell over the common room. The sound that had been echoing from within went quiet so fast that the person in the hallway heard it.
It did nothing to quiet their heart…but sometimes, you had to do something that was scary or unpleasant. That was called being responsible.
Especially if you had been running too long. So—and Erin Solstice could feel her guest, now, from her bare feet slowly walking down the hallway. The long hair, uncut and windswept, the nervous way three fingers of one hand rested on the door. She paused and took a deep breath sharply—and Mrsha, Gire, and the Gnolls heard it.
A second, two…and then a hand pushed the door open. Ryoka Griffin looked into a room filled with more people than she had ever seen. She looked at someone standing there—and her heart faltered.
For Erin Solstice was not frozen. Nor a ghost. She stood there, hands clasped together, squeezed tight, staring at her friend. Ryoka Griffin’s eyes widened.
Was she the only person who saw the flaming hat on Erin’s head? It burned in vivid colors, pink glory, pale grey mercy, blue sadness—each color bright and licking upwards.
Emotion burning over her. The [Innkeeper]’s hat glowed brighter than anything else in the room, and she stood there—staring at Ryoka Griffin.
The Wind Runner looked different. Older, perhaps, dressed differently in richer, well-tailored clothing with a foreign crest on one shoulder that made Lyonette frown. Her bare feet were wrapped now by pale white cloth, and she carried an odd hilt of some weapon on her side that Chaldion stared at.
She carried currency from another land in her bag of holding, and she looked guilty, afraid, and uncertain. But that—that was how you knew it was Ryoka Griffin.
The Courier stopped in the doorway, looking around. Ceria Springwalker, Mrsha, Lyonette, Pawn, Relc—
So many faces she knew. So many, like Chaldion or Lehra or Shriekblade, that she didn’t. Ryoka eyed the veil of shadows as a Drake with countless scars stared out of it, looking disconcerted. She turned—and a little, white Gnoll stared solemnly at Ryoka. An orange cat meowed curiously as a Hobgoblin lifted it up, and that little sound made Ryoka start.
“A cat?”
That was the first thing she said, as if it were the strangest thing in the world. She missed the Sariant Lamb staring, staring at her from the stairs leading to the second floor.
A cat? Everyone turned to Reagen—and then Erin Solstice began laughing. She laughed and laughed, then held her stomach and laughed harder as Ryoka Griffin turned beet red. Seborn choked on his drink, and Garia and Fierre, getting up, started giggling too.
Even if you didn’t know her—Erin Solstice stepped forwards as Ryoka hesitated there. And though she had been gone too long, though some people held back like strangers—the first thing Erin did was give Ryoka a big hug.
Just like last time. She grabbed hold of Ryoka and refused to let go.
“There you are. I’ve been waiting, you—you slow Runner! Where have you been?”
Ryoka Griffin looked down at Erin and awkwardly hugged her back. Her speech vanished from her mind, and she said the only thing she could think of. Silly and mundane as it was—
“I’m sorry I’m late.”
Then someone got up and grabbed Ryoka in the hug—and Ceria Springwalker was cackling with her own delight. Ryoka tried to get free—but Erin clung to her, and a little Gnoll had one leg. So Ryoka Griffin stood there, paralyzed. She didn’t even try to run.
Much.
 
——
 
Nerry should have found a way to cause a distraction at once. Or—wait. But she had been waiting for months, and this was her chance. The Wind Runner was notoriously flighty. This was the moment—
The lamb knew that. But even she hesitated. Even she waited. Even she had a heart.
Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin stood there, in the [Garden of Sanctuary], and the [Innkeeper] had buried her head in Ryoka’s shirt. She was speaking.
“I’m not crying, okay? This—this is so embarrassing. I can’t stop.”
“It’s okay. It’s alright, Erin.”
Ryoka wiped her face on an arm before Erin could notice. The little lamb rolled her eyes and trotted off. But Erin wasn’t fooled.
They’d stepped through the door for one moment. Just because everyone had tried to get at Ryoka at once. From Visma begging for a flying lesson with Bird to Relc to…
Erin had done the one thing she could, the selfish thing. Mrsha was currently howling and banging on the sealed [Garden of Sanctuary], which let no one through. Nerry had already been inside.
The [Innkeeper] and the Courier.
The girl with a hat of flames, and the fae-touched windfriend.
Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin.
They stood there a moment, and Erin muttered.
“I’ve stopped. I should—show you around the garden. I should let Mrsha in, and there are statues and—”
“That can keep. Right? It’s good to see you.”
Erin still hadn’t let go. It wasn’t the two-armed hug any more, but she had a hold on Ryoka’s shoulder with one arm. It trembled, and it felt weaker than it should have. For all that, Erin was on her feet.
She was alive. Ryoka’s own eyes were glistening as she looked at her friend.
“Here you are. I don’t believe it. If anyone could do it…I saw you, dead, Erin.”
“I’m sorry. I was a fool.”
Erin hung her head, and Ryoka stared at her, breathless for words.
“You’re saying that to me? Erin. I’m just glad you’re back. Even when you were dead—did I really see you there, at Ailendamus, during the battle?”
“Yes.”
Ryoka Griffin had seen the Faerie King. She had seen Ivolethe come back to life and met immortals and more. But even she took a second to try and believe. Erin just leaned on her friend.
“And you went all the way to Ailendamus to try and cure me? Did I hear you stole a scroll from a Wyrm?”
Ryoka jumped and looked around, and Erin was too distracted to notice Nerry—but the lamb knew that already. The Wind Runner just shrugged helplessly.
“I thought it was the fastest way to help you. And it sort of was—or I might have been meant to be there. But I just messed up a lot.”
“Compared to me being dead.”
Ryoka had to turn to Erin. She took a breath—exasperated—and then almost snapped back.
“You were dead—but somehow, even being dead, you helped me. You helped save Mrsha, and Fetohep of Khelt helped the Horns of Hammerad. Erin. We were trying to do the impossible for you, and you did it right back.”
The [Innkeeper] just wiped her eyes and chuckled.
“You’re my friends. I just feel—everyone did so much and was in so much danger for me.”
“That’s because you’re you, Erin. I’m sorry I’m late. I’m an idiot, and I’ve brought more trouble and—things to deal with with me. But I wanted to help.”
The shorter young woman looked up. Ryoka Griffin looked nervously down at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Don’t look so guilty. I know you run around. I’m just happy to see you, my friend.”
She said it like that, because, somehow, she knew that meant more to Ryoka. The Wind Runner ducked her head.
“Yeah, f-friend.”
She stuttered, and Nerry threw up in her mouth as she tried to dig a hole in the dirt to bury her head into. But their laughter didn’t sound that bad. Of any two in this entire world, the two Earthers had a different sort of connection. Erin glanced over her shoulder.
“Mrsha’s threatening to throw all my cakes on the ground. We’d better go back. But—tell me everything. Come on. And stop crying. You’re supposed to be a Courier, huh?”
 
——
 
Despite Erin’s comments, it took about twenty minutes for Ryoka to convince Erin to let her go once they returned to the common room. And Erin only did when Onieva came back.
“Ooh. Am I interrupting something intimate?”
The Drake had a vial of something in one claw. Erin let go, flushing.
“This is Ryoka, Onieva. Onieva—what’s that?”
“Talent Vial. Saliss must have been out. If he complains—tell him Chaldion did it.”
Onieva tossed it to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] dropped the vial. Ryoka didn’t bother trying to reach for it—as it tumbled to the ground, she flicked a finger up—and the vial’s fall halted as the wind blew around it.
“Whoa! Ryoka, you’ve got wind powers!”
“It’s just a trick. I’ve been practicing.”
Erin fumbled with the vial, putting it in her bag of holding to Onieva’s disappointment.
“Sorry, Onieva. I’ll look at it later. But it’s just—Ryoka’s back! She’s a super big friend of the inn and one of my first guests.”
“The Wind Runner herself. I saw you blowing around Izril with Saliss. Good job out there.”
Onieva shook Ryoka’s hand. She looked—interesting. Ryoka frowned at Onieva. It wasn’t that she saw anything different about the Drake—and she was seeing all kinds of weird things around the inn that no one else was pointing out.
Rather, Ryoka had the sense that Onieva could probably kick her ass. Which—as the Ryoka Standard went—most of the people in this inn could do.
“How do you know Erin? Sorry—”
“I’m Saliss’ cousin. I do deliveries for him sometimes, disgrace the family—but don’t let me keep you.”
The Drake waved Ryoka off, and Erin turned to Ryoka.
“Yeah! Everyone wants a piece of you! But you’d better not run off or I’ll put a bounty on your head. Or a <Quest>.”
She—didn’t seem to be joking, despite the smile. Ryoka looked around the inn.
“Where do I start? I—it’s good to see you, Erin.”
“Yeah, you can stop saying that now.”
After eight times, it got old. But Erin was beaming so much she grabbed Ryoka’s arm.
“So, how did you get out of Ailendamus after that? Did that scroll work? How’d the dude take seeing all those, uh, cousins of his?”
Ryoka’s head snapped around with alarm. She stared at Erin as if the young woman were a ghost again.
“So you remember everything? The cousins? Who the fuck were—”
She saw Chaldion and the others glancing at Erin and caught herself. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes twinkled, but also warningly.
“Let’s save that for later. In the garden again. Oh—the gardens! Plural! You don’t know—you’re going to love it. But later, later! So you were in Ailendamus for a long time.”
“I was—trying to help. It went badly.”
Ceria shrugged.
“Eh, you go to another continent and it always goes badly. You should have seen what we did when we tried to help Erin.”
