In the morning, Hethon Veltras was blowing on his fingers as he emerged from a frost-coated tent and decided winter had come too fast. He did feel guilty.
After all, he hadn’t done more than ‘help’ set up the tent with Sammial. House Veltras’ guards and staff, from Ullim to Jericha, had done the real work of setting up camp, brushing down the horses, digging a latrine; even scouting a place to rest. Also, making breakfast and breaking down the tent as Hethon got up.
They were eternal campaigners, Veltras folk. Either you took to the wilds with bow in hand or became Izril’s finest soldiers. The main family, under Tyrion, was so used to spending a night in a tent or bedroll that they did it in their sleep.
Even the youngest ones, fourteen, could have a horse saddled and ready to go in the blink of an eye. It made Hethon, a [Lord] who would lead them, feel—off.
He studied mathematics and took other lessons, and Ullim said it was harder to master a variety of talents than be an expert in one thing.
But what if you weren’t that good at the variety of things either? This was Hethon’s old worry, and it crept on him today—for a bit.
Life was so odd of late, though, that he almost forgot when he saw someone sitting at a fire and briskly folding a seared piece of meat into some travel-bread. Tyrion Veltras looked like a stranger to his son—until Hethon remembered, again, his father had lost decades of his age.
Ironically—Ryoka Griffin looked more familiar, along with Ullim and Jericha, than the younger man who glanced up. He offered the food to a young boy, who didn’t notice until a hand nudged him. Then Sammial took the food and began eating.
Breakfast—in House Veltras’ household—was a quiet, strained thing if Tyrion were there where you watched your manners as he discussed work with Jericha or Ullim. Or it had been. On the road, now, Tyrion had changed with the world, or so it seemed.
For one thing—breakfast was accompanied by a glowing scrying orb, and Hethon looked at it as he glanced at another tent of Corusdeer hide that held Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner—who had been up all last night arguing with Tyrion. She didn’t want them to follow her, and Hethon got why more than Tyrion.
Ryoka was headed to Liscor. Tyrion had sieged Liscor. Of such math, even Hethon Veltras got the impression they might not be wanted. But his father refused to stay, and the argument had ended without resolution.
Tyrion had made the incredibly…unique argument that since he was going to Invrisil, he, vis-à-vis, was not going to Liscor, and he had every right to take his children to see the City of Adventurers, which was coincidentally linked to the city that Ryoka was going to by a magic door.
Hethon had never heard his father play word games. Well, he’d see what today would bring.
They were a hop and a skip from Invrisil. So close, in fact, that Ullim had asked if House Veltras wanted to find an inn. But Tyrion liked camping.
An oddity this morning. As someone woke up from her tent, the wind blew, and Hethon wondered if it would snow. There was only frost and a few snowflakes today; but he was used to Winter Sprites. An advent of snow coming across Izril. Ryoka had claimed, for some reason, it wasn’t going to happen.
The Wind Runner herself emerged from her tent, looking sleepy and focusing on Tyrion as he turned to her.
“Good morning, Ryoka.”
“Hmpgh. Hey, Hethon, Sammial.”
“Good morning, Miss Ryoka.”
Sammial said nothing as Hethon ducked his head and gave Ryoka a smile; Jericha, who was inspecting the camp, came back with a cooler nod. But even she passed Ryoka a cup of tea with one spoon of sugar, having added Ryoka into her morning rotations.
The Wind Runner might not have been more than a passing heroine to House Veltras before—but her continued presence there and a month in the north had at least made it so Jericha knew how Ryoka liked tea.
It had also changed Hethon and Sammial’s mornings. For instance, while Tyrion gave Sammial, his younger son of ten, an exasperated look, he let the boy be.
Because Sammial was watching the scrying orb, and as Ryoka Griffin pointed out—it made Sammial less likely to try to make any conversation center on himself. Today’s scrying orb broadcast featured Drassi.
It was always Drassi. Tyrion hated her less than Sir Relz and Noass—and she had the best content. There was always something going on in the world of note.
Not just wars—Wistram had really got the television idea down. These days, you couldn’t win people’s attention with a soccer ball and a scrum. This was an example of the morning segment’s entertainment:
 
——
 
It was a bunch of grapes on the vine that a man, Kenjiro Murata, gingerly lowered into a box. He lowered it out of sight—raised it up—and a bunch of Fraerlings were clinging to the grapes.
One was literally hanging on by his mouth, having swallowed the entire grape in a single chomp. Alchimagus Resk and a bunch of Fraerlings, young and old, were munching with delight on the fresh grapes as they had an interview with Wistram.
The sight of a Fraerling grape-vine was so funny that Drassi lost track of what she was saying. Meanwhile, Sentry Leader Ekrn was scowling hugely.
“Make them stop that. They look like [Fools].”
He snapped at Guidance Heish, but she elbowed him aside. Enchanter Ilekrome was giving the interview today.
“It makes them people, Ekrn. If we can’t have fun—”
“And that?”
The camera swiveled left as the two Fraerlings leaders argued. Noa bobbed up from behind a little platform of wood. She had on a bright jester’s costume, and she swayed left and right as if she weren’t entirely in control of her body.
“Hey everyone! It’s me! Noa the puppet! Oh no! A villain!”
She produced a little club as she saw a second Fraerling emerge. Then Noa began to chase the other one around—but the entire time, her lower half was out of sight.
The ‘sock puppet’ theatre made a bunch of little Lizardchildren laugh so hard they fell over. The Fraerlings were putting on a show! To the delight of the world, they realized that Fraerlings had a huge sense of humor—and they could be cute.
Which, of course, was Heish’s idea. Ekrn hated it, but Paeth needed to be well-loved, not merely tolerated. Hiding had not kept them safe, but endearment and respect might.
“Is this what you do all the time, Enchanter Ilekrome?”
Drassi was trying not to burst out laughing, and the important Fraerling rubbed at his bearded chin.
“Well, Miss Drassi, we might be relieved from our siege ending. But if you’re our height, there are any number of things to do that are quite fun. Oh, here comes the high-dive.”
“Wait, wait!”
Aiko rushed past in a panic. She put a full cup of water down, and a Fraerling balancing on a rooftop spread his arms to cheers.
“I shall now dive into this body of water and survive! I’ve been practicing for twenty minutes and landed successfully two times out of five!”
He leapt to wild cheers and boos from the crowd below—the Fraerling dove straight down then realized he was going to miss the cup by several inches. He swore.
“Oh shit—”
 
——
 
The sight of a Fraerling hitting the ground made Mrsha cover her own eyes—but she raised her paws when she realized there was no splat. Instead, she saw a Fraerling bouncing wildly as his Rubber Body Ring saved him.
“You missed it! You missed it! Mrsha, he bounced!”
The Wandering Inn in the morning was having a sedate day. Well, slightly sedate—it was like they were waiting for something. Or someone to come in.
Gire shook Mrsha excitedly, and the younger Gnoll was saved by Lyonette. She made Gire let go, but the excited bigger Gnoll was agog.
“Their magic is so advanced. Drassi is so lucky!”
Mrsha, dizzy, nodded. She wanted to meet a Fraerling! And by that, she meant a fun Fraerling, not the Titan, who smoked and cursed and was sad about Erin being dead.
Noa was so cool. She was swinging around on those ropes—and she was leading a group of Fraerlings up to one of Paeth’s branches to jump off! Being small looked like fun.
Erin Solstice herself was watching the news, although she wasn’t smiling as big. In fact—she should have really been watching what she was working on.
“Erin, the cake! You’re messing up!”
“Whoops. Oh man. Well, uh—it’s okay looking.”
Erin stared down at the cake. The huge, frosted cake was being set for the party today. It read:
 
Going to miss you! Wil, Merrik, Peki, Venas…
 
The ‘z’ had turned into an ‘s’ that trailed across the cake and onto the table. Erin wiped at the frosting.
“Er—well, it’s close enough. Let’s just pretend I was bullying Venaz on purpose.”
“Maybe let Calescent do the rest?”
Lyonette suggested. Erin moved the cake to one side and fiddled with the frosting bag.
I shall take that off your hands, Miss Solstice!
Mrsha reached for the bag. Absently, Erin handed it to her. Mrsha instantly tried to squeeze frosting onto her cereal. She got one dollop before Lyonette tried to snatch the bag.
Gire got to it first and put half the bag in her cereal bowl, a huge amount into her mouth, and then she handed it to Nanette. The witch put a frosting sample on her cereal and handed it back to the [Princess]. Lyonette sighed…then did the same with her cereal because why not?
Erin never noticed. She was—distracted. She was watching the broadcast with the Fraerlings with some worry.
“Damn entertaining Fraerlings. I can compete with that. I’ve just gotta…get Drassi. Yeah, yeah. She goes on break at lunch, right, Lyonette?”
“Yes…”
Lyonette narrowed her eyes at Erin, but the young woman was nodding.
“Great. Then we’ll just pop over to Pallass unless Ryoka’s here—you know what? I bet she can help me endorse it too! Wind Runner! She’s sorta famous. Where’s my prop?”
“You mean that disfigured rat? Made out of wood and badly painted?”
“Yes. No, wait. It’s a reindeer, Lyonette. A reindeer head. Where’d you put it?”
“Bird took it outside. He’s been shooting arrows at it with Badarrow all morning. To ‘make it look better’.”
Erin uncrossed her arms. She threw up her arms and rushed outside.
“My reindeer! Bird! Don’t hide! I see you up there! You too, Badarrow!”
A normal, sedate day at the inn. Snapjaw was so sad that the frosting bag was empty she nearly cried—until she began licking the frosting trapped on the inside of the canvas. Which was so disgusting Rags kicked her. But the [Eater] refused to stop.
The Goblins were here. Numbtongue was here, showing Reagen to a delighted—but exhausted—Garia Strongheart, who’d just run in after days on the road. She was watching the cat nibble on some kibble as Apista flew past their table. She landed, flexing her new wings with pride, as she saluted the Fraerlings on the scrying orb. Then she settled down next to a certain [Bowman] having breakfast in the inn.
Halrac Everam had realized he could do that after Revi had visited, and the entire team of Griffon Hunt was here minus Typhenous. Cade was staring at a plate of eggs and bacon in a smiley face with delight as Briganda looked around for water elementals.
“Where’s Typhenous, Revi?”
Seborn was only watching the Fraerlings out of the corner of one eye. The [Summoner] broke away from the scrying orb.
“Wh—having breakfast with one of the [Witches]. Shh! Those Fraerlings have amazing magic! Are you not fascinated?”
“Pass.”
The Drowned Man looked sideways and shrugged. Revi waved her hands at the scrying orb and then at him in outrage.
“Oh, sure. You’re so cool because you’re a [Rogue]. As if you’ll ever meet one yourself.”
“The Titan was sitting in this inn, Revi. And I have met Fraerlings before. Unlike you.”
Seborn lifted a mug of coffee to his lips as Revi stared at him. A fine morning. The doors opened, and the [Strategists] of the Titan himself walked in, accompanied by Palt and Imani.
“The celebrations look to be in order. Good, good. We begin in about four hours. Is that our cake? Excellent. Ex—”
Venaz looked happy, if somewhat maudlin about leaving, and he strode in, smiling until he saw the cake. Erin waved at him and grinned at Merrik, Wil, and Peki, all of whom had that look of regret. The Horns of Hammerad were coming down the stairs with The Silver Swords, Infinitypear, and Rasktooth.
Today was a day of leavings and parties. Venas stood there, woebegone. But it was a fine morning.
 
——
 
“I intend to head straight for the High Passes as soon as Erin Solstice opens her door. I would assume Miss Griffin is on her way—see if she will meet us there, Ressa.”
Reynold stopped chewing on his food when he heard that. The [Maids] looked at each other as Magnolia Reinhart put down her fork. They were staying at The Noble’s Fancy, Pallass’ premier inn.
Although, the [Maids] and Ressa were waiting on Magnolia instead of the inn’s staff trained and dressed to look like actual noble’s staff. Some of them were taking notes as Ressa hesitated in pouring more milk into Magnolia’s morning cup of tea.
Some people refused to switch from tea to coffee. Others had thrown tea behind them, never to return. Magnolia?
She was a heathen, forsaken by all, loved by none. She raised the cup of milk tea with sugar to her lips…and a latte filled with more sugar was waiting for her after the tea.
“The High Passes aren’t safe, Lady Reinhart.”
Ressa muttered, and Magnolia’s eyes glittered.
“Tell me when they were. You couldn’t clear them with an army, Ressa. No waiting, no delays. News of my presence has spread already. I shan’t suffer the Cyclops on one shoulder—to the inn, to Invrisil perhaps, to collect anything else we might need and Bekia, and then to Celum. I imagine speaking to Miss Solstice might take a moment.”
“Lady Reinhart, we don’t have the carriage. Your safety…”
“Ressa, this is not up for debate. The number of magical objects poking me in the side as I slept should give us more of a chance than Miss Griffin had. To. The. High. Passes. Now—ah, good morning, you two. I think we will part ways at last. You slept well?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s blunt tones turned more welcoming as she rose, and Yelroan and Tesy halted. Tesy looked around furtively—and with ill-concealed dislike for this fancy inn. He probably would have drawn on it if it weren’t for current company. And the fact that he was afraid someone was following him.
Yelroan, for his part, was adjusting his sunglasses rather nervously.
“Thank you, Lady Reinhart. I’m heading to the inn, as I imagine you are, whenever it opens. I—hope it’ll go well.”
