“No, actually. She’s cool. She’s a Human. But she’s wild. It was her idea—I just didn’t realize it would lead to assassins! She’s already a Level 24 [Anarchist], you know.”
There was trouble in more ways than one. Salazsar’s museum, defaced? It had protections on the art, but Sellme could probably have painted holes in the glass cases and bypassed a lot of the security.
They might have done hundreds of thousands of gold pieces’ worth of damage. Possibly millions depending on how rare the art on display was.
No wonder a bounty had come down on Tesy. Qwera looked sick, but she only had a few things to say. After she smacked Tesy on the head.
“You’re staying at the inn, you idiot. In Erin’s garden or—in her inn. Shriekblade is here. I’ll tell Erin what’s happening. You are not going to leave this inn. Have they come after you?”
Tesy was so pale under his scales he looked translucent.
“Yes. I nearly didn’t make it. I thought it was a joke but—they’re everywhere. They play music, and—and I burned through every scroll you gave me, Vetn.”
“All my emergency escapes?”
“I couldn’t outrun them! I tried fake lakes, escape tunnels—they’re everywhere, and they’re so dangerous! I tried hiring [Mercenaries], and they either didn’t show up or…I—I dunno what happened to the others.”
Tesy was pale, frightened, and understandably so. Vetn cursed.
“Let me see if I can pull the bounty on you. Just—stay here, eat something, and don’t leave the inn, got it? We’ll get you a room.”
“He should sleep in the garden.”
That wasn’t even a joke. Qwera was glancing at Erin, and Vetn barely paused before nodding.
“That’s a lot better, actually. We’ll put Tesy in the garden. Just—stay here.”
“Thanks, guys.”
The Drake looked relieved to be here. Ysara felt for him in the way she felt for someone who deliberately stepped in a beartrap. She saw Vetn hurrying over to Erin, who nodded distractedly.
Erin was still waiting for Drassi, and apparently, she had forgiven Magnolia Reinhart enough to start the party. In fact—she was in the thick of things, showing something off. Ysara Byres watched as Erin roamed about, talking with the people who would leave, like Niers’ students, the Horns, even Ylawes and so on.
 
——
 
“Guys. Guys. Wanna see a magic trick?”
Venaz was playing a final game of chess against Bird. The two turned, and Erin felt at her head. The Minotaur and Antinium exchanged a glance—then she pulled something off her head.
Her hat. She lifted the flaming brim—and then a floating ball of light appeared. Erin lifted it out and tossed it. It floated past Venaz and Bird, who leaned away from it like a landmine.
“What is that?”
“Ooh. Pretty. You can do magic, Erin?”
“Tada! Hat trick!”
Erin laughed and batted the ball of light around. She beamed in delight.
“I can do magic, guys! It’s only Tier 1-2 magic—but I can do it like every fifteen minutes! Less if it’s a low-power spell. Rags! Rags, wanna see my magic trick?”
“Saw it.”
The Goblin Chieftain called over. Erin spluttered.
“Wh—but no! I can do more! Watch! I’ll pull a rose out of my hat! Palt, I can do illusions too!”
“Yeah. Incredible.”
The Centaur gave her a weak thumbs-up. Erin looked around, put out that no one was gasping.
She was delighted. And the Hatmen looked equally happy—what few looked up at her. Alcaz and a bunch of Brothers were clustered around Normen, who was trying on his armor.
“Miss Solstice, this is too much! I can’t pay it back—”
“Nonsense! You’re my [Knight]! And it’s Yelroan we should pay. Like, a lot of money. But you need armor, and you got armor. It suits you.”
Erin pointed at him, and she beamed so determinedly Normen sat up a bit. The Brothers looked at Erin and nodded.
That made her smile. Erin put the ball of light under her hat, and it vanished. She kept smiling—right up until she thought of Magnolia, who had just come through. Then she frowned.
“Erin, you okay? Did Magnolia make you that upset?”
Lyonette looked worried, knowing Erin by heart. Erin exhaled hard.
“You know, she did. It’s sort of like last time—but she did ask! And she did help, so she gets a pass. Plus, she said she’d invite me to her mansion in the next few days. Then I’ll say what’s on my mind.”
Yeah. Lyonette looked relieved that Erin was taking this stance—and that it would be Magnolia’s mansion, not the inn. Erin thought of it like that, to be honest. She had her grievances with Magnolia. But once she said them, maybe they could move on and work together. Or…if Magnolia was dead-set against the Antinium, perhaps that’s where it ended.
She needed to show Erin there was a chance of that. Sometimes, though—it just wasn’t ever going to work. But Erin wanted Magnolia to be on her side. She turned her head, wondering where Ryoka was—and she noticed Tesy’s panic along with Ysara’s bad mood, like a drain of negativity in that corner of the room.
“Hm. Didn’t Vetn say he needed Tesy to stay in the garden? What’s up with that, Lyonette?”
“I’ll ask Qwera.”
“Maybe do that. Hold on.”
Erin walked around the common room, and Wil Kallinad stood up.
“Miss Erin, I wish we’d talked longer.”
She stopped and smiled at him. Then motioned for him to leave the common room with her and walk down the hall.
“Me too, Wil. Say hi to Niers for me, would you? I mean, I guess I can say it faster than you, but…I hope you do well out there. Take good care of the Diamond Swords of Serept, would you? They were made by a genius…and when you’re worthy of them, they’ll be even better.”
She looked him in the eyes, and the [Lord] stared at Erin. He didn’t blush, as he sometimes did when a young woman looked at him so directly—rather, his gaze was a different kind of longing.
“I wish I could ask you candidly all the questions I have, Miss Erin. But you won’t answer me. Not even now?”
He’d asked her twice—and Erin exhaled.
“You’re not ready. Come back when you graduate—and graduate soon. Then I’ll give you something better than Niers’ holiday adventure. Deal?”
He stared at her and nodded slowly. Erin pushed open the rec room doors.
“So this is where you’re hiding.”
Reagen the cat fled as Numbtongue looked up, pointing at his face as Badarrow and Shorthilt gambled with Redscar. But Erin Solstice just marched over and tapped a Gnoll watching the scrying orb on the shoulder.
“Excuse me, sir?”
“Yes, Miss?”
A short, slight young Gnoll looked up at Erin Solstice. She beamed at him.
“Get out. I don’t want trouble today.”
Everyone else in the room twisted around, and the Gnoll protested.
“Miss, have I done something—”
“Aha. Want me to stab this one or just keep throwing them out?”
Shriekblade appeared behind Erin, and everyone but the Gnoll jumped. He looked suddenly very nervous as he rose. Erin turned to Tessa.
“Wow, you’re everywhere. I think I sensed Dalimont upstairs. Hey, you. Out. And if you try it again, Shriekblade’s less nice. Got it? Out.”
Without a word this time, the Gnoll rose and shuffled to the door. Erin stared at him, then turned to Wil.
“I tell you, the bad guests you get sometimes…yeesh. Okay, where was I?”
Wil just eyed Erin and reflected that if she could extend her [Innkeeper] abilities to other places besides her inn—some nations might hire her as a [Spymaster] or counter-intelligence. When Erin marched back to her common room, she saw Qwera talking to a moderately alarmed Lyonette, who was nodding at her Thronebearers and motioning to Tessa. And Ylawes had sought out his sister.
 
——
 
“Yvlon, help me speak to Ysara.”
Yvlon Byres looked up, and her reverie ended. For a moment. She was sitting at a table, and even Ksmvr was enjoying himself. Mostly by snacking on Erin’s Emberbread samples.
She? She was guilty.
Colth was right. She had been furious at him in the moment—but he was right. She needed help.
Yesterday, she’d attacked her entire team and Numbtongue, hurt him badly. He had cuts and bruises all over today, and Octavia and Garia had given Yvlon death-stares, but the Redfang was the most equanimous of the lot.
He was used to getting hurt in training—and he had said it was his fault.
But the truth was that it was Yvlon’s.
Yesterday. To cut things short, Numbtongue had found the Horns practicing and challenged them all to a fight. He had told them, to their faces, he’d take them all down by himself, albeit one-by-one at first.
Was that arrogant? Perhaps. Was it insulting? Yes—but it was a warrior’s bravado. The kind of trash-talk you were allowed to say to friends. A Redfang would get mad—and try to beat Numbtongue up.
Pisces and Ksmvr had certainly risen to the bait, but again, they’d fought hard, not angrily. Yvlon?
Yvlon had been angry by the playful talk before she got in a fight. And it had taken a single punch from Numbtongue to her cheek—a cheeky grin—and she snapped.
[Berserker Rage]. It had activated without her trying to use it. When the haze had cleared, Colth had been holding her back, and everyone was hurt.
I’m losing control. The [Gladiators] had warned her, but this?
Had she always been that mad? Yvlon was so morose that she just shuffled after Ylawes, who was still covered in glory from stopping Facestealer. How angry she had been at him—until it felt like the Horns had done more than the Silver Swords of late.
Yvlon passed by a sobbing Mrsha and only looked back to make sure Mrsha was okay. The little Gnoll was clinging to Gire.
Don’t go! Don’t goooooo!
Gire was crying too.
“I don’t wanna go! But I have to! I’ve gotta go to my tribe, Mrsha! But I’ll be back, promise, okay? Nanette, you—you take care of Mrsha!”
The witch was watching the two girls, big and small, sob because Gire had to go too. Instead of mocking her possible-rival for Mrsha’s affection, Nanette just produced a pair of scissors.
“Instead of crying, why don’t you cut each other’s hair off?”
“Wh—what?”
Both Gire and Mrsha hesitated. Nanette elaborated with a smile.
“Make a friendship bracelet. With some hair and some beads. Then you’ll think of each other.”
Mrsha and Gire looked at each other, then Gire patted Nanette on the head.
“You’re so smart.”
That was pleasant. That was like—well, it was like what single children thought brothers and sisters were like. When, in truth, Gire and Mrsha’s great friendship was because they were friends.
Siblings weren’t like that. Well—maybe other siblings were, but Yvlon had always envied her older siblings, felt like she was in their shadows. Had fun and cared for them—
But this wasn’t that. Ysara looked up, and her scowl never changed as Ylawes gestured to a seat for Yvlon. He dragged one over and sat down.
Three of House Byres’ main family. The three descendants of Yitton and Shallel. Two had gone the way of the blade, one the way of the merchant.
Traditional roles for them…but oh, how they had changed. Ylawes Byres looked the part. Blonde-haired—unlike his father who was going grey—tall, a [Knight] and Gold-rank Captain. A brave, honorable man.
Or, if you wanted to go the other way, stubborn, bull-headed, and committed to ‘the right thing’. Incapable of seeing a Goblin’s goodness until an [Innkeeper] hit him with a pan.
That had been Yvlon—of a sort. She had blonde hair, and she had looked the part—but she had scars.
From the undead and Skinner, from losing her team. Forever second-best to her siblings—and then she had lost her arms. Now they were gleaming silver, but Yvlon felt alien to Ylawes. Her best friend and teammate was a [Necromancer], and she would not have it any other way. She felt more like a [Brawler] or…[Armsmistress] than [Knight].
The youngest sibling, always catching up, always…angry. The one trying to live up, the one without talent. The one so filled with rage she had attacked an Adult Creler with her own arm.
These were the two Byres’ that most people knew. Ysara…Ysara was different. Looking at her, you’d never know she had once been the prodigy. She had disarmed a Silver-bell duelist once in an unofficial match. They had said her sword talent came once in a thousand years.
But she hadn’t become the great warrior of House Byres. Instead, she had become a [Merchant]—which is what some of the family did. But she seldom came back, despite being a good [Merchant].
Yvlon got it. She hadn’t understood for a long time, but now she did. Ylawes…maybe did. The three sat together, and they knew each other, as siblings did.
“Ysara, I know you’re not happy about coming home. We’ve—talked, Yvlon.”
“We’ve argued.”
Ysara corrected him, and Ylawes stumbled over his own tongue. She was the older sister, and Yvlon had forgotten how she could pull rank on Ylawes. But they hadn’t argued like this before she left.
“What’s making you so upset, Ysara? You said…you said you’d rather voyage through the Blood Fields than come home. It’s been years.”
“I know, and I know I have no excuse, which is why I came. You know, I made it up here last year. I turned back at the last moment—but I was at the Bloodfields when I came on back. I saw that Wind Runner you’re all gossiping about there, actually.”
Yvlon was astounded.
“Wh—Ryoka? She never said.”
“It was just a chance meeting. She looked busy. I’d like to talk to her. More than go home, anyways.”
Moodily, Ysara took a longer drink from her cup. Ylawes’ mouth worked.
“Even if it was last year—that’d be once in eight years. Ysara, I know it’s a pilgrimage north, but what if you worked in northern lands a year? Father and Mother would love to see you.”
The [Armsmistress] could see Ysara’s grip tighten on her cup. Slowly, Ysara looked up.
“Ylawes, you can’t drop things, can you? Will they like to see me?”
He gave her a long look. Not a blank one—but one of someone struggling. Struggling because he cared about his sisters, and sometimes they resented how it came out in him. Ylawes lowered his voice.
“I just—I don’t understand why you hate our family so much.”
Yvlon looked at him, and Ysara exhaled. Hard. They sat in a corner of the inn, and her eyes glinted as she looked up.
“Let’s pretend you’re right. Let’s say Mother and Father love to see me. That’s them. Do you think I want to go home? Am I going to enjoy visiting home, Ylawes?”
She gestured to her face, and then Yvlon looked at Ysara, really looked at her sister. And what she saw was not the famed blue eyes and blonde hair of House Byres.
Ysara’s hair was indigo, dyed. She had long earrings on one ear and a tattoo running down one arm. Unlike Yvlon, who had lost her arms in a fight, Ysara’s tattoo—her appearance was more shocking to House Byres’ traditions.
