Erin Solstice watched everything, red with shame. She was so weak, in fact, that the First Flute was holding her upright—she couldn’t even stand. She should have stayed in the inn!
The Maestro was giving orders fearlessly, and everyone was having to obey. The guests, the Watch, all fell back, leaving Lyonette and her Thronebearers, Tyrion, the Manus group, Magnolia…
“Now we negotiate the terms by which she’s set free. We will withdraw and release her once we reach a safe position. You may enforce it with a scroll or truth spell—after swearing to forgo pursuit.”
“Fine. We’ll let you go. But swear on a truth spell first to let Erin as well. Grimalkin?”
Lyonette was breathing hard, and Tyrion just glared, disgusted by the negotiations. But the Maestro glanced down at Erin and flicked up a claw.
“We almost have an agreement. Sellme—we cannot have him. I see that. But if we have a dagger pressed to the throat of Izril’s most famous [Innkeeper]—”
Larra was going to hate that. Erin glared at the Drake, and he looked down at her.
“—Then I think we should insist upon at least one more thing.”
“You have to be kidding me. We’re not paying a ransom. We have a hundred spells and bows on you. You want to extort us? Maybe we’ll take our chances. Not everyone cares about this Human.”
Rafaema barked at the Maestro. Magnolia Reinhart turned her head, then moved her hand. The [Assassins] tensed—but the slap to the back of the head just hit Rafaema so hard she staggered.
“Name your price.”
She called out as Lulv whirled around in outrage. The Maestro just stroked his chin.
“A <Quest>. Make it Heroic or Mythical. Something for us.”
He looked down at Erin Solstice, and the young woman gaped at him like a fish.
“You—you what?”
Ryoka Griffin’s mouth opened. The fearless Drake stood there, sword at Erin’s throat, and that was how Drassi’s camera crew found him. That was—
Well, that was the broadcast that changed things. An entire world, breaking news from Wistram. A famous assassin group, a blade at the [Innkeeper]’s throat. Erin got her attention. And everyone else learned something.
You could threaten the [Innkeeper]. Probably not kill her—but why would anyone do that? Yet if the Golden Goose didn’t want to produce an egg for you—
A blade might do it.
“I’m not giving a <Quest> to nobody. Eat a Creler.”
Erin snapped, red-faced. The Maestro pressed the blade to her throat.
“Miss Solstice. I’m told you have powerful friends.”
“Yeah? You’re not going to kill me.”
“No—but they might regret wasting a Potion of Regeneration on you.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated. The Drake’s eyes never wavered as he stared down at her. Lyonette bit her tongue so hard it nearly bled.
“Erin—just give him something!”
“You—you can’t make me give you a <Quest>. I can’t just give them out! They don’t grow on trees!”
The Maestro was amazingly poised. He’d clearly done this before. In fact…now Lyonette was remembering.
Symphony. Symphony and Orchestra. The famous rivals of the Named-rank team were a Drake assassin group from the south. This…
“This is all Deni’s fault. I’ll fucking kill him. He can’t end one damn nemesis? I heard he went to this bastard’s wedding!”
Colth was shouting in the background. The Maestro had a mirthless smile on his lips as he replied to Erin.
“Deniusth is a fool with no musical or martial talent to speak of. No, Miss Solstice, I know you may not be able to post anything you want…but I would bet my life that you could give at least one more insanely valuable, life-changing <Quest> out. In fact, I would bet it on a truth spell. And—I think the world would love to know what you’re hiding. In lieu of anyone else, I will play the villain. I am quite the killer. I wouldn’t hesitate to chop off a limb or a finger.”
Chaldion almost started applauding then and there. You had to admire it. Who here hadn’t privately, in the confines of their own head, considered that the best way to get what they wanted out of Erin was to hold her at knife-point?
But you couldn’t do that to people you liked. This Drake though…Erin was getting redder because she seemed to realize she was stuck.
The Drake might cut off a finger, and she didn’t want to go the way of Ryoka or the Horns. But he was forcing her to—to—
“Any <Heroic Quest>, Miss Solstice. To quote a clock—tick-tock, tick-tock.”
“I’m thinking! I can’t post most of them. And you can’t have…”
Erin was floundering. What could she do? Not invisibility cloth! Or—would he go for a dungeon?
The Drake was reading her mind.
“Something I personally would appreciate, Miss Solstice. Buried treasure? I am willing to race others within limits. No dungeons. If I don’t like it, I will regretfully make you post another. I’d take a free mansion. Do you have anything to do with music?”
“I can’t post my dancing quest. I can’t dance.”
“How regrettable. You might be a very fine study in footwork. The First Flute told me you nearly brought her down on your own.”
She just glared. Erin Solstice knew she had to do something—but she was being honest when she said most of her <Quests> were either long-term, too valuable, or…
 
<Legendary Quest: Destroy Roshal.>
 
She wanted to say it. She wanted to—and she knew that would just make things suck. Could she post the <Quest> through him and break every bone in his body like Tekshia’s Guild?
No, no, here was the [Innkeeper], unable to move, and even if she could—the [Assassins] were combat classes. The Maestro was a Gold-bell duelist.
Erin Solstice thought—and thought—and for some reason, something felt different. As she ran through the <Quests> she had and had tried, a short list, Erin realized something.
One of them felt—different.
It was like if Erin was on a computer, trying to click on a dead hyperlink or a program that never worked. Only now—she felt it light up in her head. Like an option suddenly reactivating.
Huh?
“There is one…”
It seemed then, to the audience—and Erin had most of the world, including a concerned Fetohep, Niers, and Ilvriss—who was currently demanding to know which idiot had activated Symphony—that Erin was almost speaking to herself, now.
Noa, the Fraerlings of Paeth, all watched as Erin puzzled out—on live television—a mystery of this new phenomenon.
“I—I couldn’t post this before. But now I can. Is that because I have to be able to fulfill the reward? Why can I do it now? Is it…something in my pockets?”
She stared down at her belt, and the Maestro hesitated. He nodded to the First Flute, and she searched Erin’s bag of holding.
“Jar of acid…I’ll just take this. Engagement ring of Salazsar—what? Piece of burnt bread, healing potion.”
“That’s a fake ring. That’s not what it’s used for.”
Erin said it instantly. She glanced up, spotted Drassi, and turned redder.
“Hey. Hey! Is that a scrying orb? Am I on television? This is a hostage situation! Get lost! No—wait. Christmas! There’s a holiday coming up and—”
Ryoka just stared at Erin. The Maestro cleared his throat, and the First Flute pulled something out that made Erin stop screaming.
“That’s it! Give it here!”
“Don’t let her drink it. It won’t help you, Miss. It takes a few minutes to activate, and believe me—I am far more adept than anything that potion will give you.”
The Maestro warned Erin, and she held it limply in one hand. But there it was. Everyone peered at it, and it was Alchimagus Resk of Paeth who identified it first.
“Why—that’s a Talent Potion. If I had to guess from the icon, it’s Mastery of Swordsmanship. Or some lesser variant.”
Saliss’ potion that gave someone temporary Skills or abilities with the blade lay in Erin’s palm. And she—she stared at it and then at something else, puzzled.
“Really? Aw—come on.”
“This is all delightfully fascinating. But if you wouldn’t mind—? It sounds like you have something to offer me. I tell you what—I’ll even forgo killing this [Painter]. Symphony’s word on it.”
The Drake was idly checking a [Message] scroll currently exploding with orders. He sighed, and Erin glared up at him.
“I’m going to remember this.”
“My dear. It’s just good business. But remember away. I will note, though, that my association has taken no lives. We are professionals.”
“You won’t get away with…no, that sounds bad. I’m gonna…I…today was supposed to be a fun day.”
The Maestro actually looked sympathetic at the plaintive tone in Erin’s voice. Ryoka lowered her head, and the elderly Drake leaned over and stage-whispered.
“Miss Solstice. If I may be so bold?”
His free claw indicated House Veltras, the forces of Manus, Magnolia, the Goblins—and the Maestro raised his brows.
“…I don’t believe it was going well before I interceded.”
Erin Solstice looked up at him, and in that moment, she decided she didn’t hate him the most. It was probably Tyrion, Manus, Ryoka—a list going down with Erin Solstice’s own stupidity and reliance on her bisque at the top.
All of them hating each other. All of them wanting to attack each other. Tyrion and Lulv staring daggers. The Goblins and Tyrion. Some of them had the best reasons in the world. So—Erin whispered.
“Fine. Fine. You’re right. And you know what? You asked for it. All of you. You want a damn <Quest>? Here’s the one you deserve.”
The air…began to shake. Erin Solstice raised her hand, and the Maestro leaned back. But she was grasping at something, writing in the air—and the words began burning in every [Innkeeper]’s mind in a hundred miles. The glowing words were clearly reflected—backwards—onto every scrying orb in the world, and the smart people grabbed a mirror or waited for someone to project the right wording.
Erin Solstice raised her hand with all the energy she had left in her body, and a piece of parchment flared to life as she drew it out of her belt pouch. The ground shook. And the vial of Saliss’ Talent Potion—
Vanished. Then the <Quest> burned in the air, and Erin Solstice fell back limply.
The Maestro grinned, and when he saw what she wrote—he laughed and raised his sword. He saluted her and stepped back as everyone’s heads rose and they read the glowing words tracing themselves across the sky.
 
<Heroic Quest – Zeladona’s Trial of a Thousand Blades!>
Limits: Must use a blade of any kind. No magic. No enchantments save your own, not on your weapons, and no armor of any kind but your skin. No killing.
I have been held hostage, and I’m being forced to post this quest by some ‘Maestro’ of Symphony. It’s a stupid name. The Maestro sucks. Symphony sucks. Orchestra sucks. You know what? Tyrion Veltras sucks too. And Manus. They’re all stupid names, and I hate you all.
You deserve each other. Starting tomorrow, gather outside of Liscor and beat each other up with swords, blades, pieces of glass, I don’t care. 
In honor of Zeladona, [Blademistress of Ancients] of another era, shed blood—but don’t kill each other—and to the victors, you will have the chance to earn her legendary Skill.
You do not know her. In life, she mastered more schools of blade mastery than anyone else. You may not be worthy of her Skills—but you can try.
Posted Reward: You suck, Maestro.
Quest Reward: Potential to gain the Unique Skill of Zeladona. [Walk of the Blademaster, Path of Legends].
 
And when it was done—Erin Solstice lay on the ground. Staring at the sky as people shouted and demanded she extend the window, let [Lords] and [Kings] and famous heroes sail or teleport to Liscor. But Erin just stared at the sky, glaring upwards.
Her body hurt. It was her fault. She stared up and up—until someone hesitantly blocked her view of the glorious sky.
Ryoka Griffin had her hands up. Tyrion, Manus, were standing down. Wall Lady Rafaema, the angry [Lord] of House Veltras—everyone had decided it was time to calm down, step back, and perhaps consider putting off a fight until later.
…Mostly because Pawn and a thousand [Crusaders] were aiming crossbows or surrounding the entire inn. The [Priest] was staring at Tyrion, the fearless Maestro and his Symphony, and Manus—and he was the [Priest of Wrath and Sky].
—But it was too late. Erin glared up, thinking that perhaps Chaldion could have stopped this. Or Magnolia. And maybe they had really wanted to see what she’d do.
She glared up at Ryoka as the Wind Runner stood over her. Ryoka stood there—and gingerly lowered a hand.
“Can I…help you up?”
Erin didn’t move. Ryoka flinched slightly, and Erin spoke after a few seconds.
“I can’t even raise my arms.”
“Oh. Then…”
Ryoka stood there and looked down at Erin. She scuffed her bare feet on the grass.
“I’m back, Erin. I’m sorry. I always seem to cause you problems. Can we still be friends?”
Erin stared up at Ryoka. The [Innkeeper] exhaled slowly.
“We were always friends, Ryoka. But sometimes—I really want to hit you.”
“That’s fair.”
Ryoka bent down and helped Erin get up. The [Innkeeper] put her arm around her friend’s neck and squeezed.
“We all mess up big time, I guess.”
She buried her head in Ryoka’s shoulder, and the Wind Runner patted her on the back.
“Story of my life, Erin. Come on.”
She gently led Erin back to the inn as the Maestro looked back. For he would be back tomorrow, too. Tyrion Veltras rammed his sword into his sheath as Sammial stared at Erin.
“I like her almost as much as Ryoka.”
 
——
 
As it all ended and everything went quiet, an [Emperor] was sampling a new pumpkin soup his [Cooks] had made when Lady Rie ran into the mess hall, followed by Griffon Hunt. He looked up blankly and then nearly spat out his mouthful of food.
“She did—what? Just now? Just now? And no one told me?”
 
——
 
Well, that was a continuing theme in many places. And—
—the next day—
The tournament began.
