Erin didn’t miss that. But she was staring at Reynold’s legs as the [Butler] sketched a bow, and then…the hostility was already draining away by the time someone spoke.
“Lady Reinhart. I don’t know about Erin, but may I say—welcome to The Wandering Inn.”
Lyonette du Marquin answered Magnolia’s bow with a kind of curtsey, though she only had an apron on. She looked at Magnolia, and Erin was confused.
Confused, until she remembered the recordings of the battle she had ‘been’ at. Then Mrsha herself was running forwards to hug Tesy—and look at Reynold and shake his hands.
“I merely sent a carriage. Miss Marquin. Those two lovable rogues in Oteslia could not help but pester me while we were anxiously watching the battle. They asked to be remembered to you.”
Wilovan and Ratici? Erin opened her mouth. Wait a second, she was still mad! But—Magnolia had tried to help Mrsha, hadn’t she?
And Lyonette.
And Reynold was cool, and he’d lost his legs. When Erin saw that, she remembered Magnolia’s war against the Circle of Thorns. She looked up, and Magnolia Reinhart stood there.
A [Lady] in pink. Intimidating, able to do what she wanted and get anything she needed—
A year ago.
It felt like ages. There they had been whisked into her carriage, Ryoka and Erin, and even later, Magnolia had been like the leader of Izril while they ran around their lives.
Now here she was in Erin’s inn, and she didn’t seem smaller…her aura was still there. But Erin’s was larger. It was like she’d gained a foot while Magnolia stayed the same. And now, Erin could make out details on Magnolia’s hither-to unreadable face.
She looked tired. Tired—and wary of Erin, of all things. Or was it the Thronebearers? Rags? Something else?
A [Witch] met a [Lady], and belatedly, Erin Solstice realized how close the two classes were. One was a pariah, a woman with a pointed hat. The other was defined by her bloodline and, often, a dress.
Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower Blooming in the North, was well-liked by few. Loved, by some, like her servants who had bled and died for her. In her long year in Izril, Erin Solstice had met few people who had Magnolia Reinhart on their side.
But she had noticed that even in Liscor, hers was not the first name they cursed when they talked about the Humans of the north. When she had visited the [Witches] of Riverfarm, they had not invoked her name with a curse, and some, like Mavika and Oliyaya, surely would.
Maviola El had once praised Magnolia Reinhart and called her a failed heir to her flame. Erin Solstice did not like Magnolia Reinhart. She had placed herself against the Antinium, run roughshod over Erin and Ryoka and the Earthers.
She had made mistakes like undervaluing—deliberately—Kevin and the others. Erin tried to measure out her each and every grievance against Magnolia.
Bullying Erin—or trying to. Much like Erin had never done to anyone. Not Jewel, gulping as she measured herself up against Ressa, or Todi or anyone.
Taken someone for granted? Never. Not Toren. Not Lyonette or…
As for her deeds, Erin Solstice had once thought she could do the right thing in every situation. Until the right thing turned out to be, for her, counter-charging a group of rioters to save some objectionable [Lords]. Letting a bunch of thieving adventurers go.
Sending bread to men with hats. Erin Solstice looked at Magnolia Reinhart, and it was not that the [Lady] had aged more than anyone else this year. Had she lost more than Erin?
Possibly not. It was just—simply—that Erin Solstice was different.
A [Witch] looked at a [Lady]. And she thought Magnolia Reinhart saw the flaming hat upon her head. A blazing myriad of emotions. But what made Magnolia’s eyes squint, that painful allure and brilliance, was a single word the [Lady] had for it all.
Youth. Magnolia Reinhart, like Mihaela and so many, looked in that mirror, even if Erin was so different, that led her back years and decades and through dreams she’d had, and it hurt her.
The reverse was almost as true. For however much Erin Solstice wanted to blaze with her own indignation and fiery grudges—she saw something coming off Magnolia.
Not…threads. Not a Spider’s web. But something similar. Perhaps—ribbons would be the right word. Fanciful ribbons, like the kind someone used to tie up a box of presents. Careful, even overdone for some.
Each one spoke of effort. Of care. Of a dignity that the gift-wrapper gave, not just to themselves to show how good they were, but to the recipient. To show they cared.
That kind of ribbon. Pink, of course. A silly color. Back home, Erin knew pink was girlish. And so even lots of women didn’t like it. Magnolia didn’t care. She liked the color.
So, pink ribbons, translucent, twining about her arms. Her hands, her waist and shoulders. She was draped in them. Almost a prisoner of a tangled nest of silk cords, but it wasn’t that she was trapped.
She was holding them in place. Almost desperately, and Erin felt that if this woman were to vanish—perhaps—parts of Izril would break apart. And she had only added to that burden since coming to Oteslia.
She looked tired. But she refused to let go. If Ressa bore Magnolia’s burdens, what did the [Lady] carry?
She had come here, chasing the very first ribbon she’d picked up long ago. A promise to a Dragon.
Erin Solstice did not like it. She did not like the anger in her chest having nowhere to vent. She did not like it, because more than even Larracel, she gazed at Magnolia Reinhart and felt a kinship she had never wanted.
That it was there—Erin Solstice closed her eyes and exhaled. Then, and only then, Magnolia Reinhart smiled, and Erin lost the sense of whatever she’d glimpsed.
The [Lady]’s voice was light and careful, and even now—she spread her hands gracefully, bowed slightly, as if a [Jester] inviting the impending enmity. The performer waiting for the loaded stand of rotten vegetables she herself had bought and placed.
“If you are going to throw something at me, Miss Erin, may I ask that you at least throw something solid? I have had to change my dress once already this morning.”
Erin Solstice exhaled hard as she saw it all. And that—she had to respect. She nodded, slowly, as Lyonette started, and perhaps a few others saw what she saw.
Erin still didn’t like Magnolia Reinhart. She took a step as Mrsha, Lyonette, and the others warily looked at her. Erin raised a hand—and then looked around.
“I guess…I guess you can at least sit down and eat food and stuff. We’ve got lots of cake. It’s gonna be one of those days, and I don’t want a fight or trouble. So yeah. Welcome in, Magnolia.”
She extended a hand as if ushering them in, and Shriekblade looked at Erin—then sheathed the daggers she’d drawn from her belt. Onieva relaxed, and Ressa—who hadn’t moved but had her hands behind her back, ostensibly folded—bowed.
The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn relaxed slightly as Magnolia smiled gratefully. It wasn’t just Erin forgiving and forgetting—but she knew Nalthaliarstrelous was Magnolia’s servant, and the [Lady] was trying for peace with the Drakes and forgiveness and second chances and all that.
Erin still glowered, and her lack of retribution earned her a boo.
“Boo. Boo! You’ve changed! Take her down! Give her a punch! No spine! No balls!”
Everyone turned. A drunk Drake waved a fist at Erin as she looked blankly at him. Rufelt covered his face and decided not to exist as Menolit shouted at Erin. The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth.
“Menolit, why are you drunk?”
He looked at her morosely.
“Love. Never had it. It’s just an illusion.”
Erin went over and patted him on the shoulder. Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips. Rather than look offended—she gazed at Menolit. And she called out over that inn.
“If it was sweet while you chased it, Sir Drake—then you did taste it. For some, that is all you can ever dream of. And it will escape you time and time again. Savor the taste of it. For it may never come to you as you wish.”
She smiled, and like a woman with a crossbow, shot wide and hit Menolit, Relc, Pawn, Garia—and a number of other targets so hard they leaned over the bar like murder victims and called for a drink.
—Erin Solstice hesitated, but the [Veteran] looked at Magnolia Reinhart and lifted a cup. He seemed to appreciate that more than Erin’s pats.
Then, Magnolia turned. She smiled and offered a hand to the first person.
“Waiter Ishkr, isn’t it? How do you do? I was so splendidly amused by your deeds with the Haven. If you ever quit your employment here—do give me a [Message].”
Erin’s head snapped around, and Magnolia flapped a hand at her.
“Before you object, Miss Solstice, I said, ‘later’. Years later, one would imagine. I am not so foolish as to assume I could pry Mister Ishkr here away for any sum. But a uniform would make this Gnoll dashing. And you, young miss, seem to be in the right place at last.”
She smiled at Mrsha and reached down to shake the Gnoll’s paw. Erin Solstice exhaled, but Magnolia was trying. And hey—it was an unexpected, almost unpleasant surprise, but she’d entered the inn, no one was killing anyone else yet—
Why, Murphy’s Law had failed. The big thing had happened, and Ryoka Griffin wasn’t going to come to some kind of death-duel with Magnolia after all. How was that for good?
 
——
 
“I do respect her, you know.”
That quiet comment came from two lips. Lady Pryde to Grimalkin as she gazed at Magnolia Reinhart. But another—
Well, it surprised the heck out of Onieva. The Drake raised her brows as she leaned on a table next to a sitting woman with indigo hair.
“You respect her?”
Onieva wasn’t looking at Magnolia—and neither was Ysara Byres. Rather, the two women were staring at an icy [Lady] shaking a reluctant hand with Magnolia.
Lady Ieka Imarris.
She was the second-best [Lady] you could ask for in any room. Famously, the shadow of Magnolia Reinhart. Successful, wealthy, influential—
A poor woman’s copy of Magnolia, if you wanted to really hurt Ieka’s feelings. She didn’t have Pryde’s sheer ego, Bethal’s wild impetuousness—and she was not Magnolia Reinhart of the Five Families, the Deadly Flower.
But Onieva just saw Ysara staring at Ieka. The Silver Merchant shrugged.
“I don’t know if you know Lady Ieka—but she’s cold-blooded at times. Ruthless—most good [Ladies] have to be. She’s…”
“Desperate?”
Onieva suggested, and Ysara laughed into her sleeve. Ieka was offering Ressa a hand to shake, and the [Maid] did it coolly compared to the flushed face. Ysara shook her head.
“She might be. But she’s here. Here. No one changed her. No one in Izril, not her peers or family, ever was able to change her. If there were more of her, perhaps Izril would…”
She hesitated, and Onieva looked at Ysara.
“…Have more [Maids]?”
“Doubtless.”
The two lifted a cup, chinked them together gently, and drank.
 
——
 
The sight of Lady Reinhart cautiously shaking hands and speaking with the inn’s patrons was one thing. She was arguably one of the most legendary guests ever to set foot in the inn—Zel Shivertail was the only approximate. You could argue even Chaldion was a rung down for sheer fame and presence.
And she did try—she shook Numbtongue’s hand, then Bird’s, and then Kevin’s, congratulating him and Joseph on their recent successes.
She got a lot of long looks, but it was something. And meanwhile, the inn had some interesting guests.
“Tesy! How did you get here? How did you end up with her? What in the name of the Ancestors did you do? Why is Symphony—”
“Hush! Get over here, Tesy.”
Qwera dragged Vetn and Tesy to one side as Mrsha turned. They looked nervous for reasons that Mrsha didn’t know, but she was half focused on Tesy.
Half on—
“Yelroan!”
The name made Lyonette and Erin turn. The Gnoll [Mathematician] stood there awkwardly, not quite knowing if he should introduce himself or what. But as Inkar and Gire recognized him, the Gnoll did the only thing he knew to do.
He—posed. Two fingers moved his sunglasses up, and they gleamed. The Gnoll grinned slightly—and Grimalkin grunted. It was no flex—but you had to appreciate his style.
The nervous Yelroan looked at Mrsha, and she beamed at him and rushed to scribble a greeting as Lyonette approached.
“Are you Mister Yelroan—excuse me, Mathematician Yelroan of the Plain’s Eye…do excuse me.”
She wasn’t sure how to address him, and Yelroan spoke, voice creaking with nerves.
“I’m, ah—that’s correct. Mathematician Yelroan, formerly of Plain’s Eye, at your service. I believe I have an employment offer from your inn? I’m sorry it’s taken a while, but I was travelling by myself.”
“No guards?”
Lyonette was dismayed; it was a long way north, but Yelroan assured her it had been safe.
“I stayed at inns and taverns, mostly. Down the trade roads. I had an escort from the Great Plains, but every warrior was needed for the coming winter. It will be…a harsh one, especially for the remnants of the Plain’s Eye tribe. My friend, Merish, is leading them. I hope—you can accept my past and connections to them.”
He looked guiltily at Mrsha, but Lyonette just hesitated, then took his paw with two of hers and shook it gently.
“From what I understand, you were one of the few people who stood up for Mrsha from the start. We are in your debt—and we have a room prepared for you. Do you have any luggage? Are you hungry? Please, step in! Erin is—that’s her, she’s just—”
She was speaking to Shriekblade, who was giving Ressa a death-stare. A Face recognized a Face—and [Assassins] and their like recognized each other even if both were former members rather than active.
“I don’t want to be a bother, especially with Lady Reinhart. In fact—I could help if, er, you needed me. I just have a handful of correspondence, no luggage. Though, I will admit my bag of holding is almost full up. I have a letter from Chieftain Feshi to Miss Solstice, one from several Gnolls to Miss Mrsha, some correspondence to Inkar asking if she’ll return…”
Yelroan actually had a lot of stuff, and Lyonette blinked as he turned to Gire, Inkar, and handed out missives from the Tribes. He had them all sorted, and he seemed—
Polite. Odd as heck, but she assumed that would be the case from Mrsha, Gire, and Inkar’s descriptions of him. If anything, she’d been expecting Yelroan to be posing on top of Bird’s tower, blinding everyone in a thousand feet while screaming ‘math’ at the top of his lungs from their accounts of him.
The real Gnoll looked shyer—and more like an actual expert in his class than she thought. He was—well—organized.
