But the problem with Symphony was that they were more than one group—or even a group of associates.
They were—a team. No sooner did the violin’s strains fade behind him than he heard another sound.
A trumpet. It played ahead of him, and Tesy froze. He looked around in the mists. The gates. He had to g—
“Aaah!”
His scream was loud in the mists. A feathered piece of metal was sticking out of his hand. His—
The dart had gone straight through his right hand! He looked up and dove—and the trumpet player emerged. He was carrying something.
Blowpipe. He’d loaded it into the trumpet, and his cheeks puffed. Six shots before he needed to reload—Tesy stumbled away and realized the darts were poisoned. He felt sick and ripped another emergency bandage from his artbook.
Only one thing was saving him right now. And it was the fighting around him.
“In the name of the Watch, halt! Lay down your—”
A Watch Captain was actually doing their job for once. Tesy had never been happier to hear the thud of the [Guards]’ boots. In fact—the only thing that had saved him from being murdered the moment he entered Liscor were two factors.
First—Kevin. He’d finally found out how to wake Tesy up—he’d thrown an entire bucket of water over the Drake, and as Tesy froze—booted him between the legs as hard as he could.
Mixed results, but it had stopped Tesy from literally walking into the ambush. The instant Kevin had seen the killers coming for Tesy, he’d run for the inn. Symphony had only gone for Tesy, though.
The real reason Tesy was alive was because Symphony hadn’t expected the complications. Not the two Gold-ranks harassing their members. They could handle that. And the Watch—though they should have gotten Tesy from the jump.
The real complication had been the group led by their Maestro coming under attack. A howling Gnoll had plunged into them with a spear. Tesy could still hear him.
“Assassination attempt! Keep her safe!”
Who was ‘her’? All he knew was that he knew Manus when he saw it, and the furious [Soldiers] were battling in the streets with Symphony. Spearmaster Lulv had seen the mists, heard the music, and assumed it was an ambush at the gates.
He came barreling through the mists, spear striking in endless attacks—but the Drake cursing him kept dancing back.
“Symphony, to arms! Upon me—[Company, In Attendance]!”
Spearmaster Lulv cursed—and it was one second of cursing. But then he had stopped attacking, and he was running. The Maestro’s blade slashed at his back and cut across Lulv’s enchanted Wyvernhide armor, but it didn’t cut flesh. The Gnoll gave the Drake that opening—
—Because every single [Assassin] in Liscor appeared around the Maestro. And there were sixty of them, singers, musicians—and the Drake himself. They opened fire with hand crossbows as the Maestro flicked his wand at Lulv. The [Spearmaster] turned and had to parry an exploding bolt, throwing daggers, and more in midair.
No spells. All throwing weapons or actual crossbows. Tesy was running, sprinting towards an alleyway’s corner. But the Maestro—
“End this.”
He flicked his wand left, and his Symphony unleashed a barrage. Tesy saw just a flicker before the throwing knives went for his throat, his chest, the darts from the trumpeter, an arrow—
Vanished.
Symphony halted as the Drake escaped around the corner. He should have been a pincushion. Dead a dozen times over. But he wasn’t.
The Thief of Clouds landed, paws dropping the arrows and blades he’d caught. In a moment! Despite himself, despite the frustration he felt at the botched attempt—the Maestro took that moment to salute Vetn.
“Magnificent.”
He must have blocked a few shots with his body. But the [Thief] bounded after his friend, and the Maestro sighed.
“Maestro, that was Manus’ [Spearmaster]! Are you injured?”
“No. I am not. But we have multiple Watch officers closing in. Manus is in the fray and—”
The Maestro’s head turned towards the eastern gates, and his eyes narrowed.
“—our famous inn. The plan has gone awry.”
Symphony looked at each other. They hated failing. They were professionals. The First Flute lifted a pair of daggers.
“Say the word and we go, Maestro.”
He surveyed the situation. Two Gold-rank adventurers—Manus was reforming, and he smelled lightning crackling through the air. A powerful Oldblood. The Watch and Antinium were in the streets, and a Face was protecting Sellme. He nodded to himself.
“No one dies but that [Painter]. Symphony’s pride upon it.”
The company nodded. The Maestro lifted his wand as he came to a decision.
“—One attempt. Fall back after our assault. [Concerto: Glass Rain Upon Issrysil’s Plains].”
The most logical move. Symphony nodded, and the Maestro counted them off.
“One, two, and—”
The music swelled, this time a faster performance, sharp notes singing down like death across the City of Liscor. The Watch, Manus—and the other warriors including Pisces and Ksmvr—slowed, because the sound had no fear. No remorse, and when the five-minute piece ended—
Manus was arrayed in a line. Wall Lord Aldonss stood upon an actual wall in the streets. Manus’ [Soldiers] stood behind the temporary fortifications, aiming crossbows down. They had enchanted bolts, the high ground, and three floating magical shield icons were hovering over their heads. Three arrows or bolts which wouldn’t strike home.
Yet—and yet—even with the famous [Spearmaster] and Wall Lord there. Even with Zevara’s Watch forming up a hundred strong and a furious Crusader 57 stomping around with Pisces and Ksmvr—
The streets of Liscor heard a sound. Five dozen instruments sang—and Symphony charged out of the mists. Straight at Aldonss’ wall. They leapt under crossbow bolts, kept going as Lulv stared at their fearless charge.
“Take them down—”
Aldonss speared one [Assassin] through the chest, but the rest kept going. The Maestro walked through the streets of Liscor.
“The painter dies!”
His people knew no fear. But one halted. The First Flute touched the Maestro’s sleeve—it was cut slightly by Lulv’s attacks.
“Maestro, the concerto was for us. Fall back.”
He gently untangled her claw.
“I fear not death. This is personal. I will draw the most dangerous fighters off. Go.”
He drew his sword, and Symphony ran faster. After the Drake, who was stumbling now, stumbling as Vetn dragged him up.
 
——
 
Tesy’s head was spinning. Vetn was there—but they had both heard that performance. The Gnoll was shouting at him, but the [Magical Painter] had already come to the same conclusion.
“Inn. Have to find…”
He began running as Vetn looked behind him and paled. The music began as an instrument picked up in the distance, and Tesy whimpered. He looked around.
Where was The Wandering Inn? Then he heard the whumph, some sound in the distance, and knew where his destination was. But then he wondered if the inn was safe.
 
——
 
The explosion of sound made Ryoka’s head snap up.
“What was—”
“Sammial Veltras!”
The sound of Tyrion Veltras shattering Magnolia’s ward broke through everything in the inn. Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes as Erin Solstice’s head snapped around.
“What the—someone just busted my door. Liska!”
“Oh my—Erin, listen. I was going to tell you—or not tell you—but that idiot—”
Ryoka grabbed Erin. The [Innkeeper] turned to her—then to an opening in the side of her wall. Liska and Ishkr appeared—the Gnoll hurried his sister into the common room.
“Erin, some Human just busted through the door on the Haven’s side. He might be looking for his sons—”
“Who the heck—nice work, Ishkr. What was that, Ryoka?”
Lyonette’s head had snapped around, and she was staring, staring at Ryoka’s tunic and the icon on her sleeve. She knew more than Erin about whom Ryoka had been associating with of late.
But there was no way she’d be that stupid. Right? Yvlon and Ceria’s argument halted as the two turned to Ryoka. Relc was fumbling with a speaking stone.
“Say it again, Beilmark? What the heck do you mean—Klbkch, something’s wrong.”
Klbkch turned his head, and Qwera stormed downstairs as Erin listened to Ryoka whispering desperately.
“Tesy? Where’d Tesy go? Has anyone seen…?”
“Goblins, Dad! But the sign says—”
No. Nononono. Ryoka Griffin was pushing towards the door to literally kick that idiot in the face. But it was too late. Tyrion Veltras yanked the door open, sword drawn, as Jericha, his soldiers, and Ullim brought up the rear. Hethon had him by one leg, and Sammial was pointing.
Tyrion Veltras halted in the inn as Ryoka Griffin saw him. He saw the Goblins, the Antinium—and Erin Solstice.
His face froze up, but he saw Ryoka was safe. Then—he halted.
“Good. What in the name of…”
He stared at the Goblins and Antinium, but then seemed to remember his promise to Ryoka. He backed up a step, and Erin Solstice—
Everyone else was staring at Tyrion, in recognition, horror, or just stupefaction. But Erin wrinkled her forehead.
“Hey, buddy. Who are you? What are you doing barging into my inn?”
She didn’t know. She had no idea. Maybe—Ryoka stared at Erin. Maybe she had never seen him. He had been at a distance the entire siege of Liscor except the end, and she might not have glimpsed his face. She began to stride over to Tyrion.
“Erin, this is someone—you and I need to talk, but he’s leaving now. He just came because his sons must have wandered in here. Now we’re going. Right now.”
“Erin, Erin, help. Tesy’s in danger.”
Kevin pushed into the inn, gasping—one of the [Soldiers] held a sword out, but Erin focused on him.
“Where’s Tesy? What’s going on? And who is this, Ryoka? He’s…a [Lord]. So’s that kid.”
She looked at Sammy…and Ryoka hesitated. She stared at Tyrion, and he looked at her and hesitated. Every bone in his stupid body told him to introduce himself, but the younger [Lord] didn’t look like the older one Erin might know.
He closed his mouth and took one step back. Slowly—Ryoka felt like she was holding back an avalanche with her fingertips. She prayed and prayed to the god Murphy of causality himself. But it was too late. It probably had been the moment he burst through that door.
Because it wasn’t Erin who realized it first. Slowly and calmly, someone drew a sword.
Numbtongue drew his Dragonblood crystal blade, and the [Bard] stared at Tyrion Veltras. Redscar unsheathed his swords as Badarrow lifted his bow—and every Goblin in the inn except Ulvama drew their blades.
“That is Tyrion Veltras.”
Goblins never forgot. Let alone the man who had sieged Liscor. The man who had pushed Reiss, the Goblin Lord, to attack the city.
Relc’s head snapped around. Klbkch turned—and suddenly, the room was very quiet. Ylawes Byres stood, and he felt like he was there, looking out across the muddy Floodplains, where his father and Lord Tyrion were sieging the city with trebuchets, innocents by the thousands in hiding.
Tyrion Veltras. He just nodded, eyes flinty and watchful.
“My apologies. I feared my sons were in danger.”
“Erin…”
“Tyrion Veltras.”
The [Innkeeper] said the words. Just said them. Quietly. But when she looked at Ryoka, her eyes lit up. She was not the fastest for politics or intrigue, but she knew people.
She looked at Ryoka and saw how Sammial and Hethon knew her. Erin remembered what Ryoka had said. She then remembered…
Lord Deilan El. Lady Ulva Terland.
“You’re his friend, Ryoka? His friend?”
It all came together. Ryoka saw her great friend’s face change. She looked at Tyrion, and he eyed her.
“The [Innkeeper] who posts <Quests>. Good evening.”
“Ryoka—”
The Wind Runner turned to her friend. And there—they stood apart. Ryoka had come back time and time again. Each time, the inn was different.
Sometimes, it was rebuilt. Sometimes, it was Erin who had a bad day. Sometimes, Ryoka brought trouble—sometimes, she left.
But in the times when she was gone—Ryoka Griffin missed the moments that defined the inn. She knew Rags.
—But she did not know Goblins. Nor Antinium, like Erin did. Pawn was hurrying out of the inn, using the [Garden of Sanctuary] to bypass the frozen Veltras family. He ran out the front door—and Magnolia Reinhart had come to stop a disaster.
She felt it. If Erin Solstice’s wrath upon Magnolia had been brief—now the inn was trembling. Ressa yanked Magnolia back, and the [Lady] glared—until she saw the glint of metal in the hallway.
Crossbows. A Brother tipped his hat to Magnolia, but he had a bead on Tyrion’s back. Erin Solstice’s voice came from within.
“Arm the hallway. If he so much as lifts his blade—shoot him, Bird.”
“Through the face or the legs, Miss Solstice?”
“Doesn’t matter.”
Magnolia experienced a thrill of panic. She could not be serious! But then—Tyrion was there, that fool, and Erin Solstice must not have realized the younger man was a shell of who he’d been.
A shell waiting to grow ever larger—but she saw the Lord of House Veltras. But in this moment, he only had Ullim and Jericha and a handful of his soldiers.
Erin?
Magnolia saw Reynold kick the secret passage open, and they hurried past the Brothers. They pivoted—and decided not to tangle with Ressa. Magnolia entered the common room and felt another thrill of worry—and delight.
Bird, Halrac, and Badarrow had their bows raised. Three of The Wandering Inn’s finest archers had Tyrion in their bowsights. And they were just the archers.
Jelaqua Ivirith had her new flail out and was covering Maughin. Moore was shielding Mrsha and Visma, who stared out from behind him, with a staff in hand—and Gireulashia was craning her neck, one paw under a table. Ready to throw it.
Redscar looked right and left, at Snapjaw and Numbtongue, and if Tyrion Veltras, immobile in the doorway, were to sneeze—he narrowed his eyes, because some Gnoll with sunglasses was also blinding him in the corner of his eye.
It was Ryoka Griffin, Ryoka Griffin who stood in front of him and death. She had her hands raised, and Bird kept adjusting his arrow as she moved in front of Tyrion. Her hands were up, and she was speaking slowly, carefully. Pleading with Erin. Magnolia Reinhart hesitated. This was not the time to use a charm Skill—especially not in this inn. But Ryoka Griffin? Tact?
Then she heard what Ryoka said, and it was so extraordinary that Magnolia Reinhart had to listen.
“Listen, Erin. Just hear me out. I know this man has done…terrible things. I know he’s done things to you and Liscor—and he has committed acts of war. You have every right to hate him and hold a grudge.”
