He sat back in his stool, and suddenly, all of his good-nature in the morning deserted him. Klbkch came back to pat him on the back a few more times before walking off to say hi to Erin.
In silence, Menolit sat at the bar.
“You got any Rxlvn?”
He addressed the Gnoll behind the bar. It wasn’t Ishkr. Today, for the party, Erin had asked a friend to help out.
Rufelt looked a lot better, and the [Bartender] hesitated because you weren’t supposed to harm your clients. But one look at Menolit and he measured a third of a shot into a glass, mixed it up with an ale, and handed it over. Menolit took it down fast.
“I, uh…I might need one too.”
Relc sat there, drooping. Menolit glanced sideways at him.
“You didn’t go to the pub.”
“Nah. But Ryoka’s coming back. Just—nevermind.”
In silence, Menolit turned back to his cup and waved a claw for another.
“Yeah. Don’t bother hoping.”
The two Drakes sat there a moment, and someone came over to join them. Pawn had reappeared for the party, but he was avoiding Lyonette. After a moment—a fourth person sat down.
Relc, Menolit, and Pawn, now being served what Rufelt was deciding he’d call the Heartbreak Healer, glanced at an unexpected guest. Relc made a claw so as to shove off the young woman sitting there.
“What’s your problem?”
He glowered with Menolit and Pawn at Garia Strongheart. The City Runner just glanced over her shoulder.
“He got a cat. Did she get it for him?”
All three turned and saw Numbtongue, still laughing about his orange tabby. But Garia was focused half on Numbtongue and half on…Octavia. Relc raised his brows at Menolit, and the Drake scowled.
“I hear that [Witch] in Riverfarm sells curses.”
In silence, Relc drew up a stool for Garia. Who was only going to sit here for a moment. She knew Numbtongue was in an open relationship, even if he didn’t call it that. And Octavia was fine with it. So was Garia.
 
——
 
It felt like the only stable thing in this world was that which wouldn’t last. And at least Kevin and Ceria looked like they were vaguely having fun as she held a raw steak over an eye.
“I haven’t done this since I was a poor Bronze-rank. No healing potions—ow!”
“Now you know how us Earth-lovers do it.”
“Your lives suck.”
“You’re telling me. So where are you going first? House Byres or…?”
Ceria Springwalker shrugged and glanced over to someone sitting by herself—well, Ksmvr kept checking on her—staring blankly at the table and carving in it with one finger. She lowered her voice conspiratorially.
“Depends. Yvlon’s wavering. Her brother and sister are going north, and it’s apparently only a two-day ride to House Byres from Riverfarm. I’m down to make a stop—but, er—it might not be fun.”
“I thought you said you liked House Byres.”
Ceria took a long swallow of blue juice.
“I did…but look over there.”
Ysara Byres was smiling about as hugely as Yvlon. For different reasons, but her brother, Ylawes, was eying her. He was definitely going home—and so was she.
Rasktooth and Infinitypear and Vuliel Drae were more excited than Ysara. Ylawes, for his part, looked disappointed—but only because he was shaking a Gnoll’s paw.
“You’re sure I can’t ask you to reconsider, Nailren?”
The leader of The Pride of Kelia gave him a regretful smile.
“I’m afraid so. I have my team to at least return to Hawkarrow—and I’ve promised to help take the Titan’s students south. I might be going with the Horns if they head south immediately. Tribes willing, we’ll meet again in the new lands, for I’m bound there.”
It was too bad. But Ylawes had seven new members to his team. Anith, Insill, Pekona, Dasha, Larr, Infinitypear, Rasktooth—
He looked around and realized two were missing.
“Where’s Pekona?”
“Practicing. She’s at the training courts or by herself all the time. Trying to make up for ‘disgracing’ herself at the Village of the Dead. She needs a confidence boost. Dasha’s right over there. I’ll get Pekona and tell her to show up for the party.”
Insill slid out of his seat as Ylawes tried to think. Anith had agreed to give over his leadership role—though he’d still be invaluable, but they were his teammates now. Lower-level, lower-rank…he winced as he saw where Dasha was.
Dawil was sighing into a cup wistfully.
“It’d be a shame not to visit Dwarfhalls Rest before you go, Merrik.”
“Aye. Maybe. But the truth is, I’m sure it’s just a mess of setting up. I’m angling to get my friends to Deríthal-Vel sometime soon. A more peaceful vacation. Meeting Master Pelt was enough for me, even if he just threw coal at my head.”
Dawil, Merrik and Elgrinna were standing together. It was Elgrinna who’d suggested Merrik delay their departure a day or two, and the Dwarf did look regretful. But they were long-lived folk. And he had to get back to class.
He was the youngest of the three Dwarves too. Dawil and Elgrinna were older and didn’t bother with years, but Merrik was noticeably young if they compared sheer lifespans. Well—except for the fourth person, who broke in.
“Ah, home. I’ve been meaning to make a pilgrimage home myself. See where my roots are. I mean, where I’m hewn from.”
Dawil closed his eyes. Elgrinna rolled hers up, and Merrik smiled as politely as he could. Dasha was currently annoying all three Dwarves with references to their ‘culture’. And she kept stroking her beard.
Dawil gave Ylawes a pointed look, but the [Knight] was enjoying this so much he just waved at his friend. The truth was that Dasha had a right to talk with her kin—but her blood was thinner. She was a bit taller, and Insill had told Ylawes that Dasha had used a tonic to grow the full beard, which Elgrinna lacked.
“Anyone seen Drassi? Oh hey, Peki.”
And here was Erin Solstice. Her inn was just filling up, and already, there were all kinds of odd conversations occurring. Like Peki stopping Erin as the young woman wandered around with a folder of papers she’d prepared.
“Innkeeper Erin. I want to have one last match before I go.”
“In chess? I suppose I could do a speed set with you all.”
Erin pointed over as the colorful Garuda with her bright purple-and-green plumage halted her. Peki shook her head and opened her beak as she made two fists with her claw-hands.
“No. I want to face you.”
She lifted her fists, and Erin went cross-eyed.
“Oh. Er—I’m not really a fighter.”
“You have a [Minotaur Punch] Skill. And you’ve fought.”
Peki ignored Wil trying to drag her back.
“Yeah…about that. My back’s been hurting a bit since we shouldn’t waste healing potions. And the bisque—euigh.”
She stuck out her tongue. Peki lifted her fists higher and shifted her leg to kick.
“You can fight. I’ll use one hand.”
“I don’t wanna.”
“But—”
“Tell you what, why don’t you beat, uh—Gire! And Fierre. Then you can take me on.”
Erin looked around for a distraction and found one as a huge [Paragon] chased around Mrsha, Visma, and then turned in alarm. Peki eyed Gire. She raised her fists obligingly and looked sideways at a pale young woman with red eyes.
Fierre looked up in alarm from a bowl of rare cuts of meat. She pointed at Garia.
“No, beat up Garia first. I’m, uh—I’m busy.”
Erin ducked away from Peki as the disappointed Garuda tried to talk her into it. Gire ran on as Mrsha came to a halt next to a table filled with food. She poked a paw up to steal.
She’d gotten better about food-theft after getting in trouble, she had. But this was a special exception. Mrsha reached for a piece of brie and got a foot in the face.
 
——
 
Ulvama put her foot in Mrsha’s face, and it was a bare foot. She had a slipper on the ground, two pillows in the chairs she’d leaned back, and her table was filled with food she’d taken from the kitchen.
She had created a kind of hammock bed to watch the scrying orb and the inn from, and she could lay here for hours, eating everything she wanted.
Stinky! Stupid!
Mrsha flung insulting notecards at her until Ulvama shot a spark back that made Mrsha’s fur stand on end. Visma peeked at Ulvama as Gire raised an experimental fist.
“Don’t shock Mrsha.”
“Go away, little girl.”
Ulvama sneered at Gire. The [Paragon] hesitated.
“I’m big. I could hit you.”
The Hobgoblin hadn’t even bothered to stare at Gire as she watched the scrying orb with both arms behind her back. Which was impressive given how tall Gire was. But she raised two bored eyelids.
“I am a [Shaman]. [Great Shaman]. You go. Children stop bothering me.”
There was something in her tone that reminded Gire of her own [Shamans] or Theikha. More importantly—Ulvama had mastered the tone some adults had. And she used it—on Gire and Mrsha. Both girls slunk back to Visma, defeated by an adult who acted like one and ignored Gire’s size.
“That’s Ulvama, right?”
Visma knew most of the guests of the inn. Ulvama was lounging about, ignoring Rags’ Goblins. But she nodded as a Goblin with a parasol strolled over and pointed at a chair. Gothica threw herself into the chair and began to munch.
The two female Goblins were—formative to something in Visma’s head. Maybe it was Ulvama’s paint, pierced ears—which Gothica was adopting—or the smaller Cave Goblin’s all-black style, edged makeup, and attitude.
If Visma’s mother could see her daughter now, she might worry for Visma’s next few years of adolescence. But the Drake was also prescient. While she admired the two Goblins, she whispered to Mrsha.
“She just sits there and eats? All day?”
She watches the scrying orb too. Or lays in her room and steals books. Sometimes she makes up paints.
It was a lifestyle of such sloth that Mrsha herself had to grudgingly admire Ulvama’s commitment to her place in the inn. Visma asked the one real question that no one else had.
“…How is she not fat?”
Gire frowned. She turned her head, and Mrsha and Visma looked over. It was true. Ulvama certainly wasn’t as skinny as Redscar, who was all muscle and sitting and enjoying Minotaur Punches with some of his Redfangs already—but plush was about as far as you could go.
Given how much she ate, though? Gire was doing some quick math. She had seen Ulvama take down an entire pie. For lunch. On top of the regular lunch plate.
Either she was casting a lot of magic or she had a Skill. Or the metabolism that Ekhtouch’s finest would envy. It was a mystery, but then again, Gireulashia had once calculated that Magnolia Reinhart ate so much sugar she should also be heavier.
“Maybe it’s lots of sex. I hear she’s promiscuu—promisco—promiscuous.”
Gire stared at Visma and wondered who’d said that. But the [Paragon] just sniffed.
“She’s not that bad. Actually, she’s not active. Not half as bad as Captain Jelaqua. She—ow, owowowowow!”
“You kids. And here I was coming in to be nice.”
Jelaqua Ivirith herself had to stand on a chair to pinch Gire’s ear, but she did. The [Paragon] whined as Visma jumped. Everyone was coming into the inn! Erin turned. Drassi?
No. There was some violet-scaled Drake she recognized, Onieva, Maughin, Moore and Ulinde, Jelaqua of course, a white-scaled Drake, a Gnoll with some amazing sunglasses, Magnolia Reinhart, but no Drass—
Magnolia Reinhart stepped into The Wandering Inn like a quiet breeze. It quieted the inn as Erin’s head snapped up. Lyonette turned as she belatedly sensed the aura.
Shriekblade dropped out of the rafters, staring at Ressa as five [Maids] and Reynold walked in behind the [Lady]. Reynold shut the door as he gulped, and the [Head Maid] glanced around the room heaving with high-level people.
The [Lady] had entered so innocuously that Liska had barely noticed her except to think that was a lot of pink. She had kept her aura suppressed, politely walking in with the guests past the trapped hallway.
The door opened, and Normen and Alcaz peeked in warily—Ressa had winked at them through the arrow slits. Yelroan glanced sideways at Normen, fiddling with his bag of holding. His sunglasses flashed.
“My eyes!”
Calescent dropped a tray of cupcakes as he came out of the kitchen. The crash was the loudest thing in the silence. Magnolia stood amidst the ringing of metal. As quiet as a mouse—and she provoked the silence that followed.
And the coming storm. Erin Solstice’s face turned hostile as Lady Magnolia folded her hands in front of her. She looked around the inn—and then at Erin Solstice. Nerry hid behind Nanette in alarm as Magnolia’s gaze swept the room.
Rags, Pawn, Niers’ students, adventurers—the [Lady] exhaled as she saw a head of blonde hair. To her credit, Lady Pryde barely moved as she sat next to Grimalkin. But a blink was a flinch from the [Lady] of House Ulta.
“Hello, Miss Erin. If I’m unwelcome, I will of course leave. But I hope I may at least speak to you. This time—may I step into your inn and speak cordially?”
Lady Reinhart did the most surprising thing—which was bow slightly, extending one arm. She looked at Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper]’s face was hostile.
“You—you—look who’s here? Who needs my door—wait, how are you—? Did you enter from Pallass? Chaldion let you in?”
She was taken aback, just like last time. But Magnolia Reinhart just waited, and she responded equitably.
“I do have a passport. And while I believe the gate-guards were more strenuous in their search than they had to be—well, perhaps understandably—I am travelling. And your door is the best way to travel, even for me. Again, I should love to chat and meet the—fascinating folk within. But if I am not welcome, I will just ask to use your door…four more times.”
She waited. Erin Solstice was focused on Magnolia like lightning to a lightning rod, and she was angry. She remembered the last time Magnolia had stormed into her inn to endanger her friends.
And sometimes that was fair. But when Erin’s immediate flash of hostility faded—she noticed Mrsha was vibrating where she stood. For Mrsha had noticed Magnolia’s guests. And a gold-furred Gnoll stood up incredulously as a snacking Gnoll [Thief] choked on his snacks.
“Tesy?”
“Yelroan?”
Inkar turned from holding Tkrn’s paw, another successful meeting spitting in Relc, Menolit, and Pawn’s faces. Erin blinked as the Gnoll grinned nervously behind his sunglasses. She eyed Magnolia—and the [Lady] stepped to one side.
“I may have picked up some passengers who claimed to be on their way to your inn along the way. You may wish to take care; they can be rambunctious, these young folk running about.”
She fixed Dame Ushar with a glance. And the Thronebearer jumped, looked at Magnolia, then Tesy, and began whispering to Ser Sest.
