“Letters accounted for. Here is the last one for you—I believe it’s a personal note of thanks from Chieftain Feshi. And the next thing I must deliver is…”
He fished around in his bag of holding and had to put it on a table and lift with both hands. Mrsha stared at a letter to her as she sorted through her growing list of contacts.
Feshi, Theikha, Satar, Akrisa…Chieftain Mrell.
She stared at the letter, then tore it up and tossed the pieces to the floor. She kicked it away—and turned back to Yelroan, scowling. Unseen, Ser Dalimont quietly picked up the pieces and tucked them away.
Yelroan had actually carried the letters in a waxed bag—because he had no room in his bag of holding. Now, he grunted and, embarrassed, looked up.
“I—uh—think it’s tangled up all together. Can someone help me…?”
Gireulashia reached into the bag of holding and, one-handed, lifted something out. Calescent, grumbling, had been blinded once by Yelroan. This time, his eyes locked on something that glittered and flashed around the room, and he dropped the dustpan he was holding.
Alcaz and Normen had been heading back to their watch. But Normen had slowed, as if on instinct, remembering something that Mrsha and Erin had been organizing. He turned his head just in time to see Gireulashia and Yelroan lift…a suit of plate armor out of the bag of holding.
Demas Metal flashed, and Rags sat up in her chair. The deep blue metal of the armor came out of the bag of holding, a flared helmet that looked almost like some ancient crusader, angular and given the look of some epic [Knight]—appropriate for its intended recipient.
The armor itself was different from Ylawes Byres’ style; a Gnoll had made it, so it was more compact, less bulky than some sets. Mrell might have only had scrying orbs and measurements to go off of—but Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings knew how to measure a man, and so the armor was sleek. It looked like you could run in it, and it was plate armor indeed.
It came with a mace of flanged blue metal, and a shield as well, round and a cross between a buckler and traditional heater shield’s size. A fast-moving set for a man light on his feet.
Mrell had added only one detail to the beautiful Demas-metal, which was all the decoration you needed. He had drawn, in paint, an image of the inn. He must have seen Silveran’s apron, for the image had the frying pan, the jar of acid, the blue fruit, all around the stylized inn with a pawprint in the background.
The set was so beautiful that Mrsha stared…and every warrior, from Yvlon to Ylawes to Numbtongue, stared too at the beautiful metal worth a fortune. All without a single gold piece spent. Mrsha saw Normen’s eyes go wide as Erin turned in delight—and she looked around for…
The letter? Mrsha uncertainly stared at the empty ground—then saw Ser Lormel proffering something to her. Dalimont had given him the pieces—now, Lormel held the letter.
“[Mend Documentation]. Very handy when investigating receipts or missives. Perhaps hold onto it, Miss?”
Mrsha took it and decided she’d keep it with her letters. For a little bit.
Lyonette’s fingers twitched as she stared at the letter, but Yelroan was smiling, and everyone turned as Normen looked at the suit of armor. Erin stepped forwards and called out.
“Well, now we have three reasons to celebrate! Yelroan? I’m Erin Solstice, and you’re welcome in my inn! Everyone—three cheers for Normen! Now, let’s get this party started!”
Everyone began cheering at that, and Yelroan realized his first entry to the inn was going to be a party. He wondered if he should begin asking about ledgers…but Mrsha was excitedly trying on the helmet, everyone wanted to see the mace, and he was sure they’d be asking about the tribes. Lehra included.
Yelroan guessed Erin would be a bit like Xherw and made sure never to make the comparison out loud. But he suspected the inn might not be exactly as organized as he thought. One look at the menu and the variance in prices and he wondered how hard his job might be.
As he stepped back to watch and see how things worked, someone tapped him on the shoulder. Yelroan turned—and a female Drake whom he was sure…almost sure he’d met before on his last visit to Pallass tipped him a nod. Or had it been Oteslia?
“Nice sunglasses.”
Onieva winked at him, and the Gnoll nodded back to her. He’d only been to Pallass four times as the Plain’s Eye’s [Mathematician], but a wonderfully helpful Drake [Alchemist] had made him the sunglasses for a song. Especially when he asked if it could reflect sunlight in an annoying way.
 
——
 
The irony, of course, was that the most significant reason so many people were converging on the inn—wasn’t about the inn.
It was just that Erin had a magic door that made things convenient. How convenient? ‘I skipped a week or two’ convenient.
Arguably less dangerous as well, especially for Rafaema’s group to have to pass through unfriendly land.
It wasn’t as if the north would kill them on sight. But as Magnolia Reinhart knew—it was risky to be on the wrong side of Izril. She had brought security en-masse to protect her; her servants were very good at their jobs.
Manus would take no less chances with Rafaema, but Dragonspeaker Luciva was aware that sending an army or major force north would place her ward in more danger.
…But was Lulv really that much better?
It was true that Makhir and Lulv were the only two Gnolls on the Security Council who could fight and lead at the highest level. But there was Ferris…and other Gnolls knew who Rafaema was, even if it was a miniscule amount compared to Oteslia.
No, Lulv was here because he was one of the highest-level officers Luciva had—and crucially, he was one of the most deadly in a direct fight. Wall Lord Aldonss was Lulv’s counterpart in that sense; a balanced force.
[Lord of the Walls] was an actual class. Aldonss could reliably ‘shield’ Rafaema if it came to danger while Lulv went on the attack. Ferris was there because he was Rafaema’s bodyguard and functioned as their infiltrator-scout.
All of this ignored the fact that Rafaema was a Dragon. Then again—the Lightning Dragon had to admit she was dreading the High Passes.
“The Wyverns might leave me alone.”
The stupid Wyvern Lord might steal all her possessions again, but she thought they had an accord. Rafaema was trying to plan her route. She’d even brought a lot of ‘treasure’ in case the Wyvern Lord tried to tax her. She had an entire cooked ox in a chest of holding she’d made the soldiers bring and two more giant hogs’ worth of food. And lots of gold.
But she’d have to carry the damn thing into the High Passes. Because she couldn’t take her soldiers. She had to lose them, which would be a trick, and make sure they couldn’t follow her.
Damn. On the plus side, Rafaema wondered if she could run through the door to Celum—then vanish after that. Lulv might think to head to the High Passes, but he wouldn’t be certain.
She didn’t—want them to find the Dragon, Teriarch. Even if Luciva and a lot of the High Command knew who he was or had guessed, this was Rafaema’s matter. This was her people.
And she suspected the Dragonlord of Flame didn’t welcome guests. But they would have been nice, because the High Passes had shown Rafaema how dangerous they could be.
Gargoyle Bossels. This time, she’d brought a bunch of Wands of Flare, which she’d blind them and anything looking at her with. An Invisibility Potion would be lovely—but it was impossible to use some alchemy on Dragons.
What worried Rafaema was the shapeshifter. Or the Void Eater Goat. If it came to that…er…
She’d run for it. That was, um, the blunt truth. Rafaema had seen the Wyvern Lord avoiding that thing, and while she knew it had a weakness, she didn’t have the ability to spit lightning for one minute straight.
She just wanted to meet Teriarch. It was him—but he’d shot out of the cave so fast, shouting about having to stop the fighting at the Meeting of Tribes, she had barely been able to keep up. Then he promised to talk to her and nothing.
She was almost there, though. Rafaema clenched one fist as she sat in the annoying inn they’d found.
The Tailless Thief. For some reason, the [Innkeeper] kept trying to serve them traditional Drake food when she was really interested in Liscor’s unique meals. Why would she come here to have traditional food from home? The logic never checked out.
She would have liked The Wandering Inn for obvious reasons, but her group had actually passed through Pallass and up the Blood Fields—with Lulv and Aldonss speeding them, obviously—rather than use the door.
Because Manus had sided with Hectval over their stupid war. Rafaema should have voted against the stupid idea when it was brought up. Now they were paying for it.
“They don’t know I’m from Manus, though. Well, the Watch Captain does, but I just need to get to Celum. So I get to Celum, move as fast as I can so Lulv loses my scent. No—he picks it up, and I’m heading somewhere else. South, along the High Passes somewhere else. What if…I ‘went’ to Esthelm but really went to Celum? Perfect. That’s the plan.”
She nodded to herself. The person who didn’t nod—or smile—was Ferris.
“Then he stabs me to death.”
Rafaema looked up. She and her most trusted ally—Ferris—were sitting in her room. He was the only person she could command and really rely upon. He’d earned that.
“What? No, he won’t. You’ll tell him I ordered you to do it.”
Ferris nodded.
“Right. He hears me out. I tell him I tricked him on your orders. Then he stabs me to death.”
“He won’t stab you to death.”
The [Infiltrator] gave Rafaema a long look.
“You don’t know Lulv.”
“I’ve known him since he was a baby. Well—since he was accepted into the Security Council.”
“Yes, but…”
Ferris struggled to find a way to explain this.
“…You don’t know Lulv. Because you’re Rafaema. I know Lulv. He’ll stab me. To death.”
The Lightning Dragon folded her arms.
“Well, it’s a workable plan aside from that part. What if you just hid until I came back?”
“What if I went with you? Because let’s assume you stop Lulv and Aldonss from killing me once you come back. From the High Passes. We get back to Manus. Then Luciva either kills me or strips me of my position for letting you go by yourself. To the High Passes.”
Rafaema glared at Ferris.
“I told you, I’m going alone.”
He gave her a shrug.
“Well, I’m not helping unless I go with you. I’ll wait while you meet your Dragon.”
He looked Rafaema in the eyes, and she panicked.
“I never said he’s a Dragon. I never said I’m meeting—what are you talking about?”
The [Infiltrator] slowly, slowly slurped on his jelly tea, and Rafaema resisted the urge to slap it out of his paws.
“Yep. I believe you. Listen—I’ll help you, but you have to take me with you. Deal?”
Rafaema grumbled as she thought about this. Luciva claimed no plan survived first contact—well, everyone said that—but no one had said anything about plans not surviving the planning process.
“…Fine. I bet you he can mind-wipe you like Oteslia, anyways.”
“Wonderful. Okay, your plan might work. Lulv knows it’s the High Passes but not where. Even if he comes after you, he’ll probably slow up. And it sounds like the cave is hidden. I agree with all parts, though, and I just need an hour’s prep time.”
The Dragon brightened up.
“Excellent. Then let’s go now—”
“Hold on. I said I need an hour’s prep time, but we need you to get through the inn. And that’s the part you haven’t counted on. I bet it was easy last time—the portal door was in Liscor. This time, it’s in the inn.”
For some reason, the Gnoll was shuddering and looking uneasy, and Rafaema gave him a blank look.
“It’s a door. In an inn. We pay the silver, we go through. Four silver? Eight? Doesn’t matter. In what scenario is this difficult? I know I sent you to check on Erin Solstice…why are you shuddering?”
“Because she’s going to be a problem. I know you think it’ll be easy! It never is. You’ll be about to go through the door when something happens.”
“Ferris…don’t be ridiculous. Just—go ahead and lay scent tracks in Esthelm. They’ll keep for a bit. Then I’ll head into Celum and start going towards the High Passes. I’ll need to ride a bit or run until I can transform into a Dragon…”
“And take me.”
Rafaema glowered. He’d slow her down!
“I guess you can ride on my back.”
“Can you—carry me?”
Ferris looked dubious. Rafaema’s foot twitched, and he hurriedly coughed.
“Right. Good plan. It’ll definitely work. And we can always try tomorrow and get Lulv. Just—don’t mention your name. Don’t mention where you come from.”
“Ferris. I’m not an idiot. I’ll give you one hour starting now. Meet me in Celum.”
He rose, and Rafaema forestalled another inane argument about the dangers of an inn by pointedly opening the door. If it were a secret tavern run by Turnscales…but it wasn’t.
Complications. She would soon be headed towards the High Passes. Then—then it would be simpler. She’d get answers to all the questions burning under her scales. Rafaema closed her eyes and lay back in her bed. She had to believe that.
Someone knocked on her door, and the Wall Lady of Manus sat up. She called out.
“Enter.”
Lulv opened the door and sniffed.
“Are you done telling Ferris to leave a fake scent-trail?”
Rafaema’s face didn’t move this time. Lulv just grinned at her.
“You did that when you were forty. Luciva gave me the records to study. We’re going with you. I told Ferris I’d stab him through the legs if he tried to cover for you.”
“Stab him and I’ll crisp you. You’re not coming. You could…escort me to the area I want to go. No more.”
“No.”
The Lightning Dragon’s eyes twitched. Alright, new plan. Let them come with her and then fly away in the middle of the night. If they followed, shoot lightning.
It then occurred to her the reason Lulv had come instead of Makhir was because he could dodge lightning. The Dragon was seriously considering just flying over the High Passes and risking all the danger without her escort when Lulv glanced to the side.
“Rafaema—the Security Council’s sworn to secrecy, but Luciva already knows. If it’s a Dragon, we need to negotiate—if only to keep a secret. I can’t imagine a Dragon in hiding likes knowing you’re affiliated with Manus anyways. Let’s just get through to Celum and then talk. Aldonss wants us to head out before midday at the latest.”
So they had already anticipated her plan. Rafaema exhaled tinged ozone in a way that made the entire room crackle with static…Lulv’s fur stood on end, and he winced.
