The King of Jecrass had been carrying a golden bell. He had, despite his long captivity, beaten Pisces, and even with magic, Pisces had doubted he’d fare better. The only other Gold-bell [Duelist] that Pisces had ever met was Deniusth of Orchestra, and that man had been more full of himself—although a gifted musician-duelist.
It had been hard to get a grasp on how good Deniusth was—but it was safe to say that anyone with a golden bell was automatically Gold-rank or better. If you had honestly earned it—it meant you had been acclaimed by other Gold-bell carriers in an exhibition.
Or killed or bested the original owner in a fair match.
This Drake stood with perfect posture. If you had never seen it before, it looked uncanny. He held himself upright, as if in front of an audience of tens of thousands at every moment, chin elevated, surveying everything around him without needing to constantly hold his head.
He looked dignified, especially in the suit. His scales were a bit grey, but they were still deep sapphire, and his eyes were faintly silverine. The plant, not the color. Green irises tinged crimson at the exterior, unfolding in petals of subtle patterns.
The Maestro turned to Pisces and Ksmvr and nodded slightly to them.
“Adventurers. I apologize for the interruption.”
“Er—not at all. Are you a duelist by any chance, sir?”
Pisces hesitated, and the Drake glanced down at the golden bell on the conductor’s wand. He smiled ruefully.
“I’ve forgotten to take it off again.”
He detached it with a single pass of his claws and tucked it into his belt pouch. Then he bowed slightly to Pisces and Ksmvr, hands at his side.
“I have been worthy of the honor for thirty years. But I fear this is not the moment to talk to a promising young duelist, even a Gold-rank Adventurer. Pisces Jealnet of the Horns of Hammerad, isn’t it? And Ksmvr of the Free Antinium.”
He knew Pisces? But then—all of the men and women there seemed to know Pisces and Ksmvr. They all had the same dress and attire on, male and female Drakes and Gnolls, ranging from just over nineteen to what might have been their sixties.
They all looked…sharp. Pisces’ warning bells began to ring, and Ksmvr peered at the Gnoll with the clarinet.
“Comrade Pisces, I think he has weapons in his musical instrument.”
“Ksmvr—why don’t we save observations for later?”
Now, Pisces was sweating because the Drake was eying them. But the unknown Maestro just smiled.
“I would hate to cause a scene, gentlemen. And again—a young Silver-bell fencer should be focused on honing his technique. Padurn Jealnet was a good [Fencer], and his son looks to have surpassed him.”
“You know my father?”
Pisces’ stomach twisted up, and the Maestro shrugged.
“I’ve met him twice. Young man, continue practicing.”
He looked at the rapier as Pisces flushed and felt awkward, as if the Drake somehow knew that Pisces had been resting on his laurels, not training to improve. Even Yvlon had a hard time pressing him with the sword because he had [Flash Step] and magical tricks.
But the bar…the true bar of excellence looked at him. Then the Maestro turned smartly, and he raised his wand.
“Company. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us begin.”
Then they grew somber, the Symphony members. They did not sit, and this was no great auditorium. The street was just one adjoining Market Street, and the players stood in neat ranks in front of the Drake. He lifted his wand and flicked it, measuring a tempo.
But they were a band of musicians—and unlike Orchestra, they played in the streets. A Drake struck the drums lightly, and four violinists played together. But they sounded like thirty-two. Each one had Skills that doubled their sound or let them play like a group. Flautists began to blow gently as the First Clarinet inhaled softly—and began to play.
People stopped and stared in the streets. Yoldenites turned, intrigued by the softer music than their communal songs. Major Voita herself wondered if it were a street performance Liscor’s Council was putting on.
There were horns, but most of them rested their brass instruments rather than play. Two trumpets played so very softly—this was a song for the woodwinds.
But they weren’t the entire song. As the Drake conducted, measuring out the tempo, watching their performance with one eye while he observed Pisces and Ksmvr behind him without looking at them, he swung his head up.
And then—Voita jumped as she saw a group stand up from the rooftops. Eighteen figures stood on the roof of an apartment, and, wearing dark clothing that concealed them, they took the masks of cloth from their faces and began to sing.
It was either one of those made-up languages or words sung so slowly unlike normal conversation that they became more like music. A choir’s voices drifted over the rooftops, haunting, almost longing. Sweet and saccharine—eerie.
The people of Liscor poked their heads out of their apartments—and a swearing Drake who had really been looking forwards to his day off stomped out of Krshia’s apartment and looked up.
“Who the hell is on your rooftop, Krsh—what the?”
Lism goggled at the choir of singers above him. They ignored him completely. Lism was only wearing a towel around his waist. He slowly shut the doors as the song grew.
Nevermind the voices. Nevermind the distractions. The Drake with the wand closed his eyes now, listening to the music as his hands moved. He had a purpose in this city that was far baser than the music. 
But the music—still mattered. Pride in your craft. Just like how you honed the blade. The singing choir above him was raising their voices, but still without words, and it sounded—
Eerie. A beautiful wail or perhaps a dirge accompanied by the musicians on the street. The perplexed adventurers, the wary Watch, Antinium Workers who paused and stared, and the admiring Yoldenites saw Symphony begin to play. The magic did not wait long.
It sprang up, drifting from the rooftops, rising from the streets. A fog, a mist that grew and spread from their location. Drifting across Liscor, obfuscating sight. Watch Captain Zevara’s scales prickled as she looked out her window, and she heard the music as she called for all her Senior Guards.
But it didn’t matter. The sound was rising, and it was going far further than it should have, but it was only affecting one person. The performance drifted over the walls—and someone heard it as they paced around the room they had been given. A white-scale Drake shook his head as he heard the music—put his hands over his earholes—and then his claws fell limply, and he stood, swaying, blank-eyed.
Vetn and Qwera had made one mistake:
They should have made Tesy go to the [Garden of Sanctuary] immediately. For the song went through The Wandering Inn, bypassing the [Knights] and Shriekblade, who turned her head warily, listening.
Even if you could not go in yourself—Symphony had ways. Tesy began to stumble out of his room, down the stairs, like a sleepwalker. He went out of the common room, past Erin Solstice as she talked to Drassi excitedly, and slowly began making his way out of the inn. Down the hill, into the city. Drawn by the music.
[Siren’s Song]. The Maestro kept conducting, listening as he waited for the song to end.
 
——
 
Onieva turned her head and cupped one claw to her earhole.
“Does anyone hear that? Sounds like music.”
She frowned, but the inn was busy with the party, and whatever it was—was so faint she could barely pick it up. Especially because Erin Solstice was currently shouting to the left.
“So I have this huge idea, Drassi! But I want to broadcast on your channel. Can you get me on tomorrow or tonight?”
“What? What? Stop shouting, Erin!”
“Oh, sorry. I thought—”
The [Innkeeper] rubbed at her ears, but whatever it was—was subtle and neither magic nor aura. She looked left as Tesy walked into a wall.
“Tesy? Tesy, that’s a wall. Is he—sleepwalking? The outhouse is that way.”
Erin pointed, and the Drake [Painter] shuffled left towards the door. He leaned against it, and Erin sighed.
“Where’s Vetn and Qwera? Mrsha, can you point this goofball to the bathroom?”
“I’ll do it.”
Kevin volunteered, and Erin shook her head. Poor Tesy. He must have been exhausted. She turned back to Drassi.
“So where was I?”
“You had some kind of plan? Erin, I’m on break. And look—I really appreciate the free food, but I can’t just give you a moment on my broadcast for no reason. You have a good one, right? If it’s another chess tournament or something’s going to explode, I’ll cover it.”
“Sorta. See, it’s actually an idea for the holidays. Remember Christmas last year?”
Erin was excitedly showing Drassi a bunch of ideas. She wanted time to present, but the Drake was a bit—dubious.
“You want to tell everyone about a holiday? I mean—that sounds as boring as anything.”
“W-well, I think it’d be fun! Everyone loves Christmas where I come from! And I might have a few special guests…can we do it in my inn?”
“What kind of special guests, Erin?”
“Goblins and Antinium?”
Erin was sweating a bit. Drassi froze mid-gulp of her drink. She put it down slowly and exhaled.
“Okay. That’s a significantly larger ask than you led with. Erin…”
“Give me a chance! I’ll make it cool.”
“Erin—even if you put a Goblin on television, can you beat cute Fraerlings with your holiday? No offense—I know you can with your chess tournament. That was crazy. But you don’t have, uh—anything interesting about a holiday where someone breaks into houses to leave gifts. Well, it’s a funny story, but not better than Paeth. No one will watch.”
That was true. Erin hesitated.
“W-what if I spiced the pot a bit? With a <Quest>?”
Onieva had been about to raid the buffet table and maybe introduce herself to one of the famous [Strategists], but they were too young for her taste. But she had to hear that. And in fact—she elbowed someone in the crowd.
“Hey, you old snake. Can’t ignore Erin for a second, huh?”
A Drake with one eye froze as Onieva grimaced at him. Chaldion of Pallass stared at Onieva. He hesitated—then pointedly looked the other way. Onieva’s eyes narrowed.
“Oh, ignoring me, are we? Saliss gets all the attention and pressure, and I get spit. Fine, fine. Hey, Miss Erin! Look who the Wyvern dragged in. Do you remember me?”
“Um—oh, Onieva?”
Chaldion stared at Onieva as she strode over and gestured to him. He looked—disconcerted, but Onieva took Erin’s hand.
“And Miss Drassi, talk of Pallass!”
“Hello! Miss…? I think I know your name, but I’ve met a lot of Pallassians. Onieva?”
Drassi was interested as the violet-scaled Drake grinned. Onieva took her clawed hand.
“Oliwing. I’m the outcast. Chaldion’s grand-niece. Cousin of the famous Saliss of Lights. That’s how I introduce myself. I don’t go to parties much, let alone with the high society I’m technically part of.”
“Smart.”
Selys muttered. She waved at Onieva, and the Drake laughed.
“I should get out more! But I’m so tired most nights—and the days just keep going by, and I don’t know what I’m doing.”
“I’ve seen you around the inn before, but Saliss never brings you up. I didn’t know you two were related.”
Chaldion slowly stepped over, leaning on his cane. He nodded to Erin, but he looked uncharacteristically distracted. And alarmed.
“Onieva is…a relative. One of the few I have left. Miss Solstice.”
“Hey, Chaldion! You should take better care of your family! Saliss too! Why didn’t he come with you?”
The [Grand Strategist] of Pallass had an amazingly stoic face when he needed to, but his tail twitched slightly. No one noticed—and Onieva, rather than look guarded, just laughed.
“I say that to him all the time. But he’s sleeping in his workshop, I think. We could run over and bother him?”
Erin shrugged.
“If he’s sleeping—let him. Octavia is like that. [Alchemists] and poor sleep. No wonder they make things explode so much.”
The female Drake laughed.
“See, I like you. What’s this about something interesting going on? Let me in on it—and the ‘old man’. He loves prying. Is it going to be something hilarious like the chess game?”
Erin hesitated, but she made room as Drassi sipped from a drink, trying to hide her amusement as Onieva pestered Chaldion.
But he was staring at Onieva in alarm he barely disguised. In fact, a sweating Drake had just come into the inn and stopped when he saw Onieva bullying Chaldion.
“Ancestors!”
Mirn looked around for backup, but Qwera was out, and he didn’t know if he should grab Onieva or let her talk. She wasn’t going to say anything—wrong. Not exactly—
But she thought Saliss really was asleep. And—Onieva never talked to Chaldion normally. That was why he was staring at her. But Onieva, thanks to the faerie potion, didn’t remember why she kept away, so she was needling him as hard as Saliss.
Drawbacks indeed. Mirn sidled away, listening as hard as he could, ready to grab a pitcher and just throw it over everyone. Meanwhile, everyone else was listening to Erin.
“I have this holiday idea. It would be great if Pallass adopted it. Hint, hint. And, okay—maybe it’s got some Goblins in it, but I think it’d be great for the winter. Very festive. There’s not much snow yet, but sometimes, you don’t get a white Christmas. The idea is…”
Erin was outlining her holiday, but Drassi was patently skeptical.
“Erin, even Sir Relz would run your story because you’re…you. But you’re not getting some Balerosian city to adopt it. Actually—scratch that. The Lizardfolk are the most likely to do something like this. But you want a worldwide holiday? You need a hook.”
“Like a <Quest>. Got one up your butt?”
Onieva nudged Erin, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“Up my—you mean, I should draw everyone’s attention? Make the reward Christmas-related?”
“Or just post a big one. Come on, everyone knows you’ve got another. Lay it on us—that’s what Drassi is trying to say nicely. Then, while we’re all goggling and competing, tell us about Christmas.”
Erin folded her arms and bit her lip. It was the most direct request she’d ever gotten, and it made her uncomfortable.
“I don’t just have unlimited quests, you know.”
“So use one if you want this holiday to be big. Don’t you have…something?”
Erin hesitated, and Chaldion and Drassi focused on her. She squirmed.
“Well—some. But most have requirements. I’ve actually been trying to, y’know, prep them. I can sort of tell if I can post a lot of quests, but all but a few are no good.”
“Really? I mean, uh—hello, Drassi! I was just standing here.”
