“Perhaps you should allow us to go first, then. Or maybe we should cede it to you. I don’t believe Miss Solstice will be in a good mood after I speak to her. Then again—you said you knew the inn, Tesy?”
“What? Yes! I know the inn…is the Golden Gnoll in Liscor?”
Magnolia eyed the nervous, white-scaled Drake.
“I believe so. Then we’ll all go together. Ressa—why don’t you check on the carriage? Sweep for dust mites, would you?”
“At once, Lady Reinhart.”
Ressa nodded to two [Maids], and they walked out the front doors. Magnolia sighed. Delays. But she offered Tesy and Yelroan a seat, and Tesy made the mistake of thinking Magnolia’s latte was for him. He took one gulp—sprayed the sugar and coffee out over Yelroan, and looked more nervous still.
To be fair—he’d thought it was poison. Which, also to be fair, it probably counted as. The Drake turned around, looking about as someone hurried over with a wet cloth and soap.
He thought he could hear…music.
 
——
 
Hethon Veltras felt like he was the only one who foresaw complications today. No—wait. Ryoka Griffin’s face said that she had the same premonition. But that was probably just because she was Ryoka.
“Where are we staying in Invrisil, Father?”
Hethon looked at his father as the camp was struck and everything packed up. Sammial glanced up from the scrying orb—only because Ilekrome was speaking to Drassi about what Paeth might trade and what they needed. Ryoka’s head turned as Tyrion Veltras looked up.
They had been eating Corusdeer venison. They’d chanced upon a herd and downed one of the bucks. Or rather, Tyrion had. With a lance. The [Lord] looked at Ryoka, and her glare bounced off his face.
He was clean-shaven, his beard gone. The younger man—and he was, in his late twenties—didn’t have the older, more commanding tone age had given him. He looked…less authoritative, and that was age and maybe just his class.
His levels were gone. Only Hethon knew it; Sammial hadn’t been allowed to know. It was a terrible thing that had hit House Veltras’ leader. A disaster, but everyone was pretending things were normal. If it came out Tyrion had lost the bulk of his levels and his class…
Bad things might occur. However, the [Lord] was still intent on following Ryoka around. He cleared his throat and nodded south, where Invrisil was visible in the distance.
“We’ll find an inn there.”
“If I may, Lord Veltras?”
Ullim broke in gently, his white hair blowing in the chilly breeze. Everyone else shivered—but the [Majordomo] was tough as boot leather, it seemed. Tyrion frowned as Ullim replied.
He didn’t really seem like he’d changed in twenty some years. His mannerisms were the same, although…he seemed more restless than the older man that Hethon knew. And he was more—more agreeable? He let Sammial have the scrying orb, let them have more fun. But maybe that was Ryoka.
“We may well continue onwards. The Haven—for all it has been moving a month—has not gone far. Lord Veltras, the Haven would be an ideal spot to take the lads, at least before it’s gone from the north before they have a chance to visit it.”
Ullim murmured in that way Hethon knew he said things when he wanted Tyrion to agree. The [Majordomo] looked up carefully, and Tyrion grunted.
“I don’t know if that’s necessary.”
“Father! I want to go to the Haven! It’s famous and magic! And it was on the scrying orb!”
Sammial burst in at the worst moment, as if insisting would help. Hethon longed to kick him, but Tyrion just frowned.
Instead of snapping that Sammial was out of line, he folded his arms.
“There is no need. The Haven’s fame is just that. You won’t get a better rest from the inn—or better food for a day or two. Most of the attractions are for large parties. We are simply residing.”
And if you needed to sleep, the hard ground or a tent was as good as some famous inn. But Hethon wanted to see it, so he joined in.
“But wouldn’t it be good to see the inn before it leaves, Father? Just so we can talk about it?”
Tyrion stared past them at Ryoka, but the Wind Runner flapped a hand.
“Why not? You’re not going to Liscor, and you should have fun while you’re not going to Liscor, Tyrion.”
“We could—book you a room as well, Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner froze, and Ullim blinked. Lord Pellmia had done the impossible. Was that slyness? Well—for Tyrion.
Ryoka shook her head instantly.
“I’m staying at The Wandering Inn. And I have business. Private. Runner’s business. You said you got it, that I have a life.”
“Indeed I did. I just decided that you might appreciate company. And my sons should see Invrisil. And you have a habit of landing up in mortal danger. Hence my decision to be in the area.”
Tyrion laid out his reasoning simply. He looked at Ryoka, and she glared at him. He turned back to Ullim and spoke.
“I don’t believe the Haven is necessary, Ullim. Despite the interest—it is a matter of House Veltras’ budget.”
Sammial and Hethon’s faces fell. Oh, the budget. That settled that.
House Veltras was the second-poorest of the Five Families, behind House El. Terland, Wellfar, and Reinhart were far richer.
Actually, it was true that House Veltras was not economically destitute like House El was famously at times. It was just—the main family, under Tyrion, requested enough money to fund their soldiers, and having a standing army of their size cost a fortune.
But the branch families could support them and arguably give more. That Tyrion and the main family did not normally ask was because they let the branch families focus on their holdings. The wealth of Veltras was spread out, like roots, not held at the top.
…It still meant that it sucked sometimes. And it was not always true. For instance—Jericha coughed delicately.
“Lord Tyrion. Pardon me for mentioning it, but it may have slipped your mind that House Veltras was awarded a sizeable prize for our contributions in the Dawn Concordat’s war. It would not…strain our budget for this year to let the boys see the Haven once.”
Tyrion hesitated. Hethon sat up, beaming at Jericha. If she took Ullim’s side—even mountains might move.
“They might as well if they’re coming here. Isn’t the Haven fun to be at?”
Now, Ryoka joined the forces arrayed against Tyrion, and everyone held their breath. The [Lord] stared at the sky—and despite the pressure, didn’t sway.
“I still don’t feel the need.”
Everyone’s faces fell, and Tyrion looked around. He seemed to read their disappointed faces and hesitated. Then he elaborated, another surprising moment. Tyrion lowered his voice and muttered.
“I—perhaps it would be fair for the prestige of it. But I dislike the notion even so. The Haven is…a thoroughly unpleasant place. You may not be aware of that, Ryoka, but it has objectionable qualities.”
Ryoka Griffin blinked at Tyrion, and Hethon and Sammial made puzzled faces. It did? Tyrion Veltras seemed uncertain of how to explain it.
“The Haven is all show, little substance. It is a place for one to enjoy themselves, to be self-congratulatory and indulgent. To be—”
He stared skywards.
“—it plays well upon noble fancies. Let us put it like that.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn’s guests were coming through from the Haven today as well. Colth the Supporter, one of the Named-ranks not heading south like Deniusth and Eldertuin after the thieves, was waiting for the doors to open.
“To the Haven—people coming out! Five for The Wandering Inn? Come on through.”
A bored Gnoll was yawning into her cup of coffee that morning. Liska, the [Door Gnoll], sent in one person to the Haven, which was interesting.
Now that the Haven had passed Invrisil, she normally just took visitors from the Haven who wanted to get to Invrisil or somewhere else. But today, someone wanted to experience the Haven’s largesse—yet not the crowd who’d booked a room.
Menolit, one of Erin’s known guests, strode through the door in a rather handsome suit. He also had a flower, and Colth turned his head as the Drake strode by.
“Excuse me—are any of the guests having breakfast this morning? Which was it…”
He heard the Drake asking, and the [Supporter] muttered under his breath.
“Uh oh. Poor fellow.”
Someone should warn him. Was it going to be Colth? He hesitated as Liska waited at the door.
“I’ve got people waiting on both ends. You coming?”
She was still lacking for manners, but she was better at her job. Colth put his hands together.
“Miss Liska, could you open the door in—five minutes?”
“What—oh, fine. Five minutes.”
She closed the door, and Colth hurried back the way he’d come. Most of the diners were having breakfast in the outdoor seating. It was cold, yes, but Larra had cast a heating spell that cut the chill, so you could eat in warmth while admiring the cold winter. It was a big area with two floors. Maybe he’d be in time to—
Nope. By the time Colth had strode after Menolit, the Drake was already at a table where a [Lady] was having breakfast with two of her friends. She had faintly red hair, and she was perhaps forty…three by Colth’s measurements.
Arch nose, perhaps Terandrian bloodlines. Lady Werirose of House Dullvan if he didn’t miss his guess. He didn’t know her class, but he suspected her house had holdings that she mostly was rich off of.
Low-level [Lady]. Call it 18-23 by his understanding. Not specialized; she was from Vaunt, so she might have some economy Skills. They did cheese, after all, but she was a landholder family, not directly involved in management. Decorative enchanted blade dagger on her hip. Contraception spell, earring that kept bugs away…
Typical guest of the Haven. One of Larra’s ‘regulars’. And right now, Menolit was offering her a rose.
“I hope we could have another conversation, Werirose? Perhaps I could take you around Liscor.”
You poor man. The Drake wasn’t much higher-level for all he was a [Veteran]. He’d never cracked Level 30, but Colth could imagine and see he had been a decent [Soldier] in Liscor’s army before taking the tail-wound. And a leg-injury that he mostly hid. That was probably why they’d given him an honorable discharge.
He was more interesting because he was clearly a [Manager] of Liscor Hunted. He might be Level 20+ in that class already. He was new to wealth, but he’d pivoted classes and purpose well of late.
And he had been a guest of the Haven and a guest of the Pub of Best Moments. Someone should have told him one of the rules. Barnethei must have dropped the ball or forgotten that Menolit was a Drake and thus he didn’t know anyone here.
“I’m sure I don’t know what you mean, sir? You must be mistaken.”
Lady Werirose looked blankly up at Menolit. The Drake hesitated.
“I’m sure we met. I’m Menolit. We—we chatted in the Pub of…?”
“I have no notion, sir. Please.”
She sounded defensive; her breakfast partners were pretending they had no idea what was going on as well. Colth touched Menolit’s shoulder.
“But we did. I wouldn’t forget. We—”
“Excuse me, [Ladies]. Menolit, right? Let’s just take a step back. One second—”
Colth pulled—hard—and Menolit took a step back despite himself, looking hurt and confused. Werirose flashed a relieved smile at Colth, which he returned falsely.
“Supporter Colth, a delight as always. Thank you.”
“What’s going on? That’s Werirose. She told me—let go, would you?”
Menolit tried to shrug off Colth, but the [Supporter] just towed him away. Then—he really didn’t want to start his day like this, but he had to.
“My friend, I think no one told you the unwritten rule of the Pub of Best Moments. I’m sorry—I keep telling Barnethei to write it down, because there’s a fellow every month, or a lady, who runs into this. But the Pub of Best Moments…do you know the Court of Masks in Ailendamus?”
It took Menolit a moment to understand. When he did—
Ah, damn it. Colth had shouted at Yvlon yesterday. Furiously, because she’d lost her temper and attacked her team and she was a liability. He felt bad about that—and because he hadn’t stopped her.
He felt bad, sometimes, fighting low-level people like [Bandits] who jumped him, people who might be desperate or stupid or not know who he was.
But stabbing this Drake in the chest repeatedly? Damn it, Barnethei.
The Pub of Best Moments was where you could look your best. Where you could be the part of yourself you hoped was there: eloquent, handsome, your literal best self. It meant people liked you, especially when you sat in that chair.
It was, therefore, also a notorious place for people to meet each other. To—have an intimate moment. But the reason people wore masks and Werirose was pretending she had never known Menolit was the same reason she had probably chatted him up in the pub.
Interest…and the clear understanding that she’d never be able to talk to a Drake in such circumstances normally. In that pub, you could do what you wanted.
Here? Menolit dropped the rose. He didn’t take it as Colth grabbed it before it could fall. The [Supporter] saw the Drake standing there, looking so hurt…he gently put the rose in Menolit’s lapel and patted the Drake on the shoulder.
Then he walked off. Larra’s Haven had edges. Of a different kind than The Wandering Inn.
But people wondered why Tyrion Veltras disliked this place.
 
——
 
♫ Love was gonna lift you up, and drop you. Then break your legs. ♪
It was hard to read the room or see if it was a permanent thing. It was…far harder to find something that would last. Especially if you wanted it and it wasn’t that way at all.
Senior Guardsman Relc hadn’t put on a suit, but he had buffed his boots last night and had to buy some shoe polish. He’d spent some time getting the rust off of his chain mail and checked for dead scales and trimmed his neck-spines. He was in a good mood today. Mostly.
Klbkch kept patting him on the back, which annoyed him. Relc had made the mistake of telling Klbkch about his acquaintanceship with Ryoka—which provoked the motion. Relc knew it had been just a thing. Maybe because he’d been so sad—
But you never knew.
“Klb, buddy, I swear. Pat me on the back one more time and I’ll hit you.”
Relc finally interrupted the incessant patting as he sat at the inn’s bar. Klbkch halted.
“I shall wait until later, then.”
For some reason—that hit Relc harder than the patting. Because he realized Klbkch meant it. Then he saw Menolit come back in.
Relc hadn’t known Menolit well from the army days, but he had a vague memory of a Drake covered in blood, asking if someone had found his tail.
This was the second-worst he’d ever seen Menolit. Then Relc realized—Ryoka Griffin was just coming here to see Mrsha.
“…Didn’t the rumors say she and Tyrion Veltras…?”
