Only one [Assassin] had managed to bust in with a breaching Skill. The rest were frozen as Goblins aimed their bows up at them. A furious Frost Wyvern was in the skies and threatening to blast across Erin’s inn with ice.
But they had a job. Find that damn [Painter]. The figure leapt down the hallways, fan-daggers ready. They saw the Gnoll at the same time as Ishkr ascended the steps.
“[Paralyzing Cuts]—”
The daggers lashed out. Ishkr poked the masked Drake in the head.
“[Emergency—”
 
——
 
“—Evacuation].”
The Drake appeared on the rooftop, rolled to their feet—and froze as a huge crossbow bolt thudded into the wood next to their face. Rags pointed at the Drake, and Numbtongue swung a hand-crossbow up.
“The inn! First Instruments—go!”
The Maestro was shouting. He was slashing with a rapier as Tyrion and Lulv pivoted towards him, uncertain who he was. Six figures broke past the Goblins and House Veltras.
Four made it to the inn. Ullim got one, Ressa another with a pair of spinning bolas. But the other four rushed on, one with a stab-wound straight through their shoulder.
“Damn. They’re like the Ranks! But they’re professionals!”
Ressa snapped. The four were on a suicide attack. The south’s Guild was going to fulfill their contract—or die trying. She had to watch Magnolia—Ressa hesitated until she remembered who was inside the inn.
And—something was wrong. She tried to remember what she knew of Symphony and cursed as she looked down at the struggling [Assassin]. He didn’t even care that she had broken his legs. The Gnoll kept moving until she planted her poisoned Blade of Grasses in his skull.
“Ressa!”
Magnolia shouted at her. That would only make things worse! But Ressa just pointed down, and Reynold cursed.
 
——
 
Lulv realized something was off as well. He had killed eight [Assassins] so far from the famous killing group, Symphony.
Eight of them—and while he knew they were able to replenish their numbers, he had heard they were professionals. One of the south’s top [Assassin]-groups for hire.
He slowed for just a second as House Veltras and his forces took down figure after figure. They were defending themselves—but he didn’t sense many killing blows coming his way.
“Why do they feel—hard?”
Aldonss pointed as he saw Lulv slow.
“[Crossbows: Overwatch].”
Instantly, six [Soldiers] took aim alongside sixty spectral crossbows that appeared in the air, ready to pincushion anyone who so much as sneezed near Lulv. The [Spearmaster] took that moment to examine one of the dead Drakes he’d stabbed through the heart. He turned the body over—and cursed.
Lulv saw a hole in the Drake’s chest, torn open by one of his Skills. But what he didn’t see—was blood. And as he looked into the gaping wound, instead of flesh, he saw—
Glass. The figure lay there, slowly crumbling under their dark clothing. Lulv looked up—and he thought he heard a sound. It was echoing back towards Liscor.
“They’re all proxies! This is a clone Skill!”
Their insane charge made sense now. He whirled. They just had to get one person into that inn! He had another thought as well—
Why didn’t Manus have this? But then—the hair across one arm flew away, cut by the sheer force of the swing as the Maestro descended upon him. The Drake fought with a unit of his [Assassins] shielding him, going for the inn.
The inn…where a Drake was clawing at the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door until he collapsed. Lyonette was trying to drag him in with Mrsha and the others, but Gireulashia herself couldn’t do it. The Maestro murmured calmly as he watched four of his best enter the inn.
“[No Sanctuary, No Respite. From Dawn Till Dusk, You Were Hunted].”
Tesy couldn’t get inside. Now—he was being dragged upstairs by Qwera and Vetn as the [Assassins] strove to reach him. But they had to get through the inn first.
 
——
 
Shriekblade stood in the trapped hallway. The First Trumpet, First Violin, and First Drums halted. First Flute looked at them.
“Buy me an opening. If I don’t make it—call off the performance. Protect the Maestro instead.”
“Agreed.”
This was a disaster. But the three [Assassins]—they looked at Shriekblade.
“One step and you die.”
Someone exhaled. Perhaps it was a laugh. Even Shriekblade had seldom met people who took her threats so lightly. Then—all four figures leapt at her.
Life was a song. And they could sing louder, faster than most of Symphony. But Shriekblade was a terrible, beautiful orchestra all on her own. Her blades kissed flesh the moment she moved.
—To their credit, the three of them gave the First Flute an opening. She went stumbling into the common room of the inn, long daggers raised. And what she found was nothing.
Exactly nothing. She looked around the empty inn—and then saw the [Garden of Sanctuary] shutting as Ishkr hurried in. The [Assassin] strode over to the door and tried the handle. Then she tried her lockpicking Skill.
“You’ve got to be kidding me.”
Some kind of saferoom? Had the Drake gone in here or…? If he had escaped into the garden despite the Maestro’s Skill, it was over. She couldn’t remember running into security this tough before. Dozens of Level 30+ fighters, a trapped hallway, a Named Adventurer as an attack dog?
Killing an officer of Manus was like that—but then the final icing on the cake was a sanctuary Skill of legends? She just stood there—until she heard two things.
A scraping sound from above. An indrawn breath—and the [Assassin] looked up. There you are. But before she could head for the stairs, someone spoke at her back.
“You made a mistake coming in here. Leave Tesy alone.”
“Erin—”
The [Assassin] heard a voice, a flurry of voices trying to stop someone—and then she turned. The [Innkeeper] was there. She had a knife in one hand…a glowing jar in the other.
“You’re not our target. Hand him over.”
The First Flute whirled her daggers up. The [Innkeeper] just stared at the [Assassin]. She was—angry. The inn was shaking. The [Assassin] felt like she was underwater. Hostile aura. She fought it off—and the [Innkeeper] whispered.
“Last chance.”
The First Flute wondered how bad this performance had gone. Had anyone been captured or, worse, died? Symphony’s members were allowed to surrender if their real bodies were in danger, but they were fighting an army of foes.
What a disaster. Salazsar might bail them out—but failure would be on the Maestro’s head. She had to reach the [Painter]. But she didn’t want to hurt the [Innkeeper] who was blocking the stairs, so the First Flute tried words first.
“That [Painter] destroyed eight priceless heirlooms of the City of Gems. There is no replacing them. We won’t stop. Symphony is a performance without end.”
Erin Solstice just lifted her hands, and the First Flute sighed.
She might fail here, if Shriekblade or another fighter caught up. But really. An [Innkeeper]? The First Flute lifted a dagger. Just get around her and—
Erin threw the jar of acid, and the First Flute dodged. It had gone straight for her head. She was leaping at Erin—and the second object, the knife, made her deflect it in midair. Fast throws! But it was just an [Innkeep—
Erin was stepping back to the wall behind her, but one hand was digging at another knife in her belt. The other was raising something over her head. Was that a hat—
[Hat Trick: Light Flare]. The [Assassin] went blind for a second. She swung her daggers wildly, performing an [Evasive Flip] as she heard a click.
Crossbow bolts buried themselves in the wall. Someone shouted—
“Miss Solstice, leave it to us!”
“No! Hold Normen back!”
The First Flute’s eyes cleared, and she heard the voice from behind—
“Aaah!”
She deflected the second knife stabbing at her back as the [Innkeeper] stepped out of a wall. The garden door had moved! Erin’s arm snaked back behind the door, and it closed—
“Ancestors!”
From below! The knife would have cut her off at the ankles—it could come out of any direction! The First Flute was dodging wildly, and Erin leapt into the inn behind the bar.
“Fire the crossbows! Don’t worry about me!”
She was crazy! The hesitation was followed by the crack of multiple bolts criss-crossing the room. The [Assassin] had to use another Skill.
[Notes of Deflection]! Three harsh chords made Erin Solstice wince, but the sound actually snapped the crossbow bolts before they hit the Drake. Erin Solstice wasn’t done, though. She lifted her hat—and the glowing fish sprang to life. The [Assassin] stared at the fish—
 
——
 
“Is she winning?”
Lyonette was furious—at Erin! She should have left the fighting to someone else. Shriekblade—or the [Knights]. Gire was in Liscor, and the adventurers had gone with her—any second now, someone would come to subdue the [Assassin].
But Erin was attacking from all angles—and in the flashes of the door opening, Lyonette saw a harried figure slashing furious glowing piranhas in half.
[Whirlwind Slice]!
The [Assassin] said not a word, but her blades cleared everything around her in a flash. It would have hit Erin too, but the [Innkeeper] threw herself through the door—onto the grass—rolled—
 
——
 
And appeared in the inn at the same time as Ser Sest and Ser Lormel leapt out of the kitchen and other hallway. The two Thronebearers attacked in unison as the Brothers exited the hallway. Normen was in the garden—in reserve—and the First Flute looked around.
She struck her blades together, creating her own spray of sparks that made them jump back. Ser Sest just charged into the sparks, sword swinging, but she ducked away. When she rose, she had something in one claw. Not her dagger but a flute—
“Watch out!”
Erin ducked into her [Garden] just in time. Everyone else was too slow. Erin heard the most painful, earsplitting shriek come from the flute. And that was nothing to the way the Brothers and Thronebearers fell over
[Wail of Agony]. The First Flute drew her dagger again and stepped over the fallen Sest. She was heading for the stairs—but this time, she saw Erin coming.
The garden door opened, and the [Assassin] whirled. 
“[Perfect Riposte]!”
Her blades stabbed at two shoulders as she knocked a mace aside. The twin strikes kissed—
—blue metal—
And screeched off as Normen shield-charged her. A feint! She kicked the [Knight]-in-training back through the door and whirled. Too slow. The young woman was right behind her.
The [Assassin] deflected Pelt’s knife with a curse. Erin punched her in the gut.
[Minotaur Punch]!
She was so furious, and her onslaught of attacks gave her the opening to hammer the Drake in the gut. The [Assassin] stumbled back, clutching at her stomach, and Erin Solstice grabbed a chair to throw. She could sense Shriekblade pursuing two of the figures outside—one was down—but then she came bounding towards the common room of the inn.
She had told Erin to hide—but Erin had the [Assassin] on the ropes. Erin charged the [Assassin] with a chair.
“Unbelievable—”
A chair might be a poor weapon against daggers—but it was longer. And the [Assassin] was leaping sideways when something kicked her in the chest. That something was called the [Inn’s Aura]. She stumbled, and a huge Gnoll [Paragon] stepped through the garden door.
Gire’s turn. The Gnoll had a fist raised. The First Flute slashed.
[Phantom Blade: Ritardando Combo]!
She never spoke her Skills aloud. She went darting left, blades slashing as Gire dodged and parried two slashes from the Drake with a sword she’d borrowed from Lyonette. But she didn’t get a chance to attack back. Gire’s eyes went round, and she ducked the third, spectral sword that appeared in the air.
One, two—
The sword was slashing alongside the First Flute! It nearly got Gire, not because she couldn’t fight the First Flute and the sword at the same time—
—But because the spectral blade was slowing with each cut. Like a tempo in music, each cut became slower, which threw off Gire’s instantaneous reactions. She stepped back as the [Assassin] pivoted—
—And Erin brought the chair down on her head.
Her furniture was too tough to break like cheap movie props, but Erin tried to knee the Drake in the face. The Drake backed up as Gire vanished through the garden door. Of all the people, the [Innkeeper] refused to run and was doing the most damage! She splattered the First Flute with a jar of acid, and the Drake felt her fake body burning and dissolving. But she was staring at Erin. How, how, how—?
“Is it—enchantments?”
The Brothers were afraid to fire their crossbows again, and Erin had forbade Alcaz and Normen from fighting to the death. The [Assassin] didn’t seem like she believed what was going on. She waved her good dagger—she’d lost hold of the other as she backed up.
“Last chance! Surrender!”
Erin Solstice was reaching for another jar of acid. Her blood was boiling with fury. At Ryoka—at the attackers—but she didn’t know if she was ready to kill. She was just so angry. Erin was about to conjure flame as she raised the chair when the First Flute flung up a claw.
“[D-Dispel Enchantments]!”
The [Innkeeper] was charging at the Drake with the chair again. Erin Solstice wavered—began to laugh—
And fell over. Suddenly, abruptly, Erin Solstice collapsed. She hit the floor, and her first thought was—
Huh?
The [Assassin] was so shocked she stared at Erin for an entire second. Erin Solstice tried to move—and suddenly, her back, her legs, her arms were screaming at her. Her—what had happened?
Then she realized she felt weak as a kitten. Erin tried to raise her head, and it was an effort. Her body hurt. The—
She’d just removed Erin’s Bulkup Bisque effect! The [Innkeeper] had lost the strength enhancement she ate every day. And with it—
“What the? It was an enchantment.”
Oh no. Nononono—Erin saw the [Assassin] grab her dagger. Then she kicked Erin over onto her back.
A door to the garden opened under Erin, and she tried to fall to safety—but a hand grabbed her shoulder, and she couldn’t go through!
The [Assassin] had her. She was so fast—
“Almost.”
The First Flute murmured in respect. Then her other claw moved. The blade flashed down.
Shriekblade burst into the inn a second too late. The First Flute looked up, and the Named-rank lifted a dagger. She stopped—because she saw what had happened.
Erin Solstice was lying on her back—and the [Assassin] had a blade at her throat. She dragged Erin up, and Erin tried to pull away, but she could barely move.
“Let go. Let go and I won’t kill you.”
Shriekblade hissed. The First Flute was panting.
“No. Bring Sellme down.”
“I can’t—I can’t—”
