They were bearing what looked like one of those carrying-platforms Pallass had used with Chaldion—only, it was enclosed. Eight Dwarves, and four who Squad 5 could hear audibly coughing or making sounds as they were ported to a hill.
“They had to come through the door outside of Celum—we moved the portal stones and everything.”
Liska kept well back. Toni looked at Crusader 53.
Find Zimrah. And Pawn?
The [Crusader] jogged off at once. 57 called out to the Dwarves.
“You all sick? What’s wrong?”
“Four of us! Badly—we hoped the Worker who helped last time could be of service once more. They were the warriors who went to battle—when the others fell sick a day before reaching Dwarfhalls Rest, we isolated these four. They haven’t gotten better.”
Squad 5 was perplexed. They looked at each other, and Crusader 57 shrugged.
“That sucks. I heard some of the Humans who came from Wales got sick. But Zimrah cured them. She’ll come and heal you.”
The Dwarf with the helmet nodded slightly.
“That is our hope. Thank you, Antinium [Crusaders].”
Crusader 53 nodded respectfully to the Dwarves. Crusader 57 whispered as they watched and waited for Zimrah to arrive.
“Told you other species didn’t have any good classes. Can’t even heal themselves of a cold.”
 
——
 
In fairness, the Antinium were getting sick. It was just that, like most things Antinium, even Liscorian citizens didn’t know much about it.
Also in fairness—the sickness wasn’t that bad.
“KE-kkkkcheee!”
The sound of a Worker sneezing was so alarming that a Human man nearly leapt into the path of a wagon. The embarrassed Worker hid behind several fellow Workers, and several Liscorians laughed their tails off.
“I am sick. I must get better.”
The Worker began to retreat to the Hive, and that was fascinating. For a few reasons. Firstly—because it sounded like he had a bad cold. But Antinium weren’t even similar to Humans, Drakes, or other species in that they had no noses to run. Some of what the disease might be trying to do to them was ineffectual because of their different biology.
It had certainly hit the Dwarves hard enough—but the damn metal-lovers knew how to isolate and prevent disease from spreading. The fact that they’d been on the road too long had meant it incubated before they reached a population center.
Of course, even among the best [Healers] in the world, terms like ‘incubation’, ideas like quarantining, and so on were very abstract. They might know all these things, but only less than a dozen [Doctors] and a few other beings knew germ theory to that extent.
Ironically, some of this world’s remaining experts had gotten to their level of understanding not because they healed it, but because they caused it.
So the Worker who was unlucky enough to be coughing and sneezing was a curio, and as he tried to head back to his Hive, someone intercepted him.
“Good sah! Good sah, prithee a moment of your time?”
At first, the Worker didn’t notice someone talking to him because of the accent, and all the language didn’t make sense.
But then he turned, and a [Healer] strode up. You could tell he was a [Healer] because of his robes, the pinrose flower attached to his front, and the sigil of healing upon his back. The half-Elf also had a magnificent mustache that reminded the Worker of Brigadier Forount.
“Hello. I am sorry, do you need something?”
“I should say you need something, good sah! I am a [Healer] around these parts, and you seem to be in distress! I say, what seems to be the matter? A spot of illness?”
Some people were staring at a [Healer] addressing a Worker, but the half-Elf was so friendly that the Worker replied—as most Workers did to any questions.
“I am sick. I must get better.”
“Get better, you say? Could you use a tonic or something, perhaps?”
The [Healer] fished around in his robes for a few bottles, but the Worker took a step back.
“I am not able to purchase anything, thank you. I am sorry—I will go to the Hive and get better. Thank you. Zimrah or the Queen can cure me.”
“Really?”
The half-Elf’s eyes narrowed slightly. He looked the Worker up and down.
“Good healers, are they? Splendid ones, I’d imagine. Have many Antinium been getting sick, young man?”
The Worker had no idea who this half-Elf was or how he could tell the Worker was a young man, but he enjoyed the novel conversation. He dipped his head.
“Zimrah can cure any sick Workers. Not many are sick. Most sneeze. A few are very sick. But the Free Queen treats the ones who are sick with Zimrah.”
“Extra-ordinary. Ex-tra-ordi-nary.”
The half-Elf said it again. He peered at the Worker with a little monocle.
“Then it would appear all the magical plag—er, illnesses are being wiped out. But the mundane ones have more staying power. Good to know. But I’d have expected more spread even from…do you know how this Queen heals your Workers, by chance? A Skill?”
“No. She uses btiqk.”
“…Say what now?”
The very friendly half-Elf fiddled with his mustache and peered harder at the Worker as the Worker—who had no name but a promising career hammering nails into new buildings under Architect Hexel—explained.
“The Queen heard we were becoming sick. She said it was unacceptable. So she gave btiqk. Most Workers do not fall sick if they sleep with it on them.”
Antinium. They had lost almost all their great technology and feats of old, but they’d kept some things on those four ships that had made landfall. Or figured out how to reproduce them.
The half-Elf, whose name was Folveilouka, folded his arms and tapped his foot before asking if anyone who’d recently been cured by the btiqk was around. The Worker actually pointed back to some of his friends, who were standing around and admiring a puddle in the street.
It took Folveilouka one look through his monocle to see what had been done. He shook hands with the Worker who had been cured.
“I can see I’m not needed here overduly, then, sirs. You children have a good day, then. Er—how is this ‘Zimrah’ doing? Are there more of her?”
“There is only one Zimrah, but there are more [Acolytes]. She is tired all day, but levelling.”
“Damn. Er. Damn good. Thank you, young ones. Have a candy.”
He handed them all a half-Elven treat, a bit of tree molasses wrapped around some nuts. The Workers bit into them happily as Folveilouka backed away. He kept smiling until he strode down the streets.
Then Tolveilouka stared at his hands and wiped them a few times on his robes. He hurried off, swearing under his breath—but he felt happy despite that.
Easy information gathering. By the way—the candy was just candy. He had made it himself. You had to play your part well. He wondered if the Antinium weren’t normally talked to—some of the Drakes and Gnolls had been looking odd.
He enjoyed petting cats, walking dogs, and sometimes he let them out of a city while it burned. Principles.
But the Antinium bothered him. So they could kill magical plagues? That was…wonderful to know. And that damned Yellow Rivers mold wiped out too many sicknesses too. Apparently a lot of the Humans getting sick had used some kind of cultured mold on themselves.
“Who figured out to use spores? Who’s bringing this stuff in?”
A Dragon? Yderigrisel was dead. And he was never that clever.
“If it’s some new Earth Dragon or, worse, one of the swamp ones…”
Something was a bit off. Tolveilouka had been delighted to learn that they still played chess—and perplexed by the ‘football’ everyone was kicking around. But then he’d heard chess had been ‘invented’ by some Fraerling.
He felt like he was missing parts of a puzzle, and he didn’t like that. The Antinium might be part of it—or a separate puzzle entirely.
At least he knew why they were so good at holding down his plague that the Eater Goats had spread. Btiqk.
Tolveilouka might not know exactly what the Free Queen had, but he knew what it was. He kept wiping his hands—and then he actually looked down and addressed something on his pristine palms.
“You are the most disgustingly innocent—off, off. Eugh.”
He kept wiping. He hated things like this. They were friendly, innocent mini-beings. His Master used to grow the nastiest strains, let them breed and infect others. But btiqk was a group trained to eliminate other tiny organisms—and it seemed like this lot just wanted to reproduce and excrete oxygen.
He’d have to figure out something that would kill them. So—mundane over magical, and this ‘Zimrah’ was counter-levelling, but she could barely keep up with a small group.
“Maybe parasites. But I was never good at them. Oh, Master…”
Tolveilouka clutched at his chest. He leaned against a wall sadly—and looked around this city that had not been here when he was alive.
How small. How quaint. They had no idea what they were built over. And here were the Horns in this area.
But don’t go to that inn. There were a few dangerous ones about—he could sense them. They could—unfortunately—harm him.
He had not survived war upon war by leaping into a fight with blind confidence, and this lot had chased away even the Stitch Witch. It tempted him, though.
Oh, how it tempted him. In fact, two of them were even in the city. Tolveilouka had to stop himself from literally leaping around a corner when he saw the [Necromancer] and Antinium walking past him.
“Of all the odious tasks, Ksmvr. You could imagine she’d put Ishkr upon the job, but us? We’re Gold-rank adventurers.”
“Yes, Comrade Pisces. But it is just a bag of sugar.”
“And eggs. And two cabbages. It’s the principle of the thing.”
“Helping our friend is a bad principle?”
The young man hesitated, and Tolveilouka eyed him.
“N—w—I meant that it’s beneath us.”
“Oh. So we are too good to do mundane chores. I see.”
“Don’t write that down! Let me think of how to rephrase that.”
The sweating [Necromancer] and Antinium would be the work of a moment to kill. Tolveilouka stared balefully from behind a barrel as Ekirra stared at him from behind, then went to kick his ball somewhere else.
Had they leveled up of late? The [Necromancer] seemed to have increased his death magic mastery by some modicum. The Antinium, though…he seemed more deadly.
That was the problem with levels. Tolveilouka changed his mind. His hands began to ooze as he changed them too, and he stood up slowly and began to stride after the two. Never let an opportunity slip past.
The problem with being an undercover monster, though—was something Tolveilouka knew full well. And he had only artifacts, not his master’s acumen with magic, so it was even more likely sometimes—as he stepped around a group of figures fiddling with instruments and headed for the [Necromancer], two people moved.
Sometimes—you got noticed.
Tolveilouka saw a tiny little skeleton of a mouse skitter out of a sewer drain. It had bright, green eyes, and no one noticed but him. It said nothing—but he felt the mental warning.
“LEAVE NOW.”
Oh, him again. Tolveilouka’s eyes narrowed—but he wavered. And then someone tried to cut his head off.
It was so fast that even the half-Elf barely saw it coming. He just noticed one of the people in the group of instrument-carrying Drakes and Gnolls turn, and a little object flicked out.
A…conductor’s wand, but metal. The kind of thing the leader of an orchestra carried. Or a Symphony.
The metal wand wouldn’t hurt. The sword was a bigger threat.
Tolveilouka ducked. The sword took the top of his hair strands off—and the second cut came straight at the back of his head. Whoever had launched the sneak attack hadn’t put all of their eggs in one basket.
He hated swordsmen like that damn [Sword Legend]. Tolveilouka was adept—but not like the masters of old. Still—he raised two fingers and deflected the second strike as he twisted away.
The third blow was a step-in, a pinpoint strike so classic to fencing that Pisces turned as an older Drake with a maestro’s magnificent suit, ruffled and edged with faint lilac, stabbed. And Tolveilouka—twisted.
“Not bad.”
The half-Elf with the gigantic mustache murmured. The Drake’s eyes flicked to him—Tolveilouka had a hand on the rapier, moving it back—but the blow had cut the fake healer’s robes. Pisces and Ksmvr turned as the Drake stepped back fast, and the rest of his group turned, grabbing for weapons.
“Hold. We’re done here.”
The Drake was smart enough not to touch the part of the sword that Tolveilouka had touched. To the half-Elf’s vague disappointment, the entire weapon vanished.
Summoned weapons. Too bad. Tolveilouka kept his back to Pisces and Ksmvr. He and the Drake stared at each other, and each noticed one thing.
The Drake probably noticed Tolveilouka had a fake mustache.
Tolveilouka…noticed the golden bell on the maestro’s wand. It didn’t chime.
“Let’s not have a disturbance here. Gold-ranks dying brings trouble—especially with the Haven about. Agreed?”
“Good sah, we have an accord.”
Tolveilouka strode forwards, and the Drake pivoted—but the half-Elf was heading away from Pisces and Ksmvr as they focused more on the Drake than him.
Thank goodness. The little mouse was still staring at him. Tolveilouka gnashed his teeth. Upstart [Necromancers]. This was why—his master always used to tell him to be more cautious.
Be they so humble—they had killed his master. They could kill Tolveilouka. Drakes had slain their parents. Little children could slay Giants. He walked off, sulking.
 
——
 
Pisces wondered who that other person had been. A half-Elf? He hadn’t seen the other’s face—except maybe a huge mustache. He was tempted to look, but that Drake had a golden bell.
He was the real thing. The three strikes—Pisces had only seen the last one—proved that. It had probably taken less than a second for all three, and the other Drakes and Gnolls were still turning.
“Maestro, what was that?”
“Interloper. Focus. I’m thinking adagio, and I will let the First Clarinet lead—but I want range and accuracy. No mistakes. No accidents, am I clear? We do our job professionally and leave. There is too much attention on this city. But I will allow that it was right for me to come.”
“Yes, Maestro.”
Humbled, the Gnoll with a clarinet bowed his head, and the others fell silent like naughty school children. Pisces just kept staring.
“That Drake is an expert with the blade.”
Ksmvr, for once, was not stating the obvious—because ‘expert’ didn’t cover it. Pisces had recently had the honor of facing the King of Duels, Raelt Leysars, in an unofficial match during their journey to Izril.
