Ylawes looked at Ysara blankly.
“We’ve seen your hair before. The tattoo is new—but you could always undye your hair if you think Father will be too offended. It’s not our fault you choose to look like that.”
Qwera was checking on Tesy, and a Drake, Onieva, was doing likewise for some reason. Both of them turned, and Ysara stared at Ylawes in much the same way.
“…Thank you for reminding me why I don’t come back, Ylawes.”
He looked uncertain why even Yvlon was glaring at him. But something was dawning in his eyes. Ylawes, the trained warrior, knew he should retreat, but he kept trying to defend himself.
“I—I just meant that of course Father’s conservative when it comes to dyed hair and such. He might have a few words, but Mother will support you.”
Ysara’s death-glare was slowly chipping away at Ylawes’ hitpoints in Colth’s eyes as the [Supporter] eyed the standoff. But she seemed to sense he was being genuine. That only made Ysara madder. She glanced sideways at Yvlon, then hissed.
“Mother is nicer? You idiot. Then again, you’ve never done anything ‘wrong’. Mother isn’t nicer, you straight-edged, mallet-brained idiot. She just says what she wants to say where no one else can hear her.”
Yvlon’s head snapped to Ysara. What did that mean? Ysara Byres folded her arms as Ylawes looked as confused as Yvlon.
“I’m not welcome back home, Ylawes. I’ve said it again and again—let me spell it out for you. I am not welcome. At home. Not unless I change everything about me. And it’s not our people, but it’s our family, our parents who disapprove of me. I would take Father over Mother every day of the week.”
Yvlon…truly did understand, then. But it hurt to hear Ysara say that. And there was a part of Yvlon that said, ‘no, that can’t be true’. Even if it made all the sense in the world.
Ylawes…Ylawes just looked at Ysara as if he really didn’t understand, even now, what she meant. And Ysara might have been angry enough to shout it out in even plainer words—until her younger brother put his hand on the table. He didn’t grab her hand, but he rested it there.
“—I’m sorry if that’s how you’ve felt, Ysara. I didn’t realize. I should have just said—I hope you knew, you know that you are always welcome with me. And that I’ve never made you feel any other way.”
His older sister’s hostile expression turned to Ylawes, and he might be obtuse—but her glare softened a bit.
“Thank you, Ylawes. That does mean something. I hope nothing changes that.”
“What could possibly do that?”
He gave her a blank look, and Qwera covered her face with her paws. She gave the Silver Merchant a disbelieving look. Was he being serious? You weren’t lying about…? Ysara exhaled.
“Well, if you don’t know—ask your team.”
Ylawes turned and stared at Dawil and Falene.
 
——
 
You know, listening into their conversation—because no one in the Byres family really bothered with secrecy spells—Fierre Lischelle-Drakle changed her mind.
She hated House Byres for what they’d done to her people. She hated them more than any other group in the world.
But even she felt bad for Ysara. A bit. She got it. It was amazing, really, how much of the rest of the world was blind. But maybe that was because they had no notion, like Ylawes, or they were deliberately stabbing themselves in the eyes.
Anyways, she still stayed as far away from Silver Arms Yvlon as she could. ‘Silver Killer’ was right—Fierre felt like she was breaking out in a rash just being in the same room as the three of them.
“Look at those three murderers.”
Fierre jumped and removed the speaking stone from her ear. For a second, she thought it was the Gnoll that Erin had chased out of the inn—but Rivel, her older brother, meant the Byres family.
“Rivel. What are you doing here?”
“I’m allowed to be here. And there’s free food.”
The Vampire defended himself. He had a huge plate of cake—he’d gotten the drippy ‘s’ of Venas. But he gave Ylawes such a deep glare of hatred that Fierre kicked him.
“Don’t draw attention to yourself.”
“I’m not stupid. He’s got his armor on, and he’s a Gold-rank. Unlike you…what’s done is done.”
He looked so bitter that Fierre felt for her brother. And her family. She closed her eyes, but Rivel shot her a glance.
“Don’t worry, I’m not jealous. I’m glad. I might live to hit a hundred now we’ve moved. Ryoka did us all a favor. But that lot…”
He glared at the Byres family, then shrugged. And for some reason, smiled and relaxed. Fierre eyed Rivel. She had begun her first career as secret-keeper hiding his pranks and the mischief he and the other younger Vampires got up to.
“What’s with the smile?”
“Nothing. Nothing that’ll get me in trouble. But something good will happen soon. Look forward to it.”
“Rivel. If you’re planning something—”
He gave Fierre a big smile.
“I’m just the dumb [Farmer], Fierre. I didn’t do anything. Anyways, I’ve gotta take this cake to Mother. She’s having a quiet meal with Miss Viceria. Our new best friends.”
He rolled his eyes and departed, tugging his hood up. Fierre opened her mouth, then caught herself and shielded her fangs. She looked around—and someone else had noticed Rivel and slid into the seat.
“Hey, Fierre, how’s it going? Did you hear I ran with Mihaela all the way from Celum?”
“Garia, you nearly gave me a heart-attack!”
“You’re tough.”
Garia punched Fierre in the shoulder hard, and the Vampire grinned at her friend. Even she couldn’t follow Ryoka, but Garia?
“What’s with your dumb brother?”
“Something no good. I’ll ask around. What’s with your…”
Fierre could tell Garia was morose. The [Martial Artist] sighed and leaned over.
“Numbtongue’s got a cat.”
“I heard he found it. Octavia didn’t give it to him.”
Garia brightened up a bit.
“Really? That’s—”
“You really have to either say something or stop settling. Garia, just go for it.”
The City Runner turned her head away.
“No. It’s fine as it is.”
“Creler blood it is. Go out, get shot with crossbow bolts, or win. And if you get shot, I’ll help you.”
Fierre replied hotly. Garia glowered at her.
“You make it sound easy. What about you?”
“I’m complicated.”
Being a Vampire was really hard to hide, and so it limited Fierre to other Vampires or people she knew. Garia folded her arms.
“And I’m not? I’ll help you if you have anyone you can trust. Alber? Uh…no, wait, that’s about it.”
“I’d try Ryoka, but there’s that Guardsman Relc and Tyrion to hear about it.”
Fierre muttered into her lap. Garia hesitated. Her face made an ‘o’, and Fierre stared blankly at her. Wait—her too? But her father was a [Pirate]—and Garia didn’t seem like she was running away. Plus, her mother was from Wistram.
“What was that about my mother? What’s that supposed to mean?”
Fierre made the mistake of saying that last part out loud. The Vampire defensively pushed her seat back.
“It means she’s probably more open-minded. I didn’t imply—stop kicking me. Stop kicking me. I’m stronger than you are!”
The two were beginning to bicker about things said when someone broke off from Magnolia Reinhart and began to take in the rest of the inn. A [Lady] with a fan in hand, whose dissatisfied look changed to one of…interest. She stopped, and her eyes found Fierre and Garia.
Lady Ieka Imarris snapped a fan across her face as she eyed Fierre and Garia. My.
“Hello.”
And here she thought The Wandering Inn was just a topical place to be. She stared about the inn as Erin peered at the [Lady]—and Valeterisa ducked behind Montressa.
“Apprentice, birthday present. Find one.”
Ieka Imarris spotted her aunt, which was one of the reasons why she’d made the journey, because she knew full well Valeterisa wouldn’t visit for a year without constant reminders. And because a birdie had told her Ryoka Griffin was in the area.
She had hated hearing Magnolia was here—but—
…Ieka forgot what she was thinking about. Was that Yvlon Byres? And…Ysara Byres, the ill-seen member of House Byres? Stunning! She turned, and there was Drassi, coming in for her lunch break as Erin threw up her hands. And was that—the [Princess] of Calanfer?
“Oh my.”
The fan began to move as Ieka wondered how many more—interesting ladies she had failed to run across. Oh dear. She looked around for a seat as one of her own personal servants spoke to Ishkr, asking for a private room.
“I believe I will drink in the ambiance in the common room, thank you. I—”
Ieka turned her head and saw Ulvama, scratching at her bare stomach, reclining there with her bare armpits—hand behind her back.
“Oh dear.”
“It’s just Goblins, Lady Imarris. Nothing to worry about!”
Ieka swooned into a chair and requested a drink of water. Someone had to appreciate fine details. Someone had to.
Nanette Weishart had been wandering around the inn, introducing herself to all the guests she could. Most were charmed to meet the young witch and answered her questions because Nanette was curious about everyone. The young girl peered at Ieka’s flushed face—and decided to say ‘hello’ to Valeterisa instead.
 
——
 
Things were busy.
And that meant The Wandering Inn, The Adventurer’s Haven where Sammial and Hethon were racing about, exploring everything, and Ryoka Griffin was desperately scrounging for gifts—trying to think of something to say while Magnolia Reinhart developed a headache—
And also Liscor in general. A number of odd things were happening in the city of late. Well, there was still a Yoldenite population running around, and the festivities from the triumphant Crusaders and Wales folk had actually resulted in what felt like a permanent influx of visitors.
Liscor was changing in real-time, and no better example of that could be found than Squad 5, Battalion 1.
Crusader 57 swaggered about with his zweihander on his shoulders as Crusader 53 munched on some sugary nut-snacks he’d bought with his pay. Toni was one of the trio, following the two veterans around.
…Mostly because someone needed to watch Crusader 57, who would fight anything. But Crusader 57 was actually in a good mood today. Probably because of the kids who asked to check out his sword or cheered him. Or just the fact that they’d gotten paid.
He had yet to buy a thing, but he jangled his coin pouch deliberately every few minutes to hear the coins ring. Still, he was fairly alert, and Crusader 57 grumbled despite his good mood.
“Zimrah should be here. Artur is a traitor, but Zimrah should be keeping us company. But no, she’s sleeping all the time.”
“She is tired. Please be nice.”
Toni was a Soldier with the ability to speak like Yellow Splatters. The Free Queen had correlated a Soldier’s ability to speak with a 516% increased chance of becoming Individual, and Crusader 57 sneered at him.
“She’s our tired Ant. She should have fun! Before we go to wherever Xrn or Olesm wants us next.”
By that, he meant that Zimrah was attached to Battalion 1. And Artur was attached to Battalion 4—though the [Banner Leader] was often elsewhere. But their younger [Priest] was the pride of Battalion 1. The other Battalions got their own leaders—Battalion 3 was Tersk’s, for example, and some were defined by their officers like Embraim, who carried the Glory Fire, or the [Templars].
Actually, you could argue Crusader 53 and Crusader 57 were icons of Battalion 3 as well, but neither one seemed to consider that. Crusader 53 did have a Dragonbone mace…but Artur had his banner.
Lots of Watch on the street today.
Crusader 53 used his two free hands to sign that. The Mrsha-adapted sign-language was perfectly understandable by the two Workers. Crusader 57 cast a glance to one side.
“They look jumpy. Wonder if we need to save their tails again like we did with Facestealer.”
“The adventurers did that.”
“Shut up, Toni.”
Whatever the case, no one bothered the three Antinium. Even the casual Drakes and Gnolls took one look at them—and stepped to one side. Each one was carrying an odd case—not weapons. Crusader 53 was interested and saw one of them polishing a flute. He heard a snippet of their conversation.
“Third Horn couldn’t even infiltrate?”
“No. They have a screaming defender and some brass of their own from Calanfer. Don’t worry. The Maestro is here.”
“Oh. Then are all of us here? For one…?”
The Crusaders ambled on as Crusader 53 wished the musicians would put on some music here and now. He quite liked music. But they were heading out the gates on 57’s request.
“Where are we going?”
“Inn. That [Innkeeper] owes us food, remember? I’m not wasting my money on feeding myself. Besides, I heard ‘high and mighty’ Pawn was there. Maybe we’ll see Lyonette dump him twice.”
Crusader 57 laughed at that. He would have been terribly hurt to realize how many good zingers he’d already missed today. But the three Crusaders never made it to The Wandering Inn for the drama that would soon ensue.
They ran into someone…coming through the [Portal Door]. But it was odd.
Liska had stomped out of the inn, and she kept pausing to talk to someone on the other side. As they watched, she had to carry a huge, marked stone out—and the doorway kept reappearing. It was not easy, and Liska kept talking into the doorway.
“Is here good? Further out? Okay—okay—I’ll tell the Watch soon! But I have to open the door! Excuse me!”
She waved, and someone on the Walls groaned and shouted down.
“Is it war, monsters, magical disaster, news—”
“Just get down here!”
A [Guard] ran out the gates, and the Crusaders tromped over. All three helped Liska carry the portal stone over to the road, and she began speaking to the [Guard]. Even Crusader 57 helped, though he grumbled.
“What the fucking…what the damn…no, the shit-Creler—”
He was trying to express his frustration in the limited lexicon of English swear words. Liska answered for the Crusaders.
“You might want to stand back—although, you’re the ones they want to see. Hey, stop!”
She had to stop several wagons on the road as the [Guard] ran towards Liscor. But the group coming through the door only came out when Liska told them everything in a hundred foot radius was clear—and they came through fast, looked around, and headed across the Floodplains towards the grass. They were, in fact—
“Dwarves?”
Crusader 57 started forward, but one called out. He had an odd helmet on with what looked like gauze wrapped all around it.
“Don’t come closer! We have sick among us.”
