Tyrion Veltras was looking at Ryoka as she pointed to him, and Hethon and Sammial were hiding behind the soldiers and their father, looking at the hostile faces. Ryoka…was she defending them? She was gesturing to the young woman with a hat blazing with invisible flames.
The inn was—oppressive. But Ryoka just said this:
“I know what he’s done, and there might be no redemption. But—I have done terrible things too. Erin—you and I know we might need help. Flawed help. Everyone should be held to account for the things they’ve done. But if he can help you—can you hear me out? Talk?”
It was something Magnolia Reinhart had never expected to hear from Ryoka Griffin. She looked at the Wind Runner’s back. And Erin heard Ryoka. The Courier was saying everything that made sense.
So Erin looked at Tyrion—and he had no idea who she was. She saw it, written all over his face. She was—the owner of The Wandering Inn. Questgiver. The young woman who liked Goblins and Antinium.
He didn’t remember a white flag as it rained. He was watching the Goblins, and there was no recollection there. Ryoka was speaking earnestly, logically—and Erin heard her.
But Ryoka had not been there during the siege. Erin Solstice drew a knife from her belt, and Ryoka held up her hands.
“Erin!”
“I understand what you just said, Ryoka. I get it. You raised a lot of good points just now. Forgiveness. Working with—people who have stains. I get it. Sometimes, to stop a monster, you might join forces with tiny monsters. I’ve decided to do things I know will hurt people, lately, and I know exactly—exactly what needs to be done.”
Erin was breathing harder. But the [Innkeeper]’s eyes never wavered from Tyrion Veltras.
“I believe in second chances. I believe in redemption and trying again.”
“So…”
Ryoka saw Erin turn her head. And she recoiled from Erin’s look. The [Innkeeper] reached into her bag of holding and pulled something else out.
A jar of acid. She held it in her other hand as Tyrion’s eyes focused on that.
“Not him. Not him. I’ll take Magnolia Reinhart’s hand. I’ll forgive anyone else. But he—you don’t know what he did, do you, Ryoka? Do you even—you weren’t there. Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Pyrite—that man murdered my friends. He brought war to Liscor and murdered countless innocent people. Not. Him.”
The floor was beginning to shake. Mrsha squeezed Gire’s arm tightly, afraid—but the words were ringing in her heart too. Numbtongue looked at Erin, and he smiled.
Not in happiness or satisfaction—but the same kind of deathly grin as when they had followed a girl waving a white flag into battle. Redscar bared his teeth as he nodded.
Tyrion Veltras stared at Erin Solstice. He looked at the Goblins—and when he spoke, it was softly.
“I do not believe we’ve ever met, Miss Solstice. I have made war on my enemies. But I do not remember slaying innocents.”
He stood there, and Erin’s eyes flickered. Just once. Then she looked at Sammial in his father’s shadow and lowered the jar of acid. Ryoka breathed—and Erin tucked the jar into her bag of holding, drew a smaller copper frying pan, and threw it at Tyrion’s face.
He parried the frying pan. His sword flicked left—and Numbtongue was in front of Erin. Her voice thundered.
“Numbtongue! If he takes one more step into this inn—take him out. If any one of them does—they’ll regret it. A [Witch]’s word on it.”
“Erin!”
Ryoka shoved in front of Tyrion, trying to stop the Goblins as they advanced past the tables. But Tyrion was stepping back. He didn’t look confused—rather, he seemed grimly set.
“Leave, Ryoka. And don’t come back with him. Get out of my inn.”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes were baleful as they stared at Ryoka. And her hat…Ryoka stepped back, sweating. But Erin Solstice’s eyes softened a tiny bit. She turned her head and spoke to Redscar, who looked sidelong at her, a snarl on his face.
“Ryoka…you saved my life. So get out before Redscar loses it.”
He grunted—but Erin widened her eyes at him, and he hesitated. House Veltras was backing up already, and Ryoka was trying to say something to Erin as she pushed Tyrion to the [Portal Door].
Then Ryoka heard the horn calls from outside and turned her head. No, not something else! Not now!
“The door—”
Jericha fumbled with the door, but it wouldn’t open for someone who wasn’t one of Erin’s friends. Tyrion Veltras was moving back, his sons behind him.
“Wait. We’re not done. ”
Redscar stepped past Erin. She hesitated—but the Goblin’s eyes were locked on Tyrion. Erin raised an arm to block him—and didn’t quite do it.
“Erin Solstice. You do not want the blood of the Five Families shed here. Kindly open your door.”
Magnolia Reinhart warned her. Erin looked at Magnolia.
“As opposed to Goblin blood? Antinium? I’m opening it. Just—”
Erin lifted a finger, looking for Liska, and someone shook her. So hard she twisted and nearly punched the frantic young man in the face. It was—Kevin?
“Erin, Tesy is in danger.”
Kevin was shouting in her ear.
“What?”
She turned—and Relc and Klbkch were already at the doors. They tried to push past House Veltras—and halted as they raised their blades. The corridor was packed—despite being wide enough to let channels of people through, Veltras had formed a wall of steel and Klbkch and Relc were trying to slide by—
The arrowslits and secret hallway were lined with Brothers, who had crossbows in hand. House Veltras saw them and were adjusting their shields. They were in the middle of a killing ground—but Relc actually shoved a spear back as he pushed forwards.
“Watch on duty! Move it!”
Relc shouted in the face of a guard from House Veltras. Klbkch saw Tyrion pivoting to face him—but then everyone heard the sounds from outside.
“Move! To the inn!”
“The Watch is sounding the alarm. Klb—”
A second of pause—then Ullim raised a hand and the blades went up. Now free, Relc barreled out the door, spear raised, and Klbkch leapt after him.
House Veltras took that moment to head for the door as well. Jericha was covering Hethon and Sammial with her body—this place would be their grave if it came to a fight. Not that anyone had fired—yet.
Erin Solstice was looking around in alarm.
“Tessa—”
“They’re after the [Painter]. They must have gotten him out of the inn.”
“Someone protect Tesy!”
Qwera knocked over tables and chairs, running for the door. Ceria looked around, swearing.
“Who? What’s going on?”
“[Assassins]!”
The word made Tyrion’s head snap up. But now, Grimalkin was checking himself.
“—Never a dull moment—stay here.”
He strode towards a window, intent on just heading out there instead of past the wary House Veltras. But now, Erin was snapping her fingers, and the [Portal Door] appeared in the middle of the common room.
“Go to Liscor! Tessa—”
“No. You’re in danger. Symphony is no joke.”
“Did she say Symphony? Dead gods—”
Typhenous uttered a word, and Erin hadn’t even seen him come in. Grimalkin just went for the door. He had nearly reached it when he turned his head.
“This will be dangerous.”
“And?”
Lady Pryde Ulta stared at him. She actually tried to elbow him out of the way as the two headed through the door.
“Find Tesy! Get him back here. Ceria—”
“Pisces and Ksmvr are in Liscor. Yvlon, they definitely ran into them. What if Roshal—”
Yvlon kicked a table out of the way and went through the door. Ceria and Ylawes and his team were after them.
Half the inn was streaming through the door, and Tyrion glanced over his shoulder.
“We’re trapped here. Step out of the inn.”
He was watching the Goblins, because Redscar was sizing up the Veltras soldiers and counting his own Redfangs and warriors. Peggy had a crossbow, and Tyrion was staring at the trapped hallway.
“No, Erin, the door—”
Erin wasn’t listening. So Tyrion thrust open a door rather than be trapped in the confined portal chamber. He stepped outside, ushering his sons with Jericha and Ullim guarding them. It was actually a de-escalating move.
It led them outside—and right into Rags. The Goblin looked up, stared at Tyrion, and he swung his sword unconsciously towards her neck. She stepped back, and Erin whirled around.
“Stop it!”
Ryoka shouted at Tyrion—he’d halted his blade, but Redscar had come snarling out the doors.
“To the Chieftain!”
Every Goblin flooded out the inn, and House Veltras was moving back faster now. Goblins on one side, Veltras on the other—and Magnolia Reinhart’s staff were forming a line between Tyrion’s left side.
“Enough! Everyone, lower your weapons!”
Magnolia Reinhart’s command forced a few arms down, but Rags was just staring at Tyrion. Staring with the same kind of hatred that Erin—
“Ryoka, we could use that door—now.”
Tyrion’s voice was still calm. And Ryoka hated him a little for that, because he knew Erin’s hatred, saw the depths of her anger—and he was cold. But maybe that was just how he fought, in his tranquility of battle.
When some went hot—he calculated, like Halrac. Tyrion Veltras’ sword was pointing at the ground—in the distance, Liscor’s fog was clearing. There was fighting in the city, flashes of light, but a lot of the figures were fleeing. Or rather, headed to the eastern gates. Following someone running for their life.
The Thief of Clouds was stealing arrows out of the sky. Sellme ran for the inn as the Sinew Magus and the Lady of House Ulta went crashing into the streets, adding to the havoc. Symphony took one look at the Gecko, the Slayer of the Antinium, and either surrendered or ran.
But—there were lots of them. And the best, including the Maestro, were hot on Tesy’s heels. He ran past the two sides, screaming.
“Let me in! Let me—”
He ran into the trapped hallway, nearly ate a crossbow bolt from Alcaz, and collapsed as Erin Solstice looked around.
“Garden of Sanctuary! Now!”
Lyonette was already inside with Mrsha, and Gire dragged Tesy in as they bent over him. Better. Right up until a second group exited the city of Liscor and came charging up the hill.
They were in good formation. Tyrion Veltras and Rags noticed the tight, overlapping shields of the first group, footfalls practically coming down at the same time. Long Drake tails, bright, fiery armor—and a sigil of war.
“To the inn! Get to Celum—now!”
A panting Wall Lord was ushering a very upset Drake with bright azure scales, his sword and shield out. Erin Solstice was just calming down inside her inn when Tyrion Veltras moved.
Ryoka had been focused on Tesy, wondering who the heck he was and what ‘Symphony’ was. But Tyrion Veltras looked down the hill, and he recognized the armor. She saw him turn, and Jericha reached for him—but the [Lord] took three steps.
A short one, then a longer stride as he began to head down the hill’s side. Then his legs pushed off the ground, and the third step was more a leap.
Ryoka Griffin caught sight of his face. And then she saw the cold features of the Lord of House Veltras come—alive.
Alive with malice. With the kind of fury that would drive someone to send a Goblin Lord against a city. To plot to break a city of millions to dust and damnation. It came out in a word as Wall Lord Aldonss looked up and his eyes widened.
Tyrion said:
“Manus.”
He brought the sword down as his leap carried him straight into the [Soldiers]. So fast—only Aldonss saw it. He tried to raise his shield, but the angle was off. So he guarded with his sword—
Tyrion’s blade buried the Wall Lord’s own blade into his neck and chest. The Wall Lord hadn’t been wearing armor for their ‘covert’ mission. Blood welled up as Rafaema whirled.
“Aldonss!”
The Drake wrenched his sword free as Tyrion whirled. Manus’ Drakes turned on him. He looked up as Rafaema’s mouth opened.
The bolt of lightning glanced off Tyrion’s shield, and he recoiled. He leapt back as the Drakes shouted.
“Officer attack!”
“House Veltras!”
“Hold! Hold!”
Who was shouting that? Ullim was bellowing at the [Soldiers] under Veltras’ command as Aldonss said the same thing. Rafaema had drawn her sword, and Ferris had a crossbow aimed at Tyrion’s head.
Jericha was aiming a wand down, but she hesitated. Tyrion was stalking left, and he brought his shield up as a howl split the air.
“Oh come on.”
Ressa muttered. She looked up as Spearmaster Lulv charged at Tyrion. The [Lord]’s sword blurred as a flurry of stabs crashed against the shield.
“Lulv, fall back! Hold your ground! Hold your ground!”
Aldonss’ voice froze the [Soldiers], and Lulv himself drew back a step.
“Lord Veltras, you cannot start a war!”
Ullim howled down at him. Tyrion was hesitating, eyes blazing with fury as he looked from Lulv to the Drakes. Rafaema was staring at the inn. It was so close!
Stalemate—and now it was Goblins eying Manus and House Veltras. Meanwhile—the Liscorians present, including Drassi, hadn’t forgotten who had entered the Hectval Alliance’s war.
“Manus? Here? The bastards!”
Selys shouted out from the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Chaldion was shouting as Onieva dragged him towards the garden.
“Let go of me. Get Saliss—we cannot have a war between north and south! Stand down, you fools!”
In the middle of this, three sides of soldiers. High-level warriors about to gut each other—the inn literally shaking with an [Innkeeper]’s fury—you would have to be insane to come up that hill.
Or—
Professionals. For Tyrion Veltras turned as Lulv tensed—and he spoke another word.
“[Assassins]. Ullim. Shield the boys.”
Symphony came up the hill, three dozen figures who saw the standoff. Even they hesitated. But they still went for the inn.
“Fulfill the contract.”
A Drake pointed. One of the [Assassins] went down with an arrow in the leg—another deflected an arrow from Bird before he leapt down the stairs of his tower and into the inn. He locked the door—[Assassins] swung up onto the roofs. Others lost their blades in a moment as Lulv disarmed one—another raised their paws, and he halted the killing stroke.
“Who are they—”
Confused, he saw an [Assassin] leap for an open window. The figure actually made it into Joseph’s rooms. But then they saw the golden-plated figure slap a talisman to the door—slam it—
The blast of fire had nowhere to go in the contained room but out. Ser Lormel took his fingers out of his ears as a figure went shooting out of the window and landed, tumbling down the hill. He slammed the window shut.
“Second floor secure!”
The [Assassins] were trying to get in, but Dame Ushar was slamming the hilt of her sword against her shield.
“[Safehouse: Lockdown]. One made it onto the third floor—”
