Ryoka was still not even processing Erin being on her feet. She had been—afraid, despite having seen Erin on the scrying orb, that this was all some dream. It had occurred to her that the silly sock puppets, leaving Ailendamus—
This could have all been a masterclass in Rhisveri or Visophecin torturing her. But Erin felt too real—and Ceria Springwalker was looking about.
“Of all the times—can’t those two even buy groceries and come back? Pisces and Ksmvr are out, but Yvlon—over here!”
“Ryoka.”
The [Armsmistress] appeared, and Ryoka started.
“Yvlon! It’s so good to see you.”
Yvlon Byres paused, and Ryoka looked at her two beautiful arms because it had been so long she had forgotten. And she meant what she said—but she was instantly embarrassed. Everyone else giggled with humor at Ryoka’s flushed face. She was doing that every two seconds. But Yvlon just smiled.
“You as well.”
Ryoka still remembered their first meeting and fight—but so long had passed since then—she took Yvlon’s grip and felt a terrifying strength made as gentle as could be. Ryoka stared at her and Ceria.
“That’s right. You two were on Chandrar. What the hell happened after the Village of the Dead? I had to get out of the way. Rhisveri was—”
“Long story. I bet that’s going to be said a lot here. But ours really is.”
Ceria looked amused as she realized how much she had to tell Ryoka—including the truth of what had happened when they reached the center. Ryoka exhaled.
“I’m glad you four are all okay. You are, aren’t you?”
The half-Elf thought about it and shrugged as Yvlon bit her lip.
“A few more scars. A few more levels. Ksmvr got his arm back, so that’s a net positive. And we survived. What more can an adventurer ask for?”
Ryoka nodded slowly. It seemed like a real positive on limbs, here. She pointed at Ceria.
“Plus, you’ve got a few new Relics by the look of it. Nice crown. Is it magic?”
Ceria Springwalker’s smile froze on her face. Yvlon turned to Ryoka and then to the half-Elf as Chaldion’s head snapped around. He fumbled with his eye—and Ceria blinked at Ryoka.
“What crown?”
“Uh…”
The half-Elf gave Ryoka a blank look while her eyes flashed at Ryoka as the Wind Runner stood there. Oh shit. She looked about, and Erin stared at Ceria.
“You seeing things, Ryoka?”
“Maybe. Maybe I am. I—uh—okay. Okay, let’s forget about that. Erin, do you have a hat made of fire or am I crazy? And is there a Drake glued to the wall like Spiderman over there?”
Erin began to grin—and everyone turned their heads as Ceria ducked away from Yvlon’s pinching fingers that were going for her ear. Shriekblade appeared and stared at Ryoka. She was indeed glued to the wall, and she’d been stealthing her way around the inn as Ryoka watched.
“I work here. What are you?”
“My favorite troublemaker. You keep her safe, alright, Tessa?”
Shriekblade nodded dubiously. Ryoka stared at Erin.
“And the hat?”
“Oh, I’m a [Witch] now. Hey! You know Riverfarm! My door now goes there.”
“What? Have you met Laken?”
Erin nodded as she watched Ceria walk swiftly out the doors with Yvlon in hot pursuit. The half-Elf started running before the door even closed.
“Yup. Not a fan. But let’s keep moving. You, uh, see anything else weird?”
Ryoka stared around the inn. Everyone gave her a look. The problem was—Ryoka was now having trouble switching her vision to ‘normal’ mode.
“…Is that Valeterisa stealing Grimalkin’s notes? Am I seeing a Hobgoblin [Chef]? Is that—Rags?”
Everyone turned. The latter two things were just Calescent and Rags—but Grimalkin turned and yanked his notepad out of Valeterisa’s hands. He was extremely glad he didn’t have his notes on Earth on there. Then again…
“Hello, Miss Ryoka. I haven’t killed anyone that I know of since last we met.”
Valeterisa waved idly as she reappeared. Then she hesitated.
“Outside of a war.”
She thought harder.
“Or a personal duel.”
Ryoka stared at her—the Archmage seemed to be trying to think of anyone else she might have inadvertently killed of late.
“Is everyone I know here?”
“Yes! Ryoka!”
Then someone else grabbed her in a bear hug and lifted her up. Garia and Fierre grabbed Ryoka, and she struggled.
“Wh—Garia!”
“You’re back! You’re back! And just in time too! Guess who’s here, Ryoka? Mihaela Godfrey! And Salamani! And there’s a Centaur in Riverfarm who claims you’re her best friend!”
“Wh—oh shit. Mihaela?”
Ryoka’s stomach began hurting at the very idea. But Erin Solstice was snapping her fingers and whispering to Ishkr, who obligingly went to the Haven. Garia was swinging Ryoka around when someone interrupted them.
“Excuse me. Miss Griffin, I never thanked you properly for your services to me and my aunt. Hello. And who are these charming Runners?”
Fierre, Garia, and Ryoka all turned to Lady Ieka as she pushed her way forwards. Ryoka blinked.
“Lady Ieka Imarris? Oh—thank you for your help! I, uh—”
She was flustered as the [Lady] took her hand.
“I am in your debt, Miss Griffin. But I see so many fine folk—let us just agree that you won’t leave without accepting my invitation at least once! Agreed? Wonderful. Hello, Miss…?”
She turned to Garia, who looked astonished and nervous. Ryoka was relieved by that. She turned and looked for Mrsha.
Mrsha! Lyonette gave Ryoka a cool smile and extended a hand.
“Miss Ryoka.”
“Lyonette. Hello! Are—are those Thronebearers?”
Ryoka did a double-take at the sight of Ser Dalimont, Lormel, Sest, and Ushar. All four bowed, and Lyonette coolly nodded. She still didn’t like Ryoka—but like Erin and Magnolia, she was warmer than before.
Mostly because Ryoka had moved down the ‘bad not-parental figure’ list under Mrell and Prha. So Lyonette took her hands.
“I hope you won’t bring more trouble to the inn—but I doubt you can beat our regular craziness.”
“I’ll try not to. I really will.”
“Eh. We beat Facestealer. Hey, you. Look. I have a cat. His name is Reagen.”
Numbtongue. He pushed forwards, and Ryoka blinked at him.
“What was that about Facestealer?”
He was in the midst of telling her, and she was growing increasingly alarmed—but Mrsha was sitting at a table—back facing Ryoka. After her initial big hug, she had looked at Ryoka and turned away. Now, she was having a cup of milk with a giant…giant Gnoll with reddish fur who was giving Ryoka the evil-eye.
“Er—who’s that?”
“Gireulashia. [Paragon].”
“That’s a class?”
Numbtongue just grinned at her. Ryoka was edging over to Mrsha, apologizing.
“Excuse me—Halrac? Good to see you. Nice bow. Where’d the invisible one go?”
The [Bowman] nodded—checked his bow and raised his eyebrows. But that was all he needed. Even Ryoka had to stare at it for a second. But then she was moving forwards.
“Mrsha, hey, Mrsha. Hi.”
The Gnoll stared up at Ryoka—then turned around. She idly looked back, scratched on a notecard, and handed it over.
Oh, hello, Miss Ryoka. I didn’t see you there.
Ryoka’s face fell. The Courier took a huge breath. She deserved this.
“Mrsha, I’m so sorry I was gone. I was trapped, and I was trying to help Erin.”
I totally get it. Hi.
Mrsha handed a card back. Ryoka hesitated. Then she bent over and tried to hug Mrsha.
“Can I get another hello?”
“Hey. Don’t touch Mrsha without permission.”
Before the Courier could hug Mrsha, a paw the size of her face grabbed Ryoka’s head and moved it back. Gently—but the [Paragon] was nine feet tall, and Ryoka recoiled.
“W—uh, hello? Who are you?”
“Gireulashia, Chieftain of the Ekhtouch Tribe. Mrsha’s best friend. And you? I haven’t seen you around. Mrsha doesn’t seem like she knows you.”
Gire stood, looming over Ryoka. The Wind Runner stared at Gire, then Mrsha.
“When did you meet—hello, Chieftain Gireulashia.”
She tried to bow formally, and for some reason, Joseph, Inkar, Tkrn, and several people in the inn found this hilarious. Ryoka looked helplessly at Mrsha. One second she was hugging Ryoka, the next she hated Ryoka’s guts. The Gnoll turned her head and handed Ryoka a third card.
You don’t know me, fool. You’ve been away too long.
“Yeah.”
Gire smiled archly at Ryoka. Crestfallen, Ryoka stood there—then Mrsha’s paw vibrated as she held her cup of milk. She spilled it over—turned, and leapt at Ryoka. And then she was crying again and punching Ryoka’s arms.
You stupid person! Stop coming back and leaving!
That made Ryoka feel even worse. She held Mrsha tightly.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I was in Ailendamus and a prisoner. Honest!”
What about the month you were here and didn’t come visit?
Mrsha glared up at Ryoka, too upset to even write. Ryoka’s stomach twisted as Gire interpreted Mrsha’s pawsigns.
“I—I tried! But Ulva Terland made me visit her for a week—and then Deilan El tried to invite me to his estates—it’s hard to say ‘no’ without offending them so they put a bounty on your head.”
“You were hobnobbing with nobles this entire time?”
Revi looked mildly outraged as she listened into this. Only mildly—and Badarrow gave a thumbs-up.
“Hobgoblining. Nice.”
Numbtongue smacked his brother on the shoulder and whispered in his ear. Badarrow looked disappointed.
“Oh.”
Mrsha punched Ryoka’s arm, glaring, but the Wind Runner looked very sorry.
“I was trying to make connections to help with—it’s all my fault. You should be very angry at me. But I, uh, brought you a little gift. It’s a song crystal from the Singer of Terandria. And, uh—I have a cool sword. I can let you swing it later.”
“Absolutely not.”
Lyonette cheerfully barked, but Mrsha perked up at the mention of Ryoka’s famous sword. Wait a second—did this mean she could fly? Bird was going to love this! Ryoka was holding Mrsha tightly as Gire re-introduced herself with the added context of her age. That was when someone tugged on Ryoka’s arm.
“Miss Ryoka. Do you remember me?”
“Oh, h—”
“I’m Nanette.”
Ryoka stared at Nanette without a word. Then she collapsed into a chair, face white. Nanette smiled politely at Ryoka and dipped her head.
“Nanette? How…?”
The little witch seemed vaguely pleased at the emotional damage she was inflicting on Ryoka. Then Rags was standing there.
“Ryoka.”
“Rags?”
“Chieftain Rags.”
The Goblin corrected Ryoka. The Courier’s lips moved. Rags peered at Ryoka and nodded.
“Stop by our tribe too. With your glider and windsuit thing. And your sword.”
Fightipilota punched a hand in the air, and Ryoka’s open mouth stayed open. She stared around and stuck out a hand.
“Hi there. And are you with Rags’ tribe too?”
Mrsha stared at the blank spot in the air. Ryoka shook someone’s hand—or tried to—then stared. She looked at Mrsha, and the Gnoll hesitated.
“Uh—”
“You are so cool. You’re crazy. I love it. Mrsha, introduce me to your friend! I’m Lehra, Named-rank adventurer.”
A Gnoll grabbed Ryoka—and then Ryoka was standing with Stargazer’s Promise. She was flabbergasted—and Lehra pounded her on the back as Ryoka eyed the Blade of Mershi. Thankfully, she didn’t see that ghost.
“This is insane! This is—is that armor blue? Who’s the [Knight]?”
“Normen.”
“…And? Wait, he’s your new [Knight]? And—Tkrn?”
The [Companion] and [Guardsman] looked—good! He had armor, he looked a lot older and better, and he had this young woman with an amazingly good-looking dress, beautifully sewn, who offered Ryoka a shy handshake.
“This is Inkar. From the Longstalker’s Fang Tribe, Miss Ryoka.”
“Hello. I think we come from the same place.”
Then Ryoka’s eyes were bulging. She took Inkar’s hand slowly, and they looked each other up and down. Ryoka wanted nothing more than to sit down somewhere absolutely private and begin asking questions. But everyone wanted to talk to her.
“Miss Ryoka? Ysara Byres. I think we met at the Bloodfields long, long ago.”
“You? I’m so sorry I—ow! Who the f—”
Ryoka whirled, and Valeterisa pulled her hand back with several hairs. Ryoka Griffin was inhaling and exhaling hard. But she was happy. She really was. It was just—she knew Magnolia wanted to move now. She had told Ryoka to greet everyone and meet her by dusk in Celum.
That was going to be hard to do, because Erin looked like she would actually have her guests tackle Ryoka if she even tried to use the outhouse. But then—it was a great day. Calescent was beaming as he ran about his kitchen, and Rufelt was calling out.
“I need more of your kegs, Erin!”
“And where are my eggs?”
The [Chef] complained. Erin threw up her hands.
“Pisces and Ksmvr! Sorry, Calescent. I forgot. You send the Horns to do something and they get it done—after a huge adventure and like eighteen months. They’ll come back from Rhir with like fifteen Demon-chickens.”
Everyone laughed at that. Rufelt rolled his eyes as Lasica got up. She looked at Calescent.
“I can get some eggs from my kitchen if they’re so late…”
“Nah, just ask Larra. No, wait, Ishkr might be picking them up too.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was having a blast. People kept on heading over there. Because of their linked doors, it was like the Haven and the inn had a push and pull.
When one had an event, people would stream through to the Haven’s side. When Erin was doing something crazy or the Haven was resting, they’d head to Invrisil or elsewhere.
Again…with a steep fee associated with the transit.
Eight silver cost a lot when you kept using the door. Erin had decided to waive the fee for Haven-to-Liscor transit…until Larra objected. She liked the profits, so they had come up with another arrangement that fulfilled Magnolia’s own requirements.
Eight silver coins per day if you stayed at the Haven or The Wandering Inn. Everyone else? That was the flat fee per door usage.
It incentivized staying at the Haven. And yes, it meant only the nobility were just hopping through the [Portal Door] at random. At any rate, you could tell The Wandering Inn was the place to be.
“Ryoka Griffin is there?”
Mihaela was resting after her long run motivating the local Runners. She looked up as Ishkr held a basket of eggs and the groceries he needed—courtesy of one of the Haven’s staff. She stared at the Gnoll.
“Thanks for telling me. Another reason not to visit.”
She stared at the passing scenery from her seat; her feet were on the table. Meanwhile, someone else was happier about the news, even if his own reaction were also colored.
Salamani the Mage Rider was tugging on the reins of a horse.
“Don’t you want to at least see her, Ci? Ci? Maybe not. I’ll go, though, Mister Ishkr. Will you let Ci stay with you, Mihaela?”
“Fine.”
