Erin was trying to break the grip on her, but she couldn’t! And the blade at her throat—Tessa looked at it. She hesitated—and changed her grip on her daggers. She was still ready to spring, and she could kill the First Flute.
But she couldn’t beat those daggers.
“Let go of her…and I won’t kill all of you.”
Shriekblade’s negotiation had two notes. But she was staring at the blade at Erin’s throat. And the Drake was glancing at the door—at the hallway—
“If anyone moves or tries a Skill—back up!”
She looked around as the Named-rank adventurer, frustrated, glanced around for help. Lyonette had her hands over her mouth, and Gire was hesitating, trying to calculate whether she could reach Erin in time. Dalimont and Ushar were cursing, but the panting First Flute looked about.
“Get—get the Maestro.”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was in a four-way standoff now. Her Faeblade was glowing as she looked across a battlefield with no blood.
Symphony was dead. But their bodies had turned to glass powder and vanished. Only their ‘Maestro’ was standing apart, but there were adventurers, the inn’s guests behind him, and he seemed—resigned.
“Time for the curtain call. Ah—has she failed?”
He looked to the inn as the doors opened. Symphony was all dead. All but two. And when someone stepped out, Ryoka’s heart sank.
“We—we need the Maestro. No one attack him! Put down your weapons! They’ve taken Erin hostage.”
Lyonette du Marquin shouted, and Relc lowered his spear, eyes wide, as Klbkch stopped sidling around the Maestro’s left. The Drake blinked—and he seemed almost as outraged as everyone else. But Ryoka took one step towards the inn.
“Erin?”
“No one else come in! Just—just the Maestro. Who is…?”
“That would be me. Excuse me.”
The Drake lowered his blade and began striding for the inn. Spearmaster Lulv snarled.
“Hostage situation? Take the Drake hostage and force a—”
He strode towards the Maestro, and the Drake pivoted. But Tyrion Veltras had had the same idea. The two men saw each other move—and a sword rose towards Lulv’s throat at the same time as his spear aimed at Tyrion’s stomach.
“Stop fighting, you idiots!”
Rafaema howled, but House Veltras and Manus were now at each other’s throats again. Jericha took aim at Wall Lord Aldonss as he took cover behind another wall with Rafaema—and Zevara was storming up the hill.
“Hold your fire! Everyone stand down on Liscor’s authority!”
No one listened to her. The Wall Lord was whispering.
“If Lulv can take out the north’s war leader—can we spin it upon Symphony or the chaos?”
“This is not the time for war.”
Rafaema’s voice was steely, and Aldonss hesitated. But Tyrion and Lulv seemed ready to gut each other without waiting for anything else. The two groups were frozen as Rags eyed Tyrion and wondered if this was her chance. Her crossbow was slowly rising, and she was thinking, thinking while she remembered seeing Pyrite’s back for the last time.
That was when she heard the sound of bells.
They rang across the city of Liscor. Not as large as church bells, but with the same resonance. Skills informed them, and figures marched up the hill, out the gates, and from behind The Wandering Inn, pouring out of a hidden tunnel by the hundreds.
Tyrion Veltras hesitated, and Lulv’s spear twitching with tension slowly relaxed. Both Tyrion and the Gnoll looked around—and slowly lowered their blades and turned.
For if they hated each other—the sight of hundreds of Antinium bearing steel and faith was enough to make them both hesitate.
The 7th Hive emerged from the gates of Liscor. Crusader 57 was marching with Squad 5 as Battalion 6, the Beriad, slammed blades against their armor.
“The Antinium?”
Jericha looked around, dry-mouthed with horror. She gazed down as a sea of [Crusaders] stormed out of Liscor. Watch Captain Zevara whirled in relief.
“Who called for them? Wh—”
She spotted the Antinium leading them. The one who’d snuck out from the beginning. Not to run or avoid a fight—but to make sure if Tyrion died, he died.
The Maestro’s own scales crawled as he saw the [Priest of Wrath and Sky] leading Painted Antinium and [Crusaders] up the hill. The Antinium said nothing as the first rank knelt, aiming spears and shields up at the inn. The second rank aimed over their heads, and House Veltras and Manus’ forces lowered their weapons.
They might have been the finest in the north and south—but they could see the bows and crossbows trained on them. A thousand Antinium were surrounding the inn, and that number was only growing by the minute.
Pawn’s own eyes were glowing with something—like Xrn’s own gaze—and the armor of the [Crusaders] shone as the air clashed with the sound of steel and then fell silent. Even the wind seemed to be holding its breath as Ryoka paled.
Even the Antinium held, though—because Erin Solstice was being held hostage. And so, the Drake standing there and looking around adjusted his suit. He plucked an orchid out of his bag of holding, fastened it to a lapel, and nodded to the others.
“I believe that is my cue. Excuse me.”
The Maestro stepped into the inn as Pawn nodded to Rags. He stared at Tyrion and sighed. The [Priest] muttered.
“It would be war if we killed him. Or Manus, correct?”
He looked at Watch Captain Zevara, and she gave him a tight nod. The [Priest] stared at Spearmaster Lulv as the Gnoll looked around. Pawn slowly clasped his hands together.
“I’ll pray on it.”
 
——
 
A single Drake slowly walked down the trapped corridor of the inn. He paused to eye the arrow-slits, the place where acid had been poured through a murder hole in the ceiling and splashed on the floorboards.
Three of his best had ‘died’ here. Carefully, the Maestro walked through the open door into the common room of the inn and looked around.
He saw smashed tables and chairs, a few men in hats groaning on the floor as someone checked on them, a door leading to a magical garden—and a young woman on the floor, a knife held to her throat.
The Drake looked around and took in a few people standing against the walls. They were not allowed to come closer.
Gireulashia, the huge [Paragon], was watching Erin while Normen, Yelroan, and the others watched the First Flute holding Erin Solstice. The Maestro saw a struggling little white Gnoll in the grip of a girl.
Nanette was holding Mrsha back from adding to the situation—and Erin was just lying there. She had tried to open the door to the garden again, but the First Flute had stopped her, and now she just lay there. Panting, unable to believe she was being held hostage in her own inn.
The Maestro’s gaze flicked to his subordinate. He actually looked disapproving.
“A hostage?”
“The target…was being guarded by too many warriors, Maestro. I couldn’t reach him, and the [Innkeeper]—”
“I see. So we have a stalemate. Innkeeper Erin Solstice, I apologize for this. But here we are.”
The Maestro looked around—and then took a seat at one of the good tables. He leaned his sword against the table with a sigh, and Erin Solstice spoke.
“Who are you people?”
He brushed at his grey-sapphire scales, and he looked old. Old, for an [Assassin]. The Drake spoke one word.
“Symphony. I believe you have had the misfortune of meeting Orchestra? We are their…let us say ‘rivals’. If the North has their precious Named-rank team, we are the refrain, the countermelody of the south.”
“You’re assassins.”
Erin glared, and the Maestro nodded.
“Yes. And Lord Deniusth’s famous team are mercenaries who sometimes kill monsters. We take contracts on individuals or entire groups. In fact, Liscor may one day make use of our services now it has rejoined southern politics.”
Erin just stared at him. The blade at her throat seemed to remind the Maestro of why he was here. He sat back.
“The [Painter] is above. I don’t suppose there’s a chance of this being settled peacefully? You give him to us—you go free.”
“Never.”
Dame Ushar sighed audibly as Erin stared at the Maestro, outraged he would even suggest it. The Drake just exhaled.
“You know why we are after him?”
“He ruined some art? He doesn’t deserve to die! You—you come to Liscor, you hunt him and endanger my friends—if one of them is dead, I’ll find you. All of you.”
The Drake nodded at that. As if Erin weren’t the one being held hostage by the First Flute. The First Flute actually prodded Erin with the tip of her blade to remind her who was issuing threats, but the Maestro glared at her, and she desisted. Instead of getting angry, the Drake folded his claws together and spoke.
“…A year or two ago, when Sellme was gaining notoriety among the Walled Cities, I said once that no sum Salazsar or any Walled City could post would inspire me to go after the famous painter. I confess—I was a fan of his works. Lampooning corruption is not something I believe someone should die for, even if his methods were sometimes—questionable.”
Erin Solstice blinked. Lyonette, who had come in, blinked as well. Chaldion rolled his eyes. The Maestro was pretending he didn’t know the Drake staring at him from the side. The leader of Symphony went on.
“—That was until about two weeks ago. You may know that Sellme and some associates broke into a public museum of Salazsar, don’t you?”
Everyone nodded. Erin nearly slit her throat. The Drake went on quietly.
“He destroyed more than mere ‘art’. His associates burnt—beyond any chance of repair—Requiel ute Minen. Among others—a national treasure of Salazsar is up in smoke.”
“He didn’t.”
Someone groaned. It turned out to be Selys. Even she knew that one. Erin looked at the Drake, and he elaborated.
“It may not look like much. Just—a lifelike picture of some [Miners] in repose outside of the mines. Beautifully done. Oil painted—I shall never remember it in as much detail as I saw it. But if you stare at it, one person or thousands of viewers, it will calm all hearts. Make your burdens ease. It was done by a Level 60 [Painter], and it took the tiredness of Salazsar’s citizens, their aches and pains—each year—for thousands of years. Yes, much of what Sellme destroyed was vanity and overvalued. But that? It was made for the people that Sellme claims to represent. And now it is gone forever.”
Erin just stared at the Drake. That didn’t mean he had to die. But there the Maestro and she clearly differed in opinion. The Drake hesitated, then went on as he sat up and put his hand on the hilt of his sword.
“I confess, that is only half the reason I took the contract. He…destroyed something very precious to me as well. It was useless, sentimental, but I will never deny I am motivated by vengeance. But Requiel? An [Artist] should not destroy beauty.”
He looked up to the ceiling, and Erin Solstice rasped.
“You can’t have him.”
The Maestro glanced down at her and shrugged.
“I can see an army outside your inn. That may be so—but we have you. First Flute. Bring her outside. This inn is her ground. Let’s settle this.”
 
——
 
In the five to ten minutes it took for the Maestro to go inside and come back out, everyone began talking. Weapons were lowered. Lulv, Aldonss, Tyrion—all were catching up on the situation.
Why had Erin been captured? Didn’t she have the garden? Ryoka didn’t know, but when she saw the Drake dragging Erin out, Ryoka almost went for the two [Assassins].
“Hold. We have a prisoner. Miss, we are prepared to negotiate. We will defend ourselves if need be.”
The Maestro addressed Lyonette, and the [Princess] raised her chin.
“I think you’ll find that it will cost you more to attack this inn. And if Erin is hurt or dies—”
She was staring at Erin, trying to come up with a threat powerful enough. But a voice rumbled behind her.
“If she dies, the Titan will be after you.”
The Maestro turned—and Venaz pointed his greatsword at the Drake. The Minotaur clasped a fist to his chest as he looked at Erin and then the [Assassins].
“The Forgotten Wing Company will haunt you to your graves. Three-Color Stalker owes Miss Solstice a debt.”
“Oh, Creler eggs.”
The First Flute hissed that. The name of the famous killer of [Assassins] made even Symphony hesitate—much less the Titan. Someone else broke in, coughing.
“Pallass too. Your bounty is in jeopardy, Maestro. Contact your employers.”
Chaldion appeared from behind Lyonette, and now the Maestro was—vexed. He looked right and left, and Tyrion Veltras slowly began to raise a hand, but Magnolia Reinhart beat him to it.
“If it helps, the wrath of Reinharts extends to all of Izril. But I am sure you had already considered that. Let her go, Maestro of Symphony, I take it?”
Three world powers were, at this moment, threatening the Drake with the conductor’s wand. He looked around, and Grimalkin, Rags, and Klbkch all considered that being the fourth threatening force sounded less impressive.
They got the message. Symphony’s members looked at each other, and the Maestro’s lips moved. His faded scales moved as he brushed at his neck spines with one claw. Then he gazed about him.
“…Are you all mad? Symphony does not kill bystanders wantonly. That is your precious Guild of Assassins in the north. Or Orchestra. Killing her is a last resort I trust you will not force us to. Why would we kill someone who can post <Quests>? She is far too important for that.”
He looked at Erin Solstice and then around, mystified, and Ryoka’s mouth opened. Erin was…
Even the [Innkeeper] was puzzled. She was too important to die? But come to that—the First Flute was holding her dagger carefully, making sure not to cut Erin with what might be a poisoned edge.
The tension in the air faded—slightly. But the Maestro was eying Erin.
“It is abundantly clear that this is a failed performance for Symphony. We will withdraw—but we require assurances reprisals will not come after us. Not difficult, I think. No one was killed by our people in this attempt.”
“Don’t negotiate with killers.”
Tyrion stared at the Maestro before directing his comments to Zevara and the Watch. Ceria raised a hand.
“On the other hand—do negotiate with someone who will kill Erin if he has to.”
“Sensible. I have an ultimatum. My people go free—unharmed—that is not up for debate. No pursuit, no bounties. Let them go. We are Symphony. We are willing to die—and I think the [Innkeeper] is worth more to you than our lives.”
“Promise to let Erin go if—”
“Let my people free.”
The conductor’s wand changed to a second blade—a shortsword—and the Drake laid it at Erin’s throat. The Gold-bell on the hilt of the blade never chimed, and Zevara looked around.
“—Agreed. No pursuit, no bounties.”
