“Take it out on us later? We should go. Liscor’s—odd right now.”
Something in the way he spoke made Rafaema glance up, and her anger turned to curiosity.
“What’s up? Apprise me.”
Lulv did, which showed he wasn’t treating her like an entire child. He nodded over his shoulder.
“Two of our [Outriders], myself, and Ferris have all picked up something odd in the city. Nevermind the inn…we haven’t gotten close because Shriekblade is guarding it. Plus, the Eyes of Pallass have designated it off-limits. But there’s a force in the city.”
“…The [Crusaders]? The Goblins? The Yoldenites?”
Lulv shook his head.
“No. High-level killers. I swear I saw one walking down the street. It might be connected to a report we got about Reinhart. Though if she actually ran into Sellme—”
“The famous [Painter]? Is he in Liscor?”
Rafaema grew excited a bit. She was a fan. Lulv shrugged.
“No one knows who he is—but Symphony is after him. Maybe they’re also after Magnolia? But if I had to guess why there are a lot of Level 30+ [Assassins]—let’s go to the inn, hrm?”
Rafaema was so curious—and she didn’t want Sellme to die, for all he was a troublemaker. But she reluctantly got up. Lulv or not, pestering bodyguards or not—
Let her get to the Dragon. Then it would be alright.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin didn’t know what meeting with Teriarch would bring. She only knew it might be terrible—and that she had a bad track record.
For one thing, she still had Tyrion Veltras following her around. Yes, she could have told him point-blank to fuck off. But the truth was it was really hard to do that to someone who had fought in an entire war to rescue you.
And she had gotten a lot of good people hurt or killed. Swey had sacrificed his hand, among other things.
She owed House Veltras. But she was not having Tyrion in Liscor or the High Passes.
“You’ll leave me alone after this?”
“I promise.”
They were at The Adventurer’s Haven. Tyrion and Ryoka had arrived despite its distance from Invrisil by the sheer speed at which they could travel. Flying was actually pretty tiring, but Ryoka knew it would make her entry to the High Passes a lot easier.
Unless there’s more than Razorbeaks up there. And Magnolia wants to come. Well, at least Ressa’s probably scarier than most of the monsters in the High Passes.
Ryoka would be content with that. She nodded to Tyrion as the flashy [Innkeeper], Barnethei, pointed at a shorter black woman coming their way.
So that was Larracel the Haven? Ryoka smiled and sensed the woman’s magic as Tyrion nodded to her.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin, Wind Runner. I am glad to meet another promising Courier. I just wish I had personally met you before you did so much. Welcome to the Haven. Will you be staying?”
“I’m, uh—Tyrion is. It’s a pleasure to meet you, Innkeeper Larracel. I’ll be staying at The Wandering Inn, though. I know the Innkeeper, Erin.”
Larra didn’t seem surprised by the reply, but she did glance at Tyrion when Ryoka used his name. He bowed slightly.
“Innkeeper Larracel. A pleasure.”
He lied so badly. But Larra just smiled at him.
“Lord Veltras, it is an honor to see the head of one of the Five Families—much less have two under my roof.”
“Two?”
Ryoka Griffin’s neck tingled. Then Tyrion Veltras blinked.
“Who is—”
He turned his head, and Magnolia Reinhart paused as she walked across the Haven. Her maids were stowing the last of her luggage.
“My, my, my. And here I thought I was the only one wishing to stay at the Haven one last time. Tyrion. This is a day full of unfortunate meetings.”
Her eyes pierced Ryoka Griffin like a needle. Ryoka hadn’t expected to see her yet! She froze—and gave Magnolia the guiltiest stare in the world.
When she wasn’t trying to be nice, Magnolia Reinhart was refreshingly insulting. Which was, to be fair, probably what she was better at. Tyrion’s face froze up.
“Magnolia. What are you doing here? I thought you were in Oteslia.”
He bowed very slightly, and Magnolia just stared at him. Her lips moved.
“…Of all the people to lose twenty years. It had to be you. My grandfather will throw a tantrum beyond belief. I’m visiting my estates in Invrisil, Tyrion. And you are keeping the renowned Ryoka Griffin company?”
Larracel stepped back as she and Tyrion squared off. The [Lord] nodded to the inn.
“We are staying at the Haven while we visit your demesne. I trust that will be acceptable, Lady Reinhart?”
She pulled a face.
“Only you would use the word ‘demesne’ in casual parlance, Tyrion. Yes, I am no tyrant no matter what you must think of me.”
“I have never said as much.”
Magnolia rolled her eyes and put a hand over her face. Tyrion’s more youthful face peered at her.
“Dead gods, it’s like I’ve gone back in time. And you’re even more stone-headed than before! Only, now, I’m too old for this. All your staff at the Haven? It must cost a fortune with the prices I see dear Larra has increased.”
She smiled at the Haven’s [Innkeeper], and Larra gave Magnolia a look that told Ryoka the two were probably closer to rivals with grudging respect than friends. Tyrion hesitated.
“Sammial and Hethon were insistent.”
Magnolia tapped her lips and looked at him thoughtfully.
“Well then, let me pay for your group. Larra? Charge it to me. House Veltras has spent enough in the war, I have no doubt.”
By now, House Veltras had spotted House Reinhart, and Ressa was stomping across the inn’s deck while Jericha groaned and strode over. Tyrion hesitated.
“There’s no need for that.”
“Don’t be silly. Reinhart did not stand with Veltras when you marched on Ailendamus. Consider it our contribution to the war effort or something—it will probably be proportionate.”
Larra decided she should take a few more steps back to avoid catching stray arrows. She eyed Ryoka—but Ryoka was staying out of range of this one. Tyrion’s frown only intensified, and he looked—annoyed.
“I don’t require charity, Magnolia.”
“Flowers of Izril, Tyrion. We know each other. Do I need to quote your finances? Just…accept it for your boys.”
She looked so entirely exasperated that Tyrion eyed Magnolia and dipped his head. Magnolia was clearly in a bad mood—but even in acceptance, Tyrion had some kind of amazing power to throw a wrench in the cogs.
“Then I am in your debt. I will remember it.”
Magnolia actually closed her eyes and pinched her nose. Ryoka wondered if this were what it was like seeing him propose to date her—from the outside. It was glorious. Beautiful. Like a car crash.
“In my—no you are not. Take the favor!”
This time, Tyrion looked offended and drew his arms together.
“A favor is a debt enforced by social obligation instead of contracts and law. We word it differently, but the end result is the same.”
“Then. Call it a free gift. You stubborn man!”
Magnolia hissed at him, turning slightly red. She was staring at Ryoka, but Tyrion tapped his foot unhappily.
“I really shouldn’t accept it. We have earned a fee from our efforts in the war—”
The two were locked at the horns so fast and even intimately for the two of them—no niceties, no titles—that Ryoka could believe they’d done this for forty years straight. She couldn’t help it. She stared at Magnolia and Tyrion, and the comment slipped out.
“This is like watching a mom argue with her son.”
Tyrion Veltras, younger, stared at Magnolia Reinhart as the [Lady]’s face went slack. Larracel the Haven’s cheeks bulged, and she turned her head into a cough of such explosive force she hurt herself. Both [Lord] and [Lady] turned to Ryoka Griffin, and Magnolia Reinhart was the first to speak.
“Miss Ryoka. I know we have not seen eye-to-eye, but I expected to be stabbed by an [Assassin]. Not murdered by a potential ally.”
“The comparison is entirely inaccurate, Ryoka.”
Tyrion glanced at Magnolia, and the two stepped back at once. The other [Lords] and [Ladies] had seen them by now, and they watched as Tyrion and Magnolia’s staff met and the introductions continued.
“Ressa.”
Tyrion nodded at the [Head Maid], who he clearly knew very well. She gave him a look like she was eating a sour plum. Ryoka had heard from Pellmia that Tyrion had once tried to court Ressa. The hilarity continued.
“Tyrion.”
No noble title. No curtsy. Tyrion Veltras didn’t seem to notice the slight—or he was used to it—but Jericha did.
“Lady Reinhart. Miss Ressa.”
She stared Ressa in the eyes as Magnolia turned to her.
“Ah, Jericha. A voice of sense. Hello.”
“Jericha.”
Ressa refused to say anything more than that. Jericha’s eyes twitched—and it seemed like House Veltras was losing—right up until an old man stepped forwards.
“Lady Reinhart, on behalf of House Veltras, greetings.”
Ullim bowed to her, and she smiled. Ressa jumped slightly.
“Master Ullim.”
He peered at her and gave her a slight nod.
“Young lady.”
Holy shit. Ryoka was updating her rankings as she watched Ressa actually dip him a curtsy. Then Hethon and Sammial were there, and Tyrion nodded to them.
“My sons.”
“My, how they’ve grown! Lord Sammial, Lord Hethon—do you remember me? I am so glad to see you two well.”
Magnolia smiled at the two boys in what seemed like actual goodwill—right until Sammial spoke. Hethon was mid-bow, but Sammial pointed at Magnolia, and the first thing he said was this:
“I hear you’re a backstabbing, treacherous snake-bitch. Is that true?”
Ryoka Griffin nearly leapt off the side of the Haven. Tyrion Veltras froze—and Magnolia Reinhart recoiled slightly as Ressa twitched. Jericha, Hethon, Ullim, all stared at Sammial in horror.
“…My, he takes after his mother.”
Magnolia managed after a second. Sammial scowled as she bent over, eying him with less indulgence.
“Young man, who did you hear that from, pray tell?”
“Some [Ladies]. My mother said it. And Lady Werirose. Lady Thymica…”
Sammial Veltras repeated several names as a [Lady] having brunch suddenly decided she needed to visit somewhere else right now. Magnolia Reinhart’s smile didn’t change.
“How unfortunate. Well, young Lord Veltras, if I may offer you some advice—even if we hate each other, we nobles of Izril tend to keep up appearances. We don’t say these things to each other’s faces. As I’m sure you know.”
He studied her, unimpressed.
“But no one likes you.”
“Sammial!”
Ullim snapped, and Magnolia Reinhart sighed. She looked at Sammial and shrugged elegantly.
“It may be true for many of my peers, young man. But if that is true of me—what do you think they say about you?”
The little boy opened his mouth, and his brows furrowed with sudden, unexpected paranoia.
“People like me.”
“I’m sure they do. Tyrion, I do have to run. Let’s catch up in a year or two? Make it ten.”
Magnolia Reinhart smiled at him as she took a step back. Ryoka Griffin was gasping for air, red-faced, as the [Lady] eyed her. Tyrion glanced at Ryoka, then Magnolia with a kind of sudden intuition.
Dead gods damn the man. He was about as diplomatic as a rock, but sometimes even a half-blind mule with no ears developed the cunning of a fox. Ryoka and Magnolia very deliberately didn’t look at him as they stepped back.
“I’m heading to The Wandering Inn. So I will see you, Tyrion, later.”
“And I need to ensure Nalthaliarstrelous has not overgrown my mansion. Tyrion, perhaps dinner tonight we shall delicately wave at each other and say not a word? I should quite enjoy that.”
Magnolia swanned off as Ryoka marched towards the portal door, took a few breaths, and hesitated. Lady Magnolia and Tyrion saw Ryoka take a few breaths—hesitate—
“The door opens every few minutes, Miss.”
One of the guests informed her. Ryoka nodded.
“That’s true. And—maybe I should fly to Invrisil. Schedule something with Hedault. I need to talk to him, and he hates—yeah. Maybe I’ll fly there, go through the door—gifts. I don’t have any souvenirs. I, uh—”
She panicked in place, which was amazing when you really saw it. Magnolia Reinhart rolled her eyes as Ressa put a hand to her forehead.
“We are never going to survive the High Passes.”
 
——
 
It was difficult, alright?
It was going to be worse, still. Sometimes, you had to do difficult things. Unpleasant things. It did not mean you should run away…
But neither did you have to smile and play nice. Ysara Byres sat in The Wandering Inn, and her scowl hadn’t changed for the last two days. She was not looking forwards to heading out the next morning to House Byres.
In fact, the only thing that had alleviated her bad mood was concern for Tesy. Qwera and Vetn were demanding to know what he’d done.
“I just—did my thing.”
“How did you get Symphony on you? Tesy!”
“I just did my thing! I may have gone overboard—”
Qwera looked ready to strangle her little brother. They weren’t related by blood, but that was how Ysara saw things. She had been worried about him, and now—
Now, he was in deep trouble.
“What did you do, exactly? Spell it out.”
He had been at another Walled City after helping save Mrsha. How had he gotten in trouble so fast? Well, aside from the fact that Sellme quite literally lambasted the rich and powerful—aside from the fact that he caused riots like the ones Cellidel endured—
“Okay. So it was Commie’s idea. We were going to paint on some walls, but she has a friend who had access to this…you know how Salazsar is rich?”
“Yes…”
Vetn was already closing his eyes. Qwera just stared at Tesy. The [Painter] hesitated.
“Well, we thought they’d be after us, especially since I was just there and that stupid Ilvriss chased me out. So we said—one big display. And Salazsar has their public ‘museum’ with the art galleries showing famous Wall Lords and Ladies. And Commie had a friend who had some keys. So I went in there and, uh—drew alterations on all of the paintings—”
“Tesy. Was the paint removable? What were the drawings of?”
Sellme bit his lip, and the silence said it all, really. Qwera wondered if some of the paintings had been damaged beyond even magical repair. And how outrageous it had been.
Vetn was clawing at his face.
“You don’t ruin their money! I told you time and time again—draw on walls, but don’t mess with their money! Tell me they were salvageable.”
“W-w-we might have tossed paint remover on some of them. And, uh, poked enough holes that you can’t [Repair] or restore them even with Skills—”
Oh dead gods. Ysara wanted to stop listening, but something was off, and Vetn muttered to himself.
“You’re so crazy, I—who’s ‘Commie’? I don’t know her. Is she a stupid idiot from Cellidel?”
