This was not like Rain at all, especially with sweet Ping Ping squeaking beside them. Paying the Guardian Turtle no mind, he leaned in close to stare at Song’s Runic breastplate with uncomfortable intimacy. For long seconds, she worried he’d been overwhelmed by the heady rush of battle and now meant to slake his lust, a common ‘malady’ amongst noble youths Song knew all too well. Though she’d grown more comfortable with his presence in recent times, she found an inhuman hunger burning in his clouded eyes, one which made her want to shrink back and cover her chest from his fixed yet unfocused gaze. It was foolishness to the extreme since there was no way he could peer through solid steel and the silken tunic beneath to gaze upon naked flesh, but his rapacious stare made her uncomfortable nonetheless.

Trembling from head to toe, Song’s Oaths would not allow her to rebuff Rain so she stood stock still as he ran his finger lightly over her breastplate with his brow furrowed and lips pursed. Location aside, there was nothing inherently lewd or erotic in his actions or demeanour, but she still feared the worst, as did at least one other judging by Luo-Luo’s scandalized gasp. Oblivious to it all, Rain persisted with his misleading actions for almost a full minute before Song realized he was tracing the Runes, though why he might do such a thing was anyone’s guess.

Scowling in irritation, Rain tapped Song’s armour several times before huffing in exasperation, never once meeting her gaze throughout it all. It were as if she were simply a piece of furniture upon which the armour sat, and now that his interest had waned, he no longer cared for either one. Then it became Ping Ping’s turn to suffer his scrutiny, a process which was heartbreaking to watch. Lifting her head ever so slightly, the Guardian Turtle let loose with a subdued, plaintive squeak while stretching her head forward for him to pat or stroke, but Rain simply stood there with an empty expression and his arms dangling at his side as he took in the wounded Ping Ping.

For the first time since she met him, Song had difficulty reading his expression, except it wasn’t because he’d finally learned to hide them, but because he wasn’t entirely sure what he wanted to express. The hunger was still there, though muted and restrained, joined by... not confusion, but troubled uncertainty as he watched Ping Ping plead for attention. Unsuccessful with her endeavours, the Guardian Turtle’s squeaks grew quieter and more infrequent as seconds passed, then minutes, until she finally gave up entirely and laid her head back down in the dirt. Even then, her eyes continued to stare at Rain with what Song saw as grief and anguish, unable to understand why her favourite person refused to offer her comfort, but wholly trusting there was good reason.

Moving neither slowly nor quickly, Rain lifted his hand and stretched it towards Ping Ping’s beak, his expression still dull and unreadable and arm trembling not from cold or fright, but rather wavering indecision. Hunger and hesitance warred in his gaze, a victor still yet to be decided as his palm came to rest on Ping Ping’s beak, but then the big girl squealed in sheer, unadulterated delight and Rain’s unknown decision was made.

Though Song herself was still in physical contact with the Guardian Turtle, she felt nothing and didn’t even know something was happening until Luo-Luo gasped yet again. Following the dramatic courtesan’s pointing finger, Song stifled a gasp of her own as she watched Ping Ping’s wounds mend before her eyes, almost as quickly as Rain Healed his own injuries with Panacea. Faster even, with the entire treatment completed in less than three breaths of time, but as Rain let his hand fall from Ping Ping’s beak, Song sensed more than saw his weary exhaustion. There was no smile or satisfaction to be seen as he shuffled away from the renewed but exhausted Guardian Turtle, only a slight stumble in his gait and a droop of his shoulders which gave away his fatigue, but it was clear as day to anyone who’d seen Rain like this before. As much as he loved to grumble and grouse over the most minor of inconveniences, when times were truly hard, he would rarely utter a complaint and simply accept whatever burdens lay before him with little more than a sigh, just as he’d done here and now.

Healing the Guardian Turtle had cost him dearly, yet he’d done it all the same, which meant it was still Rain behind those amber eyes, albeit a confused and disoriented one. Had he been sound of mind, he would never have ignored Ping Ping for so long or hesitated to help, nor would he have left without wrapping his arms around her beak in a warmhearted embrace.

Stiffly ambling across the ruined campgrounds, Rain stopped every so often to check on a body, but never the corpses of his soldiers. Instead, he seemed most interested in the remains of Demons, while every so often he’d stop to inspect a Wraith. It soon became clear why as he pushed Siyar aside and dragged a half-dead Wraith out from a collapsed tunnel. The sudden movement elicited a strangled scream of pain from the pale, lanky assassin, followed by what Song assumed was a long and lengthy stream of hate-filled curses in his guttural tongue. Wholly indifferent to the Wraith’s reaction, Rain loomed over the dying Defiled and studied him the same way he studied Song’s armour, though hunger might be too lacking a word to describe it. Rain watched the Defiled like the bears and wildcats watched a delectable meaty treat, like the twins watched their dumplings cook, and how Mama Bun watched a sprig of Spiritual Herb. This went beyond mere craving or desire, but rather a desperate need to feast after long weeks of famine, yet even then, all Rain did was stand and watch as the Defiled Wraith slowly succumbed to his wounds.

And then, Rain scoffed once more and went back to scrounging through corpses until he found another near dead survivor, only this time, instead of passively watching, Rain picked up a nearby Wraith Dagger, a Defiled weapon coated in an insidious poison which could cripple Martial Warriors with a touch. Grabbing the Wraith by the back of the head, Rain raised the dagger to his helpless foe’s face and –

Snarled at Monk Happy, who had ignored his own warnings to stop Rain from torturing the Wraith. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” Monk Happy chanted, visibly unnerved by his own actions. “This goes against the Precepts, Junior Brother, and this monk will not allow it. Needless suffering only begets more suffering, so please, rethink your actions and find another way.” Though initially angered by Monk Happy’s interference, it quickly melted away as Rain found something more interesting than torturing a dying Wraith, something in the empty space directly behind the portly monk. Noticing this a heartbeat after Song did, Monk Happy moved to bar Rain’s way and said, “No, Junior Brother. You cannot!”

Forcibly pushing past the monk, Rain reached towards the empty space only to falter as Monk Happy grabbed both his wrists and held him in place. “Stop, Junior Brother, this monk does not want to hurt you.” With a flick of his wrist, Rain broke Monk Happy’s grip with ease and continued towards the empty space, only to be bodily dragged aside and pushed back several meters away. Grabbing Rain by the arms this time, Monk Happy tried to hold him place, but he merely slipped to one side and ducked underneath the monk’s arms to escape his grasp. Charging at the same empty space with undisguised greed, Rain grabbed at the air and came away with nothing, but his actions forced a massive, white-feathered silkie rooster out of Concealment with an undignified squawk. “Protect Kukku,” Monk Happy said, pouncing on Rain from behind and wrapping him in a two armed hug while the giant rooster ran about like... well like a chicken without its head, his wings flapping and path meandering without rhyme or reason as he cawed in unadulterated panic. “Do not let him run too far, else we might never find him again!”

A quick glance around showed no one moving to restrain the adorably frightened Kukku, not Lin-Lin’s veiled guards, Rain’s Death Corps Guards, his loyal Khishigs, or even Luo-Luo and her handmaidens. Though she wanted nothing more than to pet the soft and adorable rooster, she was wary of his sharp spurs and wicked beak, so she moved slowly and carefully towards him. “Here Kukku,” she said, trying to sound friendly and inviting but coming out stilted and monotone instead. “Come Kukku.” What did chickens eat? Not dried jerky, that much was certain, and she had no fruit upon her person. “Do you want some tasty grass?”

Her words had no effect on the rooster’s panic, and her presence only made it worse, though a large part of it was probably because Rain was quickly getting the better of Monk Happy. Neither one attacked with intent to harm, but Rain was slippery and nigh untouchable as he used the larger monk’s strength against him. Though normally a cheerful and chipper sort, Monk Happy’s smile had long since melted away and been replaced by a furious grimace, the change so startling Song wondered he had switched places with his identical brother, Monk Angry.

“This isn’t working,” the monk called, for after only a minute of tussling, he could now barely lay a finger on Rain’s clothes as he darted and pivoted about. The only reason Kukku had yet to be caught was because the rooster had reined in his panic and was now using both Monk Happy and Ping Ping as obstacles to keep Rain and Song away. In fact, it almost seemed like the big rooster was beginning to enjoy himself, peeking back to make sure Song was still chasing and shaking his tail feathers to taunt them after hopping onto Ping Ping’s shell. “We must bring Junior Brother back to his senses.”

“How?” she asked, panting heavily while imagining how soft Kukku’s feathers would be.

“He appears to have reached a unique state of Balance,” Monk Happy explained, his tone tinged with anger and disbelief. “One which renders him reliant on base instinct and natural cunning, a bestial human of sorts. It’s unlike anything this monk has ever seen or heard of, the complete antithesis of the Brotherhood’s teachings, but it is... formidable to say the least. The problem is, Junior Brother means to kill Kukku because... because he believes the rooster has something he needs, but he is mistaken. Telling him does nothing, because he can not or will not respond to our words, so we must find some way to soothe his anger or sate his hunger.”

This still didn’t help, but apparently Luo-Luo thought differently. “Wait here,” she shouted, as if they had any other choice. Returning shortly after with her zither in hand, the silly Consort settled down and began plucking at the strings, playing the same piece she played so often which was titled ‘Rise to Glory’.

To no effect. Rain continued chasing Kukku while Monk Happy did his best to obstruct him, and neither man succeeded while the rooster made fools of them both, so overconfident he even took the time to strut and swagger about. Having long since fallen asleep, Ping Ping snored ever so quietly while the battle for Sinuji raged on, though now Luo-Luo’s music attracted the soldiers’ attention and many looked over to see this debacle carrying on.

In the midst of battle, while soldiers of the Empire fought against foul Defiled, Falling Rain was busy chasing a rooster over a sleeping turtle, while an angry monk chased him from behind.

Every bit as stubborn as Rain, Luo-Luo continued to play her piece, but the only ones who appreciated it were the bears, wildcats, and bunnies, all coming out of some Peak Expert’s Concealment to sit close and listen, with Lin-Lin following soon after. It was a darling sight to behold, the animals all swaying to the music while Aurie pressed against Luo-Luo’s shoulder and made happy noises as if singing along, one so heartwarming Song almost forgot about the battle for Sinuji and the shame Rain would face in the morning. Giving up the fruitless chase, Song moved to Luo-Luo’s side to better appreciate the show, but to her surprise, she found Rain had followed closely behind her.

Having given up chasing Kukku, Rain loomed over Luo-Luo the same way he’d loomed over Song and the Wraith, watching the scene with focused intensity, only more extreme than ever. A minute later, Kukku and Monk Happy also came over to watch, though they both kept well away, with Kukku prudently keeping the monk between himself and Rain. It didn’t matter, because he was wholly entranced by Luo-Luo’s music, a relaxed smile stretching across his face as he took it all in with empty, unfocused eyes. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” Monk Happy muttered, though he no longer looked happy at all. “Such lust, such sin, but Junior Brother cannot wholly be blamed. He behaves as a creature of instinct, and procreation is an instinct shared by all...”

The monk’s muttering caused Luo-Luo to make a mistake and pluck the wrong note, and though she quickly recovered, the magic was broken and Rain reeled in place. Shaking his head to clear his mind, he leaned forward and reached for Luo-Luo, whose fingers slowed to a stop as she stared hungrily at Rain’s hand as it moved closer and closer to her face.

Only to completely bypass her to pet Aurie instead.

