“Your object reading skill could be a hub instead of a launchpad. Maybe your next spells are something that make use of it in a completely different—”


“Time. Control.”


<<If the Artonans could actually reverse time on a large scale, I feel like they would be doing it a lot. And if someone could heal a person the way you fix objects, that would already be happening. And they wouldn’t share time travel with anyone else.>>


“Just accept the fact that they aren’t stupid enough to accidentally give human kids a universe-breaking ability.”


Kon was ignoring them. “When I become the master of time, I’m going to call myself Kontempus,” he said to Alden. “With a ‘K’. So you have to pick a different superhero name for yourself.”


Alden smiled. “How did you know I wanted that one?”


“I’ve got a message from the school!!” someone screamed from all the way across the cobblestone square.


It happened at the exact same moment that Alden’s own message notification flashed. A few people squealed or swore, surprised despite the fact that this was what they’d all been waiting for, but most of them fell silent.


“I can’t open it. What if you all get in, and I don’t?” Tuyet whispered.


“Well, it’s on your interface, so it’s not like we can open it for you,” another girl snapped, suddenly irritable.


All around Alden, people were freezing or taking deep breaths. They were reaching up with shaking fingers to open their messages.


To start with, he watched them instead of opening his own. Ten seconds later, almost every face underwent a massive change. Smiles fell. The boy who’d just been teasing Kon stood and stalked away.


“I didn’t…I didn’t get in,” a girl said, her lips trembling. “My whole family went to this school! And I didn’t get in.”


She burst into tears, and her friend did the same a moment later. They hugged each other.


Alden looked at Maricel. Her jaw was set. She nodded once.


In other parts of the room, people were crying, running away from their tables, or in a few cases, shouting with glee. A boy with a bright blue mohawk jumped into the fountain at the center of the square and ripped his t-shirt in half from the neck down.


“Jeffy got in!” he bellowed.


“Did any of us get in?” A girl with a long ponytail was looking around the joined tables. “Did we all fail?”


“I've been admitted,” said Vandy. The Sky Shaper stood up. “I’m going to go tell that boy to get out of the fountain. There’s a sign that says not to do that.”


“Only Vandy?” said Ponytail, watching the other girl jog toward the fountain. “I know she’s an S, but…Rodrigo, did you?”


He shook his head.


“Yasmin?”


Yasmin cried harder.


“I…I got in,” said Tuyet, looking stunned. “I got in. You guys! I got in! I can go to school with all of you—”


Alden winced.


“We didn’t get in! Only you and Vandy!”


Tuyet’s face fell.


“I got in,” Kon said quietly from his seat beside Alden. Despite seeming relaxed enough up until now, he looked very relieved.


“Your power doesn’t even do anything though,” one of the others muttered.


Kon raised his eyebrows.


“Well it’s true, but…sorry. I’m going to go. I need to think.”


He stood up quickly and left.


“How’d everyone else do?” Kon asked.


Nobody answered.


“I got in,” Maricel said after the silence had stretched so long that it became awkward.


“They only took the S’s.”


“It’s not fair.”


They had to know better. CNH didn’t only take S’s. They had the advantage, but there were more A’s in the program than there were representatives of the highest rank. It just hadn’t worked out that way for this particular clique.


Alden finally opened his own message and read it, already knowing what it would say…
 


[Dear Alden, we are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted into Celena North’s preparatory program, as a Y1Q2 student in the School for Superhuman Studies and Talent Development. Congratulations! Please proceed—]
 


What? That’s not what it’s supposed to say.


He read it again.


They let me in.


Excitement ran through him, but it was slightly tainted by confusion.


I did it! I guess? Even though Instructor Klein said I was a waste of time…that’s…I think I might have misunderstood something.


The sound of a chair scraping loudly on the floor broke his concentration.


“You’re just leaving while Yasmin’s crying?”


“Yeah,” Kon said, giving all of his friends an apologetic look. “The acceptance letter says we’re supposed to meet some of the faculty and the other people who got accepted in half an hour, so…”


Maricel and Tuyet had just shoved their chairs back.


Alden stood up.


“Wait, did you get in, too?” Kon asked.


“I did.”


Maricel let out a relieved sigh.


That was nice of her.


Everyone else was staring. After a second, Kon broke into a smile. “That’s great! That Max guy just blew heaven a kiss and left looking like he was walking on clouds, so I knew he was in. And the number of B slots are so limited…you’re probably the only other one this time. Way to go!”


“Thanks,” said Alden. 
 
He could feel himself smiling. He’d dreamed of going to this school for years. And it had been such an unattainable dream. And now it was happening. It was a little too thrilling for him not to feel thrilled. 
 
Despite an undercurrent of disappointment.


They half-assed my interview, but it wasn’t because I was pre-rejected. It was because I was pre-accepted. No reason to traumatize and grill the moon victim who’s already got his foot in the door.


Damn it.


Neha was right. It’s a good thing, too, but…


But he’d tried really hard. He’d spent twenty hours on the stupid essay. He’d been training with Bobby as much as she would let him. He hadn’t chickened out during their combat assessment.


I’ve been doing my best. I wanted it to matter more.


He would just have to make it matter. He was here to train his powers and get stronger. He would do that.


Kon clapped him on the shoulder as he pushed his chair back under the table, and Alden smiled at him. “Guess we’re classmates.”


They headed toward one of the exit alleys.


“What Q did you get?” Kon asked.


“Quarter 1,” said Maricel.


“2,” said Alden and Tuyet.


“Nice. I’m 2 as well. So we’ve all pretty much got the same amount of High ahead of us. Before we hit uni together. And then…the world!”


Maricel blinked. “We’re going to be classmates for a long time.”


“It’s going to be epic,” said Kon. “Let’s go shake hands with the principal and make our best first first-year impressions!”
