.
 
 
Alden stretched out on the bench where he'd planted himself after his interview had ended. The weather outside was pleasant enough, and it seemed like a good place to decompress and kill time. He turned his thoughts toward his priority contact list, and it appeared. His attention lingered on Boe's name at the top for a few seconds. Boe would have had so much to say about his magic, the interview, and all the people he'd met today. The more time passed without hearing from him, the more Alden dwelled on random details of their last few days together, as if they had some special significance. 
He was upset about me moving away and leaving him behind. He said so. He hardly ever admits stuff like that. But then he turned the conversation right back to what was going on with me, and I let him. Then Skiff was watching the consulate, and we were researching powers, and Hannah's funeral... It had all happened in a couple of days. Those couple of days had been insane, and the insanity had all centered on Alden. It would have calmed down, if things had gone the way they expected. Alden would have gotten his head on straight after coming back from LeafSong, and he wouldn't have just brushed past the fact that becoming Avowed meant leaving his oldest friend behind for good.
 
What if that was the last time...? 
 
He threw the thought as far away from himself as he could and selected Jeremy's name from the contact list like it was a lifeline."Hey!" Jeremy said as soon as the call connected. "How'd it go, man?" 


He was in the backseat of his dad’s car. His family was taking a trip this weekend, and his older sister, Sarah, was leaning over in her seat to see Alden’s face on the cell phone screen.


“It was an eternal morning,” said Alden. “An S-rank Ground Shaper from Manila gave me a flower, and we had our first ever fistfights together. I ran around a track in every possible way you could imagine except for normal running. I met a lot of people, fought some of them with an umbrella. I had an interview with some superheroes.”


“All Jeremy’s done today is drop a fried chicken sandwich on the floor of the car and then eat it anyway,” Sarah informed Alden.


“What else was I going to do? Let good food go to waste?”


“There was hair on it!”


“There was not. And even if there was, it probably belonged to someone related to me. So it doesn’t count.”


“Gross.”


“Family germs aren’t real germs,” Jeremy said. “Tell her, Alden.”


“Alden’s got class. He’s not going to agree with that.”
 
“If I could eat floor chicken right this second, I would,” Alden said with a grin. “Sorry, Sarah.”


“Told you.” Jeremy adjusted his seatbelt. “You’re done with everything now, right?”


“I just have a long lunch break ahead of me. They make the final decisions this afternoon. We’re supposed to stay on campus and wait to hear if we got in." He sighed. “I don’t think I did. The assessments didn’t go badly, but my interview was…well, at least one of the interviewers thinks I’m a waste of time. And the other two only asked me the blandest questions. It was like they didn’t really care what my answers were.”


“Screw them, then." Sarah spoke passionately. “They don’t deserve us.”


“Us?”


“She just had a bad scholarship interview,” Jeremy told him. “I guess that makes you bandmates or something?”


“You rose from the dead!” Sarah said. “Did any of the other superteens do that? No! They did not. They should be begging you to come to their school.”


“I wasn’t actually dead.”


“And we’re very glad about that!” their mom called from the front seat. “But, Alden, don’t encourage my son to eat things off the floor. We’ve only just gotten him civilized.”


“Sorry, Mrs. Levi.”


For the next few minutes, he watched the Levis chatter. Jeremy, his parents, and his sister had always seemed like a wholesome sitcom family. Alden was sure it was different from the inside, but he couldn’t help being slightly fascinated by them.


A text notification popped up, and when he checked it, he found it was from Maricel. [I am at Cafeteria North.]


Is that an invitation?


“I think someone wants me to have lunch with them,” Alden said.


“You can’t tell?” Jeremy asked.


“They just told me they were at the cafeteria.”


“You should go. It can’t be that interesting to watch me and Sarah argue about whether the animals we just saw out the window were goats or sheep.”


“They were hair sheep,” said Alden. “I saw them, too, but I didn’t want to side against you.”
 


********
 


Cafeteria North was the university campus’s largest dining hall. There were plenty of other places to eat, including a dining hall and a coffee shop for the exclusive use of students in the high school, but it seemed like almost all of the applicants had chosen to eat here today.


It wasn’t open to the public, so for most of them, this would be their only chance to try it out.


It’s even cooler than it looked in pictures, Alden thought as he passed through a short hallway that was themed to look like an alley between old buildings. A moment later, he found himself standing in a place that might have been transplanted here from a postcard. The university website said the cafeteria was “an homage to the most beautiful city squares in Europe,” and though Alden didn’t have the real-life experience to say whether or not they’d gotten it right, they’d definitely made it impressive.


The floor was cobblestone. The transparent ceiling overhead was so perfectly clear it would have been difficult to believe it existed if not for the lack of Anesidora’s usual wind. And the different food options took the form of individual restaurants around the edges of the square, complete with indoor or “outdoor” seating options. 
 
At the center of it all, was a giant marble fountain. On weeknights, there was supposed to be live music from student bands, but right now there was a soundtrack of people singing in German.


The cafeteria wasn’t particularly crowded, even though they were in the middle of what should have been the lunch rush. Alden assumed a lot of students took advantage of the weekends to get off campus and enjoy the rest of Apex.


He found Maricel sitting at a table under an umbrella, just getting started on a steamed seafood platter that looked like it was meant to feed three.


“You cut all of your…um…” Alden stared at her. “Your hair looks nice!” 
 
He sat in the chair across from her and pulled his own lunch out of his bag.


“It looks like I asked a Meister of Knives to chop it all off for me with five seconds left before a duel.” Maricel was twisting the tail off a whole lobster. “The first girl I fought grabbed me by my ponytail and dragged me around the dueling block. So it had to go. My mother is going to cry when she sees it.”


“I know a Rabbit who’d love to work on it for you.”


Maricel shoved lobster meat into her mouth with a hand and glared at a clam. She seemed a little more feral than the last time Alden had seen her.


“…how was it today?” he asked. “Other than the ponytail grabbing.”


“I did all right. Maybe. <<I don’t know>>. It’s a <<blur>>. Did you win any at all?”


“Are you just assuming I lost all of my fights because I’m a Rabbit? Rude.” Alden opened the lid on his takeout container. “I definitely won one. And lost two. And the others were more complicated…more people involved…but I don’t think I did badly at combat. Especially not compared to most of the other B-ranks I saw.”


“Your evals?”


“They haven’t come in.”


“They will soon," she said. "Mine showed up an hour after the combat assessment finished. It’s just a paragraph of notes from the heroes watching you. One of the Shapers gave me permission to contact them and talk about it more, though.”


“That’s really great, Maricel! That means they thought you were a serious contender, right?”


“I don’t know. The interview was bad. There is a boy sneaking up on you.”


Alden turned in his seat to see Kon, wearing an innocent expression, standing a yard away.


“I wasn’t sneaking!” he protested, holding up his hands. “I was walking normally. Are you two saving seats for other people from intake, or…?”


“We don’t like the other candidates from intake,” Maricel said. “We fought with them on the bus.”


“We didn’t,” said Alden. “It was just a tense morning. And I don’t even really know any of the other people from the bus.”


“I don’t like the other candidates from intake,” Maricel clarified.


“You do like shellfish, though,” Kon said, his eyes on the enormous platter of food.


“It was free.”


Kon grabbed a chair beside Alden, and Alden carefully put his arm between the Adjuster and his lunch.


“What are we having?” Kon asked, smiling and peering into Alden’s container.


“I am having vegan chili, chips, and guacamole. I don’t know what you’re having.”


“You should both get the free food,” said Maricel.


“I already ate,” Kon replied. “But there’s a lady who comes through the square every now and then with a waffle cart. I’m going to sit here until she reappears. Or until Alden decides to be friendly and let me taste his magic chili.”


“It’s magic?” Maricel said, standing up from her seat to look at Alden’s lunch. She frowned. “It looks healthy.”


“It is healthy,” he said. “I am a lowly B-rank who has to maximize everything, so everyone knows I deserve to be here. You S people eat your waffles and your lobsters, and stop drooling over my nutritionally balanced lunch.”


“It smells like my grandma made it,” said Maricel, sniffing the air.


“It smells like my grandma made it, too,” said Kon. “That’s how you know it’s magic. One of them hates to cook, and the other thinks growing boys have to be fed meat at every opportunity. I don’t think she’s ever encountered vegan chili in her life.”


Then he looked at Maricel. “You’re an S?”


She nodded.


“She’s a Shaper,” said Alden. “Ground.”


“That’s a good subclass for hero work! Hey, since nobody else is sitting with you two, I’m inviting some people I know over to meet you.”


Maricel narrowed her eyes at Alden, as if this was somehow his fault, but it couldn’t be helped now. Kon was already saying, “Yes, we’re in front of the fish place,” to someone through the System.


Alden scooped up some chili and guacamole with a chip and leaned across the table to set it on top of one of Maricel’s shrimp. By the time he sat back down, he was another chip short, and Kon was making crunching sounds.


Watching the expressions on their faces was almost worth the loss of the food.


Maricel held a hand over her stomach. <<It’s warm,>> she said in a breathless voice.


“Now I know what it feels like to be embraced by an avocado,” said Kon.


They both stared at Alden’s remaining lunch with big eyes.


“No way. Get your own private chefs.”


A few minutes later, Alden was completely surrounded by Anesidoran teens. Kon had dragged the neighboring table over, and there were now nine people sitting together, with two more on the way after they fetched their lunches.


They were all varying amounts of nervous and hyped, and the conversation was all over the place. Alden had given up on catching everybody’s name, and he was just letting it all flow around him.


How did I end up at the popular kids’ table?


That was what it seemed to be—a transplanted collection of cool kids who all knew each other from school had found themselves here together. They were mostly a year younger than him; they’d gotten their S’s and A’s right on schedule. A couple of them were unhappy about their subclasses, but most had managed to trade into exactly what they’d planned for. Everyone was worried Kon had made a mistake with his choice and would have to go to CNH Sciences instead.


It’s crazy that they’ve always known this was where they were headed.


For everyone in intake, it came like a lightning strike. Or a lottery win. There were people still walking around in a state of shock months in, trying to get used to the idea that their lives were not going to be anything like they had thought.


Even if you’re someone who wanted it, like me, that’s not at all the same as knowing you’re going to get it and really understanding what it is you’re getting.


Just listening to them talk was highlighting the worldview differences and the experience gap. Some of them had their talent choices mapped out for the next five years. Their combat evaluations were trickling in, and the excitement about the names of the heroes who’d watched their performances was high but definitely different than it would have been if Alden had been sitting with other “globies.”


“Titania gave me advice about balancing my stats! She was my aunt’s roommate in college.”


“Blade of Red was one of my evaluators…he thinks I’m stupid. Next time I see him around Harmonia Promenade I’m going to have to hide my face.”


They’d been sitting around for almost an hour when Alden’s own evals finally came in. Everyone else had been loudly announcing when they received theirs and reading some of the comments out loud. He glanced over his and winced.


They were complimentary. Judah Blake—an Adjuster who’d risen to popularity when he’d caught a speedster in a flashy lightnet spell on an interstate during rush hour—even said he’d enjoyed watching Alden more than any of the other students he’d evaluated today.


