But there was a clear note of, “You did really well for what you are,” in three of the evaluations. And while Arjun Thomas’s critiques and compliments were thoughtful and implied that he was taking Alden’s ambitions seriously, there was also an uncomfortably strong warning that he should be resting right now and not letting people “push him into things.”


What people are pushing me into what things? Alden wondered, baffled. Also, how is it not unfair for Mr. Thomas to be my evaluator?


Alden didn’t know whether the superhero would be biased in his favor or against him, but it seemed really unlikely that he wouldn’t be biased in some kind of way. Unlike Hannah, the Brute had always kept his distance. But if Alden had been trying to evaluate Arjun, his own emotions would get in the way. He didn’t see how it could be much different in reverse.


[Did you finally get them?] Maricel texted.


She was crammed in between a tall boy with a mole on his nose and a petite, anxious Meister girl with bob-cut black hair. She and Alden had been texting occasionally for privacy. Maricel couldn’t do it mentally, so Alden always knew when one was incoming, since her fingers started waving around.


[I’m doomed,] he texted back. [They feel sorry for me and think I should do some other meaningful thing with my life.]


At least nobody else in the group was likely to ask him to share. Kon was busy trying to carry on three different discussions at once, and the others had started treating Alden like he didn’t exist after the initial novelty of having a Rabbit in their midst wore off.


It was absolutely an elitist thing, since they kept trying to cajole Maricel into talking.


You couldn’t even blame them for it. They thought she was likely to be chosen. Apparently, she’d been more impressive than she let on during her combat and skill assessments, and chopping off her hair had left an impression on people. Depending on what they thought of their own chances, she was either competition or a potential future classmate.


Alden was just some weak boy Kon the social butterfly had bumped into, and he would probably disappear from their lives after today.


The waffle cart finally appeared. While everyone was eating hot waffles covered in sinful toppings and Alden was staring at the mountains of whipped cream with longing, they all received a message announcing that the last of the interviews and personal assessments had just been completed. The faculty members involved in the selection process were now meeting to make their final judgments.
 


[Thank you for all your hard work today. Please enjoy your time on campus while you wait.]


 
“It’s nice that they tell us,” Alden said.


Before anyone could reply, another message appeared.


[We have one final question for all applicants. 
Please read through the following legal agreement. 
If you agree not to disclose the final question, choose I Agree.]


Alden was surprised.


But he was just about the only one. Except for Maricel, whose brows had lifted, the others were still chewing on their waffles and talking about other things while they made scrolling motions in the air.


Maricel shrugged at him.


Alden selected the “I Agree” option, and the final question appeared:
 


[During today’s combat assessment, injury realism was set to 40-75%, depending on the severity and nature of the injuries received. Students accepted into the Superhuman Studies and Talent Development program here at Celena North High will sometimes be expected to train with minimal or no realism reduction. In the future, combat training may also involve encountering talents that were off-limits on the gym floor today. This includes, but is not limited to, mental manipulation .


If you wish to pause your application, you may. If you choose, you may return during a future admissions cycle with no need to redo the written application or pass the first two interview stages.


Do you still wish to be considered for admission today?]


[Yes/No]
 


It’s meant to be a shock, Alden realized. Finding out that the injuries that felt so real weren’t as bad as they should have been.


The lighter punches and kicks, at least, were most likely close to realism, and it was the things like broken bones, eviscerations, and burns that had been heavily reduced.


It makes sense that the pain reduction is a feature of the gym. You need to be able to give the fights consequence and keep people from getting sloppy, but too much pain would just mess everyones’ heads up.


Oh, not just pain either. Realism.


Alden had thought he heard something in his arm snap when the S-rank speedster hit him earlier. So the gym must be capable of much more disturbing effects when the faculty wanted it to be.


He clicked yes. He didn’t feel any hesitation about the surprise question. And even if everyone here thought he stank, he still wanted to get into their school, so what else was there to do?


It’s not like there are Artonan-made combat gyms to practice your powers in all over the island. 


When he was finished, he looked across the table. Maricel was still biting her lip. She hadn’t made her decision yet.


“Whoa,” one of Kon’s friends said. “That whole table is clearing out.”


He was gesturing toward a group of other applicants sitting in front of the cafeteria mini-restaurant that served French food. Alden had been glancing at them from time to time because Max was sitting there.


“It looks like they’re all B’s. They probably got destroyed in some of their duels, so I guess if they didn’t know it wasn’t completely realistic…” a girl said.


<<But that’s Mei from school!>> someone else protested. <<She already knew, so why is she giving up ?>>


“Maybe she’s still upset about getting B. She was expecting a higher rank.”


“Maybe,” said Kon, watching the people leaving the cafeteria. “But that Adjuster has been nudging the other B’s to quit all day.”


“What Adjuster?”


“The one guy who’s still sitting at the table.”


“His name is Max,” said Alden.


“You know him?” Kon asked.


“No. I just met him earlier. We had our running test together.”


“How do you nudge someone to quit after they spent months applying?” someone asked.


“He seems…I don’t know how to put it.” Kon frowned. “He’s cutthroat friendly? And really good at making people mad when he wants to be, too.”


“He suggested to a big group this morning that offering everyone the chance to leave combat assessment early could be the school’s way of seeing if we had a reasonable sense of our own limitations,” Alden said.


Everyone exchanged looks.


“I’m impressed,” one girl said. “That sounds surprisingly legit. Even if it’s wrong.”


<<Did he not know?>>


“It’s not his first time doing this, so he definitely knew,” said Alden.


“Well, he’s evil. Is there a school for villains?”


“What a jerk!”


You guys all know how everything here works, and it’s not like you tried to give those of us who don’t a heads-up, thought Alden. All day long, the locals and the returnees had had little advantages over the newcomers. There’s a difference but not much of one.


Alden thought Max’s strategy was cutthroat, as Kon had said. Definitely not sportsmanlike. But he wasn’t quite willing to call it evil without further evidence. Even the suggestion about quitting after a single duel was just one-upping the school’s own lie.


The school gives people an excuse to take the easy way out. Max makes it even easier for them to do it.


“The people who really want to prove themselves or test their strength stick around anyway,” said a Sky Shaper wearing a dark blue pantsuit. She sat so straight in her seat that it felt like a condemnation of all the slouchers at the table. “Deceitful suggestions aren’t going to knock you out of the running if you were serious to begin with.”


“I was just watching him because I was trying to check out all of the Adjusters,” said Kon. “And then I realized he was winning duels by goading people into kill-shotting him—”


“Hey! He’s that guy. I saw that. A spear right to the chest. Ow.”


“—I was petrified they’d pair him with Lexi,” Kon concluded. “I texted him so many warnings.”


“People who allow themselves to be goaded into kill-shotting aren’t serious candidates either,” said the girl.


<<You’re always so self-righteous, Vandy.>>


“All of us who've chosen to be here today are trying to become heroes,” Vandy said in a surprised tone. “What kind of hero would throw a spear through someone’s chest because they said something annoying?”


A few people shifted in their seats. A boy rolled his eyes.


“At least we won’t have to worry about him. He’s just a B. Sometimes they don’t even pick any.”


“By my powers, I’m so nervous now that I know they’re doing the final judging,” the Meister beside Maricel said. She shoved her half-eaten waffle aside and pressed her forehead to the table.


“By my powers” was the dorkiest bit of Avowed lingo Alden had learned so far. He’d heard a couple of these guys say it. He wondered if it sounded cooler in other languages.


“It does feel like we’re waiting for them to decide our whole futures.”


<<If one of us doesn’t get in, we can do the late December cycle. We’ll still be able to start in January and have our first full quarter with everyone else.>>


“Can I have your waffle if you’re really too nervous to eat it, Tuyet?”


“You know, statistically…a lot of us won’t get in,” one of the guys said slowly. “They’re going to accept forty to fifty students today. If all of us got in, we’d be a quarter of the whole group.”


“Let’s be a quarter of the group!”


“How many people are left anyway?”


<<I saw a lot of globies leaving already.>>


“So many of the repeaters got cut during their interviews.”


“I saw some people crying and having talks with the faculty during combat. I’m sure they left.”


“Yeah, plenty of them balked as soon as it was time to duel. Dominic from my class shook his head and said, ‘I think I made a mistake,’ and walked out.”


“It was worse than I thought it would be.”


“You’ve been training for six months, Justine. What did you have to be scared of?”


“You think having people run at you with swords stops being scary because I’ve trained more than them?”


Maricel texted Alden, [I said yes to the question. Did you?]


He nodded.


[Most of them are so confident,] she said.


[They are. It’s interesting to listen to them, though.]


[Do you think it will be mostly people like these, who grew up here, who get in?]


He was surprised she didn’t know that already. [It will be. So many high-ranking Avowed are born here. And you see how much prep time they’ve had compared to us.]


He did think this group was being too optimistic about their chances in general, though. A lot of candidates had left, but there were plenty who hadn’t. It would be surprising if this whole friend cluster was accepted.


The afternoon wore on.


Most of the food places closed to prep for dinner, and Cafeteria North cleared out except for current students occasionally wandering through to grab something from the 24/7 snack shop.


Maricel started up a quiet conversation with Tuyet. Alden wondered if it was his imagination or if she was smiling more than she had been earlier.


Among the other hopefuls, the energy was turning anxious.


“I heard one time they left people waiting so long that they didn’t get home until the next day.”


“That’s just a rumor.”


“I’ll die.”


<<My whole family keeps calling to ask if I know yet.>>


“We could go for a run to blow off steam?”


“Brutes can go for a run. The rest of us are tired from fighting you monsters.”


“We could do tricks with our powers?”


“We’ve already showed off all our tricks at school, haven’t we?”


“Alden, just preserve us all, so we can timeskip to the good part of the day,” Kon said suddenly.


Silence fell.


Alden had been resting his head on his arms, trying to plan out how to maximize the next couple of months so that he’d be in better shape to try again next time after the school rejected him. At Kon’s words, he looked up.


Everyone was staring at him as if surprised to find him sitting among them.


Yeah, hi. I’m still here.


“My legs hurt too much,” he said to Kon. “They made me hop around the track like a frog. Backwards. I don’t want to haul your heavy asses around for hours.”


Kon grinned.


I think I’ve found a pure extrovert. How can he not be tired of interaction after getting this much of it?


“Wait, does the Rabbit control time?” another guy demanded. “Because if the Rabbit controls time, you should have opened with that when you introduced him. Instead of saying, ‘He makes a shieldbrella.’”


“I don’t control time.”


“Instructor Plim would not shut up about the fact that you might control time,” Kon said. “I spent ages with her today. She’s a fan.”


“I think she’s a fan of weirdos in general.”


“Yeah, we’re her favorites, but—”


“Does Alfred control time or not?!”


“No,” said Alden. “My skill just prevents time from having an effect on things I’m carrying. I think.”


If he really dug into it, he had to start asking himself questions like “What is time?” And then his brain would break.


“No wonder, Kon.” The guy looked from him to Alden. “You know he wants his ultimate spell path to be something temporal? Since he’s trailblazing it, nobody knows what the System is going to offer him when he levels. Probably, he’s an overpowered repairman.”


“Go bite your mother. It’s pure time control.”


