He just needed to understand how it worked.

The light of the Verdant Flame was brilliant emerald-green, though the color was quickly swallowed by the off-white fragments of Angus's soul. Damien swallowed, suddenly hesitant. He'd done something like this only once before, in a fit of frustration and hatred with his decay aspect.

It was a mistake. Decay was death and rot and disease, and by reaching into his mana he had—if only for a moment—connected himself with everything that was dead and dying. He felt the rot as it consumed them, that sense of their lives draining away and their bodies turning to dust.

He'd been catatonic for almost a week, and he'd sworn he would never do that again. It reminded him too much of what he'd done.

And yet if he didn't do this now, then he wouldn't be able to help Angus. He'd promised he would try, hadn't he?

Damien took a deep breath, then pushed his senses into the Verdant Flame.

The difference was staggering.

Decay was there, ever-present. It had to be. He wouldn't have been able to attune for it at all if not for its close relationship with decay, and even now, he struggled to compose himself as death and rot once more invaded his mind.

The only difference was that this time, he could sense what that decay was for. He felt the other side of the equation, the way the rot fed into nutrition, the way life bloomed from death.

Nothing ends. It only changes form.

That understanding fled from his mind almost as soon as he registered it, the breadth of its magnitude too large for him to handle in that moment. He couldn't spare the time to focus on it, anyway. Cale was doing something, and from the look on his face this was the one time Damien wasn't sure whether he'd easily come out on top. He hadn't looked scared, exactly, but his expression had done something complicated, like there was more to this than just evaporating a threat.

Damien, on the other hand, needed to understand what the Verdant Flame was doing to Angus's soul. He focused his senses on that, pushing past the enormity of the cycle that threatened to overwhelm him and down into the minutiae; he didn't need to know how every single thing in the Great Realms decayed and contributed to life.

He needed to know what happened to souls, and only souls.

The boundary was there, at the edges of the Verdant Flame. He could feel the flame of mana licking up against fragments of shattered soul, and this time, he thought he could sense what was happening.

The Verdant Flame, thanks to the help it received from Flia's Spark, was slowly causing the soul's essence to break apart.

Damien's first instinct was to yank his flame away, but he controlled himself. If that was what the Flame was doing, then it was part of a cycle, and that meant this process fed into something else. More importantly, he needed it to break down Angus's essence, at least partially—the lizardfolk's soul had calcified into rigidity, preventing it from healing.

He just couldn't do it at scale without understanding the other side of the equation. What happened to a soul after its essence broke down?

Damien took a deep breath, pushing his focus even deeper. He needed to follow those broken-off particles of essence to understand what was happening, to understand what it was used for—

—his vision split. Damien jerked back, his heart hammering. "What the fuck," he hissed, stumbling back until Leo caught him. He barely even registered that he'd cursed.

"Damien?" Leo carefully set him upright again, worried. "Are you okay?"

"F-fine," Damien said, even though he really wasn't.

He'd gotten what he needed, sort of. For a fraction of a second, Damien's left eye witnessed a grand, impossible river that churned with the essence of innumerable souls, where every loose spray coalesced into a new, complete soul. It was breathtaking and beautiful, a forge in which every life was rebuilt for a new journey in the Great Realms.

That wasn't what made him jerk back. It was what he had seen through his right eye.

An inescapable, all-devouring maw that ate every scrap of essence that fell toward it, swimming toward the river. A violation of the cycle and everything he knew, determined to intercept and swallow everything that river had to offer.

Damien's heart was still pounding.

"What happened?" Leo asked him, concerned. Damien sighed and straightened, trying to find the words to explain.

Then he frowned. "I don't... know," he said slowly. Leo gave him a strange look, and Damien just shrugged helplessly.

"I think I saw something scary?" he said. "But I don't remember what it was anymore. Kinda like a bad dream."

"Don't tell me you fell asleep trying to examine your mana," Syphus said, teasing.

Damien made a face. "I don't know what happened, okay?" he complained. "But I think I have what I need. Sort of. I just need to figure out..."

He trailed off, his brows drawing together in thought. He understood the cycle, maybe? When a person died, their soul would decay until it rejoined some great river that would churn up their essence until it was ready to be placed into a new soul, made up of little bits of everyone else's experiences.

That was sort of terrifying to think about, actually. The beauty of his first impressions was rapidly fading. He really hoped that wasn't the only thing waiting for a soul after its body died.

Anyway.

That part he understood, and the Verdant Flame grew a little brighter in his palm, but it wasn't quite enough. There was something he was missing.

If that was the intended route for a soul after death, then what exactly was happening to Cale Cadwell Cobbs every time he died? Where did he fit into the cycle?

The Verdant Flame continued to burn merrily in his palm, but to Damien's eyes, it almost seemed like it was waiting for his answer.
