The storm built as fast as war broke out all across two kilometers of space between the tower defenders, and the marauders. Rifles fired metal balls that cracked wooden shields and sprayed blood into the air. Swords flashed at limbs, cutting and severing. People roared. Some marauders flew to the sky, having powers of flight that were not mana or reson-based or able to be stolen by the manaminer of Da’luwe. One marauder fired bright red lasers from his eyes. A man in black on the tower defenders’s side opened up holes in the world that swallowed all flying objects with absolute precision. Totte screamed, disrupting everything around her as she flew forward, her glaive leading the way.

And now Erick was mad.

He stared down a Lightning Path. He saw many different ways to remake the world.

He could talk to them all / They weren’t willing to talk.

He could force a compromise / [Reincarnation] could only do so much without oversight to keep people from reverting.

He could build a tower for the marauders on the other side of Da’luwe / And thus begins a different sort of war.

He could separate this war right now / And put off the problem for another day.

In his flight over here, and after getting some dossiers on the major actors of this warfront, he had considered transforming some of those major actors into Benevolence dragons at best, or maybe trying to work out some Empathying magic again. Erick didn’t actually have his Empathy magic anymore, because he had used that up to make the Crystal Star, and then the Crystal Star had moved on, back into the hands of Koyabez’s Church, and Erick had been granted the [Blessing of Empathy] spell from Koyabez, renewed automatically every time he used it. But that spell was from Koyabez, and it didn’t transfer over with him when he left the Script.

He could have made his [Blessing of Empathy] again; he was absolutely sure.

And yet, leaving behind that soul twisting magic had been kinda nice. Once that particular weapon was out of Erick’s hands, it had been like laying down a bloody and effective knife; it had been cleansing.

And besides that, Erick still had lots of ways to make people more empathetic. Kinder ways. Fresher ways.

That’s what Erick focused on now.

He focused on his Lightning Path as it stretched out from him, down into the center of the battlefield and stretched out in every direction, touching everyone on the field and arcing all the way into the Benevolence Tower town, and beyond. At the same time, a spell in Erick’s core vibrated with need. With Erick’s own desire.

As warriors killed warriors, and souls vanished into the sands, the Lightning Path coalesced.

Not five minutes ago a barely-conceived solution to the problem of war among the inmates had presented itself to Erick. Now, that solution proved as easy to walk as the Path.

Erick’s Benevolence laced his words as he spoke with mana and resons,

“In thunderous words, these strifes I mend.

“With proven power, a path’s creation

“pierce hardened hearts to gently bend.

“To distant shores! To tranquil stations.

“These souls released, on love we send

“down life's grand cycles; a Grand Reincarnation.”

A lot of things happened all at once.

The spell did not take just from Erick’s Mana. It took from his Health and Psyche, too.

White Benevolence arced down from all of Erick’s Everything, into the center of the battlefield where it split and hit Totte and the man she had just killed, ripping both of their souls out of their bodies and ashing what was left. The ash rapidly turned to plants. The lightning did not stop. It continued right down both sides of the conflict, hitting people in the heart, or head, or leg, and then traveling out the other side, where it split again, and arced further.

That lightning then flowed into the sky, worming through cracks in reality here and there like it was struggling to escape, but escape it did.

Erick’s body automagically created the magic he had done, marking it down as a Benevolence crystal inside his soul, and words popped up. Erick had not consciously done that. He had been prepared to do that, but he had not actually done that.

Grand Reincarnation, instant, special range, 500/500/500/100 resources/resons per target

Bestow bountiful existences upon a set of targets.

May those so touched by your power forever find themselves on a Benevolent Path.

May their new forms fit them better than the ones that came before.

For some reason the ‘spell creation message’ wasn’t there, which was fine. That was marginally less concerning than the fact that the spell had made itself into a pressable ‘button’. At least the spell cost went down from 5,000 per person, to 500 Mana, Health, and Psyche. Probably because Erick had no control at all over any part of this spell. People were getting put into the multiverse left and right, zapping away to Fractal or Darkness knew where, being placed in bodies that Erick had no control over at all.

Hopefully the people had some control over the spell themselves.

That’s how it felt to Erick, at least, as Benevolent Lightning lashed out at soldier and warrior and scared mother and dying father and killer and genocider and tyrant and murderer and slave and master and—

Erick’s [Grand Reincarnation] continued far beyond the battlefield, his mana resources dropping disastrously fast while his resons went a fifth as quick. He had had nearly 500m each in Mana, Health, and Psyche, and 15m resons due to all the time he had spent flying through the Endless.

But 475,000 inmates of Da’luwe and 50,000 residents added up fast.

The first hundred million Mana, Health, and Psyche went faster than all the rest, and there also seemed to be a precipitous drop in resons that was a lot larger than the cost should have been in the beginning. That probably had to do with the power that was necessary to get out of Layer 1; it couldn’t be a trap layer if leaving it was a normal affair.

Lightning arced through the entire battlefield below and where it took people, it left plants in the aftermath.

Some people defended themselves and the spell went around them, only to strike from behind. The lightning ran up swords, into hands and then souls. The lightning pushed through small magics here and there as if they were nothing. Most everyone was defenseless. Most people had no idea they were moving on until Erick moved them on, forcibly.

Those that were taken were turned to Lightning themselves to vanish into Elsewhere.

The battlefield was no longer a place of war at all. It was a small forest.

And still, the Lightning sang through Erick, turning into a soft torrent of light when it had no one to hit right away. The light washed out into the surroundings. It gathered into bolts once again when it found a target, which were the 50 meter tall flesh golems who were guarding villages that no longer had people because the Lightning had already taken them away. Giant golems became moss-covered stone before the Lightning moved on.

Almost every resident of the inmate Benevolence Tower town vanished in a sweep of Benevolence.

That sweep continued outward to the walls where it danced through the spellwork of the Obsidian Knife Wall, striking out at the guardian flesh golems here and there and evaporating even more towns of inmates, leaving behind moss and grasses and flowers and trees.

The spellwork crashed into the center city of Da’luwe, trying to transcend every mortal and chained undead living under the lich into Lightning that vanished into the sky. Half of the central walls of the city were turned to nothing, but power rang out from the grand hall in the middle, Evil Death pulsing outward to rebuff the Benevolent Lightning, like a sudden shield of killing intent.

In a scant minute, maybe less, the spellwork fountaining out of Erick stopped flowing nearly as fast, or as deep. The flow cut. Erick sagged in the sky. He had never felt tired ever since his ascension. Not truly. But now he felt tired.

And people remained everywhere.

Not many. Maybe only 1%. One out of a hundred? No. Erick looked around. Less than that. A lot less. Of the 15,000-ish marauders and the 20,000-ish in the Benevolence Tower Town, there were maybe 30 people total. They all had ‘spellwork’ around them, too. Not real mana spellwork. The black disk guy had survived. Nilton and his guard, standing on top of an observation tower, had survived due to the guard having some sort of [Force Cube] magic. A marauder with a bunch of feathers in his hair had survived—

Well.

Not ‘survived’, but rather ‘refused to escape’. Even if what Erick had done had looked rather sinister, anyone listening to his words —which had been everyone there— would have known it had been a gift.

Erick smirked.

He had just committed a very large prison break. He felt kinda funny about that. Kinda nice—

Eldawae’s words boomed out of the sky.

“Please come speak with me, Ascended Flatt. I would have calm words.”

“Whoops!” Erick said to himself, feeling kinda giddy. Giddy giddy! Okay. Erick took a moment to calm, because he was way too happy about helping all these people all at once just like that— Erick breathed. He calmed. He shouted back with the entire sky, briefly filling the world with lightning, “Be right there soon!” Thunder rolled under a clear blue sky. Erick turned back to the battlefield down below, to the tower where Nilton and his guard looked terrified, saying, “You and I will be talking right now.”

Nilton told his guard to escape.

The guard did exactly that, rushing down the ladder of the tower and then picking his way through the growing forest as fast as he could. He tripped over a downed tree. The land here wasn’t very stable, after all. It was all sand and bare dirt. All this plant life would need to die and become part of the sand to even begin to be useful for growing more life.

Erick floated in front of Nilton’s tower, saying, “You should have accepted the reincarnation. You could already be on your way to realizing that sundering souls for personal wealth is a terrible business model.”

Nilton brushed past Erick’s concern, saying, “My man acted on instinct. I have already forgiven him. I’ll take a personal reincarnation, though.”

“Done.”

Nilton rapidly held out a mutative, corruptive treasure in his hand, trying to intercept the lightning, but he had not been fast enough, nor had the artifact been corruptive enough. A bolt of Benevolence came out of the clear blue sky, disintegrated the corruption, and entered—

- -

Erick stood with a nude Nilton on the shore of a beach near a gleaming silver city where cars flew in lanes in the sky. Nilton looked around and rapidly shifted from con artist planning on taking as much as he could get from Erick, to a man who had seen true hope for the first time in his life.

This was his home world. That much was easy to see.

A moment passed in calm silence. Some bugs chirped in trees. Gold fish flickered in the waters beyond the beach.

And Nilton stared at everything, whispering, “I never expected to make it back.”

“You’re not back yet and you know I won’t let a user-of-people back into the greater world.” Erick spoke, “Choose your fate, Nilton.”

With sudden tears flowing, he said, “I want to be loved.”

“You get what you give.”

- -

—before leaving in a flash of white, sailing back above, the white lightning taking away Nilton and then vanishing. As the lightning passed it looked like a crack in the sky healing over, to solid blue at the horizons, to the imagery of Margleknot high, high overhead.

Erick knew that Nilton would be a source of true power wherever he needed to be, but it wouldn’t be like before where he used everyone around him for his own gain. His personal Truth had been ‘all for me’ according to Vondria, the city administrator of Da’luwe. Erick knew he had shifted Nilton’s truth into something a lot more Benevolent. He’d still use people, of course, but he’d give them a lot in order to gain for himself. That would be how he would eventually Ascend, for sure.

If he managed to do that himself.

Erick wished him well, even if he probably shouldn’t. Nilton was a tyrant. He sundered people. He used people. Erick hadn’t Empathy’d him. Not wholly, anyway. Not directly.

The important thing was two things: that Nilton was out of Da’luwe, and thus not able to afflict this land with his presence anymore, and that he had a chance to start over with a better Truth that would help instead of harm.

Erick moved on.

He decided not to hunt down every single person who had failed to accept his [Grand Reincarnation].

He went toward the ruined Benevolence Towers instead. It wasn’t nearly as difficult to repair what had been broken as it had been to create what did not exist in the first place.

A mere 5 hours after starting that repair project, Erick had some [Terraforming]s, node networks, and [Undertow Star]s, all working together to create new life once again inside every tower. What had been burned and exploded became mulch for the next generation.

Life went on.

When Erick was finished with that, he made a billboard out of wood with some writing on it and some illustrative diagrams, and then he copied that billboard and stuck those copies into the ground near every large settlement within Da’luwe’s protected area. The billboard had an image of lightning-like arrows vanishing up and away from the desert, and the same message in 20 different languages, ‘Your fellow inmates have been sent into new bodies and new lives all across the multiverse. I doubt any of them ended up in the same spot at all. You defended yourself and thus the lightning did not take you. If you wish to go on to your next, hopefully happy lives, then come out of hiding and walk toward the center city. I will be removing all Wraithborn Contracts from people, too, if that is what you desire instead. Or, if you want a new body, I can do that, too. I will be checking for travelers in the next few days.’

And then Erick went to the central city.

- - - -

The center of Da’luwe was a ghost town more in the figurative sense than the literal sense. But maybe, Erick considered, in the literal, Earth-type sense, too.

