There weren’t any people left in this land. Pools held no swimmers. Charcoal sizzled in the sun on grills that had no burger flippers. Pancakes dried in the open air, and books lay where their readers had dropped them. Those places, and much of the city, now sported new green growth, from moss to grasses to flowers and even a few trees here and there. Three nice palms now waved in the breeze high above the roofs in the main part of town. There were even a few tall oaks, or elms, or whatever other exotic name that people might have for a few of the more traditional trees, poking up between buildings here and there.

And then there was the destruction.

Ghost anchors, or whatever they were called, were a part of the city itself. A wall here. A pillar there. A piece of that road. The stone beside the capstone in that arch. Half of that house. Those pieces were gone and the city had fallen in their absence. It was half of a ruin, all black and broken and dead. Some of that could be repaired, of course, but not easily. Not by the people here, according to what Erick had seen of the power level of these people.

This may be a part of Margleknot, at the ‘center’ of the universe, but most people were mortals here, too, and the mortals of Veird would wipe the floor with many of the mortals of this land.

Erick decided he would offer to fix the structural damage to appease Eldawae—

Oh! Looked like some ghosts survived.

Erick spied the ghosts of the wall of the center of the city as they reached out of that wall to spy on him as he passed overhead. None of them tried anything… They looked at him a lot, though.

Erick paused his flight since Eldawae wasn’t in the courtyard right now. He was probably under the main dome, but those doors were shut. Erick could still see past them, though. Mostly. Mana sensing around here was a lot more difficult than the last time. Ethereal blind-spots crowded out much of the land.

Eldawae looked to be waiting for Erick upon the center stage under the center dome. He was in his original body; the one that looked like a 3-meter-tall sexless elf with black bones poking out of dried flesh, adorned in a black, see-through shawl.

But the main doors were shut.

So Erick turned toward the ghosts in the main wall. Solid Sky the dragon was there, along with the person of light. The bedsheet and the amalgamation were gone.

Erick set down on the black stone inside the wall, directly beside the ghost dragon and light-being. “Your friends have moved on in the [Grand Reincarnation]. Do you want to move on to another life? You’ll be able to retain your memories but none of your power, and your Truth will likely change to something more positive and creative… Unless you already had a positive and creative Truth. Truthfully, I’m not sure what happens after a reson-empowered [Reincarnation].”

Solid Sky and the light person both seemed one hard decision away from trying to harm Erick. The only thing holding them back was that they knew they could do nothing. They were still going to try, though.

The light person had streaks of grey running down where their eyes might have been if they were a physical person. With rage held in check, they tried to be calm as they asked, “Why did you do this? Take our people from us?”

“Which ones? The inmates who were only here due to a soul shackling system that caused them to be inmates in the first place? Or the residents of this town, born to inmates and thrust into a life of nothing? Or the amalgamation ghost and the bedsheet ghost?”

“Yes,” spoke Solid Sky, and the light person.

Then Solid Sky said, “We’re all prisoners, but we’re all still here and family.”

Light person said, “Where did you take them? Totte and Alowathoki and Bern and Loro and— And all of them?!”

“I don’t know. They likely went somewhere along the current flow of Benevolence out there in the universe and then they likely hopped off onto a world, transitioning themselves in a way they desired and gaining a new body free of all burdens except the burdens of memory. Want to try and follow one?”

A moment passed.

“Yes,” said the being of light.

“No,” said Solid Sky.

Erick looked to the being of light, and—

Thunder crashed. Lightning fell.

- -

The desert was not a desert.

Da'luwe was not a desolation at all.

A land of a billion people held refuge from the Endless under a bubble of power ringed by white knives, the city brilliant gold and white and tall, the knives and some of the buildings reaching almost a kilometer tall, all of it a work of art. There was no pillar of grey light above the city center. This was not the Wraithborne Tower’s Da'luwe. This was the city that came before.

Between the white buildings, people traveled on floating stone blocks. They ate food grown from ever-producing fields. This was a lush land of green and gold and white, and though some of the parts were dark and deadly, everyone lived at least partially in the light of hope and giving and community.

The being of light was an elven woman with eight white wings who wore a dress of radiance, her eyes pools of sunlight. She stood upon an artificial pond where lilies grew and fish swam in the shadows of those waters. She looked around, and then she looked to Erick.

Erick asked, “Is this how Da’luwe used to look? If so, I’m even more angry at Eldawae than before.”

The being of light smiled softly. “This is Da’luwe at its height, a mere 6,000 years ago. When we fell, we fell hard, and my brother Eldawae capitulated to the destroyers. It was through him that the Wraithborne Tower made this land into a prison, here at one of the deepest parts of Margleknot’s Other Side.” She grinned. “I have not been able to tell anyone that story in a very long time. I believe… I was cut up.” She looked away at Da’luwe, saying, “I want to see it again… But I cannot stay, can I? I will have to make my way back on my own.” She looked to Erick. “Won’t I?”

“Yes. You’re being reincarnated right now. The process cannot be stopped. Have any requests?”

The woman steeled herself, her 8 wings fluttering behind her, each of them disconnected from her body but they were still connected, anyway. “I want to go with all of them and I do not care if my memory is fragmented.”

“Your memory will be fragmented, except for this memory here.” Erick said, “Good luck.”

- -

Lightning blasted out in 108 directions of the Margleknot sky and then vanished into cracks in the air, worming out to the rest of the multiverse—

A great crack of thunder filled the air. The tallest tower at the center of Da’luwe cracked in half, the grey pillar that kept the city marked as a Wraithborne Tower settlement breaking in fast parts, and then disintegrating. It did not fall at all. It simply vanished into Elsewhere, magic turning back into directionless mana.

And Erick felt tired again. He still had plenty of resources, but this big magic was taking a toll.

Erick looked to the dragon Solid Sky. “You want to be a dragon again, here, in this moment and time?”

“… I do. I said as much earlier. I would have this boon before it is snatched from me by your inability to be politely disruptive.”

Erick smiled at that. “You do realize that your soul has been chopped up in order for you to say things like that, right? Most trapped ghosts, if given the chance, would have asked for what Eldawae’s sister asked for; to move on. That’s why there might be a few people out there still living but almost no undead. Just you and her remained. People can make active choices. You can only act on impetus. Elemental Death, in my experience, is all about making stuff stay just like it is. Once you disturb the lock that Death has on life, though, time flows and desires return and all sorts of wants happen all over again.” Erick asked, “Who were you before the Wraithborne Tower turned you into a puppet?”

Solid Sky gradually turned from pale ghost to full-red dragon as Erick spoke, the dead soul getting madder and madder. He did not like being told that he had no control over his life. Directly calling him a puppet was the last straw. He roared at Erick, a scouring, glass-laden wind blasting across Erick’s body, shredding his glowthread clothes and shredding his Health and superficial flesh, but nothing else. Erick’s clothes sought to hide behind his neck and back and there they remained, fine and outside of the blast.

Erick stepped forward and grabbed the ghost dragon’s maw shut with an aura that resembled his own dragon hands and claws, shutting Solid Sky’s maw and holding him there like a misbehaving child. He could not escape now, but as he shifted from red to white and then as ghostly as he could go, he was surely trying to escape. His eyes were full of fear that almost looked fully sapient.

Erick said, “Be Reborn as a dragon of Benevolence.”

Lightning coursed out of Erick, into the ghost of Solid Sky and then into all of the center wall of the city. Every single part of the wall that had remained either collapsed or simply evaporated.

And the snout of a pale blue living dragon squirmed underneath Erick’s grip as Solid Sky suddenly came into being and broke a few houses behind him in his transition to flesh. He was not like the dragons that Erick had known; either the long version like Rozeta or the big and winged versions like Erick and Melemizargo. He was something different. A sinuous body, thin and long at maybe 200 meters, but with giant wings a third of the way down. He was feathered, too. He almost looked like a couatl, but he was more rakish. Less ‘house pet’. More ‘thing you glimpse in the clouds and never fully see’.

And he was staring at Erick with bright blue eyes.

He looked at Erick's grip around his mouth.

He was going to run away the very second Erick let him go.

Hmm.

Erick asked him, “Are you going to run away?”

Solid sky paused.

He almost lied.

And then he told the truth. He whispered ‘no’, though it was almost unintelligible underneath Erick’s grip.

Erick let go.

And Solid Sky pulled back—

He stopped. He steeled himself. He stared at Erick, and said, “Thank you for freeing me. I almost gave into my own desire to… flee, as an undead thing would.”

“I noticed.”

“… Yes you did.”

“Got a name?”

“Solidisuoskai.”

“Ah. So… was that an insult, or something else, to call you ‘Solid Sky’?”

“… I was 750 years old when they captured me on a world far from here and stuffed me into this wall of Da'luwe. This was 5,000 years ago. I am beyond insults and… beyond my homeland a great deal. I had thought I was fond of captivity but… I am not. I wish to be done with this conversation and to escape while you and Eldawae are distracted with each other. May I go?”

“After you tell me what I should know about Eldawae.”

“… He is a hermit, at heart. He wants power, and to go unnoticed. The biggest advantage you have right now is that you have ended a war in his lands and set up these lands for a better future for all further inmates who should fall here.”

“I was going to go with ‘you’re only making 50k resons per day, anyway, so what’s the big deal’.”

“… He’s making a lot less than that right now…” Solidisuoskai looked beyond Erick, at the large dome tower, saying, “Uhh—”

Evil Death blasted out of the central dome, casting wide and far, shattering the double door of the dome off its hinges and then disintegrating the door into metal shavings that rusted and fell apart, to wash like red sand upon Erick. Solidisuoskai escaped that wash of black-grey power and then the red wave, hiding behind Erick until the worst of it passed, and then fleeing as fast as he could flee directly away from Eldawae and the sandification of the entire central square of the center city. Black and grey pillars turned to rubble and collapsed in every direction, except in one, over there, far beyond a low hill on the other side of this starting combat.

Erick assumed that the small buildings in that direction housed the people that Eldawae cared about, or at least the ones he cared enough to save from Erick’s [Grand Reincarnation]. If Vondria, the city administrator, and those guards had survived, then if this fight calmed down, Erick would ensure that they could rebuild.

Eldawae stepped across the black sands that he had created, into the rubble of the main city center, onto the crumbling courtyard where he and Erick had first met.

Erick stepped toward him, saying, “It’s going to take me more work to fix these buildings now, so thanks for that.”

Eldawae twisted the air at Erick’s ‘thanks’, trying to capture something from him with a brush of unseen power. It was Fae Magic. It was useless. He went, “Bah.” And then he looked at Erick with silver glowing eyes. “Why did you do it?”

Erick spread his arms wide. “You’ll have to be more specific.”

Eldawae stared. “Where did my sister go?”

“Into 108 different lives. Her goal is to help those who she helped here, and then to come back with power to retake this land from the Tower, and maybe from you.”

Eldawae relaxed a fraction, even though outwardly nothing changed at all. Erick could tell, though. His Lightning Path was working well. A real fight had been avoided.

In a softer tone, Eldawae commanded, “You will rebuild my city.”

“Sure. Was gonna offer that anyway.”

“You will lift up Vondria to Benevolent dragon, and at least one of the guards. Kylychbech survives. You will raise him to power, too.”

“Sure. You need help to return this land to what it used to be, right?” Erick commanded, “Because you will return this land to the billion-plus metropolis in the Endless that it used to be, before Wraithborne came here.”

“Impossible. If we are productive, then we are targets.”

“Who do you have left to defend, Eldawae? Nothing.” Erick said, “So make your sister happy when she comes back. Take the inmates who fall to your land and make of them people who would wish to live here—”

“I tried! No one appreciates what is possible! The bottom line is the only thing that matters, and when that is satisfied too much then Wraithborne desires to take more and more and more.” Eldawae said, “No more.” Eldawae stared, his eyes pools of hateful silver light. “You are right in one thing, Wizard. I have nothing left to defend.”

Ah.

A fight, then.

The Lightning Path had been misled.

Eldawae opened with skeletal hands reaching out of the ground to grip Erick, his voice laced with power, “You come into my home and destroy my people. You have broken hospitality. I claim the Rite of Master and I name you my newest Slave.”

