Erick added some small [Terraforming] storms and node networks here and there, and then he wrote down how to take care of it all upon a large, white obelisks. He described [Renew] magic with Elemental Benevolence, and [Terraforming] magics with all the accompanying physics and particle interactions. He spoke of harmonies and Mana Altering and Shaping, and a bunch of different Elements besides Benevolence. He wrote down how to create more nodes in the node network, with all that Draining spellwork and otherwise.

And then he copied that large white obelisk and scattered those copies all across the land, in the center of Da’luwe’s new town squares and fountains here and there, and inside every one of the 9 Benevolence Tower out there. During the course of that travel, he came across 34 people. 16 of them hid from him, even after he spoke aloud, telling them that they could move on from here if they wanted. Erick left them be. Most of the people he found wanted to move on, and so Erick bid them a Lightning farewell. One of them, an old witch woman with some sort of highly-protective personal magic and wearing white, wanted to stay here, but she wanted a safer life.

“I’m old as dirt and I usually live outside of the walls anyway. I want to stay here, especially if things are getting better.” The old woman said, “Can you do that? Make me young but let me stay here?”

Her skin was tan and wrinkled, but there was a mirage around her edges. She looked almost not-there at some angles.

Erick looked her over, and said, “Probably. Unless whatever you’ve got going on is… What is that, anyway?”

“Witchy witchy. Stops the bad stuff unless I’m nervous, then it stops everything.” She shrugged. “Try anyway?”

“It might go away after this change.”

“If you can break it and get me normal, I’d take that option.”

Erick hit her with a [Reincarnation].

Every single one of her futures had her as an invisible person walking through life, never knowing others and always being overlooked. She was a hole in the world, untouched by all. Except in a few spots. Erick saw an image of her as a mother in a nice house, serving a family dinner to her husband and their five children and their tens of grandchildren. Another image had her as the leader of a town and raising thousands of people to power, transforming sand into arable fields with coordination and then transforming that land into crops with Benevolent Rain. A third image was her killing a few people and then being sent to the executioner’s crush.

Erick picked the one with her as a leader.

The woman rose from the sands transformed to a young elven woman in her late teens. Erick set her down in a safe spot in the nearest Benevolence Tower, along with a blanket, some extra clothes, repaired versions of her own clothes, a knife, and some fresh fruit in a stone bowl.

By that time several hours had passed and the people in the central town had been awake for hours, except for the new Eldawae. Hopefully that had been long enough for them to get through most of their anger at each other and the situation.

But they were still quite mad at Erick.
