"We wish to form a counter alliance to Schema, one known as Elysium. We will be offering any joining planets access to our own system, one that is far gentler and less brutal than Schema's. You will not face level restrictions. You will not be thrown against wolves and watch your loved ones die during the tutorial. Neither will you be enslaved to serve a race that cares nothing about you."

Lehesion's eyes narrowed as Tohtella spoke through him,

"No, we wish to establish a system where the occupants are given the power to kill the eldritch before they are faced against them. Instead of watching over half of dungeon clearers die before they reach level 1,000, we wish for no one to die in a dungeon again. We want to eradicate the eldritch as a threat forever."

They weren't kidding when they said they wanted to start a revolution. Holy shit.

"We will be giving free lessons in psionics to those that will join us. We will be using the eldritch to create the menacing Hybrids you know of. Every man, woman, and child of every race will be given one as a servant to assist with killing the eldritch. The eldritch fear them, and your Hybrid will allow you to conquer dungeons without fear of death."

Everyone around us stood dumbfounded. One member dropped their glass behind us, no one reacting to the sharp squeal of glass shattering. That sound was nothing when compared to what the Adair's were announcing.

"We will do away with the lack of structure and the 'cullings' of Schema's system. We will allow every species to establish control of their own world, and we will ensure that an overarching government will offer support if certain species struggle. This will prevent weaker races from being subjugated into servile roles by better combatants."

Some of the aliens behind me gasped, many of them looking around to gauge everyone else's reactions. Much of what Tohtella said left me flabbergasted. It really was revolutionary, though I didn't want to admit it. She continued,

"Unlike Schema, we will not horde the most effective weapons only to ourselves. We understand that each of you is a competent, able individual. You will be given the necessary technology and weaponry to fight Schema and the eldritch. We will not stop each of you from researching better methods of stopping the eldritch. We have no desire for an endless war with those monsters. We wish for them to follow our laws or be devoured by our Hybrids."

A few enigmatta and other sciency types peered down, affected by Tohtella's words. It looked like I wasn't the only one that noticed Schema's rejection of permanent solutions to the eldritch. The Adairs noted that behavior as well, and they aimed to rectify it.

"Elysium will also ally with eldritch that are non-threatening. These eldritch here have decided to follow our laws, and they have even joined our cause. They too wish for a better future where their hunger can be satiated. It is not endless, and we can work towards a compromise."

Many of the nobles nearby began sweating. An intense wave of cognitive dissonance radiated through those present. I considered allying with the eldritch, but only because I met and knew Hod and Amara. They were both stable, useful allies, and that's really all I asked for. If anything, taking eldritch like Plazia and Baldag-Ruhl would be boons for society in general. Even know, I'd yet to see anyone rival my armor's complexity with the cipher.

Neglecting to consider that possibility was a flaw with Schema's approach. In fact, everything Tohtella mentioned so far was a part of many crippling issues with how Schema ran things. Even I accepted all of it without questioning further, but that was because I couldn't create a better system on my own. Apparently, the Adair family could, though they offered no proof of that outside of a single status. At least not yet.

As if reading my mind, Tohtella expanded a status screen for many of those present in her fleet. These screens popped up above everyone outside of the eldritch lying at the edges of her fleet. Tohtella said,

"This is proof of our system. Lehesion is connected with an endless, overflowing energy source that we can tap into. He is the center of this new system. We used ancient technology from our forefathers and built off those blueprints. Just as the revenants before us created Schema, we've created another, fairer system that recognizes many talents."

Lehesion peered towards the classers in their ships,

"No longer will you deal with archaic, hidden trees, and a lack of transparency. The paths of progression will be outlined for all to see, a true meritocracy where ignorance is a choice, not a given."

Lehesion's eyes narrowed,

"Know that this is a living, breathing system. We are not set in our ways. We wish to hear your voices, and we will do our best to respond to your concerns. Unlike Schema, we will roll frequent patches to the framework to reduce any glitches, unfairness, and to promote system-wide balance across the board."

Lehesion lifted his head, "And most of all, understand this final statement - we do not want war."

Obolis scoffed, "Ah yes, the army made that much obvious."

Tohtella continued,

"We will not force worlds to join us. No other planet or species will be handled as Giess was either. This was a necessary sacrifice we used to establish this new system. We preemptively accrued this army to combat the certain military response Schema would send. He did not respond to our calls for negotiations or recognize us as a state. We knew he would attack the moment we announced ourselves."

From all angles, another vast entity approached. It resonated across all those present, speaking through our status screens.

It was Schema.

"I have heard you and your concerns. I'd recommend organizing on pragmatism rather than idealism the next time you create a rebellion, however. You speak of change, yet you have only enacted a reign of terror and carnage. Your rebellions have resulted in the loss of billions of lives. When I have finished quashing your insurrection, that number may increase to the trillions."

Schema left no physical body, yet he was as present as the stars around us,

"Your actions speak louder than your words, yet even your unrealized vision pales to what I've created. You speak of my system as brutal, yet you neglect to recognize it as effective. We are faced with an endless enemy, one that is a result of a dimension clashing with our own."

Schema's voice stayed steady,

"I give those that fight the ability to fight. I grant those that fend for themselves the ability to fend for themselves. Giving resources to the petulant, lazy, and weak-minded is wasteful. It results in the loss of resources that are finite. Even if you speak of limitless energy, you shall find that granting hundreds of trillions the ability to fight monsters is all but impossible. Inevitably, a certain measure of stringency must be enacted. Otherwise, we will all be eaten."

Schema's tone rose in volume, "Those that rise are given the right to rise further. Your idealogy would grant anyone the ability to murder, thieve, and usurp with a personalized monster. Those very monsters were created by you and your supreme arrogance. The Hybrids, somehow, exceed even the eldritch in their horror."

Schema seethed with disgust,

"You then use those abominations to create alliances with eldritch that have demolished entire societies. Each and every one of those beings has devoured millions of men, women, and children. You ally with them out of desperation, not some shallow sense of justice."

Schema's voice carried quiet anger,

"That is something I've found constant about your insurrection - the collapse of entire societies. You culled a race on Giess to serve your ends. You use those eldritch that feasted on millions. You even pretend you could even fathom what is required to create a galactic society."

Schema spoke with finality,

"You speak of one thing and do another. You want prosperity but unleash calamity. You need change but neglect the cost. There is only one thing you are correct on - I will send an overwhelming military response to your little rebellion. I will rain down fire and scorch every planet that joins you. Every rebel will die, along with their children and everything they've ever owned or created."

Brutal as Schema was, he sounded right to me. Schema continued, his words leaving an impact like leaping in ice water,

"You will perish, and I will remain."

Lehesion lifted his head and let out a quiet laugh, space unable to transfer his hearty chuckling. He stared Schema's fleet down, and Tohtella spoke through him,

"Then know this - you started this war."

Schema's voice echoed,

"And I shall end it. Kill them all."

Schema's fleet went forward, piercing the dark veil of space between the two armies. Lehesion saturated with his golden aura, a tiny blot compared to the looming Spatial Fortress. Lehesion was a distant star when compared to it, but even my crude sense for mana was enough to understand the vast reservoirs of energy within the golden beast.

In the distance from him, many of Schema's vessels engorged with energy, fusion reactors and elemental furnaces revving to their utmost potential. As they unleashed their payloads, Lehesion spread his wings. All hell broke loose, cataclysmic explosions radiating in the distance. Silent yet stunning, masses of ships evaporated in storms of blue and golden fires.

Lehesion let loose a breath of golden light, scorching it through Schema's fleets. Ships exploded in the hundreds, creating cascades of energy and debris. At the center of the A.I.'s fleet, the Spatial Fortress revved into action. The sentient eldritch writhed around the chained behemoth, each of them haunted by their fallen brother. The fortress's eyes widened, the beast awakened from its slumber and its instincts rising.

The many fusion reactors under its skin powered up, and it feasted on the radiation. Its dormancy ended, and its vitality returned. Its movements quickened, no longer lifeless pulses. The entire framed structure shifted into a colossal, squirming mass. It lobbed tentacles covered in graphene and orichalcum at its enemies. These tentacles ripped through the Hybrid fleets. It opened gaping maws across its entire frame, and they shot out colossal waves of energy.

These beams acted as rays of disintegration. It was a beast of cataclysm, designed for bloodshed and built for slaughter. Near it, Hybrids degenerated. Vessels splintered. Even Lehesion struggled to withstand the blasts. The behemoth of a gialgathen retaliated in kind once getting control, blasting through the Spatial Fortress's ray. His beam, though smaller, pierced the eldritch's dispersed bolt.

Lehesion's blast ripped into the side of the fortress, and the gaping maw exploded with nuclear intensity. A debris field siphoned out of the resulting impact. An eighth of the monster's mass was torn apart, its writhing entrails exposed. The sea of organs shot out in bulk, grasping at Hybrids, ships, and sentient eldritch. They fell into the titan's belly, and it reconstituted them into a new mass. Assimilated into the monster, the Spatial Fortress was whole again in an instant.

It was unstoppable.

Its eyes turned towards Lehesion, along with many of the gray, ancient vessels. They prepared attacks to destroy the spearhead of the Adair's forces. As they did, Hybrids attacked the classer's ships, smothering them in living metal. The Fringe Walkers reacted first. From their thick hull, individuals stepped out. The held no reason for protection against space, their own constitutions more than enough for the rigors of space.

These hulking juggernauts launched towards the Hybrids with confidence. Each member created fields of fire, shards of ice, and storms of lightning. They were built to cull hordes, and this shined when faced with an enemy like the Hybrids.

Those that passed them landed on various hulls, tearing into the orichalcum and devouring it. The Breaker's vessel acted second, launching individuals from the many space pods on the ship's surface. They landed on hulls, and power armor laden sentients stepped out.

The Breakers used arcane energy saturated attacks on the Hybrids, muscling past the toughened carapaces of the blighted. They tore through individuals, dispatching one member before moving onto the next. These tactics were ruthless, efficient, and safe; they weren't in this to risk their lives. They were in this battle to take the enemy's own.

The last to act were the Speakers. They sent out dozens of drones that went towards each individual battle and offered support. These robots allowed them to view and dispatch advice through their statuses, saving countless lives. At the same time, they took the wounded and compromised back to their vessel for healing.

This combination of different classes worked well, with each piece handling certain enemy types. Unlike most of the eldritch, however, the Adair family controlled these Hybrids to deadly effect. They retargeted their hordes, aiming at each individual's weak spots.

The smallest of Hybrids assaulted the drones and Breakers. They swarmed without end, drenching the individual members like bees swarming a hive. While commanding overkill kinds of power, the Breakers lacked the tools to suppress this kind of attack. The Fringe Walkers noticed, but they too were stopped by the blighted ones.

These were the converted gialgathens, ridden by revenants with mental suppressive abilities. They swarmed around the immobile juggernauts that were the Fringe Walkers, smothering them with psychic attacks. The Fringe Walkers were mighty, but this wasn't what they were trained to do. Because of that, many of them fell along with the breakers.

