He cut an impressive figure, but he was somehow overshadowed by the woman sitting next to him, who was smiling pleasantly yet had an air of palpable malice surrounding her.

She looked very much like Lady—he paused. This woman was a Wu. Lady Wu Zei Qi, the cripple. The woman who constantly shook from the damage she had taken from a cultivator.

This woman looked anything but a cripple. She did not shake at all, her hands steady like rocks. Especially the hand holding a fan in front of her mouth. A fan painted with a Soaring Phoenix—a declaration of war.

He swallowed thickly, his mind racing.

Beside Lady Wu was an unexpected person, a representative from the Azure Jade Trading Company,wearing an Azure Sash—which meant that this place had the backing—the full backing,of the Trading Company, who were just about the only people who could tell the Wu family to go shove it.

The Auditor was starting to feel faint. He felt his eyes slide over to the corpulent, jolly-looking man that had a tremendous stack of papers in front of him and looked downright pleased to see the Auditor.

The Auditor raised his hands and smiled politely, but inside he was suddenly very, very worried.

Alarm bells were ringing in his head as he greeted the people before him. He would have to tread very lightly here.

Why, oh why, had he been so sure that heading north would be a good idea?

=============================

My wife scratched at her nose. We were long past the property line and quite far north, hip deep in snow. It was actually quite nice and the scenery was beautiful, but neither of us were particularly enjoying it at the moment.

“Anything?” I asked Meimei.

“Nothing,” She said with a frown.

We had been taking these walks for a couple weeks now, to see if Meimei could smell the acrid scent again… But it hadn’t returned.

Meimei was grumpy that she hadn’t found the source, but it was probably a good thing if it was gone. Meant it was not here.

“What do you think?” I asked.

“I think… I think it flies?” she said, hesitantly. “Maybe very high up? I don’t know.”

My wife looked incredibly grumpy that this mystery was still persisting.

“Maybe it's some kind of… I don’t know, Seven Stenches Buzzard?” I said, trying to lighten the mood, and Meimei chuckled, before her face turned serious again. “It bothers you that much, doesn’t it?” I asked.

“It's just annoying. Every time I smell it, it ruins my day. It's like when you get shit on your boot and you wonder why your house smells like crap and you look everywhere trying to find it,” Meimei huffed, definitely speaking from experience. And to be fair, I knew that feeling too. The ol’ shit shoe sucked.

“So we’ll keep looking,” I said simply. “Besides, I get to spend a lovely day with the woman I love the most in the world.”

Meimei smiled at me and bumped me with her shoulder.

We wandered a bit more, Meimei occasionally sniffing at the air. Suddenly, she tensed, her eyes narrowing… before she sighed and slumped. “Why did you tell the Guan siblings that they could have their cultivator guards help them get everything ready in Verdant Hill? I keep smelling them, faintly, under Lu Ri’s Qi and it's annoying.”

“Because they have like five hundred tons of food to move?” I asked back. It had taken them nearly a month to figure out how to even move everything, and this was the second trip. They would have to make a third to finish taking all the grain, pickles, and maple syrup jars.

“Don’t be reasonable with me, husband,” Meimei said jokingly before she sighed again, then she made a face.

This was really bugging her. I put my arm around her shoulder.

”’Cmon, I think this is enough for today. Let's have some soup, then a bath. If the smell comes back we’ll find it, and then you can experiment on it if it's evil.”

Meimei perked up just a little, and a rather vicious smile stole across her features. My wife let me guide her away as she muttered under her breath. I turned my ears off, dismissing the war crimes I was hearing from my mind. I spared one last glance to where the smell always came from.

The northern wind blew, tousling my hair and caressing my cheeks.

It was cold, and I shivered a bit.
