Before I can continue, Mila utters an angry growl and sinks her teeth into my neck, her sharp canines uncomfortably close to tearing skin. Speaking around a mouthful of my neck, my fiery beloved says, “We know. Sound travels and our yurts are close.”

Oh no...

“Er... How loud were we?” Not too loud, right? We muffled our moans as much as we could...

“Loud enough.” Mila’s teeth bite down a little harder and I decide not to press my luck.

On the other side, Lin puts on a serious expression and says, “Remember Rainy, no more women or I’ll be sad, ya? I won’t blame you for this, and Yan’s twenty now, so she’s of marriageable age, but there hafta be limits.”

With all the solemnity I can muster, I reply, “No more. I would never want to make either of you sad.”

Releasing me from her fanged clutches, Mila purses her lips and says, “We will discuss this later, in private. I have no issue with Yan joining our marital bed, but I am hurt you didn’t think to speak with Lin or I before taking matters into your own hands.”

‘I am hurt’. Three simple words, but the pain is almost too much to bear. “I’m sorry, beloved. I wanted to, but at the party, Yan was so cold I thought she no longer cared about me, then she showed up and we started talking... When it became clear where things were headed, I tried to slow it down and told her I hadn’t discussed the matter with you, but then she showed me a letter you wrote and... well, I lost my head. I’m sorry beloved.” Reaching out to take Mila’s hand, I continue, “I am a horrible man and betrothed, one who is in love with three different, wonderful women. I love you Mila, and you Lin, and I also love Yan. I intend to ask for her hand in marriage, and I hope to have your blessing to do so. If you cannot, then I don’t know what I will do, but I cannot stand the thought of losing any one of you.”

Lin nods in silent, but enthusiastic approval, but Mila merely scowls and glowers. “You have the letter?” I nod, praying she finds it in her to forgive me. “You know,” she says, tightening her grip on my hand. “I am an esteemed Martial Warrior, both beautiful and strong.”

“Yes beloved.” I would rather fight Anathema without Blobby or Chi Water than face Mila right now.

“I only need snap my fingers and hordes of hopeful suitors would come calling.”

“And they would be lucky to earn your affection, beloved.”

Despite my flowery reply, Mila’s grip tightens and my bones creak in her grasp. With a sweet smile, she continues, “I could have my pick of almost any man I choose, any three men or five even should I desire it.”

“Understandably so, beloved, for you are a phoenix among chick – among cranes, outstanding in every way.” Don’t call her a chicken, idiot, it’s a colloquialism for whore. “Beloved, I only have the one hand, so could you possibly, maybe...”

“Good. So long as you know.” Loosening her death grip, Mila flashes her beautiful smile, so sweet and charming I fall head over heels for her once again. Fear does that to me, and I don’t think it’s healthy, but who cares. “I love you Rain, and if that means I must share you, then so be it. This is the price I pay for falling in love with a lecherous pervert, but I knew who you were long before your actions revealed it.” Leaning close, she gives me a peck on the cheek and whispers, “Luckily, you were clear headed enough to think of me beforehand. A minor consolation, but better than nothing, I suppose. As for your marriage to Yan, after what you did last night, you better marry her, else I’d never forgive you.”

Yea, definitely dodged a bullet. Probably worse.

Pulling Mila in for another hug, I kiss her shoulder and Lin’s forehead. “I don’t deserve either of you, and that’s the truth. I can’t promise I’ll never make you angry or upset, but I promise to love you always and do everything in my power to make you happy.”

“I know hubby. That’s why you’re the best.” Beaming from ear to ear, Lin tugs my arm and says, “Breakfast now, ya? I’m hungry.”

Laughing as I hobble behind her with Mila’s help, I sigh in relief at how well things went. Life is good. Better than good, it’s amazing. Beyond belief. Mila, Lin, and Yan love me, I made significant progress along my Martial Path, and now that the Defiled have made the first move, there’s no more sitting around on our asses. I fully expect the Legate to tell all of Nan Ping what happened in Sinuji and to hand out deployment orders within the day, which gives me just enough time to ask for Yan’s hand in marriage, convince GangShu and Radiant Fist Wugang to send a message to the Abbot, and sort out the last details regarding my cast iron venture before leaving to fight the Defiled, where I can gobble up all the Heavenly Energy I desire.

All in all, things are looking up.

Well, aside from the whole marching to war business and all the imminent death and destruction headed my way, which means things are okay, I suppose.

...

Whatever, things could be worse, so I’ll take it.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 21 -
