“Wait…” I thought over Noboru’s explanation for a moment. “So a god tried to evolve even further? It’s possible to evolve beyond God-tier?”

“There is some evidence to suggest so.” Noboru cleared his throat. “However, the honest truth is that most of it remains rumor and speculation. While there are a handful of confirmed monsters with God-tier Evolution Paths, and humans with God-tier Classes, we have yet to find indisputable evidence of anyone who has gone even further beyond.”

“But you think that might have happened at this Black Pyre place?”

“That is the rumor, yes, but it mostly comes down to folklore and speculation. Whatever the case, even the stories agree that this supposed ascent beyond godhood led to its death. What we do know is that, however it happened, the Black Pyre has remained as it is for hundreds of years. It is a mana-dense region filled with high-level monsters and undead creatures.”

“Undead?” I asked.

He nodded. “Such creatures are typically only found deep within the Depths. When something dies while under an undead curse, it can revive as one of the undead. Most are mindless, with less strategy and intellect than even the simplest monsters. But they can be difficult to kill, and they tend to gather in groups. In the case of an intelligent undead, especially one with control over others, they can become a truly great danger.”

“I see…”

I definitely was not looking forward to fighting zombies. I grimaced, wondering what biting one would be like. If I got a mouthful of rotted meat every time I went for the kill…

I shuddered.

Yeah, no thank you.

“The good news is that the Black Pyre contains mostly low-level undead,” Noboru continued. “The scenario I mentioned, involving an intelligent type of undead that controls others, is something typically only seen deep inside the Depths. However, that does bring me to my next point.”

Noboru looked at Rin, who nodded for him to continue.

“Typically, the Hellborne modifier to a species, Class, or Path name indicates some relation to the Depths. Rin has informed me that your Path screen calls for you to seek the Serpent of the Black Pyre to unlock the hint. I suspect that hint may lead you toward the Depths.”

“Oh.” I tilted my head. “Am I ready for that?”

From what I understood, monsters as powerful as my parents came from there.

“It depends on what the Path actually asks of you,” Noboru said. “The System can be cruel, but it is rarely nonsensical. It does not usually point someone toward a task that is completely beyond them.”

“Usually?” I asked.

Noboru gave me a small, apologetic nod. “Usually. There are always exceptions. But since this is only a Stage Seven Path, I find it unlikely that it would demand you descend deep into the Depths. More likely, it will require something near the surface. One of the upper layers, perhaps. A place still connected to our world, but touched by what lies beneath.”

That sounded only slightly less horrifying.

“Dangerous,” Noboru continued, “but not impossible. Howere, this is still an Epic Path that you are trying to unlock. And the higher the tier of a Path, the more the System tends to demand before granting it.”

I thought that over.

My original Rare Path, Veinseer Pup, was handed to me upon my very first evolution. Whisperfang Juvenile was Epic, and it required the Apex Predator achievement. I got that achievement, of course, by defeating the Earth Tyrant, a feat I had barely managed to pull off. Even still, I feel that was one of my single greatest victories in my short puppy life.

Then there were the Hellborne Firewitch and Aberrant Triune Paths.

Those had come from the red mask quest. The System had ordered me to kill twenty of them, most of whom were higher level than me. Hellborne Firewitch appeared partway through. Aberrant Triune only appeared after I completed the entire quest, which looking back on it now, it’s kind of insane we actually pulled it off.

That quest had been close to impossible.

Now that I was on the other side of it, it was easy to look back and think of it as something I had simply done. But that wasn’t true. We had nearly failed. After all our efforts, I came damn close to dying and I never would have survived the ordeal without Grick and Lily.

And even after all that effort, the only reward was the possibility of unlocking those Paths.

So, of course, if I wanted the Hellborne Firewitch Path, the System was going to make me go through hell again.

No pun intended.

I could only imagine what would be required of me to unlock the Legendary Aberrant Triune Path, whose development requirement alone still felt far out of reach.

“There is one other thing to be aware of,” the man with the scar over his eye said. “The Black Pyre is on the edge of the Umarii lands.”

“Umarii…” I said, remembering Genzo’s warning about them.

“Hopfully, you will not come across any, but if you do, you have two options. Kill them, don’t let any survivors escape, or if you don’t believe you can win the fight, run back to the Verdant Empire and abandon your quest.”

I tilted my head. “Are they really that dangerous?”

Rin was the next to speak. “You are powerful for your level. But if word gets to back to the Umarii as a whole, they may very well send a force after you that will be impossible for you to deal with.”

“Genzo mentioned them,” I said. “He said its because I’m a transmigrator. But how would they know? Shouldn’t they have no reason to suspect I’m anything but another monster?”

“Perhaps. If they encounter you briefly, they might assume exactly that. You’re a rare monster with a strange Path but nothing more. But a lone Hell Hound on the surface might still be a curiosity to them. If you do something to give yourself away, they will be relentless with pursing you until you are safely under our banners again.”

“I see…”

Rin interlaced her fingers under her chin. “Frankly, the level of risk in sending you on this quest concerns me. But this is what the Emperor had decided. And if you are to succeed, a powerful Path will be open to you. One that will also be perfect for heading into the Scorched Steeps, if that is where we end up sending you next.”

***

The meeting ended soon after that, with most of the remaining time spent showing me a map and explaining the route to the Black Pyre.

Apparently, I would travel back south along the river for a while, cross it at a safer point, and then continue along the outskirts of the dead, barren stretch of land claimed by the Umarii. Rin made sure to mark the locations of their nearest fortresses and their patrol routes and common hunting grounds the Empire knew about, then showed me the path that would keep me as far away from both as possible. Apparently their main city, which was just an even bigger fortress, was deep, deep into that barren land, but the route would keep me very far away from it.

Either way, it was clear that this was going to be a long walk, and after that, I would more or less be on my own.

All I had to do was enter a cursed, mana-dense wasteland filled with monsters and undead, find a giant snake, possibly kill it, and then maybe take a quick little pitstop in hell to top things off.

After that, assuming I survived, I could finally start making my way back home.

Easy.

A new shipment of Puffstork came in that night, but as I sat around the dinner table with Lily and Grick, I honestly wasn’t feeling very hungry. I had a knot of anxiety in my stomach once again. Not over the quest and the potential danger, mind you. It was more the fact that I would be leaving them.

I watched Lily gorging herself happily on the long-awaited Puffstork, Grick slurping down fish after fish with barely chewing, Fox somehow being the more sophisticated of our group. Which, to be fair, I guess that was never really our strong suit.

That night in my doggy form, Lily and Grick curled up alongside me. I tried my best to just focus on their breathing and not let my fears get the better of me.

But I didn’t want to be alone. I really didn’t.

To think that this would be the last time we’d sleep together for months…

But, at the end of it, I’d be closer to getting the rest of my family back. Maybe Ben or Jerry would already be safely with the Verdant Empire by the time I returned.

Though it hurt my heart that the two of them would be separated even more.

I knew I had to get stronger so that I could save the other of the twin brothers as soon as possible. Then, I’d focus on the Bloody Peaks, the red masks, and how to get Iris back. Hopefully, I’d also learn what happened to Luke and get working on a plan to save my mother as well.
