“Quiet. Listen carefully.” Glaring at the Peak Expert, Rain drew himself up to full height and said, “I am not asking you to reveal anything, nor am I probing your reactions for information. You have your orders, but you will obey mine. They live, I live. They die, I die, whether it be at the hands of the Defiled, or my own. Understood?”

“...Understood, Great One.”

As the Sound Barrier fell away, and the Death Corps took up their posts, Song considered that perhaps Rain wasn’t as great a fool as Mama thought. No one amongst the Bekhai trusted the Death Corps, not entirely, for they were Oath-bound to serve the Emperor and only attended to Scions on Imperial Order, but until today, Rain’s customary suspicion and paranoia had been nonexistent as if he believed his Honour Guard wouldn’t slaughter him out of hand should the Legate order it in the Emperor’s name. Why Rain kept this ruse up for so long, she couldn’t say, but her curiosity got the better of her as she took his hand and Sent, “I don’t understand.”

“Tursinai, can you do the silence thing?” Another barrier went up before Rain explained, “If the world saw that I didn’t trust my Honour Guard, it’d prove I’m not a real Imperial Scion. I know I’m not and others will suspect it, but so long as they don’t have proof, they don’t dare to act. What’s more, even though I’m a pawn, until such a time as I’ve outlived my use and he takes steps to get rid of me, the Legate will be forced to answer any insult directed towards me lest he lose face. It’s a game of half-truths and false appearances, but even a fake status is useful so long as the world must believe it’s real.” Shrugging, he added, “Besides, I’m pretty sure most of the Death Corps are genuinely here to keep me safe, at least until they’re ordered otherwise. Kuang Biao’s probably the exception, but he’s as much a pawn as I am. Worse even, because I’m not Oath-bound to obey, though in fairness, it’s not like I’d survive disobeying the Legate.”

Though everything he said made sense, she still wasn’t entirely certain she understood, but since the Defiled would soon arrive, she simply nodded and accepted it as fact. Reluctant to let go of his hand for fear of Spectres, she idly wondered how often she should return to be Cleansed during battle. Once every half hour, perhaps? Or would every quarter hour be better? Best not to risk it, but how was she to keep track of time during battle? Perhaps, she could come whenever she suspected a Spectre had latched on, but it would raise questions if she kept running back to touch Rain...

“Song.” Wearing a smug expression which made her lip curl, Rain asked, “When do you think I could get my hand back? I want to organize the water-skins and medical supplies before the battle heats up. Won’t have a lot of time for breaks in between.” Reluctantly releasing his hand, she consoled herself with a reminder that she’d be back soon enough, but he shook his head and laughed at her unenthusiastic actions. “You’re scared of Spectres right? Don’t be. There’s nothing to fear from them.”

Easy for him to say, a man so beloved by the Mother that She not only blessed him with immunity from the Father’s whispered lies, but gave him the ability to Cleanse others of their presence...

Song’s disbelief must have shown in her expression and Rain shook his head and smiled. “You know, when I first discovered this ability, I went on a Spectre Su... Devouring Spree. Everyone I came into contact with needed a little Cleansing, from extreme cases like BoShui and Dastan to barely Tainted individuals who would’ve emerged unscathed without help such as Mila and Tursinai, I took Spectres from them all. There was only one person who had no Spectres to Cleanse, someone who was nearby during the Purge, took part in the battle for Sanshu, and was also with me on on Yo Ling’s island, three separate incidents in which the air was filthy with Spectres. You know who that was?”

“...Lin-Lin?”

“...Yes, but uh... I wasn’t talking about her, because I forgot. So two people. Bah.” Throwing a hand up in defeat, he rolled his eyes and said, “You. I meant you. Not a single Spectre to be found despite all the shit we went through, not to mention the burdens of your past.”

“Truly?”

“Truly.”

And Song believed him, but... “Why?”

“At the time, I believed it was because of your Oaths, but I know better now. The Spectres are nothing. They whisper sweet lies and promise you whatever your heart desires if you’ll only surrender, because in truth, they have no power of their own. All they can do is play on your emotions and make you give in to their control, but they cannot change a person through words alone. Everything they do is meant to distract and deceive you into thinking you need them, when in truth, they have no power besides what you give them. They don’t give their hosts strength, they only help the host seize it, guiding them along the Martial Path without really explaining a thing. Take Dastan, BoShui, and myself for example: each of us advanced in strength thanks to help from the Spectres, but if this strength was given to us, then why wouldn’t it fade away once they were Cleansed, and why wouldn’t we need to relearn everything the ‘proper’ way?” Shaking his head, he smacked his forehead and added, “Oh, I get it now! It’s a con game. That’s why the Spectres push their hosts to commit unspeakable atrocities, usually starting with the murder of those they hold dear. Those acts of violence are what change the host, this and their desire to change in the aftermath, because it’s easier to believe the Spectres drove them to do horrible things rather than admit they made a grave mistake and accept responsibility for their heinous actions.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Though the Abbot was nowhere to be seen, his voice sounded nearby, and Rain scowled as he peered suspiciously at their surroundings. “Junior Brother speaks sensibly, and this monk agrees wholeheartedly with his conjectures. Perhaps now he understands what this monk means when he claims there is no distinction between Tainted and Defiled.”

“...You’re not supposed to be here. Or listening.” Waving his cane around at the empty air, Rain added, “How can we be sure there isn’t someone else hiding nearby?”

“Rest assured, there isn’t, but Junior Brother has yet to answer this monk. Do you...”

Her confidence bolstered by Rain’s explanation, Song beat a hasty retreat to man the defences before getting drawn into a long and lengthy debate. Taking a deep breath, she stared off into the twilight where she spotted the tell-tale signs of marching Defiled lurking in the shadows, a mass of moving darkness making it’s way towards Sinuji. Savage and numerous as they were, she did not fear the Defiled, for they were a foe she could stand against with blade in hand. Similarly, she no longer feared the Spectres, though much like the Defiled, she still respected the threat they represented, but again, she could stand against them. Only this time, instead of saber and Runic breastplate, she wielded her iron-willed determination against them, and if that wasn’t enough, then she still had Rain to rely on.

...They’d come a long ways since their sparring match in the unnamed tea-house, but had she known then what she knew now, then she would’ve gladly accepted the beating with a smile.

Chapter Meme
