A cat, or a jaguar, or maybe it was a frog, leapt, and caught an Ophiel in its maw. Erick checked for a rad; the rad was there. This was a monster. That Ophiel burrowed through the frog-cat with a carving of [Force Shrapnel] made extra sharp. Ophiel left the scene of the attempted eating; a body remained behind for scavengers to find.

Erick had all of them switch to their infrared, invisible forms; he had not expected any trouble at all to get to this point, but maybe he should have.

And then Ophiel was past the canopy.

Ophiel spied larger monsters hanging on the sides of trees. Another spider. Another web.

Something moved far below, like the darkened space in sight that happened whenever Erick had seen a bright flash and experienced a temporary light blindness; the monster was both glowing, and the exact opposite. It moved away from Ophiel’s path; there was no bother.

Somewhat invisible, Ophiel descended to the Forest Floor.

Erick’s Perception and Intelligence, and several Ophiel floating around everywhere with eyes in every direction, helped him to find the path he had traveled earlier in the day.

Three minutes later, Ophiel came to the Twin Trees. Each Ophiel cast an [Animadversion] for themselves, which a few wore like hats, a few wore like a buckler either on their left or right side, and one wore like it was a platform to float upon. Each Ophiel was only as large as a hand; Erick thought they looked very cute. He almost asked if Jane wanted to see one, but she was busy with gridwork.

Erick focused on the mission.

One by one, Ophiels used their lightforms to give themselves a semblance of legs.

… The Ophiel with the ‘platform’ buckler turned his shield into a ‘backpack’ buckler.

And then they walked inside.

They walked, and walked, and wal—

Erick felt his connection grow faint. He had an Ophiel hoof it to the entrance, which was…

That way! Still directly behind them. They were only a kilometer in; they hadn’t gotten turned around too bad, yet. Once that Ophiel was back beside the Twins, the others moved forward. A second Ophiel was left behind after two kilometers in, creating a connecting bridge to the rest. That Ophiel hunkered down in the moss, holding his buckler over him and retreating to his smallest form, closing the [Animadversion] over himself like he was closing the hatch in a submarine.

Two more kilometers later, a third Ophiel did the same.

Erick constantly checked the direction and the flow of mana to ensure that his Ophiel were moving forward, all the time, and that to look backward was to truly gaze back toward the entrance.

Erick reached the end of his Ophiel. 14 kilometers in. That’s as far as he had gotten. He could have used the ones around him in the Castle, but that seemed like a mistake.

Back in the Labyrinth, and for every single Ophiel therein, nothing appeared out of the gloom. Nothing attacked. Erick had kept his Ophiel as small and as dim as possible. They peeked out from their hiding spots occasionally, seeing if they could see anything, but there was nothing in the Vision save for darkness and house-sized tree trunks, covered in moss.

Okay. Time for tests! Here’s the big one.

Erick had one of the forward-most Ophiel enact his [Lodestar].

Briefly, the world flickered, as the forward-most Ophiel expanded out into a tiny sunform, barely half a meter across. His twisted silver buckler hovered in the air behind him.

The mana of the Green Labyrinth churned with sudden intent.

No one blinked, for Erick was seeing through [Scry], and Ophiel had a hundred tiny eyes trained upon the world beyond. But still, something appeared that wasn’t there before, without warning, without sound.

A flickering fire. It was green around the edges, with a white core, and pink accents. That fire shifted into a solid sphere that twisted around to reveal a pupil made of darkness. Another eye opened three meters from the first. And then came a smile, wide and bright as a crescent moon, stretching beneath the inquisitive eyes.

Erick wondered, briefly, if he had made a mistake.

The smile vanished. The eyes closed.

Three Armed Sloths descended on that Ophiel, like three trains converging onto a point. Arms and massive claws came out and crashed into Ophiel’s sunform, battering him around like he was a soccer ball. His silver buckler became a full-body snowflake-like wrapping, with dozens of thorns directed outward. Red claws broke as they tried to break Ophiel’s sunform, and only managed to hit [Animadversion]. Arms with broken claws retreated, only to be replaced by countless more claws and the addition of another Armed Sloth.

Erick expected Ophiel to break. Ophiel whined in flute sounds, expecting himself to break, too.

But that didn’t happen.

[Animadversion]. [Greater Lightwalk]. [Lodestar]. These were enough for simple melee attacks, and to negate most magics.

Ten minutes passed; the attacks never stopped.

Claws broke upon Ophiel’s [Animadversion]. [Stone Lance]s turned into reflected shrapnel. One [Stone Lance] actually fully reflected, hitting an Armed Sloth in the face but breaking at the contact.

Without warning the Armed Sloths retreated into the gloom, vanishing from sight and every Sight that Erick tried. The fiery smile didn’t return. The eyes did not appear. The world seemed to still. Moments became minutes.

Erick called out, “Hello? Are you t—”

Gloom vanished. The mossy Forest floor wheeled underneath Ophiel, like the world’s fastest moving tram. Without moving, Ophiel was suddenly far ahead of where he had been.

Erick briefly saw a Gate standing in the middle of a clearing. It was a bright silver metal, with each of its four sides maybe a meter thick, while the whole thing was rather blocky. He guessed it was about ten meters tall and maybe that much wide, while it sat upon a platform that was double that size. A small ramp of the same silver metal arced into the active magic in the center of the Gate.

The Gate was active.

The sun shone on the other side.

There was a city. People. Waterfalls. Buildings made of airy levels of carved stone. A market.

Someone in guard-armor yelled at the direction of the Gate, while other guards ran toward the Gate, and the people beyond suddenly stared at the Gate. Some ran away.

Erick lost his connection to Ophiel.

He sat up on his chair.

Thirty seconds later, he went to find Tenebrae.
