One thing to know about Veird was that it was rather large. Much larger than Earth. The mountains were twice to four times the size of Earth’s. The distance from the land to the sky was, first of all, measurable, which was a difficult concept to grasp at first because the atmosphere of Earth was a nebulous 50-800 kilometers from bottom to top, depending on who you asked. On Veird, the atmosphere above the surface was an average depth of somewhere between 90 to 110 kilometers, depending on the landscape, and ended at the Edge of the Script. The oceans of Veird were a whole different existence than the oceans of Earth, altogether. The average depth of the Pacific Ocean was 4 kilometers, but the oceans of Veird often had large parts of them that simply continued down into the Underworld, and then all the way to the Core. The Underworld of Veird to the Core, both of which had no equivalent on Earth as far as Erick knew, was 6000 kilometers deep.

The singular surface continent of Glaquin, which was the smallest surface continent, and the only one that Erick had been on, was the size of several Asias.

In most parts of Veird the trees were all normal, Earth-sized. But in some places, when they wanted to be, the trees were pretty damn big.

From his position on the southern deployment zone of the Castle, Erick looked down upon a land of green trees. None reached up this high, of course, but ‘this high’ was actually two kilometers above the surface. The surface, and the path to the start of the Green Labyrinth, started two kilometers down, past a dense canopy, which was itself, almost like a second ‘surface’. In some places, the branches and leaves were so thick that they provided places for various animals to stand upon. In one spot, just down there, actually, the canopy gave one orangutan-like animal a good vantage for him to throw his crap.

Those tiny turd missiles actually managed to reach the [Air Shield] surrounding Tenebrae’s Estate. They didn’t do anything, but still! What a throw! At least two hundred meters, or more. Erick watched, as the furry thing was joined by another furry thing. The second furry thing brought rocks. A third furry thing brought a boulder.

The boulder hit the [Air Shield], too, but it broke up into sand and whipped away on the wind.

“What are you looking…” Tenebrae frowned at Erick, then pointed at the animals. “You’re not going to kill them?”

More and more six-armed furry animals climbed out of the canopy. They hooted with grey annoyance, but Erick only heard them when a rock or pebble clipped the [Air Shield] and briefly allowed their calls to enter the Estate. They were loud.

“This is going to sound stupid, I’m sure. But they’re animals…” Erick asked, “Aren’t they harmless?”

“You’re right! Those were stupid words!” Tenebrae said, “They aren’t getting those rocks from the canopy. They’re making them. Only the young ones throw feces. The other ones conjure stone. Elder Furred Rockers are actually a threat— Speak of the Darkness. There’s one now. Ha! Pests.”

Tenebrae lifted his hand and pointed, right as the rockers hooted very loudly and all of them scattered, giving the new arrival their space. A giant orange thing lifted through the trees. It was easily the size of a house. Arms unfurled, like a lotus blooming, revealing a slightly-larger rocker at their center, with each of its many arms holding a javelin of stone.

Tenebrae shot a marble-sized stone of his own that ripped through the air, supersonic, then passed through a hole in the [Air Shield] that only appeared at that moment, letting out the stone and letting in the sudden hooting cheers of the smaller rockers. Tenebrae’s marble impacted the elder rocker’s head, cracking the air with a sudden spack. Javelins dropped from the elder’s arms. It screamed, then raced back down, into the safety of the Green.

All of the smaller rockers scattered when their big brother was defeated.

Tenebrae said, “Their monstrous cousins are probably around here somewhere, so they’re going to be a problem, but this is the easiest place to enter, so we’re going in here. Use whatever spells or Domains you have until I say so, then we will be going in under stealth.” He added, “And those Rockers are harmless, unless you’re weaker than them. Then they’ll eat you up. Animals kill and eat people, too, you know.”

Without another word, Tenebrae stepped off of the side of the Castle walls.

He dropped like a stone. A pair of Rockys followed, also dropping like stones. The [Air Shield] opened, briefly, as they passed. Tenebrae fell right through one of the less-dense parts of the canopy, and the canopy swished out of the way of his passing, then closed right back up. The Rockys just crashed through, breaking branches.

Jane giggled as she stepped past Erick and dropped off the edge. The [Air Shield] opened at her passing. She didn’t transform into shadows until she got too close to the canopy for comfort. Teressa followed; a smile upon her face, and hard grey [Conjure Armor] on her body. She crashed through everything, and she seemed to enjoy it, too.

“Nothing to worry about at this point.” Poi said, “The only one who hasn’t spent most of their life doing this sort of stuff is you.”

“Right right.” Erick turned into his sunform. “This is probably just War Fatigue, isn’t it.”

“Yup. We’ve all dealt with it, too. If you need to talk to someone, I could help, or I could find someone else for you to talk with. The Mind Mages have gone to Candlepoint, and though not many are partaking of their services, some are.”

Erick nodded as he held Poi in his sunform, and then stepped off of the Castle walls. He descended in a controlled manner like a fast boulder, through the [Air Shield] and then into the canopy, brushing aside thick branches as he moved. Leaves swung back overhead as he passed. Shadows swallowed them.

Ophiels swarmed, providing eyes in every direction and Sights of all kinds. The mana and blood and souls of creatures glowed, like Erick had stepped into a blacklight rave.

Small glowing animals huddled against branches that wound like roadways through a tangle of green that supported a million swarming insects and those that lived solitary lives, both flying and not, each of them a slightly different brightness and color, while larger animals were like great, singular glows that preyed upon all the rest and were preyed upon in turn.

Erick and Poi descended faster now. These trees were massive, after all. At any sort of slow rate it’d take ten minutes to reach the bottom. Erick moved smaller branches out of the way as he and Poi passed, racing toward the bottom, avoiding the larger beasts in the trees—

And then, they were out of the main canopy. The topmost layer of Green was up there, and they were in the trunk-space, where smaller roadways of branches snaked through here and there, but mostly, it was just up-and-down trunks, each the width of houses. Here is where the real monsters roamed.

Far to the left, an Ophiel spied the beginnings of a spiderweb similar to the ones that laid across the Weaver’s Quarters in Ar’Kendrithyst. A mother spider was curled around a tree trunk, looking like a bulge of brown bark half-again the size of the tree she clung to. Her eight eyes seemed to shift toward Ophiel, but Ophiel kept himself well out of reach. As Ophiel moved around, he saw a horror in the spider’s web; the carcasses of countless red-furred rockers, and other, desiccated things.

To the right, the trees had been damaged by large slashes in groups of threes. Some large, 3-clawed monster had marked its territory, here. Mushrooms sprouted in the slashes, like brown shelves, the same color as the trees themselves.

Erick and Poi continued down, down, into the darkness, for the light of the canopy was far, far above, and the brightest thing in this whole place was Erick, and all of his Ophiel; a central sunform surrounded by smaller scouting planetoids.

After a minute of descent Erick and Poi reached everyone else. The party stood upon loamy land covered in soft moss. Most of it was stable, but there was a lot of deadfall in some of that green Forest floor. Jane and Teressa stood upon part of a fallen tree, partially reclaimed by the Forest. Tenebrae and his Rockys stood upon the mossy ground. The old archmage looked peeved.

Tenebrae said, “Took you long enough! And turn off the lightshow and use your actual eyes without Meditation. You’re missing all the beauty of the land!”

Jane smiled, as if in anticipation. Teressa grinned, as she turned her eyes outward.

… Erick did not turn off his sunform, but he did retract it to the middle of his back. Each Ophiel retracted their own sunforms down into tiny dots in their centers. The light of their temporary solar system vanished as Erick used his own, normal sight, to see. He even lost track of the manasphere, when he let Meditation drop.

The Forest was dark and full of unseen terrors. It was almost worse than the eyes and the flows of the manasphere.

And then a million small things happened all across all of Erick’s vision.

The Forest came alive.

Ferns unfurled with bioluminescence, glowing green and teal. Fireflies flickered reds and oranges. Small blue-glowing animals darted into the darkness, attacking other pink-glowing animals.

Jane giggled.

Erick went, “Huh.”

It was pretty, for sure, but Erick had already seen this when he used all of his Sight spells in the canopy above. It was kinda nice to see it without magical aids, though.

Teressa said, “A Forest-Crowned Stag came through here a day or two ago.”

“Hours ago, I bet.” Tenebrae said, “Okay. That’s enough of that. Turn your Ophiels back on, but not yourself. With any luck, the monsters we find will attack the [Familiar]s first.”

Erick rapidly had Ophiel pop back into full sunforms. The glowing Forest vanished, hidden, as Ophiels moved out into the darkness, dispelling much of the oppressive gloom. They would let them know of encroaching monsters or animals that were too dumb to know to run the other way.

Tenebrae pointed south, saying, “That way. About a thirty minute walk because we have to approach it on foot or it won’t appear. Mana senses active. Watch where you step. Not all of this land is land; a lot of it is deadfall.”

A Rocky jogged forward, taking point. Teressa went next. Poi, Erick, and Tenebrae went somewhat together, as they were the mages of the group, while Jane and the second Rocky took rearguard.

Poi offered, “Shall I connect us?”

Tenebrae hummed, then said, “Voices won’t attract anything. Yelling might… Yeah. Connect us.”

‘Connected,’ Poi sent to all of them.

Tenebrae sent, ‘The path I plotted to the Gate should be empty of any real dangers, but I suppose there’s no harm in correct protocol.’

The Forest floor was a land of darkness and depth and the calls of animals and monsters, seeking mates or declaring their territory. It was more than a little scary; if Erick had been here without all of his people… He would have never gone to a place like this. Erick felt sweat drip down his neck. As he walked forward he felt as though he was walking through some amalgamation of the Jungle in Ar’Kendrithyst, and also the towers of the Dead City, but hyped up to a whole new level of danger. At least the Dead City had lights everywhere and relatively known terrors. Can’t have shadows without light, after all.

And then there was the fact that Ar’Kendrithyst and the Forest both spat new and unknown monsters out all the time, but the monsters that came out of the Dead City were mostly able to see and gauge the power level of any particular person-sized morsel walking through their territory. The monsters of the Forest…

They saw a thing, and they wanted to eat that thing.

Tenebrae’s prediction of an ‘empty path to the Gate’ turned out to be nothing more than fiction.

Three minutes into their journey, a monster appeared.

Twenty meters up, and to the right, out of sight of the party but not out of sight of an Ophiel, a trio of curved claws curled around one side of a house-wide tree trunk, followed by another that curled around on the other side. Some massive creature was gripping the trees, and coming closer.

Erick was suddenly terrified, but he had dealt with monsters before.

Poi stiffened—

Right as Erick sent, ‘Monster or something, ahead and up twenty meters up; claws surrounding a tree trunk—’ Erick moved that Ophiel around to get a better look. A smashing trio of claws, their points held together by the monster beyond, crashed into Ophiel’s expanded sunform. Ophiel gave a surprised guitar twang as he spun away from the attack and gazed upon the attacker. ‘— a giant fucking…? Twenty-limbed very-furry moss-covered… sloth?’

Everyone had paused their forward walk.

‘Ah.’ Tenebrae said, ‘Kill it, Erick. Extreme force. It can—’

Several quick lightsteps by Ophiel later, and Erick had the thing surrounded.

It was a sloth of epic proportions with a face four meters wide and eyes as dark as the darkness all around. Greenery grew upon its deep fur, like shag carpets and green garlands. Twenty arms, maybe more, supported it as it hung in the middle-tree layer. Whoever designed the monsters around here must have loved the many-arm approach!

(A more rational part of Erick’s mind connected the Rockers he had met earlier with the Sloth he met now; the rockers were animals, but this was a monster, with a monstrous form.)

