The Forest up ahead, where the monster was approaching from, briefly turned into daylight, as several Ophiel each unleashed [Luminous Beam]s. Meter-wide flood lights of deadly light impacted the beast, spilling away from it as it reacted, trying to protect itself with its arms while it simultaneously attacked the tiny Ophiels. Ophiels dodged; easily. The monster flailed. Lights as though from a pulsar rapidly burned through the monster’s resistance, cutting it to bits. Bony arms dropped to the deadfalls below, like so much meat. The rest of the burned and severed monster dropped from the tree trunks, crashing into the mossy loam. Ophiels tracked the falling monster to the ground, [Luminous Beam] trained on the monster’s core, ensuring that the beast was very dead.

Tenebrae softly continued, ‘— It can attack the Castle and maybe injure someone.’

Nervous laughter escaped Erick’s lips. He shut that down as soon as he recognized what he was doing. A notification appeared for ‘Lesser Armed Sloth’. It wasn’t a high level. Maybe 52.

As the heat of the moment died, the large gouges from from stray [Luminous Beam]s caught fire. Those fires did not last long. Erick watched as the trees themselves seemed to flex in the manasphere. Divots and damage repaired; living wood flowing back into normal positions.

Tenebrae started walking again, faster than before, sending, ‘The meat and the kill and the light, for sure, will attract larger monsters. We will hurry and avoid all of that.’

Rockys, Erick, everyone, picked up the walk again, but this time it was almost a jog.

Ten minutes later, there was a giant lizard that seemed like Tyrannosaurus Rex’s larger, uglier cousin, but with arms. Long arms, with large claws. Only two arms on this one, though!

Tenebrae killed it with a stone bullet through the head while it roared and charged. His tiny bullet splattered brains and blood over a good twenty meter space behind the beast. And then he shot it again, and again, because T-Rex’s cousin felt like regrowing its head, its chest, and then its head, again. Its head flopped on its broken neck, and then it used its arms to hold its head in place while the neck fully regrew.

It roared again.

“This is ridiculous…” Tenebrae mumbled. “Why is that here?”

And then he cast again, and the ground swallowed the wannabe-threat.

There might have been a roar, but it came from the other side of several hundred tons of rock. The roar cut out soon enough.

‘There we go. Dead.’ Tenebrae exclaimed, ‘And what the damn! An Armed Sloth I can understand; rockers live around here and the Worldly Path is a causality fucker. But that lizard was thirty biomes from his home!’

Twenty minutes later, Erick and everyone else was still on high alert for something else to jump out at them.

Nothing did.

There were a lot of bugs, and a lot of smaller animals eating those bugs and each other. The cool Forest remained dark in the distance, but here, around every Ophiel, lay pools of light that drove back some of the fear coiling in Erick’s guts.

Tenebrae suddenly said, “We—

Erick startled.

“—’re here!”

Erick breathed out. Nothing to worry about! It was just Tenebrae speaking aloud for the first time in a while and causing a minor, unable-to-be-stopped panic. No worries!

Erick looked around. He wasn’t the only one who had a sudden bout of panic. Poi, wide-eyed, breathed out hard through his nose. Jane whipped around toward the sound. Only Teressa was cool as a cucumber on ice; Erick was glad to see one of them was.

The Rockys seemed to know what was going on, though. No panic there, at all.

Jane sent, ‘Where is here?’

Tenebrae gestured forward, to a path between the trees which was the same as all the other paths between the trees. He sent, ‘Look at those two trees, there, to the left and the right. Tell me what you see.’

Erick looked— Oh.

To the left and the right of a flat bit of mossy ground, same as all the rest, were two trees, each slightly wider than a house, same as all the rest, each stretching up into the dark above, like all the rest. But the tree on the right had this rather picturesque root that stretched out from the trunk and buried into the ground, just like all the other trees all around. And the tree on the left had the very same root, except mirrored. As Erick glanced across both trees, he matched up parts that were the same on both trees, except opposite. The same knots, but flipped. The same moss patches, but flipped. The trees were mirrors of each other. The same tree, but flipped.

With a small wonder in her voice, Jane said, ‘Same tree, but duplicated.’

‘Mirrored, is the more precise term. Duplication is slightly different.’ Tenebrae said, ‘This is one of the smaller, stable entrances to the Green Labyrinth.’

‘This is the entrance?’ Erick complained, ‘But you said the entrance was a Gate?’

Tenebrae smirked. ‘This is a Gate. It’s just broken as all fuck! It’s attached to the trees, and if you want to investigate this Gate, then you will do so later, and on your own time.’

Okay… Well. Fair enough.

Erick didn’t see the Gate, exactly, but—

Oh. There was a slight bit of fading—

‘Pay attention, now!’ Tenebrae continued, ‘This is a stable entrance to the Green Labyrinth. One where the larger monsters inside cannot get past. If we find any monster of size large or above, we will not kill it. We will stall it, and we will run. We might be able to kill medium-sized ones without alerting the Vision and needing to run, but we’ll try not to kill medium sized monsters, either. Smaller ones are fair game, unless there are more than five. Then, we run. If we get ten kilometers in, I will count that as a successful first day. The real Gates that actually look like Gates are all a hundred kilometers in.

‘This journey is where stealth becomes necessary, where Domains will provoke the Vision’s ire, and Elemental Bodies are subdued. Sight spells are your friends. Cast your long term magics now.’ He added, ‘And the only reason I am being so accommodating to allow this entire thing to happen in the first place, is that most of you have proven yourself as Ar’Kendrithyst-capable. Except for you, Erick.’ He looked at Erick, his voice turning disappointed, ‘You just blasted through everything, didn’t you? No stealth at all.’

‘That is completely correct!’ Erick said, with a bit of pride, even if it wasn’t what Tenebrae wanted out of him. ‘There was also a lot of purposefully flying out in the open; the opposite of stealth!’

Tenebrae snorted, then asked, ‘Can you make your Ophiel invisible without [Invisibility]? The Labyrinth is sensitive to that spell.’

With a thought, each Ophiel turned their lightforms to infrared. They vanished from sight, though the air did turn a tiny bit warmer.

‘And make them small, too.’

… They were already head-sized, but they could go smaller. At a thought, each Ophiel turned to parakeet-sized. They twittered in anxious guitar thrums, their songs becoming just a part of the background cacophony of the living Forest.

Tenebrae pointed at the [Scry] eye hanging over Erick’s shoulder. ‘That won’t work once we get deeper, just so you know. The Labyrinth shouldn’t react to that, or to [Telepathy], but [Scry] fails once we get far enough.’

The [Scry] eye bobbed in affirmation.

Tenebrae watched it happen, then sent, ‘Is Yggdrasil a part of this group-think?’

‘He understands what I think about almost all the time.’ Erick looked to Poi, and guessed, ‘Yes?’

Poi clarified, ‘He is not, but he understands Erick rather well.’

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes at the [Scry] orb, then looked away, toward the entrance to the Labyrinth. ‘Okay. Here we go. Domains off. Cast your long-term spells.’

Erick cast an [Animadversion] onto his left arm. The silver spell took hold above his robed arm like a twisted bit of metal. Thorny mirror-like vines briefly appeared, before slipping back into the spell. Every Ophiel equipped themselves with their own [Animadversion]s while four of them each cast small, meter-wide [Prismatic Ward]s, onto stones, and then picked up those stones. They’d be using those Restful spaces to regenerate their mana and to defend themselves, and others, if necessary.

Jane summoned a rather normal-looking sword of only a meter length. Teressa summoned a massive mace. The Rockys both summoned one-handed shields, leaving their other hand unoccupied. Poi and Tenebrae did nothing; they had already cast their long-term spells, their [Personal Ward]s, earlier that morning.

Tenebrae said, ‘Don’t get seen. Don’t strain your Elemental Body to reach too far. Don’t cast spells of more than 50 mana; and that’s after your various reductions. Spells or Abilities that you have Favored to be below this limit should be fine. No splashy spells either! None of that [Luminous Beam] shit; don’t care how much it costs you. The Green Labyrinth will sense if too much mana moves inside its Domain. Use your Mana Sense to find the way out if we get lost! Remember! Go away from the pull of mana to leave the Labyrinth. The Labyrinth always pulls mana toward its center. Running against the flow will get you out. Don’t try to go through the canopy or the floor or the trees. You will be seen. You will be attacked. Depending on the severity of those attacks it could go very badly, for we will NOT fully engage with the Vision. We will die if we do.

‘The first few kilometers are easy. Don’t get confused if nothing looks different.

‘Let’s go.’

Rocky stepped through the space between the trees. Teressa followed.

Then everyone else came through.

Ophiel spread himself out, keeping his selves aloft on [Greater Lightwalk], while dragging along spheres of dense air in order to keep his mana high. He would switch the rocks holding the [Prismatic Ward]s around, as needed.

Erick followed Tenebrae through the space between the trees, his mana sense active, trying to see more of what he was already seeing.

Mana always flowed. Normally mana flowed with the wind, with the water, with all natural movement, as though it was just a touch behind and ahead of the movement of the natural world. But between the twinned trees, mana flowed inward, against the wind.

‘Huh.’ Teressa said, ‘That’s odd.’

‘Odd flow,’ Erick agreed, as he followed Teressa.

Tenebrae kept up behind both of them as he sent, ‘You should work more on your magic, Teressa. You have achieved a skill that many never do. All you need is proper aura control.’

With a smile, Teressa sent, ‘I can only cast what I can because of the rings I have. I’m no mage.’

‘You could be.’ Tenebrae sent, ‘Anyone can be a proper mage if they know the way and have a few of the basic starter skills. Discipline, Concentration, Clarity, Meditation. You have those. You could be a mage.’

Teressa gave a non-committal grunt.

And they walked.

Ophiel kept watch over them all with [Greater Lightwalk] turning him to heat and shifting much of his vision into something resembling [Heat Sight], though Erick had yet to find such a spell available for him in the Open Script. Between all of his bodies, the feathered [Familiar] kept every Sight spell active, and his eyes trained on the darkness, and on the path ahead. He would be the first to know if something was out there.

They walked.

Not a single person in the group made any sounds. Everyone had some sort of [Muffle] effect; either [Silent Movement], or in the case of the Rockys, Erick, Jane, Teressa, they had [Hunter’s Instincts]. The party walked between the trees, giving each of them a wide berth, in case something hid on the other side, or just above, waiting for something to come close enough to grab and eat.

But nothing materialized out of the gloom. Nothing descended from the canopy high, high above. Nothing came up from the loamy ground, or out from under the many deadfalls or the mushroom piles or from out of the very air itself. Nothing appeared from behind the curve of any tree.

And they walked.

As they walked, Erick felt his [Greater Lightwalk] become something less. His natural control over the surrounding light grew weaker. Ophiel experienced the same thing, but for him it was a greater problem. He could no longer fly through the darkness, supplying his own light. So he started to walk on the ground. Four of him took position on the shoulders of each of Erick’s people, and Erick himself.

‘Dad.’ Jane said, ‘I don’t need the hanger-on.’

‘I didn’t put him there. He likes you.’ And that was true.

Tenebrae smiled, then he looked away, into the darkness, struggling to see something in the distance. It was an act, though. There was nothing out there. Tenebrae was looking away because of some emotions bubbling forth.

And they walked.

All in all… It turned out to be a nice walk, even if it was in almost complete darkness.

Twenty minutes later, a Red-Ferned Armed Sloth appeared. It was not a Lesser one, for there was no way a beast of that size could compare to the one that Erick had killed earlier. Red talons wrapped around trees far ahead as the beast held itself a good twenty meters above the Forest floor, like some cross between a spider of a hundred arms and what should have been an herbivore, but obviously wasn’t. Not with those teeth! Erick’s stomach and heart flip flopped in his chest as the back end of the beast failed to come into view. The beast’s torso and so many more arms just continued into the dark beyond, like the head of the monster was simply the first car in a train made of red fur and ferns and arms.

It moved without making a sound. Somehow, there had been no hints of its arrival. The Vision was empty of threats, and then, suddenly, it wasn’t.

