It looks like Seraphel's entire body is tethered with these foreign ether threads. Keeping him constrained, while simultaneously looking like they make up his entire being. It is such a strange sight to see.

Each one is imbued with countless commands—far more complex than anything I've seen on the Citadel or within any of the older black towers.

The deeper I look into each thread, it appears as though more and more commands and complex locks and encryptions mask what they're really doing.

I hyperfixate on small portions, and the deeper I look, the more I find. Yet, the less I understand. It's like they're never-ending, a fractal that continuously forces my perception to dig deeper, and the massive Blue Wyvern's entire being is being locked from exerting its true will on reality.

After staring at the state of the teacher that has been guiding me through this training the last few weeks, I feel as though the sea I'm sitting in now is nowhere close to the suppression and endless pain this Wyvern must be going through every second of every day.

The jaded, lifeless gaze that stares down at me makes far more sense now...

This very gaze shifts to the shard of blue crystal, then he consumes it without hesitating at all. I watch his entire massive physique ripple with the dense ether and this unique aura of water magic.

It feels like mana or soul energy... but there is something more to it.

The wave of energy stimulates the millions of seals that are tightly squeezing every particle that makes up his physique. His voice then echoes into my mind as I watch the Blue Wyvern's eyes close, a light grin flicker on his face, and the threads start to loosen.

"The seal will become semi-malleable, but not for long. You have one attempt to crack it, as there are no more Celestial Grade Water Stones left in this Zone of the Upper Realm. My life is in your hands, and I trust you will find a way to do the impossible. That is because if you fail and allow my seal to solidify, your odds of becoming a High Noble will dwindle as well."
