“For there is a much simpler explanation for why dragons are the way they are, and that is that dragons are dicks, and that’s telling it kindly. In more realistic terms, dragons are selfish monsters.

“As for the rankings which determine their society, Kirginatharp is at the top, as the Second to Rozeta.

“Everyone else has to make do with where they are on the list. Every part of their fractured society is determined by their ranking. If someone is above another, they are dominant, and they express this dominance upon the others around them, increasing their own power and decreasing the power of those so dominated. This is not just cultural, but also literal. We have seen this on [Soul Sight] reports at dragon fights, where the winning dragon eventually kills the weaker dragon by virtue of the winner’s presence alone. We have seen this from those at hospitals the world over, as they recover from Dragon Essence poisoning. We know this fact of Dragon Essence from those who choose to pursue even more Dragon Essence poisoning.

“In the case of dragons, if a dominant dragon continues to dominate the lesser dragon, then the lesser dragon will die. This part of the Curse is true. But, then again, we don’t think it is a curse, so much as it is a part of their nature.

“This is where dragon eggs and the Wyrm Season of Glaquin and other forests around the world come from. Dragons can’t have families like normal people. It is physiologically impossible. They can only meet in short mating sessions that mostly produce eggs, and rarely produce fights.

“The dragon mating cycle comes from acts of domination and submission that are usually well contained, but in aggregate, these small acts of violence mean thousands of bystander deaths every single year. It is this cycle that produces dragon fights, killing thousands upon thousands at any one time. The question of willingness for the submissive and dominant dragon is still a question, but dragons do seek each other out to gain mates, and they purposefully harm themselves and others in order to fulfill this biological need.

“While there might be some merit that the Mirage Dragon is actually a lineage, and not the same individual every single time, dragons have no families. They are incapable.”

When Ruddy finished, Erick just sat there, thinking.

There were some complications with what the man was saying. Most of those complications came from hearing about dragon culture from Quilatalap and Tenebrae, but also from Al, who pretended to not be a dragon. Al was perfectly normal outside of all draconic interactions. Erick was pretty sure that Al was the black dragon that killed the Flare Couatl, and who helped Jane begin the purge of her own Dragon Essence. Silverite had set that up, he was pretty sure, but he had purposefully never asked because he did not need to know. No one talked about dragons they knew, for if they did, then dragons would meet, and fights would start.

But none of Ruddy’s truth mattered right now.

Erick made a decision.

Erick said, “I’m not getting involved in this how you want me to be involved in this. I don’t wish to Image for dragons. I am not going to escalate this issue to ensure that it comes to violence. What I will do is seek out the various dragons to open a dialogue. I will not be involved with the Stalkers.” He stood up as Ruddy’s face fell, Favia gave a hateful smirk, and Varo and Hangzi both seemed relieved. “Thank you for your assistance in understanding this recent attack. I wish you well in your own hunt for this assassin Mirage Dragon.”

Ruddy tried bargaining, “Please, sir archmage! We only have four targets! Only four! You’d be saving thousands of lives each year! There are more major threats in this world besides Shades!”

Erick stopped. Ruddy knew just what buttons to press.

Favia knew a few buttons of her own, too.

“We’re not hunting the Mirage Dragon.” Favia said, “We’re willing to give you some help so you could hunt her, but we’re not doing a damned thing. You’re not a commoner. You’re not a country lacking in powerhouses. You’re Archmage Erick Flatt, and you’re fully equipped to find this bitch and the green dragon she’s imitating, before she or he strikes again.”

Erick said, “I highly doubt that the Mirage Dragon’s Illusion Breath would have missed so many people unless she was trying to miss people, so I will discover their diplomatic channels and seek out a discourse with them. I will find out why they are coming at me now, after we’ve cleared out lingering threats in Songli and poked a bit into the Warlord Clans. Did I upset something? Probably. If they have some sort of problem with me removing people like Divider from the world, then they will die, but I will try to resolve this without more violence.”

Ruddy instantly said, “All they know is violence! That is their entire society! Do not make the mistake of thinking they are capable of empathy or fear or forward thinking! All of those sapient emotions are a version of subservience to them, and they will respond with fire and pain if you attempt to understand them in the same ways you try to understand other people.”

Favia added, “My colleague is correct, but besides that, this Mirage Dragon has attacked you. She will come for you again and again until she succeeds… But I can see you are set on this path. So at least do us the courtesy of believing that they are dangerous.” She said, “I hope you survive your next encounter with them, and that the collateral damage from finding and talking to them isn’t too great.”

Erick took a moment to think.

Logically, he should want to kill every single dragon that had transgressed against the world. The four dragons that Ruddy mentioned were probably targets that were better off dead. This ‘Mirage Dragon’ and her family (which Erick suspected was closer to the truth than anything the Stalkers said) was likely better off dead, especially since they had a habit of committing assassinations and such the world over.

None of that even tapped into the idea that both Stalkers had mentioned, but not gone into, that the Mirage Dragon was working to implicate the ‘green dragon’ that was out there, in some bid to get Erick to kill the green dragon without even knowing who they were.

Logically, Erick would want to play ball with the Dragon Stalkers.

But the Mirage Dragon’s Illusion Breath could have killed, and it did not. Not a single death! That had to be on purpose. The Dragon Stalkers didn’t even mention that fact, and that made the Stalkers seem like bad actors. Ruddy seemed better than Favia, though.

The fact that Tenebrae was willing to speak… sort of kindly about the dragons was also a point against the Stalkers.

And Al was a great guy! So what if he was a dragon? Big deal!

And to top it all off, Poi’s revelation that the Stalkers had killed his mother and his sister made these dragon killers seem outright malicious. Especially with the part they said about the Curse ‘not being real’ and yet in the next moment saying that their entire society is organized along unnatural lines of dominance and subservience.

Eh.

So… Thinking about it that way… Yeah. Dragons did some bad shit the world over.

Maybe they did deserve to die!

But Erick wasn’t going to go up against yet another worldwide threat at this time; not in the way the Stalkers wanted him to go. He already had more than enough problems to deal with.

He certainly wasn’t going to ignore the new Path being laid down before him, but the Worldly Path went many ways, and he could walk this one differently than how it had been presented. (If this was Worldly Path nonsense, anyway.)

He was definitely going to talk to the dragons, but that talking would be done individually.

He would seek out what this green one wanted, to see if this was a case of the Mirage Dragon pointing the Dragon Stalkers, and Erick, at her new prey.

Perhaps the green one knew about [Gate]s!

Wouldn’t that be neat.

Erick said, “Stalker Favia is correct about one thing. If this was an attack on me, and I have to believe it was, then I must do my best to mitigate collateral damage.” He turned to Hangzi and Varo. “I am leaving your lands. My daughter will likely stay behind because she has obligations that she must fulfill, but I do not. Thank you for your hospitality.”

Hangzi instantly said, “I know what this last attack looked like, and if you think not being here is better for us, then I must ask you to reconsider. We failed to defend ourselves both from you, and from the Mirage Dragon. We would have catastrophically failed against the dragon. You saved us, and we could use more of that. Know that we are training new soldiers. We’re approving new people to higher positions of authority and casting. We can support your life here. Soon enough, we can defend ourselves, and you. Please stay.” He saw that he wasn’t swaying Erick, so Hangzi tried, “If nothing else, please give us a week so that we can accelerate some of our lower-tier mages to higher authorities and capabilities. Give us some time to work around issues of bureaucracy and personnel. We could use your defenses for a while longer.”

Ruddy exclaimed, “We need you to kill—”

“Silence guest,” Elder Varo practically spat at Ruddy.

Ruddy shut up. Favia simply watched. Oh yeah, did she watch.

Okay.

So.

There were a lot of thoughts Erick had about a lot of things.

But he returned to Hangzi’s question, first.

When a world power asks you to stay in place for a while, to help defend and whatnot, and considering that you just stirred up a hornet’s nest of Hunters and face stealers all around that world power…

And Erick still hadn’t gotten the spellwork for clan mountain creation…

And various other things.

“… Fine.” Erick said, “I will remain for a while, and pursue some of this dragon problem as much as I am willing. I also need that clan mountain spell, and then I need to be left alone.” He added, “Except in the cases of favorable news or nice things, in which case I welcome interruptions.” He asked, “There weren’t any dragon altercations in the cullings, were there? Do you know where this could be coming from?”

Hangzi proclaimed, “There were no draconic altercations that I am aware of, Archmage Flatt. Everything you want will be done with as much speed as possible.” He said to his man, “Varo. The spellwork.”

Elder Varo sent out a quick tendril of thought while also saying, “The scrolls will be delivered to your home, to your hands, directly after this meeting. Thank you for staying for a little while longer, Archmage Flatt.”

“Thank you for your hospitality.” Erick added, “After this meeting, I will also be assisting the Mind Mages with eradicating some specific monsters from Songli. I trust this is acceptable to you?”

Hangzi instantly said, “Yes. Do what you have to do. I would ask you to throw [Withering]s across our lands and be done with it, but intestinal cores are a health issue for many commoners. Thank you for your assistance, Archmage Flatt.” He looked greatly relieved, as he repeated, “Thank you.”

Favia ignored everything, asking Erick, “What are you going to do about the dragons?”

With flippancy, Erick said, “Draw a dragon out into the open. Ask what is happening there. Probably end up killing them while mitigating collateral damage as much as possible. I seem to be getting good at that.”

While Ruddy and Flavia had similar, almost happy reactions, Hangzi and Varo were perfectly polite, giving Erick a nod and a small bow, respectively.

Erick left the meeting. Poi and Teressa followed close behind.

When he got back to his temporary house, which was looking a lot more temporary than it looked an hour ago, he got to work with Poi and the Mind Mages.
