“If I come back this way...” Ren said. “...I want a dance.”

“A.. a what?!?”

“A dance.” Ren said. “I'll give you the amulet for a dance.”

“I... well, I... um...” Diana wasn't sure what to say. She had thought she would pay any price, but that was when she thought he wanted money. “You won't take a platinum or two for it?”

Her mother gasped at the amount her daughter had offered; but, Ren shook his head no. Diana glanced at her father, and he had a blank look on his face and didn't say anything. She looked at her mother, and she knew she would say no in a heartbeat. That made Diana's decision much easier, and she took a deep breath and looked at Ren.

“If... if you are back in the capital in three months for my birthday celebration, then... and only then... I will give you a dance.” Diana said. “I guess I can wait until then to get the amulet.”

Ren beamed a smile at her, took out an amulet, then slipped the amulet's chain over her head and hung it on her neck. “Happy Birthday, Diana.”

“Wh-what?!?” Diana exclaimed and the amulet took effect. “This... you...”

“Have fun with it!” Ren said and jumped away from the building.

“REN!” Diana reached out the window fruitlessly to try and catch him, but he had already dropped down the two stories and landed on the ground.

“I'm looking forward to that dance!” Ren said and waved, then helped Railyse climb into the waiting carriage. “Let's head around to the back of the castle.” He said to Catalina and held onto the outside of the carriage. “I've got a family heirloom to return.”

“Right away.” Catalina said and flicked the reins.

*

“I can't believe he jumped.” Diana whispered and stared at the carriage.

“Look at that carriage.” Lady Eleanor said to try and distract her daughter's fixation on Ren's antics. “That must have cost a fortune to make.”

“Just like his armor.” King Alamast said and came over to the window to put his arms around his wife and daughter. They watched the carriage disappear around a corner. “It's no wonder why he didn't want your money.”

“Speaking of which.” Lady Eleanor said. “Where did you get 2 platinum coins?”

“I've been saving it.” Diana said. “Ever since I was little.”

“You have?” King Alamast said. “How much... no, don't tell me.” He said. “It's your money, and you can do what you want with it.”

“I was going to anyways.” Diana said. “It's nice to have your permission, though.”

King Alamast chuckled and hugged her tightly. “You're pretty frugal.” He said. “Maybe I should put you in Accounting and let you see where we can stretch the budget.”

“I'd like that opportunity.” Diana said. “But, it'll have to wait until tomorrow.”

“Right, your fencing class.” Her father said. “I'm glad you're having fun with it.”

The words 'have fun with it' rang in her ears and Diana glanced out the window.

“I am having fun with it.” She said, then blushed a little. “There's no reason why I can't take the occasional dance class, though.”

Lady Eleanor stroked her daughter's hair, and Diana sighed. It didn't feel anywhere near as nice as when Ren did it.

*

The carriage stopped at the back of the castle and Ren hopped off, then walked over to the small half-wall that surrounded the back courtyard. He jumped over it easily, and found a pile of shacks in several rows.

I should have asked which shack. Ren said and smiled as he knocked on the closest one.

“What?” An old man asked when the door opened.

“Head Seamstress Maria, please.” Ren said.

“Three down and one back.” The old man said and shut the door.

Ren took out a gold coin and knocked again.

“What now?” The old man asked when the door opened again.

Ren held out the gold coin to him. “Thanks.”

The old man looked at his face, then at the coin, then back at his face. “You're crazy, aren't you?”

Ren chuckled and tossed the coin at the old man, then walked three shacks down and one behind and knocked.

“Just... just a minute.” A old woman's voice said. The door opened, and Ren was greeted by a woman that looked remarkably like Margaret, the old hunched-over woman he had given an Amulet of Truth to back in his county.

“I'm sorry to bother you, but is your name Maria?”

“It is.” Maria said. “Can I help you?”

“Actually, it's me that can help you.” Ren said. “You used to be the head seamstress for the King and his consort, right?”

Maria nodded. “They made me retire last year when I lost my sewing needle.” She said. “I told them I could still sew, but they didn't believe me.”

“Mother, who is it?” A young woman asked as she came to the door. “Oh! Hello, My Lord.” She said and gave him a curtsy. She held her skirt out, and it showed the proper amount of leg. It was enough to give you an idea of what she was wearing underneath, which wasn't much; but, it didn't actually show you anything. She appeared to have shoulder-length brown hair, but when she had curtsied, Ren saw her hair had been pulled back and tied in a knot.

“I came to return this.” Ren said and took out the sewing needle. Both women gasped as they saw it was their lost family heirloom. The old lady reached out quickly; but rather than take the needle, she took Ren's other hand and held it tightly instead.

“Dear boy, you... you're a godsend.” She said and tears came to her eyes.

“Mother, don't cry.” The young woman said, but she had tears in her eyes as well. “Can... can you come in and visit for a while?”

“I'd like to.” Ren said. “I really would; but, I have several errands I need to do, and then I'm heading back to Aurora.”

Both women had very disappointed looks on their faces, and he gave them pieces of cloth to dry their eyes.

“If I didn't have such a long drive to get back home, I would have invited myself in to stay for supper.” Ren said and smiled at them, and their faces changed from disappointment to acceptance. He held the sewing needle out to the old woman, and she took it gingerly.

Side Quest Complete!

You have returned a valuable family heirloom to it's rightful owner.

Rewards: 1,520 XP; Gratitude of the Morgan Family

“Can I ask you something?” The young woman asked Ren when he dismissed the popup.

“Sure.”

“Why didn't you keep it?” She asked. “It's magic, you know.”

“I already have a magic needle.” Ren said, and they stared at him.

“You... you do?!?”

Ren looked at the young woman's dress and saw that it was well-crafted, but it had seen better days. He took out his Master Tailor Sewing Needle, and the old woman gasped.

“You... you...” Maria tried to speak. “...master...”

“I'm not a Master Tailor yet.” Ren shook his head. “I'm pretty close, though.”

“Then how...”

“It was an unexpected and much appreciated gift.” Ren said and touched the young woman's dress with it. “Repair.”

The dress glowed for several seconds and reformed itself into a perfect state.

“It's just like mother sewed it yesterday!” The young woman gasped.

“I haven't had the Mana available to do that in years.” Maria, the old lady said. “Back then, it was simple designs and they were easy to repair. Nowadays, with all the intricate cuts, frills, lace, and everything else, it's just too hard to keep up with the demand.” She sighed. “I miss the old days.”

Ren took out 2 of the gold rings he had in inventory, and enchanted them with 5 runes of Mana Production, which increased a person's Mana Regeneration by 50%, and 5 runes of Mana Boost, which increased Mana Regeneration by 25% and added 250 points to the total Mana.

“Here.” He said and gave them each a ring. “Don't think back on the old days, Maria. Do what you want to do now.”

“You... why...”

“Because I can.” Ren said and grinned at them. “I might be back in three months for the Crown Princess' birthday. Can I invite myself over for dinner if I am?”

“You can come over for dinner whenever you want!” The young woman said. “We'll keep a plate set for you!”

Ren gave them a little wave, and turned to walk away.

“Wait!” The young woman said. “My Lord! What's your name?”

Ren chuckled. “My name's Ren.” He said, then ran over to the wall and jumped over it, climbed into the very expensive-looking carriage, and the two women watched wordlessly as it drove away.
