They had to go a little out of the way as there were some workmen refitting some of the walkways, but that didn’t add too much time overall.

Soon enough, the three humans and one terror bird were atop the very heights of Makinaven, looking out over the surrounding forest.

It was just as stunning as Tala remembered, and she reveled in the joy and wonder on her husband and her friend’s faces.

After a long moment, Lyn looked toward Tala. “You were right. This was worth it.”

Tala grinned back. “I’m glad you think so.”

Rane was staring south, and Tala could detect power flowing through his eyes. He spoke in a very soft whisper. “That’s where you were taken, that’s where you were held.”

Tala took his hand, pulling his focus. “That’s where I returned from.”

He smiled and gave her a quick kiss, trying to be mindful and courteous of Lyn.

With him pulled out of his darker thoughts, the three friends simply enjoyed the expansive vista laid out around them.

Tala looked where he had been staring and was able to see Platoiri with her enhanced vision with relative ease. She even thought she recognized some of the landmarks of the city.

There was a brief thought of pulling out one of her siege orbs with the downward gravity negated and sending it toward that city in the distance, but that would be a foolish choice for a number of reasons.

Even using one of the ones currently blurring in tight orbits of her ‘ready-donut’ for her gravity gun wouldn’t be advisable. Rust, even one of the tungsten balls there would be foolish.

-We really need a better name than ‘ready-donut.’-

I agree, but that’s not what I’m thinking on right now.

-Fine, fine.-

As to why she shouldn’t take a pot shot? First, it likely wouldn’t do anything. There were extensive defenses already in place that would likely negate such a paltry attack. Beyond that the City Lord would likely detect it and stop it, even if the passive defenses didn’t.

Second, even if it got through the defenses, both active and passive, she’d most likely hit random citizens. She had no desire to kill random innocents who just happened to be in the wrong place.

She was about to consider the other reason to hold her itch at petty vengeance when Terry broke her focus.

He let out a declarative trill, stating his presence to all who could hear for miles in every direction.

The sound caused the three humans to startle, then burst out laughing.

A few flocks of birds had similar reactions, but those avians took to the air instead of falling into mirth.

The terror bird gave the humans a smug look before returning to Tala’s shoulder to settle in.

After their chuckles subsided, the three fell into silence, enjoying the company as much as the scenery.

There were few views like it in the cycling cities, and Tala didn’t have anyone she’d rather see it with.

This was a great way to close out the day.
