Getting the shoes she ran outside and headed for the stream she’d found before. Once there she cleaned the boots thoroughly before putting them on. “Nearly clothed now. I hope they don’t break when I kick something...” the boots fit quite snugly, so she at least wouldn’t lose them from a bit of fighting. Getting some more of the Cinderberries she returned to the temple.

Sitting on top of it she planned her next steps. ‘I think I’ll first definitely check for any possible hidden rooms in the temple. Afterwards I’ll go towards the mountains in the south.’ looking at the distant target she sighed ‘That’s gonna take a while...I kinda wanted to wait with this until I met someone but if I die on the way it’s not really worth it anyway, now is it?’

Checking her stats she used 50 of the remaining 60 stat points from her level ups. ‘Let’s see...Vitality up to 40, never wrong to be more tough….that’s 11 points, then 15 into Endurance, up to 40 too. Definitely Wisdom up to 50, that’s 8. That’s 34 points. Means 16 remaining. Guess I’ll go 6 into Intelligence to get 40 there too and 5 each into Strength and Dexterity.’ she finished her distribution with a thought, leaving 10 points unspent, just in case there was something fundamental she didn’t understand about stats and distributing points. Checking her status she felt ready...at least somewhat.

Name: Ilea Spears

Class 1: Azarinth Healer – lvl 13

Unspent statpoints: 10

- Active: Destruction – lvl 14- Active: Reconstruction – lvl 2- Active: State of Azarinth – lvl 10- Active: Blink – lvl 7- Active: Free Slot- Passive: Body of Azarinth – lvl 4- Passive: Azarinth Fighting – lvl 12- Passive: Magic Perception – lvl 3- Passive: Free Slot- Passive: Free Slot

Class 2: None

General Skills:

- Elos Standard language - lvl 5- Identify - lvl 1- Meditation – lvl 8- Poison Resistance – lvl 1

Status:

Vitality: 40Endurance: 40Strength 23Dexterity 26Intelligence 40Wisdom 50

Health: 400/400Stamina: 389/400Mana: 487/500

“I need to find some clothes...and food...like...with spices!” looking into the distance she once more thought of her past. Ilea enjoyed the freedom she had here, all the time spent improving her fighting skills but she did miss her other hobbies, her bed and most of all good food. ‘I’m not sure if this is better or worse in the end. Training in itself is fun but fighting against that Golem...I can see myself getting into that. And I have no responsibilities really, no annoying fast-food work...plus I could heal people...if there are any that is...’

‘Guess I’ll find out tomorrow.’ going back downstairs she removed some of the Grass and stored it in her cloak. It would help her keep the faster training up for a while whilst she traveled. ‘I can check how fast my skill progress is without the Bluemoon Grass...there isn’t really any indication of it even improving anything. I do hope the Order actually tested the effectiveness beyond the body change.’ Sleeping early, she dreamed of a warm and soft bed.
