Ameliah shrugged. “I have no idea. Tallheart might know, and even if he doesn’t, he could make us something to test it.”

Rain shook his head. “Tallheart won’t make an unbound enchanted weapon. Not even one that’s bound, not unless he trusts them like family. Maybe he’ll make an exception for this, then melt it back down after. I’ll ask him. Can you send him a Message to come back to camp?”

Ameliah shook her head. “It’s easier if I just take you to him.” She held out her arms. “Come on. You wanted to go flying, didn’t you?”

Rain blinked, staring at her open arms.

“What about us?” Corrin asked.

“Head back to the main camp,” Ameliah said. “There aren’t any monsters around, and it isn’t far. You’ll be fine. This is going to take a while.”

“Bloody shit in a shitpot,” Mollo said, kicking at the ground.

“Mollo, seriously, what did I say?” Rain said. After a moment, he sighed. “Just be patient, all of you. We’ll get this straightened out.” He turned to Ameliah, taking a step closer. “Okay, I’m ready.”

Ameliah nodded, then wrapped her arms around him firmly. “Hang on,” she said, her mouth next to his ear.

“Lucky bastard,” Rain distinctly heard Mollo mutter under his breath. He smiled as he hugged Ameliah back, being careful of his enhanced strength, not that he thought he’d be able to hurt her, even if he’d tried.

Ameliah spoke a quick phrase of nonsense, then there was a flash of white light, and the two of them lurched diagonally into the air.

“Ah!” Ameliah gasped. There was another flash accompanied by a quick jerk as they changed trajectory suddenly, zig-zagging back the other way. Rain hadn’t been ready for it, and his head thunked against Ameliah’s, her hair getting in his face as it was whipped by the force. “Crap,” she swore, and there was another jerk and flash of light.

“What’s going on?” Rain asked, looking down. They were already over ten meters in the air. His stomach was doing backflips in a way that was only partly from the vertigo.

“It’s your armor,” Ameliah said. There was another jerk, and Rain saw that the flare of light that accompanied it was indeed coming from him. “It’s interfering with the spell more than I thought it would,” she continued. “Normally I can compensate…” Another jerk. “I think I’m getting it. Don’t let go.”

Their speed increased as they drunkenly lurched into the sky, but not that much—perhaps to twenty kilometers per hour. Ameliah continued speaking into his ear as she struggled to correct their trajectory. “The spell isn’t meant to work on multiple people,” she said. “I’m forcing my soul to override yours so it treats us both as one. Otherwise, your armor would just absorb the— Damn!” They lurched again, their heads thunking together once more. “It’s a good thing you’re not wearing your helmet,” Ameliah said. “I’d end up with a lump the size of a goose egg.”

“What do you mean, forcing your soul to override mine?” Rain asked, not at all bothered by the soreness on the side of his head.

“If you stopped fighting me, it would help,” Ameliah said, not really answering the question as she jerkily guided them up over the top of the lair.

“I’m not fighting you,” he said. At least, I don’t think I am…

“You are,” Ameliah replied firmly. “You might not mean to, but with your soul the way it is, I don’t know. Try to focus on flying. You have to WANT the spell to work on you. It’s just like any other kind of magic.”

“Like a buff?” Rain asked, the connection clicking in his mind. Buffs worked even on metal-armored targets because the recipients viewed them as beneficial. Their souls would prevent the metal from dissipating the positive magic. Debuffs, on the other hand, were rejected. The metal was treated exactly the same as the rest of the target’s defenses in terms of the order that the effect was applied. An unaware target would have a neutral response, which was what made healing someone who’d been stunned or knocked unconscious difficult. It required the healer to do more or less what Ameliah said she was doing right now.

Rain concentrated. I want to be flying. The ground tilted worryingly below them, and he clenched his teeth. Happy thoughts. Happy thoughts. You’re flying, dingus, and Ameliah is hugging the shit out of you!

The effect was almost immediate. Their flight smoothed out considerably, the light fading from Rain’s armor, though their speed didn’t increase. He laughed, squeezing tighter as he watched the treetops shrink below them. “Faster!”

“You’re insane,” Ameliah said, incredulous. “Ugh, my stomach. Redirection is one thing. At least I know that it’s coming. That was—HEY!” They lurched violently, gravity suddenly asserting its hold and sending them plummeting like a stone until Ameliah compensated. The flash of light was almost blinding this time.

“Sorry!” Rain said, grinning. He’d shifted his focus to wanting to be down. It looked like it had worked, though Ameliah had been able to mostly overpower him.

“You shouldn’t be able to do that!” she said, craning her head away so she could glare at him. “And don’t even try to pretend like that wasn’t on purpose.”

“It was, you’re right.” Rain said, grinning. “I couldn’t help myself.”

“You and your tests,” Ameliah said. She snorted and rolled her eyes, sounding equal parts annoyed and amused.

“Oh hey, there’s Tallheart!” Rain said, removing one arm to point to the side. They wobbled as their center of mass shifted. “We must be moving faster than I thought!”

“I will drop you,” Ameliah threatened. “Just hold still.”

Rain shook his head. “You won’t. I trust you.”

“I mean on purpose,” she said. “Obviously.”

Rain shook his head confidently. “You won’t.”

“Oh, just get ready to land,” Ameliah sighed.

“I’m ready,” Rain said, watching the ground rushing toward them. With gravity assisting, they were really picking up some speed now. The wind howled in his ears, and he prepped Force Ward, just in case something went wrong.

Moments before impact, Ameliah cut their speed sharply. Rain’s knees slammed into hers as his feet hit the ground, interrupting both of their attempts to cushion the landing. They tumbled, hitting the ground and rolling together until they broke apart and collapsed to a halt sprawled next to each other.

Amid the falling spray of disturbed snow from the impact, Rain became aware of the rhythmic sound of metal hitting metal. After a moment, he realized what it was. Tallheart was clapping.

“Well done,” the smith said, rumbling with amusement.
