She braced herself against the anticipated dungeon-rage as the domain bloomed outward, but the structure of her domain adapted to Lira’s automatically, as if acting out her intent without her needing to force it, riding the wave of new nature affinity mana gushing from the oak. So much so, in fact, that her domain began to shift out of balance. Quickly, she paged through her Grimoire and summoned several Spore Spreaders, sending them out to plant her arcane Glowcap mushrooms. She would need so many of them to supplement the vast influx of nature mana and provide the matching arcane she needed for her domain’s structure.

“Come on, Basil,” Lira cried, taking his hand and leading him out to a new spot like an excited child showing a friend a new discovery. She handed him a second acorn and suggested a new spot for the second tree, sufficiently far from the first, but close enough to be supported by the expanded domain mana. Suddenly, she raised his right hand to her lips and kissed his knuckles. “These hands! Basil – thank you, thank you, thank you!”

Ali smiled, deeply moved to see Lira’s joy.

For his part, Basil turned as pink as a freshly blooming rose, spluttering. “My… p-p-pleasure!”

***

“You must cultivate this boy’s magic,” Lira said, walking beside Eliyen as Ali led them all down the stairs into the library. “I see your mana with him, and as his mentor, you should know that his skill is extraordinary.”

Still somewhat awkward around the Dryad, Eliyen nodded, cautiously attentive, but she seemed to be justifiably proud of her protégé who had just helped Lira secure her domain and forest with five enormous magical oak trees. The last five in existence. Basil, for his part, had excitedly shared that he had gained three class levels for his efforts.

Ali continued descending the stairs past the first floor and onward down to the bottom, the kernel of an idea that had come to her when her Grimoire first recorded the Lirasian Oak slowly solidifying in her mind. Her friends intuited something was up when she passed the landing for the first level, but thoughtfully chose not to disturb her contemplation.

When she reached the bottom level, she left Lira chatting away with Eliyen and stepped into the center of the atrium, glancing upward at the floating barrier lights she had placed so far above. Lira was explaining to the Wood Elf that she intended to wait for the oaks to produce new acorns, and then she would slowly expand the forest one tree at a time, provided Ali allowed her the space to do so.

She’s so considerate, Ali thought, not surprised to hear that Lira would limit herself just so that she was not a burden. But this was the core of Ali’s surprise for her. She wanted to do something for Lira, to show her that she no longer needed to suffer the way she had when they landed in the middle of the blighted forest.

Just about right, she thought, gauging the height, and comparing it to the size of the oaks Lira had grown above. The trunks were about six meters in diameter, so she wielded her Domain Mastery, pulverizing the flagstones where the bone spire had once stood, making a circle large enough to accommodate the tree, punching through the library foundations and into the rocky ground beneath.

Opening her Grimoire, she began to wield her magic. Her mana flowed into the imprint of the oak tree, causing her book to flare with the light of her green and gold mana. Glowing runes floated up off the pages as her book rapidly riffled through them, forming a dense cascade of light and magic that poured into the area she had prepared. The large imprint drew heavily from her mana pool, and she was grateful for the substantial increase to her pool that she had earned for adding the five trees above to her domain.

As the runes built the structure of the tree, shooting up into the spacious atrium, a hush fell over the library. Ali was aware that everyone was looking at her, but she concentrated, keeping her focus on her magic as the structure branched out across the different levels of the library, reaching upward the full hundred meters to almost reach the roof. With a final rush of mana, her giant summoning completed, and the oak snapped into existence, fully formed.

Ali stared upward at the huge boughs and distant canopy that spread out across the top level of the library in amazement. While it was her magic, the enormous tree dwarfed the scale of anything she had yet accomplished.

Lirasian Oak – Tree – level 38 (Nature)

Within the oak, she could already see the giant torrent of nature mana surging upward to join with her domain.

Lira gasped beside her; her eyes fixed on the enormous tree. “You didn’t tell me you could make them,” she said her voice hushed.

“My Grimoire can learn anything Basil grows in my domain. That’s at least part of the reason I asked him to help,” Ali admitted. She didn’t know any other herbalists besides Eliyen and Basil, but what she said was still true. She had hoped his magic would do the same thing it did with the wildflowers. And now she could grow Lira a proper forest.

“Thank you, Aliandra. And all of you,” Lira said, still captivated by the new tree filling the center of the ancient library. “You have saved what I feared had been lost forever.” She reached out to lay a hand reverently on the bark of the tree and studied Ali with a complex expression filling her eyes.

“May I?”

“Go ahead,” Ali answered, knowing that she would just fix the domain structure if they collided again.

Immediately, a dense kernel of mana ignited in her core, like the acorns, only vastly more powerful. Her mana shot through her arm and into the tree, and she simply walked forward, her body naturally and seamlessly merging into the bark as her mana erupted into the center of the trunk.

Ali braced herself, but once again, her mana seemed to know how to adjust to Lira now, and there was not even the slightest hint of pain or dungeon-rage.

A vast torrent of mana poured down from the trees in the cavern above, merging with Lira’s rising mana within the giant oak, glowing intensely as their two domains once again overlapped with synergistic energy. As the pillar of mana filled the tree, it began to grow. Already huge, the trunk widened rapidly as roots buckled and bent the flagstones, causing them to crack and splinter with loud reports before the tree crushed them and the burgeoning roots forced them aside. The branches spread wider into the spaces between the library floors and the canopy pressed up against the rock of the ceiling.

Ali’s Grimoire exploded with light and runes as it recorded the growth, flaring with new magic and runes as it filled page after page with inscriptions. She puffed out her cheeks, fighting to remain calm as the tremendous surge of mana raged through her like a silent thunderstorm. Still, Lira’s mana, her very essence, roared within the tree, drawing in all of her domain, and Ali’s domain, darkening the entire surroundings as it concentrated the magic within the oak.

Ali stared in reverential awe at the full power of her aunt’s magic, finally unleashed. With a giant crack the roof above the library shattered, and she hastily summoned several large barriers using the remnants of her available domain mana to protect her friends from the falling boulders and ancient masonry.

The tree exploded up and out of the top of the library and into the cavern above, its branches broadening and expanding till the canopy brushed up against the cavern roof over two hundred meters above. When it finally ceased growing, the base of the tree must have measured more than twenty meters in diameter, with thick roots cracking through the stone floor all around.

A sudden flash left Ali blinking as the mana concentrated within the tree exploded outward, establishing a pulsing zone of both domains that easily encompassed the entirety of the Grand Library Arcana, and surely well beyond the walls and roof in all directions.

Ali was speechless. This was the biggest tree she had ever seen; bigger even than she could have imagined. And even more stunning was seeing the scale and power of Lira’s magic.

“I think I got a little carried away,” Lira said, grinning with childlike joy as she emerged from the trunk, alighting on the ruined stone floor.

As her foot touched the stone, a vast gong-like sound echoed through her mind and through the entire library, she realized belatedly, vibrating the very stone. It was a sound Ali had heard only a handful of times in her life.

[Zone] Lirasian Oak has advanced to the second tier.

“What was that?” Basil breathed, clearly having heard the notification too.

“That’s what happens when something reaches their class or species evolution,” Eliyen explained, but the calm in her voice was in stark counterpoint to the astonishment on her face.

Ali let out her held breath, grateful that this time the gong heralded good news.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Again? Without hesitation, Ali selected a second chapter, and her Grimoire continued recording the extraordinary tree that stood majestically before her.

Lirasian Oak – Elder Tree – level ??? (Nature)

“It’s a three mark!” Calen exclaimed.

“When Thovir Emberforge reached his class evolution down in the forge, the entire city of Dal’mohra heard the notification. The celebrations lasted more than a week,” Ali said, deliberately choosing a happier story. The last time she had heard the gong had been the moment of her mother’s passing.

“Wow,” Malika and Mato said together.

Looking for something to do – to take her mind off her melancholy – Ali turned her attention to the broken and shattered stone around the tree and the rubble that had fallen from the roof.

It’s all in my domain, so…

She made the rock flow and stretch, creating a neat, low circular stone retainer wall around the base of the mighty trunk, wider than the tree, suitable for sitting on. She filled the space around the tree roots with blue mana grass and a few golden mushrooms and then finally dissolved the remaining rubble.

“That looks nice and clean,” Mato said, grinning his approval.

“Thanks, can’t have rubble in a library,” Ali said, even though there were still tons of piles of bone everywhere. As she finished her work and stepped back, the erratic green glow of a tiny nature wisp floated into the library through the doorway from the jungle cavern. It hovered momentarily, appearing almost shy, and then darted forward to circle the enormous tree, spiraling upwards and disappearing into the branches above. As she lost sight of it, another wisp floated into the library. And then another.

“Look,” Ali whispered, hoping not to spook the skittish wisps.

“That’s a good omen,” Eliyen smiled.

“They like your mana,” Lira laughed.

“Mine? Yours?”

“Does it matter?”

As they chuckled together, Mato’s eyes darted back and forth between them as if startled by their sudden synchronization.

Ali continued to watch the mesmerizing parade for several minutes. While it was never more than one or two at a time, the wisps kept floating by, drawn in by the density of the mana the tree was emitting. And it was still growing stronger. Eventually, she tore her gaze from the beautiful mana creatures.

“Ok,” Ali said. “Time to finish the cavern.” She created a barrier and stepped on it, and then looked at Lira. “Would you like to come with me?”

“What do you mean?”

“I want to fill the cavern above with these,” she pointed at the giant tree. “Though perhaps not quite as big. I’m sure you could use more than just one.”

“You would share that much space with me?”

“Is that even a question? Of course,” she said with a grin. “Let’s go!”

After removing the shattered stone roof of the library, Ali spent the next few hours filling the cavern with trees. The giant Lirasian Oaks formed the upper canopy of her forest, with the regular varieties spread out to form a middle canopy. For the ground, she created several of her jungle creatures and released them into the area with orders to grow their plants. Once finished, the entire cavern was lit from above by the soft glow of the magical oak leaves, lending it a mystical green ambiance.

Appropriate for a Dryad’s home. It was not her familiar Grove, and she missed her shrine, but with this domain, Lira would have a home, and she had restored her mana.

Ali admired both the look of the forest, created with lots of insight and advice from Lira, and the rapidly accumulating mana that formed her domain. It’s a lot denser now with Lira’s presence. Will it be enough? What if the blight comes here?

She shivered.

Alexander frowned, studying the impossible notification as the sonorous gong sound slowly faded.

[Zone] Lirasian Oak has advanced to the second tier.

This must be her doing. “Gah!” he yelled, punching one of his skeletons in frustration. “How is she still alive?” He had been certain that the wretched Dryad had succumbed to his blight. There was no way the adventurers he had seen were strong enough to heal it, and he had been looking forward to seeing the mayhem she would wreak on the miserable hovel of Myrin’s Keep when she reanimated as a three-mark zombie.

But the notification clearly said ‘Lirasian Oak’. It had to have been her doing, however unlikely, and his plan to walk into a nicely decimated town now lay in tatters.

Oh well, I’ll just have to destroy the whole thing myself. But not until I get my hands on that dungeon, he reminded himself. Taking the town would be for his personal enjoyment, but he must have the dungeon first. Nevyn Eld was not one to tolerate failure.

He had time, it was still a couple of days’ journey to Myrin’s Keep, and his blight and undead army was sure to be unstoppable.

Slowly, his hands clenched into fists, and he hissed, “Just wait, Myrin’s Keep. The reaper is coming for you all.” With his blight at his back, the city was sure to fall – and with that many new corpses at his disposal, he would put down that Dryad once and for all and take the dungeon as his prize.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
