The mood upon the glowing, golden barrier disk grew increasingly quieter and more somber as Ali flew them northward, tracing the burnished silver ribbon of the Myrin River by the dying embers of the setting sun. Ali shivered and huddled a little closer to Lira, a vain attempt to shield herself from the biting chill of the wind, and cast yet another worried glance at Malika and Mato. They sat together, as far as they could get from everyone else on the crowded barrier disk, trying to avoid infecting anyone with the blight festering within their bodies.

How are we going to get in? Will Eliyen even help us? What if the elixir doesn’t work? Will the Town Watch find us?

Ali’s thoughts churned endlessly, her mind refusing to give her any rest. She had tried using two barriers to ferry everyone back – a way to separate Mato and Malika from the others – but she had found she didn’t quite have the carrying capacity in that configuration. What should we do? she thought, feeling overwhelmed. The Necromancer was coming for Myrin’s Keep – and he was bringing a tsunami of blight and undead with him. Her friends were blighted, and they all were unwelcome outlaws in town.

“Take care of the things right in front of you first.” Her father’s words sprang to mind, a memory from long ago – a different world. She had been struggling with a new project at the time, battling with stress over the deadlines, and feeling overwhelmed by the sheer complexity of the task. He had not understood her research when she tried explaining it to him – only her mom had that kind of experience – but that hadn’t mattered to him. He had told her to focus on the parts of the problem she could see, to take care of the things she knew how to do first, and then the task would get smaller, and the path forward would become clearer. Then, he had hugged her and told her he was proud of her.

She could almost feel that hug. Almost, after all this time… Small steps to scale a mountain, she thought. Thanks, Dad.

The first, and most pressing task was to get back to town and find a cure for the blight so that Mato and Malika did not die.

And then, we must help Lira. She glanced at her sitting quietly beside her on the flying magical barrier clutching her precious acorns. Their quest had technically been successful, but five tiny acorns were all that was left of the magnificence of the Lirasian Forest, and Lira’s home. Although she wore a smile, Ali felt sad for her. She’s lost everything. The problems with the Town Watch, what to do about her class, and the fact that they’d all been branded as outlaws could wait for now.

When she finally made out the stark gray of the looming battlements protecting Myrin’s Keep by the draconic eyes of her minions, it was fully dark, a clear night with a brilliant moon. The stars twinkled down upon the world, oblivious to the worries that swirled endlessly in Ali’s brain.

“Let’s circle around,” Calen suggested, pointing to the northwest. “There should be fewer sentries away from the Torian border.”

“Ok,” Ali said, nodding, knowing Calen’s sharp eyes would pick out the gesture easily even in the darkness. She flew them past the walls, keeping a healthy distance to conceal the glow of her magic from observant eyes, before looping back around and approaching the town from the angle Calen suggested. She put them down in a small mountain pass and banished her glowing barrier.

“No more light,” Calen whispered. “Follow me.”

They followed Calen on foot as he led them down the mountain, sneaking into the town near the blacksmith quarters where there were neither battlements nor obvious guards. Ali held Lira’s hand, trying to step and breathe quietly as they wound their way through dark and dirty alleyways, relying on Calen’s eyes to keep them safe from muggers, assassins, and potholes – Ali grinned at her own thought. Silly. She kept cycling through the eyes of her minions – the Kobolds and tiny dragonets, adapted for hunting in the dark – as she maintained her vigilance.

But no thugs sprang from the shadows to attack them, nor did they encounter a single soul, reaching their destination in good time. Despite the late hour, a light shone from the window at Eliyen’s home, and so they approached and knocked on the door.

“Oh, hi Aliandra, you’re visiting rather late,” Eliyen greeted her. “Come on in, it’s cold out.”

“Thank you,” Ali answered, so relieved by her friendly greeting, her knees almost buckled, and she had to catch her balance against the doorpost. Had they not heard? She entered the house with her friends, but as soon as Lira stepped across the threshold, Eliyen’s eyes grew wide as saucers, and she scrambled to bow low to the ground.

“Great Mother of the Deep Woods,” she whispered in Elvish, her shaky voice filled with awe and reverence. “I… apologize for my humble home. If I had but a little foreknowledge of your visit, I would have made better arrangements.”

“Nonsense, child, please raise your eyes,” Lira answered, smiling at the aging Wood Elf. “Your garden is beautiful.”

“I… oh… thank you,” Eliyen stammered, her cheeks flushed from Lira’s compliment. She lifted her head and smoothed her dress with her palms. “May I ask what I can do for you at such an hour?” She glanced at each of them, hesitating when she saw Mato and Malika hanging back by the door.

“They contracted the undead blight,” Ali explained. “Would your elixirs be able to cure them?”

“Yes, of course,” she answered. “But I’m out of Living Essence. I’m sorry, it’s quite difficult to acquire, and the merchant caravan from Southport has been delayed.”

“Here,” Malika said, retrieving a couple of essences from her storage and placing them on the table.

“I only need a fraction for each potion,” Eliyen said. “This is too much.”

“I think you’re going to need the rest pretty soon after what we saw today,” Ali said. Certainly, the blight had cut a large swathe across the entire kingdom from where Lira had said she was captured to the boundary just south of Myrin’s Keep.

Eliyen’s eyebrows arched in wordless query at Ali’s grim tone.

“Yes, keep it for now,” Malika answered, and added, “We can settle up later.” She proceeded to explain what they had seen on their trip to the south while Eliyen summoned Basil, readied her tools, and wielded her magic.

Basil… Ali glanced over at the earnest boy helping Eliyen. She was happy to see he had earned a few more levels and seemed to have unblocked his class growth. But it was her experience with her wildflower garden – now ashes – that she recalled. Basil had a unique class, as far as she knew, and he had been able to germinate the flowers in her domain, somehow using her domain magic to accelerate the process greatly.

Eliyen carefully measured out several vials of the glowing green Elixir of Vitality Rejuvenation, and she handed one each to Mato and Malika, instructing Basil to store the rest for later.

“May I see the acorns?” Eliyen had the air of someone not knowing if what she was asking would be terribly offensive, and yet couldn’t help herself out of sheer burning curiosity.

Lira tentatively opened her hands, showing her treasure. Five acorns nestled on her palms, each of them with a brilliant green kernel of potent mana inside each.

“You can restore your domain with just these?” Eliyen asked, obviously unwilling to touch something so precious to the ancient Dryad.

“It will take several hundred years, but yes,” Lira said, looking at her acorns.

“Why so long? Can’t you just grow them with your magic?” Mato asked. He was already looking better, the ugly black knots of death magic dissipating from his body as the potent elixir did its work.

“For a normal tree, yes, and if I were still strong enough,” Lira answered. She had a kind, gentle look on her face and smiled at Mato the way Ali remembered her mother had smiled at her when she was explaining things to her as a child. “But these trees will create my domain and grow attached to my domain. If I draw the amount of mana required to grow them, I will starve them. It is best to let them germinate naturally and wait.”

“I have a different suggestion,” Ali said. She admired Lira’s patience, but she wasn’t about to let her spend centuries to recover if there was a more efficient solution sitting right here in the room. She paused, suddenly a little uncomfortable to have everyone’s attention.

“Basil has a skill that can use my domain magic to germinate plants,” Ali continued. Indeed, his skill had gently woven her domain mana into the wildflowers, linking them to her domain and using its mana to germinate and grow them. “If we germinate the acorns in my domain, can you use your mana to accelerate their growth and then claim them afterward like you claimed the oak?”

“I… well, I never imagined… can you truly do this, young man?” Lira asked, staring intently at Basil, making him shift uncomfortably in his seat.

“Y… yes, my lady,” he answered, clearly not knowing how to address the ancient Dryad, but he rallied, collecting his emotions, and continued. “I can bring some regular seeds and demonstrate the process for you before you decide to trust me with one of your acorns.”

“What is your name, boy?” Lira asked, relaxing visibly at Basil’s suggestion. Ali had to admire how perceptive he had been, Lira clearly did not want to take any risks with the only acorns she had.

“Basil, my lady,” he answered.

“You may call me Lira,” she told him, including Eliyen in her gaze. “I do not hold much stock in titles unless they are necessary.”

***

Ali watched curiously as Basil knelt in the dirt beside Lira’s claimed oak. She was not the only one, Eliyen and Lira both stood quietly in the dim light of the wisps in the cavern above the Grand Library staring with rapt attention as the boy gently planted the seeds in the ground and began to weave his subtle magic.

Her Arcane Insight had grown substantially since the first time she had watched him plant flowers in her domain, and this time she could see the tiny ribbons of his nature mana reaching out, nudging the powerful magic of the two synergized and interwoven domains – hers and Lira’s – into the ground and the seeds he had planted. It was a subtle magic, influencing, encouraging, rather than forceful, and slowly she saw the flows open, and small leaves breaking through the ground.

“Beautiful,” Lira exclaimed, clapping her hands excitedly, and then her mana surged, and the plants Basil had germinated stretched, elongated, and thrust out from the soil, opening into a beautiful patch of blooming Mystic Bluebells.

Lira walked up to him and offered him a single acorn, her hand trembling visibly as he reached for it. The acorns were clearly worth more than life to her, and Ali couldn’t imagine how hard it must have been for her to let one go. But Basil demonstrated his perceptive nature once more, treating the acorn with as much respect and care as Lira had done.

Gently, he placed it in a hole near the edge of Ali and Lira’s merged domains and summoned his magic, bending the structure subtly to germinate life. Beneath the soil, the kernel of nature mana within the acorn flickered as Basil’s skill connected the domain mana to it, and Lira gasped. But the flicker grew, shining brighter and brighter as it fed on the mana Basil offered and he coaxed it to grow. The mana stretched and swelled upward, and the soil broke as a tiny stem emerged, and a pair of leaves opened toward the cavern roof.

Ali’s notification chime sounded, and her Grimoire manifested by itself, glowing quietly, receptive and waiting.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

She winced at the sudden weight nestled behind her eyes. She had expected this, based on how she had learned the wildflowers from Basil germinating them in her domain, but she hadn’t been certain it would work with the acorns. Whatever magic was required to grow the Lirasian Oak seedling was vast, and her Grimoire required more space. Fortunately, her destructive jaunt through the jungle had earned her several new skill levels for her Grimoire of Summoning, so she selected an open chapter and watched intently, heart throbbing against the base of her throat as the book rearranged itself to merge the new chapter in.

Variant: Lirasian Oak added to Imprint: Tree.

Yes! It worked! A bright surge of mana drew her attention to Lira, and she watched in fascination as the Dryad magic drew heavily from her domain, causing it to dim noticeably as the mana poured into the tiny seedling.

“Step back just a bit, dear,” Lira instructed, and Basil quickly took two steps away from the oak seedling. For a moment, nothing happened, but suddenly the seedling exploded into rapid growth, leaves appeared, and the stem thickened and stretched, reaching upward as it grew, one meter, then two, and surged beyond. Ali’s Grimoire responded in a sympathetic frenzy of magic, thousands upon thousands of tiny magical runes forming and inscribing themselves upon rapidly manifesting new pages.

She gasped softly and bit her lip. It had never reacted like this before.

And still, Lira channeled her magic, growing the tree larger and larger, until it towered vastly larger than the white oak Ali had gifted her. When she finally stopped, Lira’s domain was a dimly glowing shadow of its former brilliance, but the tree towered up into the air, matching the enormous trunks that held up the cavern but filled with life instead of blackened and dead.

Lirasian Oak – Tree – level 37 (Nature)

Ali could feel the giant tree drawing heavily from her domain mana, drawing it up into the trunk in a powerful torrent that fed the brilliantly shining core of green within it. As she watched, the mana grew brighter and brighter, shooting up through the branches and out of the leaves as the tree established itself as part of her domain, pulsing with vitality and life. Within just a few minutes, the tree began emitting an enormous amount of nature affinity mana feeding back into the domains, and reinforcing them as Lira’s domain recovered its power, now vastly expanded in size by the tree.

