"Alright, then," he said. "You can't agree or disagree with the Red Hunters, but you can feel something about it. How do you feel about what they're doing?"

"I have not given it consideration." The Red Knight hesitated for a moment. "I do not understand what drives them."

"Oh, I can help with that," Cale said. "They think wild mages need to be culled because they're dangerous. Or at least, that's what they claim to think. I'm starting to think they have ulterior motives."

"You know of the Red Hunters?" the Red Knight asked. "I had assumed you were a local of this pocket realm."

Ah, shoot. Cale stilled, but the Red Knight didn't react yet, instead musing over the question.

Then it made a strange, grating sort of noise, which took Cale a moment to recognize as a chuckle. "That is a remarkably foolish belief," it said. "Magic is neither wild nor tame. It is what its users make of it."

Cale froze. He'd heard that line before, almost word for word, he was sure of it. He thought rapidly—the person who had said it didn't look anything like this, but the way it was behaving, and the tiny mannerisms—

—fuck, why was it so hard to remember?

"However," the Red Knight continued, and Cale twitched, knowing what was coming. "It occurs to me that if you are not local to this pocket realm, then it is likely that you are one of the mages I am seeking."

"Maybe this realm has Red Hunters, too," Cale joked, and he could have sworn the Red Knight snorted in response, almost like it was amused.

"A remarkable coincidence, if true," it said. It hadn't moved to attack yet, but he could feel it getting ready to. The mana within its core was spinning up, getting ready to flow into a spell. "But the storm has weakened enough that I can once more sense your mana signatures. You are attempting to heal that soul and end the storm, are you not?"

"Not at all," Cale said. "It's scheduled maintenance. You know, like plumbing? We're just cleaning up the soul to strengthen the storm. You know how it is with maintaining dark, forbidden rituals."

The Red Knight outright laughed, this time, and once more Cale felt that tickle of familiarity in his brain. He grimaced—he was starting to think he knew what this was.

"You are amusing," it said. "It would be a pity to have to kill you. Could I convince you to leave the soul alone, instead?"

"You said it yourself, the Red Hunters' plans are based on a false premise," Cale said. "And honestly, I just don't want to leave someone to a fate of being tortured for eternity, you know?"

He kept his voice light, but he noticed the shards of glass on the Red Knight shuddering again at that statement, and his eyes narrowed.

"It is not that simple," the Red Knight said, its tone regretful.

And that confirmed it. The Red Knight was under a compulsion of some kind. It was a looser compulsion than most of the ones he was familiar with, which meant it would be harder to break. This was something ingrained, built into its purpose.

Not that Cale was ever one to shy away from a challenge. He sighed, then straightened into a stretch, feeling his neck and various other joints pop. "I won't be that easy to kill, either," he said, allowing a sharp smile to slide into his expression. "Normally I'd be the one killing you, but my apprentices have convinced me I need to start trying more. They're infectious that way."

"Is that who resides in the Great Tree?" the Red Knight asked.

"Are you going to target them if I say yes?"

"No," the Red Knight said, surprisingly resolute, and Cale realized after a moment that the intent flaring up within its mana was anticipatory. It was looking forward to the fight.

Or, to put it another way, it liked the idea of sparring with someone it considered an equal.

"To attack them would be honorless, and would force you on the defensive," the Red Knight added, like it needed to explain itself. "That would make the fight less enjoyable."

"And you're really looking forward to this fight, aren't you?" Cale asked dryly. He got the impression that the Red Knight was grinning at him in response.

"You will last longer than most," it replied.

"I used to know someone who would say things like that," Cale said, because he was certain that he did, and he was also now certain that the reason he couldn't remember them wasn't, in fact, his fault. But he'd be able to pry the memory loose now that he knew it was there, with a bit of effort. "Then I beat the crap out of them."

"Then I hope you show me that same courtesy," the Red Knight said politely, and lifted its sword.

"Trust me," Cale said. "I'm going to give us both something to remember."

His strongest resonance was fire, and there was a fire spell he had yet to evolve, picked up from Orguk's panicked casting back during Alchemy 101. In fact, this was probably going to be a great opportunity to evolve his spells, considering his barriers wouldn't be at full effectiveness while they were in the realm overlap.

The Red Knight was waiting for Cale to make the first move, so he obliged and cast [Fire Whip]. With five ranks of fire resonance and his friendship with Vesuvius, he was bound to get something good, though probably not enough to end the fight outright.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Fire Whip] has evolved into [Ten Tongues of Vesuvius]!

Cale wondered briefly if Vesuvius actually had ten tongues. He hadn't noticed, but now he was curious.

[Ten Tongues of Vesuvius, Level 1] [Tenth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e29 Mana]

Summon the ten tongues of the elemental god Vesuvius to attack or restrain your opponent. The intensity of this spell is amplified by your resonance.

This spell may inflame the target's passions.

...It was also possible he needed to have a word with the Gift on phrasing.

The Red Knight moved to meet his magic, and Cale let himself grin and flow into the battle.
