The rest of the guard on the gates was watching Erin, but the [Innkeeper] was more surprised than anyone. In fact—as the party moved into the city, to Mrsha’s keen ears, one of the [Guards] could be heard whispering.
“Is that the Human? She’s not nearly as scary as everyone said. She’s shorter than I thought, too.”
Erin twitched a bit and frowned, but the [Guard] gave them no more trouble. Indeed…although citizens of Liscor noticed Erin, it was almost the procession that attracted more attention.
Four Thronebearers, a Doombearer, Gire the [Paragon], and a Gold-ranked team. All surrounding Erin. And when they reached the Mage’s Guild where Garia had been sent from with a copy of the [Message]…
Well, everything was sorted.
 
——
 
“Wait, what you do mean, sorted?”
“We’ll handle it. We’re requesting transport for the Antinium; the trick will be getting an escort or the Drake cities to hold off…doing anything. It’s very tricky, but I wish to be clear—we do not need Goblins…or Antinium…or anyone else sallying out there. In fact, I was going to ask if the Horns of Hammerad would accept a discounted escort request.”
Councilmember Lism steepled his claws and looked over the table as Erin Solstice stared around Liscor’s Council. Mrsha waved at Krshia and Elirr and got nods from them and Raekea. Erin Solstice opened her mouth, but Ceria got there first.
“Pass. That’s a long way to go there and back.”
“Understandable. The Tribes are also willing to discuss the issue. What we don’t need, Miss Solstice, is Antinium…disruption. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was very understanding on the issue. Pallass has also agreed to move their door to allow the Antinium to skip the Bloodfields trip, provided he makes it there. So. We’ll look into the trip back. It may be a matter of funding, but Strategos Olesm has expressed a desire to use any funds for a soldier of Liscor’s 2nd Army. And the Antinium have agreed to also fund any escort…”
It was all very relaxed. Stinky Lism didn’t even sneer, although Mrsha still didn’t like him. They had a plan, and they’d put it into action.
To help the Antinium Soldier get back. Erin hesitated.
“Yeah, but…what if he gets hurt? What if someone goes after him?”
“We will endeavor not to let that happen. Believe me, Miss Solstice, no one wants more bloodshed.”
Councilmember Jeiss replied. And it was true, but still Erin hesitated.
“But if we could be sure…”
“Miss Solstice. The most dangerous thing would be for a…Goblin riding a Wyvern to suddenly appear in the Great Plains. Wouldn’t you agree? We’re aware there’s a risk of kidnapping given the value of—”
Today was the day of kicks. Mrsha noticed these things because she was lower to the ground, so she saw Krshia stomp on Lism’s tail. He shut up, and Erin nodded rapidly.
“So there is a risk! I’ll, um…”
She looked at the Horns and around the room, and the Council rose to their feet.
“Miss Solstice, there’s no need. We will send you daily updates. On the hour, if need be, and I will let you know how the transport is arranged, and…we’ll put one of our [Clerks] on it. But please, I trust you’re recovering well?”
Lism spoke rapidly, and Erin hesitated.
“Um…I just need to do some muscle strengthening. You know, rest up the body. I can’t keep trying to regenerate with a potion. I got stabbed, apparently, and someone dropped me two hundred feet onto the ground. Sort of sucks.”
“Indeed. Well, I hope you will recover very soon. If we can help at all.”
“But about the Antinium—”
“Leave it to us, leave it to us. Best wishes, Miss Solstice, get well soon, and may I personally thank you on behalf of the Council for your valuable time—”
And before they knew it, they were standing in the hallway, and Erin had the most mystified look on her face. She opened her mouth and almost went to wheel herself back into the room, but then she gave up.
“Lyonette. They’re actually competent! What do I do?”
“Maybe…let them do their jobs, Erin? Isn’t it for the best?”
“Yeah, but…”
Erin Solstice looked around. Numbtongue leaned down and whispered to her.
“Don’t worry. If the Council is stupid, the Fellowship will go get him. We’ll take horses. Very smart.”
“I…the Fellowship will?”
“Or Strategist Perorn. The students of the Forgotten Wing Company will also ensure it. Chieftain Feshi is one of them.”
Gireulashia murmured. Erin Solstice hesitated, and Bird nodded importantly.
“They will make sure he gets back even if they must send an army. I will ensure it, Erin, do not worry. I have carried Niers in my hat and beaten him in chess. Therefore, I believe I occupy a rank somewhere under Commander Perorn. I will make the order if no one else does.”
“Um.”
And there it was. Mrsha didn’t even have to write her own note to her friends in the Meeting of Tribes. It was done and dusted. Erin had nothing to worry about. So please, please…Mrsha saw the Council peeking at them from the windows as they left City Hall, and she suspected a few [Guards] and onlookers were observing.
Please don’t do anything silly.
In a sense, the world didn’t need Erin Solstice as much as it used to. More people liked Antinium. More Antinium had voices and power. There were groups that were capable of making reasonable decisions without needing someone to push them. They had organization and competence.
What a frightening change to Liscor. It seemed even Erin realized that her best efforts might not be…helpful.
“I was just going to, like, ask if anyone wanted to escort him to Liscor. Some adventurers.”
“I’m sure that’s the first thing the Council asked, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to think.
“Okay…then—then we’d ask for someone nearby that we knew to help. Like—who lives near there?”
“Weatherfur’s tribe? Any Gnoll tribe, Erin. The Forgotten Wing has a Centaur force; the Soldier will be safe along the Great Plains. Past that, he’ll need an escort.”
“So if we asked someone to—”
“Erin, I’m sure Liscor will take care of it.”
Mrsha glanced at Erin as the little Gnoll let Gireulashia carry her and saw Erin’s mystified look. Almost frustrated. Lyonette was cajoling her in that tone that was meant to be motherly and soothing and grated like only mollycoddling could.
“Why don’t we go to the [Healer] instead, Erin? We have to anyways, and we can always go early. Or…should we tour the new part of the city?”
Erin relented with a frown and sigh.
“Let’s go to the [Healer]. Not that everyone has to come with.”
They all did. At least, long enough to see Erin helped out of her chair and stretching her legs, working on her arm and leg muscles.
The issue was not, apparently, that General Sserys had done irreparable harm to Erin’s body when he’d possessed it. He had done a lot of harm and stupid things like getting an arm cut off, but the Potion of Regeneration was as powerful as could be.
The problem was more that he had made Erin’s body do things a Level 50+ [General] was capable of, forcing her to regrow limbs and fight a war after just being unfrozen. Erin was suffering the effects of that now.
She had been dead, so being as weak as a kitten was partly inevitable; her body had suffered from freezing and refreezing on a cellular level. Her muscles were shot, and her lungs were recovering. Part of her rehabilitation the [Healer] had come up with after much consultation with Grimalkin was to make Erin do simple leg lifts—or try.
“Mrsha, stop that!”
Mrsha was doing sit ups next to Erin as the young woman struggled, red-faced, to use a rope to haul herself up and down. Erin half-laughed as Mrsha stopped that and began practicing magic with Gireulashia.
Gnolls practicing magic in the open. Gire had a nose in a book, and the Silverfangs were debating how best to use the spellbook that Teriarch had given them. Speaking of which…
There were other people whom Erin had to meet or reconnect with. She was panting after an hour of exercise, but at last, the [Healer] said they were done for the day.
“I’m bushed!”
Erin let Lyonette push her out of the clinic, and Mrsha, who’d been napping on one of the tables, leapt up and sniffed the air. She raced outside as Erin wiped at her forehead, and then Mrsha pointed.
“Mrsha, don’t run off—oh! Look who it is!”
Lyonette’s warning turned into an exclamation of glad surprise. The two figures approaching were hardly rare sights, in Liscor historically but…Erin sat up in her wheelchair when she saw a duo on patrol. A Drake sauntering forwards next to a graceful Antinium.
A classic duo.
“Relc! Klbkch!”
A smile burst across Erin’s face as she waved, and the two picked up their pace a moment. Everyone else might be cautious around her, but Mrsha saw Relc bound over and give her a one-armed hug.
“There’s my favorite Human! Wait, is that racist? It’s true, anyways! And here’s my…one, two, eight…ninth favorite Gnoll! Hey, kiddo!”
Mrsha punched his claw, and Relc grinned. She beamed up at him, and the Drake twirled his spear. This—this was familiar, and even Lyonette relaxed as Klbkch approached. The Thronebearers did not and surrounded Lyonette as Klbkch ignored Bird and Ksmvr.
“Erin. I informed Relc that you would be at the [Healer]’s for another hour. You have clearly moved up your schedule and thus I am not an ‘idiot who cannot tell the time’. Kindly inform Relc that rescheduling meetings is a practical and normal thing for people to do.”
“Not in the army! Klbkch is just mad he’s wrong. And that he’s not the only Antinium on duty, so everyone likes the new Antinium better.”
Klbkch paused, and Mrsha admired his new body. It looked…scary. Even Gire was a bit wary of him, but the Horns were at ease, arguing about whether or not Ksmvr needed the skin cream he’d been talked into buying and if they needed to demand a refund.
“Be nice, Relc!”
“Nice? I’m super nice! I’m just saying—Klbkch needs to be friendlier. He’s a decent guard—nothing on a [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch] of course, but his interpersonal skills? Let’s just say those new Workers and Soldiers get more smiles because they have paint and names. They’re adorable. Klbkch?”
The other Antinium folded his arms.
“I am an exemplar of my species—the only member of the Watch for a decade. My reputation is without question, Relc.”
“Yeah. Yeah. And Old Miss Tisheff gave that Antinium Worker her cookies and not you. That’s the real difference.”
“She did not. Did she? A [Guard] should not take presents anyways. But she always offers me…”
Relc patted Klbkch on the back. Mrsha patted him on the leg. The Antinium looked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] laughed.
For once, she didn’t cough, and Relc and Klbkch smiled as they revealed how popular some of the new Antinium were.
“But Klbkch, I thought you had more duties! Not that I’ve been able to talk with anyone…is it such a big deal?”
Erin teased him. The Antinium Revalantor folded his arms harder and seemed to withdraw into himself.
“It is not at all. Why would you have that impression, Erin? I am a Senior Guardsman, and that is a rank that no Antinium can match.”
“Yet.”
Relc’s huge grin could have been a mirror of Mrsha’s. Klbkch twitched—then he unsheathed one sword and swung it at Relc’s side.
It was so fast Mrsha recoiled only after she saw Relc had casually blocked it. The two [Guardsmen] stood there as Gire froze, an arm raised, and the Thronebearers and Horns whirled. But—Relc and Klbkch were grinning, one with teeth, the other with mandibles raised. Relc twirled his spear as Klbkch sheathed his sword.
“Ancestors, it is not fun practicing with you in the mornings, Klb.”
“It is not? Aside from Jeiss, I believe you are the only partner I can practice with. And vice versa.”
“But I have to work! True…it’s getting me back in shape.”
The [Spearmaster] and [Swordslayer] had a different relationship since both had come back to Liscor. If anything…it seemed better than before. Almost like they’d changed traits.
Relc was a bit more responsible. A bit. And he actually knew the law sometimes. Klbkch? He seemed…well. More ready to smile.
It was good to see, and while it might alarm everyone else not used to the two, Erin Solstice was beaming. A few Humans looked very disconcerted; it wasn’t everyday you saw two true masters of weapons on a Watch patrol.
But then, this was Liscor. And it seemed like they were about to get into it, that familiarity, when it happened again. Mrsha, beaming, heard Erin scolding the two.
“Don’t you two fight when I’m, like, a foot away! You could have cut my head off, Klbkch! And you, Relc! When did you get a spear?”
The pause in the air was interrupted by Relc’s laugh.
“You mean my new spear? It’s the same one, Erin! I gave the other one I took from that [Spearmaster], uh…what’s his name from Manus, to the Antinium. Hey, maybe I could sell it?”
He showed Erin his anti-magic spear, and she blinked at him.
“No. I don’t remember that. You don’t use a spear, Relc! You punch people! What’s this new Relc I’m seeing? Did you learn that at Cellidel too?”
The silence that fell next made Mrsha’s heart sink into her stomach. Everyone turned to Erin.
“Relc’s always had his spear, Erin. From the day we met. Do you mean his magical spear?”
Klbkch looked from Erin to Relc, and the [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“No way. I don’t remember that at all. He’s always used his fists, remember? Like when he fought…Skinner? And Pisces. And when he cut—no. But he probably used a knife or…? But he doesn’t use a spear!”
“He taught Embria how to use a spear.”
Klbkch reminded Erin again, and the [Innkeeper]’s brows drew together.
“He did. But he doesn’t have—wait. That makes no—but I don’t remember. You have a spear, Relc?”
She looked up, and Mrsha saw the most uncertain look on Relc’s face. He covered it with a grin and a laugh.
“Who knows, Erin? I have all kinds of stuff I forget. Like—underwear!”
“Gross.”
Erin laughed, but Mrsha saw it. There was, for a moment, a brief look of fear on Relc’s face. She couldn’t read Klbkch the same way, but Erin looked around and—
There it was again. Erin kept talking.
“I don’t remember it. I really don’t. Not once. A spear? I don’t…”
She put a hand to her head, and Mrsha saw her eyes flicker. Something was gone. It seemed one way to the living, but that memory wasn’t just lost somewhere.
Something had eaten it in the lands of the dead. But Erin looked at Relc, and that strained smile reappeared.
“I guess I forgot a few things. So…you look pretty good with that spear.”
Relc traded a glance with Klbkch and nodded.
“Yeah. Yeah, I guess I do.”
 
——
 
