Erin was regretting bringing it up already, yet something in her was telling her to.
“His last words.”
“I remember them.”
Ceria spoke flatly, but her grip was tight on a fry. She looked at Erin.
“I—what about him?”
“No, not those last words. I mean…I know…what he would have said to you, Ceria. I remember his last words.”
Erin blinked with almost as much astonishment as her friend as they came out. Yet she was certain.
Yet when she looked up, Ceria was shaking her head. Her features were wan, and there was pain in her gaze as she pushed her plate back.
“Erin, you weren’t there. He died in the crypt, remember? I was there. I heard him. He talked to you at the inn.”
“No, Ceria, I talked to him. He had a message for you and Calruz.”
The half-Elf hesitated. She stood up.
“He—I’m sure he did. But you weren’t there when he died, Erin. Sorry, can we discuss this later? I actually do have to go and…”
“I—yes. But it’s not that, Ceria. I met him.”
The half-Elf was already backing away. Erin had seen Ceria unruffled in far more trying circumstances, but she seemed pained and nervous. Afraid Erin was forgetting what happened. What mattered. Erin tried to push herself up.
“Ceria—”
“I know what you think, Erin. But just give me a moment. I’ll hear you out later.”
“Ceria. I saw him in the lands of the dead.”
The half-Elf froze on her way towards the door. She looked back at Erin, and the young woman sagged on the table, panting just trying to keep herself upright. Ishkr froze as he swept behind a table, and a [Knight], Ser Dalimont, paused on his walk around the inn. All three looked at Erin, but Ceria just hesitated. Her pale eyes lingered on Erin’s face and looked her up and down.
She had known Erin the longest among all of the [Innkeeper]’s friends. And yet—even the half-Elf hesitated. Was she afraid of it being true or…?
“I’m…not doubting you, Erin. But can you prove that? Because if you can’t—no offense, but I don’t—I don’t want to hear it. Sorry.”
She backed up and almost ran from the inn. Erin collapsed into her chair, panting. And there it was.
She believed. But like the most vivid of dreams, like Relc’s spear…how could she prove it? Erin clenched a fist and wanted to run after Ceria and apologize.
It had slipped out. A terrible compulsion. Like how she wanted to shout and find a—a—
“Nanette? And—and—find—a map…”
The needs and things she had to do pressed on her again. Erin put her hands to her head. But how could she prove…?
“Miss Solstice, is everything well?”
Ser Dalimont approached with a cool glass of water. Erin looked up at a man…whom she had never really met. One of Lyonette’s [Knights]. And he was going to be a problem, but no one wanted to talk with Erin about it.
Lyonette would ‘deal with it’. Erin needed to rest. They had it covered.
But that was the last thing the [Innkeeper] wanted. Erin squinted at Ser Dalimont as she sipped the water.
“Sorry. I—that was the wrong way to do it.”
“Perhaps, Miss Solstice.”
This particular Thronebearer was refreshing in that he didn’t lie. Erin blinked, but then smiled a bit. She invited Dalimont to sit.
“I—I’m not sure what’s real. You heard that?”
“Yes, Miss Solstice. Did the dead speak to you?”
She squinted at him, but the man didn’t smile or smirk.
“Do you believe that?”
Ser Dalimont rubbed at his chin.
“Shall we say, Miss Solstice, that I don’t doubt the dead can do anything? I have seen ghosts.”
“Everyone has, apparently.”
“Mm. Before the incident at the Great Plains as well.”
“Wh—really?”
Erin was fascinated, and Ser Dalimont hesitated longer.
“It is not my tale to tell, but I may say that it concerns Calanfer, another [Princess], and the Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus. That ghosts can walk amongst the living is a fact. If you were dead and they spoke to you—that does not beggar belief.”
“No. But Ceria’s right. If I can’t prove it…”
“Can you prove it, Miss Solstice?”
Ser Dalimont was watching her. The [Innkeeper] sat there, thinking for a moment. And her eyes flickered. When she looked up, the [Knight] was surprised not by the doubt, but the uncertainty. Instead of questioning herself, Erin looked at Dalimont and scared him greatly.
“If I can prove it, Ser Dalimont…should I?”
She didn’t wait for a response. Erin Solstice wheeled herself back from the table. She looked at Dalimont and then around at the inn.
“They won’t believe me, otherwise. And I didn’t come back to sit around.”
She began to roll towards the [Garden of Sanctuary] that opened for her. Dalimont didn’t know what to say, but the generic Gnoll sweeping behind a table called out anxiously.
Ishkr. He met Erin’s gaze, stolid, unnoticed at times, an ordinary [Head Server] in the craziest inn. Which made him unordinary in the extreme.
“Just for two weeks, Miss Solstice? It’s only been ten days.”
[Thought-Provoking Statement]. A Skill for a [Hero] of common sense. For a reply, Erin just turned. She smiled at Ishkr and looked around the inn.
“…It’s so quiet. And no one will tell me what they really went through. They treat me like glass, and I gotta admit I’m in a wheelchair. But I need to hear them. And they need to listen to me. It’s been how long, Ishkr?”
“Around four months, Miss Solstice.”
The Gnoll calmly swabbed a table with a dustrag as Dalimont looked from Ishkr to Erin. Dalimont had a prickling feeling, as if he were listening to a [General] addressing a veteran officer in the moments before the battle joined.
“Four months.”
Erin sighed. She looked at herself and at the quiet inn. Then she stuck out her tongue.
“Bleh. Was it boring?”
Ishkr looked up, and Erin Solstice looked at him. And the Gnoll…bared his teeth slightly.
“Exceedingly, Miss Erin.”
She nodded and smiled ruefully.
“That’s what I get for being dead. Better check the pantries for plates and food and stuff, Ishkr. Oh…and don’t tell Lyonette I’m going outside.”
“Miss Solstice—”
Dalimont strode forwards, but Erin was already zooming through the Garden of Sanctuary’s door, and he lost her for that crucial second. Dalimont turned and heard a laugh from the hallway where the front door was. He looked back as Ishkr chuckled, and he saw the Gnoll smiling.
Lyonette du Marquin had briefed Dalimont on Erin and what they might expect as he was the most sensible [Knight] in the inn. But even she hadn’t expected this. They thought Erin Solstice would come back from the grave a changed woman, and certainly she was. But what they failed to realize was that she’d had four months of inactivity. Of being a guest to terrible and great deeds.
Four months of rest. She had no time, no time at all to waste.
Prove it? Erin thoughtfully wheeled out the door as Ser Dalimont ran after her. She closed it, and he slammed into the door. Despite her not locking it, he was unable to open the door.
“Miss Solstice—”
“[Innkeepers] can control their inn. I think that Drevish, the Architect, told me that. But what do I know? I guess we’ll find out in a sec. Don’t worry. I’ve got the stupid rings on. I’ll be back in a moment.”
He was lost for words. Erin Solstice slowly wheeled herself across the grass, cursing the increased friction. But she didn’t have to go far, and she sighed as she stared at the city of Liscor.
Prove it. Everything that happened after this would depend on that, wouldn’t it? Because she had something to ask of them. More than any one person should. Ceria wasn’t wrong.
Prove. It.
Slowly, Erin Solstice pushed herself to the lip of the hill, where the incline began. She hesitated—and then wheeled herself down the hill. Slowly, the wheelchair began to speed up, and Erin realized she’d made a mistake.
“Uh oh. Someone always helped me d—waitasecondI’mgoingtoofast! Argh!”
She couldn’t grab the spinning wheels. That was how the Watch saw a screaming [Innkeeper] going down the hill towards the eastern gates. Bird stared down from his tower at Erin as she blurred down the hill and then hit a bump.
“Ooh. Ah. Ouch.”
He looked down at the sprawled figure on the grass as a [Guard] ran over to her. But Bird felt it. Slowly, carefully, he inserted an egg between his mandibles and crunched on it.
“Erin is back. Yay, yay. I wonder what will explode first?”
 
——
 
The [Guardsman] on duty was a Drake on the force, five years experience, no Senior Guardsman, but he’d seen all the big action.
His name was Vamolt, and he knew.
They all knew. The eastern wall had seen the [Innkeeper] leaving her inn, unattended. True, she could have been going for a little roll, but everyone was super protective of her. That she then went down the hill and wiped out?
They knew. But like men and women staring down at the pebbles of dirt careening down the slope, they thought it might not be an avalanche.
The little clod of dirt spun and bounced. The [Innkeeper] was swearing as she levered herself up.
“Miss Solstice? Can I help…?”
“That was scary! Who does that for fun? Actually…I could do that again. But not if I crash! Hey, thanks, who are you?”
“Guardsman Vamolt, Miss Solstice. Can I help you back to your inn?”
Vamolt saw Erin Solstice smile as he helped her into her chair and brushed grass and dirt off her arms. She shook her head.
“Nah, I’m just…going into the city for a bit. The Adventurer’s Guild. I’ll pop in and out, don’t worry.”
She gave him a quick grin, and he gave her a sickly salute and smile. She wheeled past him, muttering about getting a wheelchair with brakes. And he knew.
“Vamolt. Vamolt.”
The [Guards] on the eastern wall had watched her wheel past. They waved him over, and he almost ran towards his coworkers. A Gnoll hissed at him. A pair of Humans were staring at Erin, looking amused and uncomprehending. New hires. Oh, they were from Celum and a village respectively, but they didn’t know.
“Did you see that smile? Your Ancestors, it’s happening.”
“I know. Did the Watch Sergeant see?”
One of the two Humans looked at the Gnoll and Drake whispering.
“Uh, Vamolt, Senior Guardsman Derra, what’s wrong? That’s the [Innkeeper], right? She didn’t cause trouble yesterday.”
“Yeah. But she’s smiling. Watch Sergeant—”
The Watch Sergeant on the walls came hurrying down.
“I saw it. I’ve sent a [Message] to Watch Captain Zevara already. Are you two sure? I’m sure.”
The two Humans looked from the Drakes and Gnolls with growing apprehension. Vamolt shuddered.
“It’s the smile. No chance yesterday with the [Princess] and the escort.”
“The [Princess]?”
“Shush, newbies. Catch up on common knowledge. This is crucial. We’re all in agreement, then?”
The [Guards] nodded. The Watch Sergeant closed her eyes and then nodded.
“Alright. I’m confirming with Zevara, and I’ll send a copy of the [Message] to the Council. The betting pool wins—ten days! Did she say where she was going?”
“Um…Adventurer’s Guild. A ‘little errand’.”
“Dead gods have mercy on them.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice didn’t really notice the quiet movement in the streets as she wheeled around. She was worriedly looking for Lyonette or another snitch, so she missed the actual people stalking her.
“Patrol 1 is in place, Watch Captain. Solstice Contingency active.”
Watch Captain Zevara didn’t see Erin, but she was already striding to the location.
“She’s on track to the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Advise them to clear out now. Anyone who wants to stay—can. Where are Guardsmen Klbkch and Relc?”
“Relc’s asleep. We’re getting him out of his apartment, and Guardsman Klbkch said that he’ll be on the surface in five.”
“Good, good. [Message] to Lyonette du Marquin?”
“She’s on her way.”
Watch Captain Zevara nodded to herself. You could play this multiple ways. Lyonette du Marquin might be able to defuse the situation, but in Zevara’s experience, Lyonette couldn’t always trump Erin.
There had been some discussion internally about the issue, and Jeiss had suggested they do something stupid like try and stop the next event. Which was foolish; it was like trying to cover a bursting dam. If you stopped her in one spot, she just caused havoc somewhere else. You contained the event.
Now, any other Watch Captain would have probably laughed their tail off at Zevara or called this some kind of satire. They would keep laughing until they realized that Zevara was not exaggerating. She was taking the relaxed approach, trusting Erin.
That was the mistake [Spies] made. They said ‘yes, she is probably a Level 40+ [Innkeeper]. She is almost definitely responsible for many of the tales coming out of Liscor, and General Sserys may have possessed her. It stands to reason that half the rumors about her are true’.
And that was their error. They thought it was half. Now, Zevara knew that Erin Solstice could not always work miracles. She had seen Erin die, after all, and knew she was not infallible.
However…Erin Solstice had come back from the dead. She had somehow, somehow been part of the greatest events in world history, and now she was heading into Liscor with all the hallmarks of a Solstice Event™. Even in Zevara’s most optimistic opinion—
She didn’t think this was going to be small at all. And to be honest? The Watch Captain was all here for it, although she would deny that to her dying day.
But what would this one be? The Watch had bets, and that was the thing. They knew she could do it. Not what…but Erin Solstice had come back from the lands of the dead.
It was interesting. So interesting that Watch Captain Zevara had to intercede herself before Erin got to the Adventurer’s Guild.
“Miss Solstice. Good morning.”
“I didn’t do anything y—oh, hi, Watch Captain Zevara.”
The young woman jumped guiltily in her wheelchair and looked back at Zevara with a terrible fake smile. Or was she as cunning as Mister Soot had been?
“I’m sure I don’t know what you mean, Miss Solstice. I just wanted to greet you. I hope you’re feeling better after…everything?”
Zevara met Erin’s eyes and looked the young woman up and down. She did see the wheelchair, with two of Solar Cycles’ wheels, and the way Erin was already tired from this trip. She looked frailer, but she smiled as she drew in some air, coughed, and nodded.
“I’m—good. I mean, I was dead. But I’m gonna get better with time. I’m just…going to the Adventurer’s Guild to put up a q—a notice.”
“Of course. Good day to you.”
Zevara gave Erin a crisp salute and saw those hazel eyes glance at her. Erin Solstice turned to go, and Zevara was sure.
