“I’m a bit tired. I know you’ve all done so much, and I have to do things differently. We all do. But I’m back, and I won’t be still forever. I want to talk to you. So talk to me. And…and I think we need to do more good things.”
She looked around.
“I want to have more fun. I want to experience great moments with you all and help you with anything you want to do. And fall in…”
She trailed off. Erin Solstice looked back and met their gazes. Then she coughed again.
“Sorry about the guild. I guess I’ll post the other quests later. Party at The Wandering Inn!”
Slowly, she pushed herself forwards, and one of the Thronebearers helped her over the rocky ground. Erin rolled forwards until the silence became voices. Then cheering as Numbtongue and Jelaqua and the others lifted her chair overhead. She left behind a broken Adventurer’s Guild and chaos.
And The Wandering Inn? It was back in business. The first Mythical Quest was posted again on the walls later that day. It would not be the last.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note: …And we’re back. Volume 9 has begun and I’m tired. Time for another break!
I’m kidding. Or am I? In truth, I think I actually spent the first fourteen days of rest just recovering. Only after that period did I feel like a person, and I ran into some severe exhaustion, but I think a lot of it’s cleared up.
I definitely needed the month off and, as promised, I’m back. But also as promised—I’m trying to take it easy.
With a 28,000 word chapter to bring us into Volume 9. It could be 38,000. It could be 48,000. It’ll be a work in progress, filled with false promises I’m sure, but we’re going to try and take it easy.
And work on Volume 1’s rewrite! And maybe other stuff! I will keep you posted and no, the schedule I showed Patreons will not be the set plan. I’m going to play it by ear this month and get back into writing. Also, no side story poll! Sorry, but for the first few chapters it’d be weird if you voted on the first few chapters.
Hopefully you liked our first chapter back. I feel rusty, ironically, but I think I’ll get back into the best flow soon enough. Thanks for reading and tell your friends! Tell your enemies! Tell the bees—The Wandering Inn is back.
And so is Erin Solstice.
