Frankly, killing monsters and getting their bounties in the dungeon was more profitable, or hoping you found a treasure room. Not that she’d been doing either; her team had come back from a semi-profitable Wyvern hunting expedition for that huge bounty. Two Wyverns was four thousand gold pieces. Not bad for a week of jumping at every shadow in the High Passes and waiting for a Wyvern to take the bait.
Yes, the bounty was still being claimed because there was still money in the Adventurer’s Guild vaults. Until it ran out…well, Liscor was the place to be in Jewel’s mind. It had access to two major cities, and she’d heard so much about it.
Not enough, apparently, to recognize Erin’s name. The young woman thanked her and began wheeling over to the board. She had two pieces of parchment, and she’d even brought her own hammer and a nail.
“Oh—excuse me, Miss Erin. You can’t do that.”
Jewel intercepted the young woman and saved her from making a mistake. Erin frowned at Jewel.
“What? Why? I’m just going to put this up…”
“I’m afraid only registered requests can go up there. You’ll need to run it by a [Receptionist]. Just over there, see?”
Plus, who hammered nails into a cork board? Erin Solstice opened her mouth and hesitated.
“But I have an, uh, an actual quest type thing. I know Selys, one of the [Receptionists]. I’ll just…”
She tried to wheel around Jewel, but the Gold-rank adventurer was insistent.
“You can’t do that, Miss. That’s a board for Gold-rank requests, anyways.”
Erin was trying to get to a sparsely-occupied board. It wasn’t the backrooms of Invrisil’s Adventurer’s Guild with its pecking order, but there were still a few Gold-rank teams in Liscor, and Jewel blocked Erin. She was treated to a kindly, if exasperated smile.
“I know, excuse me. I’ll talk to the Guildmistress or anyone. I’m just going to…”
“Let me just get a [Receptionist] for you, Miss. Gold-rank requests are very expensive, and you have to put down gold first to prove you can back it. I’m sure it’s vital—excuse me! Can we get a [Receptionist] for…?”
And then Jewel turned Erin around in her chair and began rolling her towards the counter. It was all very well-intentioned, if pushy, but it was a continuation of Erin’s treatment for the last ten days.
By a stranger. Now, at this point the real question was: what would come next? Also, why had no one stopped Jewel?
Surely someone in the guild knew her. Of course they did. But half the [Receptionists] had already slipped out the back doors and were staring through the windows. As for the other Gold-rank teams or veterans?
“Hey. Hey. Anith. Look what that Gold-adventurer’s doing.”
Insill whispered in horror as he watched the entire event unfold. Anith looked up from his book as Vuliel Drae watched Jewel first meet Erin. Anith hesitated.
“We should stop her.”
He knew Erin Solstice, but before the Jackal Beastkin could move, someone else grabbed his arm.
“No. Don’t.”
A deep voice echoed from where Seborn was sitting, taking his ease. He hadn’t greeted Erin. Anith stared at the Drowned Man’s serious gaze. Like the other Halfseekers, Seborn had ‘given Erin her space’ after returning to Liscor. Or rather, he’d followed Jelaqua’s lead.
“Why not, Seborn?”
He was treated to a serious look from the [Rogue]-[Faith Seeker]. Seborn’s face was grave as he whispered back.
“Because it will be the funniest thing I’ve seen in months.”
And like that, Jewel was left alone to her fate by the other adventurers. She pushed the protesting Erin forwards until the young woman stopped her with her feet.
“Miss Erin…”
“Let go of my chair, please. I’m going to do my thing. Get a [Receptionist] if you want, but they know me at this guild.”
Erin looked annoyed at this point, and Jewel hesitated. At this point, she thought she should just let this young woman be admonished.
Incidentally, she was younger than Erin, but as a Gold-rank adventurer, Jewel was trying to be the responsible party. She watched Erin wheel up to the Gold-rank request board and then realized the same thing Erin did.
…The [Innkeeper] was too short to reach the board properly in her chair. Erin tried to get up twice, then gave up. She scowled at the bottom of the request-board.
“You think this makes you better than me? I don’t need you anyways!”
She waved a hammer at the board, and Jewel began wondering if Erin were actually just crazy. She got her answer a second later as Erin, grumbling, unrolled one piece of parchment and put a nail in place.
She was going to hammer it into the wall!
“Miss! Miss—”
Jewel hurried over. Erin ignored her until she felt herself being pulled back again. This time—Erin turned her head once.
“Let. Go.”
Jewel’s hands leapt from the wheelchair’s handlebars, and she jerked back. It was like a shock, as if the handlebars had been charged.
An aura? She stared at Erin in surprise. But then she reached for Erin.
“I can’t let you—”
Erin calmly let Jewel grab one arm—it was a gentle grip, if strong. So it was a gentle flame that covered Jewel’s arm.
“Aaah! What the—”
The Gold-rank [Swashbuckler] leapt back, waving away a bright orange flame. Even Seborn stirred at this point, because he had never seen that before. The grumpy flame of irritation covered Jewel’s hands, scorching her lightly before she could remove it. She had to stomp on it; it refused to go out.
“Huh. New fire. And it’s lame.”
Erin peered at the ground then shrugged. Jewel looked at Erin and then around the room. Now…as her other two teammates half-rose and gazed at their captain, Jewel realized she was being watched.
Situational awareness. A real veteran would have noted they were walking into a trap already, but Jewel was new to her rank. She hesitated and looked at Erin.
Was this some kind of advanced hazing prank? She could walk off, but she had embarrassed herself already. She was in too deep.
But what was the move? The young woman was clearly high-level in something, so Jewel was wrong in that she had no right to do whatever she was doing. Pulling her away would cause a scene, and she was ignoring Jewel.
So, the right thing to do that the [Swashbuckler] came up with was to approach, somewhat humbly, rubbing her burnt hand and smiling. Erin glanced over with resignation.
“You came back. Are you really going to do this a third time? Because it’s gonna be bad.”
Jewel hesitated. She could hear some titters in the background from the peanut gallery, but she put the best smile on her face and swept Erin a slight bow.
“Miss Erin. I, um—I’m sorry for bothering you. Let me make it up to you. I’m Jewel, Captain of Glitterblade. A Gold-rank team. As an apology, I’d be happy to accept any request you’re putting up.”
That was her way out. A bit of the old Moribus Oblige—adventurer’s responsibility in the old language. It might have even worked on someone else.
Erin Solstice stopped with the hammer raised. Jewel noticed that the cheap parchment that the young woman was writing on had…glittering lettering. Some fancy [Alchemist]’s ink? Erin gave Jewel a long look that made the [Swashbuckler] feel as if she were looking straight through her. Then Erin smiled.
“Yeah. That’s a kind offer. But I don’t think it’ll really work. Your team might be under-level for this one. No offense.”
The sheer audacity of that statement left Jewel at a loss for words. The laugher that ran around the room made Jewel flush. So she grabbed the request.
 
——
 
“She’s killing herself. I’m going in!”
Insill stood up, but half a dozen hands from other adventurers pulled him back. They were watching all of it like a wagon heading towards an adamantium wall. Jewel was making a lot of mistakes, but again, to be fair—she was something of a prodigy.
A Gold-rank adventurer at her age? She had over 30 levels in [Swashbuckler], and her team had killed fearsome monsters, if not Adult Crelers. Being told she was underleveled for Erin’s request had to sting—and Erin was in her antagonistic mode.
Grabbing the parchment was still the wrong move, though. Erin’s eyes flashed as Jewel snapped to everyone present.
“I’ll be the judge of that, Miss. My team will do it free if it’s—”
And then someone came to spoil this wonderful moment. Lyonette du Marquin charged into the guild with all four Thronebearers behind her. She spotted Erin and pointed.
“No! Selys—get in here!”
Here came the cavalry. Selys Shivertail ran into the guild followed by a second group. No less than Todi’s Elites and Todi himself. All of them, [Knights], adventurers, [Princess], and [Heiress] ran at Erin.
“No, you don’t, Erin! What are you doing?”
Lyonette advanced on the [Innkeeper] as Erin groaned. Erin put her hands up.
“Lyonette, I have to—”
“You’ve just recovered! Do you have to make a scene?”
“It’s really important. No one believes me. Dalimont, tell her! I was dead! And I had this—”
“You didn’t tell me. What are you doing? Give me that, Miss.”
Lyonette grabbed for the parchment, and Jewel held on, staring at Todi. Selys was looking around.
“Todi, grab that. Erin, do you have your rings on?”
“Stop babying me! And if one of you Thronebearers puts a hand on my wheelchair, I’ll set you on fire! Back, back!”
Erin produced a knife, and because it was Pelt’s, everyone backed up as she waved it around. Lyonette was sweating, and Selys saw the parchment in Jewel’s hand. Both [Princess] and adventurer were fighting for it, and the funny thing was—
They thought they could stop this. Seborn was chortling so loudly that Todi noticed him. The Gold-rank veteran hesitated, but Selys snapped.
“Todi, get the parchment.”
“Todi? What are you—let go! I’m going to accept—who is this?”
“Give me that, Jewel. What are you, a Bronze-rank rookie?”
Todi snapped and tried to grab the parchment, but Jewel was hanging onto it like the last shreds of sanity. The piece of parchment stretched between all three hands as they fought for it, and then Lyonette, Jewel, and Todi realized something.
Erin had used foolscap parchment, cheap, frayed, and practically tearing itself to write down her little request. It already had a few breaks, but despite all three practically leaning on it, it wasn’t so much as fraying.
And then they noticed that lettering…shining. Selys Shivertail looked at the words, and one stood out to her. Slowly, she looked at Erin, who was watching the altercation with exasperation and amusement.
“Erin. What is that?”
Everyone turned to the [Innkeeper] as Jewel finally let go, and Lyonette and Todi went stumbling. Erin smiled. It was that wide, too-innocent smile of someone who knew exactly what they were doing.
“Todi, right? Give me that.”
He had it in his hands. Selys and Lyonette held out their hands, but Erin beckoned.
“Give. I can always make a new one, I think.”
“I, er…”
“Give.”
The Gold-rank Captain looked from the [Princess] of Calanfer to Selys, his employer and [Heiress] and owner of the Heartflame Breastplate. Then at Erin Solstice. He performed a quick calculation and handed the parchment over.
“Todi!”
Selys and Lyonette began to argue, but Erin was already turning back to the wall. Todi stepped back, checked his wand and sword, and elbowed Jewel hard. She jumped and looked at him.
“That’s how a Gold-rank adventurer does it, amateur.”
Never let it be said that Todi couldn’t read the room. He watched Selys and Lyonette trying to dissuade Erin Solstice. Jewel stared at Erin, and so did Todi. Because they, like Selys, had seen something of what that parchment said. Erin raised the hammer and nail as Tekshia Shivertail woke up from her nap in her office upstairs and wondered what all the damn shouting was about.
 
——
 
On the topic of Quests. The announcement that had rung through the ears of every [Innkeeper] in the world ten days ago was one of the many things that had happened.
To inquiring minds, it was very significant. As much as new lands rising? Well…in some ways, yes.
For instance, Timbor Parithad had heard the announcement in his head like this:
 
<Class: Innkeeper> [Quests unlocked.]
[Post: Basic Quest obtained!]
[Post: Rare Quest obtained!]
 
Very respectable for a Level 30+ [Innkeeper] like him. He, like every other [Innkeeper], had panicked a bit, made sure everyone else had heard it, and done some experimentation.
The benefits were already becoming apparent—if figures of authority even knew this had happened.
Chaldion of Pallass, for instance, knew. Because he was Chaldion, and the owner of The Noble’s Fancy, the fanciest inn in Pallass, had let him know what was going on via way of Rufelt.
That had incidentally gotten one of the junior [Strategists] assigned to sifting through reports reprimanded severely, because she hadn’t forwarded the information to Chaldion, considering it not worth his time given all that was going on.
Right now, he was standing with the Drake in the aristocratic halls of the inn, which was more like a mansion and catered to the richest clients. If you wanted to feel like Terandrian royalty—this was the place.
“So you can post [Rare Quests], but nothing more?”
“No, Grand Strategist.”
“What is your level at this moment, Innkeeper Adalton?”
The Drake hesitated. He was wearing a suit rather reminiscent of a butler, but he’d added some flared inner cloth that shone bright yellow with Pallass’ colors when he moved to the somber exterior. He had a lot of respect for Chaldion, but he was still a private person.
“Er…”
“Let me rephrase that. Are you over Level 40?”
Rufelt coughed, because he knew the answer to this one. The Drake hemmed and hawed, and Chaldion sighed.
“No, then. I could assume Level 40 is the cutoff for…whatever comes next. Hrm. If that’s the case…”
He had one fake, gemstone eye that stared ahead, this one glowing bright blue, but his real one flickered to the doors. Rufelt had the same thought that Chaldion did.
“I may confirm it later. Although my source is—recovering. This can’t be a coincidence. Ten days ago exactly?”
“Yes, Grand Strategist. And I might add—I can post a [Basic Quest] on the hour.”
“Killing rats, hauling grain. And the rewards are sometimes…random?”
“Extra rewards, yes, Grand Strategist. Why, I had my neighbor’s son clean the gutters—a huge project for a lad like him, but I promised him thirteen silvers for it. When he got the silver it was the instant he finished cleaning up—and he did a better job than regular for the quest to finish! Then he got the silvers…and a football. One of the good ones.”
“A football.”
Chaldion’s voice was flat. The [Innkeeper] nodded rapidly.
