“Good morning Lin-Lin.” Having done this many times before, Song slipped through the opening and gently shut the door behind her, making sure not to injure any of the rabbits trying to squeeze through. Ignoring the thumps and scratches of angry bunnies intent on stealing the Medical Saint’s stash of Spiritual Herbs, she made her way to Lin’s side and wordlessly offered to take over, an offer Lin was happy to accept.

“Thanks Li-Li,” Lin said, stifling a yawn as she shuffled over to light the stove and boil a pot of water. “I thought of a new prescription to try last night and wanted to have it ready before Rainy brings us out for lunch.”

Poor girl... So devoted to her beloved, Lin refused to believe Rain’s plight could not be fixed and spent hours upon hours scouring through books and medicine cabinets in the hopes of developing a cure for a shattered Core. While Song had heard of pills and elixirs to help individuals along the Martial Path, it was difficult to say whether a certain medicine was truly effective or merely a sham. Take the Rising Dragon Elixir for example, something she herself benefited from thanks to Lin’s generosity. Looking back on her experiences, Song wasn’t sure if she could attribute her current skills to the elixir, or if the elixir had no effect and she would have reached her current heights without it. There was no discernible effect from taking the medication, no miraculous boost in strength or instant increase in power, so after so many years of effort and hard work, who was to say if the medicine had any effect? True, everyone in their group who took the elixir now stood at the forefront of their peers, but they had all been prominent talents to begin with and there were probably hundreds of other young nobles who used the same elixir as well, to little or no gain.

Rain called it the ‘placebo’ effect, wherein if one believed the medicine would be effective, then their training would go that much easier thanks to the confidence and assurance gained from it. Regardless, the only medicines Song understood were those which had an obvious effect. Balms to soothe one’s aches or paste to bind one’s wounds, these she saw value in, but pills to make Core Formation easier and a tincture to help Condense an Aura? Unless they proved themselves to be one hundred percent effective, Song would never be convinced of their effectiveness, and she feared Lin’s obsession with a miracle cure would be her ruin. Then again, the Medical Saint seemed equally optimistic in discovering a cure, setting Luo-Luo to purchasing any and all Spiritual Herbs while he ran all across the Empire with the Bicorn bunnies in hopes of finding more, but thus far, there’d been little progress in Rain’s treatment unless you counted those mundane remedies like lotion for his dry skin, washes to freshen his breath, and tonics to keep him from screaming all the time.

The last was of particular importance since any sort of movement could cause him pain, but a small spoonful of clear medicine was all he needed each day, though it also made him irritably happy and upbeat. Much better than smoking up a storm like Teacher Du or Venerable Guan Suo, but with similar addictive properties. Today’s medicine was a soup, or at least that’s what it looked like to Song’s amateur eyes, a variety of ingredients all ground into a fine paste before being dissolved in boiling water. The pungent stench brought tears to her eyes, but Lin barely blinked while she worked, fanning the stove to keep the heat up while continuously stirring the pot. Praying this wasn’t for Rain to slather across his skin or wear as poultice, Song followed Lin’s directions and plucked, ground, strained, and mixed for the better part of an hour before their work was done and the medicine left on a stand to cool. Barely able to keep her eyes open, Lin thanked Song for her help before stumbling back to bed for an hour or two of rest before lunchtime, the sweet half-hare overworking herself lately to provide Rain with the care and medicine he needed. So much work just to keep him alive and well, much less the effort required to restore him back to full strength, assuming it was even possible.

And if so... was it worth all this suffering?

Banishing the thought as it came to her, Song rushed out to cuddle the animals for comfort. With nothing else to do until lunch, she lounged about in the courtyard and played with the pets until it came time for lunch, whereupon she went inside to wake Lin and help her braid her hair. Finishing just as the courtyard doors opened, Rain hobbled alongside sister-in-law Sarnai and the rest of his pets while their escort of three dozen Death Corps waited outside. As Lin ran over with the pot of medicine, Song stood to one side and tried not to resent Rain for his goofy smile or continued existence, her spirits low and emotions in flux. She took a small measure of satisfaction from seeing him choke down the vile concoction, for his grimace was ugly to behold as he thanked them for their efforts, especially with so many popped pimples marring his face. “Stop popping them hubby,” Lin said with a huff as she dabbed ointment to the wounds. “They’re gonna scar and you’re gonna be stuck looking ugly forever.”

“Ugly?” Rain asked, looking about for a mirror. “It’s not that bad, is it? Should I ask Teacher to Heal them?”

“Daddy isn’t here, and he shouldn’t Heal them anyways. You’re not eating enough yanno?” Giving him a careful hug, Lin added, “It doesn’t matter if hubby becomes pock-marked and hideous, Lin-Lin will still love you, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t be more careful with your looks, ya? I like my handsome Rainy best.”

“Sorry.” Looking almost as miserable as Song felt, Rain quickly recovered his annoyingly cheerful disposition and said, “Well, we have a reservation to get to and we’re running a little late, so let’s get going.” Giving Song an awkward, almost shame-faced grin, he absentmindedly fiddled with his chest where her chain once hung and added, “I’ve heard great things about their soup-filled dumplings.”

Her mood lifting at his apparent discomfort and the thought of enjoying her favourite dish, Song walked slightly behind Rain and sister-in-law Sarnai while they made their way to the restaurant, but even short distances took some time to cover with Rain moving at a snail’s pace and needing frequent stops to rest. The Number One Talent in the Empire was now weaker than a child and thick-skinned enough to put it on display for the small crowd of detractors and onlookers lingering about, pretending not to follow or point and laugh while making every effort to ensure their sarcastic mockery was both seen and heard.

“There goes Fallen Rain, our glorious young hero. Thank the Mother he survived.”

“Perhaps some day, I too can match him in strength.”

“So lofty a goal, perhaps you’ve set your sights too high.”

And on and on it went. Though Rain seemed impervious to their slander and disrespect as he made slow progress along the cobbled pathway, the Death Corps lacked his thick skin and shameless demeanour, but their response was disheartening to watch. Their token had also been destroyed by Gen’s conjured pillar of flame and they were now in Rain’s permanent employ, but instead of bristling with rage at the poorly veiled insults directed towards their Master, the Death Corps winced and balked before the abuse and contempt, which meant in some ways, they agreed with the insults and could no longer take pride in serving at Rain’s side. Much like Song, their purpose in life was to serve, and their pride hinged upon the accomplishments of their Master. While Rain had come far in his short life, like a candle burning too bright, his time would soon be over.

Death would be a mercy, for at least his dignity would be spared.

This time, Song barely flinched as the Heavens punished her for her thoughts, for she truly believed this to be true. She was Oath-bound to defend her Master, but Rain’s existence was filled with suffering. If she came across someone in great pain and no hope of survival, she would offer that person the mercy of death, so why should it not be the same for her Master? Looking ridiculous in his puffy overcoat and thick hat, Rain’s brow dripped with sweat and his gaunt frame seemed ready to topple as he took one step, then another, his gaze fixed on the stones so he couldn’t see the mocking smiles or scornful gazes sent his way. Jaw clenched in obvious agony, he paused to catch his breath and...

...

And then he smiled. A small, celebratory smile which soon turned into a grin. “One hundred steps,” he said, eyes bright and chest heaving. “A record. The first of many, because tomorrow, I intend to break it.” With a self-deprecating chuckle, he turned to Song and added, “But sadly, I think I’ve overstepped in thinking I could make it all the way to the restaurant. Do you think Erdene would mind carrying me the rest of the way?”

Startled by his chipper attitude, Song quietly helped him onto the quin and took hold of his belt to keep him from falling off, for despite his good mood, he seemed ready to collapse. After resuming their journey at a more normal pace, she snuck a look at Rain’s face and saw his self-satisfied smile, still as foolish and idiotic as always, but it was his eyes which caught her gaze. Tired and pained, but burning with the same confidence and determination he’d always had, because he truly believed he would rise once again. A hundred steps was by no means an impressive record, but tomorrow, he would improve on it, this he’d already declared. An inspiring attitude, one Song could learn from, and she couldn’t help but hold herself in contempt for the way she’d been acting of late.

If Rain could stand firm and laugh in the face of near hopeless odds, then why should she be any different? Compared to him, Song’s circumstances were almost laughable, because in what way was she suffering? Why cry and wish for death when she had a loving family, considerate friends, affectionate pets, a warm bed, and good food to eat? Three years ago, she couldn’t even dream of a life as good as the one she led now, so why couldn’t she be happy?

It was as if there were a pall draped over her mind and a heavy weight dragging her heart down into the pits of despair, and though she didn’t know how to make herself be happy, she knew that if she continued down the path, Balance would be lost to her. Resolving to be more optimistic and return to her Martial training, she silently cheered Rain on and committed the faces of his detractors to memory, because even though she ached to draw her saber and challenge each and every one of them, this was not her battle to fight. Rain was a brilliant Warrior who’d been Blessed by the Mother, a man who trained for less than eight years before becoming the publicly acclaimed Number One Talent in the Empire, so if he did recover, even ten years was not too long for a gentleman to take revenge.

And if he never recovered? Well then those poor dandies would be out of luck, for then it would fall to Sister Mila to regain her betrothed’s lost honour, and her rage was terrifying to behold...

Chapter Meme
