Careful not to wake the snoring bunnies, Song slipped out of bed to greet the morning, but her efforts were for naught. Indifferent to the plight of others, Sarankho stretched her paws and arched her back before rolling right over Thumper and Flopsy to slide off the bed, moving with the sluggish grace shared by all felines save Aurie. Startled awake, the two rabbits darted and stomped about the bed in a rowdy show of outrage before angrily flattening themselves out atop the cotton covers, glaring at the indifferent Sarankho as she nuzzled Song’s leg. The wildcat’s wide eyes were the very picture of innocence and compassion as she mewled and chirped, making her odd, endearing noises to signal she wanted her breakfast. Unable to contain her laughter, Song kissed the affectionate wildcat and soothed the grumpy bunnies before bringing them all to the windowsill, where she sat and watched the orange glow of morning sunlight spill over the verdant Central Plains.

The view from her fifth-story window was dazzling to behold as she gazed out over the sea of frost-dusted grass, but with winter soon to begin in earnest, nature’s beauty was tinged with a hint of sombre gloom. When she first arrived, autumn had yet to arrive in full force and there’d been plenty of flowers to add colour to the fields of green, but those blossoms had soon wilted away to leave a drearier, more desolate landscape behind. A portent of things to come perhaps, for despite the beauty and serenity laid out before her, all Song could focus on were the signs of war, the most obvious of which was the citadel wall which sat across the way, with armoured soldiers patrolling the bleak grey battlements at all hours of the day. A paltry fifteen metres high, the wall sat almost a full level below Song’s window and only thirty metres away, hardly enough to give an army of millions of Defiled pause, but it was the best the Empire could do in so short a time. Outside the three key citadels, the walls were even shorter at a mere ten metres high, but wiser minds than hers had arranged to keep the Empire safe by digging a man-made river running from Azure Sea to Arid Wasteland, one wider than the walls were tall and deep enough to drown hundreds of thousands of Defiled within its murky depths.

From a tactical standpoint, Mama’s Khishigs could fire over the walls from the rooms and roof of this building where Roc’s flock nested for the winter, two reasons why they lived in this forward barracks instead of in the comfortable manor next to Brother Baatar’s and Medical Saint Taduk’s, which Song was grateful for because it kept her away from... him.

To the north and south sat bridges of rope and wood stretching out over the river, suspended from the walls themselves and leading down to the plains below. Only one stone bridge had been built, a wide behemoth which arched high over the waters to allow boats and barges to pass underneath, drifting downstream to the south or rowing their way back north and ferrying soldiers and supplies to wherever they might be needed. At the end of the stone bridge sat a packed dirt trail which stretched ever westward into the horizon, soon to be bustling with bodies and wagons heading out to the front lines while the weary and wounded shuffled back.

In recent weeks, Song often had nightmares of seeing Sister Mila among those woeful returnees, with Mama, Papa, and everyone else she loved out on the plains too, all injured and suffering while she watched from her lofty perch inside the safety of the citadel. Though she yearned to run out to aid them, her way was always blocked by an invisible wall trapping her in the confines of her room and leaving her helpless to do anything except watch her loved ones die, because her life no longer belonged to them.

No, it belonged to another, for during the clash with the quasi-Demon Gen, the fiery inferno which almost took Rain’s life had also consumed and destroyed Song’s Oath chain and left her bound as his unwilling slave, from now until the fateful day he drew his last breath.

If only that day would come sooner rather than later...

The air grew thin and the world closed in around her as the Heavens admonished Song for her near treasonous thoughts. That was all it took now, merely looking forward to the day of her Master’s death, for this line of thinking was too close to wishing him dead, so she concentrated on being a good and obedient slave for Rain. Appeased, the Heavens rescinded its pressure and left Song gasping for air, holding the bunnies tight as she slid down the wall and sat on the floor. Tears welling in her eyes, despair threatened to overcome her and even Sarankho’s comforting weight pressing against her failed to raise Song’s mood, so she curled up with the bunnies and wildcat to cry in silence while mourning the loss of the happy, carefree life she only recently dared to dream of.

She was still sitting there when Mama came in for their morning ritual, and her brush fell to the floor with a clatter. “Oh daughter,” she crooned, joining Song by the window and hugging her tight. “It’s alright. Mama’s here. You’ve nothing to worry about sweet child of mine. Husband! Come quick. Your daughter needs you.”

Papa’s panicked expression as he ran into the room left Song unsure whether to laugh or cry, and he quickly joined them on the floor. Wrapping Song and Mama in his crushing embrace, he muttered, “There there my girl, don’t you cry. Papa’s here.”

Nestled in their arms, Song’s tears flowed freely until she got a hold of herself, her melancholy leaving her worn and ashamed of her weakness. “Sorry Mama, sorry Papa,” Song sniffled, her cheeks burning with embarrassment. This wasn’t the first time they’d found her in tears, nor would it likely be the last, though Song had never been one for tears. A year ago, she would’ve accepted these new circumstances without blinking an eye, but now, only shortly after believing she could be more than just a mere slave, cruel fate conspired to tear those hopes and dreams apart, leaving her to this dark and dreary fate.

Why, Mother in Heaven? Why must you treat Your child so?

“Nothing to apologize for lass,” Papa rumbled, and Mama nodded in agreement, both so patient and understanding. The first time they found her crying, Papa had almost stormed off to have words with Rain, but Song’s grief and misery had nothing to do with him, not really. She trusted him, else she would never have agreed to go with him to the front lines and fight at his side, but that was supposed to be temporary. Now, she was bound to him for the foreseeable future and this minor change was enough to send her spiralling into depression, because now she had lost her reason for existence. What point was there in training so hard and forming a Natal Palace if she would never get the chance to fight alongside her family? How was she to prove her worth and repay their love and affection while bound to a bedridden Master?

Though Rain’s display of power on the fields of Sinuji was impressive beyond belief, there was little chance he would ever recover from his injuries and return to those glorious heights. Broken Blade Pichai was revered across the Empire because he was an exception to the rule, a man who overcame the odds stacked against him after losing his Spiritual Weapon, but the living legend only lost one while Rain lost three. What’s more, it took thirty years for Pichai to reclaim his status as an Expert of the Empire, and few cared to remember how utterly mediocre he’d been at first. While he eventually rose to the Peak of Martial Strength, it was only after another three decades of constant training and conflict. Sixty years passed since he was a burgeoning young talent who lost his weapon, and while his name was spoken of in the same breath as Teacher Du and Eccentric Gam thanks to their exploits in Nan Ping, Pichai was the weakest of them by far and a Peak Expert who barely made the cut, if the rumours were to be believed.

Thus, even if Rain defied the odds and made a full recovery, the chances of him returning to the battlefield in the near future were slim to none. In all likelihood, he would never recover, which meant that so long as he lived, he would be well cared for and protected, leaving nothing for Song to do except wash his small-clothes and fetch his medicine. If not for the Legate’s express orders that he remain in Central, Rain would have already been shipped back to the north with Song Oath bound to remain at his side, a mere slave to follow at her Master’s heels no matter how much Mama, Papa, Sister, or anyone else loved her. No longer was she free to join Sister out on the front lines or Mama on a scouting trip of their surroundings, or go on a supply run with Papa for fear of bringing her too far away from her Master.

None of this was Rain’s fault, but Song couldn’t help but resent him for surviving what would have killed almost anyone else. A terrible thing to think since Sister and everyone else loved him so much and he treated Song so well, but if he had died alongside the destruction of her chain, Mama would be her new Master instead, circumstances which she would have been more than happy to accept. Even thinking about this hypothetical was enough to trigger her Oaths and squeeze the air from her lungs, for she was bound to serve her Master with unwavering loyalty. Though eight weeks had passed since that fateful battle in Sinuji, Song still had yet to adjust to her new lot in life and succumbed to these perfidious thoughts at least once or twice a day, sometimes many times more. An unpleasant existence, but such was to be Song’s life until he died.

Why not hurry things along and spare him from this cruel fate?

Doubling over in pain, Song pressed herself into Mama and Papa’s embrace and cried and cried until she could cry no more, and even her loving parents could do nothing to stem the flow of tears as she mourned the life she could no longer have.

Wracked with guilt for making her loved ones worried and sad all the time, Song ate her breakfast, fed the birds, and bade Mama and Papa farewell, pretending to have business to attend to elsewhere so they could go about their day. If she stayed in her room, her parents would feel obligated to keep her company and they were both too important to be wasted on comforting a silly little slave girl like herself. Not only was her misery inconsequential, but it was also irrational, because her life was no different now than it was a few months ago when she set out for the front lines with Rain, except she could no longer pick and choose who she was bound to. At least this way there was no chance of her chain ending up in the wrong hands, and since Rain spent most of his time in bed, issued no orders, and never compelled her to wait on him, she could do whatever she wanted in her free time, most of which she used to wander aimlessly about in a sullen funk. There were a few minor responsibilities left to her, but otherwise, Song was free to do anything her heart desired, but all she could do was sulk and mope.

So long as it didn’t go against her Oaths, like thinking about how nice it would be if Rain stumbled out and...

Cutting her thoughts off before they strayed too far, Song brought the animals out to the stables where Erdene stood ready and waiting. After harnessing the sweet quin, Song went for a short ride around the citadel with the bunnies in her arms and Sarankho running along behind them to whittle away the hours before lunch. Months ago, she would have gone to the training fields to spar, but ever since Sinuji, she had little motivation to continue progressing along the Martial Path. As things stood, sister-in-law Sarnai would never let Rain get within twenty kilometres of a battlefield, and not even a direct order from the Emperor himself could force the tenacious woman’s hand, so it could be decades before Song ever saw true battle again, short of fighting off assassins coming for Rain’s head. A ridiculous notion, because with his Spiritual Weapons broken and Core shattered, he was no threat to anyone and a burden to his allies, so what enemy would be kind enough to end his suffering?

If someone sends assassins after Rain, it would be best to let him die.

The errant thought brought her pleasant ride to a crashing halt as she almost tumbled off of Erdene’s back, the Heavens punishing her once again for straying so close to violating her Oaths. Unrepentant, she amended her thoughts to say that if she were in his situation, death would be an improvement. Only then did the Heavens relent and allow Song to breathe again, so she slowed Erdene to a walk and headed towards Medical Saint Taduk’s courtyard manor which he shared with Lin. Letting herself in, Song set the animals free to roam about the courtyard with the rest of the rabbits, minus Mama Bun (who was with Rain) and a few others off on a trip with the Medical Saint, namely Ginger, Peanut, and Pepper.

Peering about in search of hidden guards, she found nothing out of the ordinary as usual and set to brushing the animals, finding joy in their happy little squeaks and sighs, not to mention Sarankho’s affectionate hugs. Once finished, Song headed to the workshop with the rabbits circling around her feet, where she cracked the door open ever so slightly to find Lin already hard at work grinding herbs with a mortar and pestle. “Morning Li-Li,” the half-hare said with a cheery smile, her hair in disarray and eyes half-lidded with exhaustion. “Don’t let the bunbuns sneak inside.”

