The Heirs finished their packing, though as usual, Nathan carried nothing. All of his bedding and supplies were carried by the rest of the Heirs, and they also made sure to pack several weeks of food and some other supplies they’d discussed with Sarya and Garna.

The first indication that they were approaching the coast was when the ship started to buck in the waves. Then came a faint roar of distant surf. Nathan and his friends stood near the stern of the ship, where Eolinne had taken her seat in the thronelike captain’s chair. Her flute was out, and she was playing a slow and steady march to guide the ship through the choppy waves. Her control of the ship through her music was exquisite, and every ounce of that skill was necessary as the waves got taller and taller until they stood higher than the mast of the ship.

Eventually, she broke off, taking the flute away from her lips and calling out to them. “Go! Steer for the surf. May your symphony speak of the death of your enemies!” She resumed playing, the notes now urgent and rapid. The ship spun like a top, managing to catch the gap between waves and begin its journey back into safer waters.

Nathan and the Heirs took to the air. Stella had cast [Fly] spells on herself, Aarl and Sarah, while Khachi’s greaves were haloed in golden light from his own magic. Nathan simply walked on the air, the Stamina expenditure minute against his enormous reserves. They ascended into the fog, and within moments, the Grace of the Mists was out of sight.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 83779/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5460/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 5

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
