“...Yes, my love.” With that said, they pressed closer together and let out a shared sigh of contentment, taking comfort in each other’s warmth and presence. “I’m a lucky man.”

“You better believe it. Now take me to bed.”

There was no canoodling that night, but they did spend an inordinate amount of time snuggling with Aurie and the bun-buns. In the blink of an eye, morning was upon them, and Yan mourned the passing of her last night with a monopoly of Rain, since she’d decided that this would be her last visit until a week after the wedding. A wedding gift for Mila, so Rain would be pent up and raring to go on their wedding night, and if things went poorly between them, he probably wouldn’t be in any shape to do anything bedroom-related for another week anyways. Cradling a sleeping rabbit under each arm, Yan kissed her beloved goodbye, left her shoes behind, and padded out towards the corner of the courtyard wall. With bare feet to improve her grip, she easily made it over by jumping between the two walls, and since Grandpa’s guards would hardly make a fuss about her sneaking back in, Yan simply leapt from Rain’s wall into Lin-Lin’s courtyard before sauntering back to her room, as bold as can be. Before she even reached her bed, Eun arrived in customary fashion, sucking her teeth and glowering in silent disapproval. Placating the matronly woman by handing her one of the rabbits, they sat together and cooed at the adorable little bun-buns, Buster and Babs from the look of things, as they were the only two rabbits with white faces and grey markings over their eyes. Bugs and Lola were the opposite, grey faced with white markings, but whatever significance their names and markings might have, it was lost on everyone except Rain.

Such a silly, lovable man. That’s why Yan had no qualms about sharing him, because she knew his heart had so much love to give, and that even with a dozen wives and two-hundred pets, he would still have love to spare.

Time and energy, not so much, which was why Lin-Lin was smart to set a limit and Sarnai was a genius for spreading rumours that gifting a live animal was considered an insult amongst the People, else Yan shuddered to think how large Rain’s menagerie would already be...

As per usual, she had a nice breakfast with Grandpa, Kyung, and Eun before heading out to the farm with Mila, Song, Dastan, Sahb, and so many others, all of them vying to meditate inside the bamboo grove. Ironically, Mila looked less alert now than when she was lost to Insight, half-asleep in the harness and irritable despite a full night’s rest. Truth be told, Yan was surprised Mila was even up this early, or so eager to return to the grove considering she spent more than three months Forming her Natal Palace. Yan could not be more jealous, since all she got from her Insights were a handful of vague observations and the idea to try to make wind heavy and light or fast and slow at the same time, which made no sense whatsoever. Even now, months later, she still had no idea what that was all about, but haste makes waste as Grandpa Du liked to say, so Yan spent most of her time cherishing the loving family she’d always wanted. Not just Grandpa, but Eun, Kyung, Alsantset, Charok, the twins, and of course, her beloved betrothed.

Who she would soon lose exclusive access to...

Though she was willing to share Rain, Yan had sorely underplayed how jealous she was of Rain’s many lady loves, and she hated how it made her feel. Especially with Mila, who was Yan’s best friend, and who had never been anything but accommodating in their tenuous relationship. The freckled red-head was clearly the one who held the biggest place in Rain’s heart, because while he was happiest with Lin-Lin and most comfortable around Yan, it was obvious to anyone with eyes that he loved Mila the most.

That’s why he had to marry her first, after all. Even the Mother in Heaven favoured Mila over Yan, so why wouldn’t Rain?

Her possessiveness aside, Yan could hardly begrudge Rain for having a favourite, though she hoped to the Mother Above that she didn’t place last. That was another reason she was willing to share him, because she wasn’t confident she could ever steal him away. This was all Rain’s fault for bringing all of this up. Most men would know enough to just be grateful and keep their mouths shut, but not him. Big Huu probably never asked Yesui and Yosai why they wanted to share him...

And on that note, Yan broke away from Mila and Song upon arriving at the farm. Instead of going directly to the bamboo grove, she headed to the outskirts of the Sentinel camp and sought out her old friend’s yurt, having visited several times in the last few months just to keep in touch. Big Huu hadn’t been very receptive of her visits, and Rain had all but refused to come along, but Yesui, Yosai, and Ghurda all encouraged Yan and her friends to visit as often as possible. It shamed her to admit this, but she only figured out why last night, while trying her best not to throttle Rain for his deep-seated trust issues.

“Ah, as I live and breathe.” Greeting her at the door with a hearty smile, the hulking half-grizzly Ghurda swept Yan up into a spirited bear hug. “You eat yet girl? Bah, doesn’t matter if ye did, you could use more meat on your bird bones there. Most women won’t admit it, but we’re sorely disadvantaged when it comes to matters of mass. One kilogram heavier is one kilogram stronger, and men aren’t constrained by silly things like staying pretty and thin.”

“You’re as beautiful as any other, Auntie Ghurda,” Yan said, grinning from ear to ear at the burly, welcoming woman. “Don’t let anyone ever tell you different.”

“Ah, yer a sweet girl for lying, you are.” Kissing Yan on both cheeks, Ghurda smiled and said, “It’s good to see you.”

“Sorry I haven’t been here more often. I only figured it out last night.”

Ghurda’s eyes widened ever so slightly, and for a brief moment, Yan saw the weight of the world pressing down on the older woman’s shoulders. “It that obvious?”

“No, not at all. I don’t think anyone else knows, but there’s nothing to worry about.” Seeing Ghurda’s confusion, Yan shook her head and smiled. “Best if I talk to him alone.”

“...You sure? He has his good days and bad, but more bad than good since the banquet. I shouldn’t have brought him, thought he was doin’ so well, and he was, right up until he lost...”

And he did so love to dwell on his failures. “Don’t worry, Auntie Ghurda. I can handle Huushal. Could you make sure we aren’t overheard?”

“...Bless your heart girl.”

By now, Yesui and Yosai were coming out of Huu’s yurt, which was right next to Auntie Ghurda’s. Big Huu himself came out behind them, and his hackles visibly bristled at the sight of Yan. “What are you doing here?”

There was a time when Ghurda, Chakta, or even sweet Elia would have rapped Huu’s forehead for greeting a guest so rudely, but none of them even blinked an eye. How had she not seen this sooner? Ignoring his scowl, Yan hugged Huu’s half-bear wives instead while inwardly laughing at how similar they were to his half-grizzly mother. They weren’t as broad or tall, but they had the same full-figured build, with a voluptuous frame and all the right curves which Yan envied dearly. “Yesui, Yosai, you’re both looking well,” Yan began, though she broke away before the gossipy women could drag her off to breakfast. “Do you mind if I borrowed your yurt and husband for a bit? We need to talk.”

“We can talk out here,” Huushal growled. He wasn’t Big Huu, not right now, because she didn’t need to be reminded of how much bigger he’d gotten. One kilogram heavier is one kilogram stronger...

“It’s fine,” Auntie Ghurda said, pressing gently against Huu’s chest, and his flinch didn’t escape Yan’s notice. So it’d gotten this far, to the point of exchanging blows. Idiot Rain, he must have known, but he never told her. Well, she’d sort him out later. “Go inside and have a talk with your friend,” Ghurda continued, emphasizing the word ‘friend’. “I’ll have breakfast waiting when you come out.”

Instead of seeing if he would comply, Yan sauntered past him and into his surprisingly empty yurt. About fifteen seconds later, Huushal followed her inside, but it was telling how he watched to make sure the door stayed open as he sidled along the walls, keeping as far from her as possible without blocking the exit. So he was Big Huu, the same fool she’d grown up with and even once thought she might marry. Thank the Mother that never happened; Big Huu was far too serious for her tastes.

“What do you want?” he growled, unable to tear his eyes off the door. “Why’d Ma put up a Sound Barrier?”

He could sense that? Yan couldn’t, but Ghurda’s Sending arrived soon enough to confirm Huu’s statement. “What I want,” Yan began, using the Language of the People while crossing her arms to reassure him, “Is to talk. The Sound Barrier is there to keep us from being disturbed.”

“Then talk.”

Not the best start, but Yan had done more with less. “I’m not afraid of you.”

Huu snorted. “You always were fearless. That’s why you kept getting into trouble, biting off more than you could chew.”

True, but it wouldn’t do to be reminded of that now. “Listen carefully Huu,” Yan said, moving in front of the door so he would look her in the eye. “I am not afraid of you.”

“You should be.” Lip curled in a snarl, Huu set to pacing about the yurt, his hulking frame eating up the spacious interior wherever he passed. “You should be afraid of many things, but you were always too stupid to listen. I should teach you to be afraid, teach you to listen when others speak.”

“Oh, Huu...” She could almost hear the Spectres whispering to him, so obvious now that she knew how the Enemy worked. Taking one step closer, she winced as he matched her with one step back, and he might have moved more if his back wasn’t pressed fast against the wall. It was almost comedic if not for his snarl, half-angry and half-terrified, but all Huu. So what if he was a hulking mini-giant? He was still the same person inside. “I’m going to say it one more time. I’m not afraid, so you shouldn’t be either.”

“What do you know?” His tone caught her off guard, so full of fury and loathing. “I am not afraid. Didn’t you hear? I served in the greatest battles of this past year, and I would be there now if not for Ma keeping me back. I fought and held my own against Quyen Dienne. I’m one of the strongest warriors of our generation, just like you and Rain.” Chuckling darkly, Huu grinned, and it was not a pleasant one. “Well... Not Rain. Not anymore. And I’m strong enough to beat Dienne now, because he only won by the barest of margins. As for you, Yan, I could crush you with one arm tied behind my back. Maybe I should do that, then everyone will stop looking down on me.”

“Bold words,” Yan replied, overlooking the insults because Huu wasn’t in his right mind. “For a scared little boy.”

“I. Am not. Scared!”

Taking a half-step forward, Huu bared his teeth and raised his fists as if to attack, but Yan resisted the urge to guard against him and stood relaxed with arms crossed. “You can lie to yourself,” she said, shaking her head with a smirk, “But you can’t fool me. I know you too well. You remember how we met?”

“...Ya. You beat up Altan and Mugi when you found them bullying me.” For a second, Huu looked like himself again, his lips breaking out into a familiar, sheepish smile as he lowered his hands, but then his anger returned in full force. “I was weak then, but I am not weak anymore.”

“Bullshit,” Yan snorted. “You were big as an ox then, twice the size of those idiots. You could’ve trounced both of them without breaking a sweat, but instead you stood idly by while I took my lumps and scuffed my knuckles getting them off your back.”

“Like I said, I was weak. I am not weak anymore.”

“Bullshit,” Yan corrected, and tried not to flinch as he came alive with rage at the denial. Everyone said he looked calm and collected at the banquet, so why was he so easily riled now? “You could have smacked Altan and Mugi down without breaking a sweat, but you didn’t. You were never weak, not compared to the people around you. You were scared though, worried you might hurt others. You were always so careful while playing, always so mousy and scared, because you knew what could happen if you cut loose.”

“So what? That’s all in the past now.”

“Doesn’t look that way, not from where I’m standing.” Gesturing around her, Yan said, “Why are you living all the way out here, instead of inside the Citadel? Why did you cut off all your friends and refuse to see Rain? Because you’re scared, downright terrified of what you might do. You’re worried you’ll snap and hurt someone, which could bring down the worst on all of your family and friends, so you isolate yourself and push everyone else away. For the last time Huu, I am not afraid of you.” Extending her hand for him to take, she gestured him to come close, and it pained her to watch him recoil in fear.

“You don’t understand,” he whispered, his anger all melting away. “You don’t know what you’re talking about.”

