There was a time when Yan found sneaking out to meet her lover a thrilling game, but after going through the motions so very many times, it’d become more of an aggravating inconvenience.

Waiting up was the worst part, because even though everyone knew what she was up to, ‘appearances must be kept’. Yan couldn’t simply read a book or play with the rabbits until it came time to leave, because if she did, then Eun, Kyung, Grandpa Du, or one of his guards would accompany her for as long as she was up. It was silly really, keeping up pretenses for the sake of pretenses, but if Yan didn’t give them this much, then she would never be left alone or allowed to leave to visit Rain. No, they had to send her to bed first, and even then, the silliness did not end, because if someone caught her sneaking out from the Medical Saint’s manor, then she would be sent back to bed once again.

Everyone knew Yan spent most nights in Rain’s bed, but she still needed to be discreet about it for the sake of propriety. Even though the rice was cooked, Grandpa Du still needed to show he was doing everything he could to protect her ‘chastity’. If she could sneak out in spite of his best efforts, then he was not at fault, for a grown daughter cannot be kept, but Mother forbid Rain ever try sneaking into her room. The one time he tried it earned him a light beating from Kyung, followed by an involuntary bath in the pond when he refused to give up, all because of perception. Yan sneaking out was a young woman willingly going to her beloved, but Rain sneaking in was seen as making a fool of Grandpa Du. So silly, but such was life.

Or at least that’s what she told herself while braced between two roof beams in an effort to avoid the patrolling guards. She’d done this exact same maneuver just three days ago and thought her presence went unnoticed, but someone had taken measures to thwart her escape. Every other wooden beam had been removed, so instead of lying comfortably over top a pair of beams, she was stretched out in between them with her arms and legs akimbo, all the while Lightening for all she was worth to keep from falling. The guards, Xiao Qi and KageTaka from the sounds of it, had stopped to chat just out of Yan’s sight, but she could hear them going on in hushed whispers about some art exhibition they were planning to visit. They knew she was here, they had to, and this was their way of taunting her without letting Grandpa lose face.

Truth be told, she would’ve found it hilarious if not for her tenuous position.

Grandpa Du delighted in testing her during these nightly escapes, forcing her to think on her feet in order to avoid Kyung and the guards. It was good practice for sneaking and scouting, but Yan yearned for the day she learned how to Conceal and could simply leap over the manor wall unseen. Then again, Grandpa Du would probably use that as an opportunity to train her in anti-Concealment methods, though hopefully Yan would be married by then and no longer forced to sneak out.

It felt like an eternity before Xiao Qi and KageTaka resumed their patrol, but it couldn’t have been more than a few minutes. Limbs aching and head light, Yan yearned to drop down and rest, but she knew better than to let her guard down so quickly. Instead, she pushed off to the right and settled herself atop a single beam, which was much easier than bracing herself between them, but far too dangerous to try with the guards in earshot. Long seconds passed in palpable silence as she struggled to quietly steady her breath and keep from muttering obscenities under her breath.

It was unladylike, according to Eun, and Yan was not brave enough to cross that woman, not again.

After one-hundred seconds of waiting, her patience paid off. Slipping through the shadows without a sound, Kyung padded through the hallways and stopped almost directly beneath Yan. There he stood, peering about the darkness, before letting out an almost imperceptible huff and continuing his patrol with marginally less stealth, the floorboards creaking beneath his passing as his footfalls echoed through the hallways.

How sweet, this surly brother of hers. This was his way of telling her she’d slipped up, but he would overlook it just this once. The problem was, Yan had no idea how he spotted her, but he somehow picked the right beam and stood directly in her field of vision without ever raising his head, so something must have given her away.

A puzzle for another time however, since Kyung’s goodwill was limited and he was sure to return soon enough. It only took three minutes and fifteen seconds to make a full circuit around the inner courtyard, so Yan had best be gone before then, lest she be banished back to her room to start her escape over. Quietly crawling atop the beam, she made her way to the end of the hallway to avoid being seen through the windows before slowly lowering her head to check if the way was clear. It was, but circumstances could change in a heartbeat, so she kept her eyes open as she gently lowered herself to the floor. Keeping to the shadows, she proceeded to the corner of the courtyard and climbed over in the blink of an eye, having long since memorized the locations of every finger and toe hold.

The things one does for love...

Once over the wall, the need for stealth was all but done with since no one in Rain’s household cared if Yan was caught sneaking in. To ease her passage, she had Rain install a lattice framework on one side of the manor walls, which she used to climb up onto the roof of his room so as not to disturb anyone else with her passing. He could have just left the window open for her, but there was a Death Corps guard posted outside at all times, and even though he had strict orders to ignore Yan’s passing, it was awkward climbing through windows with an audience. Truth be told, she could have marched straight up to the front doors and the guards would have let her in, but doing so would have been throwing away Grandpa Du’s face, as half the citadel would be talking about her ‘scandalous behaviour’ come morning. Not that Yan sleeping with Rain would come as any surprise since his household was under intense scrutiny at all times, but again, face, propriety, reputation, morals, and all that, showing that once again men had it easy and women were forced to suffer through their silliness.

Unfortunately, she soon discovered all her hard work was for naught as she found Rain sitting at his desk while Mama Bun, Aurie, and two more rabbits snored in his bed. Right away, this told her there would be no canoodling tonight, because neither of them were comfortable making love with the animals in the room. Difficult to get in the mood with grouchy rabbits growling over being woken up or sweet, ignorant Aurie butting in so he could be included in their ‘game’.

What little disappointment Yan harboured was quickly swept away as Rain’s face lit up with a smile, so warm and natural it spoke volumes to his love for her. Putting his pen aside, he rose to greet her with a hug and kiss, and she happily threw herself into both, relishing the sensation of his strong arms wrapped around her waist and supporting her weight while her hungry lips met his. When their kiss finally ended, her toes were curled and feet raised as she held her panting beloved close. “Hi stranger,” she began, and she kissed him once more for good measure while suspended in his arms. “Working late I see. Problems at the office?”

“No.” Keeping one arm wrapped around her waist, he swung her feet up and lifted her into a princess carry before taking a seat at his desk, where he showed her a messily scrawled parchment labelled ‘seating arrangements’, with names listed in groupings of ‘most important’ to ‘least important’, and plenty of corrections to be seen. “Well, yes, but that’s not what I’m doing now. This is wedding stuff.”

A quick glance revealed one name in particular which stood out, as ‘Huushal’ had been written and crossed out no less than half a dozen times. They used to be such close friends, and Big Huu rode out with Rain the last time he was at Sinuji, but they rarely spent time with one another anymore. Something had happened between them, not exactly a falling out, but Huu was keeping his distance and Rain was respecting it, and neither one would even admit something was up. Whatever it was, it was something on Huu’s end, because when Yan woke from her haze of Insight, she found Huu had already moved out of the Citadel and living out of a yurt on Rain’s beet farm by the Medical Saint’s bamboo grove. What’s more, Big Huu barely ever left his yurt these days and had yet to revisit the front lines since his promotion to Second Class Warrant Officer, which was odd since Officers were so rare amongst the People. Huu even turned down Yan’s offer to serve together, which was odd because as kids, they’d agreed that the first one of them to make it big would take in the other as their second-in-command, and this was the first time there was a clear gap between their ranks.

Whatever the problem was, it was high time to pay Big Huu another visit, so Yan made a mental note and tucked it into the back of her mind before fixing Rain with a playful pout. “How rude. Planning your wedding with one woman while waiting for another.” Resting her head on Rain’s shoulder, Yan gently nipped his neck in admonishment before looking over the list once more. “Figuring out who will sit where? You don’t even have a venue picked out, so why not leave this to Luo-Luo?”

“Because... it feels mean to make Luo-Luo plan Mila’s wedding, you know? It’s fine, I can handle this much. Probably. Or I can find someone to help.” Pressing his cheek to her forehead, he sighed and started putting his things away with his one free hand, the other firmly stuck to her waist and in no danger of coming free. “Sorry. You probably don’t want to hear about this either. I should’ve put this all away before you arrived, but you’ve gotten really good at sneaking around. I usually hear you on the roof before you make it inside.”

“I was properly motivated to learn.” Tugging his collar aside with her teeth, she kissed his collarbone and added, “Besides, there’s nothing wrong with talking about the wedding.” Nuzzling closer into Rain’s warm embrace, Yan let out a small, contented sigh as he finished putting his things away and stroked her cheek. “So, Mila woke up and you finally picked a date.” In spectacular and scandalous fashion, according to Luo-Luo’s vivid portrayal.

“Yea, midsummer. Doesn’t leave much time to prepare, but it does mean you and I can have our wedding on the Autumn Solstice.”

“Mm. Figured as much, Grandpa was already complaining how two months wasn’t enough time to plan it. He wants to know if you can get us that big banquet hall at the Central Citadel, the one the Legate used for the last one.”

“Of course. I’ll pen a letter to Colonel General Ryo in the morning.” Yan found it titillating to hear Rain casually talk about exchanging correspondence with a Colonel General, so she snuck in another kiss while her free hand idly explored his broad shoulders before plunging beneath his robes to inspect his muscled chest and washboard stomach. Now that he was in better health, candlelight didn’t do what was under his robes justice, and there wasn’t enough time in the morning to properly appreciate his lean, chiselled body since she had to sneak back to her room before Eun arrived to find her missing.

“Hey Yan, could you ask Grandpa Du to... err... lie to Mom and Dad about the cost of the wedding? Like whatever he needs, have him ask for half, or even a quarter when he talks to my parents, and I’ll pay the rest. With how many people we have to invite and the sheer extravagance expected of an Imperial Scion, the weddings are going to get really expensive and Mom and Dad refuse to let me help pay.” Widening his eyes in belated alarm, he added, “I’m not asking you to skimp on your wedding or anything, I’ll spare no expense, I just don’t want my parents footing the entire bill for so many weddings.”

And whose fault was it that he needed so many weddings? “Among the People, it is traditional for the groom’s parents to pay for the wedding, a point of honour to showcase their family can support their new daughter-in-law.” Yan began with a lesson mostly because she liked to see him pout, but also because he was an idiot and his Peak Expert parents could probably hear his plotting, which she promptly told him through Sending. His bug-eyed expression was not as adorable than his pout, but still fetching enough for a kiss. “Besides,” she added out loud, if only to earn points with her fearsome dragon-lady of a Mother-in-Law, “You shouldn’t be trying to trick your parents. They are reasonable people, and if the costs get out of hand, then they will say something to their oh-so-rich-and-successful son.”

A shame Sarnai was so much more difficult to win over than her husband. The Bloody Fanged wolf was more of a shy pup when dealing with Yan, since he made the same gaffe as his son and mistook her for a man. Unlike Rain, Baatar couldn’t buy forgiveness with his body, though that would be an interesting experience. A shame neither father nor son would ever go for it, the prudes...

“Okay, okay, my mistake.” Rolling his beautiful amber eyes, Rain added, “Don’t let this hold you back though. You shouldn’t settle for anything less than your dream wedding, because you deserve the best.”

