“Don’t be stupid, Huu. Stop listening to them, and listen to me. Think about who you’re talking to and what I’ve been saying this whole time. I know.” Meeting his eyes, she nodded and repeated herself. “I know, Huu. You’re worried they’ll turn you into a monster, but I know it won’t happen. It can’t. They will never turn you, because deep down, you are still that same, gentle boy who would rather be teased and bullied than fight back and risk hurting someone he barely even knows.” Moving closer until she was only one step away, she Sent, “The Spectres are nothing to be afraid of. They can whisper in your ear all they want, but you are Huushal of the People, and the Father will never have you. This isolation? This is what they want, so they can better trick you with lies and deceit. You don’t need to stay away to keep us safe. You need to come to us, so we can protect you. Take my hand Huu. I’ve missed you. Your friends miss you. Your family misses you.” Giving him the look, the one Eun used all the time to quietly convey her patience was running thin, but her love was limitless, Yan said, “So why don’t you stop being a hard-headed idiot and let us help you through this? We all must forge our own path, but that doesn’t mean you must do so without support.”

No matter how many years might pass, Yan would never forget the look of relief in Huu’s eyes, not until the day she died. “Okay,” he said, tentatively taking her hand and freezing in place as if afraid of what might happen next. Nothing happened, as Yan just stood there and smiled while waiting for him to make the next move. “Yea... Okay,” he said, swallowing hard, before smiling back, so goofy and apologetic, a startling change from the barely restrained violence from a minute back. “Thanks Yan. For looking out for me again.”

“What are friends for?” It would take time for him to recover, but this was a glimpse at the Huu Yan knew and grew up with, the idiot who always had her back no matter what, and now knew she would always have his. The Spectres could lie all they wanted, but Huu would never hurt his family or his friends, because that’s just the sort of man he was, and it was high time he figured it out on his own.

Stupid Huu. Stupid Rain. Stupid men, always thinking they could handle things on their own and that all other men should do the same.

Honestly, if it weren’t for women, the whole world would have fallen into the Father’s Maw long ago, but perhaps this was all a part of Her design.

Chapter Meme
