“I’m a simple girl with simple tastes.” Shrugging ever so slightly, Yan stifled a yawn and said, “The ceremony isn’t all that important, and the banquet is more of nuisance than anything else. I love you and you love me, so a few cups of tea won’t change anything, but Grandpa wants a big ceremony and banquet, so he’s going to get one.” Switching to Sending, she added, “I’m more interested in what comes after, because that means no more sneaking around at night.”

“I’m looking forward to it too.” After a brief pause, Rain asked, “How’s his health?”

“Not great,” she whispered, her heart aching in grief. “His knees hurt all the time, and I think his hearing is starting to go, but otherwise, he’s doing fine for someone who’s a hundred and eleven years old.” Knowing what Rain would say next, Yan shook her head and told herself it wasn’t a betrayal. “You can’t. You know you can’t, because I’ve told you so.”

“But –”

“No buts.” Snuggling closer into his embrace, she took a deep breath and switched to Sending just to be safe. “We’ve been over this before. If you teach Grandpa how to use Panacea, he’ll never be able to keep it a secret. He likes to pretend otherwise, but he’s a soft-hearted old man who can’t help but let others take advantage of him, because he’s worried he doesn’t have enough time to reconcile with his family. You saw how comfortable he was asking you to borrow ten-thousand gold, because he needed it to pay off Jin Tok’s gambling debts. Or at least, that’s what he thinks it was for, but you and I both know Jin Tok lied to him. There never was any gambling debt, or loan-sharks threatening to break his knees, it was all a sob-story concocted by him and his scheming mother.”

“Yea, and we told Jin Tok we knew and warned him away. He hasn’t shown his face since, and I don’t care about the money.”

“That’s not the point. Jin Tok is staying away because he got his money and he’s not desperate yet, but he will be back eventually. He knows Grandpa will never abandon him, no matter what he does. Love is irrational that way.” Though it pained her to say this, Yan knew it was for the best. “You don’t even know if Panacea can extend someone’s life. It’s just a theory right?” Rain nodded, and she was reminded of his long-winded explanation about why the body aged and how Panacea might help revert it, or at the very least, keep the body in a more stable state. Something about imperfect copies and information degradation, but he used a lot of terms she wasn’t familiar with and had little to no proof to offer. “Then that’s that. You can’t teach Grandpa, because he’ll reveal it to the first ‘close friend’ or family member who needs it. He won’t mean to, he’ll just strongly hint that you or Medical Saint Taduk might know something that can help, and then what? Just look at how many friends he’s asked the Medical Saint to look at, friends who all but abandoned him when he needed them most. He had to borrow money from you because his family has yet to give him back the fortune they stole from him, yet they still have the gall to ask him for favours, favours he is more than happy to dole out. I love him with all my heart, but as much as I wish it were otherwise, he cannot be trusted with this secret.”

“I know, I know.” There it was, his fetching pout, but this time Yan didn’t have the heart to admire it. Much like Grandpa, Rain was also a soft-hearted fool, because despite knowing that revealing Panacea might bring grave danger down upon the People, he still tried to come up with new and clever ways to disseminate the technique. Not for fame or profit, no, he wanted to give it away freely because it was the right thing to do, whether it was through anonymous letters to famed Healers all around the Empire, or through the Penitent Brotherhood whom he had almost no reason to trust. Thankfully, he still had the presence of mind to ask Akanai beforehand, because if it were up to him, he would gladly give every Martial Warrior the potential to live forever, and then where would they be? “I just wish... I wish things were different. That this world was different.”

An odd way to put it, but Rain was a strange one. “We all do, my love.” The thought of losing Grandpa terrified Yan so, because she’d only had these few years to cherish his love and affection. She could only hope that Medical Saint Taduk’s weekly check-ups were enough to sustain his ailing health, or perhaps even some miracle medicine from the burgeoning Spiritual Plant garden would save her beloved Grandpa from the Mother’s final and inevitable Embrace. “We all do.”

Kissing her gently, he fell silent and she could almost feel him struggling with indecision. There was something else on his mind, but he wasn’t sure if he wanted to talk about it. Distracting him would only convince him to drop the matter, while asking would only make him deny it, so she reined in her passions and perched comfortably on his lap, instead of shimmying about to tease and frustrate them both to no end. Much as she loved him, there were times when she wished he was more open with his thoughts and feelings, instead of spending all his time lost in circular trains of thought, but there was no helping it. This was simply who he was, and she accepted him as is, for better or for worse.

As luck would have it, Rain finally came to a decision only seconds before Yan drifted off to sleep. “Hey,” he began, pressing his forehead against hers for comfort. “Am I a terrible man?”

“Absolutely,” she replied, without missing a beat, “Though you need to be more specific if you’d like me to go into detail.”

“Tch. Shut up.”

“You asked.” Grinning as she kissed him deeply to take make up for the barb, she ground the base of her horns against his forehead, because her hands were still busy tracing his wiry body and she couldn’t spare them to pinch his cheeks. “So what’s got you all knotted up inside now?”

“Well... I asked Luo-Luo to marry me.”

That put a damper on her tactile exploration, and she drew back with pursed lips. So not only would Yan have to share her beloved with Mila soon, she might have to share with the gorgeous Luo-Luo too. “And you’re conflicted because she agreed? Not sure if she really loves you? Or if you love her?” This was all old hat by now, as he’d gone through it several times, and he never took anyone’s advice to heart. Still, she tried again and said, “Just take her to bed, and you’ll fall in love soon enough. That’s how I won you over.”

“As I recall, I blurted out that I loved you before you dragged me into bed.”

“Only because you were drunk. You’d have never admitted it if you were sober. I told Luo-Luo to get you drunk, but she thinks that’s far too scandalous, even though she was shameless enough to wait naked on your bed.”

“...True, but it’s still not the same. Besides, she turned down my marriage proposal.”

That finally got her attention, and she straightened up to study his expression. A little bit of disappointment, but mostly confusion. “Really? Luo-Luo doesn’t want to marry you?” Serves him right for treating her so poorly. Luo-Luo was his ego boost, the beautiful courtesan who desperately wanted him, and he’d come to enjoy denying her in an almost sadistic fashion. Poor Luo-Luo, but desperation was not an attractive colour on anyone, even classically and erotically trained courtesans who knew far too much about sex for someone who was still a virgin. Yan tried to help them both along in their relationship, but Luo-Luo stewed in desperation every second of every day, and Yan hadn’t been motivated to try very hard because she enjoyed her exclusive hold on Rain’s body for this past year. “Why do you think she refused?”

“Well... it’s complicated. See, I felt bad because I proposed to Mila while Luo-Luo was in the room, so even though we talked about it and decided I would wait, I figured there was no harm in letting her know about my plans.” As Rain narrated his disastrous proposal to Luo-Luo, Yan found it increasingly difficult to keep a straight face, and her shoulders were shaking with mirth by the time he finished. “Glad to see you find my embarrassment amusing,” he said, his tone wry, yet loving.

“Sorry, but I can’t help it. It’s like watching an adorable little fawn bumbling about the fields and tripping all over his own feet. It’s too precious not to laugh.” Headbutting him as gently as she could, she continued, “She was right to refuse you though, what with you going on about promises and possibilities. Hardly the most romantic proposal, and she deserves better. And she even told you she loves you, which is a big step forward. I doubt she’d lie to an Imperial Scion, after all.”

“Yea... about that...” Glum and forlorn despite the day’s joyous events and Yan’s teasing manner, Rain sighed and slumped in his chair, which shifted her seat to a far more interesting position on his lap. “It got me to thinking about love and marriage and whatnot and... well... Do you ever resent me for... you know... having so many betrotheds?”

“All the time.” Not even bothering to conceal her exasperation, Yan rolled her eyes and scowled. “What? You think I’m happy to fall in love with a lascivious lecher and share my husband with four other women full-time?” Rain still didn’t count Song amongst his conquests, but they shared a close bond that was only a single step shy of carnal love, and it was only a matter of time before they both admitted it. “I love you dearly, my silly, stupid man, but if there was some way I could have you all to myself, I’d take it in a heartbeat.”

“...Then why didn’t you ever try?”

“Because I love you.” Kissing him to punctuate her point, she basked in his confusion for a short second before continuing, “And you love me, but you also love Mila and Lin-Lin. You’ll eventually fall in love with Luo-Luo too, because if you didn’t, then you wouldn’t be the man I love.” And Song too, but saying this would would do them more harm than good for now.

“...I’m confused.”

“Was I wrong?” she asked, smiling as cupped his cheeks to better frame his expression. “If so, then which one of us do you not love?”

“I love you Yan, and yes, I love Mila and Lin-Lin too. I’m sorry.”

“Why are you sorry?” Looking deep into his eyes, Yan leaned close until their noses were touching so he could better see her sincerity. “I told you earlier, love is irrational. You can’t control who you fall in love with, else I would have hardly picked a scrawny, foul-mouthed pervert who mistook me for a man.”

“You’re never going to let that go, are you?”

“Never.” For some reason, talking about it made her want to rip all her clothes off and vigorously prove him wrong once again, but she settled for squeezing her arms around his neck instead. “I love you, and I know you better than you know yourself. If I stole you away from Mila and Lin-Lin, you would never forgive yourself for abandoning them. It would tear you up from the inside out, and you would grow to resent me. That resentment would then go on to poison everything we shared, so I am not willing to risk it. I love you in spite of your flaws, and I accept sharing you because it is the only way I can have you without ruining you entirely.” Men and women had gone Defiled for less, and it was better for everyone involved if they could all just get along. “I considered finding myself another handsome young man to fall in love with, but I’ve not met anyone who has your...”

“Dashing good looks? Hilarious sense of humour?” He waggled his eyebrows. “Commanding bedroom presence?”

“Charm. Let’s go with charm.” Amused by how quickly he switched moods, she smiled so he would know she wasn’t being serious. “Such is the price I pay for love and happiness.”

“...Sorry.”

“Again, why are you sorry?” Shrugging, she said, “It’s not your fault the men of Central are so lacking, they were unable to make me forget my love of you.” It was a perfect set-up for Rain to go on about how amazing he was, but this time he failed to pick up the cue. She could see him stewing again, losing himself in his thoughts as he picked apart everything she said and how she said it. This was why he found social engagement so exhausting, because something compelled him to overthink every interaction. He was the sort of person who spent long minutes wondering if he should greet someone with ‘good evening’ or ‘hello’, while analyzing the myriad of subtle nuances each greeting might convey. Because he thought this way, he also thought everyone else was the same, so everything they said could possibly be layered with multiple nuanced meanings. This flavour of neuroses was a boon in highly charged political situations, but here in their bedroom, it would only make things worse.

This was who he was, Falling Rain at the core, a scared, uncertain young man who was terrified of disappointing the people he loved, and in turn, terrified that they would hurt or abandon him. That’s why he was targeted by the Spectres, and that’s why...

...Oh!

“What’s happening?” Rain asked, still worried from their conversation. “You look like you just had an epiphany.”

“I did, but not about this.” Headbutting him once more just because, she said, “Enough anguish and apprehension. You’re an incorrigible man of insatiable appetite, and I’ve long since made my peace with this, and so should you. Marry Mila, marry Lin-Lin, marry Luo-Luo, and marry... one more person, but if you marry anyone else or break our marriage vows, I’ll castrate you myself. Understood?”

