Althea hopped up.

"I don't think so. I'm glad you slapped some sense into the big guy. And yeah, I hate it when he talks like that too."

She shrugged.

"Sheesh, if he's lazy, then what are we?"

The group laughed while Althea peered around, beaming.

"I mean, really though?"

Other Hod stood up, staring at me.

"You are one of the few that deserve to be free of guilt. If you have found pain in your circumstances, then it may be found by anyone. I am no different, so I shall try to uncover where my guilt is deserving and where it is not."

I pulled the shadowed Omega Strain over to my palm. I moved it in front of Other Hod.

"Well, we should be able to get more out of Hod and more out of you with this."

Torix jumped into the conversation.

"Yes. Indeed. If you assimilate this viral entity, your eldritch half will grow."

Other Hod marveled at the stone.

"It is...Beautiful. Tantalizing, even."

Shalahora flashed beside him, pointing at it.

"I have seen its effects on the mind. You will expand, becoming greater. We shall be able to peel pieces of Hod's memories and mind from you, giving it back. We shall feed you this strength, ceasing your death."

I smiled.

"We'll get more Hod and Other Hod."

Hod's head replaced Other Hod's.

"Hod become...Super Hod."

I burst into laughter. The entire conversation had many tone shifts from Hod's interruptions, but I couldn't help but love the guy. Shalahora tilted his head.

"In a sense, yes."

Shalahora tapped the gem.

"You told me that you wished to uncover what you are. It may be done, but you must risk everything."

Shalahora grabbed the stone, holding it in front of Hod.

"Are you willing to leave Hod's wake, or will you linger in his gloom?"

Other Hod stood, his shadow looming over the Omega Strain.

"I am a parasite, feasting on a memory of what was."

Other Hod reached out, and his voice deepened. His claws sharpened, and his shadows flared like charcoal-colored fire. His voice seeped into our surroundings.

"I will walk out of his shade and into my own."

As he grasped the stone, his voice rumbled like thunder.

"And I'll be of my own making."
