Niala clapped her hands, ears wiggling. “That's right, Cookie! That's exactly how you use a whisk to mix pancake batter! I'm so proud of you!”

The pile's tendril curled around a bowl, and holding the whisk, seemed to vibrate.

She and David had gotten to know Cookie over the past few days, and it had slowly opened up to them. They had learned that the pile of stuff was its actual body, and that the tendril was less its limb, and more of a projection of its will.

This also meant that, while it could move things within the pile pretty much at will, any projections, such as the tendril, were tiring to it and could only be used for so long before it needed to rest.

On the other hand, they'd also found that Niala could weave her mana into Cookie, refreshing its energies and allowing it to manifest its appendage for longer.

So they had gone ahead and begun the pile's instructions in earnest, with Niala at the forefront.

Cookie had, so far, learned how to sweep and mop the floor, how to put things away, how to take out the trash, and was now learning how to help around in the kitchen.

David, on the other hand, had taken a more hands-off approach and had been more interested in helping Cookie master itself before learning to do anything.

So they had split their time; in the morning, Cookie learned house chores and assisted Niala. It then took a nap in the middle of the day, and in the afternoon, David helped it train its ability to hold weight, refine its fine manipulation, and maintain a steady grasp on whatever it was carrying.

Cookie was introduced to Lychee, which Niala called “its sister”, as well as Linzy, Papo, Jordo, and everyone else who was frequently there.

Charlie, for his part, had been instantly obsessed with the pile. They had found it staring at Cookie's body a few times, unmoving except for its two eyes slowly drifting apart as the golem did.

Nobody was very surprised when it came back with a crate full of bottles shaped like Cookie's body. The golem had refused to hand the crate to anyone and only relinquished it once he was allowed to add it to the pile.

David concentrated on his hand, willing to be as still as possible as he dragged the engraving tool down a thin strip of metal.

He had gotten pretty good at creating simple magic tools and could “slot in” any new simple runes he learned within a day or two of training at most. Sure, they were a bit crude, but they worked.

However, he knew from his reading that straight, thin lines were the basic prerequisite for any sort of quality work. Jagged lines caused pinch points, which both leaked mana and caused the material to heat up unevenly.

His runes right now were closer to mana rapids, unruly and uneven. He needed them to be aqueducts. It wasn't easy- he had never been one for precise, delicate work.

He snorted. On that aspect, Niala might have had a point about him. But he was learning! Even now, these lines he was making were a lot better than before.

Still a horrible mess of edges and uneven depth, but less than before.

A small dumbbell clattered to the floor beside him, making him flinch and drag the engraver across the metal. He stopped his flow of mana and looked at the source of the disruption.

Cookie's tendril was already bending down to pick the dumbbell back up.

“Cookie, take a short break. It's good that you want to keep training, but if you got so tired that you dropped the thing, that means you pushed a bit too far.”

The tendril stopped and rose back up, as if looking at David.

“You need to learn your limits. That's as much a part of your training as just holding the thing up, you know?” He pointed at the strip of metal he had been working on. “For example, what if you were trying to do something very precise, where failure would have bad consequences? Let's say you're working on a material you don't have much of. If you screw up, it's wasted.”

He got up and retrieved the dumbbell from the floor, depositing it on the table, then turning to look at Cookie. “So, it's just as important to know what your limits are as it is to know how to push them. Got it?”

The tendril tilted to the side before waving up and down.

David smiled. “Good. So, for now, take a little break, and start again afterward. This time, keep the weight up for as long as you can, but stop just before you're about to drop it. We'll time you, and see if you can gauge your limit or if you're stopping too soon.”

Cookie did the “Ok” wave and pulled his tendril back into his body. David watched it go with a smile.

These quiet days, spent learning something new that pushed him in ways he wasn't used to, had been a sort of revelation to him.

He enjoyed this. Never would he back down from a fight to protect what he loved, and neither would he stop training to become more powerful, but after years spent on the road, taking roots was...

Enlivening.

He loved Niala, loved spending time with her, but he also loved when they did their own thing and could talk about it afterwards. And, thanks to their link, she always felt somewhat close to him anyway, as if she was in the same room, sharing in the silence.

And then there was the newest member of their household: Cookie.

Truth be told, he was beginning to understand why Leandro enjoyed training others so much. To watch the young pile strive to do its best, seemingly craving his praise, and beaming- as much as a tendril of stuff could beam- when he did congratulate it.

It felt like something worthy. He wasn't only living for himself, but passing on part of his being to something else.

He sighed. Busy thoughts for another time. He had straight lines to engrave. Flexing his shoulders to get some of the hunched-over strain out of them, he picked a new strip of metal, re-energized the engraving tool, and got back to it.

Niala's tail was wagging like a stalk of wheat stuck in a storm. “...And then Cookie got too excited and dropped the bowl of batter, and it splashed everywhere! He looked so scared that I was going to ground him! It broke my heart!”

She wiped a tear away. “So I went and consoled him, told him it was ok! Accident happen! What matters is that you fix them, right? Do you know what he did next?”

David, just having stuck a spoonful of dinner in his mouth, shook his head.

Niala swooned. “The little angel went straight for a towel and began cleaning right away! He tried so hard! I mean, he mostly smeared the stuff all around, but he still tried really hard!”

She looked at him. “David! Cookie's the best little pile ever! Right?!”

He blinked and dipped his head, then finished his mouthful and looked at Niala. “He's the best pile we know, but the pool's rather limited.”

She narrowed her eyes at him. “Don't be like that. Cookie's the best.”

“Oh, he's great. At the very least, he's trying his best.”

She smiled. “Right? So dutiful! And helpful around the house! Ah, not like we needed that much more help, with Jordo and Papo around, but still! He looks so happy when he can help!” She added, ears wiggling.

He hummed. “But, kitten, aren't you praising him a bit too much?”

Her ears stopped. “What do you mean?”

“Sometimes a failure is a failure. He can't be told that anything he does is fine. He needs to know that some results are bad and need to be avoided.”

She flattened her ears. “Well, of course, but he's still just a baby! We'll have time to teach him those things later! For now, he just needs to learn that it's ok to try things out.”

David scrunched his mouth. “Is it, though? Cookie's a magical construct. I don't think he has the same sort of emotional growth that a humanoid would have. I think it's fine to be a bit tougher on him.”

Niala pulled her head back slightly. “What, like you've been teaching him to push back his limits and how you work him to the bone, so much that he has to go take naps? I've been watching you with him. You think I'm praising him too much, but I think you're being too hard with him.”

David frowned. “No I'm not. If I were, he'd let me know, or I'd see it.”

“Probably not! You think everyone is just as resilient as you! And Cookie's such a sweetheart, he just wants to please you, so of course he would try his best even if it hurts him!”

David scoffed. “I wouldn't hurt him! I'm even teaching him to know his limit! It's better than just being told anything he does is perfect, and he can never do wrong!”

“What?! That's not what I'm doing! He knew that making a mess was bad! You could see it in the way he curved! You don't need to keep reminding him that he failed!”

His eyes widened. “You make me sound like a slave driver who's whipping him into shape!”

She crossed her arms. “Well, that's a little bit what you're doing.”

“You know that's a lie. Why are you being so prickly about this?”

“Because I don't want Cookie to be sad or hurt! And I'm scared that the way you're teaching him is doing just that!”

David opened his mouth to reply, but something stopped him. A pang, somewhere deep down.

In front of him, Niala's eyes widened in surprise, and then concern.

They looked at each other.

A bucket of cold water had doused the heat he'd felt rising. He blinked. “Kitten... I swear to you, I would not hurt Cookie. How could you even think that?”

She rubbed he arm, averting her gaze, her tail going limp and her ears drooping. “I'm sorry... I just... I don't know what I said that.” She looked back up at him, eyes wavering. “I'm sorry, David.”

He sighed and got up, walking around the table and next to her. Arms wrapped around herself, she got up and took one step toward him, but no more.

He rolled his eyes and put his arms around her, pulling her into him and resting his head on top of hers. “Kitten, I'm not mad. I'm just a bit hurt that you thought that... but I guess I also hurt you a bit when I said you were being too nice to Cookie, huh?”

She nodded against him.

He put a kiss on her head and stroked her hair. “I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that.”

She spoke quietly into him. “I know... it was just me. I know what you mean. It's just... I'm sorry.”

He smiled and nestled his head against hers. “I'm sorry too. I love you.”

“I love you too.”

Then he chuckled.

She sniffed. “What's funny?”

He pulled her back a bit so he could look her in the eyes. “That was our first couple's fight, wasn't it?”

She blinked, eyes wet. “Huh... was it?” Her ears perked up, and a smile drew across her face. “It totally was! David! We just had a fight, and we made up! And we apologized! And now we're going to kiss, and it'll all be fine!”

He tilted his head, then smirked and obliged.

Their lips met, and they kissed.

And, unlike all their prior kiss, this one felt a bit more special.

They didn't know exactly why. Maybe that kiss was a reaffirmation of their love for each other. Maybe it was the swing from anger to love that made it taste all the sweeter.

Maybe it was just a really good kiss.

All they knew was that dinner was over, as far as they were concerned, and their bed was waiting for them, and it wasn't so they could sleep in it.

Later, once they had calmed down considerably and lay tangled upon the bed with no annoying clothes in the way, they had a talk. A good, long, reasonable one, where they voiced their opinion and listened when it was the other's turn. The kind where you ask questions to understand, and not to find answers.

They both agreed that they should have faith in each other's best intentions for Cookie, and that having different approaches was probably good, all things considered.

Still, David agreed that giving the pile a few more praises probably wouldn't hurt, and Niala admitted that she could more clearly tell Cookie when he was making a mistake.

So they would meet in the middle, while respecting each other's methods, and promised to speak up sooner if something was bothering them.

They'd both looked at each other, smiled, and laughed, tightening their hold on one another.

More fights would crop up. The thought didn't scare them, nor did it have them reconsidering their marriage. People fought all the time, for big and small reasons. The difference, they felt, was that theirs would be fights in a war that had already been won.

So, no, they weren't afraid of fighting again. They were just kind of afraid whether their bed would survive the aftermaths.

It... He? He was learning so many new things. He had learned he had a name: Cookie. He didn't know what it meant, if anything, but the lights seemed to like it, so he guessed he liked it too.

He wished he could talk with the lights. They had so many things to say and teach him, even if they did it in their own, different ways.

The Niala light was a lot of fun. Everything he did with her felt like a little celebration. He knew he wasn't doing everything perfectly, but she trusted him to do his best, and she was so kind, he didn't want to disappoint her. So, he tried his hardest to do things right, and he wasn't afraid to fail, because he knew she'd just help him try again.

The David light was like a challenge. A challenge with a prize at the end, and he didn't get the prize unless he did it right. It was frustrating, sometimes, because he could get so close and yet not reach the prize.

He felt as if he would have given up sometimes, if it wasn't for David-light giving advice, and speaking as if success was inevitable, if he only kept trying. It gave him heart and the energy to face the challenge again.

And when he did, inevitably, succeed, the prize- David-light's praise and congratulations- was all the sweeter for it.

He didn't know, exactly, but he felt as if he had been created by really good lights. He could already tell that they cared from the start, from how he could feel their touch all over his body. It had been an old body, but the lights had fixed it with love and care. Now that it was his body, he could feel how warm all of those lingering touches were.

This body, this... house. He was the house, and he was loved.

He would love them back and protect them, even if he had to learn what love was first.