He leapt back before his windstep could time out, yanking the monster with him back onto terra firma. He slammed it into the ground, pressing down upon its throat with an iron grip. It struggled to free itself, but the conjurer wasn’t built for physical conflict. Ice bolts slammed into Edmund’s cuirass, rattling his ribcage with every blow, but he didn’t flinch.

A minute later the creature stilled. Three more and the dungeon reclaimed its monster.

The clouds parted around Edmund as he finally stood, revealing his surroundings to be a wide ledge halfway up the cliff. He peered over the edge to find he stood some fifty feet above the trail below, a challenging descent still ahead of him. It could wait.

Against the mountainside, a golden chest arose from the ground. With victory ringing through his mind, Edmund swung it open. A leather satchel, pale as the clouds on a summer’s day, sat within.

Cloudkith Satchel

Applies greater weight reduction to its contents.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to slip the white strap over his shoulder, rooting through the various pockets and spots in his armor where he’d tucked the pocket guide and the assorted coins he’d collected over his journey thus far. It was nice to finally have a proper way of carrying things.

Items secure, he sat back against the cliffside and brought up his constellation once more. Sure enough, a simplified image of the conjurer appeared beside those of the rootmother and azure fox.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.

Edmund immediately noted two things. The first was that unlike his other two sigils, the cloudkith sigil didn’t come with a trailblazer bonus. Someone else had defeated this boss before. Second, he wondered what exactly was and was not a cloud-based lifeform. The conjurer itself hadn’t been—it’s name had marked it a friend of the clouds. Edmund supposed he was too, now.

His rewards gathered, Edmund turned his focus to the trail below. With the storm clouds retreating, his path down the mountainside revealed itself. For safety’s sake, Edmund waited until his wounds had fully recovered and his windstep came off cooldown before lowering himself over the ledge.

He moved slowly and cautiously, keeping himself wedged as tightly in the corner as he could while sliding a single palm or foot down an inch at a time. His muscles ached angrily by the time he jumped off and fell the final two yards, but it was nothing his Perseverance couldn’t handle.

Edmund walked almost casually back along the trail, giving the rams as wide a berth as the path allowed. He traveled all the way back to the exit, where he deposited his satchel securely between the empty loot chest and the wall. Comfortable his belongings weren’t going anywhere, he turned his attention to the pacified rams.

Just because he’d killed them easily before, didn’t mean he couldn’t glean valuable training from them.

He started with a lone ram, aggroing it with a Firebolt before dropping his stance to meet its charge. His spear struck it cleanly through the eye.

Edmund spent no more than a few days training against the rams, experimenting with various combinations of spells and abilities to take them out. Magma Fissure, he discovered, could eliminate two of them at once with a single cast if he timed it right. Two well-aimed Firebolts could blind one. Smoke Lash, of course, could trip them up. Rend split them in twain.

The more he trained, the more he felt like he’d outstripped the dungeon, like the resonance of his Aspects and the thoroughness of his training and the completeness with which he stripped each floor of resources had overpowered the dungeon’s ability to grow in difficulty.

He left the stonehorn rams behind, finding little to learn from their repeated deaths. Perhaps the future floors would have more to offer.

Liam remained curiously absent through it all, a fact from which Edmund took no small amount of joy. He knew he’d have to deal with the avatar’s prodding soon enough. For the time being, he looked to the future with tentative optimism. He looked forward to the challenges ahead of him. He looked forward to the chance to buy gear and information at the upcoming hub floor. He looked forward to his next encounter with the azure fox, to using his newest sigil, to taking a bath.

It was with an eye towards the future, confidence in his stride, and, at the back of his head, an unfamiliar glimmer of something that might one day pass for hope, that Edmund approached the end of the ninth floor and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 10

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 5 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 6 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Novice

The second step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
