He paused for a moment there, looking down on himself for lack of a reflective surface. He supposed he looked a little ridiculous. His black leather vambraces mismatched the greenish dark gray of his rerebraces, which again clashed with shale gray of his rockjaw pauldrons and the much paler tone of his widow’s cuirass. The earthen brown of his barkbreeches capped off the chaotic ensemble, painting him the absolute picture of the desperate scavenger. In a lot of ways, he was.

Shaking the thoughts from his head, Edmund sat back against the cliffside and envisioned his constellation, heart already racing with the promise of a new confluence to be formed. He knew, going in, he wanted to make a tier four. It made sense. Higher tier Aspects were generally more powerful, and their creation would provide more upgrades than low-tier alternatives.

He had two options.

Combining Elements with The Rift was the obvious path, taking his highest-tier Aspect and combining it with his newest base. Alternatively, he could combine Sorcery and The Island. Both recipes consisted of the same four base Aspects—his only four base Aspects—and both combined a gray Aspect with a golden one.

Edmund wasn’t sure if the two potential combinations would yield the same result. As far as he knew, the rules for such things held little in the way of consistency, and until he could speak with someone who’d charted out the various lower-tier combinations, he had no real way of finding out.

The only difference Edmund could know for certain was which Aspects would upgrade upon forming the confluence. Other than Madness itself, The Rift was his most powerful Aspect. Upgrading it was sure to yield more immediate strength than choosing Sorcery in its stead. From there, the decision was clear.

Edmund combined his Aspect of Elements with The Rift, and watched with his mind’s eye as their confluence flared into existence, glowing in resplendent silver.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Before closing his constellation to test out his newest spell, Edmund diverted his attention to his other Aspects, many of which had grown in level.

Elements, upon reaching level three, no longer listed Flame Dart as its reward, the clearly more powerful Firebolt taking its place. Solitude showed no change, but Perseverance no longer labeled its health regeneration as ‘minor.’ Madness remained unaltered beyond its level increase, but The Island, of all things, changed drastically.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Edmund blinked. He’d expected a new effect or an increase in over-all power level, not a loosening of the restriction. It felt, not wrong but somehow off, for an immediate derivation of Solitude to allow him a person’s company. But then again, he figured islands appeared in chains. Or was he supposed to be on the island? In which case, multiple people could fit on the same island, right?

Edmund decided trying to logic his way through the symbolism of his Aspects wasn’t going to get him anywhere. The change would be useful if he ever ran into Amelia or some other lone delver again, though with Solitude itself still requiring he fight alone, he didn’t see grouping up in his long-term future.

Blinking his constellation away, Edmund turned his attention to something far more exciting: trying out his newest spell.

In comparison to Smoke Lash and his newly renamed Firebolt, the channel in his head for Magma Fissure felt like a gaping maw, hungry for mana. Edmund gave it all it asked for, feeling a cloud descend upon his mind as his mental energy depleted itself. He wouldn’t be casting more than one of these in a fight. Thrax, he wouldn’t be casting this and any other spell, not if he wanted to be able to stand up afterwards.

But as Edmund felt the ground quake beneath him, he knew the cost was worth it.

Some two dozen feet ahead of him, where his gaze had fallen as he’d cast the spell, the earth opened up with a horrible crack. A jagged line as long as the trail was wide appeared as the ground split itself open. The gap itself stretched only two feet wide, but that wasn’t the point.

Angry red light radiated from the fissure, a familiar hue Edmund remembered from the magma pools on the sixth floor. He didn’t have to get that close to see it for himself, bubbling and popping just a few inches below the surface.

Anything that fell in there wouldn’t live long. Edmund nodded. Anything that so much as misplaced a foot in there wouldn’t live long, not in a fight.

He stepped away from the crack in the earth, leaning against the cliffside and sitting down to rest. It took some time for his mental energy to recover, a period over which he noted the angry glow of the lava faded but the fissure remained. When at last he decided himself ready to move on, he found the base of the fissure coated in porous black rock, just a foot or so short of filling in the hole completely.

Happy with this newest addition to his arsenal, Edmund spared a single glance at the exit before turning back to face the mountain trail. There was a secret here, somewhere. He would find it.

He set off at a glacial pace back the way he’d come, walking in a zigzag back and forth across the road as he constantly poked and prodded at both the cliffside on his right and the drop-off on his left. In the cliff he scanned for secret doors, analyzing every inch of the solid rock for cracks or hidden mechanisms. Over the ledge he checked for landings, hidden platforms onto which he might’ve safely jumped.

He found nothing.

He triggered and retriggered every trap he came across, searching for ways to slip inside whatever machine powered them. Again, he found nothing.

Newly respawned stonehorn rams gave him curious looks as he passed by, unable to attack without provocation thanks to the accords. Edmund didn’t bother with them. He’d get some practice taking them down with alternate methods once he’d completed his search.

But he hadn’t found so much as a rock out of place by the time the level’s entrance came into view.

Edmund sighed, his thoughts turning to the third floor, where Madness had found a secret door for him. He tried to invoke the Aspect, but it refused to heed his call. There were too many types of secrets, he reasoned, to be found on the cliffside, too little certainty there was even something to find without Liam’s wager egging him on.

So he turned around and traveled the path again.

He didn’t search for anything in particular this time, keeping his eyes open for any hint of any way to possibly move outside the two dimensions of the trail. About three quarters of the way through the level, he found something.

It wasn’t much, a spot in the path where the trail swerved right a bit more sharply than the smooth bends elsewhere. Edmund stopped, turning his gaze up the cliff face at the layer of storm clouds above.

He stepped up to the corner, placing a tentative palm against the cool stone. On the other edge of the corner, he placed another. A rare grin stretched across Edmund’s face.

He could climb this.

He tugged on the handle at the base of his spear, hooking the tip and slinging it around his neck to free up both hands. With a deep breath, a determined gaze, and a brief moment to wipe the sweat from his palms, Edmund mounted the cliff.

With one palm and one foot on either side of the acute corner, Edmund wedged himself into the tight space. He paused there, but a few inches off the ground, to test the security of his hold. When enough time had passed with neither a slip nor a fall, he began his ascent.

It was a slow and awkward process, aided, thankfully, by Obsession’s boost to his agility.

The layer of clouds didn’t so much suddenly surround him as fade into existence, the world outside his immediate vicinity slowly obscuring until he could see no further than his own hands. Still Edmund climbed.

Moisture in the air worked against him, his hands and the bare granite both growing slick with it. Still he climbed.

His wrists began to ache, rebelling against the constant strain of pressing his flat palms against the stone. Still he climbed.

The top came almost as a surprise, a sudden lack of surface where there should’ve been one. At first, Edmund’s fingers refused to curl over the edge, stiffness from the climb working against its end. He forced himself past it, reaching first a hand, then an elbow, then a leg over the ledge. He didn’t stop to catch his breath. He didn’t allow himself the chance to rest. Not here.

Edmund pushed himself to his feet, unhooking the spear from around his neck and straightening its tip as he surveyed his surroundings. They weren’t much.

Wherever he was, he hadn’t managed to climb past the clouds. Dark, frigid fog hung in the air, a gray curtain that walled him off from everything more than a few feet away. Before taking a single step, Edmund gathered what information he could.

He stood upon a flat surface, whether a massive plateau or a small ledge, he couldn’t say. He inched slowly across the stone, eyes and ears peeled for signs of threat. The fog itself would be his greatest foe. At any speed beyond a cautious shuffle, he’d never see the cliff before it was too late. Edmund’s skin crawled. This landing, its pervading silence, the moisture in the air itself exuded danger.

Laughter rang out in the distance.

It didn’t echo through the air like some great guffaw. It didn’t pierce the mist or taunt him with its grandiosity.

It danced upon the wind, high pitched, careless, and free as it weaved through the clouds to deliver itself unto his ear. As quick as it had come, it ceased.

Edmund squinted. He lowered his spear, casting his cautious gaze about in all directions. There. He spotted it, or at least, something, to his left, a spot in the fog darker than its surroundings. He lunged.

His spear swept clean through it, the clouds around it whirling in tiny vortices with the motion. It slipped away to the left, unperturbed by the spiderleg through its center, and disappeared once more.

The laughter returned, more energetic and giggly than before. Edmund cursed.

Frigid pain erupted in his left thigh. He glanced down to find an icicle falling from the wound, its tip melted by the warmth of his blood. Thanks to his barkbreeches, it’d only penetrated a half inch into his flesh.

Edmund didn’t hesitate, lunging for the origin of the attack without even looking up to confirm the presence of the dark spot. Again, his spear passed clean through the three-foot-tall smudge in mist, and again the figure retreated unharmed.

Edmund dropped his spear, halting its motion with a foot to keep it from rolling away. Two tries was enough to prove the weapon ineffective against this particular enemy.

Another icicle flew at him, this time bouncing cleanly off his chitin cuirass. Edmund retaliated with a spell of his own, launching a Firebolt at the projectile’s source.

His flame burned away at the fog as it traveled, carving a tunnel of clear air through the mist. For the first time, Edmund laid eyes on his foe.

It was humanoid in shape, but only just. Its nearly spherical head stretched as wide as its narrow torso, white wisps in lieu of hair floating from its scalp and melding with the fog. The thing’s left arm ended in a stub but a few inches from where it began, while its right arm reached out further than its entire three-foot height.

It smiled wide, its close-mouthed grin stretching unnaturally far across its childish face. More particular still was the etherealness of it all. The thing floated just a few inches off the ground, and as Edmund’s Firebolt passed clean through it, he could’ve sworn he saw his spell through the monster as it continued on.

His Madness registered just in time for the unreal smoke to appear in Edmund’s vision before the fog swept back in and the world shrunk once more.

Cloudkith Conjurer

The name glowed red, an image of a golden crown floating above it—a rare boss, then, absent the skull that’d marked Urliel as unique or whatever the warden had been. Either way, Edmund had gleaned important information.

Spells didn’t hurt it either.

The next icicle crashed into the side of his head, the impact carving a small dent in his ebonsteel helm. His ears rang. His vision flashed black, then returned, cloudy but functional. Edmund blinked the moisture from his eyes and whirled around to find the dark shape of the conjurer once again.

He waited, mind racing frantically for a plan as he stared down the shadow in the fog. Another icicle struck, ricocheting off the crest of his forehead and passing overhead. He couldn’t take much more of this. Sooner or later they’d find a weak spot in his armor. Already an ice bolt had come dangerously close to his eyes.

Edmund sped through his arsenal. He eliminated physical attacks outright, trusting neither his spear nor Rend to deal any real damage. Firebolt, similarly, had proven ineffective. While the consistent heat from Magma Fissure might’ve helped burn away the mist for some time, he had no illusions it would deal any damage to an enemy that could levitate. He couldn’t justify the mana expenditure for a non-lethal blow.

An icicle slammed into the top of his chest, skidding up the curve of his cuirass towards the gap between it and his helm. The tip of it scraped at his throat before its taper wedged against the base of his helmet. Edmund gulped. He had to act.

His options running thin, Edmund conjured a Smoke Lash around his right wrist and swung for the conjurer. He hoped it, of all things, could counter the beast’s ethereal nature with its own.

It failed.

Again the creature laughed, and again it rang in Edmund’s ear as if from right beside him.

Edmund charged forward, dashing along the mountaintop for the taunting figure in the mists. Just as its features began to peek through the fog, the worst happened.

His boot caught only air.

Edmund reacted on instinct, plummeting only a foot off the cliff before spending his windstep to solidify the air beneath his boot. His hand lashed forward, wrapping around the conjurer’s throat. It was squishy, soft beneath his fingers, but distinctly tangible.

Where his spear and his magic had failed, Edmund’s own hand found purchase. However ethereal, incorporeal, or unreal the creature was, it didn’t matter.

Edmund could touch the unreal.

