Delta stubbornly ignored the cheerful box. There would be no lava level here.She hadn’t even done a proper water level yet. Everyone loved those! Delta felt the sarcasm grow thick in her own mind and shook it clear.If she had to have a water level, she would break the mold and make it bearable. It would be pacific and the design would not be made by someone who might be a little... cra-sea.Delta giggled and wondered where her new Delbird was...---“Begone!” Devina commanded, her greenish skin going blue with anger. The bird tilted its head at her.“Okay... witch way?” it fired back and Devina held back a scream.---Delta sure it was fine.She focused on the earth, the fresh green weeds, grass and empty soil. A second later, it was all gone. They didn’t count as objects but terrain so it was easy to disperse.She whistled as a soil was slowly covered by a smooth rock. It was a slow process because she was shaping the rock as it spread. The idea at first was a perfect bowl but Nu had pointed out that there was no way to get out if one was too slippery or wet. So, Delta made little ‘seats’ and ledges for people to sit on, curved for maximum comfort.Then once it looked good, she ringed the entire thing with a flat rock that spread out so if someone got out they wouldn’t immediate stand on wet soil. With that done, she filled the entire thing with clean pure water.It filled up perfectly, no signs of a leak or such. Nu was too busy examining the piece to actually comment on anything. Then she placed a fire crystal and water crystal at the bottom of the water, covering them in a tiny wooden box with a open criss-cross fence.The crystals again curved upwards but Delta ignored that.She waited for a moment.“Come on... come on...” she prayed and then as she was about to go check on the crystals, the water surface began to steam.She could see the water level rising up as the water crystal began to output more water than the hole could handle.“Nu, any luck?” she called, hoping that her friend could tell her good news.

Nu sounded excited and Delta hurried to open her menu.A box was waiting for her.

Delta hit the yes button and the area flashed and went calm again. The water was now beginning to spread out now. Unlike the pond, the excess water had no fancy dungeon space tunnel to be flushed into where it went somewhere that made no sense.In the menu, she found her answer.

Delta purchased the first one and the water slowed and then began to drain back into the spa.

Delta spent some mana and an offering table appeared next to both the hits used for changing.“Trust me. After fighting their way down here, they’ll be grateful and getting something for letting them bath when who knows what they might leave behind or bath off for us to use for ourselves? To’s a win-win!” Delta grinned and Nu was silent for a moment.

Delta suddenly looked sheepish.“I just thought of it,” she admitted. Delta suddenly focused on what Nu had said before.Boss room.The second floor still had no Boss. She remembered she had to choose a monster to become the boss. Fran had a special option because of Bacon.So, if she made a boss room here, every monster on this floor might suddenly have wildly different requirements and Delta would have to choose one of her monsters to become a boss or make a brand new monster that she might not have such a good understanding of...Devina was a wild card but too newly evolved. Rale was happy with Bob. Bob was... well, not something she thought of when it came to jungle bosses. Wilhelm guarded the circus and Renny was a contract.The Queen ran her kingdom and the rest where critters. The boss room was important but Delta had not created enough variety or forces to really give a boss monster proper thought.“Better start now then,” she mused and went to the far end of the Jungle room and with some nervousness, created a tunnel into a wide room.Nothing stopped her and she didn’t run into anything but empty soil.Delta breathed out with relief.The option came up before she could even open a menu.

“Sis... let’s do it.”

“I wonder if Delbird wants the job...” Delta wondered aloud and Nu’s box nearby fizzled with a loud protest.Delta would just do what she always did when it came to making important choices. Jab random buttons and ask if anyone wanted the job with a polite tone.It hadn’t failed her so far.
