Carrying the pot back to the fire, she hung the pot on a hook mounted on the stone wall. Stepping back, she absently ran her fingers through her blood-matted hair. Was I dead then? The thought gnawed at her. He was cagey about that, and it’s the only thing that makes sense. Zombie Kindra.

The distant sound of squabbling animals snapped her out of her thoughts. She left the fire and poked her head into the adjoining kitchen. A large hearth dominated the space, surrounded by several pots, some scattered food on the shelves, and an open door leading to the cellar.

At least I won’t starve. She listened to the animals and shook her head. The entire planet is going to die if this spreads.

Turning back, she walked back to the front of the barracks and looked at the dead dwarves, focusing on the faint runes that covered the bodies. Can I break them? I did it before.

She approached one of the corpses and started with the first rune, recalling the best counter. Then she worked down the line, mapping out the runes she’d need to break them.

She memorized them as best as she could. “System, how do I do this? Is there a spell or something?”

[Given your current abilities, you may conjure the runes in your mind and touch the infected. Your blood will do the rest. You may also will your mana forward while picturing the runes in your mind. This is considered free casting.]

So I can get rid of it. She took a moment to review the runes, and the smell of burning meat reached her nose. Oh, shirt. Forgot.

Bolting back to the dining room, she grabbed the pot and placed it on the floor. Now, does it have it too?

She studied her meal and saw the same runes. Reaching down, she touched the meat and pictured the rune sequence. The runes all snuffed out.

[Your actions have caused your magic to grow. ‎ Your mana has increased: 19.8 → 24.8.]

A massive smile spread across her face. She placed the pot on the fire before turning to the bird’s corpse. It’s time to farm some mana. With an eager look, she dashed to it.
