Ali puzzled over her Grimoire for a while. Trying to read the imprint was not helping – she simply didn’t have enough knowledge or understanding of the complex script to decipher how it worked yet. All that she had developed was a headache.

I’m just going to have to keep trying.

She channeled her mana into her Starving Wolf imprint. Ideally, she would have wanted to use a Starving Alpha because they were stronger, and usually level five, but she didn’t have an imprint for that yet. By her count, she needed to deconstruct another eight or nine Alpha wolves before it should show up. On the other hand, her Starving Wolf imprint took significantly more space in her Grimoire than all her other imprints, and for a while, she had hoped to find the Alpha encoded somewhere within its pages. But her examination of the imprint had shed precisely no light on the question.

Ali tried to imagine creating the Alpha, fixing the image in her mind – in case that mattered – and finished channeling her magic.

Starving Wolf – level 2Your reserved mana has increased by +14.

I guess not, she thought, looking at her new wolf, and noticing that the reservation cost for her level-two summon had decreased from fifteen to fourteen. Despite her disappointment, the level-two wolf looked strong, and she decided she liked it more than the rats.

As soon as she was done, Malika led them off toward the distant wall of the cavern – an area that seemed darker even than the already dark cavern. Ali remained alert, keeping herself close to her companions this time. Even though they had not been through this part of the cavern, the experience of having a wolf respawn on top of her was enough to make her wish she had eyes on the back of her head. It was so dark that they had decided to use Calen’s light magic, even despite the risk of attracting whatever unknown monsters might dwell here.

The crunching footsteps of her heavier companions grew louder in the dark silence of the cavern as the piles of discarded and decaying bones grew larger and more prominent, looming a stark bleached white against the surrounding blackness.

“Monster on your left. Level six.” Calen’s whisper brought them all to a sudden halt. Ali’s eyes searched the bone piles for a moment before she suddenly saw it.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 6

A chill swept through Ali as the memories of her panicked and terrifying escape from the invasion of Dal’mohra crashed into her mind.

How is it here? She snapped her head back and forth desperately hoping that she wouldn’t, but fearing that she would, find Nevyn Eld lurking in the shadows.

The skeleton was just as awful as she remembered. Gray-aged bone, adorned with worn, decrepit scraps of armor. A rusty longsword dangled from bone fingers with the point dragging through the dirt. Malevolent red light flickered within empty eye sockets.

“Undead,” Mato’s voice conveyed a surprising amount of disgust and something else. Anger? Fear?

A hand touched her shoulder, startling her, but it was just Malika.

“Are you ok?” she whispered.

Ali collected herself, taking some measure of calm from the presence of her friend, and then nodded. “I’ll be alright.”

“It has a high level, but there’s just one,” Malika observed. “I’ll tank. Calen, you have the highest perception, keep watch for adds. Ali and Mato, go all out as soon as I have it secured.”

“Yes.”

“Got it.”

“Ok.”

She wanted nothing more than to turn and flee, to feel her mother’s hand guiding her away from danger. She couldn’t shake the memory of Armand dying before her very eyes, run through by a skeleton just like this one. But instead, she stood and faced the undead monster. Perhaps it was all the prior practice against wolves and rats, but Ali found some measure of strength in relying on the skills and the bravery of her friends.

Malika stalked across the bone-strewn ground and promptly punched the skeleton in the face as it charged toward her, rusty sword raised to attack. She dodged the vicious slash with uncanny grace and speed and responded with a snap kick that flickered with her magic on impact.

“Go!”

“Go.” Ali echoed Malika’s command to her wolf and rat, and they charged forward alongside Mato to engage the skeleton. Ali scanned the surroundings out of sheer habit, before remembering it was not her job this time. Seeing that the fight was stable, and Malika was controlling the skeleton effectively, Ali fired a salvo of arcane bolts. Her magic was followed almost instantly by Calen’s brilliant arrows.

The skeleton didn’t react to her magic in the slightest, focused entirely on trying to skewer Malika while the stream of bolts rained down with staccato thumps, each strike blasting dust and splinters of bone from the undead monster’s skeletal torso and shoulders. Malika dodged and blocked, her body flickering with the light of a continuous stream of healing magic.

She’s getting hurt a lot! Unbidden, her mind conjured the gruesome sight of the sword drenched in crimson bursting from Maeria’s chest. Dispensing with caution, Ali channeled more mana into her Arcane Bolt spell, firing a continuous stream of bolts that didn’t let up until the skeleton dropped to the floor with a crash of bone and a clatter of rusty steel.

By now, Ali was so used to the chaos of the wolf packs they had been fighting that, for a moment, her mind simply registered surprise. It had taken a while to kill, but the fight felt almost trivial by comparison. She had not needed her roots or barrier, nor had her concentration and focus been taxed in the slightest.

Of course, I wasn’t the one needing healing every few seconds.

“Malika! You ok?” she called.

“Yup,” Malika replied, immediately sitting down cross-legged in the dirt where the skeleton had fallen. “It hit very hard.” She turned to look at Mato. As he finished transforming back to his Beastkin form, she added, “Thanks for helping me with the damage.”

To Ali, she sounded a little grudging, like she didn’t want to be in the position of owing him anything. But you can’t let it go without acknowledging that he helped, can you? Ali was beginning to get a better sense of her new friends.

For his part, Mato was direct, offering a simple, “No problem.”

Ali kept her thoughts to herself. Obviously, it would be nicer for the two of them to get along in a friendly way, but she was hopeful they would reach that point on their own. Certainly, she didn’t think her opinion would change either of their minds. Let’s all hold hands and be friends and sing songs together? Right, Ali.

She bent down and just stared at the skeleton for a while, now significantly less terrifying lying face down in the dirt. She glanced up to find both Calen and Malika giving her worried looks.

“I lost a good friend to one of these,” she said. And then she reached down and deconstructed it to recover some of her mana.

“Hey Ali,” Mato called out. He was over by a large pile of bone examining something near the ground. “Do you want these?”

Curious, she walked over to see what he was meant.

Blackened Deathcap – Mushroom – level 2

The mushrooms were growing on the decaying bones in a fairly large clump. The cap was large – she wouldn’t have been able to span it with both of her hands side by side. The surface was cracked and even the flesh inside was so dark it appeared to be eating the small amount of light in the area. The gills under the mushroom cap were a deep violet, and Ali couldn’t help but be creeped out by it.

“You can make mushrooms, right?” he asked her, breaking her focus.

When did he notice? It surprised her that the happy-go-lucky Beastkin had been paying attention to the minor things she had learned so far. Bringing her attention back to the nasty black mushroom, she wrinkled her nose.

“Those are pretty nasty…”

“Yup, probably highly poisonous,” he answered. “But that’s how nature is – some pretty things and some ugly things. Growth and decay. Poison and healing.” Ali immediately recognized the quote from when he had read the Druidic magic book to her. Ruefully, she revised her simplistic opinion of Mato in her mind and then looked at the mushroom with new eyes. I could try it, she thought. I have open chapters. This feels… dangerous, but necessary. I mustn’t shirk even the dangerous parts of my skills. She couldn’t afford to pass on something that might be useful just because it was gross or nasty.

She took her time, intending to deconstruct the entire clump of mushrooms, but something different happened. After she had finished the third mushroom, her chime sounded.

Imprint: Common Glowcap updated to Imprint: MushroomVariant: Blackened Deathcap added to Imprint: Mushroom

To her surprise, her Grimoire flipped to the imprint of her Common Glowcap, adding several new pages of runic inscriptions. A variant? Against all expectations, the book had decided to combine both mushrooms into the same imprint, even though neither of them were even remotely close to the same species – at least as best she could tell. Ali puzzled over it for a while, but she simply didn’t have enough examples to figure out the rules for how it behaved.

Save that thought. It’ll become clear later, no doubt.

She finished deconstructing the rest of the mushrooms until the Grimoire stopped updating itself. Then she used the imprint, trying to figure out how to select the new mushroom variant. Unfortunately, it was not obvious. After several tries, she was forced to conclude that her Grimoire was randomly selecting between the Common Glowcap and the Blackened Deathcap whenever she created a mushroom.

That’s a bit inconvenient, she thought, bothered by the lack of control. On the other hand, she now had two different mushrooms and it still cost only one chapter.
