Finally low on mana, Ali chose not to find something to deconstruct for the moment. Instead, she walked over and sat beside Malika as she continued her Meditation. Opening her Grimoire, Ali decided to spend the rest of the time till the others woke up studying her new imprint.

I miss reading, she thought to herself. But rather than waking Mato or Calen to borrow one of their books and exercise her newest reading skill, she chose instead to use her Runic Script.

I have my own book!

Even though this imprint was one of her simpler ones, just going by the count of pages it occupied, the myriad runes wove a spell tapestry of unbelievable complexity – well beyond Ali’s ability to grasp. But Ali didn’t mind, more than happy enough when her Sage of Learning unraveled the basic meaning of a new rune she hadn’t understood before and led her to the realization that – more or less – her imprint was a blueprint for creation. These were not radical breakthroughs, rather things that she could have deduced on her own, but Ali was content merely to be making progress. It was important to her that she could see it in the structure, rather than just guess.

Runic Script has reached level 4.Sage of Learning has reached level 6.

***

“So, what should we do today?” Ali asked as she bit into a slice of a crisp apple. Mato had produced an astonishing array of fruits and sandwiches for breakfast, and Ali wasn’t quite sure how he had managed to fit all of it in his pack. To be fair, his pack only looked small because his back was so broad. Beastkin probably don’t skip meals.

“I thought we might try to explore the far side of the cavern today,” Malika suggested. Ali was certain Malika still didn’t quite see eye-to-eye with Mato, simply due to her hesitation when he offered her food. But Mato made no issue of it, making sure everything was fairly shared, and before long, Malika’s hunger must have won out over her misgivings because she finished two sandwiches and an apple in the same amount of time it took for Ali to finish her couple of slices. To be fair to Malika, Ali was taking her time savoring the delicious sweetness.

“If we are going that way, I’ve a favor to ask,” Calen said, catching Ali’s attention. Whatever it was, he was looking at her.

“What favor?”

“When we fell into the cavern, Donavan was killed under some falling rock. I don’t think it’s right to leave him to rot. Mato tried to move it, but it was too heavy, and I was wondering… do you think your magic might be able to dissolve some of the stone, and perhaps the body, so that we can send him off to whatever afterlife he believes in?”

Calen’s voice sounded heavy, and it was by far the most Ali had ever heard him speak at once.

This seems important to him. Thinking it over, Ali said, “That’s a good idea. I can try – I have dissolved a few rocks with my skill before so I think it should work. Was he a good friend?”

“No, he was a spoiled noble prat,” Mato interjected. “But I agree with Calen, I don’t think he deserved the end he got.”

“You know, I can’t shake the feeling that Tala pushed him,” Malika said quietly. “The way she was standing looking down, and then how cheerful she sounded when she ‘found’ his body…”

With the suddenness that both Mato and Calen froze to stare at Malika, Ali could instantly tell neither of them had suspected foul play, but from their expressions, Malika’s paranoia seemed to have hit some sort of mark. Calen seemed to bite back on a curse, uncharacteristically for him, while Mato puffed out his cheeks with a heavy sigh.

“I have a few questions of my own for her when we find her,” Mato said, finally breaking the silence, his demeanor and expression hard and closed. “She ditched us in the middle of that fight.”

On that dark note, they finished breakfast and headed out into the darkness of the cavern, with Calen leading the way to the rock fall. Donavan and Tala. Ali had no frame to consider these people, but her friends clearly had some very strong feelings about them and what had happened before they had found their way down here to the Grove.

Ali was so completely wrapped up in her thoughts that when she found herself slammed into the ground with a snarling wolf tearing at her arms, the shock and disorientation was overwhelming. The pain of sharp teeth ripping through her flesh made her vision swim and lurch as she screamed and tried to scramble away from the ferocious monster, but it gripped her left arm between its fangs and shook her like a rat.

Suddenly, an enormous bulk of fur and muscle slammed sideways into the wolf, knocking it off her with a startled pained yelp. The bear stood protectively over her fallen body, roaring and slashing at the wolf with his paws.

Mato? It had all happened in a blink, and her mind was still reeling in confusion. And then Malika was beside her, and a burning surge of healing magic tore through her body, knitting her flesh back together in an instant. Oh … what happened?

Malika helped Ali to her feet, and she finally looked around, her heart still stampeding within her chest. Mato was mauling the wolf aided by Ali’s two rats. Calen stood atop a pile of bone firing a stream of shining arrows at the wolf, and Malika immediately waded into the fight as soon as Ali was back on her feet.

Against the backdrop of the dark cavern, Ali saw a cloud of dark motes bubbling out of thin air, making her skin crawl with apprehension.

What…?

The strange lights swirled around for a second before quickly coalescing into a blob. At once, a dark gray form slunk out of the phenomenon.

“Another wolf!” Ali yelled, “Add!” belatedly remembering the proper terminology. Her brain finally caught up to the situation, and she remembered she was no longer helpless.

“Attack!” she thought, redirecting her two rats to the wolf that had incomprehensibly materialized out of thin air, and then summoned a barrier to hide behind. She clenched her shaking hands. Come on, Ali. Focus!

Beyond the new wolf, two new fountains of those strange dark bubbles suddenly materialized. Ali’s eyes widened. “More adds! Incoming.”

This time, though, it seemed Calen had seen them too.

“Ali, roots on the left one when it spawns. Malika, pick up the other one.” Calen’s voice from his higher vantage point was surprisingly calm, and in some strange way, reassuring.

Ali left her rats fighting the wolf and readied her nature magic, trusting that Malika would get the one she had been assigned. As soon as the wolf materialized, Ali cast her spell and the roots burst from the ground, trapping the Alpha wolf that suddenly appeared. It was her first time using her Grasping Roots on the Alpha wolves, and she was extremely relieved to see that her skill was now strong enough to hold the level-five monster – at least for the time being.

I should check on this one more often, she thought as she swapped her attention over to the wolf Mato was tanking. With a thought, she launched a volley of arcane bolts over his back to arc down into the monster. That’s for chewing me up!

“Malika, another spawn on the far side!” Calen called out from the top of his pile of bones.

Where are they coming from all of a sudden? Ali thought, her breath catching in her throat. If the monsters didn’t stop materializing, they would soon be overwhelmed. Too many, too fast… The thoughts rushed around within the confines of her mind, worrying her, but she held her focus against the deafening thumping of her heart, checking on the Alpha and recasting her Grasping Roots while maintaining her Arcane Bolt stream until the first wolf dropped.

Which one next? More roots? In the chaos of the mysteriously appearing monsters, Ali had not even had a chance to think, let alone to determine the correct priority.

As if he had heard her, Calen called out: “My target.” A bright stream of arrows traced across the battlefield, slamming into one of the wolves Malika was fighting, making it abundantly clear which one he meant. Mato charged the wolf Calen had picked, and Ali redirected her bolts as they slowly pieced together their teamwork. With Mato already showing signs of rage and everyone attacking the same wolf, it went down quickly, gaining them a few seconds of breathing space.

With a quick slap, Malika healed Mato, dimming the red mist of his rage, and then they all moved on to the second wolf she was tanking.

Ali refreshed her roots and then felt a snap recoiling through her mana as she lost the connection to one of her rats. Over by the wolf, one of her rats lay unmoving on the ground, still bleeding from where the wolf had savaged its throat.

“One rat down,” Ali called out.

“We’ll get that wolf next,” Calen answered. “Leave the Alpha for last.”

Ali gulped. She had been hoping they would kill the Alpha next so that she wouldn’t have to worry about it breaking free, but over the next few minutes, the fight stabilized dramatically with a few of the wolves killed. Fortunately, no new ones appeared.

“What was that?” Malika sounded annoyed and shocked, and her eyes were wide as she searched the gloom frantically for more unseen monsters.

“I don’t know,” Ali answered. “They just kept appearing out of these fountains of light.” Well, darkness. But a darkness that had looked like bubbles that somehow glowed. “Some kind of magical spell, I think.”

The fact that her skin had been prickling made it almost certain that magic had been involved – but what? And from where?

“Well, that confirms it,” Calen said, hopping down to join them. He stopped while everyone just stared at him. “My Explorer skill has been incessantly telling me this is a dungeon. I just thought it was overreacting. But this was clearly a dungeon resummoning its monsters.”

“A respawn?” Mato asked as he shifted back to normal.

Even Ali had heard of a respawn. It was an event that adventurers feared. Stories told of terrifying encounters where dungeons respawned previously killed monsters on top of delving parties while they were struggling with something else. It was a reliable way to get killed. But the stories hadn’t even come close to instilling the pure terror she had experienced when she had suddenly found herself on the ground under the ravening fangs of a Starving Wolf.

“Next time your skill tells us something, please let us know,” Malika said evenly. Mato inclined his head. “How about I’ll lead, and you bring up the rear, Calen?”

Calen just nodded.

Ali wasn’t quite sure how having the information in advance might have changed anything, but she still shivered at the thought that they were roaming around inside a dungeon.

How long have I been trapped inside this dungeon? Unbidden, the horrific specter of the Blind Lich appeared in her mind. Did he do this? Was the dungeon a trap laid by the Lich, just waiting for her to awaken?

Don’t be silly Ali, you’re not the center of the universe. Why would someone so powerful care about a tiny unclassed Fae? And yet, she couldn’t shake the apprehension, nor the cold claws of ice that seized her gut.

***

With their new marching arrangement, the team finally arrived at the rockfall. Fortunately, no new monsters spawned on top of them.

Up ahead, against the edge of the vast cavern that had once been a forest, loomed an enormous pile of stone slabs, shattered rock, and brick. The pile had obviously fallen from a gaping hole in the roof of the cavern. While most of the cavern was so high Ali couldn’t even see the roof, at this point, up next to the edge, the top of the rock pile and the hole in the roof was only about a five-meter drop.

A length of rope dangled from above, narrowly missing the muddy brown stream of water sluicing through the hole and splashing down upon the rock below, giving off the foulest stench Ali’s recent memory could recall. And I fought a Sewer Rat up close. She gagged, blocking her nose in a vain attempt to staunch the olfactory assault.

“Sorry for the smell,” Malika said. “That’s Myrin’s Keep sewer up there.”

“Delightful,” Ali coughed.

“Donavan is over here,” Calen said, leading the way. He stopped and looked at her. “If it’s too much, Aliandra, it’s ok.”

“I’ll try,” Ali said, trying to put a brave face on it, but the gnawed feet sticking out from under a several-ton slab of stone, and the splat-shaped bloodstain all around made her stomach curdle and lurch queasily.

That was a living person.

“Maybe start with some of the rocks on top, so they don’t fall?” Calen said, pointing upward. He clearly meant to distract her.

Ali nodded her agreement. It looked like half the pile was ready to come down at any moment. With Calen helping her scale the larger boulders, she climbed up to the top and began the task of deconstructing the blocks of stone. It was relatively fast, taking somewhere between ten and twelve seconds each, but it was a huge pile.

Soon enough, Ali felt the pressure build steadily in her mind until her Grimoire appeared.

Imprint: Stone completed.

Ali committed the new imprint to her Grimoire and continued working but, to her surprise, even after inscribing the imprint, the Grimoire would occasionally flip pages and insert a couple of runes here and there as she continued deconstructing the stone.

Are those properties it didn’t quite perfect the first time? Or is it refining the structure? Different types of stone?

At least the runic activity distracted her from the grim task.

Finally, the last slab dissolved into light and mana. Ali instantly threw up. A completely squashed human was a gruesome sight. Bits that shouldn’t be out were spread around, clearly exploded out of the body in the instant of impact, and then impressed into the ground under tons of stone. Not even his gear had survived: fragments of leather – shredded under extreme pressure – lay mixed in with the paste.

“I’m sorry,” Calen spoke from beside her. “I shouldn’t have asked this of you.”

“I’m ok,” Ali answered, even though she felt distinctly not ok. She reached out and touched an exposed piece of leg, squeezing her eyes shut, trying not to look. She very nearly threw up a second time. But she managed to activate her magic, and mercifully, after nearly fifteen endless seconds, the corpse evaporated into light, leaving just some stains and the imprint of the body on the ground.

“May he find his way to his ancestors,” Malika said quietly.

The others simply bowed their heads for a few moments, Ali included.

“Thank you,” Calen said. Ali was inclined to agree with his sentiment. Macabre as the task had been, it felt like they had done something right.

***

