Tala

Tala darted across the slate-tiled rooftop and leapt the alleyway, landing quietly upon the roof of the bakery on the opposite side. Nobody ever looked up – even without her potent stealth skills, she would remain invisible. A chill wind blew out of the dark brooding clouds that had gathered in the short span of time she had spent reporting to Kieran Mori, biting through her leather armor with an insistence that promised a storm.

Despite her conscious efforts to the contrary, her mind kept returning to what she had seen down there in the cavern, fretting incessantly about the implications.

Seizing the opportunity to push Donavan to his death had undoubtedly been her break – the catalyst that had unlocked her uncommon class and had suddenly made her indispensable to Kieran Mori.

But her secret was not safe.

Malika knew. Of this, she was absolutely certain.

She had caught Mato and Calen meeting early in the morning and tailed them down into the sewers. The Half-elf’s annoying light magic had very nearly given her away, but the two of them were not nearly as cautious as they should have been. Once she had figured out the range of his skill, she had simply followed along in the darkness. She had even overheard them discussing their skills. Amateurs.

Once they had reached the cavern, though, Tala had learned that not only had Malika survived, but so had the Fae creature they had tried to rescue.

Seriously, what the fuck had they been thinking charging those wolves?

By some miserable stroke of luck, both Malika and the Fae had already reached level four, putting them out of reach even for her powerful class. Somehow, the three of them had successfully killed all the wolves, saved the Fae, and even leveled up far quicker than she had.

With her plans in tatters, Tala dropped down in front of the battered doorway. A scratched and faded sign hung there blowing in the breeze, portraying a golden crown listing sideways upon a grinning skull.

This must be the place. The Crooked Crown.

Kieran had promised more work for her within the week, but she needed levels, and she needed them fast. With all four of them together, Tala had no chance of silencing them by herself.

She opened the door and stepped into a dimly lit bar. The stench of stale ale washed over her, and the wooden floorboards creaked underfoot as she released her stealth skills. A couple of tables seemed to be occupied with people nursing drinks, but aside from a few furtive glances, nobody paid her any mind.

She ignored the rabble and strode up to the bar where a burly man with a thick black beard stood wiping tankards with a stained rag. A jagged scar ran up from his eyebrow across his bald head, never properly healed and clearly the result of a brawl.

“What can I do for you?” the bartender asked, scowling at her.

“Mr. Mori suggested I might find work here,” she said, repeating what he had told her.

The bartender simply grunted and nodded to a nondescript door toward the back of the room.

“Thanks,” she said. The door revealed a set of rickety narrow stairs leading downward to another door, but this one was guarded.

“Business?” the guard asked.

“Looking for work,” she said, trying not to let her nerves show.

The guard’s eyes flicked briefly to the Town Watch insignia she had put on for exactly this purpose, and he simply nodded and stepped aside. “Jobs board on the back wall,” he said. “Don’t disturb the other patrons or I’ll be forced to disturb your entrails. Nothing personal.”

She nodded to him and entered.

The secret basement bar was smaller than the one upstairs but there were far more patrons, and they all looked up as she entered. Her eyes widened a little in surprise as she caught sight of Adrik and Edrik through the haze of exotic smoke of dubious legality. Quickly, she schooled her expression and acknowledged their gaze with a respectful nod. Nobody liked the enforcers, not even within the Town Watch, but she wasn’t stupid enough to provoke their infamously vicious short tempers. Not yet at least, not until she was much stronger.

Gazes lingered on her as she crossed the floor, heading directly for the noticeboard at the back of the dingy room, but as soon as her intentions were clear, most of the patrons returned to their own conversations.

She wrinkled her nose at the odor of the cheap Bristletusk oil some of the rogues had used to keep their leather armor supple. Morons. What use is stealth if everyone can smell you a mile off by the rancid pig fat. For what? To save a few coins?

She ignored everyone, her eyes scanning the board for any job postings that might suit her skills. She didn’t need assassination work, exactly. Information jobs suited her skills well, even though the experience wouldn’t be as good. But it was better than nothing.

There were lots of jobs. Everything from capture or kidnapping quests for unusual races to restricted herbs and potions with surprisingly high list prices. If she was in the market to make money, there was a lot to be made. Her gaze flickered sideways to find a tall lizard sitting at a table staring at her curiously. Gray scales covered his face, and she easily noticed the ostentatious quality of the out-of-towner’s robes. On a hunch, she identified him.

Merchant – Kel’darran – level ??

I guess the Kel’darran merchant caravan arrived, she thought. It explained the wealth of collection jobs and the substantial payouts attached to each. But she wasn’t here for that. She reached for a small notice near the bottom of the board. Apparently, someone wanted a Gnome merchant killed. A romantic spat gone wrong. She skimmed over the details, not caring much for why, nor the reward, just verifying that she knew where to find the mark, and would be able to earn experience for it, and then she pocketed the notice.

“I swear she ran, Edrik.”

“No, she didn’t, she’s just hiding somewhere as usual.”

Adrik and Edrik seemed to be worked up about something, but she paid them no mind. There seemed to be little else on the board that she could take, so she turned to leave.

“Mori is going to be pissed – he’s expecting a new thief. She had to have been close to her class unlock.”

“She’s a Street Rat, where could she even go?”

“What if she…”

But Tala didn’t hear the rest.

Street Rat?

Malika was a Street Rat.

Tala froze, but her mind raced. Adrik and Edrik were not just the enforcers responsible for collecting the Town Watch’s protection money. Mr. Mori also relied on them for grooming new pickpockets and thieves. Turnover was apparently high, and so they were constantly looking for new people.

It made so much sense.

There was no way Malika could have afforded the shrine. She must have stolen the money to get in. Now that she was a Monk, Adrik and Edrik had no further use for her. All Tala would have to do was point them in the right direction and the twins would take care of her problem for her.

She opened her mouth. But then she shut it again before she could speak.

This is worth more than that. I’m not thinking clearly. She was so focused on her own problems that she had very nearly given everything away. While she had little doubt that Adrik and Edrik would take care of her secret for her, they would certainly take credit for the job, and she would get nothing for her information.

She glanced across the way, meeting the reptilian eyes of the Kel’darran merchant for a moment. They buy anything, she thought. The rarer the better. And she hadn’t seen just Malika down there in the dark cavern…

She quickly left the Crooked Crown, her heart beginning to race with anticipation as she took to the rooftops again. With her information, she could offer Kieran Mori the opportunity to clean house, take Adrik and Edrik down a peg, capitalizing on their mistake to elevate her own status in the Town Watch, and simultaneously hand her boss a magical Fae while the Kel’darran merchant caravan was in town.

Oh, this is going to be so good! They’ll never see it coming. Sweet fucking justice served with an extra helping of profit!

Aliandra

Ali awoke to the profound silence of the Grove and the persistent darkness that shrouded the looming shrine at its center. She sat up on her soft bed of moss and looked around. She was quite used to the larger races and their need for more rest, so it didn’t surprise her much to find that they still slept.

Only Malika was up, taking her turn to keep watch. She sat with her back to the shrine in the cross-legged pose she preferred for her Meditation. Ali chose not to disturb her, getting to her feet quietly.

Ali’s two summoned rats still prowled the perimeter of her mossy carpet, apparently having no need for sleep. It seemed that her summons did not expire, nor had she needed to feed them or let them rest, even between combat – presumably they were sustained entirely upon the mana she kept reserved for each of them.

I should grow my domain, she decided. Growing some more moss was a remarkably cheap way to increase her mana pool. With a larger mana pool, she would be able to cast more magic, and she would regenerate more mana per minute. All of which would be essential to growing her class and increasing her effectiveness in combat.

She walked quietly toward the edge of her moss before summoning her Grimoire, so that the light of her magic wouldn’t wake her friends. Beginning where she had left off last time, she began to summon patches of moss along the edge of her area, pausing to deconstruct the odd boulder here, a pile of slowly rotting wood there, even some scattered bones.

After almost an hour, Ali grew her moss through a large open space and as she began to approach the massive fallen tree trunk that lay half-decayed at the edge, she stumbled as she caught an unexpected glint out of the corner of her eye.

That color!

At first, she assumed it might be a remnant of her mother’s magic that hadn’t yet faded, but as she approached, she realized the soft golden glow seeping from beneath the trunk must be something else entirely. For one thing, it seemed to be emanating from several separate sources, stealing through the gaps between the damp ground and the rotting wood.

What is that? Her curiosity immediately piqued, Ali crouched down to try to get a closer look, wrinkling her nose at the smell of dank, rotting wood and wet compost. The steady glow did not seem dangerous, but she called one of her rats over to her just in case. Glancing back toward the shrine, she decided that her friends were close enough to jump in and help if anything unexpected emerged.

Reaching out, Ali placed her hand upon the rotting trunk looming above her, grimacing at the wet sliminess under her fingers. She focused, channeling Deconstruction through her touch. For about twelve seconds, her golden mana rippled and spread through the still-substantial thickness of the trunk, seeping into the wood and releasing energy into her mana pool while spilling the vast bulk of the excess into the air around her. With a muted, soft implosion, the trunk suddenly vanished, dissipating into a cloud of light particles that drifted away as they faded, leaving behind a clear expanse of ground, and the answer to Ali’s curiosity.

Nestled in a hollow where the trunk had been, was a small fairy ring of mushrooms. Each mushroom had an almost flat white cap, and as she knelt to examine it, she could see the gill area on the underside of the cap glowed with a surprisingly intense golden light that illuminated the ground around each mushroom.

Common Glowcap – Mushroom – level 1

It’s so pretty. The light was a little darker with the tone running more to bronze than her arcane magic, but together, the fairy ring emitted a surprising amount of light, and as she reached toward them, the glow fell like warm sunshine upon her skin.

These would look stunning around the shrine, she thought. Now that the shrine itself was depleted, it felt dark and gloomy in the Grove unless Calen was using his light magic. She hadn’t been outside or seen the solar orbs in far too long. Eagerly, she paged through her Grimoire, quickly verifying that she had a couple of empty chapters.

I hope this works!

Ali carefully began to deconstruct the pretty mushrooms one by one, her magic even reaching below to collect the larger underground portions of fungal growth. A pang of sadness pinched in her heart each time she destroyed a pretty mushroom, progressively snuffing out the golden glow.

Ali watched in fascination, fully focused on her task.

There were nine mushrooms in total, and, by the time she was done, she could feel the pressure of the imprint pressing in on her mind. However, her Grimoire did not react. Disappointed, she glanced around, but further up, among a pile of broken pieces of wood, she spied another tell-tale glow. Excellent! Quickly, she rushed over, tailed by the rat guarding her. Ali brushed off the wood pieces revealing several more mushrooms growing underneath the pile. Repeating her task, she felt the imprint continue to grow, developing weight and pressure within her mind, triggering her curiosity as usual for how it might actually be working. It was as the fifteenth mushroom evaporated that she felt the pressure peak, and her chime sounded.

Imprint: Common Glowcap completed.

Yes! She watched with mounting excitement as her Grimoire opened, rapidly riffling pages till it sat waiting for her at the next empty chapter. Excited now, she committed the imprint to its pages gaining her sixth imprint – and the first one she had intentionally chosen.

Happily, she got up and dance-skipped across the moss to the shrine, earning a soft laugh from Malika who was still sitting in her spot, but now with her eyes open and smiling at her.

“Got something new?”

“Yes, a mushroom!”

It sounded silly even to her ears, but the imprint of the glowing golden mushrooms had felt good in her mind. They were so pretty. Ali found a good spot on the moss near the shrine and began to create her newest imprint. The chapter itself wasn’t particularly large compared to, say, the rat or the wolf imprint, and the creation of the mushrooms was substantially quicker. It didn’t take long before Ali had her very own fairy ring, glowing on the moss beside the shrine.

“That’s beautiful,” Malika said, admiring her work.

“Isn’t it?” Ali said, feeling a surprising affinity toward the tiny, glowing mushrooms. Something about them resonated with her, but it wasn’t something she could explain, even to herself. Still excited, Ali spent the next half hour filling the area around the shrine with her new mushrooms until the glow softly filled the space, warming her heart and her skin with their light. Somehow, that feels … right. Yes. Dad would’ve loved this.

