But what would he say now? Here he was, with a Young Mistress who wanted to make things better, a lawman who had decided to trust the people of Underbridge; all, well most of them, were on a quest to unite the Sects of the Azure Hills.

Heh. Guess actions spoke louder than words. He was feeling pretty optimistic these days.

“Well, I think you’ll be able to come up with something. We’re already on our way to clean up one big mess, eh?”

Tigu nodded back. They both glanced at the child again, who suddenly brightened up, smiling and waving. Another kid sprinted towards him, similarly grinning. The new boy had a half-full bag of rice in his hands, and was clearly intending to share in his bounty.

Even in a pile of shit, you could find some people who were better than their circumstances.

He just hoped his old friends were still where he remembered they would be.

Rags continued forwards, feeling even more confident than before. They walked through a couple of twisting alleyways, before they arrived at a door that looked no different than any other door.

Save for a familiar marking on it. He looked back to Lao, who nodded.

“Your show, Boss Chou.” She stated simply, falling in behind him as his second.

Good.

He walked up and knocked on the door. There was the sound of shuffling, then a voice called out.

“Whaddaya want?” a gruff voice demanded.

“A brother from the Bridge is lookin’ to meet with the Boss,” he replied.

A slot carved in the door opened, and suspicious eyes peered out… before they widened. “Bastard of Three Fathers!” the voice exclaimed, and the slot slammed shut.

Rags blinked as he felt everybody look at him.

“I thought you said these were your friends,” Loud Boy said, sounding amused. Lao started laughing.

Rags flushed. “There's some kinda misunderstandin’—” he started, and was vindicated when there was the sound of a jangling lock and the door burst open, revealing a man who was missing an arm.

“Chou, you cock!” he shouted, grinning at him.

“Whats good, brother?” Rags replied, smirking at Ming. One of the old guard. A man with more balls than brains, to stick out the Face Snatchers. ”It's good to see you again… And the boys,” he said, jerking his head at the two other men, both armed with spears. They nodded at Rags, who nodded back.

Ming clasped forearms with Rags, but scowled at Lao, who was looking up and whistling.

“It's good to see you—Now, what did you want? You never come around unless there's a problem, and we got some shit in our rice bowls too.”

Rags chuckled, and scratched the back of his head. “You’re not… completely wrong. I need to see the Boss. My buddies and I need his help.”

Ming frowned. His eyes were searching, before he sighed. “Alright, mister bigshot cultivator, you and your friends can come on in. Welcome to the Community Meeting Hall.” he finished with a grin.

Ming let them into the compound, and past the guards, who both clasped arms with Rags. Then, they went deeper. They passed by several people, then some more people with weapons, until they came to another doorway. This one just had a curtain covering it.

“You ready? Most of the boys are in,” Ming asked.

Rags nodded. Ming turned back around and stepped through the curtain. “Boss! I got important guests, and one dumbass!”

Lao started cursing under her breath.

They came into the room. The last time Rags had been here was years ago. The room was dominated by a large table, and all around the table, there were men. Rough looking men, who wouldn’t look out of place if they were bandits, rather than the real unofficial guard force of Underbridge.

But Rags only had eyes for one man. He was at the head of the table.

A long time ago, he had been just Brother Tanhui. Before the Face Snatchers. Tanhui’s mouth was locked into a scowl as always, and he looked angry. Just like his Sister, Minmin. Rag’s second in command.

“Boss Chou,” Tanhui greeted, his eyes narrowing slightly. He flicked his gaze to Lao.

Tanhui was still upset that Rags hadn’t married Minmin, but they weren’t like that. She was like, his sister! It would be weird. That said, any other man who didn’t want to wife up his Sworn Sister was an idiot. She was strong and kind, she could cook, and clean and shank a bastard going for your back in the guts. She was the perfect woman! Sure she had a nasty scar that went up her neck and face from when a ‘snatcher nearly ripped her face off before Rags killed him, but any fool who couldn’t look past that deserved to die alone in a ditch.

He shook off the thought. The men in the room had gone silent. All of them were looking at Rags, and were obviously slightly nervous. They all knew he was a cultivator now, and were wondering what his game was.

“Boss Tanhui,” Rags replied, greeting his fellow Boss by clasping his hands together. “Good to see you again, brother.”

The mood in the room relaxed at his words and the inclination of his head, showing respect to the Boss of Underbridge.

Tanhui’s scowl even got less pronounced. “You dog. You look good!” his old friend shouted, moving around the table so they could clasp forearms. “Now, what do you want? You only ask me for things, you bastard!”

“That's because Boss Tanhui always comes through. If you don’t want me to rely on you, don’t be so good at shit!” Rags shot back.

The room erupted into laughter as Rags gave their boss face. He was buttering up his old friend a bit, but he was going to be asking for a lot.

That, and Tanhui always did come through.

“You fucker…” Tanhui said fondly. “Now speak! We’re in the middle of something! Like how to handle what this idiot did,” he growled, jerking his head at Lao.

The woman looked utterly unrepentant.

“I asked him to arrange this meeting, Boss Tanhui,” the Special Inspector said, stepping forwards. He clasped his hands and bowed slightly.

Tanhui frowned, but listened, as the Special Inspector outlined his plan.

============================================

“You want us. You, the Special Inspector of the Azure Hills, want my boys to help you to arrest over a hundred nobles and their families?” Tanhui asked the Special Inspector.

“That is correct. By the power invested in me by the Lord Magistrate of Pale Moon Lake City, you would all be formally deputized and a part of the Azure Hills Militia for the duration. Every action you take would be completely legal. You do not have to fight, either. We just need fine, trustworthy men to guard them so they can’t escape while the rest of my companions do the fighting. You won’t be in any danger,” The Special Inspector explained. “I will also, of course, be arranging compensation for your time and the risk to yourselves.”

Tanhui leaned back on the cushion he was sitting on, clearly thinking. He hummed, rocking his head back and forth, before speaking again.

“It's a good deal, Mister inspector, it's a good deal,” Tanhui said, yet while the Special Inspector seemed pleased, Rags grimaced. “But, while we can do this… what happens after you leave?”

The Special Inspector paused, and his eyes widened.

“Let's say we do help you out. We just became the people who spat in the face of the nobles. You go back to Pale Moon Lake City. We’re all stuck here. So tell me, what happens, after your protections fade? When the nobles look at the people who just helped to catch their family and friends?”

There was silence. The men who were leaning against the walls were all grim-faced. Rags cursed internally. He would just fight his way out. Tanhui? Tanhui couldn’t and they couldn’t just sit around in Grass Sea City…

The Special Inspector closed his eyes and then sighed. “You are correct, Boss Tanhui. I can’t say what happens after. I can try my hardest to get more guards and change things… But this plot runs deep. If we fail to capture even one, it would indeed possibly fall upon you.”

“...then we cannot help you. Not directly.” Tanhui said. He sounded apologetic.

Rags, out of the corner of his eye, saw Xinlai glare at Tanhui. He could almost see her screaming “you dare?” at the man for questioning the Inspector, but Xiulan placed a hand on her shoulder. The Blade of Grass had kept her hat down, hiding most of her face. But now, she stepped forwards.

“You fear for your people, Boss Tanhui. I understand,” Xiulan said, speaking up for the first time. “Your concern does you credit. But while the Special Inspector cannot say what will happen next… I can.”

She tipped back her hat, revealing her face. She went from nondescript to some kind of avenging guardian spirit in an instant. Everybody not used to her gasped.

“Demon-Slaying—” Tanhui gasped as Xiulan stepped up beside the Special Inspector and knelt down, like she was treating him.

“The Magistrate of the city will not target you. Neither will the nobles. I shall deal with them, and the members of the Verdant Blade Sect, the Misty Lake Sect, and others will make sure that no noble ever gets any of these ideas in their head,” Xiulan said, her voice soft, and yet every word was utterly captivating. “They have lapsed in their duties. They have preyed upon the people. For that, we shall destroy them. But as we are right now, we cannot be sure. Right now… we have to ask you to lend us your strength.”

And then Xiulan bowed. Like when Master Jin had bowed to him, it seemed to knock something about in Tanhui. A cultivator, the slayer of the Face Snatcher Gang, the Demon-Slaying Orchid, was bowing to him and asking for his help.

Rags knew he had nearly shit himself when Master Jin had done this.

Tanhui swallowed thickly. He licked his lips.

The leader of Underbridge took a deep breath.

“If you can do that… Then, Special Inspector, we will gladly stand with you,” he said.

He stood up and walked towards them. They both stood as well. He and the Special inspector clasped forearms, sealing the deal.

He paused, when he turned to Xiulan, unsure of how to properly address her.

Xiulan held out her hand to a man from the slums—not a martial salute between practitioners. Not a demand for a bow from an inferior.

She held out her hand to clasp forearms as if Tanhui was an equal.

Tanhui reached forwards and took Cai Xiulan’s hand.

Rags knew he was watching the start of another legend as the boys stared with wide eyes.

===================================

Rags stayed behind for a little longer as the rest of the boys went out to get everybody together.

“Is she serious?” Tanhui asked without preamble. He always had been suspicious. Even after he had agreed, he was clearly wondering if he had made the right choice, or if her words had just been something pretty to strong-arm them into it..

“Absolutely. I wouldn’t be following her if she wasn’t,” Rags replied easily.

Tanhui froze at the words.

“What did she promise you, Chou, to follow her?”

Chou looked up at the ancient ceiling.

“No more Face Snatchers. No more Sun Kens. No more little wars between sects that catch people like us in the crossfire.”

His old friend’s eyes widened. “...and you believe her?”

“Enough to bet my life on it,” Rags replied with a smile.

Chou saw a glimmer of something that had never been in Tanhui’s eyes before.

Hope.

==========================

A few hours later a veritable army boiled up from Underbridge. Men all wearing a blue sash on their arms.

The city heaved as they marched, their eyes blazing with purpose.
