Erin Solstice woke up. She stared up at the wooden ceiling overhead and had a flash of panic. Things felt different. She twisted—and saw a pillow next to her. And then a drop.
She was lying in a bed. Her bed. And then Erin remembered. She was in her room, the first room by the stairs on the second floor of the inn. This was where she slept now.
Her bed in the kitchen was gone. And as Erin got up, she stretched and stared at the brightening landscape through a glass window. She still rose with the dawn, some days. Even though she didn’t have to. Old habits died hard.
And then Erin remembered last night, and her lips compressed. She stared at Liscor, just a ten minute walk from her inn. The [Innkeeper] made a fist and shook it at the inn.
“Olesm. You jerk.”
And that was all. Erin sighed. She closed her eyes and folded her arms. In her pajamas—thin cotton, breezy, and with a tail slit that Erin really didn’t need—the young woman thought. She shook her head.
“Nope. I’m still mad.”
Selys had been in tears yesterday after Olesm had shown up at Lism’s rally and essentially thrown a huge stone in Krshia’s campaign. Erin got why he’d done it—the Drake’s argument had been the talk of the inn. You can’t trust the Antinium. Build the city yourself. And if it were anyone other than Lism saying it, Erin might have understood.
But she was still mad. So Erin left her room. She paused in the hallway. Someone was already up. A green Hobgoblin paused, holding one of the simple toothbrushes Erin had given him. Guiltily, he swallowed.
“Morning, Numbtongue. Are you eating toothpaste again? I told you, rinse and spit!”
Erin gently glared at the taller Hobgoblin. The [Bard] hid the small tin of toothpaste behind his back.
“It tastes good.”
“Right, but I’m sure it’s bad for your stomach! It’s got chemicals and—”
Erin trailed off. She distinctly recalled seeing Numbtongue eat a rock once when he was bored. And he ate bugs. And leaves. She raised a finger.
“You know, Mrsha could see. And that’s a bad example.”
Numbtongue stared at her. Erin stared back.
“…Anyways, good morning.”
“Good morning.”
They headed downstairs together. Erin glanced at Numbtongue. He wasn’t wearing his leather armor. Or any armor today. That was a good sign; the Redfang warrior usually dressed as if he were about to go into combat even when he was lounging around. But today he only had a tank top on, leggings—he looked casual. He still carried the guitar on his back, which Erin supposed was some form of security; Numbtongue seemed to regard it as both club and musical instrument. But as he sat at a table, shifting his guitar out of the way, she saw how relaxed he truly was.
It was what Erin wanted to see. But she wished—she closed her eyes. Oh, how she wished there were five Hobgoblins sitting there, not one. Six; a little Goblin among them, scowling like always. An army.
But that was how Erin felt every day. That was her regret. Her failure. And she had lived with that in her heart for enough time to not dwell on it. It was part of her. Sadness became memory. And she had bigger fish to fry. If she stopped, who would feed Numbtongue?
…Probably himself. He knew where the food was. But Erin went and got a fish anyways. She had a fresh one, preserved from the rainy season thanks to her [Field of Preservation] Skill. It was a hearty meal for breakfast, but Numbtongue ate like a Hobgoblin still. And he had virtually no fat! Then again, his idea of a relaxing day was mining for eight hours after picking a hundred blue fruits after breakfast to warm up. So Erin laid the fish on the counter and eyed it.
“Bones out! Watch the fingers—”
She flipped the fish over, eying it. The innards had been removed already; Erin knew enough about fish to understand that even preserved, a bunch of half-digested insects or whatever fish ate wasn’t pleasant to have sitting around. The fish was, essentially, hollow, and the head stared blankly up at her. Erin shrugged.
“Knife!”
So saying, she reached behind her, for the special kitchen knife she carried on her belt at all times. This one was carried in a custom-fitted leather sheath, and the knife itself was—
Sharp. Erin could barely see the edge, even up close. And while it bore no inscription or fancy decoration, the plain steel shone, more beautiful than any of the other knives in her kitchen. And it was, oh, so very deadly. Erin handled this knife with respect, more than the knife that had once cut open her palm. She sliced off the head along the gills, and absently checked herself before tossing it in the waste bin.
“Acid Fly stuff. Where is…? Ah.”
Erin spotted a row of huge glass jars, along one wall. They were probably intended for pickling or something, but these large vessels were perfect. She tossed the fish head in one; it already had more meat scraps. And when Ishkr set it up, it would be prime Acid Fly bait.
Back to the fish. Next, Erin cut along the belly, separating the fish in two. She did so along the fish’s ribcage. But the sharpness of her knife—Erin barely ran her blade along the fish before it separated in two. She eyed the knife’s edge and didn’t check it with her finger; she’d been told that was a good way to lose it.
“Wow. I cut through all the bones. Okay…in that case…”
She had to get another knife to actually separate the bones out of the fish. A few precise cuts and they came out. Erin tossed the scraps in the jar, then cut the fish with her first knife. Five cuts on both sides: ten portions. Erin smiled. She wiped her knife carefully with a cloth, grabbed a pan, and got to work.
A few minutes later, Erin walked out of the kitchen with breakfast. Numbtongue looked up and surreptitiously hid the tin of toothpaste under the table. Erin pretended not to notice him swallowing; she lifted the plate.
“Fish! Half of one. Salted, seasoned—and I’ve got some mayo and that Gnoll sauce on the side. I know you love it. And here’s breakfast for me.”
She indicated a half dozen boiled eggs and a single serving of the fish. Erin set her plate down and handed three eggs to Numbtongue along with his five-portion fish. He brightened and grabbed a fork.
“Looks good.”
“Right? Let me know if you want more.”
Erin sighed as she sat down. She regarded her plate, and her stomach rumbled. Erin smiled as she grabbed a cup she’d brought out. It was filled with blue juice. Erin sipped it, sighed.
And then she got mad again. The joys of cooking had only distracted her from yesterday for so long. Erin made a fist.
“Olesm. And Lism! What’s wrong with Krshia’s plan, huh? Do they not trust Klbkch that much? I can see the Queen—she’s a jerk. But Klbkch? Really?”
Numbtongue eyed Erin as he stuffed the first portion of fish into his mouth. He shrugged, classically Goblin. Erin went on, chewing on her fish.
“And he put it in the newsletter! And basically stole Krshia’s plan! They can’t get away with it. No way. You hear me, Numbtongue?”
“Yep.”
“I’m going to do something. I’m gonna blow Olesm’s socks off.”
The Hobgoblin looked up as he ate one of the hard boiled eggs.
“How?”
Erin stared at Numbtongue. He was eating the egg without bothering to peel it. She hesitated.
“Don’t ask me hard questions.”
The two went back to breakfast. Erin glared at her food. She didn’t have a plan, actually. But something had to be done! Olesm’s betrayal was—okay, she felt bad about badmouthing Lism. Family was family. But still!
“Grr. Wow. These hard boiled goose eggs are good. Why have I eaten only chicken eggs all my life? Grr.”
Numbtongue nodded amiably. Erin growled into her plate. Selys and Krshia had both tried to come up with a solution, but Selys had been too upset and Krshia too furious to think rationally. Their team—Elirr, Raekea, the other Gnolls that Krshia had been hoping to put on the Council—had disbanded in low spirits yesterday. And Zevara hadn’t shown up after yesterday and Erin was worried she was being swayed to Lism’s side.
“They gave her a good deal. So she’s not all on Selys’ side. Gotta think of something. But the Walled Cities are funding Lism. That Olesm. That’s smart. Jerk move, but smart.”
Numbtongue licked his plate. Erin tapped her hand on the table.
“You know what? We’re not done. Selys was planning on having Zevara wear the Heartflame Breastplate. Fat chance of that now. But there’s something…and it’s not like the Gnolls don’t have good candidates. People like Krshia. And Raekea, that [Armorer]. I didn’t know there were Gnoll [Blacksmiths], did you, Numbtongue?”
“Yes. They probably have fire-resistance Skills.”
The [Bard] strummed gently on his guitar, quietly to avoid waking the guests. Erin looked up at him.
“That’s a thing?”
“Mhm. Very nice Skills. Hard to get. Goblins like to have them. Especially in Garen’s tribe.”
“Why?”
“So we can lay traps with exploding fire or spells and not worry about it. A Goblin stands on a trap with lots of wood. And oil. Angry Gargoyles attack him. Or adventurers. The Goblin sets off the trap and gets away. No one else.”
“Oh. Cool?”
“Not very.”
Numbtongue’s teeth flashed. Erin blinked, and then laughed despite herself. He was telling jokes! Sometimes she forgot how good Numbtongue was with words. And not just for a Goblin; she supposed that was why he was a [Bard].
“Right. Well, I know I can do some things. But I want to make a huge impact, you know? I was fine with Krshia being on the Council, but now it’s personal. I have to help. I can get a lot of attention. But is that enough?”
“No?”
“Exactly. Thank you, Numbtongue. You’re always honest.”
“Got any more fish?”
“In the kitchen.”
Erin thought as the Goblin got up. She was restless, drumming her fingers on the table. It was unusual for her. Usually, she was as placid as Numbtongue in the morning. But today? It felt like someone had poked her head from the inside. Now, Erin was lighting up. She was mad.
“Erin.”
The young woman looked up as the Hobgoblin poked his head out of the kitchen. She focused on what he was holding. Numbtongue grinned hopefully.
“Cake?”
“How’d you find—no cake! I thought I hid that!”
Erin glared. Numbtongue sighed. He patted his stomach.
“I’m hungry.”
“And Mrsha’s coming downstairs in a minute. If you have it, she’ll want some. No cake.”
The Hobgoblin sighed. He put the cake back and came out with the rest of the fish on his plate. Erin went back to staring at her plate. Absently, she felt for the knife on her belt.
“Olesm. I could stab him. With my knife.”
Numbtongue looked at Erin. She raised her hands.
“Hey! I’m just brainstorming. No ideas are off the table. I’m just really mad at him. I know his heart’s in the right place. I wouldn’t stab him too hard. Lism, now…I suppose he’d spin that too.”
The Hobgoblin nodded. He watched with interest as Erin’s eyes unfocused. Numbtongue knew Erin. Or rather, he was understanding more about the strange Human who called him family. And unlike many of her guests and friends, the Hobgoblin was well aware of what Erin could do. Rather like a certain Wall Lord, actually. He waited, eating with interest. Learning. And Erin’s eyes lit up after three minutes of silence.
“Hold on. Selys. Heartflame Breastplate. Stabbing people with the kitchen knife…cake. Yeah. I can work with this.”
Numbtongue paused. He stared at Erin and tried to connect the pieces.
“What are you going to do?”
“You’ll see.”
Erin smiled as she got up. She walked back into the kitchen. The [Bard] stared at her back. He scratched his head, put down his guitar, and began doodling on the top of the table with a sharp claw.
“Cake. Plus knives and Heartflame Breastplate. And Selys. Stabbing people?”
He was working on it when Lyonette and Mrsha came downstairs. The [Princess] called a greeting to the Hobgoblin.
“Good morning, Numbtongue!”
He looked up. A white shape raced downstairs. A nose appeared and then two big eyes. Numbtongue waved as two paws appeared. Mrsha signed to Numbtongue, smiling.
Good morning. (Paw tracing a smile, two folded paws sideways, then rising to a forty-five degree angle.)
“Good morning.”
The Hobgoblin smiled. He smiled at a Human and a Gnoll, and they smiled back. Miraculous. Mrsha sniffed Numbtongue’s plate. He picked off a piece of fish and offered it to her. She snatched it.
“Mrsha! Numbtongue! You eat off plates!”
Guiltily, both Gnoll and Hobgoblin hunched their shoulders. Lyonette put her hands on her hips, shaking her head. Then she glanced at the kitchen.
“Is Erin cooking?”
“Nope. Making plans.”
Lyonette hesitated.
“That’s…good. About the elections in Liscor, right? Did she say what she’s doing, Numbtongue?”
“Maybe something involving stabbing.”
The Hobgoblin frowned, still trying to work it out. Lyonette paused.
“Oh.”
Mrsha finished her piece of fish and scampered into the kitchen on all four paws. Lyonette and Numbtongue heard an exclamation, a delighted laugh, and not a second later, Mrsha was coming out proudly bearing a plate, cups, and silverware on two legs. She trundled over to their table and held them up. Numbtongue and Lyonette took the plate and set the rest on the table. The [Princess] smiled.
“Very good, Mrsha. Good morning, Erin!”
“Hey Lyonette! Today’s going to be a big day! How much cake and ice cream do we have? Oh—here’s some eggs and bacon. Numbtongue ate the rest of the fish.”
“Sorry.”
The Hobgoblin offered Lyonette a last piece of fish, but the [Princess] shook her head. Mrsha’s ears perked up at the words ‘cake’ and ‘ice cream’. The [Princess] sighed as she took the skillet Erin had come out of the kitchen with and doled out breakfast for both her and the Gnoll cub.
“We’ve got two cakes, unless Numbtongue or Mrsha’s eaten one when I haven’t been looking. And enough ice cream ingredients for eight guests. Or two Relcs. Why?”
“Well, we’re going to need about triple of both. You know how to make both, right? Can I ask you to whip up some more?”
“Better. Ishkr’s coming in just a few minutes. He can help make the ice cream. Unless—when do you need it? Because it melts, remember, Erin? And I’ll have to get him to buy some ice. Which is expensive. Even more than sugar.”
“Make Ceria do it. She’s free ice! And, uh, maybe store it in the basement? Her magic stuff disappears after half an hour, and I don’t know when we’ll need it. But we definitely need a bunch.”
“For a party?”
Lyonette sighed. Erin’s eyes were sparkling. As were Numbtongue’s and Mrsha’s, mainly at the prospect of that much sugar. The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“I have a plan to help with that election.”
