“Is he—more depressed than normal? The knife he made is really awesome, but I feel bad about making him upset. I tried to talk to him twice, but every time I come up here, he runs off.”
Maughin frowned. He gripped the edge of the large divider between the left and right sides of the stairs for support.
“No. I wouldn’t say that. He’s always drunk himself to oblivion. If anything, he’s working harder than usual. But I would say that he has strong feelings about your knife. And his past. I would not inquire. It would be impolite. And perhaps we caused some offense by finishing his knife. Still, I judge it acceptable; steel that fine cannot simply be wasted.”
Erin nodded. She wished Dawil were still here so she could introduce him to Pelt. Too bad, it was one of those things you took for granted. Then again, it wasn’t like they would know each other. Or get along. She sighed, hopped down the last eight steps, and waited for Maughin to catch up. As she waited, she heard another familiar voice.
“Up those steps! Are you [Mages] or limp-tailed [Scribes]? Pump those legs! This is the last stretch! That’s it!”
Erin peered down the steps. On cue, she saw a huge, muscular figure swarming up the stairs as pedestrians got out of the way. It was a Drake, dressed in robes, but with the body of a professional bodybuilder. And following him was a group of Drakes and one Gnoll, all gasping for air. The Drake summited the steps on the eighth floor and immediately turned to harangue his apprentices.
“You want to learn magic? You pay the price! If you can’t do three laps each morning, how can I expect you to cast a [Fireball] spell? Get those knees up! Faster! That’s right, that’s right…alright, you can rest.”
He waved a disgusted claw at his apprentices as they simply collapsed on the eighth floor. The Gnoll pulled out a water bottle and splashed it over her fur. A Drake pulled out a stamina potion. The [Mage] slapped it out of his hands in a moment.
“You fool! I told you time and again, potions are a shortcut! You want to build a body that’s strong? You don’t rely on potions! They’ll stunt your growth!”
He smashed the bottle on the ground and stomped on the glass shards, ignoring the questionable logic of that decision. The Drake moaned. The [Mage] opened his mouth for further shouting, and Erin waved her hands desperately.
“Ooh! Ooh! Hey! You’re Grimalkin, right? Remember me?”
Grimalkin turned. The muscular [Mage]’s eyes widened, and he pointed a claw.
“I do! Your name is…”
“Erin Solstice?”
Erin stepped to one side to let Maughin move past her. Grimalkin bounded over, leaving his poor apprentices to hug the ground and sweat.
“Erin Solstice? Ah, yes! The Human with guts! An honor! We didn’t get a chance to speak last time.”
He held out a hand. Erin shook it, and her hand was immediately crushed by a huge hand. She beamed up at him. Well, wasn’t this a lucky surprise?
“It’s great to see you. Hey—this is a question out of the blue, but—do you want to visit Liscor?”
“What Liscor?”
“What?”
Behind Erin, Maughin turned his head. Erin turned to smile at him.
“Yeah! The more the merrier! I don’t know what there is for Grimalkin to see, but I’d love to have him. What about it? We’re going right now. Got any spare time?”
The [Mage] blinked, and then folded his arms. His biceps, triceps, and other ceps rippled with the motion. Grimalkin looked up at the sky, tapping one foot.
“Liscor. Liscor…why not? I just finished my morning run with these slugs, and they need a moment. And I’d love to meet the Gecko of Liscor. You wouldn’t happen to know him, would you?”
“Relc? Of course! He’s one of my oldest clients! I can totally introduce you to him! Come on! We’ll go together! Grimalkin, this is Maughin. Do you two know each other?”
The Drake craned his thick neck up. Maughin blinked down at him. The Drake gnawed one lip.
“Hm. Yes I do. Not personally. Pleased. Grimalkin, [Mage].”
“Ah. A pleasure. Maughin. [Blacksmith].”
The two shook hands, blinking at each other. Erin grinned.
“Alright! And if we see Rufelt and Lasica—no, wait, the door will probably shut down. I hope the Horns can charge it. Alright, with me!”
She waved the two onwards. Grimalkin paused to bark back at his apprentices.
“You get a reprieve! When we get back, we’ll keep studying!”
Erin saw one of the Drakes lying on the ground raise her head and give Erin a desperate look of gratitude. The [Innkeeper] waved a hand. Then she marched ahead, leading Maughin and Grimalkin behind her. The Dullahan was turning his head from both Erin to Grimalkin now. But Erin was talking to Grimalkin.
“We just met once. But are you really a muscle-mage? Or a [Mage] that uses the magic of…muscles?”
Grimalkin laughed. He had an energetic pace that matched Maughin’s longer legs; Erin was the one who had to jog to keep up.
“Muscle magic? I suppose that’s one word for it! I’m an expert on physical enhancement. It’s an underdeveloped school of magic. But it essentially allows me to enhance a body’s capacity.”
“Right, like casting strength enchantments on me or something?”
“Exactly. Although that’s a common spell. Still, it’s rare enough to see a [Mage] specializing in that. Why bother with enchanting someone to swing a sword harder when you can throw a [Fireball]? Hah. Well, I also believe a conditioned body is a key to a [Mage]’s success, both academically and in battle. Hence my rigorous training regimen.”
“I can see that. You’ve, uh, got muscles everywhere. Even your tail is thick.”
Erin looked at Grimalkin’s tail. He laughed.
“Exactly! You know, most species consider our tails a hindrance in battle. But tails provide support, a means of catching your opponents off-guard—but listen to me talk on. Humans don’t have tails. I’m always amazed at your sense of balance without.”
“It does get hard. Speaking of which, Maughin, Grimalkin, I hear the Assembly of Crafts is going to have elections soon. That’s what Rufelt and Lasica always tell me about when I visit their bar. How’s that going?”
Maughin, who’d been opening his mouth for a word edgewise for a while now, paused. He and Grimalkin looked at each other, and then both spoke at once.
“My apologies.”
Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“No, no. Go ahead, uh, Master Maughin.”
“Ah. Thank you. Well, as I understand it Miss Solstice, the elections are fierce. It’s between the Protectorate party and the Unitail group this year. They are the two major parties attempting to gain a majority. Last year, the Protectorate managed to form a ruling party coalition with one of the smaller groups—the Zeresian group.”
Grimalkin nodded vigorously. Erin raised her eyebrows.
“Zeresian group?”
The two paused, and Maughin extended a palm. Grimalkin leapt in.
“They favor strong ties with Zeres, who have historically been Pallass’ closest allies. A breakoff from the Protectorate party, which favors Pallassian independence. Whereas the Unitail group, which I suppose Master Maughin and the craftspeople favor, is in support of free trade and open borders between all cities. The Protectorate puts tariffs on the other Walled Cities’ goods, which in turns leads them to tax our alchemical goods and steel. Myself, I consider it all too political. The Assembly is always fighting for power.”
“You’re not in favor of open borders?”
Maughin rumbled from behind Grimalkin, looking disapproving. The [Mage] turned his head back.
“Oh, largely, I suppose. It’s just that I don’t see why we need to tie voting for open borders to this huge discussion about parties and whatnot. I’m tired of it all. Then again, I grew up here. It doesn’t matter to me who’s in charge so long as I can practice my craft in peace. Pallass doesn’t have as strong a mage community as, say Fissival, Miss Erin. We tend to stay out of the politics. Ironic, I know, but we’re not Wistram.”
He addressed Erin. She nodded. Maughin continued to look disapproving, so she turned to him.
“You’re going to vote, Maughin? Are you a full citizen?”
He nodded stiffly.
“I have lived in Pallass for over six years, which is the requisite minimum to be considered a full citizen and accorded voting rights. That in itself is a recent development; the minimum duration required to be considered a citizen was lowered from ten years to six in an election three years back.”
Grimalkin snapped his clawed fingers absently.
“Ah, I remember that. I voted to lower the age restriction.”
“You did?”
Maughin looked mollified. Grimalkin nodded briskly.
“Six years, eight years—if you’ve lived in a city for at least two years, why not call yourself a citizen? You pay taxes either way.”
“I wouldn’t go as far as two years. But if you’ll vote for lowering the age requirement, what about open borders and more protection for other cities? The Protectorate—”
Grimalkin made a disgusted sound and raised a claw.
“Agh! They don’t have my vote. Satisfied? I wasn’t a fan of how they handled the Liscor crisis. Not at all. I admit, I liked their stance when Salazsar was throwing its weight around and inflating the prices of gemstones five years back, but this is too far.”
“Exactly what Rufelt and Lasica have been saying.”
Maughin nodded contentedly. Grimalkin nodded and muttered out of the corner of his mouth to Erin.
“Dullahans never give up an argument. Word of advice, Miss Solstice. How did you come to know Maughin anyways?”
“He knew Rufelt and Lasica, who’re my friends. And I got this knife from a smithing competition.”
The muscle [Mage] blinked as Erin showed him the knife. He bent down while walking to inspect it.
“I do remember that! And you! That’s the second time—wonderful display. Form and physique on show for all to see. That Dwarf was especially good, but Maughin has a classic [Blacksmith]’s build.”
He and Erin both turned to look at the Dullahan. Maughin stopped.
“I do?”
The Drake nodded. He walked around the Dullahan, speaking rapidly and gesturing at his arms and legs.
“Good physique. A bit upper-body intensive, but I can respect that out of a [Blacksmith]. Still, you could do some leg exercises. You’re aware that Dullahans grow to fit your armor, I’m sure, but that strength is often underused. May I ask if you do any kind of curling exercises?”
“Curling? How?”
Grimalkin sighed. He adjusted his robes, and for a moment, the fabric strained against his chest, revealing a row of rippling abdominal muscles. Erin oohed, and Maughin looked impressed—then embarrassed. He averted his gaze.
“Abdominal muscles. It’s the—the foundation of every movement. Even trained warriors neglect their stomachs and backs. I’ve discovered that it’s criminally underused, however. I’m trying to raise awareness, but it’s hard to convince a [Warrior] that he needs to do sit-ups to improve his swing. I realize it’s not obvious at first glance, but the body is connected, you understand?”
The Drake patted his stomach disconsolately. Erin nodded rapidly.
“No, I totally get it! You’re talking about the core, right?”
Grimalkin turned his head and snapped his fingers.
“The core? Excellent name! Where did you come up with that?”
“Well, where I come from, people know about it—”
“They do? Tell me more! Wait, where do you come from?”
Erin’s tongue tangled in her mouth. She hesitated.
“W-well, I—the core’s just the core, right? And you do all kinds of stretches. Sorry, I’m not an expert, but I do know about dynamic stretching versus static.”
“Which is?”
“Well, you do this instead of…”
Erin began showing Grimalkin some stretches in the street, doing arm swings, rotating her body—Grimalkin walked around her, nodding.
“I see. I see. That’s—well, I’ve found the same thing. Stationary stretching tires the muscles, or so it feels, while this—but most [Soldiers] won’t do either before a battle. And I keep telling Pallass’ [Strategists], if an army took ten minutes to warm up before charging into the fray—”
Maughin took his head off and rubbed at his eyes. When the Dullahan put his head back on his shoulders, he cleared his throat gently. Erin and Grimalkin looked up. The Dullahan massaged his temple gently.
“I apologize for interrupting. But I must confess, Miss Erin. I am not certain why I’m here. Is this…why are we here?”
He gestured to Erin and Grimalkin. The young woman realized she was doing stretches in the middle of the street. She blushed; Grimalkin just looked around blankly as if nothing were out of the ordinary. She shrugged.
“Sorry, Maughin. We should get going if we want to get to Liscor.”
“I understand. But you’ve invited me and Magus Grimalkin. Why?”
“…Because I saw him?”
Erin gave Maughin a wide-eyed stare. He searched her face for anything, but clearly didn’t find it.
“So you invited him to go to Liscor? And me, because I was available?”
“Yep. That’s all there is to it. I was gonna get Rufelt and Lasica if you were busy. But this is great too. Grimalkin’s part of the plan.”
“I am? What plan?”
The [Mage] looked suspiciously at Erin as he tried out one of her stretches. Erin shrugged.
“Just something cool. Don’t worry. It’ll be fun! I promise. And you’ll get to see the armor, Maughin. And Relc.”
The two males looked unconvinced. Erin blew out her cheeks. This was why you didn’t tell people they were part of a plan. She threw her hands up.
“It’s just something that will help me out! Besides, do you have a reason not to follow me?”
Grimalkin and Maughin exchanged a glance. After a second, Erin turned and walked down the street. They followed her. Grimalkin muttered out of the other corner of his mouth to Maughin.
“You do know her, right? Are we walking into some kind of ambush? I’m fine with it; I can handle myself. You?”
“I’ve met her a handful of times. I’m told she’s an [Innkeeper] of some sort. But I must confess, I have never actually witnessed her inn or at work—”
“I’m on holiday! Geeze!”
Erin stopped in front of her magical door. She glared back at Maughin and Grimalkin. The Dullahan looked abashed; Grimalkin didn’t. He put his hands on his hips, eying the door as Erin strolled up to Kel the [Guardsman]. The Drake was giving her much the same look as the two men.
“Hey Kel! Two to go through. There’s no fee, right?”
“What? Are you insane? You can’t just bring—that’s Maughin! Our top smith! And that’s Magus Grimalkin! He’s our combat [Mage]!”
Kel spluttered as he pointed at the Dullahan and Grimalkin. Maughin looked pleased, and Grimalkin held out a hand to shake.
“Top smith? Well done.”
