“Oh, so you are going to interfere. Please tell me we’re going to sell all that food?”
“Most of it. Yeah, get ready for a lot of sales! And—we’re going to need more of all our food, Lyonette. Pizza, hamburgers—”
“Food from your world?”
“…Yes. Although lots of food in general is good. We’re going to have a party.”
The three diners at the table looked up. Lyonette glanced at Erin.
“You’re sure?”
The young woman paused. Erin’s eyes looked up, flickering from position to position. Seeing something in the distance.
“I think so, yeah. I’ve got this plan. It’s got a lot of moving parts. And it’s not quite together. But I’ve got something.”
Lyonette exchanged a glance with Numbtongue and nodded.
“Tell me what you need. Food—I can do food. I’ll send Drassi to shop for ingredients. It’ll take her a while; Krshia’s stall is closed, obviously.”
“Do that. And get someone to tell the Players of Celum that I want them to come in early. They’ll be performing Juliet and Romeo or Hamlet. Or Frozen. Not Much Ado About Nothing. Tell them to bring their best.”
“I’ll do that, then.”
Erin paced around, nodding absently. She glanced up with a frown.
“Thanks. Say, is Octavia bothering you? She wanted to talk to the Horns right when they got arrested, but I haven’t spoken to her since…”
“She hasn’t said anything to me. She’s been quiet, really. It’s almost a relief. Anything else?”
“Mm. One last thing. Send Drassi with a message for…Selys. Yeah. Just Selys. I’ll work out the rest as I go.”
“Go where? I’ll come.”
Numbtongue sat up. Erin smiled.
“Sorry, Numbtongue. You can’t. And it’s a solo mission for now, anyways. Tell Ceria and Pisces I need them to stay in the inn.”
“Got it.”
Lyonette watched Erin writing down her message on the parchment. Numbtongue stood up and went to read it. His brow furrowed further. He watched Erin fold it up, hand it to Lyonette, and then head to the magic door.
He was trying to understand. But as he watched Erin change the mana stones on the door, his brow suddenly cleared. He snapped his fingers.
“Ah.”
“I’ll be back!”
Erin turned and smiled at the room. Mrsha sat up, sniffing suddenly. And the inn was flooded with daylight. She shaded her eyes as the morning sky shone into the room for a moment—and then Erin was gone. Slowly, Lyonette looked at the closed door. And she got it too. She looked out a window, at the mountains blocking the sun from this angle.
Numbtongue squatted by the door. He smiled, pleased. He’d figured some of it out. As for the rest? He went back to his guitar and strummed it softly, playing a quick, upbeat riff. He was looking forwards to when Erin got back. It was never boring around her. At her table, Lyonette watched Mrsha scarf her breakfast. The [Princess] sat back in her chair and cracked her fingers.
“Well, I guess it’s time to make some money. Numbtongue? Mind getting us some more blue fruits? Mrsha? Can you feed Apista?”
The Gnoll looked up and found the Ashfire Bee eating from the Faerie Flowers. She nodded and went to get her watering cup. Lyonette smiled.
“It’s time to make some money.”
Belatedly, she remembered something else. This was the day that Belgrade was supposed to come to the inn and begin construction! She sucked in her cheeks, but Erin was gone. And—Lyonette supposed it didn’t matter. She glanced up. You could almost feel it in the air. An excitement. A premonition.
The feeling was enough to drag even the slothful Pisces and Ceria out of their beds and down the stairs, and Lyonette looked up. The quiet inn was coming alive. Because its owner was on the move. The Wandering Inn got ready. For anything. Because if you knew Erin Solstice, anything was the least of what you should be ready for.
 
——
 
In Liscor, both Olesm Swifttail and Selys Shivertail learned what was going on at almost the same time. When Drassi hurried out of the inn, bursting with Lyonette’s message, the [Strategist] and [Receptionist] both heard her excited message. Selys because she was the intended target. Olesm because a young Gnoll repeated it word-for-word to him.
He glanced across the busy street in the morning hours at Selys and Drassi and got a scorching glare in return. The [Strategist] ducked his head and sighed. He fished in his money pouch and handed the Gnoll a few silver coins.
“Good work. Keep listening and following them about. Did you get a look at the paper?”
The Gnoll kid wagged his tail excitedly and shook his head.
“No, Strategist Olesm. But Miss Selys said—‘Oh? The armor? I can do that. But what’s she want?’”
He looked up at Olesm. The Drake made a face. He stared back at Selys and Drassi. They were camped on the other side of the street. Selys was having breakfast with Krshia and her cohort of mainly Gnolls and a few Drakes. On the other side, Lism and his band of Liscorians were eating breakfast, noisily laughing.
It was a standoff. Both sides had appeared on Market Street practically at dawn, ready to campaign. And it was a campaign now. A war in the streets. Olesm had no illusions. With his help, his uncle had thrown a few good hits into Krshia’s unprepared defenses, but the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] wasn’t about to back down. But it was an even fight. No—even weighted in Lism’s favor. He’d taken Krshia’s campaign and turned it on its head. Free money, more jobs, less Antinium. Olesm wished he could be proud about it, but he felt dirty. And yet—
“Nephew! How goes it?”
A jovial voice interrupted Olesm. The Gnoll informant waved a paw and disappeared in the direction of Selys and Drassi. Olesm turned.
“Uncle. Not bad, I guess. But I’m a bit worried. You’re ready with my notes?”
Lism patted the bundle of cards that Olesm had worked up, smiling from earhole to earhole.
“Don’t worry, I’ll send that arrogant Silverfang packing. She hasn’t got a leg to stand on, and she knows it.”
“Don’t be overconfident. One of my informants said that she talked with Klbkch yesterday. The Antinium might have upped their offer.”
“So? It’s still Antinium money. Don’t worry, I’ll hammer her on that. And the Council has voted! The election’s going through! They haven’t said how or when—but they’ve agreed for, oh, what’s the phrase? ‘A referendum on the current Council, which will be taken under advisory for the next appointment of members.’ That’s good, isn’t it?”
“…Could be. It sounds like they’re saying they might not count the votes. Or at least, they’re giving themselves a way out.”
Olesm frowned, working over the language in his mind. Lism bared his teeth, his tail wagging excitedly.
“They do that and they’ll have a riot on their hands. From both Gnolls and Drakes! I’m getting behind this election idea, Olesm. Honest Drakes on the Council, not snooty Merchant’s Guild heads! Watchmen making decisions about their city! Senior Guardsman Jeiss will get the votes in.”
He looked delighted. Olesm was less so. The younger Drake shook his head.
“Just remember, Uncle. My worry is the Antinium. I’m not supporting you if you keep attacking Humans or Gnolls, for that matter. I’m trying to protect Liscor.”
Lism’s expression softened. He laid a hand on Olesm’s shoulder.
“Ah, my boy. For you, I’ll change anything you need. And we’ll safeguard Liscor. Together. Don’t look so worried! The city’s with us. Once we gave them an option that was as good as Silverfang’s, the support poured in. Even if the Antinium offer a bit more—and we’re getting in letters of support from all the cities, and even donations—we can persuade folks to do the right thing.”
Olesm hoped Lism was right. But even so, he cast an agonized glance at Selys again. She was ignoring him after she’d tried to punch his lights out yesterday. His tail drooped. Then he sighed.
“I think we can win this. My biggest worry right now, though, is Erin.”
Lism’s face soured at once.
“Ah. The Human [Innkeeper]. What about her? She can’t vote.”
“No. But she can help Krshia’s campaign out a lot. I don’t know what she’s doing, but it looks like she’s getting Selys to use her Heartflame Breastplate for something. I thought they’d have Watch Captain Zevara wearing it—but she’s staying neutral, it seems.”
“So? If they put a Drake in the armor, it’s the armor that matters, not the Drake. And if they put a Gnoll in it—they’re no Zel Shivertail. A bit of flash won’t change any minds.”
Olesm nodded. That was true. But still, he worried.
“I know. But Erin has a plan of some kind. That’s what Drassi said.”
Lism threw up his hands.
“And so what? You’re the [Strategist], my boy. What can this girl do?”
Olesm looked at his uncle with one eye and shook his head slowly.
“She’s Erin, uncle. Erin. I can’t predict what she’ll do. If there’s anyone who could—win the election by making fish fall out of the sky, it’s her.”
“You have too much faith in that Human girl. Just because she can play chess a bit better than you…fine! Watch for her, by all means. But let’s not forget the facts. We have a better campaign than she does. How can she change the facts?”
The older Drake blustered. Olesm made no reply. He just watched Selys. And she was glancing down the street, in the direction of The Wandering Inn. Selys looked up from a hamburger from one of the street stalls and met Olesm’s eyes at last. She bared her teeth and made a rude gesture as Krshia stood up. Lism stalked forwards, and the two began shouting at each other almost at once.
But that wasn’t what their seconds were waiting for. Olesm was poised, antsy, nervous. Selys looked calmer, but every two seconds, she was glancing eastwards, towards the inn. Both of them were waiting for their friend to make another move. And part of Olesm, no, all of him wanted to see it. Because it was Erin. And he felt as small and far from her as he ever had. He couldn’t touch her on the chess board, or in courage, daring. Kindness. But perhaps here?
He waited, and then ducked as Selys threw her half-eaten burger at his head. And they both waited. But the watchers Olesm had posted on the door to Erin’s inn from the city didn’t warn him that Erin was coming. The inn was quiet. Olesm wondered why that was so. He wondered what Erin was waiting for. Then he wondered where Erin was. And by that time, it was far too late.
 
——
 
Here was the truth. The little grain of it, tucked behind the expectation of all her friends. Krshia, the Horns, Lyonette, Numbtongue. Olesm. It was a simple fact. And it was that Erin didn’t know what she was doing.
She had no grand plan. She had…pieces. And they went together, in a halting, logical, twisting flow in her head. From that, Erin thought she could do something that would help Krshia, make Lism really mad. And do more, do good things. But it was just an inkling. A suspicion that if things went well, it could work.
She was no [Strategist]. She had no grand plans. Because Erin knew, in her heart of hearts, that she couldn’t really be a [General]. She wasn’t that kind of person, who could manipulate events and people like fine machinery. But by the same token, Erin did have something. And it was this: she knew people. That was all.
She had friends. With that simple truth, Erin Solstice could bring a city down. And that was today. She stepped through the magic door and into the city.
Pallass. The morning had advanced enough to let a smattering of people onto the streets. Gnolls, Drakes. And yes, the Dullahans from Baleros and the Garuda of Chandrar. They were few and far between, but still more common here than Humans or any other species. Erin spotted an avian head in the crowd and saw a green and white feathered Garuda man with a shopping basket under one arm as she looked around the street. He looked like he was doing some morning shopping. And he was so normal, yawning, scratching under one wing. Erin smiled. People were people.
“List?”
A pointed voice to her left made her look over. A Drake [Guardsman] with a familiar irked expression stared at her. Erin blinked at him.
“What?”
“Are you on the list for today’s arrivals? Do you have a list?”
The aggrieved [Guardsman] stared at her. Erin slapped her forehead.
“I knew I forgot something. No list. But it’s cool, right? No one asked to come through. And I’ll just be walking about. I’ll be back before you know it. I do own this door. Hey, aren’t you the jerk that stopped me last time?”
The Drake glowered. He had his trusty spear, and he was eying Erin as if he would have loved to give her a good tap with it.
“Watch Captain Venim informed you that anyone passing through the door needs to be authorized coming from Liscor to Pallass.”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“And I’m authorized. You let me in just two days ago. Kel, right? Where’s your friend?”
Guardsman Kel glowered.
“It was deemed safe to allow one [Guardsman] to watch the door. Despite the two unauthorized entries several days ago.”
“Who? Olesm and Pisces? Aw. You gave them a hard time too, didn’t you? That’s why they couldn’t come back until the next day, isn’t it?”
Kel folded his arms with a sneer.
“I just did my job, Miss. And I have to inform you that you are also entering without proper authorization.”
“Right. So? What are you going to do about it exactly?”
Erin looked blankly at Kel. The [Guardsman] hesitated. Erin leaned forwards, smiling as she put her hand on the closed door.
“If you want, I can go bother Watch Captain Venim again. I know where he is. Or I can talk to whoever’s on duty. Again. Wanna do that? Because that makes it like the eighth time you and I have done this. And I can do it eight more times. Just say the word. They’ve got free tea, you know.”
“That’s tea reserved for members of the Watch!”
“Too bad! It’s really good! Nice talking to you, Kel. I’ve got to be on my way. I’ll be back, though, don’t worry! Save my spot!”
“You’re here illegally!”
The Drake bellowed at Erin’s back. She waved at him. That was Kel for you. Hot-tempered, couldn’t relax. But she’d gotten to know him a bit. The proof was in the fact that Kel let her go rather than trying to poke her in the guts with his spear. She was wearing him down.
Erin walked ahead, breathing in the fresh air. At this height, it felt cooler, crisper. Or maybe it was because the smells of a muddy Liscor didn’t have any bearing here. Pallass’ air was fresh; even better, it had no smog like the cities in Erin’s world. She caught the whiff of fresh bread, a perfume from a passing Dullahan lady, flowers being offered by a Gnoll [Florist]. And then, a sharper smell. Oil, cleaning materials. Not entirely unpleasant. Erin turned her head and heard a familiar voice.
