“You. You want sharp knives. Everyone wants sharp knives.”
A Dullahan stood behind his counter, addressing a Gnoll man. The Gnoll pointed at himself uncertainly.
“Me?”
The Dullahan didn’t nod. But his head, resting on the little pillow in the basket on his counter, opened his mouth while his armored body lowered his pointing finger.
“Yes, you. You need sharp knives. I have the sharpest knives. Come and see.”
“I, uh—I have good knives. Thanks.”
The Gnoll glanced at Erin as she wandered over. The Dullahan glanced at her and then addressed the Gnoll.
“But are they sharp?”
“Pretty sharp. I’m fairly certain…thank you. But I have to be going, yes? Er—”
The Gnoll backed away. The Dullahan sighed. He picked up his head and adjusted it in the basket with his body. Erin leaned on the counter, beaming.
“Hello, Lorent. How’s business?”
“It could be better. Did you hear that Gnoll? He’s got good knives. And is he certain? Or is he so used to a dull blade that he’s taken it for granted?”
The Dullahan [Sharpener] pursed his lips. He tilted his head to look at Erin and the kitchen knife strapped to her side.
“How’s your knife? Any nicks? Blemishes? Dulling?”
“Nope! I cut a fish in half with it just this morning. It’s wicked. Thanks for getting it all ready for me. No complaints!”
Erin patted the kitchen knife at her side. It was the same knife that Maughin had given her after the competition with Pelt. Lorent’s perpetual frown seemed to ease as he nodded at it.
“That was a good knife. Excellently made. It can hold a keener edge than half my stock, easily. I’m glad you respect the metal. But I could also do the same for the rest of your knives. Just bring them in and I’ll give you a discount. Or order some from Maughin.”
Erin smiled, relaxed as she leaned on the counter.
“I will, I will. But they are sharp. I tested them. And your knives are dangerously edged! I don’t want to lose a finger; my hands aren’t armored. Have you ever thought about selling gloves to your non-Dullahan customers?”
Lorent’s brows rose.
“I have not. You mean like a chainmail glove? I could look into it. Although, some of my knives could cut through even steel links fairly easily…”
“Maybe that’s a selling point. Anyways, I’m on business. Lorent, you wouldn’t happen to know if Maughin’s in his forge today, would you?”
The Dullahan paused. He scratched his head with his fingers absently.
“Hmm. He should be working there. You have an order for him?”
“Not exactly. But I do have something fun in mind. Hey, thanks. I’ll see you there. Keep an eye on this street, okay? I’m going to do something fun later.”
Erin winked at Lorent and pointed back towards her door. He nodded.
“I’ll be here. If you spot anyone in need of sharp knives…”
The young woman paused. And a light bulb went off in her brain. Her plan suddenly expanded. She smiled conspiratorially at Lorent.
“I may. Do you have to sharpen knives in your shop?”
“I can sharpen a knife anywhere if I bring my tools. Why?”
“Hm. I may have a lot of business for you soon. Keep an open mind, will you?”
“My mind is completely open to business.”
Lorent watched Erin go. She waved at him, grinning. And she saw a faint smile on the reserved Dullahan’s lips. He liked her, or so Erin thought. She thought he was cool, even if he really did speak only about knives. And her meeting with him had given her another idea.
By now, Erin was used to Pallass. At least, the general layout. She knew where the regularly spaced out elevators were on each floor and at least a few good spots. She hopped into an elevator with a Gnoll attendant and three other Gnolls. The Gnoll raised his brows, surprised to see a Human.
“What floor?”
“Ninth! Thanks!”
Erin answered with a smile. The Gnoll nodded and pulled a lever. The elevator shot up fast, but Erin and the Gnolls were ready for it. She hopped out on the ninth floor as the elevator came to a stop. And ahead of her was the floor reserved for the [Alchemists] and [Blacksmiths], two of the industries that the city was known for.
“Here goes.”
The young Human woman marched down the floor by the guardrails. On her right, the forges appeared, clanging infernos of heat and steel. Erin could see sparks flying, Drakes, Dullahans, a few Gnolls, no Garuda, hard at work. Hammering despite the early hour. Few noticed her, but she kept her eyes open. And by the largest of the forges, she spotted a familiar Dullahan laboring in the back.
“Excuse me!”
Erin waved to one of the Drakes in the front. She had to call twice before the apprentice looked up. She trotted over after sticking a bar of metal into the forge to heat. Erin waved at her, maintaining a respectful distance from the forge; the [Smiths] had drawn a line in paint on the ground, beyond which safety was not guaranteed.
“Sorry! Can I ask if Maughin’s in this morning? And Pelt?”
The Drake recognized Erin at once. Her eyes went to the knife at her belt, and she stepped forwards to shout.
“You’re that Human, right? The one who goes to Master Rufelt’s tavern? And who got Mister Pelt to forge a knife?”
“Tails and Scales! That’s right! Where’s Maughin?”
“In the forge. Mister Pelt’s not here today. He’s probably got a hangover. I wouldn’t wait for him.”
The Drake grimaced. She pointed at an empty forge down the ways. Erin grimaced. Well, Pelt wasn’t her first choice. He was probably a bit of a disaster, in fact.
“Maughin’s fine. Can I ask you to call him over? If he’s not super-busy. Tell him it’s me!”
The Drake nodded. She trotted into the forge, and Erin waited patiently. She saw Maughin’s huge form turn, and soon he was trotting towards her. She looked up at him. Not since Moore had she seen anyone so huge, and Maughin wore his light metal armor over his entire body! He was already covered in sweat, but she saw that he had a water canteen in the basket he carried his head in. And he was drinking from a straw.
“Maughin! Hey!”
“Miss Erin. It is good to see you.”
Maughin smiled slightly as Erin waved at him and stepped over the warning line to meet him. He bent slightly, and his face was largely neutral. If you didn’t know Dullahans, his reserve might have even come off as passively hostile. But Erin knew Dullahans now, and the fact that he was smiling when he met her and that he used her first name meant he felt close enough to be informal.
Erin stopped and gave him a slight bow; Rufelt had told her it was customary for Dullahans to honor [Smiths] whom they held in high regard, even among friends. And Maughin’s pleased expression told Erin he noticed. He inclined his head back, and formalities done, they stepped further away from the forge so they wouldn’t have to shout.
“It is a surprise to see you here this early. May I ask if you’re intending to visit Rufelt and Lasica? Their tavern isn’t open at this hour, but I saw them going for a walk together as I was setting up.”
Maughin pointed down two floors. He had good eyes; Erin squinted at the distant shapes below.
“No…although I might want to talk to them. I was actually here to see you!”
“On business? My forge is occupied, but I can certainly talk about an order.”
Erin shook her head.
“Not quite. Tell me, do you have a lot of work today? Could you clear your schedule, Maughin?”
The Dullahan gave her a large frown.
“If it was an emergency, or the project demanded my attention, yes. Why?”
Perfect. Erin spread her arms, smiling broadly.
“I was hoping you’d come with me! I know it’s sudden, but it would really help me out. Can you abandon your forge—leave the work to your other smiths and apprentices? If you can, I’d love for you to come to Liscor with me.”
Erin had the benefit of seeing Maughin blink at her twice. The Dullahan who towered over her head actually picked up his head and rubbed at his ears with his hands. He put his head on his shoulders and leaned down, cupping a hand to one ear.
“Excuse me? Did you say, go to Liscor, Miss Erin? Why would I do that?”
The young woman beamed and spread her arms out.
“Well, why not? Have you ever sold any, uh, armor to Liscor? How’s the market for swords and stuff in Pallass?”
“There’s always a market. Not always the best one, but we export around the continent. To the rest of the world, even.”
The Dullahan frowned, rubbing his chin. Erin nodded.
“Right. You sell to [Merchants] and [Traders]. But what about selling directly to, I dunno, Celum? Isn’t it better to have multiple markets? To be competitive and stuff? You could check out the quality of their gear. And there’s this Gnoll [Armorer] in Liscor I’d like you to meet.”
“Today?”
“Yup.”
Maughin looked around, frowning as if he suspected Erin of pulling some kind of prank.
“You mean, right now.”
“Uh huh.”
The [Armorer] stared down at Erin. She stared up, smiling hopefully. At last, Maughin shook his head.
“It’s an interesting offer, Miss Erin. But this is really too sudden. I have work. Perhaps I might have time in a week. Or a few days, but today? My apprentices need supervision, we’re working on a set of armor for a [Knight], and I have four glaive heads to manufacture by the end of the week—”
He shook his head, frowning. Erin nodded, as yet undeterred. Time to get serious. She casually glanced over her shoulder, looking apologetically at Maughin.
“Too bad. There’s this election happening in Liscor right now, and it’s a big deal. I know Pallass is going to go through its elections, so I thought you could give my friends some tips. Oh, and one of my friends owns the Heartflame Breastplate and I was thinking you could maybe take a look at it. You know, Selys was wondering if she uncovered all of the functions. It sets itself on fire, very cool. And I made some cake I’d love for you to try…”
Maughin’s face had changed markedly during part of Erin’s little speech. He waved an urgent hand and bent even lower.
“Excuse me. Did you say the Heartflame Breastplate?”
Erin saw his Drake apprentice watching them from the forge out of the corner of her eye. She smiled innocently up at Maughin.
“What? Oh, yeah. And cake. But if you’re busy, I can totally understand.”
“Yes. I mean to say—no. I knew the Heartflame Breastplate was in Liscor. But you say your friend owns it? And I might be able to inspect it?”
Maughin cleared his throat a few times, uncharacteristically flustered.
“The Heartflame Breastplate? We are speaking about the same armor? This is not some—other breastplate?”
The young woman saw two of Maughin’s journeymen smiths, both Dullahans, glancing at their master from the forge. And another smith was eying her from a distance. She waved to the [Farrier], Bealt, at a distance. Then she took a deep breath and looked back at Maughin.
“No, sorry. I said the Heartflame Breastplate. The legendary artifact!”
Erin shouted it across the forges. The rhythmic, background beating of hammers hitting metal faltered. Erin heard an oath two forges over as someone hit himself on the hand. Another [Smith] poked his head out of the forge to stare. Erin looked up at Maughin.
“Zel Shivertail used to stay at my inn. He was a good guy. Drake. And his niece is Selys Shivertail. She’s my best friend. Wanna see her armor? She won’t mind. It’s not like she wears it.”
She shrugged nonchalantly. Maughin turned his head on his shoulders a hundred and eighty degrees. Erin eyed that queasily and saw him making a gesture behind his back. Whatever it meant, both of his journeymen Dullahan smiths took off their heads to nod very vigorously. And half a dozen [Smiths] were also drifting out of their forges. Maughin turned his head back and gave Erin a very casual look. He coughed once.
“Well. I…I would be delighted. I don’t think I need to work on all my pieces right at this moment. Why not?”
“Great! Then let’s take a stroll to Liscor! It’s on the eighth floor. Hey Bealt!”
“Miss Solstice! Did I just hear you say the Heartflame Breastplate?”
“Yeah! We’re going to look at it! Hey, I’ll catch you later, okay?”
Erin waved at the Gnoll. He opened his mouth. Apologetically, Erin cut him off.
“And—sorry! One [Blacksmith] is probably enough! You know about what they say about cooks and broth! It’s probably the same with smiths and armor!”
“What? But I—”
Bealt tried to climb over his anvil and nearly burned himself. Maughin looked at Erin as she waved apologetically at the other smiths. He eyed a Drake trying to get to them while taking off his apron.
“Ah, we should go. I’d hate to keep your friend waiting.”
“Sure, sure! Where’s the nearest elevator?”
The Dullahan pointed.
“The personal elevators are somewhat cramped. We may take the stairs. Follow me.”
He set off. Erin waved at the other smiths, who were shouting questions, and hurried off. She was trying not to laugh. Maughin strode towards the nearest grand staircase until he realized his stride was leaving Erin behind. Then he hurried back to her.
“My apologies, Miss Erin. But you’re sure? This isn’t an issue? I would be allowed to inspect the breastplate at my leisure? No, a glance would suffice. But if I could test it with a hammer—”
“Sure! Sure! Selys isn’t using it. Grab a hammer!”
Erin waited as Maughin practically raced back. The Dullahan was huffing when he returned. He looked at her.
“And you know the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate?”
“Yup. She’s a [Receptionist]. We’re old friends. Well, not old, but she inherited it. Man. I was so sad when I heard Zel died.”
“A tragedy. Pallass was in mourning for weeks.”
Maughin nodded carefully. He led the way down the stairs. Even with Pallass’ many citizens, he stood out. As big as Moore. But apparently they could get even bigger. Erin imagined what one of the War Walkers—which were apparently super-huge Dullahans—would look like. She shook her head as she went down the stairs.
“Apologies. I don’t move around much from level to level. Aside from the larger elevators, I find it difficult.”
Maughin apologized as he navigated down the steps far slower than he’d walked. Erin didn’t mind; from the expressions of the pedestrians hurrying to get clear below Maughin, they weren’t keen on him tripping and falling either.
“No problem. Hey, I appreciate you taking the time. How’s business been? I haven’t really stopped to chat since that knife-making competition with Pelt and Bealt. I saw you in Tails and Scales, of course, the other day.”
“Two days ago.”
Maughin nodded. His head wobbled and he put a hand up and secured it—Erin got the impression he was locking it into place.
“Yes, business has been fine. Ordinary. I haven’t completed any large projects. Pelt drinks too much as usual.”
