A roaring tide of water rushed around Erin’s legs, drenching them in a second. She yelped as the water swirled up into a gigantic hand, impossibly fast. It caught the stone cube as it fell, and the heavy weight sank into the watery arm. Grimalkin pointed, and the stone crunched down on the ground where he’d pulled it out of the earth. Liscor’s citizens turned to stare. Grimalkin leapt up nimbly and spread his arms. Then he flexed.
Every muscle on Grimalkin’s body stood out as the Drake struck a pose like one of the Grecian statues from Erin’s world. He held the pose as, with lungs of steel, he bellowed at the crowd.
“Strength! Adaptability! A [Mage] with a body like a [Soldier] has no weaknesses! Behold! I practice a magic like no other! Spellcraft and stamina! Muscle and magic! Fight on the front and cast spells with the authority of a true mage!”
He raised his arms and struck a herculean pose.
“Hm! And what do you say? Any takers?”
Grimalkin gazed around at his audience expectantly. The Drakes and Gnolls stared up at him. And then they burst into wild applause. Grimalkin sighed, then turned and waved at the crowd. He dismounted from the boulder, shaking hands and asking questions. Erin, dumbstruck, had to wait for nearly five minutes until Grimalkin won clear. To her surprise, the [Mage] was shaking his head when he approached them.
“No takers. Lots of applause, but there always is when I do this for the first time. A shame, really. But maybe I’ve set the seeds. It is an uphill battle. There’s your demonstration, Miss Erin. Shall we go?”
“Wh—but I—that was amazing!”
Erin burst out, waving her arms over her head. She pointed at the boulder and the rooftop Grimalkin had jumped to, almost too excited for words.
“How? That’s incredible! Pisces can [Flash Step], but that was like Superman! Over a building in a single bound!”
“Well, it’s only two-stories high. And [Flash Step] is a poor spell compared to physical enhancement spells. One is a set spell. The other one scales off of the body’s own prowess. I dare say only I could jump that far with a basic spell, but the principle applies to all [Mages] if they’d just get out there and do some pushups.”
Grimalkin modestly shook his head. He casually kicked the stone cube, and it melted back into the earth. He noticed Erin, Maughin, and Raekea’s stares and shrugged, slightly pleased.
“I did say I was a [Mage], didn’t I? Then again, you wouldn’t be the first to assume my spell repertoire is limited. Hardly. I just believe in not wasting magic. Shall we go back to the inn?”
He began walking. Erin trailed after him. Grimalkin massaged his arms, looking a bit pained as he went. He nodded back at Erin as she followed him, mouth still ready to catch flies.
“Whew. I didn’t expect to do my traditional demonstration today. It takes a toll, even with experience. Was that what you wanted, Miss Erin? Part of the plan?”
“Better. You earned your cake!”
“Mm. I’m glad. And quite interested to see what you’ll do next. Say. You! You there!”
Grimalkin paused. He pointed at someone in the crowd. The Drake stopped, chewing on a stick of dried meat.
“Me?”
“Yes, you. You have the makings of a real [Mage]. Give me ten years—no, half that, and I’ll turn you into a spellcaster as fine as any Wistram graduate. What do you say?”
Grimalkin eyed the other Drake’s body appreciatively. The Drake in question blushed.
“Me? I never thought about being a [Mage]. What do you think, Erin? I don’t like the robes, but I’m not bad myself, huh?”
Relc lifted one arm. Grimalkin nodded. Erin laughed.
“Relc! Grimalkin, this is the Gecko of Liscor himself!”
“Aw, Erin—you know I hate that name!”
The [Sergeant] looked disgruntled. Grimalkin’s eyes went up and down Relc.
“This is the Gecko? I thought he’d be far scrawnier. No wonder you made it through so many battles. Put it here. Grimalkin. [Sinew Magus]—and the Muscle Mage of Pallass, apparently. You, my friend, are an inspiration.”
“I am?”
“How can you not be? Here’s a [Sergeant] mixed with a [Spearmaster] who, not with overpowering Skills or weapons, did in enemy after enemy with nothing but his muscles and speed!”
He gestured to Relc, who had turned bright red under his green scales. Grimalkin slapped Relc on the shoulder and roared the word Erin knew was coming.
“Testicles! If Pallass’ army had half the testicles you do, we wouldn’t have lost half the wars with the other Walled Cities! Can I get you to give a small demonstration of your abilities to my apprentices, sir? They could use the motivation.”
He looked expectantly at Relc. The [Guardsman] swallowed his bite of meat. He looked at Erin. She grinned at him. Relc leaned over.
“I really like this guy. Hey, I heard you were doing something weird. Looks like it. Who’s the War Walker?”
He nodded at Maughin. The Dullahan looked affronted and pleased. Erin laughed as she introduced him.
“Maughin, this is Relc! Don’t mind him. We’re all going to the inn, Relc. Want to come along? I’ve got lots of cake and ice cream.”
“Do I?”
The Drake looked delighted. His tail wagged as he fell into step with Maughin and Raekea. Erin turned to the crowd.
“Sorry for disrupting you, folks! We’ll be on our way! Back to The Wandering Inn! Feel free to listen to that Drake lady! She’s a [Mage] too! Grimalkin’s going to relax, though. Hey, we’ve got blue fruit juice too! Stop by if you want some! Cheap!”
Grimalkin snorted, amused. Relc raised his brows, and even Maughin had caught on by this point. He glanced down at Erin and shook his head. But he followed Erin, lowering his head to speak with Raekea, who was still in the middle of the processing stage. Grimalkin strolled ahead, speaking to Erin and Relc.
“It is demoralizing, sometimes, seeing how few people will step up to try my kind of magic. I feel like more of a [Performer] than [Mage] with that little act.”
“Hey, I’d pay money for it. Relc, by the way. Ooh! You’ve got a good handshake.”
The two Drakes grinned at each other. Erin pushed in between them, glancing up at Relc and Grimalkin.
“Why do you do it, then?”
“It draws a crowd. And it’s proof of my abilities. Can you name another [Mage] who could lift a boulder over his or her head? It’s fewer than you think. Telekinesis is twice as hard as lifting it is. And that’s hard enough. Ergh. I only wish there was an easier way of doing that bit. That boulder’s not even that large—barely wider than I am. And it’s hundreds of pounds. But can you convey that to the skeptics?”
Grimalkin grimaced. Relc nodded appreciatively. Erin hesitated.
“Well, why not use weights? Or is that not cool enough?”
“Weights?”
Relc and Grimalkin glanced back at her. Erin nodded.
“Yeah. Weights on a bar. Like—bench pressing. You know?”
They did not. Grimalkin raised his brows, and Relc looked excited.
“Oh boy. This is some new crazy thing you’ve come up, right?”
“What, weights? You totally have them. Right? Weights? On a bar? Weight rooms?”
Erin laughed, looking from face to face. Then she stopped, because both Drakes were blank. She inhaled.
“You don’t know. Oh, wow. Well, what about this? Instead of lifting a rock or something, you get this metal bar. And you put two weights on each side, see? So they’re like—they’ll be round, so the weight’s perfectly distributed. And that way, you can lift it and work out. And if you want to add more, you just add more weight. Or take it off.”
“Weights on a bar. Of course! And did you say bench pressing?”
“Yup. You lie on your back and hold the bar and push it up. You can do like, I dunno, three hundred pounds of weight?”
“I bet I could do four hundred. Hey, do you have one of those bars, Erin? That sounds like a lot of fun.”
“Nope. And if you two exercise-dudes don’t know them, they might not exist, er…here. But you know what? They’re really easy to make. It’s just metal. Iron for the weights, probably. Or lead. And I happen to know two [Smiths] who have time on their hands.”
Erin, Relc, and Grimalkin turned. Maughin and Raekea broke off from their conversation to look up. The Dullahan frowned at Erin.
“What? Forging? I could work in Master Raekea’s forge. Or my own. But it seems inconvenient. And unless I’m wrong, isn’t this crowd part of your plan? A forge is hardly a space for an audience.”
“Especially mine.”
Raekea put in, looking at Erin. The young woman just smiled. Her eyes lit up even further.
“I can fix that. With a little bit of help. Relc, Grimalkin, would you mind visiting Pallass for a second? I need you to help lift something.”
The two Drakes exchanged a glance. Relc grinned and flexed one arm. Grimalkin laughed.
“I suppose I’ve got more time. What did you have in mind?”
 
——
 
“You can’t do this! Do you hear me? You can’t do this! Put it down!”
“Watch me! And watch your heads! Coming through! Whoo! This is like a roller coaster ride or something! Hey Relc, lift your end higher!”
Heads in Pallass turned. On the grand stairway, the people of Pallass looked up and saw a door coming at them. It was a magic door, true, held up by two extremely burly Drakes. But it was still a door. An open door. And in that doorway stood a Human, in a room, an inn in fact, staring out of the doorway.
You had to look twice after a scene like that. Especially because Erin Solstice wasn’t alone. A crowd of other onlookers were staring out of the door, with as much fascination as Pallass’ citizens were staring into it. Relc called out as he hefted his end of the door higher over his head.
“Excuse me! City Watch coming through! Excuse me! Hey. Is that a Garuda? I thought that Bevussa chick was the only one in Pallass.”
“The Garuda population has been increasing over the last few years. There are a few hundred. Not many, but they’ve overtaken the Human population in the city.”
“No kidding? Wow.”
“You can’t do this! Put that down now! This is an order!”
“Onwards! Ignore Kel, guys. He’s just grumpy.”
Erin laughed as the doorway tilted to look back at Guardsman Kel, who was pursuing Grimalkin and Relc. She saw the furious Drake grabbing for the door, and then a clawed hand blocking him. Relc’s voice came through the door as Erin watched.
“Hey buddy, relax. Erin’s got authority to bring this door wherever. Trust me. I’m a Senior Guardsman. I outrank you or something.”
“You’re a Liscorian [Guardsman]!”
“Yeah. But I’m a Senior Liscorian Guardsman. Hey, Erin! Where to?”
They’d reached the ninth floor. Erin pointed, the captain of her mobile door-ship.
“There! Straight to the forges! Make sure we get a good position so everyone can see!”
She stepped back so the crowd behind her could see. Gnolls and Drakes, all attracted from Liscor, crowded around the door. They gasped as the rows of forges and [Smiths] at work all came into view.
“The forges of Pallass. Dead gods.”
“Is that really what they look like? That city—this is Pallass?”
Erin looked around proudly. The Drakes and Gnolls fighting for a view were awed. She wondered how many of them had seen Pallass. And if they had—how long ago had it been? She nodded.
“That’s right! This is Pallass! And those forges belong to the best [Smiths]. And one of them is right there. Maughin! We’re here!”
Erin waved excitedly to someone in the door. The view tilted, and someone else came into view. The crowd pushed back, and Erin waved excitedly.
“Maughin! It’s me! And I brought the door.”
“You brought—”
A huge Dullahan appeared in front of the door. The crowd oohed as Maughin, sweaty, his armor slightly sooty, stepped into view. And next to him was a smaller Gnoll, covered in an apron, holding a hammer. Raekea the [Armorer] stared back through the door at a sea of faces. She looked to one side as Relc, dusting his claws, stepped into view. He grinned at Erin.
“Made it! And there’s an entire crowd of people following us!”
“Oh really? I wonder why.”
Erin innocently blinked at Relc. She heard a rugged laugh from Grimalkin. The [Mage] had good-naturedly agreed to her request and helped her send Raekea and Maughin through first. Now he cracked his neck and glanced through the door.
“Quite a crowd.”
“Only a hundred people or so. Lyonette won’t let more in just yet. They’re all looking through the windows outside. Hey! Selys is here too.”
Erin reached into the crowd and pulled out her friend. Selys waved at Maughin and Raekea. The Gnoll looked around. She ran a paw through her fur.
“I can’t believe I’m here. I just walked through the door and—”
She glanced up at Maughin. The Dullahan laid a hand on her shoulder gravely.
“You do get used to it.”
Raekea looked awed in the face of Maughin’s forge, the rows of roaring furnaces. She gestured around Maughin’s forge, stepping back as the crowd in Liscor jostled for view. Erin saw some people from Pallass peeking into frame and shouts from Kel, warning them to keep back from the forge. Raekea ignored them both. She was gesturing at Maughin’s personal studio.
“My forge has half of your capacity at best. I’d heard that Pallass manufactured a good portion of Izril’s steel. But to see it in action—”
“I’m sure Liscor is well-served by your work as well, Master Raekea.”
The Dullahan [Armorer] smiled warmly at Raekea. A blush appeared on the Gnoll’s cheeks, and she shook her head. She looked around, and both Erin and Selys saw her catch her breath. Selys stared through the door silently as well. Erin nudged her.
“Well, what do you think? I told you Pallass is awesome! But you never wanted to go.”
“It is amazing, Erin. It’s—”
Selys struggled for words. She had watched the door pass near the edge of the eighth floor, stared down into the heart of Pallass. And she had seen the smooth streets, the beautiful sky, the magical lifts in the distance. She couldn’t put it into words.
“It’s—”
There it was again. A moment of—hesitation from Liscor’s side of the door. Just like what was written on Raekea’s face. Selys spotted it because she herself felt it in her chest. A sinking sensation. If she had to give it a name, she’d call it a sense of inferiority. She’d known, of course, that Pallass was impressive. But it was another thing to see it in person.
A Walled City. A treasure of the Drakes. Real, in front of your eyes. You looked at that, and you compared it to the city you knew all your life. The city you thought was so grand and wonderful. And you found it was—
