“It is a small exaggeration. The Dwarf, Pelt, puts out better quality goods than I can. But I suppose it’s a matter of reliability—”
“Nonsense. That’s an achievement for anyone, let alone someone working Pallass’ forges. I won’t ask your level, but you’re not, what, forty? You must have been a genius. Baleros-born?”
“Yes. I received some accolades, but I thought I wouldn’t grow competing with smiths from my home. So I journeyed to Pallass. I had assumed I’d run up against countless masters.”
“Well, since old Lassilt died of a stroke, I suppose the field is clearer. The other Walled Cities poached two smiths, damn them. And Pelt’s been here a while, but I suppose your work’s really kept us at the top.”
“It is an honor to hear you say so—”
Kel stared at the two. Erin ignored the conversation behind her. She leaned on the door.
“Yeah, I know it’s Maughin and Grimalkin. So what? They can go through, and there’s no fee. Isn’t that right?”
“Yes, but—you have no list, and they’re—”
The Drake spluttered. Erin rolled right over him, speaking louder for the benefit of anyone passing by. Maughin and Grimalkin were certainly attracting looks on the street.
“Then what’s the problem? They’re free to go through. So am I. Move it! Shoo! Shoo!”
“You can’t!”
“I can! Grimalkin, can you give me a hand? Squash this guy’s head like a grape or something?”
Grimalkin strolled over. He ignored Erin, who was pushing at Kel, and investigated the door.
“I’ve seen this door before. Never gone through, of course. So this is the artifact that everyone’s so eager to use, is it? Let’s see.”
He opened the door. Instantly, Erin’s inn appeared on the other side. Erin brightened up. Lyonette had kept it set to Pallass! She waved at Maughin. The Dullahan was staring.
“See? It’s my door! Hey! Is Lyonette there? I’ve got guests!”
“Who is it? Erin?”
The young woman heard voices from the other side. Then Mrsha appeared. The white Gnoll galloped into view, blinked up at Maughin, and then fled. The Dullahan stared at her.
“Incredible. It truly is a magic door. I hadn’t seen it before.”
“Fascinating. This is clearly a portal spell. And it can transmit, what, hundreds of miles? I can’t imagine how powerful the enchantment on the door must be. It has to be worth at least ten thousand—no, possibly a hundred thousand—of course, these spells were more common during certain eras of magical kingdoms. And we do have teleportation spells. But this is so convenient. And there’s no charge?”
Grimalkin rubbed his claws together. Kel tried to protest, but Erin hip-bumped him to one side and motioned Maughin up.
“Yeah! Come on through! Promise it’s not a trap. Hey, Mrsha! Watch out! Maughin’s coming through.”
The Dullahan hesitated. He peered through the doorway but, encouraged by Erin’s smile and very interested despite himself, stepped through the doorway. He blinked as his foot hit the floor of Erin’s inn. He turned around, blinking, then peered into the room.
“Incredible. Are we really—”
He turned to look at Erin and the door went dead. Kel swore. Erin just groaned.
“Aw. He was too big! Normally we can get two people through. Don’t worry! I heard Ceria on the other side. She can charge the door!”
Grimalkin looked surprised. He raised his brows.
“It ran out of mana? No wonder. But that’s a simple enough fix.”
So saying, he put a claw on the door and took a breath. Erin blinked at him.
“You can recharge it?”
“I am a [Mage]. Hm. This door drains mana like no one’s business. But no matter. Concentration! Huah!”
His shout made Kel, Erin, and the onlookers jump. The image of Erin’s inn immediately reappeared in the doorway, like a television turning on. Erin saw Maughin peering at the door anxiously a few steps back. Pisces blinked into the door, and both he and Ceria recoiled.
“Wow! What was that?”
“Hi Ceria! Morning! Grimalkin just fixed the door. Thanks! How’d you do it so fast?”
Erin turned to Grimalkin. Pisces stared as Grimalkin flexed one arm, and his entire body rippled. The Drake replied casually.
“A [Mage] can store mana in his body. I just released some. May I enter?”
“No—”
Erin elbowed Kel in the side.
“Please! Me next!”
Grimalkin stepped delicately through the doorway, and then Erin. She turned and saw Kel glaring at her from Pallass.
“Sorry, Kel! They’ll be back later! Watch the door for me, alright?”
“Watch Captain Venim will hear about this, you—you—”
Erin shut the door on his face. She turned and beamed at Grimalkin. He was looking around her inn. So was Maughin. The Dullahan blinked up at the ceiling that even he could stand naturally under, and then the large room.
“This is quite spacious. Impressively so. No inn in Pallass has this much space.”
“It’s clearly the result of dimensional magic. Or a Skill. See how the room just repeats itself minus the windows after this point? Fascinating. And useful. So we’re in Liscor?”
Grimalkin strode over to a window. He looked out, exclaimed, and peered around excitedly. Maughin looked up.
“What is it?”
“Come and see! The entire landscape is changed! We’re right in the middle of the High Passes!”
The Dullahan’s jaw dropped. He strode over, avoiding a chair, and pulled off his head to see. Erin heard a faint sound; she turned and saw Ceria staring open-mouthed at the Dullahan.
“It’s—Erin, is that a War Walker?”
“Naw, just Maughin. He’s big, but not War Walker big. Hey Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] didn’t immediately respond. He was staring at Maughin and Grimalkin both. Then he looked at Erin.
“That Drake is a powerful [Mage].”
“Yup. He’s a [Sinew Magus] or something. His name is Grimalkin.”
“Grimalkin. You mean, the Grimalkin? The insane fool who thinks magic is tied to the body?”
“That would be me.”
Grimalkin’s claw fell on Pisces’ shoulder. The [Necromancer] paled. He turned. Grimalkin looked disapprovingly down at him.
“And you would be…a [Necromancer]. No, don’t bother answering. I can tell. Your aura screams death magic. And the half-Elf’s a [Cryomancer]. Poor form, both of you. You at least have some arm and leg muscle, boy, but you’re both completely unfit.”
“Excuse me?”
Ceria gaped up at Grimalkin. The Drake shook his head.
“What’s your backup when you run out of magic, Miss? An enchanted dagger? Running away and hoping the rest of your team takes care of the fighting? I don’t want to be rude, but is that how you lost your hand? Have you ever considered learning how to use a sword as well as fighting? [Spellswords] get a bad rap, but in my experience, they live longer when things go south. Now, I can respect a [Fencer]’s build, but that rapier won’t go through anything like a Wyvern’s hide—”
Erin backed away as Ceria and Pisces tried to object—and then run away—and Grimalkin grabbed both their shoulders. She edged over to Maughin. He was staring out of a window, entranced. He turned his head to her.
“We have travelled hundreds of miles in a moment. This is truly powerful magic, Miss Solstice.”
“I know. Isn’t it great? I never thought I could do this myself. And this is my inn, Maughin! I told you I had one.”
Erin waved a hand around. Maughin turned his head to look. Erin saw a flash of white—Mrsha disappeared around the back of a table.
“Aw. Mrsha. It’s just Maughin. He’s a Dullahan. Don’t worry, he can put his head back. Come here.”
Erin went to find Mrsha. The Gnoll cub shrank as Erin pulled her out of the table. Maughin bowed his head slightly, then put it on his shoulders.
“Good evening, little one.”
He held out a finger to shake. Mrsha timidly shook it, then sniffed Maughin’s finger. She looked relieved, and the Dullahan smiled. Then he looked alarmed and shielded his head.
“Miss Erin. There is a gigantic bug over there. Hold the child safe. I will squash it.”
“No! That’s Apista!”
Erin yelped. Maughin stared at her. Mrsha rushed over to protect the Ashfire Bee, and Apista landed on her head. The Dullahan stared at Mrsha. At Apista. At Erin as she tried to explain. He had to sit on the floor.
“Okay! Everyone, stop!”
Erin waved her hands. Grimalkin, Maughin, Mrsha, Apista, Pisces, and Ceria looked up. Erin turned around. She took a deep breath.
“Maughin, Grimalkin, this is my inn. And this is Mrsha—wave, Mrsha—and Apista. She’s the pet of one of my employees. That’s Pisces and Ceria—they’re Silver-rank adventurers. Everyone, this is Maughin and Grimalkin. Maughin’s a [Blacksmith], the best in Pallass! And Grimalkin’s a Muscle Mage. They’re here to visit.”
“Pleased to meet you all.”
Maughin took off his head to bow, looking a bit shell-shocked. Grimalkin bowed slightly. He eyed Mrsha, who eyed him as if she weren’t sure he was actually a Drake. Erin smiled.
“Okay? Everyone cool?”
Pisces and Ceria nodded. Both edged a bit away from Grimalkin. Mrsha came over, with Apista in her paws. Grimalkin peered down at the Ashfire bee.
“I’ve seen odd familiars. Even someone trying to raise Creler as a pet. But I have to admit—I’m somewhat thrown. Hello there. Mrsha?”
He gingerly offered Mrsha a claw. Apista showed her stinger; Grimalkin withdrew the claw. Erin looked around, beaming. Maughin was shaking his head.
“This is quite an experience. I was just at my forge. Now—I am fine. Thank you, Miss Erin. I have been discourteous.”
He rose and approached Pisces and Ceria. They shook his hands, staring up at him.
“A pleasure.”
“Uh, likewise. Master Maughin, is it?”
Ceria stammered. Pisces nodded. He shook Maughin’s hand.
“I am a humble servant of magic, Master Maughin. The day’s greetings with you. Please forgive our lax manners.”
Maughin blinked. He inclined his head.
“No offense taken. I am pleased to meet you. Magus Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] smiled effusively.
“You honor me. I am but a student compared to Magus Grimalkin, but my Captain and I—Captain Ceria Springwalker of the Horns of Hammerad—may one day hope to seek your services. I hope you keep us in mind in that eventuality.”
“Ah. Of course.”
Maughin’s face immediately clouded over. Ceria looked at Pisces, shook herself, and then elbowed him in the side.
“Ignore my companion. I’m pleased to meet you. You’re from Pallass? And their…top [Blacksmith]?”
Both she and Pisces shot Erin a sideways glance. The [Innkeeper] ignored it. She smiled at Grimalkin and Maughin. They both blinked at her. This was clearly not how they’d expected to start their days. And yet—Erin smiled.
“We’re just going for a walk in the city, Ceria. You know? Maybe to see Krshia and her lot?”
“Ah.”
Pisces snapped his fingers, looking amused. Ceria’s eyes widened. She nodded silently. Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“I suppose this is part of the plan you mentioned?”
“Maybe?”
“What plan?”
Maughin warily looked from Erin to Grimalkin. The young woman opened her mouth. And then Numbtongue walked into the inn, with a huge basket of blue fruits cradled in one arm. He paused, staring at Maughin. The Dullahan turned. His face turned pale.
“Hob—”
“Down!”
Grimalkin roared. He didn’t cast a spell, he just leapt forwards, one fist raised. Numbtongue recoiled, and Erin shouted.
“No! He’s a friend!”
“A what?”
The Drake stopped. Numbtongue windmilled wildly, spilling blue fruits and catching the door’s edge for balance. Maughin stared at him, and then at Erin.
“I heard Goblins frequented your inn. But this?”
He pointed at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin stared at Grimalkin. The [Mage] eyed him from head to toe. He opened his mouth, hesitated, and then patted Numbtongue on one shoulder.
“Good muscles.”
He turned to Erin. She grinned weakly.
“It’s Numbtongue. He’s a Goblin, yeah. But he’s my, uh, employee? And friend. He stays here. He’s actually a [Bard].”
She pointed at Numbtongue. He edged past Grimalkin with the blue fruits’ basket in one arm. He paused and lifted his guitar, waved it once, and then put the basket on the nearest table. Erin coughed.
“So yeah. That’s Numbtongue.”
“Goblins working at an inn. Well, it’s your funeral, Miss Erin.”
Grimalkin shook his head, bemused. He looked over at Maughin. The Dullahan seemed petrified by the sight of Numbtongue. The [Bard], eying Maughin’s armor and huge form, was staying clear as well.
“He’s nice! Don’t worry, Numbtongue. Maughin’s a [Blacksmith]. He’s great! Really! And he can take his head off.”
Erin tried to soothe Numbtongue. Grimalkin folded his arms, looking from Numbtongue to Maughin. The Dullahan hesitated. He looked back at the magic door. Mrsha trotted over to it, clicked the dial, opened the door, and checked it. Celum and Octavia’s shop briefly appeared. Mrsha clicked the dial, again, and the stand of blue fruit trees appeared. The Dullahan groaned and sat back down again.
“This is all too much.”
“It’s fine. It really is. Numbtongue, say hi! Don’t shake your head at me! Maughin’s great! Grimalkin’s the one who could pull your head off. He’s a Muscle Mage.”
“I think that term isn’t quite appropriate—”
“We’re back. What did we—oh.”
Erin’s head turned. Maughin’s head turned. Grimalkin made a fist, caught himself, and stared. Ceria groaned slightly. Pisces grinned from ear to ear.
Yvlon and Ksmvr halted in the doorway as Liscor appeared behind them. The Human woman and Antinium stared at Maughin, then at Grimalkin. Erin glanced at Maughin too. The Dullahan had stopped breathing. She gingerly waved a hand.
“Hi Ksmvr. Yvlon.”
Yvlon looked at her. She stared at Maughin.
“Uh. Hi, Erin. We were having our morning training. Who’re our guests?”
“This is Maughin. He’s a Dullahan. And this is Grimalkin. Uh, Maughin, Grimalkin, meet Yvlon and Ksmvr. They’re part of the Horns of Hammerad. Yvlon’s a [Warrior] and Ksmvr is—”
“Antinium.”
Maughin breathed the word. And for him, it was a note of horror. Horror, incredulity—both were written across his face. Ksmvr tilted his head, then approached cheerfully. He stuck out his right hand.
“An Antinium, in point of fact. And I am no longer affiliated with my Hive. Good morning. I am Ksmvr, adventurer for hire.”
The Dullahan recoiled. He looked at Erin with an expression of shock. She stared back innocently. Grimalkin broke the silence by stepping forwards. He peered at Ksmvr with narrowed eyelids. The Antinium turned towards him with an open hand. Grimalkin ignored it.
