The silence among Liscor’s crowd reflected Selys’ feelings. Erin seemed to notice, because she nudged Selys, smiling gently. She stepped towards the door and peered at something Maughin was lifting up, checking with one practiced eye. And like that, the smiths of Pallass turned to her and the [Innkeeper] of Liscor spoke and two cities danced on her words.
“Hey! Are those weights done? Amazing! How long did that take you? It looks exactly like what I said! Hey, Grimalkin, get over here!”
She pointed at the bar that Maughin was experimentally sliding an iron weight onto. The round, ten-pound weight was exactly like the ones from Erin’s world, albeit smoother, without any markings on it. The Dullahan turned back to Erin, shrugging.
“It was an easy thing to forge. You asked for a circle with a hole in the center and a long rod. The only trick is enough steel to forge-weld together. And my apprentices and I can do that in no time.”
“I wouldn’t even have enough crucible steel to make a bar this long.”
Raekea eyed the long weight bar in Maughin’s hand, solid and metallic. The Dullahan ducked his head slightly, and Erin noticed his eyes on Raekea.
“Ah. This is the product of Pallass’ forges. We do have the advantage of massive furnaces. The heat and capacity, especially with enchanted forges, is unparalleled. I could give you a tour later if you would like. It would be my pleasure.”
“I would love to see them. It is an honor, Master Maughin, truly.”
“The pleasure is mine, Raekea. If I may use your name?”
The Dullahan glanced sideways at the Gnoll. Erin bit her lip. Uh oh. She leaned through the doorway. When Raekea turned to look at one of the smaller forges, she whispered up at him.
“Psst. Maughin. Raekea’s married.”
Maughin’s face fell. Erin patted him on the leg.
“Sorry. I should have said that earlier. Grimalkin! How’s the bar?”
“Let me see. I’ve got these two weights on. And if the bar’s, what, fifty pounds? This is sixty, seventy. And how do I do it?”
“Use a bench! Lie on your back, feet on the ground, press up—”
Erin watched as Grimalkin found a pair of stools and dragged them over. He pressed his back flat against the first stool and put his butt on the second. Lying flat in the air, he took the weight bar as Relc handed it to him. Grimalkin lowered it to his chest, pressed up experimentally, and grunted.
“Light.”
“Well, let’s get more weights and put them on!”
Relc energetically loaded one side of Grimalkin’s bar with four more of the round weights. Erin winced.
“Don’t do it like that! It’s unbalanced! And it’s slipping off, look!”
“Oops. How do you stop that?”
“You need a cap. Something to stop them from sliding too far in one direction. Shouldn’t be hard.”
That came from Bealt. The [Farrier] watched with fascination as Grimalkin tried to do a bench press with five times as much weight on one end. He shook his head.
“Let me go to my forge and knock one out. It’ll just be a tight little ring—”
“I can do it! My forge is hot, and I’ve got some iron!”
One of the other [Smiths] called out. The Drake set a bar stock into a forge fire. Half the [Smiths] on the ninth floor were gathered around the door and Grimalkin, and more were drifting over each second. Erin laughed in delight as Bealt grabbed a horseshoe stock from his forge and began folding a second cap into place.
“Awesome! You know, it also has a stand. Two little holders that hold the bar. That way, if it’s too heavy, you can have someone lift it into place and hold it.”
“I get it. And we challenge ourselves. This—this will definitely exercise my chest muscles. But I wonder, can I lift it other ways? Swordsmen swing weighted, lead-filled blades around. Maybe I could do the same?”
Grimalkin swung the weights bar carelessly with one hand. Erin reflexively ducked with half the [Smiths] nearby. She shouted through the doorway.
“Don’t do that! Just do a, uh, deadlift! Or a squat? Here, I’ll show you! Take those weights off!”
She hopped through the door. Instantly, it went dark. A roar of protest went up from both Liscor and Pallass’ side. Grimalkin strode over to the door and laid a claw on it.
“Hup!”
He barked, and the door flickered to life. The [Mage] grimaced and flexed one wrist.
“Mana-hungry, isn’t it?”
“I’m trying to fix that. Anyways. Here. Give me that. Wow. This is heavy.”
“It’s only fifty pounds. Weak. Weak!”
Relc stopped when Erin turned to glare at him. He and Grimalkin watched as Erin demonstrated a squat as best she knew how. Then a lunge, deadlift, and shoulder press. None of this was actually stuff Erin had done herself; until she’d gotten [Lesser Strength], she doubted she would have been able to lift the weight bar nearly as smoothly as she was doing now. But the exercises impressed her audience to no end. Maughin stopped dejectedly showing Raekea around his furnace to watch.
“That’s an interesting routine. So these weights and this bar. They’re for people trying to exercise?”
“Yup. Build muscle and all that. I don’t know how popular it is—lots of people did it back at home. I never saw the point.”
“Never saw the point? This has to be far more efficient than most of the exercises we do. Sparring and practicing strikes is good for muscle, but this? This is perfect.”
Grimalkin looked like he was in love. He tried a squat, and then a lunge. Erin noticed his form was already perfect. Relc’s, when he tried it, was abysmal. The Drake laughed and swung the weight bar casually like a spear.
“This is so great. Hey! Can you guys make like a fifty-pound weight? Eight of them? I bet you I can lift four hundred pounds. And I bet Klb can’t.”
“Let me try. Think this will sell?”
One of the Drake [Blacksmiths] looked interested. So did the rest of Pallass’ smiths. They could smell business. Relc nodded.
“I’ll use it. Hey, how much does one of these cost?”
“A lot. We used good steel for the bar. Maybe we can get away with iron, but that much raw metal is going to cost, especially if we don’t want it to break.”
Maughin frowned, looking at his fellows. They nodded, and one of them got out a bit of parchment to scribble on. Relc sighed.
“Damn. Really?”
“And unless it has a purpose—what’s the point?”
“Well, there are dumbells too. Smaller weights for the hands? You have stuff like that?”
Erin looked at the Drakes and Gnolls. They shook their heads, frowning. Bealt tapped one foot on the ground.
“I see the point that it builds muscle. But what’s the use for, say, a [Smith]? You’ll get all you need from swinging a hammer. Not much use for us, unless you do it for fun. Which I’ll grant you, it does look like a bit. Competitions and whatnot. But outside of that?”
He looked at Erin. She shrugged helplessly. Grimalkin made a disgusted sound.
“You don’t see the point? I do. And I guarantee you, when I recommend this to the Assembly of Crafts and Pallass’ [Generals], we will have at least a hundred orders of these for you within the week!”
Astonished, the crowd looked his way. Grimalkin looked around, drawing himself up. His robes strained to keep up with his frame.
“You don’t see the point? Dead gods! This is perfect for [Soldiers] and adventurers! Smaller weights, like these barbell things that Miss Solstice mentioned. Large ones. Benches like this to exercise—it’s the perfect way to train without sparring or hurting yourself. Someone can use one of these casually in the Adventurer’s Guild and work out a specific set of muscles! You want more arm muscle? You lift it like this. You want chest muscle? You do those bench presses. Erin! Is there a weight for your abdomen? Because I will pay you gold for a set of instructions on this.”
He turned to Erin. The [Smiths] excitedly murmured, and several began drafting variants of the weight bar on their sheaves of parchment. Relc grunted as he piled every available weight onto the bar and lifted it up.
“Yeah. Where has this been all my life? Lift! Hah! Lift!”
He began doing shoulder presses. Erin watched, laughing.
“Don’t hurt yourself! Seriously. You can hurt yourself bad doing that the wrong way, Grimalkin.”
“Better than [Soldiers] training with each other and putting out each other’s eyes or breaking bones.”
Grimalkin watched approvingly as Relc effortlessly completed a set and then handed it to Bealt. The Gnoll staggered and nearly fell under the weight. Erin grinned. This was not part of the plan. Right until it had been. But she was already improvising. And speaking of which—a flicker from the kitchen made her turn and look back at her inn. Lyonette waved at Erin, and Erin nodded. The [Princess] came forwards with a tray. Erin took it and, beaming, turned to the [Smiths].
“Hey!”
They looked up from their deliberations. Erin walked back into the inn, lifted the tray, and the bowl of white stuff that was already melting from the heat of the distant forges. She looked around.
“You look really sweaty. All of you. Want a towel? Some water? How about some ice cream?”
Relc could have teleported to the door, he was that fast. The smiths looked blank. Maughin walked over, mopping sweat from his brow.
“Refreshments would be welcome. But what is that? Ice? Cream?”
“Ice cream. It’s a delicacy up north, I guess. I dunno. I just make it. Hey, Lyonette! Can we get eleven—no, thirty-two bowls? And more vanilla ice cream! Vanilla’s special the first time you have it. Nevermore after that.”
She lifted up the bowl and took the first bowl she was handed. Relc reached for it through the door—Erin slapped his claw down.
“Here, Maughin. Try it!”
The Dullahan reached through the door. Erin wasn’t sure if that was taxing the door, but he took the bowl without it fizzling out and dipped his spoon into the cold bowl. His eyes widened as he lifted it up and sniffed it.
“I do know this. The pudding-gelatin that comes from Terandria. Lasica was attempting to obtain some for the bar, but she couldn’t. And you have it. Here?”
He looked at Erin. She smiled innocently.
“I happen to know how to make it. And if Tails and Scales wants some, I’m happy to give them the recipe.”
At the name of Pallass’ famous bar, more smiths abandoned the weight bar and came over. As did some other Drakes and Gnolls in the crowd who’d been watching. Erin passed bowls of ice cream through the door and watched them disappear in moments. Bealt, his fur matted with sweat, took one bite of ice cream, and his eyes went round.
“Sweet! Oh, this is delicious! What is it?”
“Milk. Cream. And sugar. And stuff! It’s frozen, so watch out you don’t get brain freeze if you eat it fast. Grimalkin, a bowl?”
The [Mage] took one and eyed the ice cream dubiously. He bit into it, and his expression changed to one of disgust.
“Is this pure sugar?”
“…Maybe?”
“I can’t. It’s not for me. I had enough sugar trying nali-sticks from Baleros, thanks.”
The Muscle [Mage] shuddered and shook his head. Relc licked his lips; his bowl of ice cream was already licked clean.
“Grimalkin, pal, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it off your claws.”
“I miss nali-sticks.”
Maughin quietly ate from his bowl. He closed his eyes, savoring the taste. Behind him, the [Smiths] were exclaiming over the ice cream, and their apprentices, lured by the free food, started forming a line. Erin poked her head through the door and saw a crowd standing to the left. Someone called out.
“What’re you eating, Bealt?”
“Something delicious! Iced cream!”
The Gnoll shouted back, waving his empty bowl. He handed it back to Erin, his tail wagging hopefully.
“Are there seconds by any chance? I’ll pay for more.”
Erin looked back through the door. Lyonette was being mobbed as she tried to get more ice cream to Erin. Liscor’s residents knew ice cream as well.
“I’ll try and get you some. But I think it’s too hot here; we’re melting my stock! Hey Relc, Grimalkin! Can you drag the door back to the eighth floor?”
“You’re leaving?”
Maughin looked disappointed. So did the rest of the [Smiths]. They crowded around the door, waving diagrams and asking questions. Erin laughed and raised her hands.
“I don’t want to disrupt the smiths, so why don’t we drag it back to its spot? And anyone who wants to follow us…hey Maughin, have you ever tried cake?”
“Cake?”
Maughin frowned as Relc and Grimalkin bent for the door. They decided to pull instead of carry it. The Dullahan looked down at Erin and realized she was moving backwards. The door was slowly disappearing. Maughin walked after it, bowl in hand. He stared at Erin as she stood in the retreating doorway, blinking at her.
“I’ve had cakes before. But is yours somehow different?”
“Yup! I’ve got a secret recipe. Well, I have baking soda. So my cakes are very fluffy. And sugary! Sorry, Grimalkin. And frosted. Vanilla again—I can’t find chocolate. But I made a great lime frosting the other day.”
“Frosting? Er…this ice cream is very good. Very, very good. Sweet. But it is freezing my teeth.”
Maughin trotted after Erin. And behind him, Bealt perked up his ears and promptly abandoned his forge. Erin watched a dozen other [Smiths] follow suit. Raekea was still investigating the forges. Erin hoped she’d find her way back. She turned to Ishkr, who’d popped up with more ice cream in a bowl.
“I can get you a drink. This is an inn. On the move! Blue fruit juice? Milk? Just water?”
“Blue fruit juice, please!”
“Drag the door first, Relc.”
“Blue fruit juice? Ah—a glass of water would be most welcome—”
Maughin nearly tripped on the first of the stairs. He called down after Erin as the door descended. She waved at him brightly.
“I’ll see you back in the usual spot! Oh, bring the bowls too! And come on through when you do. I want you to try pizza!”
“Pizza? What’s that?”
Maughin called out desperately, slowly trying to follow Erin down the stairs. The [Innkeeper] waved. The Dullahan took another step and then realized a crowd was rushing down the stairs in front of him. Pallass’ citizens followed, reaching for the bowls of ice cream Erin passed through the door, asking questions much like Maughin. The Dullahan watched as Erin’s magical door retreated, and the flood of Pallassians followed. He blinked at the dregs of ice cream in his bowl. And then he looked at the door.
“Was this all part of the plan?”
