“Hm. Not bad. Not bad. I’ve seen corpses and fought a few, but even the Workers have a very efficient build. Of course, insects’ bodies are very efficient. No wasted fat. And four arms, excepting injuries in this case. Hm. I’ve often wondered if it’s inefficient.”
“I have wondered the same thing. But I am very sturdy. You may attempt to push me over if you wish. May I shake your hand?”
Grimalkin eyed Ksmvr. He shook his head abruptly.
“No. I fought in both the First and Second Antinium Wars. And I forgot Liscor had a Hive. Well, this day does get more and more interesting, doesn’t it, Maughin?”
He looked back at the Dullahan. Maughin stared palely at Ksmvr as the [Skirmisher] cheerfully turned to him. He looked at Erin. Then he gingerly reached out and shook the hand. Mainly to get Ksmvr to go away. But the Antinium just kept standing there after he was done. Maughin passed a hand over his pale face.
“I…am not certain why I’m here.”
Erin bit her lip. She looked from Grimalkin, to Maughin, to Mrsha, who was happily sniffing Yvlon’s boots, to Pisces who had stuffed part of his robe into his mouth to cover his laughter, to Numbtongue, who was eating a blue fruit and eying Grimalkin. Ceria met Erin’s eyes. The two looked at each other and burst out laughing. It was Yvlon who sighed. And Ksmvr who brightly spread his arms.
“Welcome to The Wandering Inn. My name is Ksmvr.”
 
——
 
Liscor’s streets were full of shouting. You could hear Lism’s voice eight streets down. Krshia’s growling shouts nine streets. But in this case at least, volume didn’t matter. The debate about the elections was hot on everyone’s tongues as they stood around and debated, or worked and chattered.
A Gnoll [Tailor] poked herself in the thumb as she debated with her assistants, both of whom were Drakes. A [Butcher] talked with his clients as he prepared a cut of meat.
“The Council’s voted. We’re having elections. A democracy. Like Pallass. Who would have thought?”
“I think it’s overdue. But who will you vote for?”
“Well, seeing as there’s two choices right now, I’ll have to vote for Raekea. She’s in my district.”
“Voting for your species? Come on now.”
“What’s wrong with that? What’s wrong with a Gnoll on the Council?”
“Nothing. If you’re not selling Liscor to do it. Can we trust the Antinium?”
“I saw you going to Senior Guardsman Klbkch just the other day.”
“That’s different. This is about security. And if we can make some jobs and guard our walls—Strategist Olesm is with Lism.”
“Lism’s a racist old bag of wind.”
“I think he makes sense myself.”
“When I was young, the Antinium weren’t here. And we got on fine ourselves.”
“It’s not just about the Antinium. If you’re not voting for a Gnoll, that’s racist.”
“Says who?”
Debate. Arguments. But it was hard, harder now to argue for Krshia. Because the Antinium Wars were on the mind. And, fair play, Lism had his objectionable qualities. But then again, Krshia was fielding only Gnoll candidates, and Lism had now pushed forwards three Gnolls for his Council seats, all in Gnoll-heavy districts. How about that?
Market Street was abuzz with crowds listening to the debates. Selys was wincing as Lism hammered Krshia. He was pointing at the Gnoll and waving an arm to the crowd.
“It’s a simple question! Let’s have the Free Queen or Klbkch answer it, why don’t we? Have the Antinium ever plotted to harm Liscor or its citizens in the last year? Does the Grand Queen intend to pursue war with Liscor? How many Soldiers does the Hive have? Any of these questions—any of them answered under truth spell! How about it, Silverfang? Can’t we at least ask our ‘allies’ if they’ve ever plotted to stab us in the back?”
“You and I know that the Free Antinium are not the same as the other Hives. And has Liscor not plotted to attack the Free Antinium if it comes to battle? Tell me we do not have spells and measures in place for that very day?”
Krshia’s voice was weary and furious. Lism made a scoffing sound, amplified by his voice charm.
“Safeguards, not plans of attack, Silverfang. And, might I add, who needs to prepare for an attack amongst allies? Hm? How much are the Antinium offering now?”
“Thirty percent of the construction. Better than the Walled Cities would do. And they’ll pay six thousand gold pieces per year—”
“All of which is useless when we’re lying with our throats slit in the streets. Or maybe it’s just those of us who don’t fall into line and wag our tails, is that it, Krshia? Tell me, did the Antinium buy your loyalty? And how much was it?”
The crowd howled with glee and outrage. Krshia snarled. Lism raised his claws, smiling unctuously at the crowd.
“It’s just a question, people! But for our peace of mind, will you swear it on a truth spell? Oh wait—I forgot. That’s not something we should be doing.”
“Tell me, do you really believe in your plan for the city? Or did you steal it from me and let your nephew, Olesm, take charge because you just couldn’t stand the idea of a Gnoll on the Council that badly, Lism?”
Krshia’s retort and Lism’s reply were lost by another set of jeering from the crowd. This time against Krshia. Selys, standing behind Krshia’s platform, winced. She looked around and met Elirr’s eyes.
“She’s getting slaughtered up there!”
The Gnoll [Beast Trainer] growled, visibly upset.
“She is. Where is Klbkch? Can he not answer any of these questions?”
“Do we want him to?”
Selys grabbed at her neck spines in frustration. She hated to admit it, but Lism had a point. A really good one that he was using to hammer Krshia with. They had to change the topic somehow! Lism, or rather, Olesm daring Klbkch to swear on a truth spell that he didn’t have plans to attack Liscor was inspired. It was really bothering people, Selys included.
Of course, the Antinium probably had plans to attack Liscor. But they were allies. Right? Everyone had a backup plan. But…why had Klbkch refused to take Olesm’s bait, then? Couldn’t he say something? Selys shook her head. Her claws trembled on her notes.
“I can’t do this. I’m no [Strategist]—I can’t figure out anything good to say back! That stupid, eel-faced Lism is going to win! And all because—where’s Erin?”
“We haven’t seen her.”
“She promised she’d do something.”
Elirr nodded gently.
“But what? She cannot perform miracles, no?”
“I know. But it’s Erin. If anyone can do something, it’s her.”
Despairingly, Selys turned her head. She knew it was unfair to pin so much on Erin. This wasn’t even her city. Not really. But she was Selys’ friend. Surely she could do something, right?
But what? The crowd erupted into more cheers, and Selys looked up to see Lism raising his arms and Krshia grimacing. It said it all. The elections weren’t even happening yet—the Council had tentatively put them a week from today. And already, it felt like it was over. Selys thought about confronting Olesm, asking him what it would take for Lism to back down—disavowing the Antinium maybe. But could they hijack Lism’s platform in return?
And then, Selys felt it. It was like a ripple through the crowd. She couldn’t hear it—Lism’s voice was drowning out any other sound. But she felt it. A sudden lapse in attention. A turning, shifting, as people, with that animalistic instinct, realized something was going on behind them. And Selys turned. She whirled and knew.
 
——
 
Here she came. Three streets over, and strolling. Just walking along, chattering to the exceedingly buff Drake on her right. The giant, armored…Human? On her left. Maughin and Grimalkin. Erin was pointing at the street, speaking louder than normal because of the distant shouting.
“And this is a street. You like streets, don’t you? I’ll grant you, it’s not as nice as Pallass’ smooth stone walkways, but it’s a good street.”
“Rugged. Rounded cobblestones. They’ve been worn smooth, but some are going to come loose and leave potholes. Definitely not ideal. You could roll an ankle more easily. But it’s firm enough.”
Grimalkin glanced at the street dismissively. It seemed like the Magus of Muscles had an opinion about everything. Erin smiled. On her left, the Dullahan lowered his head and peered at her and Grimalkin, looking aggrieved.
“Why are we talking about streets?”
“Don’t worry about it, Maughin. You wanna talk about clouds instead? Or Liscor’s election?”
“I’m still trying to figure out what happened.”
The Dullahan [Blacksmith]’s voice was plaintive. He twisted his head from side to side, looking at the Gnolls and Drakes staring at him. And, oh, they were staring. Maughin put his head back on his shoulders and looked down at Erin and Grimalkin.
“One second I was at my forge. The next—I’m here. And I met an Antinium. An actual…it makes sense when I think about it, but it’s so abrupt.”
“You have to adapt. I’ve had this kind of experience—only in battle, not walking down the street. The suddenness of change. One second, you’re marching with your friends, the next, someone’s cast an [Earthquake] spell, and you’re clinging for dear life while a rock splits open your friend’s skull. Adaptability. I try to teach that too to my apprentices.”
Grimalkin nodded to himself. He eyed the streets full of people. Some of the Gnolls were sniffing as they passed. Erin smiled. Could they smell Pallass? She checked behind her and noticed the small crowd staring at their backs. She patted Maughin on the lower back.
“It’s alright. Sorry for dragging you through like that and surprising you with Numbtongue and Ksmvr. I forgot how weird they are to most people. They’re here every day.”
“Goblins and Antinium. I can’t fathom it. Actually, the Goblin I can understand. I did hear about the Goblin’s Lament Company. It was formed—and then declared invalid—before I ever came to Izril. But Antinium?”
“Ksmvr’s just like anyone else. Okay, he’s sort of different, but you shook his hand. He’s nice. They’re not all enemies, right, Grimalkin?”
The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.
“I’m withholding judgment.”
Erin shrugged.
“Well, as long as you don’t punch anyone’s head off. And what’s wrong with walking down the street in Liscor? They have elections. Pallass has elections. Ours are going on right now, actually.”
Maughin nodded. He’d heard Lism shouting and some of the arguments on display. He adjusted his head, raising it to peek over a crowd of bodies ahead of him. A Drake saw that and fainted. Maughin put his head on his shoulders, looking embarrassed.
“It’s still surreal. One second we were in Pallass. The next? Here. This is grand magic. Beyond me. The idea that a door like this always existed in Pallass…why has no one used it?”
Erin smiled to herself. She led the two down the next street, hearing the shouting growing louder, and the press of bodies grew more difficult to push through. But Maughin and Grimalkin generated the bubble of space big, imposing fellows got.
“Probably because Liscor’s a nowhere border city, right? You could have always come through, right? You just didn’t.”
“I never had a reason to.”
“Nor I.”
Grimalkin and Maughin exchanged a thoughtful glance. Erin’s smile widened, and she threw an arm around both. Well, Grimalkin’s lower chest and Maughin’s armored buttock.
“And now you’re here! It’s great! And here we are! Market Street, or Arguing Street, really. The two candidates for Liscor’s election are shouting down here. I think this is where we’ll find Selys and that Gnoll I want you to meet, Maughin. And maybe Relc if there’s a lot of fighting.”
She pointed through a wall of bodies. Maughin frowned.
“Will we make it through? I see two people on platforms, but there must be several hundred—”
“Don’t worry! Just follow me!”
Erin waved at Maughin. He reluctantly stepped after her. The back of the crowd, who had been watching Lism and Krshia argue, noticed the sudden shadow. They turned back. They could easily miss Erin, maybe even Grimalkin. But Maughin was head-and-shoulders taller than the tallest Gnoll. Erin heard a few screams and some shouts.
“What is that?”
“A Human? A half-Giant?”
“A Dullahan? Here?”
“Hey! It’s that Human! You know what that means—”
Erin ignored all of it, especially that last comment. She waved her hands, shouting cheerfully, and she channeled her best Robin Williams.
“Make way! Make way! We’re just having a walk! Excuse me! Don’t mind us!”
Maughin waved a hand, gently edging forwards. And as more Drakes and Gnolls turned their heads, hearing Erin shouting, they stared.
“Grimalkin, this way! Watch the muscles, ladies! He’s got a ten-pack. Muscle Mage, don’t you know? Excuse me! Some room for Maughin! He’s a [Blacksmith]! [Armorer]! It’s close! Don’t stare!”
For some reason, people weren’t listening to Erin’s pleas for anonymity. On the other hand, they were making good progress. The crowd parted, and the electric attention on Lism and Krshia began to fade. Accordingly, more people began to notice and turn. Erin and her two friends were halfway towards the two debaters on their platforms when they noticed. Lism turned his head, breaking off as he felt the eyes on him turning elsewhere.
“And as I was saying the—the Antinium can’t be—what is that?”
His voice, and the pointing claw, pushed all the attention onto Maughin. The [Smith] flushed. Uncomfortably, he adjusted his head. Lism stared. And then the young woman’s voice rose. Erin’s [Loud Voice] Skill made her words echo across the crowd and adjoining streets.
“Hey! Rude! What’s with the pointing? Excuse me, yes, excuse me, we’re just passing through! Keep moving! You can get back to debating after we’re gone!”
“Erin.”
Krshia breathed the word. And there she appeared. Laughing, waving her hands, creating a path in people as easily as a [Hydromancer] shifting the waters of a lake.
“Make way for Maughin, fabulous he! Dullahan [Blacksmith], best in Pallass! He’s got a dozen apprentices! And Grimalkin, the famous muscle mage! Don’t worry, we’re just having a stroll! Nobody stare!”
She danced forwards.
“Don’t mind us. Haven’t you seen a Dullahan before? And a really muscly [Mage]?”
Erin laughed. Lism turned his head to stare behind him. And Olesm, standing in the street behind his uncle’s platform, went pale. He signaled desperately, but Lism’s mouth was faster. He turned.
“Clearly some ploy, by Krshia and that Human, folks. Don’t mind him. What am I saying? Give him some room. Dullahans from Pallass? Ah yes. Well, the Dullahans. Traditional allies of the Drakes. Well, of course, we’re pleased to have you in our city, sir!”
