“That’s far down. What’s the plan for getting down there? Jump and [Featherfall]? Or rope?”
“It’s dangerous to leave an exit for monsters to get out of.”
“More dangerous than cutting off our escape route?”
Ceria countered, looking at Ylawes. He shrugged.
“I’d be more comfortable letting Falene toss a rope back up when we need to go. She can do it with [Telekinesis].”
“What if she’s dead? Or hurt?”
The [Knight] paused.
“She won’t be.”
Ceria exchanged a glance with Yvlon. The female warrior looked troubled.
“And if she is?”
Ylawes frowned, but in the end agreed to put down a rope for a quick exit. He waited until Ksmvr had declared it secure with Dawil’s approval before nodding.
“You take that rope down. We’ll go in first.”
“What?”
“I insist. We’re a Gold-rank team and prepared to deal with whatever is down there.”
“There should be just bones. Isn’t that right, Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] sniffed.
“There are bones. It is a burial chamber for the Raskghar. I scouted it with a Shield Spider before, and one is down there now.”
Everyone stared at him. Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“Oh, come now. Did you expect us to enter a dungeon without proper scouting?”
He looked pointedly at the Silver Swords. Falene narrowed her eyes slightly. Ylawes looked put out.
“So you intend to scout with…undead?”
“Far better than living beings. Unless one of you has a class specializing in trap detection? How were you planning on exploring the dungeon?”
Falene raised her eyebrows.
“I am quite capable of detecting magic.”
“And floor traps?”
Pisces didn’t wait for a response. He looked at Ceria and Yvlon.
“Once we arrive below, I intend to reanimate at least eight of the skeletons. They will form an advance guard and scout ahead. I can also fashion a Bone Horror.”
“One of those things?”
Ylawes looked appalled. Ceria just exchanged a glance with Yvlon. The blonde woman nodded. Her mouth compressed to a tight line, but she did nod.
“Do it, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] smiled briefly and began climbing down the rope. Caught off-guard, the Silver Swords watched him climb down and then saw Ksmvr hurry after him. Ylawes gripped his sword hilt, frustrated.
“Incredible. Are you actually serious about this, Yvlon?”
“You knew he was a [Necromancer], Ylawes. What’s the point in having a teammate with that ability if we don’t use it to survive? His undead have saved our lives more than once.”
“Still.”
The Horns of Hammerad descended one at a time while the Silver Swords took a more direct method. They jumped and slowly floated down. Ceria rolled her eyes as Falene drifted past her, Dawil grumbling about his stomach. When they were in the burial chamber, they saw Pisces had already gotten to work. Six undead Raskghar were standing, and two more were striding out of the entrance.
“Feh.”
Dawil wrinkled his nose, but Pisces ignored him. He pointed.
“There is a trap ahead. It destroyed my Shield Spider the first time. I suggest we proceed carefully down the corridor checking for traps. There may be more that are only attuned to the living.”
“Indeed. I will inspect the trap, then.”
Falene strode forwards, but Pisces held an arm out. Affronted, she stared at him. He looked pointedly at Ylawes.
“Should not a warrior go first? In case of ambush? Perhaps Sir Ylawes and Dawil?”
Ceria nodded in agreement. Ylawes looked irate at being ordered, but he stepped forwards with Dawil. He held his shield up as the Dwarf gripped his hammer.
“Alright! Let’s explore this damn dungeon already!”
Dawil’s voice boomed down the corridor. Ceria nearly bit her tongue.
“Shut up! Do you want to attract attention?”
“What? Oh. Sorry.”
The Dwarf mitigated his voice a bit. Ylawes strode forwards, his eyes searching every direction. Ceria stared as Falene followed after them. Pisces blew out his cheeks, and Yvlon paused as Ksmvr brought up the rear.
“Hey, Ceria. You don’t think—”
“I think so. Rot, rot, rot. How did we not think of this?”
“They never said!”
“Said what?”
Ksmvr was watching the rear as he had volunteered to do. He glanced at Ceria and Yvlon as they conferred. Pisces was watching the two with a frown on his face. The Antinium glanced at his teammates and shook his head. He had a bow in his hand and the enchanted dagger in the other.
“I never understand what is going on.”
 
——
 
Earlia didn’t know when she began shouting. She flung a bag filled with spreading vines ahead and watched the Tripvine Bag engulf a charging Raskghar. The huge not-Gnoll tripped as it tried to leap at her with club in hand. The club was crude stone and wood, but the monster was huge! A head taller than a Gnoll and a third again as wide! Its head was too small, and its claws could lay open her skin as it thrashed wildly.
No time to hesitate. No time to be afraid. Earlia charged with a shout.
“Cover me!”
She rushed the Raskghar. It was fighting to get free. It struggled up as she raised the warhammer and saw the metal head falling. It raised an arm. Too slow. Too late. The blow cracked the arm, and the thing howled.
Again! Earlia’s arms strained as she lifted the warhammer. She brought it down hard. This time, the blow cracked the Raskghar’s head. It made a horrible gurgling sound and slumped. The Tripvines continued to spread as Earlia staggered back. Something hit her chest—an arrow, breaking on her chainmail.
“Captain!”
A hand yanked her backwards. Earlia fell back behind the group of her people holding shields. She felt at her chest. The chainmail had held. If it had been a better bow, or if the arrow tips had been made of anything but crude stone—
“More coming!”
The Raskghar were assaulting their position. The Pride of Kelia and Gemhammer were entrenched, exchanging shots while the [Warriors] held their ground. But they were outnumbered and, frankly, outmatched. The Raskghar were terrifyingly huge and strong. Earlia wasn’t sure if she’d have been able to beat the one in front of her in a fair fight. But there was still a way to victory.
“Hit them with a Pepperspray Potion!”
She roared at one of her teammates. The man fumbled for a potion, and the charging forms visibly hesitated. They retreated, howling, as the man lifted the potion. Earlia grinned savagely.
Yes, that was it! The Raskghar didn’t have potions or alchemical equipment. And they didn’t have levels. One of the Gnolls behind her snatched at the air. Nailren lifted the arrow he’d caught and put it to his bowstring and sent it back into the darkness. There was another howl.
“How’re we doing?”
Earlia shouted at him. Nailren’s ears switched as he sniffed the air.
“Many are here! Many more—coming! They are howling for support!”
“Damn! They really want us dead!”
The Human woman cursed, glancing around. They knew they’d be walking into an ambush, but the innkeeper, Erin, had told her that the Goblins had fought off only a handful of Raskghar. Had they lied? Or had the monsters doubled their watch?
“Captain! More coming from the left!”
A wail came from Fea. The girl was the youngest, and her finger trembled as she pointed around her shield. Earlia saw a group of eight Raskghar approaching.
“Dead gods. Get me another Tripvine bag! Or one of our explosives! Hurry!”
She saw the adventurers fumbling as the Gnolls began showering the Raskghar with arrows. But the huge hulking creatures were tough! They charged, howling, impervious to arrows. Earlia shouted, and Gemhammer rushed forwards. Their warriors met the Raskghar in a melee of blows.
“[Hammer Blow]!”
Earlia used her Skill too early to crush a Raskghar’s guard and break the screaming monster’s ribs. The Raskghar were everywhere, hurling Blaik to the ground, fighting with the Gnolls who’d drawn their own weapons. And there was another group coming back on the right! Earlia’s heart beat faster and faster as she swung, keeping the Raskghar off Blaik. Too many!
Then she saw a flicker. Something raced out of the shadows and stabbed through a Raskghar about to leap at her. A masked woman pirouetted and slashed another Raskghar across the back. Earlia gaped.
“Who the hell are you?”
She received no answer. The adventurers closed ranks as the Raskghar howled. Several seemed to recognize the masked woman and beat more frantically on the walls. Gemhammer launched a desperate counterattack with the Pride of Kelia as the masked swordswoman cut and danced gracefully through the battle. She was good! But the fight wasn’t over yet. More were coming.
A lot more. Earlia knew they could beat them if the Raskghar bunched up. They had potions! Alchemy weapons! Spells! She was about to shout at the [Gem Mage] in their company to break a topaz and blast the Raskghar when she saw something move in the darkness.
“What is—”
Something moved. A giant Raskghar roared as he charged forwards. He was wearing armor. Not crude hide armor, not corroded metal or bone. Real armor. It shone, and Earlia knew it was enchanted. And then she saw the Raskghar with the bow. He raised it, but she couldn’t see an arrow. He made a gesture as if loosing something, and she didn’t see the arrow. But something struck her in the chest. It went right through her chainmail. She staggered and saw nothing. And she fell as more Raskghar charged. And behind them were Goblins.
Lots of Goblins.
 
——
 
“Room eight. Think it’ll be another trap?”
“Unless we have to go through all of them, there has to be an end to it. We know there are monsters, even if we’ve only seen the ones in traps.”
“Right. Get ready.”
This time Halrac and Seborn stood well back from the door. Their clothing was ruffled. The last trap had been activated, but the razorblades of wind had nearly cut both men. They were on guard as they swung the door open to reveal—
“A path down.”
Halrac stared at the ramp heading down into the darkness. His internal sense of danger that was separate from his [Dangersense] immediately rang an alarm. Behind him, Jelaqua slowly breathed out.
“Looks like it’s my turn. Change formations. Unless you think it’s a trap?”
“I’ve got nothing. Halrac?”
“No. How do you want to do this?”
Jelaqua pursed her lips. She stared down into the darkness. Halrac’s eyes could see further, but even his sight had a limit. There was a larger room below. This might be another trapped room, but his instincts told him they were in another part of the dungeon. They’d done it. The seven layers of randomly generated rooms were at an end. Which meant that anything could be beyond.
“Let me and Seborn do it. I’ve got the armor, and Seborn’s quick.”
Halrac wanted to argue, but he didn’t. That made sense. You sent a [Warrior] forwards when you thought you might run into monsters, with a [Rogue] or [Scout] or [Treasure Hunter] or whatever you had following close behind. He elected to move back to the rear of the group since his bow was useful at all ranges. Moore stayed with him as Revi and Typhenous took the middle.
That was the other thing. You watched the rear as well. Halrac had the group pause at this new juncture to go over tactics.
“First sign of major trouble and we retreat to the doorway. Delaying spells?”
“[Sticky Webs] for me, and Revi uses her Face-Eater Moth or Corusdeer summons. Moore, do you have a barrier spell?”
“I could grow vines similar to a Tripvine Bag. It isn’t the most useful spell, though.”
“Huh. You don’t have another one?”
Moore shook his head.
“Not my specialty. Typhenous?”
“I know [Force Barrier]. Should I use it?”
“That spell is horrible. Barrier spells aren’t good at sealing off large spots. Not if something’s coming at us fast! Just web and let Moore use [Thorn Spray] or something.”
Revi objected, and the other adventurers nodded. Halrac checked his belongings. He had his own prepared weapons and potions. He nodded at Jelaqua and Seborn.
“Then we leave it to you.”
“Right. Let’s go. Seborn, tell me if I’m tripping on anything.”
Jelaqua stepped forwards, Seborn right behind her. She did not stride forwards but rather walked cautiously at a slow pace so Seborn could check for traps. If he so much as spoke or tapped her, she immediately froze. Halrac was reassured to see that—it was a sign of Jelaqua’s seniority. She did not rush forwards in a panic, and neither was she afraid to press on. The group moved down slowly into the room when they saw—
“Statues.”
Revi breathed the word as the adventurers stopped. They’d come to a large, winding corridor full of stone statues. Between them were scattered pedestals with gleaming necklaces. Only there were a few odd discrepancies. Halrac saw three instantly.
“Hold.”
The adventurers paused as he pointed out what he’d seen in the murk.
“Some of the pedestals are missing the necklaces.”
“You’re right. Hey, has someone come down here before? Or is that part of the trap? We’re assuming those statues are going to come to life, right?”
“Without a doubt.”
Typhenous peered over his staff at the pedestals. It did indeed seem like someone had been here before. Halrac confirmed this by pointing out the other two things he’d seen.
“Look there. The wall is caved in. It’s been resealed with rocks and dirt. But there was someone here. And I think I know who. Goblins.”
He pointed to a small pile of bones next to one of the statues. It was hard to see, but he thought the statue’s fingers still had blood on the tips. Jelaqua muttered an oath.
“Great. Goblins. Well, we knew they were down there. Wonder if they took all the loot.”
“If they did, the statues scared them off. I’m sure some of them are enchanted to attack if we get close.”
“What’s the plan then? Hit one and draw back? I can try to bash them up, but my flail is not enchanted and they could be pretty hard.”
“They don’t look like good Golems. Why don’t we change up our formation? How about—”
The corridor full of stone statues was still as the adventurers conferred. The deadly stone golems frozen in place did not move. They awaited their victims. When something finally triggered the spell to activate them, the stone statues moved at once. They surged to deadly attention—
“Hiyah!”
Jelaqua’s flail smashed the first one in the face, cracking the crude stone and sending fractures down the body. She immediately whirled and struck another of the statues that had come to life. The humanoid things reached for her but she was already moving back. Her flail whirled, striking repeatedly as a flaming, spectral Corusdeer slammed into another statue.
“[Sticky Webs]. Ah, what a lovely spell.”
