Both Humans sighed in relief. Watch Captain Zevara swished her tail as she studied Erin.
“This was played by a Drake, wasn’t it? Not offensive. Or rather, it’s not something I’d arrest anyone over. You can continue putting the play on. Just don’t expect many Drake visitors. Particularly the male ones. And consider staying out of the city for a day or two. There’s an uproar about the content of the play already.”
“Those jerks!”
Erin scowled, but Zevara had already turned her attention to the two Gold-rank teams. The Halfseekers were getting ready to go, and Griffon Hunt was already at the door. The Watch Captain stared at the fiery golden breastplate Jelaqua was carefully putting on.
“So Miss Selys really did lease the Heartflame Breastplate.”
“That’s right.”
Jelaqua turned, her pale body illuminated by the magical glow of the artifact. Every head in the room turned towards her. Zevara stared and then coughed.
“I’m told your group is entering the dungeon today? As is a pair of Silver-rank teams and the Horns of Hammerad?”
She stared at the other adventurers who looked wary. Jelaqua nodded carefully.
“That’s right. Do you have a problem with that?”
Zevara hesitated before grimacing and shaking her head.
“I’ve consulted with the Adventurer’s Guild, and Guildmistress Tekshia has declined to intervene. I will do the same on a few conditions.”
She turned her head and stared around the room, finding each team leader’s eyes, save for the absent Silver Swords and Gemhammer.
“I don’t care if you lot live or die down in the dungeon. That’s not my role. But the defense of the city is my role, and that means that if you wake up anything in the dungeon, I will hold you accountable for whatever comes out. This is classified information, but a Silver-rank team was responsible for the attack on Liscor.”
Zevara waited for a response, but even the Pride of Kelia didn’t react. Revi rolled her eyes.
“We know. We told you.”
The Watch Captain silenced her with a withering look. She turned up her glare a few notches.
“You have a responsibility as adventurers. I want a [Message] spell sent to the local Mage’s Guild the instant you find anything…extremely dangerous. Something that could threaten Liscor. I don’t care about treasure or adventuring secrets—if there’s something down there like the moths, I expect to hear about it.”
She stared around and then grudgingly nodded.
“Please.”
With that, she turned and strode out of the room. Erin looked around as Wesle walked back through the door to Celum. She smiled anxiously.
“So that was nice. You’re all going in then, huh?”
“We’re going right now. Good luck to you.”
Halrac nodded at the other adventurers. The Pride of Kelia came over to shake his hand. Typhenous touched staffs with a Gnoll wearing beads and feathers. A [Shaman]? The Halfseekers did likewise, and Jelaqua grabbed Ceria’s hand.
“You stay behind the Silver Swords. They’re good. I’ve seen them in action. It’s never wrong to retreat.”
Ceria nodded, trying not to let her hands shake. To everyone’s surprise, Revi hugged the half-Elf fiercely and then did the same to Nailren.
“Don’t you dare die, you idiotic rookies. I hate having to learn new names.”
She left them at that. Griffon Hunt lined up next to the door to Liscor, and the Halfseekers stepped over to join them. Moore looked at the small doorway with dismay and ducked his head.
“Everyone set?”
Halrac glanced over. The others nodded. Erin cleared her throat as she set the door to Liscor.
“I’m going with you.”
The room went silent. Ksmvr choked on his bacon, and Ceria nearly fell out of her chair. Erin looked around.
“Just to the entrance. I want to see. I’ll be back to see off the others.”
“Oh come on.”
Revi grumbled, but Halrac studied Erin’s face. She met his eyes, and he nodded briefly.
“Come, then.”
Then he opened the door and stepped out into the rain.
 
——
 
The rain fell over Liscor. Unending. A torrent. It seemed some days as though it would never stop. But it would. It had been part of Liscor’s history since the city had been founded. And though the residents quickly grew accustomed to the gray skies, the never-ending background roar, the flooded waters, they never quite forgot the memory of clear skies. Of the sun.
And they were on the streets. Moving from building to building in clumps, or just giving up and letting the rain soak them. The Drakes and Gnolls of Liscor walked in a miserable fugue until they saw the fire.
It walked down the street. A burning, catching the eye. Light. Heat. A Drake walked forwards, her breastplate gleaming as her body burned. The Heartflame Breastplate shone as the Selphid walked down the street. But she was not alone.
A half-Giant walked by her side, his back stooped, a giant staff in his hands. He towered above the tallest Gnolls, made the fiercest warriors think twice about their strength. And in his shadow, a Drowned Man dressed in black flickered between shadows. His hands never left the enchanted daggers at his side. One Human hand, one crustacean claw.
Next to them walked a man with a scowl on his face. An unfriendly Human, but one that attracted as many looks as the Heartflame Breastplate. Because his face was a hero’s. His bow did not shine, but the arrows stowed in his quiver were magical. He walked silent through the rain. By his side strode a Stitch-Girl, tugging at the strings holding together her body. Next to her strode an old Human, white bearded, his eyes shining with magic.
Six adventurers. They walked out of a door at the western gates, headed straight through the center of the city without pause. The streets cleared before them. It wasn’t a conscious thing. It was simply instinct. The citizens of Liscor watched the Gold-rank adventurers pass and felt the rain intensify as they did. And they felt a chill. Of excitement? Or fear? It was impossible to say, but the passing of the adventurers struck a chord in those who saw them.
And behind them tripped a young woman, almost unnoticed by the crowds. She followed the adventurers to the northern gates—to the battlements and down a ladder, actually. There was another rope bridge leading north across the waters. The young woman stepped cautiously onto the bridge, watching her feet sink into the waters. Then she looked out at the distant plume of earth visible amid the flooded plains. She followed the adventurers as they headed across the bridge, looking around carefully for dangerous maritime life.
“Whoop, whoop. Whoa.”
Erin unsteadily walked across the bridge as it shifted slightly underwater. The footing was surprisingly firm given the downpour, but the dark skies and the way the bridge would sometimes move underfoot was unnerving. After a while, Revi glanced behind her and muttered to her companions.
“Why do we have to put up with her?”
The Halfseekers ignored her. So did Revi’s team at first. Her complaining was something they had gotten used to. But Halrac turned his head back to answer as they drew closer to the mound of earth guarded by a platoon of [Guardsmen] from Liscor.
“Because she’s helped us before. And because she sells us magical food cheap.”
“Ah. Right.”
Revi grimaced and tugged at her tongue as if she wanted to pull it out. Erin wondered if she actually could. Stitch-People did weird things. The Scale Soup she’d served the adventurers was certainly effective—according to Moore, it was like a lesser [Barkskin] spell. But it was also about as appealing as eating a bunch of fish scales mixed with glue, which, it had to be said, were major components of the actual soup. Now Revi’s stitch-flesh was tough enough to withstand cuts from an unenchanted dagger. But it was still unpleasant.
“So that’s the entrance to the dungeon?”
Erin called out as she followed Griffon Hunt. Ramparts made out of dirt and stone had been constructed at the end of the water bridge. And behind them, a large gaping tunnel led down into the earth. Drakes and Gnolls stood on the battlements, staring into the depths or peeking back at the approaching adventurers.
“That’s right. The Antinium dug up the ground around the entrance. It hasn’t begun to leak yet.”
Jelaqua called over her shoulder. Erin stared at the drenched fortifications ahead. She remembered the entrance sitting out in the open, surrounded by adventurers and [Merchants] eager to explore it.
Now the dungeon was a small dirt fort surrounded by water, abandoned by all but a few groups of adventurers. There was no sense of curiosity or excitement surrounding it anymore. It sat wetly in the pouring rain, the dark opening waiting. In that, Erin thought she liked the dungeon more now. It looked like what it was. A trap.
“Well, here we are. I don’t think you want to come further. You can go back now.”
Revi looked pointedly at Erin as the others began climbing the ramp leading up to the dungeon. The [Innkeeper] looked at the Stitch-Girl.
“You be careful, okay? If you’re in trouble, send a [Message].”
“As if you could do anything about it.”
The [Summoner]’s harsh words were betrayed by the way she let Erin hug her. She patted Erin awkwardly on the shoulder and headed into the dungeon.
“Better not hug me. I’m on fire.”
Jelaqua grinned at Erin. She nodded, and the girl tried to smile. Moore was next. Erin grabbed his hand. Typhenous let Erin hug him, and Halrac merely nodded. Erin looked around and frowned.
“Seborn?”
“Here.”
She jumped. The Drowned Man stood behind Erin. The Human half of his face looked unreadable as ever. Erin looked at Seborn and tried to smile.
“So you’re going in. Are you nervous?”
“We’ve done this dozens of times before. Don’t worry about us.”
“So I should worry about the others? Will they be okay?”
Seborn paused as he checked his daggers. The others were talking with the [Guardsmen] on the ramparts.
“No one’s ever not nervous. But I think we’re determined to make progress today.”
“Because of what the others said?”
The Drowned Man half-smiled. It was a strange look, watching half his face twist while the other half remained still.
“Let’s just say that they reminded us we’re not alone. It’s not pleasant, being called a coward.”
“They didn’t say—”
“They didn’t need to. And they’re right, in a way.”
“Really?”
Erin had never heard Seborn talk this much. It was a sign of nerves. The Drowned Man nodded as he drew an enchanted dagger that sent a fiery spark into the waters.
“We could be more aggressive. It’s true. What the Pride of Kelia and Gemhammer are doing is dangerous. Exceptionally so. But it’s not more than what we did when we were Silver-rank.”
“You did stuff like that?”
An obvious question. But Erin just wanted to let Seborn talk. He nodded.
“Silver-rank teams risk their lives to reach the level of Gold-rank adventurers. We’re more cautious with our lives because we have that much more to lose. It is cowardly, but it’s why we get to keep on living. Sometimes though, we have to remember to be bold. That’s what makes us Gold-rank. Not cowardice.”
“And Named Adventurers? What makes them?”
Seborn paused. He looked at Erin, and his gaze was…sad.
“They’re the ones who never stopped diving into the abyss. Some of them are heroes. Most are just insane.”
He turned.
“Thank you for coming. I think the others appreciate it more than they’ll say. We’ve done this dozens of times, but adventurers are superstitious too.”
“Hey.”
Erin stopped him as Seborn went for the entrance. He turned, and she held out a hand.
“Come back safe.”
He blinked at her. He shifted his dagger, but she waggled her hand. Slowly, the Drowned Man held out his claw hand. With exquisite care, he closed the crab-like hand over Erin’s. She shook it, feeling the cold, hard shell under her skin. Seborn looked at her and then smiled.
“We truly were thankful to meet you. Keep a table open. I still like seafood, you know.”
Then he turned and walked up the ramp. Erin watched him go. The first group entered the dungeon. The second departed at lunch.
 
——
 
“We’re good. Thanks, Miss Solstice.”
“You’re sure?”
“We’ve got boats. We’ve got rocks to sink with—hell, we could probably do it with what we’re carrying. If we get chewed up on the way down that’s that. But we bought a potion of water breathing, and we’ll share it between us so we can get back up if we miss our target.”
“Indeed. Thank you for the soup.”
“I dunno if you should thank me. It’s awful, I know.”
“I’ve never found a potion that tasted great.”
Earlia smiled as she balanced in the rocking boat. Her team was already sitting, and there were two more boats. Both were crewed by Drakes hired from Liscor. They were going to head straight for the rift.
“Like Zevara said, send a [Message] if you’re in trouble. You can use that spell, right?”
“Our [Gem Mage] can. Not sure about the Pride’s [Shaman], but we’ll stick together. This is just testing the waters. Maybe more if we get rolling. Alright, we’ve got to go before the boats fill up.”
Earlia nodded to Erin and headed to her boat. Nailren smiled at her.
“Do not be so anxious. Not for our sakes. We are acquaintances, yes? You barely know us.”
“I want to get to know you more. Come back, okay?”
“If we can, we will.”
The Gnoll’s eyes were calm, but he gripped Erin’s hand tighter than he had before as he stepped towards the boats. She saw them cast off into the waters.
There were no waves. Only the churning rain. So the boats moved fairly quickly despite the load as the Drake [Rowers] carried the adventurers across the Floodplains. They attracted less attention. They did not shine. But a good number of Liscor’s population were on the walls. They cast fishing lines into the water or sat on the battlements as a social thing beneath temporary canopies. They watched the adventurers head to the rift in silence.
Silence and trepidation. The two teams looked so few in number, and the waters swallowed their vessels the further away they got. They floated out further on the waters, where things lurked in the depths. The sky, the mountains around Liscor were tall. But how far down did the waters go? Uncertainty filled the hearts of many. But there were still some, children and adults both, who stared at the Silver-rank teams with admiration as well as fear.
They dropped into the water as Erin watched. First one, and then in groups of three. Vanishing below without a trace. The boat Drakes watched the ripples fade and then rowed away. They would come back if the adventurers sent a request via spell. If they were contacted.
