More of the Golems found themselves caught in a barrier as Typhenous poured on the webbing. Behind him, Halrac calmly shot one statue with an arrow using his [Piercing Shot] Skill and watched it crumble. He waited as the other adventurers fought. Behind Jelaqua, Seborn flicked out of shadows, cutting at the golems, chipping away their bodies and jumping away. The adventurers weren’t doing much damage, and the Golems were pushing out of the web. One punched Jelaqua in the chest, and his fist cracked. The Selphid grinned.
“I didn’t feel that! This armor is good! Hey Moore, your turn.”
The stone statue raised another fist, and a giant hand engulfed its arm. Moore lifted the statue up with a groan and hurled it into its fellows. The adventurers heard a crack and then the half-Giant waded forwards. He brought his quarterstaff down like an avalanche on a statue’s head, swung a vine and thorn-covered fist into a second, and backed up by Jelaqua and Revi’s Corusdeer, began smashing the rest.
It was a brisk fight. It might have been a bad one but for Moore. The stone statues were relentless, but the half-Giant had the strength to break each one to pieces while the others covered him. By the time the last statue lay in pieces on the ground, Moore was sweating and dusty. Jelaqua offered him two stamina potions which the half-Giant gulped down.
“Amazing work, Moore.”
“That was impressive.”
Typhenous blinked around at the statues. Moore had crushed the one nearest him by swinging the thing into the dungeon’s wall repeatedly until it broke. Typhenous looked back at Halrac.
“Well, it seems these traps are getting simpler. Or am I simply becoming more naïve in my old age?”
Halrac shook his head.
“As traps went, that wasn’t bad. It would have been a bad fight if we’d picked it alone. Only Revi’s summons and your spells would have done any work.”
“And I suspect most adventurers armed with a warhammer aren’t as adept at fighting eight stone golems at once. Ah, yes. I see your point. But we have emerged victorious and to the victors go the spoils. I don’t suppose there’s even a chance these ones are safe, are they?”
“Don’t touch them.”
Typhenous nodded. The remaining pedestals did indeed hold wonderfully beautiful necklaces and jewelry, but all six Gold-rank adventurers would have rather gone back and fought twice as many stone golems as touch them. They were too inviting.
“I’m positive they’re cursed. How do you want to transport them? Should we?”
Typhenous peered at a necklace set with a huge diamond and tsked unhappily. Halrac reached for his belt.
“I’ve an empty bag of holding. Push it in here. Unless Revi can use her summons?”
“Stuff that idea! I don’t want to lose one to a cursed artifact!”
In the end, Halrac nudged each cursed ornament into his bag of holding after Typhenous and Moore had decided they weren’t going to explode by being handled, of course. The adventurers took a rest in the destroyed corridor and nodded to each other. Jelaqua grinned.
“Now isn’t this a welcome surprise? Actual progress! And look at that entrance! I wonder if we could excavate it, maybe find a real shortcut into the dungeon? Because we know exactly where we are now. What do you think?”
“Maybe don’t give monsters an alternate route in.”
“True. In that case, we need to shore up the wall. Damn. That’s a lot of work. A project for today, you think? We’ve already explored two more sets of rooms which I’m sure will be full of traps the next go around. And we have treasure! If we can get it disenchanted, those jewels and the gold will go for something.”
“True.”
Both teams knew they’d done a good day’s work. They’d earned money—deferred, true, but a good amount with the cursed loot which might not be cursed if they were extremely lucky—and gotten to a new part of the dungeon. A wise team would do just what Jelaqua had said and resume untrapping the dungeon before proceeding. However…
It was Seborn who gave voice to their thoughts. The [Rogue] lifted a flask of water and drained half of it.
“Let’s go a bit farther. See what else we can find. We’re all in good shape.”
The other adventurers looked at each other. No one said it. But they were all thinking of what Seborn had told Erin. The other Silver-rank teams. The unspoken accusation.
Cowards. The Halfseekers looked at each other. Griffon Hunt turned to Halrac. He nodded.
“Another room.”
The adventurers got up and headed down the corridor in higher spirits. They came to an opening to their left, inside of which was a huge, circular room. It was vast, a half-dome with an extraordinarily flat floor. While the walls and ceiling of the domed room looked weathered by time, the floor was perfect.
Too perfect. And while there was a door on the far side, the adventurers weren’t about to try crossing the floor to get to it.
“This is clearly a product of bad dungeon making. Look at the walls and ceiling! They might have fooled adventurers centuries ago, but whoever enchanted the floor didn’t think to account for the decay of stone and moss and lichen and so forth.”
Typhenous shook his head sadly as he peered at the floor. Halrac nodded. He stared at the door on the far side.
“What kind of trap are we looking at here, Seborn? Classic pit trap?”
“Something to do with the floor. Want to see what happens?”
The Halfseekers enjoyed setting off traps. Griffon Hunt did not, but Halrac respected the idea. A trap could be deadly, but not knowing what it did could be just as deadly. He nodded.
“Everyone stands up the corridor. We trigger it and get ready to run. Agreed?”
“Let’s do it.”
Seborn waited until the others pulled back and then found a good chunk of the stone statues. He lifted it, nodded at Halrac, and hurled the stone into the center of the room. It bounced off the suspicious floor and tumbled a bit. Halrac watched it with narrowed eyes.
“No good. Looks like the trigger’s something else. Revi?”
“I don’t want to lose a summon!”
“You only lose your ancestral spirits permanently. What about the Corusdeer?”
“I won’t be able to call on it for a week if the spirit is destroyed!”
“Good enough. Summon it.”
Revi cursed but did as Halrac asked. The [Scout] leaned back as the flaming spirit cantered down the hallway. Seborn, to whom fire and dryness were doubly unwelcome, moved further back. The Corusdeer walked slowly into the center of the dome as Revi crouched by them, controlling it and frowning. The summoned creature pawed at the ground and nudged the stone.
“Nothing. Do you think it’s a trap that reacts to living things?”
“Could be. Or it could be that the trap’s activated by the door. Can you—?”
“Got it.”
The Corusdeer walked over to the door. It lowered its head and butted the door a few times. Halrac waited, his breath held in his chest. The Corusdeer awkwardly scraped its antlers against the door, and then Revi made it bow its head. The handle was a lever, and the tall deer’s horns pushed against it gently. Halrac heard a click—
And the floor disappeared. Halrac jerked back as the Corusdeer plummeted, its fiery body falling into the depths. That wasn’t surprising. He’d expected something like that. What was surprising, what made Halrac shiver and Seborn curse and Revi panic was what they saw below.
The half-dome was a huge room. Large enough to hold Erin’s entire [Grand Theatre] and then some. It was also a pit trap. And it went down a long way. But that wasn’t dangerous. Not to a good Gold-rank team or even a decent Silver-rank one. And the dungeon architects had to know that. So they had put something else in there. Something that looked up and sensed the prey above them as the Corusdeer fell into their nest.
Halrac had the best vision. He was standing closest to the newly revealed pit. And the Corusdeer was still falling. He saw it fall down, down, and down past huge webs, past gigantic scuttling shapes that turned and looked up. Halrac stared down a mile of darkness as the Corusdeer fell past a Shield Spider the size of a house, past a giant spider twice as large as Erin’s inn, past thousands, tens of thousands of smaller Shield Spiders, down, until it landed on a web. Instantly, hundreds of smaller shapes smothered the blazing deer, tore it apart. Halrac stared at the spiders as they all looked up. Straight at him. And then they began to scuttle upwards in a silent rush.
“It’s a lair!”
Revi screamed. Seborn tossed a bottle down, and Halrac saw the explosion kick a dozen spiders off of the walls. There were several thousand for every one that fell. He had an arrow in his hands. He was loosing it before he could think. He shouted desperately.
“It’s a lair! A monster lair! It’s part of the damn dungeon!”
“What? What?”
Jelaqua charged down the corridor with Typhenous and Moore. Halrac was too busy loosing arrows and retreating to explain. But it was all clear. The huge, spiraling pit. The traps which were easy—a bit too easy. And the monsters who’d been given time, thousands of years in fact, to reproduce. To grow to unnatural sizes.
The Shield Spiders were here. The Face-Eater Moths had probably been in another trap like this one. And now they were coming out. Halrac’s arrow took the first giant spider that crawled out of the pit and sent it falling back down. A horde followed. And after that came tens of thousands more.
