And then there was nothing. Erin went back into her inn and felt trepidation. She looked at the last group, at Ksmvr helping check Yvlon’s armor, at Pisces trying to fight Mrsha for her wand and then giving up despite Ceria’s scolding, at Ylawes rubbing his head and Dawil joking with Falene and her not joking back.
“Are you sure?”
“It’s time.”
Ceria hugged Erin, and then Lyonette, and then Mrsha. The Gnoll clung to her, not wanting to let go. She howled as the Horns of Hammerad walked outside. Not to go to Liscor, but to a pair of waiting boats. These ones had no Drakes attached—they’d been leased for the day. Yvlon was next. She held Erin’s hands, smiling.
“We’ll make it. This time is different.”
“I know. I know.”
Erin squeezed gently, trying not to look at Yvlon’s arms. Beneath their gauntlets, they looked normal. But metal had become part of her flesh. And that had been in Albez. What would happen…?
“I will defend my team with my life. But I will not die and abandon them.”
Ksmvr nodded at Erin. She hugged him.
“That’s good. Just be careful, okay?”
“Caution is not always a valid strategy.”
She laughed. Next came Ylawes, Dawil, Falene. She didn’t know them as well, so they didn’t try to hug her or shake her hand. But they smiled at her.
“We’ll take care of them, Miss Solstice.”
For once, Falene’s touch of superiority was comforting. Erin looked at Ylawes.
“Be a good brother, okay?”
“I will try.”
He saluted her. Dawil thrust him aside.
“I’ll take a hug, thanks. It’s nice to be shorter! Humans are at a comfortable level for my head!”
He laughed raucously as Ylawes covered his face and Falene looked disgusted. Dawil’s head was at breast-height. The Dwarf meant it as a joke, but Erin hugged him fiercely anyways.
“You silly Dwarf! Come back and I’ll give you another hug.”
“Ah, lass. I’ve no intention of biting it in this dungeon. Dwarves prefer to die in stone. Which this dungeon has, mind you. But there’s too much water for my tastes. Keep a keg ready when we get back!”
And that was that. The Silver Swords walked out. Pisces was the last one. He stood, looking paler than usual. He smiled at Erin.
“Well, Miss Solstice? Will you wish me well?”
“Of course I will.”
Erin hugged him. Pisces looked surprised.
“It feels like we met long ago. But it was not too long that I was threatening you for food, wasn’t it?”
“It does feel like that! And I don’t know why I’m making such a big deal of all this! Just come back, okay?”
Erin sniffed into Pisces’ robes. The [Necromancer] squeezed her ever so hesitantly and then stepped back.
“That you care matters. And this is the first time we are entering the dungeon. I…I will promise you this. It will not be the last.”
He turned and then hesitated. Pisces seemed to fight with himself for a moment and then turned back.
“We will be well.”
He left with that. No smug comments, no arrogance. Erin knew he really was worried. She sniffed as the Horns cast off with the Silver Swords following.
No one watched them go. A few people saw them head out, but when they headed away from the dungeon’s rift, they assumed the adventurers weren’t bound for the dungeon. There were more boats cautiously fishing with nets and hooks in the water. The two teams passed all of them by. They headed north, past the city and then towards a hill partially submerged in rain. The adventurers disappeared into the crypt, a spot almost forgotten. The horrors of Skinner were long vanquished. What reason had they to be there? Only Erin knew. She watched as they went. Then she turned.
Lyonette was holding Mrsha as the Gnoll sniffed. Drassi was staring out into the rain anxiously. Behind them, the five Redfang Goblins looked restless. They straightened as Erin looked at them.
“Do you want to go in there too?”
They didn’t respond. But Headscratcher met Erin’s eyes for a second and then looked away. She nodded.
“Wait.”
That was all they could do. So Erin sat at her table. Then she got up and pointed.
“I’m going out. Lyonette, wait there. I’ll be back. I need to set something up. Drassi, how would you like to be paid to sit and talk with people for an entire day?”
“Ooh, what did you have in mind?”
Erin opened the door to Liscor. She stepped out into the rain and strode through the streets. She was waiting. And in the dungeon, three teams stepped into the darkness. And the darkness was waiting.
 
——
 
Three groups entered the dungeon. The first halted at a door tagged with glowing chalk. They formed up, Seborn and Halrac in front. The Drowned Man had a dagger in his hands. Halrac had an arrow glowing with frost drawn.
“Let’s begin.”
Behind the two trap experts stood Typhenous and Jelaqua. Revi and Moore brought up the rear. Seborn held up a hand as he inspected the door. They’d come through this door countless times, but he still checked it. Not just for traps; for signs someone had opened it.
“Hay’s still there.”
He plucked a piece of straw out of the doorjamb. Halrac nodded. He held up three fingers and counted down. Seborn waited and then yanked the door open. Both adventurers looked into the room. Halrac trained his bow on the first thing he saw until he recognized it.
“Metal pillar. We’ve been here.”
He nodded at a mark made on the far wall. Seborn squinted at it.
“Recheck.”
“Of course.”
Both [Scout] and [Rogue] used their Skills to check the room for changes. But there was no discernible difference, so Halrac motioned.
“The pillar’s a blade trap. Stay to the edges. We disarmed it without you, but you never know.”
Seborn nodded, and Jelaqua relayed the quiet words to Moore and Revi.
“We can get Moore to hit it on the way back out if we have time.”
“Does that…help?”
“He might be able to grow plants over the thing if he can make a gap. Or just break the mechanisms.”
The adventurers made their way through the room. Again, Halrac and Seborn checked the door. This time, they didn’t speak as they made their way to the next corridor. The first room was done. The next one would be random as well. Such was the nature of this dungeon; each room was selected from a group of trapped rooms and so the layout was different every time. It was meant to frustrate anyone trying to enter the dungeon safely.
However, there was a flaw to that kind of dungeon making. With time and patience, a good team could neutralize every trapped room and proceed freely regardless of which room they got. The next room was similarly neutralized; Seborn recognized the narrow corridor.
“Pit trap. Metalbite Slimes. We took out the pressure plate.”
“Understood.”
The two moved ahead. They spoke little, but their conversation alone hinted at the good relationship they had. They proceeded through the fourth room and fifth, each time running into a cleared trap.
“This is a record for us. You?”
“We made it this far before. Took out a trap that tried to boil us alive.”
“You mean burn.”
“Nope. Doubt we’ll get lucky again.”
The [Rogue] pushed open the door and nodded.
“Thought not. Look at that.”
This room was almost insultingly safe looking. A bed had been placed in the center of the room, a lovely-looking king-sized bed. It looked enchanted, which was probably the reason it had held up so long. Halrac grunted.
“They’re not even trying. What is—”
A hand blocked his view. Instantly, Halrac jerked back. Seborn averted his gaze.
“Some kind of spell on the bedposts.”
“Clever.”
Halrac had barely looked at the bed, but he felt something sting his sensitive eyes. He drew back, and Seborn shielded him from the doorway.
“Everything alright?”
Jelaqua looked at the two. Halrac relayed news of what lay ahead. Typhenous stroked his beard.
“Rune trap magic, most likely. I can try to dispel it—”
“Don’t bother. It’s not the only trap. They want us to try and get close to the bed. I’m sure it’ll do something. Turn out to be an illusionary golem or something. We’ll take it out from afar.”
“Ah. Let me know if you need a spell.”
Halrac looked back at Seborn. The Drowned Man was fishing at his belt.
“We could use a [Sticky Webs] spell. Or do you think it’s too risky?”
“I was going to try activating the spell by hitting the post with something cutting. See what we’re up against. We can always block off the doorway.”
“You’ve got something that will work? I could shoot it.”
“Too risky. Might activate and damage your eyes. I’ll hit it blind. I’ve got these bags of flour from that [Alchemist]. I’ll fill the room and make a—”
“Dust explosion. I know.”
Halrac nodded. He was familiar with the idea. Back in his village, he’d once seen a mill go up due to that very thing. It had been their only mill, in fact. They never built another one. Lost in thought, he waited, averting his eyes from the room beyond. There must have been a compulsion spell mixed in there too because he wanted to walk in there and lie on the bed. He did not.
Seborn busied himself, preparing the bags of densely packed powder. After a while, Halrac spoke absently.
“It’s called straw, actually. Hay is feed. Dried grass, legumes. Straw is dead stalks.”
The Drowned Man looked up briefly.
“Really? I didn’t know that. We don’t get much straw at sea. What’s the difference between a hay bale and a straw one?”
“You don’t feed straw to animals.”
Halrac said nothing more. He waited as Seborn tossed the bags of flour over his shoulder. They fountained up, filling the room with fine particles. Typhenous sneezed as everyone moved back. Then Seborn pulled out a tightly stoppered flask.
“Ready?”
The [Scout] nodded. He braced himself as Seborn lobbed the vial into the room. Then he slammed the door shut. Everyone waited. They heard a sound of something breaking, then a thump. Halrac waited behind the door calmly. The magical doorway held, but when he opened the door, the room was in flames. There was something thrashing around in the center. Halrac took one look.
“Mimic. Looks like the wards are covered or obscured.”
“Let me cast a spell first.”
Typhenous stepped forwards. Halrac waited until the mage threw long ropes of sticky webs into the fire and then nodded at Seborn. He stepped out, aimed at the mimic, and began loosing arrows. Typhenous threw a ball that ate part of the elongated mimic away and made it scream.
So far, so good.
 
——
 
“Watch it!”
One of the adventurers from Gemhammer snapped a warning. The Gnoll from the Pride of Kelia froze. The Human pointed.
“Loose stone. Take another handhold.”
The Gnoll nodded. The descent continued as the adventurers shook water that fell to the dungeon floor below. They weren’t far up, only fifteen feet or so from the place where water met dungeon. But a fall from that height was still dangerous.
“Good catch.”
Nailren was descending with Earlia. The Gnolls were less burdened and moved faster, but Gemhammer was moving well too. Earlia slowly climbed downwards, grunting, taking care not to let the water slip her up.
“Let us go first. We’ve got shields, and your people can get up and down faster.”
The Gnoll grunted in agreement. He growled softly, and the Gnolls below him paused to let the Humans go past. Curiously, Nailren stared at the Humans. Gemhammer chose their grips carefully. They were not good climbers compared to the Gnolls, but they seemed oddly certain.
“Strange.”
“Not strange. They have Skills related to mining. We were all once [Miners] before we found out we could kill monsters with hammers and pickaxes.”
Earlia was about ten feet from the ground, next to an overhang that would expose her to the rest of the dungeon. She looked up. Nailren nodded and sniffed. He growled and made a gesture with his paws. He showed Earlia two fingers, then three.
“Shit.”
She didn’t say anything more. She looked at the other adventurers that had paused with her at the overhang. Then she nodded. Earlia grabbed the next handhold and moved down. She slipped, cursed, and then dropped.
“Shields up!”
She screamed an order as the rest of Gemhammer dropped. The adventurers swore as they landed, but three grabbed heavy shields and pulled them up. Just in time. Crude arrows shattered on the shields, and one struck one of the adventurers in the arm. She cried out, but the chainmail had absorbed the blow.
“Attack! Drop and take cover behind the Humans!”
Nailren roared as the rest of the Pride of Kelia scrambled down the cliff. He dropped, ignoring the pain of landing, and rolled behind an adventurer with a shield. He saw Earlia dive as she tried to bring her shield up. Arrows were flying everywhere. One missed her head.
“Loose!”
There were shapes in the darkness. Snarling. The Raskghar loosed arrows, unpleasantly surprised that they had been anticipated again. They attacked quietly, sniffing. The Gnolls growled as they smelled an ancient scent. They drew their bows and began to loose arrows, eliciting quiet howls.
“Gemhammer!”
Earlia kept her voice to a low snap. She grabbed her shield and raised it, hunkering behind it. The Humans formed a wall of their bodies and shields for the Gnolls.
“Hold the line! When the warriors come up, I want Timgal, Fea, and Blaik on me! The rest keep your shields up!”
The Gnolls kept loosing arrows, and the Raskghar moved back. One began to beat the walls in a quick rhythm with a stone mace. The sound echoed down the corridor.
“Calling for reinforcements.”
Nailren’s voice was tight as he aimed and loosed. He snarled as his [Double Shot] made a Raskghar fall with two arrows in his chest. Earlia snarled herself.
“It was an ambush! Just like the [Innkeeper] said! Hold tight! We’re getting through this!”
The adventurers and Raskghar fought, the sounds echoing but not too far. Both sides kept quiet for fear of what they might attract. But they were already being watched. And as more shapes moved out of the darkness, the adventurers realized there were a lot of Raskghar. And then the brutal ancient cousins of Gnolls moved in for the attack.
 
——
 
“So this is the secret entrance you were talking about.”
Falene shook her head as she stared down the dark shaft of stone leading down that Pisces and Olesm had found. She peered into the darkness and looked back.
“I assume you checked for traps?”
“We did. Conduct your own investigation if you are so concerned.”
Pisces snapped back to her, then stepped to the edge as Falene whispered a spell. Behind him, Ceria looked on with Ylawes.
“Incredible. A third entrance to the dungeon, and this one connects to the crypts. One wonders how extensive this dungeon is.”
Ylawes stared into the pit, looking troubled. Dawil was more practical. He grunted as he squatted down over the edge, not bothered by the drop.
