Erin stood in her wrecked inn and looked around. Broken chairs, upended tables, spilled drinks and food marked what had been a very nice setup. She stared aimlessly at a chair lying on the ground with only one remaining leg and then spotted an unconscious Drake lying behind it. She stared around at the comatose bodies, the broken wood, and shook her head.
She knew it was traditional. In stories, that was. She knew it was normal for drunk people to be violent. Sometimes. But, and here was the thing…not everyone who drank got violent. In fact, the aggressive drunks quickly learned that there were some fights you shouldn’t pick. Especially in an inn with Hobgoblin bouncers. And in a world where healing potions cured all wounds but didn’t regrow teeth…being a jerk was a dangerous proposition.
“But here we are.”
Erin kicked at a mug and watched it skitter across the floor. Someone groaned. Erin ignored the sound. Right, so bar fights were traditional. And this wasn’t even the worst aftermath Erin had had to clean up. Just this month, the inn had been full of dead moths for crying out loud! Alcohol stains were a lot more pleasant to wipe away than moth blood.
Still, she didn’t have to like it. And she really didn’t. Erin wondered how much it would cost to replace all her tables and chairs again. She mentally added up the damages of broken plates, mugs, bent silverware, and so on until someone interrupted her train of thought.
“So who won?”
“Huh?”
She looked back over her shoulder. Relc was clumsily scribbling on a piece of parchment as he stood amidst the debris. Relc and five other [Guardsmen]—and three [Guardswomen]—had come after the fight had ended. They were now tossing people through the door to Liscor, where the rain would wake up the unhappy unconscious Drakes, or forcing their Human counterparts to wait until the door could take them to Celum.
Almost all of the injured guests were Human or Drake, and it was telling that Relc was one of only three Drakes that Zevara had sent to clean things up. The Gnolls had stayed out of the fighting by and large and had left peacefully once the fight had ended.
“Well?”
Relc clumsily dipped his quill in the inkpot he held in one huge clawed fist as he stared at Erin. She stared back.
“Who won?”
“Yeah. There’s gotta be a winner in a fight like this, right? I’m so annoyed I missed it!”
The Drake looked around enviously, noting how many unconscious bodies were still there. Erin’s inn had been able to hold several dozen people comfortably within its walls before she obtained the [Grand Theatre] Skill, and the room had been packed when the fight broke out. In fact, some people still hadn’t quite realized it was over. Relc spotted a Drake getting to his feet. The drunk Drake looked around, spotted a Human, and lurched towards Erin. Relc turned, punched the Drake off his feet, and grinned in satisfaction before turning back to Erin.
“Come on, Erin. Don’t leave me hanging. This is for the report!”
“Well…”
Erin had to think back on the night’s events. Her gaze slid sideways towards the door as it opened. Oh. Griffon Hunt was leaving. They didn’t have a scratch on them. Whereas the Halfseekers had retired to their room with bruises, and both Gemhammer and the Horns of Hammerad had stumbled away looking for healing potions after they’d been woken up.
“I guess if you had to say anyone won, it was Wall Lord Ilvriss and his lot.”
“Really?”
Erin nodded.
“He was the one who started the fight. And he kept it going. He took out Headscratcher, Badarrow, Pisces, Ylawes…all with his bare hands!”
“Claws.”
“Yeah. But he didn’t use his claws. I knew he was good because he was a Wall Lord and all, but he was good. The adventurers aren’t good with fighting with their hands. And all his cronies beat down anyone who attacked him. But still; he was knocking everyone around while I tried to get people to safety.”
What a mess that had been. Erin vaguely recalled punching Ilvriss in the stomach before Ceria and Yvlon had charged him to rescue her. Then it had been trying to restore order with her friends and employees while the main fighting burnt itself out. Erin scowled.
“We did a good job, but even four Hobgoblins had trouble keeping everything contained! In the end, everything stopped once eighty percent of the people were knocked out.”
“Yeah, that generally happens in a fight. But what about the Wall Lord guy? I can’t imagine he’d stop fighting just because everyone else was down. I’d have tried to take out everyone standing and then run for it before the Watch showed up.”
Erin glanced sideways at Relc.
“Aren’t you…”
He stared at her expectantly. She decided not to ask and continued.
“Well, he was winning right up until he wasn’t. Mrsha was running around, and she nearly got hurt. So then Moore got mad. He grabbed a table and started hitting people with it! Gently. I think Ilvriss tried to stop him—Moore picked him up and threw him across the room. That’s the wall he hit.”
Erin pointed at one of her walls. Relc peered at it. There wasn’t any visible damage thanks to another of Erin’s Skills, but there was a suspicious stain halfway up the wall, as if someone had thrown up a bit when they’d been hurled full-force into the wall. He grinned.
“Awesome.”
The young woman glared at him. Relc raised his claws innocently.
“What? It is! That is one of the coolest bar fights I’ve heard of in a while! And it started because they didn’t like your play?”
“Yup. They didn’t like it. Not one bit.”
Erin sighed. This entire affair had begun over Juliet and Romeo, a slightly updated take on the Shakespearian classic. Unfortunately, one of the updates had been casting a Drake as Juliet and a Human as Romeo. Both Wesle and Jasi had managed to escape the bar fight without many injuries, but the Players of Celum were understandably upset. Erin looked helplessly at Relc.
“Tell me I’m not going to have to replace all of my broken stuff? Please?”
“Nah, you’re cool.”
Relc finished scribbling on the piece of parchment, blew on it, and then tucked it into his leather armor. He waved a claw around carelessly as more people started waking up. It was just past dawn.
“Standard procedure is for us to compensate you for all your broken stuff. Fine the perpetrators all something or toss them in jail if they can’t pay. But since Wall Lord Ilvriss started the fight, we’ll probably just charge him.”
“Just like that?”
“He’s rich. And it’s easier that way.”
Relc shrugged nonchalantly. He spotted Ilvriss getting up—the Wall Lord had used a healing potion and so he looked furious but no worse for the wear. The Drake was having the rest of his retainers pick up the unconscious ones or kick the rest awake as Relc called out to him.
“Hey Wall Lord! We’ll tally the damages and send you a bill for it later, okay?”
Ilvriss looked up. He glared at Erin and shouted back, making most of the unconscious patrons groan and wake up.
“Do what you want! As for, you, Human—”
He jabbed a claw at Erin.
“That play is a disgrace! I demand it be changed!”
“No! Go away, you jerk!”
Erin shook a fist angrily at Ilvriss. She pointed back to her trashed stage.
“That was an innocent love story! What’s wrong with a Human loving a Drake?”
Ilvriss didn’t even deign to respond. His tail curled in contempt as he turned away.
“No self-respecting Drake in Liscor will visit your inn until that bile is taken off the stage! Out of my way!”
He stormed through the door to Liscor, glaring death at Numbtongue who was watching him and the other Drakes. The Hob had a table leg gripped in one hand. Erin shouted at Ilvriss’ back as he walked out into the night and rain.
“Yeah, go ahead and boycott my inn! It won’t be the first time!”
She turned back towards Relc and tried to shrug dismissively.
“He’ll come back after a week or something. No big deal.”
Relc looked skeptical as he glanced around the inn.
“I dunno about that. Drakes like Ilvriss get really touchy about stuff like that play. More than even getting insulted. You might lose a lot of Drake customers. Some Gnolls maybe.”
“So? I can manage. I’ve been a pariah before.”
Erin sighed. She felt tired, cranky, and she wanted to sleep. She gave Relc a pleading look.
“Look, is there anything else?”
He grinned.
“Nope! Looks open and shut to me. We’ll toss the rest of our people out, and you can let the poor Humans go to Celum. Oh, and Erin?”
She turned, already heading over to Headscratcher so he could help expedite the cleanup process. She looked at him expectantly, and Relc smiled again.
“Next time you put on that play, mind inviting me first? I’d love to bring a few of my buddies. Uh, but don’t tell Embria.”
Erin gave him a blank look. Then she turned and walked away. As she passed by an unconscious Human, she kicked him in the side. Sort of gently.
 
——
 
The next day, Griffon Hunt and the Pride of Kelia returned to The Wandering Inn for a standing breakfast. There were some tables, but since Mrsha and Lyonette occupied one with the Halfseekers, the Goblins had the second, and there weren’t enough chairs for the third, they elected to stand.
“We should have eaten somewhere else.”
Revi grumbled until Typhenous cast a spell that created a rotating disc of shimmering air for the others to put their bowls and cups onto. The Gold-rank adventurers ate in silence, eying the Pride of Kelia as the nine Gnolls munched on fatty bacon and sniffed the air.
“Still planning on entering the dungeon?”
Nailren looked up and grinned toothily at Revi, ignoring her acerbic tone of voice.
“A bar fight will not stop our team, Miss Revi. We await Gemhammer’s decision, but we will enter the dungeon today regardless of whether we will be joined. We invite you as well, if you wish it.”
“Bah.”
Revi turned away and scowled at Halrac. He shook his head, and Nailren nodded. The adventurers looked up and saw Erin hurry over with a plate of hot bacon.
“Sorry! Ow! Sorry! This is hot off the stove! Don’t grab for it, Mrsha! Anyone want seconds?”
Hands were raised across the inn. Erin came over to Griffon Hunt and placed a rasher of bacon on Halrac’s plate. The [Scout] grunted his thanks.
“So…I hear that Gemhammer’s resting up, but they’ll be coming to the inn around lunch and then going to the dungeon after they eat my horrible magic food. What are you guys doing?”
The [Innkeeper] slid into the conversation with all the grace of a bloated wyvern. Typhenous smiled and accepted a single slice of greasy bacon to go with his bread as he replied.
“Ah, thank you Miss Solstice. I believe we will continue our job. That is, untrapping the dungeon’s main entrance with the Halfseekers. If they’re recovered?”
He glanced at the three non-Humans. Jelaqua waved a claw, grinning.
“We’re good! Moore’s the only one who got hurt, and that was only after the Drakes rushed him. I’d be more worried about the Silver Swords!”
“My brother’s fine.”
Yvlon spoke quietly from her seat. She kept adjusting the gauntlets on her arms, tapping at them and grimacing. By her side, Ceria was sharpening her dagger on a whetstone while Ksmvr ate. Pisces was reading from a spellbook. They looked normal on the surface, but the [Necromancer]’s leg was jiggling and Ksmvr was gobbling his food a bit too fast.
“We’re planning on entering the dungeon too. Today, I mean.”
Ceria met Nailren’s eyes. The Gnoll nodded at her.
“Interesting. We would welcome a joint expedition. Unless you plan on entering through the trapped area?”
Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers frowned, but Ceria shook her head. She cast her head sideways and glanced at Pisces who stopped reading.
“We shall be using a different entrance.”
“A what?”
All the adventurers stared at Pisces. He sniffed smugly, clearly enjoying the situation. Revi leaned over and hissed at Halrac as Erin hurried into the kitchen, muttering about buying chairs in bulk from Celum.
“Another way in? How in the name of quilting did someone find—you don’t think they’ve got a leg up on us, do you?”
Halrac shook his head, his eyes flicking from Pisces’ face to Ceria’s nervous motions.
“If they have another entrance, it doesn’t matter. We’re all entering the dungeon from different areas, and no one knows where our objective is. They’ll be uncertain of their backs, and that’s more dangerous than our route.”
“But we’re still untrapping—”
Revi broke off as the door opened. Watch Captain Zevara strode in—not from the magic door, but from the regular entrance that now led across the water. She shook water off her boots onto the rug as Erin poked her head out of the kitchen.
“Uh oh. Here comes trouble.”
“Not yet, Human.”
Zevara looked tired but resigned as she met Erin in the inn, looking around. The first thing she handed Erin was a bag of coins—payment for her broken furniture. Erin’s eyes went round.
“Wow, you’re sure? But I’m not a part of Liscor! Am I?”
The Watch Captain shrugged.
“You are not. But the fight was started by citizens of the city and Wall Lord Ilvriss. And Drake law is clear—we compensate business owners for damage.”
Erin eyed the Watch Captain.
“What about Krshia?”
The Drake looked blank.
“What about her? We compensated her for her shop and goods. As much as we could after appraising the magical items the thief—er, Miss Lyonette’s seized possessions. We don’t pay out of the city’s funds.”
“But what about the—”
Erin hesitated. She bit her tongue as Zevara peered at her suspiciously.
“Well, thanks! I guess Ilvriss has a lot of money.”
“He is a Wall Lord. What about Miss Krshia?”
“Nothing! So, why are you here, Watch Captain? Just to give me money?”
The Drake grunted, folding her arms and peering at Erin. After a while, she gave up and shrugged.
“No, I am also investigating the cause of last night’s disturbance. This play. I’ve received a petition with a thousand signatures on it already. Can you arrange a viewing for me? Or recreate the offending scene?”
Erin sucked in her lips.
“Maybe. Let me see if I can find Wesle. If not…well, I’m no [Actor] but I could give it a shot.”
As it happened, Erin was able to send Lyonette into the city and locate Wesle within ten minutes thanks to Mrsha’s nose. By the time breakfast was over and the Halfseekers were conferring with Griffon Hunt, they saw Zevara watching Erin and Wesle acting out the controversial scene in question. The Watch Captain watched as Erin waved down at Wesle with a handkerchief and shook her head. Then the [Innkeeper] and [Actor] turned anxiously to Zevara. She looked at both of them and sighed.
“It’s not offensive.”
