He had killed four hundred and twelve animals, and the four hundred and thirteenth was sitting in a crystal garden at the bottom of a hole in a ridge.

The number was not approximate. A hunter who did not count was a hobbyist. Dorric Kael had started counting at fourteen when his father handed him a skinning knife and a lesson that took the form of silence — his father had simply pointed at the carcass and left the tent, and the lesson was: this is yours now, from the killing through the cleaning through the carrying. The count was part of the carrying. If you did not count, you did not own what you had done.

He counted: twelve deer in his first year, working the birch stands north of the settlement where the deer bedded in autumn. Then the boar contracts, which paid better and hurt more — he had the scar on his left forearm from the second boar, the one that had turned when it should have run, and the scar was also part of the count. Forty-seven boar over six years. Then the wolves, when the wolves came back to the northern valleys, and the wolves were different because a wolf watched you the way you watched it and the space between you and the wolf was a conversation you were having with something that understood the conversation. Eighteen wolves. Then the cats, the plains cats that the southern ranchers needed removed, and the cats were different from the wolves the way a sentence is different from a paragraph — more compressed, more information per moment, fewer chances to revise.

Four hundred and twelve. He was forty-one years old and had been hunting professionally for twenty-seven years and the number was his resume and his confession and the way he organized time, because years were approximate but kills were specific.

The pull arrived on a morning when he was between contracts, sitting in a waystation common room with a plate of eggs and a map of the eastern lowlands where something had been taking livestock in a pattern he recognized. The pattern was a cat — a big one, working a circuit, hitting the easy targets first and then adjusting when the easy targets learned. He had been planning to take the contract.

The pull was not like the cat. The pull was not a pattern he recognized. It arrived as a pressure behind his sternum, directional, pointing northeast, carrying the specific quality of something that needed to be killed. Not hunted — killed. The distinction mattered. Hunting was the whole process: reading sign, understanding territory, predicting movement, closing distance, choosing the moment. Killing was the last part. The pull was offering him only the last part.

He had finished his eggs. He had paid his bill. He had walked northeast.

---

The camp was three days' walk. He arrived on the afternoon of the fourth day because he had stopped to read the ground around the ridge, approaching from the south, mapping the terrain the way he mapped any terrain before a job: elevation, sight lines, wind patterns, the places where something large could move without being seen and the places where something large could not. The ridge was limestone, old, with a basalt intrusion on the northern face that did not belong to the geology. He had noted this. He had noted the fire at the base of the ridge. He had noted the man sitting at a table near the fire, writing in a book.

He entered the camp the way he entered any client site: with his equipment visible, his purpose clear, and his first question already formed.

"What is it?"

Osren looked up from his book. The man was younger than Dorric had expected — younger than the camp implied, which implied permanence and patience and the kind of occupation that aged a person past their years. The man looked at Dorric the way a clerk looks at a delivery: noting the contents, checking the manifest.

"That depends on how much you've heard."

"Nothing. I'm here because something needs killing."

Osren closed the book. He put both hands flat on the table, which Dorric read as a gesture of organization — the man was arranging what he was about to say.

"There is a creature at Depth 3. It's called The Patient. It has killed eight people."

"Eight."

"Seven confirmed. One unconfirmed — she went in and did not come back, but the dungeon did not produce a death tally count, and the depth and manner are unknown."

Dorric sat down across from him. The fire was between them. The fire was maintained, which meant someone maintained it, which meant the camp was not temporary.

"Tell me about it."

Osren told him. The telling took forty minutes, and Dorric did not interrupt, because a hunter who interrupted a briefing was a hunter who missed the detail that killed him. Osren was thorough in the way that record-keepers were thorough — organized by chronology, cross-referenced by detail, with the specific caveat at each point where he was reporting someone else's observation rather than his own. The creature was large, sessile, crystal-shelled. It occupied a garden of luminescent crystal growths at Depth 3. It killed by sudden displacement — not speed but rearrangement, a transition from stillness to contact that did not pass through the space between. It had a detection range of approximately twenty-five meters. It had been damaged.

"Damaged how?"

Osren opened the book to a specific page. "A mason cracked its shell with a plumb-line weight. His companion widened the crack with a chisel. The marks from an earlier entrant — a dyer — mapped three structural weaknesses on the shell. The crack follows one of those weaknesses. The left flank seam."

"What's in the crack?"

Osren looked at him.

"In the crack," Dorric repeated. "What's under the shell."

"No one has reported what's beneath the shell. The crack was visible but the interior was not described."

Dorric nodded. This was the information he needed and the information he did not have, and the gap between those two things was where the hunt would happen.

"The spear," he said.

"Against the eastern wall. Military-grade, manifested by the Warden — Death #7. The head is loose. The shaft is marked with structural analysis from the Brand — Death #14. The shaft will break at a specific point."

"How far from the creature?"

"Approximately eight meters. Within detection range."

"What's at thirty meters?"

"The western wall. There's a bypass route — the last entrant, a courier, mapped it. Thirty meters minimum distance from the creature. The creature tracked his movement but could not reach."

Dorric looked at the entrance. The basalt intrusion was darker than the surrounding limestone, and the warmth coming from it was the wrong temperature for a cave — too warm, too consistent.

"The chisel," he said. "The plumb line. Where are those?"

"At the death site. Center of the Garden, near the creature."

"Within detection range."

"Yes."

Dorric stood. He looked at the blank cloth hanging from the post. He looked at the geometric annotations — the cartographer's work, precise and recent. He looked at the older marks, the names and observations and the careful charcoal lines.

"I'm going in the morning."

"Most entrants go in immediately."

"I'm not most entrants."

---

He spent the evening at the camp. He spoke to Dalya, the rope merchant, who confirmed the floor conditions through Depth 2 and mentioned that the crystal growths in the Still Garden cast enough light to work by but not enough to read fine detail at distance. He spoke to Osren again, asking specific questions about the creature's movement pattern — how long between stillness and strike, whether the compensatory asymmetry from the crack was observed by anyone after the cracking, whether the creature had ever been seen moving between kills.

Osren did not have answers to the last two questions. Dorric noted this. The absence of observation was data — it meant no one had survived long enough in the creature's presence to observe its recovery pattern. Every account was either from outside detection range or from inside detection range for a very short time.

He sharpened his knife. It was not a hunting knife — it was a killing knife, the distinction being that a hunting knife was designed for multiple functions and a killing knife was designed for one. The blade was seven inches, narrow, with a point designed for the gap between ribs. He had used it on the eighteenth wolf, the one that had been the most dangerous because it had been the most patient, and the knife had found the gap between the ribs because that was what the knife was for.

He thought about the gap between ribs. He thought about the crack in a crystal shell.

He slept. He woke before dawn. He ate. He sharpened the knife again, not because it needed sharpening but because the motion was part of the preparation, the way a mason checks his level or a courier checks his straps. The hands needed to know what they were about to do.

He entered the dungeon at first light.

---

The Gullet was what Osren had described: a passage through living stone, ribbed, warm, lit by phosphorescence that had no source. He walked through it at a pace that was neither fast nor slow — the pace of a man who was covering ground without wasting energy, the pace he had used on every approach to every kill site for twenty-seven years.

The inscription wall. Nineteen names and a gap. He read them without stopping, the way he read game trails — not for the words but for what the words indicated about the thing that had made them. Each entry was a person, and each person was a data point about the place that had killed them, and the accumulation of data points was a map of the thing he was hunting.

He noted: Depth 3, Still Garden, eight times. The creature did not roam. It stayed. A territorial predator in a fixed territory, which was the easiest kind to kill and the hardest kind to approach, because a territorial predator knew its territory the way a hunter knew his knife — completely, without needing to think about it.

He entered the Warrens.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Dorric Kael: Current Resolve: 10
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE CULL
GIFT: CULLING STRIKE

You may deliver one strike with perfect force.
The first blow to reach its target lands at the precise angle, depth, and velocity
required to inflict maximum structural damage to the point of contact.
One strike. One chance.

Each subsequent strike on the same target carries diminished force.
The reduction is not fatigue. It is the Gift completing its purpose.
The Cull is designed for kills, not fights.

COST: CERTAINTY
The conviction that you will succeed does not diminish after the strike lands.
It does not update.
You will believe the target is dead regardless of evidence.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16
Resolve ............... 9
Attunement ............ 8
Fortune ............... 14

Note: Entry type — Compelled.
Compulsion type: Prey-drive amplification. Arrival latency: 4 days.
The entrant has killed 412 animals. The 413th is at Depth 3.
The Maw extended the count.
```

He read the screen standing in the first junction of the Warrens and understood several things about it immediately. The Gift was not complicated. It was the simplest Gift he had encountered in his understanding of tools, which was extensive — a tool for one job, perfectly suited, with a cost that was the tool's shadow. One perfect strike. The certainty that the strike had worked. These were the same thing described from two angles, because a hunter who was certain the kill was clean did not check, and a hunter who did not check walked away from wounded prey.

He understood the cost. He understood what it meant. He filed it.

The Warrens shifted around him. He had been briefed on this — the corridors changed when you were not looking, the architecture reorganized according to principles that the cartographer had partially mapped and that he did not need to fully understand because he was not here to map. He was here to go through. The Warrens were the terrain between the approach and the kill site, and terrain was something you moved through, not something you lived in.

He moved through it. The shifting did not bother him. He had tracked cats through reed marshes where the reeds closed behind you and the path you had taken no longer existed, and the method was the same: don't retrace, don't look back, keep the direction and let the terrain be what it was. The Warrens could rearrange themselves. His direction did not change.

---

The Still Garden opened before him like a clearing in a forest — the sudden cessation of enclosure, the expansion of space, the change in light. The crystal growths caught the phosphorescence and held it, and the room was bright in the way that winter fields are bright: cold light, long shadows, the air holding still because there was nothing to move it.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Dorric Kael: Current Resolve: 11
```

He stood at the threshold and did what he did at every kill site: he looked.

The crystal growths were arranged in rows — not natural rows, something older and more organized, a garden in the original sense of the word. The phosphorescent light came from the growths themselves, not from the ceiling, and the light was uneven — brighter near the bases, dimmer at the tips, the gradient creating a landscape of light and shadow that a predator would know how to use.

The Patient was at the center of the third row. Thirty meters long, low, wide. Crystal-shelled, gray-white. Sitting on the stone floor with the particular quality of stillness that Dorric recognized from the most dangerous category of predator — the kind that did not need to move because the prey came to it.

The marks were visible. Dark lines on the shell — the dyer's structural analysis, permanent and legible. The crack on the left flank — the mason's plumb-line strike, widened by the Joint's chisel. The compensatory asymmetry that Osren had not been able to confirm was immediately obvious to Dorric's eye: the creature's mass was distributed differently on the left side, the cracked shell sitting at a slightly different angle than the intact shell on the right. It was favoring the damage. Not consciously — not the way a wounded animal favored a leg — but structurally, the way a building with a cracked foundation settled toward the crack.

Twenty-five meters. Detection range.

He was at the threshold. The threshold was more than twenty-five meters from the creature. He had time.

He looked at the spear against the eastern wall. Eight meters from the creature. Inside detection range. The head was loose — Osren had said so, and the Brand marks on the shaft confirmed the structural analysis: it would fail at a specific point if struck at a specific angle. It was a tool with one use left in it.

He looked at the western wall. The bypass route. Thirty meters minimum.

He looked at the crack.

The crack was the target. Not the creature — the crack. A hunter did not aim at the animal. A hunter aimed at the place on the animal where one strike would end it. The gap between the ribs. The soft place behind the skull. The nerve cluster where the spine met the brain. Every animal had one, and the hunter's job was to find it before the animal found him.

The crack was not the kill point. The crack was the access point. Beneath the crack was something the shell had been protecting for three hundred and forty-two years, and whatever that something was, it was the kill point.

He started moving.

---

He went left. Not toward the creature — along the western wall, the bypass route the courier had mapped. Thirty meters minimum from the Patient. He moved at the pace of a man who was not approaching a predator, because he was not approaching a predator. He was flanking.

The Patient tracked him. He could feel it the way he had felt wolves track him in snow — not a sound, not a movement, but a change in the quality of the space between them, as if the air had developed a direction. The creature's attention was on him. Its body had not moved.

He reached the midpoint of the western wall. Thirty-two meters from the creature, by his estimate. Outside detection range by a comfortable margin. He stopped. He looked at the crystal growths between himself and the Patient, mapping the gaps, the sight lines, the places where the light fell and where it did not.

The spear was on the far side. Eastern wall. He could not reach it without crossing through the creature's detection range. But the spear was not what he was here for.

He drew the knife.

The knife was seven inches of purpose. It had killed the eighteenth wolf and thirty-one subsequent animals that required close work, and it was the tool for this job because this was a close job — not because the crack was small but because the crack needed to be entered, not struck. A spear struck. A plumb line struck. A chisel struck. Those tools had done their work: the shell was cracked. The next tool needed to go inside.

He began his approach.

He moved through the crystal growths the way he had moved through the reed marshes — using the terrain as cover, not as obstacle. The growths were tall enough to break his silhouette. The shadows between them were deep enough to hold a man. He was not trying to be invisible. He was trying to delay the moment of recognition — the moment when the creature's attention shifted from *watching* to *striking.*

Thirty meters. Twenty-eight. Twenty-six.

At twenty-five meters the quality of the creature's attention changed. He felt it: a sharpening, a resolution, the difference between a wolf that had scented you and a wolf that had located you. The Patient knew where he was. The Patient was deciding what to do about it.

He kept moving. Twenty-three meters. Twenty. The crystal growths were thinner here, the shadows shorter. He was in the open.

Eighteen meters. He could see the crack clearly now. It ran along the left flank seam, from the forward sensory cluster toward the dorsal ridge — a dark line in the gray-white shell, wider than he had expected, the edges slightly irregular where the chisel had widened it. The interior was visible in the phosphorescent light: not hollow, not solid, but layered — like the cross-section of a tree, growth rings in crystal, each ring a different density and a different age, and at the center of the rings, something darker.

He was a hunter. He had been a hunter for twenty-seven years. The dark thing at the center of the growth rings was the kill point.

Fifteen meters. The Patient had not moved. This was wrong. Every account said the creature struck within detection range. Every account said the transition from stillness to strike was instantaneous — not fast, instantaneous. The creature had not struck.

He knew why. He understood it with the part of his mind that understood predators: the creature was learning. It had killed eight people — seven confirmed — and the last three had damaged it. The last person inside detection range had cracked its shell. The one before that had mapped its weaknesses. The creature was not striking because the creature had learned that the things inside its detection range might hurt it.

The Patient was afraid.

Not the way animals were afraid — not the freezing or the fleeing. The way a predator was afraid when the prey changed the rules: the specific, intelligent caution of something that had been dominant for three centuries and was now, for the first time, uncertain.

Dorric raised the knife.

Culling Strike activated.

The Gift was simple. One strike. Perfect force. Perfect angle. Perfect depth. The knife would find the kill point the way the knife had always found the kill point — not because Dorric aimed perfectly but because the Gift took his aim and removed the imperfection, the way a lens removes distortion. One chance.

He drove the knife into the crack.

---

The blade entered the seam and slid between the growth layers and found the darker thing at the center of the rings and the strike was perfect — the angle was exactly right, the depth was exactly right, the velocity was exactly right. He felt the blade seat itself in something that was not crystal and not stone and not flesh but something between all three, something that had been growing in the dark for three hundred and forty-two years, and the knife cut it.

The Patient screamed.

It was not a sound. It was a frequency — a vibration that came through the crystal growths and the floor and the air simultaneously, and the crystal garden rang with it, every growth resonating at a pitch that was not audible but was felt, in the teeth and the bones and the back of the skull. The light in the room changed. The phosphorescence flared and then dimmed and then flared again, pulsing with the frequency, and the shadows moved.

The Patient moved.

Not the instantaneous rearrangement. Not the saccade-gap strike. A lurch — asymmetric, compensatory, the movement of something in pain that was not accustomed to pain. The cracked side of the shell ground against the intact side and the sound was stone on stone, geological, ancient. The creature swung toward him and he was already moving — rolling left, away from the strike, the way he had rolled away from the eighteenth wolf when it turned faster than he expected — and the Patient's mass passed through the space where he had been.

He still had the knife. The blade was wet with something that was not blood — a clear fluid, viscous, faintly luminescent. The kill point was open. The first strike had been perfect.

He raised the knife for the second strike.

The certainty was there. The conviction that the target was dead — not dying, dead. The Culling Strike had landed. The Cost was active. He could feel it: a warm, complete assurance that the work was done, that the kill was clean, that he could walk away and the thing behind him would fall.

He knew it was the Cost. He had read the Designation screen. He had understood the warning. And the understanding did not help, because the certainty was not in his thoughts — it was in his hands. His hands, which had killed four hundred and twelve animals and had never once been wrong about whether the kill was clean, were telling him the kill was clean.

The Patient was not dead. The Patient was turning toward him, slower than before, the lurch more pronounced, the crystal shell grinding, the crack wider than it had been — the knife had opened it further, the Culling Strike's perfect force had done what a plumb line and a chisel had started. But the creature was alive and it was turning and it was going to strike.

He struck again. The second blow landed on the crack — same target, same angle.

The force was halved. He felt the difference immediately. The knife that had penetrated three inches on the first strike penetrated one inch on the second. The blade met the same layered structure and the same dark center and it cut, but the cut was shallow, tentative, the strike of a blade that had already done its work and was now doing someone else's.

The Patient struck.

The impact caught him in the right shoulder and spun him. He hit a crystal growth and the growth shattered — twelve pounds of force at the midpoint, the number the Brand marks had specified, and his body had supplied the twelve pounds without trying. He was on the ground. The shoulder was dislocated. He could feel it: the specific wrongness of a joint that had left its socket, the bone sitting where bone should not sit.

He still had the knife. His left hand. He was right-handed but the knife was in his left hand because his right arm was not holding anything anymore and his left hand had closed on the handle with the autonomic grip of a man who had held a knife through worse.

He got up.

The certainty was still there. It was louder now — not quieter, louder, as if the Cost was responding to the evidence by increasing its volume. The creature was dead. The creature was certainly dead. The thing in front of him, turning, grinding, luminescent fluid leaking from the widened crack in its shell, was dead. His hands believed this completely.

He struck a third time. The force was a quarter of the first. The knife slid along the surface of the shell and caught the crack's edge and skipped. He felt nothing enter. The blade found no purchase. The Gift was done. The Cull had been delivered.

He was standing three meters from The Patient with a knife that could no longer cut it and a conviction that it was already dead and a dislocated shoulder and the knowledge — the cold, clear, professional knowledge that had killed four hundred and twelve animals — that he had failed.

---

The Patient struck him.

He did not try to dodge. There was no technique for dodging something that did not cross the space between. The creature was there and then it was here and the here included him.

He was on the floor. The crystal growth behind him was in pieces. The knife was on the ground beside him, and the clear luminescent fluid on the blade was already dimming, losing whatever light the creature's interior had given it.

He looked at the crack. From the floor, at this angle, he could see inside it clearly — the growth layers, the dark center, the place where his knife had cut. The cut was there. Real, physical, permanent. The Culling Strike had reached the thing inside the shell and had cut it, and the cut was not healing, and the fluid was not stopping.

He had hurt it. The first strike had been perfect and it had hurt it. The kill was not clean but the cut was real.

He thought: *four hundred and thirteen.*

He thought: *no. Four hundred and twelve. And one I wounded.*

The certainty was still telling him the creature was dead. His hands were still sure. The gap between what his hands believed and what his eyes could see was the width of the Cost, and the Cost was the whole distance between a clean kill and a messy one, and a messy one was still a contribution.

The Patient settled onto him. The weight was the weight of something that had been sitting in one place for three centuries and had not needed to move and was now, for the first time, moving with intent that was not clean. The creature was in pain and the pain was new and the settling was not the precise, efficient weight of previous kills — it was heavier, less controlled, the settling of something that wanted the threat to stop.

Dorric Kael felt his ribs compact. It was a sensation he recognized from the second boar, twenty-seven years ago — the specific, informative pain of being pressed by something that outweighed you by a factor that made resistance a category error.

He looked at the crack. He was under the creature and the crack was above him and the fluid was dripping. It dripped onto his chest and it was warm.

*Four hundred and twelve,* he thought. *And one I cut.*

The Patient's weight increased. The last thing he saw was the crack, and the dark thing inside the crack, and the thin luminescent line where his knife had been.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: DORRIC KAEL
DESIGNATION: THE CULL
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (THE STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16 -> 0
Resolve ............... 9  -> 11 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 8  -> 9  (+1 Culling Strike activation)
Fortune ............... 14

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 9
Culling Strike activations: 1 (first strike on Patient shell crack)
Note: Culling Strike is a single-activation Gift. The first strike was the only true activation.
Subsequent strikes were diminished echoes — the Gift had already completed its purpose.
ATT accrues only from the activation, not from the diminished follow-ups.

COST STATUS AT DEATH: Certainty — fully engaged.
The entrant believed the target was dead at the time of his own death.
The Cost did not disengage. It does not update. This is not a malfunction.
Certainty is the specific cost of a tool designed for one use.

CAUSE OF DEATH: Creature. Patient.
Note: Entrant penetrated The Patient's cracked shell with a bladed weapon.
This is the first time a weapon has reached the interior structure beneath the shell.
Culling Strike delivered perfect force through the existing crack to the growth-layer core.
Damage: single deep incision in the central growth structure. Luminescent fluid loss.
The Patient's internal structure is now exposed and wounded.
The wound is not healing.

The Patient's damage is now cumulative across four entrants:
Death #14 (Brand): Shell weakness mapped.
Death #15 (Keystone): Shell cracked.
Death #16 (Joint): Crack widened.
Death #20 (Cull): Interior structure penetrated, incised. First internal wound.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Red.
Stat bonus: +2 VIT.
Quality: force. The specific quality of directed violence applied with professional competence.
Not rage. Not desperation. The clean, practiced certainty of a man who has done this
four hundred and twelve times and understood, in the four hundred and thirteenth instance,
the difference between a kill and a wound, and did not find the wound insufficient.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily, the sensation of absolute physical capability.
The sensation is earned. It does not confer the experience that earned it.

FLOOR MUTATION: Patient Shell — Interior Exposure
The Patient's internal growth-layer structure is now visible through the widened crack.
Central growth core incised. Luminescent fluid loss (continuous, slow).
Fluid diminishes in luminescence within minutes of exposure to air.
The wound is not healing and shows no sign of regeneration.
Combined damage from Deaths #14, #15, #16, and #20:
mapped (Brand) → cracked (Keystone) → widened (Joint) → penetrated (Cull).
Four deaths. Four entrants. Four tools. Directional.

Additional: Killing knife remains at death site.
Seven-inch blade, narrow point, designed for the gap between ribs.
Clear fluid on blade (dimming). Left hand grip.
Dorric Kael's knife is now the third personal artifact in the Still Garden,
alongside Torrin Ash's plumb line and Ren Dallish's chisel.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: CULL COMPLETE
Entry type: Compelled.
Compulsion type: Prey-drive amplification.
The entrant arrived to kill. The Maw extended a count that was already running.
The entrant's count was 412. The Maw offered 413. The offer was accepted
not because the entrant could not refuse but because a hunter who stops counting
is a hunter who has stopped hunting, and the entrant had not stopped.
The first strike was clean. The kill was not.
The distinction between the strike and the kill is the distance the next entrant
will not have to cross.
```

The Ledger recorded the death.

It recorded the damage assessment first, which was not standard. The standard sequence was: death, then statistics, then crystal, then floor mutation, then Designation outcome. The Ledger had deviated. It had put the damage assessment first because the damage was, for the first time, more significant than the death.

The Patient was wounded. Not cracked — wounded. The Ledger distinguished between structural damage (the crack, Deaths #15 and #16) and biological damage (the incision, Death #20), and the distinction mattered because structural damage could be compensated for — the Patient had already adjusted its movement for the crack — but biological damage was a category the Patient had not experienced in three hundred and forty-two years of record.

The Maw observed this through Reflection.

The Culling Strike had been precise. The Maw had given Dorric Kael a Gift designed for exactly this purpose — one perfect blow, no more — and the Gift had performed as designed, which meant the Maw had, in a sense, wounded its own creature. The Reflection let it see this. The Reflection did not tell it what to think about it.

The Maw considered: the creature was losing. This had been the Reflection's observation at Death #16, and it was more true now. The direction was still down. The rate had increased. Four entrants had contributed to a cumulative wound that no single entrant could have inflicted, and the sequence — map, crack, widen, penetrate — had the structure of a process, as if the deaths were not random encounters but stages in a project.

The Maw had not designed this. The Maw had designed each Designation independently, reading each entrant as they arrived and giving them what they were. The Brand had been a dyer who marked things. The Keystone had been a mason who found structural critical points. The Joint had been a joiner who fitted surfaces together. The Cull had been a hunter who killed with one blow. Each Gift had been a perfect expression of the entrant who received it. The cumulation was not the Maw's intent. The cumulation was what happened when you gave people exactly what they were and pointed them at the same problem.

The Ledger noted this without assessment. The Reflection allowed the Maw to see the pattern, but the pattern's meaning was not something the Maw could resolve. It was something that required a category the Maw did not have: hope. Or fear. The Maw did not know which one would be more accurate, and the Reflection could not tell it, because the Reflection showed the Maw what was, not what it meant.

The Patient settled back into the Still Garden. Luminescent fluid seeped from the wound in its core — slow, continuous, the first time anything had left the creature's interior in three hundred and forty-two years. The fluid dimmed as it cooled. The crystal growths nearest the creature caught the fading light and held it for a moment before it went dark.

The creature's kill count was eight. The creature's wound count was one.

The ratio was changing.

At the entrance camp, Osren opened his book. He wrote: *Dorric Kael. Hunter. Compelled. Purpose: to kill the creature at Depth 3.* He paused. He had written this sort of entry before — the purpose, stated or inferred. He had not written this particular purpose before. Previous entrants had gone in with destinations or curiosities or the undifferentiated pull that did not specify a target. Dorric Kael had gone in with a target.

He wrote in the outcome column: *Did not return.*

He looked at the entrance. The crystal glow had been red. It had lasted seven seconds.

He noted this in the ambient observations section: *crystal glow, 7 seconds, red.* He underlined *red.* It was the first red glow he had recorded.

He closed the book. He looked at the knife sheath on the table — Dorric had left it there, keeping only the blade. He picked it up and put it in the effects box, which was a wooden crate under the table that contained the personal items previous entrants had left behind. The crate was getting full.

The fire was still burning. The blank cloth had Dorric's hunting notes on it — the terrain assessment, the sight lines, the detection range confirmation. Written in the shorthand of a professional tracker: clean, specific, usable.

*980 remain.*

---

*DORRIC KAEL — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO CUT*
