Hunting had won the advantage he had sought since the fight began, but he was down to a single sidearm. The nearest supply cache wasn’t too far away, but there was a real risk that his opponent might manage to recover in the interim if he left the fight. The existing wounds should prove fatal, but with the minotaur’s passive Skills in play—fucking selfish idiot—Hunting was unable to be confident in the outcome.

Plus, he really wanted the full weight of the experience, and killing the beast and parasite directly would take him further than leaving them to die of what he had inflicted. The pugio would be good enough. If the kid could drop a kraken and a pair of twins with similar blades, he could kill an overgrown cow and a ball of sludge with one.

Keeping [Stalker] active, Hunting moved, pausing only to pick up a small pebble. The minotaur’s ears were the last hope the parasite had for tracking him. It was the easiest sense to exploit; there was a reason he’d mastered projecting his voice. But with that trick already spoiled, he needed to fall back on a more manual variant.

Hunting closed the distance while his opponent remained still and wary, nostrils futilely sucking at the air, as if there was anything to pick up other than blood. The minotaur’s ears twitched, as if flexing the muscles would somehow improve his hearing.

Hunting stabbed the hunter in his abused arm and swept the blade, even as he flung the pebble. The brute fell for it—the pain and noise momentarily tricked him into believing that Hunting was moving in that direction. The beast lunged, tackling empty air as he crashed into the ground.

Hunting swept in while his opponent was down and jabbed the knife straight for the back of the slab of beef’s throat.

The minotaur managed to react. He braced himself on his devastated arm and lashed out with his intact hand. The palm struck Hunting’s chest, and he found himself slammed against the canyon wall, his arms pinned at his side.

The impact bruised his ribs and knocked the air out of his lungs, but the minotaur’s wounded arm was already visibly buckling under the stupid brute’s weight. Hunting had more than enough vitality to endure until the arm gave way; he was in no danger of being crushed while the minotaur’s leverage failed.

He wasn’t that fucking nice. He hated relying on it—the range sucked and it was a tremendous waste of mana for the effect—but he was close enough that it was certain to finish off his opponent. Besides, he still had a bit of juice he could tear out of his arcanite.

Hunting tapped [Void Conjuration] and directed the font of dark devastation directly into his opponent’s throat. His mana dropped precipitously, but flesh was stripped away from his foe’s wounded neck—and he could already see the parasite. Not even the slime’s Pyronox could save it from the destructive power of the Void.

He’d just need to move as soon as he was done, no matter how much he wanted to rest. Sure, Night would probably come find him after he kicked up so much noise, but he never knew if the shimagu had other scouts in the area. All he had to do first was to hold out for another few seconds.

His Void never failed to kill his target.
