“Here.” Handing me a large bowl of what appears to be a warm, syrupy, fruit soup, Alsantset towers over me as she takes my book from me. A pointed look from her stops me from trying to get out of drinking this as well, my belly full to the point of discomfort. “Don't make faces at me, just eat your food. I swear, you've been in such a mood lately, ever since little Yan left. If only you had acted sooner and asked me to set up your engagement then this all could have been avoided. It is a good lesson for you to learn, however, to act quickly or lose that which you love.” She gives me a pointed look, as if trying to tell me something.

“I am not grouchy because Adujan left, I'm grouchy because my arm hurts. She's my friend, and I miss her, but that's it.”

She continues as if I had never spoken. “When Charok and I were your age, he was always bringing me gifts, small things that showed he cared, writing poetry and playing music for me. His parents continually pestered mine over our engagement, and despite Papa's best efforts to thwart our love, I managed to wear him down with Mama's help.” Ha, wear him down, yea right. Baatar told me all about how she threw tantrum after ineffective tantrum until she finally just threatened to run away like a child. I wisely keep my mouth shut and listen to her often repeated stories about her romance with Charok, likely her way of coping with her current circumstances. I miss Charok and the twins too, so I don't mind listening to these stories.

Evening comes and I find myself crawling into the bedroll early, exhausted from my brief exercise and bloated from drinking almost a litre of fruit soup. I hope I don't have to wake up in the middle of the night to piss, that is never any fun. Looking over at the empty space where Adujan used to sleep, a twinge of pain rushes up my arm and I revel in the memory of her sweet scent as she lay her head on my shoulder, the two of us cuddling together that last night.

I'm still unsure if my feelings for her are real. It's hard to say, my heart still speeds up every time I pass one of the pretty women who I had imagined a life with, even ones whose names I didn't know. I don't want to commit to Adujan only to find out it's all a lie, that I don't truly love her. Now, with her gone I guess I have some time to sort out my head and find out if my feelings are real, although there isn't much I can do about it if they are. That's life though, better to have love and lost, yadda yadda. I bet she'll find someone else really quickly, she is a lovely girl and none too shy either. I'm not sure how I feel about that. That's one of the things I like about her, she's upfront about her feelings, knows what she likes and is very verbal about it. That, and the shit jokes, I miss them. No one else will engage with me when I bring the topic up.

“Are you pining away for the little deer-girl again?” Not even this asshole. He'll rave about killing and fighting, but make one distasteful joke and he looks at me like I killed a child. It's hard to believe we're the same person sometimes. “ It is times like this where I am glad I cannot hear your thoughts. Just go find the red panda girl and her slave, I'm sure they will take your mind off of things. They sleep together, so deliciously wicked.”

Ignoring him the best I can as he narrates his filthy imagination, I rummage through my pack for my sleeping pills, the pain in my ass that is my other self compounding the pain in my arm. I've tried to be sparing in their use but even exhausted as I am, the pain still keeps me awake at night, sometimes causing me to spring awake gasping from an errant bump when I shift in my sleep. I'd rather die in my sleep from an animal attack than wake up five times a night in extreme pain, only to stare at an empty space until drifting back to sleep.

Tomorrow, I get back to healing, slow and steadily until my arm is whole.

Fail and fail again, until I no longer fail.

I wish I were talented, able to do something effortlessly while everyone else tries and fails.

I wonder what that would be like?

Chapter Meme
