[Palate of the Malefic Viper (Legendary)] --> [Palate of the Malefic Viper (Mythical)]

However, he didn’t immediately check the updated description of the skill, as this was the last round of the vision. With that in mind, Jake believed that he would get an experience similar to what he had with Valdemar’s vision back in the day. Not that he would find inspiration, but that the vision would last a little longer.

Jake also highly suspected that part of the reason this was considered a High-Record fragment in the first place was due to this hooded figure’s presence. That, or the Eye of the Magus, was a far more important item than Jake first suspected, but in either case, he really wanted to know who this person was.

The Malefic Viper wasn’t exactly known as the trusting sort, so it would be very interesting to see who had managed to gain the future Primordial’s trust.

Just as Jake had predicted, when Jake reached the point where the vision would usually repeat, time instead kept going. The Viper floated far up in the air above the desolate planet below, no longer even bothering to regard it. Magic enveloped his form as he used Polymorph and re-assumed his humanoid shape.

Villy was breathing a little heavily, the entire ordeal having clearly taken a lot out of him. The Malefic Viper turned his head, and on cue, the robed figure teleported in exactly where the Viper was looking.

“Well, that went about as smoothly as it could,” the Viper said, regarding his comrade.

“Indeed,” the figure said with a raspy, slightly metallic voice as he moved his hands up and took down his hood, finally revealing what he looked like, and…

Yeah, Jake did not recognize the race of this robed figure at all. He couldn’t even tell if it was a monster or not, just that it was different from anything he knew. The robed figure did look humanoid, and if Jake had to compare him to one of the enlightened races, human was probably the closest, but this man was a lot more… robot.

His entire lower jaw was made of silvery metal, his eyes were robotic, and he had no hair, only small holes here and there. He didn’t even have ears, but instead, he had two metal plates on each side of his head. When he moved his hand earlier, Jake also saw that he didn’t have fingers, but instead, an odd, fluid metal where a hand would normally be.

Rather than a human, Jake thought this guy looked far more like a cyborg out of some sci-fi show or movie. A mix of technology and nature. For a second, Jake even considered whether he was an automaton, but that felt wrong, though Jake definitely could see some similarities.

“I trust that our deal still stands,” the robotic man spoke once more.

“Of course,” the future Primordial nodded. “I’ll glean some benefits and help empower the Eye of the Magus, after which we can conduct the trade.”

“Good,” the metal humanoid said, showing no real discernible facial expression. “We shall remember your assistance fondly and hope our partnership will continue to bring prosperity.”

“Hey, don’t even mention it,” the Viper said with a casual smile. “Besides, I should be the one thanking you. Who wouldn’t want a good relationship with the most powerful faction in the universe?”
