Lounging in a recliner by the pool after her morning swim, feeling cozy in her velour bathrobe while a radiant heater warmed her up, Totori browsed through her aethermails on her crystalphone while munching on bits of glazed cinnamon buns.

Fresh ones, hand-made by the Stormborn mansion's pastry chef.

If she could, she'd eat nothing else. Unfortunately, the retained nutritionist insisted she keep a balanced diet. Once more, she cursed the need for a fit and slim public figure. A little bit of pudge never really hurt anyone, as long as it was within reason, right?!

She kinda liked slightly pudgy fairies better herself, anyway. More to grab on to, and much more comfortable lap pillows.

Sighing, she kept scrolling down, deleting almost everything in her inbox; requests for appearances, business opportunities real and fake, angry fans who somehow got her aethernet address...

Her fingers stopped as she recognized the sender on the next mail; Crystal Unicorn Firm, her previous employer, the one which had brought Niala to court over unpaid dues for her deliveries.

The firm had hounded her at first, after she quit and snatched up David's contract. They really didn't have any legal ground to stand on, but they still tried to intimidate her into signing away her exclusivity contract.

Too bad for them, she had nearly unlimited money at the time. She still did, even more so, but that was true back then as well.

The aethermail's title was as vague as they came: Important legal notice. With a shrug, she opened it and read its content.

Huh. I'm being accused of unfair business practice.

The hearing was set a few weeks from now, and the prosecutor was Feretina Argentile, her old hag of a boss, whom Totori was certain had been the one to push the early threats and still had a sweet tooth to pick.

And the plaintiff was... The city of Fairlilly?!

Why was the capital pursuing her?!

DATE OF THE HEARING

The courtroom was quiet, its only occupant Totori on one side, and Feretina and a city representative on the other, whispering to each other. She glanced at them, still not certain what had brought up this lawsuit.

The charges against her weren't small; conspiracy, sabotage, public endangerment, criminal negligence, accomplice to infrastructure damage, and so on.

These were all charges she had seen already, when the city had tried to pin it all on David. The case back then was thrown out due to attenuating circumstances, their newly recognized status as diplomatic envoy of the mundaneworld, and because the man had dumped trillions worth of chocolate coins into his bank account, which were then used to pay for all the damage and compensation.

And, by some miracle, no fairy had died. That had been a big one.

It just didn't make sense to have these levelled against her. She wasn't even David's agent at the time; she'd still been working for Crystal Unicorn.

The fairqueen's door clicked open, and everyone stood up to greet her. Since this was just the hearing, nobody announced her and she wasn't wearing her decorated wig.

The older fairy walked up to her podium desk and sat down, looking the two parties in turn. “Good morning. I am Fairqueen Lilima Goodberry. I will now hear the details of this case. Prosecutor?”

Feretina nodded. “Yes, your amazingness. I'm sure everyone gathered has read the list of charges arrayed against Totori, so I will instead explain why it was done so.”

Lilima glanced at Totori, who nodded, agreeing to skip this part.

Feretina pulled at her tailored suit before picking up a piece of paper and clearing her throat. “We, the city of Fairlilly and its people, as fairly represented by its elected officials, hereby accuse Totori Flamrise of having had prior knowledge of mundaneworlder David's capacity for destruction and having withheld this knowledge for her own benefit. The resulting physical and emotional damage to the city's fair people could have been avoided had the accused come forth. This has been determined after a long and thorough investigation and review of records.”

The lawyer fairy put away the page and looked up at the Fairqueen. “This is our position.”

Lilima dipped her head and turned to look at the accused. “Do you wish to respond, Miss Flamrise?”

“Yes, your amazingness. I plead not guilty on all charges, and I wish to formally declare that the Crystal Unicorn firm is engaging in a frivolous case to force economic concessions.”

The Fairqueen nodded and wrote down a few lines. “Very well. I expect both of you to exchange all relevant documents as is procedure. You have four weeks to perform the examination. The trial date is set one month from now. I will see you then.”

On that, Lilima got up and left the courtroom, leaving the two parties to stare at each other. Feretina broke the stalemate first. “Really, Totori? A frivolous claim?”

The younger fairy glared. “I know that this is, Feretina! You're still angry that I got to David first! You're trying to bump me out!”

Her temper flared even further when the prosecutor smirked. “I'm certain you have it all figured out. In the meantime, I have a hard candy case on hand, and you were just an intern with barely any legal experience under your bowtie. I suggest you ask for a settlement.”

Totori clamped down on her urge to scream, grinding her teeth. “I'll see you in court, Feretina, and I will demolish you.”

The other fairy scoffed. “I'd like to see that. This isn't something you'll be able to fix by throwing money at it, girl. Oh! Unless... do you intend to bribe fairies? Oh, please do try that! We could add a few crimes to your name!”

Totori somehow managed to keep her mouth shut. This was pointless. They both knew the case was being used as leverage, but she'd have to legally prove that.

Taking her silence as a sign of victory, Feretina huffed, picked up her briefcase and left, followed by the city delegate who looked like she was trying to understand what was going on.

Totori watched them go, turning her focus to the situation instead of the retreating snake. She had a month to set up her defence, which wasn't that much time. In fact, it was a surprisingly short amount of time, the bare minimum. It was almost as if the process had been expedited to leave her with the least amount of time possible, to make her panic and react.

So, no, not defence. That's where Feretina wanted her, and trying to defend herself would make her look guilty. She had to be on the attack and poke holes in the claims.

For that, she needed to counter-interview the witnesses, review all the evidence, cross-examine and double-check everything.

And this is the part where Feretina was wrong. She could totally throw money at this.

Totori put everything on shaved ice to concentrate on the trial.

Her first step had been to perform explorations for discovery at the Crystal Unicorn firm and get a copy of all the documents involved, all seventeen document boxes of them.

She'd gone alone, of course, and tried to look as stressed as possible. Feretina had seemed quite pleased at that, and that was exactly what Totori had hoped for.

The next part had been easy; she'd returned to the Stormborn mansion and carted in two buses full of judicial interns, gave them copies of the documents, and told them that whoever came up with discrepancies would actually get paid.

Then she locked them in a wing of the mansion and left. She'd made certain there was enough food for a month and plenty of medical supplies, so most of the interns should survive. Just to be sure that none of them would try to escape, though, she'd asked security to set up some barbed wire and dog patrols around that wing.

As she walked to her office and her own set of document copies, she fondly remembered her first Legal Royale as a first-year intern. It had been terrifying, yes, but she'd rarely felt as alive as when she'd bashed another intern unconscious to retrieve the cross-examined document they'd stolen from her.

She had kept in touch with that fairy over the years. They were a junior member of another firm now, and she was happy for them.

She shook her head as she sat in her office; she could reminisce later. For now, she had to crack this case.

The thing that both helped and hampered her was that the case was about proving intent. From what she'd seen out of the evidence gathered by Feretina, they knew their situation was tenuous. Totori figured that was why it had been close to two years since the events; they'd needed that much time just to mount something solid enough that it would hold up.

Individually, everything was circumstantial, but they had amassed a ton of them. It was somewhat like a bundle of sticks, all holding each other up. What she needed was an angle of attack, to spot weak points and dig at them. The interns would help, hopefully, but she couldn't rely on them.

So she sat down and started going through everything, line by line. She brought in large whiteboards into her office, taking notes, drawing lines.

Stacks of paper were strewn around the conference desk, with little notes on top of them.

Now and then, she took a break in her office jacuzzi, kneading her thoughts and letting them settle.

She started forming lines of battle; the witnesses were the first line, the fodder. It had been a while, so their depositions were dated, and memory was imperfect. Their role was not to take her down, but to test her defence, get her to perjure or hesitate on an answer.

After that first assault would come the recorded evidence: conversations, videos, pictures, with timestamps, all analyzed by behaviourists, pointing at Totori's body language. Certainly, they would try to paint her as a devious individual, someone who was ready to trade lives in exchange for profit.

She sighed. Sadly, she was only a registered lawyer and not a member of the mercantile board, so trading lives for profit was illegal for her.

Hmm, maybe she should get a master of business accreditation. She heard that with good enough preparation, survival rates were in the high 80 percent...

Thoughts for later.

The second line, then; the wave tasked with attacking the weak points, and opening up corridors of entry for the last force, the real threat; her financial portrait.

At the time, she was an intern, paid on bounties and bonuses alone. Obviously her portrait would be of a starving, desperate fairy, looking for a leg up in life.

Like, who wasn't?

Not her anymore, of course, but almost every fairy went through that phase; the poor phase. Only the strongest, most resourceful clawed their way out. Many hung at the edge all their lives. The weaker fell in, and through dusting gave back to society.

Such was the natural cycle.

She tapped a finger on her desk, thinking.

The first wave, she'd have to use the same tactic on them that they were meant to against her; get them to say opposite things. Tedious, but it wouldn't be too hard.

The second wave, she needed her own behaviourists on the case.

The last wave was the hard part.

Her eyes widened.

Or was it?

Totori dug through her employment records. She was certain she'd seen a memo in there... Files and documents piled up around her as she dug through that box, until she held up a small piece of paper with a handwritten note.

There, that was her secret weapon.

Now to work on everything else. She looked up when a loud banging noise resonated down the hall from the locked wing.

The Legal Royale was ramping up quickly. That was good; it meant the interns were hungry for results.

She smiled.