A crooning song sounded, and Shiv pitted everything he had against the compulsion to place his knees against the ground for a moment longer. “Oh, you will learn—”

“Enough,” Veronica said.

The incandescence spilling out from her stuttered. The song was cut off before it could fully begin. “Veronica—”

“Draw yourself back before he humiliates you further. You've shamed me, and you've shamed yourself. I told you to keep yourself in reserve, that you were an easy target for him, but you don't listen. You never listen.” The Councilwoman's nostrils flared, and Shiv read an emotion on her face, one of weariness but acceptance. “Deathless, a small bargain before any of the bigger ones: Don't call my grandmother a dog and crack her open further, and I will stop her from trying to make a slave of you.”

Shiv pretended to think it over for a moment, but truth be told, he was on the brink of completely unraveling from within. His bravado and Harbinger were the only reasons he'd managed to resist for so long, but if the Harbinger broke, the rest of him would undoubtedly follow, and his front of invincibility would reveal itself to be just that. And he read something in the Councilwoman's actions: She was trying to protect both him and her grandmother—from each other, no less.

He licked some of the blood off his lips. “You know what? That sounds plenty reasonable to me.”

Reluctantly, begrudgingly, and spitefully, the incandescence of the Songbringer receded, sinking back into Veronica until only her eyes gleamed with that faint spark of Divinity. The Councilwoman stood while Shiv struggled to remain upright.

Suddenly, she rolled her wrist and summoned a handkerchief to her hand before stepping forward and wiping away the blood dribbling down from his chin. But rather than cleaning him entirely, she smudged the upper part of his cheek and left a trail of blood across half his face, painting him in the red that he'd lost. She tilted her head slightly and nodded in approval. “There. Now you're presentable for the rest of the council.”

Shiv couldn't believe this shit. He laughed hoarsely again, struggled to shake his head, and he exhaled hard from his nose to clear the blood out, making it shoot into her dimensional dress and disappear. “Really? You had the Songbringer tear me up to make me properly presentable. Always another angle with you, isn't it?”

“Such is the nature of politics. Sometimes things are happy little accidents, and I take advantage of them. Other times, they're engineered in advance. But what need have I of telling you this, when you already know—or at least you grasp it intuitively.”

“Guess so, but I think I got a feeling about something else: you have me here, bloodied. You've been testing my mettle—you could have gone rougher with your Rhetoric. I know you could have, even without the Songbringer. But you didn't. You held back. You kept me from hurting her more, and you kept her from breaking me for good. Her, I get. Funny as it is, she's the weakest part of you. But me, though, I'm expendable, and you spend all that time describing me like a hound.”

She clicked her tongue, as if disappointed at his misreading of the intentions behind her actions. “You are a hound, but hounds can be trained. Hounds can be improved. And hounds aren't to be wasted. I meant most of what I said before. I am responsible for the life of an entire culture. Rogue as you are, you remain a citizen of the Republic. You are not to perish or be irreparably broken until your full use has been expended, and then some.”

Shiv's coughs turned into a chuckle. He felt the faint pang of something inside his chest. His Gardener of Doubt was triggered. It was weak, almost imperceptible, but he felt it at the last moment, and he knew that she was lying. The question was if she was only lying to him or also to herself.

Gardener of Doubt 78 > 82

Let's take a swing and try to find out.

“Hey, Veronica. Did he treat you this way?”

“Who?” she replied with indifference, examining him like a butcher would a slab of meat.

“You know. Anthony. The only guy older than you. Were you his hound? Did he try to break you, like you did me just now?”

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 351 > 357

Her posture didn’t change; her expression held firm; her heart and mind remained obscured. But though she was a master of herself, her control wasn’t absolute, and the faintest crack spread across her forehead as hissing fingers of enkindled darkness curled up into the air, like smoke from a single flickering candle. Still, she pretended she wasn’t affected by his insight, and he just sneered. “Hound my ass. You’re trying me out to see if I can work as an heir. A little too godsdamned late to apply for adoption.”

“When you stand before the Council, do present yourself as agitated and wounded,” Veronica said. “It would be to the both of our benefits and their satisfaction. Meanwhile, resolve our mutual Tarrasque problem, and the Republic will dispatch a formal delegation recognizing Gate Piety as a special economic zone and not a rogue colony. For now.”

“Oh, and there’s the bargain!” Shiv laughed. “Our Tarrasque problem. Yeah. The problem you let get out of hand. And I’m not letting you slither away from me: the fuck makes you think I’m going to just play along as your student after everything you allowed?”

The Councilwoman sighed. “Because you’re not a fool. Because though you’re brutish, you already understand far too much to deprive yourself of any advantage in terms of political leverage or personal power—and an additional means of education. You studied me. You listened to me. You tried to find an angle to hurt me, and—”

“I literally did hurt you like half a minute ago.”

“—all that shows me you can be trained properly, and made to see some measure of reason,” she continued, not acknowledging that victory. “But more than that, your true allies are few, and you’re inviting a sea of conflicting powers into your Gate. Roland Arrow is an ideal specimen for war, but a politician he is most certainly not, and though that skill of yours is a thing to envy, it does not come with the requisite expertise and experience needed to ensure your Gate’s survival.”

“Experience you got,” Shiv concluded, swallowing a good mouthful of his own blood. “Training you can provide. Indoctrination too.”

“Hardly,” Veronica replied. “Your mind doesn’t allow for that. No. What’s going to happen is that, like a certain girl I once knew, you’re going to try to do what you believe is good. You’re going to try and try and try, and you’re going to get your heart broken, and when you put it back together, you’re going to sacrifice goodness on the altar of what is right, and every time you do that, you will find yourself getting just a bit closer to me. But even if not, I am your most reliable enemy right now. And you are mine. We can deal with each other. We can even coexist for a time. But you will soon learn that the same reasonableness does not apply to those of the North and the South. Now, shed your Onus so you can move again. Let us not give hints about your new Toughness Evolution to those who don’t need to know.”

The Deathless drank in her words and detonated the scars imprinted on his shell. An eruption of silver radiance tore out from him—and melted the orichalcum cell down to slag. Veronica simply flashed silver once as her flesh briefly charred—but then she was back to being herself as her own Legendary Toughness triggered. “It’s always a performance with you, isn’t it?” Shiv muttered.

“The first lesson you will learn about politics: Never go against another’s emotions unless you wish to do them harm. Expectations are to be met, fed, and conditioned before any proper modulations can follow. Now: Would you like to hear where the Jotun have the Tarrasque caged?”
