It is essential that you understand and internalize this fact, Farwalker: The deployment of an Endhound is an atrocity. It is an act that cannot be taken back, and it will almost inevitably damn a Sub-Mythic world to an apocalypse.

Understand that though the action may be a necessity for the continued survival of Chorus and the civilized sector of Integration, it remains an enormity. An Endhound is a creature created from the rawness of strife and ruin, and the only purpose they know, the only purpose they will ever be compelled towards, is the absolute eradication of all life, and ultimately, their own. For once they hit and exceed that ambient mana threshold, after exterminating all other existences, they too will rupture that dimension. All the mana built up inside of them will clash with that which stains the backdrop, creating a chain reaction that dissolves a section of Integration, thus severing the branch portended to intersect with and harm Chorus.

Such is why the deployment of an Endhound requires tacit confirmation from the highest halls of Chorus. All other methods of pacification and stabilization must fail before the deployment of such a creature can ever be considered; for, short of the entire dimension unifying as one to bring down the Endhound, or, in the rarest of rare cases, a singular or squad of Pathbearers defeating it in a decisive battle, the destruction of the condemned dimension will not be figurative, but literal.

For, short of an anomalous circumstance such as an Incursion Quest triggering while an Endhound is still active within a dimension (thus removing the ceiling of said dimension’s ambient mana threshold), a Mana Overload Cascade is the inevitable outcome, even if the survivors manage to hold the Endhound at bay. Even if they manage to find a way to evade it, to hide from it, their deaths are all but assured.

—Beasts of the End, First Edition — Farwalker Endhound Deployment Manual

413

Heir

“So, you're using one undying dog to kill another. Quite the bitch move, wouldn’t you say, Veronica?” Shiv rolled his wrists and cultivated some new tides.

“That's the nature of politics: you never use your own resources when you can outsource and make someone else bear the debt instead. It's nothing you haven't done to me, after all. Even if you weren't consciously practicing politics, you were engaging in it.” It was as she spoke that Shiv sensed something changing between them. The vibe was subtle, but it was unmistakable. She was trying to educate him in some way, to influence him. Perhaps one of her skills was active, trying to reshape the chemistry of his mind to her advantage. But even if she was, the Harbinger noticed, and understanding another's method of manipulation offered a reward of enlightenment all its own. “As I said before, I understand what you did to Longinus, though I suspect you were telling me the truth: that you slew him because you were forced into a battle rather than plotting to assassinate him in advance.”

The Councilwoman grew quiet for a moment, and the first hint of apprehension came over her. It seeped out from her body language, as if she was unwilling to ask the following question: "So it's true, then? An aspect of him survived? An aspect of him tied to a copy of that chef he was so fond of?”

“His name was Georges,” Shiv spat. His face went dry of emotion, and his insides boiled with awoken rage. The way she characterized Georges’ suffering—all but saying he was Longinus' rightful property—would have driven Shiv into a blind rage mere months prior. Now, anger was fuel, anger was mana, anger was focus. Shiv's Harbinger came alight in a golden shell around his body, and the idealized form of who he could be overwrote and obscured the boy yet tempered behind. “I'm going to be very polite about this as a warning: If you're going to bring him up around me, you best speak of him like you would someone near and dear to your heart too. Because otherwise, we're going to have a problem. A real bloody problem. I'm going to get unreasonable, and that debt will be on both of us.”

No chain of fear slipped out from Veronica, even as Shiv used his Dread-Tainted Feat, but a measure of respect gleamed behind her eyes, and she gave him the slightest of nods. “That’s a fair ask, and I do apologize. I understand that he was the closest thing you had to a father in this life. What happened to him was lamentable as well.”

“Yeah, lamentable is one word. Un-fucking-necessary is another. You could have helped him. You could have helped a whole lot of people who Longinus hurt. You just decided not to.”

She nodded again. “Correct. Because it would have come at a greater cost to the Republic and me.”

“That's a good excuse. Never heard the 'I don't have a choice' shit before.”

She nearly rolled her eyes, but her patience endured. “I have a choice. We all have choices. We all can make deliberate decisions. Sometimes we make unwise decisions driven by our emotions. They turn out fine because we are strong enough or capable enough to force the circumstances to go the other way. To deny the consequences because that is who we are, beyond consequence in that specific situation. Longinus was not such a situation. Longinus was a pillar of the Republic. Longinus is a fundamental aspect of the Auroral Council, a guiding star of the people and of our faith. Now, if I, for instance, declare to the people that their governing god of exploration and freedom and expression and hunger is little more than a pedophilic rapist, with little control over his impulses, driven by urges so dark and foul and benighted that it would turn the stomach of any priest, what do you think would happen to the Republic?”

On one hand, Shiv saw her point. On the other hand, he thought it was a pretty dogshit point.

For one, he barely cared about the Republic. After all, his experience had little to no good memories associated with the culture or the civilization. Even if he was studying at one of its academies, all the nobles, all the things the Inquisition had done, all the things they were doing right now in the orphanages and the prisons, the experiments, the dark deeds of the Ascendants…

There were some parts of the Republic that were good and decent. Adam might still have some fondness for those parts. Adam might still be affected by her words. But Shiv? No, the Republic was pretty much his enemy; it just wasn't his immediate enemy right now.

But as his passions climbed, so too did his awareness. His eyes settled on Veronica once more, and he studied her deeper than the language of her flesh. Her emotional core remained obscured, but her words offered him a vague map of what she believed and how she thought. His heart focused his mind, turning him away from the low-hanging fruit and the meagerest of insults.

“She wasn't lying to you before; she spoke truth in every word, at least what she believes is truth,” the Harbinger analyzed within his mind. “Longinus was a pillar of the Republic, and if Veronica struck him from the Board, she would have risked a religious schism at the best and civil war at the worst. Think of this: she is the Avatar of the Songbringer, and the Songbringer and Starhawk were already opposed. If she moved so openly against another Ascendant, then all who doubt her on the Council and above would have been driven over into the Starhawk's embrace, and she couldn't suffer that. Not then and not now. Understand that you've done her a service, rather than inflicted a wound. Her outrage earlier was likely more performance than genuine. Acted out in fear that others on the Council might be spying on her. Now this is the truth of her, the purity of her, unvarnished by her position, privileges, and burdens.”

“You really are that cold, aren’t you?” Shiv asked with a scowl. “Everything's just calculus to you: lives, atrocities. Between Longinus and Daughter, how many people have you sacrificed? How many people did you let that God of Freedom defile? How many children did you let the Deadly rip apart and wear as expendable husks? Did it ever bother you at all? Or are you close enough to an orc that it never mattered?”

His final insult pushed her over the edge, but rather than that edge signaling her rage, it was simply an expression of exasperation. She rolled her eyes without any hint of pity or regret. He had annoyed her, only annoyed her, and nothing else. “What you're attempting right now is juvenile. I am not a creature of blind regret. I have many nightmares, and I have mastered them. I have experienced them, and in time I will accrue new things to dread in my most private moments, but these are not those things. These are sacrifices I had to make for the Republic.”

“For yourself, you mean.”

“Sometimes that's one and the same. Don't try to deny it, Shiv. Think of the Republic. Think of the guiding bodies. Think of the Ascendants. Think of them and understand the truth of what they are: decaying. Lost without a shepherd and without a strong hand to guide and herd both the gods above and the nobility below and the citizens greasing the wheels at the very base, this grand enterprise, this civilization of ours, this bulwark against chaos and bloodshed and misery would have long fallen.”

Shiv breathed out through his nostrils. “Well, from where I'm standing, I'm wondering if the fall of this noble bulwark against bloodshed and misery would be such a bad thing. Because your civilization brought all that to me and to a hells of a lot of other people in spades.”

A laugh, both bitter and dry, escaped Veronica. “If you think things are bad now, that's because you are a child born to a soft age. I've told you of this before, but let me remind you of a time before the Republic, where the people were scattered under a thousand thousand petty tyrants, each one claiming the right to rule over their fellow Pathbearers, simply because they were of a higher Tier, because they had amassed a critical amount of power that no one else at the time could resist. These petty tyrants would drive their lessers in devastating wars that would plunge the population, sallow the land, and paint entire landscapes red with blood, staining the soil so deep that nothing would grow for decades until someone finally removed the last bits of sickness still buried deep in the bones of the land. Let me tell you of a time where slavery was simply the way of things, where cold chains ran across the entirety of this continent, where children were cut out of their mothers after pregnancies were accelerated so that a new batch of expendable soldiers could be cast upon the battlefield to die and do it over and over again. Let me tell you of a time where plagues swept through the world and great silences followed, for so many died during those years that it took centuries for the population to climb high enough to sustain even faint smatterings of towns across the land.”

The Deathless knew where she was going with this and felt her skill press against him, lashing at his psychology, feeding him imprints of all these moments. He did see. He saw mass graves running beyond the horizon, reaching so deep into the earth that they drove past the dirt, past the point of sand, until the bones of the dead were lying upon the bedrock of the world. He saw the cruelties and depravities people inflicted upon each other, what they forced others to endure, and what they took when they desired so. He saw generations of feral children wandering the wastes in the aftermath of great wars, fighting among themselves as rival tribes, killing one another to sate the near-forgotten and fanatical legacy left to them by their slain forebearers.

The Deathless saw all this—and endured it all with a roll of his own eyes. “Veronica, please. And you call me juvenile?”

She pressed her lips together as she realized her psychological blow failed to even faze him. So far, they were both unmoved by the other, and their jabs did little to shake the other's foundations.

Shiv took a slight step toward her, closing in just a bit so that he could impose his height without actually signaling any predatory intent. “You know, I expected something more from you. Yeah, I guess you're really ironclad in your beliefs, but you clearly don't understand me very well at all. So let me make it easier for you, Veronica. The world isn't math to me. The world simply is a series of actions and decisions, along with the environments they happen in. I decide what I want. I decide what I believe in, and then I try to meet those beliefs and decisions as best I can. I don't always succeed. Hells, I fail a whole godsdamn lot, but the thing is, I always try. I get closer every time I fail, every time I die. I don't come up with some bullshit excuse about, 'Well, I have to settle with this. I have no choice. This is the way of the world.' No, and you know better. The Republic didn't need it to be this way. You didn't need to let Longinus rape and torture his way across the world, ruining lives, twisting people, using them as his playthings. You didn't have to let Daughter take all those orphans and wear them as suits. You didn't need to torture and mutilate all those people you deemed criminals deep under the earth, right at the center of the capital, like some sort of twisted joke.”

If Shiv wasn't perfectly in control of his emotions, he would have been fuming at the mouth at this point. “Sure, you can justify all these things and more, but then again, with enough sophistry, we can all justify anything, can't we? No, before the math, you made a decision. You decided that that was the way you wanted to live. That way and not some other way. Well, that's a form of weakness too. It's a form of surrender. And not the kind I would oblige.”

