He lashed her with his enkindled flames. Every word he spoke was infused with a blast of concentrated rage, and he scorned her. He looked down upon her, not because she was weak of skill or mind or will, but for a virtue of all the things she could have lacked: decency, a proper philosophy, a higher morality. She was insufficient there, as a person rather than an orc. At least the beasts, the grayskins, had an excuse, having been designed by the hand of a cruel god to possess a fundamental lack. But Veronica? She simply justified things because she was a political animal and not a Pathbearer at all. What point was there in accruing as much legend as she had and gaining power enough to defy gods if, in the end, all you did was bend and break to seize the barest of advantages?

“The world should be what we make of it, and not what it imposes upon us,” the Nihilist within Shiv crackled. “That is the only higher meaning anyone can truly declare, for all other meanings are subservient to the foundational one that begins with ‘I believe, I and no one else.’”

But though he struck her with those pitch-black flames, she stood like a mountain before his conflagration, uncharted, unharmed, even unbothered. Her eyes gleamed brighter, bearing that divine incandescence of her own grandmother residing within. Yet so far she hadn't unleashed a Songbringer's power at all, seeking to match his mind to mind, will to will, word against word.

Now it was her who took a step closer to him, unimpressed by his height and with a wry grin pulling at her features. “How very nihilistic of you. How arrogant! How childish! Understand that if I lived like you, if I was unburdened like you, if I was as carefree as you, all those words would have come easily for me too. All this judgment you cast would have been a simple thing for me to throw, and I would have torn myself apart better. I would have struck myself down already, but you are not me, not even close. You are, however, far more fragile. I do what I do because I believe in my Republic. You saw what you saw because you live from only your own perspective, where I hold the perspective of all my people. When I sacrifice them, I make sure it is worth it. I make sure that their death fuels the continuation of this project and that their children and their neighbors survive so that they may see a better tomorrow, because without the Yellowstone Republic, they would all be separate tribes and either slaves to those of the South or slaves to those in the North, or cattle otherwise to any number of petty tyrants or monsters that scurry across this world of ours.”

“It's always the barbarians at the gate, huh?” Shiv mused. “Never the butchers inside the walls.”

“The butchers take their bit of flesh and spare the body,” Veronica retorted. “The monsters outside will tear you apart and leave not even the bones. Hear me again and listen to the truth of my words: I don't do things because I am compelled to. I do things because I believe it to be the best for the Republic and myself. You have not grappled with that fact, and so long as you avoid that fact, you cannot use that Harbinger of yours to strike at me. My vulnerability is not where you were looking. O Deathless, you are wandering blind. You embarrass that power of yours, devastatingly potent and worthless in the hands of a child who cannot imagine from another's perspective, from a grander perspective, from a perspective of someone who was actually responsible for the continuation of a culture rather than those few around him.”

A calculated pause entered the debate as a dark look came over her. “But I suspect you wouldn't bear my discomfort so well. If we switched lives, I would wear your skin and wield your skills with ease, but not the other way around. You would have collapsed the Republic if you were me. If you were me, your irresponsibility, your short-sightedness, and your emotional neediness would have seen you undone.”

“Yeah, sure it would.” Shiv scoffed. “But consider this, Veronica: Maybe you're just projecting. Maybe you're just making shit up inside your own head.”

She tilted her head in a pretense of thoughtfulness. “Well, Jessica told me about how you reacted after you were made to sacrifice Young Lord Arrow.”

Shiv felt his heart turn to stone. Black flames erupted from the cracks lining his body, and the golden essence of his Harbinger grew three times brighter in an instant. The mana flooding him became unbound, and time itself felt tangible, like a fabric he could rip and tear. With that spike in magic and power, however, came a new perspective. The Harbinger was centered even more, and it stopped Shiv from tilting over into tunnel vision and launching more worthless invectives against the Councilwoman.

“She is testing you right now,” the Harbinger whispered. “Her next words will seek to mock you. She will hint at the weakness you expressed, the pain you endured after Adam was rendered broken by the Challenger. She will then state that she has had to make that sacrifice over and over again and did so willingly for the betterment of the Republic. Again, she believes it, and again, in a sense, it might be wholly true. Her civilization would have collapsed without her hand, without her will, without her calculated cruelty. But we can steal these words from her. We can stop her from speaking, and we can tear the wind from her rhetoric using our act of sophistry.”

He saw she was about to speak again, but cut her off before her mouth had a chance to open. “You would have made that sacrifice easily, huh? Let me guess, you're gonna say something about how you had to do something like that over and over again. How you spent your friends and maybe even felt a little bit bad or sad at the start, like me, but that you did the right thing every time. How now you're someone who thinks beyond themselves. Someone who sacrifices because it's noble in a way. Even grim, even miserable, it's noble, because you're throwing coal into the engine of civilization and all that bullshit.”

Shiv sneered at her with pure disdain. “Yeah, so here's the thing, Veronica: I did it. I made that choice; it hurt me, tore me up bad. Look at me. Look at me right now.” He gestured at where the enkindled flame spilled out from him. “This is weakness. I am broken. I was on the verge of shattering when I had to make this choice. But my question now is, if you had to surrender Anthony's life, how would you handle that?”

“A bit poorer than others,” Veronica admitted, dryly and directly, using her honesty to nullify Shiv's counter. “But I would do it regardless, and he would understand. We strive for more than ourselves. We live for more than ourselves. We do things for more than ourselves. What drives me, as I seem to have to remind you, is a responsibility. One greater and more encompassing than you know right now. Perhaps, in time, you will learn. For now, though, that stare of yours disgusts me. You haven't paid nearly enough to judge me.”

Shiv shrugged. “I don't need to pay anything to judge you. That's the beautiful thing about judgment: you can do it whether you're worthy or not. No pride is that precious.”

An interlude of silence took hold as both of them recalibrated their words. Neither was truly injured by the other in the exchange, but Shiv was cracked and brittle now while Veronica remained untouched.

Slowly, unexpectedly, he caught a curve of her lip. It folded upward, and her empathic core sent a clear signal to him as the obfuscation cleared for a single moment. An incandescence flared out from her as another core appeared behind Veronica's, like a rising sun silhouetting upon a person, but both cores shared a similar emotion, one of begrudging pride.

But Shiv wasn't here to seek approval, and frankly, their favor filled him with disgust. “Listen, if you're gonna tell me something about how you're happy I haven't broken under your words yet, or how you managed to compel me into giving up, or how far I came since you were casually able to—”

“Break,” Veronica said, just as she did earlier, but infusing her voice with a divine might this time. The combined power of Councilwoman and Songbringer slammed against Shiv, bypassing his Shapeless Tides—paltry and insufficient to begin with—before spreading clean through his core and burrowing into his chest. His words were cut off. His mouth filled not with blood but with an inexorable emotional agony that gouged his heart, that begged him to fold, to break, to cry. The moment they decided to inflict such vulgarity upon him, to bypass the actual argument and impose their power without struggle, his anger swelled, and Shiv used his mastery of rage in tandem with his Harbinger to push her back. Black flames exploded out from him; parts of his body shattered, and geysers of blood spilled over Veronica, ruining the pristine state of her form for the first time as Shiv’s lifeblood ran down the orichalcum walls as well.

And then, from those gaps of red, came bursts of hateful black. Shiv's enkindled flames boiled and filled the room, and they swept across Veronica. They began to simmer and cook until both of them stood at the heart of a new cauldron, each facing the other down, waiting for someone to stop.

“You can break my shell. You can use the Songbringer and crack me open like an insect, but you do that, and I'll die, and I'll come back with more levels. In a month, you won't be able to do that anymore. When we get to that point, when your power is no longer your sanctuary, what then, Veronica? What words are you gonna use on me then?”

“No words, no words at all,” she replied. “The thing about rhetoric and persuasion is that someone must want to listen to you in a certain way. Debates are for an audience. Arguments are for those willing to change and surrender rather than staunchly opposed enemies.”

“That's what you got for me in the end? An excuse?” Shiv almost couldn't believe it. “Fuck me. Just crack me open with your voice and get it over with. I'll send my guard and other body after you're done.”

A high, melodic laugh sounded from within Veronica. Though that melody would've once wormed its way into Shiv's heart and mind and compelled him to fold and surrender himself in his totality to see the Songbringer pleased, now, even gouged and broken, his personal sovereignty endured, ensured so by his unbridled rage.

“What's this? No surrender. No surrender at all. How far you've come in such a short time, boy. How powerful you've made your heart and mind. How unassailable, how enticing. But the thing is, I haven't begun to sing my intro yet; don't be so assured of your own invincibility, oh, defiant descendant of mine.”

The Songbringer’s ethereal form superimposed itself over her granddaughter, and the way she regarded Shiv made his skin crawl. But it also sparked a sudden insight into Shiv. He stared back, not at Veronica, but at the woman hiding inside her, that pale parody of a god.

“Perhaps we've been striking at the wrong target this entire time,” the Harbinger mused.

Shiv grinned as blood ran down his chin, falling drop after drop to paint a spot between his feet. “Right back at you, Songbringer. Tell me, and do be honest: did you intend for Longinus to become like you?”

“Like me?” A huff of outrage slid into the strong Songbringer's voice, and though she was divine power unparalleled, her mind had long since been frayed, and her senses had abandoned her. Veronica saw what was coming and tried to get her grandmother to stop engaging, but Shiv spoke first.

“You know, another broken piece of shit that forces themselves on children. Longinus told me about you—told me that you reached into his mind and heart and twisted him. Was it always there inside of him, or did you leave a part of yourself there instead? Because something tells me it's probably more so the latter.”

The incandescence radiating from Veronica shuddered as if it had been struck by a backhand. The Songbringer suffered a wound. The Divinity around Veronica cracked as the faintest darkness spilled out. But the injury Shiv inflicted was not one born of rage or grief or regret, but indignation. A high note exploded out from Kathereine, shredding through the air to slice deep into Shiv's mind and heart. Things inside him burst. His Harbinger cracked, exposing his brittle insides as his mind tore before the Songbringer’s encroachment and his heart screamed with invasive emotions.

But he never lost that easy, mocking smile on his face, for he felt the Songbringer crack too. Though he had taken a blind shot based on what that voice within Longinus had told Shiv just before his demise, it had landed, and he found the weakness in his foe.

“Never compare me to that gluttonous, womanizing, wretched scum,” Kathereine seethed. “His sins are not mine. I am no vagabond dog. I have no need for force; mine is love and adoration. People want me. People desire me. People—”

“Have no choice because you use your voice on them. You're just a slaver like all the others, but the funny thing is, you're brittle. You're breakable. All you Ascendants are.” Mustering what remained of his power, Shiv's eyes rolled back in place, and he met Veronica gaze to gaze. Blood ran down from his orifices in waterfalls. His Harbinger was on the verge of bursting apart. Across his other bodies, he could hear people talking to him; Uva asking if he was alright; Irons checking in on him, trying to speak with him in the library. But right then, right there, he saw Veronica for what she was, and she saw him for what he was. The faintest measure of respect was exchanged, but nothing more. “How funny is that? The mortal's the unbreakable one, and the god? Well, the god might as well be glass.”

