It took a considerable amount of effort to dispatch the spiky Demon, especially after he discovered it could not only regrow its hurled spikes, it could also use them to block and grab his sabres. Eventually, after several more passes, he finally got the timing down right and used the momentum of its charge to impale it upon his sabre. Two Demons killed, but he was not yet spent, so he sought out the next closest Demon and charged in with blades at the ready. This one was far more formidable, for Kei Lan had already lost an arm rescuing Shirong from its bladed clutches, a most fearsome creature indeed. A lean, willowy Demon with a brown, featureless face and talons as long as Zian’s arms, it lashed out and set his swords to ringing as he fell back before its punishing offensive. Putting everything into his whirling ring of steel and Domain Deflection, he clung grimly onto dear life by a thread as it landed blow after blow from awkward angles made possible by its long, spindly arms. Worse was how it could change a slash into a thrust with little more than a crook of its fingers, and Zian soon lost track of how many times he’d almost died to his foe. Barely fending off each successive attack, he managed to keep his skin intact, but no small amount of credit went towards his Runic Breastplate, one Mother commissioned using Clan funds. He’d fought with it before during the clash at the Central Citadel, but he later learned commissioning the armour had quite literally been Mother’s first official act as Matriarch of the Situ Clan, and truth be told, Zian had felt rather smug about it. Jealous? Then you should find yourself a mother formidable enough to seize control of the Situ Clan.

The Demon’s attacks came fast and hard, for despite there being so many of them, the bladed claws packed a mean punch. Focusing inward on nothing in order to see everything, he picked off the attacks one by one with his whirling sabres and left his Domain Deflection to deal with only the attacks that he couldn’t dodge and were certain not to land on his armour. It was easier said than done, making split second decisions that could mean the difference between life or death, then do so repeatedly within the span of a single minute. Then, without warning, something in Zian’s mind just fell into place and defending was as simple as breathing. Instead of blocking this next attack and leaving the subsequent ones to his armour, he saw that he could parry the first to interfere with the next two, so he did just that. A sidestep here let him avoid four of seven attacks, while the remaining three could all be ignored as they’d glance off his Runic armour. A riposte here would force it to ease off the offensive, and his sabre moved even before he completed the thought, catching the Demon clean in the face and spilling vile Ichor across its cheeks and chin.

One with the Sword and One with the World, Zian turned the tides on his opponent in an instant. No, there was more to it than this, for he was truly at ease in this battle, for he’d found Oneness with himself. He remembered one battle during which Jukai fended off a Demon with a cloak of countless bladed tentacles, and marvelling at how the older man fended off so many attacks from so many different angles without blinking an eye, and now Zian finally understood how. It was a good feeling, measuring his progress these last few months by comparing his skills to his Mentor. Though he was now a father first, husband second, and Warrior somewhere further down the list, he still loved the Martial Path dearly, if not with all his heart like he used to. A cold smile stretched across his cheeks as he pushed himself to his limits and freed himself from friction’s hold, spinning and sliding this way and that as he unleashed a barrage of blows upon his foe. More often than not, the Demon’s powerful talons raked through empty air now as he parried and Deflected its attacks with ease, making it seem like a massive, unskilled child throwing a tantrum rather than a fearsome creature of death and destruction born to carry out the Father’s dark will.

Then the tides turned, and Zian went on the offensive as the Demon fell back before him while blocking his unending flurry of attacks. The chime of metal on Demonic flesh rang out like raindrops on a metal roof, punctuated every now and then with a discordant ring as Zian sheared off a bladed finger here and an armoured toe there. Try as it might, the Demon could do naught but endure before Zian’s righteous fury, slowly but surely coming apart as he chipped away at its skin and flesh until it leaked Ichor from a hundred different cuts, but still it stood strong, its black, empty eyes unblinking at is came to terms with its fate.

Far too late, Zian realized the Demon was not resigned to death, but rather waiting for the opportune moment. One second, he was an unstoppable god of war upon the battlefield, and then everything fell apart in an instant as the last of his strength was spent. Numbed and leaden arms stopped heeding his commands, still moving only due to pure momentum as his body succumbed to heat and exhaustion, and try as he might, he could not draw breath into his burning lungs. How long had he been fighting for? Difficult to say, for he’d been so caught up in the moment so many times. Maybe a half an hour passed between emerging from the tunnels to clashing with the Demons, then that first fight again bat-face couldn’t have taken more than a few minutes. The spiked-hedgehog Demon took much longer to kill, maybe ten... no twenty minutes? As for this cloaked Demon, it most certainly took longer than the spiked-frog, but surely not that much longer, right?

Apparently not, because Zian discovered he was dead on his feet with nothing left to give, and the Demon could taste his despair.

One moment, it was closing in for the kill with a three-taloned claw raised high, and the next, the Demon disappeared from Zian’s field of view. Blinking the sand out of his eyes, he glanced around and saw it some twenty-five metres away, on top of a nearby building and half-hidden behind a crenellation, its featureless face glaring out at a foe too fearsome to fight. “A piss poor showing,” Elder Chi Gan Sent, even as Zian’s soldiers raised their voices to cheer for the ‘Twinned Dragon Scion’. “All that dancing and faffing about, like a courtesan in heat trying to get a rise out of a corpse. Why didn’t you just hit the damned Demon and kill it?”

If there was one thing Zian learned from Jukai, it was never to be too prideful to learn from his mistakes. “Had I the opportunity, I would have struck to kill, but the Demon’s defences were formidable.”

“Maybe,” Chi Gan Sent, his pursed lips indicative of his scorn, “But what about the other two Demons, eh? Fodder trash, yet you still had to do your little dance. Didn’t anyone ever teach you how to swing your sword? I mean really swing it, not sling it around like you’re making noodles, mind you, a proper, all-out attack.” Seeing Zian’s lacking comprehension, Chi Gan snorted and shook his head. “Suppose it’s not all your fault. Was part of the plan. Let you play with two sabres just like your daddy without sending anyone to teach you, because that would limit your growth. Jukai fucked that up, but about a decade too late since he was busy wallowing in sorrow, but even if he’d taught you from the start, you would’ve never been accepted as Patriarch. Raised away from the clan, you never made the friends and connections you’d need to gain the support of the future Elders, so I suppose Rang Min did a fine job of setting you up for failure, because as a young Patriarch, that’s exactly what you are. A failure.”

Zian already knew Rang Min had tried to ruin him with alcohol and women, but this was news to him. “Who would plot so thoroughly against a child?”

“That’s the best time to be thorough,” Chi Gan replied. “When they’re young and don’t know any better.” Seeing Zian’s incredulous look, he shrugged and asked, “Who you think gave Rang Min the idea? Clan and Society above all else. That’s what it means to be a Situ, so it’s best you remember your family name.” Prodding the ‘Lu’ character emblazoned on Zian’s chest, Chi Gan continued, “Your Daddy was a Lu, but did any of them come running to support you? You see any of them fighting here beside you? I see plenty of his old subordinates, but not a single Lu, no brothers, cousins, nephews, or anything. Curious that, but not unexpected, because they’re a family of merchants who only ever think in terms of profit.” Fixing him with a steely eye, Chi Gan poked Zian hard in the chest and said, “Remember, you serve the Clan, but in return, the Clan looks after its own, no matter the cost. Now attend to me and see how you can be of better service.”

Drawing his longsword, Chi Gan took his stance, but rather than the standard, two-handed, overhead sword stance Zian had seen so many other Situ Clansmen use, the strongest living Situ Clansman held his sword in one hand and his scabbard in the other, one pointed high, the other low. Then, he took a single step and crossed the twenty-plus metres between him and the featureless Demon, appearing on the rooftop in the blink of an eye. Throwing his entire body into the attack, Chi Gan brought his sword down with all his might while raising his scabbard up, almost like he himself were a giant pair of scissors. It was hardly the most elegant or graceful of attacks, but its power could not be denied as he cleaved through the Demon in a single strike, smashing clean through its raised defences as if they were made of paper with sword and scabbard both.

There were Peak Experts, and then there were Warriors like Chi Gan, who even Rang Min and Nian Zu had to respect. Hearing about it was one thing, but having seen the old man’s strength firsthand, Zian most certainly had no complaints.

Before the Demon’s carcass even had time to topple over, Chi Gan reappeared at Zian’s side. “See that?” he aside, his sword already back in its sheathe as if it’d never been drawn. “That’s a proper killing blow. No need to learn that exact movement, as it’s just something I came up with for an example, but it’s a damn sight better than anything you’ve shown today.”

Clasping his fist in a proper salute, Zian bowed ninety degrees at the waist and said, “Thank you for your guidance, Elder. You have opened this one’s little eyes.”

“Stand up straight before I send you out to cut me a switch,” Chi Gan barked, and Zian wasn’t ashamed to admit that he jumped to obey, if only because the man sounded deadly serious. “The little Patriarch doesn’t bow to a Situ Clansman, not even an Elder like me.” Muttering some rude obscenity beneath his breath, he grabbed Zian by the shoulder and turned him to face the battle again. “There, see that one? That black-hearted scoundrel of a scout with the sword there? Siyar his name is, and a damned fine swordsman he is. You could learn something from him. He uses one hand too, but he knows something about killing in a single blow instead of dancing about to look pretty, so don’t just stand there gasping and wheezing like a fish on land. Use this time to learn. If you aren’t busy learning, then you’re busy dying, that’s what my grandfather used to say, and he was a Warrior unlike any other.”

The old man had a lot to say now that he’d broken the seal on his self-imposed silence, and Zian wasn’t entirely sure he liked things better this way. One thing was sure though, the old man was right. So long as Mother served as Matriarch of the Clan, then Zian would serve in his own way, as it was the least he could do for the woman who raised him. He had no great love for Clan or Society, but at the same time, he didn’t hate it either. Maybe it would be good for little An Yang and Fei Ying to have so many cousins to grow up with, but Zian would make no decisions before consulting with his beloved wife and finding out what she decided for him.

Such was the curse of having a brilliant wife, to always be beholden to her superior wisdom, but Zian knew she would never steer him wrong, and he could not wait to hold her and his children in his arms once more.

Chapter Meme
